Thurs., Nov. 30, 1979

Rod Williams Completes Unity Christmas Plans

After a long and heated discussion as to who would play the annual Turkey Day classic in Charlotte, Wake Forest
has a 15-year contract in Memorial Stadium. Since that was announced, there has been much discussion as to what future
for her Thanksgiving Day game. Here are a few of the popular opinions as to what team and where Davidson
should play on Turkey Day in future years:

Charlie Mashburn, Senior: My choice is Washington and Lee to be played either in Winston-Salem or Greensboro. The big thing
is to get a school about the same size as Davidson and a location which is about equidistant from the
two schools.

Jim Morgan, Sophomore: I'll take State in Winston-Salem! It is always a good game and the Winston people seem to
support Davidson after a large fashion.

Bill Squires, Sophomore: State vs. Davidson in Greensboro would be a real classic. Their teams and ours are usually well
matched and Greensboro is an excellent location because of the abundance of girls’ schools to furnish dates for the game.

Rhea Tenney, Senior: What Davidson needs is a big Thanksgiving celebration here on the campus. I would favor playing Washington
and Lee here in years to come on Thanksgiving. We don't have dances on the campus to draw crowds and
there are few concerts or other programs given which bring visitors to the campus; why not make the W. and
L. game the biggest celebration of the year next to homecoming.

John McGee, Freshman: I think that the Citadel game would make an excellent Turkey Day classic. It would be best
to play it here (and I believe officials of the Citadel would like to have it here), because of the
fact that Citadel games draw comparatively small crowds in Charleston.

Dave Spencer, Sophomore: Winston-Salem is my choice by far for the location of our Thanksgiving Day game, regardless of who
we play. I would like to play V.M.I. there, I believe. The people there seem to be excellent Davidson supporters
and it's a big help to the team to have that sort of a crowd.

Charlie Luther, Senior: Davidson should try to schedule either W. and L., V.M.I., or Centre for the Thanksgiving Day game.
If it could be arranged, we should try to play the game here on the campus every year. Davidson needs
some other annual celebration to bring visitors and old grads to the campus besides homecoming.

Dan Gilliam, Senior: It would be fine if we could schedule an annual game with the Citadel, Hampton-Sidney, or Sewanee
for Thanksgiving Day. I would like to see it played in Charlotte, but since that is out, I think we
should alternate and play on our own campus every other year.

Gene Shannon, Sophomore: I'd like to play V.M.I. in Winston-Salem. That game is always a fight for both teams and
Winston surely is a Davidson town.

Geddie Herring, Sophomore: I'd like to see us play V.M.I. in Winston. That would be neutral ground and it would
be a real game.

Bob Garvey, Sophomore: After seeing the State game this year I'd pick that for a sure-fire thriller for Thanksgiving. Winston
proved their support of Davidson at the Carolina game, so why not play the annual classic there?

Ed Watson, Junior: I would favor playing the Citadel here on Thanksgiving. I believe that game will always be a
close one because the two schools are about the same size and neither one seems anxious to start a big
subsidizing program.

Paul Bumbarger, Junior: Although few people seem to agree with me, I would like to see us play either Hampton-Sidney,
V.M.I., or V.P.I. Naturally, it would be easier to schedule that game for some location between the two schools so
my vote goes to Greensboro. Our games there have drawn good crowds.

Ralph Williams, Sophomore: I think that Winston-Salem is the logical spot for the game. The Davidson alumni there have always
been strong Davidson supporters.

Unity Church completed plans for the annual Christmas exercises and set Dec. 21 as the date for Decision Day. The
two will be combined to some extent and a White Christmas will be held in connection with Decision Day. Events
leading up to the Decision Day began yesterday when Rodman Williams delivered the morning sermon on “The Greatness of Salvation”
and in the evening when Sidney Crane preached on “Justified By Faith.” Prayer groups are being held in preparation for
this event.

Miss Nora Thompson is in charge of Christmas preparations, which began last week when the Women’s Bible Class started work
on the Christmas tree bags. Most of the classes are cooperating by selling Christmas cards or in other ways. The
gifts presented Dec. 24, along with other baskets being prepared by the individual classes, will be sent to some mission
school in the mountains of North Carolina.

The Women’s Bible Class, who are sponsoring the addition to the cabin, gave an oyster supper last Saturday evening. The
money raised will be used to complete the cabin. The Men’s Bible Class will put the final touches on the
structure this Saturday. They will be served dinner in the cabin by the Women’s Class.

Thanksgiving Service Held

The regular Thanksgiving Service was held yesterday, conducted by Rodman Williams. Instead of delivering a sermon, he reviewed the history
of the first event and led the congregation in singing hymns of praise.

Choir Sings At Vespers

Mendelssohn's “Hymn Of Praise” was presented in Chambers Auditorium Sunday night, Nov. 20. The program took place of the regular
Vespers service. The Oratorio was under the direction of Mr. Pfohl. The tenor soloist was unable to appear due to
a slight case of laryngitis. C. B. Efird from the Davidson student body substituted. Other soloists were Mrs. Lois Riker
and Mrs. Thomas Byrd, of Charlotte. This chorus was composed of approximately 30 students. The chorus was accompanied by the
Davidson-Queens-Chicora symphony orchestra. The group of singers were organized last year under the leadership of Mr. Pfohl.

Mission Group To Hold Meet

Sometime in the near future the Foreign Missions Fellowship Group will hold a meeting in the form of a social.
The purpose of the meeting will be to bring together men who plan to be foreign or home missionaries so
they may know each other better and become better acquainted with mission work. Last year the group was very active
under the leadership of Archer Torrey. The meetings are held on Sunday nights and for that reason the group has
been practically inactive this year.

Dr. S. B. Knight Makes Talk on “Weighing and Detecting Quantities”

Dr. Knight, chairman of the Science Division of the Faculty, addressed this group Nov. 7 on the “Weighing and Detecting
Minute Quantities.” Dr. Knight explained that today the accuracy of ordinary weighing in one millionth of a gram. Using fluorescence,
he demonstrated the presence of this substance in water where the ratio was less than one millionth to 1. Small
Quantities Important

He concluded by saying that quantities too small to be weighed control the elasticity and rigidity in metallurgy, the proper
enzymes in plants and animals, the growth of bacteria, and the attraction of insects to each other. Dr. Knight was
of the opinion that these minute entities bring cosmos or normalcy from chaos.

After Dr. Knight's address, the meeting was thrown open for discussion and refreshments were served.

The next meeting of the science group will be Dec. 11, when Professor Walter Springs Pharr, a member of Davidson's
faculty, will speak.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

These men excelled in singing several duets and seniors have played prominent trio parts in Davidson's football wars for the
past three years, and it was around these men that Gene McKyer built his 1939 team. Advance plans for the
game have the entire student body excited.

QUESTION IS (Continued from Page One)

To accommodate the group, the discussion will be moved to the auditorium in Chambers Building. Dick Kenyon urges all students
to attend this discussion on the timely topic, believing that it will be both beneficial and entertaining.

MEATS and Groceries
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

This was the record chalked up by Hugh M. Grey, Jr., of Concord as he enrolled in the Liles class
of '43 this fall. In a story written by Prof. Chalmers Davidson for the Fall Alumni Journal, it was announced
that the son of Davidson's first All-America gridiron star had completed the line in a family which has produced more
than fifteen Davidson men. Freshman Grey, the son of Hugh M. Grey, Sr., a student in 1884, and the great-grandson
of Professor Hugh A. Grey, who attended Davidson in 1856, was the first to arrive.

According to Prof. Davidson, a careful search has revealed that not until the class of 1958 had even a scion
of the fourth generation arrived, and for some unaccountable reason, his father and grandfather had neglected the excellent precedent of
his great-grandfather, a member of the class of 1841, and matriculated at other colleges. However, the class of 1938 certainly
deserves honorable mention for returning to the fold of his forebear, Samuel Caldwell of the class of 1841.

Hugh Alexander Grey, the first member of the family, fought in the Civil War and was a member of L'Alliance
Française. After the war, he remained in France where he studied the French language. He was a member of L'Alliance
Française, a club organized by a group of Charlotte people. After Dr. Alexander's career talk, the skit was presented by
Joe Thies, Fred Lawte, and Ed Deol. The cast was composed of Sid Crane, Cooper, Edward Jackson, and John Brady,
accompanied by Vinton Edwards at the piano. After the program, refreshments were served and French phrases were played.

Mr. Burch announced Monday that plans for a special Christmas program were being shaped. The community chorus and the Queens-Chicora
Davidson Symphony Orchestra participated in the program.

CATS, DEACS CLOSE LONG MCA PICKS USES FOR (Continued from Page One)

It was announced that Mr. Rik against the first eight foes. Wake Forest, possessors of the most students who later
entered here.

His son, Dr. William Richard Grey, voice professor at Davidson, is the oldest living son of the students and the
local church and the Civic League. These two organizations have long been alarmed at terrible conditions in the negro community,
and it is hoped that the erection of a community center may mark a new day in conditions among the
colored people.

Three helping one another will do as much as six singly. The former Helen Blake of Greenwood, S.C., is a
great-niece of Prof. John R. Blake, acting president of the college. Hugh M. Grey, Sr., graduated from Davidson in 1918,
a star of the Wildcat teams and the college’s first All-American hero. In 1920, he married the former Helen Blake
of Greenwood, S.C. He was head football coach for two years and is now in business in Concord. Mrs. Grey,
the former Helen Blake of Greenwood, S.C., is a great-niece of Prof. John R. Blake, acting president of the college
in the 1870s.

McAlister Carson, a member of the class of 1913, holds the record as the first student representing the third generation
of his family at Davidson.

Harvard University scientists have discovered a new earthquake device that may be used in locating enemy artillery.

Charlotte’s Leading Dependable DELICIOUS FOOD at REASONABLE PRICES SEA FOODS NORGE GAS RANGE RULANE GAS SERVICE GROCERIES HARDWARE

The meeting, held Tuesday night at the home of Dr. A. V. Goldiere, Page Three Prof. Thies Concludes Leadership Third
Recital Will Be Given By Orchestra of Chemists Guion Is Student Representative at Gamma Sigma Epsilon Convention

Professor O. J. Thies of the Davidson Chemistry Department, and Tom Guion of Davidson's senior class recently attended the tenth
biennial convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary fraternity, at Chattanooga, Tenn. The convention was held from Nov. 23 through
Nov. 25th. Fifty-three members from its fourteen chapters attended, as well as numerous guest speakers. Festivities included a smoker Thursday
evening at the University of Chattanooga Commons; business sessions Friday and Saturday, a banquet Friday night at the Park Hotel,
and a steak fry Saturday evening on Signal Mountain. Dr. Irving W. Grote of the University of Chattanooga Chemistry Department
was elected national president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. He succeeds Dr. O. J. Thies of Davidson, who is the retiring
worthy grand alchemist. The principal speaker of the convention was Dr. Harold B. Friedman, Professor of Physical Chemistry at the
Georgia Institute of Technology. In his talk, Dr. Friedman indicated the surface of scientific discoveries "has scarcely been scratched."

A new method of storing heat from the sun has been devised by a Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientist.

Practical criminology is being offered as a regular course at Washington College by the biology department.

Purdue University conducts a special school for the chaperones and housemothers of college fraternities.

Vol. Samson, and Donald C. Wilson, Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as
a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane,
J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the
third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall
as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H.
Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents
the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this
fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W.
H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin
represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record
this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr.,
W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson,
Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a
record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz,
Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W.
Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here,
a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C.
Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J.
W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation
here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T.
C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr.,
J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth
generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr.,
T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin,
Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a
fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey,
Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J.
Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set
a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W.
Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H.
J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey
set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell
W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr.,
H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh
Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include
Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit,
Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while
Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They
include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T.
Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson,
while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943.
They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R.
T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend
Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of
1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock,
R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to
attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class
of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E.
Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family
to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of the
class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A.
E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his
family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member of
the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick,
A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of
his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a member
of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N.
Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation
of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as a
member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J.
N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third
generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall as
a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane,
J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the
third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this fall
as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H.
Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents
the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record this
fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr., W.
H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin
represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a record
this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz, Jr.,
W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W. Finlayson,
Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here, a
record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C. Clontz,
Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J. W.
Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation here,
a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T. C.
Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr., J.
W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth generation
here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr., T.
C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane, J. N. Dick, A. E. Dimmock, R. T. Douthit, Jr., H. J. Ewin, Jr.,
J. W. Finlayson, Kerwin represents the third generation of his family to attend Davidson, while Hugh Grey set a fourth
generation here, a record this fall as a member of the class of 1943. They include Campbell W. Anstey, Sr.,
T. C. Clontz, Jr., W. H. Crane
