Feb. 8, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Kappa Alpha
Bill Lemmon spent the week-end at Converse. Sam Newell journeyed to Rock Hill, or rather Winthrop. Pledge Dick Coppedge attended the party at Limestone Saturday night. There was a feed held Sunday night. Formal initiation was held Tuesday night with seven being initiated. These were: Caton Dennis, Dick Arnold, Charlie Watt, Mason Wallace, Cam Wilson, Dick Coppedge, and Davis Thomas.

Beta Theta Pi
Charlie Pegram and Holt well travelled to Petersburg, Va., for the week-end. Sam Walker and Fred Armstrong were at Rock Hill Saturday night. Bill Burch went to Reidsville and Bob Balsley attended the Carolina Dances. The usual Sunday night feed was held with Misses Kalista Hood and Susie Jackson guests of honor. Bill Jarnigan, Jim Howell, Nukie Attwater, B. F. Moore, Howard Cheney, Ed Morrow, Julian Squires, Tom Abbot, and Bill Summerville went to Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi
Thirteen men were initiated into the chapter last week. These are: Al Green, Jack Covington, Horace Reeves, W. C. Plunkett, Tad Larkin, Bob Garvey, Phil Suttelmyer, Geddie Herrin, Mack Morris, Bob Ballard, Jim Morgan, Sam Woodward, and Marion Mobley. Alumni brother Heath Howie visited the chapter during the week. Hendrick, Suttelmyer, and Green went to Limestone. Bill Ward went to Washington, and Frank Niven to Greensboro. At the feed Sunday night were the following visitors: Betty Warlick, Louise Van Tassel, Libby Jane Lynn, Peggy Whitener, and Mrs. Stewart Whitener.

Phi Gamma Delta
Initiation was held Saturday afternoon in the Dome room of Chambers for Royal Branton, Dan Hodges, Blair Miller, Bill Mitchell, Harwell Darby, Tom Rogers, Archie Taylor, Walter Wooten, Ralph Stair, and Ralph Williams. A pig dinner was held in honor of the initiates at the S. & W. Cafeteria in Charlotte Saturday night. Those other than active members present were: F. O. Frenald, Charlotte; Dave Hall, Belmont; George R. Brathers, Ware Neck, Va.; George Fouhey, Charlotte; Dr. G. B. Watts, and Brothers Morton and Jenkins of the Richmond Chapter.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brothers Joe Brinson and Ross McElwee spent the week-end in High Point. Toddy Latimer went to Rock Hill Saturday. Jim McDonald and Joe Shelton spent the week-end in Charlotte. Paul Youngblood went home to Concord. John Scott was forced to withdraw from school on account of illness. The following six men were initiated: Ed Scott, Harry Suttenfield, Jim Cruthfield, George Marsh, Ray Hoover, and Bob Washburn. Harvey St. Clair went to the Limestone party Saturday.

Kappa Sigma
Louis Hipp was the official delegate to the district conclave in Spartanburg this week-end. Others attending were Warren Gaw, Tommy Johnston, Billy Rainey and Pledge Brother John Barnhart who was initiated into the fraternity at a model initiation held at the Conclave. Dick Spencer went home to Rock Hill. Several brothers attended dances at Carolina, and others went to the party at Limestone. There was a feed Sunday night, and the chapter is planning a banquet for Friday night of Mid-Winters.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother George Grantham went to his home in Fairmont. Brother Faison spent the week-end with his parents in Durham. Brother Hank Bahnson attended the Mid-Winter dances at the University of North Carolina being held last week-end. Pledge brothers McCleod, Smith, Hudson and Freeze visited Limestone College for their party held for the freshman class. Brothers Poss McLean and Buck Powell also went to Limestone College. The chapter was pleased to have as its guest for Sunday Coach Laurence Spearman, Mrs. Spearman and Miss Jane Jones now visiting the Spearmans.

[Continued on Page Nr]

YMCA Workers Speak Before Eight Groups
Services Held in Statesville, Charlotte, Asheboro, Mooresville

Members of the Deputations Committee of the Y. M. C. A. department have been very active during the past week. On Wednesday, Vance Myers, Paul Crane and Dave Talmadge made talks at the First Presbyterian Church at Statesville. Paul Crane also addressed the members of Sugar Creek Church, and on Sunday evening he spoke to the members of the Young Peoples’ Department at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. On Sunday, February 5, John Mawhinney and Jim Crook held the service at the First Presbyterian Church of Asheboro. Accompanying them was a quartette composed of J. K. Wilson, Con Wilson, Dick Aycock, and Victor Hollis.

Mooresville
Reid Newland and Rock Deaton conducted church services that same day at the Mooresville Presbyterian Church and also spoke that night to the Young Peoples’ Group of that church. J. K. Wilson conducted the evening service at the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Dave McLean delivered a sermon to the members of the colored church at Davidson, while Sherrard Rice and Bob King delivered sermons at the Presbyterian churches in Huntersville and Hopewell respectively.

Davidson Men Given Honors
Two graduates of Davidson College have been given notice of honors. They are Second Lieutenant J. J. Stewart, Jr., and Richard Vowles, son of Dr. G. R. Vowles of the Davidson College faculty. Lieutenant Stewart, whose transfer to Panama has been announced by the War Department, is now stationed at Fort Screven, Georgia. He is one of the few R. O. T. C. officers in the service who were commissioned for permanent active duty in July, 1937. Richard Vowles, son of Dr. G. R. Vowles of the Davidson College faculty, was elected editor of “The Rhosette” of Alpha Chi Sigma at the University of North Carolina.

Soloists For Festival
Davidson’s Musical Festival has acquired a number of noted soloists for various parts of the program. They are: top row, Mrs. James C. Pfohl, solo pianist Monday night; Franklin Riker, Davidson, tenor soloist Sunday and Tuesday night; Chicora, soprano soloist Tuesday night; and El Alexander, soprano soloist Sunday night.

Numeral Club Meets Tonight
Committees to Be Checked; Athletes to Speak

On Wednesday evening, February 8, the Numeral Club of Davidson College will hold its first regular meeting of the semester at the usual time, 9:15, in the D-Club room of Elm Row. At this meeting a program will be presented, though it is not yet exactly certain who will be the speaker. However, he will probably be some prominent athlete of the Davidson campus, for many members have expressed a desire to hear this type of speaker. The regular check-up on the work of the committees—Publicity, Program, Welcoming and Grades Committees—will be made by President Hackney at this time. The chairman of each group will be asked to report on the work that his group has been doing, and on how well they have carried out their assigned tasks. A large attendance will be expected at the meeting, for plans will be made for the taking in of new members from those athletes that participated in the winter sports program.

Photographic Club
Last Wednesday the Photographic Club met and received an invitation to meet with the Charlotte Camera Club Monday in Charlotte. Four contests have been arranged for the Club members. They are as follows: February 22, Doorways; March&, People; March 22, Laboratory and class scenes; and April 5, Mitten. The Photographic Club urges that all members begin work on these contest pictures, as they would like very much to run the contest on schedule.

"RATCLIFFE'S FLOWERS BRIGHTEN THE HOURS"

PREPARE FOR MID-WINTERS

Representatives:
JOHNSTON'S
LEM KORNEGAY
JIM THOMAS

Barber Shop

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By MILLER SPROULL, 136

PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley
Davidson, N. C.

Full Line of Meats For This Weekend
FREE DELIVERY
Dial 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N.C.
CARS FOR RENT

German Frat Meets
Delta Phi Alpha, fraternity for proficiency in German, met on February 27 at the home of Dr. G. Vowles. The meeting was at first scheduled to be on February 13, but this date was in conflict with the music festival. The program will consist of a series of discussions of recent German novels. Sam Webb has charge of the books which will be discussed.

Faculty Club Fetes Guests
The Quadwrangler's Club held its annual Christmas social on January 2, in the Banquet Room of Chambers building. The faculty and their friends were the Quadwranglers' guests. After the President of the Quadwrangler's Club, Dr. A. V. Goldiere, had called the assemblage to order, he extended a welcome to the guests. The program, which consisted of several "brain teasing" contests, then started. Dr. Frontis officiated at the "Professor Quiz." Mrs. J. T. Kimbrough and her helpers served delicious refreshments. Mrs. W. P. Cumming was in charge of the decoration of the Banquet room. The members, their wives, and friends numbered (Continued on Page Six).

Yours For a happy weekend
Fal Kemp

Have the added confidence of knowing you are correctly outfitted by J. O. Jones Incorporated.

Harper Beall, Davidson, baritone soloist Sunday and Tuesday night; Katherine Swain, Salem, soloist.

Students Give Four Services
Mawhinney, Crooks, and Quartet Go to Ashbury Church
A deputation under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. was sent to Ashbury Presbyterian Church, Sunday. The deputation consisted of John Mawhinney and James Crook, accompanied by the quartet, Wilson, J. K. Wilson, V. R. N. Aycock. Each month, a man has been sent to Huntersville Presbyterian Church. Each man has reviewed one chapter in the book "Star of the East" by Darby Fulton. The deputation has been Wade Boggs, Sherrard Rice, Sid Crane, Oscar Armstrong, and Rockwell Deaton respectively. Sid Crane spoke at the Mooresville Methodist Church last Sunday evening (Continued on Page Six).

LOVELY VALENTINE HEARTS
THE CANDY OF THE SOUTH
Beautiful Heart-shaped Packages, containing your favorite, standard Nunnally Assortment at the standard Nunnally prices. Packages range from 25c to $5.00. Give Nunnally's.
College Pharmacy

Group Elects President
Phi Society Also Makes Plans For Second Semester Activities
Ivan Stafford was installed last night as president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. The society also discussed plans for activities of the second semester. At the meeting, held in Phi Hall, election of other officers was held. It was decided that, in order to improve the speeches and discussions held before the group, emphasis would be placed on style, methods of delivery, and parliamentary procedure at meetings. By this program, the literary ability of the members is expected to be improved. Term papers and other writings are to be handed in for criticism. The betterment of the feeling of fellowship is the aim of the social meetings to be held after each business session of the society. Stafford, a senior, is very active in the village and Boy Scout work. Recreational activities are his main charges. He attended Lees-McRae College before coming here. He is a member of Phi Gamma Mu. Nominees for vice-president named before the election last night included Jack Abernathy and Joe Gammon. Among those for secretary were Eldridge Brown and Edgar Watson. Paul Cooper, Frank Hand, and Al Bixler were among the candidates for critics. The new Phi key, gold (Continued on Page Six).

Horine Is Interpreter Of German Spy Trial
Former Davidson Student Helps Convict Nazis
Screaming headlines quickened the pulse of the nation. A prairie-fire of rumor ran riot from Maine to California. Eruptions smouldered beneath the calm diplomatic surface. It was last October and the famed German Spy trials were taking place in New York. Inside the courtroom, playing an inconspicuous but all-important part, was an intelligent young man, interpreting English questions to German witnesses and German answers to the English-speaking jury. That young man was Field Horine, who graduated from Davidson last June. Just how a Davidson graduate came to fill such an unusual place in world affairs is an interesting story. Five years ago, Field Horine was just another freshman. He carried laundry, wore his cap, and said Kentucky when asked where he was from. His unusual excellence in the study of German led Dr. G. R. Vowles to secure a scholarship for him at Heidelberg. So off to Germany went Field for his sophomore year. He returned to Davidson for his junior year. Some time after Christmas, he suddenly disappeared. For several days no one knew where he was. Then it was learned that he was back in Germany at Bonn. His classmates tell an unsubstantiated story of a mysterious letter which came to Field the day he so hastily left for Germany the second time. The rumor has it that he was (Continued on Page Six).

The most exclusive ideas of Spring Clothes Styled by DON RICHARDS of Hollywood, originated for and worn by the Screen's best dressed men, will be displayed for your critical preview February 11th.
MARION DAVIS COMPANY
205 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Don't Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL
Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

Printing
A COMPLETE printing service as near as your telephone. Printers of The Davidsonian.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
Printing is our Business
For a representative, call 38-3727.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON'S SERVICE STORE
Garland Court
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Bluebird Records
35c—75c Each
ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
Ernest Ellison
Robt. E. Ellison
Fire, Casualty and Marine Insurance
Phone 8257.
PARKER GARDNER CO.
113-115 E. Fourth St—Charlotte, N. C.