Wed., April 26, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Davidson’s Music Camp Has Best Registration
Music Department Announces Faculty of Eight Prominent Musicians

With less than two months to go before Davidson's summer music-school-camp opens, Prof. James Christian Pfohl announced this week that registration for the 1939 season has already passed the halfway mark. The music department head declared that this is the best registration experienced since the camp was organized in 1936. This year's enrollment has been limited to a capacity of fifty boys, ranging in age from eight to eighteen. While the campers will be offered instruction in all branches of music, the daily program also includes time for swimming, tennis, golf, softball, and track.

Outstanding Faculty
As instructors of the camp, the administration engaged a faculty of eight leading Carolina musicians. In addition to Professors Pfohl, McDonald, and Babcock of the Davidson faculty, the group includes Bernard Hirsch, director of the Marion high school band; Julian Helms, leader of Hendersonville’s band; Donald Pfohl, brother of the Davidson professor and head of Wake Forest's music department for next fall; and James Weber, violinist of Statesville and Charlotte. Jack Tillotson, who graduates this spring from Davidson, is the final member of this group. Several college students will work as counsellors.

To give some idea of the camp's success in instruction, Mr. Pfohl pointed out that in the North Carolina music contest at Greensboro last week, ten first-place ratings were won by boys who had attended past Davidson camp sessions: Ned Iverson, Charlie Sample, Boo Walker, and A. H. Whittle.

Training Varied
As may be expected, the music school is run exactly as any summer camp is run. There is a regular program each day for the students attending. The physical training of the boys, as well as the mental training, is well looked after and is also conducted by excellent leaders. At regular times during the period, there are concerts by the students in the music school. These are held here on the Davidson campus, and all who wish to attend are invited to listen.

The staff for the music-school-camp is in no way connected with the regular summer school of the College, which is held during the same period; however, several college instructors take part in the music school.

Le Cercle Francais
At a called meeting which was held on Thursday, April 20, Le Cercle Francais decided to accept the invitation of the North Carolina chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French to present a series of French plays. The plays will be given at a meeting of the Association, in Salisbury, where the group will be the guest of Catawba College. The program will include three plays. They are: “Une Partie de Bridge,” “Une Terrible Affaire,” and “L’Anglais Tel Qu’On Le Parle.” The performance is to be the same as that given at Salem College, Converse College, and here. Following the performance, the cast will be entertained at a dinner given them by Catawba, and will return immediately after this.

Athletic Frat. Offers Trials
Sigma Delta Psi Will Have Try-Outs Next Week

Next week Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, will offer trials for membership. To qualify for this fraternity, a man must be an all-round athlete, and must fulfill certain requirements in a large number of athletic activities. Members of the fraternity now include: R. B. Benfield, Thomas Abbott, Boyd, Billie Hickman, Ned Iverson, Charlie Sample, Boo Walker, and A. H. Whittle.

Requirements
Required tests include: (1) a hundred yard dash in 11 3-5 seconds; (2) 120 yard low hurdles in 16 seconds; (3) running high jump of 5 feet; (4) running broad jump of 17 feet; (5) 16 pounds shot put 30 feet; (6) 20 foot rope climb in 12 seconds; (7) baseball throw of 250 feet; javelin throw of 130 feet; (8) football punt of 120 feet; (9) 110 yard swim in one minute and 45 seconds; (10) one mile run in six minutes; (11) front hand spring landing on feet; (12) hand stand of ten seconds; (13) fence vault, chin high; (14) standard posture and standard build; and (15) maintain a scholarship so that the candidate [Continued on Page Six]

University Theatre Will Be New Name of Campus Dramatic Group

Several important developments have occurred in the Radio Theatre Guild during the past week. The name has been changed to the University Theatre, and will be known as such henceforth.

The members of the theatre, including Monroe Bush, Jr., Dan Hodges, Ralph Williams, Shaw Smith, and Pat Rudolph went to Charlotte Saturday to the studios of Radio Station WSOC where their first presentation was electrically transcribed through the facilities of the radio station. This first presentation was a short drama entitled “The Dancing Partner” adapted for radio by Dan Hodges from a short story by Jerome K. Jerome.

The players were as follows: Franz, Ralph Williams; Heinrich, Pat Rudolph; Weber, Dan Hodges; and Herr Adolph Kruifmann, Monroe Bush, Jr. Shaw Smith was Narrator and assistant in “Sound Effects and Music.” The play was directed by Mr. George Brangle of Station WSOC, who assisted in the dramatic and technical phases of production. The Theatre worked for six hours on Saturday with the entire facilities of Station WSOC at their disposal. The sound effects for the transcription were provided by the sound effect files in the radio station, and the music was supplied from sources here at Davidson, with “Melody in F” being chosen as the theme for the programs.

New Series Planned
Arrangements are being completed for a series of four broadcasts commencing on the evening of May 1. This series will be continued in the fall with the re-opening of the new college year. The hour of these broadcasts will be announced in the next issue of the “Davidsonian.” Dan Hodges and Professor H. T. Lilly have begun work on a new adaptation from a great dramatic short story. The Theatre is practicing at the home of Mrs. L. B. Schenek under the combined direction [Continued on Page Six]

Freshman Debaters Take Southern Trip
“Meet Asheville, Maryville, Sewanee, Knoxville, and Emory Freshmen”

Four members of the Freshman Debating team left this afternoon for a four-day tour through Tennessee and Georgia. The query for the debates on this trip will be, Resolved: that the United States should make an alliance with Great Britain. On the trip, Bill Rowe and Driver Summers will debate the negative of the question. Albert Winn and Jim Crook will support the affirmative side. All teams challenged by the Freshmen were given the choice as to which side they should defend. One upperclassman was to make the tour with the debaters but as the Davidsonian went to press it had not been decided who this would be. Plans are not quite complete at the date of this writing but a tentative schedule has been arranged. [Continued on Page Six]

Duke Holds Celebration
Five D. C. Delegates Attend 100th Anniversary

Duke University began a three-day program of academic celebration last Friday commemorating its one hundredth birthday. Three hundred and ninety-five delegates from colleges, universities, and learned societies in the United States and many foreign countries participated in the academic procession last Saturday afternoon, among whom were five representatives connected with the faculty here at Davidson. Dr. Fraser Hood specifically represented this institution. The delegates came in order of the age of the institution they represented, and Dr. Benjamin Rice Lacy, alumnus of Davidson representing Oxford University, led the procession. Others were Dr. J. McD. Richards representing Columbia Theological Seminary; Mrs. Elizabeth Chandler Cumming, Smith College. [Continued on Page Six]

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

FAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods Inc.
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.Journalists will be entertained by W. C. U. N. C. and Greensboro Woman’s College when they attend the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association convention in Greensboro from May 4-6. A well-known columnist who now edits the late O. O. McIntyre’s column will be the chief speaker at the meeting. There will be representatives from the three Davidson publications, Scripts ’n Pranks, Quips and Cranks, and the Davidsonian, among them Rut Miller, who is first vice-president.

Outing Is Given For Badin High Students
Club Elects Bob Balsley
Bahnson and Cauble Are Beaver Club Officers

At the last meeting of the Beaver Club, the election of officers was held, the following men being elected to lead the organization for the coming year: Bob Balsley was elected president, Henry Bahnson, vice-president, and Tom Cauble was chosen for secretary and treasurer. Bob Balsley is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national pre-medical fraternity. Last year he served as the secretary and treasurer of the student body. Henry Bahnson is a member of the Sigma Alpha social fraternity. He is enrolled in the national pre-medical fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, and is a member of Le Cercle Francais, the national French club. Bahnson is also the vice-president of the student body, and he is at present...

[Continued on Page Six]

Rev. Gammon Recently Elected

Rev. Edgar G. Gammon will preach at the Sunday night vesper service in the College auditorium. Dr. Gammon is a graduate of Hampton-Sidney College where he later returned as pastor at the college’s Presbyterian church. Since that time he has held the pastorates of the First Presbyterian Church in Selma, Ala., and the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, N.C.

Picnic Held on Campus as Part Of High School Junior-Senior Day

With the arrival of Spring, both young and old begin to think of picnics and other similar outings. The well of the Davidson campus served as the center of a picnic held by the Junior and Senior Classes of Badin High School last Wednesday afternoon from two-thirty to seven-thirty. It is customary, as a part of the Junior-Senior Reception of Badin High School, for these classes to take a trip with one of the athletic teams. This year they chose to witness the Freshman-Badin Baseball game.

Ninety in Party

After the game, they had a picnic supper at the well. Davidson lays claim to three boys from Badin who also attended the affair and are now with us. These are: Johnnie Clark, freshman; Norris Erb, sophomore; and Bill Davis, a teacher in the Davidson High School. There were ninety in the party which was composed of about half boys and half girls, all ranging from about fourteen to eighteen years of age. Also with them were their homeroom teachers and their two grade mothers.

[Continued on Page Six]

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Wed., April 26th. “WINNER TAKE ALL”
Thurs., April 27th. “LOVE AFFAIR”
Fri., April 28th. “SOCIETY LAWYER”
Sat., April 29th. “MYSTERIOUS RIDER”
Mon.-Tues., May 1st-2nd. “LADY FROM KENTUCKY”
Wed., May 3rd. “12 CROWDED HOURS”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.

Phis and Spectators Picnic With Dates at Club House Thursday Evening

The Charlotte Shriners’ Red Fez Club was the scene last Thursday night of a joint party of the Philanthropic Literary Society and the Spectator Club of Queens-Chicora College. Due to limited facilities, only thirty-five members of each group were able to be present. The trip to the Red Fez Club grounds and back was made in hay-filled trucks, which left Davidson at 4:30 P.M., stopping in Charlotte to pick up the girls, food, and chaperons, the latter being Dr. Stout and Miss Harold of the Queens-Chicora faculty.

Entertainment

After the consumption of the picnic supper, which was provided by the Spectator Club, the group gathered on the porch of the clubhouse for a program of entertainment organized and conducted by Mr. J. Daniel Walker, chairman of the program committee of the Phi society. A large number of those present took part in the entertainment features, many extemporaneously. At an appropriate time in the festivities, an announcement was made of the presentation of a miniature gold gavel to Rod Williams in recognition of his long and faithful service. The retiring president of the Spectator Club, Olive Croswell, was likewise honored by a gift from the members of her organization. Frances Hunter is the retiring secretary-treasurer.

Ceremonies Discussed

A committee appointed by the society’s executive committee met last Saturday afternoon with the professors of the English department and Professor C. G. Davidson to discuss the reviving of the traditional commencement ceremonies in connection with the literary society, and the collection of the cream of student literary efforts from year to year. These would be kept in the form of a permanent anthology in the library, being bound every five years. The members of the committee were Ivan Stafford, Lawson Withers, and Russell Smith. Don Hott has recently been doing extensive research in the archives of the society.

Boyce Leads Pre-Meds

Members of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national pre-medical fraternity which limits its membership to the students of the upper classes who are interested in the study of medicine and who make the required grades, gathered last Friday night in the parlor of Watts for the installation of newly-elected officers. W. H. Boyce will act as president during the coming year; C. W. Sherman, Jr., as vice-president; I. W. Rose, as secretary and treasurer; and R. D. Doty, as corresponding secretary. At the last open meeting, to be held the first week of May, Dr. Addison Brenizer of Charlotte will be the guest speaker.

“That the distorted will to win has been beyond reasonable limits in some cases is no proof of the immorality of football. No more so is the fact that promoters have tinted the game with professionalism. The remedy lies in eradicating those evils, not the sport. American football is no lily-white sport in the eyes of athletic moralists. Neither is it the black hole of American sportdom. As long as it pays a few bills, draws a few students, and thrills a million people every autumn Saturday, its long life and prosperity seem well assured.”—Syracuse University Daily Orange.

ALWAYS ASK for
C & P
Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts and Candy
Manufactured by
SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, North Carolina

DRY GOODS
GROCERIES
RADIO SUPPLIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Printing is Our Business
A COMPLETE service as near as your telephone. Dial 3-5727 for a representative.
Printers of The Davidsonian
Garland Court
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.