Thurs., Oct. 19, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
McClintock went to the team. Balsley, Sumter, Brothers Burch, Pegram, Howell, Shaw, S.C., Friday with Brothers Bonner, Matthews, and McAuley
went to the Davidson-South Carolina game. On Saturday the following went to Greensboro: Brothers Southgate Jones and Ed Lucas went
to Greensboro and Durham. Joy attended a wedding in Winston-Salem.

Kappa Sigma
“Apie” Means and Joe Nelson went to Chapel Hill and Durham for the weekend. Howell, Propst, and Phillips. Brothers Matthew
and Sherman went to Spartanburg, S.C. Brothers Barnwell, Ramsey, and McKnight went to Rock Hill. Bill Howell went to Valdese
with Louis Garrou. Leith Garrou and Frank Atwater spent the weekend in Columbia, S.C. Gales McClintock went to Sweetbriar. Guests
for the Sunday night feed were Misses Martha Withers and Sophie Walker. Miss Nancy Walker was a weekend guest of
the chapter. To Raleigh went Tommy Yarborough, Hill, and Scott. Karl Hunter, the Gray and Coopers, Jonas to North Wilkesboro,
McCoy and Crook to Spartanburg, Bill to Lynchburg, Neal Scott to Goldsboro, Karl Hudson to Spartanburg, and Charlie Yates and
Tommy Yarborough to Sumter. Weekend guests were Brothers Joe Ross and Riddick of Spartanburg. Miss Mary Louise Steagall was the
guest of Charlie Yates.

1929 ECHOES OF THE PAST 1939

10 Years Ago
Davidson overwhelmed the Erskine Seceders 21 to 0 last Saturday. Practically all of the Championship football team of 1910 plan
to return on Homecoming day.

7 Years Ago
Davidson Wildcats, led by Johnny Mackorell, defeated the V.M.I. cadets by a 12-0 score, running its list to 3 straight.

5 Years Ago
Red and Black Masquers opened their season with three one-act plays, “Flummery,” “Grandma Pulls the String,” and “A Night in
An Inn.” A large number of Davidson students flocked to “The World's Largest Show,” Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey
Combined Circus.

In the War Zone
Dick Vowles, Class of 1937, who is studying in Stockholm, Sweden, may be trapped in the European war zone if
present European trends continue. If Russia continues its intimidation of the Baltic countries, he may be forced to give up
his scholarship on enzymes and return to America. Vowles is the son of Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the Davidson
faculty.

Library Has Red, Black Mas Collections For Exhibit
Deluxe Editions, New Books, and English Stamps Are Among Display

Deluxe Editions of the Library’s collection are being placed in a special bookcase in room number one of the Library.
These books, which illustrate the best in American printing, are large, beautifully bound editions with many fine illustrations. They include
illustrated books on the development of American Prints. Another popular book in the group is Plantations of the Carolina Low
Country. A display of stamps is being shown in the glass show case in the library. This group of stamps,
being shown by W. C. McClammy of the Freshman class, includes a variety of British Colony stamps which carry the
picture of King George VI. There are also a few stamps issued by Canada and Newfoundland in honor of the
recent visit of the King and Queen of England.

Business Club Plans Future
Commerce Group Hears Constitution of Council

In its initial meeting Wednesday, October 11, the Commerce Club held a discussion on plans for the year. The club,
composed of outstanding students in business administration, also heard the constitution of both the commerce fraternity council and the national
organization. At the next meeting, Dr. A. M. Hillhouse, faculty advisor to the organization, will speak. This meeting is to
be held on October 25. Officers of the club for the year are: Benny Harrison, President; George Richmond, Vice-President; Jim
Thomas, Secretary; and Gales McClintock, Treasurer.

Sergeant Has Twenty-Two Years Army Service
One of the most interesting men connected with the college from the standpoint of experiences is Sergeant B. R. Burton
of the United States army. Sergeant Burton has been connected with the R.O.T.C. department here for fifteen years. He was
born near Dallas, Texas, in 1895. When he was very young, his family moved to Indian Territory (Oklahoma) where he
grew up and went to school. Before coming to Davidson, the Sergeant was employed as a steel worker for a
construction company.

Forensic Club Holds Meet
The Forensic Club of the college faculty held its initial meeting of the year last Tuesday, October 10, with Dr.
Sam Knight presiding. Dr. W. G. McGavock, professor of mathematics, will be the speaker at their meeting on October 23,
when he will speak on “The Science Division of Faculty.” After the business, the meeting was adjourned and Mr. W.
A. Douglas, chairman of the refreshment committee, served coffee and cookies.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity, was dropped from Davidson's group of societies at the first meeting of the year
with the purpose of studying the honor system.to Wagrain. Those going with the squad to Sumter were: Pledges Knoeller, Yoder,
and Buck Powell, George Grantham, Frank Caldwell, Jim McDuffie, Bob Smith, Claude Hackney, Henry Bahnson, and Poss McLean. Speaking were:
Lucas, Cauble, Micklen, Tom Crichton, and Austin. Strandwitz went with the team to Sumter. Raymond McDaniel spent the weekend in
Greensboro. Bill Hamilton went to his home in Indian Town, S.C. Cameron Dudley went to Troy. Hugh Knox and Stuart
Rogers went to Spartanburg. Bill Sprunt went to his home in Winston-Salem. Tom Cauble attended the freshman class meeting last
Thursday. Since the team fought hard last week, Wooten said, “I saw that game last week, and if the team
fights as hard tomorrow, they’ll beat that South Carolina bunch.”

Frankenstein Returns! He thrills, excites, and terrifies as a doctor turned demon in the great career of Boris Karloff. Also
at this meeting, the Honor Fraternity Council decided to publish histories of the various groups under it in the Davidsonian.
This is a new feature starting in this issue. The history of Eta Sigma Phi is found on this page.
Next week comes Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the following week Pi Gamma Mu.

Lock Hunter, senior Cheer Leader, narrowly missed having a severe case of lock-jaw as a result of this wound. He
still bears on his hand the scar left by a Mexican whom he searched for contraband. The council disclosed the
order of the stories. The first regular meeting of Eta Sigma Phi was held Wednesday. A quorum was present to
form a meeting. Absence Rules were discussed. It was suggested that if a member of the fraternity was absent from
one meeting, he should be placed on probation; if absent from two meetings, he should be temporarily suspended. These penalties
were not to be exacted if the members had legitimate reasons. It was also suggested that annual dues of one
dollar per member be collected. These dues would cover all expenses of the fraternity. Andy Dale was named Chairman of
a newly appointed program committee. This committee is to draw up the programs for each month during the year.

Ernest Ellison, Inc. "JUST INSURANCE" 115 East Fourth Street, Charlotte, N.C. Printers of The Davidsonian—STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY, ESTABLISHED 1907, 415
S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N.C.

The initiation into Sigma Upsilon Honorary Literary Fraternity of new members George Milne, Melvin Means, Dick Kenyon, Paul Casey Jones,
and Earle Austin, postponed last meeting, will take place at the Kappa Alpha house next Tuesday evening at 9 o'clock.
The initiatory ceremonies will be held, followed by initiatory papers to be delivered by Austin, Bumbarger, and Kenyon. A committee
on membership will be appointed and the final chapter of the Sigma Upsilon novel will be written.

“Gaius and Gaius, Jr.” Laid in Plantation of South. “Gaius and Gaius, Jr.” comedy to be presented by the Red
and Black Masquers, has been scheduled for October 24th instead of the date planned. This production, reflecting the Plantation day
era, was written and first presented by the University of North Carolina Playmakers. Parts have been assigned as follows: Mr.
Maysfield, Wallace Scherer; Mrs. Maysfield, Polly Prict; Gaius, Jr., Ed Taylor; and the doctor, Dick Coppedge. Two other one-act plays,
“Submerged” and “Uncle Tom's Harem,” will also be presented.
