Sul an 2

Spotlights By ANDY DALE

Looking Backward

Saturday rings down the curtain on Davidson sports for this year. The teams in our class, subsidization, their more powerful
rivals, but teams. On the average, this has been the usual type of year. Sports enthusiasm reached its peak when
the quintet started off the season with a bang, lapsed after Christmas, and then bounced back to make Friday night
the highest point of the winter. Later in the spring, interest rebounded with new sports coming in: baseball, track, tennis,
and golf. The baseball team never seemed to function quite right but leaves fair prospects for next year. The golfers
took away more than their share of the wins, and are graduating only one man from their ranks. The court
crew took on a rough schedule throughout the Southwest but came back with wins over all except Texas, later adding
more victories and winding up with only two losses. Graduation will hit them twice, as they lose Captain Jones and
Northcross. The tracksters lost to better teams from Virginia and Duke, lose men here and there, and will replace them
with mighty good freshmen next year.

Intramural Dope

Intramurals have created plenty of interest this year, with competition keen in all sports. By tonight all the races should
be almost or entirely over, and the winner known. The championships in the various sports have gone to four fraternities:
Phi Gam, Phi Delt, S. P. E., and Kappa Sig. Football ended in a tie between the Phi Gams and
Phi Delts. Basketball and badminton went to the Phi Gams. The K. Sigs took bowling. The S. P. E.’s won
on the track. Volleyball was a tie between the S. P. E.’s and Phi Delts. With varsity competition, softball, and
horseshoes still undecided, it looks as if the cup goes to the Phi Gams permanently.

Highlights Of The Week

El Chico wins the Derby, Johnstown placing sixth. New York clings tenaciously to first place in the American League, Cincinnati
in the senior circuit. Charlotte drops two in front after losing a double-header. Jack Dempsey, former heavyweight champion, referees a
grunt-and-growl contest in Charlotte Monday night. Duke continues to lead the league in baseball. The Blue Devil Tracksters overwhelmed the
Cats 88-38. The Davidson frosh avenged an early-season defeat by routing Badin High with a score of 20-2 on the
losers’ field Friday in their only game of the week. The Wildkittens jumped on the offerings of Gamewell in the
first inning when successive singles by Yarborough, Daffin, and Carter, two walks, and a single by McLeod with the bases
full scored five runs. The hit-hungry frosh added seven more in the second inning. The Kittens scored lone markers in
the third and fifth. The total was increased to 18 in the sixth when three men crossed the pay station,
scoring on Jim Owens’ long hit with the bases full. Two more runs were added in the last inning to
complete the carnage when Tommy Yarborough got his fourth hit of the day with runners on second and third. Meanwhile,
the Badin bats were silenced by the heady twirling of Ed Lucas. The Badin two runs were of the unearned
variety, coming in the third without the aid of a hit. A wild throw on a double play ball allowed
two men to cross the pay station. The local attack was led by Bobby Carter, who garnered five hits in
as many trips to the plate. He was closely followed by Yarborough with four for five.

Finishing the careers of several Davidson track stars in the last meet of the season, Duke defeated Davidson here last
Saturday 88 to 38. Best race of the day was a see-saw thriller between Captain-elect Kellogg of Davidson and Duke’s
star miler, Jones, which ended up in a unique dead heat in 4:37.8. High point man for Davidson in his
last meet was Ned Iverson with 9 1/2 points. Duke had three men, each of whom garnered 10 points. Just
missing a second place, Captain Walker took his first defeat of the season in the 880 after taking third in
the mile.

Summary:
Mile—Tie for first between Kellogg (DC) and Jones (DU); Walker (DC), third. Time: 4:37.8.
440—Reavis (DU); Winterson (DU); Hoffmann (DU). Time: 50.8.
100—Siegfriedt (DU); Sample (DC); White (DC). Time: 10.2.
220—Siegfriedt (DU); White (DC); Winterson (DU). Time: 22.8.
880—Johnson (DU); Monroe (DU); Walker (DC). Time: 1:59.1.
High hurdles—Kinzle (DU); Harbin (DC); Cauble (DC). Time: 14.9.
Low hurdles—Reavis (DU); Kinzle (DU); Cauble (DC). Time: 24.8.
Two-mile—Brett (DU); Barnes (DU); tied for third between Woodward (DC) and Gammon (DC). Time: 10:11.3.

Field Events:
Shot put—Nania (DU); Warden (DC); Iverson (DC). Distance: 44 ft. 9 1/2 in.
Pole vault—Montfort (DU); tie between Sample (DC) and Fries (DU). Height: 12 ft.
Discus—Nania (DU); Iverson (DC); Jones (DU). Distance: 143 ft. 7 in.
High jump—Moyer (DU); Willmott (DU); tie between Iverson (DC) and Cowan (DC). Height: 6 ft. 1/4 in.
Javelin—Sullivan (DU); Welch (DU); Cowan (DC). Distance: 194 ft. 1/2 in.
Broad jump—Iverson (DC); Cowan (DC); Kinzle (DU). Distance: 21 ft. 3 1/4 in.

FAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
Inc. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Wed., May 10, 1939

K. Sigs Meet!

At the close of a full week of interfraternity competition, the Betas were downed with but one run while their
mates collected 10 runs off the offerings of Bob Benfield.

Phi Gams Win

The first to fall was a powerful Phi Gam team. By an 11-4 count, the Fijis had little trouble in
the next game. Again displaying much power at the bat, the Phi Gams forged ahead in the fifth with a
lead they never relinquished. In the consolation tournament, the Phi Delts marched through two foes to earn the privilege of
meeting the S. P. E.’s in the finals of this division. First, the Pikas fell without a struggle before the
Phi Delts. Next, the K. A.’s were beaten in the semi-finals. Silly Turner of the Phi Delts and Dick Winters
of the K. A.’s were both hit hard but superior fielding on the part of the former made the difference.
These two final games are scheduled soon.

Kittens Beat K. A.’s

On Thursday afternoon, the Wildkitten track team barely nosed out the Wildcats of Charlotte High by a score of 59-58.
Outstanding performances of the afternoon were made by Kenyon and Little of Charlotte High. Kenyon, in his first start of
the 440, lowered the state record by two seconds, his time being 50.3 seconds. Little bettered his own record in
the 200 low hurdles by going the distance in 22.9, barely beating Taylor. As usual, Dave Spencer was high scorer
with 14 points, taking first in the 100-yard dash and javelin throw, second in the 220-yard dash, and third in
the broad jump. Little was second high scorer with nine points.

Summary:
120 high hurdles—Taylor (D) first; Jones (C) second; Williams (D) third. Time: 15.2.
100-yard dash—Spencer (D) first; Kenyon (C) second; Pease (C) third. Time: 10.3.
Mile run—Griffin (C) first; Arnold (C) second; Coppage (D) third. Time: 5.4.
440-yard dash—Kenyon (C) first; Smith (C) second; Loy (D) third. Time: 50.3.
200 low hurdles—Little (C) first; Taylor (D) second; Brantley (C) third. Time: 22.9.
880-yard dash—Tecter (C) first; Hogan (D) second; Turnage (C) third. Time: 2:12.1.
220-yard dash—Pease (C) first; Spencer (D) second; Helms (C) third. Time: 23.3.

Field Events:
Shot put—Bell (D) first; Miller (D) second; Helms (C) third. Distance: 46 ft. 2 in.
Pole vault—Shannon and Stranwitz (D) first.Milam (C) third. Height 11 ft. High jump—Stranwitz (D) first; Myers (C) and Williamson (D)
tied for second. Height 5 ft. 8 in. Discus—Helms (C) first; Yoder and Freeze (D) tied for second. Distance 121
ft. Broad jump—Taylor (D) first; Little (C) second; Spencer (D) third. Distance 20 ft. 7 in. Javelin—Knoell (D) first; Little
(C) second; Stranwitz (D) third. Distance 156 ft. 9 in.

In the softball competition, teams representing the Kappa Sigma and Phi Gamma Delta fraternities hold finalist positions. The finalists in
the consolation tournament are the Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Delta Theta teams. The Kappa Sigs began their march to
the finals by easily polishing off the Pikas. Next came the Betas, allowing but three scattered hits. “Apie” Means put
the Charlotte Hi...

DAVIDSON SPORTS | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kellogg New Track Captain
Spring Sports Close Soon
Page Four

Next Baseball Coach?
Phi Gams In Frat Finals

Norman W. Shepard, Davidson’s genial athletic director and varsity basketball mentor, will probably add to his coaching duties next year
by taking over Flake (Red) Laird’s position as head baseball coach. Laird has resigned his post for a position at
V.P.I.

Golfers Close With Tourney

Davidson's varsity golfers close their current season by competing in the annual Southern Conference tournament held at Pinehurst May 11,
12, and 13. The Cats this year have amassed a fine record of eight wins in nine matches, losing only
to the strong Carolina team in Greensboro. They have participated in two tournaments thus far and have shown up very
well, taking second place in the State Intercollegiate at Greensboro and sixth in the Southern Intercollegiate held at Athens. Charlie
Pegram carded one of the oddities of golf at this tourney by turning in a hole in one.

The team was captained by Ray Pittman. The other three men were Jimmy Cooper, Charlie Pegram, and Granville Sharpe, while
the alternate was Jack Abels. Since all men but Pittman return, the prospects for next year are outstanding.

Kellogg Elected

Last Monday the track squad elected Robert O. Kellogg of Brooklyn, N.Y., to captain Davidson’s track team for the 1940
season. A member of the track and cross-country teams for the past three years, Captain-elect Kellogg has been turning in
consistently good miles all season. As a freshman, he won the annual cake race, but the next spring a bad
heart forced him to drop track—fortunately only temporarily. Last fall he alternated with Gammon for third and fourth slots on
the cross-country team. Kellogg is secretary and treasurer of the “D” club and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity. He belongs to Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. He succeeds T. E. Walker, ace 880 man.

Davidson Tennis Team Ends Season’s Schedule

Davidson's varsity netters closed their season last week, losing to North Carolina's great team, 9-1. Only Davidson win was chalked
up by Dick Shore. Turner and Hunter will journey to the Washington and Lee campus in Lexington next week to
participate in the Southern Conference Tournament. Aces from the high-ranking teams will represent their schools. The Wildcats finished their season
with a brilliant record, losing only two matches, to Texas and Carolina. After a warm-up match with Emory, which was
won 6-3, the Cats took a trip through the South and Southwest, meeting the best teams in these sections. In
the opening match of the tour, the locals won out over the University of Mississippi by a score of 6-4.

Southwestern Match

The next stop was at Southwestern, where the Cats again emerged victorious, 6-3. Methodist was the next victim, going down
to the tune of 6-3 also. Rea Tenney’s 14-12, 6-2 struggle with Wilkins was the best match of the day.
Dick Shore and Ed Cloyd saved the Cats from defeat in the encounter with Baylor by winning three matches. The
traveling Davidsons sustained their first loss of the season at the hands of the University of Texas Longhorns by the
score of 9-1. Shore and Northcross saved the locals from a whitewashing by winning their doubles match, 6-2, 6-1.

Jones Has Best Record

The individual results of the season's play show that Captain Jones has the best won and lost record with eight
out of eleven matches won, followed by Ed Cloyd with five wins and two losses, and Shore with seven and
three.

Abbey Wins First Place

Abbey romped home with 70 1-2 points last Wednesday to win the Junior College Conference Track meet for the second
straight year. Lees-McRae was second with 43 1-2 points and Pfeiffer was last with 17. J.C., the only other contestant,
didn’t manage to score. Humpy Wheeler's boys garnered nine firsts to Lees-McRae’s three to lead the scoring column all the
way.

The meet started off closely and showed promise of being tight all the way, but the Abbey tracksters got underway
and rolled up their big margin of victory.

Marshall Stars

Individual scoring honors for the afternoon went to Marshall, Belmont’s shining star, who collected a total of 26 points and
turned in an all-round performance. The West Virginian placed first in four events: the broad jump, shot-put, discus, and javelin,
setting a new conference record in the latter with an amazing throw of 197 feet 3 1-2 inches. He also
placed second in the high jump and low hurdles. The Lees-McRae relay team also cracked a conference record in the
mile relay.

Frosh Lose

On last Thursday, May 4, the R.J. Reynolds High School of Winston-Salem tennis team won over Davidson freshmen by a
score of 8 to 1. Coker, Davidson's No. 1 man, secured the only win for the Kittens by defeating Moyer
Hendrix of Winston-Salem in a hotly contested match, 7-5, 6-3. This victory was a big boost for Coker, as Hendrix
is the North Carolina High School champion and considered one of the best high school players in this section of
the country. Another close match was between McDiarmid of Davidson and McCuiston of Winston. McCuiston finally won out after a
gruelling three-set match, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.

PATRONIZE

The New COMMUNITY GROCERY On Depot Street

BILL BUSBY, Manager Davidson, N.C.

Always refreshing... wherever you are

Coca-Cola

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant

DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES 221 W. Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE

S. & W. Cafeteria Charlotte, N.C.

Chez Norton Le Palais de la Chevelure

GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts) NORTON, M.T.A.

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts and Candy Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS Charlotte, North
Carolina

Furman Beats Cats As Purple Hurricane Ace Allows One Hit

Moore, Furman Hurler, Has No-Hitter Until Hicks Scores Only Davidson Hit in Seventh; McLean Hurls Well; Second Loss to Furman

On last Friday afternoon, May 5, Davidson's baseballers were defeated by Furman University, 5 to 0, while securing only one
hit. Feature of the day was the one-hit pitching of Moore, Furman’s star moundsman. It appeared he was headed for
a “no-hitter” until D. Hicks secured a clean single in the last of the seventh to ruin his hopes. Although
very effective against the Wildcat hitters, he was a little wild in walking seven Cats, three of these in the
first inning.

McLean Hurls Well

Dizzy McLean pitched fine ball for Davidson, allowing only seven hits while striking out nine of the Purple Hurricanes, walking
only three. Reid of Furman pulled the fielding gem of the day in racing back towards the left field fence
and pulling down Hicks’ line drive with one hand over his head. Hicks seemed to be the only Cat able
to solve the offerings of Moore. This was the first time this season that the Wildcats have been unable to
score, and it was also the first time that the hitters have been helpless before a pitcher.

Catawba Rained Out

Davidson was scheduled to play Catawba College on Monday afternoon in Salisbury, but the game was called off because of
wet grounds. This game is to be played on Thursday if weather permits. The Wildcats played Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons
this afternoon, but the results were too late to be put in this week’s paper.

The first organized dental school in the world is now a part of the University of Maryland.
