Wed., Mar. 22, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Morrow and Howell spent the weekend at Pinehurst watching the steeplechase. Brothers Squires, Abbott, Summerville, Bryant, and McClintock spent
the weekend in Charlotte. Pledge Brother Moore went to his home in McColl, S.C., and later went to Rock Hill.
Brother Birch went to his home in Reidsville. Brother Walder went to Winthrop for the weekend. Brother Balsley went to
Duke. Brothers McAfee and Joyner journeyed to Statesville. Brother Hickman spent Saturday night in Charlotte. Pledge Brother Sherman is with
the Glee Club on its spring trip. Brother John Ranson, who is now studying medicine at Carolina, was a guest
at the feed Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Friday night, March 17, the chapter held a banquet in Charlotte celebrating the 71st anniversary of the founding of the
fraternity, the 50th anniversary of the initiation into Pi Kappa Alpha of Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, and the 45th anniversary
of the refounding of Beta Chapter at Davidson. Over 100 active members and alumni were present. Dr. Freeman Hart, National
President, spoke. Friday night, following the banquet, Brothers Robinson, Latimer, and Russell attended the dance at the Myers Park Club.
Brothers McElwee, Coltrane, Hoover, Allison, Youngblood, Shelton, and Abels attended the dance in Concord. Brothers McElwee, Scott, Raynal, and Pledge
Brother Long went home to Statesville. Brothers Lady, Youngblood, Hoover, and Coltrane spent the weekend at home in Concord. Brother
Brinson went to High Point, and Brothers Connor, Willis, and Monger made their weekly jaunt to Charlotte. Brother Anderson, breaking
all precedents, spent a quiet weekend on the campus.

Kappa Alpha
Several of the brothers left the campus over the weekend. Brother Newell visited Rock Hill, while Brother Sam Spencer roamed
to Columbia and Charleston. Brother Calvin went to Columbia with the debating team. Brother Perrin spent the weekend at his
home in Spartanburg and Brother Horton went to Winston-Salem. Brother Taylor was in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brothers Perry Sloan, Mark Cauble, John Latimer, and Jim Currie attended the S.A.E. Initiation Ball sponsored by the Delta Chapter
at the University of South Carolina. Brother Ferguson, National Traveling Secretary, visited the chapter during the week. Brothers Hank Bahnson,
Pete Marchant, Charlie Smith, Tom Dunn, and Alex Erwin went to Greenville and Spartanburg where they spent a delightful weekend.
Brothers Hector MacLean and Lem Kornegay went to Winston-Salem Saturday night. Brother Jim Thomas visited in Lynchburg, Va., and Brothers
Ed Lucas and Baxter Freeze went to Greensboro and High Point respectively. Brothers Poss McLean and Buck Powell went to
Winston-Salem Sunday.

Kappa Sigma
Spartanburg, S.C., Concord, and Greensboro tied for honors as the most popular haven for Kappa Sigmas over the weekend. Brothers
Gaw and Hipp paid social visits in Spartanburg while Brother Crook visited his parents there. Brothers Barnhardt and Means went
home to Concord, and Brother Yarborough spent the weekend with Brother Barnhardt. Brother Phipps went to Greensboro, and Brothers Yates
and Hunter spent the weekend in their homes there. Brothers Oglesby and Jimmy Cooper are on the Glee Club trip
to Wilmington and various other points in that vicinity. Brothers Walker and Finley went to their homes in Steele Creek
and North Wilkesboro, respectively. Pledge Burwell went to his home in Charlotte, and several of the brothers were there Saturday
night. Brother White, who is somewhere en route to New York with the debating team, holds the record for traveling
the farthest distance this weekend. The usual feed Sunday night was enjoyed by all.

Pi Kappa Phi
The following girls were guests at the party last Saturday night: Misses Gentry Burk, Ann Mauldin, Dot Ruth Archer, Sophie
Walker, Aileen Long, Ceil Esther Harris, and Julia Hobbs with her guest from Durham, Miss Julia Newsom. Many of the
brothers, after leaving Davidson, continued the party in Charlotte. Moyer Hendricks and Miss Mary Garvey, sister of Brother Garvey, both
of Winston-Salem, were guests over the weekend and were also at the party. Brother Julian Lokey has been elected chairman
of the new rushing system to be inaugurated next year. Brother Cooper made a trip to Norfolk, Va., a few
days ago. Several of the brothers are away with the Band and the Glee Club.

Phi Gamma Delta
John Parker, field secretary for the fraternity, visited the chapter on Thursday and Friday last week. The brothers rambled far
and wide this weekend. Bob Kellogg went to Duke University on Saturday. George Richmond spent (Continued on Page Six)

Students Regain Coats Stolen At Mid-Winters
“Calling all cars! Calling all cars! Crime never pays. Screaming headlines—well, headlines, anyhow—tell of the recovery of overcoats stolen from
Tony Casali, Walt Heilman, and Wesley Coghill. The nasty old men who took the coats, trembling with apprehension, appear before
stern judges charged with grand larceny. “Just what's this all about?” you wonder, and turn to the SPORTS PAGE. (Paid
adv.) Well, it goes all the way back to the Friday night of Midwinters. Sig-Eps Casali, Heilman, Coghill, and Rufus
Powell locked their coats in the car while they enjoyed Hudson's music. Then some mean men came along and took
those overcoats out of the car, little caring whether the boys caught their death of colds that night or not.
Of course, as soon as they found out that their coats were gone, they notified the Charlotte police who went
into action at once. But it’s a hard job finding four coats in a city the size of Charlotte, and
it takes time. Then, at long last, the fairy princess—no, I mean they finally located two of the coats in
a pawnshop, and traced the thieves through this lead. So Casali and Heilman got their coats, and when the strong
(Continued on Page Six)

Journal Tells Munich Story
April Issue to Carry MacBryde Article
Davidson’s alumni journal, which will appear during the last part of April, will report an unusually large number of old
graduates’ deaths. This fact was discovered as material for the alumni personals was being compiled. Dr. K. J. Foreman, who
is editing this issue of the magazine, has tentatively selected April 20 for the date of publication. A large part
of the material will be sent to the printers during spring vacation.

Duncan MacBryde
A feature of the 24-page issue, the second of this term, will be the continued article by Duncan MacBryde, a
graduate of Davidson who is studying in Europe. MacBryde will tell in this installment of the four-power parley in Munich,
which he personally observed last fall. A resume of sports, written by Davidsonian Sports Editor Toni Casali, will also be
carried. In addition to these articles, there will be several by members of the faculty and Dr. Lingle. The cover
will probably include a picture of the sons of alumni who are members of the present senior class.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird 35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257. PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898 Charlotte, N.C.

Small Units Are Lauded By General
LITTLE COLLEGE IS BEST
Charlotte “Observer” Editorial Quotes View of VMI Commander
The expansion of small colleges was condemned recently according to an editorial in the “Charlotte Observer.” General Charles Kilbourne, superintendent
of the Virginia Military Institute, on the occasion of his recent visit to the Charlotte alumni chapter of the V.M.I.
men, said that he has “no desire for this institution to grow into a large school so far as the
student body is concerned.”

Prefers Small College
He said that if the equipment were available, the institute could have several thousand students, but that he likes it
better as it is. This is relatively preferable because in a small college the work can be done individually, and
perhaps consequently more thoroughly done. Also, the campus life of the students is filled with more intimate personal contacts such
as are not possible in the mammoth institutions of the country. However, there are few college executives, says the “Observer,”
who share General Kilbourne’s opinion. Most heads of these institutions dream of increasing the enrollment, the physical equipment, the faculty,
and the general expansiveness of the college. “All of these mean, when the colleges are publicly supported, that the taxpayers
have to pay for the bulk which is urged.” These thoughts were presented for those who advocate the expansion of
the small colleges. The editor of the Charlotte paper feels that they must change the customary desire to continually enlarge
their schools.

“Getter-Upper” Is Invented
Age-Old Problem Solved by Students
When a chorus of alarm clocks scream to the accompaniment of the heavy tolling of Chambers’ bell the fact that
the dreaded hour for rising has arrived, a majority of Davidson’s student body are inclined to heave a shoe at
the clock and stick their heads under the pillow. According to the Associated Collegiate Press, Davidson students are not the
only ones who are allergic to getting up. However, few members of the collegiate world have been able to solve
this problem as well as two ingenious University of Detroit students. They are Bertrand Farrell and Don Parro, who have
invented what they call a “getter-upper.” Its method of action is something like this: When the alarm clock goes off
in the morning, a string which is attached to the buzzer allows a weight to fall on a mouse trap.
This springs the trap, which pulls two strings. One of these strings jerks the stopper of the clock, thus shutting
off the din, while the other jerks open a switch on the radio. Said radio, of course, has already been
tuned in on a station which broadcasts dance music during the student's rising hour. This invention seems to be without
a flaw except for one thing suggested by the “ACP.” They observe:“Their only trouble now, it seems, is to develop
a gadget that will keep them from being lulled back to sleep by the music. We suggest they ask the
station to play only jitterbug tunes.”

Kansas students are voting for a new type of queen—they'll elect an intelligence queen, University of Kansas.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Taxpayers must keep on reaching deeper and deeper into their pockets.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON
FACULTY DEATHS DURING A 60-YEAR PERIOD.
College Averages High In List of Rhodes Men

Meeting Postponed
President John Mawhinney of the Eumennean Literary Society and President Ivan Stafford of the Philanthropic Literary Society did not hold
meetings of their respective societies last Tuesday. Their custom has been to hold meetings every first and third Tuesday of
the month. The postponing of these meetings was due to the conflict which it would have with the spring services,
under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., led by Rev. Grier Davis. The presidents of these societies wish
to announce that the regular meetings of their societies will be held immediately after the spring vacation.

Writers Will Have Speaker
Journalists to Hear Charlotte Man Tonight
A prominent speaker from Charlotte will be the feature of the regular meeting of the Journalism club tonight in room
124, Chambers at 7:15. More definite details about the speaker could not be obtained at press time. Tony Casali, appointed
as a committee of one by President Paul Cooper, is in charge of the program. In the meantime, efforts are
being continued to secure a faculty adviser to fill the post left vacant by Fred Smith. Keys for the group
have been ordered and are scheduled to arrive soon.

Several Dropped
Several members have been dropped from the club roll on account of excessive absences, according to a report from Andy
Dale, secretary of the group. This brings the total membership down to 25, leaving place for several new members. Those
interested in joining should ask some member of the club to bring up their name for discussion, as the new
[Continued on Page Six]

Trustees Publicize List of Scholars From Colleges
In a recent report made by Rhodes Trustees, who have charge of the Rhodes Scholarships, it may be seen that
Davidson has sent more than the average number of students to Oxford by means of these scholarships, second only to
one North Carolina school and 49th in the U. S.

Dr. Gwynn Addresses Class
Knight Speaks On Chemistry At Symposium
The Topic of Science Club Meeting Is Developments of Antiseptics
Dr. S. B. Knight of the Davidson Chemistry Department spoke on “Antiseptics” before the Science Symposium at its regular meeting
Tuesday, March 14, in room 126, Chambers Building. This meeting was a social meeting due to the fact that the
Spring Recess interferes with the regular monthly program schedule. Several advanced students in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology attended this
meeting. The next open meeting will be held on April 25. At that time Professor W. M. McGavock will give
“A Topological Discussion of the Four-Color Problem.”

On Antiseptics
Dr. Knight, speaking of internal and external antiseptics, pointed out that with few exceptions most of them contained mercury, arsenic,
or carbolic acid. The World War, he said, brought out several new antiseptics. Many antiseptics are not effective unless they
react with something in the body. For example, one out of ten people are not greatly affected by Sulfanilimide because
their bodies do not react to it. Although this compound was discovered in 1908 by two German chemists, it was
not widely used as an internal antiseptic until 1934. Dr. Knight was extremely optimistic in regard to the uses of
Sulfanilimide and in regard to the universal possibilities of chemists in discovering a new antiseptic, the dream of medical men
for years.

Colleges and Universities
First before listing the number from each college, the trustees made public a list showing the number of Rhodes Scholars
from each college. Accompanying this list is a statement from President Aydelotte, American Secretary of the Rhodes Scholarships: “The 1,126
American Rhodes Scholars since the first election in 1904 have come from 209 institutions. Princeton leads the list with 61,
while 65 colleges have contributed one Rhodes Scholar each. You will be interested in the enclosed tabulation of the figures
for all institutions.

Small Colleges
“It should be noted that while in round figures—only one-tenth of all American college and university students attend institutions with
an enrollment of 1,000 or fewer, approximately one-third of the American Rhodes scholars have come from this group. It is
a remarkable fact that small colleges have produced proportionally more Rhodes Scholars than large universities.”

Seven Davidson Men
Davidson is in the group which has sent seven. The others are: the Universities of Arkansas, Iowa, and Kentucky, Johns
Hopkins, University of the South, Tulane, and the United States Naval Academy. In North Carolina, the University has furnished ten,
Duke six, and Wake Forest two. The lists for the smaller institutions have progressively longer numbers from six each, ending
with institutions which have sent one each. Not mentioned are 65 institutions which have had none at all. The average
number per institution is between five and six.

GIRLS! Own your own business. It is the beauty business. Have others earning for you. EVERY WOMAN YOUR CUSTOMER. Today,
now, while you think of it, write and learn how you can learn the profession. New classes forming now. Earn
$75 to $100 per week. Open your own shop. Train—furnish your own shop with a small payment. We help you
to succeed.
Continental College of Beauty Culture
HIGH POINT, N. C.

Sunning Rules Are Declared
Executive Committee Restricts Sun Bath Zone
Future Charles Atlases of Davidson College will be forced to brown their beautiful bodies in the comparative wilds of the
eastern part of dormitory row, according to an ultimatum issued by the Executive Committee last week. If college students feel
the urge to go back to nature in the manner of their wearing apparel, they are requested to inhabit the
spaces east of the Dormitory and refrain from horrifying the civilized gentry who call Watts, Georgia, and Rumple dormitories their
home. No more can they feel the cooling grass of the plots of lawn between these dormitories on their hairy
chests, but they must be content with the grounds between West and East. The announcement of this ruling of the
committee, signed by Dean Sentelle, was read to the student body in chapel by President Stair.

Citizenship Duty of Christian to State Is Subject of Sunday School Lesson
FREEDOM IS DISCUSSED
Dr. P. H. Gwynn chose “Christian Citizenship” as the text of the Sunday School lesson, which he taught in Phi
Hall last Sunday. His talk was based on Matthew 22:21, which reads, “Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s;
and unto God the things that are God’s.” In the course of the lesson, Dr. Gwynn set forth what he
considers to be three duties of a Davidson graduate to the State. “The first duty,” he said, “is to achieve
an adequate understanding of the meaning and functions of our state institutions.” Religious freedom is the foundation of our nation;
a man’s spirit must be free for him to live profitably. It is our duty, according to Dr. Gwynn, to
lead primitive people from their gods to ours: a man’s spirit must be free to have expression, but they must
see the worship of our God. Primitive religious people cannot be forced into the worship of our God, but they
must see others worship.

Church Has Two Programs
Dr. Gwynn said that there is in the Presbyterian Church a program for the social order of the state as
well as for the individual soul in the church. To illustrate this, he gave the following example: suppose the State
Legislature, now in session in Raleigh, were to abolish all of the Sunday laws of this state. In such a
case, would the Presbyterian Church consider it its duty to protest vigorously and do all in its power to get
a return of the laws, or would it continue to preach only to the individual souls in the church? The
Church would protest.

Religious Freedom Limited
There are, however, limits to religious freedom. In Dr. Gwynn’s estimation, no sect would have the power to abuse another
sect. Even atheists should be allowed their own beliefs without any disturbance so long as they, in turn, do not
disturb others. If a cult were to arise with human sacrifice among its beliefs, it would not be allowed to
continue under the plea of religious freedom.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS — Are — ALWAYS WELCOME
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE
S. & W. Cafeteria
Charlotte, N. C.

GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts)
Chez Norton
Le Palais de la Chevelure
NORTON, M.T.A.

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone.
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Printers of The Davidsonian
ESTABLISHED 1907
For a representative, call 3-5727
Garland Court
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
