Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., April 12, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO CHICAGO + BOSTON

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy Editor-in-Chief
Paul Bumbarger Assistant
Tom Cauble Managing
Joe Liles Managing
Ed Watson Managing
Lawson Withers Managing
Andy Dak Sports
Erle Austin Associate
Jack Holland Associate
Karl Hudson Associate Editor
Sam Spencer Associate Editor
Bobby Williams Movie Editor
Angus Lytch Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Lyle Business Manager
Shae Advertising Manager
Sille Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey Circulation Manager
Pat Hackney Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore Collection Manager

A Question Of Value

Due to the difficulties that have shown themselves in our current election period, much comment has arisen as to the
plausibility of introducing “open politics” on the Davidson campus. We even find this week suggestions from a well-meaning alumnus to
add to our store of efforts. Our Student Council has shown that the control of elections is a difficult task
and is apparently unable to direct its judgment and authority along lines that are satisfactory. Consequently, the issue arises, shall
we bind our judgment by honor pledges or can we arrive at a better method of electing our officers?

Hypocrisy

The chief criticism that is voiced against our present set-up is its hypocritical nature. Anyone who has been on the
campus during this election period has been aware of the unrest and strain that has existed; it has resolved itself
into feelings of fairness and unfairness, justice and injustice, and honor and dishonor on the part of all directly and
indirectly concerned. Certainly, this should be done away with. Yet, when open politics is advocated, it is opposed on the
same grounds of hypocrisy. And we are directed to look at other college and university campuses as proof. Their ideals
are different from ours, we are told. That does not prevent us from setting up a system here that is
in keeping with our desires and is better adapted to our needs than what we have. Service can be preferred
to political pull and can be given due recognition. Politics does not necessarily entail soap-boxing, cigars, “ballyhoo”—and if our student
body wants to keep those things out of Davidson, it can. We can open politics on a basis in keeping
with our ideals, and by doing so can remove the stigma that now covers our political face.

Qualifications For Office

In our elections, we strive to select men who are qualified for the position they will be expected to fulfill.
But at present we cannot rightfully choose men because we do not know their qualifications well enough. Have we seen
men in the “Y” at work? Have we seen who handles the red-tape of compiling our weekly paper? The Student
Council answered these questions in a proposal made two weeks ago. Yet if we were allowed to have open politics
of a character to be suggested in this editorial, we could have had the necessary information. We were actually disqualified
and limited by an undesirable system of “closed politics.”

Davidson Ideals

Davidson College is proud of her reputation. As students, we attempt to uphold it both through our individual conduct and
by selecting leaders who demonstrate qualities we value. We are interested in preserving our student government and upholding our Honor
System. Therefore, we should make every attempt to ensure our position by making it possible for our election of leaders
to be carried out on as sound a basis as we can conceive. We want to be able to select
officers on a basis of character, ability, and desire as shown through past achievement, and personality, instead of on a
basis of rabble popularity.

Suggested Features For An Open Political System

Though any single attempt cannot cover all of the features which we may incorporate in an open political system, a
few ideas can be crystallized which are indicative of the plan we would advocate. What we are endeavoring to achieve
is an order wherein the substantiated knowledge of a group or individual can be circulated generally. This will give the
Student Body information on which to base their democratic choice for offices. Mud-slinging has no place at Davidson, but Truth
has. We should be able to recommend candidates openly and publicly without being guilty of dishonorable practices. Ballots should carry
recognition of party approval based on caucus choice. Party formation offers a system of checks and balances that should be
adequate in preventing “rotation of offices,” an evil which we do not want; at the same time it prevents too
much concentration in a single group. If party approval is made on the basis of heterogeneous caucus contribution as to
character, ability, etc., we can realize better voting principles. Though Davidson can be called a “small” school, we do not
know each other well enough to make choices that are invariably valid. If we can secure competent and qualified advice,
why not use it? We have seen already the justification of political activity by groups smaller than the whole student
body. Party caucuses need not be any more biased than a prejudiced “Supreme Court.” Davidson wants and needs a change
in her election rules. It is to our advantage to work together to achieve a system of open politics that
does not force us into a two-faced position, but that will really elect the right man.

PARADE OF OPINION
By Associated Collegiate Press

SPAIN

Although almost evenly divided on the rightness and wrongness of the positions held by the two sides in the recently
concluded Spanish civil war, collegians are all agreed that the war was not worth the cost that it will bring
to future generations of Spaniards. “The victory of the rebels certainly isn’t worth the price that Spain (loyalists and rebels)
has to pay. Irreparable damage to the morale and spirit of the Spaniards will leave its mark on the country
for decades to come. The war is over at last but as usual neither side can really be considered the
winner—unless you figure the Mussolini angle,” said the Oregon State College Barometer. The University of Vermont Cynic, together with several
others, urges the U.S. not to recognize the government of Franco, not to be placed in a position of sharing
the guilt of creating another totalitarian state. As for the future, the University of Kansas Kansan predicted: “The stupendous task
of rebuilding will be a slow one. What war destroys in two years and eight months peace must replace.”

War Profits

Always active leaders in the promotion of movements that are designed to aid in the preservation of peace in the
world, collegians give their whole-hearted approval to the bill whose passage would hold down profits during the time of war.
Commending the measure, the Providence College Cowl said: “If the charges that all sorts of sinister financial powers are seeking
to sweep the U.S. into a war are valid, the bill on war profits would militate against the effectiveness of
any such pro-war efforts. Persons with a special financial axe to grind would, in time of war, be unable to
feast on the sufferings of a nation. It is obviously unjust that, in time of war, some men should be
forced to leave their homes and risk their lives while other men remain in safety at great personal profit. Conscript
the money as well as the men.” But, says the Brown University Herald, something should be done right now about
the profits made in peace time on war materials. “The almost daily European crises have spurred the government to unprecedented
heights in military allotments. Yet no measures are being taken to prevent war-time profits in peace time. If, as it
has often been prophesied, the administration is seeking to establish peace, it should minimize the profits, both in war time
and in peace, which motivate munition makers to lobby for higher armament appropriations.”

Dear Tom:

After reading the April 5 issue of “The Davidsonian” I cannot resist the temptation to present another view concerning open-politics,
even though I feel that an alumnus should not try to interfere with internal affairs of the student body. During
most of the time that I was a student at Davidson I was firmly convinced, and would not hesitate to
confidently state, that open politics should by all means be substituted for the despicable hypocrisy fostered by the present system
of so-called non-political elections. Now I feel that the only excuse that I can offer for holding such an opinion
is that of “ignorance, pure ignorance.” And after witnessing what is going on in other schools holding open-political elections, I
most emphatically condemn such a procedure for Davidson.

At the present you have a good thing; in fact, when closely compared with that of other schools it approaches
as nearly a Utopian condition as possible; however, it is unfortunate that one cannot fully realize this fact until after
he has attended other schools. The arguments listed in “The Davidsonian” for open politics seem characteristic of a narrow viewpoint,
limited by lack of experience and conscientiousness of what such a system is producing in other schools and also characteristic
of the very evil which they seek to down, that of “idealistic blindness” in an attempt to be superiorly practical.
Such a state is most excellently portrayed by Samuel Butler’s character, Ernest Pontifex, and his college of spiritual pathology. These
arguments which are meant to be cries for a change from an impractical idealistic state to a more practical one
are thus directed against that arch felonous enemy of intellectual honesty, namely hypocrisy, and on the surface seem to be
fine and admirable. The fact is that it’s a swell thing we young people are so intellectually honest and not
such a swell thing that the older persons, who force so much upon us, lack this quality due to a
closed-mind, inertia, dogma, responsibility due to position, etc., etc., and so on into the night. Such thoughts hit a chord
of high sympathetic resonance in young people tosuch an extent that efforts to reach the ultra Practical reach an untold
height of impracticality. However, in the interests of common sense, practicality, or call it what you will, if those in
favor of open politics will, in addition to Letters To The Editor, look about at that which is going on
in other colleges and will see a condition that is altogether repugnant to the thoughts of well-wishers to Davidson College.
So don't be misled like a bunch of “German sheep” when such statements are made as: “qualifications will be brought
to light,” for this is true; BUT open politics do not cause votes to be cast for well-qualified candidates, but
rather for political combines; “frankness will be substituted for hypocrisy,” for then the student body as a whole and not
as individuals and groups will ascribe to the hypocrisy of electing the best man by such a system; “offices will
be more distributed among fraternities,” yes among those of the victorious combine; “on the whole better men will be elected,”
look about you; granted “it will be a lot of fun” but may I add rather expensive fun if those
other principles are sacrificed, thus bringing about a condition whereby it is more important to make political contacts than to
do a high degree of work in order to run a good race. How would that look in the “Y”
and anyway why not look to the future and how it will evolve. To those that say, “forget that a
system of open politics is antagonistic to Davidson ideals, an assumption — which of our leaders seem to cherish despite
the fact that it has no basis in reason or common sense” I would like to suggest that they do
two things: first, read the New Testament (a book of Davidson ideals) and second, go out into the muck of
real politics and see if the assumption of being antagonistic to the other has no basis in reason or common
sense. I have done both and am still unable to convince myself that white is not white but is black.
With the hope that this is not vanity, I am Yours for a better Davidson, J. MARION BRYANT, Class of
'38.

Dear Sir: I should like very much to thank the students and faculty for the fine stay I had at
Davidson. You have an excellent school of which you might well be proud. My only regret is that I may
not lengthen my stay and become a second “Butch.” If anyone from Davidson is ever at Duke or in Miami,
I hope they will look me up if I can be of any assistance. Sincerely, LAURA TURNER.

Your Film Report Card By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, April 12 “KING OF CHINA TOWN”— Not much has been recorded about this picture, but from advance reports it
has promised to be entertaining, although it does not have an all-star cast.

Thurs.-Fri., April 13-14 “MIDNIGHT” Don Ameche, Claudette Colbert, Frances Lederer, and Mary Astor. The swift-moving action of this picture takes
place in Central Europe where a thrill-seeking average girl—Claudette Colbert—gets mixed up with a taxi driver, a count, and a
rich, young gallant all at the same time. She meets Don Ameche driving a taxi in Paris, but even though
she seems to fall in love with him her adventurous spirit soon carries her to Monte Carlo. She tries to
bluff her way there, but she is about to be found out when a kind gentleman, John Barrymore, comes to
her aid. Barrymore interests her in the rich gallant who has been courting his wife secretly. Many very amusing scenes
occur between them, but when Ameche re-enters the scene professing to be [Continued on Page Six]

SUPER SNOOPINGS By KEN LAWSON - Sonny Cunningham—Guest Snipper

LAWSON has finally broken under the stress and strain of taking care of the tennis boys. After the globe-trotting trip
to the land of cowboys an’ injuns and barbed wire fences, he has been placed on a liquid diet and
sent to bed by DOC HUFF.

Easter Parade Easter tide has come and gone with all the colored eggs, purple and green ducks, egg-laying rabbits, and
“MY WIFE, ELEANOR” conducting the egg rolling. JIM HOGG working under terrific competition was able to capture the PETER RABBIT
title from “BITS” WATKINS. TOM HACKNEY, who is on the sentimental side, proudly presented a little WAD-DILL-ING duck to the
girlfriend. This placed SHAW SMITH in a spot but he managed through. The Easter flower question was a great burden
on JOHN MAWHINNEY but he managed to balance the financial problem by selling AL GREEN his first pair of “city
made” shoes. Deftly solving the flower problem was PAUL COOPER who sent a corsage of four roses.

Weighted down with medals were GENERAL BILL MASTERS, ADMIRAL OF THE WATERS CHARLIE SMITH, and CHIEF OF STAFF JOHN LATIMER—all
in full regalia. HAY-SEED THOMAS AND GEORGE FICKLEN became involved in the eternal triangle with that HOBBS girl. Records of
the ARMY DAY HOP events will be found in the documentary file which is essentially for documents. P. S. REA
TENNY took a girl!

Just Rumors CHARLIE SAMPLE and RUFUS PLONK seen conversing with PHI DELT sweetheart. COL. LIIPFERT discovers that International Relations are
too broad a subject so concentrates on Intercollegiate Relations. The PHI GAMS certainly must be popular for three of them
are said to be blushing LIIPFERT, CAGE BREWER, and RUT MILLER. “POPEYE” McALPINE catching a week-end on Monday afternoon, “WICKED
DAN” GILLIAM after study of WILLIAM AND MARY advocates the Co-Ed system. JOE SHELTON finds attempted handstand on chair very
hard on the bottom. KARL HUDSON and NEAL SCOTT make hole in one and three birdies on tour of golfing
nature.

SAM HEMPHILL seems to have had plenty of trouble in distributing that last cigar. Will those WITHERS girls never learn?
They were in another HEARTS game this time with two sharps; BEVO ROYSTER and “BARON” WATKINS. We understand that one
of the girls was on the tail end of bridegrooms: BAXTER FREEZE, EARL AUSTIN, GEORGE MARSH, HANK BAHNSON jitterbugged at
the Easter Morning German in WINSTON with LARRY CLINTON leading the swingin’. Speaking of jitterbugs—DAVIDSON has quite a reputation for
having an abundance of them. Among the outstanding ones are: HILL, GOORDY, COOPER, and CHICKEN “JIT” COOPER.

TOM CRICHTON seemed greatly disturbed by the telephone call at dawn asking him to please return the week-end bag left
in his car after a date with the proverbial farmer's daughter.

Atlanta Detail TOM MULLEN and TOMMY JOHNSON took advantage of “WILD BILL” EAGEN’S southern hospitality and visited his house, that
is, they visited it until it was lost. They still claim that it moved overnight. Also in Atlanta BILL MARQUESS
(who can’t censor this stuff any more), BILL just SLACK-ED up a little. According to MAJOR STEEL—the ARMY DAY hop
at “MIRE HALL COUNTRY CLUB” was nice in spite of the fact that many of the Reserve Officers from CHARLOTTE
took their sweeties.

More Rumors BILL ROSS, BOB WYATT and LOUEE HIPP were strong enough to take a whole pew for themselves at
the “Wedding of JOHN McQUEEN. BOB ROCK completely carried away by HIGH POINT lass. CLYDE RAINOR finds wrestling match in
Charlotte very interesting. Someone calling GLUCOSE and DEXTROSE—NED and VIRGINIA. DAVE RUSSELL discovered that HUGH WILLIS weighs more than he
thought. Keep trying, MAC!

CHARLIE PEGRAM and HORACE McCALL discovered that something sweet besides candy is found at the STUD STORE—five of them. TELFORD
played second fiddle to McCALL and so was left to guard the cash box. “BLACK-DOG” HUNTER and “CUPID” STEERE thoroughly
informed one of HEMPHILL'S lady friends of his injury, but assured her that it was not his autograph hand. ARCHY
TORRY still on Wild Hair trip to CHICAGO. FRANK NIVEN accused girl of being mug-bug but much to his regret
she proved differently.

Combines JOE CALVIN headed political rally in ECO. 62 class and succeeded.

(Continued on Page Six)

In the Groove By TOM PERRIN

NO HARD FEELINGS Wheresoever two or more are gathered together—well, it looks like a combine, so you'd better break it
up. Sometime back, in February, we had it in mind to say something about this matter—something in the vein of
“who takes up the sword perishes by it.” At the time, though, we concluded that the less said about it
the better. Now with everybody else talking it, we can’t matter much. At this juncture, the affair has its humorous
side, with the Student Council tearing its hair after each ballot, mostly over rumors. Still, we'll never believe that John
Doe could have tied Horace Lutz in that race for “D” Good Fellow, unless he had a clique to back
him up. Must have been the non-fraternity vote.

SMALL TALK ... You should be told that a colleague of ours, a Mrs. Renn Drum, used the recent poll
of Davidson opinion on Girls as the occasion for a few comments on the frailty of collegiate insight in her
column “Small Talk,” in the Shelby daily. She scoffs boldly when Davidsonians say they prefer intelligence to all other qualities,
and she can hardly contain herself when she hears that the boys picked the natural, frank girl over her flattering
sister by a vote of 649 to one (the figures look suspicious to us, too). It simply isn’t so, in
practice, she says, and adds: “... you’re probably itching to disagree with me and call me an old sourpuss. If
you are, I ask you to sit on the sidelines for a while and watch the usual race between the
real smart girls and the not-too-smart ones and see for yourself who gets the lion’s share of the beaux and
the husbands.”

SPECIAL DRILL ... With inoculations coming at regular intervals now, and the end not yet in sight, the junior R.
O. T. C. officers are beginning to experience the horrors of war first hand. One sergeant says that when he
hears the command “Present arms” these days, he automatically rolls up his left sleeve.

EMBLEM ... That wildcat on the popular sticker which shows the beast’s head framed in a “D” (same head as
appears on some Davidson sweatshirts) is identical with the official wildcat on Northwestern’s banners, shirts, stickers, etc. No other colleges
use the same stencil.

MEN WITH WINGS ... We're glad to see Davidson start to train pilots for the government, as a story elsewhere
in the Davidsonian reports. Maybe it'll provide a more suitable outlet for the aeronautic urgings of the chapel pest pilots—paper
pest pilots, we might say.
