THURSDAY, SEPT. 21, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of the Week

Since the danger that Russia, Italy, and Japan will enter the war on the side of Germany has grown more
acute, the possibility that the United States will be pulled into a world conflict has also been enlarged. Therefore the
following question is of vital interest to the College Student.

“In case of an ‘Allied’ reversal in Europe, should the United States enter the war to aid England and France?”

Jack Abernathy — Senior: “In all my innocence and lack of knowledge of the question, I should say no. It
is difficult for a new college student to answer the question which puzzles the minds of even the most brilliant
and best-informed statesmen of our country. However, in the event that the so-called ‘Allies’ should suffer defeat, the United States
should keep its own skirts clear of any entanglement that will shove us into the full horrors of war. In
the event of an actual attack on this country, my opinion would, of course, be entirely reversed.”

Daniel Gilliam — Senior: “I feel that the United States has a vital interest in who wins this war. The
allies are fighting as much to preserve democratic ideals as well as their own interests. Should not America also help
to preserve these ideals? It is possible for the allies to go Fascist if they lose and this would boost
this idea in America, since this totalitarian philosophy would have succeeded in capturing two of the large democracies. If we
believe in democracy, we should help England and France even if it calls for men.”

John Farrior — Junior: “It seems to me that it is just as necessary to the United States to have
a friendly power in England and France as it is to Britain to have a friendly power in Belgium and
the Netherlands. If the British and French continue the fight to the end as they say they will and are
conquered by Germany, the first line of American defense will be broken, with the British navy no longer controlling the
seas. With the increased resources then in his power, Hitler would be in an excellent position to make inroads, ideologically
at least, into the South American countries. The great increase of prestige of the Fascist philosophy, as a result of
the visible evidences of policy success, would attract the South and Central American nations and would be a very definite
threat to our own ideals of liberty and freedom. Consequently, I think the United States should do its best to
keep England and France at least equal in power to the Fascist combination.”

Allan Huffines — Sophomore: “No matter what develops from the present crisis, I believe that the United States should remain
neutral and thus keep one country on the earth where people may speak and act after the dictates of their
own conscience. We have everything to lose and nothing to gain on Europe’s battlefields. We have lost nothing over there
which may be regained, so why should we lose our lives fighting anew over Europe’s problems.”

Joe Hopper — Sophomore: “I am not as yet wholly decided in my mind as to whether or not I
should want our country to become involved in the current European war. However, it seems to me that we owe
a great debt to the European democracies who are now fighting with the full force of their courageous manpower against
what is really a common enemy of the United States, England, and France. My opinion may be a selfish one,
but I think our country should give assistance to our European friends by sending them arms, etc., but refrain from
sending our manpower to Europe.”

NMEA LS and Groceries DIAL 5041 J. K. HAMPTON

Living Endowment To Help College Income

New Money Plan Involves Annual Gifts to College by Alumni

Davidson’s “Living Endowment,” a new plan of increasing the college income which was set up last May during the summer,
has shown definite growth. Through this plan, alumni and friends of the college have an opportunity to give a pledged
amount yearly to the support of the college rather than giving a lump sum to the endowment fund or the
Centennial Movement.

In a letter to the alumni last May, Mr. Jackson, treasurer of the college, wrote, “In connection with the College’s
Centennial Movement, one alumnus who considered contributing $2,500 decided that he could not safely make so large a donation at
this time. Instead, he decided to give for an indefinite time, 4% of this sum each year, which is $100.
He suggested at the same time that we start a ‘Century Club,’ seeking to get one hundred persons to give
$100 a year to the budget of the College.

“Membership in the ‘Century Club’ involves far too large an annual gift for many of our alumni, but the plan
gave us an idea that is adaptable to the size of every pocketbook. Upon investigating plans in operation in other
institutions for alumni actively to participate in the College’s program, we found several institutions that had this exact plan in
operation, designated as ‘A Living Endowment.’ Instead of contributing to the College endowment fund a sum of money to be
invested by the College for the purpose of yielding income, the capital is retained and is paid the equivalent of
interest to the College.”

The “trial balloon” letter quoted above was sent out to a select list of alumni of all ages and in
many states. This brought commitments for annual payments of $1700, which is the equivalent of 4% on $42,500. Many expressions
of approval of the “Living Endowment” idea have been received and without any additional general solicitation the amount to be
paid annually has grown to $2500. In the original letter, it was pointed out that if each of the alumni
would give an average of $10 a year, the total would be $45,000. The “Living Endowment” is a continuation of
the Davidson Centennial movement and is a companion movement to the solicitation for buildings. Dr. Lingle expects to continue to
look for some large gifts for the building program and for the college endowment. This new plan is more to
replace the alumni “dues” which were discontinued two years ago.

COURT ELECTS SOPH [Continued from Page One]

slip them under the door of 12 Georgia.” Other members of the court are Bob Kellogg, recorder, Gray Hunter and
Bill Ross, senior members; Dick Arnold and Bob Reinhardt, juniors; and Carter and Don Bell, sophomore members.

Two Journals Are Added To Library Racks

Chattanooga and Spartanburg Dailies Bought

Professor Davidson, college librarian, has announced the addition of two daily papers to the library’s collection. By adding The Chattanooga
Times and The Spartanburg Herald, the subscription list is brought to a total of fifteen daily papers. These represent nine
states including North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, New York, and the District of Columbia.

Many new books have been purchased during the summer. Among these are several of the most popular books of the
year, including an analysis of the events and personalities which are shaping the destinies of Asia, set forth in John
Gunther's Inside Asia. Gunther has become well known in recent years through his book Inside Europe. The other outstanding non-fiction
book which has been bought recently is Wind, Sand, and Stars by Antoine De Saint-Exupéry, the story of the adventures
of a modern airman. “The Grapes of Wrath” by John Steinbeck and “The Web and the Rock” by Thomas Wolfe
lead the list of fictional books in popularity. Prof. Chalmers Purslane is in its third printing.Davidson Bernice declared, by Kelly
Harris, is expected to be an “immortal” by the Book-of-the-Month Club's reviewers. DuBose Heyward's Star Spangled Virgin and Cliff Dowdey’s
Gamble’s Hundred have also been added to the book shelves. The latter is a novel based on plantation life in
Virginia from 1676 to 1730. Heyward's newest work is a brand new idea of a novel set in the Virgin
Islands. Other outstanding fiction which are new in the library include Dorothy Parker's collected stories called Here Lies and Angela
Thirkell’s latest novel, The Brandons.

Chapel Hears First Lecture

Yesterday morning at an extended chapel exercise, Prof. Edwin Mims, head of the Vanderbilt University English Department, opened the Davidson
College 1939-40 lecture series with an address to the student body on “The Correct Use of Leisure Time.” Prof. Mims,
born in 1872 in Richmond, Ark., studied and taught in many schools and colleges throughout the country. Among them is
Trinity College at Durham, more familiarly known as Duke University, where he served as head of the English department. From
Duke, he went to the campus of the University of North Carolina. Prof. Lilly of the Davidson English department and
a former student of Prof. Mims at Vanderbilt, introduced the speaker with a short talk touching on the highlights of
his life. This was the first of the speakers brought to the campus by the lecture committee, of which Dr.
C. K. Brown is chairman.

VISITING CHARLOTTE THIS WEEKEND? RENT A CAR AND... DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc. 110 South Church Street REASONABLE RATES

ANNOUNCING SANDWICHES, COLD DRINKS, TOBACCOS THE GRILL WE DELIVER Phone 2921 GROCERY DAVIDSON, N. C.

Secretary Varied Voyage Inside Europe Pocket Picked in London

“Dizzy Dave” Trades

With only 75 cents in your pocket, what would you do? This is the plight in which Dave McLean found
himself this summer while touring Europe. This plight was the result of a pickpocket's work while “Dizzy” Dave was watching
the changing of the guards at Buckingham.

Sherrard Rice has years of experience with YMCA work. During his four years as a student at Davidson, he assisted
with the “Y” work, serving on the cabinet for three years. His senior year, he was President of the Davidson
YMCA. Then, following the resignation of Wade Boggs as “Y” Secretary, Rice was appointed to that position.

Foreman To Be Speaker

Dr. Darby Fulton Conducts Last Week’s Vespers

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible, will lead Vespers here Sunday night, according to a list of speakers released
today by President Lingle. Dr. Foreman’s subject was unannounced as the Davidsonian went to press. On the following Sunday, October
1, the Reverend William Crowe, Jr., D.D., pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Bluefield, West Virginia, will be the speaker.
Rev. Manford G. Gutzke, D.D., professor of English Bible at Columbia Seminary, Decatur, Georgia, will be the visiting minister on
Sunday, October 8. Dr. Gutzke has recently transferred to Decatur from the pastorate at Sherman, Texas. Dr. Fulton, executive secretary
of foreign missions, delivered an inspiring defense of [Continued on Page Six]

When Dave left school, he went hitchhiking to New York where he was supposed to have a job. When he
arrived at the dock where his boat was tied up, Dave found that due to strikes, he had no job.
Slightly disheartened, he started out to the other docks. His first attempt was with the Cunard lines. When he finally
got an interview with the mate, he was refused a job. Dave noticed that the man was a Britisher, so
he confessed his great desire to visit England, the land of his dreams. This “line” quickly broke down all remaining
resistance, and Dave sailed the next morning as Ping Pong and Shuffle Board instructor. Upon landing in Southampton, Dave bought
a bicycle that soon carried him to Oxford. Traveling northward, he soon arrived at Stratford-on-Avon where he reminisced for a
whole day with the memories of Shakespeare. Thence he proceeded northward for a visit with the renowned Scottish singer Sir
Harry Lauder, who had visited Dave's home while touring the States. An automobile accident and a day in London were
highlights of his arrival. Fortunately, he was not injured in the accident. It was here that he got his greatest
setback by a pickpocket who took seventy of his hard-earned dollars. He left immediately for Paris where he got a
job. [Continued on Page Six]

SEE US BEFORE THE GAME Johnson’s Barber Shop

RECORDS VICTOR DECCA COLUMBIA Andrews Music Co. 231 North Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

McLean Takes Way Through

If you were in London, three thousand miles from home, with only 75 cents in your pocket, what would you
do?

Erle Austin and Hector MacLean Of Fraternity and exclusive Agents for QUEEN ANNE STATIONERY 15 and 16 Styles embossed Stationery
Printing Garland Court A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Printers of The Davidsonian STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED
1907

Flag Lowering Ceremony Closes Curtain On 139 Fourth Year Men

With the traditional flag-lowering ceremony by Fred Stair, Jr., last year’s Student Body president, and Sam Newell, president of the
largest graduating class in the history of Davidson College, 139 seniors received their diplomas on June 5th. There was no
commencement address, nor were there any honorary degrees conferred. The Rt. Rev. Edwin A. Penick, bishop of the North Carolina
Episcopal diocese, preached the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, June 4th. The Episcopal bishop told the graduates that “Christianity will rise
again to overcome the despairing conditions of the contemporary world.”

Diplomas Given

President Walter Lingle presented diplomas to 139 seniors. John Henry Reisner made the salutatory address, while Locke White, Jr. was
valedictorian. John Rodman Williams, a member of the graduating class, and Rev. R. H. Stone, an alumnus in the class
of 1918, were awarded the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallions for outstanding service. Dr. W.P. Cumming of the college faculty was
inaugurated as a full professor. He has been at Davidson since 1927.

Awards Made

Albert Winn of Greenville, S. C., received the alumni medal for highest scholarship in the first-year class. He tied with
Archie Taylor, Jr., of Winston-Salem for the Hay Freshman Bible medal and was awarded the literary society prize for the
best poem written during the year. James Gordon Riggan of Raleigh won the William Banks Bible medal, awarded to the
senior who made the highest average in elective Bible courses.

Other Honors

Other honors included: The Class of 1922 Greek medal, to Eldridge Brown of Atlanta, Ga., for the highest average in
his first year class. [Continued on Page Six]

Davidsonians. We have Six Private Dining Rooms for Fraternity Banquets Phone 5490 for Reservations Thacker’s, Inc. 221 South Tryon Charlotte,
N. C.

Enjoy Good Meals At The Little Pep Sandwich Shop Delmonico’s Grill STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME Charlotte, N. C.

Wilson Shirts

YOUNG MEN’S SHOP Extends All DAVIDSON BOYS A Cordial Invitation To Make Our Store Your Charlotte HEADQUARTERS The home of
Varsity-Town Clothes, and Style Park Hats Interwoven Socks Puritan Sweaters and Pajamas THIRD FLOOR 126 South Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, NORTH
CAROLINA
