THE SPORTS LOG By TOM CAUBLE

Well, another week's hostilities along the basketball front finds the Cats still the undisputed leaders of the Big Five and
running closely behind Wake Forest's Deacons, the Southern Conference pace-setters, for the leadership of the bigger loop.

The local quint was generally unimpressive in victory here last week over mediocre South Carolina—minus its high-scoring guard, Hutto—but snapped
out of it on an excursion to South Carolina over the weekend, when they took Furman and Wofford handily. “Foots”
Cowan, known last year as “sure death” under the basket but bothered by a mild scoring slump lately, pulled out
of it nicely against Wofford Saturday. Captain Iverson, after a rather slow start, appears to have found the eye that
has enabled him to finish high among conference scorers for two years. The steady, ever-reliable J. D. Hicks, whose aggressive
play sparks the team, has also bagged plenty of buckets to date. Johnny Tice, spectacular defensive man, has probably the
most improved eye for the basket on the starting five. Johnny's accuracy on free tosses was a great help in
the Carolina victory. Benny Harrison, good floor-man and ball-handler, and Jimmy Hogg, less reliable on the floor but a better
shot, round out the regulars as the ‘Cats go into the stretch. Reserve power furnished by a handful of reliable
subs seems to have made the difference between this year’s winners and last year's losers.

There has been a great deal said recently about the breaking up of the Big Five—a situation which will materialize
in 1940 when Davidson and Wake Forest fail to meet on the gridiron for the first time since the rivalry
began several decades back. Personally, I would like to see Davidson drop another traditional rival or so in favor of
meetings with, for example, such teams as Washington & Lee and William & Mary—two conference schools whose teams our Wildcats
could meet on equal terms. There are other schools outside the Southern Conference—such as Sewanee, Kentucky, and the University of
Miami—which would make worthwhile opponents. Furthermore, North Carolina fans have proved that they will pay to watch teams from other
conferences perform against state elevens. It appears possible that some of these changes may come about when present contracts expire.

ON THE CAMPUS: Sorry to hear that Parks Harrison is moving on soon... Parks has held down a tough job
mighty well here... Winning over Carolina and Duke in the same week was quite an accomplishment for the Wildcat, or
would be for any team in any sport for that matter... Congratulations to the Kappa Sig bowlers who won the
inter-frat bowling crown with nary a single defeat... In eight matches their quintet had a team average of just a
shade under a hundred pins, which, considering the conditions of play, is remarkable... Too bad the seniors had to get
beat in their last game in the inter-class bowling tourney... Until the juniors upset them, the class of '39 possessed
a perfect record for four years of intramural ball... The ‘Cat wrestlers looked formidable in almost every weight.

DAVIDSON SPORTS THE DAVIDSONIAN Jan. 18, 1939

Wrestlers In Victory Over Duke Devils Bill Johnston and Ed Ellis Garner Falls As Davidson Downs Duke

Convalescent “Swede” Davidson's varsity wrestlers earned a 19-11 victory over Duke’s matmen here last Saturday afternoon. Captain Craver of Davidson,
active for the first time this season, turned in a nice exhibition of wrestling to show complete mastery over his
man. Big Bill Johnston, the Wildcats’ all-state guard last fall, made his first appearance as a grunter by pinning his
opponent in the unlimited. Ed Elliswas the only other Davidson grappler to win by a fall. Abels and McFadyen won
on decisions. Davidson's bonebenders will go into action next when they meet State here on February 4. The Red Terrors
will bring a strong team here, having beaten Maryville, State champs of Tennessee for the past three years, 30-0, and
having taken the measure of V. P. I. 18-14. Davidson’s Kittens were defeated by a strong Barium Springs team, 26-6
here Friday afternoon. Only Swede Johnson, long-shot artist from Stamford, Conn, is closing his basketball career with the Wildcats this
season. This lanky blonde has been a valuable asset to the Davidson yearlings to win decisions. Aarseth and “Freeze” were
the only ones to win. The Frosh will resume competition again here Feb. 4 against the State Frosh as a
prelude to the varsity meet. Bill Boyd, Senior letterman from Atlanta, has been kept out of action since Christmas by
an appendicitis operation. Bill is a forward and had seen a lot of service in the earlier games on the
schedule.

McEver Issues Practice Call Gridders To Start Spring Drills

Results of Duke-Davidson varsities:
115-lb.—State, Duke, pinned McIntyre in 4:13.
125-lb.—Abels, Davidson, decisioned Clark.

Frosh Cagers Cop Two Wins
Wildkittens Defeat Badin and TS

Davidson’s ’Cat Quintet Unbeaten In South Carolina

Page Four

March On Through Furman, S. C., and Wofford Quints
Hicks, Cowan, and Iverson lead Attack as ’Cats take Easy Wins; State Game Tues. Closed Season for Exams Team High
In Conference Standings

Davidson's high riding quintet continued its victory march during the past week by winning three more games from South Carolina,
Furman, and Wofford by easy margins in all games. On Tuesday night the ’Cats took on South Carolina's Gamecocks in
the local gym, beating them 36-25. Leading 14-12 at the halfway mark, the Birds jumped ahead at the start of
the second half, only to see the game put on ice as the ’Cats started a barrage of baskets. Cowan
led the scorers with 12 points, while Iverson and Hicks had 8 apiece.

Friday night saw Davidson playing the Paladins of Furman there and winning 40-31. Davidson was in front from the start
and led 20-15 at intermission. Iverson was high point man for the night with 12 points, while Hicks came in
second with 10 to his credit.

Saturday the Wildcats ended a successful week by defeating Wofford 36-25 at Spartanburg. The Terriers were stubborn all the way,
but the ’Cats displayed fine teamwork to cop the game. The Wofford warriors went ahead at the start and held
the lead.

Wildcats Rank In Loop Race
’Cats Place Second in Conference Standings; Wake Forest First

Davidson's hardwood Wildcats appear to be definitely on the prowl as they continue to pace the Big Five and press
Wake Forest's Deacons for the Southern Conference lead. Wake Forest leads by virtue of six conference wins and one defeat,
while the ’Cats boast five loop wins and one defeat. The Citadel holds third place with Maryland’s Old Liners, the
only conference team to beat Davidson, in fourth.

The Wildcats’ Big Five lead rests on victories over Duke and Carolina and no defeats. Each of the remaining Big
Fivers has lost at least once. Clemson's Tigers, runners-up in the Southern Conference last winter and a pre-season favorite, have
lost all five of their conference starts and one more defeat would eliminate them as a tournament possibility. The Blue
Devils of Duke, last year’s champions, are also far from the top as they have broken even in six starts.
However, they have played six of the toughest.
