GN Sideline | Sidelights

The Week In Review

Saturday afternoon the ‘Cat track team came through against V. P. I. to win 71-55 against the favored Gobbler aggregation. All the cindermen put out extra-good performances to down their rivals. The golfers came out sixth best in a field of thirteen in the Athens, Ga., Southern Intercollegiate Tournament. Ray Pittman was third low in the qualifying rounds and was only beaten after a hard match with Zacharias, who later carried the champion to mighty good golfing to win. The tennis team rested during the week, being rained out once, and having other matches cancelled. Down at Furman, the nine took a tumble as “Roten the Ripper” Shetly limited the Cat sluggers while his own mates backed him up well with scores. The next day at Wofford, the ‘Cats turned the tables with Diz on the mound. Diz claims he likes a high mound, and that this one was considerably elevated. At any rate, he was really right, and the Davidsons grabbed off a 6-3 verdict over the Terriers.

Track Notes

Coach Whittle ran in a couple of new men to aid the track stars in their win over Virginia Tech. Bob Phipps had only run one 440 before he copped the event in 55.3 seconds. Besides that, he placed in the broad jump, giving him six points for the meet and showing Pete a new man to work on for future contests. The other new man was Frank Harrison, who came through in the 220 low hurdles. He has not been on the track team before but won the low hurdles in the interfraternity meet. Charlie Sample, besides winning the pole vault with a leap of 12 feet, breezed the 100 in 10.1 seconds to win that event and add new laurels to his career. In the 880-yard run, which proved to be a dash in the stretch, Boo Walker turned on the heat to win over Baldwin of V. P. I. This is the third meet in a row that Davidson’s captain has won in the last yards of the run. Fred Harbin had tough luck in the high hurdles as he booted a hurdle, but Tom Cauble took second place for Davidson. Saturday, Swede Johnson is scheduled to go under the knife for an operation on his ailing left elbow, which will bench him for the season. The ‘Cats will miss the long heaves of Swede in the javelin throw.

Looking Golf Over

Wildcat linksmen entered their first tournament of the season last week in the Southern Intercollegiate, winning sixth team honors for the tourney. Previous to the meet, they kept their unbeaten team record clear by defeating Citadel 12 1-2 to 5 1-2, then continued on to Athens, Ga. Ray Pittman paced the golfers, being the only 'Cat mashie-wielder to qualify for the first flight. He had third low in the pre-match qualifying rounds. Incidentally, the man who beat him, Zacharias of L. S. U., made the winner shoot mighty low golf to beat him. Charley Pegram turned in an ace on the 151-yard No. 8 hole, using a six iron for the hole-in-one.

Courts Need Care

It appears that the College should be able, and would be willing, to look after the tennis courts properly, so that our tennis team could have good grounds to play and practice on. At present, there are plenty of courts, but they aren’t kept in good condition. The surface is bad, being made of sand which tears up and scuffs easily. To play top-flight tennis, a man needs competition daily on fast courts, such as he will see action on when away from the college. Without daily watering and the proper care of the courts, they become soft and “dead” in spots, so that the ball will not bounce true. Thus far, the tennis team has brought much recognition and publicity to the school through its record, both on the tour through the Southwest and after its return home. Only one team has succeeded in defeating them, and that was the ace net club of Texas University, one of the best in the country. Besides the varsity team, many men daily use the courts for practice and pleasure. There are enough of them, but more care should be used in their upkeep. May we ask the committee on Grounds or the athletic office to look into this?

S.P.E.’s and Phi Delts Win Frat Volleyball Tourney

By downing the Phi Delts in their engagement last Tuesday and winning all of their remaining games, the S. P. E.’s deadlocked the Interfraternity volleyball tournament with the Phi Delts, each team having seven wins and one defeat. The Sig Eps' only defeat was at the hands of the S. A. E.'s in a first-round match, while the Phi Delts' only loss was in their deciding game with the S. P. E.’s. The all-class and all-fraternity volleyball teams were chosen by John Tice and Junior Alcorn, intramural referees. The seniors placed four men on the all-class team while the Phi Delts and Sig Eps led the frat teams with two men each.

Final Standing

Phi Delts
Sig Ep
Kappa Sig
S. A. E.
Beta
Pi Kappa

Last Matches

The last round matches played Thursday and Friday saw the S. P. E.’s downing the Phi Gams, the Phi Delts beating the S. A. E.’s, the K. Sigs emerging victorious over the Pikas, and the K. A.s defeating the Pi Kapps.

Wed., April 19, 1939

Stars Take Second Win First Time in Two Years

In their second consecutive victory of the season, Davidson's tracksters took Virginia Tech’s measure to the tune of 71-55. It was the first time in two years that Davidson has beaten VPI—last year we lost a heartbreaker on the last throw of the javelin. Feature of the afternoon from a coach’s viewpoint was the “find” of Bob Phipps, who won the 440 with his first race in varsity competition. Until Saturday, Phipps had specialized in the broad jump, had surprisingly only run two practice races all season. Incidentally, it was the first time since 1937 that a Davidson 440 man has taken the blue ribbon in a varsity meet. High point man for the meet was VPI’s Bradshaw, who netted 13 points with firsts in the high and low hurdles and second in the broad jump. Next with 10 points apiece were Ned Iverson, who took the discus, and Charlie Sample, who was first in the pole vault and 100-yard dash. Cowan and White also turned in especially good performances. Warden pulled in his usual first in the shot put.

High Lights

Capt. Boo Walker coming through with that same old Walker finish to bring D. C. the bacon in the 880... Sample’s 100 against the wind in 10.2 seconds the first victory for the varsity in that event since 1937... Also Sample’s clearance of 12 feet in the pole vault, his promising return after last year’s injury, to the form that won him the Southern Conference indoor title last year... The hairline decision after four long laps that kept Bob Kellogg from beating out VPI’s Dennis in a 4:40 mile... White winning the first 220 in two years for the varsity...

Tough Breaks

For VPI, the loss for this meet of their captain, Conference champion in the pole vault and high jump, who was out with a bad ankle... For Fred Harbin when he tripped on a hurdle while leading the field... For Bill Birmingham who just missed two second places in two events...

The summary:

Mile run—First, Dennis (VPI); second, Kellogg (D); third, Walker (D). Time—4:40.7.
440 yard run—First, Phipps (D); second, Etheridge (VPI); third, Birmingham (D). Time—55.3.
100 yard dash—First, Sample (D); second, White (D); third, Lowe (VPI). Time—10.2.
High hurdles—First, Bradshaw (VPI); second, Cauble (D); third, Smith (VPI). Time—15.9.
880 yard run—First, Walker (D); second, Baldwin (VPI); third, Shipe (VPI). Time—2:05.5.
220 yard dash—First, White (D); second, Bradshaw (VPI); third, Birmingham (D). Time—23.3.
2 mile run—First, Draine (VPI); second, Woodward (D); third, Gammon (D). Time—10:21.7.
Low hurdles—First, Bradshaw (VPI); second, Harrison (D); third, Cauble (D). Time—27.4.
Shot put—First, Warden (D); second, Miller (VPI); third, Lady (D). Distance—37 ft. 11 1-2 in.
Pole vault—First, Sample (D); second, Harrison (D); third, DeMuro (VPI). Height—12 ft.
Discus—First, Iverson (D); second, Monta (VPI); third, Miller (VPI). Distance—126 ft. 4 in.
High jump—First, tie between1. Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON SPORTS

J. D. Hicks, baseball captain and “D” Club president, is now finishing his third year of varsity competition as pitcher and outfielder on the nine. Besides playing baseball, Hicks was a member of the “Beester” football team and stellar guard on Davidson’s crack basketball quintet. Hicks hails from Shelby, N. C., and is now a senior. He has received several professional offers to play ball after graduation.

Cat Golfers Tie For Sixth In Tournament

Kits Lose To Charlotte Hi

On Friday afternoon, April 16, the Charlotte High School baseball team took revenge on the Davidson freshmen in a return game by defeating the yearlings, 7-0. The Kittens won the first engagement, 7-5. The game was featured by the pitching of Joe Moody of Charlotte whose performance on the mound was excellent. With a fast-breaking curve ball, aided by perfect control, Moody put 16 of the Kitten batters down via the strikeout route. Although Davidson runners twice reached third with none out, Moody, with a shut-out ball game, worked hard and came out on top.

Visitors Loose Barrage

With the score 2-0 in favor of the high schoolers at the beginning of the seventh frame, it appeared that the contest would be a close one. However, at this point, the visitors started hitting and in the last three innings, with five hits, aided by two walks and three errors, they chalked up five runs. The Kittens secured but four hits while the Queen City forces rapped out eight. A homer by Pitcher Moody and doubles by Smith and Owens of Davidson were the only extra-base hits of the game. Yesterday the Yearlings tangled with Badin High School but the result was not known when the paper went to press.

Bise (VPI) and Cowan (D); third, Black (D). Height—5 ft. 8 in.
Javelin—First, Cameron (VPI); second, Monta (VPI); third, Johnson (D). Distance—162 ft. 10 in.
Broad jump—Iverson (D); second, Cowan (D); third, Phipps (D). Distance—20 ft. 10 in.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Davidson's golfers gave a good account of themselves in the annual Southern Intercollegiate Tournament at the Athens, Ga., Country Club, last week, by tying with The Citadel for sixth place. Granville Sharpe, qualifying with an 84-82, reached the semi-finals where he was beaten by his teammate Pegram. In this match, Pegram gave the gallery a thrill by making an ace on the 151-yard hole with a six iron. Pegram was in turn beaten 3 and 2 in the finals of the third flight by Doe, Citadel.

Pitt Is Third Low

Ray Pittman qualified with a 75-76, tying for the third lowest score in the championship flight. He was beaten in the first round by Zacharias, No. 2 for L. S. U., despite the fact that he shot a 74, near-par for the course. Jimmy Cooper qualified with a score of 84-85, and placed in the fourth flight. The tourney was won by a dark-horse, Joe Taylor of Duke. No. 9 on the Blue Devil team, Taylor was not brought along as a regular member of the squad. He bested Henry Costello, L. S. U. veteran and tournament favorite, in a match marked by the brilliant putting of Taylor.

Duke Wins

In the team competition, Duke's Blue Devils won out over Louisiana State University, defending champions for the past two years. Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, and Davidson and The Citadel, tied for sixth, trailed in that order. On the day before the matches, Davidson played a scheduled match with The Citadel and defeated them 12 1-2 to 5 1-2. Sharpe lost to Doe, 2-1. In a second foursome match, Pegram and Pittman beat Chapman and Martin, 9-0, and Cooper and Sharpe were defeated 1-2.

EQUIP YOUR ROOM — with — ARTICLES From the SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORES DAVIDSON, N. C.

PAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods Inc.
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Cindermen Beat Va. Tech; Golfers Sixth In Tourney

Page Four

Kit Trackmen Win Over VPI

On Saturday afternoon, April 16, the Davidson freshmen track team trounced the VPI yearlings by the score of 87-30. Allowing the Virginia boys but one first place, the Kittens had things very much their own way all the afternoon. Dave Spencer led the home forces in individual scoring with a total of 19 points. He won first in the 100-yard dash and the 220-yard dash, the javelin, and was in a tie for first in the broad jump. Outstanding performances of the day were Taylor’s 15.6 time for the high hurdles, Freeze’s 123 feet 7 inches for the discus, Strandwitz’s five feet 10 inches for the high jump, and Bell’s 39 feet 6 inches for the shot put.

Summary

Mile run—Selby (VPI), first; Sprunt (D), second; Gray (VPI), third. Time—5:06.1.
100-yard dash—Spencer (D), first; Williams (D), second; Sieber (VPI), third. Time—10.5.
440-yard dash—Loy (D), first; Farris (VPI), second; Bellamy (D), third. Time—56.3.
High hurdles—Taylor (D), first; Williamson (D), second; Ellis (VPI), third. Time—15.6.
880-yard dash—Turnage (D), first; Keffer (VPI), second; Vawter (VPI), third. Time—2:12.3.
220-yard dash—Spencer (D), first; Sieber (VPI), second; Vawter (VPI), third. Time—24 seconds.
Low hurdles—Taylor (D), first; Shannon (D), second; Hurdle (VPI), third. Time—27 seconds.

Field Events

Shot put—Bell (D), first; Knoeller (D), second; Moffet (VPI), third. Distance—39 feet, six inches.
Pole vault—Shannon (D), first; Strandwitz (D), second; Aarseth (D), and Spencer (VPI), tied for third. Distance—11 feet and six inches.
Discus throw—Freeze (D), first; Knoeller (D), second; Cocker (VPI), third. Distance—123 feet, seven inches.
High jump—Strandwitz (D), first; Ball (VPI), second; Bundy (VPI), Williamson (D), Terrell (D), and Banks (VPI), tied for third. Height—Five feet, 10 inches.
Javelin—Spencer (D), first; Freeze (D), second; Strandwitz (D), third. Distance—157 feet, four and one-half inches.
Broad jump—Moffett (VPI), and Spencer (D), tied for first; Taylor (D), third. Distance—20 feet, one inch.

“Where the need for beauty and the response to it are alive in youth, real education is going on. Education is, after all, the expression of a practical hope that young men and young women will find what they can do best, throw themselves into the doing, and realize the whole of life and not merely part of it.” — University of Pittsburgh’s Chancellor John G. Bowman urges today’s student “to think hard, to think justly, to think with a purpose.”

Varsity Baseballers Beat Wofford 6-3; Lose To Furman 14-5

McLean Hurls Well to Set Terriers Down; Hicks and Steere Unable to Tame Slugging Gamecocks; Duke Wins Earlier Contest

Davidson's varsity baseball team returned from a two-day invasion of the south with a .500 percentage, losing to Furman’s Purple Hurricane, 14-5, but coming back to defeat Wofford, 6-3. In the Furman game, J. D. Hicks, starting on the mound for the Wildcats, was wild and ineffective. The South Carolinians scored three times in the first frame on four hits and a walk, adding a single marker in the third and two in the fourth. Hicks was succeeded on the hill in the fourth inning by Eddie Steere when Furman gathered four runs on three hits and two bases on balls.

'Cats Set Down

Meanwhile, the Wildcats were helpless before the hurling of Shetly. Not until the fifth did they score when Steere led off with a single, went to third on Hicks’ hit and both tallied on Frank Niven’s sharp drive to left. Shetly’s wildness got him in trouble late in the game as the big hurler forced across single runs in the sixth, seventh, and eighth stanzas. “Black Dog” Hunter, Eddie Steere, and Frank Niven paced the locals at bat with two safeties apiece, while Martin and Reid each collected three bingles for Furman.

The Wofford fracas was quite a different question. Dave McLean scattered the eight hits gathered by the losers and had the situation well in hand at all times. The Woffords scored single runs in the third, seventh, and eighth, mostly because of walks by McLean.

Davidson Hits

Davidson bats, quiet during the first three innings, came to life in the fourth. Walter Fitzgerald opened with a single and scored on Eddie Steere’s ponderous triple. Hicks’ timely blow to left-center brought Steere home. Hicks scored on Helleckson’s infield roller. McLean, who led the Wildcat attack with three hits, started the eighth with a single, and went to third on Fitzgerald’s second safety of the day. Both tallied on “Tubby” Hand’s triple over the center fielder’s head.

Last Wednesday Duke’s vaunted Blue Devils invaded Richardson Stadium and marched off with a 16-10 win only after a bitter struggle with the scrapping Wildcats.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant

DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wed., April 19th. “SECRET SERVICE OF THE AIR”
Thurs.-Fri., April 20th-21st. “BROADWAY SERENADE”
Sat., April 22nd. “BOY SLAVES”
Mon., April 24th. “FLYING IRISHMAN”
Tues., April 25th. “NEVER SAY DIE”
Wed., April 26th. “LADY VANISHES”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.