-—l-Editor's Note: Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Dec. 14, 1939

Blair Miller 20-Mile Walk Record

Davidson Junior Renews Old College Custom

Davidson's traditions will not, shall not die as long as there are students like Blair Miller of the junior class on the campus to keep them alive. According to his roommate, Blair is one of those fellows who, once they have heard about some feat of daring, never rest until they have duplicated the act. During the fall, the Johnson City, Tenn., student had been hearing about that once-famous walking custom of Professor Lilly from Davidson to Charlotte. The rumor had it that Professor Beaty had even made the journey; so why not Blair?

The Stage Is Set

It was the night of December 6. There had been a date, a show, the usual afternoon deputation to Charlotte. Miller turned up at the student bumming corner around seven P.M., but business was slack with only the yellow urban buses breaking the monotony of empty streets. As he stood there watching nothing go by, thoughts of that old tradition began to pass through his brain. Finally, he looked at his watch and made the sudden decision to set out if nothing popped in ten minutes.

Well, nothing popped. Thus, to make a long story short, with something deep inside guiding his steps, Blair Miller set out on his history-making trek to the campus. Just on to Huntersville, Whew! After he had gotten his second wind, things went along just fine. He scorned to bum passing traffic, even resolved to wake up his roommate when he arrived in Davidson and continue to Statesville. But by the time he had reached Huntersville, the task and those rubber-soled shoes he was wearing were beginning to tell. He only paused long enough for a bar of candy, however, and then started out again. When Cornelius appeared, Blair was decidedly “pooped.”

Walking That Last Mile

That last mile is something he never wants to experience again. Under the influence of the class spirit, he made it. (He has experienced all of this in his twenty-odd years—a better man than I, Gunga Din.)

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page Five)

Greta Taylor, Mary and McKin Lafitte, Delta Theta, gave their annual party in honor of the seniors Sunday night. The pledges started off this year in remarkable fashion by mimicking a rush week of four years ago. Besides the brothers present, there were several Queens girls who remained after the church service. On Saturday, Norman Stevenson and Bone Reinhardt were off to Winthrop, while Dick Kenyon journeyed to Virginia. Most of the other brothers anticipated Christmas by grinding out review preparations.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Seniors Make Class Budget

Graduating Group Assesses Members Five Dollars

A budget calling for the assessment of five dollars from each member of the senior class was officially adopted at a smoker held last week in the banquet hall of Chambers. Dick Kenyon, president of the class of 1940, presided. Out of this budget, it was agreed, two dollars would be appropriated to the senior class fund for the annual Senior gift. Furthermore, the senior page for its sponsor in the Annual would be paid for out of this five-dollar assessment. Gales McClintock announced that all of the seniors desiring to purchase a class ring for Christmas were to contact him as soon as possible. After the formal business was disposed of, the seniors sat around, smoked, and talked over current affairs. At the conclusion of the informal session, the meeting was adjourned.

Prom-Trotters

It is estimated that some 250 students will travel over 35,000 miles to attend the Davidson Mid-Winter dance, with an additional number attending the armory before starting the long trek back to homes and schools.

CELEBRATE (Continued from Page Three)

The traditional Christmas Tree ceremony was held, with each brother receiving a humorous present. The event was written and staged by the freshmen.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FIRST SEMESTER 1939-1940

STUDENT DOES FEATS (Continued from Page Five)

They are not conscious of the fact that they have no fishing pole or bags of popcorn or any other equipment.

Broad Powers

“Atwater the Hypnotist” made one boy recite a poem which he had once learned and made another remember the name of the book at a certain position in his bookcase. Before they went into the trance and even after Frank brought them out, they remembered each detail.

MORNING DATE AFTERNOON

Applied Math. 51, Bible LIB,D, Biology 21C, Chem. 71, French 21B,D, Greek 71, Math. 11-LF, Econ. 21B,D, English 11B,D,81, French 21A, German 51-61, Greek 61, History 41, Latin 31, Math. 21, Physics 21A, Pol. Sc. 31A, Spanish 21C, 61. Thursday, Jan. 18

Bible 111.1, Chem. 31, 41A, Econ. 41, English 41, Geog. 51, German 111, Greek 21B, 51, History 51, Latin 11, Mathematics 11, Physics 31, Pol. Sc. 81, Psychology 31C. Friday, Jan. 19

LOCAL PEOPLE (Continued from Page Three)

Ollie’s last name was not known; he was a candidate from one of the tracks.51, Business 41, Chem. 21A, 54 English 11P,G, Fine Arts, French 31B, Geog. 31, Greek 21A, History 71, Physics 11B, Math. 11H, 21A, Pol. Sc. 31B; Psychology 51.

ORCHESTRA (Continued From Page Three)

Bible 21,D, Biology 21B, Chem. 11, 61, Economics 61, French 11A, 71, German 21B, Greek 11B, History 81, Math. 11B, 31, 41, Pol. Sc. 71, Psychology 31A, Sociology 31.

Wednesday, Jan. 24

Next will come an intermission for an appeal for gifts to the Fresh Air Camps. An offering will be taken with offertory music by Mr. Serena.

Astronomy 331A, Bible 11A,C, Chem. 32, 41B; Econ. 21A,C, 71, English 11A,C, French 31A, Geog. 21, German 11A,C, History 31, Spanish 21B, 31, Ap. Math. 31.

Thursday, Jan. 25

The double male quartette will sing “Deck the Hall with Boughs of Holly” and “Angels o'er the Fields Were Flying”, Welsh and French carols respectively. With the harp, marimba, chimes, celeste, and organ, “O Come All Ye Faithful”, “Away in a Manger,” and “Silent Night” will be rendered. After “O Holy Night” by Mrs. D. M. McSpadden and the male quartette, the program will end with “Joy to the World,” sung by the entire audience.

Friday, Jan. 26

Morning examinations begin at 9 A.M.—Afternoon examinations at 2 P.M. Classes of the first semester end at 12:30 P.M. Wednesday, January 17th.

Saturday, Jan. 27

Refreshments were served and several young ladies were on hand for the occasion. Gamma Delta staged a gala Sunday night. Games were played and presents were exchanged, with Walter Wooten acting as Santa Claus. A Fiji song-fest climaxed festivities. Dr. Tyler Hanes of Richmond, Virginia, and chief of the section, was a guest of the chapter over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi Party

The only party yet to be held is the Pi Kappa Phi celebration slated to take place tonight at eight. Plans include a feed, a skit by the pledges, and a humorous exchange. Theta held their Christmas party Sunday night. Under the direction of Pledgemaster John, freshmen put on a skit. Also, the feed was on the house. Steele entertained the Epsilon chapter at a party at his home Tuesday night. Festivities started at eight and included a feed.

As part of their Christmas celebration, members of Pi Kappa Alpha sponsored a dance jointly with Sigma Phi Epsilon two weeks ago.

Pledges Davis and Knox made their weekly visit to Rock Hill. Brother Ed Watson spent the weekend at his home in Charlotte. Brother Harbin spent the weekend in Concord. Colonel and Mrs. Steele, “Butch” Steele, and Jimmie Steele were guests at Sunday dinner. Last Monday, the seniors of the chapter were dinner guests of Professor and Mrs. Kimbrough. There were quite a few visitors at the house this weekend. Among them were Mr. and Mrs. Pete Knox, brother of Pledge Hugh Knox. Misses Mildred Thomas and Ann Fuller of Charlotte were guests Sunday night.

Duke UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE Shampoo’s A Specialty Johnson’s Barber Shop

Students, Faculty, and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP Knox Building Davidson, N. C.

Ann Sheridan STARRED IN ‘YEARS WITHOUT DAYS’ A Warner Bros. Picture does her Christmas shopping early.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

One of the most attractive Christmas packages—see it in the stores and order your Christmas Chesterfields now. Chesterfields, with their real mildness, better taste, and delicious aroma, give real pleasure to anyone who smokes. You can’t buy a better cigarette. Chesterfields