Thurs., Nov. 16, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
The game and dances attracted many brothers to Winston-Salem last weekend. Those making the trip for the game were brothers
Col. and Mrs. G. T. Mackenzie. Most of the brothers journeyed to the game at Winston; these being Roscoe Marion,
Dave Sprunt, Mitchell, Charlie Watt, George McAfee, Sherman, Mason Wallace, and pledge brothers Mathews, Atwater, Garrou, B. Howell, Lacy McLean,
Scotty Patterson, Burch, Joyner, Bite McClintock, Ben Washburn, Campbell Ansley, Ramsey, Balsley, Sharpe, Propst, J. Howell, and Pledge Brother Fawcette,
Caterson, Smidth, and McCoy. Brothers Sharpe and Balsley attended the dance at Salem College Saturday night. Brothers Hand, Summerville, Bryant
and Pledge Brothers Sherrill and Church spent the weekend at their homes in Charlotte. Brothers Burch and Ramsey went to
Winthrop College Sunday. Pledge Brother Ann went to his home in Reidsville Saturday afternoon. Miss Ethel Hutchenson was a guest
of the chapter Sunday night. At the regular Sunday night feed, the Kappa Alpha fraternity was the guest. Along with
a number of K.A.’s, Dr. and Mrs. Hood, Prof. and Mrs. McGavock, Colonel and Mrs. McKenzie, and Miss Polly Price
were visitors.

Pi Kappa Alpha
A majority of the brothers and pledges journeyed to Winston-Salem to witness the Carolina-Davidson classic. Among these were brothers Shewmake,
Shelton, Abels, McDonald, Sink, Carter, Coltrane, Brinson, Crutchfield, Anderson, Monger, and Pollock. Pledges Pierce, Coun- ter, and Pollock. After the
game, the Chapter went to High Point where they were entertained at a party by Brother Abels at the Emery
Club. Among the dates were Martha Brandon, Doris Edgar, Mary Goodson, Alice Chandler, Betty Weaver, Betty Secrest, Phyllis Crooks, Dot
Winston, and James McCall. Brother Scott and Pledge-brother Sample visited their homes in Statesville. Brother Allison passed the weekend in
Charlotte. Among the Charlotte visitors Saturday night were Brothers Monger, Rice, and Pledge Reeves.

Kappa Alpha
Last Sunday night the chapter was invited to a feed at the Beta house. After bulling around a bit, delicious
refreshments were served, and this was followed by songs from both fraternities. Joe Barnwell was then requested to play the
drums, and Jivin’ Joe really beat out some swell rhythm on the skins. Among those present were Dr. and Mrs.
Frazer Hood, Prof. and Mrs. W. G. McGavock, and Brother Atwater.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Most of the brothers attended the Davidson-Carolina game in Winston-Salem this week. At the game were brothers Austin, Lucas, Cauble,
Hector McLean, Thomas, Harrison, and pledge brother B. F. Moore. With the team were brothers Hank McLean, Bob Smith, Bill
Faison, Frank Caldwell, Claude Hackney, and Back Powell as players and as managers brothers B. P. McDuffie and George Grantham.
After the game, many attended the buffet supper at Brother Hank Johnson's home, and then went to the dances held
in Winston Saturday night. Brother Ficklen went to his home in Washington, Ga., returning with many tales, as usual, of
his experiences. Brother Tom Hackney journeyed to Charlotte and Brother Receiver remained on campus with Nell.

Kappa Sigma
Winston-Salem and the game were the center of activity for the week-end. The Chapter was entertained at dinner by Brother
Geite Motsinger. Afterwards, most brothers scattered to various points. Brothers Yarborough, Kelly, and Pledges Dick-Smith and Joe McCoy attended the
Salem Dances. Brothers Gray and Hunter went to their homes in Greensboro. Brothers “Cooper” Watkins, and Pledges Joe Nelson and
“Wee” McGee attended the Smoke House Ball. Brothers Neal Scott, “King” Karl Hudson, and “Wooly” Bill Ross journeyed to Montreat,
Club Roy, and Spartanburg. Brother Finley and Pledge Sutton attended the McCallie-A.S.B. football game in Asheville. Brothers “Wild Bill Black
Hair” and Thomas McAlpine hacked back and forth between Charlotte and Davidson.

(Continued on Page Six)

Watson Street Speaks At Church Homecoming
Unity Congregation Holds Annual Celebration

“It was the biggest and most successful Homecoming we have ever had,” stated Rod Williams, pastor of the Unity Church,
referring to the all-day services held at his church last Sunday celebrating the annual Homecoming. Watson Street climaxed the celebration
Sunday night with his sermon on “Why we don’t grow spiritually?”

The observance of Homecoming began with the morning service. After the offertory prayer by Mr. J. O. Gant, Wallace Scherer
and Paul Crane rendered a violin duet during the offering. Other special music was presented by the church choir. Watson
Street, former pastor of the church and at present attending Louisville Theological Seminary, taking his text from John 14:1-6, preached
the sermon on “The Truth About Life.” Despite the threatening weather, a picnic dinner was spread in the church yard,
and both young and old enjoyed the “feast.” Ivan Stafford-Wetmore, who led a joint meeting of the Women's and Men’s
Bible classes during the morning Sunday School, and Watson Street.

(Continued on Page Six)

Students, Faculty and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Library Has Late Books On Shelves
Prof. Davidson Announces Requested Books Have Been Purchased

Prof. Davidson announced Monday that several new books that had been in demand for some time were now on display
in the library. He also said the curricular books, numbering over a hundred, had arrived and would be put on
the shelves by the last of the week. The books have been assigned to the different courses and are available
to the students taking the courses that the books have been assigned to.

“Country Lawyer”
“Country Lawyer,” by Bellamy Partridge, is the story of his father’s experiences in his practice of law in a small
country town. It is hailed as one of the best books of the current time. “An Artist In America,” by
Thomas Benton, is a book on his life in the deep south as a boy, and then his moving to
the excitement of New York. “Children of God,” by Vardis Fisher, won the Harper prize for the best novel in
1939. It is a story of the building of the American Empire. Really a great book for all Americans.

Biography
“Stalin” (the definitive biography) aided by Boris Souvarine is heralded by leading magazines and newspapers as one of the best
biographies of our time. It gives the life of Stalin from boyhood to his present position in the Soviet Union.
“Flaubert and Madame Bovary” by Francis Steegmuller is one of the great, recently published biographies.

Dr. C. K. Brown Is Delegate
Represents College At Annual Meeting of Southern University Group

Dr. C. K. Brown, professor of economics at Davidson, was the college’s representative to the annual meeting of the Southern
University Conference on Oct. 30-31. This group, composed of leading universities and liberal arts colleges in the south, met this
year in Atlanta, Ga. The central theme of the meeting was a study of the “Cooperative Movement in Higher Education
in the South.” Reports were made on ways in which institutions in Nashville, Atlanta, and the Durham and Chapel Hill
areas are cooperating in order to furnish better educational facilities. Among other topics discussed was the significance of the Supreme
Court’s decree of last December. It was agreed that a state must now furnish within its own borders educational facilities
for the colored race as good as it provides for its whites. States do not have to build entirely new
institutions but must provide the money to properly equip less adequate ones.

Principal speakers present at the conference were Dr. H. J. Cody of the [Continued on Page Six]

Soccer Squad Defeated 2-0
The High Point YMCA team took an early lead to defeat the Davidson soccer team, 2-0, in a game played
here last Saturday. Before the game was five minutes old, Hartley, a forward for High Point, scored their first goal
and added another in the second half. Hartley, the star of the game, in which the Davidson team failed to
take advantage of the many opportunities it had for shots.

Tough Season
Thus far in the season, Davidson’s soccer teamhas lost four of the five games played; losing to High Point College,
High Point YMCA, and twice to Duke. Their win was from High Point. [Continued on Page Six]

FULL LINE OF Meats & Groceries
FREE DELIVERY
Dial 5041
J. K. Hampton Grocery

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone.
Dial 3-5727 - Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907

CAMPUS CARTOON
THE GRAND OLD MAN OF FOOTBALL COMES UP WITH HIS 50TH COLLEGE TEAM THIS FALL
STAGG BEGAN HIS CAREER PLAYING END AT YALE AND WAS SELECTED ON HISTORY'S FIRST ALL-AMERICAN TEAM IN 1889. HE COACHED
FOR TWO YEARS AT SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE, 41 YEARS AT CHICAGO AND IS IN HIS 7TH YEAR AT THE COLLEGE OF
THE PACIFIC. HIS TEAMS HAVE PLAYED 525 GAMES, WINNING 312, LOSING 179 AND TYING 34 FOR A .635 WINNING AVERAGE.

Freshmen Tank Artists Apprehended By Court

Rev. Melton, of Rome, Ga., will speak at the Vespers Service next Sunday evening. Rev. Melton is a graduate of
Davidson College and also of Columbia Theological Seminary. He is the young minister of the South Presbyterian Church in Rome.

The beauty of the situation, to frosh eyes at least, was the fact that the painting took place on the
first night of Orientation, when few upperclassmen were on the campus. The painting took place on the first night of
Orientation, when few upperclassmen were on the campus.

The culprits were apprehended and sentenced to one month of campus by Judge Benny Harrison. The painting took place on
the first night of Orientation, when few upperclassmen were on the campus.

Rev. James Sprunt, pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church, Lynchburg, Va., will address the Vespers congregation the next Sunday.

Christmas Vespers
The last service before the holidays is the Christmas Vespers. This is a musical service held annually at Davidson.

Prof. William McGavock, a member of the Mathematics Department, spoke at the College Sunday School in Phi Hall Sunday morning
at 10:15. He took for his subject, “Conflicts Between Science and Religion.” Professor McGavock said that there is no reason
for science and religion to conflict. They should work together. One should supplement the other.

Under the able supervision of David McLean, who is in charge of YMCA work, the “Y” activities are progressing. McLean
is doing fine work at Cornelius. He is developing a football team and other outside activities for his Scouts, consisting
of about 30 boys. At present, there is no one to go to the Sunday School there.

In Davidson, the three colored churches are visited regularly by several boys. Both teaching and preaching are creating general goodwill.
The Boy Scouts are taking on new life in their activities. They have had several hikes with Tom Brown as
assistant Scoutmaster.

David McLean is developing a new phase of colored work. He is in charge of the recreation program, which includes
supplying athletics for both his scouts and for the men of the village, many of whom work all day and
have only this outlet for their surplus energy.

There is a need for boys who can spend an hour each afternoon to help instruct and help with their
activities.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD
REASONABLE PRICES
SEA FOODS
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Rev. Melton Will Preach
Rev. John Melton, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Rome, Ga., will lead Vespers next Sunday.

Three Frosh Catch Month Campus Sentence; Harrington Threatened
When early on the morning of Sept. 8, sleepy-eyed freshmen gazed out of the windows and saw to their amazement
and delight that a large red '43 graced the village water tank, it was generally supposed that the upperclassmen had
been slightly hoodwinked.

THANKSGIVING GREYHOUND
Sample Round-Trip Fares
Winston-Salem $1.65
Greensboro $2.70
Richmond, Va. $6.75
Roanoke, Va. $4.80
Columbia, S. C. $3.10
Greenville, S. C. $3.15
Spartanburg, S. C. $2.45
Raleigh $5.25
Atlanta, Ga. $6.50
Chattanooga, Tenn. $7.60
Asheville $3.70
Wilmington $5.85

Your trip to “Turkey”—no matter where your holiday dinner is waiting for you—will be more convenient, more economical and much
more fun if you go by Greyhound. Cruise in Super-Coach warmth and comfort—at a saving that you’ll be mighty thankful
for, extra reduction on round-trip Greyhound tickets!

GREYHOUND TERMINAL
White Drug Co.
Phone 2111

The latest in styles and fabrics in both clothing and furnishings:
HATS
PIPE HEADQUARTERS
FLAME GRAIN, SUPER GRAIN
KAYWOODIES
IMPERIAL YELLO-BOLE
MEERSCHAUM, CALABASH
COLLEGE PHARMACY
DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE
