Thurs., Nov. 23, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN AMONG THE GREEKS Betas Entertain Guests The Erskine game and Converse Day kept most of the brothers and pledges on campus this weekend. Dates visiting the chapter were: Misses Jane Ferguson, Crooks, Kay Vanstory, Jean Sager, Jess Boyce, Martha McCraig, Dorothy Baldwin, Lucy Geiger, Harriet Glasgow, Sarah White, Billie Goodwin, Nancy Vaughan, “Sis” Day, “C” Walker, all of Converse College, and Misses Muriel Ketchum and Martha Harris of Greensboro College. Brothers Burch and Summerville went to Durham for the Duke-Carolina game. Ramsey and McKnight left for Winthrop Sunday. Several of the brothers attended the fall Germans at Carolina this weekend. Brothers Thomas, Currie, Austin, and Jones went to Duke, while Pledges Young and Tate attended the game also. Brothers McAuley and Propst went to Spartanburg Saturday night. Brother Bryant went to his home in Charlotte for the weekend. Brother Sherrill went to his home in Charlotte for the weekend. Matthews visited Pledge Brother Church at his home in Charlotte Sunday. The brothers enjoyed a feed at the S. A. E. house Saturday night. The Betas, S. A. E.'s, and Phi Gams united to have a tri-fraternity feed, and a good time was enjoyed by all.

Pikas Attend Game Brothers McElwee, Latimer, Coltrane, Perdew, and Pledges Browning and Pollock attended the game at Durham. After the game, they attended the dances at Carolina. Brothers Henderson and Brice Neill journeyed to Raleigh and were guests at the Pika house there. Pledge Reeves visited Mooresville Saturday night. Brothers Parsons, Rice, and Monger visited Charlotte. Many of the brothers and pledges had dates with the Converse girls, and a joint feed was held with the Pi Kapps Saturday night.

K. A. Brother Entertains Saturday night, Horton entertained a large percentage of the student body in his room. An elaborate buffet supper had been prepared and was thoroughly enjoyed by the several invited guests. Attending the Duke-Carolina game were Brothers Marion, Little, Harris, and Lauch. Brother Paul Marion also went to the German dances at Carolina. Brothers Spencer and Perrin ran a brief detail down to Spartanburg. Brother Preyer visited in Greensboro. Brother Lemmon, after attending his sister's wedding at Sumter, returned to the campus Wednesday night. The remainder of the brothers and pledges were scattered with the four winds. Pledge Snipes made another of his jaunts to his home in Greenville. Brother Gordon spent the weekend circulating between Charlotte and Concord.

Girls Visit Fijis Entertaining ten girls from Converse kept most of the Fijis on the campus this weekend. The Converse girls, Prissy Morgan, Elva Marshall, Laura Lamarr, Nancy Barwick, Doris Odum, Alysoun Jones, Greta Taylor, Margot Heinz, Ereida Smythe, and Lydia Dobbs, ended their visit at a feed at the S. A. E. house. However, Bob Johnson and Harris McReynolds saw the Vanderbilt-Tennessee game in Knoxville; Earle Bellamy, Jack Holland, Matt the Duke-Carolina classic; Doug Dillard and Tommy Harnsberger made Greensboro their headquarters for the weekend.

Phi Delts Are Hosts The chapter was host to several girls who were here for Converse Day, and they were guests at open house after the game Saturday afternoon, and also at a feed Saturday night after the festivities in Chambers auditorium. They were: Misses Rose Goodman, Lib Griffin, Ann Glenn, Vivian Workman, Margery Toole, Maxie McLaurin, Helen Wehman, Mary Shaw Love, Louise Zeigler, and Dr. and Mrs. H. Dew of Charleston, parents of Pledge Brother George Dew, were present for the festivities of the weekend, along with Brothers Bill Beatty and Arthur Moore, former members of this chapter from Rock Hill. Brothers Rudolph and Westall journeyed to Asheville to their homes on Friday, and Brother Rudolph went to Atlanta on Saturday. Pledge Brother Jim Chapman went to Spartanburg Saturday night after the feed.

SPE's Hold Feed A combined feed was given by the Sig Eps and the Phi Delts Saturday night for the Converse girls who had dates with chapter members. Brother Felix Hill went to his home in Burlington and to the Duke-Carolina game. Pledge Clarence Legerton went to his home in Charleston, S.C. with its St. Cecilia organization, a musical center. Other centers were Williamsburg, and Salem. The folk hymns date, he said, to singing teachers who moved South from the New England states and altered or originated songs to suit the particular occasions for which they were needed.

Sunday Class Hears Lesson On “Problems” Inn body and townspeople were present at the fire. Carolina game at Durham this weekend. Brother Hudson went to Mary Baldwin in Staunton, Virginia. The chapter extends its deepest sympathies to Brother Charlie P. Yates in the death of his grandmother. Brothers Ross, Scott, Kelly, and Clarke took in the dance at Carolina.

Campus Holds Pi Kaps Very few of the Pi Kapps deserted the chapter and the game last weekend. Among the guests present for Converse Day were: Misses Peggy White, Lita DuPree, Mary Rountree, Frances Colvin, and State Graham. Other visitors at the house over the weekend were: Miss Brooksie Folger of Charlotte; Misses Dorothy and Ann Brannon of Queens; Julia Hobbs of Davidson; Chevy Chase, Maryland; Mrs. R. R. Garvey and Miss Margaret Garvey of Winston-Salem; Miss Virginia Howard of North Carolina. Brother Horace Reeves took off Friday for Mary Baldwin at Staunton, Va. Brother Sam Frye was called to Atlanta, Ga. on Friday due to the death of his father. Brother Watson spent the weekend circulating between Charlotte and Concord.

Dr. Hillhouse To Discuss Future of Cooperatives At Pep Rally Simmons Announces On Cooperatives Dr. Albert M. Hillhouse of the college faculty will address the Dec. meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, national honorary social science fraternity, on “Cooperatives and the Possibility of Their Solving the Problems of Distribution.” The speaker was announced by President Frank Simmons this week. Dr. Hillhouse, while studying throughout the Scandinavian countries, had the opportunity to study cooperatives of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.

Simmons Speaks Friday At a meeting held in the Pi Kappa Pi house last Friday night, the social science group heard a paper by President Simmons on “The Prospects for a Lasting Peace in Europe.” The paper was followed by a discussion. During the meeting, the Pi Gamma Mu budget for the year was announced and voted on. New members were also voted on, and bids will be extended to approximately ten men this week. The chapter will probably be increased by approximately three men.

Large Fraternity With approximately 140 chapters, Pi Gamma Mu is one of the nation’s largest honorary fraternities. To ensure that the chapter has members who are interested in active participation in the chapter's work, each prospective pledge has been interviewed by the president. The principal activity of the fraternity is the study of social questions.

Speech N of the North Carolina division. Erskine Student Compliments Both Teams Play For A. G. O. Professor McDonald and Orchestra Will Play Davidson musicians will be heard by the North and South Carolina chapters of the American Guild of Organists at their annual meeting in Charlotte on December 4. Professor Thane McDonald will give a recital before the group, and the Davidson orchestra will also present a concert. The Guild is composed of organists throughout the Carolinas and Professor McDonald is an officer of the organization. Professor James C. Pfohl also spoke in Charlotte to the Charlotte branch of the American Association of University Women on “Southern Music.” Tracing modern jazz from the old Negro spirituals, Davidson’s music head declared that Charleston, S.C. with its St. Cecilia organization, was a musical center. Other centers were Williamsburg, and Salem. The folk hymns date, he said, to singing teachers who moved South from the New England states and altered or originated songs to suit the particular occasions for which they were needed.

Library Has New Books The library has recently acquired several new books, including works on history, science, and literature. These additions are expected to be of great interest to both students and faculty.were needed. They published the first songbook using a diamond-shaped note rather than the round note because these notes indicated rhythm variations. A community chorus gives a musical festival every year and uses these same “diamond-shaped” notes.

The camp meeting songs were described as “folkish” in flavor with hymn words. Organists at their annual fall meeting in Charlotte this week discussed the negro spirituals. “I know you have a mighty fine team, and I know we have a mighty good team. So tomorrow there will be a mighty fine game,” declared Albert Myers, a member of the Erskine student body, at Davidson’s pep meeting Friday, Nov. 17. Myers, in town to see the game between Davidson and Erskine last Saturday, was invited by Locke Hunter to be a guest at the pep rally in the alumni gymnasium Friday night. Also speaking was Rea Tenny, of the senior class, who declared that Davidson had the game in the bag. The Wildcats’ leader also expressed confidence in a victory for Davidson.

The freshman band opened the rally, attended by a full quota of the freshman class and a medium group of upperclassmen, with a march. After several yells, led by Hunter and the junior cheerleaders, the meeting ended with the singing of “O Davidson.”

CATS SWAMP ERSKINE (Continued from Page Four)

Davidson continued their offensive by marking up six-pointers in each of the last two quarters. The fourth score came on a 65-yard sustained drive that featured only running plays. Shannon traveled eight yards around the left end to score untouched. In the final quarter, the Wildcats counted their last touchdown after a 45-yard sprint by Spencer to the goal line. The conversion split the uprights, and the game ended soon after, the score standing 32-6.

Dr. A. M. Hillhouse Lectures Before Student Group at Phi Hall

Dr. A. M. Hillhouse presented the Sunday School lesson last Sunday morning. After the reading of the scripture, Matthew 5:1-12, the subject of his talk was “A Christian Approach to Social Problems.” He showed that social problems are templed by economic insecurity, racial hatred, and crime. He listed the great social problems as war, racial hatred, and economic insecurity, with liquor main subh ification. 

Dr. Hillhouse announced the display this week at the library is a collection of American commemorative stamps from 1847 to 1938. The collection belongs to Professor Kimbrough of the math department and includes practically all American stamps issued to honor an event, person, or place since 1847. 

Davidson’s Radio Theater group presented “The Burning of Chambers’ Building” last night over radio station WSOC in Charlotte. This play was presented for the first time last week by the group. Because of popular public demand, it was repeated. 

The barriers to the Christian approach to social problems are: First, the general feeling of helplessness, caused by the fact that we hear about events but don't understand them unless they are close at hand. Second, that we train our youth to be idealists. To overcome this, education should try to mix idealism with realism. 

The last barrier is the fact that man has long relied on precedent and custom. He hesitates to throw aside the antiquated customs of his time, even if they are against the purpose of Christianity. The last barrier is the racial myth, the idea that some races are inferior and fitted for enslavement by nature herself. 

GERMAN FOREIGN POLICY (Continued from Page One)

The Dutch can be treated as Germanic peoples, such as the Czechs and the Poles, who can be regarded as inferior races fitted for enslavement by nature herself. When a political regime does not set bounds for itself, it becomes necessary for others to step in and set them. In fact, nothing but the destruction of Hitlerism (not just Hitler) can save not only Europe but Germany herself.

Davidson's student body will attend the first musical vespers of the 1939-40 term Sunday evening, Nov. 26, when the Community Chorus directed by Prof. James C. Pfohl presents Mendelssohn's “Hymn of Praise.” Three out-of-town soloists will take the leading roles in the religious cantata, which will begin at 7:30 P.M. instead of 6:30 P.M., the usual vesper hour. The leading soprano will be Mrs. Thomas Bird, soloist at the First Methodist Church in Charlotte. Mrs. Bird has taken an active part in oratorio work throughout North Carolina.

Rikers Are Soloists

Other soloists will be Mrs. Franklin Riker, soprano, and Mr. Riker, tenor, of Statesville. Mr. Riker is a professor of voice at Davidson. Professor Thane McDonald will be the organist. A chorus of approximately 75 voices will sing the music of the German composer. This group is composed of Davidson townspeople, members of the college glee club, and singers from surrounding towns. The chorus was first organized last winter as a part of the Davidson music festival and opened the celebration by presenting the “Hymn of Praise.”

CUSTOM FINISH Makes You Look Your Best!

If you haven’t worn the new Custom Finish, you have a distinct pleasure ahead of you. Enjoy being admired in Edgertons!

J. O. Jones Incorporated

Meet To Hear Davidsonian

Several members of the faculty expect to attend the annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association on December 1 and 2. The meeting this year is to be held at Birmingham-Southern College in Birmingham, Ala. This group consists of language teachers from North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. Every member of the English and modern foreign language departments at Davidson belongs to the association.

Professors On Program

Dr. G. R. Vowles will read a paper to the German group at the meetings. Prof. J. Erwin and Prof. G. B. Watts, who is on the executive committee of the association, will also attend. Several other members of the faculty are undecided whether or not they will make the trip.

The whole Davidson team shone in their impressive triumph, with two complete teams being used. For the seniors, this was their last game on Richardson Field, the Thanksgiving contest being held in Charlotte.

Little Pep Sandwich Shop

Eat With Us During Thanksgiving

Delicious Meals Served To Suit Your Taste

Imperial Theatre

Charlotte, N. C.