Sideline Sidelights — By ANDY DALE

DAVIDSON SPORTS
Wed., April 12, 1939

Tennis and Golf Wins

This week saw the tennis and golf boys continue to win in intercollegiate circles, with the linksmen conquering two foes
while the court gang did likewise. This still leaves the golf team as the only unbeaten varsity team of the
year so far, but the tennis team, with only one defeat in eight starts, is pushing them hard for honors.
With the season well under way, it looks as if they will be the crack teams of the year.

Friday, the golfers tee off in the annual Southern Intercollegiate Golf Tournament, which attracts a galaxy of link stars from
the southern and other portions of this country. This tourney is getting the reputation of drawing bigger and better players
than even the National Intercollegiates. With Pegram, Cooper, Pittman, Sharpe, and Cox swinging for Davidson, the ‘Cats may see high
honors return on the shoulders of one of these lads. There is but one senior on the team, Ray Pittman,
and this makes next year’s golf team look good now, with Jack Abels waiting to fight off opposition for the
fourth post next season.

More Diamond Dust

Last week was an evil one for the ‘Cats on the diamond with Catawba and Carolina both taking away victories.
Against Catawba, a walk and two errors, a long triple, and another error gave the Salisbury outfit a four-run lead
in the opening frame, and the 'Cats were never able to head this. Both teams played faulty ball, Davidson, however,
making five errors to Catawba's three. The ‘Cats looked pretty bad afield and were able to get to Shelton, Catawba
moundsman, for only five hits.

Against Carolina, the team played much better and put up a game fight before going down 4-1. D. Hicks and
Bud Hudson engaged in a pitcher’s battle with the Tar Heel cut the corners all the way and made nearly
all hits go to some fielder. Again the ‘Cats' errors told heavily against them with five more being chalked up,
two of which ended in Tar Heel runs. The ‘Cats were finding that pellet as it came over, but only
seven blows went for hits while many more fell into the hands of waiting Carolina players. Cox in left field
handled quite a defensive outfit, besides their hitting! Again (as in basketball) it looked as if too many close decisions
were going the wrong way, and this helped the Heels to keep men on the bases when the ‘Cats apparently
had them out.

Feature of this was when “Rusty” Hellekson completely blocked a man from home to show the umps he was out
after a previous run was scored on a similar play with a very questionable decision. The loss of Sam Hemphill,
senior third-sacker, cost the 'Cats a hefty hitter and a steady fielder. Catching a high foul pop fly back of
the hot corner last Saturday, Sam split his fourth finger so badly that it is doubtful if he will be
able to play any more this year. Batting number two in the line-up, he had eight hits for thirteen trips
to the plate, an average of .516. No team can afford to lose a man who appears to be starting
on his best year without feeling the results, and Sam will be out there near the end of the season
if his finger heals in time. Walt Fitzgerald has stepped into his position at third after a year of utility
man seasoning.

Takes First Home Meet

Maryville College Falls to Davidson, Capt. Walker Paces Team

Last Friday saw the Wildcat tracksters almost upset by Maryville in the meet of the season. The visitors, who brought
a squad of only 13 men, came surprisingly close to taking the meet. Thrill of the afternoon came when Wildcat
Captain Boo Walker won the 880 from Baird, Maryville ace, in a photo finish. The Tennesseans were especially strong in
the running events, sweeping the 440, but lost to Davidson's superiority in the field events.

Summary:
Mile run—Kellog (D) and Gammon (D) tied for first; Mooney (M). Time: 4:55.5.
440-yard dash—First, Baird (M); second, Lloyd (M); third, Steakley (M). Time, 52:2.
100-yard dash—First, Sutton (M); second, White (D); third, Sample (D). Time, 10:1.
High hurdles—First, Harbin (D); second, Orr (M); third, Cauble (D). Time, 15:3.
880-yard run—First, Walker (D); second, W. Baird (M); third, B. Baird (M). Time, 2:5.4.
220-yard dash—First, Sutton (M); second, White (D); third, Baker (D). Time, 23 flat.
Two-mile run—First, Woodward (D); second, Davis (M); third, Green (M). Time, 10:22.5.
220-yard low hurdles—First, Orr (M); second, Steakley (M); third, Cauble (D). Time, 26.3.
Mile relay—Maryville. Time, 3:40.2.

Field Events
Shot put—First, Warden (D); second, Lady (D); third, Miller (D). Distance, 40 feet, 2 1-2 inches.
Pole vault—First, Sample (D); second, Rae (M). Distance, 11 feet, 8 inches.
Discus throw—First, Iverson (D); second, B. Baird (M); third, W. Baird (M). Distance, 127 feet.
High jump—Tie for first, Cowan (D) and Gammon (D); third, Mooney (M). Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.
Broad jump—First, Sample (D); second, Harbin (D); third, W. Baird (M). Distance, 20 feet, 11 inches.
Javelin throw—First, Iverson (D); second, W. Baird (M); third, Harbin (D). Distance, 160 feet, 6 inches.

Laird Goes To V.P.I.

With the resignation of Coach Flake (Red) Laird from the Davidson coaching staff on Saturday, Davidson lost a valuable man.
During his ten years of service to the Wildcats, “Red” has become the friend of many a boy besides putting
out standout teams in the sports he has coached. During his time here, he has coached varsity baseball, varsity basketball,
freshman basketball, and freshman football. A graduate of Davidson, he returned soon after receiving his sheepskin to take up duties
as assistant coach under Monk Younger, who will be his boss again at V.P.I. Davidson's loss is V.P.I.'s gain.

Tennis Team Loses Only One Match During Tour

Davidson varsity tennis team returned from a two weeks trip through seven southern states. On the tour, the courtmen played
six leading southern colleges and universities, winning five and losing but one. Those who fell before the Wildcat attack were
Emory, Baylor, University of Mississippi, Southwestern, and Southern Methodist. Texas University’s nationally famous team defeated the local boys. Monday afternoon,
April 10, the Cat netmen blasted Guilford College’s crack team from the undefeated ranks by a decisive score of 8-1.

Beat Albright

Last Friday, the Wildcats were again victorious, this time over Albright College from Pennsylvania, 8-1.

Summary of Guilford match:
Turner (D) over Bowman (G), 6-0, 3-6, 6-3; Tenney (D) over McAuslan (G), 3-6, 6-2, 7-5; Davis (G) over Jones
(D), 6-3, 6-4; Hunter (D) over Rawlings (G), 6-2, 2-6, 6-4; (Continued on Page Six)

Kittens Drop Tennis Match

Last Wednesday, April 5, the Davidson freshman tennis team lost its opening match 8 to 1 to the Charlotte High
School netters. The feature match of the day was between Spurrier, Charlotte's No. 1 player, and Coker, Wildkitten ace and
junior champion of South Carolina. The former was victorious by a score of 6-1, 4-6, 6-1 after a good exhibition
of tennis. Cold and windy weather made play rather slow in most of the matches. Yesterday afternoon, the yearlings traveled
to Winston-Salem to engage R. J. Reynolds High School, but the results were not known in time for publication.

Summary:
Spurrier (C) over Coker (D), 6-1, 4-6, 6-1; Crichton (D) was defeated by Messick (C), 6-4, 6-2; Harding (C) beat
Alcott (D), 11-9, 7-5; McLaughlin (C) conquered Thomas (D), 6-2, 6-2; (Continued on Page Six)

Ernest Ellison
113-115 E. Fourth
ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE
Robt. E. Ellison
Charlotte, N. C.

Spring Sport Slate

April 12—Baseball: varsity vs. Duke, here
April 13—Golf: Intercollegiate Tournament
April 14—Baseball: varsity vs. Furman, at Greenville
April 14—Frosh vs. PRT, here
April 14—Golf: Intercollegiate Tournament
April 15—Baseball: varsity vs. Wofford, at Spartanburg
April 15—Track: varsity vs. V. P. I., here
April 15—Frosh vs. V. P. I., here
April 15—Tennis: varsity vs. N. C. State, here
April 15—Golf: Intercollegiate Tournament
April 17—Baseball: varsity vs. Lenoir Rhyne, here
April 18—Baseball: frosh vs. Badin High, here
April 19—Tennis: varsity vs. Univ. of South Carolina, here
April 20—Senior-Faculty Day
April 21—Baseball: varsity vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest
April 22—Baseball: varsity vs. N. C. State, hereat Raleigh
April 22—Frosh vs. Greensboro High, here
April 22—Track: varsity vs. Virginia, here
April 22—Tennis: varsity vs. Presbyterian College, here
April 24—Tennis: varsity vs. U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill
April 25—Baseball: varsity vs. Wofford, here
April 25—Tennis: varsity vs. N. C. State, at Raleigh
April 25—Frosh vs. Charlotte High, at Charlotte
April 26—Baseball: frosh vs. Presbyterian Jr. College, here
April 26—Tennis: varsity vs. Wake Forest, Wake Forest
April 27—Baseball: varsity vs. U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill
April 27—Tennis: State Tournament, at Raleigh
April 27—Golf: State Intercollegiate Tournament, at Greensboro
April 28—Baseball: varsity vs. Duke, at Durham
April 28—Track: frosh vs. Presbyterian College, at Clinton
April 28—Tennis: State Tournament, at Raleigh
April 28—Frosh vs. Washington and Lee frosh, here
April 29—Baseball: varsity vs. Duke, at Durham
April 29—Frosh vs. Greensboro, at Greensboro (night game)
April 29—Track: varsity vs. The Citadel, Charleston
April 29—Tennis: State Tournament, at Raleigh
May 1—Baseball: varsity vs. Virginia, here
May 2—Baseball: frosh vs. Reynolds High, here
May 3—Track: frosh in Jr. College Conference meet, here
May 4—Tennis: frosh vs. Reynolds High, here
May 5—Baseball: varsity vs. Furman, here
May 5—Frosh vs. Badin, at Badin
May 5—Track: frosh vs. Charlotte High, at Charlotte
May 5—Tennis: frosh vs. Shelby High, here
May 6—Track: varsity vs. Duke, here
May 8—Baseball: varsity vs. Catawba, at Salisbury
May 10—Baseball: varsity vs. Wake Forest, here
May 11—Baseball: frosh vs. Presbyterian Jr. College, at Maxton
May 11—Track: frosh vs. Winston High, here
May 13—Baseball: varsity vs. N. C. State, here
May 13—Track: Southern Conference meet, at Durham
May 13—Golf: Southern Conference Tournament, at Pinehurst

Note:—Frosh tennis schedule not available.

Cat Golfers Undefeated In First Seven Matches

Etheridge (M); Iverson (D). 5 feet, 8 inches. First, Cowan (D), [Continued on Page Six] third, Javelin throw

Phi Delt Top Frat Tourney

By nosing out the Kappa Sigs last Thursday, the Phi Delts assumed the lead in the Interfraternity volleyball tournament. With
five rounds of the tourney already played they are the only team remaining undefeated. In a game played Monday the
SAE’s lost their first game of the tourney to the Pika’s by 21-19 and 21-10. In the same round the
Pi Kappa Phi's defeated the Phi Gams 21-16, 15-21, 23-21; the KA's beat the Betas 21-16, 21-17; and the SPE’s
conquered the Kappa Sigs, 12-21, 21-17, 21-9. The Betas beat the Pikas in a fourth-round match played last Thursday; the
SPE’s downed the KA's, and the Pikas emerged victorious over the Phi Gams. In the third-round matches played last Tuesday,
the Phi Delts downed the KA’s, the Betas conquered the Pi Kappa Phi’s, and the SPE’s beat the Pikas. The
SAE-Phi Gam match was not played as scheduled.

Phi Delts
Sig Eps
SAE’s
Betas
Pikas
KA’s

DRY GOODS
GROCERIES
RADIO SUPPLIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Continuing in their winning ways, the Davidson golfers added two more victories to their collection last week. Tuesday, the Cats
overpowered Alma College, of Michigan, by the score of 16 1-2 to 1 1-2. As usual, Sharpe played his brilliant
game, not allowing his opponents a single point. The rest of the linksmen were hot also, and didn’t give up
a point in the doubles match. Summary: Pittman (D), 2 1-2, Becker (A) 1-2; Pegram (D) 2 1-2, Gunther (A)
1-2; Pittman and Pegram (D) 3; Becker and Gunther (A) 0; Cooper (D) 2 1-2; Netzorg (A) 1-2; Sharpe (D)
3, A. Gunther (A) 0; Cooper and Sharpe (D) 3, Netzorg and A. Gunther (A) 0.

Yearling Nine Takes Opener

The Davidson freshmen opened their season Saturday with a 7-5 victory over Central High at Hayman Park in Charlotte. The
frosh opened the game in auspicious fashion by pushing across five runs in the first stanza. Moody, ace of the
Charlotte mound staff, got in hot water at the start, by walking the first four men to face him. Another
tally was chalked up on an error by Leonard, third sacker, on McLeod's grounder. The big blast of the frame,
however, was Bob Smith’s double to right field with the bases full, which chased three runners over the plate.

Georgia Meet

In the second game of the week, which was played Thursday, the Wildcats defeated the University of Georgia, 13-5. Cooper
and Sharpe did yeoman service in this match, not giving their opponents any points between them. Summary: Pegram (D) 3,
Swift (Ga.) 0; Pittman (D) 1-2, Waddell (Ga.) 1-2; Cooper (D) 3, Netzorg (A) 0; Sharpe (D) 3, A. Gunther
(A) 0; Cooper and Sharpe (D) 3, Netzorg and A. Gunther (A) 0.

Kit Trackmen Triumph 97-20

The Davidson Frosh opened their track season Saturday afternoon by routing Barium Springs, 97-20. The yearlings piled up an impressive
number of points in the field events, Knoeller winning the shot with a potent heave of 45 feet, followed by
Bell and Freeze, and Freeze making a clean sweep of the javelin. The feature of the meet was the battle
for high-scoring honors between the Spencer brothers, Dave and Strandwitz, with Dave emerging victorious. Summary: Mile run: Spencer (B), Sprunt
(D), Coppedge (D). Time, 4:13; 440 dash: Bellamy (D), Loy (D), Whitten (D). Time, 57.1; 100 dash: Taylor (D), Williams
(D), Blue (B). Time, 10.2; High hurdles: Taylor (D), Williamson (D), Mott (B). Time, 15.5; 880-yard run: Spencer (B), Turnage
(D), Jones (D). Time, 2:14; 220-yard dash: Williams (D), Taylor (B), Blue (B). Time, 23.6; 220 low hurdles: Spencer (D),
Williams (D), Gibbs (B). Time, 27.2; Shot: Knoeller (D), Sell (D), Freeze (D). Distance, 45 feet. Pole vault: Shannon (D),
Spencer (B), Norman (B). Height, 11 feet eight inches; discus: Freeze (D), Knoeller (D), Terrell (D). Distance: 119 feet; high
jump: Strandwitz (D), Williamson (D), Boach (B). Height 5 feet 10 inches; javelin: Spencer (D), Strandwitz (D), Freeze (D). Distance
157 feet; broad jump: Spencer (D), Taylor (D), Shannon (D). Distance 19 feet eight inches.

Kits Continue Golf Practice

Qualifying rounds for the freshman golf team are to be played throughout this week consisting of 36 holes over the
Carolina Club course. At present no schedule has been completed for the yearlings, but a six-day tour through the state
has been planned, with a match each day against leading high school and freshman links teams. Julian McCall has been
appointed by Manager Charlie Pegram to make a list of the first-year men who are planning to go the 36-hole
qualifying route. McCall, Bob Bryant, Dumas, Bellamy, and Bill Mitchell are the only golfers now [Continued on Page Six]

Wildcats Beaten By U.N.C. In Close Tilt; Hemphill Is Injured

Veteran Third Sacker Splits Finger Early in Game: Coaches Fear Injury to Bench Him for Season; Hudson Scatters Local Hits

In the first conference game for both teams, the Tar Heels of Carolina emerged victorious over the Davidson nine last
Saturday on Richardson Field by the close score of 4-1. The game was costly for the Cats as they lost
the services of Third Baseman Sam Hemphill for an indefinite period. The hitting was about even with the Tar Heels
getting nine and the Cats eight. The margin of the Carolina victory lay in the fact that while Bud Hudson
was keeping the Wildcats’ hits well scattered, his mates were hitting with men on the bases and fielding faultlessly behind
him.

Tar Heel Leads Hitters

George Nethercutt, Tar Heel catcher, was the leading hitter of the day with a triple, double, and two singles in
five trips to the plate. Eddie Steere, Davidson right fielder, was the best hitter for the Cats, with two singles
in three times at bat. He also turned in the fielding gem of the day by making a difficult shoestring
catch of Mallory’s line drive and rifling the ball home to cut off Topkins.

Scoring

The Tar Heels opened the scoring in their half of the first inning when Nethercutt’s first hit, a double to
center, brought Mallory home from first, who was on base through Niven’s error. They scored again in the fourth when
Stern-Weiss singled, stole second, and came home on Niven’s error on a double-play ball. Davidson scored their only run in
the fourth inning when Edmondson singled, went to second on Verner’s sacrifice, and came home on Niven’s single. In the
fifth inning, Nethercutt’s triple sent Topkins, on first through a fielder’s choice, home with Carolina’s third run of the afternoon.
Their last run was scored in the ninth inning when Rice doubled and came home on Topkin’s double. Hemphill’s injury
came in the third inning while catching a high pop foul which split the fourth finger of his right hand,
necessitating [Continued on Page Six]

Wed.-April 12th.

until the fifth inning when Tommy Yarborough opened with a sharp single to left and scored a moment later on
Jim Owens’ drive down the third base line. The yearlings added their last run in the sixth when McLeod scored
on Nelson’s infield hit.

Lucas Pitches Well

Meanwhile, the Highs were helpless before the offerings of Ed Lucas. Making use of a tricky curve and a baffling
change of pace, the Wildkitten pitcher had [Continued on Page Six]

Safeguard yourself by visiting BUFF’S SHOE SHOP

Are your feet contracted through the years?

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES for your room, from—

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

“KING OF CHINA TOWN”
Thurs.-Fri., April 13th-14th.
“MIDNIGHT”
Sat., April 15th.
“DODGE CITY”
“FIGHTING DEVIL DOGS No. 12”
Mon.-Tues., April 17th-18th.
“PYGMALION”
Wed., April 19
“SECRET SERVICE OF AIR”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES for your room, from—

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT
