Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, SEPT. 21, 1939

Prof. Johnston Speaks To First Sunday Class
School Spirit at Davidson Stressed by Prominent Professor

At 10:15 last Sunday morning the first of the weekly Sunday school services was held in the Philanthropic Hall. Professor
Frontis Johnston of the college faculty was the speaker at this meeting, and his subject was concerned with school spirit
here at Davidson. The service was opened by the singing of two hymns, after which the class collection was taken.
The Scripture lesson for the morning was then read; it was taken from II Kings 2:1-15.

The service was turned over to Professor Johnston by Jack Ferguson, who introduced the speaker. Prof. Johnston said that he
wished to take, as an illustration for his subject, the life of Elisha. It was pointed out that the college
spirit here at Davidson needs to be renewed constantly. In the life of Elisha, we can find several ways in
which to revive the spirit: Elisha built up his spirit or faith by studying Elijah, his teacher and master, and
noting carefully what things had made Elijah successful. Prof. Johnston said that we can renew the spirit by studying our
predecessors. If we were all as loyal, faithful, and studious as Elisha was to Elijah, there would be a fine
spirit here.

Old Adage

“Each man here can fit into the picture of Elisha and Elijah. That is, be a student or a master,
but the best of us will be both,” Professor Johnston said. However, school spirit will not live by itself. It
is necessary that each man put his best into it, for only then will the spirit thrive.

YMCA Group Visits Queens

The first “Y” deputation trip of the year was taken on Monday, September 11, by Sherrard Rice, Dave McLean, Joe
Gammon, and Bill Boyle. The group had been asked to appear before a joint meeting of the Student Council and
the Student Christian Association of Queens-Chicora College, which was then holding its annual retreat services. The subject, which was treated
in a panel discussion, was “What a Davidson man thinks the ideal Queens girl should be, or have, in the
way of personality, character, types of amusements, and boy and girl relationships.” Mr. Pfohl, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Babcock, of the
college music department, and Charles Isley accompanied the “Y” team. Mr. Babcock played a cello solo, and Mr. Pfohl and
Mr. Isley led the group in singing.

HARNSBERGER

[Continued from Page One]

T. A. Roberts; Company D, Charles Mo Mashburn, second in command; R. O. Kellog, John R. Phipps, T. M. Wells;
Band, Thomas H. McKnight, in command; Burton L. Johnson, second in command.

Second Lieutenants

Second Lieutenants: Company A, H. J. Bolin, Elmer C. Hulen; Company B, John W. Holland, William Perdew; James N. Thomas;
Company C, James G. Currie, George M. Ficklen; Company D, Thomas H. Guion, Leonard C. Menius, John L. Withers. Eldredge
E. Brown will be Cadet Sergeant-Major, attached to the Band.

NINE FRATERNITIES

[Continued from Page One]

Fla.; Ivey Anderson, Tampa; Peter Young, Charlotte; Stewart, Charlotte; George Tate, Charlotte; Alva Lumpkin, Columbia, S. C.; Bill Grosse, Greensboro;
Stewart Rogers, Greensboro; Ed Erwin, Davidson; Bill Wood, Davidson; Joe Eve, Augusta, Ga.; T. V. Rochelle, High Point; Frank Lee,
Washington, Ga.

Kappa Sigma: Dick Phillips, Laurinburg; John McGee, Charleston, S. C.; Langley Land, Virginia Beach, Va.; Dick Smith, Pilot Mountain; Ben
Richmond, Va.; Hugh Grey, Jr., Concord; Ashby Dick, Sumter, S. C.; Vincent DeWitt, Charlotte; Joe Nelson, Cartersville, Ga.; Joe McCoy,
North Wilkesboro; Priestly Conyers, Spartanburg, S. C.; Gene Sutton, Fayetteville.

Pi Kappa Phi: T. G. Brough, Fort Myers, Fla.; Bob Gowdy, Miami, Fla.; Calhoun Hipp, Greenville, S. C.; George Horan,
Dalton, Ga.; Frank Logan, Rutherfordton; Clarence McArthur, Rutherfordton; John McRae, Miami, Fla.; Lonnie Miller, Florence, S. C.; E. Muffay, Raleigh;
Leon Paine, West Palm Beach, Fla.; Erskine Parks, Bristol, Va.; Bob Patton, Rutherfordton; John Robinson, Derita; Joe Smith, Winston-Salem; Don
Williamson, High Point; Jack Wayman, Miami, Fla.

Phi Gamma Delta: Jesse Wooten, Memphis, Tenn.; Rufus Nimmon, Seneca; Clay Williams, Clarksdale, Miss.; Preston Oliver, Wilmington; Harris McReynolds, Clarksdale,
Tenn.; Bob Keffer, Middleton, O.; Walter Kyle, Cleveland, Tenn.; Bell Lyman, Birmingham, Ala.; Monroe Bush, Jackson, Miss.

Phi Delta Theta: George Dew, Charleston, S. C.; Fred Boykin, Atlanta; Shelton Colson, Jacksonville, Fla.; Jim Chapman, Wellford, Fla.; Hobbie,
Roanoke, Va.; Loy Lewis, Jacksonville, Fla.; Spartanburg, S. C.; Bob Simpson, Jacksonville, Fla.

DAVIDSON FACES STRONG

[Continued from Page Four]

string slots along with several reserves of last fall. The first team ends are now being filled by Cowan and
McClintock, senior lettermen. Niven, a junior reserve of last year, and Bob Smith, a sophomore, are pushing the two veterans,
and will see plenty of action. At the tackles Knoeller, ace, and Bahnson, junior, are playing on the team that
will start against State Saturday. Don Bell, 224-pound sophomore, and Cagle, senior reserve from last year, will be next to
go in. Ed Hipp, a sophomore, will also play some. Pennington and Richmond, experienced guards, and Bob Johnson, a junior
who was ineligible last year, have been alternating with the first bunch. Next comes George Marsh, last year's captain of
the fine frosh team. The pivot position finds Poss McLean running first and then Bob Balsley, a converted tackle. Frank
Caldwell, a sophomore, who should see lots of service at this position, is out at present with water on the
knee.

Backs Shape Up

Granville Sharpe has been doing excellent work as a triple-threat tailback with Dave Spencer serving as an able understudy. Big
Stan Yoder, frosh star of 1938, is playing the number 3 position on the group and will back the line
on defense. Jay Bolin is running in his position. A wingback veteran, Tubby Hand, has a slight edge over the
inexperienced sophomore, Claude Hackney. The blocking for this number one offense is being done by the veteran, Bill Bolin. Bill
Shaw and Billy Pharr also play this position. The team as it now stands averages about 168 pounds. Davidson will
undoubtedly be one of the lightest as well as inexperienced teams in the south. However, Coach McEver commented lately that
he thought this year’s team would be...

urge to help a society award for the best short story, to Rutledge Miller of Johnson City, Tenn., the award
for the best essay, to Fred Stair of Knoxville, Tenn.

ROONEY PACES STATE

[Continued from Page Four]

Coon, it is generally admitted that he was the best tackle in Dixie last year. Among his accomplishments last year
were the blocking of five punts, the throwing of Duke backs for losses totaling 35 yards, and of Alabama backs
for 27. The Wildcats, although facing a disadvantage in weight of about 22 pounds to the man, will not be
badly outclassed. For the first time in many moons, the first string team will not have to play the entire
game. The 'Cats are rich in sophomore material up from last year's sterling freshmen team. Frank Caldwell, George Marsh, Elmer
Knoeller, Don Bell, Claude Hackney, Dave Spencer, Stan Yoder and several others will see much action and give the regulars
much needed rest. The drills so far have...been featured by the spectacular running of Granville Sharpe and Stan Yoder:

FOREMAN TO SPEAK
[Continued from Page Five]

missions and ended with a stirring challenge to each student to consider carefully Christ’s great commission. After first showing that
missions were justifiable and imperative according to the law of averages, the democratic ideals, and the human suffering brother, he
declared that even so the missionary enterprise would be impossible without unflinching loyalty and devotion to Christ. In closing, he
urged each student to face the problem squarely.

KITTEN SQUAD
[Continued from Page Four]

lina on October 6. Their schedule calls for games with freshmen here.

New Ground Is Provided For Sports
Old Number One Fairway is Graded for Intra-Mural Sports Field

During the past summer, the fairway on the No. 1 hole of the golf course was put through a grading
process. Part of the freshman field bordering on the golf course was cut down and graded on a slant to
the first fairway. The entire fairway was leveled off and built up in certain spots. After the field was leveled,
a topsoil was put on and grass planted. The field is now in tip-top condition for the coming intramural athletics.

Foreman Luke Graham, last year’s varsity football tackle, was in charge of the operations. The money for this project was
donated by the school. Duke and Wofford freshmen, Presbyterian Junior College, and Blue Ridge. Last year's freshmen eleven compiled the
best record of any first-year team in a decade, losing only to the powerful Blue Imps of Duke. They emerged
victorious over Wingate, Blue Ridge, Wofford, and P. Jens. Measuring around 650 feet long and about 160 feet wide, it
furnishes a perfect place for two football fields. The field is to be used entirely for intramural athletics and furnishes
an ideal spot for these games. Some new changes have been effected in the intramural set-up. Instead of having inter-class
competition, there is to be inter-dormitory competition, which is hoped to brighten the interest in intramurals.

SENIOR GRADES
[Continued from Page One]

Colvin, R. C. Tenney, W. E. Perdew, J. L. Withers, D. W. Sprunt, T. S. Perrin, F. Simmons, A. R.
Kenyon, R. K. Allison, W. H. Boyce, C. M. Mashburn, F. R. Hand, T. A. Roberts, J. R. Phipps, R.
H. Wood, J. C. Cooper, J. G. Hunter, H. D. Verner, H. V. Hendrick, S. R. Oglesby, D. C. Hott,
T. A. Fry, C. B. Harrison, J. T. Ferguson, F. F. Harbin, B. G. McClintock, J. N. Thomas, J. W.
Kennedy, W. C. Gilmore, G. M. Ficklen, S. D. Crane, W. E. Kunz.

WHY GET UP FOR BREAKFAST
Eat At LITTLE PEP
Davidson, N. C.

Thurs. and Fri., Sept. 21 and 22
“THE WIZARD OF OZ”
Saturday, Sept. 23
“THESE GLAMOUR GIRLS”
Mon. and Tues., Sept. 25 and 26

Bill Howell, Jacksonville, Fla.; Kit better than last year’s. The defense is expected to possibly be a little weaker than
it was last season, but the offense should be definitely stronger. With the accurate passing arm of Sharpe, it is
expected that many passes will be used this season.

At the conclusion of the lesson, Professor Johnston dismissed the group with a benediction.

N.Y.A. Program Reconditioned
Fleagle Announces Majority of Applications Expected to be Filled

N.Y.A.'s fifth year at Davidson got under way last week with a capacity list of applications, according to Prof. F.
K. Fleagle, director of N.Y.A. at Davidson. Approximately ninety applications have been received, but only eighty are expected to be
filled.

Kinds of Work
There are six kinds of N.Y.A. work available, namely: Building maintenance, which includes care of the YMCA, opening and closing
Chambers after supper, and work in the laundry; Clerical assistance; Arts and Crafts; Library work; Departmental service which consists of
grading papers, etc.; and recreational leadership. The most applications have been received for Departmental service and Library work.

The New Rules
Two new rules have been added by the government pertaining to N.Y.A. work. The first allows no one to work
for less than $10 per month. The purpose of this rule is to prevent the too widespread use of the
Federal funds. The second rule requires that all time worked must be reported under the month in which it was
worked. Under this ruling, no extra time worked in one month can be carried over to the next month.

McLEAN TAKES
[Continued from Page Five]

typing job that paid him about $30. With this sum, he enrolled in the University of Tours, finished his prescribed
course in three weeks, and since he had made enough money to extend his trip, he left for Germany. Soon
after arriving in Germany, he saw the renowned Siegfried line where military operations had already begun. Dave had to leave
the day before he was to have a chance to see Hitler. The French Maginot line was the next stop
of importance till Dave arrived in Paris. Wanting to go to an Opera but having no dress clothes, Dave had
to go in his cycling clothes. Shortly afterward, Dave came to La Havre where he secured a job back to
the states as a cabin porter on The President Harding. He shined a few knobs, then arrived in New York
with $30 in his pocket, just $120 less than he started with.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS
BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Davidson, N. C.
115 W. Trade St.
Knox Building

NEW FALL STYLES
in HATS, TROUSERS, SWEATERS, SHIRTS, TIES
NEWBERG’S MEN’S SHOP
Charlotte, N. C.

Seatty, Rock Hill, S. C.; H. N. McGeachy, Tryon. Phi McLauchlin, Raeford; Clarence Legerton, S. C.; Cameron Dudley, Kinston; Charlie
Henderson, University, Va.; Bill Tarleton, Charlottesville, Va.; Gilmer, Holton, Charlotte; Jimmy Fulcher, Davidson; Jack Davis, Kingstree, S. C.; Dick Cobb,
Winston-Salem; John Fredricks, Pakanack Lake, N. J.; Stan Yoder, Bowling Green, Ohio; Herb Rainey, Pequannock, N. J. Sigma Epsilon: Tom
Charleston,
