Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., March 15, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Movie Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager

We're Lucky

A student in a southern college is very, very fortunate compared to one in a college on the west coast when it comes to his associates. The reason for this is that the west coast has become one of the greatest hotbeds of un-American activities in the country, due mainly to the multitude of aliens that has migrated to the “land of sunshine.” If it is the sunshine that attracts this type of person, we may feel reasonably certain that Davidson will never be infested with them! But seriously, nothing could give a school or a section of the country more of a black eye than to have such an unpatriotic exhibition. While these radical movements are supported only by a decided minority of students who are stirred up by outsiders, still they are planting a seed which may grow into a very troublesome plant. One of the most amazing things is that the college publications give these movements plenty of publicity. There is one group called the Young Peoples’ Socialist League, which has a few of the more radical as its members. During a recent convention of a national military fraternity, this group circulated propaganda and even went so far as to suggest that all members of the R.O.T.C. cut a special drill which was being held in honor of the delegates. The suggestion was not carried out, but the fact remains that a group of college students was allowed to advocate such a thing without being punished or restricted in any way. It is bad enough to have a movement of this nature in any part of the country, but it would be much worse to have it spread to this section. It is the duty of every American student to work against this or any “ism” which has as its goal the undermining of our government. For no matter if you are the best doctor, engineer, lawyer, or what have you, you wouldn’t do much good without a country to work in that was run by an organized government based on democratic principles.

A Gentleman

So you’re a gentleman? There are a lot of men on this campus who maintain that they are gentlemen because they dress correctly, know which fork to use, and can carry on a polite and intelligent conversation. They come from families which are well known and some of them can drink their whiskey “like an old Southern colonel, suh!” However, we have a pet idea that these things are not requisite of a true gentleman; they may help a man into society, but the “gentleman” of the society and rotogravure pages of the Sunday papers are not necessarily gentlemen, according to our idea. We believe that a man is a gentleman only when he is considerate of others. He considers the feelings and the property of others and the effect that any act or word of his might have on another person. One has an unequalled opportunity to show that he is a gentleman on the college campus. He is thrown as closely with other people as he will ever be, and his actions here have more effect on other people than they probably ever will. The gentleman on the college campus is careful in what he says to his fellows because of the effect that it might have on their feelings; he does not hurt anyone intentionally and thinks before he says anything that might unintentionally hurt another. The gentleman regards the property of his fellow-students; he borrows as little as possible and that only after asking. He regards the property of his own college and the property of other institutions; he does not mark on walls, carelessly break windows, or do anything that might halt the development of the beauty of his campus. He regards the time and comfort of his fellow-students; he does not visit a friend who is trying to study, and he is as quiet as possible while those who live around him are trying to study or sleep. The gentleman does not cause his professors any undue trouble by arriving to class late or making any disturbance during the class; he regards those who serve him at his eating place and arrives to meals on time; he regards the janitors as well as the beauty of his surroundings by refusing to throw trash on the floors of the college buildings or on the campus grounds. The gentleman shows his appreciation to those who extend to him credit by paying his bills promptly. A gentleman is careful that his influence does not harm those who might be influenced by it. Every student is the ideal of somebody, and he should think of the influence any act of his would have upon the person who looks up to him—a gentleman would. It’s hard to be a gentleman, but it is possible. A man may wear overalls to church, eat with his knife, and be able to talk only of the way the fish are biting in Hog Run Creek, but if he is considerate of those he comes in contact with, we would call him a gentleman in the strictest sense of the word. So you're a gentleman? Let’s see you prove it.

—The Wake Forest Student.

Campus Comments

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS

C. O. SAUNKS HOBBY HAS “SENT” MORE THAN 45 STUDENTS TO COLLEGE DURING THE LAST 25 YEARS! HE INTERESTS YOUNG PEOPLE IN COLLEGE WORK THEN SECURES REMUNERATIVE EMPLOYMENT TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO ATTEND. A LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER, HE HAS NEVER LOANED OR GIVEN MONEY TO ANY OF THEM.

BLONDE, ATTRACTIVE MISS JO CHAPMAN IS THE ONLY FEMININE COLLEGE BASKETBALL COACH IN THE U.S. (MARTIN COLLEGE, TENN)

DUKE UNIVERSITY IS LOCATED ON WHAT WAS ONCE A RACE-TRACK.

Letters To The Editor

Queens-Chicora College
Charlotte, N. C.
March 6, 1939.

The Davidsonian, Editor
Davidson College
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Mr. Editor:

We are three lonely seniors at Queens-Chicora and we would like to ask a little favor of you. Will you please publish an ad in your next week's Davidsonian to this effect?

Wanted—three men (preferably seniors, as we are) for the Junior-Senior Banquet which is to be held on Saturday, April 29, 1939. Specifications:
1. At least 6 ft. tall.
2. A good sense of humor.
3. A pleasing personality.
4. If possible, a car. (If impossible, come anyway.)

Write Faithe, Hope, Charity in care of Queens-Chicora College, Charlotte, N. C. (Please enclose a snapshot of yourself and in reply, we will do likewise.)

We wish to thank you in advance as we know that you will do everything you possibly can to help us.

Very sincerely,
FAITHE, HOPE, CHARITY.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

With the advent of warm weather on the campus and the approaching period of Spring Holidays, we come to the realization that Davidson athletics are moving into the final period of the year, a period which contains the greatest diversification of sports at Davidson, and one that can be expressed in two words, “Spring Sports.” Undoubtedly more boys participate in sports during the spring than at any other season of the year. With the multiplicity of sports, such as track, tennis, baseball, and golf, our athletic fields are filled with men from March through May. All of these teams representing Davidson deserve and merit the support of the student body. Competition with other colleges will begin at the conclusion of spring holidays and continue for a period of six weeks. But the attendance at sports events here at Davidson in the spring is always below par in comparison with attendance at our fall and winter games. It is true that this is partially explainable by the fact that some of the events take place on the weekends, a time when a large portion of the student body is away from the campus. But if the schedule is examined closely we find that a large percentage of the track meets, baseball games, and tennis matches are held during the week. Without taking any of the honor and distinction away from our fall and winter teams, as they are justly entitled to any praise we could give them, we find that spring sports taken as a group have been as successful as any other. Then too, the athletes can perform with more of the old determination and fight with a large crowd on hand to imbue them with the Davidson spirit. But you might retaliate with the observation that spring sports do not carry as much color or excitement as football or basketball. However, the idea was probably formulated unthinkingly. Who can deny that the lightning-like dashes of track meets, the close plays, long base hits and impossible catches of baseball are replete with thrills? The football, basketball, and wrestling teams have deserved all the recognition given them by sports writers throughout the Carolinas, the cagers in particular having had a highly successful season. They have been teams that made us proud of Davidson and her athletics. So let’s give our best support to all sports events this spring.

Wednesday, March 15

“CAFE SOCIETY”—Madelaine Carroll, Fred MacMurray, and Shirley Ross. Cafe Society provides a pleasant piquant entertainment with no more serious effects than a warm gentle glow. There's a society glamour girl for heroine and she toys with the affections of an upright young reporter and marries him to win a bet. The spoiled beauty is transformed into a human being, discovers how the other half lives, and finds true love.

Thursday and Friday, March 16 and 17

“ICE FOLLIES OF 1939”—Joan Crawford, James Stewart, andLew Ayres. Joan Crawford rushes in where few dare to skate—in Sonja Henie’s chilly enchanting territory. Anyway, here is Joan as the feminine portion of a skating trio. She feels she is a drawback to her husband, Jimmie Stewart, and his pal Lew Ayres, and she quits. In no time at all, she becomes a film success. In the meantime, Jimmie and Lew are trying to build an Ice Palace.

Military training—the battleground of the nation’s college and university campuses where liberals and conservatives bring a national issue home to the local campuses—is again catching the attention of collegians in many sections of the U.S. Compulsory vs. elective military training is being debated vigorously in the college press, with opinion about evenly divided—and many are asking that R.O.T.C. corps be formed where none exist now. At Ohio State University, the Peace Mobilization Committee has organized to make military training optional. The campaign there will be tied up with the annual spring peace strike day.

In Texas, the state legislature is considering a bill to establish an R.O.T.C. unit at the University of Texas. Said the McMurry College “War Whoop” on the move: “This state offers plenty of opportunities for military training at other schools for those who want it. To make such training compulsory at our state university is an unnecessary handicap to the institution.”

At Tennessee Polytechnic Institute, the “Oracle” requests the establishment of a unit in these words: “On account of this lack, the students who are regularly trained in college courses leave the institution without the military training that would be so beneficial in case of a national emergency. Therefore, the students of R.O.T.C. units at other institutions would become the leaders in war, and the erstwhile Tech students would have to take second place.”

At Alabama Polytechnic Institute, the “Plainsman” asks that students take their military training more seriously, that they realize that their classes in military science and tactics are part of the nation’s great defense program. Urging a more adequate reserve corps, the Oregon State College “Barometer” says: “Nothing so enlivens the saliva of a nation or a group of nations bent on power as does a large nation with great natural resources and a rich economy that has neither the training nor the inclination to defend itself. The national defense act, with the R.O.T.C. as a nucleus, offers a protective step toward adequate training.”

Meanwhile, in an interview with a representative of the Cornell University “Sun,” Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt added her voice to the chorus of those who oppose compulsory military training with these words: “I do not think that any military training should be compulsory, but it is natural to live up to and obey any law as long as it exists.” But, she says, it doesn’t “hurt anyone, everyone needs discipline.”

D.A.R. Far less concerned about the incident than their professional brothers, the college press nevertheless heartily condemned the reported refusal by the Daughters of the American Revolution of the use of their hall for a concert by Marian Anderson, called by many the world’s greatest singer. “Since they make so much of their Revolutionary connections, the ladies of the D.A.R. ought to remember that the soldiers in that war were mostly common Americans themselves. And in that fight, the Americans were seeking just the freedom and tolerance which the D.A.R. is doing its best to abolish,” said the Cornell University “Sun” of the incident.

More vigorous in its denunciation of the act, the Muhlenberg College “Weekly” had this to say: “The D.A.R. has finally declared itself. The perpetration of the most dastardly stunt in the annals of this supposedly super-patriotic organization has placed the group beyond the pale of right-thinking Americans.”

Miss Carrol’s part in this picture is quite a contrast to her usual parts. She gets a dunking in the river from a yacht, gets doused with a fizz bottle, and gets slapped by Fred. She takes it all and emerges from it as beautiful as ever. No show scheduled.

By ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS

By KEN LAWSON

Spring is here,
The grass is riz;
I wonder where
The flowers is.

No, I am not the originator of this little poetic gem; it was introduced at Davidson by Miss Dot Wyatt during the past weekend. And if you don’t believe Spring is definitely here just look at the social functions put on by the SAE's, SPE, Phi Delts, and KA’s last week. The period of the year when lethargy is the predominant characteristic (except when girls are in the offing) has descended upon us, and sun-bathers are expected to make their appearance at the same time as the leaves on the trees. So as the old saying goes, “Just relax and enjoy it.”

Spring is also the time when all and reform movements are begun; so realizing that the few of you who read this are probably tired of dope, dope, dope; we will drop the old ladies’ gossip circle style for a few paragraphs and advocate a few reforms.

For one thing, there is the matter of sick cuts. It hardly seems fair that a man should be forced to take an examination on work missed because of a lengthy illness when this is not required for work missed on band trips, deputations, and athletic trips. While the regular three absences allowed will cover most cases of sickness, still they often do not. We cannot see the logic in helping fellows in every way when they are representing the college and then not giving an even break to those who are incapacitated by circumstances over which they have little if no control.

Then we wonder why it is that such a large percentage of the band each year is composed of freshmen, thus necessitating almost complete reorganization at a time when the largest crowds of the year will see this college organization. Also, why is it necessary to force members of certain musical groups to stay in these groups for a whole year when they have once signed up? Can it be that the ardor of the freshmen for entering musical activities cools just as soon as they learn the rating these groups have with the Student Body, and the way membership to musical organizations conflicts with work in more highly rated fields of extracurricular activities?

Most of the most moronic things that we have seen lately was the “great fun” several Davidsons had last week feeding great quantities of Ex-Lax to Gluecose, the pup. Fun is fun and all that, but when it comes to torturing a poor, dumb animal in so thoughtless a manner it appears more like a trick you would expect from the “Dead End Kids” than the prank of men with enough education to be going to college. Sometimes we wonder.

I know you are more than tired already of hearing me blow off in the manner of Walter Winchell berating the Nazis, so back to the old dope slinging we go: Jack Lee and Andy Dale very busy over the weekend and exhibiting the fruits of their labor to lodge brothers Sunday night. Ad Long looking like sweet essence of Esquirity while talking on Georgia dorm phone, but quickly changed by an impromptu shower. Alwin Burns greatly perturbed in Winston and not knowing just what to do. The D.A.R. dance in Statesville generously populated with Davidsons who quitted themselves more in the spirit of ’69 than ’76. Loch Hunter's suit looking like a ball of angora wool late Saturday night. Colin Smith learning about doll babies in the Little Pep. Walleye Northcross thrushing at the Mish party. Black Dog Hunter founding a new college at 214½ North. A ring tenderly placed on a maiden’s finger by Poss McLean did not deter Gene Vereen from a trip to Asheville. Hank Bahnson “sitting in” on Charlie Smith’s date, working for the good of the family. In case you didn’t know, the voice behind the microphone in Chapel Monday was that of Editor Rut Miller. Even the magazine gets new ideas, sometimes. (I know Marquess will raise my wages for this.)

By TOM PERRIN

ANONYMOUS

There’s something provocative about almost any anonymous “letter to the editor” we'll admit. Presumably, we're always expecting the author to say something highly inflammatory—something with which he just wouldn't want his good name associated. And, in a case like this, you know, what you expect, you can usually find (Psy. 31). As an habitual reader of the Davidsonian, though, I can testify that often as not these epistles are no better and no worse than the rest.

Funny thing the way an anonymous note, however innocuous it may be in content, almost invariably calls for a stinging reply from someone who signs his name with a flourish that you can almost see in print. Some day we'll write a letter to Mr. Marquess advocating unlimited cuts or a new gym and sign it “Rip Van Winkle, Jr.” or some such. There'll be an answer in the next edition implying that we're a cad, a bounder, an anarchist, and especially no Davidson gentleman.

WOMAN SUFFRAGE

We're bound to report that the local vote counters disposed in one heedless moment last week of a problem that bothered the country as a whole for years, some time back. The question: Shall the woman vote. The answer: Yes. Since the Davidson Co-eds, then, both of them, get a vote the equal of any male's, the question logically follows as to whether or not they can hold office. It is a purely theoretical proposition at this time, of course, but it’s not too early to think of the future. Safeguard your rights, men! Arise; amend the Constitution. After all, it hasn't been done yet this year.

NOTES

Fitzhugh Dade, assistant editor of the Davidsonian last year, has a particularly erudite letter in the latest Time magazine. Found in a library book a slip with these words: Roomie, pull up my blankets when you put this down, you dope.