Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

Summerville, McClintock, and Bryant went to their homes in Charlotte. Brother Hickman went to Charlotte for the weekend.

Kappa Sigs Attend Dance
The Kappa Sig-KA dance at Raleigh was very popular with the brothers last weekend. Among those present were: Brothers Clark, Hill, Cooper, Gaw, Louis Hipp, Means, Ross, Wyatt, and Pledge Brothers Purdie and Rose. Brothers Black, Ed Hipp, and Yates went to their homes in Greensboro, and Brother Pittman went to his home in Fayetteville. Brother McAlpine and Pledge Brother Coker went to their homes in Hartsville, S.C., and Brother Jonas spent the weekend in Spartanburg, S.C. Brothers Finley and Robinson went to their homes in North Wilkesboro, and Lowell, respectively. Pledge Brother Kelly went to Burlington, and Pledge Brother Burwell went to his home in Charlotte. The usual feed was held Sunday night, and Brother Johnny McQueen visited the chapter Monday.

Sig Eps Frolic at Myrtle Beach
The S.P.E.’s held their annual house party at Myrtle Beach, leaving Saturday noon and returning Sunday afternoon. The brothers enjoyed swimming and dancing; the local carnival also furnished a certain part of the entertainment. Brothers Lyons and Broadway, alumni, visited the chapter over the weekend. Brother Casali spent the weekend in Bluefield and Welch, W.Va. Other visitors to the house were Charles Broadway and Miss Teeny Cook.

S.A.E.’s Have Hay Ride
The S.A.E. pledges gave the members a hayride Saturday night which had for its destination Harris Lake. The freshmen defeated the upperclassmen in a softball game while part of the brothers swam. The girls present were: Dalice Young, Vesta Slaughter, Lucy Lee Sandridge, Elizabeth Throwe, Rita Clary, and Margaret Anderson. Mr. and Mrs. E.G. Gaffney were the chaperones.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SECOND SEMESTER 1938-1939

MORNING — 9:00 A.M.
Date AFTERNOON — 2:00 P.M.

May 24
Bible 12F,H, Chemistry 32, 42A, Economics 42, English 42, German 12B, Greek 22, History 52, R.O.T.C. 12, 22, 32, 42
Latin 12, Mathematics 52, Physical Education 32, Psychology 32.

May 25
Astronomy 32, Bible 22A,C,G,32, Bus. 52B, Biology 52, Educ. 72, English 22F, 102, French 12B, Geol. 42, Spanish 82, 92, Latin 32, German 52, German 42, Greek 32,42, Latin 22, Math. 11L, 62.

May 26
Biology 22A, Chem. 22B, Econ. 52, English 22B, E, French 22C, Geog. 42, German 22A, History 12B, English 12F,I, Econ. 32, Psych. 42B, Spanish 12C, D, Math. 12A,C, 11K, Phil. 32, Physics 22B, 32, Chem. 72. Polit. Sc. 42, Spanish 12B.

May 27
App. Math. 42, Bible 12E,G, Business 32, Chem. 22A, 62, Eng. 12G, French 32B, Geog. 32, History 22, 72, Math. 12H, 22A, Physics 12, 62. Polit. Sc. 32B, Chem. 52. Psychology 62.

May 29
Bible 22B,D, Biol. 22B, Chem. 12, Econ. 62, French 12A,72. German 22B, Greek 12B, History 62, Math. 12, 32, 42. Psychology 42A, Sociology 32.

May 30
Bible 12A,C, Business 42, Chem. 31, 42B, Econ. 22C, Eng. 12A,C, French 32A, Geog. 22, German 12A,C, History 32, Physics 22C, 72, Spanish 22B, 32.

May 31
Bible 22E,F, Biol. 32, Business 52A, English 22A,C, French 42, Greek 12A, History 12A,C, Math. 12D, App. Math. 32, Phil. 42, Phys. 42, Polit. Sc. 71, Psych. 52, Spanish 22A, 52, Economics 22A.

June 1
App. Math. 52, Bible 12B,D, Biol. 22C, Econ. 22B,D, Eng. 12B,D, 72, French 22A, Greek 62, History 42, Music, Political Sci 82. Italian, Math. 12G, 22B, Pol. Sc. 32A, Spanish 22C.

June 2
Physics 22A, Philosophy 52. Bible 62, Chemistry 92, French 22B, Greek 72, Math. 121,F, Spanish 12A.

Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M. Afternoon examinations at 2:00 P.M. Classes of the second semester end at 12:30 P.M. on Tuesday, May 23. Courses not listed on schedule to be arranged on conference with professor.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
[Continued from Page Two]

Southgate Jones and Jim Currie attended the May day festivities at Sweetbriar. Brothers Sprunt, Wilson, Bahnson, Kornegay, and McLean went to the Salem College Dances at Winston. Brother Marchant attended the Junior-Senior dances at Peace College. Brother Grantham went home for the weekend. Brothers Latimer and Thomas went to Myrtle Beach for the weekend. Charlie Smith visited Hartsville again. Shaw Smith went on a tour over the weekend which included several C.C.C. camps. He was assisted and accompanied by Semicolon Kornegay. Caldwell went to his home in Spartanburg.

ECHOES OF THE PAST
[Continued from Page Five]

A new stadium, to be built that summer, was presented by Smith and Lunsford. Johnston was chosen as track captain. Ed Armfield was elected head of the Pan-Hellenic council. Davidson defeated Carolina in baseball 7-5, but lost to State 5-3. Avery Patton, class of '33, was chosen as assistant in Chemistry. Jim Richardson was chosen as president of the student body.

FIVE YEARS AGO
Twelve were tapped by O.D.K. Juniors tapped were Brown, Hutchins, McPhail, Potter, Sprunt, and Weeks. The tennis team ended an impressive season with 10 wins against 3 defeats. Charles Rives was elected Senior Marshal. Competitive drill was won by Company “D”. Duke and Davidson fought to a 63-63 tie in track. The Wildcats defeated Duke 5-4 in a hotly contested baseball game.

RICE PRESIDES
[Continued from Page One]

Flynn; Sunday schools Sid Crane to Eldridge Brown. Sam Spencer and Dave McLean maintained their positions as heads of special services and colored work respectively. The first meeting of the new cabinet will take place in the social center at 9 o'clock tonight. New members will outline their plans for the year.

DAVIDSON TENNIS TEAM
[Continued from Page Four]

Hunter with seven and four. Turner and Tenney, alternating in the No. 1 position, each came out with good records, Turner winning five of ten matches and Tenney six of eleven. Wilson Northcross won five while losing six.

candidate’s moral qualifications before we vote for him—we don't leave God “in the cold.” As for the Phi Bete arguments, there is a lot that could be said. Torrey says that this recognition makes for grades without education. Most of us will agree that an “A” student knows more about the given course than a “B” or “C” student. Although the grade is merely the professor's mathematical estimate of the man's knowledge of the course, who, may I ask, is more qualified to judge? The student, perhaps? Then we'd all be Phi Betes. If any sane student will consider without hypocrisy and with an unbiased mind these two honorary fraternities which recognize the two fundamentals of college life—service and leadership—he must realize that they are more than worthwhile—they are exceedingly valuable.must choose to gain his recognition by accepting the honor rather than by publicly declining it, hoping to play upon the emotions of the envious.

4 STUDENTS AND FACULTY [Continued from Page Five]

social life, athletic and musical activities, and boring classes. The only valid argument for a liberal cut system is the very real social problem. We recommend a Dean's list of students having a 90 average or above, their cuts being extended to 6 per class and a 21 cut total for all.

Delicate Problem

Thirdly, student-faculty relationships are an extremely delicate problem because of the autocratic regime which is characteristic of all American educational institutions. An autocratic regime stifles interest in democracy or republican government. It is very important that the purpose of the student-faculty relations committee be revised to include the taking of steps to ascertain student opinion ahead of time.

THIES-FULCHER [Continued from Page Three]

mathematics, zoology, biology, and chemistry. At the general meeting, President John W. Lasley of the University of North Carolina delivered a paper on “Relation of Mathematics and Physical Sciences,” essentials. In the elections, H. L. Blomquist of Duke University was elected president, and Dr. Cunningham of Duke University was elected secretary and treasurer for three years. The Academy was entertained at a dinner on May 5 by Wake Forest College. Dr. T. D. Kitchen of the college gave the address of welcome.

DR. ALLEN TATE SPEAKS [Continued from Page Five]

poems to illustrate some of his points. The first of these was “Grass” by Carl Sandburg. This, he said, is an excellent example of the grammar or literal level of poetic writing. He then read a very figurative poem, “Dr. Carpenter” by John C. Ransome. Both readings were highly impressive. The latter was of particular interest as the author, J. C. Ransome, has lectured here.

FOUR ENTER CLUB [Continued from Page One]

all have scholastic averages of above 93, a point above the fraternity’s minimum requirement of a grade of 92, and each man is outstanding in his extra-curricular activities. After the initiation of the new members, officers were chosen for next year. Professor E. J. Erwin was elected president; Dr. Frontis W. Johnston was chosen as vice-president, and Dr. W. P. Cumming was re-elected secretary and treasurer.

JUNIORS ELECT MEN [Continued from Page One]

social fraternity. He is on the varsity football team and is vice-president of the Athletic Association. On the Court of Control for the past two years, Richmond is also a member of the Commerce Club, the “D” Club, and Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity.

EUS AND PHIS [Continued from Page Three]

be awarded their prizes at the regular Commencement exercises. At the last meeting of the Philanthropic society, the executive committee decided that the final affair of the year would be held on May 16, to consist of graduation ceremonials, and the presentation of awards. A social is also on the program, to which professors and their wives will be invited, with other guests. New officers installed for the coming year are: Jack Abernathy, president; Eldridge Brown, vice-president; Sandy McEachern, secretary; and Ralph Harkey, treasurer.

EUS CHOOSE LEADER [Continued from Page Five]

vice-president; Jim Crook, succeeding Ed Maxwell as secretary; and Phil Peyton, who will take over Dick Kenyon’s job as treasurer. Finley has also been recently elected vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. and of the Student Sunday School class, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Jim Crook is an alternate of the Freshman debating team and is also active in Y. M. C. A. work. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Phil Peyton has been active on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian, and is a member of the Glee Club as well. He belongs to the S. P. E. social fraternity.

HORINE IS INTERPRETER [Continued from Page Three]

tion. He replied by mail that it was indeed the voice of a Davidson alumnus which they and thousands of other listeners had heard. This is the second time that Horine has burst into Davidsonian print for some action of national importance. He was employed last fall as interpreter at the famous German spy trials at New York. He has also authored a recent article in the Alumni Journal.

ROD WILLIAMS PASTOR [Continued from Page One]

received into the church during the year, and that the average Sunday School attendance was approximately 135, that the amount of the offerings had increased approximately 100 percent.

Wed. May 16, 1938

Davidson Theatre Guild Presents Radio Shorts

Bush, Williams, Rudolph, McLean, Hodges, Wooten, Colin Make Up Cast

The University Theatre presented the first in its series of dramatic presentations over radio station WSOC last Saturday evening at 6:45 P. M.

Cast

The cast of this play, “Greek Meets Greek,” was as follows: Larry, Monroe Bush; Buck, Ralph Williams; Murphy, Pat Rudolph; Fuzzy, Gus McLean; Slim, Dan Hodges; Fred, Walter Wooten; and Long, Carl Colin. Shaw Smith was again narrator. Mr. George Brengel continued his direction of the presentations and the popular salon piece, “Melody in F,” was again the signature tune of the Theatre. Announcements had been mailed to various faculty families and the Theatre drew a satisfactory audience. The Publicity Department of WSOC has co-operated wonderfully and all Davidsonian articles have been mailed to amusement publications such as “Billboard,” etc.

Reception Planned

The Theatre continues its work with a “blood and thunder” mystery drama this coming Saturday night. The Chairman’s Board plans to entertain Mr. Brengel, director and leading dramatic authority in this section of the Carolinas, at a dinner on the evening of May 16, to be followed by a viewing of the Red and Black Masquer production, and an informal reception for all members and friends associated with University Theatre work at the home of Mrs. Lewis B. Schenck.

How to Ease CHEST COLD

FIRST—massage throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. This relieves the distress. For more prolonged action, spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and cover with a warmed cloth. LONG AFTER sleep comes, VapoRub keeps working—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air passages.

VICKS VapoRub

The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

They’re Milder... They Taste Better

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

BIG BILL LEE, outstanding for his combination of burning speed, control, and games won.

BIG BILL LEE

Pitching Star of the Chicago Cubs. An outstanding pitcher in the National League.

Outstanding Combinations and CHESTERFIELD, outstanding for its can’t-be-copied combination of the world’s best tobaccos. Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied blend makes them outstanding for refreshing mildness... for better taste... for more pleasing aroma... outstanding for real smoking enjoyment. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY.