Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Oct. 26, 1939

Shetley Leads Furman Team This Weekend

Davidson’s Wildcats will oppose the Purple Hurricane of Furman this Saturday in a Southern Conference encounter. Furman had a poor season last year, winning only two out of ten games and suffering four defeats at the hands of Southern Conference foes. This season’s Hurricane is more than a mere zephyr, already holding wins over South Carolina, Erskine, and The Citadel, and a tie with Georgia. However, the lads from Carolina suffered a loss to Army.

Aggressive Backfield

The strong point of the Furman line-up is the backfield, with Captain McLeod and “Dizzy” Shetley at the helm. Coach King’s aggressive backs are among the finest in the Conference. The Wildcats will have plenty to worry about with “Pepper” Martin and his fast running mates.

Hinson Leads Line

The line, which held Army to a goal, will be led by Cecil Hinson. Other key linemen on the squad include King and Cely.

Weekly Schedule

Thursday, Oct. 26
7:15 P.M.—Social Fraternities

Friday, Oct. 27
7 P.M.—Pep Meetings
8 P.M.—Pi-Gamma Mu
8 P.M.—Alpha

Saturday, Oct. 28
2 P.M.—Davidson vs. Furman

Sunday, Oct. 29
10:15 A.M.—Sunday School
11:00 A.M.—Church Service
6:30 P.M.—Vespers

Monday, Oct. 30
7:15 P.M.—Davidsonian Meeting
8:00 P.M.—Phi
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Delta Pi

Tuesday, Oct. 31
10:05 A.M.—YMCA Service
8:00 P.M.—Literary Society

Wednesday, Nov. 1
7:00 P.M.—Midweek Service
8:00 P.M.—Literary Society

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Ralph Williams visited Chapel Hill, and Monroe traveled to Raleigh. Tom Harrisberger went to Richmond, Va., for the weekend. The chapter had as its guest Thursday evening Mr. Tillman Calvert, father of pledge Pete Calvert. At the meeting Thursday night, John Throdp was selected as an alternate for the Homecoming Pan-Hellenic figure, with Miss Ann Wiley, last year’s Fiji sponsor.

Phi Delts Off To Atlanta

The human pyramid for the Davidson-Furman game on Saturday will be supplied by the Davidson cheering squad, responsible for that well-known spirit. The squad includes, left to right, on top: Locke Hunter, head cheerleader, of Alexander City, Ala.; and Jack Abels of High Point. Below: Charles Martin of Winston-Salem; Joe Shelton, Statesville; and Bobby Williams, Greensboro. The last four were elected from the junior class by the student body this fall. They will be candidates for the office of head cheerleader during the elections next spring.—(Photo by Angus Lytch).

STONE SAYS MILITARY FRAT
(Continued from Page One)

Delta Phi, the honorary German fraternity, held its first meeting Monday night, Oct. 23, for the purpose of electing new members and planning programs for the coming months. Membership in this honorary fraternity is limited to outstanding cadet officers in ROTC units throughout the country. They are selected for general academic proficiency and qualities of leadership.

FULCHER IN
(Continued from Page Five)

Dr. H. E. Fulcher of the Davidson Physics Department was among those selected for membership. Other honorary members include several faculty and administration members: Major J. E. Ballard, Colonel C. T. Steele, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Professor F. K. Fleagle, Dr. Frazier Hood, Diet Lyon, Dye W. McConnell, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, and Mr. F. L. Jackson. All of these men will also observe the day.

LATEST BOOKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Faces We See

Another new book that was recently added to the shelf is Faces We See, by Mildred Gwin Barnwell of Gastonia, N. C. This book is a reply to all the accusations that the South is the nation’s number one economic problem. It is an answer to the book, You Have Seen Their Faces, by Erskine Caldwell and Margaret Bourke-White. Faces We See is set in a southern scene and is distinguished by its tone and subject.

WHARTON’S WORK
(Continued from Page One)

Two grants from the Social Science Research Council and a grant for summer study from the College for aid in his study of the Second Work early.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

RIS TODY, of the Carolinas and headed homeward. To Crew, Va., went the second, quoted from the American Legion Magazine, the title, Panama’s New Coat of Arms. The cartography of the southeast has been given to Professor Cumming. Brothers Fitzgerald and Horner visited their homes in Kinston. Pledges Knox and Davis traveled to Andrews and Kingstree in South Carolina. Brother Tarleton went to his home in Charlottesville, Va. Rock Hill, S. C., received its regular excursion from Brothers Hay and Hamilton. Bill Loy enjoyed an extended weekend at home. The longest pilgrimages this week were made by brothers Withers, Mashburn, Tenney, and pledge Boykin to Atlanta, and by George Dew to his home in Charleston. Brother Rudolph made the North Carolina collegiate circuit, visiting Greensboro, Duke, Chapel Hill, and St. Mary’s in Raleigh. Norman Powell and Casali visited brother Walter Heilman at Greenville, S. C. Phil Edwards went to Greensboro.

Millions are being spent in partially bomb-proofing this precious link, constructing new locks, and guarding the coast and surrounding waters from any kind of attack. He discusses the efficacy of this program and the value of the already-armed Canal Zone for the defense of South America, should armed action become necessary.

MODERN ART
[Continued from Page One]
Lecturers to come from the Museum and was sponsored by the fine arts department of the college. She was well acquainted with her subject, having attended the University of Wisconsin, Radcliffe College, and the University of Munich. She has traveled extensively abroad and is the holder of three degrees.

YMCA Cabinet Retreats To Montreat
Fourteen members of the Davidson YMCA cabinet went on a retreat to Montreat the past weekend to plan the work for the coming year. Only two members of the cabinet were not able to be present. The religious workers laid special emphasis at their business meetings on details for the approaching fall services. The entire meeting Saturday evening was devoted entirely to this discussion. On Sunday morning, the entire group climbed to the top of a nearby mountain and held its own worship service. Also present on the annual fall retreat were Dr. and Mrs. W. G. McGavock of the college faculty. Sam Vickery, Jim McCrary, and Ed Hay of the student body also represented Davidson at the conference of the Student Christian Association, meeting at Mitchell College in Statesville. A delegation of three representatives each from the five Presbyterian Colleges in North Carolina made up the conferences. These included delegates from Queens-Chicora College of Charlotte, Peace Institute of Raleigh, Mitchell College, Presbyterian Junior College at Maxton, and Flora MacDonald College. Two Davidson representatives took part in the program. Sub Vickery led a discussion on “The Christian and Personal Evangelism.” Dr. P. H. Gwynn of the college education department also led a seminar on “The Christian and a World Outlook.” He also conducted vespers Sunday evening.

The libraries of U.S. institutions of learning contain more than 62,000,000 bound volumes. During the 1938-39 school year, 200 colleges created some 300 scholarships for foreign refugees.

Camera Group Resumed its activities for 1939-40 recently, and meetings are now held every Wednesday night. At the first meeting of the year held two weeks ago, Angus Lytch was elected President and Mack Parker was re-elected Secretary-Treasurer. The Club discussed plans for the year which included the setting up of another dark room to take the place of the one formerly in Scherer Hall. The dark room in Scherer Hall was taken over by the Music Department. With the help of Dr. Lyon, the Club’s faculty advisor, in this matter of obtaining space for a new dark room, the Club soon expects to give its members the opportunity of doing their own photographic processing on the campus. The Club cordially invites all freshmen and upperclassmen who are interested in photography as a hobby to become members. The only requisite for membership in the Camera Club is an interest in the photography hobby.

There are about 1,000,000 cigar stores, drug stores, country and grocery stores where you can buy cigarettes in the United States. These retailers, and the jobbers who serve them, have built up a service of courtesy and convenience unmatched by any other industry catering to the American public’s pleasure. There are another million people who are engaged directly or indirectly in the transportation of cigarettes to every town, hamlet, and crossroads. It is estimated that there are 1,602,000 tobacco farmers raising tobacco in 20 out of the 48 states. Good tobacco is one of the hardest crops to raise and bring to market, requiring great skill and patience from seed-bed planting to harvesting and curing. The modern tobacco farmer has done well the job of constantly improving the quality of his product. The average length of service of the 13,230 people working in the Chesterfield factories, storage houses, leaf-handling, and redrying plants is over 10 years. This means that every step in the making of Chesterfields, regardless of how small, is handled by people who have had 10 years of experience and ability in knowing their jobs. Truly, tobacco opens doors to fields where people live, work, and achieve, and Chesterfield takes pride in its ever-increasing part in this great industry that is devoted entirely to the pleasure of the American public. To smokers, Chesterfield Cigarettes have always said, and now repeat, that in no other cigarette made can you find the same degree of real mildness and good taste, or the same high quality of properly cured and aged tobaccos. Chesterfield Cigarettes are made with one purpose only... to give smokers everywhere the MILDER, BETTER-TASTING SMOKING PLEASURE they want. You can’t buy a better cigarette.

MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK CHESTERFIELD
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.