Page Two: 

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES — Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. - Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITORIAL STAFF
TONY CASALE - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE - BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Abernathy - Managing Editor
Paul Brumbarger - Managing Editor
Tom Cauble - Managing Editor
Joe Lind - Sports Editor
Wat Lawson Withers - Associate Editor
Andy Dale - Associate Editor
Erle Ausband - Associate Editor
Holland Hudson - Movie Editor
Sam Spencer - Staff Photographer
Bobby Williams - Staff Photographer
Angus Lytch - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Coddington - Assi. Business Manager
Casey Jones - Advertising Manager
Hector McLean - Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown - Circulation Manager
Jack Covington - Collection Manager
Fred Little - Collection Manager

The Davidsonian extends its deepest sympathies to Ashby Dick in the recent loss of his sister.

To The Fraternities

There once was a time at Davidson when the nine social fraternities took a lead in extracurricular activities. These groups urged, and sometimes even forced, their members and pledges to go out for different activities. These fraternities would watch the development of their members, urge them to work harder and longer in an effort to win honors for their chapter. Leaders of various activities, such as publications, managerships, etc., had no trouble. They had men to work with them and could mold them into potential leaders.

This custom is slowly fading. Take The Davidsonian, for instance. Once Monday night was known to every member of the student body, and especially to the freshmen and sophomore classes, as the night that The Davidsonian went to press. The Davidsonian office was jammed to the ceiling with reporters and the paper went to press with little or no trouble.

Now! It seems that the social fraternities have slackened. No longer do they urge their pledges and sophomores to work for such Davidson activities. Of course, they might tell their underclassmen that it is a good thing to work on such things, but when these men drop out, not because of studies, not because they haven’t got enough time for such publications, but simply because they’d rather go to a movie, have a date in Charlotte, or participate in a Monday night bull session, the Frats do nothing.

During the past two weeks, this has been noticeable more than ever and as a result, the managing editors have had to work until the wee small hours of the night. To cope with the situation, the Davidsonian staff is going to take drastic measures. Boys on the staff that do not hand in their stories on time, work on Monday night, and take more interest in this particular publication will be DROPPED from the staff. Maybe some of your frat brothers are out for the staff, or should we say, were out for the staff. THINK ABOUT IT.

On Flowers

Again, as our first dance set of the year nears, comes up an old question. Should the Davidson student body abolish the practice of buying corsages for their dates at Davidson dances? Year after year it has been brought up with no results. This year it should be settled, either by a vote from the entire student body or by any method deemed advisable by those in charge of the dances.

There is only one reason why Davidson students buy flowers for their dates — simply because it is an old custom. We could abolish the practice entirely, allow no student to buy flowers, and an unnecessary expense would be wiped out. Frankly, the only reason that 50 percent of those that buy flowers now, buy them, is the fact that the other 50 percent have flowers for their dates. In other words, they are forced to buy flowers.

Other North Carolina schools, N.C. State, Duke, Carolina, and Wake Forest, have abolished this practice. (This information is from a reliable source.) Why should we be the only school in Big Five circles that keeps this ancient, unnecessary practice? These other schools have good dances and certainly have no trouble getting dates merely because they don't buy their dates flowers. We could do the same thing.

For the average Davidson student, flowers are a burden. One would be surprised at the number of students who don’t take girls to dances simply because they haven't got the amount of money to buy corsages which range from a minimum of $3 to $7. So, by wiping out this practice, the first result would be more dates, thus better dances.

One would bring up the question of taking the profit away from those students who sell flowers. Again from a reliable source, we find that the percentage of profit made by flower salesmen is so small that it isn't worth their while to fool with. Usually, they make enough to buy their own flowers, about $3, for two weeks of hard work. It just isn't worth it and we are sure that this group of salesmen would be more than glad to abolish the practice.

Lastly, the practice is too pretentious for the type of boy that goes to Davidson. Let's come down to our size, abolish flowers just as four other North Carolina schools have done, and knock this extra burden off dance weekends.

GROUPS

As always happens when a great political or social question faces the nation, college students are today forming organizations to influence the opinion of their fellow students on the questions of war and neutrality. At Princeton University, undergraduates have formed “The American Independence League,” which is “dedicated to the purpose of revealing, strengthening, and expressing the determination of the American people to keep out of the European war.” The League already counts one third of Princeton’s student body as members, and a second chapter of the organization has been formed on the Harvard University campus. Incidentally, national headquarters of the new organization are in the offices formerly occupied by the Veterans of Future Wars, now defunct.

Not quite so serious, but just as interesting, are two other proposals that have made their appearance in the last week or two. In the University of Pittsburgh’s towering Cathedral of Learning, there has sprung up the “Loyal Order of Sons of Leavenworth,” whose slogan is “If America goes to war, we go to Leavenworth.” Here’s an interesting paragraph from a letter explaining the organization: “Hurry! Form your own District Cell of the Loyal Order of Leavenworth! Pick your cell-mate while you may. Write now for your free membership card entitling you to all the privileges of our future home. Write today and ask any questions you may wish about our secret shuffle, our national symbol—the ball and chain—or any other practices of our exclusive Order.”

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON OWNS A GRAVEYARD

NO KIDDING! BARON MUNCHAUSEN WAS ONCE THE HEAD OF THE UNIV. OF GOTTINGEN (GERMANY).

Thurs.-Fri., Oct. 19th-26th

One can't give proper rating to this kind of picture because there are many that will be crazy about it, and yet there will be many that will detest having to sit through the full length of it. However, everyone will see the picture, and everyone will have a definite opinion on the subject of it. One popular magazine says this about it: “Magnificent is the word for ‘The Rains Came’. Here in a troubled world is a balm that will take you completely away from today’s agonies and exalt you into a consciousness of the strength love has in human regeneration.” On the other hand, I heard just recently a good judge of pictures express the opinion that the picture is nothing less than crazy. He said that it is the story of a mixed-up jumble of insane characters that go through an earthquake together. Take either opinion that you want, but I will string along with the magazine and movie critics and give it a rather high rating. This is Louis Bromfield’s story of a group caught in a flood and cataclysm. The effect of each of the seven leading characters on each other when disease, disaster, and death touch them is blended into an always powerful, and frequently poignant, narrative. The performance of the three top stars are the top performances of their individual careers, and the love scenes between Power and Loy are so real that they seem to be a part of us.

“Parade of Opinion”

We have prepared an article in the AMERICAN MERCURY submitted by Fitzhugh Dade, of the class of '38.

“The terms ‘amateur’ and ‘professional’ mean nothing in intercollegiate football today. But there is one group of colleges chiefly interested in the main purposes of education. They do not mix up in the sports procession; some don't even play football... (follows a list of 47 schools). Then come the colleges where many squad-members are assisted in one way or another... (We have proof that players have been helped through all of these by various college athletic authorities or graduates)... (follows a list of 33 schools). And finally...”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Here are the colleges where the profit motive is important, sometimes decisive. Their teams usually admit it, instead of pretending, as the others do, that earthquake of India, and that this which a majority of the eleven are DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS IN CARTOON - IN CASE YOU FLUNK: ? ‘Murphy’s Mumblings improved his performance, is very satisfying. "The Rains Came"—Tyrone Power features the toe good relief though. Then, on! Recently a popular member of our faculty, who by the way is quite Then we reach the college. There are FEWER HAWAIIAN STUDENTS JUST AT THE ANOTHER UNIV OF FOREIGN STUDENT / HAWAII THAN ANY OTHER RACIAL. actor in the play, and Saturday, October 21st. "Full Of Life"—Absolutely no dope on this because it isn’t even listed in the official magazine. of Sorry! Monday, October 23rd. "On Your Toes"—Zorina, Jimmy Gleason, and Allan Hale. As you could easily imagine, this dancing of the new movie sensation Zorina. Her dancing is fine, and Jimmy Gleason and Allan Hale are colorful but the story is rather flimsy. After a hard weekend Tues.-Wed., Oct. 24th-25th. "Fifth Avenue Girl"—Ginger Rogers, Walter Connolly, Verree Teasdale, Tim Holt, and Jimmy Ellison. This picture could not be recommended highly elsewhere, but here for a college audience, where light, airy movies are the rage, this is one of the best movies of the year. Ginger Rogers is the girl to keep your eyes on these days if you like to laugh, and fast on the footsteps of "Bachelor Mother" comes this hilarious comedy with dead-pan Ginger funnier than ever. There isn’t much story here, but the whole thing is as cute as the proverbial speckled pup. A man who is being ignored by his wife runs into a down-at-her-pretty-heels girl and discovers that she makes his wife jealous. So he pretends romance with the girl to foster jealousy. You can imagine the complications, especially when the man is Walter Connolly, the wife Verree Teasdale, and the peak of the isosceles triangle is Ginger. Letters To The Editor (The following is a portion of a Morley Is Not All. Most of them have "athletic scholarships," a formula covering financial assistance to football stars. The Southwest Conference limits payments to $50 a month, but the limit is highly elastic and there is no evidence that the colleges named keep to the rules—any rule. The other conferences listed apparently set no limit to the ante, and the boys shop around. Group Four Southeastern Conferences Alabama, Alabama Tech, Florida, Georgia, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, Louisiana State, Mississippi, Mississippi State, Tennessee, Tulane, U. of the South, Vanderbilt. Southwest Conference Arkansas, Baylor, So. Methodist, Texas, Texas Christian, Texas A. and M., Rice. Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association: Center, Howard, Mercer, Miami, Rollins. Southern Conference The Citadel, Duke, Furman, Maryland, N. Carolina, N. Carolina State, Richmond, S. Carolina, Virginia, V.M.I., V.P.I., Wake Forest, Washington and Lee. Clemson, Davidson, Thurs., Oct. 19, 1939 GLEANINGS By MELVIN MEANS To the South Spencer Glamour Girl: Looked over W. C. again this weekend. The girls have improved in Cotten, only one girl, Della Murdock, by her own confession, hung out of the window. However, those dorms along the tennis courts need a little attention. By the way, where is S. Spencer? How about a date the second weekend in March? To Lynchburg hot spots: Know that Lynchburg must have been a fine place this weekend with more than twenty Davidson boys there. Don’t you think that Bastle Holland is just too cute? And what about Hughjohn Throop again this weekend at Lynchburg? He drew the lucky name—Mary. Some pool boys. Throop went on to fall desperately in love with a Blonde Bomber from Texas. Reports from fellow sojourners verify the fact that she is SOFT on him in spite of Hector McLean's heckling. And Hayseed and Holland made the perfect duet at the depot greeting an incoming miss with a lovely rendition of "Aloha." This took place in the Virginia city, too. Also noted in and around Sweetbriar were Gales, Bennie, and Jasper picnicking under the entrance sign. Otts caught the weekend—a new record. And Roland Jones just ruined a new silk muffler with a violent shade of lipstick. Better be careful, Roland. Tom McLean and Stowe had the longest weekend to date—in S. C. from Thursday until late Sunday—a good time reported had by all. And in Sumter: Bobby Williams thought the Fair was Monte Carlo. Charlie Pegram kept the boys entertained throughout the whole evening while his friends continually crowned him as Hitler throughout the Fair grounds. Don’t know whether they used five or seven crowns in the ritual. And what boys on campus have become known far and wide as the "Bloomer Boys"? You might ask Hunter and Turner. And why? What’s the matter, Barker? Losing your grip? Mona, Barker’s "lock" ditched him this week ex-Wildcat and Y boy at Rarkalyze didn’t lose "taking off with her best friend. "Oh, Mona, don't you weep." Warren Lewdlam went on another spree—this time it was in Spartanburg. We have never been able to find out the straight dope concerning a certain room and a feminine seventh at about Lewd? After making all-state glee club in high school, Ogleshaw is out for all-southern Carolina. Anytime in alebauche team in his senior year. He was off to Lenoir again Sunday. Karl Jonas seems to be rather disappointed that he wasn't making the news; so I just have to stick his name in here. Bub Coltrane was conspicuous around W. C. U.N.C. again this weekend. Another two-night affair. We have been trying to check up and find out if Russell Edmundson ever explained to his girl in Virginia about his date in Charlotte that had so much trouble remembering his name. Slip us the finals, Rusty. Wait a Minute By FRANK BARKER HEREDITY—with apologies to Dr. Wood and Harle Ennis. Heredity is an awful thing. To those of you in Psychology beware of this subject. It is something that Nature has kept a secret, and many a laugh Nature gets up her roomy sleeve. Heredity is almost as terrifying as the insides of a drunkard’s stomach, or the appearance of Joe Louis’ fist in your face (so says "Two-ton" Galento). Downward, from father to son and mother to daughter, continues this never ceasing procession of traits. The end of this decline, one may ask? It looks as if heredity might be over from the pit into which the human race has descended. But maybe not. Heredity is like the bent barrel of a 12 gauge shotgun. You can't ever be sure where it will strike until after the trigger is snapped. I know a man who has "heredity osteochondrodysplasia deformans." And if that won't make a mother ashamed of herself, nothing will. If you men here at Davidson knew that the sweet little blond by your side would someday have a son with recessive chromosomes, who would make news by biting two dogs and pushing baby squirrels out of their nests, you would never in this world declare your intention to marry her. And carrying this on out, if your girl knew that someday you would develop the pioneer urge to grow long whiskers, the urge that someday would make you the grandfather of a man with 1/500,000th of a drop of Jukes blood, she would flee from the marriage bureau. The bet that your children will be normal is one in a million, practically the chance you have in hitting the jackpot of a slot machine. That's heredity. Have you ever looked down into the crib of a newborn babe and seen the sweet calmness and tranquility with which it sleeps? Do you realize that here may be the world’s greatest screwball? Man slaps himself hard on the chest and tells the world that he is the master of his destiny. But he is wrong, he isn’t the master, he is its abject slave. Even as he speaks, he may be earmarked for an afternoon in Central Park clad only in red flannel underwear, or some progenitor may have handed him down the urge to tear down the road cackling like a chicken. That's heredity. We start the race through life with an anvil tied to our tail because of this heredity. Gentlemen, beware!

Former President Herbert Hoover is chairman of a special committee to select a successor to Ray Lyman Wilbur, retiring president of Stanford University.

There are now 556 junior colleges in the United States.

Los Angeles City College students drank 1,500 bottles of pop daily during the recent California heat wave.

The University of Maine has a new wind tunnel that develops a 110-mile an hour gale.

The Temple University school of medicine had 2,000 applications for 110 vacancies in its freshman class.

The Hendrix College news bureau last year sent out 850 stories about the school's activities and personalities.

Gonzaga University’s athletic coaching staff is composed entirely of graduates of the school.

Indiana University social organizations have just spent $50,000 for repairs to their dwellings.

The Campus Crumb is the name of a lunch service managed by Haverford College students.