Wed., Mar. 22, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Hitler's recent seizure of Czechoslovakia has created quite a stir. Comments have been for the most part hotly against this
coup d’état. Even Mr. Chamberlain commented and has opened his umbrella in expectation of April showers. A lot of Europe's
future is dependent upon the way the United States directs her policy, and since Davidson students have carefully followed the
situation, the Question of the Week is: “What should be the foreign policy of the United States? Should they join
England and France in drawing a line against Hitler’s seizures, or should we maintain a policy of strict neutrality?”

Jim Gamble, Senior:
The foreign policy of the United States is definitely at fault. Voicing disapproval of the various violations of the freedom
of the republics created at the close of the World War does not stop the underhanded negotiations between Germany and
the South American countries. Our chief concern is not with the violation of the League of Nations, but is within
our own hemisphere. However, we should fight if our own freedom is at stake. Our problem is “economical” not governmental.
Should policy permit the purchasing of belligerent products by the South American countries with money loaned by the United States?
Should we permit the totalitarian nations, which have only recently been reprimanded by force, to come to such power or
to be hazardous to the United States? Should our policy not serve to rectify such conditions that now exist and
be flexible enough to fit future strained relations? I think that such a policy is entirely feasible by a democratic
government.

John K. Cline, Senior:
I think the United States should stay out of war if possible, but if our possessions are threatened or the
policies of the Monroe Doctrine are broken, we should join with England and France in an effort to stop the
dictators. Something definite should be done at once to create a better feeling between South America and the United States
and put a stop to the propaganda and agents of the totalitarian states in both North and South America before
it has gone too far.

Herbert A. Codington, Sophomore:
We've got to let the European democracies know that we will back them to the utmost. There is not any
use for the United States being drawn into war for the smaller democracies of Europe, but after Germany tries to
seize Russian territory and a general European war is started, we should be prepared to fight if we must. The
most important thing is for us to be well prepared. We should have as good an army and navy as
Germany now has so that we could win quickly, and with the least possible bloodshed.

Paul Crane, Sophomore:
Today when war has lost its lace cape of Glory and Honor, and belchingly shouts that it is strictly a
financial enterprise of a few who wish to grab the world and a group of armament makers who are eager
to support the grabbers, there is no excuse for America’s killing itself to support these super-businesses, these internationalists who happen
to live in this country. We must prepare to keep the peace, then keep it! Let Europe destroy itself if
it must, and if some here must comb fortunes from human scalps, let them help the democracies of Europe, but
no need to add ourselves to the grand slaughter. What good will it do? Are we tired of living, too?

Jack White, Sophomore:
I think we should join with England and France and stop Hitler because in the event of a war on
the Continent we would eventually be drawn in anyway, because a strict neutrality policy is impossible. The more possessions Hitler
is allowed to take, the stronger he will build his army, so the sooner things are brought to a head,
the better it will be for England and France. I believe that if we, along with England and France, should
poke the gun in Hitler’s face and threaten to pull the trigger if he made one more move, that Mr.
Hitler would be greatly influenced not to make any more moves.

“Howdy Day” is a special event on the Los Angeles City College calendar. Students wear special identification tags on that
day and say “howdy” to everyone they meet.

Little Symphony Orchestra
The Davidson College Little Symphonic Orchestra and Glee Club under the direction of Profs. James C. Pfohl and Thane McDonald
has just returned from a tour of four days in which they visited various colleges and cities of eastern North
Carolina. Among the towns and colleges visited are Wilmington and Troy, Presbyterian Junior College, and Flora McDonald College. The musical
organizations left the campus early Saturday morning and returned late last night from the trip. In addition to the orchestra
and the Glee Club was a quartet composed of members of the Glee Club.

Campus’ New Arrival Invades Student Store
“Glucose” Prominent in Many Phases of Extra-Curricular Activities
The latest addition to the Davidson student body is a big, brown, and white member of the canine species who,
since his advent on the campus about a month ago, has been affectionately known as “Glucose.” Like Kipling’s cat, he
sometimes walks by his wild lone, but more often is seen with his classmates, joyously attempting to take a hunk
out of somebody’s leg.

Gives Interview
“Glucose” is a full-fledged member of the sophomore class, but has overcome this handicap to become one of the most
popular men on the campus. He recently made the “Super Snooper” column which is quite an accomplishment for a sophomore.
He is rather difficult to keep up with, but when finally caught he condescended to give a reporter a whole
half hour of his time. The interview went something like this:

“You've been around here quite a while now, Glucose. Tell me, what do you consider the outstanding feature of Davidson?”
“Well, I've been greatly impressed by the friendliness of the students. I wasn’t made to feel very welcome in chapel
the other day, but when there’s snow on the ground or eggs are down to only twenty cents a dozen,
it’s not safe to go to chapel anyway.”

Sleeping Quarters
“Yes, I realize that. Now, old boy, where do you room?”
“Most anywhere. The beds on the second floor West are most comfortable, but those boys don’t go to bed until
an hour no self-respecting pup would be up at. I like fourth floor Watts, too, when the flood season is
over.”

“No doubt. And where do you board?” (As if we didn’t know).
“My favorite boarding house is the stud store. Since that memorable day (and night) when some self-appointed physician fed me
a—well, rather extensive diet of Ex-Lax, I’ve been rather careful as to my cuisine. I trust no barbarous feat like
that will be repeated, since Mr. Lawson so gallantly came to my rescue in his column. They usually treat me
very well down here, though.”

“And your ambition is—”
“To become manager of the student store. I’d like to make enough to retire at twenty-two—”

Athletic Ability
“Let’s don’t go into that. They tell me you're quite an athlete. How about that?”
“Well, I’m helping Coach Whittle’s tracksters. I give them a little pointed persuasion when they can’t quite make that last
lap in time. Then, the freshmen have let me enter their tennis tournament, and I haven't lost a match yet.
(How much is the fare to Texas?) I like to play volleyball too, but (as bad as they need somebody)
the frosh won’t let me play for them.”

“So much for that. Now, what subjects do you find hardest?”
“They're all hard. If I pass soph Bible I'll indulge in a ginger ale.” (A chorus of “Amen, Brother” echoed
this last statement).

“And what do you smoke, if anything?”
“A Bertram, of course.”

“Yep, that’s Glucose, the campus canine.”

Spanish Frat Elects Heads
Cagle, Harbin, Mashburn, Cunningham Take Office
Dan Cagle, rising senior, was named president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, at a meeting held Monday night
at nine o'clock in Professor F. L. Blythe's classroom. Other officers chosen in the election were: Fred Harbin, vice-president; Charlie
Mashburn, secretary; and Roy Cunningham, treasurer. Harbin will serve as chairman of the program committee, according to a chapter precedent.
These four students will succeed the following retiring officers: Al Sixler, president; Charles Roberts, vice-president; Jim Ballard, secretary; and Jack
Holland, treasurer.

In addition to the elections, the program of the meeting included a dialogue between Al Sixler and Charles Roberts and
a short playlet. Title of the skit was “Don Pascual y Don Crispin.” Louis Hipp and Bill Summerville took the
title roles, while Elfa Keen Steel played as the maid, Luisa. Plans were made for the production in the near
future of a play entitled “Castigados y Contentos.” In addition to the parts for this presentation, Professor Fleagle gave to
each member a copy of “Entre Nosotros,” the first publication brought out by the national organization.

Present at the meeting and participating on the program were members of the Spanish club. This organization acts as a
feeder group to the fraternity and club members are eligible for election into the Greek letter honorary. The next meeting
will be concerned chiefly with the installation of the newly-elected officers.

Camera Group Holds Contest
Photographs of the students at work in the various scientific laboratorieswill be the theme of the contest which is being
sponsored by the Photographic Club during this week. An attempt is being made by the members to capture and emphasize
the spirit of work and of experimentation which takes place in laboratories. Last week the contest was won by Angus
Lytch, Davidson Staff Photographer. He took first place in the contest on doorways and also copped a first in the
competition on pictures of people. A special feature of the program (Continued on Page Six) only for Photo Planned

On Thursday, March 30, there will be taken a group picture of the entire student body and faculty. The faculty
picture is to be made at 10:15, and the student body picture immediately following chapel. Students may purchase these pictures
on Friday, and they will also be in the annual as an added feature. These pictures will be made by
the Roy D. Young Studio, specialists in large group photography.

Founders Day Held By Pikas

Pi Kappa Alpha Celebrates 75th Anniversary

Davidson College’s Beta chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha, national social fraternity, celebrated the largest and the most significant Founders’ day
banquet in its history Friday night as more than 100 active members and alumni of the Charlotte area gathered at
Thackers’ Restaurant in Charlotte to celebrate three separate anniversaries. These were the seventy-fifth year since the founding of the fraternity,
the fiftieth anniversary of the initiation of Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, professor emeritus of chemistry of Davidson, (Continued on Page
Six)

Ney Featured By Radio Play

Davidson's weekly radio program was featured last night by the presentation of a play concerning Marshall Ney, written especially for
the centennial celebration of 1937. The play deals mainly with the subject: “Did Marshall Ney escape from France and settle
in the Piedmont section of North Carolina?” The musical part of the program was presented as usual by the Davidson
Little Symphony Orchestra. Among the selections heard were “El Capitan March,” “Men of Ohio,” “America We,” and “Them Basses.” The
regular hymn was this time “Come Thou Almighty King.” Bob Kellogg discussed the campus news, and the program opened and
closed with the school song, “O Davidson.”

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from— SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Committee Plans Way Of Auditing

Mr. Jackson Discusses Auditing of Campus Student Organizations

The Student-Faculty Relations Committee met last Thursday night in the faculty room, and the discussion at this meeting was particularly
concerned with the advisability of setting up some sort of auditing system for the various student organizations on the campus.
Mr. F. L. Jackson was present and expressed his ideas and convictions on the subject. Various opinions were also expressed
by other faculty and student members. Although members of the student body were invited to attend this meeting, few responded
to the invitation.

The purpose of the committee is to have the opinions of the faculty and students presented in an accurate way.
This committee is made up of Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Dr. C. K. Brown and Professor F. K. Fleagle from
the faculty and the presidents of the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes, Sam Newell, Gales McClintock, and Hank Bahnson respectively,
the Freshman adviser, Warren Gaw, and Fred Stair, who was elected by the Student Council, from the student body.

Discussion problems of moment to both the student body and to the college as a whole are brought up in
the meetings of the committee. Some of these are: the need for a change in the present damage deposit system,
the necessity of changing the Orientation program, and the problem which has arisen concerning the boarding house situation as it
pertains to athletics. Any opinions which the students may wish to put forward may be either submitted to a member
of this committee, or the students may themselves participate in the discussion at the next meeting, the time of which
will be announced in chapel.

Suppressed by the French Government! 10 Times Tougher Than “I Am A Fugitive” Now “FRANKENSTEIN” KARLOFF Playing At the DEVIL'S
ISLAND A Cast of Stars 25c Anytime Grantland Rice Sportlight “Red, White and Blue Champions” “It’s In The Stars” Musical
Broadway News Ernest Ellison — ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE 113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C. Robt.
E. Ellison

Wed.-Thurs, Mar. 29-30th. A Girl-Filled Musical Revue ON THE STAGE “BROADWAY AFTER DARK” 35 — PEOPLE — 35

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING Now in Knox Building Davidson, N. C.

THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

Library Gets Newest Book By Head Nazi

Mein Kampf Among Library’s Newest Volumes

In the last week the library has received new books, some of which are already famous. By far the most
sensational book is Hitler’s Mein Kampf. As the “Nazi Bible,” it has earned its author $3,000,000 in royalties, has had
sales in six other countries amounting to $120,000. In 1933 an abridged edition was published in the U. S., but
condensation impaired it by omitting much of Hitler’s amazingly faithful prophecy of his subsequent foreign policy. Written in 1924-'26 when
Der Feuhrer was an irresponsible rabble-rouser, Mein Kampf is full of ranting and raving, became something of a diplomatic embarrassment,
and had to be toned down in German editions. However, the library's edition (Reynal & Hitchcock) is unexpurgated and annotated
to show the sections omitted from German issues.

Also just put up on the library shelves are two new books on European affairs—The New Western Front by Stuart
Chase and John Gunther’s Inside Europe. Chase, who has written a number of books on economics and government, explains the
various ways in which the U. S. differs from Europe and tells why we do not need to go to
war. Backing up his statements with an exceptional amount of accurate information, Chase advises “Keep your powder dry. Until the
real emergency comes, if it is to come, don’t be stampeded.”

In his book John Gunther, who knows personally many of Europe’s outstanding personalities including Hitler, Mussolini, et al., summarizes his
more than a decade’s experience as the foreign correspondent of several American newspapers and news services. The book was first
published in 1936 but the new issue has been edited to bring it up to date. English students will be
interested (Continued on Page Six)

Rev. Grier Davis Leads Sunday Night Vespers

Dr. Davis Speaks on “Doing Things We Had Never Done Before”

Reverend C. Grier Davis spoke to the Davidson student body at the regular vesper services Sunday night. This was the
second appearance of Reverend Davis at Davidson. He had already spoken at the regular Sunday morning services at the College
Church for Dr. Moffett, the regular pastor. At this service Reverend Grier Davis spoke on “Doing things we had never
done before.” He is here under the sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. as the principal speaker for the Spring Services.

Introduction

Dr. Davis was introduced by Sherrard Rice, who also substituted for Reverend I. M. Ellis by leading the singing. Rice
concluded this introduction by assuring the student body that any who wished to confer with Mr. Davis would be more
than welcome to obtain an appointment through Wade Boggs.

Analyzes Faith

In his address, Mr. Davis analyzed faith and what it meant to us in everyday life. He said that a
number of people thought of faith as credulity but this was distinctly not the case. It was, he said, the
answer to those that lay distracted in the ditches of doubt and confusion. He defined faith as seizing hold of
God to understand him and make him superior over our will. He declared that it consisted of two elements: conviction
and adventure. Conviction is a well-founded assurance of things not seen. By this faith we can have all the full
value of a conviction of God, of future life, of love and the many other intransitive qualities that we are
not able to benefit from without faith.

Grand Adventure

Faith, Mr. Davis said, was also a glorious, grand adventure. This adventure consists of not just believing in something, but
living our lives as if we did believe it. Every act of our everyday life, from going to school, making
decisions, making starts in business, and getting married, was an adventure of faith.

In conclusion, Mr. Davis chal- (Continued on Page Six)

You pick the spot-We'll take you there AT THE COST OF DRIVING

Whether you're heading for the old homestead, honoring the room-mate with a visit, ducking down South; or doing the Big
City, we've got a bus that’s going your way! Another nice thing about Greyhound—our fares don’t look big even to
a college-educated pocket book. You'll have more fun the Greyhound way—and you'll find plenty of places to spend the money
saved!

Sample One-Way Fares

Winston-Salem $1.35 | Spartanb’g, S.C. 1.15 Greensboro 1.50 | Raleigh, N. C. 2.90 Columbia, S. C. 1.60 | Richmond, Va.
4.25 Greenville, S.C. 1.60 | Atlanta, Ga. 3.90 Roanoke, Va. 3.10 | Chat’n’ga, Tenn. 5.50 Asheville 2.20 | Wilmington 2.95

GREYHOUND TERMINAL

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

M. P. Henderson DAVIDSON, N. C. CARS FOR RENT

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. Goodrum & Company DAVIDSON, N. C.
