Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 16, 1939

Radio Theatre Gives Second Play of Year
“The Burning of Chambers Building” Presented; New Members Wanted

The Davidson Radio Theater, presented a fifteen-minute play, “The Burning of Chambers Building,” last night over station WSOC. As this
went to press the casting had not been completed. The play was written by Charles Foreman for presentation as part
of Davidson's Centennial Celebration in 1937 and was given again because of its merit as a play as well as
for its local interest.

The theater members met last Saturday night to discuss future plans, including the framing of a new play. They are
interested in attracting new members in various roles such as actors, managing sound effects, and scriptwriting. Persons interested should see
Pat Rudolph about acting and announcing, Dan Hodges about scriptwriting, and any other member if interested in sound effects.

Second Program
Yesterday's program was the second since the group has reorganized under its new name. Programs are to be presented each
Wednesday night at 7:30, and plans are underway for making possible the broadcasting of the plays from the campus.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Of course, the majority of the brothers and pledges went to Winston for the game Saturday. Among those spied in
the grandstand were John P. Williams, Bill Bolin, Pete Cavert, Amy Harnsberger, Dan Hodges, Bob Johnson, Bob Kellogg, Walter Kyle,
Bill Lyman, Charlie Martin, Harris McReynolds, Peter Parrish, Billy Pharr, B. B. Plyler, George Richmond, Dick Shore, Arch Taylor, Clay
Williams, and Jesse Wooten. Other trips took Mac Otts to Randolph-Macon, Preston Oliver to Elon, and Doug Dillard to Mrs.
Clay Williams of Mississippi, who visited the campus during the early part of the week.

CAROLINA WHIPS CATS
(Continued from Page Four)

Several of the brothers had a quiet week-end, with most of the brothers remaining on the campus. Brother Beatty intercepted
a Wildcat aerial and ran it back to the Davidson 35. These were: Brothers White, Owens, Carter, Booker, Ludlam, Withers,
and Chapman. Brother Beatty completed two flat passes to Brother Yoder. The Wildcats began to function with Dave Spencer, sophomore
tailback, leading the way. Spencer kicked out on the Carolina 5 and completed passes from Spencer to the Cats to
the 3. The ball was lost on downs. Slotnick intercepted on his 30. Spencer stood out for the Wildcats while
Bob Johnson, Hank Johnson, and Jim Goalie were strong on defense. Stan Yoder contributed fine blocking and tackling.

WATSON STREET
(Continued from Page Five)

The special music rendered by the WOW Quartet, Philo Quartet from Mooresville, The Community Quartet from Cornelius, The Huntersville Quartet,
and the Landis Methodist Quartet from Landis. Mr. Hamrick of the WOW Quartet also led the congregation in some favorite
hymns. Due to Rev. “Mac” McClure’s failure to be present to lead the evening service, Watson Street again delivered the
sermon. His topic for the evening service was “Why don’t we grow spiritually?” The fact that we fail to seize
our opportunities, that we don’t meet with the laws, and that we don't exercise the spiritual laws were the main
divisions of Mr. Street's address. Mrs. G. R. Vowles, accompanied by Mrs. W. T. Watkins, gave several selections at the
closing service. The attendance at the Homecoming services was the largest since the event has been celebrated.

MRS. N. SMITH
(Continued from Page Three)

No Rivalry At Camp Greene
The North and the South were once more united in friendship. During an epidemic of meningitis, Mrs. Smith was quarantined
with a soldier from the frozen north and one from the sunny south, but all animosities were forgotten. A brother
of Dr. K. J. Foreman of the faculty gave invaluable aid in nursing the sick men. Since the war, Mrs.
Smith has been living in Davidson and for the past 17 years has been connected with the college. She still
hears from some of her boys. A mechanic in the north, working on the car of a faculty member, noticed
the North Carolina license and said he had been at Camp Greene. Another young recruit, whom she corresponded with after
he went to France, has been praised for his latest book by prominent New York newspapers. Miss Nannie likes the
army. “Don't tell me that all army men are bad,” she cried, “they are not! I am the daughter of
a Confederate soldier and also the granddaughter of a soldier. I am a soldier, too.”

FOREIGN POLICY
(Continued from Page One)

Europe: But he lives and thrives on that sort of thing. He probably hoped to get enough out of the
French and British empires to enable him to talk on equal terms with Hitler later. That Mussolini has not entered
the war means only that he does not believe that Germ-any will win or else that she will not win
soon enough to save him from the wrath of his own people and an attack by the democracies. As long
as this is so, Italy will probably remain neutral, for the Allies are not likely to offer Mussolini a big
enough booty to swing him to their side. Fascist Italy is not as powerful as Nazi Germany, but she is
nevertheless very dangerous because her spirit, objectives, and methods are identical with those that prevail in Berlin.

CARNEGIE SET [Continued from Page Three]
the student assistant. Many students are taking advantage of this opportunity to hear their favorite musical selections and it is
hoped that even more will make use of these facilities. Professor Archibald Currie returned to his classes last week after
an illness of intestinal influenza in the Charlotte Hospital. He returned from the hospital to his home last week where
he spent a fortnight convalescing. His classes in Political Science and Economics were filled by Drs. Hillhouse, Brown, and Williamson.

DR. C. K. BROWN [Continued from Page Five]
University of Toronto, and Vice-President A. R. Mann of the General Education Board in New York. The new president of
the body is Dr. F. P. Gaines, president of Washington and Lee University.

THIEF ARRESTED Tuesday

ANNUAL ROLL CALL [Continued from Page One]
future. The committee in charge plans to provide toxoid for all children in the community between the ages of six
months and six years. Those cooperating to put this project across include Dr. William Matthews, who will administer the serum,
and Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity. This treatment is to be available for both colored and white children, and it
is hoped that parents will cooperate with the Red Cross in seeing that every child in the community has had
some serum against the dreaded and dangerous diphtheria.

SCIENCE AND RELIGION [Continued from Page Five]
should apply the scientific “Try and See.” Study Urged In closing he gave a method to solve problems which confront
us. “If you have a problem, take the Bible and study it through, with your particular problem in mind. A
great deal of light will be thrown on the subject.” He urged us to use this method, and to really
study the Bible when we do use it.

SOCCER SQUAD [Continued from Page Five]
YMCA in the first game played between the two teams. The remaining games scheduled are:
Nov. 15—High Point College—there
Nov. 20—Seton Hall—here
Nov. 22—Clemson—at Clemson
Nov. 28—Duke—at Greensboro
Dec. 4—Clemson—at Rock Hill

WEAVERS NECKWEAR
The hand craftsmanship of the natives of Old Santa Fe has been applied to modern patterns and color combinations, resulting
in an entirely new conception of hand-woven, fringed end neckwear. We have a large selection of the new Burro Weavers
Hand-loomed ties.

[Continued from Page One]
increase the emphasis upon the signs already displayed in each dorm, Lock Your Door.

OLD SANTA FE

On the Stage In Person
EVELYN BRENT (Glamorous Screen Star) in “Streets de Paree” The 1940 Revue Extravaganza with The Lovely Hollywood Models, Uproarious Comedians,
Swell Acts. 35 People — 8 Big Acts. On the Screen... “Pride of the Blue Grass” MON.-TUES. NOV. 20-21

HARRISON NIPS [Continued from Page Three]
ure to wear his freshman cap, was given two weeks' strict campus. These four members of the class of '43
were tried and convicted at the same meeting of the court which secured confession of the three tank-painters, but formal
sentence was not pronounced until chapel period Monday. The court will begin an immediate investigation of the sidewalk painting and
insulting remarks painted on Eu Hall. The disrespectful acts were first seen early Friday morning and were done sometime during
Thursday night. Serious punishment awaits the culprits.

FRESHMEN ARTISTS [Continued from Page Five]
“The boys who did the job must have been friends of long standing. These three boys, constantly with one another
and pledging the same frat, looked like a likely group for questioning. Being seen before the court, they were forced
to admit their guilt.”

WILDCATS FAVORED [Continued from Page Four]
will be the Converse Day, which will bring three hundred college girls to the campus. This game will also mark
the final appearance of the Davidson Wildcats on their home ground this season.

Ten Students Inducted Into German Frat
Delta Phi Alpha Also Initiates Dr. Foreman
At the last meeting of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, held on Monday night, Nov. 13, ten new members
were initiated. An invitation was extended to Dr. K. J. Foreman, who has in times of necessity substituted for regular
professors of German. He is also an avid reader of German literature.

New Members
The members of the student body who were tapped were Eldridge Brown, W. H. Familton, Dan Hodges, Casey Jones, Winston
Taylor, Ted Leinback, McElwee Ross, Joe Robinson, Vernon Youngblood, and Lawson Withers. William Walters gave a brief history of Delta
Phi Alpha, after which refreshments were served by Mrs. Vowles.

Year's Plans
Bob Doty, president of the chapter, stated that the group was looking forward to an unusually active year because of
the fact that there is an increasing number of students taking advanced courses in the subject.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK [Continued from Page Three]
who are not inveterate cutters should not be caused to come under such stringent regulations as those who take no
notice of overcutting. Likewise, some provision should be made for those that are carrying a large schedule, in contrast to
those with 12 or 14 hours, who receive the same number of cuts.

NOW YOU CAN BREATHE! Clear Cold-Clogged Head This Quick Way
Clear that tormenting stuffiness—breathe more freely! Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol—that’s what you need. Feel it go right
to work—bring real comfort. This treatment is successful because Va-tro-nol is active medication—containing several essential relief-giving agents plus ephedrine—expressly designed
for nose and upper throat. Next time don’t wait for a cold to get a head start. Used at first
sniffle or sneeze, Va-tro-nol helps keep a cold from developing. WAKE UP YOUR NOSE VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

There's about Cigarette Tobaccos
THERE ARE FOUR TYPES of tobaccos found in the more popular cigarettes, namely... Bright, Maryland, Burley, and Turkish. ALL THESE
TOBACCOS except Turkish (which is bought direct from the planters in Turkey and Greece) and Maryland (which is bought through
sealed bids under government supervision) are bought at public auction, just like any other auction where you might have bought
a table or a chair.

MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK
AT THE AUCTION SALE the tobacco is piled in baskets weighing from about 100 to 500 pounds and each purchaser
buys all of his tobaccos by competitive bidding for the particular piles he wants. THE CHESTERFIELD BUYERS buy the best
of these mild ripe tobaccos for the Chesterfield blend. And it is Chesterfield’s Combination... the right amounts of Burley and
Bright... just enough Maryland... and just enough Turkish—that makes the big difference between Chesterfield and other cigarettes. IT IS BECAUSE
of this combination that Chesterfields are COOLER, have a BETTER TASTE and are DEFINITELY MILDER. They are made of the
world’s best cigarette tobaccos. You can’t buy a better cigarette. Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
