Juniors Try Out For Cheerleaders

Z—528_ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Guion Leads Senior Averages

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1939 No. 1.

Harnsberger Made New Cadet Major Of ROTC Battalion

Cooper, Kunz, Joyner, and Tenney Are Officers On Battalion Staff

BROWN LEADS JUNIORS

Mackenzie Appoints Thirty-Eight Officers

Lieutenant-Colonel G. T. Mackenzie last Friday issued special orders appointing Thomas L. Harnsberger, Jr., of Kiangsu, China, Cadet Major of
the Davidson ROTC battalion for the 1939-40 school year. The new officers for the entire unit were likewise named and
took over their commands at the first regular formation of the year. Cadet Major Harnsberger was selected master cadet of
his company during the six-weeks training camp at Fort McClellan this summer. He was similarly awarded a silver cup last
spring, a distinction awarded annually to the outstanding junior cadet of the Davidson corps.

Commissioned Officers

The other commissioned officers include: Cadet Captains: attached to the battalion staff, James Cooper, Walter Kunz, Oscar L. Joyner, and
Rea C. Tenney; Company A, Stuart Oglesby, III; Company B, Samuel R. Spencer; Company C, David C. Colvin; Company D,
Walter C. Fitzgerald; Band, James K. Pope. First Lieutenants: Company A, Thomas A. Hackney, second in command; Caldwell B. Harrison,
Beecher W. Sitterson, T. J. Abernathy, Jr.; Company B, John W. Kennedy, Jr., second in command; W. W. Preston, Dugald
Stewart, Tom Perrin; Company C, William C. Birmingham, second in command; Harry Hendrick, Willkk S. [Continued on Page 3]

Death Claims Local Pastor

Dr. Harry M. Moffett Passes On July 17 After Short Sickness

Dr. Harry McClelland Moffett, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church for the last twelve years, died this summer at
the Presbyterian hospital on the night of July 17 after a short illness. Last rites were held at the church,
and Dr. C. M. Richards officiated, assisted by Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson and Dr. R. A. White. Burial was in
Davidson cemetery. About two months prior to his death Dr. Moffett suffered a heart attack, but he soon returned to
his work. He is survived by Mrs. Moffett, three sons, Rev. H. M. Moffett, Jr., of Jefferson City, Tenn.; Polk
Moffett of Kings Mountain, and Sandy Moffett of Charlotte; three daughters, Mrs. Edward Hemphill of Charlottesville, Va., Miss Caroleena Moffett
of Staunton, Va., and Miss Mary Louise Moffett of Davidson.

Dr. Moffett was born in Churchville, West Virginia, on November 30, 1879, and was the son of a minister. He
received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Central University of Kentucky, which is now a part of Centre College, and
was graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., in 1905. He received his degree of Doctor of Divinity
from the Southwestern Presbyterian University in Tennessee. He went from college into evangelistic work and then accepted a pastorate at
Charlestown, West Virginia. From there he went to pastorates at Huntsville, Ala., and Vine Street Presbyterian Church in Birmingham, Ala.
He went from Birmingham to the Davidson church.

Next Sunday, a congregational meeting will be held at the Davidson College Church in order to appoint a committee which
will look for the pastor who will succeed Dr. Moffett.

Magazine Begins Work

Members of the editorial staff of Scripts ’n Pranks, Davidson's humor-literary magazine, will hold their first session Friday night at
9:00 in the parlor of Watts dormitory. All managing editors and freshmen and sophomores who wish to be eligible for
the staff of the magazine are requested to be present for this organization meeting.

The first issue of the magazine will be out sometime in November, and any material or suggestions will be welcomed
by the editor, Jack Abernathy in 3 West. Short stories, poetry, photographic work, cartoons, and GOOD jokes will be greeted
with open arms and a welcome befitting the traditional prodigal son. Editor Abernathy has made the statement that he hopes
this year will uphold the high standard of Scripts ’n Pranks.

Cheerleaders Hold Tryouts

Junior Candidates Are Presented At Pep Meeting Tuesday Night

Tryouts for the positions of Junior cheerleaders were held at the pep meeting on Tuesday night at 8 o’clock. The
Senior cheerleader, Locke Hunter, was in charge of the meeting, presenting the candidates and leading the cheers. Candidates led yells
in groups of four. The following thirteen juniors tried out: Jack Abels, Roy Hill Cooper, Scott Cooper, Jack Covington, Boyd
Flynn, Louis Hite, Bill Lemon, Jim McDonald, Charlie Martin, John Moore, Bobby Williams. From these candidates, four will be elected
shortly to serve as junior cheerleaders.

Spencer’s Speech

As the second pep meeting of the year, it contained no football players’ speeches, but a speech by the president
of the student body, Sam Spencer. Spencer said that Wildcat spirit must support the team in the State-Davidson football game
on Saturday in Greensboro. Locke Hunter succeeds Dick Taylor, senior cheerleader of last year.

Drive ‘Em, Wildcats!

Locke Hunter, diminutive cheerleader of the Wildcats, is shown above as he brushes up on the famous Davidson “fight yell.”
He will lead the cheers for the student body during the coming football season, assisted by four junior helpers who
will be selected this week. Locke will be in Greensboro this coming Saturday night, where the Wildcats open the 1939
season against the highly touted North Carolina State Wolfpack.

Nine Fraternities Pledge One Hundred Twelve Men During Short Rush Week

Infirmary Hours Set

College physicians and nurses will hold the following office hours daily in the infirmary: 10 to 12 A. M. and
7 to 8 P. M. Students are asked not to call for treatment at any other hours except in cases
of emergency. In such cases they may call at any hour of the day or night. Dr. W. C. Matthews,
the associate college physician, will be on hand at the athletic fields in the afternoon during practice sessions to take
care of any injuries that may occur then. For the good of patients and the proper conduct of the infirmary,
it was necessary to limit the visiting hours. The following periods have been selected as the most convenient visiting hours:
10 to 12 A. M.; 3 to 5 P. M. and 7 to 9 P. M.

C. L. Steele Promoted To Lieutenant Colonel

Instructor of Military Science Has Been at Davidson Two Years

Charles L. Steele, Instructor of Military Science and Tactics in the Senior Division of the ROTC Unit at Davidson College,
was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Infantry on June 1, 1939. Colonel Steele received a
B.S. degree at Penn State and later was at Advanced Infantry School of Ft. Benning, Ga. He came from Fort
Leavenworth, Kas., where he completed his course. In 1937 he came to Davidson to fill the vacancy left by Major
Charles W. Seifert, who was transferred to a post in Puerto Rico.

Notice of his promotion came to Colonel Steele on the thirteenth of June while he was in camp at Fort
McClellan.

Gwynn Directs Successful Orientation Program

Davidson’s 188 freshmen made an average slightly higher than that of preceding classes in the comprehensive testing program conducted during
orientation. According to figures tabulated by Price H. Gwynn, director of the orientation program, the class of '43 showed an
improvement on the mathematics test, bringing their average to a mark slightly higher than that of any previous class. After
devotions and an address of welcome by Dr. Lingle, Friday, they were given the mathematics test and then assigned to
their student counsellors for help on any questions. The “Y” Cabinet, assisted by Bob Phipps and George Milne, handled this
part of the program. An optional musical aptitude test completed the morning's work. Starting with an address on the care
and use of college property by Treasurer F. L. Jackson, Friday afternoon's.The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

The program included a reading test, personal interviews with Coach Heath Whittle, and recreation. Friday evening was taken up by
an inspirational address by Rev. A. B. McClure, former Davidson “Y” secretary, and a preliminary pep meeting. Addresses on fraternities
and budgeting time by Professors Archibald Currie and F. K. Fleagle respectively, the psychological test, a personality inventory, assignment of
chapel seats, faculty reception, and the Saturday recreation made a full day. Sunday provided much inspiration, with a Bible class
by Dr. Brown, the morning service with Dr. Lingle in the pulpit, and vespers with Dr. John McSween of Chester
as guest speaker. The program wound up on Monday morning with an address on college regulations by Dean M. E.
Sentelle, a talk from Mrs. Smith, and an explanation of the honor system by Sam Spencer, student body president. “Altogether,
the 1939 orientation period was quite successful,” stated Dr. Gwynn. “Morale ran high and cooperation was above the average.”

War Bulletin!

Because of the war in Europe, conditions in the Davidson College Department of Music have reached a crisis, according to
Director James Christian Pfohl. Mr. Pfohl would make no further statement, but it was learned from well-informed sources early Monday
morning that Davidson’s future policy in regard to radio broadcasts is as yet undecided. The question today, then, is, “Will
there, or will there not be any radio programs from Davidson College before Christmas?” It is understood here that war
has so clogged up the networks of the nation that no regular programs are being scheduled for the near future.

Court Elects Soph Member

Bobby Carter was named sophomore member of the Court of Control this term. Carter was selected by senior members of
the student council at a special meeting with the Court this week. Don Bell was appointed sergeant-at-arms Tuesday night to
replace John Barnhardt, who did not return to Davidson this term.

Court Meets Twice A Month

The Court of Control decided to meet twice a month in addition to any emergency sessions that may be necessary.
Judge Harrison declared Tuesday that up-to-date nothing definite has been detected with regard to the painting of the water tank,
although the court has reliable information about the culprit. He said that he expected action around the first of the
week. Judge Harrison made the following request of upperclassmen: “If there are any charges to be made against freshmen, please
write out these complaints and give them either to the judge or to any other member of the court. The
charges must be dated and signed. If no member of the court can be located, [Continued on Page Five]

Senior Grades Are Published

Tom Guion Leads Class With Average of 3.093; Spencer Is Second

T. H. Guion of the Senior class led his class scholastically, it was announced with the publication of the averages
of the men in the uppermost class. Guion’s average was 3.093, which is .053 points higher than the next man
in the class, S. R. Spencer. He is president of the honorary chemistry fraternity, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and a second
lieutenant in the R.O.T.C. For his outstanding work and grades in science, he will be awarded the D. Howard Science
Scholarship. There were four men this year to make an average of above 3.000, which is required for an A
average.

Five New Men Assume Work

Brown, Burton, Little, Mackenzie, Matthews Enter

Five new members were added to the Davidson faculty this summer, and each of these men is entering into five
different divisions of the faculty. Two of last year’s faculty, however, will not be here this year. They are Mr.
Lockhardt, who will fill a position at Westminster College in Missouri, and Colonel Armstrong, who was transferred to Fort Wayne,
Detroit.

William C. Matthews

William C. Matthews came as associate physician at the opening of this session. He is a Davidson alumnus and took
his medical work at the School of Medicine at the University of Virginia. After finishing his medical work at the
college, he became city physician in Roanoke, Va., where he had a large and varied experience.

Crowell Little

Crowell Little will be an assistant coach in athletics. He was a star football player during his student days at
the University of North Carolina. Since his graduation, he has been a successful coach in high school work. He comes
warmly recommended not only as a good coach but as a man of Christian character,” President W. J. Martin declared.

“Day of Silence” Followed by Formal Pledging Ceremonies for Groups

OPEN HOUSE IS HELD

Thirteen Less Extended Than Last Year

With the closing of rush week on Saturday, September 16, 112 students were pledged to the nine national fraternities at
Davidson. The pledging ceremonies took place Saturday evening following the day of silence. This year’s rush week has been one
of the shortest in the history of the college, lasting only six days. Last year 125 men were pledged. Following
the official pledging, open house was held at each fraternity to introduce its pledges to visitors from other campus chapters.
Lists of pledges by fraternities follow:

Beta Theta Pi: Lucius Stevenson, Monterey, Va.; Morton Church, Charlotte; Bob Powell, Fayetteville; Jimmy Dillard, Burlington; Allan Graham, Ramseur; Frank
Mebane, Burlington; Spike Mebane, Burlington; Donald Pass, Montrose, Ark.; Caterson Schmidt, Lonoke, Ark.; Shelly McCrary, Mt. Pleasant; John Sherrill, Charlotte;
Jack Faucette, Burlington.

Kappa Alpha: Ed Reeves, R. L. Brinson, High Point; Jim Neil, Statesville; Rufus Byers, Charlotte; Tommy Lane, Charlotte; Ned Brooks,
Wallingford, Conn.; Ned Pollock, Asheville; Bob Elder, Mt. Gilead; Cincinnati, Ohio.

Kappa Sigma: Campbell Anstey, Lacy McLean, Charlotte; James Robertson, Hugh Sprunt, Wilmington; Ben Washburn, Wilmington; Francis Vanlandingham, Spartanburg, S.C.; West
Pinkerton, Johnson City, Tenn.; Myron Sandifer, Lowrys, S.C.; Madison, Columbus, Ga.; Ben Walton, Miami, Fla.; George Sinclair, Frederick, Md.; Scotty
Patterson, Winston-Salem; Joe Flowers, Roxboro; Tom Harris, Palm Beach, Fla.; Franklin, Blacksburg, S.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: [Continued on Page Five]

Davidson Man Reports War

Vereen Bell’s Short Story Published in the Saturday Evening Post

Daniel Hancock, a graduate of Davidson in 1928, now goes about his work amid war-ridden Europe. His position finds him
in Moscow, Russia, where he is a news correspondent with the Associated Press. After the war broke out, he was
a London correspondent, but with new fields to conquer, his post was shifted to Moscow. His articles appear daily in
the Associated Press write-ups.

From Bluefield

Mr. Hancock, who was formerly from Bluefield, West Virginia, started his writing career on this campus. In his Senior year,
he edited the Quips and Cranks, and his membership and interest in the International Relations Club was a definite influence
on his future. Bill Hancock finished Davidson in 1936.

Vereen Bell

Another outstanding alumnus in the literary field, Vereen Bell, has written a short story, “A Dog for Man,” which appeared
in the September 9th Saturday Evening Post. Soon after Mr. Bell graduated from Davidson in 1932, he attained a position
on the American Boy staff. He has contributed quite a number of stories to that magazine in the past five
years. Bell's type of writing in the American Boy was usually concerning sports. He also wrote several continued stories and
short articles which appeared in the publication. His brother, at a writing

---
