Wed., April 26, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Rev. Ansley C. Moore Leads Vespers Sunday
Three Great Choices in Life of Man Is Subject of Florida Pastor

On last Sunday evening, April 23, the vesper service was led by the Rev. Mr. Ansley C. Moore, who is
pastor of the Presbyterian church of Clearwater, Fla. The subject of the sermon was “The Three Great Choices in the
Life of Every Man.” The Rev. Mr. Moore began his sermon by pointing out that in the life of each
person there are three important choices that must be made: the choice of a life work, the choice of a
life mate, and the choice of a life master. These three choices should be realized and faced by everyone with
the idea of coming to a decision that will best help the individual lead a good life.

Life Plan
There is a detailed plan for the life of everyone, believes Mr. Moore, and this is realized because God, with
all of His infinite plans and systems for nature, would surely not have neglected making a plan for the life
of His most important creature, Man. If He did have a plan, He would hardly keep it concealed, but would
put it to work as He does in our lives each day. Each man should choose wisely his life work,
as the true happiness of life depends upon the profession that each man chooses. The important choice of a mate
is shown here, for even though the correct profession is chosen, the unwise choice of a mate can disrupt the
whole plan, pointed out Mr. Moore. The choice of a spiritual master is vital to the choice of a profession
and a mate, for a wrong master will lead the life in the wrong direction, but if Christ is chosen
as our master, we can never go wrong. The Rev. Mr. Moore closed his sermon by again quoting the key
verse of the scripture lesson in Joshua 24: “Choose you this day whom ye will serve.”

Athletes May Eat Together
“Athletes may have a training table if they want one,” stated Norman H. Shepard last week from the office of
the Athletic Director. A training table, if the athletes are favorable toward one, will be independent of any boarding house
now operating in Davidson and will be under the control of the college. It will be run on the club
plan for athletes alone, and consequently will be economical. At the same time, the athletes will be able to get
the kind of food that they want and need.

The real support for the training table will absolutely be to get the members of the team together in order
to promote friendships, as well as to build up team spirit and morale. Other schools practice this extensively, even to
having teammates room in the same dormitory. The final decision as to whether the athletes are to have a training
table or not will rest with the athletes themselves.

Society Gives Annual Party
The Eumanean Literary Society went on a hayride to the Catawba River for a marshmallow roast Tuesday evening. The group
left at 7:15, in two trucks accompanied by their dates. On arriving at the Catawba River, a bonfire was made,
and marshmallows were roasted. After the “roast” several members of the group told stories and the event was closed by
singing songs. Professor and Mrs. W. G. McGavock chaperoned the party. Approximately 25 couples went on the party. This trip
has been an annual affair.

At the last meeting of the Society held Tuesday, April 18, a short story written by Ed Morrow was read
by George Lilly. After this, the Hall held a brief parliamentary session in which humorous motions were brought up by
the floor and were discussed by the group. The purpose of this was to give the Hall practice in the
use of parliamentary procedure. The election of next year’s officers will be held at the next meeting.

Senior Event To Be Annual
Seniors and Faculty Compete in Athletics and Have Barbecue Supper

On Thursday, April 20, the first of the annual Senior-Faculty field days was held, featuring various sporting events between the
two groups, and climaxed by a barbecue supper on the golf course. A committee composed of Ovid Bell, chairman; Shaw
Smith, and Oscar Armstrong, was in charge of planning the event. Heath Whittle and Charlie Sample were in charge of
arranging the athletic matches.

At 1:30 a bowling match was held which the seniors won by 10 pins. Also at this time were the
tennis matches which the seniors won 3 to 2. At 3:30 was the softball game which the seniors also won
by a score of 17 to 14. The faculty were victorious in the golf match. Then, at 6:00 the groups
withdrew to the golf course where matches in horseshoes were held. After this came the climax of the day, a
barbecue supper. After the supper, various skits in which seniors impersonated faculty members were held around the campfire. The president
of the Senior Class, Sam Newell, stated that the day was successful in every way and expressed a hope that
the event might become a Davidson tradition.

Pi Gamma Mu Hears Gwynn
“America Confronts Possible War” Is Subject

Last week at a meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, Dr. P. H. Gwynn delivered the principal address. Dr. Gwynn, who
was introduced by Frank Simmons, president of the local chapter, chose as his subject the topic: “America Confronts the Possibility
of a World War.” Dr. Gwynn opened his discussion by making several admissions about America’s war policies. The most important
of these were: America has been drawn into every major conflict that has occurred since we became a nation, and,
most important of all, Mr. Roosevelt may be right in his efforts to convince the dictators that the odds against
them are too great, because this country will give its support in the service of supplies to the democratic nations.

Dr. Gwynn advocated a program of defense using the idea that; when half the community is on fire a sane
man takes steps to protect his own household. In this program of defense, he suggested that the present building program
of the navy be extended by building a few fast “pocket” battleships and by strengthening naval bases in the Pacific
and in the Canal Zone. He also showed why we should expand our standing army, and build great fleets of
warplanes immediately.

In the second portion of his argument, Dr. Gwynn explained why and how we were forced into the last world
conflict, and just how we can check the power of these factors today; namely by: giving no credit to belligerents,
keeping American ships and citizens out of war zones, letting the government collect a surplus supply of goods now which
we can’t produce ourselves in time of war, thus avoiding a feeling of partisanship, and, most important of all, to
counteract the flow of wartime propaganda. Dr. Gwynn closed his speech by demonstrating how we may set an example of
friendly co-operation to the other nations of the world; and warned this youthful generation against assuming a fatalistic attitude. He
also commended President Roosevelt for his example and spirit in the present world crisis.

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N. C.

Faculty In Action
Pictured above we see two representative participants in the frolics at Davidson last Thursday, when the Seniors and Faculty entertained
each other by sports, take-offs, and a barbecue. On the left is Dr. W. P. Cumming, of the faculty, meandering
violently toward first base after hitting a single in the softball game. At the right is Ken Darby, haranguing the
student body in the style of Dr. C. R. Harding. Note the shaving brush goatee.—(Photos by Angus Lytch, Jr. Courtesy
Charlotte Observer).

Among the Greeks
Art Committee Gives Decision On Paintings

Weekly Schedule
Wednesday, April 26
7:00 P. M., Scabbard and Blade.
7:15 P. M., Meeting of Davidsonian editorial staff.
8:00 P. M., Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M., Y. M. C. A. cabinet.

Thursday, April 27
Social fraternities.

Friday, April 28
7:00 P. M., Pi Gamma Mu.
7:30 P. M., Open meeting of Gamma Sigma.Epsilon. 8:00 P.M., Alpha Delta. 9:00 P.M., International Relations Club.

Sunday, April 30
10:15 A.M., Sunday School.
11:15 P.M., Church.
6:30 P.M., Vesper Service.

Monday, May 1
7:00 P.M., “D” Club.
7:30 P.M., Davidsonian.
8:00 P.M., Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P.M., Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, May 2
8:00 P.M., Le Cercle Français.
9:00 P.M., Sigma Upsilon.

Epsilon Beta Theta Pi
Brother Howell went to his home in Ellerbe. Brother McAfee went to the spring dances at Washington and Lee. Brother
Matthews went to his home in Fayetteville. Brother Rankin went to his home in Mt. Gilead. Brother Armstrong went home
with Brother Walker to Mt. Gilead. Pledge Brother Fetzer and Brother Burch went to their homes in Reidsville. Brother Balsley
went to his home in Greensboro. Brother Pegram was the guest of Brother Burch. Brother Joyner went to his home
in Hernesville. Brother Ramsey went to Greensboro for the weekend. Brother Steere went to his home in Ashboro. Brother Gamble
went to his home in Lincolnton. Brother Benfield has returned from Jacksonville, Fla. Brother Winn went to his home in
Summerville. Brother Hickman went to Salisbury. Brothers Bryant, Hand, Abbott, and McClintock went to their homes in Charlotte. Brothers Atwater,
Cheney, Taylor, and Moore went to Charlotte Saturday night. Miss Jane Montgomery of Queens was the guest of the chapter
Saturday afternoon. Brothers Burch and Barnwell went to Wilson for the Cotillion Club dance. The usual Sunday night feed was
enjoyed by all present.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Most of the brothers journeyed to their homes during this weekend. Brothers Abels and Brinson went to High Point. Among
those who went to their homes were Brothers Parsons and Reisner. Brother John Brinson was a visitor in Salisbury. Brothers
Allison, Conner, McClelland, Rice, and Monger visited the Charlotte delegation on Saturday night. Brothers Coltrane, Hoover, and Youngblood journeyed to
their homes in Concord, and Brother Paul Lady went to Charlottesville with the track team. Toddy Latimer and Ross McElwee
went to Greenville. Brothers Hill and Sutherland went home to Anderson, S.C. Brother McClelland was a visitor in Charlotte on
Sunday afternoon.

Kappa Alpha
Charlotte seemed to be the destination of the brothers this weekend. Brothers Hines, Royster, Pratt, Arnold, Thomas, Woodward, and Wilson
attended the carnival. Brothers Turnage and Coppedge spent the weekend with Dr. Tom Sparrow. Brothers Wallace and Mitchell spent the
weekend at Brother Wallace’s home. Brother Dennis and Calvin went home over Sunday night. Brothers Sandy and Polk Moffitt, graduates
of the class of '39, visited the house Sunday. Spring frolics at Carolina drew Brother Taylor away from the campus
while the dances at Clemson got Brother “Jeep” Gladden. The weekend came to a climax with the usual Sunday night
feed.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
On Friday afternoon, Brothers Pete Marchant, Buck McLean, Ken McLean, George Powell, and Poss Grantham traveled to Columbia, S.C., for
the Alpha Delta Pi dances held there. Brother Marchant later went to his home in Greenville. Brother Jim Thomas went
on the trip of the baseball team to Wake Forest and State. Brother Lem Kornegay and Brother Hector McLean journeyed
to Winston on Saturday evening. Brother Alex Erwin went to Greensboro for the weekend and attended the W.C.U.N.C. dances held
at that time. Brothers Jim Currie and Erle Austin attended the May Frolics at Carolina on Saturday. Brother Southgate Jones
went to his home in Durham for the weekend. Brother Benny Harrison played golf.

Kappa Sigma
Woman's College of Greensboro seemed to be the gathering ground for the brothers over the weekend. Among those present were
Brothers Jimmy Cooper, Louis Hipp, Gaw, and Yates. Brother Hunter was also at his home in Greensboro. Brothers Black, Phipps,
and Walker went with the track team to Charlottesville, Va. Brother Means made a visit to his home in Fayetteville,
and Brother Johnston and Pledge Loftin went to their homes in Concord. Brothers Pittman and Percival went to Salisbury. Brother
Spencer went to Gastonia and Brother Rock went to Pinehurst for golf. Brother Jonas spent the weekend in Spartanburg, S.C.,
while Brother Slack took in the dances at Carolina.

[Continued on Page Six]

Victor Decca Brunswick Vocalion Bluebird 35c-75c Each
Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Slack “NATIONAL CLUB” SPUN RAYON $4.95
National Shirt Shops
Trade and Tryon Streets
Charlotte, N.C.

Suits

Among many other books on Germany that the Library has obtained recently are: The Coming Victory of Democracy by Thomas
Mann; Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler.

[Continued on Page Six]

ALL THE LATEST VICTOR and BLUEBIRD Records 35c and 75c
Andrews Music Company
231 N. Tryon Street (opposite Carolina Theatre)
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

See them pictured in Life and Esquire, see them “in the Flesh” at Mellon’s, wear them yourself. These matching in-or-out
shirts and slacks of homespun cloth in natural, suntan, mocha, blue, and green are the season’s smartest sportswear idea.
Ed. Mellon Co.
106-108 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
