Wed., April 19, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

All over the campus there has been constant agitation in favor of doing away with the Scripts 'n’ Pranks. Accusations
against the magazine are in the ears of the public as much as the word “combine.” We were able to
find but one person who comes to the defense of that publication. Of course, none of the writers are in
any way connected with the Davidsonian. The question this week is: “What is your opinion of the Scripts 'n’ Pranks?”

Ken Lawson, Senior:
The American people are noted for their sense of humor, but even that is often strained by the things appearing
in the Scripts ’n’ Pranks. It’s not that the work is so bad—it just always appears so much like things
which appeared in the Davidsonian at earlier dates. As an ex-member of the Davidsonian staff, I realize that the magazine
has a useful place, however; it is a good spot for things which don’t “rate” the Davidsonian. (After this I
surely ought to be able to collect my back wages from manager Latimer.)

Paul Bumbarger, Sophomore:
Without a doubt Scripts ’n’ Pranks is a disgrace to Davidson College. When it cannot find any better way to
fill up space than to knock such an outstanding publication as the Davidsonian, it should be abolished. There is some
excuse for its jokes not being original, but when it has to pattern its name after another campus publication, that’s
the last straw.

“Puffy” McDuffie, Sophomore:
Undoubtedly the college magazine could play a more useful role in campus affairs than its present offering shows. Just how
this is to be effected is, of course, another point. However, the staff is picked through a “weeding out process”
and should be fully capable of putting out almost any kind of publication they so desire. I think, as a
reader, some of the stories could be improved and that further emphasis should be placed on better features other than
the satirical publication of the newspaper. Presentation of more campus snapshots would undoubtedly improve things.

Glucose, a class to himself:
Why—does Davidson College have a magazine? Never heard of it. Oh yes, I do remember a boy named Mutt Riller
feeding me some of those “tid-bits” in the Stu-store. Confidentially, . . . But what is all this “jabber” about?
I’m all for all Davidson College publications so that includes the Pranks, I guess.

Bill Marquess, Senior:
Arguments supporting the existence of Scripts ’n’ Pranks can probably be found, but I have yet to hear any worthy
of the name. Merely the backwash of The Davidsonian, it fails to fulfill either a humorous or literary purpose, which
ideas, I understand, were present in the minds of its founders. I will say in defense of the magazine, however,
that we have found it pretty good for starting fires in the Davidsonian office those cold nights. Hi ya, Rut,
ole boy. Just couldn't resist.

Tom Brown, Freshman:
I guess the Scripts ’n’ Pranks is like all other college magazines in the country. I think that it would
help if those crude short stories would be eliminated. The editors might also print some jokes which haven’t been printed
in every other magazine first. We want more cartoons.

Cam Wilson, Freshman:
Personally, this is not all my opinion, but after being threatened and being told that Glucose liked the Scripts ’n’
Pranks, well I just can’t see that the humor (?) magazine is so hot. Anyhow, I believe that Glucose was
bribed or sump’n. Maybe Rut Miller told him that the Davidsonian sent out that Ex-Lax so he would naturally side
with the school paper’s deadly enemy. But after all, some of those jokes in the last magazine were actually awful;
in fact, if the magazine staff would take a few lessons from the editors of U. of K.’s “Sour Mash”
or U. N. C.’s “Buccaneer,” it would be improved a great deal. Of course, there is the strict censorship of
the Davidson faculty, but brains could cook up some mighty hot jokes that the faculty couldn’t see through, but would
send the student body into hysterics. What else can I say? After all, I’m on the staff of the Davidsonian.

Joe Liles, Sophomore:
The “Rag” is absolutely the most =, [Continued on Page Six]

Dr. Redhead Is Speaker At Vespers
“Advertising For Christ” Is Subject of Charlotte Pastor’s Sermon

“Advertising for Christ” was the subject of the sermon presented by Dr. John A. Redhead of Charlotte at vespers here
last Sunday. Dr. Redhead, who is pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, is well-known on the Davidson campus
as he led the Fall Services this year and has spoken at various other meetings here.

The minister brought out very graphically the great importance of advertising in business and the failure of the church to
advertise itself and its dynamic message to people today. He said that the primary importance in commercial advertising was laid
on making the public see the ad. Dr. Redhead showed how bright lights, positions of importance, and the color yellow
were being used to bring attention to public advertisements and how church members and ministers were often too ashamed of
their religion to put it in the place of prominence, to show it to others.

Dr. Redhead went on to say that in order for an advertisement to be effective it must be true. He
pointed out how people would soon lose all faith in a company which constantly advertised with false information about their
product. In this way, so-called Christians often fail in their attempts to advertise Christ. Often they do not live up
to their profession of faith or to the principles which they teach. He emphasized the fact that sincerity is the
key-note of effective witnessing for Christ.

In closing Dr. Redhead told of a student at Harvard of whom it was said, “Every time he walks across
the campus another heart is won to Christ.” “There are at least thirty men at Davidson College who have not
professed Christ. What a great day it would be for this institution if each of us who have pledged our
allegiance to Him would become such advertisements for Christ that we could win those thirty men to Him!”

Concert Given By Orchestra
Pfohl Takes Little Symphony to Fayetteville

The Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra conducted by Professor James Christian Pfohl, gave a concert in collaboration with the Flora Macdonald
College Glee Club at the Fayetteville First Presbyterian Church on the evening of April 12. The main feature of the
program was furnished by Earle Copes who played the piano Concerto in C by Mozart. The Little Symphony Orchestra played
Praeludium, by Jarnefelt; Valse Triste, by Sibelius; Le Coucou, by Arensky; and Waltz from the Ballet “The Sleeping Beauty” by
Tschaikowsky. The program was sponsored by the North Carolina State Federation of Music Clubs. The Flora Macdonald Glee Club and
the Vocal Sextette also took part in the program.

New Officers
The Little Symphony Orchestra recently elected its next year's officers: President, Reb Rumniel; Vice-President, Francis Magill; and Secretary-Treasurer, Louis Hite.

Alumnus Gets YMCA Award
Albert S. Arnold, prominent alumnus of Davidson and member of the class of '33, was elected president of the Association
of Y. M. C. A. Secretaries Serving Industrial Areas at a meeting held at the Greensboro Y. M. C. A.
the morning of the thirteenth. This organization serves the two Carolinas and Virginia. Mr. Arnold was formerly general secretary of
Cone Memorial Y. M. C. A. and he has served about eight years as a member of the National Industrial
Commission. He is also vice-president of the Association of Y. M. C. A. Secretaries serving Industrial Fields of the United
States and Canada and is serving a three-year term. At the next gathering which will [Continued on Page Five]

Dr. Redhead, at least thirty men at Davidson College who have not professed Christ. What a great day it would
be for this institution if each of us who have pledged our allegiance to Him would become such advertisements for
Christ that we could win those thirty men to Him!”

Concert Given By Orchestra
Pfohl Takes Little Symphony to Fayetteville

The Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra conducted by Professor James Christian Pfohl, gave a concert in collaboration with the Flora Macdonald
College Glee Club at the Fayetteville First Presbyterian Church on the evening of April 12. The main feature of the
program was furnished by Earle Copes who played the piano Concerto in C by Mozart. The Little Symphony Orchestra played
Praeludium, by Jarnefelt; Valse Triste, by Sibelius; Le Coucou, by Arensky; and Waltz from the Ballet “The Sleeping Beauty” by
Tschaikowsky. The program was sponsored by the North Carolina State Federation of Music Clubs. The Flora Macdonald Glee Club and
the Vocal Sextette also took part in the program.

New Officers
The Little Symphony Orchestra recently elected its next year's officers: President, Reb Rumniel; Vice-President, Francis Magill; and Secretary-Treasurer, Louis Hite.

Alumnus Gets YMCA Award
Albert S. Arnold, prominent alumnus of Davidson and member of the class of '33, was elected president of the Association
of Y. M. C. A. Secretaries Serving Industrial Areas at a meeting held at the Greensboro Y. M. C. A.
the morning of the thirteenth. This organization serves the two Carolinas and Virginia. Mr. Arnold was formerly general secretary of
Cone Memorial Y. M. C. A. and he has served about eight years as a member of the National Industrial
Commission. He is also vice-president of the Association of Y. M. C. A. Secretaries serving Industrial Fields of the United
States and Canada and is serving a three-year term. At the next gathering which will [Continued on Page Five]this year
and entertainment to the fraternity members.

Quartet Sings On Broadcast April 18

On April 8, the regular weekly radio broadcast was presented over WBT from 9:15 to 9:30. James C. Pfohl was
the musical director as usual, and Thane McDonald announced the program. Bob Kellogg was the student news commentator; soloists for
the broadcast were Earle Copes, pianist, and the Davidson Quartet. The program was opened as usual by the playing of
“O Davidson” by the Davidson College Band, and it was followed by “College Ties.”

Quartet Sings

The Davidson College Quartet, composed of members of the band, then sang “Love's Old Sweet Song” medley. This was followed
by two solos by Earle Copes.

[Continued on Page Six]

Local Chapter Is Host To Regional SPE Meet

The North Carolina Iota Chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon, national social fraternity, was host for the second straight year to
the district convention of the organization. On April 25, at 4 o'clock in Room 126 Chambers, Dr. W. Porter will
address the meeting of the Science Symposium. All seniors who are majoring in the sciences are invited to be present.
The discussion will center around the increase in hours required for a major in science.

Discuss Christian Problems

The joint group then participated in a discussion of the problems a Christian finds in modern civilization. A short devotion
followed. The rest of the evening was devoted to a special supper, games, and a variety of after-dinner entertainment.

Three Chapters Present

Three chapters were represented for the conclave: Duke University, North Carolina State College, and Davidson College. Present to conduct the
convention were W. F. Hankes, district governor, and Mark D. Wilkins, assistant to the grand secretary. Four business sessions were
held during the two-day meeting, at which presided the above-named officers of the fraternity. A feature of the sessions was
the model initiation which was presented by the Davidson chapter and supervised by Hankes.

Installation Banquet

Saturday night an installation banquet was held in the ballroom of Hotel Charlotte, at which time the newly elected officers
of the chapter for next year were inaugurated. A feature of the dinner was the address made by Wilkins. The
delegates, their dates, and guests, and the faculty brothers of the Davidson chapter, Dr. Goldiere and Dr. Eagle, were present.

Formal Dance

Immediately following the banquet, a formal dance was held in honor of the visiting delegates. Representatives of each of the
other eight Davidson social fraternities were also invited. Sponsors for the dance were Misses Sara Ramseur of Lincolnton, Nancy McAden
of Charlotte, W. C. Craver of Salisbury, and Rebecca Tucker of Charlotte. These girls were escorted by officers of the
chapter.

New Officers

Plans are going forward to hold this district meeting in Charlotte each year with the Davidson chapter as host. Officers
installed during the conclave were Tom Casali, President; Walter Fitzgerald, Vice-President; Bob Doty, Treasurer; Fred Harbin, Secretary; and Philip Edwards,
Pan-Hellenic Councilman.

Friday & Saturday

Jack London’s “ROMANCE OF THE REDWOODS” starring Chas. Bickford and Jean Parker.

Reweaving Service

Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

Monday & Tuesday

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

“PERSONS IN HIDING” starring Lynn Overman and Patricia Morisson.

DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, RADIO SUPPLIES, HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Get the Broadway Habit
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

Spectator Club To Join Phi Society On Hayride

Davidson Literary Organization Will Sponsor Campus New Feature Appears

Beginning with the next issue of the “Davidsonian,” a new weekly feature will make its appearance, which will be entitled
“Echoes From The Past.” In this new column will be contained excerpts gleaned from old “Davidsonians” that were published exactly
one, five, and ten years ago. The readers will be informed of what was making news on the campus, both
general events and in the world of sports.

The Philanthropic Literary Society, at its regular meeting Tuesday night, discussed plans for its annual meeting with the Spectator Club
of Queens-Chicora College, which this year will take the form of a hayride out to the Red Fez. A picnic
supper will be held there, with members of both clubs participating in the program. Dan Walker is serving as chairman
of the social committee. This will be the first innovation that the new staff of “The Davidsonian” has contributed since
it came into office the first of April.

Approximately twenty-four Davidson students participated in a joint discussion last Saturday with the “Y” cabinet at W. C. U. N.
C. In order to make up the difference in size of the two groups, a number of students not on
the local cabinet but included on the delegation participated. Arriving at the college, the Davidson men were treated to an
“ice-breaking cocktail” as their hostesses called a general all-round introduction.

Another important phase of the meeting was the disclosure that the society has investigated the possibilities of giving to the
library a large display shelf for the purpose of holding the records of both societies. The shelf is to be
located in the upper hall and is to be installed in the near future. Besides holding the records, the shelf
will also serve as a display for articles and papers of the participating societies. A committee will also be appointed
Tuesday night to take charge of the making of an anthology of student writing. This subject has been under consideration
for some time and will be under the direction of Jerry Doster, chairman of the committee on research, and Dawson
Withers, chairman of the anthology committee for 1939.

SHIRTCRAFT AIRMAN A POPULAR PRICE

Lean back and stretch. Swing your arms. See how the Airman’s true-to-life fit gives you plenty of room for freedom
of action. Every Airman is tailored with all those important details that identify fine shirts. The collar is sloped to
set perfectly on the neck, stays neat all day, and has a permanent fold line that resists fraying. The shirts
launder beautifully, the shirt front won't bulge at the chest. And every Airman is guaranteed never to shrink below its
correct size. A wide choice of new patterns and colors at $1.48---$1.95.

MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
