By ANDY DALE
Sideline Sidelights
April 5, 1939

DAVIDSON SPORTS
DAVIDSON THE DAVIDSONIAN

'Cat Golfers Undefeated
Netmen Conquer West

Page Four

Although Davidson may not have a leading football team, the ‘Cats stand high in all spring sports. Davidson sports turned
upward when the basketball team made the semi-finals of the Raleigh tournament, being beaten by the winner. With the advent
of spring, the 'Cats swing into their own. Thus far the golf team has won five straight over representative teams
in the south on their annual tour, and the tennis team has won all their matches which were reported before
the paper went to press. The only unreported match on the schedule for their western trip is with the University
of Texas, a fine team in any man’s league.

The baseballers got off to a flying start in two warm-up games by beating Larkwood and Colby. The nine is
still plenty rough in spots, but this should improve with warmer weather and more practice. Davidson's track stars went down
by a close decision to South Carolina, the meeting being decided by the last event. Saturday of this week will
find all teams except frosh golf and tennis having entered their regular schedule. This afternoon the ‘Cats seek revenge for
the 23-9 shellacking that Catawba handed them last season on the diamond. Tomorrow the linksmen take on the University of
Georgia at Charlotte in their first home match. Friday the frosh baseball team meets Greensboro High here while the Varsity
trackmen look for their first win when they meet Maryville College here. At the same time the frosh take on
Barium Springs. Saturday brings Carolina to Davidson in another ball game, while the frosh play Charlotte High there. It’s a
full week for players and spectators alike.

Diamond Dust

With baseball hitting full stride this week Coach Laird has been working extensively with the entire squad in order to
smooth things out as much as possible before the season really starts. Going around the team, with a few notes
here and there, here’s the way it looks now. Behind the plate is Rusty Hellekson, ineligible reserve last year, who
has been showing up well defensively, and who has had two hits in each of the games to date. Hurling
duties are being taken care of by seven men, three of whom have seen action already. Hicks started both games,
McLean flipped next, and Thomas wound up both. Besides these, Ficklen, Reinhardt, Connor, and Cagle are counted on for relief
duty.

At the initial sack, Laird is working on Frank Niven, sophomore, who garnered three for four in the Larkwood game,
and is showing improvement in his fielding. Black Dog has second in his clutches, being a holdover from last year
with one more season before him. Rusty Edmundson and Walt Fitzgerald are waging a merry battle for the shortstop slot,
with Edmundson apparently on top at present. Fitzgerald may see action at one of the outfield posts in case Edmundson
plays short consistently. Veteran Sam Hemphill has shown up well in hitting thus far, having a brace of doubles and
four singles to his credit now. He will handle the hot corner this year.

In the outer gardens, Hugh Verner, in left field, has been having trouble at the plate, and at present is
working on his hitting. Tubby Hand in center is batting third in the lineup, and besides slamming out a homer
in the Colby game, is fielding faultlessly. Eddie Steere, senior right fielder, is the hard luck man of the outfit.
Counted on as a starting pitcher this season, he broke his arm last fall in touch football, and will not
be able to pitch at all this spring. With the bases jammed ahead of him, and the score Colby 8,
Davidson 6, Eddie cracked out a long ball to deep left field which fell foul by a few inches out
by the fence behind the left fielder. However, he walked and Rusty Hellekson took the hero’s role by scoring a
single which drove in the winning runs just before the third out was made as Eddie (again) was caught sliding
into third.

Intramurals Hit Stretch

Intramurals are now entering the last lap with one more major sport remaining to be played after the present volleyball
tournament is over. During the year Pete Whittle and his referees, Alcorn, Cowan, and Tice, have kept the whole program
running smoothly with plenty of interest shown by everyone. In the interfraternity competition, the Phi Gams are now leading, while
the Seniors hold a big majority of points in interclass competition. Competition for the individual intramural trophy cup is centered
between Bill Marquess and Steve Fowler, both seniors, who have gathered 40 and 36 points respectively. Next high are Tom
Abbott and George Jones with 30 markers each. Jones, however, is ineligible for any more intramural competition because of his
varsity tennis team position. Thus far competition for the cup has been much stiffer than last year, for Yates Faison
took the honor in '38 with a 36-point total. Congrats to Whittle for heightening interest in intramural sports this year.

South Carolina Wins Over Davidson Men

In a meet at Columbia last Saturday, Davidson's varsity tracksters lost to the South Carolina Gamecocks by the close score
of 69 1-3 to 56 2-3. Little of South Carolina was high point man of the meet, chalking up victories
in four events—100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 220-low hurdles, and the broad jump. Captain Larry Craig of the Gamecocks was the
individual star of the afternoon, however, bettering the record in the discus with a throw of 148 feet 9 inches
and showing up superbly in the shot put and javelin. Captain Boo Walker led the Wildcat cindermen with wins in
the mile and half-mile for 10 points.

Kit Trackmen Begin Season

The Freshmen track team is rapidly rounding into shape for its first meet which comes Friday, April 7 with Barium
Springs. The Kittens are conceded a very good chance of downing the Barium boys, who usually present a strong aggregation.
In the weight departments, the yearlings are especially strong, with such men as Knoeller, Freeze, Bell, Charlie Webb, and Terrell
to do the heaving. Probably the individual star of the team is Archie Taylor from Winston-Salem who runs the hurdles
and sprints. Other leading sprint candidates are Spencer, Williams, and Loy.

Cats Strong at Distances

Davidson was especially strong in the distance runs with Woodward, Gammon, and Kellogg taking all places in the two-mile and
Walker annexing the mile and the half-mile. The Wildcats showed up better than expected in the hurdles with Harbin taking
the 120 highs.

[Continued on Page Six]

The distance runs will be taken care of by the following: Coppedge, Sprunt, Mann, McLaughlin, Turnage, and Jones. Strandwitz and
Williamson look good in the high jump, while Shannon is the leading candidate for the pole vault. The Kits nosed
out Barium Springs last year and the Springers will be out for revenge this year. Following is the remainder of
the schedule:

April 15—V. P. I. freshmen—here.
April 28—P. C. freshmen—Clinton.
May 3—Junior College Conference meet—here.
May 5—Charlotte high—Charlotte.
May 11—Winston-high—here.

Golfers Win Five Meets During Trip

Linksmen Win All Matches as Sharpe Plays Low; U. of Ga. Next

During the annual spring tour, the Davidson golfers won all their matches, defeating five opponents. Thursday afternoon, the first day
of spring holidays, the Cat divot-diggers met Hampton-Sydney at Charlotte. Davidson won, 12 1-2 to 5 1-2. Granville Sharpe, football
star of Beester fame, divided the low scoring honors with Jimmy (Chicken) Cooper. They both held 82. Citadel was next
to fall under the scores of the Wildcat linksmen. The Citadel scored 3 1-2 points to the Cats' 14 1-2.
Again Sharpe was low scorer with a 75. Ray Pittman, captain of the team, was next best with a 76.

Beat South Carolina

Davidson made it three straight by defeating South Carolina, 9 1-2 to 8 1-2. Emory was the next to succumb
to the Cats. This was another close low match, in which the Cats barely squeezed out a 9 1-2 to
8 1-2 victory. Finally, to celebrate the ending of theSpring vacation and also the ending of a successful tour, the
golfers defeated the University of Georgia, 13 to 5. Yesterday afternoon, Alma College of Michigan came to Charlotte to meet
the Davidson linksmen. The match was played too late for results to be placed in this issue, however.

Links Slate Schedule:
April 6—Univ. of Georgia at Charlotte.
April 12—Citadel at Athens.
April 13-15—Southern Intercollegiate at Athens.
April 26—Univ. North Carolina at Greensboro.
April 27—State Intercollegiate at Greensboro.
April 28—Duke (tentative) at Greensboro.
May 12—Wake Forest (tentative) at Pinehurst.
May 13—Southern Conference at Pinehurst.

Kits Prep For First Contest
With three weeks of preparation behind them, interrupted only by the spring vacation, the freshman baseball team is rapidly rounding
into shape for the coming season. Coach Norman Sheppard, disappointed in the hitting of the yearlings, spent a good part
of last week correcting faults in the batters. His efforts were apparently in vain as the Regulars were shut out
for four innings by Ed Lucas in the practice game Monday. The Yannigans pounded the offerings of “Fireball” Chastain for
three runs and five hits. Among them were a double by Jack Clark, a triple by Bob McLeod, and a
home run by Jackie Simonds.

Infield Chosen
Coach Sheppard has just about settled on the infield combination which will bear the brunt of the burden during the
season. It consists of Bill Nelson at third, Jim Owens at short, Tommy Yarborough at second, and Bobby Carter at
first. In the few pre-season contests which the team has had this year, this infield has shown good promise.

Outfield Open
The battle for outfield positions is still wide open. With Mac Morris, Bob Smith trying for left field; Sid Daffin
and Cam Wilson for center, and Frank Caldwell and Ralph Stair for right, a fine group of flychasers should be
developed. In preparation for games with Greensboro and Charlotte on Friday and Saturday, a practice tilt will be held either
Tuesday or Wednesday with the varsity reserves.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion Bluebird 35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 825 PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898 Charlotte, N. C.

Tennis Aces
Alternating at the number one and two slots on the tennis team are Rae Tenney of Atlanta, Ga., and Billy
Turner of Chevy Chase, Md. Tenney, a junior, is playing his second year as a member of the varsity, besides
a year with the freshmen. Turner, sophomore star, played at the first position on last year’s frosh team. Traveling on
the western tour with the team, these men played good tennis in all matches on the trip. Both men are
ranked high among leading players in colleges throughout the country.

Tennis Team Undefeated On Spring Vacation Trip
With six matches of their holiday trip reported, the varsity tennis team is still undefeated, holding victories over Univ. of
South Carolina, Emory, Southern Methodist, Southwestern, Baylor, and Univ. of Mississippi. In the opening match on March 23, the Wildcats
defeated Emory in a close match 6-4. On the 25th, they downed a strong Univ. of Mississippi by a score
of 6-4. Turner, Northcross, Captain Jones, Hunter, and Cloyd gained victories in their singles matches, but Turner and Tenney were
the only Davidson team to win in the doubles. The Cats followed these up with victories over Southern Methodist, Southwestern,
and Baylor.

Kittens Enter Second Round
Action in the Spring Freshman Tennis Tourney has been slowed down because of the inconsistency of the weather and of
the few players to finish their matches. The seeded entrants remaining in the second round because of byes. Results follow:
Dumas defeated Bill Tyson in their encounter 6-3, 6-4, Tad Larkin downed T. H. King with the count of 6-2,
6-4, Bill Summers won over Nichols by forfeit. Wilson McDiarmid walloped J. Moore 6-0, 6-0. The remaining first round matches
are to be played off early this week and as the weeding out process is completed, the brand of tennis
displayed should also improve. The tourney is an annual affair, its purpose like the Cake-Race being to determine talent for
the Freshmen Tennis team and to bring to light material for future Wildcat varsities. The Frosh team will be chosen
from the men in the final brackets of this Tournament, and matches will be played with several schools. Tommy Harris
is in charge of arrangements for the Tournament.

Trio of Frats Lead Tourney
Competition in the Inter-Fraternity Volleyball Tournament reached a fever pitch this week with a continuation of the games after the
Spring holiday lull with keen action as the teams battled for supremacy in this phase of the Inter-Fraternity competition. Earlier
in the week, the SAE’s trounced the Sig Ep’s, while the Phi Delts took measure of the Pikas. The Kappa
Sigs also defeated the Pi Kapps and the Phi Gams beat the Betas. Monday afternoon, the Kappa Sigs continued undefeated
after getting off to a slow start against the KA’s. They lost the first game 21-10, but got back the
second with the same score, and ran out the series winning the third game 21-13.

Other Games
The Phi Delts bested the Pi Kapps in their tussle, winning 21-15, and 21-5. The SAE's triumphed over the Betas
as they took the first game 21-17, lost the second 21-14, but won the final match 21-12. The Pikas fell
before the onslaught of the Sig Eps on a comeback trail. The SPE’s took the opening game 21-11, but ran
into a little resistance in the second and lost 21-17. The deciding game was hotly contested but when the dust
had cleared the Sig Eps had won 21-18.

[Continued on Page Six]

Cats Take Opener From Semi-Pros
Defeated 9-8 in Close Game as Tubby Hand and J. D. Hicks Lead Hitters

Wildcat Nine Opens With Victories Over Larkwood and Colby by 10-3 Count; Colby
March 31, the baseball club marked up its second victory in as many starts by nosing out a Colby College
team 9 to 8. The home team was first to score when Hunter and Hemphill got knocks and Hand followed
with a beautiful homer to the centerfield stands in the first inning. Colby, however, went in the lead 5-3 with
a four-run splurge in the third frame. The count was knotted at 5 all when the Cats crossed the plate
twice in the fourth stanza. With the score standing 8 to 6 against them, the Davidson boys settled down to
business in their half of the eighth. Hellickson singled to send Hemphill home with the tying run and Hand in
with the winning tally. Friday afternoon, Davidson varsity baseball club marked up its second victory in as many starts by
nosing out a Colby College team 9 to 8.

Hurlers
Three pitchers worked on the hill for the locals—Hicks for seven innings, McLean for 1 1-3, and Thomas for 2-3,
McLean being credited with the win. Hershey and (Continued on Page Six)

The Wooden Bowl
125 W. Fourth St.
“3 MEALS A DAY”
Private Parties
Telephone 2-1810

TO THE BALL GAME...
It has those sporting lines that score a hit whenever you wear it. It’s the hat that starts a fellow’s
mood soaring... that makes a girl look twice... with admiration. In Stetson’s smart International colors, at the Stetson Special price
of $5.

MEN'S SHOP
Street Floor
EFIRD’S

NEW SPRING SPORTSWEAR
DAVIDSON EMBLEM
DRY GOODS
GROCERIES
RADIO SUPPLIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

$1.00 MEN'S SHORTS $1.00
T-SHIRTS $1.00
ATHLETIC SOCKS, pair 25
Beach SANDALS 1.65
Dunlop Tennis BALLS, 3 for 1.25
All Pennants and Fraternity Stationery 10% OFF
Student Store
Bill Telford
Sam Hemphill
Managers
