Wed., March 15, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question Band Heard Venerable Pika Summer School Session
the Week in Florence, Starts Middle of June
Hartsville much discussion recently in regards
New Courses Offered in Mete- Davidson Men ofslsgy AR TAGE to a movement at one of the Pres-
Symphonic Band To Present Summer School
Winston and
Davidson College’s 1939 summer session will open on June 14 and will con-
tinue for six weeks, closing July 24. A question which has received
who have radical and rather un- campus this afternoon after orthodox views on religion, society, giving concerts yesterday in
economics, and other subjects, in Florence, S.C., and at Coker
addition to those of conservative College in Hartsville this
and quite cogently orthodox views morning.
points?” Last night’s concert, which was
held in the Florence High School
Walter Heilman, Senior: auditorium, was sponsored by the
It seems to me that Davidson Kiwanis Club of Florence. The
should secure speakers who are sin- proceeds from the sale of tickets
cere in their beliefs and have good were to be used to buy uniforms
reasons for their viewpoints, re- for the high school band.
gardless of which side of the ques- Included in these two concerts
tion they take. A truly educated were selections by von Flotow, Gil-
man will want to know both sides lette, Strauss, and Wagner.
of any argument, and he will not Friday the band will present a
be injured in forming his opinion concert at the R. J. Reynolds Me-
by an irrational or groundless state- morial Auditorium in Winston-Sa-
ment. He could derive the best of lem. This concert is sponsored by
each speaker's ideas, and combine the three high school bands of
them all into his own. I am defin- Winston-Salem and Troop 9 of the
itely in favor of having authoritative Boy Scouts of America.
speakers, regardless of their opin- The Glee Club and Little Sym-
ions, come before the Davidson stu- phony Orchestra leave this Satur-
dent body. day after chapel for Wilming-
ton and other cities in the eastern
Dan Shields, Sophomore: part of the state. That night the
I see no reason why speakers of this group will appear at the New
type should not be invited to Davidson. Hanover High School Auditorium
We should give their arguments their in Wilmington. The program will
full value, and take them for what they include works by such composers as
are worth. Mozart, Sibelius and Tchaikovsky.
The following evening they will give a sacred concert
Dick Aycock, Senior: at the First Presbyterian Church
Davidson is recognized as being very in Wilmington.
conservative. This would tend to a Monday night the group will
break away from the set standards present a concert at Flora Mac-
and might create quite some dis- Donald College in Red Springs
cussion and disturbance in the and Tuesday they will be at Pres-
church organization behind David- byterian Junior College of Maxton.
son if they thought students here That night the orchestra and glee
were being subjected to unorthodox club will appear at the Troy high
beliefs. On the other hand, everybody school and will return to the camp-
should know all sides or ideas on us after this concert. The works of
current topics to be able to form an Palestrina, Mozart, Järnefelt, and
intelligent opinion. By hearing lec- Tchaikovsky will be included in
turers of such viewpoints this would these last three programs.
be accomplished.

Rifle Team Loses Shoulder to
Shoulder Match by Eighteen Points
The Davidson College R.O.T.C. rifle team journeyed to Clemson College for a shoulder-to-shoulder match with the Clemson rifle team, losing by only a scant eighteen points. The Davidson team led the first three stages of the match, but lost in the fourth and last stage by low kneeling scores. The prone, sitting, and standing scores were high. Captain George Jones was the high scorer for the Wildcats, and Cadet Crumpley was high man for the Tigers. After the match, which was fired Saturday afternoon, the boys were provided special entertainment by the Clemson students. Those making the trip were Captain Jones, R.A. Ballard, J. Bolin, J.T. Chastain, K.C. Jonas, M.W. Kunz, W.E. Kunz, J.T. Strandwitz, W.F. Ward, and R. Lewis. They were accompanied by Major Ballard, instructor, Major Steel, and Sergeant Burton.

Next Saturday, the Wildcats face The Citadel rifle team at Charleston in a shoulder-to-shoulder match. On April 8 Clemson comes here for a return match and the following Saturday, The Citadel also comes to Davidson for a return engagement.

Summer School
All of the courses offered will be selected from those given during the regular session. Thus a student is able, at any stage of his college career, to advance his standing by taking summer work. Smaller classes and concentrated work of these courses make summer work helpful both to those students who are deficient in some subject and high school graduates who are planning on entering college next semester and find that they are deficient in credit for college entrance. All courses offered are available for teacher certificate credit, under the rules laid down by the State Department of Public Instruction.

The same method of grading is used during this session as during regular terms, and the same standard of work is required. No student, except those taking a science course, will be allowed to earn more than six hours credit during this session. Six-hour credit courses will meet twice each day for a seventy-minute recitation period. Three-hour credit courses will have one recitation period of the same length. Additional laboratory time will be required for all science courses. Each course must have an enrollment of six students or it will be withdrawn. If there is sufficient demand, additional courses will be given.

The dormitories will be opened for summer school students on June 14. Although there are dormitory rooms available for women students, the Director of the summer session will be glad to submit a list of private homes where room may be obtained. Board can be secured in the town during the summer at about $25.00 per month. The fees for the Summer Session are the same as those for the regular session.

Dr. H.B. Arbuckle has the unusual distinction of having worked with Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity for over fifty years. He is to be honored at a banquet given by this fraternity on Friday night in Charlotte. Dr. Freeman Hart, national president, will be the chief speaker for the occasion—(Photo by Angus Lytch).

Drink a Quart of Milk a DayPublished by Dr. Caleb Richmond Alpha Psi was seen at the Founder's Day banquet. On Friday afternoon, March 17, Midwinter's song brought Lytch a smile. Professor emeritus of the Red and Black, Harding, was also present. The Masquers, held by the local chapter of the fraternity, will present Walter L. Linete with a gold-engraved certificate in recognition of his services. The main speaker at the banquet, to be held Friday evening at Thacker’s in Charlotte, will be Dr. Freeman, the present national president of the fraternity.

Dr. Harding's article, published in the March issue of the North Carolina Education magazine, dealt with the great decrease of Latin students during recent years in North Carolina high schools. He also pointed out a still greater decrease, proportionately, in Latin teachers, so great that North Carolina school superintendents have a difficult time filling vacancies in that department. Agitation is underway in state circles to discard Latin altogether in county schools. Dr. Harding will sit on the platform at the meeting in Raleigh of the North Carolina Teachers’ Association, publishers of the Education magazine, on March 17. At this time, a resume of his fifty years of active teaching will be read.

Davidson prides herself on having an intelligent student body. Therefore, she should not be afraid to have speakers appear before the student body whose ideas do not exactly correspond to the teachings and opinions of her faculty and officials. Education should not be limited to the ideas of a few when many have other views. I say, let’s hear all of them, and then choose the best and most worthwhile. By all means, have them come!

Special guests of the evening were Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Cummings, Professor H. T. Lily, and Professor Chalmers Davidson. These guests entered into the discussion and helped to broaden the field of thought in regard to the subject. Professor E. J. Erwin, faculty advisor to the two organizations, gave brief synopses of the proposed productions and criticized the suggestions, especially as to their literary and dramatic qualities. Although the dramatists are in the main students at Davidson, there are two young ladies of the town of Davidson who usually play the leading feminine roles. These are Miss Kalista Hood and Miss Susie Jackson. They were also present at the meeting and expressed their opinion as to the possibility of production of the various plays. Plans were made to present the selection sometime in April, and practice for it will begin immediately after the completion of spring sports.

Last Tuesday night, March fourteenth, the D Club met to take in new members and discuss the consideration of certain sports as minors at Davidson. Those who were admitted were those members of the basketball and wrestling teams who had won their letters in this year’s competitions. A discussion was held as to the recognition of soccer and rifle marksmanship as regular minor sports, thereby making the members of those teams eligible to receive their D’s.

Davidson’s two leading dramatic organizations held a joint meeting at the Kappa Alpha house on Wednesday night, March 8th. Chief topic of discussion throughout the informal meeting was the selection of a suitable play to present. Many of the outstanding plays were discussed, and the relative merits for production here were pointed out. Although none of the plays were selected, the field of choice narrowed, and the choice will be announced in the near future.

Dr. Arbuckle is himself quite prominent in the fraternity, having been Grand Councilor, or national president, for twenty years, from 1913 to 1933. He was one of the first initiates to an early chapter of the brotherhood, having joined the Iota chapter at Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia in 1886. He graduated from Hampden-Sydney in 1889, being valedictorian of his class. He held a teaching fellowship at the college for the next year, at the end of which he received his degree. Next, he studied at the University of Virginia and Johns Hopkins University. He was awarded his degree as a Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Virginia. Dr. Arbuckle will attend the Association of Southern Colleges at Memphis.

Davidson’s new fraternity stationery is now available at the Student Store.