Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., May 3, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief Tony Casali
Business Manager John Latimer

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Managing Editor Jack Abernathy
Managing Editor Tony Cris
Managing Editor Paul Bumbarger
Managing Editor Tom Cauble
Sports Editor Joe Liles
Associate Editor Ed Watson
Associate Editor Lawson Withers
Associate Editor Andy Date
Associate Editor Austin
Staff Photographer Jack Holland
Karl Hudson
Sam Spencer
Bobby Williams
Angus Lytch

BUSINESS STAFF
B. B. Plyler Business Manager
Jim Currie Advertising Manager
John Ross Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager Lokey
Circulation Manager Tom Hackney
Collection Manager Bud Gilmore

Sympathies
The Davidsonian extends its deepest sympathies to Dr. Logan in the recent loss of his father.

“Hats Off”
You've heard the old story of the blocking back in football—He does all the heavy work and gets little or
no recognition from the papers. However, the coach knows that his services are invaluable—that he is a key man in
his machine. In other phases of life there are also men like this. Take for instance our business managers of
publications on the campus. The editors of these publications know that without these men the papers, magazines, or annuals, would
be far from success. We don’t want to take any credit from the editors, but we do want to congratulate
the business managers on the fine jobs that they do. Especially Latimer and his staff. His job has been a
hard one. Week after week his work has been hard, but just like the coach realizes that the blocking back
is invaluable, the editor realizes that Latimer and his services are invaluable. To him goes little of the credit but
“hats off” to a hard worker. We salute you, Latimer.

Go Easy
That glorious time has finally been reached for which seniors have waited during the entire three-and-eight-ninths years of college. Now
even the dread of approaching final exams is pushed back by the supreme joy of having six, eight, even twelve
cylinders at one’s command. When those long, warm afternoons come, all that’s necessary are a few gallons of gas and
a crowd to share expenses. That’s all well and good, but listen, you guys, please do us underclassmen a favor
and watch your step and your speedometer. Now the last thing that “The Davidsonian” wants to be called is an
old maid. We’re not going to be backseat-drivers, continually nagging you to slow down on curves and to watch for
the dumb pedestrian in small towns. Anyone who has ever held the wheel knows what a thrill it is to
“let ’er out,” and we all realize that staying behind a pokey old wagon on a hill destroys any Christian
spirit a person’s got (of course, if you meet a truck on the crest while passing, that destroys Christian spirits
too). We ask you, however, to look at the situation in another light. Just remember that we also want our
cars during that last May of our school life, and if the senior class piles up a list of accidents
and casualties, the administration will never legally permit us the privilege. Laying aside all sentimental arguments, we ask you to
drive safely and do the underclassmen a favor. If you want to lay up a coffin bill for your family
or become a life-long invalid, wait until after June 5.

L. W.

Felix
A few nights ago when the false rumor was circulating the campus that Felix, wildcat mascot, had broken loose, we
couldn’t help but feel a slight touch of joy at the prospect. For many years now Felix has been confined
to the narrow bounds of a very small, circular cage, with nothing to do day after day but climb into
his lone tree and gaze meekly at an occasional Davidson student who takes the trouble to call upon him. His
only excitement comes in the fall, when visitors to football games on the campus stop to admire him. It seems
that the administration could very easily build the mascot a larger cage, at very little cost, thereby allowing him at
least a little more territory to explore and giving him the diversion of having more than one tree to climb.
If this is impossible, then the best thing to do would be to turn him loose; however, it is very
doubtful if he could survive long after many years of confinement and dependency upon others for food. As the case
now stands, Felix is a very poor example of the traditional Wildcat spirit, being not the fighting, clawing animal from
which our athletic teams have taken a name, but instead a lonely, forlorn creature forgotten and outcast by all save
he who brings him his food each day.

P. W. B.

Campus Comments
The venerable saw about in the Spring young men’s fancies lightly turning to thoughts of love is in the main
true. But while this is a truly noble pastime, and one not lightly to be thrown aside even with the
impending prospect of term papers, examinations, and other kindred tribulations staring at us from the not too distant future, there
are at the same time other considerations to which good Davidson men turn their minds when Spring comes in. For
Spring ushers in the last four weeks of the school year, and it is not a wholly pleasant thought, even
to the most sophisticated, that in but little over a month and a half one fourth of the student body
will troop for the last time down the front steps of Chambers and then go out into a dozen different
walks of life, many of them never to return again. And so it is but natural that many of us
(and I speak particularly of the Senior class) mix in a few thoughts of the college as a whole along
with the commoner fancies of the birds and the bugs and the trees and the girls. There are a great
many thoughts that come to mind as we Seniors face the final weeks of our Davidson life. Some pleasant, some
unpleasant. We have had our good times with the bad—our dances and our sessions with the Executive Committee, our water
fights and our assessments to pay for them, our hopeful pep-meetings and our moral victories the next day. But all
in all ours has been a good four years, and in retrospect not many of us regret our sins of
commission so much as those of omission. And all of us, when we get our sheep-skins in June and go
out into the world as “educated” men to find our place in life, will leave behind, hopes that Davidson will
have all that is best in the future (including, of course, a football team that will someday beat Duke).

All of this leads, by devious ways, up to a few final words of advice to the underclassmen, who will
someday too be Seniors. First, do not let yourself or anyone else scorn Davidson. The college is by no means
perfect, but you won’t find another that can come up to it in general merit of student body and faculty.
Secondly, don’t let yourself, on the other hand, become smug and conceited about Davidson. There is a regrettable tendency among
Davidson students toward a self-satisfied complacency towards other institutions. Thirdly, try to get closer to the faculty members. A very
real part of any man’s education should be association with cultured, educated men, and it is surprising how nearly human
our professors seem when you know them intimately outside of classrooms. And finally, be constructively critical of your college, not
only in classes but on the campus in general. Do not condemn professors, courses, or administrative policies until you know
all the facts, and only then when you have some constructive suggestions to make.

Sincerely,
SCOTTY RAYNAL, Student.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON
SUPER SNOOPINGS
OUR FELLOW DRIVERS
By O'Daniel
Travelers Safety Service
"It's a little dangerous, but John does belong to so many clubs"

PEACE
Firm in their demands for world peace, but divided in their views as to how the U. S. should work
for it, an estimated 100,000 students held peace rallies on many college and university campuses last week. Abandoning the “strike”
idea of former years, the meetings this year were quiet and mild. The split in views came over the question
of neutrality versus collective security. No figures are available to tell which opinion drew the largest number of adherents. Despite
the many college press editorials urging students to face the facts of the present international situation, the demonstrations this year
drew the smallest crowds in years.

PLEA
Despite the fact that most all lauded the statesmanship of President Roosevelt in addressing his plea for peace to the
dictator-controlled nations, collegiate opinion was divided on the effectiveness of the latest U. S. move to bring order out of
the European chaos. Chief criticism of the fault-finders was that the message to Hitler and Mussolini throws the U. S.
into a battle of words that is not our concern. This side of the question was ably upheld by the
Villanova College Villanovan, which said: “Isn't it natural that the dictators viewed this plea with misgivings? They certainly perceived an
inconsistency of views in the attitude taken by Mr. Roosevelt. We hope that in the future the heads of our
governments will refrain from making rash statements that will jeopardize the intrinsic value of noteworthy appeals made in good faith.
First and last they should remember that if democracy is to be safeguarded, let us protect it here, not in
European battlefields.”

However, in a majority were the comments in favor of the President’s appeal. The Rollins College Sandspur summarized the position
of the supporters of the President in this fashion: “Roosevelt has taken a momentous step in attempting to force the
hands of the dictators. Although it may fail, such an attempt is better than for the most powerful nation on
earth to adopt a philosophy of futility toward a world war. Everyprotest against domination by force will swell the tide
of world opinion for peace.” The Grinnell College Scarlet and Black called on collegians to support the President: “He did
not blunder when he called upon the dictators of Europe to make peace for at least ten years while the
world’s problems could be worked out around conference tables. Youth, college and otherwise, all over the world should thank Roosevelt
for that appeal. It is youth who will march off to some battlefield in the next few weeks, if some
such thing as the Roosevelt proposal is not accepted soon.”

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday, May 4

** *

“THE LADY FROM KENTUCKY.” This is one of the newest pictures out, and it has come at a very appropriate
moment. Horse racing in Kentucky came to the front during the winter with the advent of “Kentucky,” and then all
the talk of the Derby on Saturday has even magnified it, but here is a racing picture that will put
the picture and the Derby out of the spotlight. It’s so new that there hasn't been much publicity about it,
but by all means see it and enjoy it.

Friday, May 5

** *

“DARK VICTORY.”—Bette Davis, George Brent, Humphrey Bogart, Geraldine Fitzgerald. And still another triumph for Bette Davis—this could be almost monotonous
for any other actress, but Miss Davis does everything in a flashy, spectacular manner. Dark Victory calls the two-time Academy
Award Winner to an entirely different role; one that calls forth a spirituality hitherto absent from her amazing repertoire. She
plays a complex character, a spoiled darling of a horsy Long Island set. But the girl is marked for death.
Her waning eyesight brings her finally to a sympathetic brain surgeon; an operation reveals that she has less than a
year to live. As she convalesces from the surgery that failed, she loses her heart to the surgeon, George Brent.
And he, too, falls deeply in love. They marry, but death is always at the door. Worse yet, the bride
in the midst of her happiness learns of her fate. Not a cheery picture, no; nor a kiddies show. But
a strangely exciting drama, that shows that Hollywood can make pictures for adults as well as for escapist audiences.

Saturday, May 6

** *

“THE RETURN OF THE CISCO KID.”—Warner Baxter, Lynn Bari, Henry Hull, and Cesar Romero. The great “Cisco Kid,” Warner Baxter,
comes back in his favorite and most famous role to again thrill cinemaddicts everywhere. This role was the making of
Baxter, and it was by this that he came into all his popularity, and now he is trying to make
a comeback in it. Of course, he does not have the dashing fire that he once had, but there are
no flies on him. Also, don't forget Dick Tracy’s serial.

Mon.-Tues., May 8-9

** *

“THE STORY OF VERNON AND IRENE CASTLE.”—Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. This is the last of the Ginger Rogers-Fred Astaire
co-starring pictures which is sad, sad news to those who love beautiful dancing. The picture is really the biography [Continued
on Page Six]

By KEN LAWSON

Beware the icy blasts of May! I think the fellow who composed those lines about April showers making May flowers
should change it to May icicles. But even the reversal of weather predictions was not enough to prevent the rosy
tints exhibited on the fair skins of Colonel Liipfert and Jack Holland as they trod across the Chapel stage Monday
morning. The beach season is definitely on.

With the arrival of May, seniors came into their own in the matter of quadruple velocipedes but along with the
joy came the realization that only another month is left in which to escape from the folds of the WPA.
One senior, J. B. Lee by name, is happy now that he has a position with the cleanliness campaign, which
he explained so dramatically to Prof. Williamson. We hope he doesn't get stuck up with his new work.

A couple of weeks ago we mentioned the baseball ability of Editor Tom who was safe at second on a
sacrifice by roommate Abernathy (who loaned his girl for the Sig-Ep function). Now we are able to report that Casali
is on third by virtue of a long fly. (More literally it was a long trip by Abernathy with the
baseball team, while third base happened to be in Greensboro.)

Not much is being said about the dances these days; this is one thing we all should talk up because
the last dance set of the year is always the best because of the spring breezes and the light turning
of man’s fancy. Earl Mellen has been very popular on his two previous appearances at Davidson dances and from all
reports he is greatly improved. Start preparing now for just as big a time as you had at Mid-winters and
you can’t fail to have it.

DAVIDSON HEARTBEAT: Tom Crichton spending much of his time on the South side of Davidson... George Stowe quoted as saying
“Two's company and three starts a merry-go-round”... J. P. Tice finding a Ruby in Mooresville who turned out to be
quite a gem in his estimation... Bob Balsley far ahead of the field in time trials for osculatory endurance while
Bob Johnson was none too pleased... B. B. Plyler unable to pull a Houdini by the seashore... Bob Finlay, the
boy with the potent moniker, unable to explain means by which his date ended up in the river... Wild Bill
Hake making a down payment on a “pushit” Saturday night on an unexciting date which lasted until 10:30. Swede Johnson
also involved in one way or another... Bill Telford, and for another week still one of the Student Store Telfords,
attempting to run his own three-ring circus. Anything of interest gets a rise out of Telford... Perry Sloan and Mark
Cauble on unascertained Virginia detail... Bid Ivey doing his Boy Scout good turn by becoming a human moving van... The
Queens Junior-Senior with Bob McClelland the cutest one in his “soup and fish”... and Herbert Swasey taking several hikes to
the north side of Davidson.

Next week as a special feature we will give some “Dutch Uncle” advice to the frosh who are fast coming
of age on how to lose friends and alienate people among the classes of '43. Any suggestions will be appreciated.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

(Ressurection Number)

CARNIVORA... The goldfish swallowing derby seems to have run its course before reaching Davidson. At least nothing has reached our
ears about anybody’s eating anything particularly remarkable on this campus. Maybe you remember reading, though, about the boy at the
University of Illinois who achieved glory by gulping five baby white mice, all alive and tenderly wrapped in lettuce. Just
to follow up, we thought we might let you know the feat had repercussions even here. The local chapter of
the fraternity of this heroic swallower received a letter from national headquarters the other day begging the brothers to be
more orthodox in their appetites. The mice-man, of course, was operating unofficially, but the fraternity felt that the publicity thus
gained was not of the best nature. He did bring down the wrath of the university officials on his particular
chapter at that. If it will put any fraternity headquarters at ease, we might as well report that Greeks here
have everything pretty well under control, with most of them claiming that their boarding houses give them about as much
as their stomachs can contend with.

REVERIE Larry Clinton made the statement a few days ago (if we can believe a high school paper interview) that
his “My Reverie” version of Debussy’s “Reverie” has earned five times as much money for the Debussy estate as the
composer made from all of his music. Incredible, but a good story. And this rather naturally reminds us that our
suggestion of Clinton for Spring Dances went for exactly naught—not that we're much surprised. Still, probably the Pan-Hell boys know
what they're doing, getting a “little” but competent band. There are lots of expenses just at this season—house-parties, etc.—and it
would be next to impossible to get the requisite interest aroused. Mellen was plenty good enough in the past, too.
Anyway, the Pan-Hells will be needing a nest egg in a couple of months.

ODDS AND ENDS... Most used phrases since May 1: “This looks like a white man’s college now, with all these
cars.” Columnists and editorial writers in past Davidsonians have habitually demanded some radical change in the rules about “rush week,”
and there must have been some talk among undergraduates to give rise to the discussions. The total absence of any
such comment this year would seem to mean that the Greeks are satisfied—or resigning to things as they are. We've
been asked to warn Prof. Sapp of the Soft Drink Dept. that some of his customers are seriously thinking of
going up to the library to read magazines, if he doesn’t improve the lighting arrangements in the rear of his
establishment.

Here’s one you can tell your Sunday School teacher, unless he has a bad temper. “I call my dog Jason,
because he’s always looking for fleece.”

This Collegiate World
By ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS

NUDE NOGGIN: Latest money-making freak stunt to supplement the goldfish and phonograph record eating contests of collegians comes from Ohio
State. Last week Ernest R. Tennenbaum, a sophomore, had his hair clipped off neatly and smoothly for a $5 bill
donated by his Tau Epsilon Phi brethren if he’d go through with the dare. Hair tonic manufacturers will prosper as
never before if this idea goes the way of the goldfish gulping contests.

** *

DORMITORY ROMEO: A University of Florida collegian has his own “correspondence club.” It’s made up of 18 women in 16
U. S. cities, and he claims he knows them all. He made our reporter promise not to divulge his name—for
more obvious reasons!

** *

PIGS: Luther College has a new endowment building stunt that we think is something that demands a place in our
little book of collegiate oddities. To gather funds for the erection of a new women’s dorm, it is asking farmer
friends to donate a pig to the college in the spring, feed it during the summer, and present the full-grown
hog or its equivalent in cash to the college next fall. Yes, the college is located in the tall corn
state!
