Jan. 18, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Ever since the last basketball game was played here, there has been a lot of discussion about the conduct of the student body at each and every home game. Things seemed worse than ever at the South Carolina game and considerably worried the players. The following discussions show the opinion of a rather large group on the question: “Agreeing that the conduct of the student body at basketball games played here is not what it should be, what do you think should be done about it?”

Johnny Tice, Senior, varsity basketball:
“As I see it, there is really not much that can be done unless the student body takes it upon itself to remedy and change its conduct. The last game was the worst exhibition of sportsmanship I have ever seen at Davidson or any other college. Maybe a new gym would cause more interest to be shown in basketball and this in turn might improve the student body’s attitude toward players of both teams and the officials.”

June Alcorn, Senior:
“We have this year the finest team in the Southern Conference. Having seen as many games away as on the home court, I find the support is far superior away. Even the best players make mistakes so let’s stop criticizing our boys when they make mistakes. (This goes for officials too). Let’s give the team one hundred percent support and see them take the Tournament in Raleigh.”

Jim “Footsie” Cowan, Senior, varsity basketball:
“The spirit shown at our home games doesn't deserve a winning team, but I am sure everyone at Davidson wants one. The boo's and hisses aggravate the best efforts of both players and officials. One remedy might be to take all the games away from the campus.”

Harry Hendrick, Junior:
“If the student body would only stop to think for a moment before giving vent to their feelings concerning what they think is a gross injustice on the part of the officials, it would do much to put an end to a practice which is harmful not only to the spirit of which we are justly proud, but is also causing and meriting sarcastic comment by outsiders on the Wildcat spirit and Davidson gentlemen. It is evident that the conduct in question does absolutely no good for I have yet to see an official change a single decision because of any sentiments expressed by the spectators—either pro or con—at our athletic events. However, it does seem to me that the conduct this year at athletic events is much better than it was last year, and with a little thoughtfulness on the part of the students the situation should work out its own salvation.”

Benny Harrison, Junior, varsity basketball:
“More than likely the few who are causing all the disturbances will quit when it is called to their attention, but if they do not quit, visiting teams will certainly have a bad opinion of Davidson. It is hard, I know, not to yell at a bad decision, but try to remember that the officials know a lot more about the game than you do, and can see just what happens a lot better than the spectator. If the conduct does not improve, I am in favor of playing home games in Charlotte.”

Dave Colvin, Junior:
“Good sportsmanship means a great deal to the school as well as the individual. Someone said that a school is no better than its cheering section. Winning the game isn’t everything. An inevitable measure of any team’s greatness is its sportsmanship. If we remember this, Davidson will be proud of her cheering section as she is of her team.”

Edgar Watson, Sophomore:
“I think the demonstrations that were shown in the gym during the game with the University of South Carolina are definitely out of order in Davidson basketball games. The only method to remedy the situation, as I see it, is for each man to take the responsibility upon himself to see that he does his part toward showing friendliness and courtesy to visiting teams. This has been an old tradition with Davidson students and Davidson teams. The college has been pointed out as one of the friendliest in the country for this reason. I think we have a fine team and I [Continued on Page Six]

F. L. Blythe Presides At Open Forum
Davidson Professor Answers Questions at Meeting of Numeral Club
Talk Follows Business

On Wednesday evening at nine-fifteen, the Numeral Club of Davidson College held its first meeting of the new year. The meeting was held in the D-Club room in Elm Row, and an interesting program, with Professor Blythe as speaker, was presented. Professor Blythe, a professor in the Spanish department and a member of the Athletic Council of Davidson, presented a short talk for the program of the evening. Professor Blythe was substituting for Athletic Director Shepard who was unable to come to the meeting.

Congratulates Freshmen
Professor Blythe congratulated the Freshmen on their fine work in the Numeral Club. He then gave a short talk concerning the Davidson Athletic Policy, a talk which was very interesting to the members of the club who will be the future athletes of Davidson. When the talk was finished, an opportunity was given the members of the Club to ask questions of the speaker. This was a very interesting procedure, for it is seldom that the opportunity is presented to ask questions directly from a member of the Athletic Council. Many questions of all types were thrown at Professor Blythe, and all were answered clearly and distinctly by the speaker. However, Professor Blythe admitted that his views on athletics weren't official and that he did not wish to be quoted.

Reports Given
About two hours before, President Claude Hackney had opened the meeting by asking for the reading of the minutes by the Secretary. Since Secretary George Marsh was unable to attend the meeting, Charlie Watt read his report. There were no corrections made, and the President called for the reports from the Committees of the Club. John Barnhardt, chairman of the Scholastic Committee, reported that their work in urging and aiding all Freshmen athletes to keep up their scholastic standings was progressing rapidly. Bob McLeod then made a report of the Publicity Committee. Other business was then taken up, after which, the speaker of the evening, Professor Blythe, was called upon.

Damages Paid At Slow Rate
Guilty Boys Reluctant To Part With Money

During the past week various ones of those who had taken part in the wholesale damaging of school property just before the Christmas holidays have been making payments for their share of the cost incurred. Despite the fact that a considerable number have paid, there remains as yet a large amount of the original bill to be collected. Sixty boys from the student body who participated in the damage and who signed the list on the porch of Georgia were fined. These students voted that each hall should be assessed for the particular damage done on that hall, and the residents of each of these halls thus assessed should pay for the damage done only on their own hall. Thus the bill for the damages was split up, and not prorated among the entire group of those liable. The damage done to the dormitories consisted mainly of broken window panes and torn screens. On some halls all the glass was broken out by the pranksters; the total number broken was three hundred seventy-one. Some of the screens were torn so thoroughly that entire new screens had to be put in, though others were not damaged to so great an extent. In all, there were twenty-four screens which suffered at the hands of the celebrators. Other damage done was to light bulbs, and the stopping up of some of the plumbing also resulted in appreciable injury in two of the buildings.

Conductors Attend Davidson Music

Eleven Maxims For All Neophytes In Exam Taking Given Below
By WISHIHAD

“The time has come,” the student said, “to think of many things: of cramming and of learning, of spots and such-like things.” Prof. I. Sure Wishihad herewith offers a little advice to any freshmen who may still think exams aren't crips if handled rightly.

1. Try to spend two days on each exam, doing the heavy reviewing on the first night, picking out the main points, brushing up lightly on the spots, etc., the second night and going to bed early. Take it easy. They won't bite you!
2. Spend a little time interviewing upperclassmen who have had the same course and professor. But don't get spots at the house but don’t waste time bulling. Go overthe too much time on them, either. You are going to have to know a little, although a mighty little will suffice.

3. Outline the whole course if it's that kind. This will fix it in your mind better than any other way. Work with an A+ or B+ student. He knows the ropes. Whether he knows the course doesn’t matter. Just review the main points. Take in the late show maybe. Anyway, relax.

5. Come to the exam well prepared: relaxed, well-fed but not stuffed (your brain needs fuel but you don’t want all your blood in your stomach), fortified, if necessary, with Coca-Cola or coffee, equipped with pen and ink or typewriter, exam pad, and watch.

6. Take it easy. Don't rush. Stop about halfway through to stretch, yawn, etc.

7. Study the questions before uncapping your pen. Number them in order of ease. See your job as a whole. Budget your time. See if one question gives a clue to another. Ask the professor questions. (Intelligent ones, if possible).

8. Impress the professor. Use his own language, be confident, bull judiciously (don’t overdo it, but he who don’t is lost), and hand in a neat paper.

9. Tackle the easiest first and write all you know (it won't take long). Don't misunderstand the wording of the question unless you can't answer it as it stands. In such a case, offer a brand that’s “just as good.” You may get away with half credit, anyway. Don't use material you learned from the other prof. They never agree with each other and it makes them mad anyway.

10. Leave space for afterthoughts. Start each question on a clean sheet. And never give up. You can't get less than zero, even on a guess.

11. Forget it as fast as you can. If you ever want to use what you are supposed to have learned in this course, you can look it up. The less you learn in college to please the profs, the less you have to unlearn after college to please your bosses.

City Head Is Host To Three Faculty Members In Special Radio Program

Mayor Ben E. Douglas, of Charlotte, was host to three of Davidson's faculty on his weekly program over station WBT Friday afternoon, January 13, used as an advertisement of the “Friendly City.” In accordance with his custom, Mayor Douglas invited Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson College, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer, and Dr. C. K. Brown, economics professor, to be interviewed on his program as members of the faculty of Davidson. Mayor Douglas asked each in turn various questions concerning the department he was connected with. Dr. Lingle told where the school (Continued on Page Six)

BAD COLDS - - - Are contracted through the Feet Safeguard yourself by visiting BUFF’S SHOE SHOP

Pre-Medical Fraternity Hears Talk McLelland Speaks On Preparing for Medicine

Dr. William Davies McClelland, a prominent surgeon of Mooresville, delivered the principal address at the meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national honorary pre-medical fraternity, Friday evening on “The Preparation of a Doctor.” The meeting of this society was held in the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house. Doctor McClelland told in his address about the life of a student in medical schools. He also discussed the desirable character traits which a man should possess for the study of medicine. The value of a thorough knowledge of medicine was greatly emphasized by the surgeon. Doctor McClelland pointed out to his audience that such knowledge and “personality in the broadest sense of the word” was necessary for the success of any man in the medical profession. After this point, the guest speaker gave many examples which illustrated the life a potential doctor has to live during his medical school days. Several guests also attended this address. Besides the members of this honorary fraternity, four members of the faculty were present at the meeting. These were Dr. Scott Lyons, faculty advisor of the group, and Professors Ernest Beatty, Oman, and Full Line of Meats For This Week-end "FREE DELIVERY Dial 5041 J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

On Saturday, January 14, Davidson College held the first State band and orchestra clinic ever to be held in North Carolina. Various high schools and colleges were represented, several bands being present. The string section of the W.C.U.N.C. orchestra illustrated points put forth by their director Dean Hugh Altvater in a musical lecture. Leading music authorities who attended the meet are: left to right: J. C. Harper, head of the Lenoir High School Band; Earl Slocum, director of the University of North Carolina band; James Christian Pfohl, head of the Davidson Music department; Dean Hugh Altvater, of the Women’s College in Greensboro; Leonard Meretta of Lenoir; and Phillip Separk of Concord.

Foreman Will Edit Journal Faculty Member takes Smith’s Place As Editor Of Alumni Magazine

Dr. Foreman of the Davidson College faculty will edit the next issue of the Alumni Journal which will appear sometime around the first of April. He agreed to do this on the request of Dr. Lingle and Mr. Jackson, who are in temporary charge of the Alumni Office. This edition was formerly published by Fred Smith, but Dr. Foreman has agreed to do this part of the former Alumni Secretary's work. He stated that there would probably be a feature story on the sons of Davidson Alumni who are now attending Davidson. In this issue will also be included the regular Alumni news as well as the second part of “Vagabonds in Europe,” by Duncan MacBryde, '35. Dr. Foreman added that all suggestions in regard to the journal will be gratefully received. It is thought that another issue may be published about Commencement time, but there are no definite plans as yet. The men who assisted Fred Smith in the Alumni office are carrying on the work of the office, and will aid on the journal as well.

Queens’ Girls Are Guests Of Philanthropic Ivan Stafford Elected As President Over Monger and McQueen

HOLD HUMOROUS DEBATE Dan Walker Presents Interesting Program

Approximately sixty girls of the Spectator Club, Queens-Chicora College Literary Society, attended a joint meeting with the Philanthropic Society here last Friday night. Before the joint meeting began, a business session of the Philanthropic was held, at which Ivan Stafford was elected president for the next semester. The race was very close, with the president-elect nosing out Ralph Monger and Dave McQueen in the final count, after Dan Walker had been eliminated in the preliminary balloting.

Welcome Extended

When the girls arrived, they were paired with boys of the Philanthropic Society. An official welcome was extended by President Rod Williams of the host club, and a response was presented by Miss Olive Croswell, president of the Spectators. Dan Walker was chairman of the program for the night. Ken MacIntyre presented a humorous reading, which was followed by a modern parody on Shakespeare's “Othello,” by Joe Gordon. The main attraction on the program was a humorous debate, “Resolved, That Coiffures Should Continue to Ascend Heavenward.” The affirmative side was upheld by two Queens’ girls, the Misses Henrietta MacIver and Martha Ogilvey, with the negative side consisting of Dave McLean and “Dizzy” McLean. However, the judges finally decided that the debate should be thrown out because of the dual personality on the negative side.

Use Records

After the meeting was adjourned to the social center, where refreshments consisting of cocoa, cake, and ice cream were served. Following this, most of the couples went either to the banquet hall to hear the Set to Carnegie Record or Professor Porter's museum collection, while some strolled around the campus. The date for the next meeting of the Philanthropic, February 7, is (Continued on Page Six)

DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.

Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Get Your Drug Items or Accessories At: WHITE DRUG CO. “Davidson’s Oldest And Best” Phone No. 2111

Wed. Night, Jan. 18th. “CHRISTMAS CAROLS” Thurs.-Fri., Jan. 19-20th “KENTUCKY” Sat., Jan. 21st. “MYSTERIOUS MR. MOTO” Mon., Jan. 23rd. “DRAMATIC SCHOOL” Tues., Jan. 24th. “OFF THE RECORD” Wed., Jan. 25th. “DISBAND” DAVIDSON THEATRE Davidson, N. C.