Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN March 1, 1939 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. BILL JOHN MARQUESS Editor-in-Chief LATIMER H. WILSON Business Manager EDITORIAL STAFF Terrell Porter Managing Editor Jack Abernathy Assistant Editor Charlie Austin Assistant Editor Jack Holland News Editor Carl Hudson Sports Editor Sam McMillan Feature Editor Tom Casali Literary Editor Ovid Bell Exchange Editor Wes Calvin Associate Editor Wesley Coghill Associate Editor Perry Sloan Associate Editor Henry Baker Movie Editor Walt Kunz Staff Photographer BUSINESS STAFF B. B. Plyler Asst. Business Manager Bill Currie Advertising Manager Bill Ross Advertising Manager Joe Lokey Circulation Manager Tom Hackney Asst. Circulation Manager Bud Gilmore Asst. Circulation Manager Elections One of man’s greatest failings is that he too frequently criticizes his fellows, usually unjustly and always behind his back. Being far from perfect, we are quite often guilty of that here at Davidson. But the condemning feature of it here is that the objects of our criticism are campus leaders whom we have put into office, or whom we have let someone else put into office. Yes, you’ve guessed it. Elections are coming soon. In about two weeks, to be exact, some six hundred men will be filling out ballots in assembly every morning. And in all probability, a large per cent of these will be voting just as a matter of routine instead of a seriously considered duty. In our election system the feature about which we boast so much—the absence of politics—is in one way a disadvantage. The qualifications of the candidate are not presented to the student body. Therefore the only way in which a voter can get this information is on his own initiative. If you have not done so already, look around, see what goes on, ask those who are in a position to know, and from your observations, make a serious, conscientious attempt to discover the best men to carry on next year. For if the wrong man is elected and you think he is doing a poor job, there is no one to blame but yourself. Above all, make your own decision. Don’t be influenced by someone else unless you know that he is in a position to know more about it than you are. Otherwise it will be a reflection upon your intelligence, independence, and integrity. Honor Years of building have made Davidson's honor system a force of prime importance in carrying on our student government, which has long been one of our foremost claims to being a great college. At the bottom of that student government, as democratic and complete as any that can be found, is the honor system. From dormitory life to classroom to off-campus dealing the honor spirit has characterized the Davidson man. The graduate of Davidson knows that he has left something behind which he may never find again. He remembers it as the greatest contribution Davidson made to him. Exchanges coming into the Davidsonian Post Office box show that many schools, once proud of their honor system, are beginning to note signs of decadence. Editorials are being written, new ideas and set-ups are being tried, and in a few the honor system has been entirely discarded. Occasionally we hear someone say, “The school is going to the dogs,” or, “The honor system is breaking down,” but we are glad to note that these are decidedly in the minority. There are violations of the rules, yes, and always will be, but these are even fewer than they were a year ago, thanks to the work of a strong Student Council, headed by Fred Stair. This editorial isn’t intended to support any cause or bring about any sweeping reforms. It is just a deserved pat on the back of the student body. We are justly proud of a fine student government and honor system. Let’s stay that way. Thanks The appreciation of the whole community goes to Coach Norman Shepard for the way he handled an overflow crowd at the Wake Forest game. It is a difficult situation at best when some fifteen hundred people want seats in our “cracker-box” gymnasium, but it is only fair that students and faculty members have first choice. Also thanks to the basketball team for giving such a splendid game and congratulations to the student body for holding in check most of its impulses to boo the officiating and opposing players. Considering the circumstances and the fact that as the game progressed the tension in the atmosphere could not only be felt but almost seen, our conduct was very good. Hello! For Sigma Chis at the University of Florida “hello” is an old-fashioned way of answering the telephone. To impress one with their individuality, they answer in this manner, “This is the sacred sanctuary, great and glorious abode of the eminent and exalted order of heroic he-men, the haven and habitation of happiness and enlightenment, known to the masses as magnificent Sigma Chi. With whom do you wish to converse?” Campus Comments This coming Monday spring elections will get under way with the opening of nominations for the presidency of the Student Body. Members of the three upper classes who have witnessed such elections before have undoubtedly been duly impressed with the privilege and duty of their right to select their leaders for the coming year. It seems to be traditional with Davidson that politics be kept at a minimum, thus securing the election of officers on the basis of their qualifications for the job. However these approaching elections will be somewhat different since an amendment to the Constitution last year conferred freshmen the right to vote in all elections held during the second semester. This means that some two hundred votes will be added to the former total of previous elections. The main objections forwarded last year against extending the vote franchise to the freshmen class in the spring elections was that as first-year men they were unfamiliar with many upper classmen eligible for offices and, in addition, that they would be too easily influenced in the casting of their ballots. Consequently in the coming elections the freshmen will be saddled with the heavy responsibility of meeting and disproving these criticisms. In this first test it is particularly urged that each member of the class of 1942 consider his vote as an individual right and duty appraising carefully each choice on as impartial a basis as possible. The success of the next school year is determined, to a great extent, by the outcome of these spring elections. May everyone cooperate by giving his attentive deliberation in each election, and let the common good of all be the guide of each! JOE CALVIN President Forensic Council. P. S.—I request Tom Abbot, senior member of the student council, to write the next Campus Comments. Pope With praise for his great efforts to bring peace to the world, all collegeland mourns the passing of His Holiness Pope Pius XI. Hailing him as the “Prince of Peace,” the college press was fervent in its eulogies over the life which was “spent in striving to maintain world peace in spite of overwhelming odds.” With peace as their keynotes, newspapers through the U. S. urged as his successor the selection of a new crusader “to carry on the efforts of a leader splendidly dedicated to “peace on earth and good will to men,” as the University of Wisconsin “Daily Cardinal” said. The “Cowl” of Providence College put it this way: “Death has called Pius at a time when his influence is greatly needed. The people of Europe have been guided by his counsel. They have long looked to him to stay the wrath of the totalitarian leaders. Their confidence was not misplaced, for at all times Pius championed the ideals of Christian doctrine. Pius is the shepherd of the modern world.” In the middle-west, the University of Iowa “Daily Iowan” sent this message to the mourning world: “The Roman Catholic church lost one of its greatest leaders in the death of Pope Pius XI; but the loss will be felt equally by the non-Catholic world, for in our turbulent era no one man, perhaps, has been such a constant force for peace. Repeatedly it has been the intervention of Pius XI that has tempered the action of the war lords.” Pius did much for the cause of education. The furtherance of the cause of education was recognized by the Creighton University “Creightonian.” A learned and brilliant student himself, Pope Pius did much for the cause of education. He maintained that through education the youth of the world would come to know the existing evils and how to combat them.” CAMPUS IN CARTOON SUPER SNOOPINGS JIM MURDAUGHT OF FREED-HARDEMAN COLLEGE, SCORED A STAGGERING TOTAL OF 78 POINTS IN A SINGLE GAME, OR PRACTICALLY A POINT A MINUTE, AS HIS TEAM CRUSHED THE OPPOSITION. THE NETS ALL BUT CAUGHT FIRE! DR. WALTER C. JONES OF THE BIRMINGHAM-SOUTHERN FACULTY IS A MEMBER OF NINE GREEK-LETTER FRATERNITIES! “BUCKSHOT”: 18,000 MA: AND PHD: DEGREES WERE AWARDED IN 1938. Letters To The Editor Dear Bill, I wish to make a brief statement to those in the category of Mr. Fun-Lover, and also to suggest that if Mr. Fun-Lover were not in the minority, perhaps he would not mind backing up his ideas with his signature. Personally, I don’t think he has the right idea concerning our chapel periods, although, because I am new here, probably no one will take me seriously. Nevertheless, I don’t believe that a worship of God can be a half-way affair. It must be all the way or not at all. Listening to the reading of a few verses from the Bible one minute, and then throwing some person across seats the next is my idea of a half-way worship of God. If we are to receive any true benefit from a Scripture reading, we must give it a careful, quiet, concentrated thought, and not throw carefully prepared advice to the four winds merely for the sake of keeping in step with a few of our impulsive neighbors. At present I feel that our daily services are of a half-way nature, and surely this isn’t the true Christian spirit. Sincerely, Bill MacLauchlin. Your Film Report Card By CHARLIE LUTHER *** “FAST AND LOOSE” — Robert Montgomery, and Rochelle Hudson. This is a fast moving show with plenty of comedy. The script is well written and it is well produced in every way. Robert Montgomery is a novelist who turns detective every now and then. It seems that every time he does turn detective that some girl is mixed up in it and he gets mixed up with the woman and complications arise. Rosalind Russell plays Montgomery’s wife and she seems to turn up at the most embarrassing moments. This pair of Montgomery and Hudson are really superb and the comedy they produce is tops. It’s a thin plot but it’s a show that you will really enjoy as a rolicking interlude. Thursday and Friday, “HONOLULU” March 2-3 Eleanor Powell, Robert Young, George Burns, Gracie Allen. Eleanor Powell is the best tap dancer in these United States, but she has never gotten over in a big way in the films. Here she is given another chance with a good supporting cast. Robert Young is a movie star who is bored with thrill seekers and who finds a man, a pineapple planter from Hawaii, who looks exactly like him. Young plays both parts. The movie star wants a rest. The pineapple planter wants excitement. So they change places. Eleanor Powell is the girl who gets mixed up in the change. She is the girl friend of the movie star and the pineapple planter. George Burns and Gracie Allen are the comedy relief. Eleanore does several elaborate dances. One is the spectacular Hula to the Sun, said to be based upon a traditional Hawaiian dance. This is a fast moving show with plenty of comedy. The script is well written and it is well produced in every way.Hymn

George Burns and Gracie Allen are present with their brand of cockeyed humor. In spite of the fact that the plot is very sudden, it turns detective and seems designed to show the best of Eleanore Powell and her twinkling toes.

Saturday, March 4
“CALL OF THE YUKON”—Sorry to say that I couldn’t get any dope on this show for you. Rochelle Hudson is Mont- 

Monday and Tuesday, March 6-7
“GUNGA DIN” - Cary Grant, Victor McLaughlin, and Joan Fontaine. In this improvised version of Rudyard Kipling’s great novel, Gunga Din, the brave native water carrier, there are three hard-boiled sergeants of the Queen’s Own Sappers—Cary Grant, Robert Young, Doug Fairbanks, Jr., and Victor McLaughlin—engaged in the perilous job of stringing a telegraph line through the Indian frontier near Khyber Pass. Treacherous Hindu Fanatics surround the little detachment, and faithful Gunga Din blows the mess call, the only bugle call he knows. The story really revolves around Robert Young, who plays a screen idol with adulation and autograph seekers. There’s a bit of romance in the film too. Doug falls in love with the daughter of a tea merchant, played by Joan Fontaine. Probably a best performance who built India for the film. In fact, the film cost $1,500,000. It’s a grand show, don’t miss it.

Effie R. Conkling, Mankato (Minn.) Teacher's College, maintains it is up to the student to make his education lively and interesting. “No worthwhile university can be created overnight, and just money and buildings never have, or never will be able to qualify as a real university. Men, time, money, and a great love are the prerequisites of any outstanding educational institution, and the last named, love, is as essential as men and money.”

Dr. S. C. Dobbs, speaking at Emory University, outlined the non-material foundation on which all great institutions of higher learning are constructed. “It is possible to select courses which combine educational value with degree credit; and in almost any course, no matter how dull the subject or deadly the lecturer, there is always something of interest to the inquiring mind. The educated man, as contrasted with merely the graduated man, has some powers of discrimination and criticism.” University of Virginia's Prof. T. C. Johnson restates the oft-forgotten axiom that learning, not grades, makes the educated man.

University of Kansas has a new type of popularity contest. Students are voting to select an intelligence queen.

By KEN LAWSON
SONNY CUNNINGHAM, Guest-Snooper

Rumors! Rumors! Rumors! That is all that can be heard on the campus, with no definite facts which we can wave before the gleaming eye of the public and say, “Ah, at last the lurid truth is revealed.” From fairly reliable sources, it is learned that “The Autograph Maniac” is on the loose again. This time starring in oratory. Bill Davis delivered the first of a series of Fireside Chats the other night, revealing that the “Pacific Ocean is to be transferred into the Atlantic by WPA workers using wire-bottomed buckets.” Ed Shewmake has been elected head of the propaganda department. With the help of the Kappa Sigs, the City Cafe in Mooresville replaced the Tavern as the headquarters for frivolity on Saturday night. Heading the all-star floor show were Rainey, Scott and Hill Cooper, Black Dog Hunter master human fly, and the unbeatable Poss McLain.

The Mystery Room

Rumors from Converse are traveling through the ether so fast that they are now in competition with the light waves. John Brady, in a rush from the wrong room, met disaster in the doorway. Louis Hite and Archy Taylor concentrated on the use of school property while Bill Hamilton held the door. Official announcement from “The Riot Fund Payment Association” states that the organization is now defunct, bankrupt, broke, and without funds. According to Pete Marchant, president, “all riots in the future must be paid for out of the goodness of someone else’s heart.”

QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK

Why does Ad Long blush at the mention of “Tobacco Road?” Why did Hiram White spend half the afternoon dodging a certain blonde? (Quite contrary to his usual action) What happened to the wrestling money? Why is Shaw Smith now hiding from Tom Crichton? What does Bob Smith’s girl look like? (Not two years from now) What made Henry Kechler and Tom Galbreth late to the party they simply couldn’t miss?

Joe Robinson led the glee club with gusto and much “feeling” to the tune of one of the Pi Kaps' favorite songs in Limestone. Were you in the theater on Saturday when Bevo Royster was mistaken for a movie actress? Hackney should be more careful while on deputations and not hold up departure so long. Joe Shelton, with the assistance of Dick Cobb, Holt Barnwell, and Dick Saunders, claim that they made a complete sell-out in the cigar vending business at the Wake Forest game. A particularly large sale was made to the gallery. Gene Vereen and Bob Reinhardt also kept close check on business in the gallery and report that sales were also favorable in their department.

VARIOUS SNIPPINGS

Hugo Sapp considering applications for the summer school softball team. Paul Cooper has resigned as manager for this year—Apy Means refereeing numerous basketball games. Fricklen quite regular in his Mooresville visits—Kellog’s visit with the faculty ended in Charlotte—Just why was Frank Barker seen bumming back from Charlotte with a blanket under his arm?—Tom Mullen deeply in debt after a tangle with a cereal dish and broken glass.

Have you met Glucose yet? The pride of the second floor of West and the general parasite of the campus—“Glucky” (as he is fondly called) is now eating at the Student Store free of charge. His favorite resting place is in Ray Tenney’s bed—so we hear. We close now with the sweet thought that Hank Bahnson should not deal in “posterior motives” if he does not want to have the weaker sex campused. Tried to get some scandal on Lawson but due to the presence of parents during the weekend he was on good behavior.—Thanks Ken!

Davidsonian history was made last week by the Business Staff in running the largest ad ever sold to one advertiser—the eighty-five inches commemorating the third anniversary of Marion Davis Co. of Charlotte. For this surpassing of the previous record and their untiring work every week, Manager Latimer and the entire Staff merit our greatest praise.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

Browsing through a few of the older annuals just the other night, we happened to pick one of the year 1918. Aside from a military conflict which terminated along about that time, there are a couple of other items which make the year worth recalling for today’s students, we found. For one thing, this was the class that graduated no less than four of the present faculty. Maybe you can identify them from the following extracts taken from those brief sketches such as were wont to appear under each senior’s picture—one of the hazards of graduating in those days. See the end of the column for the correct names, and don't expect to get them all.

(1) “...If the celestial universe forgets to follow its orbit some day, just ask; And as for his puns it’s dangerous to get within range of them.”
(2) (Editor of the Annual) Writes (supposedly) funny stories... It gets by us how he can read so much and “camouflage the profs on class.”
(3) (Business manager of Davidsonian) “Did you ever notice that straight path from the front steps of Georgia to the Chemistry Lab? Well, here we have the perpetrator of it... Some day, however, DEON is going to find that missing atom.”
(4) “Shades of Apollo Belvidere! What a good-looking man!... has been caught glancing at a book three times this year... rival of Christy Mathewson.”

Something else you might like to recall, no doubt, is the score of a football game of that school year: Davidson 73 - Wake Forest 7.

WORD TO THE “UNWISE”...

There’s an interesting article in the latest Reader’s Digest, taken from Scribner's, on the subject of hitchhiking, which, of course, is a sort of minor sport at Davidson. This is from the Driver’s viewpoint, and the thing that caught our roving eye was the author’s expressed preference of almost any kind of bum, from sword-swallower to religious fanatic, to the college youth. The author, Mr. Bergen Evans, expresses himself thus: “College boys, on the other hand, are rarely interesting. They spoil the natural charm of their ignorance by trying to be charming. They are little Dale Carnegies and proceed to put you at your ease.” There’s enough truth in that to cut a little, we suppose. Still, after all the nice people who have told us they wouldn't think of picking up anybody but a Davidson boy, this comes as something of a shock. It’s sort of discouraging, when you think it over.

SUBTLE...

If you wandered around the first floors of the dorms on “visitors’ day” last week, you probably enjoyed yourself. Even the most near-sighted guest could probably have discerned, though, that things had a slightly unreal, staged appearance. We are thinking, aside from the general tidiness of the apartments, of the texts left strategically open on numbers of desks, evidently just laid aside. Personally, though, we thought the boy who let himself be caught typing Latin poetry and his roommate who displayed a neat sign, “We Love Our Faculty,” might have been overdoing it.

CONCLUSION...

Somebody suggests for the offertory selection at vespers “Penny Serenade”... Then there’s the boy who says he plans to go over to Charlotte Saturday and take in “Tobacco Road” and the Holy Land Exhibit. Says he thinks it will leave him just about where he started, morally and culturally. Oh, yes, the faculty men are: (1) Prof. W. N. Mebane, (2) Prof. H. T. Lilly, (3) Prof. O. J. Thies, and (4) Mr. F. W. Hengeveld.

You have probably heard of the student who went to school several years and lost so many hours by cutting classes that he came out in the hole, but here is an authentic case in which the collegian actually broke even for one semester. It seems that a Texas Technological College student enrolled for a total of 11 hours. Finding that his load was too heavy, he dropped one of these. When the semester was over, he had flunked nine more and received so many cuts that he lost the one he had passed. And so he was back where he started, even with the college!