Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Group Will Present Anniversary Service

Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Cubs, and Committeemen to Participate

Next Sunday night, February 12, the Unity Church service will commemorate the second anniversary of the organization of the church’s youth movement. The ceremony, to be held in cooperation with Troop 39 of the Boy Scouts of America, the Girl Scouts, the Cub Pack, and the unit committeemen, is planned to demonstrate the relationship of church, scouting, home, and school.

The program consists of a dedicatory service original with Troop 39. Mr. Jim Harry Farrington, chairman of Public Programs, will lead the service. Mr. Robertson will deliver the welcome, after which Mr. Williams, assistant scout executive from the Charlotte Area Council, will present the Troop Charter. Mr. Craven Howard, chairman of advancement, will award individual honors to boys and girls. Chairmen Oscar Gant of the Boy Scouts, Mrs. B. B. Mayhew of the Girl Scouts, and Clyde Griffin, Cub Pack head, will give brief surveys of the work of youth movements in the community for the past year. Everett Howard, Senior Patrol leader, is head of the committee units. There will be a poem read to Scoutmaster M. L. Abernathy by Frank Foy.

The program is under the direction of the Recreational Council of the church and is one of a series of programs which the youth of the community will have the opportunity to lead in public worship. Included in this series is a Leadership Training School to be conducted in March with Ivan Stafford leading. The school will offer courses to both youth and older people, including building, game guidance, crowd psychology, and society socials. It is designed primarily to train leaders from the community for church activities such as the Young Peoples’ Sunday School classes, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Cubs, informal athletics, and home recreation. A sincere hope is that it will get more people from the church to take a more active leadership in their church's activities.

JUDY STARR IS DIMINUTIVE

[Continued from Page Three]

At the time, her parents insisted she finish her schooling. Judy remained in the States. After high school, she enrolled at the University of West Virginia but stayed there only two years. Kay Kyser engaged her to sing with his orchestra at the Hotel William Penn in Pittsburgh. Judy appeared with several different organizations after that. She joined the Olson and Johnson show and went out to the West Coast. She made an appearance at the Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles and was held over for six months following this. She fulfilled engagements at various theatres. While appearing on a commercial radio program on the coast, she met Rudy Vallee. The little singer then sang on the Vallee hour and appeared at the Hotel Astor Roof in New York City and at the Chez Paree in Chicago. She then joined Kemp and has been with his orchestra ever since.

Girls, we warn you again to watch out for this four feet nine inches of blue-eyed joy. “Those lovely eyes can do things to your ‘boy friend.’”

Le Palais de la Chevelure

GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts) NORTON, M.T.A.

Subject Is “Christian Sham and Hypocrisy”

Dr. Lewis J. Sherrell, Presbyterian of the Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., spoke at the Vespers service last Sunday night on the subject of hypocrisy among Christians. Dr. Sherrell used five of Christ's parables to illustrate his points. Stating that the churchman of today was blinded by subordinate duties so many that he overlooked the real Christian things in his life, Dr. Sherrell demanded that any real churchman, student, and Christian open his eyes and see where he was going and what he was doing for Christ. He used Christ's parable of the fishermen on the Sea of Galilee to show just how much the Christian “caught” when he cast his net in the real Christian fishing grounds as Peter had cast his net on the other side of the ship upon Christ's command.

AMONG THE GREEKS

[Continued from Page Five]

Phi Delta Theta

The chapter entertained the Darlington basketball team at a social Thursday night. Dick Kenyon went home to Gainesville, Ga. John Chalk and Harper Bell spent the weekend in Lenoir. Charlie Luther was visited by his father, mother, and sister Sunday. Charlie Mashborne and the “crew” spent a good part of the weekend in Charlotte. Most of the brothers took the weekend off to learn how to manipulate the “bhoxe.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Six of the boys went to the Limestone party. They were: Hiram White, Ed Watson, Bill Hamilton, Murray Harlan, and Ed Hay. Pledge Henry Keehn went home for the weekend. Pledges John Hay, Knox, Horner, and Kunz spent the weekend in Rock Hill. Bogo Kunz spent the weekend in the infirmary suffering with a bad knee. Coghill, Powell, Heilman, and Porter went to Charlotte Saturday night. Nine men were initiated Tuesday night. They are: Rufus Powell, Phil Edwards, Russel Edmondson, Rod Turner, Bill Loy, Doug Horner, Ed Hay, and Malcolm Kunz.

STUDENTS GIVE

[Continued from Page Five]

Dean Sherrell spoke at the Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, Sunday morning and again at the Young Peoples’ Meeting of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church Sunday evening.

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, February 8th
7:15 P.M.—Journalism Club speaker; 9:00 P.M.—Y.M.C.A. Cabinet; 9:15 P.M.—Nadel Club.

Thursday, February 9th
7:00 P.M.—Social fraternities; 10:30 P.M.—Student Prayer Groups.

Friday, February 10th
3:30 P.M.—Tea-dance in Charlotte; 10:00 P.M.—Formal dance; Del Hudson playing.

Saturday, February 11th
3:30 P.M.—Tea-dance in Charlotte; 8:00 P.M.—Informal dance; Hal Kemp playing.

Sunday, February 12th
10:15—Student Sunday school; 6:30—Church.

Monday, February 13th
7:00—Davidsonian; 7:00—D Club meeting; 8:00—Delta Phi Alpha meeting; 9:00—Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, February 14th
2:30—Queen’s Day; 9:00—Sigma Upsilon; 10:30—Prayer Groups.

WILDCATS HIGH

[Continued from Page Four]

STATE

Wed., Feb. 8th. (Double Feature)
“A CHRISTMAS CAROL” — and — “CONVICT’S CODE”

Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 9-10th.
“BLONDIE”

Sat., Feb. 11th. (Double Feature)
“FIGHTING THOROUGHBREDS” — and — “GHOST TOWN RIDERS”

BOBBY SMITH FLORAL SHOP

—FLOWERS— ARE ALWAYS SATISFACTORY

DON DAVIDSON — from — GISH, RUFUS PLONK, Student Representatives

HORINE IS INTERPRETER

[Continued from Page Five]

Ad Field returned to Davidson in the fall of 1937 minus the plus added knowledge of German, but very much in love with a beautiful fraulein he had met on his first visit to the Reich. The letter brought him news that she was being married to another man. So off he set to prevent the catastrophe.

Be that as it may, last summer, having duly graduated in the class of '38, he secured a position with the National Broadcasting Company, studying at Columbia University for his Ph.D. Through the ether, across the ocean went the voice of Field Horine, speaking his adopted tongue. It was then that he was pressed into interpreting service this fall. With the courts in sore need of an interpreter, he was recommended by his NBC friends and called in to aid at the trials.with his court officials that he offered a permanent position as interpreter. He refused this to continue his studies at Columbia. And that is the testimony which convicted Johanna Hoffman, passed the acting as Germany. It was while he was well at work that he was offered a position through the mouth of a Davidson man.

CATS SET FOR
[Continued from Page Five]
Davidson in the 440 yd. run. In the two-mile, three Wildcats, Walker, Woodward, and Gammon, will vie.

BOARD PLACED
[Continued from Page One]
background. Letters may be discerned at a distance of 75 yards. These are also changed by electric means with the cream of the conference's men. Bill Black in the high jump and J. R. Phipps in the broad jump complete the varsity delegates throughout the South. They are located. Six freshmen will participate for Davidson. Archie Taylor and L. B. Williamson in the 70 yd. high hurdles, Taylor and Whitten in the 60 yd. dash, Coppedge in the 3/4 mile.

DAVIDSON QUINT
[Continued from Page Four]
Burrows dropping a snowbird shot. Ned Iverson led the Davidson scoring with 13 and 10 points respectively, closely followed by another with 8.

FRAT TO HAVE
[Continued from Page Three]
meeting with Doctor Thomas Sparrow of Charlotte, would be an excellent plan. It is hoped that this proposed meeting will be held sometime within this month. Finally, members which the society is planning to take in were discussed.

WADE BOGGS CLOSES
[Continued from Page Three]
Omicron Delta Kappa. He was vice president of the Y. M. C. A. and the cabinet two years, serving his senior year as class president. “Footsie” Cowing timber-toppers. Davidson should finish as well or better than last year, when her handful of entrants captured fourth place in the conference division.

STATE MATMEN
[Continued from Page Four]
To Meet Carolina
Next Friday afternoon the Wildcat grapplers, both the varsity and the freshmen, go to Chapel Hill. There they will meet the Tar Heel forces in another Southern Conference match. The meet with Carolina was originally scheduled for Saturday afternoon, but the date was changed to Friday afternoon.

No Tournament
Contrary to the custom in the past, there will be no Southern Conference tournament held this year. Abolishment of this annual custom came as a result of the decision rendered by the Conference committee.

A careless man and a good job are soon parted.

GROUP ELECTS
[Continued from Page Five]
Boyd Flynn In Charge of Meeting; Talks Given By Three Members
The Fellowship Group met in the banquet hall after church last Sunday night for a discussion on the subject of prayer. Boyd Flynn took charge after the singing of hymns and the reading of Scripture. Talks were given by Bill Summers, Joe Whitten, and Jim Kerr. Following the talks there were sentence prayers by the entire group. The discussion on prayer opened with an analysis of the Lord’s Prayer. This discussion lasted for approximately a half hour and was stopped at eight-thirty. The meeting was closed with the singing of “Sweet Hour Of Prayer,” and a prayer by John Farrior.

Meetings Planned
Following the meeting, it was decided that the Foreign Missions Group should meet weekly on Wednesdays at 10 o'clock in the Social Center, for the purpose of having special prayers for the missions. The Fellowship Group will meet again next Sunday night, February 12. The subject of this meeting will be on some phase of the Ministry. The exact subject was not decided until the meeting of the Executive Committee, which was held Tuesday night, after the paper had gone to press.

Feb. 8, 1938
Prayer Is Discussed By Fellowship Group

FACULTY CLUB
[Continued from Page Five]
over ninety people at the social. An informal tea was held by the faculty Thursday afternoon, January 26 from four to six; the tea was served in the Quadwrangler's room. The next regular meeting will be on Wednesday night, February 22, in the meeting room. Plans are progressing for this meeting, but are not certain enough to be disclosed.

LIMESTONE’S INVITATION
[Continued from Page One]
and dancing began. Adolph Julian from Spartanburg furnished the music with his amplifying system and all the latest records and jitterbugs were in their glory as dancing was confined to the “Little Apple.” The party closed at ten-thirty and after several vain attempts to round up the Davidson delegation, the bus was finally able to leave.

ESCAPE
Use specialized medication for nose and throat where most colds start. For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians.

MISERY OF COLDS
Even when your head is clogged up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol brings comforting relief. It quickly melts away the clogging mucus, reduces the swelling, and lets you breathe again. Used in time, Va-tro-nol helps to prevent the development of many colds. Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind.

Visit us
ALL SET
DeLuxe Ice Cream — At Any Hour — DAVIDSON MID-WINTERS
Little Pep Sandwich Shop
West Trade Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 56, Davidson, N. C.

RIGHT COMBINATION
is Chesterfield when you're bidding for More Smoking Pleasure. By combining (blending together) the right kinds of mild, ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos, Chesterfield brings out all their fine smoking qualities and gives you a cigarette that’s outstanding for mildness... for aroma... for taste. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure ... why THEY SATISFY. Chesterfield ... the blend that can’t be copied ... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.

The colorful P. HAL SIMS, master bridge authority and player says, “It’s the right combination of keen bidding and skillful play of the hands that takes the tricks.”