Sideline Sidelights ||| By ANDY DALE | | | | DAVIDSON SPORTS February 15, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

For the first time, Davidson is practically assured of being represented in the Southern Conference tournament at Raleigh in early
March. Last year, great things were expected, but after the ‘Cats lost several games by one and two-point margins, they
were out of the running. This year it has been different. Although the Wildcats haven’t won so many close decisions,
they have had more for them than against, and have gone on to beat practically every team in the conference
at least once. Needing only one more victory to cinch a berth in the tourney, the 'Cats meet Citadel as
favorites in a Saturday night game which should just about fix things up for the Raleigh affair. Wake Forest will
undoubtedly enter the competition as favorite, but the ‘Cats will have their say about that before the playing is over.
Not pre-tourney favorites last year, Duke’s Blue Devils came through to take the title. The ’Cats appear to be in
the same spot this time and there are 664 Davidson students pulling for them. But of course, this is presuming
(and we have good reason to presume) that Davidson will win one more game.

Hard luck seems to hit the Cats all at the same time. First, J. D. Hicks came down with a
bad cold, and then John Tice hurt his side. However, J. D. came back with a bang as he led
the team to two victories last week with his high-scoring immediately after leaving the infirmary. John will be all right
soon too, it is hoped, and able to perform up to his usual standard.

Much praise is due to the spring football boys who are training for the campaign next fall. With most of
the first team gone, Coach Gene McEver is faced with the problem of filling big holes in the line-up caused
by graduation next June. The members of this year’s freshman team are being counted on to do duty next year,
along with several of last year’s team back. Marvin Pennington, George Richmond, Footsie Cowan, Gales McClintock, Horace McCall, Poss McLean,
Tubby Hand, and Bill Bolin will be back to lend their experience to the team. Several of the “Beesters” and
reserves from this year. The gang out practicing daily on the freshman field doesn’t have the usual Saturday games that
furnish a break for fall training and relieve the monotony, but they are faithfully drilling on the fundamentals that make
or break a team.

With the spotlight on basketball, we step aside for a time to take a shot at baseball. With spring on
deck, the sluggers and flychasers will soon be out chasing the pill around. Two or three of the pitchers are
already limbering up their arms for the coming season. Eddie Steere and J. D. Hicks are ready to twirl as
old hands, and with “Diz” McLean working on his control, Davidson should be well-fixed for pitchers. “Hayseed” will be out
there cutting the corners with the others.

CAMPUS SLANT: Charlie Pegram seems to be making his way through school by consistently racking down high scores at the
local bowling alleys... The Phi Gams and Pi Kapps will fight it out for the interfraternity basketball championship soon, after
a hot tournament... It looks as though the board track on the intramural athletic field by Chambers is about shot.
The broken boards on it are liable to catch a foot anytime... We understand that the tennis boys are still
planning a big trip west in the spring... Bill Ross, Poss McLean, and Bob McClelland are to box in the
Charlotte Golden Gloves, or so it is said around the campus.

BULLING AROUND: The Southern Conference boxing tourney to be held February 24th and 25th will go high-hat as leaders and
officials step out in tux and boiled shirt... The British P.G.A. thinks so little of golfers’ wives that they refuse
to allow them permission to accompany their spouses to the U.S. for the Ryder Cup matches... Over five hundred thousand
dollars was bet in one afternoon at Hialeah Park in Miami where the bangtails gallop... Bunny Austin states that he
returns to the tennis wars in order to make foreign friends. This should be much easier with Don Budge out
of the way... Housewives in Philadelphia are complaining because the Philly ball club will inaugurate night ball. Their grounds are
that the mighty drives of the Phils will endanger their lives. Wonder if the owner wouldn't like to see a
lot of those drives?... El Chico seems to be the outstanding favorite in the winter books for the Kentucky Derby...
“Wild Bill” Cummings, famed race driver and escapee of many crashes on the track, recently died of injuries sustained in
an automobile accident... The University of Pennsylvania golf team will train for eight days at Pinehurst this spring. They go
in for it in a big way... Badminton birds last twice as long in England as they do here. Seems
that the climate does it... Baseball leaders are feeling out the possibilities of paying bonuses to players on teams that
finish in the first division as an incentive to them to give it that “old college try”... Ed Barrow, new
Yankee prexy, isn’t worrying about his team as long as he’s got Gehrig, DiMaggio, Dickey, and the rest of the
“row,” not to mention young Flash Gordon. Winning three World Championships in a row, there are some who claim that
the team they played on “back in the old days” was better... Pan American Airways has what is probably the
most widely spread league in the world. It is a bowling league with teams in such far-flung places as Alaska,
Buenos Aires, Manila, New York, and Hawaii. The weekly contests are broadcast over the company’s radio system... Jimmy Foxx had
six walks in one game last season after he began to slap out so many circuit drives.

Back to basketball, let's keep behind our team and see them go on into the tournament where Davidson is likely
to get a championship. With all the quint well and ready, they can really go places in any man’s league!

Wildcats In Training For Conference Indoor Track

N.C. Matmen Top Yearlings

In a match at Chapel Hill Friday, the University of North Carolina’s flashy Tar Baby wrestlers hung up their fourth
straight victory of the season by defeating the Wildkitten grapplers, 25-6. The Davidson matmen did not win a match until
the last two bouts when Ed Hipp, fighting in the 175 class, earned a decision over Weil. In the unlimited
match, John Barnhardt, Kitten heavyweight, decisioned Sasser of Carolina for Davidson's other points. In the other bouts, the Kittens did
not fare so well. After forfeiting the first match, the Frosh lost five by decisions and the other two by
pins. McCachern in the 128 and Winn in the 145-pound classes were both pinned by their opponents. In two hard-fought
bouts, Coppedge in the 135-pound class and Turnage in the 155 lost decisions to Tillet and Idol, respectively. Norman Aarseth
was beaten for the first time (Continued on Page Six).

Davidson's entrants to the Tenth Annual Southern Conference Indoor Games, to be held at Chapel Hill late this month, are
prepping in earnest now with only a fortnight remaining before the starter's gun opens the premier indoor meet of the
southern indoor season. The Wildcats’ chances for an individual title sank appreciably when it was learned that Charlie Sample, conference
indoor pole vault champion last winter, is being confined at the college infirmary. Should the ace vaulter be able to
defend his title at Chapel Hill, it is probable that he will not have regained full form. A feature of
the games will be the two-mile relay, in which Carolina’s wonder foursome will undoubtedly reign as favorites. The Phantom quartet
set a new meet record recently at the Millrose Games in New York, their time being only a few seconds
short of the world record. Coach Whittle will take a squad of fifteen varsity and freshmen to represent Davidson on
the boards. The Wildcat team finished fourth last year.

Carolina Tops Cat Grunters In Close Tilt

Ed Ellis Pins Opponent In Feature Match

University of North Carolina's grapplers nosed out Davidson last Friday by the score of 15 to 11 in a meet
at Chapel Hill, thereby winning the mythical State championship. Carolina spurted into an early lead by winning the first three
matches by decision. Zink from Carolina won over McIntyre in a close match. Then Jack Abels and Joe Wilson were
decisioned by Captain Harriss and Blackmer respectively. However, Davidson came back to go ahead by virtue of wins by Stinky
Bailey and Graham McFadyen. Then Ed Ellis pinned his man in the most interesting match of the meet. At this
point, Carolina ran out two decisions to clinch the win. Clements of Carolina won over footballer Bill Johnston in an
interesting match that featured fast footwork and action on the mat. Carolina clinched the Big Five championship in winning this
match. Previously, they had defeated the strong N.C. State team and the Duke Blue Devils. Davidson beat Duke but lost
to the Red Terrors. The Wildcats will wrestle Virginia Tech on this Saturday and then will journey to Lexington to
wrestle Washington and Lee in their final meet.

Summary of the Carolina Meet:
121-lb Class—Zink, Carolina, decisioned McIntyre.
128-lb Class—Captain Harriss, Carolina, decisioned Abels.
135-lb Class—Blackmer, Carolina, decisioned Wilson.
145-lb Class—Bailey, Davidson, decisioned Broadfoot.
155-lb Class—McFadyen, Davidson, decisioned Joyner.
165-lb Class—Ellis, Davidson, pinned Winston Broadfoot in 7:33 minutes.
175-lb Class—Forrest, Carolina, decisioned Crain.
Unlimited—Clements, Carolina, decisioned Johnston.

Phi Gams Vie With Pi Kaps

Two teams remained undefeated in the Intra-Fraternity Basketball league as the teams swung into the final rounds of the tourney.
The Phi Gams and the Pi Kapps...This week will decide the winner. The Phi Gams have defeated the Kappa Sigs
and the Phi Delts while the Pi Kapps have been victorious over the Pikas and the Betas. Each have won
two. Action during the past week has been brisk with several close games being played. On Thursday afternoon the Kappa
Sigs triumphed over the KA’s 19-14. For the winners, Boo Walker was the big gun with six tallies. He was
closely followed by Phipps with five and White and Scott who had four apiece. Davis Thomas led the losers with
six points followed by Woodward with four.

Thursday night the Pi Kapps defeated the Betas by the close margin of two points, 17-15. Sam Hemphill did the
honors for the winners with nine points to his credit. Flynn ran him a close second with six. Bill Fetzer
was best for the Betas with six points to his credit. The Phi Gams trounced the Phi Delts 18-16 in
a very exciting set-to. Jones and Plyler led the winning attack with six and five points respectively. Tenney and Wright
headed the scoring for the losers with six markers apiece. The halftime score was 13-10 in favor of the winners.

Monday night the Sig Eps nosed out the Pikas 16-13 in a rough and ready engagement. The two were nip
and tuck all the way with the SPE’s cashing in on foul shots to come out on top. Harlan with
five points was best for the winners. For the Pikas, Stitt Robinson turned in seven points and a nice bit
of all-round play.

Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
Happiness is a relative term, but not always a term of relatives.

“Able Defender” Johnny Tice, diminutive little guard from Blacky, Ky., has been guarding the big boys all season. Used by
Coach Shepard to cover against their rivals’ high-point men, John has constantly played an alert floor game in holding his
men to low scores while racking up quite a few points himself. This is Johnny’s second year as a starter
and he has become recognized as one of the best guards in the conference.

Gridmen Settle Down To Hard Work Despite Rain
Dukes, Babies Beat Kittens

After bowing to the strong Carolina and Duke freshman teams earlier in the week, Davidson's fighting Wildkittens returned home to
overcome a weak team from Chapel Hill High School Friday night. In the game at Chapel Hill, the Kittens were
not equal to the fast pace which their larger opponents set and the outcome of the game was never in
doubt after the first few minutes. With Rose and Feimester hitting the basket consistently, Carolina was leading by the score
of 27-10 at the half. Against the Heel second and third stringers in the third and fourth quarters, the Freshmen
played better ball and held the final down to 40-24. Rose and Feimester with 14 and 13 points respectively led
the scoring for Carolina while Bell and Spencer accounted for 17 of Davidson's quota.

On the following day they engaged the powerful Blue Imps in Durham. Again their opponents' height was the deciding factor
in the outcome of the game. Although trailing 23-16 at the half, the Kittens came back fighting and at the
beginning of the last quarter there was only a two-point difference in the score. However, Duke turned on the steam
and pulled the game out of the fire, finally winning by a score of 41-30. Mock with 12 and Allen
with 15 were best for the Imps while Bell and Lucas led Coach Laird's boys.

In a listless game here Friday night, the Frosh cagers finally overcame Earl Ruth’s boys from Chapel Hill High School
34-23. After being held to an 11-11 score in the first half, the Kittens snapped out of it and with
Bell and Carter leading the way clinched the game.

Winter football drills progressed into the third week Monday with the squad gradually rounding into good shape under the direction
of Head Coach Gene McEver. Heavy rains and a mud-soaked field caused practice to be interrupted for a few days
last week, but on Monday activities resumed in full swing. Light scrimmages have been on the menu for the candidates
during the previous practices, but now that drilling has begun in earnest and the more likely prospects are beginning to
show up, hard work has been daily assigned.

Coach Chet Chapman has been coaching the linemen regularly, and several men have shown promise even though they lack polish.
Letterman Horace McCall, last season’s regular center, is being pushed for his position by Frank Caldwell. Poss McLean and Marvin
Pennington, lettermen, seem to be looking best at the guard posts, but they are being pushed by George Marsh and
Ben Frank Moore. The tackle posts were left wide open from last year’s team, and Hank Bahnson, Don Bell, Elmer
Knoeller, and Dick Arnold are fighting it out for starting berths.

Ends Look Good
Coach Laurence Spearman has several light but dependable ends on the roster including Gales McClintock and Jim Cowan, last year’s
reserves, Frank Niven and John King from the Beester squad, and Bill Faison from the Freshman team. Coach McEver's backfield
men...

Wildcats Lick Devils
“Shucks!” Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons continued their Southern Conference Championship march Monday night by defeating Davidson’s fighting Wildcats 61-43 in
a free-scoring fray. Led by the hoop-hitting twins, “Lefty” Jim Waller and Boyd Owen, ace center, the Deacons proved to
have too much offense for the “Cats. This victory put Wake Forest still farther into the lead of the Southern
Conference teams, and it settled the dispute between the Deacs and the Wildcats for the Big Five lead for the
present. Waller and Owen increased their lead in the scoring over “Footsie” Cowan, Davidson center. Vinnie Convery, fourth in conference
scoring, held his own behind Cowan.

Davidson High In Conference
’Cats Third Behind Wake Forest and Maryland; Two Games This Week

Losing to Carolina, but beating Duke and V. P. I., Davidson moved into third place in the Southern Conference last
week as Wake Forest and Maryland continued to hold down first and second positions. Wake Forest marched through four opponents
in a row to become a sure entry in the Southern Conference tournament. Maryland with seven wins against two losses
is barely ahead of the 'Cats who have won eight and lost three. In fourth place is the Citadel with
Richmond rounding out the first five. This week will be the next to last week of conference competition with several
outstanding games billed. Starting the play will be the ’Cat-Demon Deacon clash at Wake...

Ring Men?
Campus grapevine channels have recently cast it abroad that Davidson will be represented by three colorful stalwarts in the Carolina
Golden Gloves Meet in Charlotte. Heading the list is “Battling Bob” McClelland, the “Tennessee Tiger,” who will fight in the
novice heavyweight class. “Press Box” McLean, the Morganton Terror, will vie as a light-heavy, while “Bounding Bill” Ross rounds out
the entries as a featherweight. Although these boys are not veterans of the squared circle, all are known to be
aggressive and clever battlers.

WE INVITE YOU TO VISIT US
Cold Drinks, Sandwiches, Fruits and Candies
— Also —
Complete Auto Service
“THE ROADHOUSE”

And Virginia Tech As Hicks Regains Form
Davidson Beats Duke 42-40 in Thriller; Gobblers Go Down 55-40; Carolina Wins 35-28 in Earlier Game; Hicks Gets Hot After
Illness.

With two wins to their credit, the Davidson Wildcats forged into third place in the Southern Conference standings despite their
loss to the revived White Phantoms from Carolina. Davidson journeyed over to Chapel Hill on Tuesday of last week without
the services of J. D. Hicks, ace guard, only to meet with unexpectedly stiff opposition and go down in defeat
35-28. Ben Dilworth led the Phantoms in scoring and on the floor game, while Jim Cowan paced the Wildcats with
10 points to his credit. The ‘Cats were off of their usual form, and the scoring and floor play of
Hicks was sorely missed.

Down Duke
They capped the eastern trip on Wednesday night, however, with a brilliant 42-40 win over Duke’s Blue-Devils. The Devils jumped
into a commanding lead early in the first half to lead 12-2, but after about the first 10 minutes the
’Cats warmed up and closed up the gap, and when the half ended they were leading 26-25. Duke came back
fighting from the intermission and moved into the lead, but not for long. Davidson regained the lead and led by
four points until the last minute of play when Bergman pocketed a basket, but then the Wildcats clamped down and
held the ball during the remaining seconds. Cowan led the Davidson attack all the way scoring 18 points, but Johnny
Tice played a scintillating floor game and scored 10 points. Swindell and Bergman led Duke’s scoring with 11 and 10
points respectively.

Gobblers Fall
V. P. I. was the next victim before the vaunted Wildcat quintet in Winston-Salem, 55-40. J. D. Hicks led the
attack with 22 points...

IN PERSON ON THE STAGE
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
THE COMEDY SMASH OF TWO CONTINENTS!
International Stars of Stage and Screen.
3 SHOWS DAILY
MILT BRITTON
And His BAND Of Mad Musical Maniacs, in “The Crazy Show of 1939”
— with —
SYBIL KAYE
JOE BRITTON
and Others
ON THE SCREEN
“BOY TROUBLE”
C. RUGGLES - M. BOLAND
Mat. 25¢ Nite 30c
55c 40c Incl. Tax
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

RECREATION PARLOR
Bowling and Pool
Mooresville, N. C.
Joe I. Kall, Prop.

MOORESVILLE
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

STUDENTS - FACULTY AND TOWNSPEOPLE OF DAVIDSON
WHEN IN CHARLOTTE
Park at Moore’s Parking Lot
114 West Sixth Street

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL
—— From ——
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
