Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938, Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

“Published Weekly For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y. Chicago * Boston * LOS ANGELES * SAN Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITORIAL STAFF

TONY CASALI
JIM CURRIE

Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy

Managing Editor
Tom Gamble

Managing Editor
Walter Watson

Managing Editor
Lawson Withers

Andy Dale
Editor

Jack Holland
Associate Editor

Karl Hudson
Associate Editor

Sam Spencer
Associate Editor

Bottry Williams
Staff Photographer

Angus Lytch

BUSINESS STAFF

Asst. Business Manager
Geert Godington

Advertising Manager
Peter Meher

Collection Manager
Jack Covington

Circulation Manager
Fred Little

Honorary Frats?

Supposedly Honorary and Social Fraternities should be of different nature but recently, that is in the last few years, it seems that the former group, Honorary Fraternities, has forgotten their purpose. What is their purpose? When I first entered Davidson, literature and other reports stated that the purpose of their existence was to recognize excellence in certain fields and that men who excelled in those fields, and only those, were eligible for a certain Honorary Fraternity.

But as the years go by it seems that many of our Honorary Fraternities are forgetting the purpose of their existence. Instead of recognizing excellence in certain fields many are merely melting pots for politics. Unless a candidate under consideration for membership is a member of some little campus group, a good friend of those in the fraternity, he is voted down, blackballed. Many men, who certainly deserve to be recognized by a bid into the frats, are kept out not because they haven't got the qualifications, simply because some members of the group are selfish, some think that only their “friends” are eligible. Something should be done to clean up the Honorary Fraternity groups. Of course all Frats are not like this but several, and some are those that are nationally known, have corrupted into another form of Social Fraternity. Membership into them is based on friendship, political group, and not excellence in certain fields.

A good remedy for the situation is to let the faculty decide who is eligible for membership into the Honorary groups. Certainly they are not narrow-minded enough to let little things like a boy’s position on the campus, his social standing, looks and what not, stand in the way of recognizing his abilities. It seems that certain students are not.

Don Cossack Shows

One of the most splendid singing organizations in the world will visit our campus in December and students will be given the opportunity to hear and see a musical group that has received high acclaim wherever it has appeared since its formation in a prison camp near Constantinople over 15 years ago. Recognized by many critics as the greatest singing organization of present times, the Original Don Cossack Chorus holds a record of more than 4,000 concerts that has never been equaled. One writer has the following to say about the Don Cossack chorus:

“Millions in Europe, England, Austria and America have thrilled to these magnificent voices. A Don Cossack concert is a memorable experience. The exultant fervor of their voices in Russian sacred music, the passionate longing expressed in their folk songs, and the riotous accompaniment of shouts, whistling, and frenzied dancing in their Cossack war songs makes a program that, once heard, is never forgotten. When you hear them you hear the voice of Mother Russia—for these battle-scarred giants carry a memory jealousy guarded. Exiled forever, with ‘In Voyage’ written in their League of Nations Nansen passports, these men pour into songs all their hopeless longing for their homeland which must forever remain a memory. A performance by the Original Don Cossack Chorus is a thrilling and never-to-be-forgotten event.”

Should Have Been Let Alone

In a bare majority of the States, this week will bring Thanksgiving Day by virtue of the edict of the President of the United States and the Governors of those commonwealths who were willing to accept the changed date. Fortunately and wisely, Governor Hoey of North Carolina was enough of a traditionist to refuse to truckle. The people of the State, therefore, will continue the custom of the generations in observing the last Thursday of the month instead of the third.

Of course, it may not make much difference which is which in this case, in view of the fact that the sanctity of Thanksgiving, as it was originally conceived and intended to remain, has just about all oozed out. It is mostly now a day of pleasure and recreation, too far detached from the elements of worship and thanksgiving to the Almighty for the blessings which have come to the people of this nation which formerly were its predominating factors. And the change that has been edicted by the President is all the more regrettable because of the introduction of the commercial impulse which led up to this move. Mr. Roosevelt was largely influenced by business people who argued that unless the changed date were made, there would be too short a spell between Thanksgiving and Christmas during which to draw out the holiday trade. This must be interpreted, therefore, to indicate that the acquisitive spirit has in this case been awarded the superior place over the thanksgiving worshipful spirit for which the day was intended.

—Charlotte Observer.

Parade of Opinion

Despite the fact that the arms embargo has been repealed in favor of a cash and carry neutrality for the U.S. in the present European conflict, collegians are still vigorously debating the issue. The range of opinion is so great that a scientific charting of its direction is impossible so we will pass on to you expressions that prove that so far there is little unity of thought on the subject:

Sounding a warning note for the future, the Dartmouth College Daily Dartmouth says: “The cash and carry law is the product of two American aims, first that we should have legislation which would help keep us out of war, second that we should have legislation which would help the allies. The important thing to guard against now is that we do not allow the latter aim to grow in importance at the expense of the first.”

Praising the new neutrality act, the Harvard University Crimson cautions those who will administer it in these words: “The main burden of enforcing the act is placed upon the president. He it is who must define the areas of combat from which our ships are to be excluded, and declare what countries are belligerents. The remaining details fall in the province of the state department. It is right that these duties should be placed in the executive branch of the government, for that is its function. However, the record of this branch during the past few months indicates that it will bear close watching.”

Another view is expressed by the University of Michigan Daily: “The United States is not neutral. By repealing the arms embargo, it has definitely shown on which side of the fence it is. The neutrality act, written in peace-time, was not intended to aid any foreign country. By changing its own, with specific countries involved, we are certainly behaving in a most un-neutral manner.”

Proceeding in this same vein, the Wheaton College Record says that “the act is satisfactory enough if the public wants also to intervene now for England, and to make European quarrels theirs. In agreeing to sell those materials which were formerly contraband, even on the cash and carry basis, we have sided with the Allies.”

This is one of the most stirring

ADOLF MEIER IS THE ONLY MALE TO STUMP OF HIS ARM, MARSH F TEXAS TECH. HURDLER, SET A NEW JUNIOR RECORD BY STEPPING OVER THE 110 YARD HIGH HURDLES IN 14.2 SECONDS IN THE NAAU MEET!

Thurs., Nov. 23, 1939

CAMPUS CARTOON

THE VALUE OF A COLLEGE EDUCATION IS $66,000 ACCORDING TO DEPT. OF INTERIOR STATISTICIANS.

By Billy Masters

DISC-CHORDS

and Hoss Reeves

Even the excitement of the Duke-Carolina game didn't serve to dim the spirits of the many lads who remained on the campus to “take care” of the Converse lassies. Haven't been able to find out as yet who won the K. A. pool. Last minute reports weren't complete—several of the favorites had not reported. Tenney was making the most of his campus—being trailed around by a more than cute Sandlapper miss—making it a quartet was Luther and his babe. The “Gleek” seemed mighty well pleased—still very much attached in spite of rumors. She promised us an “announcement”, but slipped away without making it. Would like to hear it yet, Scotty. McGeachy and his date seemed quite content to wander around alone singing love songs to the air—or was it to each other? The evening was the sojourn back to their rooms. Incidentally, it isn't a bad idea to start buying that Mid-Winters set ticket now. Those on the inside report a fine band in the offing. Scott Cooper has a lot of competition up Greensboro way with Jim Lalanne casting his interests in that direction. Bub Coltrane is also having Chapel Hill trouble—reports that Phyllis looked mighty good dancing with someone else at the dances over the weekend. And what boy's date had her father come after her over the weekend? Wasn't he trusted? Johnny McGee was rather disappointed that he didn't get to date his fourteen-year-old in Salisbury Sunday night. Tom Rogers and Ralph Williams were so well pleased with their Converse dates.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

that they splurged and rented the station wagon. So guess Converse will see some new faces down her way in the near future. Couldn't help noticing the good-looking car and even more attractive girls in front of the student store late Sunday night. Hackney did very well in getting back to school. Couldn't you persuade them to hang around a few days, Hack? ... What thing was that Losh was helping to form in Charlotte Saturday night? Paul Bumbarger stepped out over the weekend—his piece-de-resistance being one Fanny James, Rufus Allison's ex. But to Spartanburg by a group of the Lelose on a more serious strain. One local Lochinvar on the Converse Jazz is the only TRUE American music, so says Jan Savitt, a graduate of the Curtis Musical Institute and former ski. What do you band boys say about it? We were lucky not to have mentioned Gray Gordon and his Tic Toe boys in our list of undesirables, for it seems that eleven of them and the lone wolf was a record-breaker of 100-yard dash marks. They say he catches the critics, and the others give 'em the works. Goodman's Band is leading as the best swing band in Down Beat's poll, followed by Artie Shaw in selections of a sweet band, with Glen Gray's Casa Loma lads right on his heels. Glenn Miller is third in ROTL—versatile, boys, versatile! Since Goodman started adding negro players, some of the other leaders have decided that it is the way to go. We are sorry to say that Charlie Barnet is one of these, as well as Joe Sullivan. North Carolina’s own Kay Kyser made quite a hit upon his return to Rocky Mount, his hometown—something Tal Kemp failed to do upon his return to Charlotte a few years back. In spite of its age, one of the best bits of drumming of which we know is given out by Ray Bauduc on Bob Crosby's "Smoky Mary." One of the most appropriate records we've noticed lately was one called "Dodging the Dean" at a certain girls' school in Virginia. Takes quite a bit of dodging, but such things are being done, we understand.

Ray Foster, who followed Louise Tobin with Goodman's band, is to fill in only in the night spots. Mildred Bailey is to do the singing on the Camel shows and Columbia records. Benny could do much better on the CT records. Ford Leary has laid aside his trombone and is now appearing only with the Wipsy Doodlers. He certainly has enough size to fill both spots. Bonnie Baker's rendition of "Oh, Johnnie" has brought Orrin Tucker very much into the spotlight here lately. Let's hope he makes some change in order that he can stay there. A vocalist can't keep a band on top. Artie Shaw's "It Had To Be" is distinctive in that it opens with a drum break, which really starts things off right. Notice to Pan-Hell: How about investigating the bands which are to play at Gasparilla in Tampa, which comes off about the time of Murphy’s Mumblings?

By BOB WILLIAMS

Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 23-24
"Drums Along the Mohawk"—Fonda, Collins, Bowden, Claudette Colbert, Edna May Oliver, Carradine—Henry Eddie John, Doris Roger Lowry, Jessie Ralph. One of the best movies to be produced in Hollywood in many a year. It is the story of a frontiersman and his wife who wage a perpetual battle with nature and Indians. It is very colorful with actual Indian scenes of fighting in their picturesque costumes. This is not so romantic, because the man and wife, Henry Fonda and Claudette Colbert, are faced with life as it was found on the American frontier during the colonial period.

Saturday, November 25
"Winter Carnival"—Ann Sheridan, Richard Carlson, Helen Parrish, Robert Armstrong, Virginia Gilmore. The studios have put out an awful lot of dope lately on the "All-American Oomph Girl," but to this corner, it seems that all of it has not been justified. Why? Because she has not been given a part that shows her in her true form, and here again she has been put in the wrong part. However, she does have acting ability as well as "oomph," and this picture is well worth seeing. It was actually photographed at Dartmouth College in the heart of the White Mountains, and it bears its appeal especially to college audiences.

Mon.-Tues. Nov. 27-28
"Another Thin Man"—William Powell, Myrna Loy, Otto Kruger, C. Aubrey Smith, Ruth Hussey, and Nat Pendleton. Hardly anything needs to be said to entice anyone to see this picture, because if you have ever heard of Hollywood, you know that the "Thin Man" pictures are rated the best entertainment on the screen. William Powell is retired from sleuthing, and he and Myrna have a baby to complete their home. Of course, he has to run across a dead body lying in the road ahead of him, and he cannot forget the old urge. Don't miss it.

Wednesday, Nov. 29
"A Year"—Mary Healy. Reported this a couple of weeks ago, but the local theatre didn’t run it. Still no dope on it. However, as before, there's it.

Tucked away among the skirts could be found Spencer, Lytch, McIntyre, Perrin, Propst, Walker, and McAuley. All report a fine Sunday morning and afternoon after a swell trip down. One of the major topics of Georgia's discussion relates to the new College prexy. Who do you think he will be? Some of the names mentioned are those of Dr. Ben Lacy and Dr. "Tolly" Thompson and Rev. John McSween in the religious field; others maintain that he will be a practical business man. Heard most upon is the name of Clay Williams. But, Georgia's "brains" might be wrong; it may be that none of these men are even being favorably considered, but we are sure that any one of them could do the job. But keep on guessing, boys, you might be right at that.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

CONVERSE DAY... The average good looks of many compliments have been heard on these Converse girls. I only wonder why more didn't come up Saturday (up). From those who did come, it seems that they had a fairly enjoyable time. Of course, this dope comes from their dates, and it may be that they just told them this to be polite. Several "locks" were noticeable, however, with Ken McIntyre and Sam Spencer leading the way back to Spartanburg. I even saw one boy trying to date one of the chaperones, mistaking her for one of the lovely lassies. Imagine his chagrin when she replied to his inquiries as to whether or not she had a date, and if not, would she go with him; "I'm the Latin teacher" would hack even the bravest.

FOOTBALL... There is one boy on the team who has been playing for Davidson now for four years. He has lettered for the past two and will repeat again this season; although he has made but one or two touchdowns since he has been here—BILL BOLIN—he plays almost 60 minutes each game, and some games he never even carries the ball, and yet he is counted by the coaches as one of the most valuable men on the team. You all saw him block those four men Saturday and end up on his feet; other times he has been at tackle a man and that man is BILL BOLIN. He calls signals, and it is he who clears the path for the rest of the backfield. He really deserves a big cheer, fellows, so "Hey, Bolin, here's a hand!" And while speaking of football, U. S. STATE DEPARTMENT HAS MANY COLLEGIANS—The U. S. state department may be the representative to the world of the entire nation, but it's a Harvard-Yale-Princeton delegation so far as the country's colleges are concerned. A recent study of the approximately 700 members of this particular governmental unit reveals that almost 25 percent are from the big three universities of the east, with Harvard ranking first, Yale second, and Princeton third.

Next Thursday is our last game... let's try and make this the best one as far as cheering is concerned? You know, I heard Winston boys say that they were ashamed of the way we cheered when we played Carolina up there. The Charlotte boys will too, if we won't perk up.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH... This time he is one of the landmarks of the Davidson campus. Without this man, the school would not seem the same to many of us. He gets up early every morning and takes a stroll around the campus each afternoon. There are very few evenings that one cannot find him reading in the library, but a funny thing about him is that he can never seem to remember your name... you know, "Mr. er... hummm." And woe to the man who doesn't know his lesson (ask me, I've had him). And when he looks at you when you've done wrong, not only does he look through you with his eyes, but one finger reaches out and seems to point right at the guilty spot. A venerable professor, and a very fine man to have on your side. Did you ever get one of his famous "dictated but not read" letters?

COLLEGE MEN ARE TALLER... The University of California's Dr. W. C. McDonald says that college men of this generation are taller, heavier, and rangier than those of the last generation. But, says he, the college woman is keeping pace with this change, for she’s now taller and has wider shoulders, narrower hips, and longer legs than the co-eds of previous classes. Pretty soon collegians will be giving Superman a real run for his money!