Correction of OCR Text:

---

Foreign Policies By Rene DeV. Williamson

German Foreign Policy

It has been characteristic of German foreign policy over the years that it showed at once strength and weakness. More than in most countries, German diplomacy has had to take account of the internal situation. Even before the World War, the Reich was profoundly divided. Local feeling, based on real cultural differences, was strong; a very short historical period produced the usual antagonism between capital and labor, and a sharp cleavage between Protestants and Catholics has interfered with genuine unity. These divisions were accentuated by the existence of many Germanic groups living under foreign flags and a central geographic position exposing the country to interference by neighboring states. As a result, German foreign policy frequently served domestic rather than external ends. Bismarck, for instance, united the North and South Germans by fighting a war with the French, and pre-war economic imperialism had the desire to placate German capitalists as one of its main objectives. Versailles was imposed on a nation that was lacking in unity and therefore consistency of aims and methods, smarting under a sense of inferiority of standing, and struggling with a very severe economic depression.

Hitler and his Austrian associates were for the most part pathological Germans, as one might say, because they represented in their personalities and backgrounds the most acute of Germany's problems. Many of the leading Nazis came from the most threatened groups of minority Germans. Hitler is an Austrian, Rosenberg (official Nazi philosopher and member of the party's supreme council) was born in Latvia and educated in Moscow, Hess (the party's deputy leader) spent the first twelve years of his life in Egypt; Ribbentrop, the foreign minister, came from South Africa, and Darre, minister of agriculture, from the Argentine. These men were more or less desperate characters in that they had to struggle in a hostile environment and from that in part they came to over-emphasize power. For all their protestations, they probably do not feel at home in Berlin and are not as nationalistic as they are imperialistic.

Foreign Policy

The foreign policy of the Hitler regime is therefore founded on the thirst for power of its makers. It is by being powerful that Hitler—the obscure former resident of Vienna flop-houses, the corporal, disappointed artist, the man without a nationality—achieved eminence. It is only natural that he should see everything from that angle. The Nazis have preached nationalism and stressed internal unity because the pathetic condition of Germany required it, but their plans are as world-wide as the background of many of its leaders. Is it surprising that so cosmopolite a group should be interested in several continents? The Nazis have no set and limited objectives in foreign affairs. Welcoming any opportunity, they come and only circumstances dictate the particular area where expansion takes place. The racial mythology is only a useful instrument in the conquest of power. It surpasses nationalism in that peoples like the Swiss and [Continued on Page 2]

Nine Thousand Copies of First Issue Printed

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

For Who’s Who Ten Seniors Nominated

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1939 No. 10

Southern Presbyterian Ministers Will Receive Copies

CHAMBERS ON COVER

Around nine thousand copies of the first issue of the Alumni Journal will be mailed out the latter part of the week. Of the total number, twenty-five hundred will be sent to friends of the college, and the remainder will go to alumni and to ministers of the Southern Presbyterian church. Mr. L. Burton said that the alumni office would like to send the students copies, but he was not sure whether or not there would be enough extra copies. In the latter case, students will have access to three copies in the library.

On the cover will be featured the front of the dome of Chambers, showing the seal and motto. The picture will be in black and white with black lettering and a silver border.

Following are a few of the many articles to be printed in this issue: An article about those who support Davidson financially; news of the class of 1939 and regular alumni notes; a story about the arrival of the fourth generation of the Grey family at Davidson. There will also be a picture of the freshmen who are sons of alumni of Davidson.

Scripts ’n Pranks Will Be Ready Seventh of December

Scripts ’n Pranks, the college humor magazine, will make its second appearance about the seventh of December. This issue will portray the theme of Christmas with another cover by Horton. There will be many cartoons and features portraying the same idea as the cover.

Jack Abernathy, the editor of the magazine, has announced that this issue will be made up of more student material than the last issue. He also stated that the goal of this issue is to give more original material along with a better selection of jokes. In this edition, there will be a large number of short stories by students.

Bachelors to Present Varied Program

On Monday night, December 4, the Russians will invade the Davidson college campus. There need be no fear, however. They are only the members of the Platoff Don Cossack choir led by Nicholas Kostrukoff, who will present their concert in Chambers that evening at 8:30. The organization, composed of twenty-five real Cossacks from the Don valley, is presented under the auspices of Beta Gamma Phi, the honorary musical fraternity. Admission will be 50 cents for students and 75 cents for others.

The Platoff Don Cossack Choir has been heard in 3,725 concerts over a 13-year period. Sixty-two countries have been reached by the group. The concert will be given under the auspices of Beta Gamma Phi, honorary musical fraternity. Admission will be 50 cents for students, 75 cents for others.

Major Requirements

Requirements for majoring in a subject have been changed from eighteen hours to twenty-four hours of advance work in a chosen field, according to an announcement issued by the newly appointed curriculum committee of the faculty last week. The new ruling affects the present freshman class, but does not apply to the sophomore, junior and senior classes now in school.

New Faculty Ruling Does Not Affect the Three Upper Classes

It has been announced by the Registrar that mid-semester reports will probably come out sometime next week, most likely Tuesday or Wednesday, the 27th or 28th. These grades will cover all of the work done up to the present time. Freshmen as usual receive their grades from their faculty advisors, and upperclassmen may get theirs by calling by the Registrar's office anytime after Wednesday.

Colleges Join for Concerts

A concert of the combined musical organizations of Queens-Chicora and Davidson colleges was presented tonight from 10:00 to 10:30 P.M.‘re . : | : aa SO eN Pena peace a , during this week-end by the pro- worked out, but it will be complete | ™ les were taken by Id Hay, J.) M, the second radio program of the son teg an Enureday of last week in | the floor; and there are the mar- | fessors, in order that they may before! the spring of 1941, when | hiclds, Rolandsiones, Scetty Pater=|-currentschaol year will be We: eee eae Gliski oe Ss) oat ee dances be ready to be issued by the | member's of the present) freshman | s0n,, Joe Newell Robinson, and ented ‘by’ the.“Davidson ollege Gite habe ‘he Davidson Glee alin, | a ae Mera atk ad we “| above dates. Hit will be called upon! to select | Genes Vereen, Melvin Means di-|} Glee club from Shearer hall over die aon ttiad-sinpiheany ore hee, jin national, military costumes, ———————— | their major subjects preeted RT EE NEAL ae j station WBT, The musical director the -A—Gapella—choir,_and_-Miss_| AUABaghclors Departmental Outline Se ae \! ps Sp aS AAU a acer Frances Riddle, contralto soloist. | Interesting perhaps to the David- M. 2 di l cal Test Under the curriculum committee’s |" in Pfohl, Thane McDonald Conductors for the performance | nay student is the fact that these direction, each department will out- W. G: Me G ck" PAU emesis Lean kets Fie th were oMiss.. Grace-=Robinson of | twenty-five men, exiles from the Wi ll Be Given line the required and group of elec- C avoc The program will be as follows Queens college, and James Chris- | Don Region, are all bachelors. No tive subjects which will be neces- H oe epee ( by tian Pfohl and, Thane McDonald -of married men are allowed to remain sary to completion of a major in To Le e a d Camp shit ; All ne See Davidson: [in the group, ETON the” fact) BES 7 SE RATET IO Thar aN ra Hicin-respective field Tieser wilt J ol ye i Maxw Presented were the following : “O that some of the members have | “t by Mr. Hengeveld’s office-andtvats with the different depart Professor William G. McGavock | (""" Be pec uesets ere me Bone Jesu” and ‘Ava “Marie,” A| been in the group for more than he eae ae ne Wining: to| Ments; oné may require one sub-); of the Davidson mathematics de Seng Sie wen A VOISE ta Capella Choir, “How , Lovely Is} twelve wears - Nien n avi Not al. Aptitude Test ject and leave the others up to the! partment, will be the leader of the pe : hymn f ortnyansky ; Thy Dwelling Place,’ and “Send Professor _Pfohl__sineerely__an- hi | all be — aii SRGTR Ie student's choice. Another depart-| Charlotte fresh air camp for the | oor eaapets James; “Steal Ont Thy Spirit,” ‘Queens Choral | nounces*that the program will be| ee aly ; k i room 124 Cham-| Ment may require two specific ummer of 1940. | Awity LCR TORs DIL aA ty Club: ‘Come. Sen Death” and} 0" of the greatest and most un- 1 ee ae - 1 tye fe ali ae courses. and two other courses to Replacing’ Coach Pete Whittle, di De-a\ ; ma lullaby, string orchestra, “Black.| usual of its kind that has ever been mY a4 thet - = ; be chosen “from two groups which) rector of the camp last year, Dr ryayen Phanksgiving Ww ' Roses,’ Frances Riddle, soloist; presented on the Davidson campus. | Pane i t vs ae under therdis heads of the department will out McGavock has been chosen to ery S YOK : Dy 4 8 ; : teDon “Come to Me In My Dreams” and ? 3 rection of the \ sociation of Ameri- | line in the catalogue. sponsor the camp furnished to the : one 2 ' : ly vi Mie ne at “The Vagabonds,” Davidson Glee Bo V Ss | n V 1 ted can. Medical Colleges, and it is now Minor Courses tid rprivile ged boys of Charlotte Ai = ae a i RMR a; - club; Symphony in D Major, “Loh- Fe = o/ a ‘ considered a normal requirement As for a minor, the new require ; ( Like many other camp Mi les vari don,” and Valse Triste, symphony I D . ara | for admission to almost any medical! ments call for at least twelve hour throughout®ghe nation, it is sup ; | 1 " , orchestra; “Onward, Ye Peoples,” O i I Ss cussion } es Therefore: it is vitally | of advanced "9 rk, th a 4 be ported by a newspaper, .The Chae A o ; ae ; hae chofus and symphony orchestra. | Gaeta = : : necessary for those who wish to! yond the freshman year. ‘The minor Jotte_ Observer. : | Dr one entirely The Que Davidson musical or inanwara De mber 6 the ¥. M. ore enter-medical-school in-1940 to take} subjects will be outlined in the col Last year the staff of councillor : ay ay ~ ganizations will present two per- | cabinrer wit hort a praret Wises stor} ie teste lege catalogue, a ach ey ooFI Rae mrrreche—tapr—eetrtinerbyecert theater ns formances of the Gilbert and Sul- | 0" the topic, ot is Christian Atti- | r.» Hengeveld suggests that all) ment will make outa list of corre- students, with the excepti ; llivan operetta, “Iolanthe,” during | tude Toward W ath with Dick Ken- | Hace NUlOCoWichi tontalce: the. tastiintedeceunsceawiiaii nau conehitite orale mecca) council he middle of March, 1940; fyon as chairman in-charge—of the ye —— HATES at lis oflice some=+ [Gonttnued—on-Page — a Davidson graduate in the i The initial program featured miu- | floor The speakers, will be Dr. time before this week-end. | ity of North Carolina.” The campy ; : sic by such well known composers | Johnson, Dr. Gwynn, Professor oS ASatannasnicnkiowiicat resent —_—— eee cated seventeen mile west of a ant : : as Brahms, Bach, Haydn, Sibelius, Sayocks aug DE, ye vernon: .~| Mr. Hengeveld says that this will ‘Student Body Helps fel BUR Gi Toews Ce aie Bova Wi ee ae | ze ‘ and Bizet. i this discuss jon_-will mark the in: beethe-only.time this year that the | bridge. i fe SUS i euen a a EW peso puget | test will be given. : | Boy Collect Covers. - - . ing ‘on the Davidson campus. Each | Aeraeie tlonexioliarsiacohureedsbyil eee = f speaker will be allowed five min-| .° eT ¢ Hees “47. | >. Last week “the “student body F p) FE so ’ t a jute s in which to air his views on ' fis panes faon a eunereah rn ! started a campaign to help a blind | Oorenstc ea m ry O u S O the subject, then the floor, will be| 2) SP ge piseooed ana poe | boy of Rocky Mout Ete POY | Be H ld O a 2§ ] ) Ni gh thrown open for discussion. liaeveey SNE Renin: | has been offered a seeing-eye dog | nee | of cartoons, These are: “Petunia the, Pig,” Vincent; ‘“Christ- mas ton; some Molg Knoll,” lor; Down,” by Chal Interhide,2"+by— Gordon by Archie Afternoon Shewmake, “Saturday Ed “Smoke Rings,” “As-in-the~past; regular featured sections of magazine. Dave will again charge of the poet's corner, assisted other’ student poets. Herbert Swasey and Vincent Wyche by and by Joe Liles. the by will print all the late news about mu-| sic and bands. There is to be a large selection Some have been sub- mitted by the staff artists that run} along the general theme of Christ- mas., New Alumni Will Be Sent To Old: Grads This Week End: Alumni and Friends and South- | Hor, “Santa Clause Comes to Lone-! Tay- | let | there-will be the, have | Journal Famous Choir To Sing Here In December a Group Composed of | Don Cossacks To Perform | and take in this they" interesting and. vital issues meeting, cabinet feels confident that! will be) brought ‘up and that a large par-| ticipating audience will add to this | interest. Should this meeting prove to be} as profitable and absorbing as is anticipated by the members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, other similar | discussions on vital questions will | be held in the future. | Although details of the meeting | have not yet been worked out, ten- | tative plans call for the holding of | the discussion in one of the liter-| ary halls. Provision will be made, } however, for a move to the audio torium, first estimates. part as if student interest Sahl According to Sam Spenser, studios, in Charlotte, will return | | to the campus Friday and Sat- urday of this week to continue the photography work for the must-collect-one million match-cov- ers by December—1. Sam Spencer, Hank Bahnson, and tion to the pictures of those stu- Re Boxes have been placed in con- dents who were unable to pose spicuous places in the dormitories, during his earlier visits to the fraternity houses, and down-town campus, he will take the faculty, stores. Already the committee and certain group pictures. members have collected over two Among these will be Scabbard thousand covers from the student and Blade and the Pan-Hellenic body. Colleges and universities all Council. Other group pictures over the country are reporting sim- will be announced later. ilar results in this campaign. who re- | Photographer Here | ceived a card last week asking the AEA, cooperation of the Davidson stu- | Mr. Dunbar, of the Dunbar dent body on the project, the boy-| Casey Jones, officers of the Stu- annual. : dent Council, are in charge of the! As in the past, he will be in collection of the match covers at the parlor of Watts. In addi- |! 1). yiqcon. |February 2, 3 Given As Date For Annual O. D. K. Holds Converse Day. ‘At Grid Game *Girls Are Entertained After- be Tuesday Scott debate try-outs will hall according the will Varsity held night, in Eu on next to -N forsenic al council. president of a Committee of three faculty members. Dr. C, Brown ,.professor of economics, will | ..judges be K, | serve as one judge, The other two not yet been named. Query 1939-"40 que United a pol- icy of strict (economic and military) all out- have for the try-outs will be the college That States should follow standard tion: Resolved, isolation towards nations gaged in armed international civil conflict. A maximum time of five>minutes will be allowed each speaker. Ma- or debate the | side the» Western Hemisphere en-| id-Winters Dances Pan-Hellenic ~ Announces Set of Four Hops At Char- lotte Armory BAND NOT BOOKED YET liment Plan Used As Tickets Go On Sale Mid=wtt Insta tter’s’ dances wiht paration paration ndbook on t at the library: Any up- percla 1 is eligible to try-out. The Northern tour, as tentatively planned, will include visits at Williams, Amherst, Wesleyan, Rutgers, and the University of Virginia. The Southern tour will include visits at Tulane, Emory, and the University of Florida. IN THIS ISSUE WAIT A: MINUTE GLEANINGS MOVIE ! QUESTION OF THE WEEK SPORTS CC AMONG T onde HE GREEKS---Page S G 's