Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 30, 1939

High School Juniors Promote Folk Dance With String Quartet
Funds From Dance To Be Used For Annual Junior-Senior Banquet

BIG BUSINESS
Big business has at last invaded the realm of college party-throwing. A University of Detroit student has organized ‘Parties, Inc.’—and
the new firm will guarantee the success of any social function from a hayride to a wedding. But the company—wisely—will
have nothing to do with your escort for the evening. You'll have to take care of that little matter without
the firm’s expert advice!

Morrow Gets Honor Office
University of Arkansas buildings have a total volume of 12,000,000 cubic feet.

Washington and Lee University has organized a new archive for the preservation of propaganda and promotion materials.

“Gone With the Wind” leads freshman book preferences for the second year in succession at Massachusetts State College.

Wings of Davidson
First Issue of the New Alumni Journal Mailed To Graduates
Nine Thousand Alumni, Ministers and Friends Were Mailed Copies

Fields Horine Assists Davis
Win A Box of Whitman’s Candy Or Eveready Shaving Set EVERY WEEK To the High Scorer at “DAVIDSON BOWLING ALLEY
——FREE

Last Friday, the first issue of this year’s Alumni Journal was mailed to nine thousand alumni and friends of Davidson,
including the ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church. Three copies of the magazine have been placed in the library for
students.

Fields Horine, Davidson class of '38, has recently been honored for his work in interpreting the German language by Harper’s
Magazine. The November issue of that publication features a picture of Messrs. Davis and Horine lying flat on the floor
listening to a German broadcast. Also included in the issue is a feature of Gene McEver, Davidson's former All-American football
coach, and the drum major of the band.

Books On Art To Open In Library
Instituting a regular “study hall” for those members of the freshman class who find it difficult to study in the
dormitories, Bob Ramsey, Advisor to the Freshman Class, presented a plan at the regular called meeting of the class Monday
morning. Cowan, president of the freshman class, announced Monday night that the study hall would be held in Dr. Sentelle’s
classroom. If, however, the plan proves successful, they will let it continue.

Thursday, Nov. 30
College Holiday

Friday, Dec. 1
7:00 P.M.—Alpha Psi Omega
8:00 P.M.—Varsity Basketball Game

Sunday, Dec. 3
10:15 A.M.—Sunday School

Claude Hackney was elected president of the “D” Club. Different members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet will hold
these sessions every evening after supper until 10 o'clock. At present, they are held in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom. If, however,
the plan proves successful, they will let it continue.

Echoes of the Past
(Continued from Page Five)
Main, the daughter of Thomas Mann, interpreted several of Hitler's crucial speeches last year, the most famous of which was
the one delivered in Danzig.Twenty Years Ago

Mr. Fred Hengeveld was secured to translate the Wildcats for the '19-20 season. Attendance at these study halls is voluntary,
and any member of the freshman class is entitled to come. Those members who are failing in one or more
courses are especially urged to attend because they will not only have a peaceful place to study but also someone
to give them help. The A. Cabinet hopes this will cut down the large number of failures recorded each year
by the freshman class.

Ballard Is Speaker

Major J. L. Ballard, member of the R.O.T.C. department, was the guest speaker at the annual banquet of the Davidson
Volunteers. The banquet is a yearly custom of the organization. J. C. Washam, chief of the town fire department, presided
over the festivities. The banquet is a yearly custom of the organization. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college,
and Mr. Kimmel were the invited guests. After the talk, the service was closed with a short benediction.

Increase Is Noted in Red Cross Call

Professor Fleagle announced that a decided improvement over past years was noted in the recent Davidson-Cornelius Red Cross roll call.
Evidently, the response of Davidson alone was enough to show this improvement, since Cornelius had not sent in a report
by Monday. In the chapel program Tuesday, Nov. 21, which was dedicated entirely to the Red Cross movement, Professor Fleagle
urged all students to join, listing the many worthy causes that would be helped by this organization. Although no canvass
was made, it is evident from reports that student response was better than usual.

Firemen Should Wear Their Uniform!

Indiana University students are jittery these days: There's a local fireman who is seen frequently in the area. He looks
exactly like the university president, Herman B. Wells, and his appearance causes consternation. But the fireman’s a thoughtful guy, though,
and if you don’t believe it, listen to this: “I walk across the campus quite often and always try to
be friendly because I wouldn't want to damage President Wells’ reputation for friendliness.”

Music: Styles Changing

According to Mr. Kimmel, popular music has always traveled in constant cycles, changing from “smooth and sweet” periodically. The jitterbug
style is now in vogue. New styles, new devices, and new modes of composing are as numerous as the composers
themselves. “This experimentation cannot but help to develop a definite style and will eventually leave a few composers whose names
will rank in history with those of Bach, Beethoven, and Wagner,” he said, prophesying the future of modern music.

Norwegian shipping line has named one of its vessels “Tulane” in honor of Tulane University.

Cinemactor Spencer Tracy will soon be awarded an honorary degree by his alma mater, Ripon College.

Support Your Own Store

Class Rings, Stationery, Stickers, and Fresh Fruits

Student Store

Gales McClintock, George Richmond, Managers
