Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., Mar. 22, 1939

Honors Given Harding At Education Meeting

Several Faculty Members Journey to State Conclave at Raleigh

Several members of the faculty attended the annual convention of the North Carolina Educational Association which met in Raleigh during
the past weekend. The association bestowed fitting honors upon Dr. C. R. Harding for 56 years of continuous teaching. Dr.
Harding had a seat on the platform during the general meetings. He was voted a life membership in the association
and due notice was taken of his service as a noble teacher in the state. Dr. Gwynn, the president, headed
the work of two committees—one concerned with cooperation between the public schools and the colleges of the state, the other
on the improvement of teacher education. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson College, delivered the main address at the luncheon for the
Higher Education Section. Dr. G. B. Watts, Dr. Frazer Hood, and Professor J. C. Bailey attended the meetings of their
respective sections. Dr. Harding, honored at this meeting, was graduated at Davidson with A. B. and M. A. degrees and
obtained his Ph. D. degree at Johns Hopkins University. He is actively engaged in teaching History and Appreciation of Art
and the Greek of Scientific Terminology.

AMONG THE GREEKS

[Continued from Page Five]

Gene Liipfert spent the weekend in Raleigh; Doug Dillard went to Greensboro, B. B. Plyler and Shorty Parrish spent Sunday
in Winston-Salem. George Stowe visited Spartanburg on Saturday. Kid Shelton, Frank Barker, and George Stowe attended the dance in Charlotte
last Friday night. The regular Phi Delta Theta feed was held on Sunday night. The General Secretary of the fraternity,
Brother Gurlock, visited the Davidson chapter this weekend; he showed moving pictures Saturday night of the activities carried on in
different chapter houses throughout the U. S. and Canada. He also took pictures of the local chapter. Brothers Beall and
Rudolph went on the Glee Club trip over the weekend. Brothers Tenny, Turner, and Hunter left Tuesday on a tennis
trip which will extend as far as Texas. Dick Kenyon and Warren Ludlam left Monday on a debating trip through
the northwest. McGeachy and John Clyde Raynor were found visiting in Rock Hill this weekend, while some of the brothers
from Florida, Harman, Foote, and Owens started their holidays early. Verner, Mashburn, and Vereen were localizing this week, Lil- lard
off to Statesville, and Bell to Winston-Salem in a last-minute detail to Spartanburg.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The election of officers for the coming year was held at the regular meeting last Thursday. Toni Casali was elected
president; Walter Fitzgerald, vice-president; Bob Doty, secretary; Fred Harbin, treasurer; and Phil Edwards, Pan-Hellenic representative. Brother Andy Turner and his
wife, Betty, stopped over en route to Carolina, where he will start his work in the Spring semester. Henry Bryan,
also going to Carolina, was a visitor here. Brother Henry Coghill, from Oak Ridge, spent the weekend with his brother,
Wesley Coghill. Brother Hamilton is with the Glee Club on its Spring trip. Brother White is confined to his home
in Rock Hill by sickness. Pledge Brother Harlan went to Greensboro for the freshman dances at W. C. USNC.

FOUNDERS’ DAY

[Continued from Page Three]

and the forty-fifth anniversary of the founding of Beta Chapter at Davidson. The speaker of the evening was Dr. Freeman
Hart, national president of Pi Kappa Alpha, and professor of History at Hampton-Sidney. He traced the Pi-Ka record and closed
by presenting Dr. Arbuckle with the gold certificate for 50 years membership. Speaking of Dr. Arbuckle, he said, “He is
the greatest Pi Kappa Alpha living... His life has been an inspiration to me that I shall never forget.”

Plans Set For Play

The comedy, “French Without Tears,” by Rattagain will be presented the last week in April by the Red and Black
Masquers, announced Ed Morrow, president of the dramatic society. The plans for the play are still in the early stages,
but parts will be assigned soon. Only members of the Red and Black Masquers will be eligible for parts. Practices
will start immediately after the return from the holidays, and the cast will be whipped into shape. Professor E. J.
Erwin will direct the production, and he is in charge of making all arrangements.

KITS PREP FOR

[Continued from Page Four]

big one as no one but Ed Lucas has been discovered with much past experience on the mound. “Fireball” Chastain,
ace at McMallie last year, has reported to duty on the hill, and probably will be of great help. Also,
Mac Morris, a southpaw, is being groomed for hill duty. Yesterday the Kittens had their first inter-squad game with Coach
Shepard pitching for the first team and Ed Lucas for the second. The outfield positions were held down by Caldwell,
Smith, and Morris, while the infield was composed of Carter, Yarborough, Nelson, and Washburn.

S.P.E’S TRIUMPH

[Continued from Page Five]

Bane (S. P. E.) (3) Freeze (S. A. E.) (4) Bahnson (S. A. E.) 46.6 *High Jump—(1) Strandwitz (S. P.
E.) (2) Williamson (Pi Kaps) (3) Gilmore (Phi Delts) (4) Taylor (Betas) and Garvey (Pi Kappa Phis) (tie) Height: 5
ft. 10 in. *Discus—(1) Knoeller (S. P. E.) (2) Freeze (S. A. E.) (3) Terrill (Phi Delts) (4) Vereen (Phi
Delts) 116.9 ft. 880 Relay—(1) Phi Gams (2) S. P. E. (3) S. A. E. (4) Phi Delts. Time: 1:45.6.
*Denotes new record. **Denotes tied old record.

SENIOR ROBES

[Continued from Page One]

seniors to get much more satisfaction out of caps and gowns this year than has been received in the past
years by the senior classes. The gowns will be packed by the firm after commencement exercises are finished. This will
relieve the class of the trouble of packing the gowns for shipment back to the rental firm.

REV. GRIER DAVIS LEADS

[Continued from Page Three]

lenged the members of the student body to take time to write down all the items that we could honestly
believe in, and then to ask God to give us strength to live by them.

SENIORS PLAN

[Continued from Page One]

committee by Shaw Smith and Os- Armstrong. Along with these three students are six members of the faculty serving on
the group: Johnston, McGavock, Fleagle, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Wright, and Major Steel.

GOLFERS TAKE

[Continued from Page Four]

Tentative Schedule

March 23—Hampden-Sydney, at Charlotte. 24—The Citadel at Charlotte 25—South Carolina at Columbia. 27—Emory Uni., at Atlanta. 28—Univ. of Ga., at
Athens.

NEW DORMS

[Continued from Page One]

back, and east side. Probably it will be built in either an L shape, or in an H shape, somewhat
like Chambers Building in miniature. Professors Are contracted through the Feet Safeguard yourself by visiting BUFF’S SHOE SHOP

DR. GWYNN ADDRESSES

[Continued from Page Five]

practices foreign to our social order would be permitted to pass. Take, for instance, Joseph Smith, who started a religious
sect believing in polygamy. As long as his followers lived out with the Indians, they were left alone; but when
they desired entrance into the United States, they had to give up their practices. The second duty of a Davidson
graduate is active participation in democratic processes. Our franchise is a sacred instrument and we must use, protect, and serve
it. According to Dr. Gwynn, an amazing number of the white-collar citizens do not even vote. The well-educated members of
our citizenry must give of their time and money, if necessary, in order that our government shall continue to function
to the best advantage. In this connection, Dr. Gwynn mentioned a well-known educator who ruined his health in the service
of his state.

Final Duty

The third, and final duty set forth by Dr. Gwynn for a Davidson graduate is to act as a shining
example in the support and observance of the law. One should do his utmost to obey every law, unless it
violates one’s own personal convictions, in which case, he should explain to a court his conduct and do his utmost
to have the law repealed. Dr. Gwynn closed by saying that every man is his own policeman and that true
self-discipline comes from free choice of the right. Dr. Gwynn has consented to teach the Sunday School Lesson again on
the first Sunday morning after the Spring Holidays.[Continued from Page Four] John Strandwitz sixth, Rufus Allison seventh, and Dave Colvin
eighth. This is the first intramural event that the frosh have taken, but they walked away handily with it. Their
total was 1,365 points and their next rival was the Sophs who amassed 816. The Juniors placed third with 669
and the Seniors trailed with 474. Last year’s winner was Tip Harrison, senior.

STUDENTS REGAIN COATS [Continued from Page Five] of the law caught up with thieves they recovered Coghill’s coat. Now the
men are charged with grand larceny and will have to be tried in both the city and the state courts,
while Rufus Powell wonders if he'll get his overcoat back in time to wear it to the University of Texas
school. (Moral: Patronize the check rooms provided for your convenience by the Red Shield Club.)

SEVENTY-FIFTH BIRTHDAY [Continued from Page One] sembly several days ago. The talk urged the fellows to send a copy home
to “the wife and kiddies.” Editor Rut Miller was the speaker, Business Manager Don Davidson delivered a musical background, and
Fred Chetwood beat a stirring drum. After seeing the magazine if you still want to send an extra copy this
can be done by turning in your order to Don Davidson.

In its 75 years of existence the publication has been under several names, due to various reasons. First, it was
known as “The Davidson College Magazine,” then “The Chameleon,” following that it became known as “The Yow!” and finally “The
Scripts and Pranks.”

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, and Candy Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS Charlotte, North
Carolina DeLuxe Ice Cream Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

LIBRARY GETS [Continued from Page Three] in a frank, just appraisal of Amy Lowell by S. Foster Damon and Recognition
of Robert Frost, a compilation of criticisms from Louis Untermeyer, Dorothy Fisher, Norman Douglas, and many others. Damon vividly recreates
the picturesque personality of Amy Lowell and the stormy literary period which she dominated.

Many students have probably noticed or read a serial article called “As I Saw It” in the Saturday Evening Post
by Edith Bolling Wilson. This serial plus some more material has been combined into My Memoir. As widow of the
World War-time U.S. President, Mrs. Wilson gives information on Woodrow Wilson's, and so, indirectly, the nation’s affairs. Besides being a
good portrait of the ex-President, the book is interestingly written.

The greatest Christian in Japan, possibly in the world, is Toyohiko Kagawa. In his latest book, Meditations on the Holy
Spirit, he reveals his devotional life and deepest theological beliefs, points out the manifestations of the Holy Spirit in prayer
and God-conscious living, and discusses the power of the Holy Spirit in the lives of Christ and the Apostles.

Stamp Collectors will be interested in the 1939 Stamp Catalogue, just out.

SPANISH FRAT [Continued from Page Three] was the showing of several third-dimension slides which employed the use of the new
material “polaroid.” These slides, viewed by the spectators through special glasses, are projected by two projectors with the filters perpendicular
and horizontal in the different projectors.

DEACS LOSE [Continued from Page Four] Ohio State easily triumphed over Villanova 53 to 36 in the finals of the
Eastern division. This week Ohio State, eastern representative, will meet a western team at Evanston, Illinois for the collegiate championship
of the country. Following the Philadelphia event, an all-tournament team was selected on which Lefty Waller and Boyd Owen, Wake
Forest stars, were placed.

TENNIS TEAM LEAVES [Continued from Page Four] Schedule March 23—Emory March 25—Univ. of Miss. March 27—Southwestern (Memphis) March 29—Southern Methodist
March 31—Baylor Univ. April 1—Univ. of Texas.

DAVIDSONIANS ATTEND [Continued from Page One] ing leaders in the church: Canon Charles E. Raven of Cambridge University; Professor Emil
Brunner, a distinguished Swiss theologian; Dr. Charles Morrison, editor of “Christendom;” Dr. George K. Buttrick, president of the Federal Council
of the Church of Christ in America; Dr. Albert K. Chalmers of the Broadway Tabernacle and Bishop Iben Lee Holt
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. The Bible Conference was held separately from the Symposium and was for all the professors
of Bible in the state. The main part of the conference was held Monday and Tuesday.

WRITERS HAVE SPEAKER [Continued from Page Five] members are to be taken at an early date. This new method of
choosing members for the group has been adopted as a result of recent revisions of the constitution. The club was
originally open to all those interested in journalism and its main program was instruction in the art by Mr. Smith.

Rifle Team Defeated By Citadel Marksmen Charleston Sharpshooters Win 1,288 to 1,199; Chastain Is Standout On last Saturday the Davidson
College R.O.T.C. rifle team journeyed to Charleston, S.C., for a shoulder-to-shoulder match with the Citadel rifle team. The Davidson marksmen
were defeated 1,288 to 1,199. Ten men made the trip to Charleston. All ten of the men fired and the
seven out of the ten highest scores were counted. Tom Chastain was the high scorer for the Wildcats with 176
out of a possible 200. Jay Bolin and Walter Kunz were a close second with 174 out of a possible
200. Kneeley was high scorer for the Citadel with the amazingly high score of 191 out of a possible 200.
The Citadel has one of the finest rifle teams of any school in the south, not having lost a match
this year. The men making the trip were: Jay Bolin, Walter Kunz, Bob Lewis, Bob Ballard, George Jones, Ed Shewmake,
Bill Ward, Tom Chastain, Malcolm Kunz, and Bill Eagan. They were accompanied by Major Steele and Major Ballard. On April
8, the Wildcats engage the Clemson rifle team in a return engagement here, having been defeated by eighteen points by
them Saturday before last. The Citadel also will come to Davidson for a return engagement.

Weekly Schedule Wednesday, March 22 7:00 P.M., Scabbard and Blade. 8:00 P.M., Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P.M., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. Thursday, March 23 Social fraternities. Friday, March 24 7:00 P.M., Pi Gamma Mu. 8:00 P.M., Alpha
Epsilon Delta. 9:00 P.M., International Relations Club. Sunday, March 26 10:15 A.M., Sunday School. 11:15 A.M., Church. 6:30 P.M., Vespers.
Monday, March 27 7:00 P.M., “D” Club. 8:00 P.M., Delta Phi Alpha. 9:00 P.M., Eta Sigma Phi. Tuesday, March 14
7:15 P.M., Eumanean Literary Society. 8:00 P.M., Le Cercle Francais. 9:00 P.M., Sigma Upsilon.

Heap Colds A few drops bring comforting relief. Clears clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes—helps keep sinuses open. Vicks VA-TRO-NOL

Ask any one of the 1,044,492 tobacco dealers in the United States about Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied Combination. He'll say... Look what
it says on the back of the package... “Chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend of the finest aromatic Turkish tobacco
and the choicest of several American varieties blended in the correct proportion to bring out the finer qualities of each
tobacco.” (senior retail tobacconist in Washington, D.C.)

When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY
SATISFY.

Chesterfield ...the blend that can’t be copied ... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.

SIX STEPS TO MORE SMOKING PLEASURE AGEING—Chesterfield’s mild ripe tobaccos, like fine wines, are aged for two or more years
in huge wooden casks. Here they gradually acquire that true Chesterfield mildness and better taste which give millions of smokers
more pleasure. STEMMING—“Almost human” is what they say about the interesting stemming machines, whose fingers pick up the tobacco, leaf
by leaf and take out the stem, leaving only the mild, tender, good-tasting part of the leaf to go into
the making of Chesterfields. BLENDING—There is only one Chesterfield blend... that can’t be copied... the blend... a happy combination of
the world’s best American and Turkish tobaccos. Just the right proportions to make Chesterfield a milder, better-tasting cigarette. PAPER—Every Chesterfield
you smoke is wrapped in pure cigarette paper... the finest cigarette paper made. That’s another reason why Chesterfields are milder
and better-tasting. MAKING—Almost faster than the eye can follow, Chesterfields come rolling out of the marvelous cigarette making machines. Chesterfields
are always round, firm and well filled. PACKAGING—Truly amazing are the packaging machines which wrap and seal Chesterfields in their
air-tight, moisture-proof packages. Regardless of where you buy them, Chesterfields reach you as fresh as the day they were made.
