| Sideline Sidelights | By ANDY DALE DAVIDSON Wed., March 8, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN © SPORTS Wildcats Shine In Triumph Over Generals Page Four Home From The Tourney Davidson’s Wildcats, playing their first time in the big Raleigh tournament, didn’t win it, but brought back plenty of honor for the school. Beating the seeded W. & L. Generals in their first bout, they showed class and heady teamwork as they won by an 11-point margin. Against Clemson on Friday, luck left the ‘Cats at intermission. After holding a nice lead throughout most of the initial half, the Tigers clawed up into a 1-point lead for themselves, which was evened up with a foul shot just before the end of the half. After intermission, it was all Clemson, with Davidson hardly able to get moving at all. What helps our standing, though, is that on Saturday those rampaging Tigers licked Maryland, the pre-game favorite, and thus the ‘Cats were beaten by the champion team. While at Raleigh, the ‘Cats made many new friends for themselves and had a large body of supporters during the semi-final set-to with Clemson. The Davidson team behaved like thoroughbreds all the way until that disastrous last half against Clemson and really had the fans with them. Johnny Tice, now famous as “the midget of the tournament,” would run a close race with Banks McFadden of Clemson as the most popular player in the meet. He received a terrific ovation as he left the court for a rest in the W. & L. game. Last year it was Duke that came from nowhere to take the title, and this year Clemson, unseeded upset winner over the favorite Wake Forest outfit, came through to cop the crown over the ten good teams. Reports from Wake Forest over the weekend indicate a sad and gloomy time was had by the Deacons during their short visit to the tourney. What a surprise to them to be knocked off after such a fine record during the regular season! But Clemson was definitely on the march as the end of the scheduled Southern Conference games approached and continued to set a killing pace in the tournament. Banks McFadden must have really gotten an earful from the coach when he was taken out during the first period of that Friday game. Before leaving, he was missing right and left, but the rangy Clemson center returned to rack up a total of 14 points, of which nine were scored after the half. After the intermission period, Clemson had a 13-point lead and seven minutes and fifteen seconds had gone by before Benny Harrison slipped one through the hoop for Davidson's first score of the second half. Sophomores have meant a lot to the Southern Conference teams this season. Pinck, although held to nine points in the Davidson game, has been ringing the bell for W. & L. all season. Wake showed ‘Cat fans his speed here a couple of weeks ago when the Deacs took the Davidson quintet to camp. Lancaster played good ball for Clemson this season, while Severin and Glamack up at Carolina set the Heel squad a good example. Back at home, Jimmy Hogg earned a starting position midway in the season, developing a good eye and following shots well. The Clemson game wound up the cage careers for four of the 'Cats, three from the starting lineup. Captain Iverson, J. D. Hicks, and John Johnson have played their last game for Davidson. Coach Shepard has three men who played a great deal this season left for next. Harrison should furnish a good starting point for next year’s team with Hayseed Thomas and Apie Means due to see action. The frosh team will send up such candidates as Bell, Lucas, Carter, Simonds, and Yarborough, the latter two built along Johnny Tice’s compact lines. Spring Sports Begin With the winter sports program closed, spring sports will take up as soon as the weather allows. The usual Davidson weather, rain and more rain, has so far prevented much outdoor practice by any team. Winter seems to be over, however, as a late snow and rain have worn themselves out, and next week should find the flychasers and track stars vying for the space inside the stadium, well able to defend themselves with their javelins and discus. In the realm of tennis, there is still much discussion of the trip to Texas which will really make competition keen for spots on the team. The golfers will soon hold the regular spring tournament to decide the members of the links team. Pegram, Pittman, Cooper, and last year’s frosh mashiemen should be strong against opponents. Speaking of spring sports, Coach Spearman was recently heard to observe in regard to frosh track prospects that he had heard there were many track stars in school, but so far hadn’t been able to find them. Generally, the warm spring days bring out every boy in school for some form of exercise, and the varsity and freshmen squads are usually filled to capacity, even with four different sports running at the same time. Probably more students participate in spring sports than at any other time of the year. Numeral Club Gives Cup The Numeral Club, composed of freshmen athletes who have made numerals in any sport, has done much toward helping Davidson sports, especially in the yearling department. A newly-formed project of the well-established “D" Club, it has stepped out on its own feet, and although it is still supervised by the parent organization, it is making its own plans and programs. One of the newest things it has done is to announce that a loving cup will be awarded to the freshmen athlete who has brought the most honor to his class through sports. At present, there are several men who appear to be leading candidates for it. Dave Spencer heads the list with numerals in three sports: football, basketball, and wrestling, but Bell, Simonds, and Marsh are close on his heels for the award with two sports thus far. This cup should do much to encourage freshmen to participate in as many athletics as possible. Tennis Team Practices For Spring Holiday Trip Golf Practice To Begin Soon Tryouts for the 1939 edition of the Wildcat linksmen have been held during the last two weeks on the Charlotte course. The four men having the lowest qualifying score for 72 holes will (Continued on Page Six) Although weather conditions have caused postponement of outdoor practice, the Wildcat racqueteers are in the gym nightly for an extended tour of Texas during the Spring vacation. A team of six men will make the trip which begins March 23 with the University of Texas at Austin. (Continued on Page Six) Clemson Cops Tourney Title At 1939 Meet Tigers Bowl Over Carolina, Wake Forest, Davidson, Maryland in Row Clemson's indomitable Tigers reared up in the role of the dark horse to bowl over four opponents in their quest for the Southern Conference basketball crown. In the first day's play, Richmond's Spiders won from V. M. I. in a rather dull affray 31-20. In the second game of the night, N. C. State overturned the Duke Blue Devils 40-39. The game was close all the way with the lead changing hands many times during the contest, but the power of P. G. Hill, Bill Mann, and Jim Rennie paved the way to victory. Ed Swindell played the game that gave him a place on the All-Tournament team in pacing the Duke attack in scoring and on the floor. Clemson engaged in another thriller in the third game that found the Tigers coming out victors 44-43. Banks McFadden led his teammates to this victory both in scoring and on the defensive. 'Cats Lick Generals On Thursday afternoon, the Davidson Wildcats led off the second round play by winning easily over a dangerous Washington and Lee quintet 43-32. Captain Ned Iverson led in the scoring, but Johnny Tice won the admiration of the crowd by holding Dick Pinck, the General's ace scorer, to 9 points while scoring 9 himself. Maryland's smooth working combination moved into action in the second game of the afternoon, trodding over Richmond 47-32. Eddie Johnson led the Old Liner scoring, but DeWitt and Knepley played very smooth floor games. State was pushed to the very limit to win over Citadel 40-38, in the first game of Thursday night. The Cadets were closing fast as the game ended, but a good lead that the Red Terrors had built in the first part of the game saved their skins. Clemson pulled the biggest upset of the tourney by nosing out the top-seeded Demon Deacons from Wake Forest 30-28. Although “Sweet” Jim Waller scored 13 points, the rest of the Wake Forest team was bottled up by the (Continued on Page Six) Matmen Pick New Captains At a recent meeting of the 1939 McFaydenwas elected captain of the wrestling lettermen, Graham Davidson grapplers for next season. Fred Harbin was chosen varsity manager at the same meeting. Losing but one match throughout the recently completed campaign, and that to Washington and Lee's 155-pound Southern Conference champion, Graham has been one of Coach Parks Harrison's ace matmen for two seasons. McFayden is following in the footsteps of his older brother, Howard, who led the 'Cat grunt and groaners in 1938. Harbin’s election came as a result of three years of diligent work. Norman Aarseth, who also dropped but one encounter this season, was elected captain of the yearling matmen. Weighing 145 lbs., but wrestling in either the 145, 155, or 165 lb. classes, Aarseth won most of his matches by falls. Having wrestled for many years at Stony Brook School, L. J. Aarseth turned in a very successful season in his first year at Davidson.

Coach Norman Shepard is closing out his second year as the successful head basketball mentor of the Wildcats, having raised the ‘Cats to a position as a conference hardwood power after only two seasons at the helm. Coach Shepard serves too as Director of Athletics and is also engaged at present in whipping his yearling baseball squad into shape, having played himself in both Southern League and American Association ball.

Winter Drills Come To End
Sessions Hampered By Constant Rains And Injuries

Although interrupted by consistently bad weather, the Wildcat gridmen finished a fairly successful spring practice period Friday afternoon with a scrimmage between the Red and Black teams. The Red warriors emerged victorious by the margin of a field goal booted by Stan Yoder, who was injured with less than five minutes of the drills remaining. While on one of his smashing jaunts through the opposing line, Yoder dislocated his kneecap. Gene Shannon, “scat-back” from Barium Springs, has been showing up well consistently and should be a valuable asset this fall. The Freshmen who were out for the squad will be called on to furnish much of the material for this year’s teams. Knoeller and Bell, tackles, are two of the Frosh stalwarts who will see a lot of service as Sophomores. Gales McClintock and Jim Cowan will be out in front in the race for end positions. There is an abundance of material for the center post with Horace McCall and Poss McLean leading the field. George Richmond and Marvin Pennington are the leading candidates for guard posts, ably aided and abetted by Dick Arnold. Claude Hackney, yearling star, has been out for most of the season.

Varsity Cindermen Prep For Opener With Birds

In spite of bad weather, about forty varsity track aspirants have been working out daily for the past week under Head Coach Pete Whittle and Coach Chet Chapman, field event mentor. With about a dozen lettermen back, the outlook seems to be for a good season. The power appears again to be centered in the same events as last year’s injury-ridden squad. The middle-distances and long circuits should be well taken care of, as should the majority of the field events, if injuries round into shape. The Wildcat cindermen probably will be weakest in sprints and hurdles, where seasoned performers are scarcest. The 'Cat distance men should rank with the best in the conference.

Walker Captain

The varsity track team will be captained this year by T. E. “Boo” Walker, long a veteran of the cinderpath. Boo runs both 880 and mile and has been an outstanding point-man since his varsity debut as a sophomore. Addison Long is to serve as head-manager. The schedule follows:
April 1—South Caro., at Columbia.

Clemson Beats Cats In Semi-Final Tilt of Conference Tourney
Davidson Cops Game With W. & L. But Loses to Tigers in Semi-Finals; Results

Davidson's Wildcats, having qualified for the annual Southern Conference tournament at Raleigh, defeated the highly-touted Washington and Lee Generals in their first encounter, 43-32. Clemson’s surprising Tigers turned back the ’Cats in the semi-finals by a 49-33 count. The locals, entering the game with the Generals as underdogs because of the latter's high standing in Conference play, displayed a superb brand of ball and dazzled the Virginians with their air-tight defense and fast breaking. Davidson started with a rush and jumped into a 10-4 lead with only seven minutes of the fracas gone. Led by Dobbins, lanky sophomore center, the Gens staged a comeback and pulled up to within 4 points at the half, the score being 20-16. The ’Cats returned to the floor for the second half and soon ran up the count with a whirlwind attack. Captain Ned Iverson led this assault with 9 points, rung up in rapid succession despite the frantic efforts of the G’s Dobbins. The game closed with the losers letting fly with futile long shots in an effort to overtake the inspired 'Cats. The feature of the struggle was the going-over Johnny Tice gave the mighty Pinck, Sophomore flash, who has led Washington and Lee’s attack all season. “Little John”, displaying superb footwork, held the high-scoring forward to 9 points and racked up nine himself. Iverson was the scoring leader for both teams with 13 points to his credit.

Lose To Tigers

The local lads took the floor the following night as odds-on favorites to beat the Clemson Tigers, who had barely eked their way into the tournament. The 'Cats started with a bang and took a commanding lead on baskets by “Footsie” Cowan and Jim Hogg. However, the Palmetto boys came to life and fought their way into a 24-24 half-time deadlock. In the second half “Lady Luck” forsook the Davidson quint.

Rain Holds Up Ball Practice

Head Baseball Coach Flake Laird has been working out his pitchers and catchers indoors for several weeks in preparation for the season which will begin early in April. Bad weather will probably keep the flychasers indoors for several days longer, after which they will move onto the varsity diamond inside the stadium, which the managers have been rehabilitating for some time. About thirty men have been issued uniforms to date, with several more aspirants expected to report soon. The Wildcats lost four regulars but should be able to replace at least three handily. The first base post vacated by Jim Dunford, sensational fielder, will probably cause more worry, however. J. D. Hicks, two-year starter as a pitcher, is expected to fill the gap.

GIRLS! Own your own business. Earn $75 to $100 per week. Have others earning for you. Yes, it is the beauty business! EVERY WOMAN YOUR CUSTOMER. Today, now, while you think of it, write and learn how you can learn the profession. Open your own shop. We train—furnish your own shop with a small payment. We help you to succeed. New classes forming now. Continental College Of Beauty Culture: HIGH POINT, N. C.

NEW—FRATERNITY STATIONERY $1.00 per box
STUDENT STORE Davidson, N. C.

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, and Candy Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS Charlotte, North Carolina

Ernest Ellison 113-115 E. Fourth ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE Robt. E. Ellison St.—Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte’s Leading Ice Cream Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES for your room, from—
SOUTHERN PRINTING COMPANY
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your telephone. For a representative call 3-3727
Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO. Phone 8257 CHARLOTTE, N. C.