Thurs. Oct. 5, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Annual Staff Makes Survey of Expenses

“How Much Do You Spend At College?” Was Asked Students

A survey was made last week by the business staff of the “Quips and Cranks” to determine the purchasing range
of the student body, in an effort to increase the advertising space in the Annual. The survey asked for the
quantity and price of all the various necessities of the Davidson student. The articles included everything from underwear to life
insurance policies. The questionnaire also contained questions of transportation to and from school, how often the student visited Charlotte, how
much he spent there on the average, and whether he tried to uphold the tradition of trading with the publication’s
advertisers.

Passed in Dormitories

Business Manager Luther, fearing the survey might not be filled out seriously if distributed in chapel, passed out the questionnaires
among the dormitories. Through the results of the survey, the staff can find out which business concerns will profit by
advertising to the college student. Manager Luther's staff consists of Frank Barber, Ralph Harkey, Tom Hatcher, Case Jones, and Ed
Watson. Freshmen who wish to come out for the publication may still do so.

Frosh Rogers Wins Contest

Arkansas Youth Takes Hundred Dollar Prize For Best State Essay

“All freshmen aren't as green as they look,” says Bill Rogers of El Dorado, Arkansas, a freshman who recently won
a prize of one hundred dollars for the best essay in a state-wide contest held in eighteen states of the
oil region. This summer, the Independent Petroleum Association of America offered nineteen prizes to high school seniors for the best
essay on the subject, “What Oil and Gas Have Done for My Community.”

$1,000 Prize

First prize over the whole eighteen oil states was one thousand dollars. Then the state-wide contest winners were given one
hundred dollars each as second prize. Rogers was the winner over all the contestants from the state of Arkansas. In
his essay, Bill pointed out that his town and the surrounding district had boomed in recent years on account of
oil. His town grew in five years from a population of 4,000 to one of 40,000; the growth was directly
due to oil. With this fact known, he built his essay around the history of the community and surrounding sections.
In the past two weeks, his picture and write-ups have appeared in three publications—the Independent Monthly of Tulsa, Oklahoma, the
Arkansas Gazette of Little Rock, and the El Dorado Tribune.

Band Ends 20th Year

Student Body of 1919 Marches Into Cotton Fields To Raise Money

Seventy-eight members of Davidson's 1939 football band, the largest ever formed on the campus, paused for a moment on September
28 to pay tribute to a group of cotton pickers. On this date, instrumental music celebrated its twentieth birthday at
Davidson, and the recipients of this tribute were some four hundred members of Davidson's 1919 student body. For only two
short decades have elapsed since this group marched en masse into the cotton fields surrounding Davidson and by the sweat
of their brow earned enough money to equip the original Davidson band—twenty-eight players.

Need A Band

It all came about in the fall of 1919 when Lt. Col. O. R. deG. declared to his cadets, “we've
got to have a band.” The sum total of instrumental equipment at Davidson, however, was zero, and money was scarce.
The Colonel accordingly contracted with nearby farmers to supply cotton-pickers, and in the early morning of September 28, the first
squadron of the freshman class marched out to work. Things weren't so bad as they might seem. Professors and their
wives took pity on the students and supplied a picnic dinner and lemonade. Upper classes followed on succeeding days, and
cotton-picking became the rage. An issue of “The Davidsonian” appeared with a streamer across its front page proclaiming: “Don't be
a cotton-picking slacker!”

9,000 Pounds Picked

Well, 9,000 pounds of cotton were picked by the students during the week, with freshmen averaging 100 pounds per man
to the seniors’ 80. Approximately $150 was earned, and the R.O.T.C. department got its music. Indirectly, it went even farther.
The foundation was laid for a group of musicians, declared by an announcer over nine radio stations Saturday afternoon “the
finest college band I have ever seen or heard!”

BAND TO MEET SUNDAY

“What Christ Has to Offer the Christian Student of Today” will be the topic for the first meeting of the
Ministerial Band next Sunday afternoon in the Social Center. Paul Kissling will be in charge of the discussion. It is
hoped that Dr. M. G. Gutzke, D. D., may be obtained to speak on this subject. The recently organized Ministerial
Band will take the place of last year’s Fellowship Council. The organization is composed of candidates for the ministry and
the Foreign field. All meetings will be call-meetings.

College Library Notes Increased Circulation

Plays Of Shakespeare Lead List of Most-Read Books During Past Year

Circulation of books for overnight use from the Davidson College Library increased last year by 1,142 over the previous year’s
record, Professor C. G. Davidson, director of the school library, declared this week. Other increases in circulation were as follows:
Outside loans increased 418, while inside the building increased 838. These figures do not include reference work done inside the
building when the books were not officially taken out. Professor Davidson also issued a list of the ten most-read books
of last year. Heading the list were Shakespeare’s plays; second, Cronin’s The Citadel and in third place Apocrypha, a book
containing parts of the original Hebrew Bible that are not accepted today. Then comes Chaucer's Canterbury Tales; fourth, Horse and
Buggy Doctor; sixth, The Yearling and seventh With Malice Toward Some. Then comes Margaret Mitchell’s Gone With The Wind, followed
by Doctrine of The Prophets, and last, Action At Aquila.

SOCCER SQUAD [Continued from Page Four]

Fadyen, Chal Vinson, Elmer Hulen, Joe Wilson, Bob Washburn, Pat Rudolph, John Farrior, Ed Watson, and John Chalk. This year
soccer will be recognized as a major sport, in which varsity letters will be awarded to those playing in the
required number of games.

GET THAT CHIC LOOK Johnson’s Barber Parlor

Crowd Cheers as Cats Down Duke

Wild enthusiasm is reflected on the faces of spectators in this section of the stands at the Wildcat-Blue Devil tilt
Saturday. Occasion for the wide-spread rejoicing was the Davidson touchdown in the second quarter, when Claude Hackney gathered Granville Sharpe's
pass into his eager arms and headed for pay dirt. The crowd at the game has been estimated at almost
10,000.

Local Hi Taps Six New Members

Sherrard Rice Makes Talk at Ceremony in High School Auditorium

Sherrard Rice, secretary of Davidson’s Y.M.C.A., delivered an address on “Permanent Values of Christianity and Youth Work” at the high
school auditorium.

AEDs to Hear Doctor Speak

C. W. Sherman, chairman of the program committee of the Alpha chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, plans
to have a physician from Phi Literary Society Holds First Meeting

Group Discusses New Members; Gammon, McLean Deliver Talks

Jack Abernathy, President, presided at the first meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society Tuesday night, as the group discussed the
question of new members. All those who wish to join the society should turn in their applications to Sandy McEachern,
secretary of the society. Each applicant must present a paper on some original subject of between 500-1000 words soon after
he joins the society. The program committee of Dan Walker and Jack Abernathy constituted the program for the evening. Several
extemporaneous talks were given.

Woman’s Class Raises Funds For Movement; College Donates Logs

To build an annex on the Allison Howard men’s cabin is the aim of the Davidson Unity Church, announced by
its pastor, Rod Williams. The women’s class is sponsoring this movement and is raising money for this work. The annex
will be eighteen feet long by twenty-two feet wide, and will consist of two rooms; a kitchen and a study
for the minister. It will be constructed of pine logs.Speeches were given by the members of the Hall. Critics Dave
McLean and Dick Gammon gave a cabin talk—as—to who their critics were, and also what the aim of the Society
should be.

Men To Cut Logs
Men of the church will cut the logs Saturday morning, from the timber near college Freshman field. Following the log-cutting,
the men will hold a fish-fry on the Catawba River in the afternoon. The following week, the women will cut
the bark from the logs to ready them for the builders of the annex. The annex is to be completed
by November 4th, Homecoming Day.

Officers of the Society, which were elected last year, are: President, Jack Abert; Vice-President, Eldridge Brown; Secretary, Sandy McEachern; Treasurer,
Ralph Harkey; 1st Critic, Dave McLean; 2nd Critic, Dick Gammon. These officers will hold office for the first semester of
the year.

“This will be a critical year for the literary societies,” stated President Abernathy. “In the last few years, some have
raised the question as to the value of having literary societies at all. I feel that they can serve a
vital function on the campus, and it is the aim of the Philanthropic Hall to fulfill this function—that of giving
those students who wish it the opportunity for self-expression. The other main function of the society will be social tapping
service of Davidson High School's Hi-Y. The service was held at its first meeting of the year next Friday night
in the Pi Kappa Phi house. Joe Johnson, president of the Hi-Y Club, presided at the meeting, and the other
members of the club were also seated on the platform. The service was conducted by the pastor, Rod Williams. Several
new men have been added to the janitorial staff to take care of the new building. Minor adjustments of personnel
have been made in order to place some experienced men on the new assignment.

The opening of the new dormitory has increased the capacity of the row itself to 600 students. This will naturally
decrease the number of students lodged in other buildings throughout the town, thus tending to centralize housing arrangements.

Activities of the Lodges
Saturday night after the game, the whole chapter, with their dates, journeyed to the Catawba River in a hay-filled truck,
where a weiner roast took place. Dates for the hay-ride were: Nancy Walker, Betty Jean Martin, Nancy O’Neil, Irma Dell
Blackstone, Eddie Ryle, Virginia Parker, Jane Kirkpatrick, Kitty Gray, Mary Fant Holmes, Virginia Young, and Calese Bivins. Most of the
brothers remained on the campus during the weekend, though some of them made their weekly trips to Charlotte and other
nearby points of interest.

Pi Kappa Alpha
After a party Saturday night, a marshmallow roast was held on the Davidson Golf Course. Dr. and Mrs. Hillhouse and
Dr. and Mrs. Lyon attended the party, where moving pictures of Will Alexander, one of the founders of the fraternity,
were shown. Dates for the marshmallow roast were: Frances Bailes, Mary Spencer, Betty Weaver, Betty Huneycutt, Dot McCall, Doris Edgar,
Martha Brandon, Mildred Scott, Mary Allison, Virginia Beechum, Lillian Kilgore, Jane Austin, Julia Edwards, Peggy Sanderlin, Nell Johnson, Emma Suttenfield,
Elizabeth Jones, and Virginia Hengeveld.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
After the game, the chapter entertained at supper for: Anne Dichtenmuller, Dotty Jones, Aileen Long, Tiny Waddill, Virginia Baxter, Tibby
Dooley, and Lib Thrower, all from Charlotte; Ethel Lytch, Laurinburg, Harriet Sullivan, Jimmy Collins, and Mary Frances Pons, Winifred Pons,
and Marie Pons from Valdese. Among the parents and friends visiting the house during the weekend were: Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Bahnson, Fred Jr., and Mr. and Mrs. Yates Haislip; Dr. and Mrs. McLean; Miss Lillian Alderman, Miss Harriet McLean,
Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Moore, and Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Moore Jr.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH? COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Building, Davidson, N.C.
ALL SPORTING GOODS
415 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N.C.
Gales McClintock, Managers
George Richmond
