Page Two ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

TONY CASALE - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy... Editor
Paul Bunnbarger... Editor
Tom Cauble... Editor
Joe Liles... Editor
Andy Dale... Editor
Aik Holland... Editor
Karl Hudson... Editor

Still pressing on to glories yet to be,
Thy stalwart sons in serried ranks behind thee,
Our voices raise, in hymns of loyalty:
B. C. G.

Bosh
Davidson's gift to the wastepaper basket. It appears four times per year—just four times too often. Its jokes are stale, in fact they have appeared in other magazines all over the country two and three years ago; its cartoons are feeble, pointless, and decidedly not humorous; in comparison to Davidson's weekly publication, it’s decidedly outclassed. Each year this flat publication attempts to create a rivalry with the Davidsonian. Each year it does. Each year it is put to shame. Why don’t someone put them wise to themselves?

Aesop, son of Clindins Aesopus, was said to have dissolved a pearl worth $40,000 in vinegar and downed it with a gulp in order to have the distinction of consuming the world’s most expensive drink. While the Snips and Blanks costs little to put out it can well be compared with that drink of Aesop’s. The satisfaction and pleasure received from it does not, by a long shot, justify the amount put into it.

Sam Spencer... Movie Editor
Bobby Williams... Manager
Herbert Codington... Asst. Business Manager
Casey Fines... Advertising Manager
O. Hetter McLean... Circulation Manager
Eldredge Brown... Circulation Manager
Jack Covington... Collection Manager
Fred Dude... Collection Manager

“I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.”

All that I want is in Jesus;
He satisfies, joy He supplies.
Life would be worthless without Him;
All things in Jesus I find.

Campus Comment
But if the Snips and Blanks wants to stir the tradition let them. Frankly, if I had my ears pinned back as often as they have, I'd quit playing with dynamite—in the form of the Davidsonian. A word to the wise is sufficient.

CANDID
JANE DICKINSON, MT. HOLYOKE SENIOR, IS FOURTH IN DIRECT LINE AND TWELFTH IN HER FAMILY TO ATTEND MT. HOLYOKE COLLEGE.

RUTH FARR
EAST IS EAST AND WEST IS WEST AND NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET BUT ON THE CAMPUS OF ARIZONA ST. TEACHERS COLLEGE (FLAGSTAFF), NEER-SYRACUSE UNIV. WAS THE FIRST INSTITUTION TO GRANT A WOMAN AN MD. DEGREE.

Paging the Dies Committee: we wonder if the members of the student body know who the freshman is that belongs to the Nazi Bund. He can be found in Duke Dorm. If you are interested I could probably find out his name for you. Have heard that he has enough literature to keep the best of the German students busy for a while...

Very obvious on campus these days is Bad News Gaffney (telegraph agent) hurrying across campus with tidings of “sorry can’t make it. about a rain check”... The past weekend seemed almost like a dance weekend with all the babes on campus. Andy Dale was sans femmes one minute and attached to one the next. Good going, Andrew... And after so many trips to Lenoir lately we wonder why Oglesby suddenly hied forth to Salem Saturday night and back as often as they have, I'd quit playing with dynamite—in the form of the Davidsonian. A word to the wise is sufficient.

Wrapped up in the confines of our own Davidson Library are knowledge and the power which accompanies it. The tragic element is our indifference and, at times, even total disregard to the possibilities held there for us. It is trying enough, we say, to battle for an hour or so with Shakespeare or Milton gathering notes for some special research assignment much less digging into the works of the world's intellects in attempting to grasp some of their philosophies of life and add to our education that quality and flavor obtainable from no other place. But it is within books that we find the complete knowledge amassed by man since the beginning of history. All the way from ancient religious philosophies to the latest treatises on medicine and aviation there is held in one building more condensed power and assembled facts than the early Greeks ever dreamed of. Herein lies our liberal education.

The library with its essential position in the life of the college is recognized and has been designated a “must” in Davidson's expansion program. The library furnishes us a place to weigh the relative merits and value of written material. All books which we would like to have on the shelves are not there. With the larger library of the future, this will be overcome to some extent. Be that as it may, with our present facilities the literary beauties of all time shine forth in the volumes found there.

How many times does history tell us of the hardship and peril endured by a man to produce a theory or principle! Should he be left unread and unappreciated? Shall our hurried modern life leave his thoughts undeveloped? Coming at us in all their majesty we see the lines of Milton, the plays of Shakespeare, the lyrics of Shelley. Within the classic may be found the highest and lowest of human emotions, the flow of life and the gems of speech. Don't miss them! The time will come all too soon when we will decry our lack of familiarity with the truly great literature.

REA TENNEY, ’40.

Good Gamblers Don’t Bet In College Football Pools!
That’s the consensus of the big-time gridiron money experts in Minneapolis, Minn., of what has become one of the big branches of the betting industry, for it was here that gambling on football results was started in 1912.

Here’s the way “one of the boys” describes the odds against you cashing in on a pick-the-winners ticket: “I’ll bet you 200 to one you can’t flip a coin and make it come up heads 10 times out of 10. Same way with picking football winners. It just isn’t done.”

The one sure thing about the whole business is that the betting commissioners always win, whether it's 10 per cent average on their straight odds on bets, or 30 to 50 per cent on their parlays.

The Foreign Problem— By RENE DE VISME WILLIAMSON. (Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of articles to be written by Dr. Rene de Visme Williamson, well-informed faculty member, on the European situation. Each week Dr. Williamson will take a foreign country and analyze its position in the situation).

BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY

The foreign policy of any state is always the product of a combination of factors, some of which are permanent and some transitory. This is a truth which one must keep in mind in order to understand the politics of Prime Minister Chamberlain. Among the permanent factors, one must consider traditional policies which have been adhered to for a very long time such as that no great power should control Holland and Belgium, that no country be allowed to establish its hegemony over Europe (the famous balance of power policy), that the British navy should never be smaller than the combined navies of its two nearest rivals (the so-called two-power standard). These policies are deeply rooted in the political consciousness of the average Englishman and have as their watchdogs the permanent career men in the Foreign Office.

A second group of permanent factors is traceable to national characteristics. It is generally true the British have a profound aversion to definite commitments. They would doubtless follow a policy of no entangling alliances if they could. In view of this characteristic, Premier Daladier has shown great wisdom in letting Chamberlain take the lead in forming the anti-Hitler bloc because that was the only sure way of maintaining Franco-British solidarity. The French would always go as far as the British, but not vice versa. It is also worthy of note that the British have a kind of moral code which, although somewhat vague and elastic, is nevertheless very powerful. Any foreign statesman who wants to get along with the British must not offend their sense of what is done and what is not cricket. In deeply shocking the British people by running counter to their moral code, the Nazis threw away any chance of coming to terms with the British Government.

The transitory factors depend on the party in power (especially the nature of that party's leadership) and the diplomatic situation in existence at any given moment. The present British Government, despite recent reshuffling, is essentially a small clique of men who are not typical of the rank and file of the Conservative party and who have obtained their eminence by belonging to the right political clubs (the Carlton Club and the Reform Club) and backing the right men (Baldwin and Chamberlain). These men—Chamberlain, Simon, Hoare, Runciman—have had a more than sneaking sympathy for fascism whose excesses they regarded as a passing phase, a morbid fear and hatred for Soviet Russia, and a greater love for British capitalism than for the British empire. They would have liked—and tried hard enough—to come to terms with Hitler, but Nazi excesses ran afoul of the moral code of the British people, and Hitler's betrayal after Munich made the members of the Inner Cabinet all the more furious and dashed their hopes to pieces. There followed the most violent about-face in British history when Chamberlain went begging for alliances and offering guarantees to everybody—including those who did not want them. This shows that in spite of the amazing perfection of the political machine of the Conservative party, the Chamberlain Government could not disregard for any length of time the traditional moral factors prized by the British people. Elections are held from time to time, and there sits the British electorate as a kind of jury ready to give its verdict in favor of one or the other two attorneys—the Government and the Opposition.

Murphy's Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Mon.-Tues., Nov. 6-7
"They Shall Have Music": Jascha Heifetz, Walter Brennan, Gene Reynolds, Andrea Leeds, and Joel McCrea. The singing violin of Jascha Heifetz, which has carried in notes divine to all parts of the globe, carries the plot and the highlights of this picture. The music is wonderful, and to anyone who has any love for good music whatsoever, this picture will mean a great deal, not only because of the music itself, but also because we can see the grand old man with the bow, Heifetz, in a role that fits his personality. When Walter Brennan's music school for underprivileged children is threatened with foreclosure, young Gene Reynolds solicits Heifetz's influence and thus saves the day. Of course, the highlight of the picture is the violin playing of the maestro and the romance between Andrea Leeds and Joel McCrea is lost in the rush.

Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 2-3
"Beau Geste": Gary Cooper, Ray Milland, Robert Preston, Susan Hayward, and Brian Donlevy. Well, here it is finally! The picture that many of us have been waiting on for quite some time. This is the first four-star picture of the year and we have had some good ones, but the reports from those who have seen it are so good that we cannot but give it the highest praise. This is the best picture that you will have witnessed in many a day, so boys, save a quarter from over the weekend and be sure to see it. Most of us are too young to remember the days when Ronald Colman as Beau Geste was the toast of the country’s cinemaddicts, but Gary Cooper equals if not surpasses his performance in this streamlined rendition. It is Cooper, who with his loyal brothers, Ray Milland and Robert Preston, rushes off to the Sahara when accused of stealing the giant sapphire. This is distinctly a man’s film, since romance is limited to a few yearning glances between Milland and Susan Hayward, and since blood and thunder comprise the remainder of the offering.

Saturday, November 4
"Hollywood Cavalcade": Alice Faye, Don Ameche, J. Edward Bromburg, Alan Curtis, Stuart Erwin, Buster Keaton, and Eddie Collins. To those of you who have seen Alice Faye and Don Ameche play together before you know what to expect, but to those who have not had the distinct pleasure of seeing them together you should see this picture by all means. Their performances match and in each other, and to this corner it seems that they have done and can do more together than they would ever do separately. The story is rather unusual, but the cast makes it very interesting.

Wednesday, November 8
"Bad Little Angel": Cute title, isn’t it? But it's either too new or too obscure to find. Take your choice, and come tell me your opinion.

APPRECIATION
By FRANK BARKER

Queen's girls, we had a mighty fine evening all around. Those Moseley sisters' rendition of "Now and Then" was extra special, and the monologue of Sarah Thompson was every bit as good as the encores showed. To those of you who missed this annual affair, all we can say is, "Too bad." Thanks a million, gals, and may we return your hospitality in the near future.

AFTER THOUGHT
Gosh this column stinks! Blame it on Toni's typewriter; it sticks on every key.

In the last ten years, Washington University has awarded scholarships totaling more than $1,490,000. Princeton University has found a library in Burton. Vassar College is conducting a special campaign to raise a $700,000 endowment and scholarship fund. Barnard College has received a gift of $100,000 to be used in establishing a health education program.