THU., SEPT. 28, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Honorary Fraternity Schedule Dr. K. J. Foreman Talks To Davidson Students

Brothers Thorpe, Balsley and many of them took dates to the fair and all had a very enjoyable weekend. Brother
Oglesby had Margaret Crisp as his guest this weekend. Brother Jimmy Cooper and Watkins attended the Carolina-Citadel game. Pledge Burwell
spent the weekend in Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi—
Brothers Cheney, Winn, Matthews, Atwater, Howell, McCauley, Barnwell, Joyner, Ramsey, McKnight, Phillips, Probst, Sherman, McAfee, Birch, Pegram, B. Howell, Taylor,
Rankin and Pledge Brothers Schmitt, Caterson, Faucett, McCary, Mebane, Barnwell, and Stephenson spent the weekend in Greensboro. Brothers Summerville, Hann
and Bryant and Pledge Brothers Sherrill and Church spent the weekend in Charlotte. Mrs. George Matthews of Fayetteville was guest
of the Chapter Sunday night. Mrs. McAfee was guest of the Chapter at the Sunday night feed. Louis Garrou was
guest of the Chapter Monday. Brothers Warden and Benfield were guests of the Chapter Saturday.

Pi Kappa Alpha—
The Chapter adjourned to Greensboro for the weekend. After the game, a party was held at the home of Miss
Sichenze in High Point. Many of the boys attended this party. Among those missing the game were Brother Anderson and
Pledge Brother Byers, who went to Greenville, S. C., Pledge Brother Lane, who went to his home in Charlotte, and
Browning, who went to Durham. In an election Monday, Brother McDonald was voted member of the Pan-Hellenic Council Committee on
Decorations.

Kappa Alpha—
Almost all the Chapter turned up at the game in Greensboro, Saturday night. Recent alumni were much in evidence too,
including Dick Taylor, Reg Harris, John Anderson, and others. Brother Anderson, '37, also visited the campus Sunday. Brothers Lemmon and
Spencer started the weekend right by tripping to Converse Friday evening. Pledge Brothers Sprunt and Washburn went home to Wilmington
by way of the Carolina game. Wallace headed for all points East, while his roommate Watt covered the Winthrop situation.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—
The entire Chapter went to Greensboro, where they were entertained at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Edwin F. Lucas
with a barbecue before the game. Most of the boys spent the night in Greensboro. Alumni Brothers “Stoop” Kornegay and
Capt. Colin Smythe were present at the festivities, the former escorting Miss Miriam Boyd of Salem College. Brothers Bahnson, McLean,
Smith and Hackney accompanied the team.

Kappa Sigma—
Almost all the Brothers and Pledges were at the Davidson-State game. Brother Barker has just returned from Sewanee, where he
visited concerning a new Fiji chapter there.

Phi Delta Theta—
Members and pledges enjoyed a big time during the past weekend. Tommy Glenn visited in Greenville, S. C. Norman Sobby,
Cortes, Shelton Tenney, Clyde Raymon, and Tom Wells spent their time in Charlotte. The majority of the Phi’s went to
the game in Greensboro. Among them were Billy Turner, Jim Chapman, Miller Sproull, Jim Owens, Bob Reinhardt, Hugh Verrier, Andy
Dale, Lock Hunter, Bobby Williams, and many others.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—
Among those attending the Davidson-State game were Brothers Hay, Hamilton, Casali, Powell, Bell, McDaniel, and Tarleton, and Pledges Legerton, Stevenson,
Colson, Rae, Dudley. Quite a few of the boys accompanied the band to Greensboro and Pledges Yoder, Knoeller, and Strandwitz
went along with the team. Brothers Edwards, Hay, and Galbreath were found spending the remainder of the weekend at Salem.
Pledge Dick Cobb spent the weekend visiting his roommate in Greensboro. Among recent alumni seen at the game were Brothers
Tom Mullin, Andy Turner, and Jerry Harris.

PH. Gwynn Addresses Students’ Bible Class
Dr. S. P. Knight Scheduled To Speak The First Two Sundays In October

The third meeting of the Student Sunday School led by Albert Winn, had for its speaker last Sunday Dr. P.H.
Gwynn of the Davidson faculty. Dr. S. P. Knight, instructor of chemistry, is scheduled to speak on the first two
Sundays in October. He will speak on some aspects of “The Relation of Science to Morals” next Sunday.

Honorary Fraternity Schedule

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS
MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
7:00 Sigma Phi | Philanthropic | Scabbard | Pi
8:00 Sigma | Societies | Blade | Pi
9:00 Kappa | Epsilon | Midnight | Delta
9:00 Sigma | Omicron | Y.M.C.A. | Delta | Delta
10:00 Kappa

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
MONDAY | TUESDAY | WEDNESDAY | THURSDAY | FRIDAY
7:00 “D” Club | I.R.C.
8:00 Club
8:00 Delta | Nu | Eta | Alpha
9:00 Sigma | Cercle | Sigma | Social | Phi
9:00 Sigma | Sigma | Y.M.C.A. | Delta | Psi | Upsilon | Cabinet | Club
10:00

Reverend William Crowe, Jr., Will Speak To Students Next Sunday

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of the Davidson faculty led the Vespers service last Sunday night in Chambers auditorium. Using for
the scripture the Litany of the Holy Spirit, he began his sermon by reading from John 6:70, where Jesus is
talking to his disciples. Here he gives his definition of a hypocrite as a devil masquerading as a saint. Dr.
Foreman made it clear that there was undoubtedly a mutual appeal between Jesus and Judas, else the actions of both
would not have been as they were. Judas was described as a fierce redhead, more given to violent emotions. Dr.
Foreman told the story of all the disciples to make clear that it wasn’t what they were, but what they
became through Jesus’ choices. Judas then had the opportunity to become a saint, but he chose otherwise.

Rehearsals for the Cantata “Hymn of Praise” Start Monday

Rehearsals for the Cantata “Hymn of Praise” will begin next Monday. The Cantata will be given by a chorus composed
of singers of Davidson and the surrounding towns and any Davidson students who are interested in group singing. Members of
the Glee Club are to help with the project but any other students who are interested are asked to report
for the rehearsal next Monday. The cantata will be presented as the vesper program on Sunday, November 26. The Community
Chorus will be accompanied by the Little Symphony Orchestra and there will be several soloists.

Christmas Vesper Service Will Be Held This Year On December 12

Another project set out by the Davidson faculty is the Christmas vesper service which will be held this year on
December 12. Davidson College is rather unique in its solution of the problem of feeding the student body. There will
be a carol festival in the stadium on the second Sunday in December. Churches from the surrounding Carolinas will be
asked to participate.War

Dr. Gwynn’s subject was “The American Christian in European War.” He pointed out that no Christian could be indifferent to
the “unbelievable chaos” which exists now. He compared the assets and liabilities of the two sides in the present conflict,
proving that Germany has the upper hand now, but the allies have the necessities for an extended war. As for
the part that the United States should play, Dr. Gwynn favored defensive armament, but added that under no circumstances should
men be sent to another European conflict. He advocated the repeal of the present embargo on munitions as probably the
best way to avoid sending men in the future. Dr. Gwynn admitted the immediate future to be dark, but he
closed with a note of hope. “The purposes of God are not going to be thwarted,” he said. “His will
will come to pass. I believe God's will is for a warless world.”

SENIORS PACE
[Continued from Page One]
Barger, J. R. Jones, J. W. Moore, D. W. Talmage. Freshmen:—J. J. G. Hanger, H. D. Taylor, Jr., R. D.
Turner, and A. C. Winn.

Davidson's Bowling Alleys have been fitted with new pins during the summer and are now open to the student clientele.
This popular form of recreation was installed here in town last year and proved to be immediately popular. Weekly prizes
were given last year for high scores and it is probable that this practice will be continued. The renovation of
the alleys is expected to increase the popularity of the sport here.

SEE US FOR COMPLETE SUPPLIES To Bring Comfort to Your Room SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE

Books concerning the war situation in Europe are now in the Davidson College library. They all bear directly on the
international situation. War—No Profit, No Glory, No Need, (Norman Thomas) This is a book directed at the complete futility of
the war as a means of international settlement of problems. It is written especially for the average American. Merchants of
Death (H. C. Englebrecht and F. C. Hanighen). This book discusses the sinister methods of munitions manufacturers, “the supersalesmen of
death.” It is a convincing expose of their methods and ways to prevent them in the future. The Western Front
(Stuart Chase in collaboration with Marian Tyler). Contrasts between America and Europe is the general theme of this volume. It
also tells how we can keep out of war. Not Peace but a Sword (Vincent Sheean). This is a 1939
newspaper story from March as seen by a famous writer. Propaganda for War (I. C. Peterson). This book reveals how
propaganda machines drew the U.S. into the 1914-1917 fight. This book is in the library.

Leaders Hold Pep Meeting Big Session Held In New Gym Friday Night

Friday night varsity cheerleader Lock Hunter and the newly elected Junior leaders, Bobby Williams, Charles Martin, Jack Abels, and Joe
Shelton, started this season's school spirit off right with a pep meeting in the gym. Many freshmen and upperclassmen attended,
making this the best meeting of the new year.

Of School Season

The first fire of the season occurred last Thursday afternoon about three o'clock when fire razed the home of Richard
Heath, a negro resident of Davidson. Flames demolished the house in which Richard Heath, the father of John Heath, Davidson
College janitor, lived with his son-in-law and his family. The building, which was owned by L. Williamson of Davidson, stood
near the City Water Plant. Firemen reported that when they reached the scene the fire had already demolished the frame
house.

Military Frat Data Concerning R. O. T. C. Summer Activities To Be Collected

At the first meeting of Seabbard and Blade for the 1939-1940 session, resolutions were passed for the extension of military
courtesy in the Davidson unit. Several committees were appointed to investigate further measures for improvements. The meeting was held at
7:15 o'clock on Wednesday, September 20. At the meeting, it was decided to collect data concerning the activities of the
R.O.T.C. during the past summer, which is to be presented to Headquarters. Tommy Harnsberger, President, presided during the meeting.

Always Ask for F&S Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products

The Junior leaders led the crowd through the college yells and the singing of O, Davidson.

[Continued on Page Six]

In Charlotte, 110 S. Church St. DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF, Inc. RENT a CAR Reasonable Rates

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C. A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone Dial 8-5797 Printers of
The Davidsonian ESTABLISHED 1907

The college takes no responsibility, but leaves the problem to private dieticians in the town of Davidson. There is a
total of twelve boarding houses, two “Inns,” and two restaurants centered around the college, all of which are noted for
their unusually good food. Most of these boarding houses offer a flat rate which averages about twenty-five dollars per month
to students. They also employ student managers and waiters, who in this way can earn their board.

Of the twelve houses, eight are contracted by separate Fraternities. Mrs. H. M. Sample, with Bud Gilmore as manager, is
taking care of the Phi Delts. Mrs. Maxwell has the Phi Gams, with Bob Welloge as manager. The S.A.E.’s, with
Buck Powell managing, take their meals with Mrs. E.G. Gaffney. Mrs. P. A. Allen, managed by Bob Phipps and Tom
McAlpine, has the Kappa Sigs. The S.P.E.’s are taken care of by Mrs. W. H. Pharr and Manager Tony Casali.
The Pikas, with John Kennedy managing, eat with Mrs. I. W. Fredrickson. Mrs. S. A. Thompson not only has the
distinction of a lovely new home, but she is also noted for taking care of two Fraternities. They are the
K.A.’s and the Pi Kappa Phi's.

[Continued on Page Six]

Yes, this is the graceful Pen that made a railroad spike look like a sissy. SAYS THE PARKER VACUMATIC: “I
WAS FILLED WITH ACID (FERRIC CHLORIDE) INSTEAD OF INK, ALL DAY—WROTE A 5 MILE LINE—AND I'M STILL IN PERFECT WORKING
ORDER!” Guaranteed for Life. SAYS THE RAILROAD SPIKE: “I WAS NEARLY EATEN IN TWO BY THIS SAME ACID—WILL SOMEBODY PLEASE
CALL A DOCTOR!”

The College Favorite by 2 to 1. GUARANTEED for LIFE. Not a clumsy metal object, but a fine precision instrument—a
streamlined Featherweight, whose 14K Gold Point glides nimbly across your paper, making your thoughts glow on the page like a
living trail—that’s the new Parker Vacumatic! Yet five devastating demonstrations prove that it lasts a lifetime, and also easily withstands
acid that eats away a railroad spike—the same acid found in ordinary inks. Esquire Magazine rates it in their top-flight
gift selections. And Jean Abbey of Woman's Home Companion says: “Its sparkling, shimmering, laminated style of circlets of Pearl and
Jet is the loveliest I've ever laid my eyes on.” It holds far more ink than ordinary rubber ink sac
pens. For its sacless Diaphragm filler abolishes rubber sac, lever filler, and piston pump. Its Television barrel shows the level
of ink—prevents running dry in classes or exams. Go and try it today—and be sure to look for the Blue
Diamond mark on the smart ARROW clip—that means it’s guaranteed for life! You'll never have to buy another pen. The
Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
