Wed., April 19, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five AMONG THE GREEKS Betas Go To Conclave Phi Alpha Chapter was well-represented at the district conclave held this past weekend by the Eta chapter at North Carolina. The initiation of the newly-founded Duke group and the North Carolina pledges and a banquet held in their honor were the highlights of the conclave. Brothers making the trip to Chapel Hill were: Morrow, Burch, Ramsey, McKnight, McAfee, Sherman, and Jim Howell. Brothers Matthews and Atwater went to the conclave, stopping off for a short time at Brother Atwater’s home in Burlington. Brother Taylor’s sister from Charlotte was a visitor of the chapter Saturday. Brothers Sharpe and Pegram returned from the Southern Intercollegiate Golf Meet at Athens, Ga., this past week. Brother Benfield has gone to Jacksonville, Fla., to take a test for entrance into the U. S. Naval Air Corps. Brother Steere went to Greenville. Brother Gamble went to his home in Lincolnton, a visitor of the chapter Sunday night. At the usual Sunday night feed, Misses Mary Jo Frissel, Dorothy Fowler, and Royal Spence of Burlington were guests. Brothers Bryant, McClintock, Summerville, Hand and Abbott spent the weekend in Charlotte. Brother Balsley and Pledge Brother Fetzer journeyed to Flora Mac and Salem College, respectively.

Pikas Have Girls Up Girls present for the feed at the house Sunday night were Betsy Springer, Jane Warden, Lib Summerville, Phyllis Crooks. Brothers Jim Anderson, Ross McLean, Hugh Willis, Joe Brinson attended the SPE dance in Charlotte Saturday night. Jim Anderson was elected Pan-Hellenic representative for 39-40. Stitt Robinson visited George Coates at his home in Atlanta during the weekend. Ed Shewmake, Jack Abels, and Toddy Latimer were in Charlotte Saturday night. Brothers Coltrane and Youngblood went home to Concord.

Kappa Alpha Marilyn Brittain and Betty Bartlett were up for the feed Sunday night. Also visiting were Brothers McGarity and Fred McPhail. Calvin, Little, and Newell went to Winthrop Sunday. Brother Little had been down the night before also. The brothers are thinking of renting a cottage down there. Sam Spencer went to Greensboro on a Y-Deputation Saturday and Sunday. Dick Taylor was in Charlotte over the weekend. We are rejoicing in the return of Brother Watt with his degree of M. A. (minus appendix). Woodward, Perrin, Thomas, and Wilson were in Charlotte Saturday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon Brothers Alex Erwin and Ace Dunn went to Greensboro during the weekend. Brother “Nobby” Smith traveled toward Hartsville, S. C., for his weekend. A “mighty magic show” was exhibited by Brother Shaw Smith and his helper, Brother “Little Lem” Kornegay, better known, perhaps, as semi-colon. With the baseball team on their trip to South Carolina went Brothers Jim “Hessie” Thomas and George Ficklen. The SPE dance held in Charlotte was attended by Brothers Baxter Freeze, “Fluff” McDuffie, and Hector McLean. For the majority of the brothers, this was a rather quiet weekend, and many of them remained on campus. There was, of course, the regular Sunday night feed held at the house.

Kappa Sigs Visit W. C. The Y. W. C. A. cabinet function at W. C. drew many of the brothers over the weekend. Brothers Gaw, Loftin, Finley, and Webb attended the meeting in Raleigh for Presbyterian college students. Brother Thompson went home with Brother Robinson to Lowell, and Brother Walker visited his family in Steele Creek. Brothers Means and Jonas went to Chapel Hill. Brother Pittman went to Spartanburg, S. C., for the weekend. The chapter welcomes Brothers Cooper and Jimmy Kelly back from their activities with the golf team. The regular feed was held Sunday night and Miss Libby Suavain of Concord visited the chapter.

Fijis Have Hay-ride On Saturday night the Phi Gams were entertained by a hay-ride, followed by a feed and song-fest at the house. Visitors for the occasion included: Coach and Mrs. McEver, Misses Polly Price, Alice Withers, Martha Withers, of Davidson; Miss Vashti Gornton of Wilmington, N. C., and Misses “Mona” Moseley, Nancy Hovis, Peggy Parsley, Rita Clairy, Charlotte Martin and Louise Payne of Charlotte. Billy Pharr left for Washington, D. C., Saturday where he will attend the Pages’ Ball of the National D. A. R. Conference. Fred Stair and Eugene Liipfert were guests at the S. P. E. dance in Charlotte. Attending the Phi Gam dance at the University of Tennessee were Fred Stair, Bill Bolin and Jay Bolin. Off to Winston-Salem for the weekend were Jack Tillotson, “Shawty” Parrish and Dick Shore. George Stowe attended the golf tournament in Athens, Ga., Earle Bellamy and Doug Dillard attended the Dances at Greensboro College Saturday night.

Pi Kappa Phi Boyd Flynn went to Greensboro on a Y-Deputation from Winston-Salem where he spent Saturday night. Jim Morgan went home to Albemarle. Bid Ivey also visited his home in Rock Hill, S. C. Lokey is just back from a trip home to Thomson, Ga. Cooper, Niven and Hemphill made the baseball trip to South Carolina Friday and Saturday. Cunningham, Bumbarger, Hite, Niven, and Woodward attended the SPE dance Saturday night in Charlotte. Dave Colvin and Don Davidson went to Flora MacDonald during the weekend. There was the usual feed Sunday night.

Phi Delta Theta Most of the brothers spent a quiet weekend on the campus, [Continued on Page Six]

Freshman-Sophomore

Local Boy Scouts Hold Merit Court Wildcat Troop No. 58 Stages Presentation Night Last Friday night at 7:30 P. M., the Wildcat Troop (No. 58) held a Court of Awards in Philanthropic Hall which was well attended by parents and friends of the members of the troop. The program was opened with the presentation of colors and the Oath of Allegiance by the entire troop, which was followed by the invocation led by Dr. Price Gwynn. Adding much solemness to the court was the impressive candle lighting ceremony. On a rustic, wooden stand were three large candles, representing the three phases of scout life—God, one’s fellowman, and one’s self. Behind these were 12 smaller candles, which stood for the 12 laws. As each candle was lighted, that particular law which the candle represented was repeated by some member of the troop. The awarding of ranks and merit badges followed with Dr. Gwynn in charge. Those awarded the rank of tenderfoot were Tush Stough Jr., and Roy Burton. Promoted to the first class rank were Jimmy Hough and Cloyd Goodrum; to the star rank, Creecy Copeland and Wat Withers. The following were awarded merit badges: Jim Kerr—bookbinding, pioneering, and marksmanship; Maurice Hamrick—woodwork; Wat Withers—first aid to animals, personal health, public health, and woodwork; Creecy Copeland—woodwork; Bob King—painting and reptile study.

Eagle Award As Regional Scout Executive J. E. Steere was not able to be present, his assistant, Carson Williams, made the eagle and palm awards. He gave the eagle badge, first, to Mr. Hamrick, and she, Mrs. Hamrick, in turn, pinned it on her son, Maurice. Charles Steel, Paul Patrick, and Robert King were awarded the bronze palm, the gold palm, and the silver palm respectively. After the prayer by Maurice Hamrick and the retirement of colors, Bob King led the Great Scoutmaster’s Benediction. It is planned to hold a regular court of reviews on the second Friday of every month to which all troops will come. A Court of Awards will be held every three months. It will be composed of two troop committeemen from each troop in the district. Dr. Gwynn is the present chairman of the court.

Radio Guild Is Set For Broadcasts Local Students Are Leaders of Theatre Group The Radio Theatre Guild announced this week that final contracts had been arranged with Radio Station WSOC in Charlotte, which is an affiliate of the National Broadcasting Company. Due to the annual change to Daylight Saving Time, the first broadcast will be electrically transcribed Saturday and aired at a future date. All following programs will be according to a schedule to be announced later. Due to contract difficulties, it has been impossible to publish any information concerning the organization of the guild. However, all arrangements have since been completed, and a list of the charter members is now available. On the acting staff are Monroe Bush, Jr., Ralph Williams and Pat Rudolph. At present, the script staff is composed of Dan Hodges, Sandy McEachern, Paul Kissling, Dick Coppedge, and Walter Wooten. Monroe Bush, chairman of the guild, announces the appointment of Shaw Smith as Narrator, Pat Rudolph as publicity agent, Ralph Williams as corresponding secretary, and Mr. Chalmers Davidson, Mrs. W. P. Cumming, Mrs. L. B. Schenck, Prof. H. T. Lilly, and Mr. George Brengle of Radio Station WSOC and Charlotte’s Little Theatre as dramatic and technical advisers. The Radio Theatre Guild plans to present a series of dramatic broadcasts during the remainder of the spring and early fall months, adapting the world’s greatest short stories and one act plays to radio use, Monroe Bush, chairman, also announces that no affiliations or connections with the Red and Black Masquers or any other existing theatre has been made. There will be no mention of any connections with Davidson College or any campus organization made over the air.

Alumni Pass After Illness Rev. John Parkes and Rev. Samuel Rankin Succumb Last week two prominent alumni of Davidson, Rev. John L. Parkes, class of '22, and Rev. Samuel M. Rankin, class of '91, died after extended periods of illness. Dr. Parkes, 40, Pastor of the Bethesda (Md.) Presbyterian church, passed away on the afternoon of the ninth after a serious illness that had lasted for two months. Dr. Parkes had been pastor of the Bethesda church for four years, having come there from Spencer, N. C. The minister graduated from Davidson in 1922 and from the Union Theological Seminary in 1925. He was pastor of the Spencer Presbyterian church until 1935. The funeral services were held at 11 A. M. last Tuesday at the Bethesda Presbyterian church, and the burial was in Washington.

Dr. Rankin Mr. Rankin was long a leading minister of the Presbyterian church in the United States and well-known as a historian. He had been ill for three years, and died at 1:30 o'clock in the afternoon of the 12th being 74 years of age. Mr. Rankin was educated at Davidson and at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. He served in several pastorates in Kentucky and North Carolina after his graduation, and in 1907 he began his work as superintendent of Orange presbytery’s home missions and served in that capacity for 17 years.

Benefactor While serving at the Red Springs group of churches Mr. Rankin secured the location of the [Continued on Page Six]money for (Continued on Page Six)

Men Wanted!

Due to the recent cutting of the staff with the selection of managing editors, the Staff of the DAVIDSONIAN has become seriously short-handed. Toni Casali, editor, hereby wishes to issue a call for any freshman who wants to come out for the paper to notify him, and they will promptly be given a place on the staff.

the | of Flora Macdonald College and raised the necessary initial build.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

NOTRE DAME UNDEFEATED IN FOOTBALL ON ITS HOME FIELD FOR 23 YEARS, 1905-1928!

BOARD WALKS WHEN HE WAS MANAGING EDITOR OF THE HARVARD CRIMSON DURING HIS UNDERGRADUATE DAYS!

Sigma Upsilon To Meet Tues.

Officers Are to Be Elected; Meet at SAE House

Tuesday evening, April 18, the Sigma Upsilon fraternity will hold its regular meeting at 9 o'clock in the SAE House. The program for the evening will be opened by Professor A. V. Goldiere, who will present an essay to be studied by the group. Then Dr. Hood will read a short story written by Ed Morrow. This will be followed by the election of officers for the chapter for the coming year, and also the voting on the new members into the group. A committee has been studying the names of several students for several weeks now, and the new members will in all probability be elected this year. Sam Spencer will read a short selection from a novel that will be in addition to the chapter.

Vespers Speakers

On next Sunday evening, April 23, the regular vesper service will be led by the Rev. Mr. Ansley C. Moore, who is pastor of the Presbyterian church of Clearwater, Fla. Mr. Moore is well qualified to speak to young men, for he has always been interested in Young People and has worked with them. The services for several Sundays in the future will be conducted by the following men. The vesper service for April 29 will be led by the Rev. Dr. Edgar Gammon, D. D., of the Myers Park Presbyterian church of Charlotte. Mr. J. C. Pfohl and the Music Department will have charge of the evening service on May 7. On May 14 there will be a Communion Service at the regular vesper period, which will be conducted by Dr. Price H. Gwynn of the faculty.

News Item

LUMBERTON, April 14.—Wild swine seen on main thoroughfares after 6 o’clock in the evening will be fined to the full extent of the law.

Davidsonian Reporter Uncovers New Library

One of Thirty-Six Branches Operated by Charlotte Public Library

If you think it is a small-town library, then we challenge you to find a small town with over 50 ministers in it as there is in Davidson. Not only do we have an ample supply of preachers of the Gospel but there is also an abundance of libraries. In all the emporiums in this list, of course, the total number of book adds up to three. First is the College library; second, Sapp's reading center; and third is the little-known Davidson public library. “Where could this third bibliotheca be located?” you may ask. Whispered noise is predominant in this building, but it is not in a huge impressive building, as public libraries usually are. It is found on the second floor of the Knox Building (if that means anything to you), over the bowling alleys.

Aided by Civic Club

This library is a branch of the Charlotte Public Library. It has been here for ten years with the help of the Davidson Civic Club and the town itself. Included on the shelves are books of all types and descriptions—some fiction and some non-fiction. There are a great many books which hold an interest for children as well as the latest love or mystery adventure. The librarian, Miss Perrye Hallman, was involved in the complicated system of indexing when the reporter entered the room but managed to nod a cheery welcome. When asked what she thought of the matter, she peeped over a stack of books and stated, “Town branches are a great help to the average person. We have 36 stations and five branch centers, such as this one in Davidson, and they have done much to bring the best literature to the countryside.”

Varied Clients

Seated around the tables were high-school students garnering material for parallel work. Little children walked out with stacks of books weighting them down—some for mother, some for dad, and some for their own enjoyment. During the month of March, approximately 675 books were checked out.

THACKER’S, Inc.
“A Good Place to Eat”
Private Dining Room for Banquets
PHONE 5490

If there is any doubt in your mind as to the size of Davidson then this should be fully straightened out. 

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, April 19
7:00 P. M., Scabbard and Blade.
7:15 P. M., Meeting of Davidsonian Editorial Staff.
8:00 P. M., Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P. M., Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.

Thursday, April 20
Social Fraternities.

Friday, April 21
7:00 P. M., Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P. M., Alpha Epsilon Delta.
9:00 P. M., International Relations Club.

Saturday, April 22

Sunday, April 23
10:15 A. M., Sunday School.
11:15 A. M., Church.
6:30 P. M., Vesper Service.

Monday, April 24
7:00 P. M., “D” Club.
7:30 P. M., Davidsonian (Be There!).
8:00 P. M., Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P. M., Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, April 25
8:00 P. M., Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P. M., Sigma Upsilon.

County Hi-Y Clubs Meet

Dr. Arbuckle Is Principal Speaker at Meet

Representatives from all the Mecklenburg county Hi-Y groups attended the county-wide conference held at Davidson College last Friday afternoon. The afternoon session was opened at 4 o'clock in Phi Hall. At this time Ed Erwin, president of the Davidson club, presided, and a discussion was led on the various fields for Hi-Y programs and study for the coming year. After the afternoon session, the delegates adjourned to the banquet hall in Chambers Building for their supper. The principal talk of the evening was made by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle of the Davidson faculty. His talk was based on four main topics: fellowship, faithfulness, foresight, and faith. He illustrated these with passages from Proverbs. The meeting was brought to a close at 8 o'clock. About 40 boys attended the conference. The Hi-Y is made up of boys in the upper two grades of high school. The work in this section is under the general supervision of Bill Stronach, boys’ work director of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A.

Gwynn Leads Boys’ Meeting

Dr. Foreman to Preside at Next Discussion

Dr. Gwynn led the discussion for the fellowship meeting last Sunday night. Coming to the meeting, Dr. Gwynn asked the boys what they would like to discuss most. Naturally, the subject of War came up, and was argued pro and con. Dr. Gwynn expressed himself as a positive isolationist; however, he said that he was willing to give his hearty approval to the move made by President Roosevelt.

(Continued on Page Six)

Frazer Hood Talks On Twenty-Fourth Psalm

Relationship Between Religion and Moral Values Is Dr. Hood’s Topic

Dr. Frazer Hood spoke at the Sunday School class on The Relationship between Religion and Moral Values. He took his text from the twenty-fourth psalm. Dr. Hood stated that religion and moral values could not be separated as the premises upon which the moral values are based. No one can accept the moral standards of Christianity without accepting the religious faith as a foundation. The question then arises as to who can ascend into the hill of the Lord. This question is answered in the fourth verse of the 24th psalm: “He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, and hath not sworn deceitfully.” This sense of moral values is said to have been one reason why England couldn't fight Germany after the Munich agreement, as Germany had broken her word.

Special Items

The two main requisites of a moral life are clean conduct and clean motives. It follows that if a man’s motives are clean, his conduct will be clean. It is the activity in religion that makes for clean hearts. Character is the product of doing our duty from day to day. Character must not be the aim of a man’s life but a by-product of a moral life. Wilson once said that intellectual sins, such as lying, evil thoughts, slander, and back-biting, are more dangerous than physical sins. Jesus condemned intellectual sins much more than he did physical sins. These intellectual sins can only be stopped by the grace of God, and facing the truth.

Spanish Frat Holds Meeting

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, held a meeting last Monday night, at which Dan Cagle, the newly-elected president, took the chair for the first time. Tom Cunningham, Jack Moore, Sonny McDonald, and Jim Rhyne delivered short talks, after which both spoke on clippings from a Spanish newspaper. The clippings concerned the war exhibits at the New York World's Fair, the Spanish situation, and a true story of a modern Robin Hood. The members collectively discussed the dropping of members from their club rolls who had been delinquent in attendance. All members who have been absent from the last two meetings will be dropped if not present at the next meeting.

ALUMNUS GETS AWARD

(Continued from Page Three)

To be held May 17, Mr. Arnold will explain summer camping in connection with the coming summer program.

Cold Drinks, Sandwiches, Fruits and Candies — Also — Auto Service

“THE ROADHOUSE”

Complete as your Telephone.

Garland Court

Printing is our Business

A COMPLETE printing service as near as your Telephone. Dial 3-5727

Printers of The Davidsonian

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

ESTABLISHED 1907

For a representative

CHARLOTTE, N. C.