February 15, 1938 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

This week The Davidsonian has decided to start something new in the “Question of the Week" by asking various men
about the campus, “What do you like or dislike in particular about girls?” In view of the recent dances and
Queens Day, some of the students should have a very decided opinion upon this matter. During the next few weeks
there will be a column from Queens, Agnes-Scott, and several other girls' colleges asking members of their student bodies the
same question with respect to boys.

Dick Arnold, Sophomore: As a whole I like girls, but there are certain ones that make their company unbearable by
continually powdering their faces in public and generally thinking only about the appearance they are making. Another bad habit is
to make boys wait for no good reason at all. Above all, I like the friendliness which most girls evidence
at dances and at other times. In company or in private, I think a girl’s most admirable trait is naturalness.

Howard Woodward, Senior: Beauty and brains are the prime essentials with me, but the more beautiful the better. Those that
are not beautiful should possess a good personality and lots of enthusiasm. A girl without a good conversation is absolutely
a blank with me, while I admire more than anything else good taste in dress and make-up. Most girls realize
that the boys are only shooting them a line, and one who can string the boys in turn, although not
too far, is my idea of an ideal girl.

Ed Morrow, Senior: I appreciate the calculating clever stupidity that is nowadays an integral part of a party gal’s make-up.
It’s always great, but somewhat foolish, to fool the fool who foolishly thinks she is fooling you.

George Stowe, Junior: I dislike a girl who thinks she is just a little, often a lot, better than the
ordinary person, and who insists on being boisterous, especially in a crowd. Friendliness, personality, and, above all else, good looks
are fine things; but a girl who tries to string along every boy doesn't go with me. A good sport
pleases me, although the girl who does foolish things just to keep the party lively doesn't get far with me.
A sense of sophistication is the best quality I know, while naturalness and lots of “IT” are also good traits.

Fred Siceloff, Sophomore: The chief thing I dislike in a girl is insincerity, although being too dogmatic is another bad
thing. A girl needs personality and an excellent sense of humor to get along well, while beauty helps. Good looks
are not a prerequisite for an attractive girl in my opinion, but they are a help to anyone. I admire
fastidiousness in private, but discrimination in dress and make-up will do more for a girl than constant powdering in public.
Good background and intelligence play an important part, though they are of secondary importance. I like a girl who treats
men as the men they are and not as children.

Terrell Porter, Senior: I dislike the sweet, sentimental, baby-doll type, but like all men, I love beautiful women. Girls with
a line don’t suit me at all, while blondes, brunettes, and redheads are particularly my type. Poise and sophistication are
very well if not carried to excess, and a girl who knows how to be either serious or crazy is
an ideal companion. Talking a long time and saying nothing is almost as bad as making their dates wait, or
being artificial in everything they do. I like sympathetic women but not the beautiful, dumb ones with stereotyped remarks for
every occasion. The “gum-chewers” are the worst.

Bob Kellogg, Junior: My ideal is a girl under twenty, unattached, who can carry on an intelligent conversation for five
minutes without weakening. The chief quality I admire in a girl is intelligence, with looks, money, taste, and personality in
a crowd, important as they are, being of secondary consideration. I also like a good dancer and a girl who
has a good sense of humor—not the prom-trotter’s chuckle which always appears when she thinks the boy has tried to
be amusing.

Chorus For Opera “Martha”

Climaxing a colorful three-day music festival held here the first of the week, the combined glee clubs of Davidson College
and Queens Chicora College presented the opera “Martha” by Von Flotow. This concertized version of the popular opera was presented
at 8:15 Wednesday night to an audience composed to a large extent of members of the student bodies of the
two colleges who gathered here for the festivities of the annual Queen’s Day.

Present Concert

On Friday evening, March 17, the Davidson symphonic band will be presented in a concert at Winston-Salem. This concert will
be sponsored by the Boy Scout troop of Home Moravian Church and the bands of the three Winston-Salem high schools.
The program will be made up of classics, marches, and special features which have been worked out by the band.
At the conclusion of the program, the three high school bands will join with the Davidson group in a special
mass number. The concert will be held in Reynolds High School auditorium.

Charlotteans Hear Johnson

Doctor Johnson Addresses Women’s Organizations

Dr. Frontis Johnson, professor of American History at the college, spoke in Charlotte at one o'clock this afternoon to a
joint meeting of the Public Affairs League of the Young Women’s Christian Association and the Women’s International League of Peace.
The subject of Dr. Johnson's lecture was “Our Pan-American Relations.” These two Charlotte groups are sponsoring a series of talks
upon this subject, with the talk this afternoon being the second of the group. Another meeting is scheduled for February
21, at which time the third in the series of speeches will be given. Mrs. Burton Musser, a delegate to
the Lima Conference, addressed the two clubs in the first talk of the trio.

MADRAS GROUP

[Continued from Page One]

It has been urged that all students who wish to attend this conference get in touch with the Y. M.
C. A. authorities and make the necessary arrangements. One car will be sent over by the Y. M. C. A.
Board, but any other students who care to go are cordially welcomed.

CHOIR SINGS

[Continued from Page One]

The University of Michigan and Davidson little symphonies, forming a 32-piece orchestra, accompanied the cantata. The administration will return to
the regular vesper hour at 6:30 P. M. next Sunday evening. Dr. C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Statesville, will be the guest speaker. Dr. Raynal is the father of Scott Raynal, a member of the
senior class.

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

For Student Employees Desired

The Amherst College “Student” has recently begun a campaign to secure exemption from the Federal Social Security Tax for student
employees of fraternities and sororities, and it has asked cooperation from “The Davidsonian” in this. At present, the law requires
a tax of two per cent of the payroll of all regular employees, student employees, and undergraduate officers. One per
cent of this tax is paid by the employer and one per cent by the employee. The law provides for
this tax to increase until 1949 when it will reach six per cent, three per cent by employer and three
per cent by employee.

Unemployment

Also, there is a Federal Unemployment Insurance Payroll Tax of three per cent upon the employer's payroll when the fraternity
hires eight or more employees. Objections to this tax upon fraternity workers come from four sources. In the first place,
the time to tax for Old Age Benefits is not while a student is working his way through school on
a job which he will soon relinquish but after he has graduated and found his place in society. The student
is never likely to receive any benefit from these taxes. Second, college employees are exempt from the taxes, and there
is no real distinction between them and fraternity employees. The third objection is that the Federal Unemployment Tax and similar
state taxes do not benefit the college fraternities but collect several hundred dollars from each chapter in a year. Fourth,
the tax falls heavily upon those who are least able to bear it, those who are working their ways through
college. This campaign, opened by the Amherst “Student,” is for the purpose of bringing these objections before Congress. Hearings of
this case are scheduled to take place sometime during the month of February in Washington. Many undergraduates of college will
attend the hearing to testify before the Ways and Means Committee.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM 149 PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley Davidson, N. C.

Approximately thirty-five college students constituted the cast for the presentation.Many visitors were received

Street To Be Group Leader

Fellowship Discussion To Be Minister’s Work

A discussion led by Watson Street will be the main feature of a Fellowship Group meeting to be held Sunday
night after church in Shearer Hall. The subject of the discussion will be "The Minister's Job in the Community." The
young preacher will bring to bear on the topic the various experiences he has had as pastor of the Davidson
Unity Church. The speaker is well-known to most of the student body. He graduated from Davidson last June as valedictorian
of his class and was honored by membership in both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Since then he
has been serving the church across the tracks and has made the troubles of those people his own. It is
out of this rich experience of the past year that Street will obtain much material for his discussion.

Frat Extends Bids

Seven Men Invited To Join Sigma Delta Pi

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, extended bids to seven members of the Spanish club at its regular meeting last
week. An unusual program was prepared by Charles Roberts. Vance Myers spoke to the fraternity in Spanish on his native
country, Mexico. Further along in the program followed a contest of twenty-five true and false statements in Spanish. Winners were
Jim Ballard, Marshall Houston, and Al Bixler. Included in the list invited to join the fraternity are the following: Dan
Cagle, Bill Black, Roy Cunningham, Fred Harbin, Charlie Mashburn, Bob McClelland, and Tommy Roberts. Also, several bids were issued to
students from the elementary branch of the Spanish organization, the Spanish club.

Davidsonian Will Help

Boggs Speaks On Leadership Before Class

Wade Boggs Gives Talk On Christian Leadership To Sunday School Class

The Sunday school lesson this past Sunday was led by Wade Boggs, who talked on the lesson, Christian Leadership. The
subject was primarily for those going into the ministry, Sunday school teachers, elders, and other leaders in church work; however,
it was also for those who intended to make an effort in secular leadership to let the spirit of Christ
lead them to just business dealings, the right attitude toward their employers, and general tolerance.

Most of us are likely to have misconceptions of Christian leadership. It is easy to have the conception that a
man cannot be a leader unless he is the fire and thunder type. We often forget that the man who
has access to God through the still small voice is far more apt to do more than others who are
more outspoken.

False Ideas

Boggs took up two or three erroneous ideas that leaders on campus often entertain concerning leadership. The first of these
is the idea of forcing people into Christianity. His second point concerned the tendency to set ourselves up as judges
over the honest efforts of others in behalf of Christ on the campus. In this connection, a good rule to
follow is—do not criticize the efforts of others for Christ unless you are sure that you are doing more for
him than they are. As his third point, Boggs refuted the idea held by some that only if we can
obtain campus honors, we will then be in a position to call ourselves Christian leaders; however, the subtle temptation here
is that once we are elected to a few little honorary fraternities or when we (Continued on Page Six)

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE

M. H. Goodrum & Company DAVIDSON, N. C.

Pretty Fems Flood Dances

During the past weekend of the Mid-Winter dances, a host of young ladies were invited to visit Davidson for the
festivities of the dance weekend. These charming visitors hailed from between New York and California. Most of the girls arrived
Friday to return sometime Sunday.

Phi Gamma Delta

Misses Jessie Walker, Blanche Drennen, Dot Myers, Mary Frances Edmunds, Ann Sutherland, Jessie Setty White, Mary Martin, Evelyn Siewers, Charlotte
Buchanan, Jane Bagley, Gretchen Clapp, Polly Doser, Jo Harfan, Wilhelmina Munroe, Odell Crump, Ellen Magill, Nadine Crump, Mary Anne Sterne,
Ashley Rayser, Martha Jean Brooks, Nancy Hovis, Maujer Moseley, Jo Conley, Kathryn Drennen.

Kappa Alpha

Misses Peggy Cleveland, Florence Lake, Katy Brosius, Janie Merritt, Anne Shook, Louise Overton, Ellen Wilson, Nell Abbott, Tiny Waddill, Nancy
Akers, Seth Highsmith, Eunice Patten, Mary Helen Currin, Gloria McCall, Sophie Walker, Pet Dargan, Frances Alexander, Eugenia Wellborn, Nell Sample,
Nina Jackson.

Pi Kappa Phi

Misses Gin Ervin, Peggy Hite, Peggy Garth, Nancy Lee Frazier, Frances Peters, Rozelle Dameron, Mary Alice Klunpp, Sally McDowell, Wat
Hanberry, Virginia Kibler, Annie Ruth Caison, Cornelia Caraway, Frances Roebuck, Margaret Coleman, Dorcas Paindexter, June Rish, Shirley Anne Peters, Lib
Dens, Grace Clark, Ruth Brickhouse, Sarah Durant, Mary Waites Lumpkin, Ellen Helen Julia Neline, Frances Ann Cumnock, Alice Hobbs, Dot
Branan, Virginia Irby, Sally McCaw, Ann Eagan, Patterson, Jane Simons, Marion Kunz, Ceil Sypher, Finley Plunkett.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Misses Peggy O'Neil, Isabelle Munroe, Margaret Hardison, Campbell, Nona Carheart, Margaret Ranier, Pauline Douglas, Martha Brandon, Betty Sechrest, Phyllis Edgar,
Elizabeth Lyles, Elizabeth Brandon, Mary Broatwright, Nancy Campbell, Harriet Summons, Martha Jenkins, Wilhelmina Efird, Eleanor Newman, Gladys Scott, Amy Gwaltney,
Del Sutherland, Betsy Springer.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Misses Dot Roundtree, Jean Walker, Mariam Boyd, Martha Buchanan, Pat Brown, Dorothy Wyatt, Margaret Hayworth, Mary Alice Ann, Moore, Aileen
Long, Ann McKay, Blanche Grantham, Epsie Fuller, Rita Clary, Betty Johnson, Margaret Webb, Virginia Frotter, Marjorie Dudley, Harriette Kenyon, Ann
Alves, Nancy Walker, Martha Anne Speight, Anne Barrett, Martha Monteith, Peggy Beattie, Helen Willis, Anne Calhoun, Jane Cauble, Ethel Lytch,
Eleanor Key, Lucille Patton, Catherine Martin, Phyllis Stackhouse.

Beta Theta Pi

Misses Irma Dell Blackstone, Virginia Hickman, Ethyl Ann Hutcheson, Martha Laird, Betty Garrou, Eleanor Bonner, Virginia Hunter, Caroline Miller, Jessamine
Boyce, Frances Morrow, Phyllis Pinkston, Lucy Kiker, Betty Bisk, Betty Edyth Kennedy, Lucile Green.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Misses Sybil Trexler, Ella Steele, Fleming, Phelan, White, Barbara Shatzer, Nancy Carter, Mary Louise Riddick, Charlotte McAden, Sara Kelley Lillard,
Hazel Adams, Jo Pope, Mary Katherine Paul, Marian Duncan, Hennie Wallace, Dot Muse, Charlotte Daniel, Peggy Freels, Deedee Thurman.

Phi Delta Theta

Misses Virginia Coleman, Julia McConnell, Charlotte Selman, Howard Perkinson, Eugenia Cary, Louise Marshall Fant, Rebecca Stofe, Lois Johnson, Helen Keene,
Sara Katherine Ruffin, Harriett Sample, Frances Bryan, Elaine Paylor, Charlotte McBee, Jane Washburn, Lelia Aiken, Anne Mitchell, Elise Cowan, Jane
Adams, Peggy Dunaway, Frances Bradley, Claire Davis, Frances Lowrance, Elizabeth Lacy, Caroline Anderson, Virginia Anderson, Edwina Dargan, Gwen Watts, Hilda
Graham Roberts, Nancy Howard.

Kappa Sigma

Misses Dorothy Brinkley, Lucy Alice Murdock, Eleanor Henderson, Marraruth Allen, Evelyn Harris, Betty Waldron, Peggy Harrison, Jane Jones, Margaret Guy,
Lillian Hayes, Martha Sylvain, Catherine Webb, Nan Gotten, Patsy Jones, Harviston Smith, Edith Holton, Nancy Leonard, Peggy Jones, Ann Fair.

Green Lingle Returns From Florida Conferences

President Returns Tuesday After Addressing Missionary Assemblies

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will return to Davidson College next Tuesday, after an extended visit to several cities in Florida.
While in Florida, Dr. Lingle has attended a chain of Mission Conferences, this series of meetings being held in various
cities each year. The Davidson president was one of the speakers invited to address the gatherings this year. He has
been in Florida since February 3rd.

Headquarters

St. Petersburg is the city in which Dr. Lingle is speaking at present. He has also been using this city
as a general headquarters during his stay in the southern state. Before going to St. Petersburg, he spoke at Orlando
and Sarasota, and he will stop at Tampa and Winter Haven before returning to Davidson. Each one of the different
speakers moves from town to town in this manner, the subject of missions being the general nature of each address.
Particular emphasis has been placed upon foreign missions, although home missions have been discussed also. Dr. Lingle has been speaking
on three different topics that were assigned to him.
