Page Two February 15, 1939 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor
of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at
the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3rd, 1879

STAFF

Editor Jack Abernathy
Managing Editor Sam Spencer
Managing Editor R.S. Gibson
Managing Editor Ovid Pope
Associate Editor M.S. Calvin
Associate Editor W.E. Coghill
Associate Editor P. Sloan
Associate Editor Benes Baker
Movie Editor Walt Kunz
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager J.A. Baker
Asst. Business Manager W. Gilmore
Advertising Manager W. Ross
Advertising Manager Allan Lokey
Circulation Manager Hackney
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager Bud Gilmore

Wasted Education

American colleges for teachers are “wasting money on too many stupid students.” That is the conclusion of Dr. Herbert L.
Spencer, noted educator, based on a survey of sophomores in Pennsylvania colleges. In the group surveyed, students preparing for teaching
had an average score of 211 in intelligence tests. Students of business administration scored 217; candidates for bachelor of arts
degrees, 275; while engineering students had the highest average, 280. Comparing these results with those of similar tests administered to
high school pupils, Dr. Spencer discovered an astounding fact. Ninety-eight per cent of the high school seniors and the teacher
candidates fell within the same range of scores, and 25 per cent of the prospective teachers knew less than the
top fourth of the high school seniors.

Pennsylvania, it seems, is saddled with great numbers of teachers who rank lower than the boys and girls they are
to lead upon the paths of learning. There is no reason to believe that the situation in our own section
is different. Competent observers have long suspected that one of the South’s chief educational ills was mass production of teachers
who neither knew their subject matter nor had the native ability to teach it. The answer is difficult to find.
It seems that the South should in some way supervise the selection of candidates for entrance to our teacher preparation
institutions. But until more financial inducement is offered to young people, the teaching profession will continue to find itself with
a perennial shortage of mental equipment.

Take Heed

Our newspapers almost daily carry stories of automobile accidents in which a few more lives are snuffed out. All too
often the victims are children. For this reason and because of several requests, we are reprinting the following poem which
appeared in The Davidsonian about a year ago:

THE RECKLESS FOOL...

HAVE YOU ever heard the rattle of a dying man’s last breath? Or seen the look of horror in the
stare that faces death? Have you ever heard a person scream and writhe in sudden pain And look down at
a mangled arm that will not move again? Or have you heard the moaning and smelled the stench of gin
And seen the gory, bloody gap where once an eye had been? When your car is doing fifty, have you
ever felt the yen To let ’er have another notch ’n do another ten? When a pokey guy’s ahead of
you, have you ever had the thrill Of swingin’ out’n passin’ him upon a dangerous hill? Or have you ever
felt the old car scream ’n lurch ’n swerve As you let ’er have the limit while you took a
sudden curve? Have you ever seen the wreckage of an automobile crash, With gruesome flesh and steel made into a
morbid, gory hash? Have you ever seen the entrails ’n the ears ’n arms ’n hand ’N hat ’n shoes
’n fingers of what once had been a man? Have you ever seen the jagged bone stick through a mangled
leg And heard the blood-smeared victim pray ’n cry ’n beg? HAVE YOU ever had the keen sensation of a
fast car at your bid ’N run up to a stop sign ’n slap ’em on ’n skid? Did you
ever pass a school-yard ’n give the horn a slam ’N drive close to a gang o’ kids ’n see
’em jump ’n scram? Did you ever take a quart o’ rye ’n swallow four or five ’N take the
old bus down the road ’n show ’em how to drive? Have you ever seen a little child all crumpled
up ’n still— Who tried to run across the street while a car came down the hill? Have you seen
blood in the street? Have you seen men’s brains on fenders? Have you seen them stare at the bloody stumps
of things that once were their feet? Have you ever heard the crash ’n scream ’n seen the ghastly stare
On the face of what had been the driver ’n the rest of the man not there? Morbid ’n gruesome
’n gory this, I’m sorry, but don’t you see, This was not meant to be read by folks as tender
as you ’n me, It was meant for the thoughtless ’n careless, who kill ’n maim ’n mar— The reckless
fool who is to blame—the man in the other car.

—By Phil Braniff.

Campus Comments

Every student who has taken Dr. Sentelle’s philosophy and lots of others who haven't, know the fallacious argument of the
ancient Greeks, that since one millet seed falling upon the ground makes no noise, neither will a bag of falling
seeds. If you must have the fallacy accurately stated, you had better ask the philosophy boys, but for my purposes,
just realizing the flaw in the argument is sufficient. And if you are one of the conscientious boys who spends
his time deploring conduct in chapel, I just want to suggest that you probably have been judging yourself by the
standard of the argument I have mentioned. Time after time it happens. One day you hear some student verbally belaying
his fellows for lack of consideration and positive disrespect in chapel. The next day you see him whispering quietly to
his neighbor during the prelude. I meant to say, “You see him whispering.” You can’t hear him. But you realize
fully that the reason for the general hubbub is just a lot of other people whispering too. Talk, inside or
outside chapel, won’t help the situation. Nothing will, at least not until the students really concerned about the matter realize
that in many cases they themselves are contributing to the uproar. We will have reverence, quiet, attention, or whatever you
want to call it, only when each man learns to control himself absolutely, without any lapses of vigilance. If the
situation bothers you, do something about it. Keep quiet, absolutely quiet, all the time, yourself.

LOCKE WHITE, President Honorary Fraternity Council.

P.S.—I request Joe Calvin, President of the Forensic Council, to write the next Campus Comments.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TRY A GELANDESPRUNG WITH TWO LEGS SOMETIME / @ACP. AT MAM U.

Your Film Report Card

By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, February 15th. ** “Burn ’Em Up O'Connor”, Dennis O'Keefe, Cecelia Parker. First in another series, that has Dennis O'Keefe
as a hayseed country boy who likes to race cars and uses the midget field as locale. He is a
smart-aleck for sure and Cecelia Parker doesn’t like him at first. But then Dennis comes through with honesty and courage
and love shines. You see, Cecelia’s father, who is a crooked car manufacturer, has the inside track and usually jinxed
his car drivers who get wrecked in every race. Dennis gets a hunch and practices every night driving the track
blindfolded. So, at the Grand Prix, cars find a very unusual and dramatic climax. See it if you are interested
in midget car racing. By the way, the show is based on a story written by Sir Malcolm Campbell.

Thursday and Friday, February 16th and 17th. “Jesse James,” Tyrone Power, Henry Fonda, and Nancy Kelly. In this epic of
the Missouri lad who turned bank robbery into an art, we have an important milestone in the progress of Tyrone
Power. The whole thing started off that a land agent tried to hornswoggle Jesse and Frank, his brother, out of
their farm. Failing to do so, the agent blows up their house, killing their mother. So Jesse and Frank start
as desperadoes out to get even with the railroad with whom the land agents were connected. Pretty Nancy Kelly is
Zerelda Mimms, idol of Jesse’s heart and the first cousin he courted for nine years. Henry Fonda takes the part
of Frank and there is a strong cast the whole way through to John Carradine as the traitor Bob Ford,
who shot Jesse and laid him in his grave. Here is a picturesque fabrication of the Missouri border bandits. You
will probably like Tyrone Power as the lad who rode hard and recklessly, who never drank, smoked or chewed, who
died at thirty-five, at once a hero and a desperado.

Saturday, February 18th. “Little Orphan Annie,” Ann Gillis and Robert Kent. Another cartoon strip shaped into film form. The young
lady of the Leapin’ Lizard expression, is played by Ann Gillis, who was Becky Thatcher in last year’s Tom Sawyer.
Plot? “Annie runs away from a cruel farmer who has taken her from the orphanage, thumbs her way to New
York. A truck driver who is training to be a prize-fighter becomes her best friend. And, of course, there’s her
dog pal, Sandy. A newcomer, Robert Kent, is the truck driver with the Golden Gloves hopes. The two heavies lock
up the potential champion on the night of the big fight, but you know what happened then, don’t you? You
kids should like it.

Monday and Tuesday,February 20th and 21st. "The Three Musketeers," starring Ameche, Gloria Stuart, and the Ritz Brothers. Alexander Dumas’ classic
story of swashbuckling gallants has been retold many times—but never before have Aramis, Porthos, and Athos been as goofy as
the Ritz Brothers make them. Ameche plays the part of d’Artagnan, and the four of them save the honor of
the queen as it was never done before.

From Campus to Campus

Nomination

Although 1940 is politically a long time away—many months in which anything can happen in the realm of those who
bargain for votes and pork barrels—collegians have already started thinking about the Presidential campaign. First to come out into the
open on the whole question is the Butler University Collegian, which proposes that Secretary of State Cordell Hull be the
Democratic nominee for the next resident of the White House. Why? Listen to this: “Mr. Hull is, we believe, the
one man in the Democratic party today who could unite the conservative and liberal elements. He has supported the radical
New Deal measures only mildly, and also has backed the conservative actions of the administration.” Will the Collegian’s nominee come
through? What do you think?

* * *

Marriage

Collegians in all sections of the U.S. are clamoring for courses that will tell them all about the trials and
tribulations of marriage and how they can be avoided. Simply stated by the Harvard University Crimson, they say: “It is
becoming increasingly important that mature men and women should have some knowledge about birth control and the many causes of
divorce. Also, they should know something of the effects such differences as age, class, grade, religion, occupation, politics, hobby, color,
and sex have upon marital relations. Expert information on such subjects ought to be available to college students.” That the
new movement is not new on all campuses is shown by the fact that 200 colleges and universities already have
such courses. Growth of the movement is shown by the fact that there were only 22 such courses 12 years
ago.

Health

Recent revelations that two out of every thousand U.S. college students are infected with syphilis have started anew the clamor
for mass examination of all college students. Says the Kent Stater of Kent State University, in agreeing with other editorialists
in all sections of the country: “Colleges should acknowledge their responsibility. Instruction about venereal diseases should be included in the
regular curriculum. Authorities agree that control must begin with individuals in the age group of first exposure. College students form
the most important group in this class. Control in this group would offer a real hope for reduction in the
general rate of infection.”

SUPER SNOOPINGS By KEN LAWSON

Mid-Winters, the weekend for which young Davidsons live from New Year's on, has come and gone. For most, there is
an eager waiting until the time for this gala occasion rolls around next year, while for some of us it
is with sadness that we contemplate the passing of our last Mid-Winter dance set. Among the alumni returning for the
festivities were four old Pan-Hellenic Council Presidents—Mims Rogers, Cokey Branton, Ed Armfield, and Boobie Arrowsmith—back to see President Pittman and
the Council stage the largest and best dance set ever put on at Davidson. I am sure that they join
with us in paying tribute to the work of this year’s Council which produced such noteworthy results.

But this column is not intended to give glowing praise about the headliners of the weekend, no matter how well
deserved it may be; it is to delve into the by-lines and let you in on a few not-so-well-known facts
and activities.

Without attempting to enumerate all the lovely and charming young ladies who graced the dances, I cannot pass over without
mentioning a few items of interest. Hats off to Mary Lib Moore and Emma Renne Jones who attended their eighth
Davidson Mid-Winters; their pep, personality, and charm have added much to the enjoyment of Davidson dance functions. We wish them
many more. Then I cannot omit Mary Waites (2 Way) Lumpkin looking every inch a queen just as when she
led the dance figures last year, and Dot Rountree, the big brown-eyed Florida sensation, who really wowed ’em on her
first trip to Davidson. We could go on about the beautiful girls forever, but spicier dope is in the offing.

Slips that passed on Mid-Winters nights... Hayseed Thomas running off with Benny Harrison's date... Jim Dunlap removing parental barrier only
to observe a ring as ominous as the walls of Jericho on his girlfriend's finger... Mrs. Stough wanting to know
who kept running the vacuum cleaner downstairs all night... Fred Stair concentrating on his “bundle of concentrated loveliness”... Add Long
in a dilemma as old and new flames both attended dances.

Special mention must be given to the changing of fraternity pins from positions over palpitating masculine hearts to feminine bosoms
by C. G. Yates, Alex Erwin, and Bob Johnston. Johnston's pinning was especially noteworthy as the girl happened to be
Bob Balsley’s O-A-O and the pin quickly disappeared when discovered by Master Balsley. Still concentrated Boyd Flynn deep in the
red following the dances... Joe Calvin having to go to bed two days before the arrival of “little Nell” in
order to settle his nerves... Tom Hackney setting a new style note at the S.A.E. banquet by wearing a raincoat
with no shirt underneath... Many fraternity brothers attempting to snake on Ray Pittman but Karl Jonas most successful.

As eavesdropper reporting, Colonel Liipfert’s date has definite ideas about the populating of bungalows... T. Joy Glenn suffering severe reverses
in a football game when all his forward passes were intercepted... Sam Hemphill not content with the late owl record
for the weekend but signed up for ten girls for Queens day... And “Bone Crusher” Jim Morrison ostensibly going home
but spotted by a scout at the Phi Delt House at Auburn. P.S. Why did Marguess send a junior editor
over to Charlotte on Tuesday?

Flash! Dame rumor has it that Artie Shaw is available for the Spring dances. Let’s show the Pan-Hel boys we
really want “The new King of Swing” for the next set and make this the greatest year in Davidson social
history.

In the Groove By TOM PERRIN

SUB DEB CHATTER... Weren't the dances good? I thought Uncle Dean was really swell, and Hal Kemp was all right
too. More of my friends were there from just everywhere. It sure is fun to get around. That's all we're
going to say about the dances. Somebody insinuated the other day that without dance dope to pad this groove with
we'd never fill a column. Criticism doesn't sting anymore but maybe we had better let up on this particular topic.

But not until we say that local scholars should have amply proved to the Pan-Hel boys that they can and
will support a big-name band when given the opportunity, and that we're tactfully suggesting Larry Clinton for that set once
celebrated as Bowery Ball and Junior Speaking. Artie Shaw would do too. Of course, we would like to tell you
about songstress Judy Starr feeling too badly to attend the tea dance yet doing very nicely Saturday night, or all
the Pi Kapps showing up for their banquet a night early, or the band’s professional dancers shagging unofficially and superbly,
or a great many other things. But we won't.

HEARTS AND WIRES... After considerable research, we are prepared to report definitely that the local five-and-ten had absolutely no comic
valentines appropriate for jitterbugs. Discouraged, we just didn’t send any. With romance still burning fitfully in our hearts, however, we
thought we’d drop in on the Davidson telegraph office, and so we did. Those special Valentine ’grams were selling very
well, we learned. Without attempting to interpret the facts, we'll also report that business is considerably better than it was
for the same occasion last year, also that about four such messages go out for every one that comes in.
Most boys, they told us, just check a number on the special blank and to heck with originality. No particular
sentiment seemed to be favored, the idea being what counts, we suppose, not the words. Personally, we couldn't decide which
we liked best: “If you were seven and I were nine, I'd say ‘Please be my Valentine,’” or “At miles
between us we can laugh, our hearts entwined by telegraph.” Neither seemed quite right for our personality, so eventually we
gave up and decided to forget the whole business.

SLEEPING SICKNESS... During the lecture of one of our professors lately, a member of the class (no matter who; it
could have happened to you) suddenly slumped over against the man in the desk at his side, a victim of
sudden sickness. The professor was the first to notice. He stopped his lecture and had the boy assisted from the
room. “Did you notice he was ill?” asked the prof of the lad against whom the sufferer had collapsed. “No,
sir,” he replied. “I just thought he had gone back to sleep.”

HANGOVERS, from a Davidson weekend... “Deep Purple” is a lovely song but not the shade for a lipstick. Hair-up fad
for girls is dead, thank goodness. “You might have been a beautiful baby; but Baby, look at you now!”

After ten years of study by its scientists, there will be published soon at Brown University a three-volume atlas of
the speech peculiarities of New Englanders.

The department of printing at Carnegie Institute of Technology has equipment valued at more than $250,000.

The first students of Villanova College were required to furnish themselves with large silver spoons.

An Oberlin College committee has just passed a ruling which says that the college flag must be flown when college
is in session or on special holidays.
