Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., Feb. 22, 1938

Pre-Med Group Hears Talk By Prof. Fulcher
Bahnson and Rose Make Speech on Communicative Diseases

At the regular meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta Friday, February 17, Professor H. E. Fulcher made a talk to the
members of this Pre-Medical Fraternity.

Physics and Medicine

Professor Fulcher's talk was on the connection between physics and medicine. The speech was of great interest to those planning
to take up Medicine as a profession. For this reason, the meeting was an open one and there were over
a dozen visitors present. Following Professor Fulcher, Hank Bahnson and I. W. Rose spoke on communicative diseases. In connection with
this, Dr. Scot Lyon showed a film, "The Defenses of the Body." The film dealt with defenses that the body
sets up against these communicative diseases. Bill Boyce and Charlie Sherman were in charge of the meeting and the program.
As guests of the chapter, Dr. Logan and Dr. Knight were present. Plans are being made to bring Dr. Thomas
Sparrow of Charlotte to Davidson as the guest speaker of the next meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta. Dr. Sparrow is
a prominent surgeon and has presented some very interesting programs to this group in the past.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

Beach and at Henry's. Brother Bumbarger with women and song at Flora-McDonald. Waltzing at the Salem dances were Brothers Flynn,
Garvey, and Hendrick. Brother Larkin took in Greensboro during the weekend.

Phi Gamma Delta

The Phi Gams journeyed hither and yon during the past week but Brother Fred Stair spent a few days at
his home in Knoxville, Tenn. Brother Liipfert mostly homeward has returned from a very extended weekend. Dan Hodge visited at
his home. Brother Stowe attended the wedding of his sister in Raleigh. Brothers Parrish and Richmond cavorted in Belmont on
Friday night at Salem College Dances. Brother Tillotson journeyed to Baltimore, Md., for the weekend. Brother Miller was among those
who visited at home, going to Johnson City, Tenn.

Phi Delta Theta

Following the campus dance weekend, most of the brothers remained on short trips to Charlotte. Norman Stevenson traveled to Winston-Salem
with his parents where he visited his brother. Bill Marquess, Hugh Verner, Warren Ludlam, and John Chalk, traveled to Gene
Helms, a prominent Charlotte attorney, it was announced Saturday. Mullis, a native of Martinsburg, West Virginia, was prominent during his
college career, being a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternities. He was also a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, the Reporters Club, the International Relations Club, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council,
a member of the Freshman Team, the Class Tennis Team, and his class baseball team. He was also a member
of the Student Council and an assistant in Economics, and ranked second in his class. After his graduation, he went
to the Harvard Law School where he received his degree in 1936. In the same year, he became manager of
the Interwoven Hosiery Mills at Morristown, Tenn. and in the latter part of 1936, he came to Charlotte to practice
law. Since then he has been associated with Judge Helms. He is a member of the Mecklenburg, State, and American
Bar Associations, the Davidson College Alumni Council, the Charlotte Country Club, and Cotillion Club. Judge Helms, a native of Union
County in this state, has been active in political, civic, and religious affairs since he came to Charlotte in 1925.
He has served successfully on numerous committees and is a member of many organizations, clubs, and lodges.

CAT TRACKMEN
[Continued from Page Four]

that yearly attracts many outstanding track teams, among them being Navy, Georgia, Virginia, Ga. Tech, and Kentucky.

Fashion Relics

He is the Speed Cowboy. An unwanted relic of a bygone era, he whizzes blithely on, oblivious to the fact
that he is as out of place as a Keystone comedy in Radio City Music Hall. Just a model T
intellect in a streamlined roadster. Some day, he may be caught unawares and be put in a museum, along with
the extinct Dinosaur and the Dodo.

The 1920 Flapper

Hotcha and boopadoop ... Shimmy ... Charleston ... "It" ... Yes, We Have No Bananas ... So's Your Old Man
... Drugstore cowboys in bell-bottomed trousers and plus-fours ... Flappers in knee-high skirts and unbuckled galoshes ... All, all are
gone. They are outmoded, old-fashioned, passé. They belong to a better era. There remains, however, one tragi-comic vestige of the
Gilded Age: The Speed Cowboy.

Travelers Safety Service

"COLIN" SMITH RELATES
[Continued from Page Five]

by "Mintz," a neighboring magician, who sold him a discarded trick. As Shaw continued his backyard shows (he now charged
three cents admission) he bought more tricks, enlarged his stage, and changed his stage name from "Professor Smith" to the
present "Colin."

Show Develops

When he was fifteen, Shaw made his professional debut and netted $2.75. Such success made him want to stop school
at once, but the family's definite "No" changed his mind and forced him to finish high school. He then entered
Oak Ridge Military Institute. During the latter part of his final year there he reorganized his act and purchased an
old Ford with earnings from appearances at neighboring theatres and schools. Colin made his debut on the Davidson stage last
spring at "Queens Day." In addition, he has given several shows at banquets and churches around the college. His equipment

SUNDAY CLASS
[Continued from Page Five]

one of three things. He will either just let go and return to his former life, or he will decide
that he has tried and failed and will forget the whole matter, or he will press on. The last course
brings the victory through Christ. Dr. Schenck finds that every man must have two things. He must have a sense
of adequate companionship with God, and he must lead a disciplined life. Peace with God comes as a result of
the two. In closing, Dr. Schenck quoted the familiar verse, "All things work together for good to them that love
God."

Vereen, Ovid Bell, Jim Cowan, and others attended the Charlotte mid-night show. Lock and Bill Boyd traveled to Hunter, Lee,
Rock Hill Saturday night for a detail.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Brother Powell spent the weekend in Chapel Hill. Brother White visited his home in Rock Hill. Brothers Hamilton and Craver
also visited their homes. Brother Thompson spent the weekend in Charleston, S.C. Brother Peyton visited with Craver. Brother Mullen journeyed
to Greensboro. Brother Watson was a guest at Flora McDonald. Brother Hank Bryant traveled to Orlando, Florida, and Gordon Thomson
was in the Queen City. There was the usual Queen City crowd over the weekend and on Saturday and Sunday
nights.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM 157

PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley Davidson, N.C.

Expert Barber BEST HAIRCUTIN TOWN = Wis ac? Davis Barber Shop Right by White Drug Co. DAVIDSON, N. C. DeLuxe
Ice Cream of Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

Own your own shop, GIRLS! $75 to $100 per week. Yes, it is the beauty business. Think of it. Today,
now, while you train—you can learn the profession. Open your own shop. We help you furnish your own shop with
a small payment. Have others earning for you. Every woman your customer. Write and learn how to succeed. New classes
forming now.

Continental College Of Beauty Culture
HIGH POINT, N. C.

He has finally become so great that he has bought a trailer. Harry Gasteiger has also been taken in as
a new assistant. “Together for the good of those who love the Lord.”

Shaw won't talk much about the times that the show didn’t go over. He still laughs, however, when he thinks
of the time he attempted to take an egg from “Semi-Colin” Kornegay’s mouth. The hen-fruit in some way turned sideways,
and the anguished artist and still more anguished assistant spent what seemed to be hours before it could be taken
out. Then he had to tie a noisy duck’s bill to prevent it from exposing the trick. There’s another time
when a third demonstration had to be suspended while audience, performer, and assistants attempted to catch a loose pigeon. “But,”
said Colin, “I go on the stage expecting something to go wrong, and I try to have means already planned
of coping with any such situations.”

SPANISH GROUP
[Continued from Page Three]
McDonald, W. E. Cobb, T. A. Galbreath, R. H. Moore, B. H. Rhyne, and William Summerville. Immediately afterwards, came the
initiation of new members into Sigma Delta Pi: C. M. Mashburn, William Black, D. F. Cagle, R. E. Cunningham, F.
F. Harbin, H. R. McClelland, T. A. Roberts, and V. A. Myers.

OFFICIALS FOR
[Continued from Page One]
March 13, which will be held immediately after the lecture before the student body by Dr. Paul Pope, outstanding sociologist
and psychologist. This lecture will be sponsored by Pi Gamma Mu. The charter for the chapter was on display at
the last meeting and the following are the charter members listed thereon: Price Gwynn, Jr., Rene Williamson, Harvey Morrison, Thomas
Abernathy, William Davis, Jerry Doster, Warren Gaw, Elmer Hulen, Henry McConnell, John Mawhinney, Daniel Rhodes, Frank Simmons, Archer Torrey, Ivan
Stafford, David Woodward, and Ellard Yow. The next meeting will be held Friday, March 3, and the new officers will
be installed and new members initiated. Each of the officers will present a paper on some phase of social science.

TRUSTEES IN
[Continued from Page One]
to attend its meeting Wednesday evening. These men were later entertained in the houses of the faculty members. The Executive
Committee is composed of members of the following five committees: The Building and Grounds, Education, Student Health Service and Physical
Education committees and the Committee on Religious and Social Life, Church and Alumni Relationships. The following are on the committees:
R. A. Dunn, H. Smith Richardson, S. A. Robinson, J. A. Cannon, H. W. McKay, R. S. Arrowood, C. R.
Wilcox, J. McD. Richards, I. P. Graham, Lunsford Richardson, Sprunt, A. A. McLean, W. P. Sprunt, and P. D. Miller.

FORMER DAVIDSONIAN
[Continued from Page Five]
Subsequent to his course here he attended Union Seminary in Richmond. While here “Jim,” as he was called by his
fellow-students, was quite active in campus activities. Among other offices he held positions as Vice-President of the Junior class, member
of the Davidsonian staff, Pan-Hellenic Council, and Student Council. He topped off these achievements by serving as editor-in-chief of the
1920 Quips and Cranks.

CONFERENCE RACE
[Continued from Page Four]
ing spurt, were generally unimpressive. The score at the half was 22-14, with the Light Brigade out front.

Philanthropic Society Makes Alumni Survey
Joint Meeting With Eumenean Group is Planned For Near Future

The Philanthropic Literary Society is making a survey of alumni to find the distinguished men in North Carolina who were
Phi’s while at Davidson. Since the society was formerly composed only of North Carolina men it is thought that some
of these former men have attained prominence in their native state. When the results are published by the committee, under
the leadership of Jerry Doster, these records are expected to be of interest to the Alumni office. The society discussed
this and other matters at its meeting last night in Phi Hall.

Plan Joint Meeting
Plans were made for a joint meeting with the Eumenean Society in the near future at which book reports will
be presented by members of both societies. The theme of the program will be “Contemporary Literature.” A suggestion will be
made to the effect that the societies should collaborate with the Lecture Committee of the College in sponsoring a speech
by a contemporary writer during next school session. Melvin Goforth led the devotionals at last night's meeting. Sandy McEachern reviewed
a book and Tom Fry made an extemporaneous speech on his native state—Georgia.

FRENCH CLUB PRESENTS
[Continued from Page One]
son, Sid Crane as the Interpreter, Bob King as the concierge, Sam Spencer as the police inspector and Scotty Raynal
as the agent. As yet the cast for the original play has not been selected, but daily rehearsals are being
held for the other two, and considerable progress has already been made.

WINTER DRILLS FEATURED
[Continued from Page Four]
and George Richmond for guard positions. Hank Bahnson and Elmer Knoeller appear to have the edge on Don Bell, John
Barnhardt and Dick Arnold at the present time, in the tackle position.

Ends Show Promise
Coach Spearman has five promising ends under his supervision, Gales McClintock, Jim Cowan, Frank Niven, John King, and Bill Faison.
The backfield candidates include Bill Bolin, Tubby Hand, Granville Sharpe, “Black Dog” Hunter, Claude Hackney, Stan Yoder, and Dave Spencer.
Despite a few minor injuries the backs have progressed rapidly and competition for positions has been sharp.

KIT GRAPPLERS
[Continued from Page Four]
Gobblers gained their third five points of the afternoon when Zydiak pinned John Barnhardt in 2:15 of their match. Jackins
of Barium Springs refereed the matches. Saturday the Freshmen wrestlers journeyed to Barium Springs to engage the Orphans in their
final match of the year.

Heap Colds
A few drops bring comforting relief. Clears clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes—helps keep sinuses open.
Vicks VA-TRO-NOL

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

VEL OZ and YOLANDA in their famous dance of the Cigarette with Chesterfield

THE HAPPY COMBINATION (perfectly balanced blend) of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos ... the can't-be-copied blend ... a HAPPY COMBINATION
(Chesterfield’s can't-be-copied blend of mild ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos gives you all the qualities you like in a
smoke ... mildness, better taste, and pleasing aroma. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of
men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY
Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
