Rice To Become Y. M. C. A. Secretary

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Valentine To Be Mid-Winters Theme

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1939 No. 16

BOGGS RESIGNS; RICE TAKES PLACE

Mid-Winter Program

Hudson and Kemp Play For Dances

Decorations for the Armory Will Feature the Valentine Motif

From the swing-off by Dean Hudson for the Friday afternoon dance until the final downbeat of Hal Kemp’s baton at midnight Saturday, the Mid-Winters dance set will hold the attention of Davidson students. Dancing begins at 5:30 Friday afternoon and continues until 7:30. The Formal will be on Friday night starting at 10:00 until the hour of 2:00 in the morning. On Saturday the Tea Dance commences at 3:00 with a halt called at 6:00. Informal is set for that night at 8:00 lasting until 12:00.

Kemp On Tour

Hal Kemp and his orchestra will play for the Saturday dances. Kemp is now making a tour of several of the southern schools, having recently played at Georgia Tech, Tennessee, Washington and Lee Fancy Dress, and at Clemson. This organization also appears in Charlotte during this week filling a theatre engagement. Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen are also on the southern circuit. They have recently been playing at various hotels in Ohio, Kentucky, Michigan, and Minnesota. Dean, who appeared here last year for the Spring Dances, will hold sway on Friday.

Decoration Planned

Decoration of the Charlotte Armory, where the dances are to be held, will be in the Valentine motif. Louis Hipp, chairman of the decorations committee, has made arrangements to have the entire floor opened for the dancers. The white and red streamers will form a gabled effect from the center with a huge reflecting ball suspended in the middle. Those who prefer to watch and listen rather than dance will be able to do so. The balcony will be open and admission will be charged.

Get-Together Day Discussed

Plans Made For Field Day At Senior Smoker

Plans were discussed for a Senior-Faculty “field day” sometime this spring at a smoker given by the Senior class Monday night. Ovid Bell, chairman of the Senior-Faculty relations committee, outlined tentative plans for the affair. Athletic events including golf and tennis matches, a softball game, and horseshoes and bowling contests will be held in the afternoon. Later a barbecue will be held on the golf course, after which the group will gather around a bonfire for night entertainment.

After Bell had given his report, the smoker was declared informal by Sam Newell, president of the class. During this time members of the faculty and seniors discussed the possibilities of such an affair among themselves. Later the meeting was called to order again for a short time, and several other suggestions were made by members of the group. Six members of the faculty, Professor Johnston, Professor McGavock, Mr. Jackson, Professor Fleagle, Major Steel, and Mr. Whittle, consented to work with the student committee to iron out details. The student committee consists of Bell as chairman and Shaw Smith and Oscar Armstrong.

Band Leaders

During the coming weekend music for the dance series will be furnished by two well-known maestros, Hal Kemp and Dean Hudson. The music of Hudson will be featured at the Friday dances and Kemp will play for the Saturday affair. Both orchestras rate highly among collegiate circles of dance enthusiasts.

Davidson Will Sponsor New Musical Festival

Music Department and Outside Artists Will Be Program Features

The annual Davidson College Musical Festival will be held on the evenings of February 12, 13, and 14 in Chambers Auditorium. The program will feature organizations of the Davidson music department and many outside artists and organizations.

On Sunday, February 12, a sacred cantata, “The Daughter of Jairus,” by Stainer will be given. The time of this program will be 7:30 P.M. instead of the regular Sunday vesper time. Dr. C. M. Richards, of the Davidson faculty, will preside. Artists featured in the cantata are Kathryn Swain, Soprano; Franklin Riker, Tenor; Harper Beall, Baritone; Elizabeth Cloninger, Harpist; Thane McDonald, Organist. Organizations taking part are the Davidson Festival Chorus, The Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra, The University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra, and members of the Davidson College Symphonic Band.

Second Program

The second program, Monday evening at 8:15, is a concert featuring the works of Mehul, Mozart, Glazounov, Lindov, Franck, and Grieg. Artists taking part in the concert are Louise Nelson Pfohl, Pianist; Harper Beall, Baritone; James Christian Pfohl, Organist.

[Continued on Page Three]

Committee Appeals For Gift Suggestion

The senior gift committee issues an appeal for suggestions for the annual gift to the school. This drive for suggestions is getting away in earnest this new semester because the Class of '39 wants to have the gift ready at the time of its graduation. It is expected that the plans will be completed by the Spring Vacation.

Among suggestions already made are a sprinkling system on top of the Armory for use on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays for the purpose of making the R.O.T.C. faculty think it is raining, and a perennial house for the Charlotte bumming corner. In the past, gifts such as the clock on Chambers Building and the portrait of Dr. C. R. Harding have been made. Those who have suggestions are urged to make them immediately to John Reisner, Locke White, or Charlie Sample, who constitute the committee.

Board Placed In New Gym

Scoreboard Aids Timing And Score Keeping

A new electric clock basketball scoreboard has been erected in the gymnasium recently, to better the score and time-keeping facilities for the home games. The board is designed for keeping the time and scores of a basketball game by remote control from the scorer’s bench. It may be operated by one person at the bench.

Big Board

The board itself is 8 feet long, six feet high and one foot thick with a black metal front. It has been placed in the northeastern section of the gym. One side of the board contains an electric clock for time-keeping. The clock, the dial of which is 34 inches in diameter, is specially geared. One of its hands makes one revolution every 20 minutes, the other makes one revolution per minute. Remote control is possible by means of a switch box kept at the scorer’s bench. The dial has two scales, the outer representing seconds in red paint and the inner representing minutes in black, all against an illuminated white background.

Letters Stand Out

The other side of the board contains the names of the contestants and their respective scores in large letters of black against a lighted background.

[Continued on Page Six]

Plans Laid To Observe Queens Day

Girls of Queens-Chicora College Accept Invitation Extended by ODK

Queens-Chicora girls have accepted an invitation extended by Omicron Delta Kappa to observe another annual Davidson-Queens day on the Davidson campus, Tuesday, Feb. 14. A list of the girls has been mailed to Davidson for boys to sign up for their dates. The girls will arrive in Davidson by buses shortly after lunch Tuesday afternoon. The ODK date bureau will be the main hub of activity until all boys and girls have been paired off for the afternoon and evening entertainment.

Entertainment Planned

Tentative plans have been made by Omicron Delta Kappa for the way of entertainment, but there is certain to be a full afternoon and evening of fun and enjoyment for both boys and girls. These temporary plans call for a Freshman basketball game at four o'clock. There is a possibility that the football coaches will stage an exhibition game in the afternoon between the Grays and Reds if nothing arises to complicate matters.

At 6:30 o'clock the college will serve the girls supper in the ban-quet hall of the building. The opera “Martha” will be presented by the Davidson Music Department, Queens-Chicora Club, the Chicago Little Orchestra, and other guest artists at Chambers Glee Symphony at 8 o'clock to climax the gala day.

Promising Event
The preceding eventful Davidson-Queens days are past but not forgotten, happy history in the memories of Davidson men. From all indications, the approaching day will surpass all others held before in the way of entertainment and fun.

Plaque Is Received
A bronze plaque for the infirmary has recently been received by Mr. F. L. Jackson. The plaque, commemorating the donors of the infirmary, will soon be placed on the wall of the reception room, and will read:

Preyer Infirmary
Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Yost Preyer
In Honor of Mrs. Preyer’s Father, Mr. L. Richardson, Class of 1875, Who learned His first Chemistry at Davidson, and of Mrs. Preyer’s Uncle, Dr. Henry Louis Smith Class of 1881 President of Davidson College from 1901 to 1912

MID-WINTERS
Y.M.C.A. Officials
Wade Boggs, shown on the left, has resigned as secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. to enter Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, after two years here. Sherrard Rice, this year’s president of the “Y” has been engaged to take his place, and will assume his duties next summer.

Limestone’s Invitation Attracts Thirty-Eight
Limestone College Freshmen Hold Party for Davidson Students

Thirty-eight Davidson students journeyed to Limestone College in Gaffney last Saturday evening. The occasion for the excursion was a party given by the Freshmen there. A blanket invitation was received by the Freshmen class here several weeks ago. When it was found that only twenty-five or thirty freshmen were able to go, the invitation was issued to the upperclassmen also.

Blind Dates Drawn
A bus was chartered for about twenty students while the others went in cars from Charlotte. Upon arriving at Limestone about seven o'clock Saturday evening, the boys drew blind dates and accompanied the girls into the gymnasium for supper. There it was discovered that a group of boys from Wofford and several students from Clemson were also over for the party. The room was decorated in red and white with the Valentine theme predominating. The visitors were welcomed by the president of the Limestone Freshman class. During the course of the meal, entertainment was presented by three Limestone students, one former student, and one future student (aged four years). The three students sang popular songs and the former and future students presented an exhibition of tap-dancing.

Enjoy Dancing
After supper, the floor was cleared [Continued on Page Six]

Ten Officers Are Promoted
Andy Turner Is Honored At Special Parade

At a special parade held last Wednesday in honor of Lieutenant A.C. Turner, who graduated at the end of the first semester, ten senior cadet officers of the Davidson battalion received promotions in rank, by order of Col. F. M. Armstrong, commander of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit. Fred Stair of Knoxville, Tenn., student commander of the battalion and president of the student body, was elevated to the rank of cadet lieutenant colonel. He will be succeeded as cadet major by Sam Hemphill of Marion, who will also serve as battalion executive. 

Eight others receiving new rank are: Cadet Captain Robert Benfield of Grove, West Virginia, to be battalion adjutant; First Lieutenant John Doty of Rogersville, Tenn., to be cadet assistant adjutant; Rex Beach of Lenoir, to be cadet captain and battalion plans and training officer; and the following second lieutenants to be first lieutenants: Stephen Fowler of Washington, Eugene T. Liipfert of Winston-Salem, Thomas E. Page of Tarboro, Robert G. Raynal of Statesville.

Pi Gamma Mu Meets To Hear Paper Read
At the last meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, honorary society for the study and representation of social sciences, held Friday evening, February the third, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, psychology professor, read a paper written by Dr. R. deV. Williamson, professor of political science and economics here at Davidson. The meeting was held at the Beta Theta Pi house at seven o'clock. There was very little business brought up at the meeting. After the reading of Dr. Williamson's paper by Dr. Gwynn, an open discussion was held concerning it. At the termination of the discussion, the meeting was brought to a close. A very important meeting of Pi Gamma Mu will be called soon at which there will be an election of new officers for the society.

Boggs Ends “Y” Work Next Spring
Wade Boggs To Enter Union Theological Seminary In Richmond Next Fall

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, faculty chairman of the college Y.M.C.A. board, announced today that Sherrard Rice has accepted an appointment to be secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. next year. Rice, who is a member of the present senior class, has been selected by the board of control to fill the vacancy of Wade Boggs, who presented his resignation in January. The present secretary expects to enter the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., next September to begin his course of study for the ministry.

Active “Y” Worker
The new secretary plans to take over his new duties before the orientation period for freshmen next fall. Serving as president of the Y.M.C.A. this year, he has been active in this field of work since he entered Davidson. He has been a member of the “Y” cabinet for the past three years and during the past year served as vice-president. During this time he was in charge of deputations. Rice has also taken an active part in other extra-curricular activities. Last fall he was tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership fraternity, and is a senior member of the student council. He was a member of the freshman debating team in 1935-'36, an alternate sophomore, and a member of the varsity debating squad during the last two seasons. He has been vice-president of the Forensic Council. He has been studying for an A.B. degree in preparation for the ministry.

Virginian
Rice is a native of Richmond, Va., the son of Mrs. T. H. Rice and the late Dr. Rice of that city. His father taught for many years as professor of English at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

Glee Club To Give Concerts
Music Organization Tours Eastern Carolina

The Davidson College Glee Club will leave on March 18 for its annual tour. This year the trip will be for four days and will take the club to four cities in Eastern North Carolina. After leaving here on the eighteenth, the Glee Club will give its first concert in Wilmington that night. This will be a mixed program of sacred and secular music sponsored by the young people of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington. On the following evening, the club will present a program of sacred music at that church. On Monday night, March 20, the Glee Club will move on to Red Springs for a concert at McDonald College. The next morning they will sing at the Presbyterian Junior College in Maxton. That night the trip will close with a concert in the Troy high school auditorium. The final concert will be sponsored by the Rotary and Kiwanis clubs of Troy.

On Friday, February 24, the Glee Club will go to Charlotte and sing at the banquet of the Masonic Fellowship. This will be observed as ladies’ night by the organization. Frank McNinch, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, will be the speaker. Sunday, March 5, will find the Glee Club in Winston where they will present a sacred program at the First Presbyterian Church. According to the plans at present, the annual home concert of the organization will be held in Chambers Auditorium on March 22.