March 1, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

When the annual Queens Day was announced to the student body several days ago, everyone openly seemed enthusiastic. When the
day of the event arrived, there weren't the 225 needed boys signed up for dates; at least, cooperation in general
was poor. Therefore, the general opinion of some of the students has been sought on this question of Queens Day:
Shall we discontinue Queens Day or shall we try some other plan of getting more cooperation from the students?

Bob Balsley, Sophomore: “One person or a small group of persons should not answer this question. However, I am all
for Queen's Day. After all, a few social contacts are included in our liberal education and one never knows what
pleasant friendships can be started on this day. I can think of no better arrangements for this day. To me,
it seems more a matter of cooperation.”

John Mawhinney, Senior: “Queen's Day was instituted primarily to help both student bodies make more social contacts, and in short,
it fulfills that purpose. Insofar as it is fine, it should be continued. It falls in that some people are
afraid to trust themselves with blind dates, and therefore refuse to cooperate. That lack of cooperation tends to defeat the
whole purpose of the affair. Since Queen's Day comes but once a year, why couldn't a date bureau be set
up between the two schools for the intervening Saturday evenings? Queens is definitely grade A.”

Mark Cauble, Senior: “I think Queen's Day should be continued because although the cooperation was bad last time, it was
probably due to the day’s coming so soon after Mid-Winters when there were many other things that could interfere. After
the day was over, I think the results were enough to justify its continuance in the future.”

Bill Masters, Junior: “Queen's Day should by no means be discontinued, but I think that more spirit of cooperation should
be shown by the students. ODK works hard each year to make this affair a success, and the least we
could do would be to cooperate and sign up for dates. We may be scared of picking a lemon, but
the girls are taking more of a chance than we are—and probably get stung more often. A student cannot be
made to sign up for a date, but a heartier spirit of cooperation would make for a more successful Queens-Davidson
Day.”

John Throop, Junior: “The plan of having girls’ student bodies visit our campus is a thorough test of our student
body's cooperation. Perhaps we don’t all enjoy our dates, but at least we can show the girls a good time.
For this reason alone, I think we should continue the present policy.”

Andy Dale, Sophomore: “I think that the annual Queen's Day is a good thing for both schools. While cooperation was
not all that could be had, it was pretty good. Perhaps the list of girls was rather long, considering the
fact that only a fraction of the student body will take dates for such an affair, either because they don't
want a blind date, or for other reasons. However, on a campus that has as few social events as Davidson,
the added color and festivities helped, especially in an “off-season” such as this, when there are not many planned social
gatherings.”

Civitan Group Host To Hood

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology at Davidson, spoke before the Charlotte Civitan Club last week at their regular weekly
luncheon. In his talk, Dr. Hood characterized the science of human behavior. Contrary to the common belief that man has
only five senses, he stated that man has fifteen distinct senses. After this startling statement, Dr. Hood went on to
prove it by numerous illustrations. He says that many of the sensations that are felt could not and do not
come through any of the five common senses.

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from— SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Rice, Beaty Lead In Day Of Devotion

PRAYER SERVICES HELD

Two Sessions Conducted as Davidson Joins in World-Wide Petitioning

Last Friday, the students of Davidson observed the World Day of Prayer. There were two services in connection with this;
one at seven A.M., and the other at chapel time. The early service was held in the Philanthropic Literary Society
hall and was attended by about thirty boys. It was an inspirational service, conducted in reverence and quiet. There was
a series of hymns and responsive readings, followed by a short talk by Sherrard Rice. Next came a period of
silent and then directed prayer. The service was concluded with a hymn and the Lord's Prayer. Don Davidson played soft
music throughout the service.

The chapel service was conducted by Professor Ernest Beaty. Professor Beaty opened the period with a call to worship. This
was followed by a hymn, a responsive reading, and then a very impressive and inspirational talk upon the subject of
prayer. Mr. Beaty introduced his talk by giving the meaning, application, and background of this day, which was observed universally.
The service was closed by a hymn. No announcements were made that day.

At the meeting of the friendship council Wednesday night, it was stressed that hall prayer meetings Thursday night would lay
special emphasis to this date, and pray for its success. This day was the one set aside by Christians all
over the world, in which all denominations would pray; centering their prayers upon the advancement and growth of the Christian
church, its principles, and the spreading of the love of Christ throughout the entire earth.

Schenck Gives Talk On Faith

Continues Series of Discourses Concerning Christian Wisdom

Continuing his lesson on Christian Wisdom, from the book of James, Dr. L. B. Schenck taught the Sunday school lesson
in Phi Hall. The topic of the lesson was “The True Christian Faith;” the result of a life full and
abundant; life with confidence and assurance. Dr. Schenck illustrated his point on Christian faith by the views of great men:
Paul showing Christian law and liberty with the method of Salvation; John showing love by faith, and James showing the
fundamental note of truth as applied to life. The book of James is a practical epistle; proving liberty and reality
in religion. True faith and faith that is false were contrasted. The untrue faith is only an opinion of God
which is held and not one of trust. True Christianity is a life that is real and practical, a life
of radiant love. James points out two ways by which we judge religion: first, in a sentimental way; next, by
showing partiality, wanting realities rather than spiritualities. The entire lesson pointed out that if we have the love of worldly
action, we have not true faith.

STUDENTS AND TOWNSPEOPLE OF DAVIDSON WHEN IN CHARLOTTE Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Discuss Old Times

Dr. E. D. Brown (right), a member of the board of trustees from Statesville, is seriously talking over old times
with Dr. R. S. Burwell (left) of Davidson. Dr. Burwell is one of the college’s oldest alumni, graduating in 1875.
This photograph was snapped at the regular mid-winter meeting of the board of trustees last Thursday. The trustees will meet
for their second session of the year in June.

Rev. John S. Foster’s name appears in “Who's Who in America.”

Foster Here Sunday

The speaker next Sunday evening at Vespers will be the Rev. John S. Foster, professor at the Columbia Theological Seminary,
in Decatur, Georgia. Prior to his taking this position, he...was for a number of years pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Winston-Salem.

To See French Plays: French Club to Give Performances at Several Other Colleges

The last play has just been recently selected and concerns the adventures of a man who tries to cure a
friend of drinking habits. The cast for “Terrible Affaire” is as follows: Jim Cooper as Bidache, Winston Taylor as Lafossette,
Henry Bahnson as Montabour, Liles as Sosthene, and Scotty Raynal as Le Commissaire.

The meeting at four o'clock yesterday in room 126 was for seniors majoring in natural sciences. The topic was “The
Theory of Valence.” As usual, the senior natural science symposium was held. Dr. S.C. Lyon, of the Biology Department, gave
an illustrated talk on the Stereoptican Effect with the Use of Polaroids. Those who attended the Wheelwright lecture last fall
on “Polaroids” will recall the stereoptican moving picture effect obtained through the use of polaroids. Dr. Lyon plans to give
this lecture also to the Photography Club of which he is the faculty advisor. He hopes to have color pictures
to use for the talk later. The ones he uses now are black and white photographs. He added that he
expects Hollywood to adapt this system for more life-like moving pictures.

Seniors Majoring In Natural Sciences Are Guests for Lecture

Cameras, Photograph Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS
N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Dry Goods, Groceries, Radio Supplies, Hardware
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion, Bluebird
35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured.
Phone 8257.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

T. S. Logan Makes Talk
Converse College Girls
T. W. Abbott Speaks

T. W. Abbott, a prominent Charlotte businessman, will address the commerce club at a meeting in Phi Hall tonight at
7:30. The subject of the talk will be “Life Insurance.” Mr. Abbott is an authority on this topic, having been
prominent in that field for a number of years. In addition to the featured address, the program for tonight will
include the election of a new vice-president to succeed Andy Turner, who resigned upon graduation. The election will be conducted
by George Jones, president of the organization.

Installation Of Officers Held Friday
Pi Gamma Mu Also to Induct Seven New Members At Meeting

Pi Gamma Mu, national Social Science honor society, will hold one of the most important meetings of the year on
Friday night, March 3rd, in the Kappa Alpha fraternity house at 7:00, when seven new members will be initiated and
officers installed. Induction of the new officers elected at the last meeting will be the opening act of the meeting.
The officers who were elected are: Frank Hulen, president; Dave Simmons, vice-president; and Joe Sprunt, secretary. Bids for the fraternity
have been extended to and have been accepted by seven students. Initiation of these men will also be held on
Friday. The men to be initiated are C. W. Milne, Dave Roberts, Marion Colvin, George Pico, E. C. Pleasants, Hand,
and Raynal.

Music-Minded Take To Road
At Symposium Meeting

The Davidson College Music Department, having figuratively donned seven-league boots, will by next Sunday be able to boast a total
of five cities visited by Davidson musicians. On a flying trip last Wednesday, the Glee Club and Little Symphony orchestra
visited Limestone College in Gaffney and Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C. No sooner had they returned when off went the
singers to appear at a meeting of the Masonic Fellowship in Charlotte on Friday night. Not to be outdone, the
Little Symphony, assisted by a quartet from the band, journeyed to Spruce Pine where they played a concert Saturday night
and presented a service Sunday at the Presbyterian church. The fifth city on the itinerary will be Winston-Salem, where the
Glee Club will present a vesper service in the Presbyterian church.

On March 14, Le Cercle Francais will present a program of French plays at Salem College in Winston-Salem. This will
be the club's first performance of the year, though the same program will be given several times later on during
the spring. At present, the club plans to visit Converse College and several other schools in North and South Carolina.
The regular program to be presented at all these places will consist of three plays: “Partie de Bridge” and “Le
Parle” by Louis Artus, and “Terrible Affaire.”

NOW PLAYING
Gay, sparkling entertainment
“GIRL’S SCHOOL”
ANNE SHIRLEY
NAN GREY
RALPH BELLAMY

Friday-Saturday
ON THE STAGE
All New Edition
PINE RIDGE FOLLIES of 1939
60 Minutes of Modern Fun and Music
ON THE SCREEN
“MR. MOTO’S LAST WARNING”
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

Raynal Featured

At the gathering will be the reading of two papers on the Social Sciences. These are to be read by
Dave Sprunt and E. C. Hulen. The appointment of new committees by the president, Simmons, is also a part of
the program. Pi Gamma Mu deals with the election of associate members. These members are to be selected from the
student body.

Sing On Campus Friday
PRESENT TWO SOLOISTS
Stables, to Give Concert At 8:15 P. M.

Presenting two soloists, the Converse College Glee Club, under the direction of Glenn C. Stables, will be heard in a
concert Friday evening in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. The soloists, Miss Geraldine Foster, soprano, and Alonzo Lape, clarinetist, will
perform in their specialties between groups given by the Glee Club, Mr. Lape appearing twice and Miss Foster, once. Miss
Foster is a senior in voice in the Music School, and is vice-president of the Converse organization. Mr. Stables was
appointed to the Music School in September, coming there from the Eastman School of Music, where he has been working
for his master’s degree. Containing around thirty singers, the Converse Glee Club is merely a selected group from within the
larger Converse chorus. It will present four groups of songs at the recital, most of which are by foreign composers.
The accompanist for the group is Miss Rosalie Hodges. The girls will be entertained at the various boarding houses for
supper. The Davidson Glee Club presented a similar concert last Wednesday night at Converse which was well received. The program
to be given is as follows:

1. Legend, Tschaikowsky; Benedictus, Palestrina; Italian Folk Song; Hymn to the Night, Beethoven.
2. Concerto for clarinet, Weber; Andante, Allegro, Alonzo Lape, clarinet.
3. The Smith, Gretchaninoff; On the Steppe, The Gipsies, Brahms. This is the Glee Club's second appearance of the evening.
4. La Pastorella della Alpi, Rossini; My Pretty Mocking Bird, Bishop; Solos by Miss Foster.
5. Opus 98, Brahms; Sigh No More, Ladies, Treharnes; Chorals, Sullivan; Young Ladies, Johann, Grieg; The Dancer, Moussorgsky; Kiss Waltz,
Arditi. These are by the Glee Club.
6. Fantaisie, Mazellien; Cantilene, Deenick. This is Mr. Lape’s second contribution to the program.
7. A Song of Provence, Dell 'Acqua, Obligato by Miss Foster; The Kiss, Arditi.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
ASK FOR THE University Club Clothes
ASK FOR THE DRAPERTOWN PEAK OR DRAPERTOWN NOTCH
See “BILL” QUICK for your College Clothes
J. O. JONES, Inc.

THACKER’S, Inc.
“A Good Place To Eat”
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS
