Thurs., Oct. 19, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Julian Lake Half-Truths Censured By A Duke Made Many Enter Contest

Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, and Dr. Edward J. Erwin, heads respectively of the history and English departments of Davidson College, will be two of the judges in this year’s Mayflower Cup, awarded annually to a resident author of North Carolina who publishes the best original work during the twelve months ending August 1. 

Davidson Gentlemen Get Lucky Lift from Leslie Howard

The following question is of vital interest to all those who intend to go to the coming dance sets: “Are you in favor of banning girls’ corsages for the coming dance sets?”

The Rev. Dr. Julian Lake, Presbyterian minister, censured the half-truths often told in the name of Christianity. He explained two misinterpretations of truths in his recent talk on the campus.

Jimmy Cooper, Jr., Senior: “I am in favor of banning corsages for all dance sets except the Pan-Hellenic Council sets. Flowers are expensive and often a nuisance.”

Davidson’s newest dormitory, named after James B. Duke, a large contributor to Davidson’s welfare, has finally been finished. The picture above, taken during the summer while the edifice was under construction by the Fred N. Thompson Co., shows the building as it actually was constructed. Many improvements over Davidson’s other dormitories make this structure one of the best-equipped living quarters in the state. (Star Photo by Angus Lytch).

Davidson Thumbers

Davidson “gentlemen” have brought back many and varied tales of hitch-hiking experiences after many illustrious week-ends, but few can compare with that brought back by Elmer Bishop last Sunday. According to that famous campus character, Elmer, and George “Shackpole” Wright left Asheville last Sunday. Before long a “block-long” Buick convertible coupe with a California license plate pulled up to the curb. Elmer and “Shack” piled in, the top was down, and Bishop got in the front, while the unfortunate Shackpole had to be satisfied with the rumble seat. A quick glance inside the limousine proved that it was not a regular hitch-hiking car. 

Elmer and “Shack” were soon engaged in conversation with the driver, who turned out to be none other than Leslie Howard, the famous actor. Bishop soon found that the man had an American wife in New York, but that she probably would not go back with him. Elmer tried to console him and the fellow said, “My dad is coming over to England from Hollywood soon.” Elmer asked, “What does your father do out there in the film capital?” “Oh, he is an actor. He’s Leslie Howard.”

New Members Initiated Into French Club

At the next regular meeting of Le Cercle Francais, which will be held on the last Tuesday of this month, fourteen new members will be taken in. The neophytes will present a program in French to the club. 

Lawson Withers, Junior: “I think all dance sets should ban corsages. They are a nuisance and often an unnecessary expense.”

Prominent Speakers This Year

“Home Missions Week” was observed Tuesday through last week by the Davidson Presbyterian Church under the auspices of the Women’s Auxiliary. Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr. P. A. Gwynn of the college faculty, Mr. Rodman Williams, pastor of the Unity Church, and Dr. Murray of the Presbyterian Church were the speakers at the evening services. 

Dr. Richards reviewed the book “Chapels” and was distressed by the fact that “the church membership today is barely larger than it was in 1903.” Mr. Rodman Williams, pastor of the Davidson Unity Church, followed Dr. Gwynn on the program by telling of his work.be) Me reviewed the history of the others, in which John Garfield and Priscilla Lane appear with me. It will be released very soon.

Bob Bryant, Sophomore: 
Bishop insisted on some proof and a picture of Leslie.

The Fraternity Council initiated a committee to be rushed at the end of the year. On the Numeral Committee, Chairman Dave Sprunt, Dave Colvin, Bob Ramsay, and Ed Lucas, Sophomore, reviewed his work with chapels Wednesday night. Dr. Marion Murray of Banner Elk explained that all of his chapels have sprung from Sunday Schools and today his fourth chapel in his mountain district has just been completed. He illustrated his talk by pictures.

Cowan then appointed a committee to bring Jud Redd of the Charlotte News before the chapter the first of November. Plans are underway for a banquet to honor the faculty, delivered the last address of the series. He told of the part that his church had played in establishing and supporting four chapels.

In the Beginning God Is Used as Text of Talk

Dr. Popenoe, of the Biology department, spoke on the scientific view of the first chapter of Genesis at the regular meeting of the Student Sunday School Class last Sunday. He explained that all of his chapels have sprung from Sunday Schools and today his fourth chapel in his mountain district has just been completed. He illustrated his talk by pictures.

Dr. Lyon, then appointed Pi Gam Mu, will attempt to bring Jud Redd of the Charlotte News before the chapter the first of November. Plans are underway for a banquet to honor the faculty, delivered the last address of the series. He told of the part that his church had played in establishing and supporting four chapels.

Dr. Lyon went through the six days of Creation and expressed them in modern scientific terms. Each of the six days was definitely a burden to the vast majority of Davidson students. In the third place, the abolition of the time element fact. He truly believed that more boys would count for the Creation through science, but some of the facts as stated in the Bible are sometimes misunderstood. Dr. Lyon went on to say that the “Days” of Creation were not twenty-four-hour days but were probably long periods of time of which we cannot determine the length. This is borne out by research, which has shown that plant life existed long before any animal life, and that animal life was known a long time before man appeared on the earth. Dr. Lyon said that faith in the words, “In the beginning God” would do away with all doubts as to the method or time of Creation.

Tommy Harnsberger, Senior: 
“I believe that the question really narrows down to the fact that a great many boys are loath to give up the custom because of the prestige given the dances by the custom. I myself am in favor of corsages for the formal dances. It is a mark of courtesy that is really expected by the fairer sex. However, it would be better if the boys did not try to outdo each other in the matter of elaborateness and expensiveness of the corsages. They are all appreciated and the situation would work out better for all if nice looking but medium-priced corsages were given.

Scripts and Pranks, college humor magazine, was sent to the printers last night and will appear on the campus on Homecoming Day, which is to be celebrated on Nov. 4 with the Davidson-Citadel game. The theme of this issue is “Freshmen,” and it is understood that some novel arrangement has been set up by Editor Abernethy.

Newberg’s Men’s Shop
115 W. Trade St. Charlotte, N.C.
New Line of Pennants—Stickers
Special Davidson Socks—25c Per Pair

Drink a quart of milk a day—at—Mooresville Creamery
It’s Safe Pasteurized Milk
Mooresville, N.C.

Break the crystal on your watch? Come to Henderson Jewelry Shop
Knox Building Davidson, N.C.

Gales McClintock and George Richmond, Managers