Foreign Policies By Rene DeVisme Williamson

THE FRENCH

Perhaps no foreign policy is harder to understand than that of France. Both its objectives and its methods are largely
a matter of conjecture at the present moment. One may even wonder if France has a policy at all. For
a people like the French, such a situation is altogether extraordinary. The French by nature are strong adherents of clearness,
precision, consistency, and definiteness. They want to be governed by clear, unchanging principles written down in black and white, insist
on knowing where they are going and how to get there, and prize security and stability more than anything else.
The present state of affairs, therefore, is extremely abnormal and has been so since 1934, when a French Prime Minister,
Pierre Laval, wrecked the League of Nations by refusing to apply full sanctions against Italy.

Old Policy

Until 1934, French foreign policy was exactly what anyone knowing the French people would expect. It was not capitalistic like
that of the British, nor ideological like that of Russia, nor aggressively opportunistic like that of Italy, but simply and
purely national. In France, the fundamental demand of the people was: we want security, we want to be left to
live our own lives, we care for no “isms,” no foreign investments, no territory. In response to this demand, the
government characteristically looked for a definite body of rules. For want of something better, the League Covenant was chosen. French
foreign policy became intensely pro-League.

Covenant Lacking

But the Covenant was lacking in precision, standards, and comprehensiveness; it did not measure up to France's great codes of
law. Consequently, the French followed a policy entailing two lines of action: (1) to improve the Covenant by defining aggression,
extending the procedures of arbitration, and putting teeth into the article on sanctions by making it automatic; (2) to supplement
the League's deficiencies by maintaining a powerful army backed by a definite system of alliances until such time as the
League could be equipped with an adequate international police force. The French would accept no alternatives. They ridiculed Anglo-Saxon faith
in the nebulous concept of public opinion, fumed at the British inherent dislike for definite commitments and precise formulas, and
insisted that disarmament is the natural result and not the cause of security. We need two things, they said: law
to tell us what to expect, and force to make certain that the law will be respected.

(Continued on Page Six)

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Herbert Agar Speaks On Americanism

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1939 No. 8

AGAR SAYS DEMOCRACY IS FAILING

Author Speaks In Chambers On Americanism

Noted American

In his lecture in Chambers Auditorium Monday night, Dr. Herbert Agar, Pulitzer prize winner in 1935, announced his subject, Americanism
and What it Represents.

“Six European countries,” Agar declared, “have abandoned what they called democracy because they do not believe in its principles and
in the goal it sets for their country. By their example, Americans could learn a lesson that should save them
from the same fate.”

Cause of Slackness

Primarily, the cause for their slackness was on account of their disbelief in the theory of democracy. Consequently, democracy as
a form of government does not exist in those half-dozen countries today, since they refused to assume the burdens that
accompanied the blessings of democracy. “For Americans to assume the burdens of democracy,” it was further pointed out, “they must
assume one obligation—to know what is going on around them and to know what they mean by the ideal that
Americans profess to have.”

To understand the principles of democracy one must distinguish between the two terms democracy and liberty.

Three Conditions

Dr. Agar takes democracy in three conditions—moral, economic, and political. Primarily, according to him, the moral obligations should be believed—one,
that in this world the uniting elements of mankind are stronger than the separating elements, and the other, that man
is capable of elevating himself with the proper surroundings. When the moral issues are understood, the next step in seeking
democracy is to understand that a people must help the poor economic conditions that exist in their nation. When this
obligation is understood, we assume that we must still maintain the political machinery that has previously been set up in
this democracy.

(Continued on Page Six)

Communion Climaxes Fall Service Series

Ritual Ends Set Of Six Addresses On Students’ Religious Problems

Communion Service following the regular service last Thursday night concluded the Fall Services at Davidson for this year. The meetings,
led by Rev. Sam Wiley, were held twice a day, Tuesday through Thursday.

In the course of the services, Rev. Mr. Wiley made six addresses. The first of these, given Tuesday morning in
chapel, had as its theme a description of the full-grown man. The characteristics of, and the requirements necessary to be
met in order to become a fully grown man were enumerated. The second address was a character study of Judas.
In this, Mr. Wiley brought out the relation of the traitorous disciple to Christ and to the other disciples, especially
emphasized the man's tragic and ignoble death at his own hand.

The theme of the Wednesday morning address was, Pathways to God. According to Mr. Wiley, these three pathways are Earnestness,
Goodness, and Repentance.

Christian Growth

On Wednesday night, Mr. Wiley discussed Christian Growth. He said that, since there is a price to pay for neglect
in spiritual life, a constant vigilance is necessary. On the other hand, a calm trust, like that of the lily
of the field, is the secret of Christian growth. His reconciliation of these two statements is that one must maintain
vigilance to keep his soul where it may maintain grace by means of a study of the Bible, prayer, and
Christian Service. Mr. Wiley called these last three points the food, air, and exercise of Christian growth.

Thursday morning’s talk, bearing the theme, “Lord, Teach Us To Pray,” was a discussion, petition by petition, of the Lord’s
Prayer. The final address, given Thursday night, was, Meditation on the Cross. Mr. Wiley spoke of the cross as a
hidden mystery of God’s wisdom. He stated that the cross shows the way of God with man and of man
with God, and that the cross must be personalized. A communion service followed this address. The Davidson Music Department provided
special music for each of the night services. The soloists were Billy Rogers, baritone, and Bob Hill, clarinettist. A quartet,
composed of Paul E. Crane, Al Dimmoch, George Sinclair, and Billy Rogers, sang at the last service.

CUT SYSTEM IS REVISED BY FACULTY

Lead Class of 1940 In Scholarship

Currie Returns

Homecoming Is Featured By Banquet

Returning Graduates Meet To Hear Talk By Dr. William P. Jacobs

Dr. William P. Jacobs, President of Presbyterian College, was the principal speaker at the annual Homecoming Alumni banquet in the
banquet hall last Saturday at 12:30. Following a musical program featuring the Davidson Glee Club, the old grads assembled in
the banquet hall for their yearly get-together. Mr. H. T. Mills of Greenville, S. C., president of the Alumni Association,
presided at the gathering, and opened up with a few remarks of welcome and introduction.

Dr. J. L. Plyler, president of Furman University, made the first address, telling his impressions of Davidson and stating that
as president of Furman, he was attempting to model his institution after this one, which he said he held in
very high esteem.

Next Speaker

The next speaker was Mr. D. R. La Farr, a member of the athletic association, who spoke on the Davidson
athletic program. He told of the interest the alumni were taking in the present program, and of how the majority
of old grads seemed on the whole much more satisfied with the situation than a year ago.

Dr. William P. Jacobs then delivered the main address of the session, his general theme being

(Continued on Page Five)

Pictured above are the seven seniors who were publicly extended bids to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic
fraternity, at chapel exercises Monday. Reading from left to right, first row: Tom Guion, Sam Spencer, Tom Harnsberger; second row,
Warren Ludlam, Bob Doty, Jack Holland; third row, Bob Ramsey. Tom Guion of New Bern, is at present leading the
senior class with an average of 3.093 for his first three years. Sam Spencer of Columbia, S. C., is second
with a 3.040 mark. Third is Bob Ramsey, of Jonesboro, Ark., with a three-year record of 3.038. Date of initiation
will be announced later.

Dr. Archibald C. Currie returned to Davidson last Monday afternoon, following an illness of more than a week's duration. He
was confined at the Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte with an acute case of intestinal influenza. His condition is described by
attendants and family as much better, though he is still required to remain in bed the greater part ofthe day.
However, it is stated that he is being permitted to sit up for a very few hours every day. Dr.
Currie is expected to resume his classes very shortly.

Aten War Drama Cast Picked

Tryouts Held For Journey’s End, Coming Production of Masquers

The Red and Black Masquers held tryouts Monday and Tuesday nights in the Quadfranglers Room for the forthcoming production, “Journey’s
End.”

Journey’s End is a three-act play by R.C. Sheriff. The setting is an officers’ dugout in the British trenches before
St. Quentin. The time is March, 1918. This play portrays the demoralization of men at the front and carries a
strong anti-war moral. Produced by Gilbert Miller at the Henry Miller Theater, New York, March 1929, this drama had a
run of ninety-nine performances.

Seven Seniors Bid To Phi Beta Kappa

Programs Resumed

Davidson's music department will resume its radio broadcasts today over radio station WBT in Charlotte, 10:00 to 10:30 P.M. The
first program will be presented by the band. After this, there will be programs of varied nature given by the
Glee Club or any other branch of the music department. The programs were not started at the beginning of this
year due to the congested state of the news service from the war front.

‘Yellow Night’ Broadcast

Radio Theatre Presents First Drama Of The Year By Dan Hodges

“Yellow Night” was presented last night by the Davidson Radio Theatre over station WSOC, Charlotte. This, the first production given
by the newly formed organization, begins a weekly series of dramatic programs to be presented by the theater.

The play was written by Dan Hodges, script director of the group. Pat Rudolph, program director, cast and directed rehearsals
for the program. The cast included Ralph Williams, Bobby Carter, Pat Rudolph, Walter Wooten, and Priestley Conyers. Bob Kellog assisted
with the announcing.

Brengel Is Adviser

George Brengel of the WSOC staff, star of the recent Charlotte Little Theatre production, is adviser for the Radio Theatre.
He has shown great interest in the project and has been very helpful in directing the final rehearsals for the
group. Mr. Brengel has had wide experience in amateur theatrical work.

Old Regulations Altered

New System Goes Into Effect Immediately; Dean’s List Re-Installed

SICK CUTS ABOLISHED

Result Of Student-Faculty Committee Work

Sam Spencer, Student Body president, announced Wednesday that Davidson's cut system, modified last year by the faculty in an effort
to curb excessive absences, was considerably altered after action was taken on the subject by the Student-Faculty Committee. The new
system, drawn up at a recent faculty meeting, will go into effect immediately.

Absence regulations for all four classes were made more lenient by the new system. The Dean's list, abolished last year,
will also be re-installed. This action, following disapproval of the student body for the new system, was taken after numerous
conferences between the Student-Faculty Relations Committees were held and was passed in a faculty committee meeting late Tuesday evening.

Changes in the system follow: Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will be allowed additional cuts on their aggregate total, giving Sophomores
12 cuts, Juniors 14, and Seniors 16. Absences allowed in individual courses were unaffected by the new regulations, which allow
this class three cuts in a course instead of two.

Freshmen will remain on the old basis, receiving 8 aggregate cuts and two course cuts until the second semester. If
cut requirements are met during the first semester, each freshman will then be allowed ten cuts with a limit of
three in any course for the second term.

Dean's List

To qualify for the newly-installed Dean's list, which affects only Seniors, a student must average B plus either for the
entire previous time spent in college or for the preceding two semesters. Students on this list will be allowed 20
absences from classes with not more than three in any one course. However, any student on this list who makes
one D on the final report for the first semester shall be dropped from the list.

Guion, Spencer, Harnsberger, Ludlam, Doty, Holland, and Ramsey Honored

Seven members of the Senior class were extended bids to Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship fraternity, at chapel last Friday
morning. Prof. J. L. Erwin made the announcement in chapel services and complimented the men who received the bids upon
the fine work they had done in winning this distinction.

Seniors bid to the fraternity were T. H. Guion, S. R. Spencer, J. H. Harnsberger, Jr., W. B. G. Ludlam,
T. O. Doty, J. W. Holland, and G. W. Ramsey.

Tom Guion from New Bern, N.C., has the highest average of the group with a 3.093 for the three years.
He is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa.

Converse Day

Spartanburg Girls To Visit Campus For Erskine Game November 18

With Homecoming aside for another year, Davidson is now turning its attention to Converse Day. This event is to be
featured by the Davidson-Erskine game on Saturday, Nov. 18.

Although the exact number of girls has not been recognized yet, it is not known how many will be picked
from each fraternity especially for this occasion. All students in the figure were accompanied by a date.

Homecoming dances were held in the Charlotte Armory the third and fourth of Nov., with the music of the Duke
Ambassadors being featured each night.

The formal dance of the set was held on Friday night. As is the custom, the Pan-Hellenic figure was held
on this night. The figure was led by Paul Marion, president of the council. He was accompanied by the council
representatives from the other social fraternities and an alternate picked from each fraternity. All the other classes except freshmen were
represented in the figure.

Before the organization was started, Dutch was a member of The Duke Blue Devils under the leadership of Less Brown.
Vincent Courtney was the vocalist.

Black and white were the main colors used in decorating the Armory. Alternately black and white streamers were hung from
the center of the ceiling to the outer walls and then draped to the floor. There was a large welcome
sign and a Homecoming sign of the same colors.

Each night four “no break” dances were featured. During these dances, the lights were dimmed and a large mirror ball
reflected the colored lights of several spotlights over the crowd.

The music of Dutch McMillin and his Duke Ambassadors was featured both nights. This band is composed of thirteen Duke
University students. Dutch himself is a senior. All the other classes except freshmen were represented in his present organization.

Saturday night there was a surprise guest singer, Elmer Knoeller, varsity tackle, who sang two numbers with the band.

Dates can be arranged as soon as this list arrives. As plans now stand, the girls will arrive soon after
lunch Saturday. After getting acquainted with their dates, they will be escorted to the football game. Supper will be served
in the basement of Chambers. Plans for the entertainment after supper are still incomplete. The Social Center and the social
fraternities are expected to be open to the visitors and dates during vacant moments.

Dick Kenyon is in charge of plans for the day at Davidson. “Sis” Day, president of the student body at
Converse, is taking care of arrangements with the girls’ school. They are hoping that this festival will be as successful
as the ones enjoyed last year, and by Queens and Winthrop in the preceding years. All of these fetes were
sponsored by O. D. K.
