Wed., April 12, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

A short time ago the government began sending instructors and equipment to a few colleges to start an aviation unit,
which was included as a regular course. The question for this week is: Do you think that a government-sponsored unit
here at Davidson would be a success, and would you be inclined to be a member?

Steve Fowler, senior: Yes, I am in favor of it. It would give many an opportunity to fly which they
would otherwise not get. Aviation seems to be the coming thing anyway, so here would be a chance to get
in it as an activity. Besides, it offers training for possible war, and it would be better to get shot
in the air than on the ground.

John Withers, junior: I do not think they would work here at Davidson because we do not have adequate facilities
within a reasonable distance. This is not a mechanical school and we do not have enough students to justify an
aviation unit. It would work better at a technical school where it would not necessitate a change or addition of
courses.

George Horton, sophomore: I think that it would be a very good thing. I personally prefer flying on the ground
with four wheels under me; but for air-minded students, it is a good idea. I think it would promote interest
in the school activities and would be a modernizing feature of the campus. It would save several students who are
already taking aviation a lot of time and trouble.

George Lilly, freshman: I am for it. It affords a preparation for war and gives a chance to show individuality.
It would also help to develop self-reliance in the students and would give them much valuable experience. The students would
probably have to be selected to make it safe, but an aviation unit would certainly make the school more widely
known.

Bob Kellogg, junior: I am in favor of it because there are many students here who would like to have
aviation. It would help the boys who are preparing for Army or Navy Schools. I do not think it would
affect the school curriculum; but it would certainly help in making Davidson an up-to-date active school.

Parker Connor, senior: I do not think that an aviation unit would go well at Davidson because in a school
this size the infantry is about all we can support. This is not an engineering school, and several courses would
probably have to be added to supplement actual flying. In other schools as in N. C. State or Georgia Tech,
such a course would be appropriate.

Boyd Flynn, sophomore: I am in favor of this unit being placed at Davidson. There is quite a bit of
interest here in aviation, and it would be an excellent outlet for such interests. It would also furnish an opportunity
for entrance into a field of work which is comparatively young. The reputation of the school will be enhanced by
this addition to its curriculum.

Bill Burch, junior: I'm all for it. It would give those interested in aviation a chance to see if they
wanted it for their life work, without going into it deep enough for it to become expensive. It would probably
bring more students to Davidson—those who want a liberal arts course with aviation. An aviation unit would be inclined to
raise the standards of technical courses, such as physics.

Jim Gamble, senior: I don’t think it would work here. Davidson is conservative, and flying is and should be in
the hands of liberals. There are not enough students here to warrant such a unit. Even at N. C. State
there are only eighteen in the flying class. It would take time to build confidence in the course, to interest
other students in it. I'm for it if it would work; it would give the school a wider range of
education, and bring it more up-to-date. Addition of technical courses, such as theory of flight, would be required.

Dick Edwards, junior: This is a cultural college and such a development is contrary to the principles of a school
whose present size is an asset. Pro arguments are psychologically based on the militant spirit that now surrounds us. The
radio and cinema have excited our imaginations; but a reasonable thought would convince us of its futility in a non-technical
school.

Presbyterian Colleges Are Book’s Topics

Presidents Discuss History and Ideals of Respective Institutions

Recently there was published a small booklet which has raised considerable interest in the Presbyterian Church, “Presbyterian Colleges in the
North Carolina Synod.” In this booklet, the presidents of the six Presbyterian colleges in North Carolina—Davidson, Flora MacDonald College, Mitchell
College, Peace Junior College, and Queens-Chicora College, Presbyterian Junior College—discuss their respective institutions.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle wrote the Foreword for this booklet. “The purpose of this little book,” states Dr. Lingle in
the Foreword, “is to give the Presbyterians of North Carolina specific information concerning the history, ideals, and work of their
Presbyterian colleges.” The plan stated above is well carried out by the heads of the institutions. All urged Dr. Lingle
in the Foreword to read the booklet in order that they may learn about, and become more interested in the
work that the colleges are doing in the field of Christian Education. The president of each institution expresses his wish
that anyone desiring further information concerning the college will not hesitate in writing and visiting the college.

Beckerath Is Guest of DPA

Prof. Beckerath is Guest Speaker at Meeting

Last Monday night at eight P. M. Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity met at the home of Dr. G.
R. Vowles. The fraternity was honored by the presence of Professor Herbert von Beckerath, a native German, as guest speaker.
Professor Beckerath holds a position at Bonn University in Germany and at present also occupies a professoral chair at Duke.
He commented on various topics of interest, especially current conditions in Germany and Europe in general, besides replying to and
discussing questions raised by members of the organization.

Men Initiated

Eleven men were initiated into Deutsche Verein, the local German club in recognition of outstanding achievement in German. They were:
W. P. Boyle, E. E. Brown, W. H. Hamilton, D. M. Hodges, J. R. Jones, C. T. Leinbach, R. S.
McElwee, J. N. Robinson, G. W. Taylor, P. L. Withers, V. H. Youngblood. Guests at this meeting were Dr. and
Mrs. W. P. Cumming, at whose home Prof. Beckerath is residing during his stay at Davidson. At the close of
the meeting, refreshments were served by Mrs. Vowles.

R.O.T.C. Men Attend Ball

Approximately thirty juniors and seniors in the Davidson College Military Science department attended a military ball given by the Reserve
Officers of Charlotte last Thursday. The affair was held in conjunction with Army Day, and lasted from nine until one
o’clock. Invitations were extended to all students in the advanced course and also the instructors. Captain Oliver M. Litaker of
the Charlotte chapter was in charge of affairs, also serving as host for the night. Fred Stair, commander of the
Davidson unit, is honorary vice-president of the organization. The National Regimental colors and the Davidson colors served as decorations for
the dance, which was held at the Myers Park Country Club. Colonel and Mrs. F. M. Armstrong, Major and Mrs.
J. L. Ballard, and Major and Mrs. C. L. Steel were the faculty members present.

Cadets On Parade

First platoon, Company D, executes “Eyes Right” in review before Cadet Lt. Colonel Stair and Cadet Captain Turner. Pictured is
the farewell parade in honor of Captain Turner who graduated at mid-year. Lt. William Page is leading the platoon shown
in the picture as they parade.

D.P. McGeachy Preaches Easter Vesper Sermon

Monroe Pastor Discusses Christ’s Description of Kingdom of Heaven

Taking as his text the forty-fifth and sixth verses of the thirteenth chapter of Matthew, Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr.,
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Monroe, preached the sermon at the Easter vesper service last Sunday night. Rev. McGeachy
brought out the fact that after the resurrection, Jesus talked to His disciples about things concerning the Kingdom of God,
since so much of His teachings were related to this subject. Jesus must have again told them to bring to
the consciousness of men the value the Kingdom held for human kind. The thing of surpassing value—to see it is
to desire it, and once a man sees it, his whole being will be directed toward obtaining it. Jesus told
stories that gave a suggested description of Heaven, but He never painted an actual descriptive picture of it. It is
much easier for us to realize what Heaven is not, than to picture what it is. In Heaven, there is
no hatred, no abject poverty, no sickness. Heaven is a place where wars have ceased, and everyone is in a
brotherhood in a common obedience to the Will of God. The love, the beauty, and the justice of God control
all. To see, to catch Christ’s vision of the realm where God is obeyed is to turn life into the
service of the Kingdom of God. But the kingdom is not obtained easily or cheaply. The way of love is
not easy, and it demands sacrifice. Jesus once said that if a person would come after Him, he must deny
himself and take up his cross and follow Christ. Often we, who claim to be Christians, feel that the price
of the Kingdom of Heaven is too high, that the sacrifice is too great. One must remember, however, that self-denial
and personal sacrifice are required by all professions. The doctor, the soldier, the explorer, and members of all other occupations
must sacrifice. Even the Nazi and the Communist sacrifice to further their particular type of government. Therefore, can’t we sacrifice
in order to gain a permanent kingdom? “Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like unto a man that is a
merchant seeking goodly pearls; and having found one pearl of great price, he went and sold all that he had,
and bought it.”and sold all that he had, and bought it.”

© Team Debates With W. and J.

On last Thursday night at 7:30 in Phi Hall, a debate with Washington and Jefferson of Washington, Penn., was held.
Taking the negative side of the “pump-priming” query for Davidson were Dick Kenyon and John Reisner; for Washington and Jefferson,
Billy Clarke and Steve Marriner. A type of procedure, the Oregon (Continued on Page Six)

SAVE MONEY BY EATING AT THE LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP
MEAL TICKETS WORTH $5.75 for $5.00
OPEN SUNDAYS
Davidson, N. C.

S.P.E. Meet To Be Held Here
District Convention Convenes April Fifteenth

A District Convention of Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity will be held here on Saturday and Sunday, April 15 and 16.
Three colleges, Davidson, Duke University, and North Carolina State are expected to be represented. This is the second year in
succession that the Davidson chapter has been host to this Convention. Business sessions will be held on Saturday afternoon, and
Mr. Lewis Mason, who is traveling secretary for Sigma Phi Epsilon, will probably be in charge of the meetings.

On Saturday night, an Installation Banquet and Dance will be given by the alumni of the local chapter. At the
banquet, to be held in Charlotte, installation of officers for the forthcoming year will take place, and the Convention delegates
will attend both the banquet and the dance to follow. Officers to be installed at the banquet are as follows:
President, Tony Casali; Vice-President, Walter Fitzgerald; Secretary, Bob Doty; Treasurer, Fred Harbin; Pan-Hellenic Councilman, Philip Edwards; Marshalls, Walter Kunz and
Raymond McDaniel; Guard, Russell Edmondson; Historian, Edgar Watson.

Hi-Y To Hold Conference

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, professor emeritus of chemistry at Davidson College, will be the chief speaker next Friday afternoon at
four o'clock at a county-wide Hi-Y conference to be held at Davidson high school. The program for the occasion was
released by William Stronach, Jr., boys’ work secretary of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. J. B. Huntington, Jr., president
of the Hi-Y council, will preside. From four to five a tour of the college will be made. From five
until six there will be a general discussion session, and each club will report its activities. A World’s Fair trip
for the group will also be discussed. At 7 p.m., the boys will gather at a banquet at which Dr.
Arbuckle will make the concluding address. About one hundred boys are expected to attend.

GET THAT CHIC LOOK FOR THANKSGIVING
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Dr. Williamson Gives Lecture In Queen City
Talks Before Branch of American Association of University Women

Dr. Rene DeVesme Williamson of Davidson spoke on current international problems at a meeting of the Charlotte branch, American Association
of University Women, at the Queens-Chicora college auditorium last Tuesday evening. Mrs. W. A. Graham, as chairman of the program
presented by the international relations committee of the University Women, was in charge of the meeting. Officials explained that they
were particularly glad to have Dr. Williamson speak at this time because of his understanding of European conditions and his
personal European experience. He attended school for eight years in France and then returned to this country to receive his
bachelor of arts degree at Rutgers University and his master of arts and doctor of philosophy degrees in political science
from Harvard University.

Dr. Williamson studied for two summers in Germany at the University of Munich in 1930 and at the University of
Berlin in 1931. He spent the summer of 1932 in Spain and has traveled extensively in England, France, and Hungary.
Before coming to Davidson as associate professor of political science in 1937, he was an instructor in political science in
several universities.

Athletes May Eat Together
Shepard Plans Cooperative Training Table

At a recent interview, Athletic Director Norman H. Shepard gave out the following information concerning the prospective training table for
all Davidson athletes. The training table, if the athletes are favorable towards it, will be independent of any boarding house
now operating and will be under the control of the college. It will be run on the club plan for
athletes alone, and will consequently be economical. At the same time, members can get the kind of food they want.
The real purpose of the training table will be to get the members of the team together, to promote their
friendships, and to build up team spirit and morale. Other schools practice this extensively, even to having team-mates in the
same dormitory. The athletes’ diets can be well watched and the individual can be given the food he needs. The
final decision whether the athletes are to have a training table will rest with the athletes themselves.

JOURNALISTS TO MEET

A speaker from Charlotte will be present at the regular weekly meeting of the Journalism Class tonight in Chambers Building,
president Paul Cooper has announced. This will be the first regular session of the club since spring holidays. Plans for
next year will be discussed, and a date will be set for the election of new officers. Possibilities of a
reporter's club to include all members of the Davidsonian staff will also be put before the group.

Chez Norton
Le Palais de la Chevelure
GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts)
NORTON, M.T.A.

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts and Candy
Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, North Carolina

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

French Clubs To Give Performance Tuesday
I.R.C. Holds Convention, Williamsburg
Group Attends Southern Conference of Clubs

From April 6-9, the sixteenth annual conference of the Southeastern International Relations Clubs was held at William and Mary College
in Williamsburg, Va. The members of the Davidson chapter who attended the convention were Professor Williamson, Gene Liipfert, Frank Simmons,
and Dan Gilliam. The principal speakers for the convention were Dr. Clyde Eagleton of New York University, Mr. Virginius Dabney,
Editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Mr. H. B. Hinton, a New York Times correspondent, Dr. Calvin B. Hoover of Duke
University, and Dr. Douglas Freeman of the Richmond News-Leader. The theme for the whole convention was: “A Foreign Policy for
the United States.” This was discussed by the different groups in which the delegates had been divided, called Round Tables.
There were five Round Table conferences, each one with three sessions, discussing a different phase of the question, these being:
1) After Munich, 2) The Future of Racial Minorities, 3) The Far East, 4) Pan-Americanism, 5) Economic Adjustments for Peace.

However, not all of the convention was taken up with business matters and discussions; there were several informal teas, as
well as two dances. On Sunday morning, the delegates were able to attend the Easter services of the churches in
Williamsburg. Next year’s Southeastern convention of the International Relations Clubs, which will be the seventeenth in the series, will be
held at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Mayor To Be Elected Soon

At a town meeting of the citizens of Davidson several days ago, T. M. Griffith, the incumbent Mayor, was renominated
for office. Riggs MacConnel was also nominated for mayor. No new nominations were made for the Town Board, all the
present members being renominated. They are: Dr. W. W. Wood, Mr. J. R. Raymer, Mr. J. B. Jetton, Mr. J.
R. Withers, and Mr. C. A. Potts. The elections will be held May second. Professor F. K. Fleagle of the
college faculty acted as chairman during the meeting.

Converse Girls And Davidson Cercle Francais To Present Two Plays

The Davidson chapter of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French club, will play host to the chapter at Converse College here
next Tuesday, April 18. Two plays will be presented by the clubs in Chambers Auditorium that night. Last night the
local club visited the Converse chapter and gave two plays there. In “L’anglais tel Qu’on le Parle” the two clubs
cooperated with the Converse girls taking the feminine roles and the members of the local club in the other parts.
The play “La Partie de Bridge” was given entirely by the chapter here. The Converse girls gave a reception following
the plays.

Guest Actors

On Tuesday, members of the Cercle from Converse will come in the afternoon and be entertained at supper by the
local organization. That evening the clubs will again cooperate in giving “L’anglais tel Qu’on le Parle.” “Horrible Affaire” will replace
“La Partie de Bridge” on the program Tuesday. There will also be a third play that night with the Converse
girls taking all the roles. No information was available when this went to press as to the personnel of the
Converse cast. However, the Davidson boys taking part will be the same as those who played recently when the club
visited Salem College. One change in the cast was made necessary when Dave Sprunt was unable to make the trip
to Converse because of a previous engagement. His part was taken by Dave Colvin. All students are urged to attend
the plays next Tuesday. They will be of particular interest to those who are now taking French as all conversation
in them will be in French. A small admission will be charged.

Redhead Will Speak Sunday

On Sunday evening, April 16, the regular Sunday evening vesper service will be led by the Reverend J. A. Redhead,
D. D., pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Dr. Redhead is a familiar figure to most of the
student body, for many came to know him well through the evangelical services which were led by him last fall.
He is the type of speaker that attracts and appeals to young men. The Reverend Dr. Redhead is a young
man, having rather recently graduated from the Seminary. He has held pastorates at several other places in North Carolina and
other states. For the last few years, he has been the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

SHORT COATS
“National Club” $3.95
PANTS--All Wool
National Shirt Shops
Tryon and Trade Streets
Corner of the Square
