Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed. May 16, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Tony Casali .......................... Editor-in-Chief
John Latimer ...................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy .................. Assistant Editor
Pat Bumbarger .................. Managing Editor
Tom Cauble ....................... Managing Editor
Joe Liles ............................. Managing Editor
Ed Watson .......................... Managing Editor
Lawson Withers ................ Managing Editor
Andy Dale .......................... Sports Editor
Erle Austin ......................... Associate Editor
Jack Holland ...................... Associate Editor
Karl Hudson ....................... Associate Editor
Sam Spencer ....................... Associate Editor
Bobby Williams .................. Associate Editor
Angus Lytth ....................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Fan Gane ............................ Asst. Business Manager
Martin Ross ....................... Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey ...................... Circulation Manager
Tom Hackney .................... Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore ....................... Collection Manager

The Davidsonian expresses its deepest sympathy to Professor Wood in the recent loss of his mother and Dick Stevenson in the recent loss of his sister.

Cut System

Due to the fact that the present system has been abused to the extent of lowering the scholastic standards of the school considerably, the faculty has taken action and has reformed the system and presented a new system that they believe will remedy all the evils of the old one. But, the students, the majority of them, disagree with this new plan, even to the extent of violence. We believe most of the student body will agree that the faculty has the interests of the college and students at heart. They want to make Davidson a better and more desirable place and are sincere in their efforts. Certainly, if the present system is being abused to an extent of lowering the scholastic standards, something should be done to remedy it. Therefore, the faculty is justified in trying to do something about the matter.

But, as it has been said, the plan offered by the faculty does not appeal to the students. It has antagonized them. Exactly what it should not do. The two groups, then, disagree, and we are sure that a plan could be put in that would satisfy both faculty and students. It is not impossible to work out a system that will be satisfactory to both parties. It seems that the easiest way would be to find out the different reasons that the students have for cutting classes. These “causes” could be studied and remedied separately and a new system drawn up from this. Here are a few of the reasons listed:

1. They are unprepared for a class.
2. They go on week-end trips for “social reasons.”
3. They sleep through classes.
4. Athletic trips, YMCA Deputations, debates, etc.
5. Uninteresting classes.
6. They have a series of six or seven straight periods and get “restless,” so they do it for rest.
7. To study for a later class or review.

These are only a few of the many reasons. But each of the above reasons could be remedied easily with a little effort from both parties concerned and probably the present system that has been abused so much, would again work smoothly. For instance, the first cause—Unpreparation. Either for good or bad reasons there are and always will be students that go to class unprepared. Some, instead of going, and facing the possibility of getting a bad mark, will cut. A well-known school in the north has remedied this easily. Students who are unprepared, report to their Professor at the beginning of the class. The professor allows the student to sit in class but asks him no questions. The student gets the benefit of the recitation, which he would not have gotten if he had cut. The Professor gets the benefit of having most of his class on hand. Now, three of these “unprepared” excuses would count as a cut. It is possible. That certainly would eliminate a great number of the abuses that come from the first cause. Remedies for the others could be worked out as easily.

But in remedying the situation there are a few things both the faculty and students should remember:
1. That any system presented would be abused to a certain extent. It’s human nature.
2. That both parties should have a say in the matter. Opinions of both parties should be heavily weighed.
3. Antagonizing the faculty or the students will get nothing accomplished. What is needed is a better understanding between the two groups.
4. Students should have a larger representation in the matter. After all, it is they that are the most interested parties and it is they that have to suffer the consequences.
5. The opinion of the faculty should be taken into consideration by the students. After all, they’re trying to help us mould our lives and their efforts are not beneficial to anyone but us.
6. Above all, whatever plan is adopted, whether it favors the faculty or students, take it like gentlemen and bear it.

Yours, for a Better Davidson.

Parade of Opinion

Peace

Far from cloistered have been U. S. halls of learning during the period of world-wide unrest that has made the citizens of all nations wander far from the placidness of Ferdinand the Bull. Collegians and their teachers are taking an active interest in the state of the world, and are becoming more belligerent when it comes to defending democracy. Chief blow to the passive pacifism that in other years brought an endorsement of the famed Oxford Oath (“I won’t fight under any circumstances”) was the abandonment of the oath by the delegates to the conventions of the American Student Union and the National Student Federation of America. Both meetings urged continued peace education, but both more or less approved the President’s rearmament policies.

Presidential messages on rearmament brought a chorus of “yeas” from the collegiate press, with only here and there a scattered “nay.” At the University of Virginia, “College Topics” stated the case for the supporters of the move like this: “Pacifism and optimism insofar as world peace is concerned are admirable under normal conditions, but Utopian-like and thoroughly dangerous while world affairs are in their present turbulent state. We are people who espouse and champion democracy—democracy faces unpredictable trouble. We are people who espouse and champion disarmament—at the present time, such action on our part with the known status of other powers on the subject, would be suicidal. Therefore, we must exercise sagacity in the administration of our government of the human race. We must prepare for the direct emergency in defense of our standards and our country.”

On the other side of the fence stand those who cheered Joseph Day, who calls himself “one of the future cannon fodder,” when he sent a letter to the Southwestern University “Megaphone” which said: “Perhaps, Mr. President, you don’t have the foresight and intelligence to see that in all probability you are signing the death warrant of possibly a hundred thousand or of a million choice men.”

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS

1-MINUTE SAFETY TALKS
By Don Herold

You were too fast and I gotta burn when I see somebody driving a car down our street faster than he should. Yet, I’d burn if I were doing the same thing and a cop caught me and gave me a ticket. But I oughtn’t to. I ought to remember that my little Hildegarde crosses that street several times a day and plays on the other side, and that traffic regulation and enforcement are for her protection. I ought for her sake, to be so loyal to traffic regulations that I would feel good about getting a ticket. There is always injustice in any ticket WE get for a traffic violation. Let’s just have sense enough or sense of humor enough to remember that our own ticket is invariably going to seem unjust....and let’s have sportsmanship enough to take our medicine in the name of a good cause.

At the present rate, according to estimates made by the Travelers Insurance Company, one out of every three children faces the PROBABILITY of death or maiming from motor accidents in the course of a lifetime. So what we need is more tickets, not fewer tickets. And no “FIXING.” I like the spirit of that wife of a New York magistrate who some time ago appeared in traffic court and paid a fine. I think some types of patriotism and public spirit are apt to be the bunk, but I believe we should all lean over backwards to take what’s coming to us for traffic rule violations.

Letters To The Editor

Dear Tony:

I have before me the letter which Archie Torrey distributed to the student body at a recent chapel period. It seems to me that he has defeated his own purpose and countermanded his own arguments by so blatantly bringing to notice his humility and his service, which, he says, “does not need to be recognized.” From a purely altruistic viewpoint, perhaps Torrey’s beliefs are true, but he evidently became so absorbed in theory and in “thinking for himself” that he has failed to look at the practical side of the matter. It is natural that a man should work for a bid to ODK, and it is true that he may have merely an ulterior motive in mind, but it is a necessary result that he serve us, the student body, in recognizable measure in order to receive this honor which the greater part—by far the greater part—of the student body holds to be the highest Davidson has to offer.

Archie states that the basic theory of ODK is at fault. I don’t believe it. ODK has as its purpose the recognition of leadership, with the stimulation of leadership and service as a natural consequence. The fundamental theory of ODK is good—the fault, what there is of it, lies in its application. These faults we can remedy.

Finally, Torrey says ODK “glorifies the individual and leaves his God in the cold” and that it is an anti-Christian influence on the campus. In reply to this, let me say that men are bid into ODK for the most part because we have chosen them to lead us. I believe that we take into consideration a

[Continued on Page Six]

By BOB WILLIAMS

Murphy’s Mumblings

Thurs.-Fri., May 11-12
“LUCKY NIGHT.”—Myrna Loy and Robert Taylor.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of the bright new pictures of the season, and it has just been released to the public. The two leading players, Myrna Loy and Robert Taylor, should speak well enough of it for everyone to see it, but their acting isn’t the only high spot of the picture. The plot deals with, as you might be able to guess, their love affair, but their acting and humorous scrapes make this well worth seeing.

Saturday, May 13 - “THREE SMART GIRLS GROW UP.”—Deanna Durbin, Nan Grey, Helen Parrish, Charles Winninger, Robert Cummings. Here is the cinema that most of us have been looking forward to ever since “Three Smart Girls” was current. With nary a black mark against her three-year screen record, Deanna Durbin has brought home another winner. Practically the only Hollywood star never to have experienced the pangs of failure, Miss Durbin grows more charming, more assured and lovely with each picture, and her voice matures right along. These three girls have all grown up since the last picture of their escapades, and Nan Grey and Helen Parrish are in the throes of love. Meanwhile Penny, Deanna in disguise, is busy fixing things up for them. The situations that arise because of her well-meaning bungling are hilarious, and the relationship of the three sisters is pictured with natural charm. After switching fiancés on her sisters a few times, driving her parents to the point of hysteria and working herself up into every mood that a 16-year-old girl could possibly live through, the heroine comes through with success. Deanna sings beautifully, “The Last Rose of Summer” being a particularly memorable moment. Robert Cummings plays well as one of the lovers of the sisters, and Ernest Cossart helps in the cast by helping Penny straighten out the family problems.

Mon.-Tues., May 15-16 *** “LET FREEDOM RING,”—Nelson Eddy, Victor McLaglen, Virginia Bruce, Edward Arnold, Lionel Barrymore, Charles Butterworth, and Guy Kibbee. This is a movie in which Nelson Eddy has a fist fight with Victor McLaglen. He also sings to Virginia Bruce (note: not Jeanette McDonald). As the hero rancher who persuades the railroads to give back the stolen property, naturally Nelson wins over Victor, and he wins Virginia too. You will like his singing, as well as the blend of action and drama. As an actor, Nelson Eddy is a good singer, but go to see it anyway—for the good of the good old U.S.A., because this picture jumps the gun in the race to get 100 percent Americanism before the world. So follow the advice of the D.A.R., the American Legion, and the German-American Bund and attend this, so that you may be inspired to go attack the big bad dictators that are bleeding the poor, helpless innocents of Europe.

Wednesday, May 17 “UNION PACIFIC.”—Joel McCrea, Barbara Stanwyck, Bob Preston, and Lynne Overman. The second railroad picture in a row, but this one deals with the establishment of the railroad out through the west. The men were faced with hunger, raids of Indian tribes, and political enemies, but their dauntless courage led them to complete the task that they had begun. Joel McCrea and Barbara Stanwyck turn in masterful performances, but the most pleasant surprise of the picture is the acting of newcomer Bob Preston. He is slated to have the qualities of Gable, Taylor, Power, and Flynn all in his acting, and so the advice to you gentlemen is, “Don’t take your girl to see this.”

By KEN LAWSON

WHAT EVERY RISING SOPHOMORE SHOULD KNOW: Freshmen are like electricity—unharnessed they are of no particular value, but when adapted to your use they become almost beneficial. They are most easily made into laundry boys, house cleaners, errand runners, and suckers to buy anything under the sun. Speaking of the last-named adaption, several general rates have been in effect for a decade or more and it is best to follow them next year. Here are the standards—Cost of getting radiator turned on—25c, discarded copies of O Davidson (which must be known perfectly in 6 hours)—15-35c depending on the freshman, fee to get a chapel seat reserved—15c, fee for an agency for any company—the sky's the limit, and the value of “swiped” freshman caps—25c. Freshmen are not the dumbest creatures in the world, however; as an illustration, we point with pride to the member of the present senior class, who, after being at Davidson for two months in 1935 and having run up an enormous spending account, explained it to his family that, “Freshmen had to carry money at all times to be ready to lend to upperclassmen and no one dared ask for their money back.” This should be a starter if you did not already know them; from here on you're on your own and remember that fun is the reward of ingenuity.

RANDOM SHOTS FROM HERE AND THERE: BOYD FLYNN giving a date a cigar which made her sick ... FRANK BARKER quick to furnish a nickel but the lady preferred the “crawl under” method ... TOM MULLEN in favor of starting an anti-back-slapping campaign ... TOM CRICHTON stood up for a freshman and became a full-fledged member of the RA’s after being fooled by a phone call from an impersonating friend ... PAUL COOPER decidedly positive on the napkin test ... BOB BALLARD and SONNY CUNNINGHAM the newest members of the Sir Malcolm Campbell club ... CHICK SMITH back in Hartsville following up a surprising find of a few weeks ago and the PHI DELTS enjoying the tavern while others have the beaches. Speaking of the beach, we all hope the Betas will either consult a dating bureau before their next trip or else turn into a group of bachelors. From all reports, they resembled every species of snake known to the biology department, but still their efforts were rarely rewarded by a “let det at et.” DAVE WARDEN and EDDIE STEERE furnished pulchritude for the others to gaze upon, however, while CHARLIE SHERMAN and STANLEY M’AFEE were very fetching with their new style pink toothbrush. The SPE’s enjoyed a fine time at Myrtle also with “Sweetpea”—a product of ancient vintage by the Ford Motor Co., which caused dreary weekends for PORTER HEILMAN, and SUTTENFIELD last fall, furnishing the principal means of locomotion. Three cylinders were working perfectly. The highlight of the trip was the commencement of a lecture tour by one J. P. TICE. TERRELL PORTER is very sad that it is unethical to marry first cousins (she surely didn’t get her looks where Porter got his) while the Phi Delt sweetheart has switched and is all for the Sig Epps. BILL HAMILTON lost out to Knoeller for the affections of “Butch.”

By FRANK BARKER

Appreciation

To Mr. Hobart, superintendent of grounds and buildings, for his work in making a Better Davidson. His work in keeping up the campus throughout the year goes unnoticed by most of the Student Body, until someone, usually a visitor, remarks how lovely the campus looks. Have you ever looked between the dormitories at unsightly hedges, or untrimmed bushes? Have you ever seen the front campus littered up with paper and trash that you threw down the day before? Have you ever been ashamed of your campus’ appearance before friends? The answer to these questions is simple: NO! And so, Mr. Hobart, I should like to voice the applause of the entire student body in writing, to you. Your efforts to make our home for the four years that we are here a more livable place have certainly succeeded, and in the phraseology of Walter Winchell, a white orchid to you and your helpers. To you goes the credit for making the Davidson campus one of the most beautiful in the South.

Davidson Firsts

The first X-ray photograph ever to be made and constructed by a college was done here at Davidson about 43 years ago. Yale University claimed the credit for a number of years, but later gave way to the claims of three Physics students, who very unostentatiously went about by cover of night and stolen supplies to accomplish this deed. Three students of the class of '96, Osmond Barringer, Eben Hardie, and Pender Porter stole the materials from the Physics lab one afternoon and that night made an X-ray of a dead person’s hand. But they were so afraid to tell of how they had possessed the equipment, that they kept it a secret for quite a while. The fraternity court plan here was the first of its kind and since its adoption many other schools have followed the example. Davidson was the first college to have a woman supervisor of dormitories and also first to place all student publications under a Publications Board. Let's hope it’s not the first to give up the Dean’s list.

“Wuthering Heights”

A film classic that translates the masterpiece of Emily Bronte in a way that has all Hollywood talking. Sam Goldwyn has imported 1,000 heather plants and the song of British larks to take this picture; landscaped 540 acres of California into a Yorkshire moor, and a dialect expert to see that the words matched the heather and the Linton manor. Laurence Olivier as Heathcliff portrays the “dead-end” boy who is adopted, refined, only to find himself a servant, a stable boy at that, who is violently in love with Merle Oberon. This cinema deserves 4 stars in anyone’s column ... yes, you, Murphy!

New York Fair

One structure that has escaped the notice of most describers of the World's Fair in New York is the Hall of Music. It demonstrates a new form in theatre construction, using flowing lines of functional construction throughout. Two and a half thousand spectators daily fill its auditorium to hear and see many of the great musical presentations of our times.

Thumbnail Sketch

This lad has probably caused more spats and furors among the Davidson gentlemen and their gals than any one person since the days of the great Kang. He dotes and thrives on luscious morsels that may be small at first, but with his build-up, they appear to show all actions lascivious and wanton. He is undoubtedly the Walter Winchell, the keyhole watcher, and the Peeping Tom, of the campus. He was bred in Harlan County, Kentucky, which may account for it.

A study of four neurotic rats won the $1,000 prize of the American Association for the Advancement of Science for Dr. N. R. F. Maier, University of Michigan.

A New York court has ruled that candidates for police posts cannot be given extra credits because they have been to college or have played football.