THURSDAY, SEPT. 28, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Last week Pete Whittle announced a new intramural program to replace the program used last year. This program calls for
the dormitories to enter into the athletics rather than the classes. There has been much discussion of this subject on
the campus and it seems to be very vital to most of the students. Since this topic is one of
interest, the question of the week is: “Do you think the new intramural system is superior to the old system?”

“Bud” Gilmore, Senior:
I believe that the new system of intramurals will improve the feeling between the residents of the dormitory. There will
be much better teams as a whole, since the dormitory boys have more chances to get together than a class.
It will promote a better dormitory spirit and enable the residents of the dormitory to know his hall and building
mates. It will teach freshmen the real spirit of Davidson because they will be able to participate in the games
and thereby observe the actions of the upper-classmen.

John Ragsdale, Senior:
I think this intramural system is very much better than last year's. It gives more boys an opportunity to play.
There is also a mixture of boys from all classes by having it run by dormitories rather than classes.

Paul S. Crane, Junior:
After the cheering and howling of the big weekend’s games, the majority of Davidson men like to settle down to
a little sport for the sport’s sake, free to all who will get out and play! This playing for fun
and not for the giddy grandstands is what we really get the kick out of, I mean we lesser stars.
The intramural system of competition between the dormitories will give more playing to more boys, and we can carry on
the traditional dorm squabbles in a sports-like manner with maybe fewer water fights and window smashing parties. Let's keep up
the Davidson steam, but let it out on the intramural field and less at times when some want to sit
down to the books! Here's to an “Everybody Out, and down those next-door-knockers till the last supper bell.”

Richard Shore, Junior:
The intramural system for the past two years has had a tendency to lag, but the present plan will enable
more boys to take part in all events and the competitive spirit will be greater. The new checking-out system for
equipment will make the interest in all sports greater because there is a sufficient supply of material for all students.
I am heartily in favor of the new plan and I expect it to make our intramurals better than before.

Billy Tyson, Sophomore:
I believe that inter-dormitory competition will be an improvement over class competition for more boys will be able to participate.
Instead of there being just four teams, there will be seven teams. Although class interest and spirit may suffer, the
difference will be made up by the spirited rivalry of the dorms, as was shown last spring in the softball
classic, the Barracks vs. Eagles Nest.

Julian McCall, Sophomore:
I think the new system is better because for one thing it will give more boys the chance to take
part, as there will be seven teams now while before there were only four. The present system will also create
keener competition as there is much rivalry between the dormitories. It will create more school spirit, as the boys that
participate will become more interested in the varsity athletics. This new system will pit more evenly matched teams against each
other as there will be men from all classes playing.

Ed Hay, Sophomore:
I favor the old intraclass system. Class teams have long been a tradition at most schools and colleges. I have
often heard my father and other men speak with pride of having played on their class football, basketball, or baseball
teams. What do the fellows in a dormitory have in common? Classmates suffer together as freshmen, go to classes together,
graduate together. Why, then, shouldn’t they fight, united, for the honor of their class? Many men change dormitories each year.
Isn't it possible that the best athletes may band together in one dormitory and get a monopoly on the championships?
Dormitory pride is all right, but it seems to me that class pride is a lot better.

Elmer Bishop, Sophomore:
I am against the new system of substituting inter-dormitory sports for intramural sports. For one thing, the purchase of additional
equipment was necessary to enable this enlarged system of sports to be carried. This increased expense took away much-needed equipment
from the varsity football team. I think there is no question in the minds of the students of this college
as to which of the two sorts of sports is the most important. Another thing, the abolition of intramural football,
softball, and other sports tears down to a great extent, and even goes so far as to impair class spirit.
Now, class spirit is one of the most outstanding aspects of Davidson College, for it is the combination of the
feelings of the four classes that goes to make the one, the invincible Wildcat Spirit. Another potent influence to evil
caused by the new sports system is the influence it has on the Freshmen. It will only enable them to
become more “horsey” than ever by permitting them to go in and play along with and against upper-classmen as if
they were their social, intellectual, and physical equals.

Four Juniors Are Selected Cheerleaders
Abels, Martin, Shelton, and Williams To Be Senior Leader Next Year

Jack Abels, Joe Shelton, Charlie Martin, and Bobby Williams were elected Junior Cheerleaders Thursday, September 21. Originally there were thirteen
men out for the positions of Junior cheerleaders, and after the first election, the field was narrowed down to five,
including Scott Cooper along with the four men who were elected. In the final election, Cooper was eliminated.

Prove Ability
The new cheerleaders had their opportunity to prove their ability at the Davidson-State football game in Greensboro on Saturday night,
and they did their jobs very well. These four men will serve until the end of this year when one
of them will be selected as Senior cheerleader for the next year. Locke Hunter holds the position of Senior cheerleader.

Plans Made For Annual
Year-Book Staff Holds Initial Meet Tuesday To Discuss Details

The staff of the Quips and Cranks held its initial meeting for this year Tuesday night in the parlor of
Watts. All aspiring freshmen and sophomores were present. Jack Holland is Editor-in-Chief of the annual this year, the other editors
being John Hay, Tommy Jo Robinson, Winston Taylor, Vernon Youngblood, Paul Crane, and Cunningham. The business staff is headed by
Charlie Luther, and his assistants are Frank Barker, Roy Johnston, Ralph Harkey, Tom Hatcher, Casey Jones, and Ed Watson.

Unique Theme
The theme this year is to be entirely unique and absolutely different from anything in previous issues of the Quips
and Cranks. The Dunbar Studio of Charlotte will do the photography for this year’s annual. Mr. Dunbar will be on
the campus to take student pictures during the week of October 16 to 18. It is very strongly requested that
everyone cooperate by remembering this date and availing themselves of the opportunity to have their pictures taken at that time,
thereby eliminating delays and confusion so rife in past years. The hours for the photographer will be 9 A.M. to
12 noon, 1 to 5:30 P.M., and 7 to 9 P.M. All pictures will be taken in the parlor of
Watts.

Dipsy Doodler Fiddles Busy Babcock Juggles Jobs
Instructor Holds Posts At Salisbury, Catawba, and A.R.P. Church

The proverbial jack-of-all-trades, that mythological character who can keep an eye to the future, an ear to the ground, his
nose to the grindstone, his feet firmly planted, and his head in the clouds—and still feel comfortable while holding down
ten jobs, has at last been found on the David-...

New System of Work
New Director Burton Plans More Efficient Endeavors For Future

Mr. Lamar L. Burton, newly appointed Director of Public Relations and Alumni Activities, is planning a rejuvenation of the system
of Davidson Alumni Chapters throughout the country, with an eye toward establishing new chapters in hitherto unorganized territory. Mr. Burton
and his assistants, Tom Casali, Jack Ferguson, Lawson Withers, and Angus Lytch, are preparing a map showing the distribution throughout
every state in which Davidson Alumni are located, so as to have an index to the...

Joe Neal Ross, Jr., from Monroe, N. C., was the pride and joy of the Davidson College Music Camp this
summer. He is a trombone player. Despite severe pains, he advanced from seventh chair to third chair.

Symphonic Band To Play Concert At Homecoming
Music Plans Include High School Clinic, Queens Presentation

The first concert of the season will be given by the Davidson Symphonic Band in connection with Homecoming exercises on
November 3. Later in that month, the combined orchestras and glee clubs of Queens, Chicora, and Davidson will give a
concert in Chambers. This program will be presented in Charlotte. The Music Department has also announced plans to hold its
Annual High School Clinic during the second week in January. The Annual Music Festival will be held on February 11,
12, and 13.

Give Opera
The Music Department will also give an opera at Davidson in the spring. The production will be undertaken by the
combined forces of the Davidson and Queens glee clubs. Although the selection...The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

Although the opera has not been announced, it is understood that it will be one of the famous comic operas
of Gilbert and Sullivan. The one to be presented will be announced after the Music Department can find out what
light opera is to be given in Charlotte this winter in order to avoid duplication.

Quadranglers Hold Meeting
Tea Held For Introduction Of New Members To Faculty

On Thursday, September 21, at 4 o’clock P.M., the Quadranglers Club gave an afternoon tea to introduce new members to
the Faculty and Administrative staff. Those present for whom the reception was given were: Col. and Mrs. Gabriel Mackenzie, Mrs.
Logan, mother of Dr. Logan, Mr. and Mrs. Lamar Burton, Dr. W. C. Matthews, Mr. Elmer R. Brown, and Mr.
Crowell Little. Mrs. Mackenzie was in charge of refreshments and was aided by Mrs. Williamson and Mrs. Mebane.

Officers
Officers of the Quadranglers Club are: W. P. Cumming, president; Dr. F. S. Logan, vice-president; and Prof. J. G. Kimbrough,
secretary. Professors Johnston and McGavock are the Executive Committee for Programs.

Meetings
The Quadranglers Club, to which only members of the Faculty and Administrative staff belong, meets the last Thursday of each
month.

Davidson, N.C.

Have You Tried A WHIZ BANG?

Prompt Service

Auditorium

Lewis, Lingle Wed
Miss Alice Lewis became the bride of Mr. Walter L. Lingle, Jr., last week in Middletown, Ohio at the Church
of the Ascension. Reverend A. L. Kenyon, rector of the Church of Ascension, assisted by the groom's father, Dr. Walter
L. Lingle, officiated at this ceremony. Miss Lewis is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Walker Lewis of Middletown.
Mr. Lingle, of Cincinnati and Davidson, is the son of Dr. and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle of Davidson. The bride
and groom, who will spend their honeymoon in Monterey, California, will reside in Cincinnati upon their return about October 16th.
Mrs. Lingle is a graduate of Smith College, class of 1938, and Mr. Lingle is a graduate of Davidson College.

Linges Asked To Reception
President And Wife Are Honored At Banquet

President and Mrs. Walter L. Lingle have recently been asked to serve on the reception committee at a banquet celebrating
the seventieth birthday of Hon. Cameron Morrison, the former governor of North Carolina. The occasion will take place at the
Hotel Charlotte on October 5th. The guest list includes Sen. Morrison and family, and O. Max Gardner; the latter will
be the principal speaker of the evening.

Honor Duke
Charlotte’s Rotary Club held a meeting yesterday in honor of the trustees of the Duke Endowment. Mr. William I. Bell
of New York City gave the address, “Mr. James B. Duke and his contribution to the Industrial Development of the
Carolinas.” President Lingle was invited to attend this meeting. On Monday night, October 6th, Governor and Mrs. Clyde R. Hoey
are giving a dinner in honor of former governor O. Max Gardner and Mrs. Gardner. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle will
be guests at that dinner.

State Celebrates
State College will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary on the following night. President Lingle will represent Davidson on that occasion.

Sound Insulation of Fraternity Houses
Several years ago, the nine-year-old violinist underwent a serious operation which brought relief to the pains. He would throw himself
into contortions to assume the above position with ease. As a result, besides being an accomplished violinist, he progressed rapidly
as a musician. The little fellow, who couldn’t reach the lowest positions because his arms were not long enough, is
now able to play with ease.

Music Hall Repaired To Permit Use
Many Campus Changes Made During Summer

Shearer Hall, among the oldest buildings on campus, is now the center of the music department in the college. Heretofore
but slightly used for music classes, this building was completely renovated and is now the scene of broad concerts and
school broadcasts. A place in the auditorium has been set aside for the phonograph set given to the school last
year by the Carnegie Foundation. Downstairs, two of the larger rooms have been partitioned into smaller ones for practice use.
The uniforms, music, and larger instruments of the Band are now housed on the first floor, and classrooms have been
provided for the various instructors of music.

Many Repairs
Aside from painting and woodwork, there is much routine work to be done on the buildings and grounds of the
College. This past summer, Mr. F. D. Hobart, superintendent of the Buildings and Grounds, and his men have done all
the work on Shearer Hall and installed the wiring in the new Duke dormitory. Mr. Hobart says that he expects
to have the upper seven tennis courts in good shape in the next week or ten days, and that the
lower courts will be worked on as time permits.

Athletic Field
The Athletic Association now boasts a new practice field located just north of the drill ground. Along Fraternity Row, carpenters
worked for several weeks replacing the cracked door panels with new ones, and several of the houses were treated to
new paint and new furnishings.

High But Busy
Then there is the little matter of directing the entire band at Catawba College. Add the minor details of directing
the choir and playing the organ at the First A. R. P. Church in Charlotte. One of those little insoluble
mysteries of life remains: just what does Mr. Babcock do in his spare time?

Davidson ROTC Gains Awards
Athletic, Military Medals Won At Anniston

The Davidson ROTC delegation to Fort McClellan, Anniston, Alabama, last summer won many awards offered at the camp, both in
military and athletic contests. Tommy Harnsberger, Cadet Major at Davidson, was awarded a cup offered to the best Master Cadet
in present Company "C" and a rating of Expert in Rifle Marksmanship. Medals were awarded to Walter Fitzgerald, Kenneth Kunz,
Bob Burton, and Tom Phipps. Tom Roberts and Walter Johnson received medals and a rating of Expert in the Machine
gun, while Harry Hendrick was given a medal and a rating of Expert in the Pistol.

Possibilities
Already renowned as a musician who can play any instrument from glockenspiel to violin, Babcock decided that his versatility should
take other directions and is at present holding down four jobs at one and the same time. The music department
is here to give instrumental instruction on three days of the week. Two mornings of the week he gives band
lessons at Salisbury High. Then there is the little matter of directing the entire band at Catawba College. Add the
minor details of directing the choir and playing the organ at the First A. R. P. Church in Charlotte. One
of those little insoluble mysteries of life remains: just what does Mr. Babcock do in his spare time?

Alumni Chapters
Up to the present, there have been as many as fifty chapters operating at various periods. However, there has been
a marked decline in the activity, though in a few isolated places the chapters have been operating extensively, notably in
Gaston County, N.C., New York City, and Atlanta. The Alumni office is here to sponsor frequent meetings in every locality
where a number of Alumni are situated. The usual procedure followed by most chapters has been a single meeting per
year, but it is hoped that this can be expanded into at least two meetings in the same period. The
Gaston County chapter has already met this month, and meetings loom in the near future at Charlotte and Concord. In
addition, meetings are to be held in Bluefield, W. Va., and Winston-Salem the night before the games scheduled there this
fall.

Alumni on File
In the Alumni Directory, there are on file four thousand five hundred names and addresses of men who have attended
Davidson for any length of time in the past, and about fifty identified or new names of seven hundred more
have been located. With the grouping on the maps, the Alumni office will be able to strictly organize various areas.

Journalists Wanted
Any freshman or sophomore who is interested in working on the “Davidsonian’s” editorial staff this term is requested to sign
up with Editor Tony Casali or any of the managing editors. Students who sign up immediately will be given an
assignment for the next issue of the paper. Berths are available on both the sports and general news staffs.

Contest Awards
A camp-wide athletic contest was held on July 4 and the following men received rewards: Walter Fitzgerald and Jim Thomas
in baseball; Bob Kellogg, Bill Birmingham, and Tommy Harnsberger in track; Johan Kennedy in swimming; and Dave Colvin in horseshoe
pitching. Rea Tenney and Stuart Oglesby edited the camp annual, Forward March. The Citadel students, originally scheduled to edit the
annual, were quarantined because of an infantile paralysis epidemic and were unable to attend camp.

Run Down In PHE-HEELS?
Go by BUFF’S SHOE SHOP

Davidson, N.C.

FAUL & CRYMES
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.
ALL SPORTING GOODS

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME
Private Dining Rooms Available
S&W Cafeteria
Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME
Delicious Short Orders and Sundry Refreshments
JIM’S TAVERN

Davidson Theatre
Friday, September 29th.
“THE STARMAKER”

Monday and Tuesday, October 2nd and 3rd.
“THUNDER AFLOAT”

Wednesday, October 4th.
“NO PLACE TO GO”

Thursday and Friday, October 5th and 6th.
“IN NAME ONLY”

Saturday, September 30th.
“DUST BE MY DESTINY”

Thursday, September 28th.
“WAY DOWN SOUTH”
