Wed., Feb. 22, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Among The Greeks

Beta Theta Pi

Phi Alpha chapter of Beta Theta Pi initiated thirteen freshmen and two upperclassmen Saturday night, February 18 in the dome Chambers Building. The initiates were: Albert Winn of Greenville, S. C.; Stanley McAfee and Bob Bryant of Charlotte; James Howell of Ellerbe; Howard Cheney of Sarasota, Fla.; Spencer Propst and Jack Phillips of Jacksonville, Fla.; Bob Rankin and Albert McAuley of Mt. Gilead; Ed Taylor of Southport; Frank Atwater of Burlington; George Matthews of Fayetteville; Bob Jackson of Fort Smith, Ark.; and Fred Armstrong of Davidson.

After the initiation, a banquet was held in the chapter house. Among the visiting alumni were: Bob Frazier, Bill Scheetz, John Smith, John Winn, Frank Hall, Frontis Johnson, Wilbur Edwards, Dick Cathey, Chris Seeward, and W. O. Nisbet.

Recently elected officers of the chapter are: Pres. Ed Morrow, Vice-Pres. Bob Benfield, Sect. Gales McClintock, Treas. Sam Walker, Alumni Sect. Bob Ramsey, and Recorder Bob Balsley.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Most of the boys stayed close to the campus recovering from Mid-Winters and Queens Day. Brother Anderson traveled to P. C. Brothers Bob Frazier, Bill Scheetz, Preyer, and Spencer entered in a stag party at Montreat. Brothers Perrin, Gladden, and Newell spent the weekend in Rock Hill where Brother Newell continued his course in Home Ec. Brother Taylor cavorted in Asheville for a few days. Brothers Winters and Royster attended the Golden Glove tournament in Charlotte. Pledge Brother Houston was home in York, S. C. Sunday night was celebrated by a bountiful feed.

Kappa Alpha

Brothers of K. A. spent their usual quiet way with many of the brothers on and off the campus. Brother Spencer entered in a stag party at Montreat. Brothers Perrin, Gladden, and Newell spent the weekend in Rock Hill where Brother Newell continued his course in Home Ec. Brother Taylor cavorted in Asheville for a few days. Brothers Winters and Royster attended the Golden Glove tournament in Charlotte. Brother Houston was home in York, S. C. Sunday night was celebrated by a bountiful feed.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brother Charlie Smith journeyed to his home in Greenville, S. C., for the weekend. Brothers Pete Marchant and John attended the Citadel game in Charleston Saturday night. Brothers Buck Powell and Tom Hackney attended the bouts of the Golden Gloves in Charlotte. Brother Hank Bahnson spent the weekend at his home in Winston-Salem. Brother Tom Cauble attended the dance at Salem College. Brother Poss McLean went to Clinton due to a recent death in his family. Pledges Baxter Freeze and Ed Lucas went to their homes in High Point and Greensboro respectively. Brother Hector McLean spent the weekend in Lumberton. Brother Erle Austin went to Rocky Mount this weekend to attend the wedding of his sister. Brother Lem Latimer Kornegay spent the weekend in Hickory.

Kappa Sigma

Members of the chapter were scattered far and wide over the weekend. Many of the boys went home among these were Brothers Rainey and Spencer. Brother Walker has been ill in the infirmary for several days. Brothers Scott and Hill journeyed to Durham over the weekend. Brothers Finley, Gaw, Yates, and Hipp traveled to Montreat with Endymion. Brothers Pittman and Scott were entertained in Salem. Brother Poss McLean visited in Spartanburg. The regular Sunday night feed was held at the house.

Pi Kappa Phi

Epsilon chapter continued cavorting this past week despite the fact that Mid-Winters were held only last weekend. Brother Lawson was delayed on his journey to P. C. Among those who celebrated at home were Brothers Ward, Ivy, Niven, Suttlemyer, and Mobley. Pledge Brother Folly visited Florence. Brother Cooper was entertained at home with Brother Gish in tow.

(Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Raynal Is Sunday Class Guest Speaker

Statesville Pastor Chooses Isaiah As Text

Reverend Doctor C. E. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, spoke at last Sunday's vesper service. Dr. Raynal is a graduate of Southwestern University and Princeton Seminary. He has held his present position for the past thirty years, having succeeded Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson College faculty.

Dr. Raynal used as his text the writings of Isaiah and elucidated on these. Isaiah brought a great message to the Israelites but they were not interested in it. Isaiah saw the people preparing their own doom. There were a few, however, who heard the message of Isaiah and this same remnant would be the salvation of the people.

This same idea applies today; whoever will hear the word of God will be the savior of civilization. The remnant will rebuild the world. Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up giving his blessings to those who listen to him.

Dr. Louis B. Schenck chose “The Trials of a Christian” as the subject of his talk in Phi Hall last Friday. Recently, Dr. Schenck found a verse in the British Weekly taken from the Epistle to Timothy. Timothy was very discouraged about the work he was doing and he wrote a letter to the Apostle Paul telling him that it seemed best to resign. The church, he said, was faring poorly and the people were not living up to Christian ideals.

There is no record of Timothy's letter but Paul's reply has been preserved and it is possible to ascertain from it to a considerable degree just what Timothy said. One of the verses from Paul's reply was the one which Dr. Schenck saw in the British Weekly.

Sherrard Rice (left) of Richmond, Va., now president of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, has been recently appointed to take the position of “Y” Secretary next fall. He will succeed Wade Boggs (right) who plans to enter Union Theological Seminary in Richmond next September. This past year has been Boggs’ second year as head of the Y. M. C. A. here. —Photo by Angus Lytch, Jr.

Shepard Gives Talk At Numeral Club Meeting

Watson Street Leads In Discussion of Holy Spirit

Hackney Opens Fourth Meeting of Club With Committee Reports

Director N. W. Shepard addressed the Numeral Club at its regular monthly meeting last Wednesday night in the D-Club Room on Elm Row. Coach Shepard began his talk of the evening with a short summary of the progress of Athletics through the ages. He pointed out that the old method of using only calisthenics is the old-fashioned type of exercising, a type that does not give the individual an opportunity to express himself. The aim today of the athletic councils is to have games and other organized sports.

Street’s main point was that we should regard the Holy Spirit as a personality and not as an “impersonality.” He said that we should speak of the Spirit as “He” rather than “It.” We should also think more about the Holy Spirit as being animportant part of the Trinity. In order that a man’s individuality may be exerted, we do consider it in this way that as Christmas. He then discussed certain qualities of athletics, such as good sportsmanship, fairness, and the need of knowing how to win as well as how to lose.

Dick Gammon led the prayer, and a hymn was sung by the group. After this discussion, an opportunity was given to the members of the club to ask Coach Shepard any questions which they may have had concerning the athletic program at Davidson. The meeting was opened by president Claude Hackney, who called for the reports from the different committees of the club. Each committee—grades, program, and visiting—made a satisfactory report.

Next Sunday, the program will have as a topic “Social Life in the Mission Field.” Speakers will be Dave Woodward, Dick Gunmen, and G. Bergthold.

A committee meeting will be held Wednesday night at the social center at 7:15 P.M. to make plans for the next three meetings. The Group Committee of the Fellowship Group hopes to make plans for an official which will probably consist of seven members.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

North Carolina Club To Hear Guest
On Wednesday night, February 22nd, the Club will hold its weekly meeting. At this meeting, there will be a guest speaker from Charlotte whose subject will be “Insurance.” All members are urged to be present.

On Short Trip
“Colin” Smith Relates Experiences Of Stage
Shaw Has Developed From a Mystic Backyard Showman Into Master Magician

The curtains slowly part, there is a sudden flash of fire, and—presto, Colin, the magician, materializes. Colin appears on the stage in such a way that he takes his audience on a journey into the land of mystic arts. Before your eyes, he will shoot a bullet tied with a ribbon through an assistant, materialize a real live person out of thin air, light an electric bulb, or cause a float through the air.

A Davidson student, however, may get the shock of his life when he looks closely and sees that behind the solemn face and dapper mustache, it’s none other than Shaw Smith, a member of the senior class. And if he looks still closer, he will see that the assistants are Shaw Smith, better known among the circles of magic as “Colin,” is a member of the Senior Class. Colin Kornegay, “the man without a middle,” Harry Gasteiger, Bob Aisley, and Don Davidson at the piano or organ.

Smith has developed his skill in the arts of a magician over a period of eight years and has had many interesting experiences in the line of performances. He was first inspired by a backyard show which netted him eleven cents.

British Monthly. Translated into modern English, this verse says, “Take your hard knocks with the other Christians.”

Former Davidsonian To Conduct Vespers
Dr. Schenck likened our relationship to God to the relationship of a son to his father. A son wants more than pure serenity through life; he wants his share of the hardships of life, according to Dr. Schenck. God also does not wish us to slide through life, but wants us to have our chances to prove ourselves.

God, he said, presents men with occasions when they must deal severely with God. Affliction comes upon one, not only such well-known things as sickness and monetary troubles, but also more intangible things which cramp one and make him dissatisfied.

Way to Victory
The way to overcome all these trials and tribulations is found in James in the verse which says, “Count it all joy, my brethren, when you fall into manifold temptations; knowing that the proving of your faith worketh patience.” A man, according to Dr. Schenck, who is apparently striving in vain toward some goal, finally reaches a point where he decides to do

The Davidson Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra are on a concert trip in South Carolina, performing at Limestone College in Gaffney, S.C., and at Converse in Spartanburg, S.C. They were honored at a luncheon in Limestone at 1:00 P.M., and presented several secular and sacred concerts.

After leaving Limestone, they went to Spartanburg, where tonight they are presenting another recital. Friday night of this week, the Glee Club will sing at a meeting of the Masonic Fellowship in Charlotte, the program to be broadcast. Plans for the annual spring tour of the Glee Club are also underway. The trip will last about five days, with concerts in this state and South Carolina.

Friendship Council To Plan Day of Prayer
Friendship Council will meet in the Social Center to make plans and preparations for the world day of prayer which is to be observed Friday, February 24th. At this meeting, reports will also be made on the progress of the work on the various halls, as sponsored by the Council. It will serve further as a preface to the Y.M.C.A. Spring Services—to acquaint the members of the Council with the speaker and plans for the services, thus enabling them to take the matter up on the halls at the regular meeting twice weekly.

The Friendship Council was organized last fall under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. Since its founding, it has sponsored prayer groups every Tuesday and Thursday nights on all the halls of the campus.

Chez Norton
PREPARE FOR
HEMEL RERS
JOHNSTON’S
Barber Shop
Le Palais de la Chevelure
GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER
(Master of Tonsorial Arts)
NORTON, M.T.A.

BAD COLDS - - - Are contracted through the Feet
Safeguard yourself by visiting
BUFF’S SHOE SHOP

NOW PLAYING
JANE WITHERS
“THE ARIZONA WILDCAT”
with
LEO CARRILLO
Pauline Moore

PALMERS’ — OPTOMETRISTS —
302 N. Tryon Street
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
A Complete Service
Examination - Glasses
Laboratory Service
Broken Lenses Duplicated
Bring Us The Pieces

Now in Knox Building
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N.C.

Colgate Sale
100 FREE TRIPS — to — WORLD’S FAIR
College Pharmacy

“GIRLS’ SCHOOL”
Broadway News
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE!
with
ANN SHIRLEY
NAN GREY
RALPH BELLAMY

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL
From
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

PURE SILK rugged tie weave that drapes well... will not slip.
MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
Efird’s