The Sports Log By TOM CAUBLE | Wed., March 15, 1939

To open the discussion in an off-season vein, Bill Davis, star Wildcat back last fall, had the distinction of returning more punts than any other leather-lugger in the United States during the football season just past. The Badin Bearcat returned forty punts in ten games to lead this department nationally. By the way, Bill is coaching the girl’s basketball team at Davidson High now, having graduated at the close of the first semester! The information is also, according to the Intercollegiate Football Summary, that Davidson had fewer penalties called against her than any other team in the southeast (Southern and Southeastern Conferences) and lost fewer yards as a result of penalties than any other southeastern team. These facts seem to indicate pretty well that our boys do play an awfully clean and sportsman-like brand of ball here.

To get back to individual performances during the past year's grid wars, our own Bill Davis was ranked eleventh in the entire country, counting every offensive department of play. He ran, kicked, and passed better than some 509 other backs whose achievements were recorded and turned over to this statistical bureau. Further proof of Bill’s durability is found in the fact that he participated in more plays than any other man in the southeast—that is, he either ran, passed, or punted more often than any other back in Dixie. The best dope appears that Ned Iverson, the glue-fingered wingback, was the fifth most potent receiver in this section. Two more Wildcats were named in the statistical summary also. “Foots” Cowan was ranked second in pass receiving in the southeast, and Tubby Hand was ranked thirteenth in individual rushing in the southeast.

We’ll certainly be sorry to see Flake “Red” Laird leave in case he accepts the Virginia Tech offer... the genial “Red” has been around a long time and his absence would be keenly felt. His good-natured friendly manner has long made him a favorite with his “boys.”

TENNIS TEAM TAKES OFF

The tennis boys are really taking a trip during the spring holidays—Atlanta, Memphis, Dallas, Austin, and surrounding territory. They should have a fine team this year with enough new material to fill the graduation gaps. Their real trouble on the tour will come when they tangle with the University of Texas Longhorns, Southwestern Conference Champs.

Four Davidson boys, bowling for the Mooresville team against the Oak Grove (Kannapolis) pros a week or two back really displayed some classy rolling. The five-man team bowled a three-game total of 1675 or an individual average of 111.7, to nip the pros by ten pins. The local lads were Sloan, Ficklen, Mark Cauble, and Pegram.

BASEBALL

With Eddie Steere and J. D. Hicks back on the mound and Diz McLean looking good, Coach Flake Laird’s pitching staff should be strong this spring. Russ Hellekson seems to be really the ball player this year. A keen eye and a powerful arm make him a natural receiver and in addition, he can belt that rock. A hard-hitting catcher is plenty hard to find in college too, Ed- mondson is slated to give someone trouble for an infield job. “Hayseed” Thomas, being groomed at first, is a further reinforcement.

TRACK

It's hard to guess about track, but it looks like the team will be about like last year’s aggregation—strong in the distances and some field events, but weak in the sprints. Several frosh should brighten Coach Spearman’s outlook for another winning yearling team though. It looks like they may be particularly strong in sprints, both hurdles, pole vault, and high jump. The annual Inter-frat meet is being run off today and tomorrow. Coach Whittle always counts on uncovering unknown talents in the meet each year. “Popeye” McAlpine, ace quarter-miler on the present varsity, was discovered in the interfraternity 440.

GOLFERS QUALIFY

“Chicken” Cooper was the medalist as the varsity golfers loosened up over the 72-hole circuit for a southern tour over the holidays. Sharpe, Pegram, Pittman, and Abels qualified in that order behind Cooper, who had a couple of 74’s in his aggregate.

HERE AND THERE: Glen Cunningham, the old master of the mile, finally got beat last week... it was about time that he dropped one. Johnny Tice was certainly the favorite of the gallery in the Raleigh tournament... even after Davidson had been ousted by Clemson, the fans continued to talk about “Little John”... “Two-Ton” Tony Galento was 29 years old last Sunday... Spring football harvested an unusually bumper crop of bad knees this year. Roanoke College placed four men on the Virginia All-State basketball team... Dick Pinck of W. and L. was considering yards gained and not percentage completed as a medium... Bill Davis of Davidson ranked above such luminaries as Jim Lalanne and Eric Tipton as a passer... the state of North Carolina can claim another National champion in Sports Peerless Pride, a great setter who recently won the Grand Junction Field Trial... Pride is the first setter to win in nine years.

Tennis Team Practices For Spring Holiday Trip

Davidson's varsity tennis team will leave next Wednesday for Atlanta and points west to fill a six-match scheduled tour of the south and southwest. The men who will make the trip have not been named yet, although the individual ratings have been more or less determined. The tour is to last about twelve days.

Davidson's freshman tennis squad has been inactive but a tournament is scheduled for next week. This will give the yearlings various rankings, which will probably shift intermittently during the season. Members of last year’s frosh and varsity teams will compete in matches soon to determine relative standings on the team. Among last year’s holdovers are Rae Tenney, George Jones, Wilson Northcross, and Loch Hunter. Billy Turner leads the contingent of soph stars, along with Miller Sproull and Dick Shore. A six-man team and substitute will make up the traveling squad, with Ken Lawson, manager. The stiffest competition of the tour will undoubtedly come from the University of Texas, last year’s Southwestern Champions. Their Bobby Kamrath is one of the best junior players in this country, being ranked high nationally. There is a possibility that a practice match will be arranged with the Myers Park Club of Charlotte Saturday afternoon, in order to prepare for the six-match tour, which follows:

March 23—Emory.
March 25—Univ. of Mississippi.
March 27—Southwestern (Memphis).
March 29—Southern Methodist.
March 31—Baylor Univ.
April 1—Univ. of Texas.

Because of the limited activity of the frosh racquet-wielders, there is very little information available as to material for this year’s team. However, the four semi-finalists in the annual fall tournament appear as threats for the team. These men were Ed Lucas, John Crichton, Wilson Coker, and Jim Owens. Coker and Crichton were the finalists, but were never able to play the match on account of bad weather and rain. Lucas and Owens will not be out for the team this spring on account of frosh baseball. Lucas is Coach Shepard’s ace twirler while Owens guards the keystone bag. The full schedule has not been made out for this season, but as usual, the Kitten tennis team will play standout teams from nearby prep-schools and colleges.

Re-Weaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

Have Drills

Light Drills Feature Practice; McEver Coaches In Laird’s Absence

Coach Flake Laird’s baseball aspirants continued to work out during the week with light training in batting and throwing. Monday afternoon saw the first pitchers continued to limber up their arms for the coming campaign. Each afternoon the batters have been taking part in a lengthy batting practice with all pitchers working on the mound. The infield is still open and no starting team has been picked so far, but the men have been divided into two groups working alternately. The first infield combination is composed of Hemphill, veteran third-sacker, Fitzgerald, utility man of last season at short, Black Dog Hunter, last year's regular second baseman, and Frank Niven, sophomore first-sacker. In the second group, Bill Bolin is working at the hot corner, Rusty Edmundson is holding down short, Lantham Latta at the keystone sack, and Hayseed Thomas playing the first bag besides handling his regular mound duties.

Outfielders

In the outfield, there are Tubby Hand and Hugh Verner back from last year, with Eddie Steere and J. D. Hicks, starting pitchers, ready to chase flies when not on the mound. Besides these men, there are several sophomores and others out including Rock Deaton, Winston Taylor, and Holt Barnwell. Four catchers are out for the backstop slot, with Russell Hellekson apparently having the edge on Horace McCall, Jay Bolin, and Bob Williams. Last season Hellekson was ineligible, but in early practice, he is hitting and catching well.

Pitchers should be well taken care of this year with Captain J. D. Hicks and Eddie Steere leading the list of slab artists. Hayseed Thomas, Dave McLean, George Ficklen, Parker Connor, Bob Reinhardt, Andy Dale, Dan Cagle, and Watkins complete the list of moundsmen.

Kit Trackmen Hold Practice

Freshman track has started in the last two weeks and is now in full swing. Coach Lawrence Spearman has a wealth of material on the squad.and the team should enjoy a successful season. Among the stars on the squad are Archie Taylor, Dave Spencer, Ralph Williams, Shannon, and John Strandwitz. Many others include Gene Witz. Taylor recently won the Civitan meet in Greensboro and the State championship at Chapel Hill in the high and low hurdles. According to the coaches, with a bit more polishing and training, he should develop into an outstanding hurdler and is to be counted on for the varsity squad next year. Spencer was a Barium star in all athletics and collected 20 points against the frosh in their track meet last year. He also played football, basketball, and wrestled for the frosh this year. He is counted on in the javelin, hurdles, dashes, and broad jump events of the current season. Williams is a sprint man from City High School of Chattanooga, Tenn. Shannon, a former Springs star, is counted on to take care of the pole vaulting duties for the Kit tracksters. Strandwitz specializes in the high jump and played end on the Frosh football team.

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Baseballers Continue To Look Good

DAVIDSON SPORTS | DAVIDSONIAN

Cowan Succeeds Iverson As Basketball Captain

Page Four

Ace Twirler Eddie Steere, Asheboro’s gift to the Davidson pitching staff for the last two years, although he split his finger last year and will be handicapped this season, is being counted on a great deal during this campaign.

Kittens Begin Ball Practice

Shepard Puts Frosh Through Light Workouts

For over a week now, about thirty freshmen baseball aspirants have been working out daily with Coach Norman Shepard on the lower field. The first week's schedule consisted of loosening up arms, bunting, and hitting on Thursday and Friday. Tuesday of this week, the squad was cut and some uniforms were issued. The biggest problem which presents itself to Coach Shepard is that of the batteries. Pitchers and catchers are sorely needed. It looks as though the race for infield posts is going to be a merry one. Carter and Caldwell are two outstanding candidates for the initial sack. Simonds, Yarborough, Nelson, Owens, and Washburn are a few of the boys who will battle for 2nd, 3rd, and shortstop. Morris, Smith, Stair, Clark, Thomas, Daffin, McKinnon, Dillard, and Kistling are fighting for the privilege of roaming the outer gardens. It is expected that a short practice game will be played between varsity and freshman teams the latter part of this week or the first of next week.

Frat Track

The annual intramural track meet between fraternities will take place Wednesday and Thursday of this week. On Wednesday afternoon, the first heats will be run off in preparation for the finals to be run off the following day. All nine fraternities will compete, and place points will go onto the intramural standings.

[Continued on Page Six]

Intramural Sport Race

Seniors Lead In Class Standings by Winning Football And Basketball

With the intra-fraternity race over halfway over, the Phi Gams are out in front of the pack, but they are followed closely by the Phi Delts and the Kappa Sigs.

Seniors Lead

In the intramural race, the Seniors are far ahead by virtue of their wins in the football and the basketball tournaments. Also, in the badminton round robin, the Seniors ran away with the other teams, as George Jones and Wilson Northcross led the attack. The Juniors are second, with the Sophomores and the Freshmen following in that order. The Phi Gams tied with the Phi Delts in touch football, and those two teams led until that same combination of Jones and Northcross put the Fijis ahead by winning the badminton again. The Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts fell before their onslaught on the basketball court by margins of one and two points. These sports placed the Phi Delts and the Phi Gams far ahead, but the Kappa Sigs came up in the running with a runaway in the fraternity bowling. In the volleyball, which is now in progress, last Friday the Juniors beat the Sophomores and...

[Continued on Page Six]

Leaders

Jim “Footsie” Cowan was elected to captain the Davidson Wildcat basketball team during the next season by the nine lettermen on this year’s squad. At the same meeting, Paul Marion was elected varsity manager and Dick Kenyon freshman manager. Cowan, who is also a letterman in football and track, will succeed Ned Iverson, who so ably led the ’Cat quintet this year. He led the team in scoring by a good margin and was third in Conference scoring behind Wake Forest’s great Jim Waller and Boyd Owen. His play was never more outstanding than in both the Duke games and in the Wake Forest game here at Davidson, when he outshone Waller in every respect. Marion, better known as “Boscoe,” hails from Charlotte, and he is a member of the rising Senior class. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity. Kenyon is from Gainesville and is also a member of the rising Senior class, and he is very active in campus activities. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity.

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from—
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Friday-Saturday ON THE STAGE
Glo Nickerson’s New Swingtime Revue
“THIS IS THE LIFE”
LOVELY GIRLS

All Next Week
10 Times Tougher Than Alcatraz!
“DEVIL’S ISLAND”

Earn $75 to $100 per week. Have others earning for you. Yes, it is the beauty business! EVERY WOMAN YOUR CUSTOMER. Today, now, while you think of it, write and learn how you can learn the profession. Open your own shop. We train—furnish your own shop with a small payment. We help you to succeed. New classes forming now.

Continental College Of Beauty Culture
HIGH POINT, N. C.

Music - Youth - Mirth with
ON THE SCREEN
“FRANKENSTEIN”
“WHILE NEW YORK SLEEPS”

Nite 40¢ | Theatre - Charlotte

Coach McEver

Head Football Coach Gene McEver is working with the varsity baseballers during the absence of Coach Laird in preparation to coach the Lincolnton American Legion Junior team during June.

Linksmen Play Trial Rounds

Engage The Citadel Tomorrow In First Match

With three weeks’ intensive practice behind them, Davidson's varsity golfers prepare to meet The Citadel tomorrow in their first match. In the 72-hole qualifying match, the scores were very close and the first four positions were not decided until the last round. The final results showed Jimmy Cooper in the No. 1 position with an 83-78-74-74—309 score for 72 holes. He was closely followed by Granville Sharpe with an 80-80-74-76—310 total. Charlie Pegram qualified for third with an 82-78-75-78—313 score, while Ray Pittman was fourth with a 76-77-85-79—317 total. These four men will compose the team which meets Citadel tomorrow at the Charlotte Country Club. Cooper, Pegram, and Pittman were members of last year’s team which was captained by Henson Maples. Jack Abels and Caton Dennis qualified for the alternate positions with scores of 329 and 332 respectively. During the spring holidays, the ’Cat dubbers take an extended tour of Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia, playing Hampton-Sydney, Georgia, and South Carolina.

NEW SPRUNG HATS $2.95
NATIONAL HAT SHOPS
108 S. Tryon Street

Tracksters Hold Drills For Opener

Many Last Season Lettermen To Compete on ’Cat Cinder Team

Davidson's varsity tracksters, under the watchful eyes of Coaches Pete Whittle and Chet Chapman, have been working out daily in preparation for the spring schedule. The Wildcats will engage the Frosh in a practice meet on the day before the spring holidays. Outside competition will be furnished by the South Carolina Gamecocks on April first.

Team Of Vets

This year's Davidson team will be composed mainly of seasoned veterans, no less than eleven lettermen remaining from last year’s powerful organization, which finished fourth in the Southern Conference indoor meet. The ’Cats are especially powerful in the middle and long distances. Woodward, Kellogg, and Gammon will wear the Red and Black in the two-mile run, while Captain Walker, Woodward, Black, and Cowan will represent the locals in the mile and 880. MacAlpine, Jonas, and Baker will match strides with the opponents in the 440.

Dashmen

Jack White, last year’s Freshman star, will join Baker and Birmingham in the 100 and 220 dashes. The hurdles will be taken care of by Harbin, Cauble, and Gammon. Iverson, Cowan, Black, and Boyd will do the jumping for the Davidsons, both high and broad. Charlie Sample, last year’s Southern Conference champion, will compete in the pole vault. Warden, Johnson, and Arnold will put the shot; Iverson and Warden will toss the discus; and Cowan, and Johnson, school record holder, will twirl the javelin.

The University of Texas has a collection of hair from the heads of famous writers, statesmen, etc.

The University of Chicago spends $2,500,000 annually for research.

Iverson, JARMAN Shoes For Men

Your Choice of Spring Styles in:
Tan and White
Light Tan and Bootmaker Finish Leathers
Hand Woven Shoes In Crepe Sole and Leather Soles

Friendly Shoe Store
137 So. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Wed., Mar. 15th. “CAFE SOCIETY”
Thurs.-Fri., Mar. 16-17th. “ICE FOLLIES OF 1939”
Mon.-Tues., Mar. 20-21st. “ONE THIRD OF A NATION”
Wed., Mar. 22nd. “YES, MY DARLING DAUGHTER”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.