; Bureau Set Up Again. Senior Placement Z—528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA Che Dabidsonian LIBERTAS Music To Feature Dutch McMillin Homecoming Set VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1939 No. 4. Placement Bureau Is Established For Spring Graduates Play Series Hengeveld Announces That Application Blanks Are Already Available Applications will now be received from seniors wishing to obtain jobs after graduation next spring. Seniors desiring positions are asked to apply immediately to the Placement Bureau. Mr. Hengeveld announced this week that letters were already coming in from insurance companies for interviews with members of the graduating class in view of employing a group of college graduates next summer. The Registrar emphasized the fact that he could not arrange such interviews until those students who were interested had filed their applications with him. The plan which is now in operation is two years old and has had marked success. Last year about fifty students applied for placement in various businesses and all of these except one are now employed. Twenty men applied for teaching jobs and all of them were placed in teaching positions. There are two committees under the new plan. Dr. Gwynn is chairman of the committee in charge of placing students in teaching positions, and Dr. Hillhouse is at the head of the committee charged with handling placements in other businesses. Forms for the applications are available at the Registrar's office. Although more is done in the spring in regard to finding jobs for applicants, several companies are anxious to interview prospective employees this fall. Music To Feature Dutch McMillin Homecoming Set Featuring his wailing clarinet and 14 other pieces, Dutch McMillin and his Duke Ambassadors will furnish music for Davidson’s first big social event of the year, the Homecoming Dance Set, scheduled for the weekend of November 4th. Two dances, a formal one Friday night, and an informal on Saturday night, will constitute the set. The Charlotte Armory, scene of many Davidson dances, will again be secured for the smooth rhythms of these 15 college boys. Price of Tickets Paul Marion of the Pan-Hellenic Council announced today the band which the Council has secured for the Homecoming Dances on November 3 and 4. Marion is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and succeeded Ray Pittman of Fayetteville as the Pan-Hellenic head. Marion has been connected with the dance arrangements for several years. He stated that because of the impossibility of the band arriving earlier, no Friday afternoon tea dance is available. Davidson’s football game with the Wildcats conflicts with the time of the dance, so as a result no dancing will start until 8 o'clock Saturday night. Friday night’s formal swing session will start at 10 P.M. and continue till 2 A.M. McMillin, who organized the band three years ago, has taken his orchestra to many collegiate functions at southern institutions. Last summer the band took an extended tour of Europe and played at several well-known cafes and ballrooms in foreign countries. Sweet and Swing. Senior pictures will be made first and then the other classes in their natural order of seniority. Pictures will be taken from 9-12 A.M., 1-5 P.M., and 7-9 P.M. Charter Members Elected Officers at First Meeting Charter members elected these other officers: Program Director, Pat Rudolph; Business Manager, Ralph Williams; and Script Manager, Dan Hodges. The other charter members besides the officers are Priestley Conyers, Southgate Jones, and Walter Wooten. Claude Hackney and Bob Carter were unable to attend the initial meeting. Negotiations Begun Negotiations are now underway to arrange for the time of broadcast of the theatre's program. It is believed that the first program will be broadcast over station WSOC sometime next week. The broadcasts, which are to be produced weekly, will consist of original plays written by members of the organization and those interested in becoming members. The organization hopes to give its members a thorough training in radio dramatics, script-writing and directing of radio plays, announcing and public speaking, the production of sound effects, and the operation of the mechanical end of the broadcasts. Arrangements will probably be made so that the shows can be broadcast from the campus. In that event, the members will handle the remote control equipment after they have been fully instructed along this line by engineers from the station. Members Of Castlene Radio Theatre Elect Officers At First Meeting Priestley Conyers was elected chairman of the newly formed Davidson Radio Theatre at its first official meeting on Oct. 3rd. The faculty is now ready to receive applications from members of the senior class who want help in obtaining positions when they finish next spring. Charter members elected these other officers: Program Director, Pat Rudolph; Business Manager, Ralph Williams; and Script Manager, Dan Hodges. The other charter members besides the officers are Priestley Conyers, Southgate Jones, and Walter Wooten. Claude Hackney and Bob Carter were unable to attend the initial meeting. Negotiations are now underway to arrange for the time of broadcast of the theatre's program. It is believed that the first program will be broadcast over station WSOC sometime next week. The broadcasts, which are to be produced weekly, will consist of original plays written by members of the organization and those interested in becoming members. The organization hopes to give its members a thorough training in radio dramatics, script-writing and directing of radio plays, announcing and public speaking, the production of sound effects, and the operation of the mechanical end of the broadcasts. Arrangements will probably be made so that the shows can be broadcast from the campus. In that event, the members will handle the remote control equipment after they have been fully instructed along this line by engineers from the station. Comedy “Gaius and Gaius, Jr.” is a comedy of Early Plantation Days written by and first presented by the University of North Carolina Playmakers. The cast will be: Mr. Maysfield, Wallace Scherer; Mrs. Maysfield, Polly Price; Gaius, Jr., Ed Taylor; Doctor, Dick Coppedge; Young slave, not chosen yet. This play is directed by David Colvin. Tentative date for the play has been set for Friday, October 20th. Other plays to be presented are “Submerged” and “Uncle Tommy's Harum.” Property Men He announced that any students interested in mechanics of play production such as scenery, lighting, and sound effects should see him. Professor P.K. Fleagle announces that approximately $1,100 will be earned by nearly one hundred students under the N.Y.A. system for self-help during the month of October. As opposed to last year's plan, this year's applicants will be required to earn forty cents per hour. Eleven Hundred Dollars To Be Earned By NYA Students Professor P.K. Fleagle announces that approximately $1,100 will be earned by nearly one hundred students under the N.Y.A. system for self-help during the month of October. As opposed to last year's plan, this year's applicants will be required to earn forty cents per hour. Mr. William H. Sprunt, donor of Davidson’s new intramural field named in his honor, died last Saturday night after a short illness at his home in Wilmington, N.C. He was 83 years old. Mr. Sprunt was president of Alexander Sprunt and Sons, cotton exporters, and was active in civic and hospital work. He served continuously as a member of the board of managers of the James Walker Memorial Hospital in Wilmington from the time of the hospital's founding in 1901 to his death. He was the only surviving member of the first board, which was appointed by the North Carolina Hospital Association honored Mr. Sprunt by making him a life member for services rendered to hospitalization work in the state. Mr. Sprunt is survived by five sons—Walter, Alexander, and James, all of Wilmington; Dr. William Sprunt of Winston-Salem; and Dr. Thomas Sprunt of Charleston, S.C. Appointment Of Committees Jack Abernathy, president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, opened the year's activities at the first meeting last Wednesday night, by the appointment of the standing committees for the year. The social committee consists of Kenneth McIntyre, Donald Holt, and David McLean; the membership committee of Frank Hand and Joe Garments; and the program committee of Lan Walker and Jack Garments. The outcome of the short business meeting. NINETEEN YEARS AGO The Yellow Jackets of Georgia rolled over the Wildcats with a 60-0 victory. “Jap” Cumming started his jiu-jitsu class with sixteen candidates. The famous Ralph Bingham, humorist of that day, was featured with his jokes, violin and singing in chapel to the delight of the student body. FIVE YEARS AGO British Propaganda for America Peterson tells the part that British propaganda has played in bringing the United States into the World War. After his graduate work at Cambridge University, Mr. Peterson has been engaged in the study of the reasons for America's entrance into the war.Propagandists. A machine of swing lines, is arranged by one of the men of today, Witt Hancock. The Davidson football team and band journeyed to New York where they were defeated by the Army 41-0. After the game, the Davidson alumni of New York gave the team a banquet at the Hotel LaSalle. The Committee is striving to build up interest in the college Placement Bureau by visiting various large concerns in this section and outlining the plan to their executives. The Committee is seeking to help as many needy students with the given fund as possible. The present system seems to be the best way to accomplish that end.

Bob Kellogg won the cake race with a time of 9:35.5. Witt Hancock has a daily column in the Charlotte Observer and he covers war news in London. Witt did newspaper work in his home town before he became the news editor of the Charlotte News and chief of the Associated Press Bureau in Lisbon, Portugal. He has served in New York, Miami, Mexico, Lisbon, and Madrid. Both of these young men were active in journalistic work while at Davidson and served on the student publications here.

Prof. James Christian Pfohl, director of music at Davidson, was awarded his master's degree in musicology at the close of the 1939 summer session at the University of Michigan. Mr. Pfohl was one of approximately 800 students who received degrees at the Ann Arbor university this summer. The Davidson music director has been doing his graduate work over a period of several years and spent the second semester of 1937-38 in Ann Arbor. A native of Winston-Salem, Mr. Pfohl attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill for two years. He then transferred to the University of Michigan, where he completed his degree in the spring of 1939. In the fall of that year, he began his duties at Davidson.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell, head of the College Medical Department, urged students planning to play basketball to have their hearts examined at regular intervals. Dr. MacConnell stated, "Basketball is the hardest of all games on the heart, with the possible exception of ice hockey, and boys who are going out for the team should have their hearts examined at regular intervals." In his experience here at Davidson, Dr. MacConnell has seen players collapse on the court. He referred to an article in a recent issue of "The Journal of the American Medical Association" that stated, "Physical fitness and athletic efficiency are by no means the same thing. Athletic efficiency is usually tested by the response of the circulation to effort or to other factors influencing cardiac deceleration or blood pressure. The rate of cardiac deceleration, however, after a short intense effort, is a valuable index of athletic fitness." 

The play "Veterans," scheduled to be presented by the Masquers on October 20th, has faced difficulties in casting. The Radio Guild is led by Crook. Local bards will change three varied plays to be presented by the Masquers. The annual pictures will be taken soon. Jack Holland, editor of the Scripts and Pranks, has set the deadline for contributions as the 16th of this month. Please get your contributions in as soon as possible to the editor. Short stories, cartoons, satire, snapshots, poems, and clean jokes are all welcome.

The homecoming dance is set to feature the music of McMillin's Orchestra on Friday night for the formal and Saturday night for the informal. Samples for the blazers for the Class of 1940 will be submitted to the seniors about the first of next week, it was announced by John McGeachy, a member of the senior committee. The blazer samples will be selected according to the needs of each student, Mr. Hleagle declared. The N.Y.A. administration is seeking to help as many needy students with the given fund as possible. The present system seems to be the best way to accomplish that end.