Flake Laird To Leave

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Holland Is Annual Editor

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1939 No. 24

Flake “Red” Laird, Davidson Coach For Ten Years, Leaves For Position With V. P. I.

Laird Pondered for Several Weeks Before Acceptance Saturday

WILL BE FROSH COACH

To Be Among Friends, Younger and Tilson

Flake (Red) Laird, one of Davidson’s best-liked coaches, sent in his resignation last Saturday in accepting an offer from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute that will make him head coach of that institution’s freshman teams. Coach Laird, during his ten years of
coaching at Davidson, has been head baseball coach and freshman coach in basketball and football. He had pondered his decision
of V. P. I.'s offer for several weeks before he resigned.

Great Athlete

An alumnus graduating in 1927 from Davidson, Laird was one of the best all-around athletes the college has produced. He
attended Davidson when freshmen were allowed to participate in varsity competition and he piled the amazing total of 12 letters—four
from each of basketball, football, and baseball. In addition, he captained the basketball team. After finishing school here the affable
mentor coached two years at Catawba College before taking up his present duties.

Among Friends

The selection of Laird by the Virginia technical school was undoubtedly influenced by the fact that he won while here
at Davidson the esteem of all who worked with him. At V. P. I. he has several old pals who
knew him at Davidson, among whom was (Monk) Younger, director of athletics, and Tex Tilson.

Arbuckle Is “Y” Head In Campaign

Former Davidsonian Leads Membership Drive

Howard Arbuckle, son of Professor Emeritus Howard Bell Arbuckle and member of the class of '28, has been acting general
chairman of the annual Y. M. C. A. membership round-up during the week of May 1-5. This campaign drive for
membership, headed by Mr. Arbuckle, is the largest ever to be held in Charlotte. 213 men, sponsored by the publicity
committee of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, will take part in the drive. No membership campaign was held last year
because of the renovation campaign which completely modernized the facilities of the Y. M. C. A. building.

Good Co-operation

Mr. Arbuckle made the following statement in regard to the campaign: “The people of Charlotte made it possible by their
generous co-operation in the building program to give Charlotte a completely modernized Y. M. C. A. building. I feel honored
by the privilege of being chairman of the drive to be held May 1-5 which will extend to the people
of the community a chance to utilize to a full extent the modern facilities there afforded. In perfecting the organization
for the campaign, I encountered on all sides such enthusiastic co-operation that the success of the drive seems assured.”

Mr. Howard Arbuckle announced that E. R. Bucher and James J. Harris will serve in the capacity of co-chairmen of
the campaign. Each will have under him five generals who will have under him five captains and each captain, three
workers, making a total of 213 workers in all. This campaign is expected to fill a real need, as it
will give the [Continued on Page Five]

Leaving

Flake (Red) Laird, who for the past ten years has had an important position on the Davidson coaching staff, announced
Monday that he would accept the offer made by Virginia Polytechnic Institute to hold a coaching position in that school.
Laird is the head baseball coach, freshman coach in football, and in basketball. Before coaching at Davidson he coached for
two years at Catawba.

Art Exhibit To Be Open Next Week

Seventeen Men to Display Work in Annual Show in Eumenean Hall

On the ground floor of the Eumenean hall on April 17, 18, and 19, the Art Exhibit of the students
of Davidson College will be opened. The hours for the exhibit will be from 2 to 5 in the afternoon
and from 7 until 9 in the evening. Not only those connected with Davidson College are invited to the exhibit,
but also anyone else who may be interested.

There will be 17 contributors from the student body, who will enter their works in the contest. The committee for
judging the best type of painting will be composed of Dr. C. R. Harding, Dr. K. J. Foreman, Professor Chalmers
Davidson, Professor H. T. Lilly, and Mrs. Peyton. Aside from this, however, the student body will be given a chance
to vote upon the one that it likes best. The college itself has taken a greater interest in the exhibit
than in years past; cash prizes will be presented by the college to those who are chosen best by the
committee and the student body. This is the first year that this has been done.

First Vote Puts Cowan Far In Lead

Many Eligibles in First Vote of Athletic Association

After the second Tuesday morning Jim (Footsie) Cowan held a substantial lead of 40 votes for President of the Athletic
Association over Gales McClintock.

Jimmy Hogg and Jack Abels won the vice-presidents position in the ballot over Eldridge Brown, the only other eligible candidate.
Frank Caldwell led in the race for secretary-treasurer in which only Ralph Stair, John Barnhardt, and Don Bell were left
as this paper went to press.

On April 11, Bob McClellan, retiring president of the Athletic Association, presented a list of the eligible candidates for each
office. The president is elected from among the men in the rising Senior class who have won their letter in
varsity competition. Two vice-presidents are chosen from the letter-men in the rising Junior class, of which this year, there are
only three. All of the freshmen who earned their numerals this year are eligible for the office of secretary-treasurer. There
is one man chosen from the group.

Every member of the Davidson Student Body is considered to be a member of the Athletic Association and is thereby
entitled to a vote in the election. An integral part of the Association is the Athletic Council, which is made
up of the captain and the varsity manager of every major sport. Back of every team representing Davidson is the
support of the Athletic Association. And not only does it give its whole-hearted backing to athletic activities, but the association,
through its officers and council, passes on the awarding of letters for varsity competition, awards Freshmen numerals, and is in
active contact with every athletic event on the campus.

Beall Will Be Head Of Club

Glee Club Chooses Officers for Next Year

On Wednesday, April 5, the Davidson College Glee Club elected its officers for the year 1939-1940. J. Harper Beall of
Lenoir, N. C., was elected president of the organization; Jim McDonald of Hamlet, N. C., will serve as vice-president; Pat
Rudolf is the new secretary. Beall has for three years been in the Glee Club, is a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, and also played Freshman tennis year before last. This new set of officers will succeed the
former president, J. K. Wilson, vice-president, Dave King, and secretary, Jim McDonald. Accompanist for next year to succeed Donnell Davidson
has not been chosen as yet. The organization at the same meeting voted to award Donnell Davidson a key although
he has not completed the required two and one-half years in the choir.

The exhibit this year far surpasses the exhibit of past years in color, variety, and balance. There will be a
number of portraitures of students of Davidson, which will be of interest to students. There will be more and wilder
surrealism this year than has been seen in years past. If anyone wishes to contribute his works to the exhibit,
he should see Gordon Horton for further information. It is not yet too late to enter the exhibit; anything will
be accepted—oil, water-color, pen and pencil sketches. Some of the contributors have been asked to lend their works to the
Mint Museum in Charlotte, and these will be exhibited beginning May 3.

Enrollment in the weather study course at Hunter College has increased 40 percent over last year.

Wilson, vice-president, Dave King, and secretary, Jim McDonald. Accompanist for next year to succeed Donnell Davidson has not been chosen
as yet. The organization at the same meeting voted to award Donnell Davidson a key although he has not completed
the required two and one-half years in the choir.

The Ancient and Royal Order of Handshakers is a student organization on the Niagara University campus.

Students receiving funds through the National Youth Administration must sign affidavits stating they are U. S. citizens.

Capital University students stage an annual “Pay Your Debt Day” on which they settle their financial obligations.

College To Play Host

Young Peoples Conference to Convene Here This Summer

Davidson College will be host to the 21st annual Young People’s Conference of the synod of North Carolina June 7
through the 14th, with Rev. J. W. Witherspoon, chairman of the sub-committee on Young People’s work, as director. This date
is declared ideal because the winter session will be over and summer school will not have begun. Many of the
great religious leaders of the South will be assembled at Davidson to act as faculty members, leaders, and speakers. Some
of these will be Dr. S. M. Glasgow, Dr. D. W. Richardson of the Union Seminary faculty, Dr. Henry Mack
of the training school faculty, and Dr. J. M. Walker of Steele Creek church. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr. of
the Davidson College faculty, and Pihol and McDonald of the Davidson College Music department. The song leader will be Dr.
H.Caldwell of Louisville Seminary. Profs. Frank president. There will be certain classes limited to those who are 18 and over;
these include Dr. Bible's class on “The Christian Home,” Dr. Gwynn’s class on “Vocational Guidance,” and Mrs. McKelway’s class on
“Teaching Children.” The morning worship service, which was found so helpful last summer, will be held again this year. It
is planned to hold the evening Inspirational Services in the church instead of in the college auditorium, and other minor
changes which it is thought to be helpful to the conference will be made.

Eta Sigma Phi Has Initiation Seven New Members Taken Into Classical Frat

Meeting at the Social Center, the Davidson chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity, on Monday night had its
regular weekly gathering. There was no program, the time being taken up with the initiation of new members. The students
taken in, all passing the requirement of a “B” average in their studies, were: Boyd Flynn, Andy Dale, Bill Burch,
John Hay, Dan Shields, Frank Barker, and Eldridge Brown.

Business Session

After the initiation, business was brought up. The only business before the meeting was the discussion of the National Convention
to be held on April 27-29, at Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania. Last year, two delegates, Stitt Robinson and John Mawhinney,
attended the convention which was held at Columbus, Ohio. However, it is not certain this year whether or not the
chapter will be represented. Next came the election of officers for the coming year. Those chosen by the members were:
president, Warren Ludlam; vice-president, [Continued on Page Five]

Aeronautics Planned As New Course Davidson May Have Unit for Training Airplane Pilots Next Year

It now seems reasonably certain that there will be established here next year a unit of the Federal program for
the training of civilian pilots. A bill which has just been received from the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee
would provide for the widespread employment of Federal funds in North Carolina for this project, which has been operated at
North Carolina State College on an experimental basis. Included with Davidson would be Wake Forest, Guilford, High Point, Lenoir-Rhyne, Elon,
and the University of North Carolina. Students at these institutions would be given an opportunity for training under government supervision.
Under the provisions of the bill, the Civil Aeronautics Authority will contract with various institutions to instruct a minimum of
20 students each, each one of whom will be required to pay a laboratory fee of not more than $40,
with the other costs of each student not to exceed $5,700,000 annually, which should be enough to include all the
schools in this area, though it represents a cut from the $7,300,000 originally requested. In view of the large number
of Davidson students who patronize the airport in Charlotte or are otherwise air-minded, it seems that there should be no
difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of students to take the course. It would probably be conducted in conjunction with
the already well-established R.O.T.C. department.

Author From Manchuria to Lecture Here Dr. No-Yong Park Will Speak Tonight on Orient

Dr. No-Yong Park, noted author and lecturer on Oriental questions, will speak tonight, April 12, at 8:15 P.M. in Chambers
Auditorium. Dr. Park, a native of Manchuria, is widely known as “the Oriental Mark Twain” and is a world traveler
who has encircled the globe. He studied both in China and Japan, and afterwards received his Western education in Europe
and America. An M.A. and Ph.D. of Harvard University, Dr. Park has won numerous essay and oratorical contests, including the
International Essay Contest, open to all foreign students in American colleges, the Ay Harris Political Science Prize, given to the
students of the leading universities in the Middle West, and the Pillsbury Oratorical Contest at the University of Minnesota, competing
with the American students in their own language. Dr. Park has made Far Eastern history and international relations his life
study, and has written numerous books on the subject, including “Retreat of the West,” a book of facts and prophecy
on the international situation today. It is said that, because of Dr. Park’s broad training in different countries and his
varied experiences in many continents, he speaks and writes not as a member of a particular nation or race but
as a plain, common human being, without bias or prejudice. As a result, he has proven himself to be one
of the most unusual and popular lecturers on the American platform. Reports say that, “His address all the way through
sparkles with [Continued on Page Five]

Jack Holland, Junior from Jackson, Tenn., was elected Saturday to be editor of the Davidson yearbook, Quips and Cranks, for
next year. Stuart Oglesby, Tom Perrin, Jim Anderson, Tom McKnight, Paul Marion, Frank Hand, and Julian Lokey were the other
candidates. Lokey was leading in the second ballot over Oglesby and Holland, but in the third ballot Holland won by
a nose.

Dramatists To Present ‘Hay Fever’ Cast for Noel Coward’s Play Also Announced

Selecting a new cast at their last meeting, the Red and Black Masquers are now going through with their plans
for the presentation of Noel Coward's play, “Hay Fever,” to be given on May 17, in Chambers Auditorium. The following
students, with their character names, have been chosen to act in the play: Judith Bliss, Caddie Willis; David Bliss, Warren
Gaw; Sorel Bliss, Walista Hood; Simon Bliss, Dick Hudson; Richard Greatham, Tom McLean; Myra Arundel, Sue Jackson; Jackie Coryton, Gladys
Scott; Sandy Tyrell, Dick Cobbs; and Clarence, Bill Summers. Officers for next year will be elected on Wednesday night, April
19, at a meeting of the Masquers at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house. Ed Morrow is at present the president,
and Professor E. J. Erwin is the faculty advisor to the club. These two will direct the play, the cast
for which was selected after second try-outs. The story is laid at Cookham, near London, at the country home of
Sir [Continued on Page Five]

Cagle Is Head Of Fraternity Officers at Meeting

Dan Cagle was installed as president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish society, at the meeting held Monday night at
9 o'clock. Cagle succeeded Al Bixler, the former president. Other officers installed were: Fred Harbin, vice-president; Charlie Mashburn, secretary; and
Sonny Cunningham, treasurer. The installation of officers comprised the major part of the program. Marion Pleasants gave a review of
the Spanish novel, “Pepita Jimenez,” by Valera. Charlie Mashburn then read the “Declaration of American Principles” which was passed at
the eighth annual Pan American Conference held recently in Lima, Peru. The program was ended with the skit, “El Dia
de Examenes.” Jack Moore and Bill Cobb took the leading parts.

Sigma Delta Pi Installs Officers

Defeats Lokey, Oglesby, Perrin, Anderson, McKnight, Marion, and Hand

LOKEY CLOSEST RIVAL Three Ballots Necessary Before Decision

Jack Holland of Jackson, Tenn., will be editor of Quips and Cranks for 1940, succeeding Cage Brewer of Clarksdale, Miss.,
retiring editor. Holland won out in the last ballot, taken Saturday morning during chapel, over Julian Lokey of Thomson, Ga.,
by a count of 58 to 65. The other junior editors had previously been eliminated in two votings. The first
ballot in the election was taken in chapel April 5 between Lokey, Holland, Stuart Oglesby, Tom Perrin, Jim Anderson, Tom
McKnight, Paul Marion, and Frank Hand. On the first count, Holland received 22 votes, Lokey 30, and Oglesby 18. Oglesby
was eliminated on the second ballot held April 6, when Holland received 38 votes and Lokey 56. Holland is a
member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and of the Spanish club, Sigma Delta Pi. He is an assistant in
the English department, and has served as managing editor of both Scripts and Pranks and the Davidsonian.

Abernathy Is Editor’s Aide Davidsonian Assistant to Be Copyreader and Second in Command

Jack Abernathy of Gastonia will succeed Terrell Porter as the assistant editor of the Davidsonian for the coming year. Abernathy
will assume his new duties with this issue of the Davidsonian. He will aid Tony Casali as editor and act
in the capacity of editor upon the absence of Casali. The principal duty of the assistant editor is to copy-read
all the pages of the paper after they have been made up in dummy form by the editorial staff before
the paper is sent to the printer. Abernathy was managing editor of the Davidsonian this year and is now a
managing editor of the magazine. He is a member of the Journalism Club and Beaver Club. The Philanthropic Literary Society
re-elected him vice-president of the organization last month, and he is also treasurer this year of Eta Sigma Phi, honorary
classical fraternity. Abernathy served as junior secretary of Pi Gamma Mu, social science fraternity, last semester. He and Tony Casali
have been roommates for the past year. Casali is one of the baseball managers as well.

Senior Class Gives Smoker Seniors Discuss Gift and Field Day Plans

At last night’s senior class smoker, more suggestions for the class gift were entertained and discussed and the final date
for the Senior-Faculty Field Day was set. The Field Day is a new idea worked out this year by a
senior committee. The seniors will engage the faculty in challenge golf and tennis matches as well as various contests in
bowling, horseshoes, and possibly softball. This social event will bring seniors and faculty together in a very informal manner, and
if it proves popular, it will undoubtedly be the first of a long line of such events.
