Thurs., Oct. 12, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

The question for this week is one which has caused much talk around the campus, as it is the first
time this idea has ever been thought of. The question is this: Do you think the Christmas set of dances
should have been postponed in favor of three sets in the spring?

Tom Cauble, Junior: “I favor three dance sets in the spring instead of the old two-each-semester arrangement. Spring is really
the time for terpsichorean cavorting as some of the jits might pull a tendon if operating in the cold of
winter.”

Joe Liles, Junior: “I think it’s a very good idea to have three sets of dances in the spring and
only one during the first semester. The first semester is full of glamour consisting of holidays, football depitations to state
games, and various points throughout the holidays. But the second semester is different—no football, no holidays, and no women. Another
reason—perhaps it will enable the Pan Hell to employ bigger and better bands for the dances. I think Davidson should
develop a ‘Finals,’ with a top-title band, as do all the other North Carolina colleges. Dances are about the only
form of social life the average Davidson student gets, and I'm in favor of making them as big as possible.”

Bill Faison, Sophomore: “Yes, I am in favor of their being changed due to the fact that the first semester
of the school year is overcrowded with other extra activities. As an example, last year’s fall dances attracted no attention
to me and many others. There is an overabundance of time during the 2nd semester in which any social event
would be readily welcomed by the students and prove to be the best dance set.”

“Ghost” Glenn, Senior: “Yes, it seems to me to be a good idea because in the fall there are too
many other things to do. Football games take up the weekends until Thanksgiving and after that the time until Christmas
is so short that they are appreciated more in the spring than in the fall.”

J. C. Cooper, Senior: “Yes, I am in favor of the new dance set up. Heretofore the second set was
held just before Christmas, and, at that time most of us were so broke that these dances were pretty much
of a financial strain. Holidays at home and social events there loom just ahead and everybody says to himself ‘It
won't be long now before I can go to a dance night free, why should I pay five bucks more
for two nights' fun.’ If three sets are held at well-spaced intervals in the spring, I think everybody would be
happier and a lot better off.”

Stanley McAfee, Sophomore: “No, I’m not in favor of having the dance sets divided up into one before Christmas and
three sets after Christmas because the girls who go off to school and are asked to our dances could not
possibly take that many cuts in their classes in one semester. Usually a boy asks the same girl to all
sets, and if you have three sets in one semester, she possibly can’t come to one set. Also, it puts
a strain on us boys to have to put out so much money to one semester. The mid-winters’ dance set
is expensive, and it will possibly throw some boys out of going if we have three sets so close together.”

Albert Winn, Sophomore: “Yes, Christmas dances have always been more or less of a failure, because students are saving up
for Christmas and looking forward to several home-town dances within the next two or three weeks. Then, too, the girls
don't care to come, and have a hard time getting permission from their schools to leave the campus, at a
time so near the holidays. I think the new plan is quite an improvement.”

Ernest Ellison, Inc. “JUST INSURANCE” 115 East Fourth Street Charlotte, N. C.

October Ku Literary Society Hears Two Speeches

Stewart Oglesby Cites Lack of Literary Accomplishments Of Students

Discussion of plans for the coming year featured the first meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society held Tuesday, October 10.
The meeting was opened with a welcoming speech by President Stewart Oglesby. Mr. Oglesby pointed out that there has been
a sad lack of literary accomplishment in the student body as a whole during the past few years. He stated
that a definite effort is to be made to encourage literary endeavor.

Application for Membership

President Oglesby urged anyone who is interested in the work of the society to attend some of the meetings, and
to apply for membership if the work appealed to him. The requirements for membership include the presentation of an original
essay or short story, which must be accepted by the membership committee. The program included a talk on “Embargo” by
Bob Ramsey. Jimmy Cooper made an extemporaneous address, followed by one in a more serious vein by Albert Green. A
“Remarkable Criticism” was delivered by contemporary critic Bill Kagen.

Joint Meetings Planned

Plans for the future are featured by joint meetings with literary societies of neighboring girls’ schools. A number of social
functions are scheduled to start in the near future. The first regular meeting is to be held Tuesday, October 17.

Officers of the society for the year are: Stewart Oglesby, President; Bob Finley, Vice-President; Jim Crook, Secretary; and Phil Peyton,
Treasurer.

“Y” Questions Are Answered During Chapel Poll Reveals 267 Ex-Scouts In Student Body; Seven Work in Troops

Over 250 Davidson men have at one time or another been Boy Scouts and were proud enough of that fact
to indicate it on the recent “Y” information blanks distributed among the student body. Indications are that the number is
much larger than the actual figures given above, since only an approximate half of the student body filled out the
blanks. On that basis, the 267 students who answered that they had been scouts comprise over three-fourths of the number
responding to the poll.

Of the 267 ex-scouts, 86 are still so loyal to their organization that they offered to help in some capacity
with the troops sponsored by the “Y.” Fifty-nine of these ex-scouts are seniors, 19 juniors, 20 sophomores, and 37 freshmen.
The total number of ex-scouts is divided among the classes as follows: 56 seniors, 53 juniors, 59 sophomores, and 99
freshmen. Seven of these ex-scouts are regularly helping with four of the “Y”-sponsored troops. Troops are located in Davidson, Cornelius,
and Smithville. Jim Kerr and John Brady are working with Troop 58 here in Davidson. At the Unity Church, Troop
1, Henry Wilson and Ben Colkitt will be stationed as advisers to the scoutmaster. Dave McLean is working with the
local colored troop and over in Smithville, a negro settlement near Cornelius, Bill McLauchlin and Langley Land are in charge
of a new troop just started last year. No representative from the “Y” has been sent to the Cornelius troop
as yet, but a Davidson man worked there last year.

Oh, Mr. Ripley!

If Robert L. Ripley had been present on the Davidson campus last Thursday morning, he would have had one more
incident for his column “Believe it or Not.” For on that day a pane of ordinary window glass fell three
stories, without breaking—believe it or not! Jack Clark, sophomore rooming in 301 Watts, noticed that one of his window panes
was loose, and placed his hand against it. It teetered on the window sill, and fell to the grass. Instead
of the expected tinkle, only a dull thud was heard. Jack went down, picked up the glass, and returned it
to his room. As far as the Davidsonian knows, it still is loose, but at least uncracked.

Record Set Is Now Available

Machine To Be Operated In Shearer Five Evenings Each Week

Beginning this week, the Carnegie Record Set, which was given to the school last year by the Carnegie Endowment, will
be available for use by the Davidson students and townspeople in the auditorium of Shearer Hall. Professor Pfohl announced that
there will be an attendant on hand to operate the machine on Monday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday evenings between
seven-thirty and ten-thirty, and on Sunday afternoons between three and five o'clock. Shearer Hall, which has recently been remodeled, was
initiated into use by all the groups on campus last week.

Prize Winning Photograph

This snapshot of the let publishes the ten best photos submitted each week. The picture, entitled “Theme,” shown above was
judged one of the ten best photos submitted to an issue of “Pictures,” a photographic pamphlet published by Eastman Kodak
Co. This photo was taken by Clarence Legerton, Jr., a member of the freshman class from Charleston, S.C. Legerton has
been interested in photography for about seven years. Last year he was photographic editor of the “Bantam,” high school of
Charleston.

Two Students Receive Recognition For Work

Hodges Story On Fish And Legerton’s Picture Noted Nationally

Trylon and Perisphere publishes the ten best photos submitted each week. The picture, entitled “Theme,” shown above was judged one
of the ten best photos submitted to an issue of “Pictures,” a photographic pamphlet published by Eastman Kodak Co. This
photo was taken by Clarence Legerton, Jr., a member of the freshman class from Charleston, S.C. Legerton has been interested
in photography for about seven years. Last year he was photographic editor of the “Bantam,” high school of Charleston.

Last year the publication of the OF THE “PAST 1929 ECHOES 1939

Y Deputations

The “Y” sent a deputation last Sunday to WCUNC to speak at the YWCA Vespers. Those going were Jo Newell
Robinson, Bobby Williams, and Bob Finley. They spokeon “Traveling the Highways of Life.” The cabinet of the Student Christian Association
at Queens invited the Cabinet of the YMCA at Davidson to a retreat held at Camp Latta, near Charlotte, Sunday,
to discuss mutual campus problems. About twelve Davidson students attended, some from the Cabinet and some from the student body
at large.

New Books in College Library

The College Library receives books about Art, War, and Biography. "Treasure of Art: Masterpieces" leads a list of new books
in the College library, which also includes several recent books on the popular war theme. In the collection is Norman
Thomas’ most recent book, "War," written to appeal to the average person.

Art Collection

"Treasure of Art: Masterpieces," edited by Thomas Craven, is one of the most complete collections of fine arts. The collection
covers the highlights in painting from “The Renaissance” up to the present. The beautiful prints and stories behind them are
arranged in chronological order and grouped according to schools.

Philippine Economist Speaks of Homeland

Villamin Says Philippine Independence Would Mean Economic Ruin

Pleading against complete independence for the Philippines, Vincenti Villamin, noted Philippine lawyer and economist, told a group of Davidson students
on October 6 that independent self-government for his homeland will mean its economic and political downfall.

Addresses Economics Class

Villamin, who unexpectedly addressed the Economics class, explained that the Philippine economy is almost entirely based on the export of
goods to the United States tariff-free. The islands are now enjoying prosperity and are at the same time creating a
growing market for American goods. Complete independence would not only cut the Philippines off from America’s market but would lay
the islands open to annexation by Japan. Villamin declared that if the economic expert had negotiated to transfer lands to
Germany by treaty, it would have automatically presented them to Japan in 1919. Instead of being treated as servile colonists,
the Philippines enjoy all the rights of any American territory.

Old U.S. Coins

Tom McKnight was chosen Vice-President of the Symphonic Band. The other officers, President Burton Johnson and Secretary Norris Erb, were
elected last year. Jim Crook was named the new Secretary of the Glee Club, President Harper Beall having been elected
last year. No new officers had to be elected in the Little Symphony Orchestra. Previous officers appointed were President Reb
Rummel, Vice-President Francis Magill, and Secretary Louis Hite. Professor Pfohl announced that the annual High School Band Day will probably
be held in the near future. Invitations are to be mailed this week and definite plans will be available shortly.

Local Poets Win Awards

McLean Has Poems Published; Crane Asked To Submit Work For Book

In the past year, two Davidson students, Paul Crane and Dave McLean, have achieved recognition in the field of poetry.
McLean has had several poems published, and Crane has been invited to send work to “The Yearbook of Modern Poetry—1939.”
Dave McLean is the poet of the Senior class. He has had five poems published in The Charlotte Observer, one
in “Poets of the South,” edited by Miss Anne Windsor, and several in various newspapers. While at Tours University, he
won first prize in a weekly poetry contest with a poem written entirely in French. McLean has been a regular
contributor to the literary magazine of the college.

Biographies

Biographies of Botticelli, Da Vinci, Van Gogh, and Carlo Dolci are also included in the new books. "No Profit, No
Glory, No Need" heads the books on war. Norman Thomas has written his book in a simple, direct, and readable
way, especially suitable for modern youth. He discusses all angles of the war situation and how it can be prevented.

British Propaganda

"Propaganda for War," by H.C. Peterson, tells the story of the British propaganda played in bringing the United States into
the World War. Upon finishing his graduate work at Cornell University, Mr. Peterson began an intense study of the reasons
behind America’s entrance into the war. Every path seemed to lead to the British propagandists. His study carried him to
the British Museum, where he discovered a series of reports from Wellington House, the special bureau which was organized to
carry on propaganda in the United States during the war. These reports were the "American Press Resume," prepared solely for
the British Cabinet members, and published for the first time in "Propaganda for War."

Coins Displayed

An exhibit of minor coins of the United States is being shown in the cases of the library this week.
Coins from as far back as 1793 are being displayed. All denominations are represented, including one-half cent pieces, which were
used at one time. Other types are three-cent pieces, half dimes, twenty-cent pieces, and the regular quarter and fifty-cent pieces
of the present. Coins dated before 1794 are shown. Among the names of coins are “Flying Eagles,” “Indian Heads,” and
“Lincoln Heads.” The library will continue to exhibit this display throughout the week.

Always Ask for COMING SOON

DAVIDSON

“A BETTER BELKS”

We are NOW remodeling our Mooresville Store, and will soon have a complete, up-to-date Department Store within your easy reach.

Belk’s Department Store

MOORESVILLE, N.C. (Open during Alterations)
