Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN March 1, 1939

Dr. James W. Fesler Speaks Before I.R.C.

Weekly Schedule

Wed., March 1st.
7:00 P.M., Scabbard & Blade.
8:00, Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00, Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

Thursday, March 2nd.
Chapel Hill Professor Speaks On “Streamlining the Government”
Dr. James W. Fesler, of the University of North Carolina, spoke to the International Relations Club at their meeting Friday night at the Kappa Alpha House. Dr. Fesler is at present associate professor of political science at Carolina. Presented by Joe Calvin, he gave as a title for his speech “Streamlining the Federal Government.” His speech contained two main points. He stated that it was his belief that the leader of our nation should be given more power and more responsibility. By doing this he believes the country will do away with some of the inefficiency of national organization. He further stated that these governmental organizations should take our college graduates with A.B. degrees rather than applicants who have only typing and bookkeeping knowledge. After his speech, he took up individually with members of the club their special problems.

Beaty Speaks At Gathering
At the regular meeting of the Quadwrangler Club held Wednesday night, February 22nd, in the Quadwrangler Room, Professor E. A. Beaty of the Latin Department made the feature speech of the evening. Professor Beaty’s talk was both an instructive and humorous discourse on “Papyrological Wit and Wisdom.” Several members of the Board of Trustees, which was in session at that time, were guests of the organization. After the formal part of the program, which was conducted by President A. V. Goldiere, refreshments of punch and cake were served. Plans were made for the next meeting to be held March 30th. Dr. F. W. Johnson is scheduled to make the main talk of the night.

Friday, March 3rd.
8:15, Alpha Epsilon Delta.
8:30, Concert by Converse College Glee Club.
9:00, International Relations Club.

Saturday, March 4th.
2:30 P.M., Intra-squad football game.

Sunday, March 5th.
10:15 A.M., Sunday School.
11:15, Church.
6:30 P.M., Vesper Services.

Monday, March 6th.
7:00 P.M., “D” Club.
8:00, Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00, Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, March 7th.
8:00, Le Cercle Francais.
9:00, Sigma Upsilon.

North Carolina athletic teams played 13 matches... Wrestling, Swimming, Fencing, Basketball, Polo, Hockey, and Squash, meets or games, for both varsity and freshmen were scheduled... Within the last ten years, three McCachern brothers, Bill, Jim, and Dave, have starred and captained the North Carolina basketball quintet. Dave, the first of the trio, started in '33, played 3 years, being selected as Southern Conference all-star in '33 and '34, and made all-conference selections for three seasons. Bill is captain of the '39 edition... Another brother, Toad, is playing good ball for Charlotte High School and will probably get his sheepskin from Chapel Hill too... Congrats to Archie Taylor, who took first place in the Davidson frosh annual Indoor games at Carolina last Saturday. Famous last words: Now, it’s not how you play the game, but whether you won or not... (Clipped from a well-known College’s newspaper) That's all folks.

INSTALLATION [Continued from Page Three]
the student body and also from other persons connected with the college who show an interest in the society. It is hoped that they will enter into the discussion and help to broaden the field of thought. Gamma Mu is bringing Davidson the noted speaker in the near future. Dr. Paul Popenoe, director of the Institute of Family Relations of Los Angeles, California, will be this speaker. He is an outstanding sociologist and psychologist dealing with marital assistance to domestic difficulty. The charter for the North Carolina Gamma Chapter, which was established here last fall, was received a few days ago and is now being framed. An executive meeting was held on Tuesday night at which plans for the induction and the initiation were completed. Plans were also made to hold a social gathering at the home of Dr. Gwynn after the talk by Dr. Popenoe.

GRID DRILLS [Continued from Page Four]
Pharr’s all-round play was good. Yoder and Bob Smith played well in the Black's backfield. The line play of both teams was featured by the performances of Hank Bahnson, Bob Johnson, Gales McClintock, George Richmond, Newt Edwards, and Dick Arnold. The drills will close on either Friday or Saturday of this week with another intra-squad game climaxing the winter sessions.

FROSH DEFEAT [Continued from Page Four]
for an average of 12 points a game paced the scorers. Dave Spencer followed with 85, and Sink, despite the fact that he played in less than half the games, was third with 47.

BASEBALL TO BEGIN [Continued from Page Four]
throughout the spring holiday period. The team will again play in the Southern Conference and Big Five, against the same general teams that make up the football and basketball circuits.

Local Group Has Program
Fellowship Conducts Program On Missions
At a meeting in the Presbyterian Church on Sunday night, at 7:30, the Fellowship conducted a program on Foreign Missions. Tom Fry, of the Junior class, was in charge, and Boyd Flynn, a Sophomore, spoke on “Why I intend to be a Foreign Missionary.” Following Flynn's talk and the singing of a hymn, Fry called for a number of voluntary testimonies. Four other students explained why they intend to enter Foreign Missionary service. The meeting was closed with a prayer by Dr. Harding. On next Sunday night the Fellowship will conduct a meeting in the Banquet Hall of Chambers Building, immediately following the Vespers service. The subject will be, “God Goes to College.”

KIT MATMEN [Continued from Page Four]
be chosen later on. A summary follows: Summary of the meet: 121class, forfeit Blue (B). 128th class, Beeshears (B) pinned McEachern (D). 135th class, Weeks (B) threw Williams (D). 145th class, Aarseth (D) pinned Jessup (B). 155th class, Bosworth (B) decisioned Turnage (D). 165th class, Freeze (D) pinned Cranfill (B). 175th class, Bolton (B) decisioned Hipp (D).

MASQUERS TO [Continued from Page Five]

Energy Retard Work Of Discerning Mikowsky Makes Experiments With Pep Pills

Pep pills retard the speed of learning. That is the conclusion reached by William L. Mikowsky, a graduate student in psychology at the University of Minnesota, who, with several white rats as assistants, has just concluded several months of experimentation with the pills.

Each morning for 25 days Mr. Mikowsky injected 1 cc. of benzedrine sulphate, or pep pill solution, into the rats of one group while those of another group continued their regular diet. The rats were then placed in a maze and Mr. Mikowsky recorded the number of errors the animals of each group committed before they were able to find the food at the end of the maze.

Results show that the rats that had not been given injections reduced their number of errors from 14.5 on the first day to 1.35 on the final day. The rats which had received injections, however, reduced the number of errors they committed from 14.2 to 10.6 during the period. The time required for them to find the food was correspondingly longer than that needed by the first group.

When this part of the experiment had been completed, the injections were discontinued for six days. During these six days, the number of errors steadily decreased. Errors immediately increased, however, when injections were resumed.

“This is a fairly good indication,” Mr. Mikowsky said, “that benzedrine sulphate has a retarding effect on learning. However, I don't believe it has any harmful physical effects if taken in moderation. It increases activity but decreases appetitive functions.”

Converse Has Concert Here

Glee Club Consists Of Thirty-Two Girls

Members of the Converse College Glee Club will appear in Davidson Friday evening, March 3 at eight-thirty. Director, Glen C. Stables. Accompanist, Miss Rosalie Hodges. Soloists, Mr. Alonzo Lape, Clarinetist; Miss Geraldine Foster, vocalist, soprano. First Sopranos: Marguerite Crawford, president, Geraldine Foster, vice-president, Nancy Howard, treasurer, Ellen Pratt, Mary Lib Platt, Mary Loretta Farmer, Sarah Lowry, Elizabeth Gibson, Rose Goodman, Katherine Clark. Second sopranos: Anne Knight, librarian, Rachel Jackson, Bert Deane Carter, Ceceile Corbett, Mary Jane McDonald, Mary Elizabeth Gates, Julia Rogers, Grace Conley, Mary Vincent, Eileen Mas- Altos: Hart, secretary, Commander, Willora Garrett, Julia Lowry, Corrinne Sweeney, Nell Cook, Althea Foster.

K. SIGS WIN [Continued from Page Four]

Volley-Ball tournament which will be held in the near future. The Juniors won the class title last year and will be out to repeat as seniors this year. Following this will be the annual fraternity tourney. Last year’s champs in this division were the Pikas.

Deputation of Seven Sent To Thomasville

Wade Boggs Heads Visit to Congregation of Former 'Y' Secretary

Wade Boggs headed a deputation of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. to the First Presbyterian Church at Thomasville last Sunday. Three speakers and a quartet comprised the group, whose program centered around the World Day of Prayer as related to schools and colleges. Reverend Samuel Wiley, former “Y” secretary here, is pastor of the Thomasville Church. Claude Hackney, Bobby Williams, Bill Boyle, and Tommy Plonk were members of the quartet, which sang several selections during the day. At the morning Sunday school, George Lilly talked to the Woman’s Bible Class and Sam Spencer addressed the Men’s Class. Wade Boggs delivered the sermon at the morning service. Spencer and Lilly also talked during the Young People’s Services that night. Monday, Chal Vinson and John Brady went to Rock Hill, South Carolina, to speak at the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church.

The Oregon State College museum has been given a huge stuffed moose from—of all people—the Loyal Order of Moose.

Tulane University’s Middle American Research Institute has initiated a campaign to raise $2,000 for a new museum.

The University of California has a special course on the legal rights of women.

Thirty U. S. Colleges use crimson as their school colors.

Northwestern University is offering a special series of lectures on how to fill out income tax blanks.

For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians

USE VA-TRO-NOL IN TIME—IT HELPS TO PREVENT COLDS DEVELOPING

Here's specialized medication for the nose and upper throat—where most colds start. Used at the first sniffle or sneeze—a few drops up each nostril—it helps to prevent many colds from developing... Even when your head is stopped-up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol clears away clogging mucus, shrinks swollen membranes—helps to keep the sinuses open—lets you breathe again!

Vicks VA-TRO-NOL

YOU CAN FEEL ITS TINGLING MEDICATION GO TO WORK

Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind

COLLEGE REPRESENTED [Continued from Page Five]

Dr. Edward D. Grant was in charge of the meetings held in the afternoons. Three meetings a day were held, morning, afternoon, and night.

A GRADS HEAD [Continued from Page Five]

While at Davidson, Mr. Mockorell was very outstanding, especially in athletic affairs. He played football for four years, being Captain his senior year. Baseball was another of his well-liked sports. He played it for four years. Mockorell was well-liked by the student body and was elected to the office of Secretary-Treasurer of the student body. He was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, a social fraternity, and the Athletic Council. He made the Dean’s list his senior year. However, he excelled in football and will go down in history as one of Davidson’s most outstanding players.

GIVE APPROVAL [Continued from Page One]

The new building, which was announced by the executive committee last fall, is to cost between $75,000 and $80,000. The definite location of the dormitory has not been established, but it will probably be located at the east end of the present dormitory row. When completed, it will be used to accommodate students who are now forced to live off the campus.

Two new members of the faculty were appointed by the board: Dr. William C. Matthews, as associate college physician, and Mr. Elmer E. Brown, as associate professor of biology.

No action was taken on an elaborate report submitted to the board by the faculty concerning the present and future athletic programs of the college, but this will be discussed in the next meeting of the board sometime in June.

College treasurer, F. L. Jackson, stated that Davidson’s financial year will close in April with no debt or deficit; Dr. W. L. Lingle complimented all departments on their fine work during the present session.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

M. P. Henderson DAVIDSON, N. C. CARS FOR RENT

JOHN ROBERT POWERS, the head of the world’s best known model agency, when booking his famous models for fashions, advertisers and artists, says “The call is for beauty, poise, personal charm... the perfect combination.”

The perfect combination gets the call

Chesterfields get the call from more and more smokers every day because of their refreshing mildness, better taste and pleasing aroma. The perfect combination of Chesterfield’s mild ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos... the can’t-be-copied blend... makes Chesterfield the cigarette that gives millions of men and women more smoking pleasure. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give more smoking pleasure, why THEY SATISFY

Chesterfield... the blend that can’t be copied... the HAPPY COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos