|| Sideline Sidelights By ANDY DALE ||

Season’s Ending

Wildcat Sports Varsity Five Opens With J. O. Jones Practice Game Thurs., Dec. 7, 1939

Thanksgiving’s score leaves little room for comment on the Wake Forest game. It suffices to point out a few facts
before closing up the records on the ’39 season, which include the fact that this was the last game of
a long and interesting rivalry between Wake and Davidson. Wake’s powerhouse offense rolled on with Big John Polanski ripping the
center to shreds as he took on steam and headed for national scoring honors. But Stan Yoder proved that he
is one of the conference’s ace defensive backs by rambling all over the field to pull many a Baptist down.
Particularly noticeable was the meeting of the behemoths, when Yoder met Polanski at the line, over a mass of players,
like the immovable object and the irresistible force.

Polanski Runs Wild As Cats Bow Before Superior Attack; Tubby Hand Races 72 Yards For Lone Cat Score; Yoder and
Bolin Shine

Bill Bolin too gathered his share of the honors. Running from the plunging position for a time he went nicely
against that big Gold and Black line and was in on almost every tackle. But it remained for Tubby Hand
to race home with the touchdown that added a ray of light to an otherwise gloomy afternoon. Tubby showed his
old speed on that 72-yard gallop through center, assisted by nice blocking along the route.

Wake Forest’s Deacons, relying on a crushing ground attack led by big John Polanski, routed Davidson’s courageous Wildcats 26-7 in
the final game of their series Thanksgiving.

Varsity Cagers Open Season Against J. O. Jones

This week ushers the second section of the current sports year as basketball takes over the spotlight on the campus.
Coach Norman Shepard has been sending his varsity basketball charges through lengthy drills during the last week in preparation for
the coming inter-collegiate season. The regular schedule, which opens on December 15th at V. M. I., will be preceded by
several practice games. A tentative contest with the J. O. Jones quintet from Charlotte was on the tab at press
time for Wednesday night, however, arrangements were not complete.

The Deacs wasted little time in turning on the steam when, taking the ball on their 28, they rolled 72
yards to a score. Polanski plunged over from the 2 and placekicked the extra point.

Deacs Gain On Punts

Mayberry’s 82-yard kick was downed on the Davidson 1 and Sharpe’s return kick gave the Wake Forest the ball on
the 27. Polanski and Red Mayberry alternated in driving for the plunge. Polanski converted.

The second quarter was scoreless.

Davidson’s Soccer Team Beats Duke 1-0 To Close Season

Davidson’s soccer team closed a fairly successful season last Monday with a heart-breaking 1-0 loss to Clemson’s Tigers. However, on
Tuesday, November 28th, the Wildcats defeated a strong Duke team 2-0 in a thrilling game played in the Greensboro stadium.
Playing on a cold, windy field, the Cats were unable to get started offensively. The Deacons came back after the
kick-off and tallied twice, both touchdowns being set up by Wildcat fumbles.

Basketball Takes Over

This week should indicate more clearly the outlook on the basketball team. His charges face a stiff nine-game schedule which
opens January 9th against Charlotte high school. The following boys have shown much promise to date: Bob Hand, Steve Sharpe,
and Jim Cowan. Besides reserves held over from last year, there are several other men, eligible or not out last
year, plus the sophomores, who are making it hot for the top ten. This week’s practice games should give a
better picture of the team’s potential.

HONORABLE MENTION: End—Cowan (Davidson); Mallory (Carolina). Tackle—White (Carolina). Backs—Dunkle (Carolina); B. Bolin (Davidson); Robinson (Carolina); Gallovitch (Wake Forest); Radman (Carolina).
Chosen by sports staff.

Davidsonian All-State

FIRST TEAM POSITION SECOND TEAM
JETT (Wake Forest) Center BAILEY (Duke)
PALE (Wake Forest) Guard RICHMOND (Davidson)
JOHNSON (Duke) Guard SMITH (Carolina)
RIBAR (Duke) Tackle RUFFA (Duke)
RINGGOLD (Wake Forest) End PURDUE (Duke)
ROONEY (State) Halfback FRALPBDALCR
STIRNWEISS (Carolina) Quarterback CARTER
HONORABLE MENTION: End—Cowan (Davidson); Mallory (Carolina). Tackle—White (Carolina). Backs—Dunkle (Carolina); B. Bolin (Davidson); Robinson (Carolina); Gallovitch (Wake Forest); Radman (Carolina).
Chosen by sports staff.

About 25 candidates were issued equipment Monday and the first practice was held Tuesday night. The second quarter was scoreless.Spencer
and Keiffer, forward from Middletown. The final quarter found the Dea in the College gym. This “Y” team dominated the
hall a lot out, the team looked consistent and better football players. Ohio’s Dave Maloney, who played for Western High
in Washington, D.C., John Belk and Craig Schmitt, McCallie Boys’ School, Bill Grosse, from Greensboro High and Blair Academy, Pete
Cavert, from Nashville, Tenn., and several others.

Earl Yoder has become one of the most feared defensive backs in the conference, playing directly behind the line on
defense, and as short man on offense. Shifted from the plunging position early in the season, Stan has been a
constant threat as a pass receiver in the flats, and a deadly blocker otherwise. Cowan has just finished his third
year of varsity ball after transferring from Mars Hill. As a six foot four flankman, he has been especially valuable
as an expert pass receiver in Davidson’s highly aerialized system of play. At present, he is entering his final year
of basketball, being captain of the quintet.

Both men expect to attend the banquet in Greensboro as this went to press. Besides members of the team, many
coaches, officials, and sports fans were present as each player received a small football watch-charm.

Coach Chapman has now turned his time over to wrestling and expects to have the team in shape for the
opening match. Many of the boys from the football team have begun practice. Led by Graham McFadyen, captain of this
year’s team, the matmen expect to have a strong team.

With the opening of the wrestling season, 17 men have reported for practice and were issued uniforms. Coach Charlie Parker
plans to build a team from these but he needs more men out, especially in the lightweight division. The freshman
schedule is as follows:

Jan. 13—Duke—here.
Feb. 5—State—there.
Feb. 10—U. N. C.—here.
Feb. 17—V. P. I.—there.
Feb. 24—Winston—here.
March 2—Maryland—here.

The intramural basketball season has swelled the number of candidates for starting positions on the quintet. Meanwhile, practice has been
continuing at an even pace. Hackney and Bill Bolin aided by Frank Niver with 11 points, and Jack Wayman with
6, leading the Betas were Schley with 8 and 7 respectively.

On Tuesday, November 28th, the Wildcats conquered a highly favored Blue Devil team from Duke by the score of 2-0.
In this game, the entire team worked well together and slowed the Duke’s clicking outfit. Davidson's two scores came on
goals by McFadyen and Wilson. These two men also played outstanding games for the Cats. This game was witnessed by
a large crowd of soccer enthusiasts from Greensboro, who gave the Wildcats a great deal of support.

Davidson has closed a fairly successful season, with 3 wins and 7 losses in 10 games—playing some of the strongest
teams in this section. The team has fared just about like last year’s team which won 3, lost 4, and
tied 1. During the entire season, the Cats have scored 13 points to the opponents' 21.

Leading the intramural basketball league are the Phi Gams, K. Sig, and S. A. E. with one win each, while
the Pi Kappa Phis have won one and lost one. On Monday, December 4, the Pi Kaps defeated the Betas
by the score of 25-23 in two extra periods. The Pi Kaps were led by Frank Niver with 11 points,
and Jack Wayman with 6. Leading the Betas were Schley with 8 and 7 respectively.

On Friday night, December 1, the K. A.’s beat the Pikas in a free-scoring affair by the score of 40-20.
John Belk led the winners with 11 points, closely followed by Bill Lemmon with 10 points. High scorer for the
losers was Ralph Monger with 10 points.

Two closely played games featured the program on Tuesday, November 28. The K. A.’s beat the Pi Kappa Phis 24-14,
and on the same night the Phi Gams defeated the S. P.-E.’s by the identical score of 24-14. Keiffer led
the Phi Gams with 9 points, while Fredricks led the S. P. E.’s.

Frat Standings:
W L
K. A. 2 0
K. Sig 1 0
Phi Gam 1 0
Pi Kap 1 0
S. A. E. 0 1
S. P. E. 0 1
Pika 0 2
Phi Del 0 2

Merry Christmas

FRATERNITY BROTHERS
Shirts
TATE-BROWN CO
26 S. TRYON ST.

JUST A FINAL GIFT CHECK-UP
What To Give Them:
Sweaters
Pajamas
Jackets
Socks
Jewelry

To All ROOM MATES
THIRD FLOOR
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Men’s Midnight Blue and Black Tuxedos $19.75

ALL THE LATEST HITS on RECORD
VICTOR
DECCA
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME
Private Dining Rooms Available
S&W Cafeteria
231 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SLIXCAVICS
$3.50
White Vests $3.95
ACCESSORIES
Dress Shirts (collar attached) $3.00
Dress Shirts (neckband) $2.50
Sleeve Links $1.00 to $2.95
Socks 35c and 50c
Link & Stud Sets $1.00 to $5.00
Suspenders by Hickok $1.00 and $1.50
Linen Handkerchiefs 25c and 50c
Boutonnieres

MEN’S STORE — STREET FLOOR
BELK BROS.

Thurs. & Fri. Dec. 6th & 7th “DISPUTED PASSAGE”
Saturday, Dec. 9th “WHAT A LIFE”
Mon. & Tues. Dec. 11th & 12th “RULERS OF THE SEA”
Wednesday, Dec. 13th “SECRETS OF DR. KILDARE”
Thurs. & Fri. Dec. 14th & 15th “THE REAL GLORY”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Charlotte, N. C.

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL
From:
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.
