Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Hi-Y Clubs Will Visit New York
Local Hi-Y Group Elects Officers and Plans Trip to World’s Fair

At its last meeting on Wednesday evening, April 19, the Hi-Y clubs of Davidson met at Phi Hall, and election of officers for the next year was held. There was also a discussion of the plans for the coming visit to the World’s Fair. The officers selected were: Joe Johnson, president; Ellis Allen, vice president; Wayne Gamble, secretary; and Jack Griffin, treasurer.

To Visit Fair
Also at the meeting, plans were made for the visit of the club to the New York World's Fair during the summer. All the members of the club expect to travel to New York for the Fair, and the small details of the trip were discussed and cleared up. Since there was no new business to be discussed, the meeting was adjourned by the new president of the club, Joe Johnson. As usual, this meeting was under the supervision of “Casey” Jones, who is in charge of the Boys’ Work department of the “Y.”

Three Return From Florida
Bob Benfield, Harry Gasteiger, and Jim Armstrong have just returned from a week's stay in Jacksonville, Fla., where they were taking entrance examinations for the United States Naval Air Corps. Only very minor defects kept the boys from passing the exams. Benfield had tooth trouble, Gasteiger had slight eye trouble, and Armstrong was overweight. Only one boy out of 18 was able to pass the examinations as a perfect physical condition is required by the Navy. However, all three may be able to remedy their trouble and still have a chance to pass their exams.

FROSH VOTE
[Continued from Page One]
Grand, and Mickey Long were put up from the floor. In the race for secretary-treasurer, the committee named Barnhardt, Wooten, Rowe Driver, Dick Hudson, and Jim Owen. Pat Rudolph, Bill Loy, Ed Scott, and Davis Thomas were nominated from the floor.

Succeeds Bahnson
Marsh, the new president, will succeed Hank Bahnson of Winston-Salem. He was a forward on the freshman basketball team and a member of the freshman football squad. Caldwell, who will succeed John King of Johnston City, Tenn., is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and is from Spartanburg, S.C. Wooten is from Chattanooga, Tenn., and will succeed Bobby Williams of Greensboro. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

SCHOLARSHIP AWARDED
[Continued from Page One]
the Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society and a student member of the American Chemical Society. In addition, he belongs to Alpha Chi Sigma, chemical fraternity, and was editor of the Rho chapter paper, the Rosette.

Davidson Career
During his Davidson career, Vowles was very active in campus activities. He held the David Howard scholarship in Chemistry, and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. For his work on the Davidsonian, he was made a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He was also president of the publication board, a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and belongs to the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He is a son of Dr. and Mrs. Guy R. Vowles of Davidson.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]
The usual feed was held Sunday night, and the chapter welcomed Brother Robinson back from the infirmary.

Spring Recital Held
On Monday evening, April 24 at 7:30, the annual spring recital of piano and organ students took place in the auditorium of Chambers. These were the students of Louise Nelson Pfohl, Professor James Christian Pfohl, and Professor Thane McDonald. The following appeared on the program: Piano, Earl Copes, Alwyn Burns, Jean Wine, Roy Suber, Leonard Fisher, Ted Leinbach, and Donnell Davidson; Organ, Miss Della Parker, Philip Edwards, Roy Suber, Alwyn Burns, Donnell Davidson, and Joe Hopper.

Phi Gamma Delta
Henry Baker, Tom Harnsberger, Bob Kellogg, Rut Miller, and Archie Taylor attended the track meet with University of Virginia in Charlottesville. Wilson Northcross, Dick Shore, and George Jones went to Chapel Hill on the tennis trip. The chapter regrets that Mac Otts will be away from the campus due to a leg injury. Miss Jane Montgomery of Queens College visited the chapter Sunday.

Pi Kappa Phi
Brothers Cooper, Hemphill, and Niven went to Wake Forest and State accompanied by the baseball team. Brother Niven stopped on the way back at his home in Albemarle. Brothers Davidson and Bumbarger went to Flora Macdonald where Brother Bumbarger went on a yacht party. Tau chapter at State played host to Brothers Woodward and Garvey who spent the weekend in Raleigh. Brother Lawson took in the Spring Frolics at Carolina. Brother Suttlemyer went to his home in Hickory. Brother Herring went to his home in Roseboro. Brothers Lokey and King went on a house party at Barium Springs given by a group of Queens students. The weekend ended with a visit by Miss Betty Bartlett to the chapter and a feed Sunday night.

Phi Delta Theta
The weekend with summer weather took a few of the brothers off the campus to various places. Brother Kenyon went to his home in Gainesville, Ga., to attend his sister’s wedding on Saturday, while Pledge Brother Burton spent the weekend in Washington, D.C., and Brother Hatcher journeyed to his home in Fayetteville. Among those visiting the Queen City were Brothers Driver, Legrand, Dunlap, Terrell, MacArthur, Morrison, Moore, Withers, Verner, Wells, Scarborough, and Rudolph. Brother Marquess journeyed to unknown places while Brother Boyd, Lee, Harmon, and Beaty attended the Clemson dances. Brothers Lillard and Beall made their weekly pilgrimages to Salisbury and Red Springs respectively, the latter being accompanied by Brother Chalk. Brother Glenn spent the weekend in Spartanburg; Brother Ludlam in Salisbury; Brother Rein in unknown places.

ATHLETIC FRAT
[Continued from Page Three]
would be eligible for varsity competition. Anyone interested in trying out for this honorary fraternity please see Coach Whittle and watch for chapel announcements.

SOFTBALL AND HORSESHOEGROUP (Continued from Page Four)

coming to a close, and with it the nine fraternities are putting on last-minute efforts to be among this season’s leaders. Thus far the Phi Gams are leading the field by a small margin, with the Phi Delts in second place.

GRADS TO GET JOURNAL [Continued from Page One]

to alumni: “Do you know their fathers?”

Foreman Is Editor

The April issue was edited by Dr. K. J. Foreman and members of the faculty will edit the Journal pending election of an alumni secretary.

NEWS MEET TO BE HELD [Continued from Page One]

There will be various conference and round-table meetings held. These will be concerned chiefly with the problems which confront college publications and the latest methods in journalism. Friday evening a banquet and dance will be given for the delegates.

hardt in Lincolnton; Brother Carter in Rock Hill, and Brothers Hunter, Tenney, and Turner in Raleigh. Among the visitors of the week were Miss Agnes MacArthur of Asheville and Hugh Harvey, Jim Bicknell, Charles Robertson, and Tom Norris, all of Toronto, Canada. The usual feed was held Sunday night at the house with several guests present.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Brothers Charley Sample and Fred Harbin went to Charlottesville with the track team. Brothers Fitzgerald and Edmondson went with the baseball team to Wake Forest and State. Visiting over the weekend were Brothers Hay at Columbia and Mullin at Greensboro. Brothers MacDaniel and Galbreath visited their homes over the weekend. Brother T. P. Porter went to Albemarle. Visitors over the weekend were Professor and Mrs. Kimbrough for dinner Sunday and Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Hay at the house Sunday afternoon.

Today & Thurs.
Sylvia Sidney
Fri.-Sat.
Paulette Goddard
Mon.-Tue.-Wed.
Louise Rainer
Leif Erickson
“BURN 'EM UP O’CONNOR”
“ONE THIRD OF A NATION”
Dennis O’Keefe
Cecilia Parker, Harry Carey, Nat Pendleton
Sportlight and Musical Short
News
ROXY THEATRE
CHARLOTTE

... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos ... they’re MILDER and TASTE BETTER

FRESHMAN DEBATERS [Continued from Page Three]

night the boys will have a double-header debate at Asheville high school. They will then move on to Maryville, Tenn., tomorrow afternoon for a debate with the high school team. That night the team will be in Knoxville, where they are now trying to arrange a meeting with the high school debating society. Friday will find the Freshmen at Sewanee Military Academy. Saturday they go to Atlanta for a double-debate with Emory Freshmen that afternoon. The two double-debates will be run off simultaneously. Crook and Winn will engage two members of the opponent’s team while Driver and Summers oppose two other members in a separate hall.

WILDCAT BASEBALLERS [Continued from Page Four]

two singles in four trips to the plate.

Lose to Lenoir-Rhyne

Last Tuesday the Cats lost an engagement to Lenoir-Rhyne by the close score of 9 to 7. “Hayseed” Thomas pitched a good game for Davidson but was the victim of his teammates’ errors. J. D. Hicks led the Wildcat hitters with a triple, double, and single in five tries.

BOOKS DEPICT [Continued from Page Five]

The New Western Front by Stuart Chase; Where Now Little Jew? by Magnus Hermansaan; Man’s Hope by Andre Malraux; The House That Hitler Built by Stephen H. Roberts; The War Against the West by Aurel Kolnei; and When There Is No Peace by Hamilton Fish Armstrong.

DUKE HOLDS [Continued from Page Three]

lege; and Dr. G. R. Vowles, Yankton College (S. Dakota). Saturday’s speakers were former President Eduard Benes of Czechoslovakia, and Dr. John H. Finley, editor emeritus of The New York Times. In a concluding religious service Sunday morning, Dean Willard L. Sperry of Harvard Divinity School preached.

A Penn College student is planning the construction of the world’s longest pendulum. It'll be 211 feet long.

A Brooklyn College undergraduates last year earned $136,844 doing odd jobs procured through the college’s employment bureau.

Wed., April 26, 1939

Colvin, Hendrick, and Horton Chosen as Other Officers by Society

At their meeting held on April 19 the Red and Black Masquers elected officers for the year 1939-1940. The men elected were: president, Ken McIntyre; vice president, Dave Colvin; secretary and treasurer, Harry Hendrick; chairman of the committees, Gordon Horton. These men will succeed the old officers: president, Ed Morrow; vice president, Shaw Smith; secretary and treasurer, Ken McIntyre.

To Present Play

The Red and Black Masquers are now staging the Noel Coward play, “Hay Fever.” This play is a three-act comedy set in rural English surroundings. The story is of a cultured but socially lacking family who have invited guests to their home for the weekend; each without telling the others. The cast includes Judith Bliss, Caddie Willis; David Bliss, Warren Gaw; Sorel Bliss, Kalista Hood; Simon Bliss, Ed Morrow; Myra Arundel, Susie Jackson; Richard Greatham, Tom McLean; Jackie Coryton, Gladys Scott; Sandy Tyrell, Dick Cobb; Clarence, Bill Summers. Miss Caddie Willis, who plays the leading role as Judith Bliss, has been active in dramatics both at Queens-Chicora College and in the Little Theater. The last productions which the Red and Black Masquers presented were given November 3. The plays were as follows: “Where the Cross Is Made,” a tragedy by O'Neill; “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” a comedy by A. A. Milne; and “The Valiant,” a tragedy by Hall and Middlemack. The leading roles in these were played by Dave Colvin, Melvin Means, and Dick Hudson.

CRACK DAVIDSON [Continued from Page Four]

expert stroking of Aiken and Smith. Long rallies featured the first two sets, the Davidson lads winning the first, 7-5, and losing the second, 5-7. The last set was won by the Furmans from the tired Wildcat courtmen by the score of 6-2. Northcross and Jones won another three-set thriller, outlasting their opponents to win 7-5, 5-7, 6-1.

Ken McIntyre Heads Masquers Next Year

Library Group Meets

Professor C. G. Davidson went to Raleigh for a meeting of the Committee on Co-ordination of College Library Research of the North Carolina Library Association on April 15. The committee discussed the possibility of compiling an index of North Carolina periodicals. This index would be similar to the Reader’s Guide, except that it would deal entirely with North Carolina magazines. Professor Davidson stated that there was a great need for an index of this sort. However, the plan was just discussed; no definite action was taken on the matter. Professor Davidson suggested that all College Libraries deposit all of their duplicate material in a central place for the purpose of exchange. However, this plan was not found practical.

THEATRE GUILD [Continued from Page Three]

of the campus’ dramatic authorities. The Theatre will send invitations throughout the coming series to any students who have shown unusual aptness and ability in dramatic and radio work for various parts in the dramas which may arise. The membership of this enterprise will absolutely be restricted to those charter players and anyone showing valuable talent during the next few weeks of production.

COUGHS TICKLE Huskiness Due to Colds

MEDICATED BATH GIVES QUICK RELIEF

Tormented with throat huskiness, dryness, coughs due to colds? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth. It bathes tender throat tissues with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes, and comforting relief comes fast. Because Vicks are really medicated ... medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub ... famous for relieving discomforts due to colds.

MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

At the New York World’s Fair ... Captain Nancy Lowry and her Guides will show millions their way around. And at the Fair ... or wherever you go ... Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is showing millions the way to more smoking pleasure. When you try them you’ll know why Chesterfields give smokers just what they want in a cigarette ... more refreshing mildness ... better taste ... more pleasing aroma. THEY SATISFY