Combine Council Acts On Z528

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

Che Mabidsonian

LIBERTAS

Casali Wins Editorship

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1939 No. 23

TONI CASALI WILL PILOT THE DAVIDSONIAN

Native of Orient To Give Lecture On War In China

Lecture Committee Secures Dr. No-Yong Park to Speak Here

TO COME APRIL 12

Well-Known Author of Books on Far East

Speaking on “The Outlook of the Far East,” Dr. No-Yong Park will deliver a lecture on Wednesday, April 12, in
Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Park has been secured by the lecture committee to speak upon the Chino-Japanese situation. He is a
native of Manchuria who has traveled and studied in China, Japan, Europe, and America. He is also an author of
some repute, having written “Making a New China” and “The Retreat of the West.” The lecturer has received several prizes
for his study of international relations, including the International Essay Contest, open to all foreign students in American colleges, the
Harris Political Science Prize, and the Pillsbury Oratorical Contest at the University of Minnesota. His first-hand study of Far Eastern
affairs has made him a complete master of the subject.

Born and raised in Manchuria, Dr. No-Yong Park studied both in China and Japan, and afterwards received his Western education
in Europe and America. He was awarded his Ph. D. degree at Harvard. For the past few years, he has
devoted his time to lectures concerning the plight of his homeland, China, as they strive to resist Japan. Although he
is a native of China, he is able to talk without force of bias or prejudice because of his broad
training and varied experiences on many continents. Dr. C. K. Brown, chairman of the college lecture committee, announced that Dr.
Park had been secured in line with the committee’s policy to secure outstanding speakers upon various foreign problems. On February
20, Maurice Hindus spoke here upon the central European situation.

Frat Picks Leaders

On Monday, April 3, at 7:15 in Professor Fulcher’s classroom, the Sigma Pi Sigma fraternity held its regular weekly meeting,
at which an election of officers for the following year was held. Bud Gilmore was elected president of the chapter
of the national physics fraternity here at Davidson, Rufus Allison was elected vice-president, and John Hay was chosen secretary and
treasurer of the group.

National Convention

It was also decided that several members of the fraternity should attend the national convention of Sigma Pi Sigma fraternity
to be held on April 6, 7, and 8 at Ohio State University. Those who will attend the convention will
be Rufus Allison, Bill Page, Walter Kuntz, Bud Gilmore, and John Hay. At the last meeting of the group on
March 20, several new men were initiated, among them were Dan Cagle, Vance Myers, Herbert H. Swasey, W. C. Gilmore,
and John Hay.

The University of Minnesota’s school of agriculture, first of its kind in the U. S., celebrated the 50th anniversary of
its founding this month. It is a school to help farmers improve farming methods.

To Lecture

Dr. No-Yong Park, a native of Manchuria, has been secured by the Lecture Committee to speak here April 12. He
will discuss the Far Eastern situation.

Club Honors Dr. Foreman

Professor Elected Vice-President of Group

Dr. Foreman, professor of Bible at Davidson, was elected vice-president of the newly-organized Teachers of Bible in North Carolina Colleges
at a meeting in Durham on March 20. Dr. Crum Binkley, of Duke University, was elected to preside over the
organization. Dean of the School of Religion at Wake Forest, Dr. Mason, will act as Secretary-Treasurer of the group. The
professors from all over the state met at a supper meeting in Durham, where it was decided that the group
will meet annually. It was understood that the organization may be expanded to include the state of South Carolina. The
particular purpose and function of this new group was not made public but it is assumed that these professors of
Bible in various denominational institutions throughout the state will meet to discuss various theological questions.

New Managing Editors Picked For Davidsonian

Bumbarger, Cauble, Dale, Liles, Watson, and Withers Are Rising Juniors Chosen

Paul Bumbarger, Tom Cauble, Andy Dale, Joe Liles, Ed Watson, and Lawson Withers, six rising juniors, were named next year’s
managing editors for the Davidsonian at elections held Tuesday, March 23. Dale will serve in the special capacity of sports
editor. All six of these men will be eligible for the office of editor of the publication their senior year.

Paul Bumbarger is from Hickory and is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity. He is also a member
of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, and is engaged in numerous other campus activities. Tom Cauble is from
Winston-Salem and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He has also been active in the Beaver and
Journalism clubs, as well as freshman athletics. Among the activities of Joe Liles, from Wadesboro, are the Journalism club and
Le Cercle Francais. Ed Watson, from Charlotte, is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and has been
active in various other connections on the campus. Andy Dale, from Columbia, Tennessee, is a member of Phi Delta Theta,
social fraternity, secretary of the Journalism club, and active on the annual staff. In addition, he made his numeral in
freshman baseball. Lawson Withers of Winston-Salem, has put in a great deal of time and effort in the school publicity
department since the resignation of Fred Smith. He is a member of Phi Society and the Journalism club. These six
sophomores were elected by an electing body composed of the present editor-in-chief and the six retiring managing editors. The electing
body had fifteen men to choose from, only those who [Continued on Page Six]

Council Acts To Clear Up Combine Hint

Student Council Stops Elections for Consideration of Complaints

In his speech in chapel Monday, Fred Stair, president of the student body, revealed the past actions of the student
council on rumored reports of combines. During the last three elections, the council has received four reports of unions on
the campus. As was the duty of the group, the student council took immediate action. In the middle of the
Davidsonian election, they proposed an amendment to the constitution which provided for the editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian to be elected
by the editorial staff of this publication. However, the amendment failed to pass the student body’s approval. Too, he clarified
the accused parties who were not found guilty of combine. Stating the definition of a combine, this term proved to
include non-fraternity organizations as well as social fraternities. The definition reads: “Any individual or group influencing or swapping votes for
any particular candidate or candidates in return for past or future consideration.” He further stated that the election of the
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian would continue and the run-off between Casali and Abernathy would be held on Tuesday, April 4.

Davidson Men Take Trip To IRC Conclave

Liipfert, Gilliam, and Simmons to Attend Southeastern Conference

Eugene Liipfert, Dan Gilliam, and Frank Simmons will attend the sixteenth conference of the Southeastern International Relations clubs, scheduled to
start tomorrow at William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. These three students have been chosen to represent the local club at
the conclave, the theme of which will be “A Foreign Policy for the United States.” The conference, according to literature
received by the local group, will be the best and largest of its kind ever to be staged. The program
includes such speakers as Virginius Dabney, editor of the [Continued on Page Six]

Band Plays At Concert

Program Given at Morganton High School Friday Night

The Davidson College Symphonic Band left last Friday afternoon at 3:15 for Morganton to play a concert that evening under
the sponsorship of the Morganton High School Band. After their arrival in Morganton, the band-members were entertained at various houses
of townspeople for dinner. At 8 o'clock, the concert was presented in the auditorium of the High School. The following
numbers were rendered by the band: “Chorale: Komm, Susser Tod” by Bach, “Overture to Stradella” by von Flotow, “Schwanda, the
Bagpiper” by Weinberger, “Perpetual Motion” by Strauss, “Variations on the Theme Pop Goes the Weasel” by Bloom, “The Great Gate
of Kiev” by Moussorgsky, “Elsa’s Procession to the Cathedral from ‘Lohengrin’” by Wagner, “Paraphrase on the Theme of the Sunken
Cathedral” by Debussy, “The Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa, and “O Davidson.”“Song of the March” by Javou, “Pictures at
an Exhibition” by Moussorgsky, and “Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa. The concert was concluded with “El Capitan” by Sousa.
During the intermission period, two numbers were rendered by the Band Quartette. Mr. Davidson Cunningham, director of the Morganton High
School Band, and Mr. A. Moreland of Davidson College conducted the program.

Plan Summer School
Prof. F. K. Fleagle has announced that the annual summer session of Davidson College will open on Wednesday, June 14,
and will continue for six weeks until Friday, July 21. As in the past, six hours of credit is the
maximum that students will be allowed to earn at this session. Classes will be held five days a week, and
each class will last seventy-five minutes.

In conjunction with the summer session, Professor James Christian Pfohl will hold his annual music-school camp. This annual camp for
younger musicians will be in session from June 19 to July 28.

This resolution was given in letter form to each fraternity on March 2, and each fraternity reported that it had
voted in its meeting that week to abide by this request. In the last balloting of the YMCA election and
the first two votes for editor of The Davidsonian, numerous complaints of violation of the above agreement were registered with
council members. Compiling all feasible reports and acting on the authority of the above quoted clauses of our constitution, the
student council found four current rumors and proceeded to stop the rumor by not only hearing testimony from representatives of
each of the groups involved but by also checking on the specific votes of each group for each candidate in
all of the contested balloting. Rumors of the council’s investigation aroused certain groups to an appeal, and accordingly, the student
council gave these groups a thorough investigation.

Students Are To Show Art
Second Annual Exhibit Will Open on April 17
The Second Annual Student Art Exhibit will open at the Social Center on Monday, April 17. It will be sponsored
by the Department of Fine Arts and will be under the direction of Gordon Horton. Valuable cash prizes will be
awarded for the outstanding entries in each of several classifications. These will be given by the college. At present, sixteen
students have contributed to the exhibit. All others who are interested in entering specimens should see Gordon Horton at once.
This year there are over 50 percent more entries than last year, and officials of the exhibit expect a much
better show in every way. The entries will include oil paintings, watercolors, ink sketches, pencil and charcoal sketches, and burnt
etchings. There will also be pieces of Chinese and Japanese art, surrealism, futurism, cartoons, and portraits of students here.

Three Teams Maintain Northern, Southern, and Western Colleges
Davidson's debating teams have returned from extensive tours of several colleges in the south and east. All of the meets
were non-decision. The southern team, composed of Joe Calvin and Sherrard Rice, had their first debate at the University of
South Carolina in Columbia, taking the affirmative side of the query: “Resolved, that the United States Should Use Public Funds
to Stimulate Business.” The debate was broadcast over station WIS. From Columbia, the team went to the College of Charleston
but did not debate there. They took the negative side when meeting Georgia Tech at Atlanta. At the Berry School,
Rome, Ga., and at the University of Alabama, Rice and Calvin debated the affirmative side.

The team which invaded the north was made up of Locke White and John Reisner. Their first debate was with
Lafayette College and was held at the Y. M. C. A. in Easton, Pa. Davidson's team here took the negative
side of the query: “Resolved, that the United States Should Follow a Policy of Isolation Toward All Nations Involved in
Civil or International Conflict Outside the Western Hemisphere.” After an extension of the Columbia trip, they took the negative side
of the “pump-priming” question. The team journeyed to New Brunswick to meet Rutgers, taking the affirmative side of the isolation
question. Spring holidays were observed in New York. On the last debate, with Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va., the
negative side of the “pump-priming” question was again upheld.

The team making the northwestern trip consisted of Bob Ramsey and Dick Kenyon. Their first debate was with Centre College,
at Danville, Ky., where the negative side of the “pump-priming” query was upheld. At the University of Louisville, where the
only decision was rendered, the Davidson team won with the negative. In the Amphitheater of Oberlin College, in Oberlin, Ohio,
the affirmative side of the issue was theirs, as at Denison University. The final debate was with Ohio Wesleyan, in
Delaware, Ohio, where the negative side was taken.

Editor
Toni Casali of Welch, W. Va., will be next year’s editor of The Davidsonian. During the past year, he has
served as sports editor. He will succeed Bill Marquess of Decatur, Ga.

Election Is Held Up By Councilmen
Proposed Change In Election Methods Defeated by Student Body
On the twentieth of March, the Student Council passed an amendment to the Constitution of the Davidson College Student Body
concerning the election of the editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian. However, when voted on by the student body on Friday, March
31, the amendment failed to pass. This amendment was presented to the student body in chapel on March 21. On
Friday, March 31, when the amendment was voted on, the results showed that 234 had voted FOR and 284 AGAINST
the amendment. A two-thirds majority was needed in order for the amendment to pass. The proposed addition to the constitution
read: “The editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian shall hereafter be elected from the managing editors of the present Junior Class by
a committee composed of the present editor-in-chief, the associate editor, the managing editors, and the rising full editors of the
Junior Class.”

Room-Mate Gets Second In Election
Abernathy, Austin, Holland, Hudson Eliminated in Three Ballots
Toni Casali of Welch, W. Va., will edit the Davidsonian for the school year of 1939-40, succeeding Bill Marquess of
Decatur, Ga., the retiring editor. Casali won out in the last ballot taken yesterday morning during chapel over his roommate,
Jack Abernathy of Gastonia, by a count of 313 to 211. These two men had reached the final ballot after
the other junior editors eligible for election had been eliminated in two previous votings. Abernathy will take Terrell Porter's place
as assistant editor.

The first ballot in the Davidsonian election was taken in chapel on March 17 between Abernathy, Casali, Jack Holland, Karl
Hudson, and Earl Austin. Sam Spencer, a sixth junior editor, had previously been elected president of the student body. On
the first count, Casali received 185 votes, Abernathy 144, and Holland 106. Holland was eliminated on the second ballot held
on March 20, at which time he received 145 votes, Abernathy 153, and Casali 226. At this point, the student
council halted the election to investigate rumors on the campus, and the election was not resumed until yesterday. After a
thorough investigation, the council had failed to pin any guilt upon any particular group or groups.

Casali, a member of Phi Sigma Epsilon social fraternity, has been recently elected president of the intramural sports society and
has been active in both sports and fraternity affairs. He is a member of the Spanish club. When Fred Smith,
alumni secretary, resigned last fall, Casali took over the sporting department of this office. His brother, Odis Casali, also a
Davidson graduate, was editor of the student paper his senior year.

Caddie Willis To Star Here
Masquers to Give Coward’s Play “Hay Fever”
Plans are being made by the Red and Black Masquers for the production of Noel Coward's comedy, “Hay Fever,” sometime
near the end of April or the first of May. Judith Bliss, the leading role, will be played by Miss
Caddie Willis of Concord. Miss Willis was very active in dramatics while she was at Queens College last year and
also took part in some of the Charlotte Little Theater productions. The part of Judith’s husband, David, will be taken
by Warren Gaw. Sorel Bliss, their daughter, will be played by Kalista Hood, and their son, Simon, by Dick Hudson.
Other characters will be: Myra Arundel, Susie Jackson; Richard Greatham, McLean Scott; Jackie Caryton, Sandy Tyrell; and Clarence, the butler,
Tom Sherman. Gladys Means will direct the play. This will be the last three-act play presented this year; the first
one, given last spring, was George Kaufman’s “Dulcy,” in which Kalista Hood took the title role.
