Thurs., Nov. 9, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Twelve Denominations in Davidson Are Found

Question of the Week

Now that the much-needed Duke dormitory has been completed and put in use, students, faculty, and alumni alike are casting
about for suggestions as to the use of more of the funds from the centennial drive. A number of worthy
projects are on the docket for when more money shall be available. In order to sound out student opinion on
the subject, the Davidsonian has selected as the question of the week: What improvement would you suggest to be made
next in connection with Davidson's centennial program?

Fred Harbin, Senior: Davidson's next improvement should be a modern, well-equipped gymnasium. This gym should include a swimming pool. Davidson
is the only major college in the state that does not have a steam gym. We have an excellent team
but lack the facilities to develop it.

Ted Leinbach, Junior: A library should come next in the centennial program. Our present library is now not able to
hold the books we have; what are we to do with the books that we will get in the future?
The new building should be fireproof, for as it is now, should a blaze break out, the entire stock of
books would be lost forever. Studying conditions should be improved. The light now is not so good. With a new
building, there would probably be an increased allowance for literature and thereby provide the students with more parallel books as
well as current works.

Julian McCall, Sophomore: I think that the next improvement in the Davidson centennial program should be the construction of a
new gym. Davidson has needed a new gym for many years, mainly because the present gym is too small to
take care of the indoor exercise in the winter weather. The present gym is also too small to take care
of the crowds for intercollegiate basketball games, as Davidson students are the only ones able to attend, and there are
many outsiders who would attend these games but are unable. The present gym also does not furnish enough room to
accommodate a visiting team. Probably the greatest need is that our present gym is liable to fall in any day
now and injure a great number of people.

Walter Kunz, Senior: I believe a new chemistry building would be the greatest single improvement that the college could have.
Besides improving the looks of the campus, the new equipment would probably go a long way in making successes of
Davidson men in graduate schools.

Bill Lemmon, Junior: The next great improvement the college could make in line with their centennial program is to construct
a new gym. At present, Davidson has the poorest gym in all respects of any college in or below its
size or class. The need for a gym here is felt by every student, by most of the faculty and
alumni, and by all of the visiting teams that use the present "matchbox" termed some twenty-five years ago The New
Gym. If the school possessed a basketball court of standard size, it would undoubtedly improve the basketball team, which is
put under much more strain when it plays on the average court, which is much larger. The gym is not
available to the students for playing basketball because the varsity uses it in the afternoons and the freshmen at night
during the season. Even when the students not competing for the varsity team can get the gym floor, it is
not large enough to accommodate but one game at a time. The new gym, when built, should be long enough
to have three courts cross-wise and at least one main playing court for intercollegiate competition in the center. The proposed
gym should have a decent place for visiting teams to stay on the campus, instead of spending the nights in
nearby cities.

[Continued on Page Six]

DAVIDSON STUDENTS are ALWAYS WELCOME

THE WOODEN BOWL Just Off Tryon at Fourth

You Will Save Money Eating at THE LITTLE PEP Try Our Chocolate Pie With Whipped Cream Davidson, N.C.

Presbyterians Claim 405 Students, Methodists 102, Baptists 51

Davidson, far from being a school of, by, and for Presbyterians only, has now enrolled in her student body members
of twelve denominations. A survey made by the Registrar F. Hengeveld reveals that Davidson had during the past ten years
students representing an additional six denominations, bringing the total to eighteen. Presbyterians, however, lead the list with a total of
405 students. Second come the Methodists with 102. The Baptists come third, numbering 51 members of the student body. Next
in line is the Episcopal Church with 38, followed by the Lutherans with 10, the Associate Reformed Presbyterians with 8,
the Moravians with 6, the Christians with 3, the Christian Scientists with 3, and the Catholic, Congregationalists, and Disciples with
one each. To complete statistics on the entire student body, there are 17 students who are listed as having no
church affiliation whatsoever. The other churches which have been represented on the campus during the past ten years are: Dutch
Reformed, Friends, Mennonite, Jewish, Salvation Army, and Unitarian.

1929 ECHOES 1939

OF THE PAST

10 Years Ago: Four prominent seniors were tapped for Omicron Delta Kappa at the fall tap day exercises in Chapel.
The three-manual Skinner organ, which was formerly given to the College by Mrs. Sara E. Morrison, was presented to Davidson
by Governor Cameron Morrison, former North Carolina governor. A very impressive program in the Chambers auditorium took place. V. M.
I. defeated Davidson in a stubborn fight by a score of 12-6, despite the 55-yard touchdown run for the Wildcats
made by Joe McCall.

5 Years Ago: First Class Rating was given to the 1934 edition of the "Quips and Cranks" by the National
Scholastic Press Association. The publication won a total of 855 points out of a possible 1000. Captain Johnny Mackorell led
the Davidson Wildcats to an 18-0 victory over the Catawba Indians. Dr. A. D. P. Gilmour, pastor of Grace Covenant
Church of Richmond, conducted the fall YMCA evangelistic services. In preparation for the Homecoming game with Carolina, a big pep
meeting was called. The meeting was one of the most outstanding ever held. The features were a mass shirt-tail parade,
a tremendous bonfire, and a chorus of yells and songs.

3 Years Ago: A large number of Alumni returned to their alma mater to celebrate the one-hundredth homecoming of Davidson
College. The football team, band, and Frosh track team all performed for the occasion. Nine seniors were initiated into Omicron
Delta Kappa leadership fraternity at the fall tap day ceremony. The initiation was followed by a banquet. Jimmy Poyner and
his noted State College orchestra played at one of the most successful Homecoming Dance sets.

NCCPA OFFICERS FOR '39

Sherwood Staton Wake Forest College President Rebekah Fulghum Greensboro College Secretary Lura Self Lenoir-Rhyne College Vice-President Emory Carpenter Peace College
Vice-President Jones Pharr, Jr. N.C. State College Treasurer Steve Sailer, Executive Secretary.

Pictured above are the officers of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association for this year who officiated at their recent
meeting. The Association held its semi-annual Convention in Raleigh last week-end, Nov. 2-4, with N. C. State, Peace, and St.
Mary's Colleges serving as host.

Betas Win Decorations Prize For Homecoming

K.A.’s And Sig Eps Take Second and Third Places In Close Contest

At the last meeting of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Beta Theta Phi was announced as the winner of the home decoration
contest which was held last Saturday. The award was announced in chapel on Tuesday morning by Paul Marion, president of
the Council. Second place was won by the Kappa Alpha fraternity and third by the Sigma Phi Epsilon group. All
of the houses were decorated well for the occasion of the Citadel game which was homecoming, and the judges admitted
they had a difficult time in reaching a decision as to which house was the best decorated.

Betas Construct Circus

The Beta Theta Phi house, winner of the contest, was decorated to resemble a circus. The front was a tent,
and signs were hung appropriately as animal cages. All this was heightened by a background of calliope music and an
excellent piece of "Barking" by Charlie Sherman.

Three scenes were illustrated by the K.A.'s, the winners of second place; the first was the "Charge of the Light
Brigade" rewritten as

Pi Gamma Mu Honor Frat Celebrates Many Years Of Service

Pi Gamma Mu, the National Honorary Fraternity for Social Sciences, once again celebrates its many years of service. The fraternity
was founded in the fall of 1924 with the establishment of several chapters.and hostesses. Delegates from more than thirty leading
colleges and universities throughout the state attended the meeting. The organizer was Dr. Bert Allen. Rut Miller, former editor of
“Scrips ’n Pranks,” served as vice-president of the association last year. The convention got under way with the registration of
delegates on Thursday morning and continued until noon on Saturday. The journalists will meet again in the spring.

Dean and Professor of Religion at Southwestern College, Winfield, Kansas, and present executive Secretary, Dr. Charles McClintock, was the keynote
speaker. The next two scenes illustrated the Citadel's downfall. From the original seventeen chapters, the number has increased to nearly
one hundred and forty this year. Among its members are Dr. Edward A. Wood, Honorary National President Emeritus; Dr. S.
Howard Patterson, National President; Dr. Pitirim A. Sorokin of Harvard; and Dr. Irving Fisher, Professor of Political Economy at Yale,
and member of the National Advisory Council.

Pi Gamma Mu's purpose is to instill ideals of scholarship and social service in the study of all social problems,
and a scientific attitude toward all social questions. Incidentally, it aims at more cooperation between student organizations.

The Reverend Mr. Carl R. Pritchett, pastor in Smithfield, N.C., was the pastor for the evening vesper services held last
Sunday in the chapel at the Citadel. The Reverend Pritchett was introduced by the Secretary of the YMCA, Professor Chalmers
Davidson. The scripture chosen for the evening was the third chapter of Paul's Epistle to the Philippians, and the subject
for the sermon was the excellency of Christ as our Lord. Reverend Pritchett pointed out that men had, for years,
represented Christ as different types of men, young and old, rich and poor, but that no one knew of the
excellency of Christ better than the apostle Paul. Paul found in Christ the gift of righteousness, personal communion, and the
fellowship of suffering.

The library has recently received several bound volumes of Life Magazine, which will be available at the library. Professor Davidson
regrets that it will be necessary to keep these bound volumes in his office, as experience has shown that pictorial
magazines cannot be placed on open shelves. The magazine is available for use by request at the circulation desk.

This year's blazers, a tan basket-weave jacket, were selected by the senior class in a series of eliminations. The last
to be eliminated was a light blue jacket of the same weave. The class has also voted not to have
insignias on the blazer. Jim Currie, chairman of the blazer committee, stated that the selected blazer will be a tailor-made
sport coat with a three-button front, a full drape, and a single vent in the back. Delivery of the blazers
will take approximately two weeks.

A large number of seniors stated their preferences on the questionnaires, indicating that many blazers will be purchased. Delivery of
the blazers will take approximately two weeks.
