Thurs., Nov. 2, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Old Graduate AMONG THE GREEKS

Dr. McGavock Theatre To Present Gives Sunday Gives Lecture

The annual feed for the Betas and pledges enjoyed a straw ride in the country surrounding Davidson. A number of girls from Charlotte were guests for the ride and the game. Miss Elizabeth Hendrick of Cliffside and Miss Dell Blackstone of Winston-Salem, Nancy Campbell of Winston-Salem, Nancy Shaw of Charlotte, and Miss Rath Martin of Furman were also present. On this occasion, Dr. D. W. Richardson, Professor of Mathematics at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and a much beloved alumnus of Davidson, gave a lecture on “The Things Men Live By” at the Science Faculty Group meeting on October 23. Dr. Richardson chose “Topology” as his subject.

NYA Grades Raised

Dr. D. W. Richardson, Professor of Mathematics at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and a much beloved alumnus of Davidson, spoke on “The Things Men Live By” at the Science Faculty Group meeting on October 23. Dr. Richardson chose “Topology” as his subject. He explained that the N.Y.A. Committee, chaired by Dr. Cleagle, decided that students who received E or F and two grades of D on the first report are not doing satisfactory work and shall be released from N.Y.A. work during the month of November.

The text chosen by the speaker was from the story of the temptation of Christ in Matthew 4. The words are the words of Christ as He told Satan, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.” He went on to say that regardless of what a man desires, he cannot live on the fulfillment of his many appetites alone. He emphasized the importance of spiritual needs, quoting Kipling, “I want God.”

Theatre To Present Original Play

Dr. McGavock announced that the Theatre at Davidson will present an original play, “The Thing Men Live By,” for the first time. The play, based on the story of the temptation of Christ, will be directed by Pat Russell. The tentative cast includes Pat Russell, Ralph Wilson, and others. The play is expected to be a significant addition to the college’s cultural offerings.

Among The Greeks

The Betas and pledges enjoyed a straw ride in the country surrounding Davidson. A number of girls from Charlotte were guests for the ride and the game. Miss Elizabeth Hendrick of Cliffside and Miss Dell Blackstone of Winston-Salem, Nancy Campbell of Winston-Salem, Nancy Shaw of Charlotte, and Miss Rath Martin of Furman were also present. On this occasion, Dr. D. W. Richardson, Professor of Mathematics at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and a much beloved alumnus of Davidson, gave a lecture on “The Things Men Live By” at the Science Faculty Group meeting on October 23. Dr. Richardson chose “Topology” as his subject.

S. A. E.’s Week-End

Brothers Ramsey and McBright went to Winthrop Saturday night. Jonnie Smith, Ben Bulwinkle, Wilbur Edwards, and Miss Jane Holman visited the house Saturday afternoon. Brother Matthews went to Spartanburg for the week-end. Brother Thomas had a rip-roaring time at the fair Friday night. The pledges stayed with Spencer. Norris Erb, who visited Badin, spent Saturday night at Statesville. Brother Mason Wallace went to his home in Reidsville. Brother Bob Benfield (’39) of Concord also visited the house.

Phi Gams Entertain

Miss Betty Lumsden of Columbia, S.C., and Miss Rolly Cely of Greenville were the guests of Jack Holland and George Stowe for the week-end. Brothers Hemphill and Don Davidson were present for Saturday’s game. The Phi Gams entertained the Phi Delts with a hayride after the game. Refreshments were served at the house.

I. B. Group To Meet Nov. 6

The Faculty Science Group will have its next meeting on Monday afternoon, November 6. In accordance with custom, the group will have no set program. The Phi Delts were entertained by a feed and song fest at the house on Sunday evening.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

One of the major duties of the club is to provide sponsors for football games. These sponsors are chosen to highlight the weekend for the Phi Delts. A steak-fry and hayride, which was given after the game, was one of the major events. 

[Continued on Page Six]

One of the major points which are necessary for religion if it is to satisfy this universal desire in man, First, he said, religion must be reasonable. Religion must be practiced. It cannot be without reason. Secondly, it is necessary for religion to be practiced. It cannot be nothing. Religion must be eternal. 

The final point was that religion must be eternal. Dr. Richardson quoted from Masefield’s “Trial of Jesus” in connection with this statement. A soldier, speaking to Pilate’s wife, said that Christ was not dead—He was abroad in the wonderful world.

Among the visitors after the game were: Blanton Little, Olin Davis, and Dr. and Mrs. Shawmake. The regular Sunday visitors were: Doris Edgar, Martha Brandon, Ruth Hadley, Janie Knox, Dot McCall, Frances Thomas, Dot Rex, Paulette Goddard, and Virginia Brooks. 

The following girls were present: Peggy Curlee, Gentry Burks, June Burks, Carolyn Cooper, Alta Joyce Adams, Jean Lambeth, Jean Montgomery, June Scott, Rosemary Holland, Betty Crenshaw, Dot Cox, Brattie, Libby Jones, Jean Slaughter, Anne Guion, Meredith Jackson, Jean Welsh, Norma Humphries, and Frankie Cooper, all from Charlotte and Queens; Elaine Reagan, Asheville; Mary Dana, Hollins College; Winney Shealey, Gastonia; Florence Withers, Gastonia; Eugenia Cary, and others.

Many of the K. A. alumni dropped in at the house after the game Saturday; also brothers and friends from Furman and Washington and Lee visited with the chapter. Bob Abels and Coot Gladden came by the house for supper Sunday night as guests of Brother Cain. Miss Pony Monroe was at the game with Brother Jonas. Miss Ruth Burton visited Brother Watson. Misses Mary Sprint and Mary Best visited the house for supper Sunday night as guests of Brother Cain.

Brothers Squires and Clark went to their homes in Greenville, S.C., and Clarkton, N.C. respectively. Brother Yates and Pledge Brother Wileman Ehley left after the game for Greensboro.

The Pi Kappas had a hayride following the game. The brothers and their dates enjoyed the event.

A display of United States currency notes was shown in the display. Notes for silver dollars are also included in the group. W. C. McClammy’s stamps are from the United States and British colonies. Fractional currency was first issued in 1862 and discontinued in 1877. On exhibit are paper notes of three, five, ten, fifteen, and twenty-five cents.

Twenty-two states and D.C. are represented. I have always believed in magic carpets, but the idea that the moth-eaten specimen upon which I lighted every morning five minutes before class and under which concealed my clean socks from my roommate possessed supernatural powers had never occurred to me. I was falling out of bed the other night when I felt the carpet rise to meet me and bear me out the door.

I scarcely had time to wonder whether Scarlett O'Mara could stand a late date at that time of night before I was in Florida. The carpet nosed down and circled around a palm tree as it stated for my edification that Ponce de Leon's boys had nosed out the Tennessee representatives by the close score of 33-32.

I was growing slightly dizzy with all this criss-crossing by the time the carpet had wheeled over Alabama (46), Mississippi (8), and West Virginia (8). The rug seemed to be even more learned as we whizzed around Kentucky (7), Ohio (6), Arkansas (5), New Jersey (5), District of Columbia (5), and North Carolina, peering down at the "Old North State" through the darkness. "Did you know," said the carpet, which turned out to be a rather learned old rug, "that 360 of Davidson's 646 students are North Carolinians?"

Not being a statistician, I admitted that I didn’t. Immediately we whisked over the line to South Carolina. The erudite carpet informed me that no less than 91 Davidsonians had the sand of the southern sister in their shoes, making the second largest delegation.

Georgia ranks third, said the carpet, "There are 39 Crackers in Davidson."

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.