Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Jan. 18, 1939

Kemp Combines Class, Comedy With Charms
Saxie Dowell Furnishes Comedy With Hal Kemp At Mid-Winter Set

In the first place, a band must have plenty behind the ball in the way of rhythm and style to go over at Davidson. Then, in the second place, there must be a good-looking girl swinging the songs from the rostrum, and name me one student who doesn’t enjoy a little comedy every now and then. We have found out that Hal Kemp has all three of these.

Handling the comedy roles is Saxie Dowell, tops among the saxophonists. It seems that he got his start singing duets with his mother in Sunday School at the world-wise age of eight. Then, moving ever onward, he became a full-fledged member of a Durham, North Carolina, church choir. As fate would have it, his career was nipped in the bud, for he was forced into vocal retirement when his voice changed.

Prep School
Saxie then learned to really toot on the “sax” at McGuire’s Prep School in Richmond, Va., and then proceeded to organize his own band. Graduating from prep school, he entered the University of North Carolina where he met Hal Kemp. Joining up with Hal’s band, The Carolina Club, he thought he was on the way to financial independence but found that he had been sadly disillusioned. Their first “job” was a dance at Goldsboro Hotel and after the pay-off, they were forced to split $32.50 six different ways. Saxie has been with Hal ever since and takes first honors as the “comic.” With his 200 pounds, Saxie has

The “Saxie” Man
Saxie Dowell is another native North Carolinian in Hal Kemp’s band. He began his music career in a church choir in Durham and has been a member of the Kemp organization since his college days at Chapel Hill. He weighs two hundred pounds and is the leading comedy man in the band. He will be one of the main attractions at Mid-Winters. Behind his songs and his “cute” mustache waving in the breeze, he should start feminine hearts fluttering at Mid-Winters. P. S. He's a bachelor!

CAMPUS COMMENTS
[Continued from Page Two]
but one could hardly hear the Davidson stands when we were behind. Don’t lose the good old fight and be so dead! Wake up and be real Davidson supporters for your team through victory or defeat. Take defeat like a man—the same way the players do—and do so graciously! Win in the same manner and then, by golly, you will create such an overflow of that good old Wildcat spirit that our teams just can’t help but fight their hearts out for you. With such a spirit we can improve Davidson not merely in athletics (which is, after all, but part

DUKE COUNCILS
[Continued from Page Five]
It was also stated in this connection, that the Communist activities have reached a point almost unbearable to the true liberal. Nazism, Fascism, Voodooism, and other political theories are having a tough time of it, declared Johnson in a recent address. He further stated that he longed for that time when all politics would cease and the cause of Labor would rule the world. The speaker added

Deplores ‘Jitterbugs’
Are We For Or Against Swing; Notre Dame Publication Is Against
Little Appelin’, Little Peachin’ and all other similar types of jive “ought to be confined to the gymnasium, where muscular and physical exhaustion is in order.” So says Ave Maria, University of Notre Dame Weekly Publication. Whether to have or not to have dances where the “jitterbugs can shine” has long been a subject of discussion in the Davidson bull sessions. Some say that to really “get in the groove and truck on out” is the only way to get the full benefit of the rhythm of the music. This northern college publication entirely disagrees with this. “Jitterbug contortions are definitely out of place in the ballroom, where aesthetic and graceful movements of body follow the noble rhythms of music born of refined tastes rather than the tom-tom of the jungles,” said the publication. The university's Religious Bulletin, joining in the condemnation, quoted Archbishop Beckman of Dubuque, Ia.: “A degenerated and demoralized musical system is given a disgusting christening as ‘swing’ and turned loose to gnaw away the moral fibre of our young people. We permit ‘jam sessions,’ ‘jitterbugs’ and cannibalistic rhythmic orgies to occupy a place in our social scheme of things, wooing our youth along the primrose path to hell.”

CITY HEAD IS HOST
[Continued from Page Three]
is located, its status in educational fields, and the manner in which it was founded. He commented on the fact that students come from 22 states and foreign countries and number 664 this year. Dr. Brown told of some of the courses and types of work done in the economics department and the related fields of work. Mr. Jackson spoke of the financial side.

QUEENS GIRLS
[Continued from Page Three]
at which time the remaining second semester officers will be elected and the new president inaugurated.

Allen Will Be Star Vocalist
Kemp’s Band Judy Starr Will Assist In Vocal Selections
Bob Allen and Judy Starr will share the vocalist spotlight in the forthcoming Davidson Mid-Winters. No one can tell whether more male hearts start throbbing when Judy turns loose her personality on a song or if a greater number of the “weaker sex” feel their hearts turn flip-flops when Bob sings in his romantic manner. There is one sure thing, though, and that is that both of them have a decided effect on the college dances.

Allen, a baritone with Hal Kemp’s orchestra, is a typical American youth if ever there was one. He was born in a little Ohio farming town, Allendale, in 1913. His early schooling was acquired in a one-roomed schoolhouse, and later he attended high school in Cincinnati and also studied music at the Cincinnati Conservatory. His earliest ambition was to be a railroad engineer, but taking part in local amateur affairs and later singing over a small Cincinnati radio station fired his ambition to be a singer.

School Days
During his high school years, he worked afternoons and evenings in a drug store in “Cinci.” Then he met Ben Bernie, who was appearing at a Cincinnati Theater, and the Ole Maestro put Bob on the stage. At the end of the week, Ben advised Bob to go to Chicago and seek his fortune. Bob obtained a two-day leave from his drug store job, bought a round trip ticket, and set out for Chicago. In the Windy City, he applied for an audition where Hal Kemp's band was playing, and was given a hearing. He immediately won the job and hasn't yet used the return half of his ticket to Cincinnati. Since that day in November 1933, he has been an important member of the Kemp group.

WILDCATS RANK IN LOOP
[Continued from Page Four]
Duke 2 2 254 235
VMI 1 1 76 78
Virginia Tech 1 2 65 77
N.C. State 1 4 208 280
Richmond 1 2 90 105
Furman 0 3 100 144
South Carolina 0 3 108 136
Clemson 0 1 18

Bob Allen’s ambition was to be a railroad engineer but success with Hal Kemp in his first professional audition changed his mind. Since then he has been one of the great favorites.of dancers all over the nation. Allen will be a highlight on Kemp’s program here during Mid-Winters.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Harvard man Gordon M. Riggs claims he isn’t the Hercules of collegeland—but he proved he at least had a Herculean sense of humor when he made that statement. In case you haven't heard about Gordon M., you'll lift your eyebrows a notch or two when you learn that he can twist an iron rod into the shape of a pretzel barehanded. Listen to him: “Of course I do knot up an iron bar now and then and I have lifted four men weighing more than 600 pounds, but I don’t think I’m much stronger than the average college student. I put my fist through the wall over there, but the plaster must have been kind of soft.” Yes, just like that, he wins our plaster pusher gonfalon!

* * * *

Believe it or not, the day when “ponies” for foreign language classes will be formally okayed by the faculty is fast approaching. You who slave over those difficult translations will be interested in knowing that Instructor Nathan Susskind of College of the City of New York has proven with tests that students who use approved ponies learn a foreign language faster than those who don't. All be straight A’s pretty soon! Riding ponies to

From Campus To Campus

Philadelphia, Pa. — (ACP) — A new and novel education program has been established by the Society of Friends, a program that calls for a series of “peace retreats” for college students in various sections of the U.S. At these retreats, students will plan peace activities for the year, and delegates will assume responsibility for leading campus-wide peace programs in addition to an off-campus program.

* * *

Cambridge, Mass.—(ACP)—War scares and international crises have brought enrollments in military and naval training courses to new highs. At Harvard University here, undergraduates are flocking to the two courses, with naval science enrollment almost double that of a year ago and military science registration up more than a third.

* * *

A new high in college and university enrollments has been set this fall with an increase over last year of 4.8 percent, preliminary registration surveys reveal. Increase in college registration in 1937 over 1936 was 3.9 percent, but the largest sectional increase this year was in the south, where the gain was 5.7 percent. Eastern college enrollments have increased 5.2 percent and the west 4.3 percent. Increases last year were 3.3 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively. Most colleges and universities also received a larger number of applications than heretofore, but many have set up rigid requirements that limit the number of those accepted.

* * *

Ithaca, N. Y.—(ACP)—Modern Americans still like their corned beef and cabbage with the odor left in. At least that is the conclusion of Cornell University’s Prof. C. H. Myers, who has developed a new type of cabbage that does not give off objectionable odors when cooked. He came to his conclusion after surveying the sales reports on his new cabbage, which are surprisingly low. The reason for the lack of popularity, he believes, is the fact that the new cabbage is not well-known in the U.S.

* * *

Rockford, Ill. — (ACP) — The quaintness and atmosphere of the historic bookstalls of London have been transported to the U.S. and installed on the midwestern campus of Rockford College here. A unique program for the development of student interest in books is the reason for the novel bookstore, which is housed in a campus building. Each summer large quantities of old books are purchased in London and sent to the college. The plan was originated in 1935 when two faculty members purchased in London more than 1,000 volumes. Students may purchase these books, or read them in the Old Book Shop during their leisure hours.

* * *

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
[Continued from Page Three]

I don’t believe Davidson students will want to spoil the fine record the team is making or make them regret playing home games and therefore not being in their top form.

* * *

“The university must make deliberate, conscious attempts to tie itself into the pattern of American community life in some meaningful way if it is to justify its place in the community as an instrument for the protection and advancement of democracy.” New York University’s Dean Ned H. Dearborn urges higher education to pay more attention to adult education.

For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians

USE VA-TRO-NOL IN TIME—IT HELPS TO PREVENT COLDS DEVELOPING

Here's specialized medication for the nose and upper throat—where most colds start. Used at the first sniffle or sneeze—a few drops up each nostril—it helps to prevent many colds from developing... Even when your head is stopped-up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol clears away clogging mucus, shrinks swollen membranes—helps to keep the sinuses open—lets you breathe again! YOU CAN FEEL ITS TINGLING MEDICATION GO TO WORK

* * *

Intelligence must save itself by losing its pride. Better save life than any other thing.

* * *

STATE THEATRE
Wed., Jan. 18th.
“LAST EXPRESS”
KENT TAYLOR
DOROTHEA KENT

Thurs.-Fri., Jan. 19-20th.
“SPRING MADNESS”
LEW AYRES
MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN

Sat., Jan. 21st.
“ADVENTURES IN SAHARA”
PAUL KELLY
LORNA GRAY
HENRY GORDON

Mon.-Tues., Jan. 23-24th.
“THE CITADEL”
ROBERT DONAT
ROSALIND RUSSELL

* * *

Victor
Decca
Brunswick
Vocalion
Bluebird
35c-75c Each
Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

* * *

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

* * *

... the HAPPY COMBINATION (blend) of American and Turkish tobaccos in Chesterfield which gives millions more smoking pleasure. Chesterfield combines in rare degree qualities you’ll find in no other cigarette. In Chesterfield you’ll find refreshing mildness...better taste...more pleasing aroma. Its can’t-be-copied blend—a combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos—brings out the finer qualities of each tobacco. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure...why THEY SATISFY

Chesterfield ...the blend that can’t be copied ... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

of Marion, Ohio, chosen as the country’s most beautiful girl of the year.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.