Si ws “idelights NZ By ANDY DALE

Nine Goes On Rampage!

Davidson bounced back up from the depths of baseball’s mire last weekend as the nine nosed out Wake Forest 5-3
and then went on the next day to completely subdue State 9-3. Whereas the Cats have been receiving good pitching
with poor support from the infield, on this trip there was only one error committed; the remainder of the time
the infield was airtight as were the outer gardens also. No pitcher can go on hurling good balls when he
is continually disheartened by his teammates’ mistakes. Dave McLean gave up eight hits while his mates backed him up in
fine fashion, making everything count. The next day J. D. Hicks allowed 14 hits, but only three runs crossed the
plate and eight men were left stranded on the sacks, while others were caught at the plate or at other
bases by alert fielding. Sam Hemphill’s return to the lineup no doubt helped revive the ailing Cats, as he continually
hustles around the hot corner and holds one of the leading batting averages. Sam played errorless ball all the way,
but managed to get only one base lick, handicapped by his split finger, which is now enclosed in a special
metal cap. Both games came as sweet revenge for earlier defeats suffered by the Cats in other sports.

With The Track Stars

The track team reports a “fine time was had by all” at the University of Virginia on their weekend trip
there. Showing true southern hospitality, the school secured permission from local theatre owners for all the members of the Wildcat
team to visit the show free at any time during their two-day sojourn there. President Roosevelt’s presence on the campus
added another touch. Perhaps the gala affairs were too much for the track stars, for they went down 94-31 before
the Gentlemen from Virginia. Seriously though, the Virginians boast a crack team, and it was no disgrace to be beaten
by them. Several of Davidson’s top men lowered their times and lengthened their distances as they put out plenty, but
couldn’t quite top the ace performances of their rivals. Charlie Sample cleared 12 feet two inches in the pole vault,
just two inches more than the week before. Captain Boo Walker kept his record clear in the 880 as he
again came from behind to win in the stretch for the fourth time this season. The crowd of 3,000 on
hand saw the unique shuttle hurdle race in which two members of each team raced up a flight of hurdles,
touched their teammates, and sent them racing back down the same flight. It was an exhibition match, and Davidson borrowed
a man to run in it, but they showed up well in this rarely-seen race.

Here And There

The netters and golfers relaxed during the week, only one match being played by the court squad, and none by
the linksmen. The tennis team barely managed to keep their record unblemished further, after one earlier loss, as they nosed
out Furman 5-4. Golf interest centered in practice rounds in preparation for the State tournament to be held at Greensboro
on Thursday. That same day the tennis men take off to Raleigh for the State tennis tourney there. Softball vied
with horseshoes for intramural interest as the frats run off the annual round-robin affair with the shoes. The seniors continued
to pace the interclass loop with no defeats against them after barely overcoming the juniors by one run in a
hot game. At the halfway mark, they still appear to be headed for the championship.

Softball and Horseshoe Tourneys In Full Swing

The Seniors and the Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and Pikas are leading the field in intramural sports.

Kit Trackmen Beat Forsyth

No class softball teams have been able to dethrone the Seniors from their perch as champions. They have four wins
against no losses. The juniors have three wins and one loss, the Sophs have one win and three losses, and
the Frosh have four losses. Davidson's intramural undefeated freshman track team chalked up its third victory Monday afternoon, defeating the
Forsyth County squad 68 1-2 to 48 1-2. Dave Spencer again led the Wild Kittens in scoring with a total
of 12 points. Taylor and Freeze followed closely with 10 points each. The feature performance of the day was the
4:50 mile run by Forsyth’s North Carolina high school champion. Carpenter's 10.2 hundred, which defeated Davidson’s Spencer for the first
time this year, was also excellent.

Summary

Mile: Moore (F), Hitchcock (F), Sprunt (D). Time, 4:50.4. 440: Clinard (F), Loy (D), Foster (F). Time, 55:6. 100: Carpenter
(F), Spencer (D), Williams (D). Time 10.2. 120 high hurdles: Taylor (D), Williamson (D), Creech (F). Time 15.6. 880: Speas
(F), Watson (F), Turnage (D). Time 2:11. 220: Spencer (D), Carpenter (F), Williams (D). Time 23.5. 220 low hurdles: Taylor
(D), Shannon (D), Whiteheart (F). Time 26.6.

Field Events

Shot put: Knoeller (D), Bell (D), Yoder (D). 46 feet, 6 inches. Pole vault: Shannon (D), Strandwitz (D) and Hunter
(F), tie. 11 feet, 6 inches. Discus: Freeze (D), Knoeller (D), Copeland (F). 120 feet, 7 inches. High jump: Snyder
(F), Strandwitz (D), Williamson (D) and Voss (F) tie. 5 feet, 9 inches. Javelin: Freeze (D), Spencer (D), Strandwitz (D).
152 feet, 8 inches. Broad jump: McCuisten (F), Clinard (F), Spencer (D). 20 feet, 4 inches.

DAVIDSON SPORTS Wed., April 26, 1939

Tracksters Are Beaten By Virginia

Favored Cavaliers Trounce Cats 94-31. Woodward and Walker Win Firsts

Living up to expectations, the University of Virginia track team defeated Davidson 94 3-4 to 31 1-4 at Charlottesville last
Saturday. Outstanding performance was that of Frank Fuller, Virginia junior, who took the high hurdles in 14.5 seconds. Most interesting
events were the competition between Virginia’s captain Goodall and Davidson's captain Walker. Walker was a scant second behind Fuller in
the mile, and Goodall trailed Walker by only two or three seconds in the 880.

Summary

100-yard dash—Banta (V), Dayton (V), Mas (V). Time, 10.2. 220-yard dash—Dayton (V), Banta (V), Mas (V). Time, 22.3. 440-yard run—Scott
(V), Gray (V), Fritsne (V). Time, 53. 880-yard run—Walker (DC), Wheeler (V), Goodall (V). Time 2:42.2. Mile run—Goodall (V), Walker
(DC), Kellogg (DC). Time, 4:36.6. Two-mile run—Woodward (DC), Holm (V), Gammon (DC). Time, 10:14.6. 120-yard high hurdles—Fuller (V), Poe (V),
Harbin (DC). Time, 14.5. 220-yard low hurdles, forfeited to Virginia—Fuller, Poe, Stokes.

Field Events

Pole vault—Preston (V), Sample (DC), Sharretts (V). Height, 12 feet, 4 inches. High jump—Four-way tie for first between Perry (V),
Sharretts (V), Black (DC), and Iverson (DC). Height, 5 feet, 4 inches. Shot put—McLaughlin (V), Warden (DC), Miller (DC). Distance,
44 feet, 4 inches. Javelin throw—Yancey (V), Dinwiddie (V), Jones (V). Distance, 176 feet, 3 1-4 inches. Discus throw—McLaughlin (V),
Yancey (V), Iverson (DC). Distance, 122 feet, 4 1-2 inches. Broad jump—Lowrance (V), Iverson (DC), Gray (V). Distance, 22 feet,
3 1-2 inches.

Faculty Bows To 1939 Class

The class of 1939 completely subdued the faculty in the first Senior-Faculty day to be held Thursday on the Davidson
campus. Throughout the afternoon various athletic contests were held, with the seniors victorious in three out of four events. The
faculty golfers were the only team able to decision the class of ’39. All events were close, however, except the
baseball game, which the seniors took by a comfortable margin, 17-4. At 1:30 bowling began at Mooresville with the seniors
barely able to show a ten-pin lead at the end of the series. The lead seesawed all the way, with
neither team apparently much better than the other.

Softball Game

Faculty hopes went to a low ebb in the softball game played on the varsity diamond at 3:30 when the
Senior aggregation climbed to a large lead in the early frames of the contest, but later in the game the
professors got their eyes on the ball better and rallied to come within a three-point margin of tying the graduating
class forces in the last inning. Coach Shepard was on the mound for the faculty with Dr. Samuel Knight handling
duties behind the plate. John Tice hurled for the Seniors with John Latimer catching.

Softball and Horseshoe Tourneys In Full Swing

The Seniors have beaten the Frosh twice, and the Juniors and Sophomores once each. The Juniors have beaten everybody except
the Seniors. The Sophs have lost to everybody except the Freshmen, and the Freshmen have lost to everybody. The closest
game that has been played so far was between the Juniors and Seniors. The Seniors took a 3-2 victory.

Interfrat Horseshoes

In interfraternity horseshoes, the Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and Pikas are undefeated. The Betas, S. A. E.'s, Kappa Sigs, and
Pi Kappa Phis have won and lost one match each. The Kappa Alphas, and S. P. E.'s have won no
matches to date. In the first round, the Phi Gams defeated the Betas, the S. A. E.’s beat the S.
P. E’s, the Phi Delts beat the Pikas, and the Pi Kappa Phis beat the Kappa Sigs. In the second
round, the Betas beat the S. A. E.’s, the Pikas beat the S. P. E.'s, the Phi Delts beat the
Pi Kappa Phis, and the Kappa Sigs beat the K. A.’s. The 1939 interfraternity race is (Continued on Page Six)

DAVIDSON STUDENTS Are ALWAYS WELCOME PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE S. & W. Cafeteria Charlotte, N. C.

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. Ernest Ellison Robt. E. Ellison FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE 113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Varsity Nine Wins Two; Virginia Beats Cindermen PageFour Benched By Injury

"Swede" Johnson, veteran javelin thrower, last Saturday underwent an operation on his left elbow which will bench him for the
remainder of his senior year on the track team. "Swede" has been a consistent point-getter for Coach Pete Whittle all
year and his absence will be felt by the team. Besides track, he has played as a reserve basketball man
for three years, being used especially as a long shot artist.

Crack Davidson Netters Defeat Purple Hurricane | Davidson's Frosh Beaten

Wildcat Baseballers Defeat Deacons 9-3 Down N.C. State 9-3

McLean Hurls Cats to Victory Over Rival Baptist Nine

Wildcat athletes will be busy during the coming week with 14 contests to be held either on or off the
campus. The varsity baseball team will make a three-day swing through the eastern part of the state, playing Carolina once
and taking on Duke's mighty Blue Devils twice. The Wildcats return to the campus to oppose Virginia’s crack Cavaliers on
Monday.

The varsity tennis and golf teams will carry the Davidson colors in tournaments, the netmen in the State Tourney and
the golfers in the State Intercollegiate meet. Varsity cindermen will journey to Charleston on Saturday to oppose The Citadel in
a dual meet. The frosh meet Presbyterian Junior College on the latter's track.

Week's Sport Schedule

Wednesday
Frosh baseball vs. Presbyterian Junior College, here.
Varsity tennis vs. Wake Forest, here.
Varsity baseball vs. U. of N.C., there.

Thursday
Varsity baseball vs. Duke, there.
State Intercollegiate golf tournament, at Greensboro.

Friday
State tennis tournament, at Raleigh.
State Intercollegiate golf tournament, at Greensboro.

Saturday
Varsity baseball vs. Duke, there.
Frosh baseball vs. Greensboro, there. (Night game).
State tennis tournament, at Raleigh.
State Intercollegiate golf tournament, at Greensboro.

Monday
Varsity baseball vs. Virginia, here.
Frosh baseball vs. Reynolds High, here.

Davidson Stickers, each 10¢
Typewriter Ribbons 55¢
Dunlop Tennis Balls, can $1.10
Beach Sandals $1.40
Fraternity Stationery
License Plates, 2 for 65¢
Sweat Sox, per pair 20¢
All White
Two Tone
Punched for Comfortable Wear $5.00 and $5.50

GILMER MOORE COMPANY
116 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STUDENT STORE
ANNUAL SALE LASTS THROUGH SATURDAY APRIL 29th.
10% on all Pennants, Jewelry and Pipes
ALSO Given FREE with each $3.50 Pen or Pencil one box of stationery

STUDENT STORE Managers: BILL TELFORD

The Wildcats turned on the heat when it was necessary, and, although outhit, swamped N.C. State by the score of
9-3. State got 14 hits while the Cats were only getting nine off Green and Harper, but the difference lay
in the fact that Davidson played errorless ball while State made seven miscues. Davidson's big inning was the eighth in
which they scored four runs on a hit, three walks, and an error. The Cats’ defense was featured by four
double plays. Tubby Hand again led the Wildcat hitters with a double and two for five, while Sweet, Wake catcher,
topped the home team with two for four.

Greensboro Fields Well

Greensboro presented a fine fielding team which robbed the freshmen of hits on quite a few occasions. They, on the
other hand, secured 11 hits off Lucas and these coupled with five Kitten errors gave them their runs. On several
occasions the freshmen came near to scoring, with men on second and third, but the hitters failed to come through
in each instance.

The Badin Hi game was featured by the heavy hitting of the High School team. Austin and Dick were the
big noises in the visitor’s lineup, securing five for six, and four for six, respectively. Three Kittens were able to
garner more than one hit. Morris secured two for two; Owens two for five, both of these.

Last Saturday afternoon, April 22, the Greensboro High School tennis team played and won a match from the Davidson Freshmen
by the score of 6-0. The Kittens seemed baffled by the left-handed deliveries of Jamieson, Greensboro pitcher. He used a
slow curve and change of pace to keep the freshmen hitters continually in trouble. This was the first southpaw the
freshmen have faced this year, and they were able to secure only four hits with Yarborough, Carter, Lucas, and Clark
each getting one.

Jones Starts Wins

The local lads posted their first victory when Captain George Jones defeated Clark, 8-6, 6-0. Wilson Northcross won in love
sets over his opponent, while Loch Hunter won in straight sets by the score of 6-2, 7-5. The doubles matches
were divided, with Northcross and Jones coming through with a victory when a win was necessary to win the match.
Turner and Hunter went down to defeat before their opponents.

Bill Turner, sophomore ace playing in No. 1, who has lost only two matches this spring, lost a singles match
to Jim Aiken. Both played superb tennis, hitting brilliant shots throughout the three sets. Turner quickly jumped into the lead
and stayed there in the first set, 6-2, but Aiken came back strong to win the next two sets, 6-2,
6-4.
