Wed., March 8, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

French Club To Give Plays At Twin City
Le Cercle Francais Will Journey En Masse to Salem College

Le Cercle Francais, national French club at Davidson, has been invited to Salem College in Winston-Salem, Tuesday, March 14. The entire membership of the club is expected to go on this trip. Transportation will be afforded by professors and several private cars. The trip will be made on Tuesday, March 14. The plan at present is to have supper at the college, give three plays, and then be entertained by the girls. Plays to be presented are: “Partie de Bridge,” “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle” by Tristan Bernard, and “Terrible Affaire” by Louis Artus. The last play was selected over several hundred French plays after a very extensive search. It is a modern French comedy which has just recently come from France. “L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle” has been put on in years past and includes a veteran cast. “Partie de Bridge” is a curtain raiser. This is the first of the trips of the club this year, and marks the opening of the season at which time Le Cercle Francais takes trips to neighboring colleges for women. The club plans to visit Converse and several other schools in North and South Carolina later on in the season.

Church Hears Glee Clubmen
College Glee Club Sing At Winston Church

At the Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem Sunday, the Davidson College Glee Club presented a musical program at a Vesper Musical Service. The program consisted of the following selections: Prelude, “Reminiscence,” Riker; Call to Worship, “Bless the Lord Oh My Soul;” “Blow Trumpets Blow,” Rheinberger; Offertory Response, “We Give Thee But Thine Own,” MeDonald; “Adoremus Te,” Palestrina; “The Creation,” Richter; “With Heart Uplifted,” Schvedoff; Choral Amen, “The Lord Bless You and Keep You,” McDonald. Also in this program the Double Quartette sang “Our Father Who Art in Heaven” by Warner. The members are as follows: Dick Aycock, J. H. Beall, Jim Crook, Norris Edwards, Bill Hamilton, James McDonald, Arch Taylor, and J. K. Wilson. Appearing also at the joint meeting of the Young Peoples Groups, the glee club sang “It Is the Lord's Own Day” by Kreuger and “The Creation” by Richter.

Y Deputations Are Sent Out
Groups Go To Winston-Salem And Gastonia

Two Y. M. C. A. deputations were made this weekend, one to the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem and the other to the First Presbyterian Church in Gastonia. Composed primarily of the glee club, the students making the trip to Winston-Salem left Saturday morning and returned Sunday night. This group took part in the programs at the Sunday Evening Vesper Service and in the Young People’s meeting following. At the latter service Sid Crane and Wade Boggs made talks and Jim Crook led the group in prayer. Sherrard Rice headed the deputation to Gastonia and preached the regular sermon at the Gastonia Presbyterian Church. At this Young People’s meeting Shaw Smith made a brief talk, after which Joe Hopper and George Mitchell presented several musical selections.

Feed For Managers

On Wednesday evening at 9:00 the football managerial staff held a feed and social at the Phi Delta Theta house. The active managers held the feed in honor of the last season managers who were Cage Brewer, varsity manager, and Pete Marchant, equipment manager. Those present were: Cage Brewer, Pete Marchant, Charles Mashburn, Ross Gladden, Bub Coltrane, Ed Jackson, Jamie McDuffie, George Grantham, Glover Trent, Marshall Foote, Baxter Freeze, Frank Powell, Dick Rankin, Walter Wooten, Elmer Bishop, and Julien McCall.

Freshmen Are Found Guilty
Squires Threatens Yellow Caps for Freshman Campus-Breakers

At the regular semi-monthly meeting held in Phi Hall at 9:30 last Tuesday night, the Court of Control campused four freshmen until the Spring Holidays for breaking the campus restrictions set upon their class during the past week. These were Charlie Webb, Stanley McAfee, Norman Aarseth, and George Lilly. The sentences were pronounced during chapel Wednesday morning by Judge Squires, and the usual heckling came from the upperclassmen. Appeals have been made again and again to the upperclassmen for more support, but from the usual verbal comments cast upon the Freshmen in chapel, no other steps have been taken to remedy the situation at hand. Out of the ten Freshmen brought before the court in the last meeting, eight were turned in by members of the court itself. More cooperation by the upperclassmen is needed and the court asks that it be given in connection with the wearing of freshman caps and also in connection with the penalties imposed recently.

Warning

Here is a casual warning to the freshman class: any man guilty of breaking an individual campus sentence will either receive a YELLOW CAP or will be sent before the Student Council. It is imperative that all Freshmen get their caps immediately for a check-up will be made sometime in the near future. The caps are now on sale at the Student Store.

Magazine Has Questionnaire
Students Express Likes and Dislikes in Girls

A few days ago the Scripts and Pranks magazine sponsored a questionnaire which was given to all students in order to discover their taste about girls and their habits. Unfortunately, the Davidsonian was unable to snoop or scoop the results from Editor Miller, so these will appear in the next issue of the magazine. The questions were very comprehensive and were supposed to show exactly how the students felt about the opposite sex. Whether it was entirely successful in this matter or not is doubtful, for Mr. Miller hinted that 99 percent of the men preferred girls that drank. On the other hand, smoking was severely frowned upon. One very brilliant freshman on the staff of the Scripts and Pranks solved his problem by writing after the sentence, “I prefer girls that smoke their own cigarettes.”

Evening Gowns

It was also found in the final tabulation that Davidson men modestly prefer girls who make them feel like a mixture of Gable, Taylor, and Power. Strapless evening gowns are also much in vogue, while only a few declared themselves “indifferent” to this wonderful, chic, exquisite, daring, flaring, scaring type of dress. The questionnaire was as follows: 1. Preference as to girls’ schools. 2. Whether hair is better up, or down. 3. Do you like strapless or regular evening dresses, or are you foolishly indifferent? 4. Do you prefer regular or sport dresses? 5. What make-up is the best asset to a girl? 6. Are innocent (Continued on Page Six)

Smiles of the Conquerors

These Wildcats had a right to be happy; they had just beaten Washington and Lee to the tune of 43-32. This was a major upset, as Washington and Lee was seeded third in the tournament. Pictured with Coach Shepherd are “Little John” Tice who made nine points while limiting the mighty Pinck to only nine; and Footsie Cowan, Davidson’s consistent scorer, who accounted for seven tallies.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Writers’ Sigma Alpha Epsilon went to the basketball games in Raleigh. Brother Sloan went to Ficklen, his home in Durham. Brothers Harrison and Thomas were with the team at Raleigh. Brother Walker visited at Steele Creek, and Brothers Scott and Hudson attended the tournament in Raleigh. Pledge Rose went to his home in Smithfield. Pledge Hogg and Brother Means were with the basketball team at Raleigh. Pledges Squires and Coker went to Rock Hill, as did Brother Spencer. Brothers Hill and Scott Cooper went to their homes in Henderson, and Brother Barnhardt went home to Concord. Shining at the square dance in Davidson was Brother Jimmy Cooper. Brothers Hunter and Loftin went to their respective homes in Greensboro and Morganton, and Pledge Burwell spent the weekend in Charlotte. Brother McAlpine and Pledge Crook journeyed to their homes in Hartsville and Spartanburg.

Beta Theta Pi

Brothers Morrow and McAfee journeyed to Winston-Salem. Brother Benfield went to his home in West Virginia, while Brother Steere went to his home in Asheboro. Charlie Sherman spent his first week as a Beta pledge on the campus. To their homes in Charlotte went Brothers Fred Squires, McClintock, and Summerville. Brothers Balsley and Sharpe visited in Marion, and then journeyed to Washington, D. C. Pledge Dillard visited in Greensboro over the weekend. Brother Gamble went home to Lincolnton, and Brother Jones went to Durham. Brother Caldwell went home to Spartanburg.The week-end saw Brothers Holland, Brewer, and Ramsey Liipfert at home in Ellerbe. Brother Ramsey Liipfert went to Lynchburg and was visited by his brother, James, at Randolph-Macon. Brother Ramsey from Little Rock joined Jones and Shore at the basketball game in Raleigh. Brother Northcross was a vocal soloist while at his home in Fayetteville. George Matthews went home. Guests at the Sunday night feed were Dr. and Mrs. Johnson, Prof. and Mrs. Davidson, Dr. and Mrs. Knight, and Mr. and Mrs. Lockhart.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sid Daffin and Jim Chastain were pledged to Epsilon chapter last week. Brothers Tom Mullen, Jim Sample, and Toby Conyers attended the Kappa Delta outing in Charlotte. In Raleigh were Brothers Walter Fitzgerald, Charlie Sample, Ed Watson, Murray Harlan, and Rufus Plonk. Brother White journeyed to his home in Rock Hill, and Brothers Porter and Hamilton went on the Glee Club trip to Winston-Salem. In Charlotte were Brothers Keehlin, Powell, Porter, Galbreath, and Coghill. Brother Coghill returned in time to leave for Washington, D.C. Brother Phil Peyton journeyed to Randolph-Macon Woman's College for dances there.

Kappa Sigma
Brothers Gaw and Wyatt were at Brother Pittman's home in Charlotte. Brothers Jay Flynn and Barker were guests at the Kappa Delta picnic in Myers Park. Brother Hemphill went to Marion, and Brothers Lawson and Cooper went over to Raleigh for the tournament. Brother Ivey went to his home in Rock Hill. Blanton Williamson became a pledge at the regular meeting. Brothers King and Morgan went with the Glee Club to Winston-Salem. Brother Cooper extended his trip to cover Randolph-Macon.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS — Are —
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE
S. & W. Cafeteria
Charlotte, N.C.

Midnight Feed Is Feature of Sigma Upsilon Social
A special social meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, was held last Wednesday evening at the home of Professor and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson. The feature of the night's program was P. Cumming’s detective thriller, “Death in Nagoya.” Against a colorful Oriental background, the plot replete with all the elements of mystery and crime is constructed. Also included were a paper by Sam Spencer on sociological experiments being conducted at the College and the novel “Midnight Feed” written by Professor Hudson. Plans for the next meeting, to be held next Tuesday at the Phi Delta Theta house, include a selection of poetry by A. V. Goldiere, a story by Bill Holland, and a review of the novel by Dr. Jack Beaty.

Misses Louise Fant, Virginia Anderson, and Nancy Sullins, all from Winthrop, were guests of the brothers at the dances at Davidson. Brothers Marquess, Hunter, and Moore attended the tournament in Raleigh. Brother Rudolph went on the Glee Club trip to Winston-Salem and visited Pledge Carter over the weekend.

ALL LATEST HITS
On Victor, Decca, and Blue Bird RECORDS
Andrews Music Company
231 N. Tryon St.
Now in Knox Building

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N.C.

Davidson Men Gain Positions on Honor Roll at Carolina
Two Davidson graduates were among the fourteen law students making the Honor Roll at the University of North Carolina Law School. Named in the list released by Dean M. T. Van Hecke were J. K. Dorsett of Salisbury and W. O. Cooke of Greensboro. Both of these men graduated from Davidson College last year, where they made a fine record. Jim Dorsett was president of Delta Omicron Kappa, Editor of the Beta Kappa, and a member of numerous honorary fraternities. Owen Cooke was managing editor of “The Davidsonian,” on the Freshman tennis team, a lieutenant in the ROTC, and on the Dean's List. To make the Honor Roll at the University of North Carolina Law School, it is necessary to secure a B average. As only fourteen of the very large enrollment made the list, it is significant that two were from Davidson.

Muddy March Makes Methods of Walking Murky Muck Secures
By ALBERT WINN
Mud. Mean, murky, machinating, miserable, mucky, Mephistophelian mud. (Sue Noah Webster for any mental shock.) What a problem it presents, and the magnificent annual lion short-lived stunt, snow, and perpetual rain produce a display of mud. But is that by any means a problem? Another Davidson tradition relates to the mud problem, and students are never downed by it. They come through with flying colors. Witness the class we shall call the Brogan Boys. Mud hath no terrors for B.B. He treads blithely along in Grandpa's old high-topped shoes, oblivious to the fact that he is fording a veritable slough of despond which lies between Chambers and the dormitories. Once, so we are told by older students with keen memories, that bog was used for touch football. Interesting study, this ancient history.

Then there are the Fancy Forders. Their chief concern is keeping the latest thing in overshoes, galoshes, hip boots, and assorted footwear from getting so covered with mud that admiring freshmen (Continued on Page Six)

Essay Contests Held By Pan-Hellenic Group
College Students Compete for Honors
The Panhellenic groups in New York City are offering an all-expense trip to New York City to visit the New York World's Fair of 1939 for the best essay submitted by college students over the nation on selected topics. All entries must be in before May 15. The first prize, a trip to the New York World's Fair, includes transportation to and from New York and a week's all-expense stay at the Beekman Tower Hotel, New York's Fraternity center, built by the fraternity women of America. Second and third prizes will be cash awards of $25 and $15 respectively, including an all-expense stay of one week at the Beekman Tower Hotel but not railroad transportation. This essay contest is sponsored by the Panhellenic groups in New York City and has a number of nationally-known topics from which one may be chosen. The essay must be the work of a college student, and if he uses outside material, he is required to submit a complete bibliography with the essay. The essay may not be more than one thousand words in length. No student is entitled to submit more than one essay. The prizes awarded will be based on the selection of relevant material, coherent thought, and literary value. The essay must be typewritten, double spaced, on one side of a plain white sheet. At the top of the essay, the participant must write “this is my original work” (Continued on Page Six).

SPRING and SUMMER SUITS
Featuring COVERTS, GABARDINES, TWEEDS
From $22.50 to $34.50
Guaranteed Satisfaction
Strand Tailoring Company, Inc.
LOCAL AGENTS
W. B. HAMRICK, LAUNDRY

PALMERS’ — OPTOMETRISTS —
302 N. Tryon Street
A Complete Service
Examination - Glasses - Laboratory Service
Broken Lenses Duplicated
Bring Us The Pieces

Expert Barber
BEST HAIRCUT IN TOWN
Davis Barber Shop
Right by White Drug Co.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Wed., March 8th.
“THEY MADE ME A CRIMINAL”
Thurs. and Fri., March 9th and 10th
“ST. LOUIS BLUES”
Sat., March 11th
“YES, MY DARLING DAUGHTER”
Mon. and Tues., March 13th and 14th
“YOU CAN’T CHEAT AN HONEST MAN”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N.C.