Davidson, 4 March 1, 1939

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
Brother Burch went home to Burlington, while Brother Steer spent Saturday night with him. Brothers Morrow and Joyner went to
Winston-Salem and Kernersville for the weekend. Brothers Abbott, Squires, Bryant Summerville, and McClintock went home to Charlotte as usual. Brothers
Jackson, Walker, Armstrong, and Hickman made a general exodus toward South Carolina, including in their trip Converse and Winthrop. Brother
Phillips went to the mountains for the weekend. Most of the Brothers stayed here the past week with a large
majority attending the game Saturday night. A feed was held Sunday night with numerous guests from other fraternities. Several girls
visited the chapter Saturday and attended the game that night.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brothers Coltrane and Youngblood went home to Concord as usual on Saturday, while Suttenfield, Ed Scott, and Mickey Long went
home to Statesville. Brother Addison Long took in the Southern Conference Track Meet at Carolina on Saturday and spent the
rest of the weekend in Salisbury. The usual Sunday night feed was held, which most of the chapter attended. The
majority of the brothers stayed here over the weekend to see the Wake Forest game. Brother Jack Abels left Sunday
to go to Washington with the wrestling team.

Kappa Alpha
Brother Horton spent the weekend in Statesville while Brother Sherrin went home to Concord. The usual Sunday night feed was
held with a number of guests present. Brother McGavock of the faculty and alumni Brothers Jim Johnston and Sandy Moffett
attended. Brother Sam Spencer and Sam Newell went on a YMCA deputation to the Thomasville Presbyterian Church. The chapter is
sorry to report that Brother John King has gone home with a broken arm.

S.A.E.
Brother Bowers, an alumnus of Davidson, spent the weekend with John Latimer. Brother Springs Pharr, also a Davidson alumnus, spent
the weekend at his home here in Davidson. Among those who were able to slip away for the weekend were
Alex Erwin, who had a delightful time in Greensboro, Woodall who went home to Rocky Mount, and Pledge Brother Baxter
P. Rose, who spent the weekend at his home in High Point. Brother Pete Marchant was able to return to
Davidson from his home in Greenville, where he has been recuperating from a recent illness. A quick trip was made
up Winston way on Sunday afternoon by Brothers George Ficklin and Lem Kornegay.

Kappa Sigma
Most of the brothers spent the weekend on the campus, and the usual feed was held Sunday night. Brothers Black
and MacAlpine participated in the Southern Conference Track Meet at Carolina on Saturday. Brothers Burwell Robinson and Sherrard Rice both
went home for the weekend. Brother Bob Finley was the guest of the chapter at the Sunday feed, and the
rest of the brothers went to the game. Brother Pittman stayed on the campus and was heartily welcomed to the
first Saturday night supper he has attended in four years.

Pi Kappa Phi
A good many of the brothers went home for the weekend. Among these were Paul Bumbarger and Phil Suttlemeyer to
Hickory with Harry Hendrick as their guest, Bidwell Ivey to Rock Hill, and Frank Simmons took an extended trip to
his home in Tampa, Fla. Brother Hite went to Spruce Pine with the band, and Brother Flynn attended the dances
at Lenoir Rhyne. Brother Vincent Wyche went to Milledgeville, Ga., for the dance at the Georgia Women’s College. The parents
of Brother Ken Lawson visited the chapter for a short while on their way to Florida. Brother Gish returned to
Bluefield, W. Va., with his parents, who also visited here for a few days. The usual feed was held on
Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta
Most of the Fijis stayed on the campus over the weekend to attend the Wake Forest game Saturday night. Miss
Maujer Moseley, Miss Judith Killian, and Miss Nancy Hovis, all of Charlotte, visited the chapter Saturday. Brothers Ken Darby and
B. B. Plyler attended the Mid-Winter dances at Sweet Briar. A feed was held on Sunday night with several guests
from the Betas attending.

Phi Delta Theta
Brother Charlie MacArthur went to Rome, Ga., for the weekend, but the rest of the brothers patriotically attended the basketball
game on Saturday night. A large number of the brothers had dates up from Charlotte for the game, while Brother
Mashburn and Mr. Pool went to Charlotte after the game and dated. A Sunday night feed was held with a
number of guests from the faculty and other fraternities. Brothers Tenney, Vereen, and Sproull went to Rock Hill for Saturday
night to date. Brother Norman Stevenson went to Raleigh to see Miss Eugenia Carey, his aunt. Pledge Jim Owens went
to Asheville to the Asheville school dances. Pledge Glenn Terrell went to Greensboro, and the rest of the brothers stayed
here. Brother Tonnisson and Covington, alumni, visited the chapter and attended the game. Bobby Williams spent the weekend in Thomasville.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Brothers Casali, Heilman, and Hamilton went to Converse for the weekend and several dates. Brothers Keehlin, Mullin, and Galbreath attended
a party in Charlotte on Saturday night. Hiram White went to Spruce Pine with the band, and P.Y. Hay went
home to Hickory. Porter journeyed with the Glee Club on its trip during the past week. Most of the chapter
attended the basketball game on Saturday night. Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere and Professor and Mrs. Fleagle ate dinner with the
chapter Sunday.

A New England Rifle League has been formed for sharpshooting competition among colleges in those states.

Ex-President Herbert Hoover has been awarded a Doctor of Engineering degree by Stevens Institute of Technology.

Coe College’s new campus social center has been named “Coketail Lounge.”

Bucknell University English teachers are having their voices tested to aid them in making their lectures more interesting.

Illinois Adopts Point System of Co-Ed Rank
If you rate with the women, how do you rate your women? What is it that makes your best girl
your best girl? The University of Illinois has adopted a point system for rating its coeds. Each coed falls under
this standardized system, and woe is her if the points do not pile up!

System of Points
Zero for telephone calls from other girls. (This is just, because girls are very catty).
2 points for a letter from the boyfriend back home.
5 points for local male telephone calls.
7 points for long-distance male telephone calls.
8 points for weekend dates.
10 points to the girl if she attends a major dance.
15 points for a bid to a fraternity dance.
35 points for a legitimately or illegitimately secured fraternity pin (limit, 3 per week).

That’s how they rate them. Of course, the system is run on the weekly plan. If a girl averages 75
points per week she has to be in three different places at the same time. If she gets a score
of 50 points you are wasting your time trying to get her. A real queen gets 45 points. 40 is
good, no use denying it. 35 points indicates possibilities. Faint hope at 30 points, but under 25... Maybe the girls
and professors will still like her.

That’s how the University of Illinois students pick their dates, and Davidson students could learn a lot by applying the
scale to their girls. Many of the Casanovas would be surprised at the popularity of their girls. And, of course,
many girls would be disappointed when they were dropped. This systematized system of scores has another aspect, the femmes would
compete among themselves so viciously to hog all the points that the world would soon be blessed with a faster
and more fashionable degree of femininity.

Dormitories Opened To Guests
Shown above are several members of the Faculty with their wives and some of the Trustees of the College as
they paused a moment for refreshments in their inspection of the dormitories. This dormitory Open House is planned and sponsored
by the Senior class. The dormitories are opened once a year for the general public to inspect. Only those rooms
on the first floors are opened by the boys for inspection. Some of those identified above are: (from left to
right) Joe Calvin, Dr. Lingle, Professor McGavock, Professor Mebane and Mrs. Smith.

“Open House” To Be Had By Much Interest to Those Who Attend
Public demonstrations of interesting and unusual devices and apparatus will be the feature of the “open house” sponsored by the
honorary Physics fraternity, next Monday evening in the North wing of Chambers Building. Recent developments in the fields of electricity,
sound, light, photography and other scientific endeavors will be graphically shown to the general public in the physics laboratories at
that time. Weird and miniature thunderbolts, polarized light, visible sound, and other such wonders will be in store for those
who are in attendance. President Bob Benfield stressed the fact that the entire student body and faculty are invited.

Delta Phi Alpha met Monday evening at 8:00 at the home of Dr. Vowles. The program was dedicated mostly to
the hearing of book reviews by students taking the course in Advanced Reading of Contemporary German Literature. Several books were
reviewed. “The Flight Into Darkness” by Arthur Schnitzler was surveyed by Rhea Tenney, “Order in Chaos” by Walter Von Molo
by Burt Johnson, and “Mein Kampf” by Sam Webb, “The Disappearing Miniature” by Erich Kästner by Johnson.

College Frats Prove Worthy
Fraternities Justify Their Existence by Help Given Students
Are fraternities in general worth what they cost college men in time, money, and effort? Many good prospects fail to
join up because they fear that the organizations are not worth their costs.

Fraternities Under Fire
Fraternities have lately been under fire from many of the leading educational institutions of the country. Their critics, in reviewing
their past one hundred years, can certainly find enough faults to brand them as social butterflies. Scholarship, it would appear,
is the most distant thought of most fraternities; many of them discourage it. Also, in almost every campus there are
political rings woven about fraternities.

Fortunately, there is another side to the fraternities, or their existence could not be justified. In the choice of a
fraternity, if left up to the student himself, any normal student can get a bid, be it the rich, the
best-dressed man on the campus, a good athlete, or a drinker.

Students Helped
Fraternities encourage students to be good in their studies. They bring a student social life, something which if missed, they
will feel sorely. Dean Turner of the University of Illinois, one of the foremost educators, recently voiced these opinions in
an article. He stated that parents like for their sons to belong to fraternities because they feel that they are
in safe hands.

The disadvantages are few, the advantages many, and a student gets out of fraternity life exactly what he puts into
it.

Franklin and Marshall College has placed the four major student dances of the year...in its tuition charges. Sarah Lawrence College
has special courses for the institution’s employees.

Many fraternities help their members to work their way through college.

The University of Mexico has been under fire because the Mexican government forbids permanent residence of foreigners. All those delegates
who attended the conference were impressed with the country and the personality of the leaders. They continually spoke about the
way denominational leaders are disappearing on foreign fields. (Continued on Page Six)

GIRLS! Own your own business. Earn $75 to $100 per week. It is the beauty business. You can learn the
profession. Open your own shop with a small payment. We help you to succeed. New classes forming at Continental College
of Beauty Culture, HIGH POINT, N. C. Write and learn how now.

Physics Fraternity Recent Developments to Be Held by Sigma Pi Sigma, honor society.

Witherspoon Directs Vesper Worship Hour “Freedom From Sin” Chosen For the Theme and Thought of Message

Vespers on Sunday, February 26, were conducted by the Rev. Mr. James W. Witherspoon of Lexington. Rev. Mr. Witherspoon is
a graduate of Davidson and Union Theological Seminary of Richmond. The Scripture reading was John 8:31-48. The theme, true freedom,
was taken from John 8:34 and “Every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin,” and “If the Son
shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.”

Freedom Sought After

Rev. Mr. Witherspoon then pointed out that in the past freedom has been much sought after. Wars, murders, prison sentences,
and many other crimes have been committed in the name of freedom. There are many conceptions of freedom; freedom of
speech, press, assembly, air, economic, and political. But Jesus put a different meaning upon “real freedom.” The Jews could not
understand Jesus’ conception of freedom. They, as we, thought that if they had money they would be free. Jesus tells
a story showing that this is not true; the story of the rich man and Lazarus.

Some, particularly young people, think that if there were no barriers of society around them, no school discipline, they would
be free. This is not true because we are all dependent on one another. Jesus tells about the Prodigal Son
who tried to cut himself away from the bounds of society but found that it did not give him freedom.
Real freedom, as Rev. Mr. Witherspoon said, is “the Son shall set you free from sin.” Many, however, feel that
they are not sinners; that they are not applicable to this principle. They try to find their freedom in other
ways. Paul and Silas did in the Philippian jail by singing and praying, and an angel freed them. No other
freedom can benefit us. Other freedoms are good, but they are not sufficient.

MISPLACED A Pair of Florsheim Shoes

Students Always Welcome

You are cordially invited as well as any townspeople who are interested. The purpose of this open house is to
show the average person some of the scientific angles of research.

Mein Kampf by Adolph Hitler reviewed by Bill Diehl. Kastner is a contemporary German writer. His book is an amusing
detective story. It is the type of work that is reactionary against the propaganda of Hitler. It is really an
escape mechanism from the strict rules set forth by Hitler. He is very objective in his cool calculating way. Professional
people are particularly a subject of his writings. He has been an ardent student of psychology and is well equipped.
The book by Von Molo is designed to portray character study in preference to action.

Mein Kampf was written by Hitler while he was in prison. The title means “my struggle.” It deals with his
problems in life. It also predicts the power he possesses today and also his policies.

Refreshments were served by Mrs. Vowles.

College Represented

At a recent meeting of the North Carolina Junior College Association in Gastonia, L. K. Pritchett, president of Lees-McRae Junior
College and a graduate of Davidson, was selected as the new president. Mr. Pritchett graduated from Davidson in the Class
of ’27, receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree. After graduating from Davidson, Mr. Pritchett took a Master of Education degree
from Duke University. Among the appointments at this conference was another Davidsonian, John C. Mackorell of the class of ’29
and now the coach at Lees-McRae. He was named chairman of the junior college track meet.

The Red and Black Masquers will give a social next Wednesday night at the Kappa Alpha house. The purpose of
the meeting will be to decide on the plays which will be given in the spring. All members will be
expected to bring suggestions on which the choosing of the plays will result. Refreshments will be served and a program
is being prepared for the event. The following faculty members will also be present and will help in the decision:
Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming, Professor and Mrs. C. G. Davidson, Professor and Mrs. I. J. Erwin, Professor H.
T. Lilly, and Dr. and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake.

The last set of plays which the Masquers presented were given last fall. These were: “The Man in the Bowler
Hat,” “The Valiant,” and “The Twelve-Pound Look.”

Dr. K. J. Foreman Gives Impression of Last Week’s Conference

Dr. K. J. Foreman’s impression of the conference may be summed up into three parts. They are: the influence of
the Christian Church over the whole world; the younger churches (those established much later than the churches in America and
England, such as the churches in India and Africa) may have something to contribute to the older churches; and that,
while the younger churches more or less control their own affairs, they still want and need the support of the
churches in America and England.

Dr. Camarga threw out the suggestion since the Mexican government forbids permanent residence of foreigners.

Rightful owner has inferior pair through mistake. BLACK SHOES, Size 9. OWNER WILL PLEASE CALL and receive them at Buff
Shoe Shop.

Thurs.-Fri., March 2nd-3rd. “HONOLULU”

Sat., March 4th. (DOUBLE FEATURE) “CALL OF THE YUKON” “DEVIL DOGS No. 6”

Mon.-Tues., March 6th-7th. “GUNGA DIN”

Wed., March 8th. “THEY MADE ME A CRIMINAL”

DAVIDSON THEATRE Davidson, N. C.

SAVE MONEY IN THIS SHORT MONTH By Eating At LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP MEAL TICKETS worth $5.75, Sold for $5.00

“ENJOY GOOD MEALS WITH US” Delmonico’s Grill Charlotte, N.C.
