Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim CURRIE

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Abernathy

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy - Assistant Editor
Abe Bumbarger - Managing Editor
Tom Cauble - Managing Editor
Joe Liles - Managing Editor
Ed Watson - Managing Editor
Lawson Withers - Managing Editor
Andy Dale - Sports Editor
Jack Holland - Associate Editor
Karl Hudson - Associate Editor
Sam Spencer - Associate Editor
Movie Williams - Associate Editor
Bobby Williams - Staff Photographer
Angus Lytch - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Melvin Eldredge - Advertising Manager
Jack Covington - Advertising Manager
Fred Smith - Circulation Manager
Question and Answer

Today's Question of the Week carries the inquiry, “Do you think steps should be taken to prevent passing down students
in chapel?” This is a unique question in that only one sensible answer can be given -- Yes. If steps
are not taken to prevent this pastime, the practice will continue until someone is injured, perhaps seriously. Then of course
it will be stopped, but too late. Many are the times we have held our breath as a student's exterior
or posterior section takes a sudden nosedive toward the upturned seats. Fortunately, everyone so far has escaped being dropped, but
one of these times the victim of the ride is not going to be so lucky.

We suggest that if the student body as a whole cannot see the risk involved, C.D.K. should take a hand.
However, general sentiment of the students seems to indicate that the custom is developing into an unwelcome repetition of the
same thing, to be greeted only by hisses and boos.

W.K.Y.M.

Only last Monday night the Davidson gentlemen gave another demonstration of their impeccable conduct. This editorial is not the same
old story of water fights, destroyed property, and other examples of insubordination in general. It is the story of how
far we should go in our treatment of visitors to the campus, unwelcome though they be. Be it granted that
several students felt that they had been cheated by the magazine salesman who returned to Davidson this week. Be it
also granted that high-pressure salesmanship was used on them. Many students without a doubt had a right to question him
about the quality of the goods that he had sold them.

For Gentlemen

However, we believe that a little conscientious thought on the part of anyone who took part in the demonstration will
convince him that the Davidson student body expressed its feelings a little too strongly. When the revenge of the students
is expressed by flaunting insults aimed at racial differences and threats of corporal harm, we have ceased to be merely
insubordinate. We have become downright boorish.

J.C.

Safety First

Safe driving and safe walking (336 of last year’s 937 fatalities were pedestrians) are matters of intelligence. It is intelligent
and safe, therefore, to do these things:
1. When walking, walk on the left side of the road facing traffic. Do not straggle in groups across streets
and roads. Do your part to help the motorist.
2. If you are soliciting rides from motorists, or “bumming,” do not stand in the street or on the road.
Stand on the curb in cities, or on road shoulders in the country, when you are thumbing.
3. If you are driving, do not see how fast you can go. The stupidest person in the world can
do that as well as you. Your passenger, particularly your lady friends, will be vastly more impressed with your road
courtesy and driving care, than they will with the capacity of your car to do 70, which is about the
same speed the ambulance will make getting you to the hospital.
4. In driving to games, etc., do not overload your car, nor permit persons to ride on fenders or running
boards. The last two are criminally dangerous. The first, overloading, not only increases the chance of accidents, but makes an
accident infinitely worse when it occurs.
5. Learn driving rules and driving laws. Ignorance of law is not an excuse, nor can ignorance of driving rules
prevent fatal accidents. Knowledge is safety.

A new word, “turnability,” has been coined by The Travelers Insurance Company in an effort to picture for drivers just
what happens in the higher brackets of speed. A page of the company’s new highway safety booklet entitled “Death Begins
at 40” is headed “A Lesson in Physics for Drivers” and makes use of this term for the first time.
“The first law of motion,” the booklet states, “is that a moving body tends to continue in uniform motion in
a straight line, in proportion to the square of its speed. At 25 miles an hour, however, you can make
a fairly sharp turn. At 50 miles an hour, you can make only one-fourth as sharp a turn as you
could make at 25. This explains many accidents in turning and passing at higher speeds. And at 75 miles an
hour, the driver’s ‘turnability’ has been cut to one-ninth that when he was traveling at 25. If he tries to
turn more sharply than this law of physics allows, he is certain to turn over.”

Well, only eight more days left on the old desk calendar before we can pack away our books for a
super-colossal homecoming weekend. The delicious joys of a good dance set, a swell game, and a Saturday holiday will all
combine to make November 3 and 4 the outstanding days of the fall at Davidson.

But as alumni and the executive committee arrive on the campus for the festivities next weekend, some of us will
remember the big announcement made at this time last year. Just twelve months ago the executive committee authorized the administration
to draw up plans for a new $80,000 dormitory, and the alumni were first to hear of it at their
1938 Homecoming luncheon. The trustees passed on the committee’s work at their mid-winter meeting, and the new edifice, the second
building in the Centennial program, stands today over in the valley beside East dormitory. Chances are slim, however, that such
an announcement will be forthcoming next week. We have put our ear to the old grapevine and have found that
the committee will have only routine business to discuss. From the looks of things, any further expansion of the college
plant under the Centennial Movement or any other organization seems doomed to remain dormant for another few months, years, or
decades.

Which brings us to the gripe of the week. Those of us who entered Davidson in the fall of 1937
expected great things to happen during our four years here. We arrived in the flush of the Centennial Movement when
college forces were pushing on toward that million-dollar goal. At the end of each period, the Centennial committees brought in
thousands of dollars in pledges. College bulletins carried pictures of a proposed library, science building, a gymnasium with swimming pool.
The much-needed Preyer infirmary had already been made possible by a separate gift of approximately $25,000 and was being rushed
to completion.

One Minute Safety Talk
A Lesson in Physics—For Drivers
By FRANK BARKER

The energy of a moving body is proportional to the square of its speed. “And at 75 miles an hour,
the driver’s ‘turnability’ has been cut to one-ninth that when he was traveling at 25. If he tries to turn
more sharply than this law of physics allows, he is certain to turn over.”

By MELVIN

Activities were either rather quiet this week or those participating were extremely cautious. Only thing of note that seems to
have escaped a lot of the campus’ attention is the sign on the Southern Railway bridge coming into town. It’s
pretty good. Still smouldering from last week comes word that Tom Hatcher has been unusually quiet concerning his companion in
the back seat of the station wagon. Didn't know you needed a hand, Tom. And the Y-boys on the trip
to Montreat—Ramsey and Cran relegated still further to The Aloha (some sort of girls school) to use the occasion to
give Granny Sharpe a lot of competition with Allie Withers. You should have caught the dance, Granny. Indian Joe, did
you have a nice night in Charlotte? Popeye was in the dog house with the Duchesse until several of his
friends fixed him up Saturday night. He spent a very happy Sunday afternoon and night in the Queen City after
that. Jimmy Houston and George Mitchell are not telling all concerning their trip to W. and L. over the weekend.
They started bumming in both directions and caught a ride all the way to Virginia. We wonder if the magazine
salesman here early this week will want this territory anymore. He may have got a raw deal if we stop
to think about it. Notice: Bill Mitchell, Atlanta is not on the train route from Knoxville to Davidson. What's her
name? And contrary to reports in Among the Greeks, Dick Cobb wasn’t visiting his roommate in Greensboro and had quite
a hectic half hour while the lights were out. Word brought back from observers state they really enjoyed it, though.
Roy also came in for his share of the fun.trade... neophytes to be taken into the Reta Upsilon Tau Tau
chapter of the Kampus Kids were initiated this week—the holders of the somewhat dubious honor are Bevo Royster, George Stowe,
and Rea Tenney—please do all you can to make their stay here as pleasant as possible... Someone wanted to know
the attractions at the Phi Gam house Saturday night that kept Taylor, but wait a minute. The first you can
use your own imagination as to the object of the visit... And all points of interest and contention—tuentathe coming set
of dances—advance notices brand it as the best Homecoming set in history—More and better dates than ever before... Will be
well worth the price of admission just to dance with B. B. Plyer’s gal if she should live up to
all dope... Just what are all the rumors floating around concerning Granthan’s date in Charlotte Sunday night? ... The New
Orleans crew report a wonderful ball game and wiles, end... And who was the Freshman seen in silhouette with a
local miss on a porch date Friday night? And Wyle tries to tell me that he can't even remember her
name... Casali censored the dope on him... However, Richmond took advantage of the situation... The Civic Club's first square dance
of the year Friday night proved quite an attraction to the lads—the freshmen were especially interested.

CAMPUS MOBILIZATION... A new kind of mobilization has entered this world of ours. While other nations have engaged upon a
plan to destroy its people, the United States has enlisted its resources in a mighty war to save its people.
This week the American Red Cross asks your cooperation in making their plan successful. You know, if every member of
the student body and faculty who smokes would stop for one week and give the money that they would normally
spend for cigarettes to this charity, the Davidson College contribution would probably run over $350. A similar sum could be
derived from savings at the drug store this week. So why not put aside a nickel or dime each day
for this purpose? A dime a day from each boy here would net at least $450. Think it over, fellas.

THUMBNAIL SKETCH... this time an alumnus from the Class of 1932. While here he was President of his senior class,
a member of both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, and following his graduation, he was General Secretary of
the Davidson YMCA for the next two years. Probably his greatest achievement was the development of the chapel exercises. He
will return as the speaker for our Annual Fall Services, at the end of this month, October 31 to November
2.

So we, the Class of ‘41, put up with a crowded library of glaring lights, a chemistry lab of antiquated
design, and a gymnasium too small for both basketball games and spectators. We realized, of course, that these things would
be changed—and soon! The most surprising news to come to our ears is that Edythe Wright, long with the Tommy
Dorsey band, has been replaced by Anita Boyer, wife and former singer for Dick Barrie. Davidson. We are halfway through
college; next year will be our last. Still, we are forced to rush to the library ahead of the mob
to get one of the slightly easier chairs in which to study. Every time the librarian hears the fire alarm
he trembles for fear the tinderbox container of our several thousand volumes, many of them irreplaceable, is burning. Students who
pay a high fee to room in the new Duke dormitory are advocating a taxi service on dormitory row, since
they must spend half of their study time walking to and from a library situated far from the center of
college activities. Several more paragraphs could be filled with similar comments about other out-of-date and inadequate campus structures which are
now playing a vital part in the school life. Of course, we don’t know whom to blame for this delay.
The administration has declared both officially and unofficially that beautiful plans have already been drawn up; everything is all set
to begin construction on the new library immediately—if and when the donors who pledged money to the Centennial Movement pay
up. Said donors, on the other hand, refuse to pay up until they can see some concrete results of the
movement; they declare that they can salt the money away in a bank just as well as the college.

After ten years of broadcasting for the same sponsors, Rudy Vallee has finally left the air. He will soon resume
his broadcasts, this time for a different sponsor. As a band leader and singer, we can't say much for him,
but you can have nothing but respect for a man with such showmanship and talent-spotting ability. Artie Shaw seems to
be fed up with the music business. Since he has been on top, he says that he hasn’t had a
minute to work out anything worthwhile with his band. It is rumored that the remaining few weeks on the Old
Gold show have been canceled. Wonder if a fellow by the name of Miller has anything to do with the
way he feels. We are glad to see that the loss of Charlie Barnett’s music library in the recent burning
of the Palomar ballroom in Los Angeles has not stopped his turning out good records. In spite of the loss,
he cut sides for Bluebird a few days later. The library, which consisted of 300 tunes, was valued at $10,000,
being one of the best of its kind in the world of music.

Don’t know how many of you heard Teddy Wilson and his six-year-old girl pianist last Friday night on the program
“Young Man with a Band,” but those who did will probably join us in saying that she was a sensation.
Teddy is her teacher, but with the progress she has achieved at six, she will probably be teaching Teddy by
the time she is eight—and Teddy can tickle the ivories with the best of ‘em. It seems good to see
one of the real old-timers making a comeback in a successful way. We are referring to Al Kavelin with his
cascading choruses. Kavelin is one of the few piano artists who uses his piano in phrasing and leaves out the
feature of a solo piano which makes music undanceable. Our nominations for the sorriest bands of the day include Jack
Teagarden, Count Basie, Guy Lombardo, Benny Goodman, and last, and by all means worst, Shep Fields. An up-and-coming band, with
Davidson talent included, is Van Keys and his orchestra. This band played at Nags Head and Hotel Robert E. Lee
in Winston-Salem during the past summer and went over in a big way at both places. Right in there on
the tenor sax is Walt Heilman, '39. Walt, incidentally, refused an offer from Dean Hudson because he looks for Keys
to come up in a big way. Keys opens at the St. Carlos Hotel in Pensacola, Florida, January 1.

Let’s all remember to listen to Fred Waring’s program Thursday night at 7:00 over NBC, when we are to hear
our future (?) Alma Mater.

The University of Illinois is constructing new campus buildings at a cost of $3,400,000.

We'll see you at Homecoming dances.

MOVIE PROGRAM

Thurs.-Fri., Oct. 26-27
“Babes In Arms”: Mickey Rooney, Judy Garland, Charles Winninger, Guy Kibbee, Jane Preigger, Betty Jaynes. Hold your hats boys, because
they are liable to shake off your lap while you're laughing at this picture. They don’t come any funnier than
this, and when you add a good plot, good music, and this cast, you're bound to get a very entertaining
cinema. Mickey Rooney, as the son of an old vaudeville artist, Charles Winninger, tries to change the downward trend of
the family fortune by organizing the younger generation and producing his own show. Naturally, the parents of the kids, all
troupers themselves, look with amused tolerance on the whole thing. But Mickey, with his girlfriends, Judy Garland and Betty Jaynes,
puts on a routine that puts ‘em in the aisles. Judy and Betty sing exceedingly well, and June Preisser, as
the spoiled darling, gives a good performance. Guy Kibbee is the judge, whose sympathetic understanding of kids helps keep the
whole young troupe out of the state work school. Just when things are blackest, a big-time producer comes to the
rescue and brings the entire show to Broadway. From beginning to end, “Babes In Arms” is a swell, and Mickey
Rooney steals the picture from the other characters with his imitations of Lionel Barrymore, Clark Gable, and F. D. R.

Mon.-Tues., Oct. 30-31
“$1000 A Touchdown”: Joe E. Brown, Martha Raye, Eric Blore, Susan Hayward, John Hartley, and Joyce Matthews. A hilarious football
picture with Joe E. Brown playing the hero and winning the crucial game with a bit of strategy inspired by
Martha Raye. Rather a usual plot, but the antics of Brown and Raye keep one interested. This is definitely a
“mouthy” picture, but a fitting climax to a Wildcat victory over the Purple Hurricane Saturday afternoon.

Wednesday, Nov. 1
“Marx Brothers At The Circus”: Marx Brothers, Margaret Dumont, Kenny Baker, Fritz Feld, Florence Rice, and Nat Pendleton. In this
latest epic, the Marx Brothers team up with a whole menagerie to present to the cinema world the peak of
hilarious entertainment. Margaret Dumont plays the part of Kenny Baker's aunt, who disowns him when Kenny decides to own and
manage a circus. Fritz Feld threatens to take back the circus, including the contract with Florence Rice. Kenny has other
ideas about Miss Rice, and while strong-man Nat Pendleton tries to help the villainous Mr. Feld, Kenny has the three
Marx Brothers to help him. When Auntie gives a party for the set, Groucho manages to switch the circus for
the symphony orchestra as entertainment. From then on, Harpo and Chico are just as entertaining as ever, and the antics
of these three mad men of Hollywood bring back memories of “A Night At The Opera,” which will never be
equaled for pure foolishness.

Saturday, Oct. 28
“Pack Up Your Troubles”: Jane Withers and the Ritz Brothers. Here is a good chance to settle the question that
has been discussed so often as to whether the Marx or the Ritz Brothers are the most entertaining, and here
they are in successive pictures. There's not much dope lying around loose about the plot of this, but regardless of
this, it is certain that the Ritz Brothers will make a very entertaining two hours for you. There might have
been a small, Semitic salesman around the campus about Monday night that could have used this title to ease his
fears.

COLDEST REFRIGERATOR
Boston, Mass—(ACP)—A famed Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientist, Prof. S. C. Collins, has developed the world’s coldest refrigerator—and it will
operate at 450 degrees below zero Fahrenheit. The new device operates on compressed helium, a gas that produces the coldest
temperatures known to man.
