Wed., Feb. 22, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

This week the DAVIDSONIAN is going to continue the question of last week, because it considers that this issue is
one of current interest not only to Davidson students but also to students and young people all over the United
States. This question has been asked many times and has been discussed over and over again, but each boy has
certain definite convictions about girls and we have invited some boys to air these convictions. The question “What do you
like or dislike in particular about girls?” is:

Ivan Stafford, Senior:
From recent newspaper columns one should be able to gather a “standardized ideal” on this question of the week. Be
that as it may, the maid of my preference is filled with sporting blood controlled by some real horse sense.
Her likes and dislikes are very important to the development of a real “pal-ship.” Her discussion of the weather must
not be limited to “I think it will rain, don’t you?” nor should it involve the use of the “British”
Encyclo. As to looks... all men desire the “woman beautiful,” but most of us would compromise, to a limited degree,
for a mixture of brains and beauty if the proportion favors the glamour element.

Sid Sample, Sophomore:
This is an old, old discussion, and I've heard many different ideas on the subject, but I'll take my girl
short, dark, and handsome, with lots of personality. I think a girl should be a good conversationalist and have a
keen sense of humor, without being silly. She should be able to discuss athletics and other things which interest boys
without bringing in her last date or what her rich uncle has done. She should not be stubborn about her
likes and dislikes, but keep up a lively conversation on whatever is brought up and at least seem interested in
and appreciative of the entertainment the boy is trying to give her.

Leonard Fisher, Senior:
Girls for the most part are an evasive type. To keep a fellow guessing seems to be a virtue or
perhaps good politics. They like to keep a guy around who does not really know where he stands with them
and so can be used on convenient occasions. Perhaps the only trouble with this—if it can be called trouble—is that
if the “worm will turn” they usually realize his value. Therefore it amounts to this—worry for a while, fellows, and
soon you will have them where you want them. “Call me soon, won't you, hon?”

Bill Walker, Sophomore:
I prefer girls with attractive personalities, and ones who are capable of carrying on an interesting conversation. Beauty always helps,
but friendliness is more essential in my opinion. Girls who mimic Indian warriors, especially if they do so in public,
are unbearable. Fickleness and selfishness are also extremely undesirable qualities.

Bill Fetzer, Freshman:
I like a girl who likes to have a good time, one who likes to go out with a group
on skating parties, etc. I don’t like a girl who is catty, or one who wants to gossip all the
time. Good sportsmanship is essential.

Bob Williams, Sophomore:
The girls who have qualities that make my must list will not necessarily be beautiful but will have a neat,
attractive appearance. Also, she will have a keen sense of humor and sharp wit that will go with her ability
to think seriously and deeply when there is the occasion to form a very pleasing personality. Some girls do not
realize that boys would like to be friends with them; they think that each boy would like to be a
sweetheart to them. I like the girl who can be entertaining even though she is not in favorable circumstances.

DEBATERS ENCOUNTER
[Continued from Page One]
against William and Mary College of Williamsburg, Va. After that, the team will split up and go on separate trips.
Locke White and John Reisner will go north, Sher- rard Rice and Joe Calvin will go south, and Dick Kenyon
and Bob Ramsey will go west.

CRISIS SEEN
[Continued from Page One]
howl with the wolves.” “But,” he continued, “the Czechs will live again.”

Seven Days Campus For Wildkittens
Frosh Are “Restricted For General Insubordination By Court

Last Friday, February 17th, at twelve-thirty, the entire freshman class was campused for a period of one week by the
Court of Control. Julian Squires, judge of the Court, said that this sentence was imposed on the freshmen for their
extreme negligence in wearing their caps, for their refusal to carry laundry for upper-classmen, and for unprecedentedly breaking the old
tradition of speaking to everyone on the campus. This is the second time this year that this situation has occurred.
A new supply of freshmen caps has been ordered, and these are now on sale at the Student Store. The
freshmen will be kept on the campus until a much greater predominance of red can be seen in all places
at all times. (This color seems, at present, according to the Court, to be a sadly lacking factor in campus
life at Davidson, and the members of the Court, not to mention upper-classmen, desire to see more of it—especially on
the “haids” of freshmen). It is strongly probable that each individual member of the whole class will be required to
show a cap OF HIS OWN in chapel before the campus sentence will be lifted. It is hoped that all
boys who are hoarding caps will rise to the occasion and cooperate by spreading the ownership of the aforementioned necessary
article over a larger territory.

Eta Sigmas To Hear Harding
Lantern Slides of Classical Paintings Criticized

Last Friday evening Eta Sigma Phi, Classical Greek and Latin honorary fraternity, held one of its most interesting programs of
the year. Business, consisting mostly of a discussion of prospective members, was quickly disposed of and the main part of
the program got under way. Approximately twenty-five slides, mostly of classical scenes from the Iliad by such artists as Velasquez,
Reubens, were shown and commented on by Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek. The pictures were artists’ conceptions of
scenes such as the abduction of Helen by Paris, Hector bidding farewell to his wife, Andromache, Achilles dragging the body
of Hector around the walls of Troy, the forge of the fire-god, Vulcan, and the mourning of Achilles at Patroclus’
death. Dr. Harding told about the incidents represented and made an artist’s criticism of the slides, emphasizing composition, grouping, and
the massing of the figures in the background; he brought out the values of light and shade, curves, tone, and
the Classical.School as opposed to the Romanticists was a painting of the crowning of Homer surrounded by other great men
of arts down through the ages. The technique of the Classical school, pointed out Dr. Harding, was severer, clearer, simpler
in treatment and composition than the more complex, frilly style of the Romanticists. At the conclusion of Dr. Harding’s lecture,
the meeting was adjourned to meet the first Monday in March.

Spanish Group Hears Comedy

At its meeting last Monday night at 9:30 o'clock, Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary fraternity recognizing ability and interest in
the study of the Spanish language and its literature, was feted with the humorous play, “El Rematador” (the auctioneer), presented
by some of its own members. Taking the major roles were D. F. Cagle, W. E. Loftin, and G. H.
McDonald. Others with minor parts were J. L. Ballard, J. B. Lee, and C. M. Mashburn.

The initiation of new members into the Spanish Club followed. Those on the lists were: A. M. Foote, J. A.
Purdie, J. F. Chetwood, W. H. Barnwell, F. O. Bell, P. W. Bumbarger, E. F. Lucas, L. C. Hite, F.
G. Hull, P. L. Woodward, G. H. [Continued on Page Six]

State Guides To Be Added To Library

The Federal Writers’ Project, which is a division of the Works Progress Administration, is now at work on a series
of state guide books which they hope to complete by the end of the summer. This set of books, which
is the only thing of its kind ever attempted in the United States, will be a novel advertisement and aid
to each of the states. There will be forty-nine of these books, one for each of the forty-eight states and
for the District of Columbia. Already each one of the New England States has been represented in these books, but
up to date, the guide books for only two southern states have been completed. These states are Delaware and Mississippi.
Both of these books have already been received in our library, and the rest of the guides of the southern
states will be ordered as soon as they leave the press.

The guide book of North Carolina is now nearing completion and will probably be in our library before the end
of the semester. A photographic representative of the Federal Writers’ Project was on our campus in the fall taking pictures
of the grounds and buildings, and it is probable that some of these pictures will be published in the North
Carolina guide book. These books, which are bound with elaborate and illustrative covers, will be printed in big, clear type
so that they will be easy to read and enjoy. These books will be well-filled with pictures and drawings of
various spots of interest throughout the states, and will contain much valuable information both for the tourist and for the
knowledge seeker. Inside of these books will be a history of the state from its beginning to the present day;
a resume of its religion, industries, and the particular points of interest to the tourists. The elaborate books will also
contain maps both topographical and historical and should be of special interest to those students who plan to travel extensively
during their summer vacation.

Y.M.C.A. Deputation

On next Sunday night, Sam Spencer and George Lilly will go to the Thomasville Presbyterian Church on a Y.M.C.A. deputation.
They will talk at a Young People’s meeting in this church, of which Sam Wylie, once Secretary of the Y.M.C.A.
here, is pastor.

Last Sunday night Joe Gammon of Brazil, and Joe Hooper and Jim Kerr of the Orient spoke at the vesper
services of Queens-Chicora. Each talked about the missionary work in his own country.

Begins Tomorrow!

Thanks to Charlotte and our good customers for another anniversary. Our manufacturers have co-operated with us to bring you the
best values we have ever offered. All merchandise on sale is nationally advertised, and is offered at these low prices
only during our anniversary sale. Thanks again, Charlotte.

ANNIVERSARY SALE OF SHIRTS

Full cut
Sanforized shrunk
Guarantee: fast color
Non-wilt collar
6 pearl buttons
Guaranteed to give you satisfaction. You should buy a year's supply.

New Spring—All Wool Hyde Park SUITS
Regular $35 Values

1—All wool
2—Cold water shrunk
3—Hand set collars
4—Hand-made button holes
5—Hand sewn buttons
6—Hand pressed
7—Hymo fronts
8—Under collar shaping
9—Finest quality fabrics
10—Large outlets
11—Deep pockets
12—Belding silk stitching
13—Shape retaining
14—160 Talon Fasteners

$1.75 and $2.00 Values

Use Our 90 Day Pay Plan

Raincoats
Regular $3.95
$3.93

* Waterproof
* Cemented and strapped
* New mellowed, lightweight
* 50 inches long
* Satin finish shoulder seams
* Raylan sleeves

This is the first time this coat has ever sold for less than $3.95.

NEW SPRING SHOES

* Stylish, comfortable, practical
* Moccasin type
* New red sponge sole
* Featured by Esquire
* New black and white

A Group Of HATS
Regular $3.95, $5, $7.50

* Lee
* Berg
* Finchley
* C & K

All nationally known, a birthday bargain.

SOX
Regular 50c Values
35c

* Anklets - lisles - silks
* Genuine lastex covered elastic sides
* Guaranteed to give complete satisfaction

One of our best birthday gifts to you.

PAJAMAS
Regular $1.50 Values
$1.00

* Broadcloths and madras
* Preshrunk
* Fast colors
* Regular lengths
* 100 x 60 count

TIES
Regular $1 Values
69c

* Silks
* Washables
* Foulards
* All hand-made
* Fast colors

A nationally known manufacturer co-operated to bring you this value.

205 SOUTH TRYON ST.
ARION DAVIS CO.
Use Our 90 Day Pay Plan
205 SOUTH TRYON ST.
