Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Jan. 18, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Member

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
John W. Armfield

Business Manager
John W. Warners

EDITORIAL STAFF
Terrell Porter Assistant Editor
Jack Abernathy Managing Editor
Erle Austin Managing Editor
Jack Holland Managing Editor
Joel Hudson Managing Editor
Sam Spencer Managing Editor
Tom Casali Sports Editor
Ovid Bell Associate Editor
Joe Calvin Associate Editor
Wesley Cogh Associate Editor
Perry Sloan Associate Editor
Henry Baker Associate Editor
Walt Kunz Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Prebble Asst. Business Manager
Jim Currie Advertising Manager
Jim Ross Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey Circulation Manager
Jay Hackney Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore Collection Manager

Fraternities

Of interest to college students is a quotation taken from an interview published by a prominent university president recently: “Fraternities
and sororities started out originally as study groups of students having similar interests. Of course, they have an important social
function to fulfill, but if they allow their social function to overshadow all else, they too, will fall by their
own weight like all other costly, obsolete, and ineffective institutions. But I don’t believe in taking action against them; time
is the best test tube. If they do their job—as I hope they may—they will continue to exist; if they
fail to do so, they will die a natural death and none will mourn their passing.”

During the past few years, social fraternities have been subjected to bitter criticism by those who magnify their weak points
and predict their downfall, probably more so on most other campuses than on our own. The pressure of this criticism
has penetrated to almost every college campus in the nation, and its effect can be seen in the rigid control
exercised on their activities. Many have advocated their abolishment and have pointed to the undemocratic feeling engendered on college campuses
with fraternities and other exclusive social groups. Most of these criticisms, however, have been based on prejudices and dislikes rather
than on facts. Though some organizations foster activities harmful to the best development of students, this fault lies in the
group rather than the system. Fraternities must be more than mere social groups if they are to continue to exist.
They should encourage scholarship among their members and play an active part in extracurricular activities. If they moderate their excessive
social life and keep active in other affairs, they will build a sound foundation for a longer life; if they
do not, they will provide the means for their own extinction.

Athletics

With the appearance of the January 14 issue of the OLD GOLD AND BLACK, the Wake Forest College weekly, came
a five-column streamer which shouted out, “’Cats break with Deacons.” Also stated in another position on the front page was
a smaller story printed in boldface type, which says that Davidson is planning to drop from the Southern Conference within
the next two years. The latter was written “Special to Old Gold and Black” and stated that it came from
a “usually reliable source.” Just what point was meant by the news story is hard to get. It was based
largely on the columns of the various sports editors in the state. All of these columns were written without any
verification by either of the schools' athletic departments. It seems that Wake Forest is trying to take a crack at
Davidson just from what sports editors say. Davidson has not made any statement concerning severing relations with Wake Forest and
probably will not make any statement of this kind in the near future. To Wake Forest and the Old Gold
and Black, Davidson is considering a change of athletic policy, which is yet to be worked out. If Davidson does
not want to play Wake Forest, it should be obvious that Davidson is not on the same level with Wake
Forest anymore. It is perfectly plain to Davidson, as well as everybody else, that Wake Forest has taken up big-time
football, while Davidson remains in the same class that it always has. Why shouldn't a school want to play a
team that is equal in strength? What is more discouraging to a team and a school than being beaten by
pounds and reserves before a game whistle blows? Let it be known that Davidson and Wake Forest have always been
friendly rivals, and we are sure Davidson wants to continue to be friends. No rumors of this sort were started
by Davidson, and it resents such unfounded publicity. In fact, the entire thing sounds silly to us; and the only
reason we can see for it is that sports editors who started the furore. Wake Forest has become conceited over
its upcoming football team. There must be some reason for the managing editor of the Old Gold and Black devoting
so much space on the front page to stories that have only “usually reliable sources” and to the unauthorized stories
of several sports editors.

ERLE AUSTIN.

Campus Comments

As a foreword to what I have to say, I must confess that I have mingled emotions of regret and
“savage joy”—regret that fate decrees it be my painful duty as captain of the Davidson basketball team to speak for
the team concerning something so unwholesome; and savage joy that I have a chance to cut loose with a pen
which I hope will prick the conscience of many a Davidson student, and remind him that he is at Davidson
and not certain other colleges I might mention.

This year Davidson has started out with what may prove to be a very successful basketball team. Impending circumstances may
break the morale of the team, bringing on disastrous results instead of a much-hoped-for championship. Every year since I came
here the conduct of our students at home basketball games has become worse and worse, until now a climax must
of necessity be created, lest a more serious one be reached in the future. I am not making a mountain
out of a molehill. In all sincerity, I believe the situation to be most serious, if you can call losing
a good team “serious,” or so term the degradation of Davidson’s fine reputation for sportsmanship. To get right down to
brass tacks, why must you be such rotten sports? In recent games many—not just a few—hissed and booed the referees.
Do you not know that they are trained in their art? Do you not realize that ordinary psychology shows that
they will clamp down on us, the team, if you boo them? Much to my shame, I have even heard
you boo your own team for not playing as well as you expect it to. In my mind, the worst
offense you have committed is not against your team, but against visiting teams—which in the last analysis, is an offense
against yourselves. You boo at their antics, try to bewilder them with your shouts, and cause them to feel insulted
by such hospitality and poor sportsmanship. At times in recent games, the members of the team have been so ashamed
of you that we have felt like walking off the court and apologizing to the visitors for you. Please believe
me when I say I am not voicing just my personal reactions to this situation. Every single member of the
team has come to me about this matter; each one has bitterly asked, “What kind of a school do we
represent?” We all feel the same way about this. If you wish to be convinced, mention it to any of
the team, not merely the starting lineup, but every single member of the squad.

Another element enters in. What do you suppose the visitors at our recent games are talking about now? I have
heard much comment on the matter, and you can be assured that your conduct is remembered long after the game
has been forgotten. Let us turn from basketball now. This condition of our sportsmanship is not of recent and overnight
growth, nor does it concern basketball alone. It has been a slow, strong, steady, fungus growth. For some time now
it has drained the purity and wholesomeness from that vital thing called Davidson spirit. Even in football season we cheered
when we were winning, (Continued on Page Six)

DR. EDWIN L. STEVENS, EX-PRES. OF SW LOUISIANA INSTITUTE, FOUNDED THE SOCIETY OF LIVE OAKS, A GROUP OF 125 HISTORIC
TREES. EACH TREE HAS A NAME AND PAYS ANNUAL DUES OF 25 ACORNS. PLANTED, THESE ACORNS PRODUCE THE “JUNIOR” LEAGUE,
WHICH PROVIDES SAPLINGS FOR STATE HIGHWAYS.

HOBART COLLEGE THE “CUSPICUP” IS AWARDED TO THE FRATERNITY HAVING THE LOWEST SCHOLASTIC RATING ON THE CAMPUS.

PURDUE UNION MARY JANE DIETRICH WAS DEALT A PERFECT HAND. BEFORE SHE HAD A CHANCE TO BID, HER OPPONENTS HAD
BID SEVEN SPADES. THEY WENT DOWN THREE!

Letters To The Editor

Dear Bill,

Conduct at the basketball games this year has steadily gone from bad to worse. Never before in the last four
years have the students acted in such an unthoughtful manner. I refer to the juvenile practices of hisses and catcalls
that have marked our recent games here on the campus. This condition is deplorable and needs remedying at once. Not
only is it a blot on our reputations as gentlemen, but it is a practice that has an effect on
our team. It is disconcerting to have booing and hissing, even though it is not directed at you. The players
themselves have expressed their dislike of the conduct at the games.

Davidson in the past has always had a reputation of treating visiting teams with courtesy and respect. We are in
danger of losing that good reputation unless we snap out of it and show them that we can be gentlemen
always, win, lose, or draw. Davidson has one of the best basketball teams she has boasted of in years. Let's
stand behind our team and cooperate with the players by giving them better playing conditions. This is a challenge—How about
it, men?

Sincerely,
GEORGE JONES.

Dear Bill,

A quotation from last week's Editorial Page: “The Judge of the Court of Control has been asking for the help
of the members of the three upper classes in enforcing the Freshman Regulations ... we have done nothing but gripe
because the Court hasn't campused Freshman Jones for not wearing his cap.”

Every time I reported a Freshman for breaking Regulations, I have been thanked and told that action would be taken.
But no action has been taken, at any time, against any of the Freshmen I have reported. Perhaps there is
very little cooperation with the Court, but the least it can do is avail itself of what cooperation is given.

There is something more important that I want to “gripe” about, though: In Article VII (The Honor System), Section3, of
the Constitution of the Student Government, we read, “Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing.” In spite
of this, there is an almost wholesale practice of stealing Freshman caps. A student taking a cap is just as
guilty as one who has stolen a dollar (or the equivalent of the price of a cap). I cannot back
my statement with proof, but I suspect that a large number of the disappearing caps are stolen by upperclassmen. The
point is this: a great number of caps are being hoarded somewhere, leaving the former owners bareheaded and forced to
acquire another cap, or face the prospect of being campused. For the acquisition of another cap, two alternatives are left,
either stealing or buying it. Since there have been no caps for sale at the Student Store since Christmas, the
alternative of stealing remains. And Freshmen are unable to buy caps even if they were available, because of financial difficulties.
“Dollar bills don’t come on trees to everybody.” If the stealing of these caps continues, some definite action should be
taken. When the Freshmen buy their caps, why not give them a serial number marked indelibly on the cap, having
a check-up every month. Any Freshman found with the wrong cap or without a cap can get a good campus
sentence. I wish to appeal to the Court of Control to give some consideration to this matter. I appeal to
the Student Council to back the Court in its actions and decisions. And finally, I appeal to the student body
to get behind these organizations and support them fully in the interest of a better and greater Davidson.

JOE GAMMON.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, January 18th

“Christmas Carol”, Reginald Owen, Gene Lockhart, and Kathleen Lockhart. This most celebrated of yuletide fables, written by Charles Dickens, is
back again, although a little out of season. The Scrooge is Reginald Owen, chosen because he is an Englishman and
seemed to fit the part. (Naturally). Dickens’ yarn of the close-fisted miser transformed into a kindly old man, all on
a Christmas Eve, is known the world over. Little Kilburn takes the part of Tiny Tim, the young son of
Scrooge’s accountant. London, dirty, shabby, colorful, of ninety years ago is reconstructed. And Tiny Tim again whispers, “God bless us,
every one.” Dickens laid on the sentiment pretty heavily, but he knew his public. I defy you not to wilt
before Tiny Tim.

Thursday and Friday January 19-20th

“Kentucky,” Loretta Young, Richard Greene, and Walter Brennan. Mr. Shakespeare started something when he staged his original battle of the
centuries, the Capulets vs. Montagues. Feuds have been drama ever since. This one, suh, starts back in ’61 when Kentucky
was torn between allegiance to the North and the South. You all must understand the Dillons, being Yanks, sided with
the North; the Goodwins, blue grass gentry, strung with the South. There were shootings and things—and, years later, Jack Dillon,
fresh from school abroad, falls in love with Sally Goodwin. By this time the Goodwins are broke and Sally’s horse
is the only thing between them and the bread line. This horse is being groomed for the Kentucky Derby but,
alas, Sally ruins him riding through a storm to get help for her mother who is dying. But, sure enough,
honey, things turn out all right. The Inside Dope is: this may be a bit machine-made, with its Derby and
its good old feud, but the race will get you.

Saturday, January 21st

“The Mysterious Mr. Moto,” Peter Lorre. Seems that your film editor has a habit of not being able to get
much dope for you on these Saturday shows but if you can’t, you can’t. Here is what dope I could
get: It is one of the usual mystery stories of the type that is characteristic of Mr. Lorre’s shows. The
fictitious, great detective takes all the clues to a crime that has been committed and puts them together and presto!
the mystery is solved. It is not one of the best of the Moto series.

Monday and Tuesday January 23-24th

“Dramatic School,” Louise Rainer, Alan Marshall and Paulette Goddard. Whimsical in appeal, different in story and superbly expressed. While never
rising to great dramatic conflict, an underlying drama is created by the writing and tension by the finely repressed acting
of the entire cast. Louise Rainer joins a dramatic school in Paris but she is poor and has to work
at night, in order to attend the school. Her dull existence leads her to tell the other students that she
is wealthy and that she is having a romance with a marquis. The girls find out the truth, without Louise
knowing it, and arrange a meeting of Louise and a real marquis, but he pretends that the affair is true
and lifts her from poverty to wealth and then leaves her. I will leave the rest for you to see,
don’t want to ruin the show for you (anyway I don’t even know the end).

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON

The appalling nearness of examinations has at last made itself felt in a big way on the campus to the
consternation of this columnist. Where a week ago the banging out of this column created merely the problem of which
dope to print; this issue finds about the only news something along the line of a dissertation on who burns
the most midnight oil studying. Congratulations to Johnny Sadler, Don Bell, and Stan Yoder! At the post-season tap day of
the local chapter of the Kampus Kids these men were taken into full fellowship with the order. This is especially
noteworthy in the case of Yoder and Bell because few freshmen ever receive this singular recognition, but these men fulfilled
all the necessary qualifications in such a fine manner that it was impossible to keep them out! Overheard at the
wrestling matches Saturday. Why isn't Jim Anderson on the wrestling team; he’s one of the most seasoned veterans in amateur
competition in school. Also of interest at these matches were the feverish attempts of freshman Bill Hake to get candid
snapshots of the visiting Greensboro lassie. Many collegians desiring to have a little fun and still stay near their books
compromised on the local square dance, converging on this social affair in such great numbers that it was necessary to
make “girls” out of several of the fellows. We had hoped to have an interview with one of these mistreated
males on the subject “Would you rather be a boy or a girl” but it has been impossible to secure
one thus far. Among those remaining on the campus were Loch Hunter and Tommy Gleen who forsook South Carolina gals
for dates with local beauties. But the acid test proving that exams are near was the change in Charlie Smith.
For the first time since Homecoming week-end “Knobby One” missed his real visit to the Converse Powder Baby.

Sadly neglected in this column has been the subject of Mid-Winter dances. The Pan-Hel boys have really done themselves proud
by signing up two orchestras of the standing of Hal Kemp and Dean Hudson; it is now up to us
to show our appreciation for this work by turning out en masse for this gala social function. A dance set
of this type necessitates a large outlay of money by the Council before it is collected, thus putting the Council
members in a precarious position. The results of this venture doubtless have much effect on the policies of future Pan-Hellenic
groups, so let's show them Davidson really appreciates and really wants big-time bands. In the publicity folio sent out on
Hal Kemp's orchestra appears some statistical data which should at least be of interest to fellow members of Eco 51
class. If the expected crowd of 1200 at the Saturday night dance of Mid-Winters should dance solidly for three hours,
they would generate enough heat to warm fraternity court for two days in ordinary winter weather. Then of especial interest
to Dan Cagle and Charlie Sherman appears this item: If all the energy released by these 1200 gyrating jitterbugs could
be applied at one point it would be enough to raise a five-ton elephant thirty-two miles in the air. So
much for statistics; if you don't like this type of filler why don’t you do something about it—cut out the
studying on weekends and do something worth slinging dirt about.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

LEAST PUBLICIZED ... FLAT FOOT IN DEUTSCHLAND ... Before going any further, we think we ought to plug a glaring
gap in the “Davidsonian’s” society coverage. There’s one boy here who's been resting entirely too securely in complete privacy such
as money can’t buy. He’s the only fellow who can cavort to his heart’s content over the weekend and still
be perfectly sure it won't rise in print to haunt him—before now, that is. No reason for him to be
snooperstitious. The whole thing's a deplorable situation—he would make as good copy as any campus Casanova on the premises. You
know who we mean, of course; it’s that smiling, debonair gadabout, Dame Rumor’s first assistant in charge of collegiate cut-ups,
Kenneth Vaughn Lawson himself. What brings this up is the reverberations of a colossal weekend in the vicinity of Greensboro—one
that can't be passed off as mere material gathering. It seems that frat brothers, who have long suffered under his
intense observation, have at last rebelled and are telling a story of excessive doorbell ringing, and of the invaluable support
of one Chick Smith.

SMELL ... “You know,” says a Prof of ours—one of the old school, “I hate to see women read the
modern ads. They make ’em buy all sorts of concoctions to baffle the olefactory sensations. Why women just don’t smell
like women any more!”

The most heartening news we've heard from Germany in many months concerns the songs it likes. The top tunes at
the end of the year, according to “Billboard” Magazine, were “Lambeth Walk,” “Donkey Serenade,” “Music, Maestro, Please,” “Flat Foot Flogie,”
and others like them. “Let me write a country’s songs and I care not who writes its laws,” quoth the
poet, or words to that effect. Heil, Berlin—Irving, of course.

OVERHEARD ... “I was in a small room,” he said, “and the flue to the old stove was leaking. Why,
I was almost sophisticated.”

WACKY ... The proximity of exams seems to bring out the valiant wacky streak that isn’t ever particularly far under
the undergraduate surface anytime. You have heard, of course, about the freshman who on a bet turned out for ROTC
parade minus his uniform—or any other outer clothing. This valiant didn’t win, incidentally, because he weakened and explained matters to
various officers. Then there is the interesting case of the freshman, who after studying literally all night on something or
other, went to class the next day. As from a fog he saw the prof write something on the board.
The assignment, he thought, and took it down dutifully. Sometime later they took up the written papers and found our
hero still asleep.
