Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., Mar. 22, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

STAFF
Editor-in-Chief: MARQUESS LATIMER
Assistant Editor: BILL JOHN
Managing Editors: Terrell Porter, Abernathy
Sports Editor: SY
Associate Editors: 
Movie Editor: 
Staff Photographer: 

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager: 
Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: Julian Lokey
Manager: Bud Gilmore

Staff Election

For a long time, the Davidson election system of no politics has been criticized on the grounds that the candidates’ qualifications for the office to which they are nominated are not known by the majority of the voters. This is a very justified criticism, particularly in the case of The Davidsonian. The most popular candidate will not necessarily make the best editor, therefore in all fairness to the office, the candidates, the paper itself, and what it represents, only those who are in a position to know the respective abilities of the candidates should be entitled to vote for the Editor. The new system will place a premium on ability and effort rather than popularity.

Since it is one of the most radical changes proposed on the campus in years, this idea merits the serious consideration of every member of the student body. The big objection to it, of course, is that perhaps there might be politics within the staff, and that we will be out of the frying pan into the fire. To those of us who have spent a large part of our time and energy working on the paper for two or more years, this argument seems entirely out of place. It has meant a great deal to us, and every man on the proposed committee of eighteen has far too high a regard for The Davidsonian to allow politics or petty prejudices to interfere with his casting his vote for the one whom he honestly believes is the best man.

We Bid Farewell

If all goes well, by the time the next issue appears a new staff will be at the helm of The Davidsonian. As always, the way has been beset by rocks and shoals, but we of the present staff have thoroughly enjoyed and profited immensely by our work of the year. So it is with a mingled feeling of relief and regret that we turn the job over to our successors. Before the final word of farewell, however, I would like to express appreciation to some of those whose cooperation has been so invaluable.

The managing editors have done their jobs admirably, with the real interest of the paper at heart, and a perfect blend of efficiency and helpfulness. Our greatest regret is that all six can’t be editor. Any of them would be a splendid one. The assistant editor, Terrell Porter, comes in for a big chunk of praise. His has been a thankless task, but without thought of gain or glory he has performed it admirably, sitting up nearly all of every Monday night to copy-read every word and punctuation mark that goes into the paper.

We have received the best of cooperation from the faculty advisor, the college administration, faculty, and town in general. We especially appreciate the interest that many members of the student body have shown. Of course, it would never do for any student to openly exhibit any regard for the paper, or to do other than gripe about it at every available opportunity, but we have received a great many helpful criticisms, letters to the editor, and compliments, which at least show that the student body is aware of the existence of a weekly publication on the campus!

To Our Successor

Finally, may we quote an editorial to our successor that was addressed to us in The Davidsonian a year ago. You, Mr. Editor-to-be, have a considerable job ahead of you. The way is not easy. The first thirty issues are the hardest. But seriously, here is a bit of advice from a fellow-newspaperman out west. “The college editor should make a slight distinction between himself and his job. The job is important; he is not. The editorship is as responsible a position, in its potential power to help or harm the college as the presidency of the college. The editor, unless he is a child prodigy, must proceed thoughtfully and with due regard for the errors of his predecessors if he is properly to fulfill that responsibility.” —The Daily Illinois.

And when you have finished your task, you will feel a sentiment akin to that expressed in this little poem from our exchanges:

“What have you done?” Saint Peter asked,
“That I should admit you here?”
“I ran a paper,” the editor said,
“At my college for one long year.”
Saint Peter fittingly shook his head
And gravely touched the bell.
“Come in, poor man, select a harp,
You've had your share of Hell.”

But the best of luck to you, Mr. Editor-to-be, and your staff. May your success be great and your difficulties few and far between.

Campus Comments

Since Davidson does not have politics in the student body elections and the Student Council is pledged to uphold this tradition, a better method of electing the Editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian has become necessary. Most of the student body, not knowing the internal makeup and personnel of the paper, if they are interested at all in having the most capable man elected, must ask someone connected with the staff for information. This is especially true now that the freshmen have been allowed to vote. This is not directed toward personalities or groups but seems merely to be the best time for such comment since the popular vote has been increased.

In order to be sure of choosing without corruption the man who is best fitted for the position, logically he should be elected by the paper’s own staff which always has an immediate and genuine interest in the progress and perfection of journalism on the campus. Under the proposed amendment, the eighteen most experienced in publishing the Davidsonian and therefore the best qualified to determine its new leader are given full electoral power. This body is composed of three groups: (1) the five associate editors and the Editor-in-chief who have had the eligible candidates working for them, (2) the present managing editors and the sports editor (the candidates themselves) who have just completed a year of actual work with each other, and (3) the six new managing editors who have worked under the candidates and who must cooperate with their new Editor in continuing the job as smoothly as possible.

Not that the Davidsonian has suffered because of influences brought to bear on the popular vote in the past, but merely as an improved way to selections in the future, we earnestly solicit your approval of the proposed amendment.

Most sincerely,
PERRY SLOAN, Associate Editor and Councilman.

A University of Texas mathematics class was recently dismissed in the middle of the class hour because a swarm of bats invaded the lecture hall.

As soon as they get the athletes off the gridiron they begin putting coaches on the pan.—Indiana University Daily Student.

The University of Toledo has added four accordions to its football band.

University of California scientists have just completed a schedule of babies’ crying habits during the early months of their lives.

More than 20,000 balloons were released at the opening kick-off of the Minnesota-Michigan football fracas.

The University of Cincinnati museum has acquired the thigh-bone of an ice-age elephant.

Case School of Applied Science has a new 160,000-volt radiographic machine for the detection of flaws in metals.

Personality led all other qualities in the listing of male assets by University of New Mexico co-eds.

THE LONE BROTHER IN THE McMICHAEL FAMILY WENT TO GEORGIA TECH.

HUNTER COLLEGE WAS FOUNDED ON ST. VALENTINE’S DAY IN 1870.

THE AVERAGE NUMBER OF FOULS IN A BASKETBALL GAME IS 22.

GWENDOLYN McMICHAEL IS THE TENTH SISTER OF HER FAMILY TO ATTEND HUNTER COLLEGE.

Letters To The Editor

Dear Bill:

The amendment presented in chapel this morning is something we have been waiting for for at least four years. Every year there is considerable discussion of the matter of staff elections for the Davidsonian, but no one has had the gumption to devise and present a workable plan.

As one who worked on the Davidsonian for two years, and one who is intensely anxious to see “A Better Davidson,” I believe this is a real solution to our problem. There are many qualifications for the editorship of the Davidsonian that members of the student body are not in a position to judge. Only those who have watched the candidates at work can really tell how much interest, energy, ability, etc., each man has. If we want “All American” rating for our paper every year, we must let the staff pick the man who can get out that type of a paper.

Of course, we who have nothing to do with the Davidsonian hate to give up our privilege of electing the editor. But we feel that if we surrender this privilege to those who can use it more intelligently, we will get a better paper than ever, and as a result, a better Davidson. And that’s not just a catchword. A good paper can really have a profound effect on the College as a whole.

The staff members are obviously better fitted to choose than we because some have worked over the candidates, some have worked with the candidates, and some have worked under them. Who could know better how well each man is qualified for the job?

Of course, it has been objected by some that there will be more politics at work in staff elections than student body elections. Aside from the fact that the staff is not composed of the type of worm that forms combines and unions, there is the obvious fact that the members of the staff are divided almost equally among so many different groups that it is not atall likely that there will be any unfair collusion. The least we can do is to give the plan a try. If it does not work, we can always amend the constitution again and reassume our sacrificed power. We are not letting it out of our hands. We are only delegating it to those of our representatives who know the most about the situation. A letter like this isn't really necessary. Nobody is going to set ignorance over knowledge in as grave a decision as the editorship of our paper. But just to be on the safe side is an¢ Thirty-Nine.

Editor Marquess:

As a member of one of those musical organizations in which “interest lags” and “ardor cools” constantly (according to one Super Snooper in The Davidsonian Wednesday, March 15, 1939), I’d like to submit an open letter to said columnist.

Dear Ken:

We like the tone of yo’ snoopings much better than the tone of yo’ criticism.

Box 62
One of the Gleeks.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Wednesday, March 22

**>* “YES MY DARLING DAUGHTER”—Priscilla Lane, Jeffry Lynn, May Robson, and Fay Bainter. This picture is meant to be a satire on the freedom with which women live their lives today, but it is done with such humor that you are likely to forget its social message. Which is just as well. Priscilla Lane plays the daughter who reacts too completely to her liberal mother. The mother (Fay Bainter) used to be a suffrage crusader when she wasn't having an affair with a poet (Roland Young). But, now she is married to a banker, Fay is horrified when Priscilla calmly decides to go off on a weekend with Jeffry Lynn. The girl’s intentions are of the social experiment order, but the situation makes for dialogue a bawdy leer. Granny May Robson steals the show and Jeffry Lynn puts in a good bid playing the part of the young man who loves Priscilla. Most of the weekend at the cottage where Priscilla and Jeffry spend the weekend will most likely be cut before it gets here.

Thursday and Friday, March 23 and 24

“TAILSPIN”—Alice Fay, Constance Bennet, Joan Davis, Nancy Kelly, and Jane Wyman. The film deals with the girls who slave to compete, with rattletrap ships in the Powder Puff—women’s air race, to the multitude. After several reels exploiting the perils and sacrifices of Alice Faye, Nancy Kelly, and Jane Wyman, up pops heiress Constance Bennet, who brings her special plane to the derby—not for money, but to show the man she loves that she has courage. There is a beautiful love story between Miss Kelly and Edward Norris; Joan Davis and Wally Vernon work at starchy comedy. Alice Faye has a poor role, but manages to survive.

Saturday, March 25

“WHILE NEW YORK SLEEPS.”

Parade of Opinion
By ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS

PARDON

Long a topic of social-minded collegians and their teachers, the question of Tom Mooney’s guilt or innocence was settled to their great satisfaction when California's Gov. Culbert Olson freed the man who spent 22 years in prison for his alleged participation in a Preparedness Day bombing in 1916. Not one of the hundreds of college newspaper editors raised a dissenting voice over Gov. Olson’s pardon. Most of them lauded him with many words and flowery sentences, and many hailed it as the beginning of an “era of industrial compatibility—a realization that responsible unionism, legitimately recognized, is equally beneficial to the old employee and employer.”

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON

Here come the musicians with a bang, bang! Never did it enter my mind that a few short sentences in last week's column could stir up all the feeling, both pro and con, that has been expressed to me. So for the benefit of the followers of Pfohl, let me expound more fully my views which were so condensed in the Davidsonian last week. The reason was not that I am allergic to music or that I do not believe music has its place in the development of the aesthetic side of man, because I was exposed to musical training myself for eight or nine years. And for the man who is considering music as a career desires the development of this side of his nature for pleasure in after years, I believe that the musical department serves a definite purpose.

What I had reference to in last week’s column was the large number of men of better than average ability who enter these organizations merely as an extra-curricular activity and are chagrined about their junior year to find that they are out for no activities which put them in line for campus leadership offices. If the members of the band, etc. have just as much leadership ability as the groups out for other activities, which I believe to be true, then a check on the membership in ODK over several years based on the proportion of one group to another will reveal the point that I am attempting to make. I am in favor of the music department because I believe it has a definite place in collegiate life, but I do believe some definite method should be worked out whereby members of these different groups would not spend so much of their time in these organizations that chances of getting somewhere in activities rated much higher in the point system would be neglected. If you don’t think my views are mild compared to those of the majority of the student body, I invite you to take a straw vote among the leaders on the campus the way I did before writing this. Now that that is explained I hope my position will be better understood.

With all the space taken up by the clarification above, there isn’t much room left for dope; but here is some that was just too good to omit: Popeye McAlpine displaying a canine aptitude for Packards while Karl Hudson felt the call of the bright lights and Neal Scott brushed up on his oratorical ability... Squirrel Erle Austin setting a new high in pinnings with three in one night... Joe Calvin receiving an unannounced caller who did not turn out to be interesting enough to hold Joe’s attention... Bevo Royster spending the weekend at home according to his report but a great difference of opinion among several members of the S. B.... Bob Wyatt, the Hairless Joe of Davidson, getting dance floor conversation with Mrs. Poo Poo... Sonny Cunningham seeking publicity for lady love through Charlotte Observer’s Har-Tits. When the Monday night deadline rolls around for the next Davidsonian, this columnist has high hopes of being somewhere between here and Texas. Be sure and don't miss the next issue because a new journalistic satellite has promised to shoot you some of the straightest dope ever compiled. Here’s wishing every one of you a swell Spring Holiday season; don't let that Spring madness get you.

In the Groove
By TOM PERRIN

CLASS

Some few weeks back we ran a little item about the illustrious class of ’18 and the fact that it has four members on the present faculty. Well, we'd almost forgotten about it ourselves when a professor reminded us last week and pointed out that we were overlooking a class which has still more members on the teaching staff. The class of ’21 is this super-class, and it numbered among its students boys named Schenck, Beaty, C. K. Brown, and Cumming. All qualified as B. M. O. C’s. And, of course, all are still behind desks here, only now they’re facing the classes. As our professor says, each of these actually teaches, while Mr. Hengeveld of the class of '18 pulls down his class’ average, being employed in a mere executive capacity.

CAPS

Those “D” caps or crew caps, as Student Store Manager Telford the Red designates them, are really pretty sporty and will probably sell well hereabouts, particularly as an aid in thumbing rides. But—just an idle thought—it seems a bit odd that the freshman of a year or so ago who bought a freshman cap with fear and hatred in his heart and who wore it only because of dire threats now eagerly pays well to wear essentially the same thing. As a matter of fact, since these lids do look pretty smooth, why not get something very similar for the Frosh next year? Maybe it would make the little wildcats easier to handle.

BIRDIE

Here’s one for Ripley—or maybe the sports editor. You might be interested, too. Busily batting out flies at baseball practice Monday was J. D. Hicks, star hurler. Busily flying on its own sweet business—something to do with spring, no doubt—was a bird of undetermined variety. To make a short story, one of Hick’s flies smacked solidly into the feathered critter. Players and bystanders gazed in amazement as feathers fluttered down and the bird fluttered off.

QUIPS SANS CRANKS

Wonder if this'll amuse you as it did us. “She was the laughingstock of the dairy, because the tall grass tickled her muzzle.” Who says these “realistic” dramas do no good? After seeing One Third of a Nation, one lad we know came back from the theater fired with zeal for slum clearance—starting with Rumple. Today's version of “counting-out” rhyme: The sun shines East; The sun shines West; The sun shines over the Eagle’s Nest. But beware—sun-bathing in most of these places is O-U-T.

Seconding this view of the Syracuse University “Daily Orange,” the Grinnell College “Scarlet and Black” hails the pardon as something more than just a victory for labor. It claims that “it is a triumph of something a very great deal bigger than labor—justice has been done at last. The act comes as a burst of light to a world increasingly darkened by injustice and by bitter strife.”

A neat commentary on modern-day politics was added to its editorial by the University of Iowa “Daily Iowan:” “Governor Olson of California deserves full credit for being an unusual politician. He made a campaign promise, and he kept it. That’s all too rare in these parts, any parts for that matter.”

JUSTICE

Entirely commendatory have been college students of President Roosevelt’s appointment of Prof. Felix Frankfurter of Harvard to the U. S. supreme court bench. Not averse to punning on such a grave subject, the “Toreador” of Texas Technological College labeled its editorial, “Frankfurter—Hot Dog!”

Cornell University has sent an expedition to the mountains of eastern Mexico to learn about the strange bird, Otus pinosus.

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt has accepted the honorary chairmanship of the Intercollegiate Committee to Aid Student Refugees.

Nevada and Wyoming have only one institution of higher learning each.

The average University of Wisconsin male student spends $3.80 a week on dates.