Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mims Rogers Receives Legal Publicity Office
Davidson Graduate Directs Program of American Bar Association

Mims Rogers, a graduate from Davidson in the class of 1935 and now an attorney at Florence, S.C., was recently
named director for that community of the nation-wide public information program of the American Bar Association. This national legal organization
is putting on this program in order to acquaint the general lay-public with the functions of the three branches which
make up the democratic form of government in the United States. The Davidson graduate will also publish during the campaign
the history and traditions of the struggle put forth to achieve these rights.

Studies Law at Alabama

Rogers, who entered the University of Alabama after he graduated from Davidson in order to study law, only recently began
his Florence practice. He has been recently named a director of the Florence Rotary Club, and this organization has appointed
him a delegate to the Alabama Rotary convention to be held at Mobile this month.

Leader at Davidson

While at Davidson the Florence lawyer was bid into Omicron Delta Kappa. He was secretary and treasurer of the forensic
council, vice president of Scabbard and Blade, president of the Pan Hellenic council and also of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity. He was a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, International Relations club, and the Eumenean Literary society.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

K.A.’s Have Feed

Brother Tom Perrin spent the week-end in Spartanburg. Brothers Newell and Spencer journeyed down to Atlanta, while Brothers Sprunt and
Preyer went to Roanoke Rapids respectively. Brother Harlan attended the Salem dances. Brother Hiram White went to Rock Hill.

S.A.E.’s Have Visitors

The chapter was honored with several visitors last week. Hoke Robinson, Way-Way and Alva Lumpkin visited the chapter during the
week-end. Members of the Virginia baseball team here visited the chapter during their stay. Brothers Sloan and Cauble went to
Hollins to attend the dances held there. Brother Lem Kornegay went to Greensboro. Brother Colin Smith traveled to Mount Olive
for the week-end, first dropping Brother Hector McLean at Lumberton and Brother Tom Dunn at Laurinburg. Brother John Creighton visited
Brother Lucas in Greensboro. A feed which was held on Sunday night for the coaches and faculty, and their wives
was well attended.

MURPHY’S MUMBLINGS
[Continued from Page Two]

Irene Castle, danced her way to fame in 1911, and were such a sensation both in Europe and America that
everybody was imitating the Castles. Irene and Vernon lived a beautiful and charming life, and the picture bears both of
these qualities. It begins with their meeting, when Vernon was playing as a comic stooge to the great Lew Fields,
and the picture traces their history from the time that they were nearly starving in Paris and did the Castle
Walk. Immediately they became the most sensational dance team in the world, and they remained so until Vernon heroically died
in an Army plane crash in Texas near the end of the World War. Two four-star pictures in one write-up
is some kind of record or maybe, but both deserve the highest praise.

Wednesday, May 10
“THE ADVENTURES OF JANE ARDEN.”—Rosella Towne, William Gargan. A favorite funny paper character comes to life in this picture. Jane
Arden has proved so popular in the comic strip, that the producers have given to the theater public some entirely
new adventures before her. There may even be some Sears-Murdoch combination for her to break up.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
[Continued from Page Three]

same privileges of self-government and freedom that have been enjoyed by Davidson students of the past. In the naming of
this new dormitory it would be more than appropriate to choose a name that would be representative of its future
modern and democratic atmosphere. These qualities are both vividly set forth by a former student of Davidson College. This man
stood for modern thoughts and often has been called a “champion of democracy.” I suggest that our new dormitory be
named “Wilson Hall” in memory of Woodrow Wilson.

Fred Little, Sophomore: I don’t think that the name makes so much difference because it will be used for identification
purposes only. However, as a suggestion, it wouldn’t be a bad idea to name it after some person who has
done something for the college in the past and hasn’t been duly recognized. Probably a better plan would be to
have a box in which students could drop their proposed names. A suitable name could undoubtedly be picked from those
by a chosen committee of judges. A prize might be offered for the winning name in order to stimulate interest.

PERSONALITY EXPERT
[Continued from Page Five]

and tickets are all $1.00 each. Mr. Wyman also stated that it would be possible to seat only 1,500. On
December 6, 1938, Mr. Carnegie was sponsored for the first time by the Junior Chamber in Charlotte at the Charlotte
Armory. One of the largest crowds ever to hear a platform lecturer in Charlotte attended. It is expected that an
even larger crowd will be present at the event of May 8. Many out-of-town people attended the first lecture given
by Mr. Carnegie and a special invitation is now extended to all out-of-town residents as well as the Charlotte vicinity.

[Continued from Page Five]

Phi elections are held twice a year. These officers will be installed soon and will serve throughout the first semester
next fall.

Other Business

Other business considered at the meeting included the appointment of a committee to work for the collection of an anthology
of club writings, a discussion of Phi diplomas for senior members of the group, and a report from the social
committee on the approaching hay ride. Jack Abernathy and Dave McLean were nominees for the presidency; while Eldridge Brown, Paul
Crane, Boyd Flynn, Ed Watson, and John White were named for vice president.home in Rocky Mount. Brother president. Nominated for
treasurer were Paul Bumbarger, Boyd Flynn, Ralph Harkey, and Lawson Withers. In balloting for secretary, Phis had to choose from
Don Bell, Joe Hopper, Jim Kerr, Sandy McEachern, and Joel Whitten.

SIDELINE SIDELIGHTS [Continued from Page Four]
age, hard rains and winds, it weathering badly, and the small rock and hard surface are making it extremely slippery
and rough. We hope something can be done to restore this field during the summer so that the many students
who now patronize it will have a better place to exercise in the P.M.... Charley Gehringer, little publicized second sacker
of the Detroit Tigers, continued to get more than his share of hits. Driving in five runs Sunday, he climbed
among the leaders in both run-batted-in and homers. A good man in the clutch, and steady always.

VIRGINIA DOWNS CATS [Continued from Page Four]
hits while Hoye got three for three for the Dukes.

Second Duke Game
The second game started badly for Davidson as the Blue Devils jumped on the offerings of Jim Thomas to score
six runs in the first stanza. McLean and Steere followed Thomas on the slab and held the winners more or
less under control.

NEW COURSE [Continued from Page Five]
posed of two members from each of the troops represented which are: Both troops in Davidson, the troop at Cornelius,
and the troop at Huntersville.

ABERNATHY PRESIDENT
All-Class Team
Dale Carnegie
Charlotte and surrounding towns will be able to learn at first hand how to “win friends and influence people” next
Monday evening in Charlotte’s Central High School auditorium at 8 o'clock, when the Junior Chamber of Commerce in that city
presents Dale Carnegie. This will be the second appearance that the personality magnate has made in this section of North
Carolina.

PHI GAMS-SENIORS LEAD (Continued from Page Four)
and softball, horseshoes, and varsity competition not yet decided. The Phi Gams hold a 15-point lead over the Phi Delts
with 663 and 648 total points respectively thus far. In third place at present are the Sig Eps with 599
total points. Nine events comprise the series of interfraternity sports, and six have been completed to date. Softball and horseshoes
are being run off at present, and as soon as these and varsity competition are figured up, totals for the
year will be released.

BROADCAST IS [Continued from Page Three]
lar program will continue throughout the summer session. The participating organizations contributing to the success of this enterprise have been:
The Symphonic Band, The Glee Club, The Dramatic Club, and The Band Quartette.

STRING QUARTET FROM [Continued from Page Three]
broadcasts beginning May 7 from 8 to 8:15 p.m. This program is being sponsored by the Music department of Davidson
College. The program will consist principally of the works of Beethoven, Haydn, and Schumann.

In the Inter-Class Softball tournament recently completed in which the Seniors and the Juniors tied for the leadership, there was
also a tie in the All-Class team, picked by Johnny Tice and Junior Alcorn. The Seniors and Juniors also tied
in this—each placing four men on the team. They were followed by the Sophomores with two, and then by the
Freshmen with one.

Winters ----pitcher---. Junior
Johnson ----pitcher Sophomore
GHalK: ----catcher ----Senior
Johnson ----First Base ----Senior
Kornegay ----2nd Base ----Senior
Bolin ----ShortStop ----Junior
Means ----Third Base ----Junior
Harrison ----Short Field ----Junior
Fetzer ----Right Field Freshman
Shelton ----Center Field Sophomore
Woodward ----Left Field ----Senior

Picked by Junior Alcorn and John Tice.

Y.M.C.A. CABINET [Continued from Page One]
action after a joint meeting with the retiring members tonight at the home of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle. The session
will start at 9 o'clock and will mark the inauguration of the new cabinet. The program will be occupied by
the transmission of affairs to the incoming group. This transmission meeting is a yearly event, for which Dr. and Mrs.
Arbuckle are always hosts. Dr. Arbuckle was influential in starting the “Y” on the Davidson campus more than 25 years
ago.

Pastor To Be Named
Sunday, May 7, the congregation of the Davidson Unity church will elect its pastor, and his assistant, for the coming
year from a list of nominations submitted by the “Y” Board of Controls. This list is made up of graduates
for the pastor and of Seniors for the assistant pastor. After the Board makes its nominations, the local Presbyterian church
passes on these men.

Military power in international relations is the subject of a special course being taught at Tufts Fletcher School of Law.

Ohio State University co-eds have organized a personal appearance clinic to teach correct dress and make-up.

New Club Is Planned
Sigma Pi Sigma to Start New Physics Society
At the meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, the honorary physics fraternity, held on the evening of May 2, plans were
discussed for the formation of a physics club for the coming year.

Plan for Underclassmen
The fraternity discussed plans and appointed a committee to consider the advisability of organizing a physics club for underclassmen. This
club would serve as a prerequisite for Sigma Pi Sigma. The purpose of the proposed organization would be to create
interest in the study of physics. Outstanding students in physics from the three lower classes will be eligible for the
club.

Convention Report
A report on the national convention at Columbus, Ohio, was given by W. A. Page and supplemented by C. C.
Clark and John Hay. Five Davidson students were representatives at the convention. These were: C. C. Clark, W. A. Page,
John Hay, W. W. Kunz, A. C. Warlick.

LIBRARY USE [Continued from Page Three]
ment of 1,980 over last year’s number of 12,785. As the Davidson library is considered a circulation library, the increase
in research work is of much significance.

Wed. May 3, 1938
Carolina Philosophical Society To Meet Here
Dr. K. J. Foreman Extends Invitation at Convention in Raleigh
Accepting an invitation extended by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of the Davidson faculty, the 1940 meeting of the North Carolina
Philosophical Society will be held on this campus. The Davidson professor went to Raleigh Saturday, April 29, to attend this
year’s convention of the organization. At this meeting, the society elected Dr. Edgar H. Henderson, a member of the Meredith
College faculty, president for the next season. The group also named Dr. A. D. Beittel of Guilford College to the
post of permanent secretary.

Speak in Greensboro
Dr. Foreman also traveled to Greensboro and Concord over the weekend. On Sunday morning, April 30, the college Bible professor
spoke to the Y.W.C.A. cabinet at Greensboro Woman's College, and in the evening he preached at the Presbyterian church of
the Covenant. Rev. R. Murphy Williams, father of Bobby Williams, is pastor of this congregation.

Addresses Minister’s Association
On Monday morning, before returning to the campus, he also spoke to a meeting of the Concord Minister’s Association.

TICKETS GO ON SALE [Continued from Page One]
This will mark the third visit of Mellen to Davidson. He first played for the last of the old Junior
Speaking Sets in the spring of 1937, and returned in the fall to set the maestro last year.

For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians
USE VA-TRO-NOL IN TIME—IT HELPS TO PREVENT COLDS DEVELOPING
Here's specialized medication for the nose and upper throat—where most colds start. Used at the first sniffle or sneeze—a few
drops up each nostril—it helps to prevent many colds from developing... Even when your nose is clogged-up from a neglected
cold, Va-tro-nol clears away clogging mucus, shrinks swollen membranes—helps to keep the sinuses open—lets you breathe again!

NOSE CAN FEEL ITS TINGLING MEDICATION GO TO WORK
Va-TRO-NOL
Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind.

Every year thousands of visitors to the Chesterfield factories see the infinite care with which the world’s best tobaccos are
combined to give you Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied blend. It is this wonderful blend that makes Chesterfield so refreshingly different... milder, better-tasting,
with a more pleasing aroma. When you try them you will see why Chesterfield gives millions of men and women
more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
