Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 9, 1939

Social Center Opened For Visitors Saturday
Pool Table Repaired, New Ping-Pong Table Among Improvements

The Social Center was open for boys and their dates after the Homecoming game with Citadel Saturday, November 4th. Refreshments, cocoa and cookies, were served. The Y has been trying to encourage boys who have no other place to go after the game to bring their dates to the Social Center after the games.

The Game Room is being improved. The pool table has been repaired and new balls and sticks have been bought recently. This year, there are two ping-pong tables, instead of the one of last year. About 75 boys have been using this room regularly. A new floor is being laid and curtains will be put up soon. All suggestions as to the further improvement of the room will be appreciated.

Dave McLean is working on a Prayer Room in the Social Center. This has not been open for several years. It is expected to add a valuable feature to the religious life of students.

SEVEN SENIORS BID
(Continued from Page One)

Eps Spanish Club as well as First battalion. Davidson One) of Gamma and the holding the office of Lieutenant in ROTC. Sam is a member of Scabbard and Blade, and the Student Body. Spencer is from Columbia, S.C., and holds an average of 3.040 for his Freshman, Sophomore, and Junior years. He is president of the Cercle Francaise, a member of Sigma Upsilon, the Social Literary Cabinet, Alpha Eumenean Society, and the YMCA. He is also a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Bob Ramsey from Jonesboro, Ark., claims third rank among Seniors with a 3.038 average. He is a Freshman adviser this year and is a member of ODK, Phi Delta Phi, Alpha debating team, the Eumenean Literary Society, and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is also a member of the staff of 1938-39 Scripts 'n Pranks.

Tom Harnsberger has an average of 3.031. Coming from Louisville, Ky., via China, he is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is Cadet Commander of the ROTC battalion and a member of Scabbard and Blade, and IRC.

Bob Detynes from Rogersville, Tenn., has averaged 2.980 for the past three years. He belongs to Alpha Delta, Phi Alpha, Sigma Epsilon honorary fraternities, and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Jack Holland has an average of 2.971. He is from Jackson, Tenn., and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. He is also a member of ODK, Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Delta Pi, IRC, Eumenean Literary Society, and is a Lieutenant in the ROTC battalion. He is editor of the annual.

Warren Ludlam, who comes from Meridian, Miss., has a general average of 2.950. He belongs to Eta Sigma Phi and Eumenean and is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. This group is much smaller than that taken in by the Fraternity last year. Initiation will be held in the near future but the date has not been set.

Officers of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa are Professor F. J. Erwin, President; Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Vice-President; and Dr. W. P. Cumming, Secretary and Treasurer.

CUT SYSTEM REVISED
(Continued from Page One)

"Sick cuts" were also adopted. Absences incurred when a student is confined to the college infirmary shall be subject to no penalty except that provided in the 25 percent rule, which states that no student may be absent from any course more than 11 times and still pass the subject. Penalty for men who overcut now reads: "For the following semester a student who has overcut shall have his allowable absences reduced to the number allowed in the first semester of the Freshman year."

Temple University has offered its stadium as the site for the 1940 Olympics.

Weekly Schedule

THURSDAY, NOV. 9
7:15 P.M.—Social Fraternities.

FRIDAY, NOV. 10
7:00 P.M.—Pep Meeting.
8:00 P.M.—Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P.M.—Alpha Epsilon Delta.

SATURDAY, NOV. 11
2:00 P.M.—Davidson vs. Carolina Football Game at Winston-Salem.

SUNDAY, NOV. 12
10:15 A.M.—Sunday School.
11:15 A.M.—Church.
6:30 P.M.—Vespers.

MONDAY, NOV. 13
7:15 P.M.—Davidsonian.
7:00 P.M.—Sigma Pi Sigma.
8:00 P.M.—Phi Beta Kappa.
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Delta Pi.

TUESDAY, NOV. 14
8:00 P.M.—Literary Societies.
8:00 P.M.—Gamma Sigma Epsilon.
9:00 P.M.—Omicron Delta Kappa.

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 15
8:00 P.M.—Scabbard and Blade.
9:00 P.M.—Alpha Psi Omega.
9:00 P.M.—YMCA Cabinet.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Many alumni returned to the campus and were present at the feed after the football game and at the annual Beta Alumni Banquet held each year at Homecoming. Among them were: "Tricky" Dave Sellers, Sonny Moore, Bob Benfield, Eddie Steere, Bob Atwater, Dave Warden, Mr. Winn and John Winn, John Ranson, and Wilbur Hodges of Fayetteville, N.C.; Jimmy Dillard of Burlington; Bill Fetzer of Reidsville; Vincent Courtney of Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. W. W. McCrary of Arkansas; and Mr. and Mrs. T. H. McKnight of Memphis, Tenn.

Pi Kappa Phi

As might well be expected, the majority of the Pi Kapps spent the weekend traveling between Davidson and Charlotte, dancing, and dripping through the football game. A banquet was held at the Charlotte Hotel Saturday evening which most of the brothers and pledges attended. Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vows and Major and Mrs. J. L. Ballard of the local faculty were present on this occasion. Among the alumni attending were Brothers Marion Davis with Mrs. Davis, Bidwell Ivey, Jim Bullard, and Ken Lawson.

The dates of the various members of the chapter included: Miss Harriet Davis, Miss Nell Johnson, Miss Caroline Caudle, Miss Fan James, and Miss Brookline McCullar, all of Charlotte; Miss Anna Maxwell, Miss Dorothy Brandon, and Miss Virginia Thompson, all of Florence, S.C.; Miss Nancy Frazier of Badin; Miss Margaret Woodhead and Miss Helen Cumnock of Aiken, S.C.; Miss Frances Caldwell from Sweetbriar; Miss Julia Hobbs of Davidson; Miss Ruthie Brickhouse of Albemarle; Miss Pat Barrow of Bluefield, W. Va.; Miss Edna Lee of Fort Myers, Fla.; Miss Virginia Howard of Washington, D.C.; and Miss Shirley Ervin of Nashville, Tenn.

ADMIRAL BYRD
(Continued from Page Three)

Pi Gamma Mu includes students in sociology, anthropology, economics, business administration, law, political science, history, geography, ethics, religion, education, psychology, and philosophy. Davidson's chapter was organized by Dr. P. H. Gwynn in 1938 as the North Carolina Gamma chapter with fourteen charter members. However, the chapter was not officially installed until the fall of 1938 when Dr. Charles A. Ellwood of Duke, National President Emeritus, officially presented the charter at a banquet in Chambers building.

CATS DEFEAT CITADEL
(Continued from Page Four)

Davidson commenced scoring when Graham Edwards faded back from Davidson's 34-yard line. Burrows' extra point kick was good and the score was tied at 7-7.

Cats March On

David kicked off for The Citadel and the Cats marched straight to a touchdown without relinquishing the ball. Sharpe, Bill Bolin, and Hackney alternated in carrying the pigskin to the 5-yard line where Bolin shot through left guard for the touchdown. Again Yoder kicked the extra point, and the score read 14-7, Davidson, at the half.

Midway in the third period, George Richmond broke through to block Foster's kick on The Citadel 25-yard line. This, coupled with a 15-yard penalty against Citadel for an illegal man catching the ball, placed the oval on the Cadets' 10-yard stripe. Jay Bolin on two tries crossed the last white stripe, registering Davidson's third touchdown. Yoder's conversion was wide, leaving the score at 20 to 7.

Citadel scored another 6 points in the fourth quarter when Sharpe's punt slid off the side of his foot and went out on the Cats' 28. Citadel capitalized on this break and scored soon after on Edwards' plunge from two. Burrows' pass to David was good for the extra point and the score now stood at 20-14.

Davidson Gets Safety

Davidson's final 2 points came on an attempted pass when a swarm of Wildcat linemen tossed Edwards behind his goal-line for the final score of the day.

New Lounge Room Is At Davis Shop
Marion DavisCompany Opens Lounge For Convenience

Marion Davis Company, of Charlotte, popular collegiate clothiers and haberdashers, announces the completion of a new lounge room for the convenience of Davidson students.

New Location

This store was recently established in its new location, 118 South Tryon Street, and boasts a modern, up-to-date store. Mr. Davis originated this innovation for the benefit of the collegian clientele. It is decorated in a modern manner and contains various pictures of Davidson teams, college pennants, lounge chairs, and a phone for the convenience of Davidson students and their guests.

A Meeting Place

It affords a meeting place for all students. Students are invited to drop in at any time.

Spanish Club Meets With Sigma Delta Pi

The Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi held their bi-monthly meeting Monday night, November 6th at 9 o'clock. After the regular business, Tom Galbraith read a paper on Pizarro, the Spanish Conqueror of Peru. Fred Hardin read a paper in Spanish on the origin of the Incas, a South American Indian tribe possessing a highly advanced form of civilization.

The Spanish Club is composed of students with a B-plus average in two years of Spanish. Sigma Delta Pi is made up of students with an excellent average in three years of Spanish.

LIBRARY BINDS Three

The new books are Antique Jewelry and Precious Stones and Old Prints and Engravings, both by Fred W. Burgess, showing the advancement of craftsmanship in these two fields from the beginnings to their modern form; The Tapestry Book by Helen Churchill Candee; and The Old Clock Book by N. Hudson Moore. The order of curricular books is expected to arrive early in the week.

AGAR SAYS

Dr. Agar defines liberty as involving two things, both the right to earn security and the privileges of the Bill of Rights. These two terms are used interchangeably by some politicians and journalists but there is a distinct difference. Dr. Agar emphatically points out that if ever the people of this or any other nation failed to agree on the destination of their country, that country was certainly in a revolutionary state.

FOREIGN POLICIES

In 1934, Mussolini completed the job undertaken by the Japanese in 1931 and smashed the League. The French allowed this to happen partly because France was then very near an internal revolution and partly because Premier Laval had the typical Frenchman's horror of risk and would not take a chance. In 1935, Foreign Minister Barthou tried to tighten up the system of alliances which, as a supplement to the League, had now become a substitute for it. It is said that he was also contemplating a preventive war against Hitler. But these European allies were demoralized by fascist successes and Barthou was assassinated.

BETAS WIN DECORATION

The sign said it was 230 miles away. The cat was a typical dog catcher, having in his paws a long pole with a net on its end ready to grab the dog at the next instant. Kappa Sigma was represented by a cow and a broken-down Ford car. The cow bore the sign “This is no Bull,” and the car was “We're going to take Citadel for a ride.” “McEver the optometrist” makes everyone see right, was the theme of the Phi Delta Theta house. In the yard was a huge pair of spectacles and a sign saying, “We don't need specs to know a victory when we see it.”

Phi Gams Have Hut

Phi Gamma Delta was decorated to represent a Fiji Island hut. “Wild Cats clean out dog House” was the theme of Pi Kappa Alpha exhibit. A large dog house was added to the front of the fraternity house. In its windows were the heads of different Citadel bulldogs, while members of the Davidson Wildcat squad were cleaning out the house. Pi Kappa Phi exhibited the “Pi Kappa Phi Edition of the book ‘The Citadel’.” Alpha Epsilon had a central theme of the destruction of the Citadel Bulldogs as a whole.

REV. CARL R. PRITCHETT

“Christ suffered,” said the Reverend Mr. Pritchett. “We have short lifetimes and the only chance to realize Christ is in our suffering. If there is no future life, what is the purpose of this life? Through sorrow, death, and the life of Christ shall suffice, for he has sufficed,” Rev. Pritchett pointed out. “Christ is the beginning and the end,” he added as the closing sentence, and with the benediction, the service was ended.

CHEST COLD MISERY

First—rub throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. Then—spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and cover with a warmed cloth. Right away, VapoRub goes to work—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air passages—relieves coughing. And often by morning, most of the misery of the cold is gone. Vicks VapoRub.

Thus, everything the French had worked for crashed to the ground. Internally divided, deprived of their allies, disgusted with an impotent League, and having to rely on a vacillating British Government, France was stunned and saw the dictators take Spain in 1936, Austria in 1937, and Czechoslovakia in 1938. The war came in 1939 and caught the French still without a policy. What the future holds, none can tell, but if a new policy crystallizes, it is certain to demand either an infinitely more effective and powerful League or a permanent and definitive weakening of Germany. The French accepted a compromise solution last time, it is not likely they are to do so again.

Cornell University has a special faculty counselor for foreign students.

Commuting students at Massachusetts State College travel a total of 18,024 miles a week.

Harvard University poet, Loyd Haberly, prints and binds the volumes of his own poetry.

Visit the newest and smartest suits, sport coats, etc., if you make your selection at Mellon's. Our styles are right—you'll know that when you see them.

Greater, Finer Mellon's

WE'RE STRONG ON COLLEGE STYLES

That's why Davidson men are strong on Mellon's. You won't have to bring Esquire along to know if you're getting the newest and smartest suits, topcoats, sport coats, etc., if you make your selection at Mellon's. Our styles are right—you'll know that when you see them.

Student's Dept. Mellon's Co. 106-108 WEST TRADE ST.

Miss Phil Offer was this year's pick of them all for “Cotton Queen” because she has the right combination of charm and loveliness typical of the modern American girl. For real smoking pleasure the pick of them all is Chesterfield because its right combination of the world’s best tobaccos gives smokers Real Mildness and Better Taste.

The K. A. brothers, pledges, and their guests enjoyed a banquet held on Friday night before the dance. The majority of the brothers attended the dances, though Brother Turnage went to his home in Farmville, and Thomas and Wilson journeyed South to Atlanta. Dates for the weekend included: Miss Pat Dargan, Grace Moore, Sarah Oliver, Scotty Meade, Wilson, Mildred Anderson, Beth Highsmith, Becky Jenkins, Louise Wells, Akers, Rosa Simms, Louise Paine, Margie Ray, Mary Carson Jones, Peggy Parsley, and Doris Nebel. Among the alumni visiting the chapter during the festivities were: Nancy Frances Alexander, Martha Self, Dick Taylor, Jay Summeral, Jim Pratt, Geech Montgomery, Sandy Moffett, Polk Moffet, Bob Abels, Joe Moore, Jim Johnson, Mr. Ansley, and Dr. Sparrow.

COLLEGE STUDENT IN WAR

Believed to be the first U.S. college student to fight in the present European war, John C. Baker, a Harvard undergraduate, will soon be stationed in the French Maginot line.

MAKE YOUR NEXT PACK Chesterfield because of its right combination of the best American and Turkish tobaccos. Real mildness is more important in a cigarette today than ever before because people smoke more now than ever before. That’s why so many smokers have changed to Chesterfield... they are finding out that for Real Mildness and Better Taste the pick of them all is Chesterfield. You'll find that Chesterfields are cooler, better-tasting, and definitely milder—you can't buy a better cigarette.

Chesterfield THEY REALLY SATISFY