Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David’s Son He Wisely Eschews The Honor Of Meeting A Grown Goliath

One Minute Safety Talk

Thurs., Dec. 7, 1939

GLEANINGS

After yesterday's football game between Davidson and Wake Forest, the wisdom of discontinuing the 50-year-old Thanksgiving classic was clearly apparent to all the spectators with a fellow-feeling for Davidson, at least. The score of 30 to 0 represented, in all probability, not only the difference in manpower between the two teams but the comparable emphasis upon football at the two institutions. Indeed, to apply the score in one other way, it might be said, not at all disparagingly of the excellence of the Wake Forest athletes, that it reflected the difference in the football investments of the two denominational schools. Not purely by coincidence, Wake Forest has collected its Bations, Galioviches, Horchaks, Kaprivas, and John the Baptist Polanskis from Homestead, Pa., Vandergrift, Pa., Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Buffalo, N.Y.

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Represented FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave., New York, N.Y.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

JIM CURRIE BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Jack Abernethy Assistant Editor
Tom Sprunt Managing Editor
Erle Austin Associate Editor
Jack Volland Associate Editor
Karl Hudson Associate Editor
Bobby Williams Sports Editor
ANRUS LYLE

BUSINESS STAFF

James Voit Advertising Manager
Victor Mele Circulation Manager
Jack Lovingood Circulation Manager
Fred Little Collection Manager

The Davidsonian extends its sympathy to Robert Terry, ’38, in the recent loss of his father.

“For Auld Lang Syne”

Our long, heated rivalry with Wake Forest is over. The Baptists conquered our Wildcats with a brilliant array of football talent in a game that was packed with plenty of thrills from both sides, in this finale to football relations between these two schools.

While an editorial column is probably the wrong place to build up sports, we would like to make an exception and say a little of our own Wilson “Tubby” Land who finished his collegiate football career in a blaze of glory.

Johnny Butler, pride and joy of all Tennessee, once made a run against Alabama. It was for 56 yards. The next day newspapers from all parts of the country blazed his name in headlines and stated that this 56-yard jaunt was one of the finest runs that...Ly a steam boat is: . ever seen in a major football game. They said he did it on his own—no blocking help—investigating colleges. He would be making the most influential person in the Fatiianis, Jr. leading the all-star cast. 

SCHOOL ALMA MATER

First, out of admiration and respect for the general and second, for reasons of propaganda and advertising. The name sounds well, and it does a great deal to spread its fame. 

Davidson, our Alma Mater, by Doug! 

Wednesday, December 13

Fred Waring and Company seems to have been laid away on the top shelf for some reason. Even though everyone may not like this song, it certainly looks like the musical department could have sung it in chapel so we could decide for ourselves which song we wanted. All well spent—by the brilliance of their voices blended into a human organ, congratulations to the music department.

Saturday, December 9

"The Secret of Dr. Kildare:" Lew Ayres—Lana Turner and Lionel Barrymore. The newest in this popular series, and certainly as good as any of the others. 

"Lone Ranger" sets on the loose. 

When it turns to education, the single greatest essential of democracy. Any injury to our freedom of education is striking at the blood of democracy. The McPherson College Spectator brought the possible results of the investigation home to its readers in this manner:

"The Russians came, captured the campus, and left! Not by the use of dreadful cannon, guns, aerial bombardments, or force for bringing to our quaint old campus these singing Russians. It was the first of such performances that did not receive some criticism and we do believe that the entire school wouldn’t have been better satisfied if they had heard Glenn Miller in person. Extremely delightful was the appearance of the sword dancer and the dances presented by members of the Choir. It was an evening well spent and entertainment well worth the price of admission."

The Ambers College Student attacked the life of our young hero, John Howard. Dorothy Lamour is truly fine as usual as the American girl who has been reared in China.

We don’t agree. Of course, we didn't see Butler's run and we didn't see a whole lot of such runs made throughout the country during the course of the football season but we'd lay our hat and boots that there wasn’t any better executed trip to pay dirt than that made by our Tubby Hand Saturday against Wake Forest.

The McPherson College Spectator brought the possible results of the investigation home to its readers in this manner:

"If the committee should investigate McPherson College, judging by previous methods, they probably would find that the history classes are using subversive propaganda when they study the Russian system of communism, the Italian corporate state, the German version of National Socialism, and the Japanese system of totalitarianism. And economic classes would be scored for discussing the possibility of a communistic economy, the abolition of the price system, the replacement of the capitalistic ideal with some better methods. The right of discussion and the right to freedom of speech and assembly are inherent and must be retained in a democracy. Any attempt at denying that right is in itself an un-American activity."

In an editorial letter to Mr. Dies, University of Pittsburgh News hinted at a possible explanation of the congressman’s move:

"We realize that you (Mr. Dies) are a wholly disinterested researcher when you come to examine our colleges and universities. That of the college journals we read, only one little school has commended you, while about 43 school papers have denounced your actions has, of course, nothing to do with your sudden determination to expose those hotbeds of radicalism, the American Institutions of higher learning. Come on, Mr. Dies, we're waiting."

And so, as we said in the beginning, Mr. Dies is due to dispel, little by little, the fog of ignorance that envelops humanity, and that brings with it all the resultant evils of stupidity and pure courtesy to Fred Waring.

Missouri and Georgia Tech played on the football field. Out in Pasadena, it was Tennessee and Southern California. Personally, we could think of nothing better than to see moving pictures of this run by Tubby. Why don't someone suggest to the coaches a plan whereby the pictures can be shown at some gathering?

The Russians came, captured the campus, and left! Not by the use of dreadful cannon, guns, aerial bombardments, or force for bringing to our quaint old campus these singing Russians. It was the first of such performances that did not receive some criticism and we do believe that the entire school wouldn’t have been better satisfied if they had heard Glenn Miller in person. Extremely delightful was the appearance of the sword dancer and the dances presented by members of the Choir. It was an evening well spent and entertainment well worth the price of admission.

Fortunate, indeed, we were to have a chance to hear this famous group—the Don Cossacks.