Feb. 8, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Question: Are you in favor of the present method of selecting the winner of the Southern Conference Basketball Championship?

Jack Abernathy, Junior: I think that the champions should be determined by the conference standing at the end of the
season. I think that the tournament should continue because it is a colorful and entertaining affair. When the winner is
determined by its conference standing it is more likely that the best team will win.

Roy Cunningham, Sophomore: I think that the winner should be selected by its conference standing due to the fact that
a true standing cannot be obtained in the hurry and turmoil of a tourney. I think that the tournament is
a good thing but the winner should receive a cup or trophy instead of the title.

Tom Mullen, Senior: I am in favor of selecting the team by the tournament method as it is now. I
like this method as it has the appearance and draw of an actual contest at the moment. It gives a
team that might have had a lower standing during the year, because of numerous reasons, a chance to show its
real calibre. I also believe that it creates more interest in the basketball season.

Norman Stevenson, Sophomore: I think that the tournament is a colorful event and makes the season more spectacular but it
is not as accurate as taking the total wins and losses during the season. A team that barely got in
the tourney might win while the team that won the most games and lost less might have an off day.
Therefore I think that the winner should be selected by its conference standing at the end of the year.

Davis Thomas, Freshman: I think that it is fairer to select the team by its standing in the conference at
the end of the season because some team might have an off-day in the tourney and be defeated whereas they
were really a better team than the one who won. Some arrangement ought to be made whereas each member of
the conference should play every other team at least once, and the winner be determined by percentage.

Bill Telford, Senior: I am in favor of the present system because the teams which might have made a good
record by playing easier schedules, when they meet in the conference are given a chance to display their talents in
competition with teams which have played a harder schedule and as a result have not such a good record. The
conference football race is a good example of why the other method should not be used, because there particularly a
team which does not play many conference teams and has happened to make a good record against those few can
and does claim the championship of the whole conference.

DAVIDSON WILL SPONSOR [Continued from Page One]

The University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra; The Davidson Glee Club; and The Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra. Thor Johnson
and Thane McDonald will be the conductors.

“Martha” on Tuesday

On Tuesday evening, February 14, the third and last program of the festival will be given. This program will be
a presentation of the opera “Martha,” by Von Flotow, in concert form. Also will be selections from Haydn, Lekon and
Tansman. Appearing in this concert will be Eleanor Alexander, Soprano; Franklin Riker, Tenor; The Queens-Chicora College Glee Club; The University
of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra; The Davidson College Glee Club, and The Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra. Thor Johnson and
James Christian Pfohl will be conductors.

At the program on Sunday evening no admission will be charged as this takes place of the regular Sunday vesper
services. However, on Monday and Tuesday evenings an admission of fifty cents will be charged. Davidson students and holders of
season tickets to the Davidson College concert series will be admitted free.

@ DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE M. H. Goodrum & Company DAVIDSON, N. C.

@ Belles Chosen As Sponsors

Sponsors for the Davidson Mid-Winter Dances to be held on February 11 and 12 in the Charlotte Armory are Miss
Peggy Cleveland of Spartanburg, S. C., with Dick Taylor, Kappa Alpha; Miss Eleanor Newman of Salisbury with Addison Long, Pi
Kappa Alpha; Miss Shirley Ann Peters of Bluefield, W. Va., with Bobby Gish, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Hilda Graham Roberts
of Salisbury with Mark Lillard, Jr., council treasurer, of Phi Delta Theta; Miss Evelyn Drennen of Birmingham with Gene Liipfert,
secretary of Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Mararuth Allen of Wadesboro with Ray Pittman, Kappa Sigma and President of the Pan-Hellenic
Council; Miss Mary Louise Riddick of Scotland Neck, with Tom Mullen, Pan-Hellenic vice-president; and Miss Miriam Boyd of Warrenton with
L. W. Kornegay, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Thom’ sville Minister Is “Y” Speaker

Rev. Sam S. Wiley Speaks to Cabinet on Power and Meaning of Prayer

Rev. Sam S. Wiley, pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Thomasville, graduate of Davidson seven years ago, and Y. M.
C. A. secretary for the following two years, led a discussion on the Power and Meaning of Prayer before the
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and the Friendship Council last Wednesday evening.

Define Prayer

An attempt was made to define prayer at the beginning of the meeting. After much discussion, prayer was finally defined
as “the soul's sincere desire.” However, this definition was further limited to exclude all prayer not prayed to God. The
remainder of the meeting was spent in a study of the Lord's Prayer. Rev. Wiley said that this great prayer
should be the model prayer of all Christians. It was found that the petitions of the Lord’s Prayer were arranged
in the order of importance. A number of helpful suggestions as to the methods and nature of prayer were given.

Judy Starr Is Diminutive and Charming Songstress

Dr. McIntosh Passes Away

Kenan Professor of U. N. C. Dies After Illness

Dr. A. C. McIntosh, Kenan professor emeritus of the University of North Carolina Law school, and a graduate of Davidson
College in 1881, died on January 27 in a Durham hospital after an illness of six months.Professor of law since
1910 and Kenan professor emeritus of law since 1934, Dr. McIntosh was a native of Taylorsville. He graduated from Davidson
College in 1881 and received his M.A. degree in 1887. In 1923, Davidson conferred on him the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws. He edited, compiled, and published a number of casebooks, treatises, and annotations. In 1929, he published his
greatest work, a monumental treatise on practice and procedure in North Carolina. This work has been cited by the Supreme
Court in almost every opinion that has dealt with the subject in the last few years. After his retirement in
1934, Dr. McIntosh served as an editor and a contributor to the North Carolina Law Review.

Eat At The College Inn
“Ask the Boys Who Know”
EXCELLENT FOOD
CONVENIENT LOCATION
ADEQUATE ACCOMMODATION
GOOD SERVICE
Three Meals
Three Meals (week-end off)
Two Meals
Two Meals (week-end off)
Meals and price guaranteed. If not satisfied, your money back.
CHARLES L. WAGNER, Mgr.

Vocalist Has Led Long and Varied Career Singing With Orchestras

Special advice to all girls coming to the Davidson Mid-Winters dances—keep an eye on your date or he surely will
be charmed by that diminutive songstress, Judy Starr, who sings with Hal Kemp and his orchestra.

Early Life
Judy, bluebird of the south, was born in Gainesville, Georgia, but at an early age, she moved with her family
to Clarksburg, West Virginia. While in high school at Clarksburg, she attended a dance at the University of West Virginia
where Kemp was playing an engagement. He was told of a very fine singer who was then in the audience
and urged to give her a trial. She was our Judy. Hal invited her to sing with the band. She
was so small that he had to hold the microphone for her. She was a sensation the first time ever
to appear with an orchestra. In 1931, when Hal Kemp traveled to Europe with his orchestra, he wanted to take
her along as vocalist but since she was only fifteen (Continued on Page Six)

The Wooden Bowl
125 W. Fourth St.
“3 MEALS A DAY”
Private Parties
Telephone 2-1810

Term As “Y” Secretary

Frat To Have Special Room
Alpha Epsilon Delta Has Discussion on Matters of Local Interest

At the last meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, which was held Friday evening, February second, there were several points of
special interest discussed. The discussion centered primarily around the possibility of obtaining a fraternity room in which interest in medicine
could be furthered on the Davidson campus. It was felt that this would be stimulating the interest in medicine that
is necessary here at Davidson. The fraternity room is an important factor in this interest. Several possibilities for the location
of this room were discussed, such as one that is never used in Eumenean or one of the rooms in
Phi Hall. It is to contain a library of medical magazines and pamphlets. Also, it is to be open to
any members of the faculty that are especially interested. It is hoped that the faculty will enter into this undertaking.
Also discussed was a trip to Winthrop College in Rock Hill, South Carolina, in answer to an invitation issued to
the members of Davidson Alpha Epsilon Delta by the biology department of Winthrop. This trip is to take place sometime
in the very near future. It was brought up that an open (Continued on Page Six)

Boggs Will Study for Ministry In Union Theological Seminary

After serving for two years as secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at Davidson, Wade Boggs has resigned, effective the first part
of September, to begin his preparation for the ministry at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Rice Succeeds
He will be succeeded as secretary by Sherrard Rice of the senior class. Boggs, who graduated from Davidson in the
class of 1937, is a native of Shreveport, La. In the fall of 1937, he received his present position when
Rev. “Mac” McClure, who was secretary before him, accepted a call to the pastorate of the Lincolnton Presbyterian Church. During
his term of office here, Boggs inaugurated the freshman orientation period as an annual Y.M.C.A. project and added “Colored work”
as a separate division. In addition to reviving and emphasizing the plan of hall exchange, his work includes supervising the
sending of deputations to surrounding churches, the publication of the “Y” handbook, interesting the students in foreign missions and their
financial support, carrying on religious and civic work in the colored community, and supervising five scout troops and three Hi-Y’s.
While a senior here, Boggs was bid to both Phi Beta Kappa and (Continued on Page Six)

Novelty In Annual
Cage Brewer, editor of “Quips and Cranks,” the Davidson Yearbook, stated today that work on the book was rapidly nearing
completion. Brewer stated that pictures had been taken of all groups and activities except the spring sports. He added that
there would be a new feature in the forthcoming annual, that of a special section devoted to informal snapshots of
the various fraternities and their members. There will also be another section for other men who have snapshots of campus
life in general.

At BELK’S
$22.45
TWEEDS!
WORSTEDS!
GABARDINES!
HERRINGBONES!
You'll “go” well for our fitting 3-button single-breasted suits as well as for our double-breasted suits. Popular drape models. Newest
stripes and patterns.

Men!... You’ll Like These New SPRING SUITS
Other Suits $29.50 and $35.
MEN’S STORE — STREET FLOOR
BELK BROS.
Charlotte, N.C.

When in Charlotte Visit Our Restaurant
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS FOR BANQUETS
THACKER’S, INC.
Charlotte, N.C.

Now in Knox Building
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N.C.

Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 8th.
“FISHERMAN’S WHARF”
Wed., Feb. 9-10th.
“PARIS HONEYMOON”
Sat., Feb. 11th. (Double Feature)
“STORM OVER BENGAL”
“DEVIL DOG’S No. 3”
Mon.-Tues., Feb. 13th-14th.
“SON OF FRANKENSTEIN”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N.C.

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, and Candy
Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, North Carolina

Expert Barber
BEST HAIRCUT IN TOWN
Davis Barber Shop
Right by White Drug Co.
DAVIDSON, N.C.
