Wed. May 3, 1939
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Societies May Vote To Sponsor Contest
Plan Would Give Prizes for Best Poetry, Non-Fiction, and Fiction

A proposal for a literary contest, harking back to the days of Eu and Phi pre-eminence, was voted upon last
night by both societies. The plan, presented by Phi President Ivan Stafford, calls for joint action between the societies in
the awarding of three ten-dollar prizes at commencement for literary endeavor.

Purpose of Plan

The purpose of the scheme is to arouse student interest in creative writing and to secure materials for the formation
of a collection of student literary work. Prizes are to be awarded for the best work in poetry, non-fiction, and
fiction. If the plans go through, these awards may be offered this year, with the entire student body eligible for
the competition. Next year, however, only society members will be eligible to compete. In this way, the societies hope to
increase their prestige and to become once more the chief channels of student literary endeavor.

Judging Committee

The works submitted will be judged by a committee of faculty members. Also among the judges will be a certain
number of representatives from each society. The best of these writings will be saved from year to year to form
archives of student literature. From these, an anthology will be compiled and published every four years or so. News of
the action of the societies upon this proposal or of any changes or additions made could not be obtained at
press time.

Music Service To Be Sunday

Next Sunday evening at 6:30 Davidson’s annual music vesper service will be held, the Glee Club and orchestra presenting the
program on this occasion. Guest artists of the evening will be James Webber, violinist from Statesville and Charlotte. The program
is as follows: Prelude by Galazounoff—Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra; Call to Worship—O, Bless the Lord by Smith Oschenbrenner—Davidson Glee Club;
Invocation; Hymn—Bless O My Soul the Living God, to be sung by the congregation; Anthem—I Am Thy God by Roma—Davidson
Glee Club; Scripture Reading; Prayer; Hymn—Dear Lord and Father of Mankind—Davidson Glee Club; Offertory—Intermezzo from L’Arlésienne Suite by Bizet—Little Symphony
Orchestra; Offertory Response—We Give Thee But Thine Own by Thane McDonald—Davidson Glee Club; Hymn—Now the Day Is Over, to be
sung by the congregation; Anthem—Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring by Bach—Davidson Glee Club; Violin Solo—Meditation from Thaïs by Massenet, to
be rendered by Mr. Webber; Anthem—Guide Me O Thou Great Jehovah by Avery—Davidson Glee Club; Sanctus from St. Cecilia Mass
by Gounod—Little Symphony Orchestra; Prayer and Benediction; Choral Response—Lead Kindly Light, which will be sung by the Glee Club.

Weekly Schedule

Wednesday, May 3
3:00 P.M., Track, Frosh in Jr. College Conference meet, here.
7:00 P.M., Scabbard and Blade.
8:00 P.M., Alpha Psi Omega and Red and Black Masquers.
9:00 P.M., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

Thursday, May 4
2:30 P.M., Tennis, Frosh vs. Reynolds High, here.
Social Fraternities.

Friday, May 5
2:30 P.M., Tennis, Frosh vs. Shelby High, here.
3:30 P.M., Baseball, vs. Furman, here.
7:00 P.M., Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P.M., Alpha Delta.
9:00 P.M., International Relations Club.

Saturday, May 6
2:30 P.M., Track vs. Duke, here.

Sunday, May 7
10:15 A.M., Sunday School.
11:15 A.M., Church.
6:30 P.M., Vesper Service.

Monday, May 8
7:00 P.M., “D” Club.
7:30 P.M., Davidsonian.
8:00 P.M., Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P.M., Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, May 9
8:00 P.M., Le Cercle Français.
9:00 P.M., Sigma Upsilon.

Personality Expert Will Be Speaker
Junior Chamber of Commerce to Present Dale Carnegie May 8

Dale Carnegie, author of “How to Win Friends and Influence People,” will make his second public appearance in the Carolinas
Monday, May 8, at 8:00 P.M. at Central High School in Charlotte. Mr. Carnegie will appear under the auspices of
the Charlotte Junior Chamber of Commerce.

Talented Speaker

Mr. Carnegie, recognized as the most talked-of speaker and author in America today, will speak on “How to Win Friends
and Influence People,” which is the title of his book now in its third year of sale since publication. His
book has outsold all books published in 1938 and has excelled the record of any non-fiction work in the Twentieth
Century, with sales having totaled nearly 900,000 copies. Mr. Carnegie himself is an adviser to whom big businessmen in New
York go for practical self-guidance and instruction on the subject of getting along with people. During the last 24 years,
he has trained more than 15,000 businessmen and professionals—more than any other living man. Among these 15,000 are some of
the most famous men in the nation.

No Reserved Seats

DeLacy Wyman, chairman of the committee handling Mr. Carnegie’s appearance for the Charlotte Junior Chamber of Commerce, has announced that
there will be no reserved seats.

[Continued on Page Six]

Chemical Fraternity Holds Open Meeting
Members Give Interesting Demonstrations

One of the most important meetings of the Alpha Alpha chapter of Gamma Sigma Epsilon was the open meeting held
at 7:30 Friday night, April 28 in the lecture room of the Chemistry building, which was well attended by the
students. The meeting consisted primarily of experiments and explanations.

Demonstrations

Vance Myers prepared some chemical snakes, or “Pharaoh’s Serpent.” Rufus Allison had the misfortune of setting off most of his
nitrogen triiodide explosive before the meeting but found one crystal that was very effective. Bob Doty electrolyzed a solution of
phenolphthalein, potassium iodide, and starch to form red, white, and blue colors in a U-tube. John Wilson sent up some
hydrogen soap bubbles which burned excellently. Bill Boyce burned sodium in an atmosphere of chlorine. Tom Guion set off a
time reaction in which a dark blue color formed after a definite time of reaction. Locke White had some chemical
vegetation and a very active volcano, and Pat Hobson closed the meeting with a chemiluminescent fountain of glowing luminol.

Pat Hobson, a sophomore, was taken in at the meeting two weeks ago. At this same meeting, the election of
officers for next year was held. They are: President, Thomas H. Guion; Secretary, Robert B. Doty; Treasurer, Beecher W. Sitterson;
and Sergeant-at-Arms, William H. Boyce. The retiring officers are: President, Locke White; Secretary, Lister Skinner; Treasurer, Wesley Coghill; and Sergeant-at-Arms,
John Wilson.

These Are Davidson’s 1940 Leaders

The above seven members of the Junior class were tapped into the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary fraternity,
during the Chapel period on Monday. The Juniors, left to right, are: first row, Sam Spencer, Sid Crane, and Tom
Casali; second row, Jack Holland, Gales McClintock, and Dick Kenyon; third row, Bob Ramsey. A special program was presented, in
which Dr. Frontis W. Johnston made some appropriate remarks on the merits of a fraternity honoring leadership ability. Following this,
thirteen Juniors and Seniors were tapped individually by members, at the stroke of a gavel by Warren Gaw, president of
the local chapter.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Phi Delts Scatter

Brothers Lillard, Morrison, Harmon, and Ludlam spent the weekend in Salisbury, while Brothers Scarborough and Robinson visited in Mount Olive.
Atlanta was visited by Brothers Tenney, Lee, Driver, and Bell. Brother Westall attended the dances at Salem Academy in Winston-Salem;
Brother Legrand week-ended at his home in Shelby, Brother Glenn went to his home in Spartanburg. Journeying to Columbia were
Brothers Carter and Withers, while Brother Iverson and Pledge Brother Cowan journeyed to Charleston. Brother McGeachey went to Tryon, while
Pledge Brother Wright went to his home.in Asheville. Miss Hilda Salisbury was a visitor at the house during the week.

Pi Kaps Welcome New Brother

Brothers Hemphill, Cooper, Niven, and Hendrick were with the baseball team at Duke. A visit was paid to the chapter
by Heath Howie. Other visitors were Miss Mary Waddis Lumpkin and Quincy Masters. The chapter welcomed Brother Tom Fry at
the meeting Thursday night, and he will henceforth be an active member. Brothers Larkin and Davidson visited Greensboro for the
May Day and other festivities. Brother Flynn attended the dance at Salem, as did Brother Bob Garvey.

Fijis Frolic at Beach

Twenty-five Phi Gams journeyed on their annual house party at Myrtle Beach last weekend. Chaperones for this occasion were Mr.
and Mrs. Chet Chapman, and Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur Thompson. Other guests in the party were: Misses Nancy Hovis, Meredith
Jackson, Vabie Beall, Rosalie Haynes, Aleen Long, and Jane Hashagen of Charlotte; Misses Julia Elgin, Ann Sutherland, and Frances Edmunds
of Knoxville, Tenn.; Miss Early, Margie Mary Razer of Asheville, N. C.; Misses Ella Keene Steele and Polly Price of
Davidson; Miss Lura Self of Raleigh, N. C.; Misses Marian Gaither and Margaret Holbrook of Winston-Salem; and Miss Marian Webb
of Shanghai, China.

Pikas Go Home

Brother Casey Jones went to his home in Norfolk. Brothers Shelton, Levinson, Suttenfield, and Scott were in a mass exodus
for Statesville. Brother McElwee was at P. C. with the track team, later going to Rock Hill with Brother Latimer.
Paul Lady and Jim Anderson were with the varsity track team in Charleston. Akers visited the chapter Sunday night. Brothers
Coltrane and Youngblood went to their homes in Concord.

(Continued on Page Six)

Charley DeLuxe Ice Cream

Mooresville, N. C. Phone 56

COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of Whitman’s and Holliday’s Candies for MOTHER’S DAY

WHITE DRUG CO. Davidson, North Carolina

Echoes Of The Past (From Davidsonian Files)

ONE YEAR AGO: Warren Gaw was elected Freshman adviser... the Eumenean Literary Society entertained a group of girls from Mitchell...
we beat Wofford in baseball 23 to 0!

THREE YEARS AGO: The last issue of the "Yowl" came out, with a request for a new name... the R.
O. T. C. students saw an exhibition of modern weapons... the baseball team beat State 7-4... "Three Cornered Moon" was
presented by the Red and Black Masquers.

FIVE YEARS AGO: The famous Bowery Ball topped off a week of festivities... the varsity and frosh track teams beat
V. P. I. 67-59 and 62 1-2 to 52 1-2... Col. Rhett was elected president of the Quadwranglers.

New Course For Scouts Will Start

Abernathy Is Phi President

Anthology of Club Writings, Hay Ride and Diplomas Are Discussed

Jack Abernathy, a rising senior from Gastonia, was elected president of the Philanthropic Literary Society at a regular meeting in
Phi Hall on Tuesday night, April 18. Other officers chosen were: Ed Brown, vice president; Ralph W. A. McEachern, secretary;
Dave McLean, first critic; Dick Harkey, treasurer; and Gammon, second critic. Abernathy served as vice president both semesters during the
past year. In addition, he holds many campus honors, having recently been named editor of "Scrips 'n Pranks." Brown has
served as secretary during the past semester and holds many campus offices as well. He was recently given a post
on the new "Y" cabinet.

(Continued on Page Six)

For the BOY Graduate

Instructor Council Will Be During the week of May 8 through the thirteenth, the local scout leaders and all others
interested in scouting will have the privilege of attending an elementary course in scouting taught by Carson Williams. Assistant Director
Mr. Williams is the assistant director of the Charlotte Scouts Council of Boy Scouts of America. The course will be
held in night sessions of two hours each and there will be one each night throughout the week. This will
be a course on the elements of scouting: what scouting is and how the work should be done. Any students
interested in this course may get in touch with Dave Sprunt or any of the other active scouts on the
campus. There is no charge for this course, but regular attendance is required, and an attendance of the majority of
the classes is required to receive credit for this course. Completion of this course will count toward the scoutmaster's key.

A permanent Court of Honor has been organized with Dr. Gwynn as chairman. This Court is composed of...

(Continued on Page Six)

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE

M. P. Henderson DAVIDSON, N. C. CARS FOR RENT

HAMILTON

An accurate watch is as important to the Graduate as a compass to a mariner. Let us help you choose
the right model from our selection of America’s finest — Hamilton! Priced from $37.50 upward.

LINWOOD. Curved to fit the wrist. 17 jewels. $52.50

DODSON. Styled for youth appeal. 17 jewels. $40.00

ELLIOTT. Modern and manly. 17 jewels. $52.50

BUDGET PLAN

GARIBALDI & BRUNS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL THE LATEST VICTOR and BLUEBIRD Records 35c and 75c

Andrews Music Company 231 N. Tryon Street (opposite Carolina Theatre) CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sunday Class Elects Jack Ferguson Head

Bob Finley Elected Vice-President; Jim Owens to Be Secretary

In Phi Hall Sunday morning, the Student Sunday School elected officers for next year. For president, Jack Ferguson was elected;
Bob Finley is the new vice-president; Jim Owens, secretary.

Scripture Lesson

Preceding the election, the scripture lesson was read by John Mawhinney. Wade Boggs was the teacher of the Sunday School
lesson; he used as his subject “The Technique for Spiritual Growth.” In his discussion, he said that Christians are too
often on the receiving end of religion; that Christians are usually passive. Too often the teacher receives benefit from the
lesson, but the scholars make no preparation on the part of the students. Spiritual growth is so necessary today because
there are so many temptations that assail us. Showing that Christian life is a process; that we grow from childhood
on, spiritually, and we should be energetic and not static, Wade had Ed Maxwell read several passages from the Scriptures:
Galatians 4:19, Ephesians 4:11-14, Philippians 1:6 and 3:12-14. We must forever push on toward the goal of perfection. We are
often worried about our lack of physical growth, and then stay spiritual dwarfs.

Three Rules

Wade Boggs gave three rules for spiritual growth: 1. We must get rid of a known sin in our lives.
2. We must give ourselves continually and unsparingly to a life of prayer; we must discipline ourselves and pray even
when we feel least like it, for that is the time when we need it most. 3. We must study
and meditate on God's word; read the Bible for spiritual nourishment, as if God were speaking to us.

Three rules were given for the technique of prayer: 1. Set a fixed time for praying; 2. Don't be in
a hurry about praying; 3. Get alone.

The lesson was concluded by a prayer offered by Wade Boggs.

Mother will love Nunnally’s... the kind that symbolizes Romance, Good Taste, and Quality. For 53 years Nunnally’s has been the
Candy of the South. Give Mother Nunnally’s.

College Pharmacy Next Door to Post Office

Printing

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Printers of The Davidsonian

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907

For a representative call 3-5727 CHARLOTTE, N. C.
