Wed., April 12, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Physics Honor Society Has Annual Convention
Page, Hay, Kunz, Warlick, Clark Attend Sigma Pi Sigma National Meet

A group of Davidson students went last week to Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio, to attend the National Sigma
Pi Sigma convention held there.

Bill Page, John Hay, Walter Kunz, A. C. Warlick, and C. C. Clark, representatives of the local chapter, were among
the 70 delegates from all over the country who were present at the Fourth National Convention of this Physics Honor
Society. The main purposes of the convention were to draw up a new constitution, the original one still in effect,
and to elect new officers for the next three-year term.

On the morning of April 6, registration of delegates and guests took place. After luncheon, addresses and reports were made
by such eminent scientists and physicists as Dr. B. C. Blake, Dr. R. C. Colwell, Dr. M. W. White, and
Dr. Harold P. Knauss. The Host Chapter entertained the Convention with a “Mixer” and Social Program after dinner.

Business Meeting

The morning of April 7 was taken up with a business meeting of the Convention and an inspection of the
Cyclotron, conducted by Dr. M. L. Klopsteg, head of an outstanding chemical supply firm, who was taken into Honorary Membership
in the Fraternity. Various lectures preceded and followed the Convention Banquet, which was held at 6 o'clock in the Medallion
Room of Pomerene Hall.

On the final morning, April 8, a “Round-Table Discussion” of the question, “How Shall the Physicist Get a Job?” was
held. This was under the direction of Dr. M. N. States with Dr. W. P. Davey of Penn State, and
Dr. W. E. Forsythe of the General Electric Corp., assisting. The convention was adjourned at 4 P. M. after an
inspection tour of Perkins Observatory.

Sigma Pi Sigma was founded at Davidson in 1921 with five students and four faculty members as the charter members.
It remained a local fraternity until 1925, when it began to expand and there are now chapters in colleges from
Miami University to Oregon State University.

CONCERT BY GLEE CLUB

The Davidson Glee Club will appear at Albemarle High School Auditorium Friday evening, April 14 at 8 P. M. On
the program will appear, besides the glee club, the glee club quartet, and Donnell Davidson, accompanist, who will play several
piano solos. The selections rendered will be from the same group as was used on the spring tour of the
organization, including both sacred and secular numbers. The annual spring home concert of the glee club and the little symphony
orchestra will be given in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday, April 26.

Theatre Guild Makes Strides In Audition Conference With Officials of Radio Station Leads to Hearing for Play

Theatre Guild, a new organization on the campus, has made some definite strides during the past week. On last Thursday
a conference was secured with executive and production officials at a nearby radio station, and much encouragement was given the
group by these men. They invited the group over this week to have an audition. At this audition, the group
will read a radio play script which was secured from an outstanding American radio playwright.

Faculty Coaches

Various members of the faculty and their wives are helping the guild players. They are being of great assistance to
the guild. As to the personnel of the group, it must be said that it is going to be composed
mostly of freshmen, who have four years ahead of them. This is being done so that the group will be
knitted together at last in scholastic classes and will be able to correlate their activities to fit rehearsal schedules.

Staff Selected

An adaptation and writing staff is being selected now, which will be used in writing original scripts and adapting stage
plays for use on the radio. This staff is also being selected primarily from the same reasons as the acting
staff. The guild hopes that much experience will be gained this work, that will be useful in years to come.

Pfohl Offers Music Ducats

Winston and Charlotte Have Concert Series

Any students or those interested in attending either the community concert series in Charlotte or the Civic Concert Series in
Winston-Salem should get in touch with Professor James Christian Pfohl before the end of the next week, if they want
tickets for next year's concerts. Each city is having an exceptionally fine group of programs, and it is expected that
a large number of Davidson students may desire to attend.

Charlotte

The Charlotte series will consist of five programs, as follows: Jan. 23, 1940, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, 78 men under the
direction of Eugene Goossens; Feb. 22, Carolina night, with a chorus of 30 voices from this section, also a local
orchestra, Elsie Mosley, director of music at Queens Chicora College, Carroll Glenn, violin; March 20, Nelson Eddy; April 29, Matinee,
Anna Kaskas, Charles Kullman, and Ida Krehm; April 29, evening, Helen Jepson, Norman Cordon, Charles Kullman, and Anna Kaskas.

Winston-Salem

The series at Winston-Salem will also number five: the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra; the Ballet Russe; Gladys Swarthout, soprano of the
Metropolitan Opera Company; Nathan Milestein, violinist; John Beattie, baritone of the Metropolitan Opera Company. The dates of this series have
not yet been announced.

Med Studs Hear Bailey

Professor Discusses Medical Preparation

Friday night, April 7, Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, met in the Beta Pi chapter house. The officers for
the coming year were deferred until April 19. Professor J. C. Bailey presented a talk on pre-medical training, giving statistics
on Davidson graduates since 1928 who enrolled in medical school, after being graduated here. He discussed the advisability of pursuing
certain courses in preparation for a medical course, and advised the various members of the organization concerning their own individual
needs and problems. In the course of his address he stated that statistics have proved that a man who is
in the upper third of his class in Davidson will in all probability be in the upper third of his
class in any medical school which he may attend.

Following the professor's speech the fraternity enjoyed a social and open forum discussion, which refreshments were served.

Tom Fry Leads Council Meet

At a meeting of the Fellowship Council Sunday night, Tom Fry led the discussion on the “Glory of the Cross.”
The subject for the next meeting will be “Thy word have I laid up in my heart, that I might
not sin against thee,” Psalms 119, verse 11. This will also be the topic under discussion during the coming month.
While the next Council plans to discuss the subject in a general way, the following meetings of the month will
deal more specifically with various phases of the topic.

At the next meeting, there will be more singing than usual since the Council is going to secure a song
leader the latter part of this week. As yet they have not decided who they will get, but they feel
sure that this will be quite an addition to the meetings.

ARBUCKLE IS “Y” HEAD

[Continued from Page One]

young men of the community a chance to utilize to a full extent the modern facilities of the modernized Y.
M. C. A. building. Mr. Howard Arbuckle is a prominent young insurance man and is now giving a large amount
of his time to this worthwhile work.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

Plans of Summer Camp Near Completion

Beginning June 19 the annual Davidson Music Camp will conduct its fourth session. This summer it is expected that approximately
50 boys, ranging in age from eight to 18 will be present for the entire six-week period. Professor James Christian
Pfohl, director of the department of music here, has announced that the camp curriculum will include: lessons on all instruments;
classes in theory, conducting, appreciation and drum majoring; organized participation in the camp band, orchestra, chorus and ensemble groups.

Below is a program illustrating daily life in the camp: 7:00 A. M. Reveille, followed by setting up exercises and
showers until breakfast at 8:00, with inspection of rooms at 8:45; music instruction will occupy all the time from 9:00
to 12:30; the remainder of the day is given over to sports and recreation, with supper at 6:30; taps will
be sounded and lights extinguished at 10:00 P. M.

Counsellors

All activities and classes are to be conducted under strict counsellor supervision at all times, with every possible safeguard and
precaution taken to ensure the health and well-being of the participating students.

AUTHOR FROM MANCHURIA

[Continued from Page One]

wit, is replete with humor, seasoned with whimsicality, intermingled with pathos and lofty sentiments, and thrills audiences as well as
sending them off into gales of laughter.”

William Watson, University of Michigan track star, spent the first half of the school year as secretary to Prizefighter Joe
Louis.

C. Richmond Harding

Entitled “C. Richmond Harding” is a poem which appeared in the Sunday edition of the Greensboro News. The poem was
written by Professor Oscar Coffin of the University of North Carolina. He is a columnist for The News and his
poem read:

Had I the tongue of an angel or so,
I've a theme on which I would speak
Simply, graciously, without interlarding
Concerning Dr. C. Richmond Harding
And his fifty-years teaching of Greek.

Davidson's Scotch-Irish are a hard-headed lot,
Sales-resistant, not humble nor meek;
Of course to defend ism
They'll learn catechism,
But I’d hate to look after their Greek.

But C. Richmond Harding, lovingly termed Dickey,
Still helps Helen launch her thousand barks;
And the effect on the scholars,
Both in culture and dollars,
Is just as good as reading Karl Marx.THE -- : 222 - SQUARE ROOT EQUALS -2.2 2 “THAT A% OF
ALL COLLEGE. CALIFORNIA “STUDENTS TALK IN THEIR SLEEP! HERE | COME! ANIC 'f: THAT 200,000 COLLEGE/ ATTEND COLLEGE IN OTHER
THEIR HOME STATE THAT SNA > A CO-ED'S GRE SIEST rE AND FLEAS FOLLOW IN ORDER. Davidson Will Receive FACULTY
CLUB MEETS The Quadwrangler’s Club met March 30 in the Quadwrangler’s room to elect the following officers: Dr. W. P.
Cumming, president; Dr. T. S. Logan, vice-president; Prof. J. T. Kimbrough, secretary and treasurer. Dr. F. W. Johnston and Prof.
W. H. McGavock were elected to serve on the executive committee. The program consisted of a very scholarly and interesting
talk by Dr. Johnston on “Changing Interpretations of the Civil War.” It was announced that the next meeting will be
an open one, to which wives and friends of the faculty members are cordially invited.

CANCER AMONG THE GREEKS ily from the freshmen class for the honorary physics years Theta election of that sta- during
meeting? Eus Induct Bidded Men Society Plans Hayride to Be Held in April The Eumenean Literary Society held their spring
initiation last Tuesday night in Eu Hall. At this time 13 men were inducted.

Free Books From State Legislature Gives Library Right to Obtain State Publications Free The state legislature recently passed an amendment
whereby the libraries of Davidson and Wake Forest would receive all free books, magazines, and other publications of the state
commission in the same manner as the other state institutions have been doing. The following is the paragraph of an
amendment to Consolidated Statutes: “That after the ratification of this act, the libraries of Wake Forest and Davidson College, respectively,
shall, on request by either of said libraries, be furnished not more than two copies each of the Public-Local and
Private Laws, the House and Senate Journals, all reports of state agencies, legislative documents and publications of the state and
of its several institutions, and departments. Whenever the publication of any of the volumes or documents referred to herein is
under the supervision of some official of the state other than the Secretary of State, then it shall be the
duty of such other official to furnish the same as herein required. The provisions of this act shall apply to
publications, reports, volumes and documents heretofore issued insofar as the same are available, as well as to such reports, volumes
and documents published or issued after the ratification of this Act; provided, that no reprint of any such volume or
document shall be made in order to comply with the provisions hereof if the proper discharge of the duties of
any department or agency so requested shall be impaired thereby.”

New Additions The North Carolina books which will be furnished will be the North Carolina Manual, Court Reports, and the
publications of the Historical Commission. This act was passed in March, 1939, and the colleges are now receiving the benefits
from it.

ETA SIGMA PHI (Continued from Page One) dent, Andy Dale; secretary-treasurer, Frank Barker; sergeant-at-arms, John Hay. The next meeting is
to be held at Dr. Harding's house.

U. Jones Announces Bill Quick, ’37 Sigma Phi Epsilon Kappa Alpha taken into the society. Brothers Walter Kunz and John
Hay attended the annual convention of Sigma Pi Sigma, national fraternity, last week in Columbus, Ohio. Brother Felix Bell and
Pledge Brother Keehn have been in the infirmary for the past few days but are out now. Last week-end Brother
Tom Mullen went to Atlanta. Brother Bill Loy was in Charlotte for Easter. Brother Rufus Plonk spent the week-end at
his home in Bessemer City. Alumni Brother Bill Black, '37, visited the chapter last Sunday. Brother Joe Craver took a
large group of the brothers to Salisbury Monday night to the Easter Dance at the Country Club there.

Beta Theta Pi Brother Winn spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. Brothers McAfee and Sherman visited in Statesville over Easter. Brothers
Walker, Armstrong, Jackson, and McKnight spent the weekend in Rock Hill. Brother Cheney visited Brother Rankin in Mt. Gilead. Brothers
Morrow and Highsmith visited in Red Springs while Steere went home to Asheboro. Brothers Abbott, Bryant, Hand, McClintock, and Summerville
went to Charlotte for the weekend. Brother Jim Howell went to his home in Ellerbe. Brother Benfield visited in Watertown.
Brother Mathews went to his home in Fayetteville. Brother Atwater visited Pledge Brother Moore at his home in McColl. Brother
McAuley went to his home in Mt. Gilead and spent Easter there. Miss Virginia Hickman from Queens and Miss Jane
Rankin of Charlotte were guests of the chapter Sunday. Brother Bob Lefine's family from Gettysburg visited the chapter. Miss Millie
Brenizer of New York visited here last week. They were the guests of Brothers Freeze, Lucas, and Motte.

The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity were guests of the chapter Sunday night at the usual fraternity feed. Singing was enjoyed
by all following the feed.

Pi Kappa Alpha The following brothers attended the Pika Ball given by the State chapter in Raleigh last Monday night:
Allison, Coltrane, McElwee, Perdue, Willis, and Jim Anderson. Easter found several of the brothers in Concord. These were Vernon Youngblood,
Lester Coltrane, Paul Lady, and Ray Hoover. Brothers Suttenfield, Long, McDonald, Shelton, McElwee, and Scott spent last weekend in Statesville.
Brother Joe Brinson went to his home in High Point for the weekend. Brother Monger went home for Easter. Brother
Roger Rice visited in Hendersonville and Brother Ad Long spent the weekend in Salisbury. Brothers John Reisner and Scotty Raynal
went to Wake Forest last week to represent the local chapter at the installation of the new Pika chapter there.

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING Now in Knox Building Davidson, N. C.

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone: Printers of The Davidsonian STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907

For a representative call 3-727 CHARLOTTE, N. C.
