February 15, 1938
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Kappa Sigma
A banquet was held Friday night before the formal dance at the S. and W. Dean Hudson, Frances Colwell, and
Hal Abel were present at the banquet. A breakfast was held in the Wooden Cafeteria after the dance. Present for
the week-end were Charlie Carlson, Colwell, Brown, Ed Finley, Carl Chubby King, Hector McGeachy, and Harry Frampton. A feed was
also enjoyed at the house Friday night after the dance. Alumni included: Bill McLain, “Mitch” Covington, Woodward, Maples, Bob Burgess,
“Boobie” Dunnie Arrowsmith, Mac Covington, Harmon Ralph Chandler, and Pinckney Henson Stowe.

Pi Kappa Phi
Many alumni were present for the dance, including Arrowsmith, Thacker’s, and Lawson, who acted as toastmaster. The chapter held a
banquet for eighty-five guests Saturday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Among the alumni who returned for the week-end were Brothers Odi Cassali, Henry Lyons, and Henry Daymond Turner. Saturday night,
a banquet was held at Thacker’s with Professor and Mrs. Kimbrough, and brothers from N. C. State, and their dates.

Beta Theta Pi
The chapter gave a banquet at the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night for the brothers and their dates. Among the guests
were Joe Barnwell, Martin Mebane, and Dick Bell of Burlington, and alumni brothers Jim Terry of Peterstown, W. Va., and
Jake Mock of Winston-Salem. The regular feed was held Sunday night. Herb Codington, Paul Crane, and Misses Jane Rankin, Betty
Anderson, and Dorothy Ann Patterson visited the house after the vesper service.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The chapter entertained a number of guests for the annual Midwinters week-end. At 9:00 o’clock, a formal banquet was held
in the 123 room of the Hotel Charlotte. It was attended by the members and their dates, along with a
large number of alumni. After the dance, the fraternity entertained its guests with a feed at the house. Saturday night,
after the dance, a breakfast was held at the 123 room of the Hotel Charlotte. The following alumni attended the
festivities of the week-end: Ed Armfield, George Williams, Nick Nicholson, Matthis, Buddy Shuford, Charlie Newton, Fuller, Neil Whitlock, Yates Faison,
and Scott Shepard. At a meeting last week, the following were elected as officers for the spring semester: President, Jno.
Austin Latimer, Jr.; Vice-President, Mark W. Cauble; Secretary, L. Woodall Rose, Jr.; Treasurer, Jas. Currie.

Phi Gamma Delta
Delta Kappa entertained a host of Fiji girls and alumni over the Mid-Winter week-end. Among the alumni were Brothers Bill
Kiesewetter, Owen Cooke, Arthur Cooke, Harding Elie, Gene Gainer, and Sugg Kirkpatrick. Bill Kiesewetter, president of the chapter last year,
entertained at the banquet held at the S. and W. in Charlotte Saturday night. All the brothers and their dates
attended. Brother Jack Campbell from Washington and Lee Chapter was a guest of Mack Ott. Miss Jackie Burns and Miss
Mary Louise Hovis visited the chapter Sunday evening. A feed was held at the house.

Phi Delta Theta
A feed was held at the house after the formal dance Friday morning. The Chapter entertained at a banquet in
the Hotel Charlotte Saturday evening before the informal dance. Besides the dates of the fraternity boys, several alumni and friends
of the fraternity were in attendance. Jimmy Morrison went to his home in Asheville for the week-end. Harper Beall went
home to Lenoir Friday.

Kappa Alpha
The entire chapter spent the majority of the week-end in Charlotte enjoying the dances, with few venturing from the Queen
City and vicinity. Friday night, a formal banquet was held with Brother Calvin as master of ceremonies. F. L. Jackson
was the speaker for the evening. Professor and Mrs. W. G. McGavock and Dr. Frazier Hood were other faculty members
present. Alumni who attended the dances were Sandy Abell, Jim Johnston, Banks Gladden, Reg Harris, Horace Parsons, and Bob Lutz.
Brother Franklin Elmore spent the week-end here for the dances. The usual Sunday night feed was postponed.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Wednesday night, the following boys were formally initiated into Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha: Ray Hoover, Ed Scott, Bob
Washburn, Harry Suttenfield, and Jim Crutchfield. On Thursday night, Carlton was pledged to the fraternity. On Friday night, before the
formal dance, the chapter held its annual Midwinter banquet at the Hotel Charlotte. Addison Long presided. Alumni Brothers Don Cleveland,
Lafferty, Bull Durham, John Teeny Horton, and Milton Crisp also attended the dances. In chapter elections, the following officers were
elected: President, Scotty Raynal; Vice-President, T. J. Turner; Secretary, Stitt Robinson; Treasurer, Bub Coltrane.

Michigan Orchestra Appears In Festival
Thor Johnson Is Director Of Group Now on Annual Spring Tour

The Little Symphony Orchestra of the University of Michigan has been one of the guest artist groups participating in the
Music Festival held here this week. This orchestra is on its annual spring tour. Since leaving Ann Arbor some two
weeks ago, it has appeared in concerts all along their route South. Some of these appearances have been in Washington,
D. C., Charleston, W. Va., and Hollins College. After leaving here, it will present concerts in Erskine, Georgia State College
for Women, Lees-McRae, Mars Hill, U. of Ohio, Chapel Hill, Ligonier, Pa., and other schools and cities. This tour will
last three weeks and take them into eleven states for nineteen concerts. The orchestra is composed of fourteen men and
two women and their director, Thor Johnson.

Thor Johnson, in spite of his youth, has had quite a lot of experience in directing. He organized his first
orchestra in Winston-Salem at the age of fourteen, and while a student at the U. of North Carolina, directed a
chamber orchestra composed of students. Before he graduated, Mr. Johnson became connected with the North Carolina Symphony in the capacity
of Associate Conductor. As a graduate student and member of the faculty at the University of Michigan, he organized the
present Little Symphony among the student instrumental assistants at the School of Music. During the season of '36-'37, the activities
of the Little Symphony were suspended while Mr. Johnson studied in Europe with such leading conductors as Bruno Walter, Felix
Weingartner, and Nikolai Malko. The personnel of the orchestra are: violinists, Charles McNeill, concertmaster, Italo Frajola, Frank Fisher, Roger Clark;
Viola, William Bagwell; Violoncello, Ruth Krieger and Martha McCrory; String Bass, William Lichtenwanger; Flute, Stevens; Oboe, Don Cassel; Clarinet, Karl
Tolbert; Bassoon, Marion Helm; French Horn, Ward Fearn and Ralph Anthony; and the manager who is also the bassoon player,
Marion Helm.

DUKES, BABIES
[Continued from Page Four]

Jim Dorsett, and Penny played good ball for the Chapel Hillers. Last night, the Frosh basketeers played Danville Military Institute
from Danville, Va. Tomorrow they engage the Crusaders of Belmont Abbey in a return game. Belmont defeated them 53-38 earlier
in the year at the Abbey. Friday night, the Kittens play host to the Lees-McRae Bulldogs. Next Monday, they journey
to Charlotte to seek revenge for a defeat which the Silver Streaks handed them before Christmas. Then next Wednesday, they
engage Fayetteville High School. The Kittens will be weakened in these games by the loss of their co-captain and star
forward, Ed Lucas, who is confined to the infirmary.

Dances Are Glittering, Gay Affair
Glamor, Gaiety, Glitter, and Girls Get Gentlemen In Groove

“If music be the food of love, play on, for I am simply starved.” This was the theme of Davidson
students, faculty, and friends during the colorful Mid-Winters dances thrown during the last week-end. Pan-Hellenic, here's an orchid; Dean Hudson,
here's an orchid; Hal Kemp, here's an orchid; Frances Colwell, here's an orchid; Starr, here's an orchid; students, here's an
orchid; faculty, here's an orchid; alumni, here's an orchid; and everybody's date (including mine), here's an orchid. (I'm a flower
salesman).

When it comes down to the bare facts on the band to play at my wedding, I would pick Dean
Hudson and his Clubmen every time. If you really want to swing out or glide to a soft waltz, the
exceptional music played by this organization is what you need. At both the Spring Dances of last year and the
Mid-Winters, Dean has shown the best selection of tunes Davidson has heard in a long, long time. But what a
selection! Not just any old melody played in the usual manner but fresh tunes done in a brilliant, danceable style.
In addition to this satisfying rhythm was the lovely Frances Colwell, the girl with the most sincere personality and charming
smile to ever warble a lyric to the students. Frances with her refreshing contralto voice manages to squeeze every drop
of sweetness out of each tune. The young lady definitely has what it takes!

We could go on talking all night about this band; the Glee Club, “Drummer Boy” Sam Latimer, “Cowboy” Willis, and
the “Truckin’ Senator” Howard.

Church Commemorates Movement By Service
Colleges Lean To Liberalism
Editorials Of School Papers
[Continued on Page Six]

Emory Paper Favors Republicans, Poll Reveals
(A.C.P.)—In the weather of collegiate opinion, the winds seem to be blowing in a certain manner these windy February days,
patting the back of liberalism as far as measures are concerned, and in the Republican direction as far as political
streamlining is concerned.| procedures are concerned. This having revolutionized the institutions of the automobile, train, airplane, and woman has now
entered the field of college journalism through the Emory University “Wheel.” Streamlining implies the overcoming of resistance. Autos, trains, and
airplanes overcome resistance from the wind while streamlining of women breaks down the resistance of men. Similarly, the streamlining of
college journalism is to break down the resistance of its readers. This is accomplished by a tabloid-sized newspaper full of
features and pictures. The content of this journal was so rearranged and displayed that the reader could get the most
from it with the least possible effort.

For many years the “Wheel” used a very dignified and all-Bodoni type. Last Spring the process of renovation was begun,
the process of lifting the face of the Wheel. Headlines were rearranged and myriads of pictures were scattered throughout the
pages. Page harmony has been completely thrown out. The pictures are now placed in the outside columns with the captions
under them where they can easily catch the eye of the reader. On the editorial page, columns are printed alternately
in light and dark type which, although it destroys completely the harmony of many years of journalism, is very attractive.
News stories are written differently, containing more human interest and fewer bare facts. This is a change to the effect
of the “Wheel” because the editor and staff are working very hard.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, it’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

CAMERAS
Photograph Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS
N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Program Presented In Cooperation With Boy Scouts Of America

On last Sunday evening, February 12, the service at the Unity Church commemorated the second anniversary of the organization of
the youth movement in that church. The program demonstrated the relationship between home, church, school, and scouting organizations in cooperation
with the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts of America, Cub Scouts, and the unit committee. Troop 39 of Boy Scouts
of America, Cub Scouts of the Pack, and the unit committee took part.

Dedicatory Service

The dedicatory service program consisted of a dedication ceremony with Troop 39 chairman Mr. Harry Farington, led by Mr. Jim
Robertson, the public executive, and Mr. Lee Williams, who delivered the welcome address. After which, assistant Scout executive of the
Charlotte Area Council, Mr. Craven Howard, presented the charter. Mr. Howard, chairman of advancement, awarded honors to boys and girls
individually. Mr. Clyde Mayhew, chairman of the Cub Scouts, and Mr. Oscar Gant, head of the Girl Scouts, gave a
brief survey of the work of the youth movements in the community by the past year. Senior Patrol leader Everett
Howard, Scoutmaster Frank Abernathy, and the committee head, Mr. M. Foy, read a poem. The program was directed by the
Council of the Church, and it is one of a series of programs in which the youth of the community
will have an opportunity to lead in worship.

Recreational and Training School Held

Included in this series is a Leadership Training School to be conducted in March with Ivan Stafford leading. The school
will offer to both youth and older men.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion, Bluebird
35c—75c Each, Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257.
Pianos—PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Radios—Accordions—Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

Music Festival Grows From Long Friendship

Library Has Tarheeliana
Several County Histories Secured by Exchange And Purchase

The library has an excellent collection of material relating to the Old North State. A considerable number of these have
recently been secured through exchange and purchase. At present, the collection contains histories of the following counties: Caldwell, Davidson, Halifax,
Lincoln, Mecklenburg (2), Rowan, Surry, Haywood, New Hanover, Pitt, and Rutherford. The periodicals comprise a complete collection of the North
Carolina Historical Review, The North Carolina Booklet, The James Sprunt Historical Publications, The Land We Love, and most of Our
Living and Our Dead. Of the better-known histories, the library has those by Ashe, Hawkes, and Wheeler, as well as
the monumental State and Colonial Records. Recently, two interesting maps were received: The Garden Club Map and the North Carolina
Historical Map. Both are artistically done with colorful illustrations and have been hung in the small reading room.

College Polls

Get Opinions

The results of various polls conducted on college and university campuses seeking to gain further insight into the way the
wind of collegiate opinion is blowing will be examined with interest. The results presented here:

New York University: President Roosevelt was selected in a senior poll as the outstanding man of the year, eighty-five per
cent voted they would not fight in a war abroad.

University of Michigan: eighty-five per cent of the students favor the lifting of the embargo against loyalist Spain. At Harvard,
1,300 students signed a petition asking the same thing.

University of Minnesota: Students voted three to one against a third term for President Roosevelt.

Haverford College: sixty per cent of the student body favors the National Labor Relations Board and ninety-eight per cent opposed
going to war to maintain the “open door” in China.

At Hunter College: a majority of the students favor cooperation with other nations as the best road to peace.

N. C. MATMEN
(Continued from Page Four)

Saturday the Frosh grapplers engage the V.P.I. Freshmen in their next to last bout. They meet Barium Springs in a
return match next Saturday.

GRIDMEN SETTLE DOWN
(Continued from Page Four)

The team includes two lettermen, Bill Bolin, who is at present out with an injured knee, and Tubby Hand. “Black
Dog” Hunter, Claude Hackney, Stan Yoder, Granville Sharpe, and Dave Spencer are all up from the freshman squad and are
also showing up well.

Printing is our Business
For a representative
Dial 727

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES
For your room, from—
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

STATE THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.

Wed., Feb. 15th.
DOUBLE FEATURE
“GIRLS ON PROBATION”
“PERSONS IN HIDING”

Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 16-17th.
“THE DAWN PATROL”

Saturday, Feb. 18th.
DOUBLE FEATURE
“PRIDE OF THE NAVY”
“THE THUNDERING WEST”
