Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Illustrated Volumes Displayed In Library
Gustaf Doré’s Immortal Work Now In Show-Case; Rockwell Kent Shown

Large Group

An exhibition of exceptionally well-illustrated books is now on display in the library showcase. These books, to which more will
be added next week, have been chosen by Prof. C. G. Davidson for their unusual qualities of type and form.

Seventeen Men Become Members of Literary Order; Function Planned

The Philanthropic Literary Society initiated seventeen new members in its regular meeting Tuesday, December 4. The new members are Archie
McNeill, Charles Henderson, John Grier, Jack Moore, George McKinnon, Charles Webb, Myron Sandifer, Bob Hart, Christian Pfohl, Guinivere Gilmer Holton,
R. H. King, Ralph Bill Henle, Tom Plonk, David Rhea, and Q. A. DeArman. These were discussed and given “bids”
in a meeting held before the initiation.

Most Famous

The most famous illustrator represented is Gustaf Doré, whose work has outlived him by many years. His best work was
done in Christian Ptohl, Guinivere, and other notable examples are Milton's Poems, Baron Munchausen, and Laugh. Rockwell Kent, the best-known
modern illustrator, has drawn for the Canterbury Tales, Shakespeare’s Works, and Voltaire’s Candide. His closest rival, Lynd Ward, has illustrated
God's Man and Madman’s Dream.

Other Artists

Others having work on display are Aubrey Beardsley, Salome; Victor Perard, Rip Van Winkle; Vassos, Grey's Elegy Written in a
Country Churchyard; Robert Izaak Walton's The Compleat Angler.

Social Plans

President Jack Abernathy is planning a social meeting to take place soon after the Christmas holidays in conjunction with the
Spectators’ Club of Queens-Chicora College. Such meetings have been held regularly with the organization during the past four years.

The library has recently received a shipment of popular religious books.

AMONG THE GREEKS (Continued from Page Five)

RUSSIAN FOREIGN POLICY (Continued from Page One)

Litvinov, as Foreign Commissar, began as a violent reversal of Chicherin’s policy. Russia joined the League and showed signs of
joining the anti-fascist front. It continued by sponsoring Popular Front movements in France and Spain. Non-communist labor unions were no
longer regarded as traitors to the cause but as valuable allies. Democracy had to be preserved in order to save
Communism from destruction at the hands of Fascism. In the meantime, Stalin became The Leader (a concept which has no
place in Marxism) and glorified The State which Marx wanted to abolish.

The third period was ushered by the dismissal of Litvinov and the accession of Molotov to the Foreign Commissariat. Democracy
was again spurned, Popular Front movements no longer received Communist support; the League was ditched, and the stop-Hitler bloc was
betrayed. An agreement was signed with Communism’s worst enemy. Poland was partitioned to the tune of phrases about “our Slav
brothers” reminiscent of the days of the Czars. With the Baltic states overpowered, the meaning of this evolution is that
Russia has made it plain that it no longer seeks ideals of social justice (even though the means always were
wrong and the end exceedingly vague and obscure), that men must not be subordinated to texts, that an oppressive state
is not a transition to something better but a permanent thing, that to build up and increase the power of
one man is life’s supreme value. The Russian regime is now on par with that of Germany and Italy. Any
estimate of Russia’s future course must be made in the light of Fascist principles, for only on that basis can
valid predictions be made.

The Best Food For THE CHRISTMAS SEASON LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP Davidson, N. C.

PIPE HEADQUARTERS FLAME GRAIN, SUPER GRAIN KAYWOODIES IMPERIAL YELLO-BOLE, YELLO-BOLE MEERSHAUM, CALABASH, BREAD PIPE COLLEGE PHARMACY DAVIDSON’S SERVICE DRUG STORE

Philanthropic Literary Society initiated seventeen new members in its regular meeting Tuesday, December 4. The new members are Archie McNeill,
Charles Henderson, John Grier, Jack Moore, George McKinnon, Charles Webb, Myron Sandifer, Bob Hart, Christian Pfohl, Guinivere Gilmer Holton, R.
H. King, Ralph Bill Henle, Tom Plonk, David Rhea, and Q. A. DeArman. These were discussed and given “bids” in
a meeting held before the initiation.

INTERVIEW WITH KOSTRUKOFF (Continued from Page Three)

One very notable remark was that he “had noticed in America that every time they sang for a college, he
was interviewed for the school paper, but that in Europe, especially in Italy and France, he never had interviews with
the students.” He admired America because of its liberty, life, nice musical people, and very good, but South America, she
is very musical too. Success always in America.

Traveling in their own special bus, the choir will continue their tour to Florida, Cuba, and then back to New
York for a broadcast over CBS.

HONOR FRAT INDUCTS (Continued from Page One)

Kenneth Fryfogle, a member of the University of South Carolina, has recently been tapped by ODK, National Honorary Leadership Fraternity.
In the Y. M. C. A. panel discussion last night, Drs. Johnson, Kenyon, Williamson, and Prof. Gwynn presented a program
at Converse College.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

is the brother of Mrs. Gayock spoke on the question. I met sth Naw Vanes aw. EB jeceneaee etic the
lor: who have to spend their New Year's Arch Currie and Mrs. Martin is the sister of Dr. C. G.
Vardell, president emeritus of Flora Macdonald College. The Christian Outlook Fryfogle is a member of the Vesper Service. Day riding
a train. This also causes the best dances of vacation. I Chancellor of the Seldon Society and co-editor of the
Year Book. During the last week, several members of the student body have been working on deputations. QUINTET PLAYS Hula-Hula
In Swingtime! Johnny Downs was on the Dean’s List. Mary Carlile Eddie Quillan many of the boys to miss some
of the Christmas holidays. Personally, I would prefer that the Christmas holidays start about December 20th and end on the
6th. Then they would more nearly correspond to those of most of the other colleges. After all, it’s not much
fun to be at home before the others get there, and hate to leave there while everything is going strong.
We should be allowed some time off early on! regular meetings on the first and third Friday nights of each
month at 9 o’clock. The first of these regular meetings will be held December 8, at 9 P.M., at the
Pi Kappa Phi house. A special musical program was also presented by Billy Rodgers. Dr. W. J. Martin Moderator by
the General Presbyterian Assembly in 1914. Broadway for getting out quite a while before Christmas is alright: It gives you
a chance to get home in time enough to work during Christmas rush, and do whatever you desire in getting
ready for the big day. The main argument I have against it is that it makes those who live at
quite a distance from school put in at least New Year's Day, in some instances even New Year's Eve, on
the train. scored their next 6 points on a pass from the 20, the last score of the game coming
on a drive of 48 yards. George Richmond finished a three-year career in a blaze of glory, with Stan Yoder
displaying some fine tackling. Polanski and Captain Pate stood out for the Deacons. TEACHERS GO PLACES George Richmond finished a
three-year career in a blaze of glory, with Stan Yoder displaying some fine tackling. Polanski and Captain Pate stood out
for the Deacons. Another group teaches regularly at the Cornelius Presbyterian Church. This important phase of the Y. Physicists Initiate
At the recent initiation of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics fraternity last Friday night, four members of the student body,
Ed Maxwell, Chase Brenizer, Tom Guion, and John W. Moore, were initiated. AND BETTER TASTE IS CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION of
the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. When you ask for Chesterfields you're buying something no other cigarette can give you at
any price... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. All over America millions of smokers find that Chesterfields
give them a cooler, better-tasting and definitely milder smoke. Make your next pack Chesterfields. THEY REALLY SATISFY. Copyright 1939, Liggett
& Myers Tobacco Co.

---
