Wed, May 16, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five AMONG THE GREEKS New Dormitory Phi Delts Scattered Over Week-end Brother Withers
attended the Chi Omega hayride on Saturday night. Brother Kenyon traveled to Lynchburg, Va., where he attended the Randolph-Macon Spring
Formals, while Brother Beatty spent the week-end at home in Rock Hill. Brothers Morrison, Lillard, and Lee week-ended in Salisbury,
while Brother Glenn was in Spartanburg and Pledge Brother Wright went to Greensboro. Brother Verner journeyed to his home in
Forest City; Brother Scarborough visited in Sumter; Brother Carter in Lowell, and Brother Beall in Carthage. Among the visitors of
the week were Judge and Mrs. Glenn Terrell and Miss Doris Terrell of Tallahassee, Fla.; Miss Hoolie Roberts of Salisbury;
Bob Bunn, Bob Moyer, Bob Jones, and Howard Winterson, all of Durham, N. C.; Miss Louise Marshall Fant, Miss Virginia
Anderson, and Miss Suey of Rock Hill, S. C.

Pi Kapps Have House Party The Pi Kapps began a big week-end by having a party at their house Friday
night. Next day they left on their house party which took place at Ocean Drive, S. C. They were chaperoned
by Major and Mrs. Ballard. Those girls attending were: Kathleen Block, Helen Cummock, Orline Gill, Isabell Anderson, Joan Slawter, Julia
Hobbs, Dot Brannon, Sally McDowell, Gin Erwin, Ella Lee Sparrow, Betty Koonce, Alice and Martha Withers, Dot Rogmond, Dot Bradford,
Carolyn Candle, Nancy Frazier, Nancy Lee Saynor, Vashti Gornto, Zabelle Corwen, Ruthie Brickhouse, Fan James, Betty Bartlett, Angela Maxwell, Catheline
Black, Mary Alice Helms, and Margie Bleas.

Fijis Have Feed Bill Mitchell, Fred Stair, Ken Darby, and Eugene Liipfert motored to Lynchburg last week-end, where Stair and
Liipfert visited Randolph-Macon College; Darby and Mitchell attended the Sweetbriar May Day dance set. Rut Miller represented the Scripts ‘n
Pranks at the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at Greensboro. Jack Tillotson, Jay Bolin, Hughes Parrish, and Charlie Martin attended
Salem College’s May Day Festival in Winston-Salem. Sunday night, the Betas were invited over for a feed and song fest
at the house. Bill Bolin visited his home in Knoxville.

Pikas Celebrate Mother’s Day On Sunday, May 7, the chapter celebrated its annual Mother’s Day dinner, which was followed by
a reception at the home of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle. Over the week-end several of the brothers went home. Paul
Lady, Vernon Youngblood, Bub Coltrane, and Ray Hoover went to Concord. Toddy Latimer and Joe Shewmake went to Winthrop Saturday
night. Scotty Raynal, Parker Connor, Roger Rice, and Ralph Monger went to Charlotte. Joe Brinson went home to High Point,
and Ross McElwee to Statesville. In chapter elections Thursday night, Bub Coltrane was elected president for next year, George Coates
was elected vice-president, and Casey Jones, treasurer.

K. A.’s Go to Roaring Gap The Preyer’s summer home in Roaring Gap was the retreat for the K. A.’s
house party. They left Saturday and returned Sunday. Three former presidents were on hand—Gil Palmer, John Anderson, and Joe Calvin.
Brothers Polk and Sandy Moffett, Jim Johnston, and John Anderson of the class of '37 were present. Mr. and Mrs.
Chalmers Davidson acted in the capacity of chaperones. The Preyers entertained with a square dance by genuine hillbilly music for
the 25 couples. The girls came from points as distant as Florida and New Jersey. The brothers entertained their dates
with a feed on Friday night.

Betas Go to Myrtle Beach The Betas held a house party at Myrtle Beach this past week-end. The girls enjoying
the house party were: Kay Underwood, Ashbow; Jane Hashagen, Charlotte; Virginia Simmons, Winthrop; Betty Porter, New York City; Irma Dell
Blackstone, Winthrop; Jett Osborne, Alice Hamlet, Mt. Gilead; Ethel Ann Hutcherson, Reidsville; Miriam Bonner, Valdese; Betty Bowles, Valdese; Nell Echer,
Winthrop; Betty McCall, Albemarle. Brother Atwater went to his home in Burlington. Brother Walker is on a trip to Baltimore.
Brother Matthews went to Raleigh for the week-end. Brothers Abbott, [Continued on Page Six]

G. A. Batte, '32, Marries Thompson Dr. Moffet Leads Local Wedding Ceremony George A. Batte, Jr., Davidson '32, was married
last Saturday morning at the home of Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Goodrum in Davidson to Miss Cynthia Louise Thompson.
Dr. H. M. Moffet of the local Presbyterian Church was the minister to perform the ceremony. The bride was given
away by her brother, Mr. Wilbur A. Thompson, and her attendant was her sister, Miss Mary Thompson. Mr. James Batte
of Concord was best man. The ushers were Cloyd Goodrum, Jr., and John Thompson. Music at the wedding was provided
by Miss Emily Goodrum, niece of the bride, pianist, and by Mrs. G. R. Vowles, vocalist. After the ceremony, the
out-of-town guests and the bridal party were entertained by Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Goodrum, the latter being the bride’s
sister.

Attended Davidson Mrs. Batte, who is a daughter of the late W. H. Thompson and Mrs. Cynthia Amour Thompson, attended
Davidson College and is a graduate of the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina. She has been a
member of the faculty of the Mooresville High School for the last two years. Mr. Batte, son of Mr. and
Mrs. George A. Batte, Sr., of Concord, was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity during his stay at Davidson. He
has served in an executive capacity on the staff of the Cannon Mills, at present being assistant treasurer.

The Wooden Bowl 125 W. Fourth St. “3 MEALS A DAY” Private Parties Telephone 2-1810

Business Club Elects Leader The Commerce Club of Davidson College held a meeting last Wednesday night at Phi Hall with
Professor Archibald Currie as principal speaker. Professor Currie spoke on the subject, “That’s Business.” Numerous items of interest in business
were discussed in this talk.

Harrison Is President At this meeting new members were inducted and new officers for next year were elected. The following
were elected to office next year: President, Benny Harrison; vice-president, Gales McClintock; secretary, Jim Thomas; and treasurer, George Richmond. The
following new members were inducted at the Wednesday night meeting: George Ficklin, J. N. Thomas, Gales McClintock, Billy King, Earl
Austin, Tom Crichton, Fred Harbin, Philip Edwards, John McGeachey, George Wright, Tom Hackney, B. B. Plyler, Benny Harrison, Thel Ragsdale,
George Richmond, L. D. Coltrane, George Davidson.

Davidson College alumni got their first view of the new dormitory when they saw this architect's sketch of the building
as it appeared on the cover of the recent Alumni Journal. As yet unnamed, this dormitory will occupy the space
east of East Dormitory and west of Richardson Stadium. Construction began last week and the building will be used next
year by about 80 students. Unlike the others on the campus, this dormitory has its longest dimension running north and
south.

Article By Dr. Vowles Appears Davidson Professor Writes on “Textbooks and the Living Language” “Textbooks and the Living Language” is
the title of an article by Dr. Guy R. Vowles in the April number of the “Modern Language Journal,” a
publication of the National Federation of Language Teachers. Dr. Vowles, who is professor of German at Davidson, states in his
opening paragraph that “anyone who reads at all extensively in modern German cannot but be impressed by the linguistic particularism
of many authors, as well as by certain general tendencies which cannot be classed as particularisms. Many of these grammatical
phenomena, scarcely touched upon in our beginners’ texts and annotated books, are puzzling and disconcerting to such at least of
our students as are sufficiently alert to read discriminatingly.”

Use of Indicative In the remaining paragraphs of the article, attention is called to the use of the indicative in
contrary-to-fact or “less vivid future” conditions, the choice of tenses in indirect discourse, the use of the conditional in the
if-clause of an unreal or “less vivid future” condition.and other details of German usage found in the works of different
authors. Dr. Vowles’ of a paper which he read at the session of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association at
Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C., November 26, 1937.

Echoes of the Past

ONE YEAR AGO—Raymond Pittman was elected head of next year’s Pan-Hellenic council. The Davidsonian, under Editor Dick Towles, won All-American
rating for the first time in the history of the paper—Bill Telford and Sam Hemphill were elected student store managers—Dr.
C. R. Harding rounds out 50 years of teaching at Davidson. The Wildcats defeated Wake Forest in baseball, 9-8.

THREE YEARS AGO—Wilbur Edwards of Charlotte, was elected “(Continued on Page Six) Stowe, Elmer Hulen, Bill Black, and Tom Roberts.

Retiring Officers

The following were the retiring officers: President, George Jones; vice-president, Andy Turner; secretary, Junior Alcorn; and treasurer, John Doty.

Printing

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your telephone. Dial STANDARD PRINTING Garland Court. Printers of The Davidsonian. ESTABLISHED 1907.

Dorm Contract Let

F. N. Thompson, Charlotte contractor, was awarded the contract for the new $75,000 dormitory to be constructed before September 1.
Mr. Thompson's bid was selected from a number that were submitted. Henry C. Hibbs of Nashville, Tenn., is the architect
for the building. Work on the building has begun already. The site has been cleared of trees, in order that
the foundations may be begun. A temporary shed has been erected to shelter the tools and materials of the workmen.
The building will be three stories high, of brick and other fireproof materials. The architecture is so designed that it
will blend with the other buildings on the campus. When completed the building will house about 80 students.

Faculty Seek Better Plans

Stuart Oglesby to Be President of Society

Stuart Oglesby of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president of the Eu Literary Society, succeeding John Mawhinney of Seaboard, Va. The
new president is an initiate of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Other officers elected are: Bob Finley, junior editor of the
annual, replacing Ramsey as editor. (Continued on Page Six)

Torrey Leads Discussion at Pi Gamma Mu Open Forum

A round-table discussion of the relations between the students and the faculty was held last Friday night at the regular
meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity, at the Beta Theta Pi fraternity house. At this meeting, which
is the final one of the current year, R. K. Torrey, chairman of the program committee, presided.

Three Suggestions

At the meeting, the discussion was mainly concerned with the following three fundamental suggestions. They are as follows: First, the
future of Davidson College, should matters continue in much the same direction as at present, is precarious. Due to the
standards of education required for all types of employment and professional and specific technical training, the college faces a future
as a preparatory institution for the larger universities. To exist, Davidson must be exclusive. Secondly, regular class attendance is important
for several reasons. There are four basic reasons: emergencies, (Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Allen Tate Speaks On “Trends In Writing”

Dr. Allen Tate, professor of English literature at Woman’s College of the University of North Carolina in Greensboro, gave a
lecture on “Trends in Writing” in Chambers Auditorium last Friday night. Dr. Tate is a leading writer and critic, and
professor of modern literature; he is a specialist in the field of poetry. The lecture was sponsored by the lecture
committee in conjunction with the English department.

Divides Topic

Beginning by defining many terms, Dr. Tate went on to show how thinking and writing today may be divided into
various levels. He named first the grammar level of words and concrete thoughts, then the dialectic level of abstract thoughts,
and finally the rhetoric level of vivid imagination. The Doctor then went on to show how all our thought has
been reduced to the grammar level. This is similar, he said, to the scientific level, always trying to find the
reasons for certain phenomena. Dr. Tate went on to point out that any society, confined to one level of experience,
will soon destroy itself. Thus we must consider our understanding under several heads. These are the levels of literal meaning,
moral literature, and allegorical interpretation.

Deep Thinker

Throughout the discussion, the speaker showed himself to be a very deep thinker and a real authority on his subject.
Dr. Tate closed the lecture by pointing out the requisites of really good poetry, then read two modern poems. (Continued
on Page Six)

Mother will love Nunnally’s...the kind that symbolizes Romance, Good Taste, and Quality. For 53 years Nunnally’s has been the Candy
of the South. Give Mother Nunnally’s.

Big Money

MR. D. L. HILL cleared $550.00 in six weeks...a large part of his college-year's expenses, by our remarkable plan. You,
too, can capitalize on your education. This successful national organization offers an unusual opportunity to college students for summer work.
Thousands have financed their education and gained valuable business training through this high-type sales work. Experience is not essential. Our
program and training course assure success. Write for complete details.

COLLEGE DIVISION
Federal Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Send Your Trunks Home VIA Railway Express

QUICK, DEPENDABLE & EFFICIENT

Student Representatives: JOE GORDON, CHAL VINSON. See them for rates or PHONE 4121.

DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, RADIO SUPPLIES, HARDWARE

M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Thurs., Fri., and Saturday

The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes on the Ghostly Moor! Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s “THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES” —With— Basil
Rathbone, Richard Greene, Wendy Barrie.

EXTRA! The Three Stooges in a New Laugh Hit “Yes, We Have No Bonanzas” News.

BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc.
FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.
Ernest Ellison, Robt. E. Ellison

POSITIONS? A few select college men. FULLER BRUSH COMPANY

“RATCLIFFE’S FLOWERS for College” Pharmacy - Next Door to Post Office. Free course in salesmanship. Remuneration above average, write for
details.

BRIGHTEN THE HOURS

Representatives: LEM KORNEGAY, JIM THOMAS

Wed., May 10th. “ADVENTURES OF JANE ARDEN”

Thurs.-Fri., May 11th-12th. “SMART GIRLS”

Sat., May 13th. “WOMEN IN THE WIND” “DICK TRACY No. 4”

Mon.-Tues., May 15th-16th. “LET FREEDOM RING”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.
