Thurs., Nov. 30, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Two Groups Plan Dance
Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma To Present Annual Ball, December 9

Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma will hold their annual ball at Hotel Charlotte, Dec. 9. The fraternities combine annually to have an off-campus function.

Banquet
The first thing on the program is a banquet at 7:00 o'clock in the Hotel Charlotte, where each girl will be given a favor by the boy who invited her. Music for the dance will be furnished by Sedwick-Jobbitt and his Southerners. This affair offers an opportunity to all old brothers of both fraternities to return and attend a function with their new brothers. All alumni who were brothers of either fraternity will be extended an invitation in accordance with the rules of the college. No outsiders will be invited. Chaperones for the occasion will be Dr. Jackson, Mr. F. L. Hood, Dr. B. McKenzie, Dr. Frazier, and Dr. Hengeveld. These are all members of the faculty.

In accordance with the Pan-Hellenic rules, the fraternities have agreed to abandon flowers for their dance.

Last Year's Dance
These two fraternities joined last year for the first time to give the first dance in a series, before the holidays begin. This week, Kappa Sigma and Pi Kappa Alpha will give a dance, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon is planning a ball for Dec. 9. Other fraternities are planning their regular Christmas parties.

Pfohls Clash In Band Duel
Deacon, Cat Band Bands Directed By Two Brothers

It's brother against brother when the Wildcats encounter the Demon Deacons from Wake Forest tomorrow in the last of the Turkey Day clashes between these ancient rivals. The brothers, Donald and James Christian Pfohl, will do their scrimmaging between halves. Donald is the newly appointed musical director at the Baptist institution, while James has become well known in local and state music circles as director of the Davidson College Music Department.

Personal Duel
Just as important as the outcome of the game, at least to these brothers, will be the outcome of their personal duel as to which one will put on the best musical show during the intermission. Brother Donald, though realizing his handicap in being new to Wake Forest, has stated that he will literally blast his dear brother off the field with his Gold and Black ensemble, while Brother Jim, fully aware of the possible detriments to his reputation, has called secret sessions of his boys and has declined to make any statement whatsoever. However, one can plainly see by the secrecy and concentration surrounding his actions that Big Brother Jim is not to be caught napping, and plans, on the contrary, to upset the Wake Forest dope bucket.

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N.C.

PAULINE DOUGLAS
MARY DUNN
Sponsors and their escorts for the dance: top row (left to right): Raymond McDaniel, Pauline Douglas; bottom row: Mary Dunn, Frances Manning.

Sunday Class Hears Lesson On Friendship
Wood Tells How To Choose the Proper Friends

Professor W. W. Wood was the speaker at the regular Sunday morning Sunday School class held in Phi Hall on the 26th. The subject of Professor Wood's talk to the class was friendship, with his text taken from the 15th chapter of John, verses 13 through 17.

Illustrating his talk with many examples and elaborations in order to make his point clear, Professor Wood said that the essential quality in the choosing of friends was in the association with good and bad company, both bad men and bad women. In order for us to choose our friends correctly and wisely, we must know the right kind of people from which to choose them.

In regard to temptation, it was pointed out by Professor Wood that we should not try to hide from temptation, but we should go out and face it like men. Through the meeting and conquering of temptation, we become stronger and are better prepared for the bigger battles of life.

Speaks For Schenck
Professor Wood spoke in the place of Dr. L. B. Schenck, of the faculty, who was unable to speak because of the illness of his father. As usual, Jack Ferguson was the leader for the Sunday School. The service was opened by him.

(Continued on Page Six)

Miss Mary Dunn, Rocky Mount, clarinet, and is a member of Sigma Alpha.

PHYLLIS CROOKS
FRANCES MANNING

Pika-Sig Ep
Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon To Initiate Annual Holiday Event

Two Davidson social fraternities, Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi Epsilon, will hold their annual Pika-Sig Ep Ball in the ballroom of the Charlotte Woman’s Club, Saturday night, Dec. 2, from 8 till 12. This Fall Dance is the first of a planned series to be presented by these fraternities.

Sponsors
The dance is to be sponsored by the Beta chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha and the N. C. Epsilon chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Alumni have been issued invitations by the two fraternities and admittance to the ball will be by invitation only. The affair will be formal.

Members composing a joint committee in charge of arrangements were: Ralph Monger, Vernon Coltrane, and Youngblood, members of Pi Kappa Alpha, and Rufus Powell, Fred Harbin, and Walter Fitzgerald, members of Sigma Phi Epsilon. This committee has planned schemes for decorating the ballroom which will be in keeping with the season of Thanksgiving. Music for the occasion will be furnished by Van Keys and his orchestra.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of this band is a graduate of the class '39. He who is Walter plays Heil- and "Sonny" saxophone Phi Epsilon. Ball which will be given in Charlotte Saturday evening, Dec. Miss Pauline Douglas, High Point, with Jack Abels, Pi Kappa Alpha; Doris Edgar, Perma tk with Ross McElwee, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Martha Brandon, Scotland Neck, with Joe Shelton, Pi Kappa with Phil Edwards, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Midge Sally, Union, S. C., with Bob Loty, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Sybil Trexler, Concord, with Edgar Watson, Sigma Phi Epsilon. The ball will be given at the Charlotte Woman's Club to the music of Van Keys and his orchestra.

Two Fraternities Will Present Joint Dance Saturday Night

DORIS EDGAR
MARTHA BRANDON
SYBIL TREXLER

Miss Phyllis Crooks, Concord, with Bub Col-
MIDGE SALLY
Miss Frances Manning, Bethel, N. C., with

1929 ECHOES
1939 OF THE PAST

Hold First Formal Meet of Year
Eumeneans To Organize Hi-Y Groups
Original Play By Dan Hughes And Short Story By Sam Spencer Featured

A literary program, including drama, short story, poetry, and speaking featured the regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society Tuesday night. The first formal literary program of the year was launched by the presentation of portions of "Yellow Night," a radio drama written for the Radio Theatre and broadcast recently over WSOC. Some parts were omitted but the climactic scenes were presented under the direction of Dan Hodges, author of the play.

Next followed a sonnet on Nehemiah by Albert Winn and a short story, House-Party Details by Sam Spencer. Spencer's story was read by one of the group.

Closing the program was a talk by Mae Wi-Y groups in certain grammar and high schools in the city. Each one will have a separate unit of which he will be in complete charge. Each leader was picked for his leadership ability and exemplary character. Several more boys will begin work after Christmas. The leaders will go over one afternoon a week, from 2:30 till suppertime, transportation being furnished by the Charlotte Y.

This work marks a definite expansion in the Davidson Y work, for up to this time all such activities have been more or less local. There being at present a Hi-Y group at the Davidson High School and an embryonic group at Huntersville. In addition to Hi-Y work carried on, the college YMCA is sponsoring four Scout troops, colored troops at Davidson and Cornelius, under Bill McLauchlin and Tom Brown, and a troop in the mill village under Ben Colkitt, and a troop at the high school under Jim Kerr.

Two Years Ago
Displaying some of the most brilliant football ever seen on Richardson Field, the Davidson Wildcats, led by Ed Armfield and "Teeny" Lafferty, completely annihilated a favored Wake Forest eleven.

Five Years Ago
The Wildcats, paced by Johnny Mackorell and "Little Joe" Wingfield, barely out-classed the Demon Deacons 13-12.

The Reverend James Sprunt, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, Va., will be the speaker at Vespers on Dec. 3. He is a graduate of Davidson College and of the Union Theological Seminary.

On Dec. 10, the Sunday preceding the Christmas holidays, the Y. M. C. A. will have charge of the Vespers program. Following the custom of years standing, the service will consist of Christmas music presented by the musical organizations of the college. Chambers auditorium will be decorated for the occasion. Light will be supplied by candles placed in the windows and on the stage. Boughs of cedar and holly will be used as decorations. This service has received much attention from the public and friends of the college attend this program from all parts of the state and from the neighboring states. Visitors are invited to participate in the worship. Music will be furnished by the choir and string symphony.

Before the Big Game
EAT DINNER AT THACKERS, Inc.
"A GOOD PLACE TO EAT"
DAVIDSON STUDENTS are ALWAYS WELCOME

THE WOODEN BOWL
Just Off Tryon at Fourth

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Building
Davidson, N. C.

PAUL & CRYMES
ALL SPORTING GOODS
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Thurs. & Fri, Nov. 30 & Dec. 1
WE ARE NOT ALONE
Saturday, Dec. 2
NINOTCHKA
Mon. & Tues., Dec. 4 & 5
REMEMBER
Wednesday, Dec. 6
CAT AND CANARY
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Men’s Shop
SMARTNESS QUALITY ECONOMY
we suggest
STYLE-MART
You'll like everything about our new STYLE-MART Suits for Spring. The patterns are the season's newest. The styling and tailoring strictly in keeping with the quality you have learned to depend on in this store. And we know you'll especially like the economy prices which we feature on these standout suits. Come in—soon—and see how much suit smartness can be yours for a little money.
EFIRD’S
Street Floor

Printing
Garland Court
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your telephone. Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
This is Our Business
For a representative
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

---

I have corrected the text for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.