CATTALES By TONI CASALI

DAVIDSON SPORTS Wed., Feb. 22, 1939

It seems as if Davidson's quintet will never get that ONE last victory needed to clinch them a place in the Southern Conference playoff... They get their last chances this week against South Carolina, Wake Forest, and Furman... Chances are pretty good against the Gamecocks and Purple Hurricane, but those Deacons... Oh, Man! The highest scoring team in the Conference is “a point and a half per minute”... and they get them too... When Waller and Owen get hot—watch out! Wake Forest fans declared that the Deacons played their best game of the year against Davidson the other night... On the other hand, Davidson probably played their worst ball of the season, which accounts somewhat for the Baptists' fine showing... And if you don’t believe that the Deacs have a flock of followers just ask little Grey Hunter... Also ask him of their attitude (maybe sportsmanship)... Truly the Deacons have the best player in the Conference (Waller)... but there are three or four more superlatives. Bill Sweet, for instance, is the most aggressive player in the conference... Boyd Owen is as polished a performer (all-around) as can be seen in the State... He's equally as good on the offensive as he is on the defensive... second only to Waller in scoring... The fur should fly when the ‘Cats and Deacs tangle here Saturday night... It will be Davidson's last attempt to stop the super-scorer Waller... “Mighty Atom” Johnny holding the Deac Captain to somewhere in the neighborhood of seven to eight points... If the tricky ‘Cat speedster can repeat the trick Saturday night, and someone stops the ever-alert Owen, then the Wildcats will be in... Better get there early and get a seat before it’s too late!

While on the subject of Wake Forest... they’re probably sticking their necks out... trying to schedule NOTRE DAME for a football game in 1940... Why, the Irish could hardly get one of their buses (or do they travel by train) in Wake Forest... Imagine! Coach Gene McEver’s proteges are coming along fine with their spring training program... Some of those rising sophomores are going to make it mighty tough on opposing teams next fall... Big Stan Yoder, Bill Shaw, Don Bell, Elmer Knoeller, Frank Caldwell, and John Strandwitz, not to mention about 15 or 20 others, show plenty of promise... Then there are a number of men from the Beester squad... Granville Sharpe, Jay Bolin, and the elusive “Black Dog.”... The return of Wilson “Tubby” Hand, who scats like a scared rabbit, and Horace McCall, veteran center, helps things considerably... And how about those returning lettermen... Yep, the Wildcats should howl louder than ever next year...

The familiar thud of a baseball plunking into a glove means that America's favorite pastime, Baseball, is almost in season... Big league teams are practically through their trading and buying... now all they have to do is to get their aces to sign... and what a job that is... At least they've already got Diz Dean, and Der Mag in the fold... You know, half of this signing the contract business is just publicity anyway... It’s just like everything else... Wonder what Duke's “Little Athletics” are going to have this year... Russ Bergman, who'll certainly go to the majors, is back at shortstop... “Crash” Davis, who played with our own Tubby Hand and J. D. Hicks on the Legion Championship Gastonia team, will cover second base... Then, they say, that this Price boy (you've seen him play basketball) has some Cleveland Indian strings attached to him because of his infield ability... It seems that he is also a shortstop, which means that Bergman will probably be over on the “hot corner”... Imagine trying to get a base hit through a crew like that... Bergman, Price, and Davis... looks like the only thing to do is to hit 'em over their heads.

HERE AND THERE... South Carolina Gamecocks will miss the services of Al Grygo, a sophomore back last year, that had mercury in his heels during their coming football campaign... They flunked him out... Belmont Abbey’s gridders will also be minus the services of two stars next year... Jumping Joe Cuffaro, who plays a nice game of basketball too, and Ed Visnic, tackle supreme, haven't been seen or heard of since the Christmas holidays... They'd make some major college a good pair of warriors... both weigh around the 200-pound mark... Graham McFayden is the only undefeated wrestler on the Davidson squad... Ed Ellis, who had won every match before the V. P. I. meet, dropped his first to the Gobbler grunter... Big Bill Johnston, Davidson's heavyweight, has saved the ’Cat grapplers twice this year with pins... once against Duke and the other last Saturday against V. P. I... nice going Bill... For the second straight year Baseball's silver bat went to a member of Beckley (W. Va.) entry into the Mountain State league... Murray Franklin, a shortstop, topped all batters with an average well over the 400 pct. mark... Martin, who resembles our own “Red” Laird, took top honors the previous year... Marshall Goldberg wants 20,000 shekels to play professional football next year... 10 to 1 he doesn’t get it!... Famed last words—Remember, don’t boo at the game Saturday night—not even at...

Winter Drills Featured By Intra-Squad Skirmish Practice Draws To Close; Positions Open To Reserves and Frosh

The “Reds” defeated the “Blacks” to cap off a week of hard work in winter football drills as three quarters of regulation length were played. The game was close from beginning to end and was featured by fine defensive work rather than any outstanding offensive threats. Stan Yoder was the big gun for the losers with his powerful line-plunging while the defensive work of Marvin Pennington, veteran guard, put a stop to many of the “Reds” offensive thrusts. The battle for positions on the starting eleven has become more bitter as the drills became more intense. Horace McCall and “Poss” McLean, holdovers from last year, and Frank Caldwell, up from the freshman squad, are vying for the center post, while freshman George Marsh and Frank Moore are pushing veterans Marvin Pennington (Continued on Page Six)

Kit Grapplers Beat Va. Tech

In a match that featured eight falls, the Wildcat Frosh grapplers took first honors in a meet with V.P.I, 25-15. The lads from Blacksburg started things rolling in the first match in the 121 lb. class by forfeit and win in the 128 lb. division when Moreland pinned McEachern in 2:57. Dave Spencer then pinned Wilson in the 136 lb. class to get the Kits under way. Riddlemoser succumbed to Norman Aarseth in the 145 lb. match in 3:54. In one of the best matches of the day, Turnage of Davidson brought Garfinkle to the mat in 6:22. Freeze continued the Kitten march of falls by flattening Bates in 4:39 of their 165 lb. bout. Ed Hipp then made short work of V. P. I.’s Waterman, pinning him in the short time of 1:59. In the unlimited division the junior (Continued on Page Six)

ERNEST ELLISON, Inc. Ernest Ellison FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE 113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C. Robt. E. Ellison ~ Reliable

One of the mainstays in the Wildcat basketball machine this year is Benny Harrison hailing from Milan, Tennessee. Although hampered by an arm injury during the last few weeks, his steady play and accurate passing has aided the team tremendously in its fight for the Southern Conference Championship.

Wildcats Lick Tech Matmen

Davidson's Varsity Wrestlers defeated the matmen of Virginia Tech Saturday in the Davidson gym by the score of 16-14. McIntyre started the fireworks by pinning his opponent, Crandall, in 2:22 minutes. However, the next three matches were won by the Gobblers. F. K. Jones, V. P. I., decisioned Abels, J. P. Jones, V. P. I., pinned Parrish in 5:14 minutes, and Magill, V. P. I., decisioned Bailey, to gain a comfortable lead for the Techs which Davidson was not able to overcome until the last match. McFayden brought Davidson back into the thick of the battle by decisioning Alexander. Then King, V. P. I., decisioned Poole. Until he lost his match Saturday, Ellis had not lost to a conference opponent this year. With the score 14-8 in favor of V. P. I., Sid Crane, in a battle in which he and his opponent nearly pinned each other several times, won the decision over Nichols. In the feature match of the afternoon, footballer Bill Johnston pinned Gosney in 5:14 minutes.

Baseball

On Monday Coach Flake Laird issued the call to baseball candidates with approximately 30 men indicating their intentions of reporting next week when practice drills are slated to begin. Daily training sessions are being held this week in the gym with no other organized practice scheduled, except for the pitchers who begin workouts on Tuesday. The squad will begin practice on the field as soon as weather conditions permit the diamond to be prepared.

MOORESVILLE RECREATION PARLOR Bowling and Pool Mooresville, N. C. Joe I. Kall, Prop.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Cats Sixth In Standings As FinishNears Wake Forest Leads Loop; Three Teams Cinch Spots In Tourney

With three games to play, Davidson remained in sixth place in Conference standings with a record of eight wins against six losses. One more win for the 'Cats would place them at the .500 mark and virtually assure them of a tournament position. Wake Forest continued to hold the pole position with thirteen wins against three losses. Maryland's Demon Deacons followed with seven wins against two losses, and Washington and Lee with eight wins against five losses. 

Maryland, with five wins and three losses, took the fourth spot while N.C. State clung to fifth with seven wins and three losses. Only three teams were “in” the tournament, counting games played through Saturday, they being Wake, Maryland, and Citadel. However, N.C. State seemed sure of a place as they have but one remaining game and have already won enough to give them seven wins against six losses, even if they should lose their remaining game.

Duke vs. Carolina

Attention will center on the Duke-North Carolina game to be played Friday night when the Tar Heels can eliminate Duke from consideration, giving themselves a chance at the slot if they win. Richmond and William and Mary, by winning all but one of their remaining games, can be possible choices. Duke's victory over Wake slipped them into third place in the Big Five and let Carolina go into a deadlock with the pace-setting Deacons for the fourth spot. Davidson remained in the lead, while State brought up the rear. With all teams bearing down in the stretch, it remains to be seen which will crack in the daffiest title race in the history of the Big Five. After being beaten repeatedly, Duke showed that they were still in the running for the championship by taking Wake.

Phi Gams Win Frat Tourney

The Phi Gams clinched the inter-fraternity basketball crown last Wednesday night by beating the Pi Kappa Phis 22-8, and the Kappa Sigs moved into the finals of the consolation tournament with the S.A.E.'s by virtue of their 20-12 win over the Sig-Eps. The Fijis had previously defeated the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts by one and two-point margins respectively. In their game with the Pi Kapps, they went ahead early in the skirmish never to be headed. Frank Barker led the scoring for the night with 10 points to his credit, and Hemphill paced the Pi Kapp attack with 4 points although he was injured during the fray. DeWitt Rose led the Kappa Sigs in their win over the Sig-Eps. By this win, they earned the right to meet the S.A.E.'s to decide the winner of the consolation tournament. The teams beaten in the first round of the tournament play in the consolation part until they are defeated the second time. The Kappa Sigs and the S.A.E.'s will play this week.

ALWAYS ASK for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, and Candy Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS, Charlotte, North Carolina

’Cats Need One Win To Enter Tournament

Page Four

Soph Ace

Improving steadily throughout the season, Jim Hogg, sophomore Col., has recently earned for himself a forward berth on the first five. His heady floor game and excellent eye for the basket combine to make Jim a main cog in Coach Norman Shepard’s hardwood aggregation.

Frosh Cagers Beat Streaks

After bowing to Danville Military Institute 46-44 in a thrill-packed game witnessed by a large crowd, Davidson's Freshmen cagers came back to win a close victory over the highly touted Lees-McRae Bobcats by a score of 31-24. Although they were trailing by a score of 21-18 at the half, Danville staged a brilliant rally in the fourth quarter to overhaul the Kittens and win on Winn’s field goal in the last thirty seconds. Winn led the Cadets with 14 points.

Lees-McRae

In the Lees-McRae game, the Kittens started fast and built up a lead of 20-10 at half-time. Although the scoring was much closer in the last half, the Bobcats were never able to overcome this early lead. Isaacs paced the visitors with 11 points while Bell and Spencer led the freshmen with 10 and 9 respectively. Simonds and Stair played sterling floor games for the Frosh. 

Monday afternoon the Kittens traveled over to Charlotte and completely avenged an earlier defeat at the hands of the Silver Streaks by trouncing them 41-15. Both teams opened slowly and the score at the half was only 15-9 with Davidson on the long end. However, in the last two periods, the Kittens opened up and completely overwhelmed the Highs, scoring 26 points to Central's 6. Bell led this assault with 20 points while Ball with 7 was best for the Streaks.

Season Ends

Tomorrow the Freshmen close the season by journeying to Greensboro to engage the Purple Whirlwind in a return game. Very stiff opposition is expected from this quarter despite the fact that the Kittens trounced them earlier in the year. Since this contest, Greensboro, led by L.E. Dempsey who has an average of over 20 points a game, has lost only two games and is holding down second place in the Western High Conference.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant

DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES

221 W. Trade Street, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Conference Race To Close As In Finale; ’Cats Still Cat Trackmen Hit By Illness

Bad weather and illness seem to have combined forces against the Wildcat track squad, which was to compete in the annual Southern Conference Indoor Games this weekend at Chapel Hill. It was learned last week that Boo Walker, veteran distance man, will definitely be unable to compete in his specialty, the two-mile run. Loss of Walker will greatly cripple Davidson in what was thought to be her strongest department. Charlie Sample, indoor champ in the pole-vault last year, will be able to defend his title, but it is feared that loss of weight and practice due to a very recent illness will greatly handicap his performance. It is probable that he will compete only in the vault and will be scratched from participation in the sprints.

Rain Stops Practice

The original squad of thirteen will have to be further cut, according to Coach Whittle, because of lack of practice due to rain. The frosh representation will be cut to three men and perhaps twice that number will enter the varsity division. Sample, White, Woodward, Gamman, Black, and possibly McAlpine if his bad ankle comes around, will carry the Wildcats’ varsity hopes, while Taylor, Williamson, and Strandwitz will probably represent the Frosh. As usual, the cream of the south's trackmen will appear on the boards of Carolina's new gym. Outstanding among the veteran entrants are Kehoe of Maryland, Strickler of V.M.I., Harvey of W. & L., Fuller of Va., Winborne of Carolina, Miller of Maryland, and Sample and Woodward of Davidson.

U.N.C. and Duke Favored

North Carolina and Duke will probably again rule as team favorites. These two teams battled it out last year, with the Blue Devils gaining a close decision. Neither team suffered greatly by graduation and both will bring back several of last year’s champs. In addition to conference entries, there is a non-conference division.

(Continued on Page Six)

Cats Play Final Tilts At Home

South Carolina, Wake Forest, and Furman Play at Davidson

Need One Conference Win For Tourney Place

Davidson's Wildcats will ring down the curtain on the regularly scheduled season as they take on three opponents in six days in the home gym. These games will have a great bearing on the final standings of the Southern Conference as all the games are within the league. At present, the 'Cats need one more win to place in the first eight teams who are annually invited to the post-season tournament at Raleigh.

South Carolina Here

On Thursday night, South Carolina’s Gamecocks invade the 'Cat lair after a mediocre record through the season thus far. Saturday night, the loop-leading Wake Forest outfit will meet Davidson for the second time of the current season, having won the previous game. Tuesday night closes the schedule with Furman taking on the Wildcats. The 'Cats have been prepping for the final games rigidly as two injured men returned to the ranks in good shape. Tice and Hicks, who have been bothered with a bad side and a cold respectively, are well again and will appear in the starting lineup against South Carolina on Thursday.

’Cats Lose To Citadel

Last Saturday night the Davidsons lost to the Citadel 45-30 in Charleston, S.C., as Jake Burrows, ace cadet forward, led his teammates to victory with a total of 19 points. The Citadel offense clicked smoothly and except for a few minutes early in the fray, they held a commanding lead throughout. The Wildcats exhibited a ragged brand of ball, and except for their opening minutes, they were unable to mount a significant challenge.

(Continued on Page Six)

STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND TOWNSPEOPLE OF DAVIDSON

WHEN IN CHARLOTTE

Park at Moore’s Parking Lot, 114 West Sixth Street

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Printing is our Business. For a representative, call 3-5727. Printers of The Davidsonian.

Garland Court

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY

ESTABLISHED 1907

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Wed., Feb. 22nd. “DEVIL’S ISLAND”

Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 23-24th. “IDIOT’S DELIGHT”

Sat., Feb. 25th. “WINGS OF THE NAVY”

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES

For your room, from—

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE

DAVIDSON, N.C.

Mon.-Tues., Feb. 27-28th. “HUCKLEBERRY FINN”

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Davidson, N.C.