Sideline Delights
By ANDY DALE

Sports End Soon

With only a week remaining of the spring athletic program, Davidson's athletes settle down to the final push for honors. May 13, a week from Saturday, sees the last scheduled event of the year as the baseballers, cindermen, and golfers see action. After that, it’s back to the books for the grind prepping for exams.

In the past, Davidson athletes have never been excessively bothered by studies, though of course the usual difficulties occur to them as they do to everyone else. But generally speaking, most of the athletes are as good as the next fellow under the stern gaze of the professors. Even with practice taking up considerable time, and with trips causing them to get behind in their work, they have managed to keep up all right and make a good showing. Possibly one reason is the reasonable program that Davidson pursues in her athletic policy. No wonder men are hardly able to pass even the crippiest subjects when they are so tired from long practice that they can hardly move. Some schools hold football drills from three until after dark, and then under the floodlights. Then after supper, there are more drills in the form of skull practice in the gym. Besides this, they sometimes take trips ranging from four or five days to the extensive two-week trip that one major football team took not long ago. Maybe that is one of the reasons why they have to include courses for athletes such as the mythical “Roman Band Instruments.”

Cats Lose In Eleventh

Getting away from the scholastic side for a pleasant change, we notice the head farther over on the page, “Virginia Downs Cats in Extra Inning Tilt; Thomas Goes Route.” To lose such a game was a heart-breaking thing after holding the highly touted Virginia Cavaliers for eleven innings. Beaten only twice previously, the Virginians presented a formidable line-up, but the Cat nine matched them for ten frames, only to lose in the ill-starred eleventh. Hayseed Thomas gave up twelve hits while the Cats gave him nine to work with. While the long twilight shadows fell, the Virginians smashed out a double with one away, got another man aboard on an error, and then came through with a single that scored both. Flies to Hunter and Hicks retired the side. Hemphill led off for the Cats with two runs needed to tie the score again and got on through an error by the shortstop. After two outs, Hicks knocked a single only to see himself and Hemphill die on base as the left-fielder retired the Cats with his catch of a fly. Edmundson led the hickory-benders with three for six.

Some Intramural Statistics

Browsing around in the intramural office the other day, we noticed a few statistics that might be interesting now as interfraternity and interclass intramurals are nearing the finish line for this year. The Phi Gams are out ahead in the frat race with 663 points, closely followed by the Phi Delts with 648 points. In the third position are the Sig Eps who hold 599 points. With three events uncompleted, horseshoes, softball, and varsity competition, it is possible for either of these three to win the cup, or indeed for the Kappa Sigs, who have a 588 total. This year it has been a close race all the way with the leaders winning football (tie), basketball, and badminton. With an average of twenty-nine men competing from each fraternity, it is noteworthy that eight of the nine fraternities are within four men of this mark. According to Whittle’s chart, the S. A. E.’s have had the most men competing in intramurals thus far, 32, and the Kappa Sigs aren’t far behind with 31. A total of 263 men have taken part in interfraternity competition. Two hundred and forty-two men have been active in interclass competition, 75 of whom were freshmen. It appears that students feel the effects of age, for the seniors have fewer men competing than any other class, the juniors next, sophs third, and the freshmen most of all. Guess by the time we get to be seniors it is time to begin studying in the afternoon.

Another Track Win

Pete Whittle and the Citadel coach have really got this track business down to a science. They claim that each had the final results of the meet figured out beforehand to within a half point of the correct score. Better than Enoch, the Lizard, and that gang! Boo Walker continues to shine in his senior year as track captain, tying for first in the three longest distances, the half, one, and two-mile runs. He must have compiled an amazing number of points for Davidson during his three years of varsity competition. Whittle continues to come through with a new man each week to add points to the Cat total. This week it’s Charlie Sample again—high point man for his first time with wins in the pole vault, 220 dash, and a second in the 100-yard dash for 13 points. The dashes on The Citadel cinders were especially close. In the 100, won by Garner of Citadel, all three placing men were within a foot of each other as they breasted the tape. The 220 was the same way, only a Davidson man, Sample, came up in front in the remarkable good time of 22.8 with the second and third place men right behind. Dave Warden really was chunking the shot around Saturday. Each of his throws was over 40 feet, the longest being 42 feet, two inches, one inch short of his best throw since he has been entered in the weight event.

Short Shots

The current Life has an excellent illustrated article on the long-range Yankee bomber. They'll feel the loss greatly if that leg doesn’t come around as expected. Hitting .435, an even greater season than last year. Another long-range man, though in a lesser league, is Eric “the Red” Tipton. He slammed a mighty long one over the far-away left field hedge in Durham where only two balls previously had been knocked. Mounting interest over the Derby (Darby to you Englishmen) sees Johnstown and Technician ranging as favorites. We still like the sound of El Chico. The intramural field appears to be washing away. Two years ago, if we remember correctly, it was much softer and had more grass. Now, after several seasons of continual use, it is much harder and has less grass.

Wed., May 3, 1939

Cat Netmen Beaten 9-1 By Carolina

Davidson Trounces Wake Forest 9 to 0; Shore Only Winner at Carolina

Last Tuesday afternoon, April 25th, the Davidson Tennis Team trounced Wake Forest by a score of 9 to 0. On the 24th, the netters were defeated by Carolina, 9 to 1, for Davidson's second defeat of the current season. In the Wake Forest meet, the netters failed to lose a match and dropped only one set, that being in the last doubles. The feature player of the day was Billy Turner who lost but one game to Cahoon, Wake Forest's number two man. Rea Tenney defeated Appleby, Wake Forest's number one man, 6-1, 6-1. Only one Davidson man was able to win his match in the Carolina meet, this being Dick Shore who defeated Gregg, Carolina’s number six man. Probably the best match of the day was between Rea Tenney of Davidson and C. Rood of Carolina.

Summary

Wake Forest Meet—Tenney (D) over Appleby (WF), 6-1, 6-1; Turner (D) over Cahoon (WF), 6-1, 6-0; Northcross (D) over Earhart (WF), 6-3, 6-3; Jones (D) over Davis (WF), 6-4, 6-4; Hunter (D) over Alexander (WF), 6-0, 6-4; Shore (D) won, 6-1, 6-1. In the doubles, Turner-Shore (D) over Davis-Cahoon (WF), Tenney-Jones (D), default; Hunter-Cloyd (D) over Alexander-Earhart (WF).

Carolina Meet—Rider (C) over Turner (D), 6-2, 6-3; C. Rood (C) over Tenney (D), 7-5, 3-6, 6-4; B. Rood (C) over Jones (D), 6-3, 6-0; Rawlings (C) over Hunter (D), 6-2, 6-2; Messerale (C) over Northcross (D), 6-1, 6-0; Shore (D) over Gregg (C), 8-6, 6-4; Harnden (C) over Cloyd (D), 4-6, 6-2, 6-2. In the doubles events, B. Rood-Rawlings (C) over Turner-Hunter (D), 6-2, 2-6, 6-4; C. Rood-Messerale (C) over Tenney-Jones (D), 6-3, 6-3; Harnden-Gregg (C) over Shore-Northcross (D), 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.

Kits Trounce P.J.C. 10 To 2

Davidson's freshmen nine downed Presbyterian Junior College by the score of 10 to 2 last Wednesday in their only encounter of the week. Their game with the Purple Whirlwind of Greensboro, scheduled for Saturday, was called off because of wet grounds and will be played possibly at a later date.

Ed Lucas pitched his best game of the year for the Kittens, limiting the P.J.C.’s to four hits and striking out ten men. He grew better as the game progressed and did not allow but one hit after the third inning. Tommy Yarborough, diminutive Frosh second baseman, led the Kit’s 14-hit attack with three singles and a double in five trips to the plate. Lucas also hit well with three for five, while Warren secured two of the Presbyterian’s four hits.

Frosh Scoring

The Presbyterians opened the scoring in their half of the first on a walk and Warren's triple to deep center field. They chalked up another run in the second on a two-base error on an outfield fly.and Warren's hit. Their lead was short-lived, however, for the Kits, after scoring one run in the first on Morris’ two-bagger into the stands, hopped on Ward's offerings in the fourth for four hits and three runs. After Nelson got on by error, Yarbrough, Carter, Owens, and Lucas singled in succession for the runs. They tallied three more in the sixth on three walks, an error, and two hits. In the ninth, they reached the second P. J. C. righthander for five hits and three more runs to sew up the game.

Next Game
The Kittens played host to R. J. Reynolds High of Winston-Salem yesterday, but it was not in time for publication. Friday, they travel to Badin to seek revenge for a shellacking handed to them in an earlier game. The postponed Greensboro game will possibly be played there next Monday, May 8th.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON SPORTS

Trackmen Beat Citadel
Intramurals Ending

Page Four

Steere Hits the Dirt
Eddie Steere, veteran Wildcat right fielder, is shown sliding home with a run in Monday’s game against Virginia. Steere’s bat as well as his classy fielding has been one of the bright spots of the present Wildcat campaign. He hits in the No. 4 spot.—(Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Class Ball Ends In Tie
Up until the last day, the Seniors were beaten by the Juniors, to make a two-way tie for top place in the softball inter-class tournament. Both teams won five games and lost one. The frosh team defeated the sophs to come into a tie for last place.

In the interfraternity horseshoe tournament, the Betas and Phi Delts are still leading with four and five wins respectively against two losses. The Gams are in second place with two wins and one loss. Next are the S. A. E.’s with two wins and two losses. Then, the A. T. O.’s with two wins and three losses. Then, the S. P. E.’s with two wins and four losses. Next to last place are the Kappa Sigs with one win and three losses. The Pi Kappa Phi's are in last place with one win and four losses.

Monday, in the first round of the interfraternity softball, the Betas defeated the Phi Delts 24 to 10, and the S. P. E.’s defeated the Pi Kappa Phi's 14 to 7, as they gave ample warning that they are one of the strong teams of the league. In the other game, the Betas managed to secure only two more hits than the Phi Delts, but numerous errors gave them a considerable margin. Benfield was on the mound for the Betas with his teammates backing him up well. Stevenson and Turner received poor support from the Phi Delts.

MUSIC GROUPS
[Continued from Page Three]
in any of the three organizations. The program will consist mainly of after-dinner speeches and various musical selections. This banquet will be attended by the alumni and the numerous friends of Davidson.

Victor
Decca
Brunswick
Vocalion
Bluebird
35c-75c Each
Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

After leading the field all the final Wildcat Trackmen Win Over Citadel Bulldogs
Last Saturday, Davidson College won its third meet of the season at Charleston, S. C., by defeating Citadel 75 1-2 to 50 1-2. The meet was a real field day for Davidson's distance men. Captain Boo Walker turned in one of his career’s best performances by tying for first in the 880, mile, and two-mile. Kellogg tied with him in the half and mile, and Woodward in the mile and two-mile.

Summary
Mile—Kellogg, Woodward, Walker (all D) tied for first. Time, 4:54.3.
440—Burrows (C), Brown (C), Harrison (C). Time, 52.6.
100—Gardner (C), Sample (D), White (D). Time, 10 flat.
120 high hurdles—Harbin (D), Cauble (D), Wilson (C). Time, 16.
220 hurdles—Cauble (D), Foster (C), Sessions (C). Time, 27 flat.
880—Walker (D) and Kellogg (D) tied for first; Leonard (C) third. Time, 2:9.1.
220—Sample (D), Gardner (C), White (D). Time, 22.8.
Two mile—Walker, Woodward, Gammon (all D) tied for first. Time, 11:4 flat.

Field Events
High jump—Black and Cowan (D) and Forster and Duncan (C) all tied for first. Distance, 5 feet 8 inches.
Shot put—Warden (D), Sabados (C), Miller (D). Distance, 42 feet 2 in.
Pole vault—Sample (D), Duncan (C), Forster (C). Height, 10 feet, 10 inches.
Discus—Iverson (D), Rucker (C), Sabados (C). Distance, 128 feet, 4 1-2 inches.
Javelin—Duncan (C), Cowan (D), Iverson (D). Distance, 163 feet.
Broad jump—Hughes (C), Iverson (D), and Gardner (C) tied. Distance, 20 feet, 9 inches.

Virginia Downs Cats In Extra Inning Tilt; Thomas Goes Route
Davidson Loses Four In Row as End of Season Looms; Pegram Paces Cats With 151
Davidson's golf team was defeated in the Carolinas Intercollegiate Tourney at the Sedgefield Country Club last Friday. With a team total of 616, the Wildcats trailed Duke’s winning Blue Devils by 20 points. Charlie Pegram led the Cat golfers with a 36-hole total of 151, the third-lowest individual score of the event. The individual championship went to Robert Brownell of Duke, the runner-up being Joe Taylor, also of Duke. The University of North Carolina team was third with 625, Catawba next with 676, and Wake Forest trailed with a total of 708 strokes.

Summary of the Davidson team follows:
Ray Pittman 79-73—152; Charlie Pegram 76-75—151; Jimmy Cooper 80-80—160; Granville Sharpe 76-77—153.

In a match over Sedgefield’s beautiful Valley Brook course Thursday afternoon, the Davidson golfers tasted their first defeat of the season. The match, which served as a warm-up round for the state meet, was lost to North Carolina by a score of 12 1-2 to 4 1-2. In spite of Pegram and Pittman’s best-ball round of 67, the Tar Heels registered a rather decisive win. The low individual score of the day was also turned in by a Davidson player—Pegram—who carded a 71. Two High Point boys, who were familiar with the Sedgefield course, paced the Carolina boys in their win. They were Frosty Snow and John Diffendal, third and fourth men on the Tar Heel team.

Phi Gams and Seniors Lead
With one more event to be scored in the interclass competition, and three more in the interfraternity series, the Seniors and Phi Gams continue to pace their respective races. The only event the seniors have lost is in wrestling and gymnastic competition, while winning all others except softball, in which they ended in a deadlock with the juniors after the latter beat them in a final game. With Sigma Delta Psi scoring only left open, they appear to be far enough ahead to win even though they should lose this event. The interfraternity race is much closer, with three teams close to [Continued on Page Six]

Virginia Fray Goes to Eleven Frames; Singles and Error End Game in Favor of Cavaliers
Davidson's Wildcats suffered four defeats during the past week, losing to North Carolina, 8-4, two games to Duke, 8-5 and 12-4, on the swing through the northern part of the state, and being vanquished by the University of Virginia at home by a score of 8-6, in an 11-inning thriller.

The game with the Cavaliers started off as a pitcher’s battle between Jim Thomas and Nick Nichols. The first score came in the third inning when “Nipper” Nistad, the invaders’ colorful center-fielder, lined a home run into right-centerfield with the bases empty. They added two more in the second when McCann scored on Sargent’s triple, the latter romping home on a sacrifice fly. The Wildcats broke the scoring ice in the sixth with three runs. Eddie Steere walked, J. D. Hicks and “Rusty” Edmundson singled, and “Rusty” Hellekson doubled. Two walks and a single by Edmundson scored two in the seventh. Frank Niven’s triple and Jim Thomas’ double tied the score in the eighth. The Cavaliers won the ball game in the eleventh when two men crossed the plate on Nistad’s single, an error by Hemphill, and a single by Burnes.

Lose to Tarheels
Against the Tarheels at Chapel Hill, the Wildcats hit the ball hard but were not able to bunch their blows effectively. J. D. Hicks, on the mound for the locals, was no puzzle to the Phantom hitters and was touched for 13 hits in his seven-inning stretch on the rubber.

Duke's Blue Devils unleashed their full power against the Wildcats on Saturday to sweep a double bill, 8-5, 12-4. Dave McLean toed the slab in the opener and pitched effective ball until the fifth when the Devils teed off for five runs. The big blow of the frame was Shoke’s long double which emptied the loaded sacks. The Wildcats bounced back into the ball game in the seventh by scoring four runs, mainly by virtue of Eddie Steere’s double, which chased three men across the platter. Edmundson, Steere, and Hunter helped the local cause with two hits each.

[Continued on Page Six]

Reweaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

CAMERAS
Photograph Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS
N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Full Line of Meats For This Week-end
FREE DELIVERY
Dial 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

ON THE STAGE —— THURSDAY ONLY
SHOWS AT 3:20 7:10 9:30
Flashes Of “BROADWAY PASSING SHOW”
35—BROADWAY ENTERTAINERS
ROBERTA
Gypsy Rose Lee’s Only Rival
MAT. GIRLS! GIRLS! GIRLS! 30c
—— On the Screen ——
“TORCHY BLANE IN CHINATOWN”

BROADWAY. The Great White Way
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET

PAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.