Wed., May 3, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

In view of the fact that Dr. Lingle is generously offering a prize of five dollars to the student suggesting the most appropriate name for the new dormitory to be built in the near future, this week's column will endeavor to see how different students feel about the title for the first step in the great Centennial Building Program. This week's query covers both actual names and methods of selecting such a name. Here is the question: “What suggestions do you have concerning the naming of the new dormitory?”

The following are what the BMOC's had to say in answer to the above:

John Reisner, Senior:
Few people attach enough importance to this question of naming a building. I cite the examples of East and West Dormitories. Those names, although perfectly in keeping with the physical beauty of the barns, hardly reflect any more originality than a prison warden shows in numbering his guests. Directions and numbers are hardly a fit basis on which to name buildings. Let us use ideals, such as “Progress,” or names of Davidson men who have contributed something to the world—not necessarily to Davidson—anyone suggests “Wilson.” So, I suggest we name our new dormitory “Centennial Hall,” in dedication to the Davidson men who, during the first century of Davidson's life, made it great.

Cameron Clark, Senior:
In regard to our new dormitory, we should in all probability select a name in recognition of some beneficial service rendered to Davidson College. I have two such services in mind—the long, unselfish career of Dr. Harding here at Davidson, and the endowment fund of James B. Duke. So I would name it “Harding Dormitory,” in honor of Dr. Harding, or I would name it “Duke Dormitory” in honor of James B. Duke and as a salutation from Davidson’s centennial celebration to Duke University’s centennial celebration.

Bill Rainey, Senior:
In the name of a dormitory or any other building, we have something to be constantly used and remembered for years to come. I believe that it would be only proper for us to honor some outstanding alumnus of Davidson by naming our new dormitory after him. Not only would it show our respect and admiration to a great man, but also it would be advantageous to the school itself. Graduates of Davidson are outstanding in many fields of today, but probably our most famous alumnus is the late President Wilson. I would like to see our new building dedicated to Woodrow Wilson to show our appreciation of a truly great man.

Graham McFadyen, Junior:
Lately there has been some talk that the faculty and student body aren't getting along together very well, but in naming the new dorm there shouldn’t be any kick coming if the faculty were to suggest several names and allow the student body to vote for one of them. The faculty is sure to pick one that will suit the students, and then everyone ought to be satisfied. As this will be the first building project since the Centennial, I'm in favor of naming it: “Centennial Hall.”

Buck Powell, Junior:
Since this year marks the celebration of the hundredth anniversary of the founding of Davidson College, and as a tribute to our Dean, I suggest that the new dormitory be called “Sen-Tennial Hall.”

Stuart Oglesby, Junior:
The building of a new dormitory fulfills a great need at Davidson. In view of this fact, it seems fitting to name such an addition to Davidson after some outstanding man who has in the past or present contributed to the success of this school. This would include men who have served outstandingly as professors, and also those who have contributed generously to our endowment. I am not familiar enough with the men who have given financial aid to the college to suggest any name along that line, but as for professors I would suggest Dr. Martin, Dr. Arbuckle, Dr. Sentelle, or Dr. Harding.

Don Bell, Freshman:
Our new dormitory is to be an ultra-modern construction which is to be equipped to the nth degree. The students who will inhabit our new building will be given the [Continued on Page Six]

Paul’s Life Is Subject Of Sermon
Dr. Edgar Gammon, Charlotte Pastor Delivers Vesper Address

Dr. Myers spoke on “What Christ Meant To Paul,” Sunday on vespers last evening. Dr. Edgar Gammon, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, took his text from Acts 26:19. He delved into Paul's intellectual and religious background before Christ came into his life. Paul had all the knowledge of his day, but all this culture had nothing before Christ came into his life. Dr. Gammon discussed six benefits Christ brought to Paul and applied them to our everyday life.

Knowledge Of Self
First of all, Christ brought Paul a knowledge of himself. He gave Paul a new purpose and a new meaning in life. And then Christ brought to Paul the guidance of where and how he could use this new purpose of life for the most good. However, without forgiveness and redemption Paul could never have been what he was. He would have had the vision of Stephen and others on his mind at all times. Paul had never been a successful religious leader for his past ambition had been to get as much out of life as possible. However, after he had known Christ his ambition was to give as much as possible. Christ also brought to Paul a new conception of others. Paul had been a fanatical nationalist, interested only in his own sect of Jews. Paul became the apostle to the Gentiles and would have given his life that they obtain the Gospel. And last of all, Christ brought to Paul a new sense of security. Wherever he went and no matter what trials and persecutions he went through, he always felt secure in the faith of Christ.

Dr. Gammon has been pastor of the College Church at Hampden-Sydney for twelve years and is president-elect of Hampden-Sydney College. He will take over his duties sometime in June.

Eumaneans Hold Party
Hayride Taken To Picnic Grounds On Catawba

A picnic supper on the banks of the Catawba River featured the Eumenean Literary Society a week ago last Tuesday night, when they entertained a group of girls, composed principally of members of the student body of Queens-Chicora College. The dates arrived on the Davidson campus at 4:30 in the afternoon, leaving here a short while later in two hay-filled trucks, used previously by the Philanthropic Literary Society for a similar excursion. Dr. and Mrs. L. B. Schenck officiated as chaperons for the party. Ivan Stafford, president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and Rod Williams, president emeritus of the same society, went as guests.

Entertainment
Following the consumption of the picnic supper, the group gathered for a period of relaxation and entertainment. Featured on the program were various stunts by members of the society and their guests. Among other things presented was a ghost story, told by Albert Winn, and described by hearers as “grisly” and “hair-raising;” a number of vocal selections by Jim Ballard; a series of unexpected surprises perpetrated by Tom Johnson and Bill Eagan, who secreted themselves in the surrounding verdure for the purpose of leaping forth to frighten passers-by.

The Philanthropic Literary Society led off this year’s series of off-campus parties with a joint party in collaboration with the Spectator Club of Queens-Chicora College several weeks ago. The “Eu's” have followed suit this week-end and a number of social fraternities have been doing likewise lately.

HAVE YOUR HAIR CUT —at— Johnson’s Barber Shop

Masquers Will Produce Coward Drama Soon
Miss Caddie Willis of Concord and Miss Walista Hood of Charlotte are to have the leading feminine roles in the Red and Black Masquers’ forthcoming production of Noel Coward's “Hay Fever.” Miss Willis is to play the role of Judith Bliss, a retired actress and the mother of a most unconventional family. Miss Willis has starred in several performances of the Concord Little Theatre, and at present is the head of the Little Theatre in Concord. Miss Hood plays the part of Sorel Bliss, only daughter of this most unconventional Bliss family. She has a mania for diplomatists, and is bent on improving her conventional social graces. Miss Hood's past stage experience includes work with the Charlotte Little Theatre and the Walista Davidson music clubs in Baltimore.

This production will be given on Thursday evening, May 16, at 8:15 P.M. in the auditorium of Chambers Building. Tickets go on sale Thursday, May 8 at the following rates: students, twenty-five cents, and the regular price for faculty and townspeople, forty cents. Tickets may be obtained from McLean, McIntyre, Morrow, Means, and Book Morrow.Jack- he Thomas Apie Store or Biss Susie This promises to be the most outstanding performance given in the last few years by the Black Masquers, and it is hoped that it will be attended by the entire student body, as well as faculty and townspeople.

Three musical organizations on campus will hold their first banquet next Tuesday night in the new banquet hall. During the course of the evening, there will be the installation of the officers of the band, the glee club, and the symphonic orchestra. The officers of the band are B. L. Johnson, president; W. L. Loftin, vice-president; and E. A. Erwin, secretary and treasurer. The Davidson Music Department will present keys to the men who have rendered worthy services during their four years.

Miss Hood plans to return to the stage this summer, as she has recently received an offer from The Plymouth Players, a well-known theatre group of performers in New England.

Misses Willis and Hood To Star In “Hay Fever”

ODK Has Initiation

In accordance with its spring tap day, the Delta Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, National Leadership Fraternity, will have an initiation of its new members next Monday evening at 6:00 o'clock. Immediately after the initiation, which will take place in the Dome Room of Chambers, there will be a banquet in the banquet hall of Chambers. Many alumni from the nearby vicinity are expected to attend this banquet, which is an annual affair. As yet, no definite plans have been made regarding a speaker, as Mr. Jackson, the head of the committee, is away at present. However, as in the past, the speaker will be some prominent man from this vicinity. The man who speaks will be bid into the circle at the banquet.

Broadcast Is Last of Year

The final program of the winter series of Davidson College radio broadcasts was given May 2 over station WBT. Plans are being made to continue the programs on music when the summer air begins. The concluding program consisted of: O Davidson, Shields; Hymn, Beethoven; Selections from H. M. S. Pinafore, Gilbert and Sullivan; Creation March: Advance Gabriel; Chinese Student Song, Bob Kellogg; In a Temple Garden, Ketelby; Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup, Harrington; March: The Vanished Army, Alford; Baritone Solo: The Rosary, Nevin; March: U. S. Field Artillery, Sousa; Chaser March, Yoder; College Ties, College song; O Davidson, Shields. The line installed for this series of programs will be kept at Davidson where part of the graduation exercises will be broadcast.

May 9, in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 o'clock. This quartet, which is in its second year of organization, has made numerous radio broadcasts from Raleigh, and it will represent North Carolina in the convention.

Frosh Debate Squad Makes Lengthy Tour

Team Takes Trip For First Time in History Of Organization

After a five-day trip through North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, and South Carolina, the Freshman debating team composed of Bill Summers, Albert Winn, Rowe Driver, and Jim Crook, alternate for George Lilly, returned to the campus Sunday night. Under the leadership of Ovid Bell, the senior manager of the team, the debaters left Davidson at 2:30 Wednesday afternoon, arriving in Asheville, N.C. in time to debate Lee Edwards High School Wednesday night. Both the affirmative and negative teams spoke, but there was no decision given. Thursday they went to Knoxville, Tennessee, where the scheduled debate was called off. Although there was no debate, the team remained in Knoxville till Friday morning when they went to Atlanta, Georgia, where they encountered the Freshman team from Emory University. There both teams brought out their sides of the arguments. After the debate Saturday afternoon, the men prepared to return to Davidson as the other debates scheduled had been called off. Again, there was no decision offered as to which side won. The debate question resolved: that the United States should establish an alliance with Great Britain. Bill Summers and Rowe Driver upheld the negative, while Albert Winn and Jim Crook argued the affirmative. This is the first series of debates the Freshman debating team of Davidson has had, and they are honored to have represented the school off the campus as the varsity does.

VISIT THE SOUTHERN 5 & 10 — for — QUALITY and QUANTITY

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

“The Roadhouse” Davidson’s Only Night Spot No Cover Charge

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4302
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Beaver Group Seeks Adviser
Club Also Holds Discussion on High School Guests at Baseball Games

Discussion of who the faculty adviser next year will be was the principal subject of talk at the last meeting of the Beaver Club. A committee was also appointed to study the proposed plan of bringing different high school baseball teams to Davidson to see the games and to let them see something of Davidson as well. After some discussion of a faculty adviser, it was finally decided that a committee should be appointed to study the subject and perhaps make nominations for the position. Winston Taylor is chairman of this committee. Bob Wood was elected chairman of the committee to discuss the proposed plan of bringing different high school baseball teams of the state to Davidson in order that they might see Davidson play, giving them a chance to see Davidson as well. A report will be made at the next meeting to be held soon. The election of new members of the club from the different classes will also take place at the next meeting, no definite date having been set aside for the meeting time as yet. Recently, the Beaver Club sponsored the Junior-Senior day picnic of Badin High School, which was given on the campus after the baseball game with the college freshmen.

Library Use Augmented
1,544 New Books Received During Past Year

Davidson College library has shown marked improvement this year both in circulation and books received, according to Professor Chalmers Davidson in his yearly report to the president. Books received this year reached a total of 1,544; fifty of which were gifts from the United States government. A bound library of Encyclopedia Britannica was presented to the library by the class of nineteen twenty-six. Last year the total circulation was 11,831 books and this year the number totaled 12,249, showing an improvement. The reserve circulation reported this year was 14,763.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

String Quartet From Raleigh To Play Here
Members of Musical Faculties of Four Colleges Compose Group

A concert will be presented in Chambers Auditorium on May 9, by the Raleigh String Quartet. The quartet is made up of musical members of the faculty of four colleges in Raleigh. The program will begin at 8:15. Alden, first violin, is from Peace College, Fide, D. Kuts of the Engineering College, Alden, second violin, is from Saint Mary's Junior College, Edgar Hin, is from Meredith, and Katherine Christian, viola, is a member of the faculty of N. C. State College of Agriculture and Engineering. Mrs. Dorothy Almynd, cello, is from the Christian College.

Excellent Rating

The Raleigh quartet is considered one of the best in the state. It will represent the North Carolina Music Club’s convention held in Baltimore. This quartet will also appear at the famous Mozart Festival to be held in Asheville, sometime during August. Numerous radio broadcasts have been made by the Raleigh Quartet. They will begin a new radio series of four Sunday evening concerts.

Radio Group Active

The University Theatre of Radio Station WSOC, produced by Davidson students, announces their premiere program in a new spring dramatic series. These presentations will be heard at 6:45 P.M. through the facilities of WSOC on Saturday evenings. The first drama to be presented has been adapted for radio by Dan Hodges from a stage play, “Gold Wings,” which is a stirring drama of rough and ready adventures in the lives of our nation’s airmen. This play is the second to be produced by the theatre.

J. O. Jones
IN AND OUTER SPORT SHIRTS. Also Complete Line Ensembles
J. O. Jones
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.

Wed., May 3rd. “12 CROWDED HOURS”
Thurs., May 4th. “LADY FROM KENTUCKY”
Fri., May 5th. “DARK VICTORY”
Sat., May 6th. “RETURN OF THE CISCO KID” “DICK TRACY NO. 3”
Mon.-Tues., May 8th.-9th. “STORY OF VERNON AND IRENE CASTLE”