the scholarships be in disguise if Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Shaw Smith Interview FIVE TO BE || Weekly Schedule SENIORS
TAKE w Smith interviews teianbierd 37am Page One ey eae [Continued from Page One] resignation of Secretary Fred —_—_—- the
pte the the sormeot athletic Smith, Toni Casali, who has been Wed., March 15 scholarships. The suggestion was tar O
Y Oo acco oa sports editor of the “Davidsonian,” | 7:00 P. M., Scabbard and ppeea TN ate tage Sen
Ghat was appointed director of David- | Blade. . around the world is his record, and then retirement at St.
James, Long Island. An offer to play Jeeter could turned down, and this is his second season with “Tobacco Road.”
As yet, he is to get one reverse criticism for his part as Jeeter. “A record of which I, naturally,
am very proud,” Mr. Barton added. Those who saw the play know that its success depends on this part, and
Mr. Barton deserves every bit of the lavish praise he has received from every part of the United States. As
to the reaction of the southern audiences to “Tobacco Road,” Mr. Barton said, “After a little bit they fall in
with us and by half of the play we know we're among friends. John Barton, ‘Jeeter Lester’ Twice of Stage
Play, Visits Real Tobacco Road not be Mr. John Barton, the star of the touring company of “Tobacco Road,” visited
the real Tobacco Road in Georgia a few weeks ago. In a special interview at his hotel last Saturday when
this widely discussed play was showing in Charlotte, Mr. Barton revealed that on his visit to the real Road the
people there said he was just like one of them. It has been said that John Barton is Jeeter Lester:
the selfish, lazy, shiftless old sharecropper who thinks of nothing but staying on his land and day getting around to
planting a crop on it.” When asked what he did when not playing Jeeter, he said, “I've done nothing but
play Jeeter ever since I took the part.” But let it be known that the real Mr. Barton is not
actually like selfish Jeeter. No one who saw him so graciously sign autographs and answer any and all questions shot
at him by pesky reporters and admiring friends could say John Barton was Jeeter Lester in this respect. It is
this easy manner and friendly attitude that has won him a large host of friends the world over. Born in
Philadelphia, this noted stage and vaudeville star was raised in Norfolk, Va. In 1902, he went to Europe on a
short vaudeville tour. His tremendous success kept him there for 25 years. It was stirring to hear him tell of
the time he appeared before the king at the Colosseum in 1904. His eyes revealed something of a far away
look and his voice was soft—almost a whisper. “It was a grand feeling,” he said, as he drew himself up
without any pretense of show. It was on this program that he appeared with Sarah Bernhart. He laughed as he
recalled how he shined his shoes and put a rose in his coat for this special performance. “I remember the
King applauded with the back of his hands,” said Mr. Barton. “This was a sign that he was pleased and
then the audience took up the applause. Yes—it was a grand feeling!” Mr. Barton said that at first he thought
Jeeter should feel at least a little remorse at the death scene, but the author didn’t agree. It shows the
selfishness of a poor uneducated man who appreciates only the land he lives on. “But after being Jeeter for a
while maybe they are right,” he said. “I've seen people just like him and so have you if you've kept
your eyes open. The important thing is that the theme is not a location but a condition.” The illustrations he
used of similar people right in New York would not bear printing. After seeing the large audience leave the auditorium
in such an unnaturally quiet mood, one can realize what a powerful play “Tobacco Road” actually is. The cast makes
the people along the real Tobacco Road. Mr. Barton has many letters of thanks from Erskine Caldwell’s father in Georgia,
expressing the thanks of these people. “Tobacco Road” is real, but, Mr. Barton reminds us again, we must remember it
is a “condition not a location.” And Mr. Barton is to be reminded that he is a big factor in
revealing to the public the realness of that condition. WICKER LEADS [Continued from Page Five] of the three-year course was
theology. DETAILS GIVEN [Continued from Page Five] questions submitted by nationally known men and women on these “four freedoms.” In
regard to college preparation for seminary work, he said that a general course was very important. Although Greek is very
necessary, he stated, the candidate for the ministry should also be careful to get several sciences. He also emphasized the
study of other languages, especially English. He spoke with particular emphasis upon the need of participation in college activities which
de- velop leadership. casting Company; Dr. Robert M. Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago; and Dr. William Allan Neilson,
president of Smith College. Other prominent contributors are: Dr. William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor; Dr. Frederick
M. Davenport, director of the National Institute of Public Affairs; and Dr. William T. Foster, director of the Pollack Foundation
for Economic Research. Bahnson is a member of the Beaver Club and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Bahnson was
a member of the Student Council and also president of the sophomore class. Casey Jones is a member of the
Student Council, the Beaver Club, and the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He was fraternity editor of the 1938-39 Y.
M. C. A. Handbook. Jones is also a member of the business staff of the Davidsonian and the Annual. He
ran on the freshman Cross Country team. LYTCH WINNER [Continued from Page Three] will be held tonight in Dr. Lyon’s
classroom. The program will include a talk on color photography by Walter Kunz and the showing of color slides by
Dr. Lyon. A special feature will be the showing of third-dimension slides using polaroid. Two projectors will be used, employing
slides taken with the filter perpendicular and those taken with it horizontal. Spectators will use polaroid glasses. 8:00 P. M.,
Alpha Psi Omega, and Red and Black Masquers. 9:00 P. M., Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. Thursday, March 16 Social
Fraternities. Friday, March 17 7:00 P. M., Pi Gamma Mu. 8:00 P. M., Alpha Epsilon Delta. 9:00 P. M., International
Relations Club. Saturday, March 18 Sunday, March 19 10:15 A. M., Sunday School. 11:15 A. M., Church. 6:30 P. M.,
Vesper Services. Monday, March 20 7:00 P. M., Delta Phi Alpha. 8:00 P. M., Eta Sigma Phi. Tuesday, March 21
8:00 P. M., Le Cercle Francais. 9:00 P. M., Sigma Upsilon.in viewing the slides.

UNATTEMPTED ROBBERY
[Continued from Page Five]

because Mr. Jackson had out counting it and another depositor had overdrawn. That three members of the football team were
in there at the time (sharpening pencils we judge; certainly not financial business), and the robbers were so frightened at
their handsome faces that they executed a squad's scram march at double time. Who knows?

WE INVITE YOU TO
Cold Drinks, Sandwiches, Fruits, and Candies — Also Complete Auto Service

casting Company; Dr. Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Dean of Barnard College; Dr. Hans Kohn, Professor of History at Smith College; Dr.
Stringfellow Barr, President of St. John’s College, Annapolis; and Herbert Wright, head of the Department of Politics at Catholic University
of America.

FRAT TRACK
[Continued from Page Five]

Well-known journalists who are also participating are Hans Kaltenborn, commentator, Columbia Broadcasting System; Arthur Krock, political writer, “New York Times”;
and Dorothy Thompson, columnist, New York Herald-Tribune.

For further details of this essay contest see last week's Davidsonian, page 3.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

Anne Martin of Smithfield, Lucile McDuffie of Columbus, Ga., Anne Pepper of Winston-Salem, Frances Walker of Rocky Mount, Chick Stokes
of Columbus, Ga., Jacqueline Burns of Charlotte, Rachael Weyler of Kinston, Merrimon LeGrand of Greensboro, Mary Carson Jones of Charlotte,
Marguerite Boyles of Ramseur, Anne Boyd Whitaker of Enfield, Marjorie Wilson of Greenville, S.C., Geoffrey Jordan of Charlotte, Harriet Davis
of Charlotte, Caroline Miller of Charlotte, Nell Abbott of Charlotte, Jane Spruil of Rocky Mount, Tiny Waddill of Charlotte, Anne
Wiley of Charlotte, Aileen Long of Charlotte, Margie Russell of Florence, S.C.

THE HIGH SCORE
of Last Week
Was Set By
BILL MARQUESS
145

Strand Tailoring Company Inc.
LOCAL AGENTS
W. B. HAMRICK
Davidson, N.C.

SPALDING TENNIS BALLS
KROFLITE, TOPFLITE, PARFLITE

[Continued from Page Four]

the Seniors licked the Freshmen. Then on Monday these teams again won, with the Seniors over the Sophs and the
Juniors over the Frosh.

ARBUCKLE WILL BE HONORED BY PIKAS
[Continued from Page Three]

tor of Philosophy from the latter institution in 1898. For several years he taught in Florida and for fifteen years
following that he taught at Agnes Scott in Decatur, Ga. Since 1912 he has been head of the Department of
Chemistry at Davidson until his retirement in 1937. Dr. Arbuckle is also an expert in agriculture and animal husbandry. Herds
of his cattle are the pride of Greenbrier County, West Virginia, where he has his summer home.

Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony is the musical favorite of University of Minnesota students.

Another athletic-minded senior overestimated the amount of cash on hand and asked for a new gym and a new intramural
field. Most of the other ideas were divided; one wanting an enlargement of the north driveway, another the refurnishing of
the Social Center, and another a walk from the Chambers Building to the infirmary. John Reisner, chairman of the Senior
Gift Committee, stated that this was not the conclusive vote but was merely to obtain the student opinion. The final
vote will be held early in April. Any new suggestions will be gladly received by either John Reisner, Locke White,
or Charlie Sample, the other members of the committee.

SUMMER SCHOOL SESSION
[Continued from Page Three]

mer session. Tuition will be $30.00, room $12.50, Laundry $4.50, and laboratory fees for science courses $5.00 and $12.00. A
list of the courses offered during the summer session may be secured from the Director of the Summer Session, Professor
F. K. Fleagle.

ERWIN SPEAKS
[Continued from Page Three]

vacation. This will be the first full-length, three-act play to be acted on the Davidson stage this season. Ed Morrow,
president of Alpha Psi Omega, was in charge of the program and supervised the feed which was held during the
latter part of the meeting.

Wed., March 8, 1938

Unity Church Sponsors Varied Spring Program

Davidson’s Unity Church has been very active in the past few weeks working on new and varied projects. Among these
are a recently completed eye clinic for people of Davidson, a Leadership Training Course, and an Easter Revival. Recently concluded,
the eye clinic under the administration of Drs. Palmers and Wyche of Charlotte examined the eyes of sixty people, and
as a result of these examinations about twenty bought glasses. Wednesday evening services this month and has chosen leadership as
a theme for his series of talks. He has organized his series of talks under the name of Leadership Training
Course. Reverend Ted Smith, Presbyterian minister of Triangle, will conduct the revival beginning April 9. On the Sunday preceding the
revival there will be an institute on Evangelism for teachers and leaders of the church. At that time Wade H.
Boggs, Jr., Y Secretary, and Professor Archibald Currie will speak to the group in order to prepare them for the
revival and encourage them to do personal work. That evening at the regular service, Reverend Ralph Shumaker, pastor of Davidson
Methodist Church, will be the final speaker for the institute when he brings a ringing challenge for Evangelism. Nearly forty
new members have joined the church in the last ten months. Ten others are expected as a result of the
Easter Revival. On Saturday evening the Woman’s Class is sponsoring a community-wide birthday party for Mrs. Brooks Mayhew, who has
rendered such great service to the community as a registered nurse. Many of Mrs. Mayhew’s friends from all over Davidson
will take part in this celebration.

Use specialized medication for nose and upper throat where most colds start

Helps Prevent Colds Developing

Don't wait until a miserable cold develops. At the very first warning sneeze, sniffle, or nasal irritation—put a few drops
of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril immediately. Used in time, Va-tro-nol helps to prevent the development of many colds.

For 24 Years Vicks Advertising has been passed upon by a Board of Physicians.

ESCAPE MISERY OF COLDS
Clears Stuffy Head, Too

Even when your head is all clogged up from a neglected cold, Va-tro-nol brings comforting relief. It quickly clears away
the clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes, helps to keep the sinuses from being blocked by the cold—lets you breathe again.

Va-TRO-NOL
Used in more homes than any other medication of its kind

THE GREAT WALLENDAS
a combination that has thrilled

The GREAT WALLENDAS, the premier high wire artists of the world... and the TOP Combination for more smoking pleasure is
Chesterfield (the can’t-be-copied blend)

The sun never sets on Chesterfield’s popularity because Chesterfield combines... blends together... the world’s best cigarette tobaccos in a way
that’s different from any other cigarette. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and
women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY millions all over the world.

Chesterfield... the blend that can’t be copied... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
