Thurs., Dec. 7, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Sherman McAfee went to Washington and Philadelphia last week. While in Philadelphia they attended the Army-Navy football game. They stayed in the Beta house of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. They were guests at the game of Brother who is a student at West Point. Brother Propst was the guest of Brother McAulay at his home in Mt. Gilead over the weekend. Brother Atwater went to McColl, S.C. for the weekend. Brother McClintock went to Sweetbriar for the weekend. Brother Burch went home to Reidsville. Brother Matthews went to his home in Fayetteville. Brothers Bryant and Summerville, and Pledge Brothers Church and Sherrill went to their homes in Charlotte. Brother Romkin went to his home in Mt. Gilead for Thanksgiving. Pledge Brother Mebane went to Mebane, N.C., for the weekend. We were honored to have at our regular Sunday night feed, Brother James Sprunt and Mrs. Sprunt of Lynchburg, Va. Brother Sprunt was the speaker at the Sunday night chapter meeting. He was the president of the chapter in 1922.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brother Jim Schifman was the guest of Miss Camille at the Sunday night vespers. Brother Anderson went to the National Interfraternity Council meeting in the Biltmore Hotel in New York. The following girls attended the Pika-SPE dance held Saturday night: Sybil Lytle, Doris Dougles, Phillis Crook, Betsy Springer, Elinor Lazzetty, Youngblood, Pauline Irby, Martha Brandon, Mary Spencer, Mary Lou Knuckles, and Janie Knox. This dance was held from 8 till 12 at the Woman's Club in Charlotte. Music was furnished by Van Keys of Bluefield College, Bluefield, W. Va. Brother Jim Crutchfield spent the weekend in North Henderson hunting. Brother Dave also did a little hunting in Raleigh.

Kappa Alpha
Spartanburg was most frequented by the brothers during the past week, five brothers gracing the vicinity of Converse with their exalted presence. Brothers Sam Spencer and “Little Man” Lemmon journeyed down last Tuesday. Then on Wednesday Brothers Tom Perrin and Dave Sprunt made the trip. Brother Marion returned from a leisurely visit in New York Monday morning after missing train connections Sunday night. Brothers Spencer and McLean journeyed to Spencer's home in Columbia for the weekend. Brother Wallace went to Converse with some of the usual neighbors. Brother Dick Arnold went to his home in Greenville for the weekend. Coot Gladden and “Sandy” Mottett were guests of the chapter Saturday, and the usual Sunday night feed was held with guests invited by Bill Lemmon present.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Many of the brothers were off campus this weekend, among them Brothers Cauble, Bahnson, Wilson, and Sprunt, who attended dances in Winston-Salem. Brother Lucas is also reported to have been in Winston at that time. Brothers Lumpkin, Currie, Hudson, and Harrison journeyed south to Columbia for a pleasant stay. Brothers Thomas and Jones traveled to Lynchburg. Brothers Grantham and Powell went to their homes in Fairmont and Whiteville, respectively. Pledge Brothers Faison and Tate visited their homes in Charlotte. Brother Young, Stewart, and Leferre were seen about the campus as usual in the company of little Nell.

Kappa Sigma
Over the weekend Brothers Ross, Squires, Hogg, all the Coopers, Watkins, and others spent their talents in Charlotte. Brother W.B. Black and Pledge Brother McGee went to Winston. Brother Alston Thompson took a long weekend to Richmond and Brother McAlpine says he spent Thanksgiving and Saturday hunting in Hartsville. Brother Purdie went to his home in Fayetteville. Brother Crook went to Converse on a deputation Sunday. Brother Yates spent the weekend at his home in Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Phi
Such things as double-cuts, recovering from the Thanksgiving game, and general need for study kept a great many of the Pi Kapps on the campus this past weekend. However, Bob Garvey and Boyd Flynn yielded to temptation and attended the Saturday night dance at Winston-Salem’s Country Club. Also taking in Winston's scenery were Joe Smith and his pledge roommate-guest John Knox Robinson. Among the guests of the chapter for the game Thursday were Misses Grace Coward and Finley Plunkett from Aiken, S.C., Miss Fan James of W.G.U., Miss Charlotte, Miss Margaret Patterson of Salem College, and Miss Brooksie Folger. Brother Dick Edwards, a former Davidson student, was a guest of the brothers over the weekend. Marion Mobley accompanied his family to the mountains on Thanksgiving Day. Same story, but Paul Bumbarger spent another weekend in Hickory.

Phi Gam Dance
Dancing until a late hour at the Charlotte Woman's Club Thursday night, the Fijis had as their guests Misses Helen Sams and Inez Parrish of Winston-Salem; Miss Ann Southerland of Knoxville, Tenn.; Miss Becky Davis of Salisbury, N.C.; Misses June Childs, Sue Cren- shaw, Eleanor Jackson, Lib Escott, Dutty Jones, Judith Killen, Ann Mauldin, Mary Waddell, Sophie Thomson, Helen Westerfield, June Hoppe, and Tiny Walker, all of Charlotte; Dr. and Mrs. Herbert J. Bolin of Knoxville, Tenn.; Dr. and Mrs. W.P. Cumming of Davidson; Bill Alexander of Mooresville; Hascal Porshey of Charlotte and Cam McCrea of Concord. Music was furnished by Julian Burroughs and his orchestra.

Not content on just seeing the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia, John Monroe Bush, Jackson, Miss., Bill Phroop, and Tommy Harrisberger extended their tour to New York City and other points. Mr. Lyman Hewes Parrish, Walter Kyle, and Martin visited the chapter Sunday.

Phi Delta Theta
The past weekend found a good many of the brothers in various places. Brothers Dale, Gilmore, Glenn, and Westall attended dances in Spartanburg; Boykin went to Asheville; and Rudolph went to his home. Pledge Brothers Chapman and Anderson went to their homes. The longest journey was taken by Brother Ludlam, who represented the chapter at a regional convention in New York City and then attended the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia. Brother Robinson spent Thanksgiving at his home in Talladega, Ala. The chapter regrets the withdrawal of Brother Tom Hatcher from college due to his father's business, which he is to take over. We wish him success in his new undertaking. Brother Hatcher entered as a sophomore last year and this year was serving as secretary of the chapter.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Big news of the week is the SPE-Pika dance in Charlotte last Saturday. This gala affair, held at the Woman's Club and provided (Continued on Page Six)

SEE OUR MANY CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS - LET US HELP YOU DECORATE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store DAVIDSON, N.C.

STOP AT— CAROLINA SWEETS FOR YOUR LUNCHES AND YOUR CANDIES YOUR NEXT TIME IN CHARLOTTE CAROLINA SWEETS (Next to Carolina Theatre) PHONES 3-7711 & 3-7712

A.M. Hillhouse Gives Talk To Pi Gamma Mu
Active Training Begun
Local Social Science Fraternity Hears Discussion On “Cooperatives”

Dr. A.M. Hillhouse, of the Davidson College faculty, addressed Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity, last Friday night in the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity house. Dr. Hillhouse discussed “Cooperatives.” He has had quite a bit of experience with cooperatives in both the United States and in Europe, since he spent several years in Sweden and then later was a member of a cooperative in Chicago.

Group Discussion
Following Dr. Hillhouse’s talk, there was a group discussion of the topic. The consensus of opinion was that cooperatives are a good thing as long as they are kept small, but that a large cooperative would be more or less like a corporation and the shareholders would lose contact with the managers of the organization.

It is hoped that Judge B.B. Redd, Juvenile Court Judge of Charlotte, will be the next speaker.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

As the date of the next meeting may be obtained, this meeting will be held on January 5, the first Friday of the month. Fourteen members were present at the last meeting, including Dr. Gwynn and Professor Williamson.

Teachers Go Many Places

Under the leadership of Eldridge Brown, approximately twenty student Sunday School teachers have been working faithfully and steadily every Sunday in a number of different places. Eleven of this number teach classes at the Sanatorium every Sunday morning under the leadership of John Talmage. Eight white classes, two colored classes, and a children’s class are taught regularly. These Sunday School classes are the only religious services that the inmates of the Sanatorium are able to attend. Brown has been rotating the teachers so that the same men will not have to work every Sunday the entire year. The following men are conducting the services now: John Talmage, Al Green, Bill Kagan, Dan Gilliam, Bill Lyman, Henry McIntosh, Myron Sandifer, Henry Crane, Roger Rice, Al Dimmock, Joe Flowers, and Dick Smith. Sunday School work is also being done Sunday afternoons at Shearer Chapel by Joe Hopper and John Turner. Dick Gammon, David Hut...

(Continued on Page)

OF WILLIAM AND MARY, THE FIRST COLLEGE FRATERNITY, WAS ORGANIZED AT THE COLLEGE ON DECEMBER 5, 1776. ODDLY ENOUGH, OF THE FIVE ORIGINAL FOUNDERS, TWO WERE NAMED SMITH AND ONE JONES. THE KEY WAS FORMERLY A...

By R.O.T.C. Rifle Squad; Fifteen Pieces To Fire

Davidson in Many Matches Being Arranged All Over the Nation

Club Attends Annual Meet

The squad began...

The rifle team, which will represent the ROTC unit, will participate in the annual meeting. In December 1-3, a delegation of ten out of fifteen members represented Davidson. Casey Jones, advisor to the club, and Sherrard Rice, Secretary at Davidson, led the group to Winston-Salem. A total of four hundred boys, as well as colleges all over North Carolina and South Carolina, were guests in the homes of the ladies of the Twin City and of the Winston-Salem YMCA.

Always Ask for SS & P Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, Charlotte, N.C.

Now Thru Sat.

Garbo in her first modern comedy hit with the man who made “Theodora Goes Wild!”

GARBO MELVYN DOUGLAS —in— “Ninotchka” (Don’t Pronounce It—See It)

Bette DAVIS Errol FLYNN “Private Lives of ELIZABETH AND ESSEX” OLIVIA DeHAVILLAND

—In Technicolor— IMPERIAL THEATRE Charlotte, N.C.

IT’S OPEN SEASON AT GARIBALDI & BRUNS

This season our store is a regular Christmas gift preserve. So, come in and “bag” a prime value now! There’s no limit on the number of handsome trophies you can capture. Exquisite jewelry, silverware, whatever you’re out for... you can be sure it’s in perfect taste, moderately priced. Let us show you. We have a gift suitable for everyone on your list. We are glad for you to use our Lay-A-Way or Budget Plans with $5.00 monthly payments.

Garibaldi & Bruns “LEADING JEWELERS SINCE 1896” 104 S. Tryon St.

SILVER MEDAL, BUT LATER THE STEM WAS ADDED FOR THE PRACTICAL PURPOSE OF...

Trophy Match

The principal speaker was the prominent Methodist Industrial Missionary from New York. Among the speakers who addressed the meeting were Dr. Uhlmann Alexander, Leroy Newsome of Duke University, and Mrs. Clyde Milner, wife of the president of Guilford College. A banquet at the Robert E. Lee Hotel Saturday night climaxed the meeting. Dr. Uhlmann Alexander, eminent Charlotte attorney, was the guest speaker at the meeting of Le Cercle Francais last night at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere. Dr. Alexander, in analyzing...

Davidson High School

Casey Jones is in charge of the...

With a practice established two years ago, the guest speaker at the meeting of Le Cercle Francais last night at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere. Dr. Alexander, in analyzing...

Mapping Trips

Davidson High School...

When University of Illinois and Ohio State University players meet on the gridiron, they battle for...

Chase Brenizer, secretary of the organization, was in charge of the meeting which was opened with the Lord’s Prayer in French. This was followed by scenes from two French plays. J.K. Pope gave a dramatic reading from Hernani, and Joe Liles, Fred Little, and Ed Scott presented the short play Une Meprise Regrettable. Another forthcoming plan provides for instruction of theoretical flying. Anyone wishing to receive instruction in this phase of aviation may contact either Dave McLean...

Meeting for the first time the second Monday in November, twenty members determined to create and stimulate student interest in flying and to secure flying time for each member cheaper by pooling their time purchases. Faculty members have recognized this club as the newest extracurricular organization. Last year a number of shoulder-to-shoulder matches were fired...

Barnard College this year has the heaviest student body in five years. The average weight of its members is 126.6 pounds.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.