Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., April 26, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago BOSTON LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Tony Casa - Editor-in-Chief
Fan Latimer - Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy - Assistant Editor
Paul Bumbarger - Managing Editor
Tom Cauble - Managing Editor
Joe Liles - Managing Editor
Ed Watson - Managing Editor
Lawson Withers - Managing Editor
Andy Dale - Editor
Erle Austin - Editor
Jack Holland - Editor
Karl Hudson - Editor
Sam Spencer - Associate Editor
Movie Editor - Angus Lytch
Photographer - B. B. Plyler

BUSINESS STAFF
B. B. Plyler - Business Manager
W. W. Currie - Advertising Manager
T. E. O'Shields - Advertising Manager
Paul Lokey - Circulation Manager
Tom Hackney - Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore - Collection Manager

Return To Fame

One of the greatest inroads upon college traditions inflicted by the “mad twenties” was the retirement from campuses of the literary magazine in favor of the contemporary humor publication. Where 30 years ago nearly every college had at least one periodical to which students could submit essays, good poems, and other outstanding literary writings, we find today only a heterogeneous combination of clipped jokes, cartoons, contemporary columns, and short “funny” stories—a humorous magazine, which perhaps, but hardly a volume one would treasure in the future for its display of promising literary talent.

The blame isn’t to be laid much on editors and advertisers as it is on the present student desires. Knowing that the majority of readers prefer the “Scripts and Pranks” type, the publishers are loath to accept any of the old style articles, and the result is that literary talents of many student writers are stifled for lack of an opening.

Soon, however, Davidson may expect a new deal in writing. In a bid to regain their former positions as literary leaders of the campus, the Philanthropic and Eumenean societies are working out a plan to restore the old-time interest in student literary efforts outside of the English class. Although the idea is still in an embryo stage the general plan will be to gather each year an anthology of the best writings on the campus. These will be bound and placed in the library, and every few years the best articles from this anthology will be published. In addition, the two groups will also offer a substantial prize at commencement for the best student literary work of the year, to be selected by a committee of students and faculty.

Nothing definite has been decided yet. These are only general gleanings from committee discussions, and no one can tell whether there are enough members of the student body interested in pushing this drive for good original composition. Regardless of this, The Davidsonian congratulates the societies in taking the first steps forward in the direction of better literary fruits. If they don’t succeed the campus will nevertheless know that these organizations are attempting to live up to their original ideals. If they do win, they will have achieved one of the greatest goals ever sought after on the Davidson campus, and their shaken prestige will boom sky-high.

L. W.

Apology

We apologize. In last week’s issue, the Question of the Week carried an account of what the Davidsonian staff thought about our college magazine. Of course, it was all in fun and no harm was meant. We merely tried to stage a comeback at the magazine for their “funny” presentation of a mock Davidsonian in their last issue. Even though it was meant in fun, some of the boys felt that they had been personally attacked. And The Davidsonian would like to offer apologies to those hurt. Anyway—it was all in fun and no harm whatsoever was meant by it.

Congratulations Again

The Davidsonian has been awarded a high rating by the National Scholastic Press. First Class Honor Rating, second only to the coveted All-American position, carries with it the title of excellent. Congratulations should be offered to Editor Marquess and Business Manager Latimer on the fine way in which they worked to attain such a rating. To the old staff goes much credit but the efforts of a hard-working editor and business manager was the margin between a good and an excellent sheet. Few collegiate papers in the Carolinas can boast of such a record.

Help!

The Davidsonian has been edited for the past three issues by the new staff. Of course, as these new men take over the duties of the more-experienced editors, their job will be hard. Mistakes will be frequent for a few issues but the staff will soon be able to measure up to higher standards with a few weeks’ experience behind them. So, you are urged to look over these “minor errors” for a few issues. However, any suggestions or criticisms will be gladly taken. Our slogan “For a Better Davidson” is our aim and aid from other sources rather than the Davidsonian staff alone will be appreciated.

Our policies will stay as they have been for the past few years. In regard to letters to the Editor—they are welcome. However, all letters must be signed by the contributor and his name will be omitted from the sheet upon request.

Campus Comments

Don'ts
1. Don't keep your date waiting. Be prompt.
2. Don’t try to make too good an impression the first night.
3. Don’t be a walking cosmetic counter.
4. Don’t ponder over the menu for half an hour and then eat only a small portion of your order.
5. Don’t eat too much. The boy wants to go to school four years, too.
6. Don’t try to attract the attention of other fellows while on a date.
7. Don’t retouch makeup in public.
8. Do something to show your appreciation.
9. Do your education justice by keeping the conversation interesting.
10. Do something to overcome the desire to be sophisticated and glamorous. Be natural.
11. Do your part in this rating business by at least presenting the opportunity for our asking you.
12. Do your best to converse and mix with us.

From Mary Baldwin's Campus Comments.

Quotable Quotes

“An appreciation, acknowledgement and encouragement on the part of men everywhere of the irresistible, irrepressible urge to know is needed in these days of 1939. If collectivism and dictatorship kill the urge to know, it would be an unspeakable calamity. There would be no superiority, no advancement, only mediocrity.” Union College’s Dr. Edward Ellery believes that colleges and universities should foster and encourage more than ever thought and knowledge.

“Education within the state is so intricately interwoven with human welfare and the success of man in business, on the farm and in industry that one cannot view education in a state university without recognizing that it likewise must take its place within this orbit and contribute within its scope and function unselfishly to the welfare of all.” Dr. Fred Engelhardt, president of the University of New Hampshire, effectively re-states the place of the state-supported institution of higher learning in modern democratic society.

“Scholarly work is by no means confined to studying; it necessarily includes writing. Knowledge isolated in a scholar’s mind is useless unless it is disseminated. The only way that dissemination may be accomplished is through the use of language, and the student must therefore know how to use English idiomatically and correctly.” Columbia University’s Dr. C. J. H. Hayes urges Ph.D.’s to take more English so they can write better reports and theses.

1-MINUTE SAFETY TALKS
By Don Herold

Motoring Humility

The hardest thing in this world to “sell” is humility. I mean the hardest thing to impart to anybody else is humility. The very act of trying to give somebody else humility about anything arouses everything else in him BUT HUMILITY. We are all inclined to shun HUMILITY because it is a virtue that is so close to the weaknesses of cowardice and craven submissiveness. We are all so scared somebody will get a little the better of us if we give them an inch. Yet HUMILITY is exactly the quality that humans need a whole lot of, to solve a whole lot of their problems.

We have it in golf and in other sports. We yield. We give the other player the benefit of doubts. We praise his poor shots and discount our own good shots. In other words, we are not scared to be gentlemen.

But when we climb into an automobile, we put a chip on our shoulder and a dare in our eye. We are not going to let anybody slip anything over on us on the road. “Well, who does that so-and-so think he is, trying to beat me to the crossing!” Nor do we admit for a minute that we may have our driving faults. Nor do we concede that there is a possibility that we MIGHT some day be the cause of an accident. No, we are the exception to the rule. We are the person who drives fast but drives well. Only dumbbells have smashes.

The sooner we all realize that humbleness and deference and courtesy at the steering wheel are sporting qualities, and the sooner we admit that, even in our hands, an automobile is an instrument capable of dealing out death and disaster if we handle it carelessly or cockily, even for an instant, the sooner we shall learn humility towards other drivers, towards Fate, and towards laws of momentum and centrifugal force, and the sooner will we cut down the motor car's annual American toll which according to The Travelers Insurance Company, is 36,800 killed and 967,840 injured. The automobile is a blessing—but a dangerous one. Drive it with great humility in your heart.

Parade of Opinion

POLITICS

With another national political campaign still far in the distance, collegians nevertheless are giving serious thought and action to what is going to happen to the New Deal in 1940. While more are just speculating on the subject, students in at least two universities have organized to support a favored candidate. Most collegians feel that Democratic politics must wait on some definite word from President Roosevelt before definite action can be taken or definite predictions made. The dilemma that faces the president in the months of practical politics to come is aptly stated by the Kansas Daily Kansan:

“President Roosevelt is caught between opposing viewpoints. He wants business recovery to justify the New Deal, but he is unwilling, nevertheless, to discard the reforms he has brought about. Whatever course he takes, it is admitted not only by his friends, but enemies that he will continue to be a compelling factor in the political life of the country for many years.”

The current drive to forceVice-President Garner into the nomination spotlight is one of the moves being made to dispel the fog that hides the inner thoughts of the President and the inner workings of the Democratic party. Commenting on the Garner drive, the Syracuse University Daily Orange asserts: “While conservatives urging the candidacy of Garner in 1940 say that he is not in the field as an opponent of the President, they believe the third-term tradition will stop Roosevelt and they hope that Garner's popularity will continue to grow so that by June, 1940, he will be accepted by the President. Certainly, Garner cannot be termed just another one of the silent partners. He has made several good ‘catches’ on his fishing trips and has been good political bait.”

Turning to the Republican side of the race, the University of Minnesota Daily maintains that “there is considerable growing Republican confidence, but there surely is no indication that the G.O.P. has won the election. Returning prosperity, especially in the Middle West farm region, would virtually insure a Democratic victory. The early Dewey boom, too, may hinder the G.O.P. plans. Placing Dewey so prominently in the limelight will make him and his faction of the party the target of both New Deal and rival Republican opposition. Future rather than past events will swing the election and decide the outcome of the 1940 political battle.”

Movie Musings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday, April 27
* * *
“LOVE AFFAIR”—Irene Dunne, Charles Boyer, Maria Ouspenskaya, Lee Bowman, Astrid Allwyn, and Maurice Moscovich. At last these two great screen personalities have been brought together to present to us one of the hit pictures of the day. A Park Avenue girl, Terry McKay, portrayed by Irene Dunne, and Michel Marnay, international heartbreaker, by Charles Boyer, combine to give us an ideal romance, one for which we have often longed. Lightly they met, but very deeply did they love, these two who thought that they knew life but actually found it in each other’s arms.

Friday, April 28
* * *
“SOCIETY LAWYER”—Walter Pidgeon and Virginia Bruce. The part of the lawyer is played by Walter Pidgeon, and that of his client-sweetheart by Virginia Bruce. The plot is not very unusual, but is the usual secret love beset by many difficulties. Virginia Bruce performs exceedingly well to make the picture well worth seeing.

Saturday, April 29
* 
“THE MYSTERIOUS RIDER”—Not much dope has been released on this picture, but undoubtedly it is a cowboy picture, with the hero rescuing his true-love from the hands of the villain. The new serial “Dick Tracy” is thrilling, but it is certain that Tracy will get out of the burning plane that we left him in last week, although it seems impossible.

Monday-Tuesday, May 1-2
* * *
“LADY FROM KENTUCKY.” Another of these no-dope cinema productions, but we have to underrate it. It promises to be good.

Wednesday, May 3
* * *
“12 CROWDED HOURS”—Richard Dix, Lucille Ball, and John Arledge. Richard Dix, of “Cimarron” fame, plays the role of a newspaper reporter who cleans up, single-handed, a sort of numbers racket, and a great deal of trouble he has doing it too. This film is recommended heartily, or even more urgently, to all reporters. It will make them realize that they are not even beginning to take advantage of their opportunities. This story is well-knit, the love interest is furnished by Lucille Ball, and the comedy by John Arledge. It is rather sad, however, to see Richard Dix performing in this role of newspaper-reporter-vs.-the-rackets idea.

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON
Ghost Columnist—Bob McClellan

When Shakespeare said (and he did) that music was the food of love, he hadn't heard “HOLD TIGHT” or at any rate he didn't know what a chronic case of dyspepsia love was in for, what with all these songs with lyrics in the tongue. “Weasel” Walker sagaciously says that it takes very little horse sense to lead a stable life... If our mental attitudes and actions are the shadows cast by events, some of us are going to be swept up one of these first mornings by the D.S.C... If all the men who spoke in chapel weighed their words, I'd like to have the concession on a penny scale... “Ironhead” McLean, the inarticulate instigator with the infinitesimal intellect, admits that the hardest work he ever did was carrying atmosphere pressure... What this country needs—a reform for the reformation of reformers—less lawyers to make laws which make lawyers necessary—(Hey Brewer)—and less people who think they know what it needs... Where are those missionaries China promised to send us?... William Telford, of the Student Store Telfords, is the only man on the campus whose arrogance is in direct proportion with his ignorance... Are we to believe that Chamberlain's bad digestion is responsible for Hitler and Mussolini’s rapid assimilation of Europe?... Judging from the number and appearance of stray dogs on the campus, nature has gone on a mass production scale... Maybe we feel sorry for Glucose, the pet pup, but have you stopped to think—he doesn’t have to look for a job this spring... Sometimes our chapel period is about as orderly as a Nazi Bund Meeting... Had you noticed how generously Hugo advertises his pop-shop via book matches—whose matches?—he employs an extremely economical method—he's thrifty... “Heilsapoppin” in the European Grab Bag—here it resembles a comedy but there it’s somewhat of a tragedy... “Swifty” Ryburn, who is by nature as inactive as a Mexican in the center of a siesta, manages to haul himself to Charlotte every Saturday to see a brunette of no mean proportions (named Dot) with whom he ultimately hopes to form a combine (a very unpolitical one)... Instead of calling them monthly reviews let's call them mimeographed murder... Pete Marchant, President Emeritus of the Student Riot Fine Paying Association, reports that all participating in the next function are on their own... After attending an open-air meeting last weekend, Dr. Hood's head closely resembles a traffic signal (stop)... K. V. “Cream of Kentucky” Lawson is perplexed with a perforated stomach... Harper Bell and Campbell Baird were inconvenienced members on a recent river party by the lack of electricity... The “Silly Season” along with its birds and bees also produces a bumper crop of bulbous torsos and Hepplewhite legs on the intramural field... Rut Miller, who was pen-lashed without compassion by the Davidsonian last week, deserves much credit for the tremendous success of Senior-Faculty Day—apparently the answerers-of-the-week overlooked the fact that he is laboring under censorial difficulties—and my gosh the guy's almost married too... The Cooper couplets attend dances (any dances) as consistently as Bill Davis reads the Sports Section of the Charlotte Observer (during football season)... The class of 1939 1-2 will hold its commencement exercises at Myrtle Beach shortly after exams... “Jumbo” Armstrong had a two-minute interview with the physical examiners of the Naval Flying Corps in Pensacola, Fla. They gave him the eye, rolled him up to the scales and in rapid succession (as is the custom in the navy) said, “Get on—Get off—Get out”... “Hot-Car Harkey” insists that all V-Eights are identical even if some of them do have white side-wall tires.

Gentlemen, that dreaded disease is here. You all know of what I am speaking. SPRING FEVER!! And if we don't watch our step it will prove fatal. Entirely too many thoughts of “rolling in the grass,” and “sleeping all day,” are invading our thoughts. But with this malady, there is one happy thought—June is not far away... and with June comes Summer and with Summer comes Home. I hate to mix this reflection with the above musings, but exams are less than a month away.

ORCHIDS to the baseball team for their twin wins over Wake Forest and N.C. State this past week. “Diz” McLean deserves a lot of credit for his hurling in the first game, and the errorless ball from both the infield and outfield backing up J.D. in the latter proved that we do have a ball team!!

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON... The College has provided 14 courts for the tennis players, but of these 14 at the present time, approximately five or maybe six are in presentable shape. The remaining eight are either unlimed or the surface is poor. Their nets are a disgrace, and to quote Mischa Auer, “Confidential, they stink!” The varsity courts are splendid, but they are reserved for them alone, and rightly, but that is no reason to let the courts allotted to the other 620 students get into such a foul state.

SURPRISE... Did you know that you were a person who gives intelligent cooperation to every progressive move?” Anyway, that’s what Dr. Walter A. Jessup, president of the Carnegie Foundation said in his annual report characterizing the modern student. The “rah-rah” boy of yesterday, long considered typical of the American campus, has taken his place with the flapper and speakeasy. His place on the campuses of the colleges and universities in the United States has been taken by a more serious-minded person who is ambitious and hard-working. Congratulations, gentlemen, that’s wonderful.

STUDENT ART EXHIBIT... A great many students paid a visit to the exhibition of student art in Eu hall last week, and their time was certainly rewarded. One couldn't help but notice the remarkable likeness of Dave Colvin on the far wall as one entered. Surrealisms, portraitures, landscapes, still life, and sketches were shown, but most people had to stand in line to see a “Davidsonian’s Dream” - and what a dream!

DID YOU KNOW... That it is absolutely illegal to make a U-turn under the stop light at the 5 and 10 corner? That the college has entered its sixth year of radio programs being broadcasted from Chambers Building? That Junior-Speaking was formerly the time of year when each member of the Junior class delivered an oration, then a requirement for graduation? A companion to this was Senior-Speaking when the Seniors spoke. Gradually it diversed into teas, then dances... and now, just a memory.

A REVIVAL... THE THUMBNAIL SKETCH... This boy hails from the rugged hills of Tennessee. He is mild-mannered except when riled, and it wouldn’t be very advisable to get him peeved. He slaves hard to be funny, very funny, four times a year... but according to the Question of the Week of last issue, he hasn’t succeeded. To those who aren't so biased in our opinions, he does a splendid job; and one more item, he has been accused of courting very heavily in the vicinity of the local kindergarten.