Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN THURS., SEPT. 28, 1939

New Glee Club Roster Published By McDonald

Twenty-eight Men Will Compose Group To Act As Choir At Vespers

Twenty-eight men were included in the roster of this year’s glee club as announced by Thane McDonald, director. Fourteen of
the twenty-eight are new to the organization, while the other fourteen saw service last year. The singers are divided into
four groups: first tenors, second tenors, baritones, and basses.

Complete Roster

The complete roster is as follows:
First tenors—P. Conyers, P. Crane, C. B. Efird, and J. McDonald;
Second tenors—J. H. Beall, A. E. Dimnock, N. L. Edwards, G. M. Ogilvie, C. Pierce, and A. Taylor;
Baritones—J. H. Brady, R. C. Clontz, J. B. Davidson, J. Morgan, F. Northcutt, J. R. Phipps, D. Rhea, C. R.
Schmidt, and G. T. Sinclair;
Basses—J. Crook, W. H. Hamilton, V. Hollis, T. M. Plonk, J. N. Robinson, J. K. Robinson, W. C. Robinson, W.
Rogers, and W. F. Summers.

Beall Is President

The glee club acts as choir during all vesper services, and also takes several trips during the school year. Harper
Beall, of Lenoir, is president of the organization. Roy Suber, a sophomore, has been selected as accompanist for this year.
He succeeds Donald Beall, who held the post prior to his graduation last spring.

Echoes of Davidsonian Headlines Of By-Gone Years

10 Years Ago
Davidson, using a strong aerial attack, conquered a weaker Elon team by a score of 20-6. Dr. Vowles announced that
all students or alumni were to put in their applications for the Rhodes scholarship. For the first time in the
history of the college, physical examinations were given by Dr. McConnell at the infirmary.

5 Years Ago
Radio Station W.B.T. will carry the first radio program ever given by a group from Davidson. It will be a
broadcast by the band. The tickets for football games have been reduced from $2.00 to $1.00 for the parents and
friends of the students. The cats won over Elon 6-0 in a close game that Davidson took in the last
few minutes of the game.

3 Years Ago
Scripts and Pranks will be the name of the new humor magazine that takes the place of the Yowl. This
name was chosen by the new editor. At the end of the Rush season, a total of 112 men had
been pledged by the fraternities.

Long Bicycle Journey Is Taken By Williams

Local Pastor Gets First-Hand Knowledge of Europe’s Problems

Rod Williams, of the class of 1939, can now be considered an authority on the international situation as far as
the human element is concerned, for he spent the summer touring Europe on a bicycle.

According to the original plans, Rod Williams, Wade Boggs, and Watson Street were to have left Halifax, N. S., as
crew members on a freighter loaded with wheat. For the lack of cargo, however, the boat did not sail, so
Rod went to New York, where he booked passage on the S. S. Athenia, the boat recently sunk by German
submarines. He landed in Glasgow, Scotland.

In Scotland
He first toured the beautiful lake country of Scotland, and on his return trip to London had the ill luck
to strain his leg. This did not impede his progress, as he was personally conducted through Westminster Abbey by Sir
William Chamberlin, an official in the English government, and now on the all-important war council. He remained several days in
London, seeing the sights of the old metropolis. From London, he sailed to Amsterdam, where he attended the Young People’s
World Wide Peace Conference. Here he joined Watson Street and Wade Boggs. Several nations were represented at this conference. The
three then toured Germany, staying at the youth hostels. These hostels are shelters provided for young travelers wherein only the
barest necessities are furnished.

Switzerland
Through Germany, they journeyed into Switzerland. According to custom, they climbed several mountains there. From Switzerland, the travelers trekked back
to Holland, where they found great difficulty in obtaining passage on a Dutch ship for America as everyone wanted on
a neutral ship. Having finally secured passages, they sailed to New York. Rod arrived in Davidson on Friday, where he
assumed his position as pastor of the Unity church. All three men were Kappa’s. Rod Williams was representing the Young
People’s Conference of Georgia. He is taking the position formerly held by Watson Street in the Davidson Unity Church. Wade
Boggs was formerly the general secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A.

MURPHY’S MUMBLINGS
[Continued from page Two]
Ralph Richardson, his fellow officer who goes blind. June Dupree, one of the new shining lights in the movie industry,
shows great promise. Saturday, September 30th.

Dust Be My Destiny—John Garfield, Priscilla Lane, Alan Hale, Frank McHugh, Billy Halop. Advance notices by Warner Bros. indicate that
this picture is the 1939 Academy Award drama, and undoubtedly it is one of the top pictures of the year.
It is the heart-rending story of a lost generation—the migratory workers. The boy, John Garfield, and the girl, Priscilla Lane,
are teamed together for the first big starring picture of their own, and they are searching for the grapes of
happiness, battling along against the wrath of a violent destiny. This is too new to get all the dope on,
but from snatches here and there we get the impression that this is a must-see picture; just the type to
fit in with our victory over Duke Saturday afternoon.

Mon.-Tues., Oct. 2nd-3rd.
Thunder Afloat—Wallace Beery, Chester Morris, Virginia Gray. This is another of the very new pictures that we get before hardly
anybody else gets, and so we cannot report first-hand, but we have to take the words of others about its
qualities. This is purported to be the most stirring story of America’s adventure of late years, with Wally Beery playing
in the most magnificent role of his career. It tells the story of the U-boats in the last war and
their secrets of terrorizing tactics in actual sea battles. Take it from this corner, if you miss this one you
will be the outcast of movie conversational circles, so be the center of feminine attention and see this picture. (Anybody
want to hire a propagandist?)

WEAKER SEX RULES
[Continued from Page Five]
for Davidson the Carolina yell at the game. These new coeds expect to be on the campus for two years...
that is with the exception of one; she fears that she can only be with us one semester. She complains
that it is hard to keep her mind on the books with all the male surroundings. But something is different
this year; none of the coeds have yet graced the balcony in chapel. Do they have to be invited before
they'll come?

HEATH HOME BURNS
[Continued from Page Five]
The flames had made such headway that it became a question, not of saving Heath’s house, but of saving the
houses surrounding it. No one was seriously injured by the blaze, but one small child received slight burns.

Past-Pfohlis Talk It Over
James Christian PFOHL, director of Davidson’s musical organization, is shown above discussing one ofMozart’s compositions with his musical brother Donald.
The latter recently accepted a position as director of music at Wake Forest College, Davidson’s bitterest rival on the athletic
field. The brothers are from Winston-Salem, and both are rated among the top-notch directors of college bands in the state.

BOARDING HOUSES [Continued from Page Five]

managed by Ross Gladdin and Bill Boyce respectively.

Non-Frats

There are four “non-fraternity” boarding houses. Mrs. Henderson’s Carolina Inn, managed by Pat McLean as manager, lives beside the campus,
across from the Chemistry Laboratory. Mrs. Copeland’s boarding house, managed by Harold Chapman, is situated directly across from the Social
Center. Next door to Copeland's is Miss Annye Strickland’s, with Paul Crane managing. The “Gastronomist’s Club,” originally with Mrs. Florence
Baines and managed by Wallace Scherer, has merged with Holmes’.

LEADERS HOLD [Continued from Page Five]

Professor Pfohl and added the musical spirit several times. Following the meeting, the Freshman gathered in front of Chambers and,
led by Hunter, paraded shirt-tail style around the campus, with the cheerleaders and upperclassmen escorting them in and among the
trees. The meeting ended with more yells and singing in front of Chambers.

SUMMER WORK ENDS [Continued from Page One]

rooming in Watts dormitory. The summer session was directed by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, and nineteen subjects were offered. The
short term ended July 21. Fifty young musicians, ranging in age from eight to eighteen, attended the fourth annual music
school camp, directed by Prof. James Christian Pfohl and the college department. The campers were under the supervision of nineteen
summer-faculty members and student counselors. The camp opened June 19 and lasted through July 29. During this period, the young
musicians gave weekly Sunday afternoon concerts and broadcasts over a Charlotte station every Thursday night. A special event of the
1939 session was a trip to Winston-Salem, where the summer band gave a concert before an audience of approximately two
thousand people in the Bowman Gray Memorial stadium. The camp also conducted a band clinic for high school musicians from
three states.

Addresses by the Rev. W. E. Turner, pastor of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Winston-Salem, and Dr. K. J. Foreman
of the Davidson faculty were featured on the program of the annual conference of the YMCA secretaries this month. The
forty delegates from North and South Carolina met the first week of September in Chambers building. Dr. C. K. Brown,
also of the college faculty, closed the convention with the final inspirational address Sunday morning.

FRAT COUNCIL PLANS [Continued from Page One]

is functioning, whether poorly or well. We will then be in a position to help those which may not be
faring especially well.” Another project of the council will be a column in the Davidsonian each week. This column will
contain each time a history of one of the honorary fraternities and some news from the fraternities. The final work
of the Honorary Fraternity Council was to set a date for its regular meetings. The council will meet the first
Monday of each month from 1 until 1:30 P.M.

DR. FOREMAN TALKS [Continued from Page Five]

This Sunday the Reverend William Crowe, Jr., D.D., pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Bluefield, West Virginia, will conduct the
exercises.

Local Students Teach Unity Church Classes

Go To Huntersville

Jim Owens and Earl Copes attended a Parent Teachers Association meeting in Huntersville last Thursday night. This meeting was attended
by over a hundred local parents and teachers. After a short business meeting, Owens and Copes entertained the members with
a program of songs and games. Copes led the parents and teachers in a very successful community singing. After this,
Owens took over and entertained them with some games. John L. Fain also represented the “Y” last week. He taught
a large Sunday School class in the Bayles Memorial Church of Concord.

BUILDING BOOM HITS [Continued from Page One]

Chalmers Davidson on Concord Road by Mr. Claude Forbis. On the original foundations of her former two-story home, which was
burned during the 1937 spring vacation, Mrs. Smith has rebuilt a five-room bungalow. The home, between Mrs. Henderson and the
college infirmary, will be ready for occupancy by Christmas.

DAVIDSON ROTC [Continued from Page Three]

Ney and Oglesby received notice of their appointment shortly before camp opened. A portion of the Anniston Star was each
week given over to news from Fort McClellan. This section was written by Sam Spencer, Jack Abernathy, and Tom Perrin.

HOMECOMING [Continued from Page One]

Tentative plans announced by the Council include a formal dance Friday evening, November 3, and an informal ball after the
Citadel game Saturday evening. Students will be granted their annual Homecoming holiday again November 4. This section will be managed
by a representative from Sigma Alpha Epsilon to be named later.

Rod Williams, Back From Europe, and Sid Crane Take Lead In Work

Several members of the Davidson College student body are teaching Sunday School at the Unity Church. Rod Williams, who has
just returned from an extended European tour, and Sid Crane are the leaders in this work. Several students in the
college have volunteered to teach the Sunday School classes held each Sunday morning. Jimmy Fulcher teaches the Intermediate Boys class,
Jack Davidson the Junior Boys class, and Russel Smith teaches the Intermediate Girls; Paul Crane is the teacher for the
Young People.

Leaders

As is the custom, the leaders of the work, who this year are Sid Crane and Rod Williams, will alternate
in the teaching of the Men’s class. Many of the classes are also taught by townspeople of Davidson and other
volunteer local workers. Isabelle Linker teaches the Primary department, Mrs. McAlpine the Junior Girls, Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Wingate the
Beginner’s department, David Talmadge the Young People’s department, and Mrs. Gray, who is teaching the Women’s class, which she has
been doing for a number of years. Rod Williams returned to school yesterday, and he and Sid Crane are preparing
to have a better year than ever before in regard to the Sunday School work.

“SCRIPTS ’N PRANKS” [Continued from Page One]

New men and material will still be welcomed until the October 20 deadline. “The feud with the Davidsonian will continue,”
the editor concluded. “Scripts ’N Pranks,” a combined literary and humor quarterly, is entering its fourth year of publication. It
was created as a successor to the “Yowl,” another humor quarterly, in the fall of 1936. In addition to Jack
Abernathy, the editor-in-chief, the magazine staff includes Gordon C. Horton, art editor, and Paul Bumbarger, John Fred Chetwood, and Ralph
Hay, Joe Liles, Charlie Martin, Ed Shewmake, and Ed Watson, managing editors.

TUNE IN WITH PAUL WHITEMAN

Every Wednesday night, CBS stations.

You'll find in Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best home-grown and aromatic Turkish tobaccos a more refreshing mildness, better
taste, and a more pleasing aroma than you'll find anywhere else. It’s a combination entirely different from any other cigarette...
a good reason why smokers every day are getting more pleasure from Chesterfields. You'll like them.

LISTEN TO FRED WARING and his Pennsylvanians, 5 nights a week, NBC stations.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Make your next pack Chesterfield, the best of the best.
