Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., April 12, 1939

YMCA Deputation Men Hold Numerous Services
Varied Religious Work Carried on in Huntersville and Kannapolis

Heading the Davidson Y. M. C. A.’s list of deputations are the ones made by Jim Owens and his assistants to Huntersville. This work, begun last Christmas, fills the need of a unity church in the village at present. A religious service is held each Sunday in the Methodist church, which is attended by both young and old. Recreational programs for the young folks are directed by Jim Crook each Thursday afternoon. The service last Sunday consisted mostly of Easter hymns by the congregation and a solo by Jim Crook.

Pitching Restricted

Hereafter it will be against the college regulations to pitch horseshoes between the dormitories or at any locality on the campus not prescribed by the proper officials. Courts for horseshoe pitching have been conveniently placed beside the new gym and all “pitchers” are entreated to confine their games to the designated areas.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Last Wednesday, a group consisting of Leonard Ross, pianist, George Hudson, violinist and soloist, and Louis Torrey, speaker, presented a program for the Kannapolis High School under the auspices of the Kannapolis Y. M. C. A. On Thursday afternoon, another group, consisting of Don Davidson, pianist, John Brady, vocal soloist, and Wade Boggs, speaker, put on a similar program for the high school. The school's custom is to have one week of religious emphasis for the entire student body of 1,000 each year. In the past, Davidson men have helped with most of these programs.

During the “come-clean” campaign for the high schools of Mecklenburg County, the following Davidson students will make talks, the purpose of which is to get the younger boys to abstain from the use of tobacco, alcohol, profanity, and dishonesty for the coming year: Boyd Flynn, Gordon Riggan, Eldridge Brown, Ellard Yow, George Milne, Bill Diehl, and “Boo” Walker. In charge of this part of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. work is Bill Stronach, a former Davidson student.

CAT GOLFERS UNDEFEATED

[Continued from Page Four]

Pegram and Pittman (D) 2 1-2; Swift and Waddell (Ga.) 2 1-2; Cooper (D) 3, Bowers (Ga.) 0; Sharpe (D) 3, Bowen (Ga.) 0; Cooper and Sharpe (D) 3, Bowers and Bowen (Ga.) 0. This afternoon the Cats journey to Athens to meet the Bulldogs of The Citadel. They will stay at Athens to compete in the Southern Intercollegiate tourney, which will be held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. This tourney is made up of outstanding stars from all over the country, who annually play for the championships of several events.

YEARLING NINE

[Continued from Page Four]

The situation was under control at all times. The Centrals chalked up single markers in the third, fifth, and sixth frames, none of which were earned. A feature of the game beside the tight hurling of Lucas was the sensational play of Daffin in center field. Two beautiful running catches of line drives with men on bases saved the yearling cause. Miller, Kale, and Worrell led the attack with two hits apiece, while no Wildkitten collected more than one safe blow.

THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

NOW PLAYING

GLORIA STUART in A Musical Comedy Version of Alexander Dumas’ “THE THREE MUSKETEERS”

Friday-Saturday

JACKIE COOPER and FREDDIE BARTHOLOMEW in “SPIRIT OF CULVER”

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.

HENRY FONDA and MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN in “LET US LIVE”

“PREVUE NEW YORK WORLD’S FAIR” Coming, April 20th. ON THE STAGE All Girl Band 24 World’s Fairest Beauties

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Bob Buckells and Bob Sasser in Phi Hall. Tonight at 7:00 the same question will be upheld by Davidson against Georgia Tech in Eu Hall. With the University of South Carolina, the “pump-priming” will be contested again on April 28.

WILDCATS BEATEN

[Continued from Page Four]

Further examination showed that he probably would not be able to play any more this year. The Cats play host toDuke today, and Friday travel to Greenville to engage Furman. Saturday they play Wofford in Spartanburg and return home to meet Lenoir-Rhyne Monday.

Masons Laud Former Grad

Dr. M. C. S. Noble, ’79, Kenan professor emeritus of education in the University of North Carolina, who celebrated his 84th birthday recently, was honored by a special meeting of the University lodge of Masons Monday evening, April 3. The principal address was delivered by Dr. Hubert Poteat of Wake Forest College, past grand master of Masons. Several members of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina were in attendance. Dr. W. E. Caldwell, master of the University Masons, said that the meeting was held for the purpose of paying tribute to Dr. Noble as a “faithful and distinguished Mason.” Dr. Noble became a member of the Bingham lodge in Mebane 62 years ago and joined the lodge in Chapel Hill 38 years ago. He was twice master of the local lodge.

NEW PROGRAM
[Continued from Page Five]

Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes—The Quartette, Land Sighting, Lead Kindly Light, College Ties, and O Davidson. The news was given by Bob Kellogg, and the program was announced by Professor Thane McDonald. Next week the orchestra will be featured on the program. Only two more programs remain for this college session.

KITS CONTINUE GOLF
[Continued from Page Four]

planning to compete, and two of these are uncertain. All other freshmen interested in golf are urged to see either McCall or Pegram, as talent is badly needed for this team.

Call For Assistants

Applications are now being received from students for places as assistants for the coming year. These applications should be filed immediately in writing with the registrar, since today is the final day set aside for receiving applications. Assistantships are paid for each year from two funds, part from the regular college budget and part from the allotment of N.Y.A. funds. The college has only a limited number of assistantships to apportion each year.

Hi-Y Directs ‘Work’ Study

High School Club Sponsors Vocational Guidance

The Hi-Y Club of Davidson High School has been very active in sponsoring talks on vocational guidance at the high school chapel. The club has planned to have several well-known business and professional men speak to the student body about choosing their life work. Professor H. E. Fulcher presented an interesting talk on the future of science, and the opportunities of the youth of today in it; Dr. A. M. Hillhouse spoke of business and its needs, in an entertaining manner. Talks on law, medicine, social service, Y.M.C.A., the ministry, and the army (the C.C.C. in particular) are also being planned. It is hoped that these chapel programs will help the students to see what they will be best fitted for. Besides these talks, the club is to sponsor an honesty campaign in the near future. Schedules for Friday night, April 14, is a county-wide Hi-Y conference to be held here at Davidson College.

FILM REPORT CARD
[Continued from Page Two]

Colbert's husband, a count, the action becomes complicated but exceedingly interesting. The plot, the acting, and the laughs all combine to make this a high rating picture in any man’s estimation.

Saturday, April 15

“DODGE CITY”—Errol Flynn, Olivia De Havilland, and Ann Sheridan. Its appearance on Saturday and its scene laid in the west seem to indicate that this is a typical “horse-opera,” but this is by no means true. All of its write-ups convey the idea that this is one of the better pictures of the year. An adventurous young Irishman comes to America to fight in the Civil War, after engaging in many wars over in Europe. After the war he goes to the Middle West where civilization was just being established and helps to found Dodge City. He occupied himself by killing buffalo and selling the meat to the men that were building the railroad to Dodge City. He finds Bruce Cabot killing buffalo without a license and due punishment was inflicted, with Cabot’s vow to get even with him. When the railroad was completed Flynn leaves and starts driving cattle to the railroad. He meets Olivia De Havilland on one of his trips, and of course, a romance ensues beset by many difficulties, one of which is Cabot. The acting of Errol Flynn is one of his masterpieces, but he would not be the same were not Olivia De Havilland with him.

SUPER SNOOPINGS
[Continued from Page Two]

succeeded in railroading candidates. A small crowd watched the combine in front of WEST the other day with great interest. The STUDENT COUNCIL is making a thorough investigation of both situations. RALPH MONGOR graciously accepted the cellophane-wrapped EL ROPO which was presented to him by auspices of the Dancing Party. STANLEY McAFEE, DON DAVIDSON, and JACK TILLITSON all became air-minded during the past week for they all met famous birdmen. Now fellows DON’T drop a slug in the slot, beat on the phones, or go too near CORNELIUS.

TENNIS TEAM LOSES
[Continued on Page Four]

6-2; Northcross (D) over Petrea (G), 6-3, 7-5; Shore (D) over Gherky (G), 6-2, 6-1; Hunter-Turner (D) over Petrea-McAuslan (G), 7-5, 4-6, 7-5; Northcross-Jones (D) over Rawlings-Davis (G), 3-6, 6-1, 7-5; Shore-Cloyd (D) over Gherky-Bowman (G), 6-2, 6-4.

DRAMATISTS TO PRESENT
[Continued from Page One]

of the Bliss family. It is the first three-act play presented this year by the Masquers, the last one, “Dulcy,” by George Kaufman, being given last spring. Kalista Hood had the lead part in this presentation.

At the present time, there are 10,000 persons in the U.S. working toward Ph.D. degrees.

Maurice Hamrick To Receive Eagle Award; Charles Steel Gets Palm

Next Friday night at 7:30 the Wildcat Troop (No. 58), of the local Boy Scouts will hold a Court of Awards in Philanthropic Hall. They wish hereby to extend a hearty invitation to all ex-scouts and anyone else who may be interested in scouting to attend this meeting. Regional Scout Executive J. E. Steere will be present and will make several awards. The program of events will be as follows: the entire troop will take part in the presentation and retiring of the colors, and the Indian sign language prayer led by Maurice Hamrick, and the Great Scoutmaster’s Benediction, led by Bob King, also the recitation of the oath and laws dramatized by the lighting of candles in a traditional scout ceremony; Dr. Price Gwynn, chairman of the troop committee, will pronounce the invocation and award the merit badges and badges of rank; Executive J. E. Steere will present the Eagle and palm awards. Those to be awarded the rank of Tenderfoot are Roy Burton and Tush Stough; First Class, Jimmy Hough and Cloyd Goodrum; Star, Creecy Copeland; various merit badges, Bob King, Maurice Hamrick, Wat Withers, Jimmy Hough, Cloyd Goodrum, Creecy Copeland, and Jim Kerr. Mr. Steere will pin the badge of Eagle Rank on the breast of Maurice Hamrick, and will award a bronze palm to Charles Steel, a gold palm to Paul Patrick, and a silver palm to Bob King.

Medicated bath brings quick relief from DRY COUGHS OR IRRITATIONS DUE TO COLDS

Throat troubled with a cold? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth—and enjoy the wonderful relief that comes as the irritated membranes are bathed with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes! Raspy huskiness is eased... tendency to coughing spasms checked... because a Vicks Cough Drop is actually medicated. Medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub, famous for relieving discomforts of colds.

MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS

PAUL WHITEMAN buying Chesterfields at famous Gasparilla Ball in Tampa, Florida. Listen to him every Wednesday night on all C.B.S. Stations.

1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...as our band travels around the country I find that Chesterfield is the ALL-AMERICAN CHOICE for more smoking pleasure!”

It’s a fact... millions from coast to coast are turning to Chesterfields for what they want in a cigarette. They find Chesterfields have a better taste and a more pleasing aroma. Chesterfields show them what real mildness means in a cigarette. When you try them you'll know why Chesterfields give men and women everywhere more smoking pleasure—why Chesterfields SATISFY... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos... they’re MILDER and TASTE BETTER.