**The Sports Round-Up**

By BOB WILLIAMS

Feb. 8, 1939

Now that exams are over, the Winter sports schedule again is about to get into full swing with the basketball
and wrestling teams going into action. Coach McEver has his prospective gridmen working out daily down on the Freshman field,
and the inter-fraternity basketball tournament has advanced through the first round. It seems that even the one-and-only Mid-Winters will not
disturb the athletics, because the wrestlers have a meet on Friday, and the basketball team plays V. P. I. at
Winston-Salem on Saturday night. Tough luck, boys!

Basketball seems to be the talk of the Southern Conference schools these days—at least at Davidson. I guess that is
because we are all looking forward to our boys coming through with excellent success in the Conference standings.

Although we do have six wins to our credit as against two defeats, the hopes of the team fell considerably
Monday when it was learned that J. D. (Slick) Hicks had been confined to the Infirmary and would not be
able to make the trip to Carolina and Duke. Then Ned Iverson strained his ankle in practice Monday, and it
is very likely that he will have some trouble with it. These two handicaps, added to Benny Harrison’s arm injury,
make the outlook seem rather dark for the present at least.

This quint has looked mighty good most of the time this year, and except for the South Carolina and Guilford
games, they have shown such rare form as will be sure to get them into the Conference Tournament. The team
members are looking forward eagerly to getting in the Tourney so that they can uphold the name of the school.
When they do get to their aim—Raleigh during the first week in March—the Davidson student body can count on their
team going through at least to the semi-finals, because the boys are primed to knock off some of these big-name
teams, such as Wake Forest, Maryland, etc. However, substitutes count a great deal in the grueling grind of the tournament,
and Davidson isn’t especially blessed with competent substitutes. Duke though had better watch the Devils, because they have three teams
of practically equal strength. That’s what counts.

All of North Carolina seems to be concerned about Davidson's athletic policy—except Davidson. Wake Forest students are sarcastically asking for
an answer, but I am rather embarrassed to admit that I have no explanation to offer, simply because I do
not know why we have practically broken up the Big Five. It seems that while most of us were sitting
around viewing the different aspects of the situation, the administration was acting. Well, something had to be done sooner or
later, and at least I am glad that we have chosen our policy although it may not be agreeable to
some of us. However, I am sorry that we dropped Wake Forest off our football schedule first, because after all,
it is the only school of Davidson’s type in the Big Five. Prospects are not so bright at present, of
course, but for about five years straight the Wildcats wiped the ground with the Demon Deacons, but did they drop
us from their schedule? Why, no! I think that the student body should know the straight dope on the matter.

DAVIDSON DITTIES: It took a bit of sinning Saturday night to set the Wildcat scoring machine into motion. You remember,
John Tice stole the ball from the Bulldog player and dribbled half the floor to score the goal that touched
off the fireworks. John has certainly been the spark-plug of the team this year, and his presence on the court
keeps the team confident. You saw what happened in the State game when he got hurt this year. He has
an offensive punch that was lacking last year. The Frosh looked good in winning over J. O. Jones and Darlington
last week. Both were close games, but the yearlings came through in fine style.

TOUGH-LUCK COLUMN: “Stinky” Bailey and Red Telford both had their men practically pinned in the meet Saturday, only to have
their State opponents turn around and pin them. And they say that there's no luck to wrestling.

HITHER AND THITHER: Glenn Cunningham is again the toast of the boards this winter, and he seems to be doing
as well as ever. He must be running a race against gray hairs. It seems that Gene Venzke has memorized
perfectly the different distance, the two-mile. Says Cunningham, “The minute I get rid of Venzke they bring back this fellow
Chuck Fenske.” It looks as if Pop Warner is through with the game that he helped to mold and build.
His resignation sent assistant Fred Swan to the helm as head coach at Temple. Also, there’s a change around in
Duke's coaching staff. It is my fervent wish that someone would stuff a fist into the voracious mouth of “Two-Ton”
Tony Galento. It looks as if the coroner had better be ready to proclaim Joe Louis a murderer. So long!

Varsity and Frosh ’Cats Decisively Beaten By State Grapplers

Last Saturday afternoon in the gym, the N.C. State wrestlers made a clean sweep of the Davidson wrestlers by defeating
the varsity 26-6 and the Freshmen 25-13. In the feature match of the afternoon, McFadyen of Davidson decisioned Hines of
State in a rough and ready scrap. Another interesting match was the one in which Ed Ellis of Davidson gained
a decision over Brandt of State. However, the rest of the Davidson wrestlers did not fare so well. The ‘Cats
were not in their full strength last Saturday afternoon. Capt. Joe Craver was out of the line-up because of a
side injury, and “Dizzy Dave” McLean was unable to wrestle because of a bad rib. In the Frosh meet, Spencer
and Aarseth provided the feature matches. Spencer pinned Marton of State in 1:06 minutes, and Aarseth pinned Faison of State
in 4:08 minutes. Barnhardt, Davidson, also provided a good scrap by decisioning his man.

[Continued on Page Six]

Cats Set For Indoor Games

Head Track Coach Pete Whittle has announced that he will take a squad of around fifteen varsity and yearling entrants
to the Tenth Annual Southern Conference Indoor Games to be held February 25 in North Carolina’s famed new gymnasium. Charlie
Sample, pole vault champion of the conference indoors last winter, will head Davidson’s entries, competing in both vault and 60
yd. dash. Jack White, freshman sprint star last year, will also run the 60 yd. dash for the ’Cats. “Popeye”
McAlphine will represent Davidson.

[Continued on Page Six]

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from—

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N.C.

DAVIDSON SPORTS

’Cats Move Into Second Position In Conference

DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

Near the Pay-Off!

Frosh Cagers Defeat Preps

After bowing to a strong Belmont Abbey team before exams, Davidson's Wildkitten cagers came back to nose out the Darlington
Tigers in a thrill-packed game here last Thursday night. In the Belmont Abbey game, the score was even until the
beginning of the fourth quarter, but with their fast-breaking attack functioning smoothly, the Crusaders were ahead by a 53-38 count
at the end of the game. Spencer with 12 points was best for Davidson, while Palowski and Kupsky led the
boys from the Abbey. The Kittens engage theGame here February 13th. Crusaders in a return

Darlington Leads at Half

With Anderson and Jordan leading the way, Darlington was ahead 12-6 at the half. At the beginning of the third
quarter, however, the Kittens turned on the steam, and with Bell and Lucas hitting the basket consistently, they brought the
game back to even terms. With the score 21-20 against them and only twenty seconds left to play, Jackie Simonds
sank a field goal to put the Kittens ahead. Anderson and Todd led the Tigers' attack with 9 and 6
points respectively. Bell, Lucas, Spencer, and Star looked good for the Frosh quintet.

Beat J. O. Jones

Last Tuesday night, the Freshmen played the strong J. O. Jones aggregation from Charlotte in a practice game. This game
also was not decided until the last minute when Tommy Yarborough pocketed a follow-up shot to give the Kittens a
29-27 victory. Ed Lucas led the yearling team with 8 points to his credit, and A. Levi and Fred Bass
tallied most for the clothiers. The Frosh basketeers journeyed with the varsity to Chapel Hill to play the Carolina Freshmen
as a preliminary to the varsity game.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
PAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Conference Championship

Gathered around the basket ready to add another two-pointer to aid them in their quest of the Southern Conference Championship
is the Davidson varsity basketball team. Standing up under the basket on the left is Captain Ned Iverson, and then
beside him are Jim Cowan, J. D. Hicks, John Tice, and Benny Harris. These men have paced the Wildcats into
the Big Five lead along with Duke and are running in second place in the Southern Conference. However, their most
severe test of the season will come during the next two weeks when they will play Duke, Carolina, V. P.
I., State, and Wake Forest within seven days.

Freshmen Watched In Winter Drills

Spring Practice Swings Into Second Week

Fifty candidates for football have been reporting daily since January 30 for winter drill. With the light drill the first
week, Coaches McEver, Chapman, and Spearman will throw the sessions into high gear this week with several lengthy scrimmages on
the docket. Closely watched to date have been several frosh gridders up from Coach Red Laird’s crack yearling team of
last fall. Bob Smith, 185-pound wing back, Stan Yoder, 200-pound fullback, Claude Hackney, wing-back, and Dave Spencer, tailback, have shown
up well in the backfield.

B Squad Used

Several members of last year's “B” Squad are being primed for service next fall. Bolin, Beester, and Hunter are former
backs, while Niven, King, Sharpe, Jay Pharr, Arnold, and Balsley are reserve linemen who show potentialities. Bill Bolin is the
only letterman back, with the possible exception of Tubby Hand, who will be on hand next fall. McClintock and Cowan
are the returning lettermen on the ends, and capable reserves should further fortify this position. The tackle situation, however, is
one which is sure to cause worry, since not a single monogram wearer is returning at this important spot. Pennington
and Richmond are veterans at guard, with Arnold, Johnson, Marsh, and Allcott in reserve. The outlook at center is bright,
with McLean and McCall returning as lettermen.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Frat Tourney In Semi-Finals

Four teams advanced into the quarter-finals of the current basketball tournament between the fraternities. The Phi Gams, Phi Delts, Betas,
and Pi Kaps advanced to the round of four as several close games determined the winners. In the preliminary round,
the S. A. E.’s defeated the K. Sigs and earned the right to meet the Phi Delts in the first
round. The latter team took this game 24-10. The Phi Gams downed the highly favored Betas in a thriller that
was won 17-16. The Pi Kaps took the Pikas into camp in another game, and the Betas decisioned the S.
P. Ss. The four winning teams will play during the week for finalist positions, while the losers will conduct a
consolation tournament.

NOW PLAYING
His Married Life in the Roar!
PAT O'BRIEN
JOAN BLONDELL
BOBBY FORDAN
in
“OFF THE RECORD”
Comedy & News
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE
Coming Feb. 20-21st.
IN PERSON
MILT BRITTON and His Band of MAD MUSICAL MANIACS
“CRAZY SHOW OF 1939”

Davidson Quint Wins Over Strong Cadets; Hicks Is High Scorer

Davidson Runs Wild In Second Half After Slow Start; Tice and Hogg Star on Both Offense and Defense; Burrows is
Big Gun For Losers

The Davidson Wildcats bounced back into the thick of the Southern Conference race with a 46-32 victory over The Citadel
Bulldogs here Saturday night. The Cadets started with a rush and not until twelve minutes of the game had elapsed
could the 'Cats penetrate their defense. Johnny Tice stole the ball from Burrows, the visitors’ forward, and dribbled the length
of the floor to score. Baskets by Hicks, Cowan, and Iverson gave Davidson a 16-14 halftime lead.

The Wildcats returned to the floor for the second half with new life. Featuring an air-tight defense which forced the
Cadets to resort to long shots, the 'Cats unleashed a powerful offense which brought them a 36-19 lead as the
third quarter ended. J. D. Hicks paced this attack with four baskets and a foul shot. The whirlwind beginning of
the visitors seemed to have tired their starting five badly and the numerous substitutes were no match for the Wildcat
veterans. Burrows and Captain Toby Holt led a mild Citadel rally in the closing minutes of the game which fell
far short of overcoming the 'Cats sizeable lead. The game ended with [Continued on Page Six]

MOORESVILLE RECREATION PARLOR
Bowling and Pool
Mooresville, N. C.
Joe I. Kall, Prop.

[Continued on Page Six]

THE ACCEPTED TAILCOAT

To be sure, tail coats are the accepted formal attire, and tail coats will be worn at the Davidson Mid-Winters.
Three reasons to see us about dressing up this week-end: Dean Hudson, Hal Kemp, and your best girl.

$35
TATE-BROWN CO
Young Men’s Shop, Third Floor
