April 5, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

went home with Brother Steere to were Gladys Scott, Betty Beasley, and Brother Casey Jones traveled to Camden, S. C.,
with Brothers Harrison, Latimer, Lucas, and Bahn. Beta Theta Pi Brothers Gamble and Barnwell attended a dance in Ashboro. Brother
Atwater went with Brother Matthews to his home in Fayetteville. Brother Louis Garrou went to his home in Valdese while
Brother Lief Garrou went to Mitchell College. Brother Pegram journeyed home with Brother Birch to Reidsville. Brother Balsley went to
his home in Reidsville. Brother Ramsey has returned after a trip with the debating team. Dolly Sledge of Charlotte was
the guest of Brother Hickman Saturday; Nic Schilty and Sarah Searcy of Charlotte were guests of the chapter Sunday. Brothers
Summerville, McAfee, Bryant, Abott, McClintock, and Hand spent the weekend at their homes in Charlotte. Brother Morrow spent Saturday night
in Concord. There was the usual feed on Sunday evening.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The chapter held a party on the Catawba River on Saturday night; there was a hayride from Charlotte to James
Cabin on the river. A barbecue dinner was served later in the evening. The girls present were: Lib James, Julia
Taylor, Betty Barefoot, Mary Dot Muse, Frances Edwards, Mildred Honeycutt, Hazel Stevens, Marjorie Beasley, Phyllis Crooks, and Peggy Williams, all
of Charlotte; Carmen Ortiz of Puerto Rico; Doris Edgar, Statesville; Duke Blue of Aberdeen; Martha Brandan of Scotland Neck; Lib
Erwin, Laurinburg; Elizabeth Lyles, Concord; Jennie Rose Clark, Hamlet; and Jane Knox of Davidson. Present in Statesville during the weekend
were Brothers McElwee and Latimer. Brother Paul Lady went to Raleigh; Brother Reisner returned from the debating trip.

Kappa Alpha

Yesterday Brother Tom Perrin returned from an exciting vacation jaunt to Bermuda. Brother Joe Calvin also returned from an extended
debating trip. Brother Dick Arnold spent his weekend in Durham, while Brothers Newell and Little traveled to Rock Hill, S.
C. Brother Gladden went to his home in Chester, S. C., for the weekend. Brothers Taylor and Dennis had unexpected
visitors on Sunday. There was a feed Sunday evening after vespers.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brothers Shaw Smith, Lem Kornegay, George Ficklen, and Hector McLean journeyed to Winston-Salem, where Brother Shaw Smith exhibited his knowledge
of the mystic world. To the races which took place in Camden, S. C., fled Brothers Harrison, Latimer, Lucas, Bahnson,
and Thomas. Brothers Smith, Rose, McDuffie, Marchant, and Creighton went to Concord Friday evening to attend a dance there. A
feed was held Sunday evening; this was attended by Professors McGavock, Kimbrough, McGeachy, Hillhouse, and Knight; Mrs. Hillhouse and Mrs.
Knight were also present. Brother Perry Sloan went to his home in Durham, while Brother Tom Cauble traveled to Columbia,
S. C., with the track squad.

Kappa Sigma

Girls came from as far away as Little Rock, Ark., to go on the Kappa Sigma hayride last Saturday night.
The brothers and their dates rode out to the Catawba River, and then came back to the fraternity house for
refreshments. The following girls were guests of the fraternity: Punk Bagwell, Margie Bradley, June Burks, Gene Burks, Rita Clary, Zabelle
Cowin, Anne Cromartie, Peggy Dunaway, June Escott, Harriet Glasgow, Frances Gibson, Caldwell Guion, Lib Guion, Peggie Harrison, Billy Hedrick, Gertrude
Jarrell, Justine Jones, Jane Kirkpatrick, Ruth Knee, Nancy Leonard, Maurine Mitchell, Pony Monroe, Polly Rice, Helen Simpson, Laura Turner, Martine
Watson, Jo White, Dot Wright. Brother Charlie Brown of Charlotte visited the chapter Saturday and took part in the festivities.

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

Brothers Black, Phipps, and Walker went with the track team to Sumter, S. C. Miss Mary Sadler, Sidney Query, and
Brother Euclid Fant visited the chapter Sunday.

Pi Kappa Phi

Brother Ken Lawson returned last night from the extended tennis trip through Texas and other Southern states. Brother Paul Cooper
journeyed to Camden, S. C., in order to take in the Carolina Cup Races which were held there. Brother Dave
Colvin went to Red Springs to attend a social event at Flora McDonald College. On Sunday evening the chapter was
visited by Jane Timmons, Helen Lutes, Dot Branan, and Vincent Wyche. Brother Davidson has returned after a recent illness. There
was a feed Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta

Several brothers returned this week from far-off places. Brother Cage Brewer returned from a short vacation to Bermuda, and the
brothers wish to welcome him back. Brothers Shore, Northcross, and Jones returned last night from the extended tour which covered
the Southern states. Brothers Parrish and Plyler attended the Epsilon chapter Pig Dinner at Carolina. Brothers Throop and Barker spent
their usual weekend in Charlotte. Ruth and Caroline Taylor, sisters of Brother Winston Taylor, visited the chapter during the weekend.
There was a feed Sunday evening after vespers, which all members on the campus attended.

Phi Delta Theta

Spring Holidays still existed in the minds of some of the brothers. Those off to the Carolina Cup races at
Camden were Brothers Boyd, Lee, Morrison, and Lillard. Charlotte was visited over the weekend by Brothers Rudolph, Bell, Verner, Mashburn,
Gilmore, Marquiss, Dale, and Robinson. Brothers Chalk and Beall journeyed to “Flossie Mac,” while Brother McGeachey took an extended trip
through North and South Carolina. Brothers Withers, Williams, Iverson, and MacArthur attended a Square Dance at Caldwell Station Saturday night.
Brother Kenyon returned from the northern debating trip, while Brothers Hunter, Turner, and Tenney are expected shortly from the exclusive
tennis trip. Brother Moore went to his home in Cleveland, as Brother Dunlap did to Gainesville. Brother Westall accompanied the
band to Morganton. The chapter is still wondering what happened to Brothers Carter and Owens over the weekend. A feed
was held at the house Sunday night with several guests present.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Brother Hiram White had as his visitor for the weekend, Miss Virginia Hickman of Queens. Brothers Raymond McDaniels, Joe Craver,
Wesley Coghill, and Jimmie Thompson visited in Salisbury on Sunday evening. Brother Rufus Plonk visited in Statesville on Saturday. Brother
Dick Woodcock of the Citadel visited the chapter on Saturday evening. Brother Ed Cloyd has returned from the tennis trip
into several southern states.

Phi Society

A new constitution, drafted by a committee headed by M. M. Pleasants, was presented for approval to the Philanthropic Literary
Society at its regular meeting last night in the Phi hall. The reason for the drafting of this new constitution
was that the old one was not up to date as it was drafted when the society was first founded.
The new constitution was considerably shortened and various other changes were made in it. This has been the first revision
made on the constitution since the society's founding in 1837.

Plans are being made for a social to be held with the Spectators’ Club of Queens College in the very
near future. The plans are to include a hayride in a truck to the Red Fez Club of Charlotte where
supper will be served. A stunt program given jointly by the Phi Society and the Spectators’ Club will follow the
supper. Thirty-five girls are to be invited with a corresponding number of men.

Another important item of business was discussed: the possibilities for the continuing of the debates between the Phi and the
Eu societies. The meeting was then turned over to the program committee. Sid Sample led the devotions; Boyd Flynn gave
a short Anti-War talk; and Russell Smith gave a talk on Edgar Allan Poe.

Antique Books Are Displayed

Several very old and valuable books are now on display in the showcase in the library. The most valuable of
the books is “Memoirs of Andrew Jackson,” by Waldo. This book was written in 1819, and it deals with his
life before he became president. Other valuable books are as follows: “Indian Missionary Reminiscences,” by Charles Elliott, written in 1850;
“The Life and Adventures of Black Hawk,” by Benjamin Drake, written in 1844; “Tales From American History,” published by William
Burress, and written in 1831; and “A Life of Washington,” by Frances Glass, written in 1836. This last book is
also very valuable because it was written in Latin.All is written, this said author, in Latin because the others were
dying. — CADDIE WILLIS

[Continued from Page One]

Recalls Many Stories
Century of Davidson Tradition Hovers Over Ancient Eu and Phi

So closely aligned as to be practically interwoven is the early history of the Eu and Phi Literary Societies and
the beginning years of the college. Much of the early spirit that has made itself felt all through the years
had its advent with the Societies.

The first evidence of friction between the two Societies came in 1845. Certain College rooms were occupied by members of
the two groups and it developed that “room No. 8,” which is and has always been a Phi room, was
seized by a member of the Eu, though the bed and books of the member in it were still there.
This action was “a direct and aggravated insult, a gross and palpable infringement of rights that were to be maintained
peaceably if possible, forcibly if we must.” The faculty settled the matter and agreed to an equal distribution of the
rooms.

Fines were a vital part of the constitution. In the Eumenean record, there is a report of a man being
fined 25 cents for “indecorous language.” Members were fined 25 cents for spitting out of the window, and the amount
of funds collected from this offense showed the necessity for the ruling.

The first badges caused quite a bit of comment. The Eumeneans chose for the Commencement of 1838 “a red rose
made of ribbon, with a button in the center on the end of a yard of pink ribbon,” this brave
ornament to be worn on “the left lapel of the coat.” The only Phi restriction was that the badge be
no bigger than a 50-cent piece and not cost over $5.

Crepe Worn
The usual mourning for a deceased member was a band of crepe for the left arm, worn for 30 days.
At one time when two student deaths were reported, the Eumeneans abstained “from music and jolly crowds for one week.”
Through 1843, there was the standing offer of a “premium” to be given to that member of the Philanthropic Society
who brought back at the opening of the Fall term the largest sum for Society use, secured by solicitation during
the vacation.

When the Societies decided to build halls, a joint committee decided that they should be “alike in size, material, and
magnificence, and cost $1,500 apiece.” In 1853, lightning rods, blinds, and “spittoons” were ordered for the Eumenean Hall, and $1,000
was borrowed to buy furniture.

First Friction
The first evidence of friction between the two Societies came in 1845. Certain College rooms were occupied by members of
the two groups and it developed that “room No. 8,” which is and has always been a Phi room, was
seized by a member of the Eu, though the bed and books of the member in it were still there.
This action was “a direct and aggravated insult, a gross and palpable infringement of rights that were to be maintained
peaceably if possible, forcibly if we must.” The faculty settled the matter and agreed to an equal distribution of the
rooms.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn spoke on “The Duty of the Davidson College Graduate As a Citizen of the Spiritual Commonwealth,”
at the Sunday School Class, Sunday morning in the Phi Hall. He took his text from Matthew 22:21. This subject
was a continuation of Dr. Gwynn's previous talk which was on the duty of the graduate as a citizen of
a physical commonwealth. There were three of these duties to the physical commonwealth: (1) to arrive at an understanding and
appreciation of the liberty of religion; (2) to take an active part in exercising the right to vote and to
hold government office; (3) and to set an example of Christian living by self-control.

Religious Impulse
Gwynn analyzed religious impulse as the always present false door. Every man has at one time or another a definite
religious impulse consisting in seeking the assurance of a power outside of this world, in seeking companionship and communion with
this outside force, in seeking to find a meaning in life, and in seeking for a continuation of this life
in the future life through faith. Our first duty as citizens of the spiritual commonwealth is to live in a
spirit of deep humility and reverence. Unless one has this spirit of reverence to the higher things, he cannot be
a true citizen of the spiritual commonwealth.

Rumor has it that a group of Davidson students is organizing a radio theatre guild which will put on plays
over a nearby radio station in the near future. Plans seem to be progressing nicely. Several scripts have been obtained
and are being reviewed at present by members of the organization to decide on an opening presentation. The guild is
to open negotiations soon with a radio station in this vicinity for auditions. Sound effects are being selected which will
conform to the character of the presentations. It is hoped that this venture will provide dramatic experience for its participants
and entertainment for the listeners.

The Masquers’ last presentation consisted of three one-act plays, which were presented last fall. They were: “Where the Cross Is
Made,” by O'Neil; “The Man in the Bowler Hat,” by A. A. Milne; and “The Valiant,” by Hall and Middlemack.

Re-Weaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

PARKER PEN $1,000 COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS
NOTHING TO BUY TO WIN

Get FREE ENTRY BLANK and Rules at any store selling Parker Vacumatic Pens
One Scholarship Awarded Each Week for 5 Weeks Plus 20 Weekly Cash Awards of $25 Each
105 AWARDS, TOTAL: $7,500

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
Charlotte, N. C.

This institution offers every modern banking facility gained from experience of sixty-four years of successful banking.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Printers of The Davidsonian

Garland Court
128 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
