By TONI CASALI | CAT-TALES

It looks like old man jinx has finally stopped following the Davidson basketball five. Let's hope so. After being kept
out of the Southern Conference playoff for the past two years, the first by a mere toss of a coin,
and last year by the scant difference of 12 points, the Wildcats seem headed for one of the spots. Victories
over Duke’s “Never a dull moment” Blue Devils and Carolina’s Mighty White Phantoms place the ‘Cats at the top of
the Big Five race and should rate them high in Conference standings.

That Duke game was a “thriller.” Duke led momentarily at the beginning of the game, but the ‘Cats came back
to grab the lead and held it at halftime. Here the Blue Devils came back strong, wiped out the small
margin, and proceeded to ring up what looked like a winning lead. With only three minutes to go, Davidson, led
by Jimmy Hogg and J. D. Hicks, put on a scoring spree that netted them the winning points. Duke, boasting
of the most promising sophomore in the Conference in Glenn Price, looked plenty strong and will be tough to beat
in their own “backyard.”

Carolina, on the other hand, looked much weaker. The Big Five champs for the past five years seemed to be
headed for their most disastrous season in years! Luminaries in the lineup such as Dilworth and McCracken, who played a
prominent part in licking the ‘Cats last year, and the diminutive Pete Mullis, were not present. The ‘Cats had a
much easier time with the Phantoms than they did with the Duke quint, but the Phantoms are also a bunch
that is plenty hard to beat on their own floor.

Sophomores are playing a big part in Big Five basketball circles, and it looks like the high-scoring record set down
by Jim Waller, Wake Forest's great forward, will be more than threatened by some of these boys before they finish
their three years. The best of the lot is probably Duke's Glenn Price. His play against the 'Cats was particularly
outstanding. His floorwork, passing, and defensive ability, to say nothing of his scoring, will give plenty of teams trouble in
future games.

Carolina presented George Glamack, a huge center who handles the ball like a seasoned veteran. He looked plenty good under
the basket against Davidson and, on top of blocking several ‘Cats shots, he rang up 11 points to lead the
Carolina offensive. Then there is Davidson's Jimmy Hogg. Jimmy should be in for three years of first-string duty. He guarded
the famed Price in the Duke affair and held him to two buckets. Jimmy probably has the best “eye” for
the basket on the Davidson squad.

Wasn't Duke's loss to Southern California in the Rose Bowl a tough one? Even though the Blue Devils were scored
on, the Trojans did fail to score through the “Seven Iron Dukes.” It looked like they would score through the
line when they took the ball on the Duke one-yard line but ended up on the 13-yard stripe. Anyway, the
Blue Devils gave plenty of “money” fans a scare. Incidentally, the kudos to Duke's placekick artist, Tony, were to the
effect that he is the “forgotten hero.” With all the stories written about him, they call him “forgotten.” It looks
like he was the only one to receive much credit, while the rest of the team that helped him to
placekick were the “forgotten ones.”

HERE AND THERE: Al Krueger, sensational end who upset Duke's hopes by taking the touchdown pass and the same fellow
who did the same thing against undefeated Notre Dame, failed to make “honorable mention” on several All-American selections... Ace Parker,
former Duke athlete who plays both professional baseball and football, is now playing a neat game of basketball for a
pro team... Davidson's last victory over a Carolina basketball team came 2 years ago when the 'Cats edged out the
Phantoms 35-33 in a nip-and-tuck game in Charlotte... It seems that Pittsburgh’s famed Marshall “Biggie” Goldberg has turned his eyes
to coaching rather than playing for money in the Pro ranks... Duke University has a Freshman back by the name
of Seigfried who is slated to give Wesley McAfee, of Ironton, Pa., quite a run for his money to fill
the tail-back slot vacated by Eric “The Red” Tipton... Imagine the embarrassment of Tom Davis, the little brother of blocking-back
Jap Davis, when All-America Ace Parker pushed him from the step of the Blue Devil special train in some small
Western town as a substitute for Tipton to be smothered with kisses from pretty young femmes... If his performance in
the Carnegie Tech Sugar Bowl game was typical, “Wee” Davey O’Brien certainly deserves to be dubbed as the outstanding player
of the year... Anyone who runs, kicks, and especially passes like he does deserves to be on some kind of
all-time mythical team or other... It looks as if sports writers are going to choose George Sisler, Chicago White Sox
noted first baseman of a few years back, to fill the place in the baseball Hall of Fame... At present,
he is commissioner of the National Softball Union... Slammin’ Sammy Snead, high money winner of last year’s golfing pros, seems
to be headed for all-time greatness if he continues to improve... His driving is among the longest in golfdom, and
his putting is phenomenal.

Kappa Sigma Leads Frat Bowling As Finals Near

Kappa Sigma’s star-studded team goes into the final round of the annual Inter-fraternity Bowling league with a wide lead over
the other eight contestants. A victory over the S. A. E.’s would give them a perfect record in the tourney.

In second place is the S. A. E. team, which must still meet three opponents. The Betas are in third
place, while the remainder of the frats are grouped rather closely together. Charlie Pegram of the Betas leads the individual
averages, with the three Cooper lads, Scott, Hill, and Chicken, high in the individual running. The Kappa Sigs have consistently
maintained a team average of over 100. Other teams have one or two good bowlers, but it appears that none
can compare with the Kappa Sig team that has no weak link.

Bowling was given great impetus among the Davidson students with the installation of the new “Pitch Patch” here in town.
Daily high scores range consistently between 113-115.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
FIRE, CASUALTY and MARINE INSURANCE
113-115 E. Fourth St.—Charlotte, N. C.

WED., JAN. 11, 1939.

“Kootsie” Jim Cowan, lanky ‘Cat center, is at present leading the Wildcat quint in their scoring parade. Besides being an
offensive star, the tall junior has shown excellent ability on the defensive side.

Frosh Defeat Badin High 32-11

Davidson's Frosh quintet swept to a 32-11 victory over the Badin High Five here last Thursday night, having lost to
a strong Charlotte High aggregation 32-19 on the court immediately before the holidays. Don Bell was high man in the
Badin High victory with 12 points, followed by Simonds and Sink, also of Badin, with 6 points each. Ed Lucas,
yearling forward, played a sound floor game, while Blair, center, starred for the visitors, who were unable to find the
range of the basket until late in the game.

Charlotte High's Silver Streaks completely outplayed a listless yearling squad before the Christmas recess. The Frosh go to Badin Wednesday
night to meet Badin High in a return game and return to the campus Friday to engage the formidable Purple
Whirlwinds of Greensboro High, led by L. E. Dempsey, Walter Waynick, and Henry Mahala, all veterans. The Wildkitten lineup, though
plentifully studded with high school and prep stars, has shown a weakness in team play to date, but undoubtedly has
the potential to round into a formidable team as they gain experience together. Big Five first-year competitions promise to be
particularly stiff this year.

Extended Trip Is Successful

On their extended trip through Virginia and Maryland before Christmas, the Davidson quint played five games and won three, losing
to the University of Baltimore and the University of Maryland. The ‘Cats won their first three games but finally succumbed
to the tiring effects of their long trip. Ned Iverson sank the winning shot against Hampden-Sydney in the last 20
seconds of play as they were defeated 46-45. Wm. and Mary went down 55-35 as Davidson went to town at
the last. Randolph-Macon likewise lost 49-33 as Iverson and Hicks starred. Baltimore beat Davidson 35-27, the team being definitely ‘off.’
Maryland, the last foe, won hands down 44-27 as the ’Cats ended their tour and left for the holidays.Chevelure

GO TO AN ACADEMIC BARBER (Master of Tonsorial Arts) NORTON, M.T.A.

Duke Matmen Meet Varsity In Local Gym
Illness Will Probably Keep Captain Joe Craver Out Of Action

Davidson's grapplers swing back into action Saturday afternoon after the holiday rest period as they encounter Duke in the local
gym. Although the ‘Cats have met only one team this season, they won that match handily, beating the Winston-Salem Y.M.C.A.
outfit 26-8. Since the Christmas holidays, the matmen have been practicing regularly and hope to be in top shape for
the scrap with the Dukes. Every man is ready for action with the possible exception of Captain Joe Craver, who
has been bothered with appendicitis all season.

Leading off for the Wildcats will be MacIntyre in the 118-pound class, with either Telford or Abels following in the
126 class. In the event that Craver is unable to wrestle, Hollis will take the 135 division with Bailey or
Kunz wrestling at 145-pounds. Ed Ellis is Davidson's entry in the 165 class while Coach Harrison will choose his 175-pound
man from McLean, Crane, and Bahnson. Either Bill Johnston or Nelson Horton will wind up the meet wrestling in the
unlimited class.

Frosh
The Wildcats' frosh reopen their season as they take on a strong Barium outfit Monday, at Davidson. Although the starting
team has not been chosen yet, Freeze, Barnhardt, Aarseth, Hipp, and Lotti are expected to win positions. The Barium outfit
has not worked against any opponents thus far, but they are known for their strong teams every year. The frosh
beat Salisbury High before the holidays 16-14 in a very close match and are working daily in preparation for their
Monday's match.

Seniors Lead In Class Ball
The seniors are leading the play in the inter-class basketball tournament, having won four games against no losses. Second place
is held by the freshmen who have split even, winning two and losing two contests. The sophomores and the juniors
are deadlocked behind the seniors and the frosh, each class having won one and lost three. There are four games
yet to be played in the tourney. Fowler is leading the seniors in scoring, while Tenney and Casali pace the
juniors. Foote leads the sophs with Thomas and Rose out in front from the frosh. Team play has naturally been
ragged but accuracy for the basket has improved greatly over last year’s intramural play.

Undefeated!
The seniors are undefeated since they played together as sophomores, their perfect three-year record being unmatched in intramural athletics in
recent years. The Inter-fraternity Round-Robin Tournament has been postponed until February because of exams. As most of the frat teams
were hard hit by graduation, many will depend on freshmen to fill gaps in their lineups.

Many a girl has dropped a handkerchief and picked up a husband.

Ability without enthusiasm—and you have a rifle without a bullet.

DAVIDSON SPORTS

DAVIDSONIAN

’Cats Lick Duke, Carolina

Page Four

**Little John**
Although he stands only five-feet, five-inches from the hardwood, Johnny Tice, reputed to be the smallest college basketball player in
the States, has been an important factor in the Wildcats' success to date.

Cats High In Scoring List
Cowan, Hicks, Tice, Place Third, Seventh, Ninth

Three Davidson basketball players are among the leaders in the Southern Conference scoring through games of last week. Jim Cowan,
J.D. Hicks, and John Tice rank third, seventh, and ninth respectively with the season under full swing. Among point-getters, Cowan,
a lanky forward, ran high in scoring last year and his total of 55 points places him only after Waller
and Owens, both of Wake Forest, this year. The leaders are tied with 71 points each. Following Cowan are three
other players and then Hicks in seventh place by only a few points. J.D. has played consistently all season, but
in the last few games has led the scoring several times. In ninth place is little Johnny Tice, who despite
his lack of height, has rung up 27 points in conference games. Johnny has become sure-death on fouls, having eleven
to his credit.

Scoring leaders in the conference are:
G G F TP
Waller, W. Forest ----5- 25 21 71
Owens, W. Forest ----5 28 15 71
Cowan, Davidson —---4, 20 15 55
Burrows, Citadel ___.-3 3 18 9 45
Convery, W. Forest --5. 11 13 35
Knepley, Maryland --.3 15 4 34
Hicks, Davidson ~-__-~ 413-24 ..30
Dewitt, Maryland -..3 13 2 28
Tice, Davidson —------ 42 68 ll 27

A lifetime of good examples is better than a library of good advice.

STUDENTS - FACULTY AND TOWNSPEOPLE OF DAVIDSON
WHEN IN CHARLOTTE
Park at Moore’s Parking Lot
114 West Sixth Street

PAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Duke and Carolina Drop Contests To Rampant Wildcats
Hicks and Tice Pace High-Flying Davidsons as They Lead Big Five Race; Foul Shots Aid ’Cats Cause in Both Games
as Team Clicks

Big Five Race
Team Won Lost
DAVIDSON ---..-.. 2 0
Duke ----------------- 1 1
Carolina -------------- 0 1
Wake Forest -------- 0 1
State ------------------ 0 0

Davidson Tops Big Five Race
’Cats Lead After Two Victories During Past Week; Duke Second, Carolina Third

Davidson started the Big Five basketball race last week as lanky cagers pushed into the lead with two surprising wins
over Duke and Carolina, but Wake Forest's highly touted club continued to lead the Southern Conference with four wins against
one defeat. The Wildcats furnished the fireworks by coming from behind late in the contest to down the Blue Devils
41-39. Then Saturday night they proved to be masters of State champions Carolina as J.D. Hicks and Johnny Tice led
them to a 46-39 victory.

Duke's “never a dull moment” boys outscored the Demon Deacons from Wake Forest on Saturday night to win 52-41. Duke's
endless flow of reserves kept the Deacs running continuously. Price, a sophomore, led the Dukes in scoring and defensive floor
work. Despite this defeat, the Wake Forest quintet leads the Southern Conference race with wins over South Carolina, Furman, Clemson,
and William and Mary. Davidson was a close second with three wins against one defeat. They also won over William
and Mary, but their only loop defeat came at the hands of the strong Maryland quint. The surprise of the
conference has been the failure of Clemson, last year’s tournament finalists, to break into the winning column.

Southern Conference standings:
Teams W L PF PA
Wake Forest ----.---- 4 1 269 215
Davidson ----------- 3 1 169 157
Duke ---------------- 2 1 140 129
Maryland ----------- 1 1 123 103
Citadel -------------- 1 1 108 101
Richmond ----------- 1 2 76 102
Wm. & Mary ------- 1 2 102 141
North Carolina ---- 1 1 39 46
N.C. State ----------- 0 0 0 0
South Carolina ---- 0 2 59 72
Clemson ------------- 0 2 73 84
Furman -------------- 0 2 69 104
V.P.I. ----------------- 0 0 0 0
Virginia Tech ------- 0 0 0 0
Washington & Lee - 0 0 0 0

Davidson's fighting Wildcats forged into the Big Five lead last week by virtue of a close 41-39 win over Duke
and a screaming 46-39 victory over Carolina’s smooth working sophomores. Duke's “never-a-dull-moment” boys fell before a last-minute offensive onslaught by
the Wildcat quintet to lose by two points on Thursday night. Davidson led 21-20 at the intermission, and the battle
was nip-and-tuck all the way up to the very end. During the clash, never was there more than 4 points
difference separating the two teams, but it was the ability of the ’Cats to ring free throws that decided the
game. Jim Cowan and Ned Iverson, rangy center and forward, led the scoring with 9 points apiece, while Minor, Blue
Devil forward, led the scoring for the Durham lads with 8 points to his credit.

Davidson vs. Carolina
J.D. Hicks, scrappy guard, and Johnny Tice, diminutive star, paced the high-flying Wildcats to a rather handy win over the
White Phantom quintet. Hicks led the scorers with fifteen points, while Tice was not far behind with thirteen. At times
the Phantoms showed their lack of experience, but during most of the encounter, they presented a well-balanced, sharp-shooting aggregation. George
Glamack, six-foot, five-inch center, led the Carolina scorers with 11 points, but it was Bill McCachren, a Charlotte lad, who
led the attack both offensively and defensively. His smooth ball handling and fast breaking kept the ’Cat defenders always on
the alert. The Wildcats were never headed, and the closest that Carolina came was when they scored 8 quick points
to knot the score at 20-all just before the half, but the ’Cats soon took command to lead 27-23 at
the half-time. Right at the start of the second period, Hicks bagged 3 quick field goals, and Tice basketed 6
straight free throws to get a comfortable lead that lasted the rest of the game.

By virtue of these two wins and (Continued on Page Six)

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week:
Was Set By CHARLES PEGRAM
159 - PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley
Davidson, N.C.

DAVIDSON, N.C.
Get Your Drug Items or Accessories
WHITE DRUG CO.
“Davidson’s Oldest And Best”
Phone No. 2111

Wed., Jan. 11th.
“SAY IT IN FRENCH”
Thurs.-Fri., Jan. 12-13th.
“PACIFIC LINES”
Sat., Jan. 14th.
“GOING PLACES”
“LONE RANGER NO. 14”
Mon.-Tues., Jan. 16-17th.
“ZAZA”
Wed., Jan. 18th.
“CHRISTMAS CAROLS”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N.C.
