Wed, May 10, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

With the imposition of a new cut system by the faculty, there has been much discontent and discussion about systems
of regulation of absences from classes. When the student body convened last week, the president of the student body called
for plans to present to the faculty as a substitute for the system imposed. Therefore, the Question of the Week
is worded as follows: What Suggestion For A New Cut System Would You Make?

Ted Parker, Junior:
If any change is to be made in the present system, I think that it should follow these lines: Freshmen
ought to have no cuts during the first six weeks of college, for, in this time many of those who
unintentionally get off to a bad start would have a better chance. After the first six weeks, allow the Freshmen
two cuts in each subject on which a C grade or better has been made. Allow the Freshmen three cuts
in each course during the second semester. As for the sophomores, allow them three cuts in each course per semester.

French Club Gives Play At Catawba
Next Year's Officers Of Le Cercle Francais Elected At Meeting

Le Cercle Francais ended its season of plays by giving two presentations before a meeting of the French Teachers of
North Carolina at Catawba College last Friday.

Titles of Plays
“L'Anglais Tel qu’on parle” was the first of these one-act plays, and the principal actors were Sid Davidson, Don King,
and Crane Sprunt. In the second play, “Une Partie de Bridge,” Sid Crane and Dave King took the leading roles.
The members of the club who took part in the plays were invited to attend a banquet by the French
Teachers of North Carolina. This has been the fourth series of plays which have been presented by Le Cercle Francais.

Business Meeting
Last night the club held a business meeting for the purpose of electing next year's officers and to make plans
for the coming year. The outcome of these elections was not known at the time the Davidsonian went to press.
Le Cercle Francais will hold its last meeting sometime in the near future. The program for this final meeting will
be provided by the Faculty members of the Club: Dr. G. B. Watts and A. V. Goldiere.

There should be strict rules against overcutting. The cuts for Juniors and Seniors should be limited. Such a system for
Juniors and Seniors would show what each man has in himself.

R. Archer Torrey, Senior:
The ideal is unlimited cuts for the three upper classes with no cuts for the freshmen while getting oriented to
the new system. A transition period would only make it seem that cuts are to be taken, which, theoretically, is
not true. However, the Southern Association requires cuts to be limited to four in a class, hence, no material change
can be made without losing our rating. I would like to see the Dean's list maintained in some form, however.

Lawson Withers, Sophomore:
I see nothing wrong with the present (or rather former) system. If there must be a change, I would like
to suggest increasing the overcut penalty and raising the Dean’s list average to make it more exclusive.

Bill Bolin, Junior:
I believe that the cut system is all right as it is at present though one improvement should be made.
That is: overcutting is abused and I believe the punishment for the first overcut without sufficient excuse should be that
the student should be placed on probation and for the second offense the student should be required to drop the
subject with an F grade.

Arch Taylor, Freshman:
Since it seems quite evident that the system must be changed, I feel that it would be all right to
limit freshman and perhaps sophomore cuts to two in each class, but the Dean’s list should in no wise be
abolished, though the requirements might be raised. However, I see nothing wrong with the present arrangement.

Jack Tillotson, Senior:
Cuts on a straight scholastic basis. That is, a minimum similar to the maximum now proposed by the faculty with
increases proportionate to the rise in scholastic standing. Possible maximum of six cuts in each class for A students. This
maximum might be lowered for Freshmen and Sophomores or raised for Juniors and Seniors.

Bob Kellogg, Junior:
If the present cut system must be changed to a more stringent basis I would suggest raising the requirements for
attaining the Dean’s list and leaving the rest of the system at its present standing. I feel cramped to air
my views in this space because it is obvious that the student views have no status quo.

Ed Watson, Sophomore:
It is generally agreed that the cut system which has been in operation for the past years has been abused
by students overcutting, but in my opinion this fact does not call for the strenuous cut system that the Faculty
has just passed. My suggestion is that freshmen and sophomores be limited to two cuts in each class per semester,
and that juniors and seniors be allowed three cuts in each class per semester with the severest penalties imposed for
overcutting. Also, the Dean’s list could be kept by raising the required grade.

Professor Dorsett Given Highest Prize
Davidson Alumnus Honored by Phi Delta Phi; Was Active in Campus Life

Jim Dorsett, graduate of Davidson last year, has recently received the highest award that can be given to a first-year
law student at the University of North Carolina. Phi Delta Phi, honorary law fraternity, annually selects the man with the
highest average in the first-year class to whom they present their award.

Activities
Dorsett is from Salisbury and a member of Phi Gamma Delta Social Fraternity. At Davidson he was a member of
O.D.K.; editor of Quips and Cranks; president of the Junior class; a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary Military Fraternity;
secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council; president of International Club; a member of the freshman debating team, a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and of several other honorary fraternities.

Relations
As executive member of the student editorial staff of the N. C. Law Review, Miss Elizabeth W. Shewmake of Davidson
was elected associate editor-in-chief. She will serve as faculty research assistant at the University next year.

Sinai Is Talk Topic
Dr. Addison Brenizer, Charlotte physician, lectured to Alpha Epsilon Delta last Tuesday night at 7:30 o'clock in the biology room
of Chambers Building on the subject of skin and facial grafting. During the talk Dr. Brenizer used slides to illustrate
the points made. He followed his lecture with a short movie, “Thyroidectomy,” which he had taken in technicolor. Bids were
then issued to six new members, boys who have a sincere interest in medicine and have grade averages of at
least 2: Jim Anderson, Gray Hunter, Bill Masters, James McDuffie, Tommy Harnsberger, and Beecher Sitterson.

The aim of Alpha Epsilon Delta honorary fraternity is to bridge the gap between pre-medical and medical schools. It tries
to give medical students a foretaste of medical subjects and topics of interest. Membership is limited to the students of
the upper two classes. This, the last open meeting of the present school year, was well attended by both students
and professors.

They Mean Business
Pictured above are the new business managers of Davidson's three publications. They are, left to right: Jim Currie, manager of
the Davidsonian, Charlie Luther, manager of the Annual; and B. B. Plyler, manager of the Magazine. By virtue of their
appointments, these three will be nominees for the publications board, which will be chosen next week by the student body.
In the event that the editors of these publications are ineligible under the new point system, these men will automatically
become members of the board. These men all hail from the Carolinas; Currie being a native of Raeford, Plyler from
Wilson, and Luther from Beaufort, S. C. Currie, Luther, and Plyler succeed Latimer, Lillard, and Davidson respectively in their new
duties.

Horine Is Interpreter For Recent Broadcast
Wide Knowledge of German Enables Alumnus to Translate Speech

Field Horine, Davidson alumnus, again played an in- conspicuous butAll-important place in international affairs as he employed his wide knowledge
of German in the interpretation of Hitler’s recent radio reply to Roosevelt.

Gives English Summaries

As thousands of Americans gathered around their radios to hear the Fuhrer’s portentous message, broadcasting company Columbia interpreted the brief,
rapid flow of German with summaries in English. Horine, now studying for his doctorate at Columbia University, was one of
three commentators who took turns at rapid interpretation of the dictator's words as they came in over short wave.

Recognize Voice

Friends here on the campus thought that they recognized his voice and wrote him for verification. [Continued on Page Six]

Jehovah by Avery, Glee Club; Sanctus from “St. Cecelia Mass” by Gounod, Orchestra; Prayer and Benediction, given by Dr. W.
L. Lingle; Choral Response, Lead Kindly Light, Glee Club.

Photo Club To Present Highlights and Shadows

Picture To Show History Of Photography; Exhibit To Be Held Soon

“Highlights and Shadows,” is the title of the picture to be shown by the Photographic Club in Dr. Lyons’ classroom
tonight. On Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, the Photographic Club will sponsor the Photographic exhibit.

The moving picture “Highlights and Shadows,” which will be shown promptly at 7:30, is distributed by the Eastman Kodak Company;
however, it is not an advertising feature of the company. It will show the history of photography together with a
study of the principles of photography and the methods that may be used in getting the best results from average
camera equipment.

Shows Film Making

The picture is also concerned with the great modern industry of photography, showing how film is made at the great
Eastman laboratories. Its fifty-five minutes will be full of material interesting to all types of camera enthusiasts.

Another photographic exhibit, similar to the one held last fall, will be sponsored by the club this spring. This will
be held in the Social Center on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, the 16th and 17th.

Now in Knox Building

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING
Davidson, N. C.

Forty or Fifty Prints

There will be forty or fifty prints contributed by students, and these will be judged by popular vote. Awards will
be given for the prints that take the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd places. Anyone wishing to contribute to the exhibition
and who has not done so, should see a member of the Photographic Club immediately; it is still not too
late to enter the contest. However, the deadline has been set as the 14th.

Last year the winner of the contest was C. Parker. This year, since the pictures will be judged by popular
vote of the students, the exhibit will be held similarly to the art exhibit last month in Eumenean Hall. The
pictures will be judged in regard to clearness, composition, light, angle, contrast, and detail.

Gwynn Leads Vespers

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, of the Davidson College faculty, will be in charge of the vesper service for next Sunday,
May the fourteenth. At this time the annual communion service will be held, for members of the student body and
visitors alike. The program will consist of a talk by Dr. Gwynn on some subject suitable to the occasion, and
the communion, which will be conducted by Dr. Gwynn and the members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.

Eus and Phis Plan Contest

Prizes To Be Offered For The Best Essay, Short Talk, And Poem

Both the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies have announced the completion of plans for a student anthology, to be started
at once. It was announced yesterday in chapel by Professor Davidson, three prizes of five dollars each will be offered
for the best entry in each of three fields: the essay, the short story, and the poem. All entries must
be in by May 16, and may be submitted to the president of either society or to Sigma Upsilon.

The two societies have been considering action on the anthology for some time, working jointly on the project. Two purposes
have been set forth: to make a collection of the best student writings over a period of years, and to
recognize literary efforts here at Davidson. The papers submitted will be judged first by a committee made up of members
of the societies. This group will decide the best three entries in each field and will turn them over to
another committee composed of Professors.

Davidson, Jim Cowan Is Picked As D Club President

George Richmond And Bob Kellogg Are Elected As Other Officers

Jim Cowan was elected president of the “D” Club for the coming school year of 1939-'40. The election was held
during the regular meeting on Tuesday night, the second of May. George Richmond was elected to fill the vice-president's office,
and for secretary and treasurer, Bob Kellogg was chosen.

Footsie Cowan is from Apex, N. C., and is a pledge of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. His activities include
a seat on the football squad, and he is captain of next year's basketball team. He was a transfer student
from Mars Hill College.

George Richmond, of Concord, N. C., is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is a member
of the football squad, and is one of the managers of the Student Store for next year.

Bob Kellogg, a Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity man, comes from Brooklyn, N. Y. He is the announcer on the
weekly Davidson radio broadcasts, as well as a clerk in the Student Store. He was recently elected captain of the
1939-40 track team.

These officers succeed J. D. Hicks as president, Tom Abbott as vice-president, and Johnny Tice as secretary and treasurer. The
"D" Club is an honorary society composed of men who have received letters in any major or minor athletic sport.

New Magazine Staff Announced By Plyler

Louis Hite, Jay Bolin, Tom Hatcher, and Ralph Harkey have been appointed on the business staff of the magazine for
next year. B. B. Plyler, Business Manager, announced early this week that he has appointed Louis Hite to the office
of Advertising Manager, while Ralph Harkey will be Assistant Business Manager. Jay Bolin will be Collection Manager and Tom Hatcher
will be Circulation Manager. All four of these students are members of the rising Junior class and have been active
members of the Business staff of Scripts and Pranks during the past year. The Business Manager for 1940-'41 will be
selected from this group. With plenty of

Six Davidson Professors Attend Science Meeting

Six Davidson professors attended the thirty-eighth annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science and the North Carolina section
of the American Chemical Society held at Wake Forest College on May 5 and 6. These professors were: W. L.
Porter, H. W. Arbuckle, H. E. Fulcher, W. A. Douglas, J. M. Douglas, O. J. Thies.

One of the papers given at this meeting of the general division of the Academy was by Professors Thies and
Fulcher on “Pressures in Bottled Carbonated Liquids.” Professor H. W. Arbuckle was given recognition on the completion of five years
of service on the executive committee.

Nomination for President

In the North Carolina Section of the American Chemical Society, it was agreed that the North Carolina section should join
the Florida section in nominating L. R. Leigh of the University of Florida for the national presidency. The endorsement of
two sections are needed to present nominations for the national offices.

The Academy of Science is composed of a general group and of five specialized groups in physics, chemistry, biology, geology,
and mathematics.

MANSFIELD SHOES

If you like Good Shoes And want Value With plenty of Style

You want Mansfields.

Nomination for President

In the North Carolina Section of the American Chemical Society, it was agreed that the North Carolina section should join
the Florida section in nominating L. R. Leigh of the University of Florida for the national presidency. The endorsement of
two sections are needed to present nominations for the national offices.

The Academy of Science is composed of a general group and of five specialized groups in physics, chemistry, biology, geology,
and mathematics.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day

Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

DeLuxe Ice Cream

MARION DAVIS COMPANY
205 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BOLBY Stu SMITH FLORAL SHOP

FLOWERS—ARE ALWAYS SATISFACTORY

DON DAVIDSON

See GISH, RUFUS PLONK, Student Representatives

THE LITTLE PEP CAFE AND DELMONICO’S GRILL of CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Students Always Welcome—Come and Enjoy Good Meals With Us.
