Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 2, 1939

Freshmen Stage Riots Against Court’s Action
Court Will Convene to Decide Fate of Freshmen Seen Off the Campus

The Class of '43 has had its first mass campus of the year for the past week. The Court of Control sentenced the Freshmen for one week beginning last Friday. The Class attempted a demonstration in protest of the Court's action on last Thursday night. A few trees had been cut down by the keepers of the grounds the day before and the temptation to start a fire with these was too much for the “new boys.” The Freshmen gathered at 5 p.m. and began to light the bonfires. However, the upperclassmen were quick to turn out with the bucket brigade and the demonstration was somewhat squelched.

The “riot” continued over an hour and closed with a water fight. Sam Spencer asked the boys not to bother the dormitories and it is believed that very little damage was done by the demonstration. Sadao Mennett Harrison of the Court said that the immediate occasions for the week’s campus for the frosh were insubordination, failure to carry laundry, and the painting of the water tank some time ago. The Court has not had a meeting since the sentence went into effect. It has been rumored that some of the class of '43 were seen in Charlotte and various other points in the Carolinas last weekend and the Court will handle these cases at its next meeting.

Alumni Meet Here Monday

The Mecklenburg County Chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association held its most recent meeting in the banquet hall of Chambers building at 6:30 P.M. on October 30, 1939. Caldwell McDonald, president of the chapter, presided. The first speaker was Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of the college, who spoke on Davidson's Academic Program. Mr. F. L. Jackson, the College Treasurer, next spoke briefly of the financial problems facing Davidson at this time in the face of decreasing incomes from endowments. Coach Norman Shepard, Athletic Director, then summarized the athletic problem, financial as well as material, which Davidson faces, and stated that Hampden-Sidney and Sewanee had been added to the football schedule for the 1940 season. Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia, a visitor and a member of the Athletic Council, talked for a short time of the need for Alumni support of Davidson. Pictures of the South Carolina and Duke games were shown by Coach Chapman and interpreted by Coach McEver.

The following officers of the chapter were then elected: W. Olin Nisbet, class of '28, of Charlotte, President; Howard Arbuckle, Jr., class of '28, Charlotte, Vice-President; George Crouch, class of '18, also of Charlotte, Secretary. Caldwell McDonald and Lex Kluttz, class of '43, of Charlotte were elected to serve with three officers on the Executive Committee. The next scheduled meeting of the Alumni Association will be that of the Forsythe County Chapter in Winston-Salem on November 10. The program theme will be on Davidson’s academic, athletic, and financial programs.

Weekly Schedule

Thursday, Nov. 2
7:15 P.M.—Social Fraternities

Friday, Nov. 3
7:30 P.M.—Pep Meeting
8:00 P.M.—Symphonic Band Concert
10:00 P.M.—Formal Dance

Saturday, Nov. 4
11:30 A.M.—Alumni Luncheon
2:30 P.M.—Davidson-Citadel football game
8:00 P.M.—Informal Dance

Sunday, Nov. 5
10:15 A.M.—Sunday School
11:15 A.M.—Church
6:30 P.M.—Vespers

Monday, Nov. 6
7:15 P.M.—Davidsonian
7:00 P.M.—"D" Club
8:00 P.M.—Delta Phi Alpha
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Delta Psi

Tuesday, Nov. 7
7:00 P.M.—I.R.C.
7:30 P.M.—Philanthropic Society
8:00 P.M.—Le Cercle Francais
9:00 P.M.—Sigma Upsilon

Poor Housing Is Considered By Civic Club
Group Of Davidson Women Is Active In Aiding Negro Conditions

One of the most active organizations in the town of Davidson is the Civic Club. This group, composed of Davidson women, has continually worked for the improvement of the town since 1911. Its main project at present is in connection with the negro housing problem. The club bought eight lots and erected one house from its own treasury, and has three lots to sell to people interested in the work. Most of the funds for this project were secured by the sponsoring of square dances and games, parties, and the annual rummage sale. The first project was the placing of trash cans on the streets. These cans are still on the streets after twenty-eight years. The group is now working to get the streets marked. The organization is now under the direction of Mrs. J. V. Lore, President; Mrs. O. J. Thies, Vice-President; Mrs. James Robbins, Secretary; and Mrs. E. N. Linker, Treasurer.

SHETLEY IS STAR
(Continued from Page Four)

Davidson's passes were unable to click and Furman took the ball over to the Cats’ 5 yard line. Shetley, on a series of reverses, moved the ball down to the 10 yard stripe on four successive plays. From that point, Pepper Martin skirted right end for a touchdown. Yoder missed the placement by only a few feet. Later in the third quarter, the Purple Hurricane began to march toward pay dirt. Led by Shetley and Martin, Furman was able to move the ball to the Cats’ 42. Shetley fumbled and Niven recovered.

Library Founders Local Red Cross Plans Drive For Membership
Sets Out to Beat Chapel Hill Chapter

On November 11 the local Red Cross will begin its annual membership campaign under the direction of Professor F. K. Fleagle. Five hundred dollars has been set as the goal for the local chapter. “This year an earnest effort will be made by the local Red Cross to attain the highest percentage of members for the North Carolina chapters,” said Professor Fleagle. “In order to do this our membership will have to be around five hundred,” continued the chairman. Chapel Hill rated first last year with a percentage of 11.68. The Davidson-Cornelius chapter was placed sixteenth by the State.

STATISTICS REVEAL

A sad sigh escaped the rug. “Yes,” it said, “when I could have taken you to California, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Delaware, Michigan, Minnesota, Maine, and Wisconsin. Yes, during the last ten years Davidson has had students from 31 states and the District of Columbia.”

While this talk was going on, I noticed that we were traveling over water. Soon I could distinguish through the smoke of battle the terrain of China. “You don't mean to tell me,” I stuttered. “Yes,” said the rug, “three Davidson men hail from this eastern land.”

THEATRE TO PRESENT

(Continued from Page Five)

The newly formed Southern Broadcasting Co., which includes stations in Raleigh, Winston-Salem, Charlotte, and Salisbury. It is believed that this arrangement will be made in the near future, and that the new dramatic show will be carried by most of these stations. A change in time of broadcast may be necessary in order to get on the network but until further notice the program will be given weekly at 7:30 Wednesday evening.

HARRIERS ARE BEATEN
(Continued from Page Four)

They will meet Guilford on the home course and the following week they will enter at Chapel Hill. Kellogg and Gammon will represent Davidson at the meet.Meet the games. The group also acts as committee for this meet, which cross country enthusiasts agree is the toughest of the year. A future project of the organization is to extend invitations to various high schools in North and South Carolina to attend Davidson football games.

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
(DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK IT’S SAFE)
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N. C.

The Beaver Club was founded on the Davidson campus in 1937 by Conrad Fredrick Smith, then Alumni Secretary. It is a national organization, having 13 chapters throughout the south. The Beavers always take charge of the date bureau when Omicron Delta Kappa invites the student bodies of various girls’ schools to visit the campus.

Students, Faculty, and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte, Park at Moore’s Parking Lot, 114 West Sixth Street.

NORGE GAS RANGE
RULANE GAS SERVICE
GROCERIES
HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

RENT DELUXE ICE CREAM
GULF GAS & OIL
M. P. Henderson
BEST TO BE HAD
Mooresville, N.C.
Davidson, N. C.

The Southern Conference
Wednesday, Nov-8
7:00 P.M.—Commerce Club
8:00 P.M.—Eta Sigma Phi
9:00 P.M.—YMCA Cabinet

The organization does not confine itself to one project, however. Its work is divided under the heads of Library, School, and Town. In 1920 it started a public library which was later made a branch of the Charlotte Public Library. In connection with the schools, both white and colored, the Civic Club has conducted the sale of Christmas seals to furnish undernourished children with milk since its foundation. It has also furnished playground equipment, shrubbery, drinking fountains, and many other improvements, as well as maintaining a school closet.

Sponsors Improvements
The club has sponsored countless town improvement projects. Its alumni include Brothers Hiram White of Rock Hill, S.C.; “Butch” Harper of Greenville, S.C.; Jimmie Thompson of Mocksville; Bill Black of Charlotte; Joe Craver of Salisbury. Mr. and Mrs. Lamar Burton of Davidson attended the feed Saturday night. Faculty Brother Kim- brough and Mrs. Kimbrough had dinner with the chapter Sunday. Brothers Harbin and Pledge Rainey went to Rock Hill, S.C.; Brothers Watson and Statesville and Concord.

Shetley’s attempted conversion was wide. Two plays later, Moore intercepted one of Sharpe’s passes on the Cats’ 34, and returned it to the line. Pepper Martin then lateraled to Dan Martin for a first down. Shetley tossed a short pass to Dorman for the score. Shetley’s place kick for the extra point was good. In the closing seconds of the game, Sharpe, making a desperate attempt to score, was tackled in the end zone. This gave Furman an automatic safety, and two more points.

Standing out in the Davidson line besides Bahnson were Bell, Richmond, Pennington, Johnson, and McClintock. The major portion of the offensive burden was carried by Bolin, Sharpe, and Spencer. Yoder’s defensive play in backing up the line was notable.

LITTLE CHANGE IN CONFERENCE
W. & L. Generals defeated V. P. I, Richmond’s undefeated Spiders downed Citadel, and the Gobblers from Virginia bowled over William and Mary.

DAVIDSON BAND TO GIVE
The Club will present a program as part of the Homecoming celebration in Chambers’ auditorium, during which Fred Waring’s Alma Mater song will be presented.

The unofficial slogan of the campaign is “Beat Chapel Hill.” Contrary to popular belief, there are other memberships besides the $1. Memberships go from $1 to $25. All but $.50 from each membership remains in the local chapter. The $0.50 is sent to the national chapter.

Use Of Money
In the past years, the money given by the local members has been used to pay medicine and doctor bills, to buy food for the needy, and to sponsor various projects. Next year the local chapter will extend its work by making health surveys in Davidson and Cornelius and by sponsoring a “better baby clinic.” Dr. Wiggs Bradford, an alumnus of Davidson, who has been in charge of medical work in the past, will also be the supervisor for the “better baby clinic” and the health survey. Through the new medical care to be offered, regular examinations of babies whose families could not afford proper medical advice will be made. The chapter is making an effort to correct physical disabilities and prevent children’s diseases before they occur. The committee is composed of Prof. Fleagle, chairman; Dr. Frontis, vice-chairman; Professor O. J. Thies, secretary-treasurer; and Mrs. Rene Williamson, who is in charge of the maternity clinic.

This year, an opportunity will be given to all the students to join the Red Cross.

Students Get Free Samples
Beechnut, Phillip Morris, and the College Pharmacy united during the past two weeks to feast the student body with feeds and free samples. Fred Chetwood, local representative of Beechnut, has been canvassing the dormitories with free samples of gum and other products. Mr. Hugo Sapp, owner of the Pharmacy, joined in by sponsoring two feeds at each fraternity house on the last two Sunday nights. This makes a total of 18 feeds given at his expense. At the feeds, Beechnut products and Phillip Morris cigarettes were distributed to each man present. Ice cream from the pharmacy was also served.

THREE BRIEF PLAYS
Gaius Maysfield, Wallace Scherer; Mrs. Maysfield, Polly Price; Gaius, Jr., (socialite son), Ed Taylor; Doctor, Dick Coppedge; Liz, House Slave, Bill Birmingham; Ben, Field Hand, Bill Lemnion; Tom, Field Hand, Louis Hite.

The third play, “Uncle Tom's Harem,” was written by a former Davidson student, W. F. Galloway. The play is a farce of college life, such as might be seen in any school of our times.

HIT HEAD COLD MISERY Right Where It Hits You!
CLEAR YOUR NOSE of suffocating mucus—open up your cold-clogged head—breathe more freely! Vicks Va-tro-nol is what you need. A few drops give swift relief from head cold discomfort. THIS TREATMENT is successful because Va-tro-nol is active medication—containing several essential relief-giving agents plus ephedrine—expressly designed for nose and upper throat. What’s more, when used at first sniffle or sneeze, Va-tro-nol actually helps to prevent many colds from developing.

WAKE UP YOUR NOSE
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

In this scene from ETERNALLY YOURS, DAVID NIVEN, as the magician, puts into the glass globe the right combination of ingredients to produce the beautiful LORETTA YOUNG... Just as the right combination of ingredients (the world's best cigarette tobaccos) are put into CHESTERFIELD to give you Real Mildness and Better Taste.

CHESTERFIELD
Real Mildness and Better Taste
Combination

CHESTERFIELD’S RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos
You enjoy every Chesterfield you smoke because you'll find them cooler, you’ll like the taste, and Chesterfields are definitely milder. There’s a big preference for the cigarette that really satisfies. Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is the perfect blend to give you more smoking pleasure. Make your next pack Chesterfield... you can’t buy a better cigarette.

For your pleasure... The Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos