Thurs., Nov. 2, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

To Sponsor Homecoming Dances

Pep Rally Is Staged

Professors Hear Talk By Hillhouse

Last Friday evening at about 9:45 PM, Fred Waring and his orchestra played what may become the Davidson Alma Mater Hymn. Students Gather in Mass Meeting to Hear Premiere of Alma Mater Song.

Professor Hillhouse, a former Davidson graduate, spoke on his experiences in Sweden. Carl Pritchett, 1930 Alumnus, Ex-President of Student Body, related his experiences studying Danish farm and Swedish cooperatives last summer.

Here is a cross-section of the student body opinion on the subject: What did you think of the Alma Mater Hymn composed by Fred Waring and his orchestra, and do you think that it should be adopted as the Davidson College Alma Mater hymn?

Rob Lefevre, Junior:
The Alma Mater submitted by Fred Waring doesn't seem to have a particular appeal to Davidson as an individual school primarily because the writer had no genuine interest in Davidson. The writer doesn't know anything about the school and therefore couldn't put individualities into the music. Although well sung by a cheerfully organized glee club, it would be difficult for an unorganized student body to sing it as they would the Alma Mater. In addition, the song is not long enough to include the characteristic sentiment of an ideal Alma Mater.

Dick Hudson, Sophomore:
I thought that the Alma Mater Hymn composed by Fred Waring was very good. Though the words did seem a little commonplace, there is a chance that we might be able to rewrite some words of our own. The tune was very good, and I believe that with a little practice, the student body would be able to sing it very well and in a way which would do justice to the song itself.

Dave McLean, Senior:
There are three kinds of music I like, namely: opera, symphonic, and old mountain ballads. But I must confess that this new Alma Mater hymn by Fred Waring does not appeal to me.

Just a few minutes after the regular pep meeting, there was a bonfire started on the old intramural field by the cheerleaders. There were many cheers led by the cheerleaders and the group joined in a snake dance that went through all the dormitories.

MISS SARAH OLIVER

MISS CAROLYN CAUDLE

MISS MARY DUNN

MISS ALSTYNE BRINKLEY

The above girls are sponsors for the coming Homecoming dances on Friday and Saturday. Reading from left to right: First row; Sarah Oliver, Lillian Kilgore, and Caroline Miller. Second row; Martha Key Brewer, Marie Pons, and Harriette Morris. Third row; Carolyn Caudle, Mary Dunn, and Alstyne Brinkley. Miss Caudle, escorted by Paul Marion, will lead the Friday night figure.

Professor Hillhouse related his experiences in Sweden, where he studied the Swedish cooperative movement. He graduated from Davidson in 1930 and was president of the student body. He attended Union Seminary at Richmond, Va., and is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S.C. After graduating, he worked with the U.S. Housing Administration, and his observations on Swedish housing and labor government were particularly interesting. He noted that the Swedish government has been very successful in its reforms, largely due to the cooperation and respect for the non-urban population. Professor Hillhouse feels that much of the success of the Swedish reforms is based upon the great housing projects and the well-planned interior arrangements.

J. K. HAMPTOM ater comes under none of these, nevertheless, I must weave it. However, he must weave it. 

Certainly, we should adopt Waring’s Alma Mater for Davidson. We have long been in need of a more serious song that could supplant our rollicking “O Davidson” when the occasion demanded. The objection has been raised that Waring’s song is too slow; however, the objectors have forgotten that this is an Alma Mater Hymn and is to be regarded as such. “O Davidson” is a victory song, one that brings to our minds scenes of clashing on the gridiron. Waring’s does more than that, for it brings to our minds thoughts of the college, of our friends, and of our potential in general. The Waring song is not one that will top the rest of American College Alma Mater Songs; however, it is distinctive enough for us to be proud to adopt it as our Alma Mater until the real thing comes along—if this isn’t it.

Fulcher’s Statement:
Professor Fulcher, who received the invention on behalf of the Astronomy department, stated that the adoption of the new Alma Mater song should be considered. One should remember that it is not meant to be a fight song. In this light, the new song should be adopted. Having only heard it twice, it is hard to give a stable opinion; however, to me, the words and the melody seem to carry a spirit that will stick with a Davidson man. It sounds as if it might be hard to forget.

The members of the Astronomy class have recently invented a unique gadget that they choose to call a “lunar heliocentric traceometer.” This interesting instrument traces out on paper the moon's path around the sun. Through a demonstration of his device, Scherer proved that the author of the textbook, which is being used by his section of Astronomy, was in error in his drawing of the heliocentric orbit of the moon. Since there are thirteen lunar months in a year, this instrument had to be devised so that it would trace out thirteen loops in a complete circuit about the sun.

Davidson College Glee Club will give its first concert of the season as a Homecoming weekend feature. Friday evening, November 1st, at eight o’clock, the Davidson Symphonic Band under the direction of James Christian Pfohl will present its first concert of the season in Chambers Auditorium. The concert will open the Homecoming program for the weekend. The band, consisting of sixty members, will present a well-balanced and varied program, not lasting over one hour and appealing to both students and alumni. The program follows:

Prelude and Fugue in G Minor, by John Sebastian Bach; Overture Hongroise, by Joseph Skornika; Three Kings, by Walter Mo Smith; a concert trio played by Robert Streetman, Craig Schmidt, and John Roth; Serenade Rococo, by Myer-Helmond; Introduction to Act III of “Lohengrin” by Richard Wagner; Campus on Parade March, by Leonard V. Meretta; Wood Nymph, by R. S. Rowland; and Scherzo, Three Blind Mice, by Dan Hodges, Sophomore.

REMEMBER You Always Save At Belk Bros.!

WANTED: College stationery, Harris Tweed, no-canvass. Cherokee Printing Co., Chapel Hill, N.C.

Fulcher’s Recreation: Fulcher’s Statement: Professor Fulcher, who received the invention on behalf of the Astronomy department, stated that the adoption of the new Alma Mater song should be considered. One should remember that it is not meant to be a fight song. In this light, the new song should be adopted. Having only heard it twice, it is hard to give a stable opinion; however, to me, the words and the melody seem to carry a spirit that will stick with a Davidson man. It sounds as if it might be hard to forget.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY: Efficient and Experienced Pharmacists. Also especially for Belk’s, In fabrics, careful tailoring, and balmacaan models. 125-127 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N.C.

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative, Dial 3-5727. Printers of The Davidsonian. STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY, ESTABLISHED 1907, Charlotte, N.C.

BUFF’S SHOE SHOP: Where Quality and Service Have Never Let You Down. Garland Court, Charlotte, N.C.

CAROLINA SWEETS: Visit Us When In Charlotte. 224 N. Tryon St. Phones 3-7711 — 3-712. We Serve Lunches From 7 A.M. to 12 Midnight. Remember Also All Kinds of Candies. Full Line of MARTHA WASHINGTON and WHITMAN'S, One to Five Pounds.

THE ROADHOUSE: An Old Friend. We Serve Lunches From 7 A.M. to 12 Midnight. Davidson, N.C. Call Us, We Deliver.

THURSDAY—NOVEMBER 2nd: “They Shall Have Music”
FRIDAY—NOVEMBER 3rd: “Hollywood Cavalcade”
MONDAY & TUESDAY—NOVEMBER 6th-7th: “Beau Geste”
WEDNESDAY—NOVEMBER 8th: “Bad Little Angel”
THURSDAY & FRIDAY—NOVEMBER 9th-10th: “Jamaica Inn”