. Harrison Chosen Court of Control Judge

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Davidsonian

Fred Stair Is Permanent Class President

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1939 No. 29

Cowan Beats Harrison To Take Athletic Election
Succeeds Bob McClellan as President of Athletic Association

M’CLINTOCK RESIGNS
Decides to Accept Student Store Managership

Jim (Footsie) Cowan, of the rising Senior class, was elected president of the Athletic Association in the election held recently. He and Benny Harrison were in the final run-off for the position. Every member of the class of 1940 who had earned his varsity letter was eligible for the office. However, from this large group only Cowan and Harrison survived the first ballot. Previously Gales McClintock had been elected to the presidency of the Association but he resigned in order to accept the appointment as one of the managers of the Student Store.

“Footsie” is from Apex, N. C. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and president of the “D” club. This year he has won his letter in three varsity sports. They are football, basketball, and wrestling. He has also been outstanding in intramural competition.

Succeeds McClellan
Cowan steps into the shoes of Bob McClellan who has been president of the Athletic Association for the past year. Other officers for next year had been elected on a previous ballot. At that time Jim Ray Hoggs and Jag Abels were elected to succeed George Richmond and Bill Bolin as vice-president of the Association. Claude Hackney was selected to succeed Jimmy Hogg as secretary and treasurer.

The D.C.A.A. is organized for the purpose of recognizing excellence in participation in sports, and to regulate and inspire interest in varsity and intercollegiate competition.

ROTC Given Honor Rating
Judged Excellent in Every Detail During Government Inspection

Davidson College has one of the finest R.O.T.C. units for a college of its size and type in the country according to the report of Major Arthur E. Burnap, who was the inspecting officer at the R.O.T.C. inspection held Friday. The unit at Davidson was judged as being excellent in every detail by the inspecting officer. There were eight principal points on which the unit was judged by the officer, in each of which a grade of Fair, Good, or Excellent could be given; each of the nine points received a grade of Excellent in the unit here.

The inspection was begun in Richardson Stadium at 2 o'clock on Friday and the following things were judged: (1) the entire organization in parade and inspection; (2) practical demonstration by the entire organization of close and extended order drills and calisthenics; (3) a practical demonstration by the first year basic students in military sanitation and first aid, map reading, and rifle and rifle marksmanship; (4) a practical demonstration of the second year basic students in the use of the automatic rifle, musketry, scouting and patrolling, rifle squad and sector patrolling; (5) a practical demonstration by the first year advanced students in aerial photography and map reading, and demonstrations in the work of rifle companies, machine gun platoons, and Howitzer company squads; (6) a practical demonstration by the second year advanced students in the work of rifle, machine gun, and Howitzer.

[Continued on Page Six]

Seniors Elect Stair
Past Student Body Head Will Be Permanent President of Class

Fred Stair was elected permanent president of the Class of ’39 at a recent meeting of the Senior class. Stair was elected on the second ballot out of a field of seven nominees. Those nominated by the nominating committee and from the floor were Cage Brewer, Warren Gaw, Bob McClellan, Sam Newell, Sherrard Rice, Fred Stair, and Archie Torry. After the first ballot three were left in the race. They were Stair, Newell, and McClellan. Stair was elected on the second vote.

Head of Student Body
For the past year Fred Stair has served well as president of the student body. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary scholarship and leadership fraternities, respectively. Stair was president of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity as well as a valuable member of the Wildcat football team for the past two years. He has been commander of the ROTC battalion and last week received his commission in the organized Reserve Officers Corps. Stair has also served on the “Y” Cabinet during this year and given valuable service to that organization during his career here.

Serene Taps Former Co-Ed
Miss Elizabeth Shewmake, daughter of Professor E. F. Shewmake of the faculty, was tapped Sunday morning into the leadership sorority, Alpha Kappa Gamma, at the University of North Carolina law school. This is a distinguished honor, the Alpha Kappa Gamma sorority corresponding to the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity at Davidson. Miss Shewmake attended Davidson College in 1934 and 1935. From Davidson she went to Cornell University, and is at present attending the school at the University of North Carolina. This is Miss Shewmake’s second year in the law school, and she will receive her law degree next year. Miss Shewmake has always been outstanding in her law.

[Continued on Page Six]

Recent Election Winners
James Cowan (left) of Apex, N. C., was elected Monday by the student body to the position of president of the Athletic Association for 1939-40. He defeated Benny Harrison in the run-off of this election.

Fred Stair (right), former president of the student body, is the permanent president of the Senior class. His duty is to preside over all class reunions and to take charge of all class activities. For this position, he defeated Newell and McClellan in the final ballot.

Honor Groups Elect Ludlam As New Head
Will Succeed Locke White as President of Fraternity Council

At a recent meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Warren Ludlam from Meridian, Miss., was elected president for next year. Also elected were Bud Gilmore, vice-president, and Jim Cowan, secretary. Ludlam is the representative from Eta Sigma Phi, honorary Greek fraternity. He is also a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Gilmore is the representative from Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Jim Cowan is the representative from the “D” Club. Cowan is president of the “D” club and also a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Following the election of officers, Locke White, retiring president, gave a talk in which he gave the group many suggestions for next year. The group decided to have some forms printed for the secretary of each fraternity so that the council might have a report at its meeting of what each fraternity is doing.

[Continued on Page Six]

“D” Club Extends Bids To Light
Letters Given in Baseball, Tennis, Track and Golf

Davidson’s D club extended bids at a meeting held at the chapel period last Monday to 18 men who had been awarded varsity letters for the first time. Bids to the numeral club were extended to all Freshmen who had made numerals in the winter and spring sports. The following men were extended bids: Cauble, Cloyd, Cooper, Edmondson, Hellekson, Lawson, Long, Miller, Niven, Patterson, Raynal, Sharpe, Shore, Turner, White, Thompson, Harbin, and McIntyre. Recognition was also shown to those who had earned letters in basketball and wrestling during the past season. The following Freshmen received bids for the numeral club: Coker, Crighton, Dumas, Larkin, Thomas, McDairmid, Owen, Nelson, Clark, Morris, Daffin, Bellamy, Taylor, Williams, and Williamson.

The following four men have received three varsity letters during the past year: Cowan, Hicks, Iverson, and Telford. The following ten men earned two varsity letters each: Gammon, Hand, Johnson, Jones, Kellogg, Thomas, Walker, Warden, and Woodward. The only member of the Freshman class who has earned four numerals is Dave Spencer. Three numerals each have been earned by D. R. Bell, and R. N. McLeod. There are 82 men who are wearing the D on the campus, and 60 wearing numerals.

“Footsie” Cowan, president of the D Club, and Claude Hackney, president of the Numeral Club, officiated at the meeting. J. D. Hicks, retiring president of the club, introduced “Footsie” who presented the awards to the new members of the Club. He also congratulated J. D. Hicks on his fine management of the Club for the last year and thanked the club for the responsibility which they had placed on him. He stated that he would do the best he could to keep the D Club up to the high standards which Hicks had set.

Four Men Are Named To Board of Control
McLean, Kenyon, Finley, and Jones Are Elected on Final Ballots

Dave McLean and Dick Kenyon have been elected to Senior posts on the “Y” Board of Control, and Bob Finley and Casey Jones have been chosen to serve as junior members. Five rising seniors were selected by the nominating committee: Dave Sprunt, Bob Ramsey, Bobby Phipps, Dave McLean, and Dick Kenyon. This number was supplemented by the nomination of George Milne and Dick Gammon from the floor.

First Ballot
On the first ballot, McLean led. Ramsey and Kenyon were next by 10 votes. McLean and Kenyon were elected on the second ballot. From the junior class the committee nominated five. They were: Bob Finley, Ed Watson, Bill Boyle, Casey Jones, and Eldredge Brown. No further candidates were named from the floor. Jones was elected on the first ballot, Finley and Watson remaining in the run-off.Race. Then, on a rather close second ballot, Finley became the second junior member.

Society Gives Military Ball
Scabbard and Blade Sponsors Banquet

Also, Scabbard and Blade year with the formal spring dance the Charlotte night preceded by a banquet at the S & W Cafeteria and closed at Armory Friday. Red, white, and blue, colors of the Scabbard and Blade membership bar, served in the color scheme of the dance floor. For the figure, Junior members formed a saber arch through which the Senior members passed. During the formation of the figure, Junior members of Scabbard and Blade received their membership bars, pinned on by their dates. This presentation of emblems to the Juniors is a new feature of the figure. Music was furnished by Earl Mellen for all the dances. As master of ceremonies at the banquet, Wesley Coghill, president of the fraternity, introduced the principal speaker for the evening, Colonel F. M. Armstrong. In his brief address, Colonel Armstrong pointed out the high points of a successful year of both R.O.T.C. department and Scabbard and Blade, climaxed by receiving the rating “excellent” in the recent inspection. He also expressed his appreciation for the cooperation of the cadet corps. Following this address was the installation of new officers. Coghill turned his position as president over to Tom Harnsberger, of the rising Senior class.

New Guides Are Chosen
Mawhinney Is Senior Marshal; Cooper, Luther, Wood, Colvin to Assist

John Mawhinney of Naxera, Va., defeated Perry Sloan of Durham, in the final ballot last Wednesday, to become Senior Marshal for the Commencement exercises. As is customary, the first ballot was between last year’s junior marshals, who were the only ones eligible for the position. Tom Abbott and Bill Marquess were the others on the ballot. Junior Marshals Jimmy Cooper, Charlie Luther, and Bob Wood were elected junior marshals last week, and Dave Colvin was elected Monday. There were eight others on the first ballot: Jim Anderson, Tommy Glenn, Tommy Harnsberger, Elmer Hulen, Oscar Joyner, Bob Kellogg, Bill Ross, and Neal Scott. The Senior Marshal is in charge of the junior marshals and forms the academic procession, which he leads in at the commencement exercises. The junior marshals will act as ushers at Class Day, the Baccalaureate Sermon, and Commencement exercises. They will wear blue coats, white pants, and carry silver-headed poles.

Dormitory Is Taking Shape

Work on the foundations of the new dormitory was well underway as this issue of the Davidsonian went to press. Foundation plans have been laid out and a large amount of grading done. The strip of the present asphalt road over which the new dormitory is to stand has been completely covered and holes for the actual pouring of the concrete are being sunk. The contract for the new dormitory was let on May 3 by Treasurer F. L. Jackson. The contractor for the building is F. N. Thompson of Charlotte, a Davidson graduate of the class of 1921. Work began on the morning of May 4 when the college maintenance crew began taking down the large trees in preparation for grading the site. Since that time, under the supervision of the foreman on the job, Mr. Swain, a tool house has been constructed.

Frosh Beware!

At the Monday night meeting of the student council, the senior members selected Benny Harrison of Milan, Tenn., to preside over the court of control for next year. Harrison, who is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, will succeed Julian Squires of Charlotte in the office. He was also a forward on the 'Cat quint last season.

Holland Picks Editors of Year Book

Jack Holland, editor of the 1939-40 Quips and Cranks, has recently announced his editorial staff: John Hay, Tommy Johnston, Jo Newell Robinson, Winston Taylor, Vernon Youngblood, Roy Cunningham, and Paul Crane. Hay, who is from Morristown, Tenn., will be Photographic Editor. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity and is next year’s secretary of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. Snapshots next year will be handled by Tommy Johnston of Bristol, Va. He is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is junior track manager for next year. Jo Newell Robinson transferred this year from Furman; he is from Talladega and a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. His job on the staff is Activities Editor. Winston Taylor, next year’s [Continued on Page Six]

Nineteen Men Decorated at Final R.O.T.C. Parade

Cadet Capt. C. W. Coghill, Jr., received two awards and 18 other members of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps were decorated at the final parade of the year last Monday afternoon. Capt. Coghill was awarded the PMS&T loving cup in recognition of his leadership of Company “C” which won the competitive drill held recently. Coghill also received the gold medal given to the outstanding member of the graduating class by the Charlotte chapter of the Reserve Officers Association of the U.S. A second medal given by the Charlotte ROA for the outstanding member of the Junior class in ROTC was won by Cadet First Sergeant Thomas L. Harnsberger, Jr. In giving these two awards, the Charlotte chapter of ROA has stated that: “These medals are awarded to encourage the training which is being given and to demonstrate the interest which the Charlotte Chapter has in the Cadet Corps of Davidson College.”

Military Awards Are Presented To Coghill

Cadet First Lieutenant Lillard, Jr., received the Scabbard and Blade loving cup which is given each year to the commander of the best-drilled platoon in the annual competitive drill. Lieut. Lillard, commanding the First Platoon in Company “A”, won the competitive drill recently. Cadet Private Joel Whitten, Jr., was awarded the medal given by Scabbard and Blade to the best-drilled freshman in the battalion. Others who were decorated at the final parade were members of the rifle team. Those receiving medals for their service on the team were Cadet Captain George Jones, Capt. C. E. Bailey, Sergt. Walter Kunz, Corp. W. J. Bolin, Corp. Bill Eagan, Corp. Pat Hollifield, Corp. Ed Shewmake, Corp. Bill Ward, Private First Class Karl Jonas, Private First Class Bob Lewis, Private Bob Ballard, Private James Chastain, Private Southgate Jones, Private Malcolm Kunz, and Private John Strandwitz.

Annual Staff

Seven Sophomores Chosen as Benny Harrison To Judge Freshman Control Court; Succeeds Julian Squires

Chosen by Senior Council Members During Monday Night Meeting

KELLOGG IS RECORDER

Hunter and Ross Selected as Senior Members

Benny Harrison of Milan, Tenn., will succeed Julian Squires as judge of the Court of Control for next year. Harrison was chosen by the senior members of the student council Monday night in conference with Sam Spencer, president of the student body. He will preside over the body as they try offenders of the freshman regulations. As recorder to succeed Louis Hipp, Bob Kellogg was chosen. The remainder of the court includes Gray Hunter and Bill Ross, senior members; Dick Arnold and Bob Reinhardt, Junior; and John Barnhardt and Don Bell, sophomores.

Harrison is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and was a forward on the Wildcat basketball team last winter. He was runner-up in the race for the president of the athletic association and also for the president of next year’s Senior class. Kellogg, a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is captain of the track team for next year. During the past session, he has been student announcer for the weekly Davidson College radio program. His home is in Brooklyn, N.Y. Ross, Reinhardt, Bell, and Barnhardt are new additions to the court; the other members, Hunter and Arnold, served on the court last year. This body will have jurisdiction over freshman offenders, although the lawbreakers may appeal their case to the student council.

Finish Plans For Exercises

Academic Procession to Be Held Monday Morning, June 5

Graduation exercises will be held on Monday morning, June 5, at 11 A.M. following the Academic Procession, which will take place at 10:30 A.M., according to plans just released. Complete plans for Commencement are as follows: Thursday, June 1, 2 P.M., meeting of Executive Committee of Trustees; Friday, June 2, 10 A.M., Meeting of Trustees; 4 P.M.; Meeting of Executive Committee of Alumni Association; 7 P.M., Supper Meeting of Alumni Council—Chambers Building; 8 P.M. Open Meeting of Alumni Council—Phi Hall; Saturday, June 3, 10:00 A.M., Alumni Discussion Groups—Chambers Building; 12:30 P.M., Alumni Luncheon—Meeting of Association; 4 P.M., Class Day Exercises—Chambers Building; 5 P.M., Faculty Reception on Campus; 8 P.M., Concert by Symphonic Band. On Sunday, June 4, the Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered by Bishop Edwin A. Penick at 11:15 A.M. A Sacred Concert will be given by the College Symphonic Band at 6:30 P.M. on Sunday evening. Class reunions will be held this year at Commencement as usual. The college has planned for reunions of the classes of 1938, 1937, 1936, 1935, 1919, 1918, 1917, 1916, 1914, 1900, 1899, 1898, 1897, and 1889. This plan follows a plan that has been adopted by most colleges. This plan groups several classes that were in college at the same time, and the groups are 20 years apart. This plan also includes the classes that have been out 25 and 50 years.

Black Mountain College, in North Carolina, spent a grand total of $12.80 on athletics during 1938.