Wed., May 3, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five Former Davidson Man Leads Vesper Services Tom McLean, Student at Union Seminary
Conducts Evening Worship Tom McLean, student at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, conducted the Vesper Services last Sunday
night. Quoting the Bible verse, “Whosoever doth not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple,”
he chose as a subject for his message “The Peril of Following Jesus.” He referred to the passage in the
New Testament in which Jesus gave his followers a discourse upon the dangers of discipleship as he was going to
Jerusalem for the last time. There were two dangers in following Jesus, he stated. The first danger is that those
who pick up his cross will not take him seriously. Among this group will be found those who follow Jesus
for selfish ends, and those who think religion is easy, being nothing but a group of rituals and services which
must be performed. These people's thoughts have resulted in a pitiable caricature of the religion in Jesus, as evidenced by
conditions in the world today. The other peril in following Him is to take him seriously. We have to bear
our own cross, and hate our father, mother, and even our own life. We must think of the cross as
more than a symbol; we must see it as a stark, ever-present reality in life. Jesus’ summons is to a
way of life. This way is of the cross, and takes all the courage a man possesses. Taking Jesus seriously
is a costly thing, and one dare not take up that way without first stopping to count the cost and
hardships.

Beaver Club Holds Session To Order Keys For Members The Beaver Club, honorary society for the entertainment of visiting teams
on the campus, held a meeting last Thursday evening. The meeting dealt principally with business. Orders were sent to the
Herv Jones Company for club keys. All honorary members who have not sent in their names and want keys are
asked to notify Buck Powell or Dan Walker. The Club has repeatedly postponed its social event which, it is hoped,
will take place before Spring Holidays or just afterwards. This will either be in the form of a ‘possum hunt
or a square dance. If the ‘possum hunt is decided upon, it will begin with a hay ride out to
the rocks in the Catawba where a feed will be given. Afterwards, the members will go on the hunt. As
the purpose of this club is to entertain the members of visiting teams during their stay on the campus, the
Beaver Club is making plans for the entertainment of several Junior College Track teams which will be here this spring.
The club is composed entirely of Sophomores and Juniors and are picked from the various fraternities. There are a number
of honorary members in the Senior class.

Wicker Leads In Discussions Munroe Wicker, who graduated here last year and is now studying at Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond, spoke to a group of ministerial students in Phi Hall last Sunday afternoon. Wicker came down with Tom McLean
who spoke at vespers Sunday evening. The meeting Sunday afternoon was led by Dave McLean and about 25 students were
in attendance. The seminary student led an interesting discussion of the problems and doubts which present themselves to college students.
The boys entered into the discussion asking questions and giving comments on their problems. Wicker then answered questions regarding the
seminary work. He spoke of the courses available and the amount and type of work required. He said that the
first year was for the most part concerned with the study of languages and that the chief subject (Continued on
Page Six)

Discussion Of Site The Building and Grounds Committee met last Tuesday afternoon at 2:00 to consider plans and location for
the new dormitory. This committee is composed of Mr. J. A. Cannon of Concord, Rev. R. S. Arrowwood of Concord,
and Dr. H. W. McKay of Charlotte. It has not been made known as yet what decisions were reached concerning
the construction of this new dormitory. Mr. Henry C. Hibbs of Nashville, Tenn., was here last Friday submitting tentative plans
for this edifice. They were discussed with Dr. Lingle, Mr. Jackson and the Building and Grounds Committee.

Question Is Put to Youth Students Give Opinions Of Compulsory Classes From the University of Texas in Austin comes the
following statement: “Abolition of compulsory class attendance in colleges, a subject seldom mentioned two decades ago, has become an issue
of the day.” This development seems largely a result of pioneering by educators like Robert M. Hutchins with his Chicago
Plan, which allows students to attend classes at their own discretion. Few schools, however, have followed the lead taken by
the University of Chicago. Although educators discuss the question among themselves, seldom have they asked the opinions of students, who
are most vitally interested in the issue. The Student Opinion Surveys of America are able to give voice for the
first time to the students’ views on the issue. To the question: “Should compulsory class attendance in colleges be abolished?”
63.5 per cent of the nation’s college youth said “YES,” while 36.5 per cent said “NO.” Even though the poll
revealed a sizeable majority who favored abolition of compulsory attendance, the fact that more than a third opposed the idea
is significant. This invalidates the claim of many elders who say, if given any say, practically all students would want
to do away with compulsory attendance. Breaking down the results sectionally, the strongest sentiment favoring abolition is in the East
with the Middle Atlantic States showing a majority of 68.7 per cent who answered “yes.” In the West, Midwest, and
South students were more evenly divided. Sample opinions are as follows: A sophomore art student in Glendale Junior College of
California pointed out that some students get their work without regular attendance. However, speaking for the opposition, a senior arts
and science student in Bates College, Maine, believes that most students are not mature enough to allow lifting of compulsory
attendance requirements.

Details Given About Essays Additional material has been furnished by the New York Fraternity Committee as to the particulars and
themes of the essay contest which it is now conducting. In an effort to focus attention on some of the
basic principles of our democracy, the New York Fraternity Committee is devoting its current annual essay contest to a consideration
of the so-called “four freedoms” contained in the First Article of the Bill of Rights—freedom of speech, freedom of the
press, freedom of worship and freedom of peaceable assembly, as an official activity in conjunction with the Women's Advisory Committee
for the Fair. Students entering the contest will select one of the topics (Continued on Page Six)

Heads of Student Body The men above are the winners of the race for Student Body offices elected during the
past week's voting. Shown above, left to right, are “Hank” Bahnson Spencer, Jr., of Winston-Salem, first vice president; Sam Spencer,
Jr., of Columbia, S. C., president; “Casey” Jones of Norfolk, Va., second vice president. Claude Hackney of Live Oak, Fla.,
secretary and treasurer was not present when the picture was taken.—(Photo by Angus F. Lytch, Jr. Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Among the Greeks Kappa Sigma This past week-end saw many of the brothers scattered far and wide over the countryside.
Brother Wyatt headed the list with his deputation to Raleigh. Brother Oglesby visited Brother Jimmy Cooper in Henderson, and it
is rumored that Brother Hudson spent his usual Saturday evening in Charlotte. Brother Loftin was at home in Gastonia, as
was Brother Barnhardt in Concord. Brother Jonas visited Brother Pledge Till, and went to Spartanburg. Brother Squires and Brother Coker
journeyed to Rock Hill. Brother Dick Means spent the week-end at his home in Lowell, and Brothers Hipp and Robinson
were with the rifle team at Clemson. Brother Gaw went to Greensboro and Pledge Welly is recuperating from a streptococcus
infection in his home in Erwin.

Pi Kappa Phi Brothers might have been found during the week-end anywhere between Washington and Miami. Vincent Wyche was the
brother who journeyed to Miami and Sam Woodward to Washington. Boyd Flynn made a delegation to Salem. Ken Lawson journeyed
to Raleigh, and Jack Covington visited his home in Wadesboro. Norris Erb went to his home in Badin, and Frank
Niven to his home in Albemarle. Paul Cooper went to Norfolk, Va., and Louis Horace Hite spent his usual Saturday
night in Cornelius. Sam Hemphill and Dave King made their usual weekly jaunts to Converse College. Bob Ballard and Bill
Ward went with the rifle team to Clemson and stopped on the way back for a delightful visit at G.
C. Dave Colvin accompanied Louis Hite on the latter's week-end in Cornelius. Marion Mobley visited various girls in Albemarle.

Pi Kappa Alpha Charlie Raynal, class of 1938, and now a student at Union Theological Seminary, was a visitor last
week-end. Also visiting were Charlie and John Akers of Charlotte. Brothers Youngblood, Coltrane, Lady, and Hoover went to their homes
in Concord. Pledge Brother Carlton Parsons visited Brother Allison in his home in Charlotte, while BrothersShelton, MacDonald, and Marsh dated
at Queens. Brother Turner went home to Pink Hill, and Brother Brinson went to High Point. Brother Crutchfield went to
Asheboro. Mickey Long has been in Atlanta for the past week taking his medical examinations for West Point. Brother Latimer
went to Lynchburg for the weekend. Beta Theta Pi Brothers Ed Morrow, Bill Howell, and Bob Rankin visited Black Mountain
College over the weekend. Brother Bob Benfield went to Lincolnton where he was operated on for a foot injury. He
will remain there for a few days. Brother Granville Sharpe went to Burlington. The delegation to Charlotte on Saturday consisted
of Brothers McClintock, Abbott, McKnight, Summerville, and Bryant. Col. and Mrs. F. M. Armstrong, Tom McLean, and Misses Walista Branton,
Martha Branton, Betty Cooke, Sophie Walker, Dotty Jones, Tiny Waddell, Nell Aileen Long, Jane Kirkpatrick, Missie Moffett were guests of
Kappa Alpha. The party was in honor of the pledges.

Kappa had a party Friday night. Faculty guests were Dr. and Mrs. Hood, Prof. and Mrs. McGavock. Gil Palmer and
Sandy Moffett came over Saturday night. Tom McLean went to the mountains over the weekend. Bill Preyer went to Greensboro,
his home. Fred E. Little, Jr., went to Raleigh. Hood, Susy Jackson, and Sally McKinnon were guests at the Sunday
night feed.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The following members of the Delta of Kappa Sorority at Queens College were visitors of the chapter last Friday night:
Misses Lucy Williams, Wright, Dot Muse, Mary Louise Stevens, Jennie Cox, Georgia Hurt, Anne Pease, Ermine Waddell, Judy White, Mary
Wright, Jane Montgomery, Rita Clary, Marguerite Gambel, Lili Erwin, Marguerite Hardin, Becky Tucker, Alice Riddle, Helen Venning, Sis Scoggins, Cookie
Hatcher, Sample, and Olive Gee. France Marjorie Dotty Croswell chaperoned and took medical examinations to enter Annapolis. George Mitchell visited
Charlotte Saturday night, as usual.

Phi Delta Theta
John McGeachy, Clyde Raynor, Marshall Hill went to Chapel Hill on Saturday, Gene Vereen and J. W. Westall went to
Asheville, and Bobby Rinehart went to Lincolnton. A party was held Sunday night at the house in Raleigh where several
girls were present. Games, songs, refreshments, and a program constituted the entertainment.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The chapter enjoyed a fine Founder's Day Banquet on Saturday night, March 4th, at the Charlotte Country Club in honor
of the newly initiated men. George Ficklen served as master of ceremonies and introduced the speakers of the evening: Brothers
Whitlock, Currie, Yates, and Faculty Brothers Wood, Faison, Neal, and Bahnson who gave a few words. Brother John Crichton received
the chapter's All-Around Freshman cup for the last year. Brother John Hay presented the cup in honor. Among the young
ladies present for the occasion were: Misses Mary Marshall Jones of Charlotte, Dot Wyatt of Winston-Salem, Catherine Davis, Rock Hill,
and Sally Ball.

Davidson’s Reputation as a Little Chicago is Rapidly Growing
Davidson’s reputation as a crime center seems to be rapidly growing. First, it was a bootleg raid, and then last
week a prophesied—but luckily unattempted—bank robbery. Almost any day now they'll be changing our time-honored name to Little Chicago. In
some way, the story goes, the omniscient police force of Lancaster County, South Carolina, received a hot tip, not on
the races (probably much to the regret of the aforementioned omniscient police force), but to the effect that some small-town
bank within a few miles of Charlotte was to be robbed. Of course, no true resident of this thriving metropolis
could ever be made to admit that Davidson might be a small town, yet in this case, prudence was given
preference to pride and (Hi-yooo, Silver) here came the cops. For hours the John Laws stood watch over the bank,
much to the amusement of the impecunious student body, who had nothing whatsoever to lose by the event. However, much
to the disgust of the bystanders and the relief of those few plutocrats who possessed hoarded riches within the threatened
vaults, the hours passed serenely by and the robbers shamelessly broke their date without even offering an excuse. Various theories
have been advanced in solution of this intriguing mystery of the unrobbed bank and non-existent robbers. Among those offered by
Campus Sherlocks are: That the would-be Dillingers had consulted Enoch and the lizard and had found out that their efforts
were sure to be of no use. That the hold-up actually did occur but there was no money there.

French Group Visits Salem
Local Club Presents Three Plays at College
Last night, Le Cercle Francais, national French Club, presented three plays to the student body of Salem College. This is
the first of the trips that the club expects to make. The plays presented were: "Partie de Bridge" and "L’Anglais
Tel qu'on le Parle," by Tristan Bernard, and "Terrible Affaire" by Louis Artus. This last play was selected by Drs.
Watts and Goldacre after reading over several hundred other plays. This is a modern comedy which has come from France
recently. The entire membership of the Club went to the college in cars. They had supper there, gave the plays,
and then had dates at the school.

Dr. Hood Takes Trip
Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Psychology, will leave this Friday for a meeting of the North Carolina Teachers Association in
Raleigh. This association is made up of all the elementary and high school teachers in the state, and the higher
division is composed of professors from the institutions of higher learning. While at the meeting, Dr. Hood plans to be
present at a luncheon for members of Phi Delta Kappa. This is a society for people interested in educational research,
and every member must have done some kind of work in this line. The two-day session will come to a
close on Saturday, and Dr. Hood plans to return to Davidson at that time.

Scribes Have Weekly Meet
The Journalism Club gathered for their regular meeting last Wednesday evening in Chambers Building. The main order of business at
this meeting was the reading of the minutes and the selection of the newly taken keys. Those who were not
present at this meeting are urged to place their orders at once. Paul Cooper followed as the discussion leader. The
new men whose membership is desired were discussed but definite action was deferred to the next meeting as there was
not a quorum present to vote. Plans were laid to meet tonight at the Pi Kappa Phi house. A new
faculty advisor will also be furnished by this time. He has not yet been consulted or appointed. This is to
be announced at a later date.
