Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., March 8, 1939

PI GAMMA MU
[Continued from Page One]

Members of the organization discussed plans for a lecture which the group will sponsor next week. This will feature Dr. Paul Popenoe, director of the Institute of Family Relationship of Los Angeles, Cal. Dr. Popenoe is a well-known authority on sociology and psychology. The lecture will also be under the supervision of the lecture committee. Plans for a social in honor of the speaker were discussed.

Two papers which were to have been given at the meeting were postponed until later in order to adjourn the meeting in time for the Converse Glee Club Concert.

Weekly Schedule

Wed., March 8th.
7:00 P.M., Scabbard & Blade.
8:00 P.M., Alpha Psi Omega, and Red & Black Masquers.
9:00 P.M., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet.

Thursday, March 9th.
Social Fraternities

Friday, March 10th.
7:00 P.M., Pi Gamma Mu.
8:00 P.M., Alpha Epsilon Delta.
9:00 P.M., International Relations Club.

Sunday, March 12th.
10:15 A.M., Sunday School.
11:15 A.M., Church.
6:30 P.M., Vespers.

Monday, March 13th.
7:00 P.M., “D” Club.
8:00 P.M., Delta Phi Alpha.
9:00 P.M., Eta Sigma Phi.

Tuesday, March 14th.
7:15 P.M., Eumenean Literary Society.
8:00 P.M., Le Cercle Francais.
9:00 P.M., Sigma Upsilon.

RAIN HOLDS UP
[Continued from Page Four]

fielder, and batter supreme, has been elected this spring's captain. The pitching staff should be strong enough to forestall any coaching worries, with Hicks and Eddie Steere, last year's star pitchers, both back, and “Hayseed” Thomas, Diz McLean, Fick Ficklen, Bone Reinhardt, and Andy Dale all ready to render support.

SUNDAY CLASS
[Continued from Page Three]

Dr. Currie gave interesting examples from his boyhood of how certain vital institutions have passed away. For instance, as a boy he had to travel by horse and it took him four hours to get from Davidson to Charlotte. Also in his college days, there were very strict regulations. Chapel was at seven-thirty in the morning and strict formality was required at these meetings as well as at others. Without permission, students were not even allowed to go to the train station. Because all these were “things” of time and have therefore passed away, we must judge them in the light of those times rather than our modern times.

Dr. Currie showed how Peter, the rock, was a great example of how changes of time affect things. When Peter became a disciple, he thought that Jesus was going to set up an earthly kingdom making the Jews the greatest world power. He kept watching for Jesus to set up the kingdom but was disappointed at the crucifixion. For the time being, Peter could not accept that change but after the resurrection, he made the adjustment and became the leader of the church. This was a tremendous tribute to Peter.

The Jews looked on the Gentiles with far more difference than we have with modern racial problems. But Peter had a vision of unclean animals which he was commanded to kill and eat. This vision dazed Peter who at first refused. On top of this, he received a messenger from a common Gentile, Cornelius. This was an insult. Peter had to break away the bonds which were between him and Cornelius. He realized that God had made him clean. He made an abrupt change. A new era was face to face with Peter. He reached the conclusion that the benefits of Jesus were to the Gentile as well as to the Jew. This was a great change for Peter, even though he was the unchanging rock, he made an adjustment. “Things” and institutions of time may pass away but God and eternity will never change.

VARSITY CINDERMEN PREP
[Continued from Page Four]

April 7—Maryville, at Davidson.
April 15—V.P.I., at Davidson.
April 22—Uni. of Va., at Charlottesville.
April 29—The Citadel, at Charleston.
May 6—Duke, at Davidson.
May 20—Southern Conference at Durham.

PRE-MED FRAT
[Continued from Page Three]

Alpha Epsilon Delta also plans to have Dr. Thomas Sparrow, Charlotte physician, address all men interested in medicine later this spring.

FLEAGLE TALKS
[Continued from Page One]

Professor Fleagle related many of his experiences during his stay of nine years. Since he was a professor in the University of Puerto Rico, he was able to draw a comparison between Davidson and that institution. Student life at both places is quite similar although the languages are different.

WINTER DRILLS
[Continued from Page Four]

The outlook, even after spring practice, is again a question mark. Sophomores will have to come through undoubtedly if a successful team is to emerge. However, there is reason to believe that these sophs will come through and provide Davidson with a green but improved team.

CLEMSON BEATS ’CATS
[Continued from Page Four]

Banks McFadden, stand-out player of the tournament in every phase of play, sprang into action and rang up 9 points in a row. Unable to penetrate the Tigs’ marvelous defense, the Red and Blacks resorted to long shots which persistently bounded from the backboard in most discouraging fashion. The lads from the deep south pulled away as the end neared and left the losers far behind. “Footsie” Woods led the ’Cats attack with 11 points, while McFadden and Buchanan totaled 28 points for the victors.

‘TEENY’ EARNS PROMOTION
[Continued from Page One]

Agitation for the amendment giving men the right to vote after the beginning of the second semester of 1938, and the point system, by other leaders resulted in the class constitution which will go into effect with this spring’s elections.

HAVE YOUR HAIR CUT
Johnston’s Barber Shop

Full Line of Meats For This Week-end
FREE DELIVERY
Dial 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

DRY GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Mooresville, North Carolina

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

The new officers are: Dick Kenyon, president; Tom Hatcher, secretary; Warren Ludlam, treasurer; Harper Beall, chaplain; John Withers, warden; H. M. Sproull, historian; Bud Gilmore, alumni secretary; Charles Mashburn, reporter; and Pat Rudolph, chorister. Brother Robinson is in a Charlotte hospital.

Kappa Alpha
Brothers Spencer, Newell, Marion, Dennis, and Taylor were guests at the Kappa Delta festivities in Charlotte. Backing the team in Raleigh were Brothers Summerell, Pratt, Watt, Wallace, and Royster. Brother Hines journeyed home to Greensboro, while Brother Gladden went down to Burlington, and Brother Houston went home to York, S.C. The chapter welcomed the return of Hank King who has been at home with a broken arm. Brother Jackson went to Gastonia, and Brother Turnage to his home in Winston-Salem.went in. The usual Sunday night feed was held at his home in Lumberton, with good attendance. Pi Kappa Alpha Brothers Suttenfield, McElwee, and Shelton went to Statesville for the weekend. Brothers McAycock went to Winston-Salem with the Glee Club. Brothers Marsh and Brinson journeyed to High Point. Brothers Shewmake, Abel, McDonald, and Hoover attended the dance in Concord Friday night. Brothers Hoover and Youngblood spent a quiet weekend there, as did Brother Coltrane. Ralph Monger went down to his home in Sanford, and Brother Long went to Salisbury. Brother Long had an active fraternity court in order to clear their open water.

MARCH MAKES MARSHES
[Continued from Page Five]

See the latest type zippers, the streamlined toe, to say nothing of exquisitely blended color schemes. Prominent members of the F. F. are often seen wading in the miniature ocean at the foot to free their form-fitting footwear from the taint of mud. But the soul with the real spirit of adventure, who looks fickle fortune and casualty in the face with an insulting grin, disdains overshoes. Such a proud soul is Jumper. He wonders why he wears suspenders. The scale-model underneath the outdoor gym is the true province of the J. J. He may be seen in other parts of the campus, but it is only there that his truly Caribbean lottery with luck assumes great proportions. No one who has ever witnessed a J. J.’s gyrations can ever forget the thrill. Cautiously he approaches the fateful puddle. On the brink, he pauses and with a cool, sagacious eye, trained by long experience, he maps out his perilous course. With a leaping bound, he is off. Then the moment comes. Swerving, clinging to every available tree, clothesline, or passerby. An agonized thrill and the last space of danger. There stands our hero, safe at last. His is a noble soul, braving all danger. Some day he may fall in. He may sink, but he will be appreciated. Never will he go down into the depths “unwept, unhonored, and unsung.”

BOYS ATTEND FELLOWSHIP
[Continued from Page Three]

If he is letting Christ run his life or whether he himself is running it, and see if he is leading others to God. The meeting was closed after silent prayers and the singing of the hymn, “Open My Eyes That I May See.”

MAGAZINE HAS QUESTIONNAIRE
[Continued from Page Five]

1. Are sophisticated girls preferable?
2. Which is best, personality or dancing ability?
3. Do you like girls that drink and smoke or those that abstain?
4. Is intelligence rated above good looks?
5. Is the natural type of girl preferred?
6. Do you rate ambition above athletic ability?

LIBRARY GETS
[Continued from Page Three]

“Conversation At Midnight” by Edna St. Vincent Millay. “A sequence of poems distilled from modern life with a rude, passionately honest search for new gods to replace tattered idols. “Edna St. Vincent Millay and Her Times” by Atkins. “An ardent and brilliant critical study of the only living poet who is quoted by the Sorbonne in Paris. Every reader of Edna St. Vincent Millay’s poetry will read it with more appreciation and understanding after reading this book about her. “Lupé and the Senorita” by Chesley Kahmann. This book is not only for those who enjoy a well-told story, but also for those who would like to know something about an island under the control of our flag, Puerto Rico. “Edwin Arlington Robinson” by Hermann Hagedorn. This is a biography of one of America’s greatest poets by a man who has known him for years. It is a portrait of an allusive and lovable personality—Edwin Arlington Robinson. “The House That Hitler Built” by Stephen H. Roberts. Mr. Roberts, an authority on international affairs, writes his book teeming with interest; it is an account of the Nazi regime in Germany. It is a remarkable and well-written study of one of the world’s greatest nations and leaders.

CLEMSON COPS
[Continued from Page Four]

Superb guarding of Clemson, especially McFadden. State Loses In the Friday night games, Maryland started off the fireworks by overwhelming State by the score of 47-32. The Red Terrors, tired out from the two preceding games, could not keep up with the pace set by the swift Marylanders. In the second semi-final contest, Clemson again came through with a second-half victory over Davidson 49-33 after the score had been tied up 24-all at halftime. McFadden again led his team to victory, placing them in the finals. The Tigers pulled their fourth straight upset Saturday night, whipping the Old Liners from Maryland 39-37, thereby winning the tournament. Banks McFadden established himself firmly on the all-conference team by playing a wonderful floor game.

FRAT HOLDS OPEN HOUSE
[Continued from Page One]

(10) A bottle crushing machine, testing the amount of pressure per square inch necessary to push the bottom out of bottles. (11) An odd ball-and-cup outfit, the object being to place the ball in the cup as it bounced off a falling bar. This illustrated the effect of the length of a falling body on its tendency to fold. (12) A small X-ray and fluoroscope machine. (13) A cathode ray tube, showing the effect of magnetism on cathode rays. (14) A photo-electric cell, by means of which an object crossing a certain line is detected. (15) Bombardment by electrons of a group of tubes containing different gases. It is hoped by Sigma Pi Sigma that enough interest was manifested in this series of experiments to warrant making the “open house” an annual affair.

SPENCER LEADS IN RACE
[Continued from Page One]

It was the intention of the council to run off elections for student government officers, president and vice-presidents of the Y. M. C. A., and editor of the Davidsonian before the coming holidays. Immediately after the students return, the election for editor of the annual will begin. Stair also explained a new system concerning the point question which will go into effect with this year’s elections. A man can be nominated for an office, even though his subsequent election to that office will make his total number of points exceed forty, the maximum number allowed each student. However, a man cannot hold that office and his other positions too; he must give up enough of his honors to ensure that he is within the limit of points allowed.

GOLF PRACTICE
[Continued from Page Four]

Captain Maples and his men, Ray Pittman, Charlie Pegram, and “Chicken” Cooper, form the nucleus of the team which meets the Citadel on March 15th at the Charlotte Country Club. Only one regular, Granville Sharpe, graduated last year. Sharpe was the outstanding candidate from last year’s Freshman team and will undoubtedly see much service this year.

ESSAY CONTESTS HELD
[Continued from Page Five]

The theme of the essay contest is based on the first article of the Bill of Rights, which provides that “Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the Government for redress of grievances.” The Fraternity Committee has chosen the theme of the so-called “four freedoms” in the belief that in these days of world unrest, it is both salutary and of interest to American students to review again some of the principles on which our government is founded. Further information concerning this essay contest may be obtained from Fred Stair, President of the Student Body.

TENNIS TEAM PRACTICES
[Continued from Page Four]

This team will be made up of last year’s lettermen: Captain George Jones, Wilson Northcross, Loch Hunter, and Rea Tenney; and two other men to be chosen from Billy Turner and Dick Shore, outstanding men from last year’s Freshman team, and Miller Sproull and Ed Cloyd, capable reserves from last year. On March 23, the ‘Cats engage Emory at Atlanta and then journey to Oxford to play the University of Mississippi on the 25th. On the 27th, they meet Southwestern University in Memphis, and on the 29th, Baylor at Waco. They close the tour at Austin, engaging the University of Texas.

COUGHS TICKLE
Huskiness Due to Colds
MEDICATED BATH GIVES QUICK RELIEF

Tormented with throat huskiness, dryness, coughs due to colds? Let a Vicks Cough Drop dissolve naturally in your mouth. It bathes tender throat tissues with soothing medication for 12 to 15 minutes, and comforting relief comes fast. Because Vicks are really medicated... medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub... famous for relieving discomforts due to colds.

MEDICATED VICKS COUGH DROPS

Texas. Texas. that Satisfies with a Capital S

Radio City’s world-famous “Rockettes” and CHESTERFIELDS... two can’t-be-copied combinations. There’s skill and precision in the way the Rockettes dance and there’s skill and precision in the way the mild ripe Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and proportioned to bring out the best in each. That’s why Chesterfields are milder and taste better... that’s why they’ll give you more pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked.

A HAPPY COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos