Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dick Gammon Is Named Cross Country Captain
Ragsdale, Anderson Chosen Varsity, Freshman Managers Respectively

Dick Gammon, rising senior and ace distance man, was named captain of next year’s cross-country team in elections held Monday, May 8. Managing both cross-country and track will be T. H. Ragsdale, varsity track manager, and Jim Anderson, freshman manager. These positions complete the 1939-40 track elections, Bob Kellogg, star distance runner, having been named varsity track captain previously.

Gammon, who alternated with Kellogg last fall for the third and fourth positions on the cross-country team, is a wearer of the “D” and has completed his third year of track competition. Ragsdale and Anderson have both been prominent as managers and in other campus activities. Kellogg, who is a member of the “D” club, is the star miler of the varsity track team and holds down a position on the cross-country team. He is the student announcer on the Davidson radio program and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Also, he was tapped recently by the military fraternity, Scabbard and Blade.

SENIORS PLAN TO ENTER
[Continued from Page Four]

engineering; W. T. Rainey, graduate work in chemistry; J. H. Reisner, graduate work in science; J. C. Riggan, Seminary; C. W. Roberts, graduate work in mathematics or Spanish; W. S. Robinson, graduate work in social sciences; R. G. Rostan, medicine at Emory University; A. L. Skinner, graduate work in chemistry at Duke; M. A. Turner, graduate work in business at the University of North Carolina; D. B. Woodward, Princeton Seminary; J. K. Wilson, medicine at Jefferson Medical College; J. R. Williams, Seminary; Locke White, graduate work in chemistry; S. H. Walker, medicine; and E. M. Yow, who plans to attend some Seminary.

NINE BEATS CATAWBA
[Continued from Page Four]

base for their other runs. “Rusty” Edmondson paced the Davidson hitters with three for five, while “Blackdog” Hunter got a double and a single in three trips. Davidson ended up with a record of wins and six losses and finished in fourth place in the Big Five.

WHITTLE NAMED HEAD
[Continued from Page Three]

hinney, Sunday school and entertainment; Horace McCall, waterfront director; Archie Torrey, Scoutcraft; and Dave Woodward, office work. Other staff members will include Bob Balsley, Ed Ellis, Dick Gammon, Bud Gilmore, Bob Johnson, and Sam Webb. They will assist the others and have charge of hiking, woodcraft, and various other camp activities.

The National Student Federation of America at its last convention voted not to back the annual nation-wide college peace strike.

The finest collection of its kind in the world, the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University owns 994,704 plant specimens.

PATRONIZE
The New COMMUNITY GROCERY On Depot Street
BILL BUSBY, Manager Davidson, N. C.

BAD COLDS - - - Are contracted through the Feet
Safeguard yourself by visiting BUFF’ SHOE SHOP

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

mately 20 couples left Davidson Saturday after breakfast and returned Sunday afternoon. The girls were: Misses Betty Mallory, Martha Brandon, “Pete” Watts, Ruth Archer, Gladys Scott, Josie Paxton, Mildred Taylor, Jane Knox, Phyllis Crooks, Eleanor Deas, Lillian Kilgore, Grace Downs, Kathleen Rhea, Jean Miller, and Evelyn Baty. Alumni attending were Teeny Lafferty with Miss Caddie Willis, John Horton with Miss Alice Murdock, and Walt Dickson.

Pi Gamma Delta
In honor of the seniors in the fraternity, a party has been planned for Saturday night. Visiting the chapter this weekend were Dr. and Mrs. H. J. Bolin, and Alvin Smith of Knoxville, Tenn.; for the dances: Misses Ellen McGill, Ella Keene Steele, Martha Anne Young, Jackie Burns, Evelyn Drennen, Laurie Carlson, Jo Harlan, Elizabeth Taylor, and Tonnie Tonnison. Bill Bolin, Tom Harnsberger, Henry Baker, and Dan Gilliam attended the Phi Gam Section Convention at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va. George Jones traveled to New York City over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi
Edwards and Mobley went home, while Brother Boyd Flynn went on a deputation to Roaring Gap and Brother Al Green journeyed to Winston-Salem. Among the “spring dance” visitors were: Marjorie Frick, Norfolk; Frances Caldwell, Sweet Briar; Frances Calvin, Converse; Miss Freck Peters, Hollins College, Va.; Harriet Quattlebaum, Aiken; Libby Lynn, Hickory; Terry Hester, Pickens; Mary Garvey, Winston-Salem; Pony Monroe, Converse; Ann Eagen, Atlanta; Sarah Ruth McDowell, Queens; Julia Hobbs, Davidson; Deede Thurman, Raleigh; Louise Sullivan, Atlanta; Teenie Dunlap, Wadesboro; Dot Branan, Queens.

Phi Delta Theta
Among the girls down attending the dances were: Elizabeth Gibbs, Gainesville, Ga.; Jean Hodges, Greenville, N. C.; Louise Marshall Fant, Rock Hill, S. C.; Nancy Beaty, Anderson, S. C.; Hoolie Roberts, Salisbury, N. C.; Virginia Hengeveld, Davidson; Peggy Efird, Albemarle; Winnie Dargan, Rock Hill; Sarah Scarborough, Sumter, S. C.; Jane Smathers, Thelma Grigsby, and Cain Brown, all of Asheville; Virginia Smith, Charlotte; and Merryll McConnell of Gainesville, Ga. Brothers Kenyon and Marquess attended the “Y” Retreat in Montreat over the weekend, while Brothers Turner and Tenney journeyed to the University of Virginia for a tennis tournament.

COWARD PLAY
[Continued from Page Three]

express the general atmosphere of the Bliss Household. Myra says: “You're the most infuriating set of hypocrites I’ve ever seen. This house is a complete feather bed of false emotions—you’re posing, self-centered egotists. You haven't one sincere or genuine feeling among you—you’re artificial to the point of lunacy.” The whole plot hinged on the strange behavior of this very strange family.

NOW PLAYING
The “King of Alcatraz” has a New Racket!
“ILLEGAL TRAFFIC”
J. CARROL NAISH
MARY CARLISLE
LARRY CLINTON and Orchestra

Friday-Saturday
RICHARD DIX
“12 CROWDED HOURS”
LUCILLE BALL
ALLAN LANE
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

HOLLAND PICKS STAFF
[Continued from Page One]

Sports Editor, is president of the junior class next year, worked on the Davidsonian staff for two years, and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Fraternity editor for next year will be Vernon Youngblood of Concord. He has recently received an assistantship in English for next year and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Roy Cunningham and Paul Crane are next year’s Assistant Editors. Crane is from Junten, Japan; Cunningham, from Huntington, W. Va., is a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

COLIN THE MAGICIAN
[Continued from Page Five]

Appearing in Charlotte
During Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday of this week, Colin is appearing in Charlotte with the Little Theater Guild, and he is putting on his act between the scenes. During the year, he and his troupe have appeared at different colleges and theaters throughout the state.

UNDEFEATED KITTENS WIN
[Continued from Page Four]

Mile: Sherrill (WS) Jewett (WS) Brewer (WS) 4:58.3.
440 yd. dash: Clower (WS) Stockton (WS) Moore (WS) 55.5.
100 yd. dash: Spencer (D) Owens (WS)Williams (D) 10.1. Low Hurdles: Taylor (D) Mangum (WS) Shannon (D) 25.6. 880 yd. run: Thomas (WS) Salmons (WS) tied for first Owen (WS) third. 220 yd. dash: Owens (WS) Spencer (D) Clower (WS) 23.9. High Hurdles: Mangum (WS) Taylor (D) Williamson (D) 15.1.

HONOR GROUPS [Continued from Page One]
There is some discussion of an honorary music fraternity on the campus. This is hoped for in the future, but no definite plans have been laid as yet. These new men will replace this year’s officers, who were: Locke White, president; W. S. Robinson, vice-president; and Sam Webb, secretary.

DORM. TAKING SHAPE [Continued from Page One]
built, a large amount of grading has been done, and sand, gravel, cement, and lumber have been gathered for the actual laying of the foundations, which is scheduled to take place soon. The contract for the new structure calls for its completion September 1.

R. O. T. C. MEN [Continued from Page Three]
the men who were selected from the number that applied were chosen on a basis of four things: the R. O. T. C. grade of the applicant for his Freshman and Sophomore year; the general grade of the applicant; his Extra-Curricular activities; and his ability to lead men. These four items were combined and an average obtained. From the result of this average, the men were selected. These men who were selected for the advanced course will automatically be promoted to the rank of Cadet Sergeant.

THE CITADEL [Continued from Page Five]
“Tides of Mont St. Mihiel.” Last year the most popular book was Carnegie’s “How to Win Friends and Influence People” and the year before that Mitchell's “Gone With the Wind.” It is interesting to note how these two books retain their popularity here, both being still in the top ten.

S. D. P. FEATURES [Continued from Page Three]
ing was in Spanish as were the introductory speeches. After a reading by Louis Hipp, “Social Trends in the Latin American Novel,” by Arturo Tones and Rioseco, the group adjourned.

ROTC GIVEN RATING [Continued from Page One]
companies, and anti-aircraft defense. (7) Also was noted by the officer the ability of the cadet officers to direct and control, the neatness and bearing in the unit; (8) the courtesies and customs of the service, and military discipline and morale.

PARADE OF OPINION [Continued from Page Two]
promote peace and international friendship which will give America her just place as the bulwark of the democratic systems of government.” But, the University of Minnesota Daily thoroughly disagrees with this group, and maintains that “Garner is no more than a small-time politician in spite of the persistent attempts to picture him as an astute statesman blessed with homely wisdom. Garner’s qualifications apparently consist of his ability to play poker, his position as a conservative democrat, and his political adroitness in sabotaging the New Deal. Considering all this, the Garner boom seems unbelievable, but unfortunately it is a political reality.” On the other hand, the McMurray College War Whoop (also in Texas) loudly whoops for his election with these words: “Should he be elected, he would serve the purpose of classifying all of the recent Roosevelt legislation, discarding the worthless (of which there is much) and strengthening the few really valuable laws that have been passed. ‘Cactus Jack,’ as dry as the plains of Texas, as sharp as the thorns of a Texas mesquite, and with a heart as big and as warm as the Texas from whence he comes should logically be our next democratic presidential nominee.” The President's efforts to make his party a strong liberal party has drawn strong praise from the Egyptian of Southern Illinois Teachers College: “President Roosevelt should be commended by all progressive citizens of both parties for his recent appeal to the Democratic party to definitely establish itself as the liberal party. For many years the words Democrat and Republican have been more or less meaningless as far as actually denoting the attitudes and policies of the party members. There has been an unnatural division among the voters with all shades of liberals and conservatives grouped together around the Democratic and Republican standards. It is to be hoped that Mr. Roosevelt will be successful in his attempt to dispel the magic of the words Democrat and Republican and establish a new political line-up of liberals vs. conservatives.”

YELLOW NIGHT [Continued from Page Three]
Director of Radio station WSOC of Charlotte; this station is an NBC affiliate. After dinner and after the presentation of “Hayfever” by the Red and Black Masquers the Theatre was entertained by an informal reception for Mr. Brengel given by Prof. and Mrs. Lewis B. Schenk at their residence.

SORORITY TAPS CO-ED [Continued from Page One]
scholastic ability, and she ranks now second in her class in this respect. Nor has she neglected her other abilities, having taken a great interest in journalism. She is now editor-in-chief of the law review published by the University.

Wed., May 17, 1938

QUESTION OF THE WEEK [Continued from Page Three]
campus news. The paper should be enlivened in some manner. The same type of cut and dried news is very boring.

Holt Barnwell, Sophomore: The editor of the sports page should be changed from week to week, thereby giving the six managing editors an opportunity to show the student body their talent. As it now stands the student body sees the name of only one Junior and therefore this one man is outstanding in their minds when the editor is elected. This gives him an unfair advantage.

Ease Dryness, Coughs RASPY THROAT - If your throat’s tormented with irritation, huskiness, dryness or coughs due to a cold, a Vicks Cough Drop dissolved naturally in your mouth will give the troubled membranes a soothing, medicated bath—for 12 to 15 minutes! Relief comes fast because Vicks Cough Drops...

Congratulations To the Senior Class of Davidson College Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N.C.

MISS DOROTHY QUACKENBUSH (Miss American Aviation 1938-1939) like all charming T. W. A. hostesses, is at your service clear across the country. Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

...ing mildness, Dorothy Quackenbush, with her smile and her Chesterfields, keeps smokers happy from coast to coast. Chesterfield’s happy combination of the world’s best tobaccos gives smokers just what they want in a cigarette...refreshing mildness, better taste, more pleasing aroma. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure...why THEY SATISFY.