~ Che Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1903
1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
$1.80 the Collegiate year.
Ten cents per copy.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, NY
Los Angeles - San Francisco - Chicago - Boston

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

TONY CASALI ................................ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM HERRIN .................................. MANAGING EDITOR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy .................... Assistant Managing Editor
Paul Thurlow ....................... Managing Editor
Tom Cauble .......................... Managing Editor
Lee Tilles .............................. Managing Editor
Walt Wooten ........................ Managing Editor
Lawson Withers .................. Editor
Andy Dales ............................ Editor
Phil Martin ............................ Editor
Jack Toland .......................... Editor
Karl Hudson .......................... Editor
Sam Spencer ........................ Editor
Robby Webbants ................ Editor

BUSINESS MANAGER .................. W.D. Neer

The fraternity and the music department sponsor a concert by the Platoff Don Cossack Choir. Far from being second rate, this group of twenty-six exiled Russian male singers and dancers have given more than 3,700 concerts on three world tours. Organized in Czechoslovakia under the patronage of President Masaryk and later President Benes, they have been received by the presidents of Brazil, Colombia, Peru, former U.S. High Commissioner McNutt and President Quezon of the Philippine Islands, and Governor Generals of Indo-China and the Dutch East Indies. In 1931 they sang to an audience of ten thousand packed into Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris.

There’s an old saying, though, that “You must pay for what you get.” According to college authorities, this concert will be serving as a test-case for future performances at Davidson. Naturally, the administration is anxious to bring only the best artists to the campus, but in the past admission has been free to students. Unless there is a special endowment given for these concerts, the college is obviously unable to allot enough money to bring only the best and most expensive programs. So adopting the plan used at those other schools, a relatively moderate student admission will be charged. The student body will be allowed to attend for fifty cents.

Thurs., Nov. 30, 1939

UNIV. OF SO. CALIF. PLAYED 18 HOLES OF GOLF - ONE IN EACH OF 18 CITIES - FROM LOS ANGELES TO NEW YORK.

WHEN UPSALA COLLEGE UPPERCLASSMEN SHOUT ‘AIR RAID’ ALL FRESHMEN IN THE VICINITY MUST DROP FLAT ON THE GROUND OR DIVE INTO A NEARBY BUSH!

HARRY STELLA, ARMY FOOTBALL CAPTAIN, AND ALLEN BERGNER, NAVY'S LEADER, WERE TEAMMATES WHEN THEY ATTENDED THE SAME HIGH SCHOOL IN KANKAKEE, ILLINOIS.

CAMPUS CARTOON

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

After last week's edition, the Georgia politicos have organized a strong rally supporting Governor Dickinson of Michigan in the race for the presidency of Davidson College. His backers declare that he has all the admirable qualities necessary for such a distinguished position. With just a little more persuasion, I think the Governor will get my vote and this column's support -- such as it is.

Dick Hudson had quite a time convincing his brother over long distance phone to Chicago that he wasn’t anticipating one anywhere in the near future. Why was Throop so mad when he found out that Ann Wiley had dropped by the campus and the Sigma Phi Nothing House and not by Georgia or the Fiji stronghold?

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Coingeen .......... Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Director .......... Mid Jones
Advertising Sales .......... B. Urreuhition
Pack Cover .......... Circulation
Veed Vollectian .......... The East Altair

Tomorrow Davidson and Wake Forest will meet on the gridiron for the last time, bringing to a close a series that started back in 1888. Wake Forest is heavily favored but the men of Davidson would rather lick the Deacons tomorrow than any other school in the country today and they will be out there fighting to the depths of their hearts for a victory. This battle is termed as "natural" and has been the subject of many a Davidson bull session since last year when it was announced that Davidson and Wake Forest would discontinue relations in football with this Turkey Day battle.

The question of how the Davidson spirit has fallen off so steadily this year has been one of great importance. No one, we believe, will doubt the fact that the Wildcats have not been supported as they should have been and tomorrow will be our last chance to prove to our team, coaches, etc., that we are behind them. Reports have it that the entire Wake Forest student body are to attend the game en masse. They’ve gone to all games in a big way and are planning to take the whole show tomorrow. They’ve scouted our Wildcats every game, they’ve talked Wake Forest over Davidson with unlimited speeches, and they too would rather beat Davidson tomorrow than Duke, Carolina, Clemson, or Southern California put together.

Davidson has won 12 games from Wake Forest and lost only eight. Four of the meetings resulted in ties and the last time that the Cats tasted victory from the Deacs was in 1936, our present Senior Class’ freshman year. It would be nice if the Seniors could have the distinction of seeing Davidson win two games over her greatest rivals of all time -- Wake Forest.

What Will The Verdict Be?

There have often been complaints in the past that Davidson was off the beaten track as far as entertainments are concerned. After reading about some of the concerts presented by outside artists at Duke, Carolina, and other larger colleges, some students have come to the conclusion that performances here by outside artists are bordering on the Grade B class.

There won’t be any such criticism next week, however, when Beta Gamma Phi and the music department sponsor a concert by the Platoff Don Cossack Choir. Far from being second rate, this group of twenty-six exiled Russian male singers and dancers have given more than 3,700 concerts on three world tours. Organized in Czechoslovakia under the patronage of President Masaryk and later President Benes, they have been received by the presidents of Brazil, Colombia, Peru, former U.S. High Commissioner McNutt and President Quezon of the Philippine Islands, and Governor Generals of Indo-China and the Dutch East Indies. In 1931 they sang to an audience of ten thousand packed into Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris.

There’s an old saying, though, that “You must pay for what you get.” According to college authorities, this concert will be serving as a test-case for future performances at Davidson. Naturally, the administration is anxious to bring only the best artists to the campus, but in the past admission has been free to students. Unless there is a special endowment given for these concerts, the college is obviously unable to allot enough money to bring only the best and most expensive programs. So adopting the plan used at those other schools, a relatively moderate student admission will be charged. The student body will be allowed to attend for fifty cents.

With the Staff

Lately I considered a group of nine men of our class of '30. They were, I think, a fairly representative cross-section of our student body, coming from both small towns and large and pursuing several different courses of study.

Of this group of nine, seven have continued on to various graduate schools. Thus only two of this group of nine seem to have been able to prepare themselves sufficiently while here to adopt their chosen vocations without further study. What then, does the Liberal Arts College prepare the student for? An interim of four years which prepares one for another interim of actual preparation? It seems more and more that one could just as well suffice with only one year of liberal arts before he specializes.

It seems possible that the Liberal Arts College is a sort of preparatory school for later specialized study and by itself can prepare the student for only a few non-specialized vocations. It may prepare him for associations with life without endowing him with sufficient specialized knowledge to work to gain a livelihood from that time. It may broaden his viewpoint, increase his culture, strengthen his character, and add polish to his bearing without arming him with the necessary sagacity needed to earn his bread in industry. Probably then the student could get by with only two years of polishing before he specializes. A mathematical surmise would be that one could get at least "half-broadened" in two years of general study. It seems reasonable to assume.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that this would be a feeling of love, and to give sufficient background for many forms of future picture graduate study. However, I think, as others seem to, that the four-year course in liberal arts will pay big dividends both in life and specialized study. Certainly, it is not merely a period of four years' worth, preparing one to spend another period pursuing higher studies. More likely, it is that period in which mind and personality develop more than at any other span in one’s life. True, it may be classed as a sort of luxury in these cases where a liberal arts diploma is not necessary for advanced study, but, as before, it seems an investment of time and money that will pay dividends in the future.

TOM CAUBLE, Letters To The Editor
Editor of The Davidsonian
Davidson, N.C.

I had the very great pleasure to have made a like impression on dinner and both participants just attending Homecoming at Davidson. Every father who attended that was as happy as they should be on such an occasion. This column’s best: inform them that he is away to Bristol and Virginia Intermont and enjoyed the whole program very much. The part of the program that interested me most was the incident that I want to make mention to you of, and that was the formal ball at the Armory in Charlotte on Friday night. When we walked into the Armory, we were presented with a card by a very beautiful young lady which read:

MOTHERS—The students of Davidson have chosen to abstain from the use of alcoholic beverages in connection with their social functions, etc. Signed by Student Dance Committee.

You will never know what an impression this made on me and must dance, or who has a son in Davidson, and I am proud of the fact that my son is attending such an institution that would have enough sense to cover all social functions. I have been to a great many dances in my day, college and otherwise, and this to me was an outstanding feature and long may the student body live, prosper, and be happy. Without a doubt, you have made an impression on me, and you stand for a lovely bride.

Until news reached us, I had no idea that “Moose” Sain was a lover par excellence. His inspirational message to his one-and-only was a purloined masterpiece over the weekend. Wanted to print it, but the bashful Sir Galahad faithfully refused to let us. After a most successful cabinet meeting in Charlotte Saturday night, Mayor Davis called a recess until this Wednesday night. He must have deserted Charlotte again; can’t tell which place his heart belongs—changes every week. Kellogg, The Duke, and Harrisberger were gone for a big weekend to New York, Washington, and Richmond respectively. They all managed to get back in good shape for the Phi Gam festivities in Charlotte on Turkey Day. While on the frat parties—the KA’s report a true steak fry—but the only dope we published to the world is that they had steaks—very illuminating. What well-known campus lover who frequents the haunts of Spartanburg recalled past memories and entertained again—this time this weekend? Take it gladly—he is bringing someone away.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 4-5

RAMBLINGS

Have you ever wondered if the dead can talk among themselves as Thornton Wilder has characterized them in “Our Town?” If so, do you ever wonder what they say about our civilization today? These words, some of them in French, some in English, Russian, Italian, and German (they too, can fate war), these words cry out to us in a voice that cannot be denied. But what should we do? I don’t know. There is nothing said in as much as they think back to another war fought upon foreign soil. I don’t want to come back only to find myself with one leg, one arm, and no heart. I want to live—live free, unencumbered by the chain of taxes and depressions that our fathers have suffered; free for my pursuit of happiness, and unchallenged, to my right of liberty.

The Cat and the Canary: Bob Hope, Paulette Goddard, Douglas Montgomery, George Zucco, Elizabeth Patterson, and Gale Sondergaard. Bob Hope brings a smile to her face and a rare buoyancy to her step in the role of lieutenant in the Russian army who is off to Paris to find out why the sale of government-owned jewels has been compromised. The attractive Melvyn Douglas convinces her that it is more important than the best of the masses. One cannot ignore another mystery thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Paulette Goddard is the young heroine who commits to many millions of people that she is not expendable within the leading role.

Instead, a smoking rifle and a repealed two weeks ago, a long step has been taken towards a realistic peace policy, and although belated, the United States has taken a stand. With this action, we have championed democracy to the defeat of totalitarianism. May God grant us, the living, that we may remain in a state of peace, that we may be a glorious example of peace for the coming generation, so that they may not hear our voices from the tombs—voices that we failed to heed.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.