Thurs., Oct. 12, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brothers Abels, Anderson, and Cima spent the week-end in Charlotte. Brothers Hamilton and Doty went to Rock Hill over the week-end. Pledge Browning journeyed to Greensboro over the week-end. Brothers Powell, Rainey, and Phillips attended the State-Clemson game and dance Saturday in Charlotte. Brothers Brinson, Youngblood, and Coltrane took off to High Point and Greensboro.

Kappa Sigma
Brother Hudson spent the week-end at his home in Raleigh. He attended the dance at Salem Saturday night. Most of the Brothers attended the Clemson-State game and dance in Charlotte Saturday night. Scott Cooper and Jimmy Hogg journeyed to Waynesville, Va. over the week-end. Vincent DeWitt accompanied them. Karl Jonas took in the Davidson-V.M.I. game in Bluefield Saturday. Brothers Scott, Hudson, and Ross paid their respects at Converse Friday night.

Beta Theta Pi
Clarence L. Newton, National President of Beta Theta Pi, and Bill Schetz, District Chief of the Pennsylvania District, and Bob Frazier, District Chief of District Eight, which is the district including the Davidson chapter, visited the chapter Sunday. Brother Newton was there for lunch and an informal session Sunday afternoon. Brothers Atwater and Garrou went to Bluefield, West Va., for the Davidson-V.M.I. game. Pledge Brother Powell visited in Burlington over the week-end. Brother Matthews went to the dance in Winston-Salem Saturday night. Miss Ethel Ann Hutchenson visited the chapter Sunday. Brothers Ramsey and McKnight went to Duke for the presentation of the charter to the newly established chapter at Duke.

Pi Kappa Phi
The past week-end found very few of our brothers and pledges on the campus. Among the most fortunate who were able to witness the V.M.I. game were brothers Louis Hite, Sam Woodward, Norris Erb, Bob Garvey, Tad Larkin, and Jim Morgan. Pledges Branko Lecic, Clarence McArthur, Jim Saunders, and Geddy Herring went to their respective homes, Albemarle and Roseboro. Most of the remaining brothers and pledges attended the Clemson-State game and dance in Charlotte Saturday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother Bob Douglas spent the week-end in Chester, S.C. Pledge Bertie spent Sunday night at the house. Brother Wyatt, '39, a faculty member, and their wives visited the chapter over the week-end. Pledge Grey went to his home in Concord. Brother Kelley attended the dance at Salem Saturday night. Most of the Brothers attended the Clemson-State game and dance in Charlotte Saturday night. Brothers Bahnson, Powell, Smith, Caldwell, and Hackney went to Bluefield with the team. The Wood brothers went to the Davidson-V.M.I. game also. Pledge Lumpkin went to his home in Columbia, S.C. Brother Lucas, Pledges Stewart and Tate spent the week-end in Charlotte. Many of the brothers attended the game in Charlotte and the dance afterwards, Saturday. Brothers Pete Marche of Clemson and Harry Easterly of Converse visited the chapter over the week-end.

Phi Gamma Delta
George Richmond, Bill Bolin, Jay Bolin, Tom Harnsberger, Jesse Wooten, Bob Johnson, and Walter Kyles made the trip to Wytheville, Va. last week-end. Mac Otts, Pete Cavert, and Doug Dillard also went to Virginia, but to Randolph-Macon, Stuart Hall, and Mary Baldwin respectively. Attending the dances at Salem College were Hughes Parrish, Pell Lyman, Harwell Darby, and Arch Taylor. Most of the other pledges and brothers attended the Clemson-State game and dance Saturday night in Charlotte.

Alpha Tau Omega
Brother Wright went to Salem Saturday night. Miss Ethel Ann Hutchenson visited the chapter Sunday. Brothers Ramsey and McKnight went to Duke for the presentation of the charter to the newly established chapter at Duke.

Christian Student’, ‘Ideal Queens Girl’
Several ‘Y’ men were guests at a retreat held at Camp Latta Sunday afternoon, given by the ‘Y’-cabinet of Queens College. The course laid by Dr. Goddard, Dean of Instruction at Queens, was followed by a picnic lunch. Dr. Goddard, Dean of Instruction at Queens, led the discussion, raising the question “What do we look for in a Christian student?” A discussion on “What does a Davidson Man expect of a Queens girl?” which was not completed at an earlier joint meeting, was raised and the opposite: “What do Queens girls expect of a Davidson man?” was also discussed.

Rain, Mud Bother Band On Jaunt To Bluefield
Pounding rain, a muddy field, and a broken down bus marred the trip to Bluefield for the V.M.I. game. After lunch, the band quickly prepared to play. Soon after the game had started, the sky clouded over and the rain came down. The strain of holding back proved too much for one of the members and he collapsed. The rest of the band, however, played on gamely.

Joint Meeting Discusses
The joint meeting of the Davidson and Queens College ‘Y’ cabinets was held Sunday afternoon. The discussion, led by Dr. Goddard, Dean of Instruction at Queens, raised the question “What do we look for in a Christian student?” and “What does a Davidson Man expect of a Queens girl?” The meeting was followed by a picnic lunch. Dr. Goddard led the discussion, raising the question “What do we look for in a Christian student?” and “What do Queens girls expect of a Davidson man?” The meeting was followed by a picnic lunch.

Beta Gamma Phi
Last Tuesday night, the honorary musical fraternity selected its new name, Beta Gamma Phi, at its regular weekly meeting in Shearer Hall. A committee, which had been appointed for that purpose, presented the new constitution and by-laws which, after a vote, were accepted. At the next meeting, new members will be elected. They will be elected only upon 100 percent vote, and taken from the supreme class each spring semester, the selections for the year will be made, making new members active during their Junior and Senior years.

Joe Johnson Conducts Ritual
The initiation, conducted by President Joe Johnson, included the initiation of Robert Wallace, James Pugh, Reid Johnson, Charles Armstrong, Paul Gillespie, and Leonard Smith. Professors Pfohl and McDonald served refreshments, and the meeting adjourned until next Tuesday night.

Columbia Professor Uses ‘Growth of the Life Within the Soul’
Dr. George Gutzke, Bible Professor at Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga., spoke on the topic “Growth of the Life Within the Soul” at the vesper service last Sunday. Dr. Gutzke, who was formally initiated at the Social Center last spring, used Jacob as a typical example of the man whose soul has grown out of facing various crises. Before he entered the ministry, he won the heavyweight boxing title in the Royal Canadian Navy.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

First, Dr. Gutzke defined that intangible thing called a man’s soul by comparing it with various inanimate objects, including a cathedral and a clock. A man is not just a mixture of bones and flesh, the speaker declared, but is more than that. It is this “more” that makes a man what he is, and this “more” affects us.

Many Faculty Members Secured as Teachers

Last spring the following men were elected to serve as officers of the student Sunday School class for 1939-40: president, Jack Ferguson; vice president, Bob Finley; and Secretary, Jim Owens. This year’s officers have already secured the services of some faculty members as teachers for the class. Every date is filled except the last Sunday in January and the second Sunday in March. The faculty members secured for this fraternity are Prof. Beatty, Dr. Brown, Dr. Currie, Prof. Davidson, Prof. Irwin, Prof. Goldiere, Dr. Hood, Prof. Luby, and Prof. McGavock.

Following is a complete list of the teachers and the date on which they speak:
September: 17, Dr. Frontis Johnston; 24, Dr. P. E. Gwynn
October: 1, Dr. S. C. Lyon; 8, Dr. S. C. Lyon; 15, Dr. C. K. Brown; 22, Dr. C. K. Brown; 29, Dr. Frontis Johnston
November: 5, Dr. A. M. Hillhouse; 12, Dr. K. J. Foreman; 19, Dr. S. C. Lyon; 26, Dr. S. C. Lyon
December: 3, Dr. K. J. Foreman; 10, Dr. W. G. McGavock
January: 7, Dr. C. K. Brown; 14, Dr. C. K. Brown; 21, Dr. Frontis Johnston; 28, Dr. P. E. Gwynn
February: 4, Dr. Johnston; 11, Dr. Foreman; 18, Dr. Foreman; 25, Dr. Foreman
March: 3, Dr. Currie; 10, Dr. Currie; 17, Dr. Gwynn; 24, Dr. Gwynn; 31, Dr. Williamson
April: 7, Dr. Gwynn; 14, Dr. R. Williamson; 21, Dr. Lyon; 28, Dr. Lyon

Dr. Gutzke declared that it is impossible for man to work out his salvation by himself. He can only seek refuge in God. When Jacob went to meet his past, Esau, he sought God and came out on top. The Bible is a record of what God does for evil men, and not what men do for God. The men of Davidson were charged by Dr. Gutzke to prove themselves to themselves. Some of life’s keenest satisfaction comes from doing things we thought we couldn’t do.

When you enter the student store at 12:05 a.m., remember, you are adding unpaid-for time on some clerk’s hours. This clerk probably has worked from nine o’clock through twelve. However, this isn’t half as disheartening as to have some freshman place a quarter on the register and look up green-eyed into the clerk’s face without uttering a word. If he tried to close his purchase, he would have been termed one of those freshmen (all rarities) who catches on.

Then there are the freshmen who break into the store and order with the store manager’s help. Cake insurance would have a high sales rating with the managers. Twenty-five brands of beverages are offered to students. Coca-cola sales top the list with milk, orange juice, and R. C. Cola trailing. Eighteen smoking tobaccos and thirty-five kinds of candies are sold by the twenty-two clerks.

On Thursday the fifth pep meeting of the year was held under the auspices of the cheerleaders Bob Williams, Charles Martin, and Jack Abels. Dr. Frazer Hood of the Psychology Department spoke to the group. He said that though many of the students would be able to go to the game, they should keep the team constantly in mind and think only of victory. Two more cheers followed, then Bob Williams introduced Matt Long of the freshman class. Referring to the recent scrimmage between the freshman team and the varsity, Matt said, “If the team hits the Flying Squadron like they hit us, M. I. will need a whole battalion.”

Next, Bill Grosse, also of the Freshman class, said a few words, and the meeting was closed with the singing of “O, Davidson.”

We knew it would happen—but we hoped it wouldn’t. The gulping season has been officially opened for another college year—and watch out for your laurels, you “winners” of last year!