Dr. C. G. Davis to Conduct Spring Services

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Students To Open Rooms For Inspection

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1939 No. 18

Trustees In Semi-Annual Meet Here

Executive Committee Meets Today for Preliminary Discussions

This afternoon at two o'clock the Executive Committee of the Trustees of Davidson College met in the E. L. Baxter
Davidson Room of Chambers to hear preliminary reports from the administration of the college. Tomorrow morning at ten o'clock the
Trustees will meet for their semi-annual session in the E. L. Baxter Davidson Room of Chambers Building to hear reports
from the administration and to discuss routine matters. Mr. Jackson, treasurer of Davidson, made a statement about the reports he
would make to the Trustees. Dr. Lingle was out of town, however, and hence no information was available about his
report. Mr. Jackson’s report included a discussion of budget matters for the school sessions of 1938-1939 and 1939-1940, a report
on the Centennial Movement and other financial matters. He also enumerated some of the campus improvements made during the past
summer. These include renewal of a pipeline in the heating system from Chambers and the Gymnasium to the Central heating
plant; installation of lavatories with hot and cold running water in each room in West Dormitory; installation of showers on
the third and fourth floors of East and West Dormitories; a new hot water pump installed in the central heating
plant; purchases of new furniture for the dormitory rooms; refinishing of one-third of the floors of Chambers Building and rewaxing
of the rest; and cleaning and special treatment of mattresses in the dormitories.

Lunch

The faculty and trustees lunched together about one o'clock in the banquet hall of Chambers Building and the trustees then
returned to their meeting. Several members of the Executive Committee accepted the invitation of the Quadwranglers Club (Continued on Page
Six)

W.C. Quartet Gives Recital

Faculty String Quartet Will Give Program in Phi Hall February 23rd.

On February 23rd, the Faculty String Quartet of the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina will present a
recital in Phi Hall. No admission fee will be charged.

There has been a movement lately to bring Chamber music to the campus. Interest in this particular type of music
is growing and has grown much in the past few years. Phi Hall is an especially appropriate place for such
a recital since the audience may become more intimately associated with the musical performance. The Faculty String Quartet of W.
C. U. N. C. is, interestingly enough, made up entirely of men. With one exception, each does his work primarily
in instrumental departments of the School of Music. In its Davidson College appearance, the quartet offers one of the finest
of the Beethoven quartets, that in A major, a work particularly distinguished by a remarkable air with variations, the “air”
being made up primarily of a simple scale.

Quadwranglers Club

Professor Ernest Beaty will speak on the subject “Papyrological Wit and Wisdom” at the regular February meeting of the Quadwranglers
Club on next Wednesday, at 8:15 P. M. in the Quadwranglers Room. The meeting has been changed to Wednesday night
to make it coincident with the meeting of the Board of Trustees. The members of the Board of Trustees have
been invited to meet with the club.

TO THE STUDENTS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE:

The notably fine deportment of the students of Davidson College on the occasion of the recent series of dances in
Charlotte has been the subject of most favorable comment among citizens of this city. I am informed that no liquor
bottles were found around the Armory-Auditorium after the dances and that there was practically no evidence of drinking, among either
the students or guests. I have one of the cards. The explanation is to be found in the attitude of
the students, as indicated in the cards distributed among those attending the dances. The printed cards read:

The Davidson student body has voted to abolish all use of intoxicating liquors during the period of our dances. By
this vote every student is considered under solemn covenant to refrain from drinking twelve hours before, during, and twelve hours
after, all dances.

The “Student Dance Committee” requests the hearty cooperation of our guests in the efforts of our students to live up
to their obligations in this matter.

I have quoted the card for the information of the reading public because what it says and the conduct of
the students at the dances constituted a worthy example. I congratulate you and Davidson College.

GENERAL MECKLENBURG.

[Continued on Page Two]

Debaters Encounter Washington and Lee

Bob Ramsey and Locke White Take Negative Side For Davidson

In their second debate of the season, the Davidson debating team, represented by Locke White and Bob Ramsey, met a
group from Washington and Lee University last night at 7:30 in Eu Hall. The question was that which will be
used in all debates this year, “Resolved: That the United States should stop spending public funds, including credit, for the
stimulation of business.” As is the custom in all debates held on the Davidson campus, no decision was made. Ramsey
and White took the negative side for Davidson. The Washington and Lee team came to Davidson after meeting Duke last
Monday night.

First Debate

The first debate of the Davidson team was held here last Wednesday night against Wake Forest. Sherrard Rice and John
Reisner took the negative side for Davidson, and Gene Worrell and Ralph Brummett represented Wake Forest. The next debate will
be held here in the early part of March at which time the team will contest [Continued on Page Three]

Officials For Pi Gamma Mu Are Selected

Simmons, Hulen, Sprunt Elected to Positions

Frank Simmons was unanimously elected president of the North Carolina Gamma chapter of Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity,
at the regular bi-monthly meeting held last Friday. Elmer Hulen and Dave Sprunt were elected vice-president and secretary respectively. The
meeting was opened with an invocation by vice-president Dave Woodward, this being followed by a report by the nominating committee
on the scholastic averages, the attendance records in chapter meetings, and the contributions to the work of the chapter of
the members eligible for nomination. Simmons had an average of 2.65 in the social sciences and an attendance record of
80 percent, and besides being a charter member, he has worked all year as chairman of the program committee and
a member of the executive committee. Elmer Hulen had a 2.95 average and an 80 percent attendance record, and Dave
Sprunt had a perfect attendance record and a 2.5 scholastic average. Since the vice-president performs the duties of the treasurer,
no one was elected to this office.

Seven important bills were passed and amendments were made in the constitution. A bill to provide for associate members was
discussed and tabled until the next meeting. The scholastic committee presented a report on the respective averages of proposed members,
and bids were later extended to eight men most of whom were Seniors.

Invitation

Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Gwynn extended an invitation to the chapter to attend a social Monday night, [Continued on
Page Six]

D. C. Band Broadcasts

For the second broadcast of the year 1939, the Davidson Symphonic Band presented their program over station WBT Tuesday evening
at nine o'clock. The program consisted of the following: “Jolly Robbers,” Overture; “Giribiri-Giribin,” Pestalozza; News given by Robert O. Kellogg;
“Americans We,” March, Fillmore; “The Mikado Selection,” Sullivan; Minuet from “Don Juan,” Mozart; “New Colonial March,” Hall; “Jesus, Lover of
My Soul,” hymn; and “O Davidson!” The program was directed by Professor James Christian Pfohl, and was announced by Professor
Thane McDonald.

French Club Plays In Three Cities

This spring Le Cercle Francais is going to continue its custom of visiting several schools in North and South Carolina
to present a program of French plays. The club has also been invited to appear before various French societies in
Charlotte and Greensboro. The first engagement will be with Salem College in Winston-Salem around the second week in March. Early
in April the club will journey to Spartanburg for the first half of an engagement with Converse College; and when
their students come to Davidson, the female roles in the plays will be taken by the Converse girls. The Cercle
has been asked to appear before L’Alliance Francaise in Charlotte the third Monday in April, but this date is not
definite as yet. The final performance on May 4 will be given before the North Carolina Chapter of the French
Teachers Association either at Greensboro or at Catawba College.

The regular program to be presented at all these places will be three plays—“Partie de Bridge” and “L’Anglais Qu’on le
Parle” by Tristan Bernard and an original play by John Reisner and Oscar Armstrong. Members of the cast of “L’Anglais
Qu’on le Parle” are: Chase Brenizer as Julien, Don Davidson as Betty, David Sprunt as M. Hogone, and the staff
of the Quips and Cranks.

Open House To Be Held For Friends

Annual Open House Sponsored Tomorrow in the Dormitories

A chance to observe the campus life of Davidson students will be given professors and friends of the college tomorrow
afternoon when the Senior Class sponsors its annual open-house in the dormitories. From 3:30 to 5:00 P. M. the first
floor of every building except the barracks will be open for inspection. The visitors will go first to the parlor
of Watts dormitory, and students will then guide them through the rooms. Refreshments will be served when the parties return
to Watts.

Invitations

Printed invitations have been issued to the board of trustees, professors and their wives, and several townspeople. The students who
live on the first floors of the dormitories have been asked, although not required, to open their rooms to the
visitors. This is the third consecutive year that the graduating classes have sponsored this event. Plans for this function have
been carried out by a committee appointed by senior president Sam Newell which includes Alex Erwin, chairman, and John Mawhinney
and “Boo” Walker.

Two Services Will Be Held

Annual World Day Of Prayer To Be Observed February 24

Two special services at Davidson College Friday, February 24, will mark the World Day of Prayer, observed here for the
first time last spring. A simple, informal service will be held in Philanthropic Hall at 7 o'clock followed by a
special program at the annual chapel service Friday morning. Sherrard Rice will lead the early morning group, while one of
the members of the faculty will lead the chapel exercises.

The World Day of Prayer is interdenominational in scope, and is a day to unite nations to pray together that
they may be all one in Christ Jesus; that the barriers be broken down.When Christians the world over and men
find ways to live together in peace, there will be informal and formal prayer meetings. There will be no service
in Phi Hall, but a prelude of silent piano music, followed by directed prayer meetings on the different halls, will
be preparations for the day. Dave Sprunt is in charge of arrangements for the service this year, which is expected
to attract a large group of students and townspeople. Between fifty and seventy-five attended the meeting last year. The World
Prayer Day will begin in New Zealand and the Fiji Islands, with the last meeting scheduled for the St. Laurence
Islands off the coast of Alaska, about thirty miles from the international date line.

Contest Announced
Cranks, the college annual, wishes to announce that it will feature a snapshot contest for the annual yearbook. The first
prize award for the winner of the contest will be $2.50. The pictures to be judged must consist of campus
scenes, students, faculty, and odd happenings at school. They will be judged on points of originality, clearness, and usefulness. Any
number of pictures may be submitted by one contestant. Members of the annual staff will come around through the dormitories
to collect pictures.

(Continued on Page Six)

Maurice Hindus Discusses Present Situation In Czechoslovakia
SPEAKS HERE MONDAY
Criticizes England and France’s Attitude

Maurice Hindus, noted Russian lecturer, spoke to a full audience in Chambers Building Monday night. His subject was: Czechoslovakia, Her
Glory, and Her Grief. Dr. A. Currie, who introduced the speaker, stated that we of America are really interested in
knowing, aside from propaganda, what is transpiring in the old world. Born in Russia, Mr. Hindus left there at the
age of thirteen and settled in New York, attending the Graduate School of Harvard University. He has visited his native
country ten times since the Revolution.

In his address, Mr. Hindus said that he had gone back to gather material for a new book that he
was preparing, only to find that it was the saddest book that he had ever written; he returned with the
manuscript fully completed.

Same Race
The Slavs are of the same race although they are entirely different. In fact, the only similar thing between them
is that they both eat thick slices of bread. The Russians are talkative and hospitable, and they have a marvelous
sense of discipline. They can do any amount of hard labor and are among the most skilled workers in the
world. The most notable feature is that they are not militaristic. At the outburst of the World War, the Czechs
were the best physically in the world; they were mobilized by Austria but later deserted to the Allies. College professors,
industry, and the army were given absolute freedom in their country and were even allowed to keep their Old Hebrew.

Sudetenland
The Sudetenland, the contest of last fall, is a vast land that is very well fortified. The Germans tried every
possible method to gain this territory and stuffed the land with spies who were well treated by the Czechs, contrary
to propaganda sent out by the Hitler machine. He wanted this land because he wanted a democracy to suppress democracy.
Mr. Hindus continued by saying that England and France did not tell the Czechs that they were not going to
defend them, and they waited until the zero hour to do this. The people marched up and down the streets
crying out, “Give us arms—we want to die.” They had to evacuate immediately and Chamberlain didn't even warn them. In
spite of this extreme sacrifice, nothing was gained. He ended his speech with the stirring words of a Czech editor
in one of his editorials: “We wanted to sing with angels, but we must [Continued on Page Three]

Science Marches On
Science is on the march again. Watch this paper next week to find out how science is about to rule
the world. This is not a religious cult. We owe allegiance to no country. We have discovered basic truths about
our world which give us control over man never known before. You can know these truths and share our power
next week.

Steel Speaks About Riflery
Major C. L. Steel Asks D Club To Consider Riflery As Sport

Riflery as a sport at Davidson was the subject of a talk made by Major C. L. Steel to the
D Club at its regular meeting in Elm Row last night. In view of the fact that the rifle team
has a full schedule, and because it is supported by the College, Major Steel thought that it should be made
into a sport. He also pointed out that anyone on the rifle team must keep in physical condition and must
show skill and much hard work in learning to shoot from the various positions. The main subject for the evening
was the discussion of whether the D Club should recommend to the Athletic Council that riflery be made a sport.
Though the D Club can take no initial action in this movement, its suggestions have always held a high place
in the minds of the Athletic Council. If riflery is made a regular sport, then letters will be given for
it by the college, and then the men may become members of the D Club. The fact that many other
schools and colleges award letters for this sport may influence the club to suggest that the same be done here
at Davidson. If the suggestion is passed by the council, the Numeral Club will then take action to present numerals
to Freshmen on the rifle team.

French Club Meets
On last Tuesday night, February 21, the French club held its regular meeting at the home of Dr. A. V.
Goldiere at which a program consisting of two one-act plays and essays by two of the members was presented. One
of the plays was written by John Reisner and Oscar Armstrong, President and Vice-President of the club. The first play
on the program was a comedy in one act by Tristan Bernard entitled “Partie de Bridge,” which deals with the
efforts of a very sick man to play bridge in order not to disappoint his friends. Vice-President Armstrong then read
a one-act play by himself and Reisner, and Sid Crane and Kenneth Pope read their original essays on French topics.

Davidson Men Attend Post-Madras Meeting
A delegation of eight students will attend the post-Madras conference held in Charlotte tonight under the auspices of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg
Ministerial Association. The Madras conference was held in Madras, India during the Christmas season to ascertain the status of foreign
missions and to lay plans for the furthering of the cause of Christendom. Delegates from all over the world attended
the conference. The post-Madras conference being held Tuesday and Wednesday nights of this week in the First Methodist Church and
the Second Presbyterian Church is being led by a team from the International Conference in Madras. The following are members
of the visiting team: Professor Camargo, Mexico, Secretary of the World’s Sunday School Association in Mexico; Dr. P. Cesu, China,
Professor in Shanghai University; Miss Ila Sirear, National Student Movement Secretary; Miss Sallie Lou Mackinnon, Indian, Secretary, Department of Woman's
Work, Board of Missions, M. E. Church, South; Dr. Edward D. Grant, Executive Secretary, Committee of Religious Education, Presbyterian Church,
U. S.; Mr. H. P. Myers of the Southern Methodist Board will be team captain.

Dr. C. Grier Davis, Davidson Graduate, To Hold Series March 19-22
Rev. C. Grier Davis will be the speaker at the annual Spring Services to be sponsored by the Y. M.
C. A. Cabinet, March 19-22. As usual, the series will open on Sunday at the regular vesper service and will
continue through Wednesday evening, March 22, consisting of two services daily, one at chapel period and one each evening. Mr.
Davis will come here from Asheville where he has been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church for the past year.
He graduated from Davidson in 1927 and has since had an interesting career. While a student here, Mr. Davis was
president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and treasurer of the Forensic Council. He took part in many activities and was
a member of the Y Cabinet, Alpha Phi Epsilon, the Glee Club, the varsity wrestling team, and the freshman debating
team. After leaving Davidson, Mr. Davis worked for a year under the Home Mission office of the Synod of Arkansas.
In 1929, he entered Union Seminary in Richmond and completed his course there in 1931. Following his graduation from Seminary,
Mr. Davis accepted a call to be assistant pastor at Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond. When the pastor left in
1932, Mr. Davis became acting pastor. He then received a call to be pastor of Second Presbyterian Church in Norfolk,
Virginia, and went there in 1935. Union Seminary awarded Mr. Davis the Th. M. Degree. He is now working for
his D. D. and expects to complete this work next year.

Nash Inspects Local Chapter
Inspector of Scabbard and Blade Finds Everything In Proper Order

Lt. Emery Nash, inspector of Scabbard and Blade for the Fourth Corps Area, visited the local chapter here Saturday for
purposes of inspection. Mr. Nash, a young Reserve officer from Shawmut, Ala., was accompanied by Mrs. Nash on his tour
of inspection of this Corps Area which includes the territory south of the North Carolina-Tennessee line and east of the
Mississippi. He gathered data for a report to be handed into the National Headquarters of the organization.

Future Work
The company met at 1:00 P.M. Saturday afternoon here at which time he offered suggestions and advice for the future
activities of Scabbard and Blade. He found everything in proper order. He also discussed various problems confronted by the company
here. He also spoke on the Convention held in Berkeley, California during the past November to which the chapter here
was unable to send a delegate.

Rumor Is Denied
College authorities emphatically denied a prevailing rumor that any further change is to be made in the Davidson coaching staff.
A short time ago, Parks Harrison, wrestling coach, resigned from the staff and a rumor has been prevalent around the
campus that another member of the coaching staff was planning to leave at the end of the semester. This is
absolutely false as no other changes are to be made.
