The hymn, starting “Davidson, Of Davidson Alma Mater” was the final number. Set Tickets Go Off Sale At Noon Tomorrow. Fraternities See Decorations For Gala Halloween Program. The student body gathered in front of Chambers to hear Dr. William Jacobs, president of Presbyterian College, sitting at the feet of the “Chambers mermaids.” A cordial reception was given the president, who was greeted by loud cheers and applause. 

Approximately 250 Davidson students accepted the blanket invitation extended to the student body for a Halloween Carnival at Queens-Chicora College. This invitation was extended by Ann Fuller, the president of the Queens student body. In a letter from “Sis” Day, president of the student body of Converse, she stated that the girls appreciated the invitation very much and that they were highly in favor of a Converse Day at Davidson. 

Dutch McMillin, leader of the Duke Ambassadors, who will play here tomorrow and Saturday nights, is shown above yielding some torrid tones from his clarinet. McMillin is well known as a clarinet player. He played this past summer with Jimmy Dorsey at Meadowbrook. 

The welcome alumni are expected to gather on the campus from 10:00 on for back-slapping and reminiscing. Supper will be held in the basement of Chambers, and that night some entertainment will be given in the Chambers Auditorium. As yet no plans have been drawn up for this. 

Arriving as soon after lunch Saturday as possible, the girls will be greeted by Davidson students at numerous date bureaus set up on the lawn in front of Chambers. All girls securing blind dates will be admitted free. Supper will be held in the basement of Chambers, and that night some entertainment will be given in the Chambers Auditorium. 

The Rev. Sam Wiley concludes his series of addresses to Davidson students tonight at 7:15 in Chambers. In chapel and at 7:15 P.M. for the past three days Mr. Wiley has delivered the six messages of the fall services. 

The song is copyrighted by the Waring organization, but Davidson has full rights to use it if they so desire. However, before it was composed, there was an understanding that the college would be under no obligation whatsoever to adopt the piece if it does not meet with their entire approval. 

The band, originally founded by Les Brown, had Dutch as a clarinetist. Dutch later took over the ensemble when Les was forced to give it up. 

The dance set will be the only one before the Christmas vacation. This dance set will be the only one before the Christmas vacation, according to Paul Marion, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, in a statement to the student body last week. 

Breaking a precedent of years, flowers will not be worn at Davidson dances according to Paul Marion, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, in a statement to the student body last week. 

The Rev. Sam Wiley concludes his series of addresses to Davidson students tonight at 7:15 in Chambers. In chapel and at 7:15 P.M. for the past three days Mr. Wiley has delivered the six messages of the fall services. 

The new arrangement of dance sets, which eliminates a pre-Christmas dance, will go into effect with the Homecoming dances of this week. Only dates of the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council will be allowed to wear corsages. These will be the girls in the figure. Should any others bring flowers, they will have to be left at the door. 

The Masquers Present Trio Of One-Act Dramas.| Topics for the ‘Cats against the Citadel Bulldogs. The Red and Black Masquers, in chapel: Tuesday, Mr. Wiley vent it the back range to iron out all pre Phe banning e! pay! ue con Hee A ear S O O n | local dramatics organization, pre-} ojoce as his topic, A Full Grown Indications are that many blaz- | vlous on UNICS i at alter Jong —deliberation or years ae & ae sented three successful one-act} \fay taking his text from Ephe- et will be purchased since a large Vicke for the homecoming | the question of the added expense mor he oth tae) P ) : Gy Jot = : ay ary © j ated i “ef-| Dances went on sale Tuesday, Oc-} of buying flowers has arisen and activities will be a concert in the | plays on Tuesday, October 24. These sians. In the scripture Paul gives number of seniors stated its pref j | ying ) wiBa Ee First ioe; s os To Be plays were directed by three senior | the ideal of the perfect church | erence on Monday. Currie announe- tober 24th, and will go off sale Fri-| this year for the first time the is- auditorium Friday by the sym- | members of the Masquers, assisted Bei itomataraiteandiinowiedealcd that measurements for the jack- day, November 3rd; LARA usa Sie has actually come to a vote 2 1 ye 1 1 dre i is a 1 ik 1 TI by Prof. E. J. Erwin. The first of-God. A character sketch of Judas was his topic on Near future by a member of a Council are in charge of the ticket | social fraternities. The majority de-| afternoon has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Tuesday evening. tailoring company. Delivery will sale, cided that there will be a concert A special feature will be the an- peneting ee eaheAl Scripts ’n ed” and written by H. Stuart Cott- Meeting with the “Y” Cabinet take between ten days and a month, | This action at Davidson follows a MINION TER RHE B COTATI EU THATeRHiaN » barges: : , : Z s a uses 1D W > given by the Pranks is, yours on Saturday, No-| man and Le Vergne Shaw. The} on Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y” could to about twenty and displayed in played for the student body fol- the annual fall set of dances to be At long last, it’s come the great| mara CA es ot Leto ea) cy Aas She a Pot poverty Foye Arardage ieice fae ee erin ern eolecrda Attain oo event for which the student body| eencenms: Of the series was a dra- carried on. the Student Store for the past lowing chapel last Monday. held at the Charlotte Armory on has been waiting all these first lone matic tragedy, entitled “Submerg- Wednesday night, Rev. Wiley Members of the class have been! week up to the time of the final | the custom at several other houses. A concert will be given by the ia: ud s Dé ay, Rs * . m7: he rt arolina in| Pan Hellenic Council to the under- vember 4th. cast of characters in order of their discussed the topics for his Thurs- examining a large number of ma- ballot on Monday. tern schools. particular interest at such a time adjudged most original in the decoration of its house as appearance follows: Dunn, Melvin day addresses and gave sugges- terial samples for several weeks. Radio Station WSOC made a re- | The majority of the social frater- | the Davidson ROTC unit Friday Means; Shaw, Jo Newell Robinson; tion; as a former student and the samples were narrowed down cording of the piece which will be nities have decided to take part in | afternoon. McAn- secretary as to how the “Y