Hudson To Play Friday Of Mid-Winters

Z528 ALENDA_ LUX UB! ORTA

Che Mabidsonian

LIBERTAS

Propose Revision Of Point System Rules

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1939 No. 14

Bishop E. A. Penick To Preach Sermon At Commencement

Episcopal Rector Will Deliver Baccalaureate Address on June Fourth

ALUMNI DAY MOVED

Change To Enable Exercises To End On June 4th.

Bishop Edwin A. Penick of Raleigh, N. C., will preach the Baccalaureate sermon to the Class of 1939 on Sunday,
June 4, as part of the graduation exercises. Changes in the Commencement program were also announced today.

Bishop Penick is a native of Frankfort, Ky., and took his theological training at the Episcopal Theological Seminary in Alexandria,
Va. He has held various rectorships in Bennettsville, S. C., Columbia, S. C., and Charlotte, N. C. From 1922 to
1932 he was Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of North Carolina and has been Bishop of that Diocese since that
time. Bishop Penick has been at Davidson several times in the past, but not in recent years.

Program Altered

The graduation exercises will take place on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, June 3, 4, and 5 this year instead of
Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday as in the past. This alteration, made with the approval of the Faculty, the Trustees, and
the Alumni Council, will probably be received favorably by the seniors, since in the past they have had to spend
Monday in idleness while waiting for their diplomas to be awarded on Tuesday. This means that Alumni Day, formerly held
on Monday, will be on Saturday this year.

The commencement program for 1939 is as follows: Friday, June 2, 10:00 a. m., Meeting of the Trustees; 4 p.
m., Executive Committee, Alumni Council; 8 p. m., Alumni Council. Saturday, June 3, 10 a. m., Alumni Discussion Groups; 12:30
p. m., Alumni Luncheon; 4 p. m., Class Day Exercises; 5 p. m., Faculty Reception; 8 p. m., Musical Concert.
Sunday, June 4, 11 a. m., Baccalaureate Sermon; 4:30 p. m., Sacred Concert; 8 p. m., Baccalaureate Address. Monday, June
5, 10:30 a. m., Academic Procession; 11 a. m., Graduation Exercises.

Davidson Men Given Honors

John Mac Walker, Jr., of Charlotte, N. C., and William McIlwaine Thompson of Richmond, Va., graduates of Davidson, have been
awarded fellowships from the Union Theological Seminary for study during the next two years.

Mr. Walker, son of Rev. and Mrs. J. M. Walker, was awarded the Salem Fellowship by the faculty. He is
a graduate of Davidson College, class of ’36, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. During his junior
year he won the Latta scholarship at the Seminary for outstanding work. He has been active as an assistant pastor
at the First Presbyterian Church in Newport News, Va. during the summer months, and also he has helped with the
religious activities at Montreat. He has been lauded by many famous critics on his ability as a sculptor and wood
carver. He is anticipating using this fellowship for two years of study at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Mr. Thompson, the “Wee” of the “Wee-Tee” twin brother combination, graduated at Davidson in 1934. He served as president of
the “Y” and associate editor of the Davidsonian in his undergraduate years and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa. Since he has been at the Seminary he was elected President and Secretary of the Seminary student
body. Last summer he was assistant pastor at the First Presbyterian Church at Roanoke, Va. He plans to obtain his
Ph. D. degree in Theology also at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Remember Her?

Back again with Dean Hudson’s Florida Clubmen will be lovely Miss Francis Colwell. Davidson dancers haven’t forgotten her sweet renditions
of both our old and new favorites. She is equally as well known for her work in a vocal trio
made up of two of the Clubmen as for her solos. She also sings with the entire band in their
glee club. The glee club’s special arrangement of “Liebestraum” is especially well remembered.

Seniors Urge Better Dress

Discuss and Resolve Move For Neater Attire At Evening Programs

Members of the Senior Class met on December 8 for the purpose of discussing the need for more care among
students of their appearance when attending Sunday night services and all evening lectures in Chambers Auditorium. After some discussion the
class put their sentiments on the subject into a resolution. The purpose of the resolution was to encourage all students
to wear coats and more timely and neatly attire for lectures held in the evening. It states that members of
the student body should at least wear more timely attire out of respect for the lecturers, ministers, and faculty members.

The resolution which was passed by a unanimous vote is worded as follows: “Having witnessed from time to time at
our Sunday Vesper, and at the evening lectures students without coats and otherwise carelessly dressed, the Senior Class wishes to
go on record by a unanimous vote as deploring the present practice, both as a shoddy habit to acquire and
as a positive discourtesy to our lecturers, ministers, and faculty. The class would further like to place itself in a
position of positive encouragement of more timely attire for these evening occasions. In doing so the class invites the cooperation
of every member of the student body in improving what we feel has become a regrettable condition.”

Beavers Wait To Have Hunt

Wednesday morning after chapel, the Beaver club held a brief meeting and decided to postpone the planned ’possum hunt, which
would conflict with the basketball game scheduled for Saturday night. Much enthusiasm had been worked up over the prospective hunt,
so Buck Powell states that it will be held after the semester examinations. The hunt will be held at “the
rocks,” and hay wagons will be used as transportation to that spot. Powell says that the club has already started
working out plans for the coming semester, and other social functions will add to the list.

Davidsonian To Compete In Contest

Paper Given All-American Rating In Last Collegiate Press Competition

After having received All-American rating last year, the Davidsonian will once again enter the Critical Service Contest conducted by the
Associated Collegiate Press. The judges examine issues of each paper entered, and place each in one of five classes: All-American,
First Class, Second Class, Third Class, and Fourth Class. In 1938 only 20 college newspapers of the almost four hundred
entered received All-American rating, the Davidsonian being one of these.

Deadline January 28

January 28 is the deadline for entering the service this year. Each member of the Associated Collegiate Press that enters
is required to send all their issues since October 1. The judges select four representative ones for criticism. After the
papers have been judged and rated, each one is sent a scorebook containing the recommendations of the judges, pointing out
the strong points and the weaknesses in the publication. A certificate of the award will be sent to all papers
in the first four classes; no certificates are given to Fourth Class papers.

Pacemakers

In the All-American class, approximately two per cent of these favored publications are named as Pacemakers, the outstanding among the
All-Americans. To ensure fair consideration for all publications, papers are classified into fifteen groups according to type and size of
school and frequency of issue. The judges are Ralph O. Nafziger, and Siegfreid Stiekleson of the University of Minnesota department
of journalism; Frederick J. Noer, Editor Collegiate Digest; and Harry E. Atwood and Jay C. Richter, former editors of the
Minnesota Daily.

Sixty Men To Pay Damages

Responsibility for Collecting Money Laid on Shoulders of Guilty Boys

Approximately sixty boys from the student body have taken responsibility to pay for the damages to the various dormitories as
a result of the week’s hilarity before Christmas vacation. For three nights before the holidays, student enthusiasm over the coming
Christmas season could not refrain from bubbling over to a point where considerable damage was done to college property.

At a student body meeting last Friday morning, presided over by Fred Stair, the situation was gone over and discussed
by Hank Bahnson and members of the three upper classes. Bahnson finally made a motion to the effect that the
guilty ones sign a list in Stair’s room, after which these students could meet to decide methods for paying for
broken panes. This motion was seconded by Joe Gammon and passed.

Monday morning the sixty who had signed the list held a meeting, in which it was decided that each hall
in the dormitories be assessed for the damage done on that particular hall. The amount of the destruction of property
is to be paid for by those students who were in on the fun. Damage done consisted primarily in breaking
window panes and tearing screens. Three hundred and seventy-one of the former were broken and had to be replaced, while
twenty-four screens were torn, some so badly that entirely new ones had to be put in.

Prudence is an excellent virtue but don’t confuse it with timidity.

Club to Give Opera

The Red and Black Masquers, in cooperation with the music department, are making plans to present Reginald de Koven’s comic
opera “Robin Hood” as part of the commencement exercises this year. As nothing definite has been decided, no announcements as
to the methods of try-outs can be made but the Masquers will announce more definite plans later. The opera is
a popular one in three acts and includes such well-known solos as “O! Promise Me.” The Red and Black Masquers
also plan to give a three-act play in March. The one to be given has not been selected and the
members of the organization are anxious to get any suggestions which students may have as to some plays which they
may particularly like to see.

Dorm Plans Go Forward

Designer of Chambers Is Chosen to Draw up Plans For New Dorm

During the Christmas holidays a committee appointed for the selection of an architect to draw up plans for a new
dormitory met and chose Henry C. Gibbs, well-known Nashville architect, who drew the plans for Chambers Building to design the
new building which will be started sometime this spring.

The position of the new dormitory has not been decided as yet, but a tentative site is next to East
Dormitory toward the stadium. If this plan is followed the road below East will be changed to provide room for
the new building.

Announcement that a new dormitory would be built was made during Homecoming which was held November 12. Money for this
building was not taken from the centennial fund, that being left for other purposes. A special fund set up by
the college into which regular sums have been deposited will take care of the financial end.

Bands Invited To Music Day

Clinic For Musical Units to be Held Saturday

An all-day band and orchestra clinic, the first ever to be held in this state,will be sponsored at Davidson by
the college music department Saturday, January 14th. Pfohl has invited both directors and players of the high schools throughout North
Carolina to visit Davidson on that day. This clinic will be devoted to the discussion and demonstration of the contest
pieces to be used for state music contests in Greensboro this spring. The band and the string orchestra from Woman's
College of the University of North Carolina will play the entire list, and visiting high school musicians may “sit in”
and play also. At ten o'clock Saturday morning, clinics for string, woodwind, and brass instruments will be held. Leaders in
these musical fields who will direct these classes will be: Dean Hugh H. Altvater and George Dickinson of W.C.U.N.C., strings;
Philip Separk of Concord, woodwinds; and Leonard Meretta of Lenoir, brasses. The main orchestra clinic demonstration, under the direction of
Dean Altvater, will begin at 1:30 P.M., with the Woman’s College string orchestra demonstrating. At 2:30 P.M. the Davidson college
band will demonstrate for the band clinic, under the direction of Earl A. Slocum, director of the University of North
Carolina Band, and James Christian Pfohl of Davidson. Two state musical associations will also use this day to hold meetings
and discussions.

Revision Of Hudson and Kemp Government To Furnish Music Is Proposed Change in Order of Elections To Be Brought To
Vote Tuesday

On Saturday, Jan. 7, Fred Stair, President of the Student Body, presented a proposed revision of the Student Government By-Laws
concerning the order of election officers. This proposal changes the elections of the editors of the annual and magazine. The
proposal read: “Purpose of proposed revision: In light of the point system amended to the constitution, the Point System Committee
of the Student Council proposes the following revision of Section 7 of the By-Laws, which deals with the order of
elections. This revision is proposed in an effort to run elections in order of their point values; to make the
point system work more efficiently; and to avoid embarrassment and confusion which may arise under the present order because some
men may be required to resign from minor offices in order to keep within the maximum limit of forty points.
If the present order of elections is maintained, certain difficulties and embarrassments are sure to arise; if the proposed revision
is adopted, the elections will be conducted in a logical and orderly fashion.”

“Proposed Revision of Section 7 of the By-Laws of the constitution: Student Body elections shall be run off in the
following order: Student Government, Student Y.M.C.A., Annual, Magazine, Athletic Association, Class Officers, Freshman Advisor, Student Publication Officers, Cheer Leader, and
M.C.A. Board of Control.”

This proposed revision was presented by Sam Webb, Chairman of the Point System Committee, originally. Chairman Webb stated that the
revision was only to make the Point System run more smoothly, without hitches such as forcing a man to resign
from an office (after being elected to another) to keep within the forty-point maximum.

Sum Is Given College YMCA

Anonymous Gift To Be Used For Boys’ Work

For the third time in the past few years, the YMCA received a contribution of $150.00 for boys’ work in
Davidson last week. All the contributions have been from the same anonymous source. By means of these contributions, the boys’
work of the YMCA has been enabled to expand to far greater bounds than ever before, and many things have
been accomplished that would never have been done had it not been for the additional funds. The money will be
applied in approximately the same manner it has been in the past. Some of the activities promoted by these contributions
in former years are the following: the building of a scout hut behind the Davidson High School and furnishing this
hut with a tool kit and work shop; the building of a scout hut behind the mill chapel, and the
starting of a troop there under Ivan Stafford; the establishment of a colored troop in the colored village, last year
under Frank Brown, and this year under Dave McLean; the starting of a troop in Cornelius under Bill McLauchlin and
A. Winn; the commencing of various Hi-Y groups, especially the one at the high school, under Locke White and Jones,
and the group at Cornelius directed by Bill Boyle and Eldridge Brown. The gifts have made possible a much larger
field of activities than before, and the YMCA wishes to express its deepest gratitude to the anonymous donor through the
medium of this paper.

He's Back Again

Furnishing the music for Friday’s tea dance and formal will be Dean Hudson and his likeable Florida Clubmen. His novel
arrangements and fine music made him a favorite with Davidson students when he played for the Spring Dances last year.
His Clubmen are fourteen in number and besides being experts in both sweet and swing numbers, all sing in a
glee club. He comes to us from the Hotel Lowery in St. Paul.

Library Given Encyclopedia

The Class of ’26 Donates New Set of Encyclopedia For Mid-Winters

Hudson Features the Voice of Miss Frances Colwell and Glee Club

BOTH BANDS ON TOUR

Clubmen Have Played In South and Mid-West

Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen have been secured to play for the Friday dances of the Mid-winters set. Hal
Kemp and his orchestra will play for the Saturday dances which will be held in the Charlotte Armory on February
the 10th and 11th. The Florida Clubmen played here last year for the Spring dances and were tremendously popular with
those who attended the dances. The students commented especially on the soft, smooth arrangements the band played.

Began In Florida

From a humble start at the University of Florida three years ago, Dean Hudson has welded this youthful crew into
one of the most outstanding “up and coming” orchestras in the country. Miss Frances Colwell with her rich contralto voice
is featured with the band, and she joins with two other members of the organization to form the Miami Trio.
Dean himself lays aside the baton to vocalize on a few numbers. Not many of the students who went last
year have forgotten “Drummer Boy” Sam Latimer or the “Truckin’ Senator” Howard Able.

Well Trained Glee Club

Probably the most outstanding feature is the combo’s outstanding Glee Club harmonizing in front of the bandstand. All the boys
combine to form a glee club, and it brings desired results. The voices are above average for a group of
bandmen and good coaching is apparent. Hudson and his men have been playing engagements in the mid-west, having a particularly
long stay at the Beverly Hills Country Club in Newport, Ky. They drew an all-time high in attendance at the
Tantilla Gardens in Richmond, Va. They also pulled in the largest crowds at the famous Boston Totem Pole. The Clubmen
have been playing at the Hotel Lowery in St. Paul, Minnesota and are now on a southern tour. Kemp is
also on his southern tour and will go to Georgia Tech, then to the Fancy Dress Ball at Washington and
Lee, then University of Tennessee, Clemson, and then Davidson.

Encyclopedia Britannica

As a gift from the class of 1926, a new set of the Encyclopedia Britannica was received by the library
last week. The Class of 1926 had when it graduated what is believed to be a unique financial residue of
over one hundred dollars. For more than a decade this surplus gathered interest and then at the Centennial Commencement the
Class officers met with a considerable number of other twenty-sixers and voted to make a gift to the College Library
for some needed set of books. The choice was left to Dr. Robert Graves of the Duke Medical School Faculty,
who was Treasurer of the Class. Dr. Graves corresponded with Professor Davidson, Director of the Davidson Library, and it was
found that the only difficulty lay in the choice of the set. The Encyclopedia Britannica was finally settled upon as
the set belonging to the college was out of date and much the worse for wear. By this generous gift
from the Class of 1926, a gift which will further the principal purpose for which the college was founded, a
bookplate has been placed in each volume reading: “Presented by the Class of 1926.”

Journalism Class To Be Continued

The future of Davidson's journalism class will probably be decided tonight. President Paul Cooper has announced that tentative plans are
to have meetings twice a month with visiting speakers as instructors. These speakers will probably include such leaders in the
Carolina newspaper field as sports editor Jake Wade, news photographer Houston, writer and editor Legette Blythe, editor Julian Miller and
others. The class will probably not select another faculty sponsor at present. Wednesday evening, Dec. 14, the class had a
farewell party in the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house for Smith. There were approximately (Continued on Page Five)

Brewer Calls For Pictures Today

Cage Brewer requested that all fraternities begin collecting snapshots of their chapters, since this year’s annual will have a page
of them for each chapter in the fraternity section. Any men with snapshots of the campus or school life are
urged to keep them for publication. All pictures used will be returned to the (Continued on Page Five)
