Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., Feb. 22, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Charlotte, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Editor-in-Chief
BILL WILLIAMS

Business Manager
JOHN TATE

Managing Editor
JACK AVERNACH

Managing Editor
BILL AUSTIN

Managing Editor
JACK HOLLAND

Managing Editor
R.T. HUDSON

Feature Editor
SAM SPENCER

Sports Editor
TOM CASALI

News Editor
OVID BELL

Assistant News Editor
CALVIN WESLEY

Assistant Sports Editor
JERRY SLOAN

Photographer
HENRY BAKER

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager
WALT KUNZ

Assistant Business Manager
KYLE ROSS

Advertising Manager
JIM ROSS

Assistant Advertising Manager
BILL LOKER

Circulation Manager
TOM HACKNEY

Assistant Circulation Manager
BUD GILMORE

Collection Manager
MARC LOKEY

Dry Dances Complimented
(Continued from Page One)

The above editorial appeared in the Charlotte Observer a few days ago. We are justly proud of our dances and
appreciate this compliment. A year ago the abolishment of dances was being considered, but the student body rose to the
occasion and a method of student control was inaugurated which has proved very successful. Of course, there are violations of
the rule—nothing is perfect—but these are mainly by outsiders and have been very inconspicuous. We challenge anyone to find a
college whose dances are on a higher plane than those at Davidson.

Spirit

Last week we saw the Class of 1942 campused by the Court of Control on a three-fold charge which may
be summed up in the trite phrase, “poor spirit.” Hardly any other phrase can explain their offenses: failures to wear
their caps, to speak to upperclassmen whom they meet on the campus, and to remain in their chapel seats until
the upperclassmen have left the hall. The seriousness of their violations is not in their consequences but in their implications.
It seems that the greater number of the freshmen have developed an utter disregard for Davidson’s traditions and customs, as
partially represented by the regulations.

The freshman regulations were never supposed to work a hardship upon the underclassmen but to continue his orientation beyond the
fall days during fall registration. It is apparently a natural reaction for a freshman to exalt himself—often none too privately—because
he is now a college man, and certainly the tradition of the Davidson gentleman cannot prevail unless that reaction is
subdued. The Court of Control, which has at Davidson supplanted the cruder forms of discipline, such as “ratting,” is unfortunately
not completely successful because it lacks the support and cooperation of the students. The return of hazing to our campus
cannot be safely advocated, even though it did obtain the desired results, because the means fail to justify the end;
we must turn with full force to support the action of the Court of Control. If in some manner the
work and its regulations, then the spirit of Davidson will prevail.

Americanism

Americanism is a term that we hear used frequently. It looks good to find a paper that displays its patriotism
all over the editorial page, using such phrases as “against all isms but Americanism.” Occasionally people and politicians as well
as papers use such talk. If one doesn’t think about such things, he is likely to stop and admire the
patriotism of one who speaks out so boldly for his country and its ideals. However, we find that very often
the users of such phrases are not defining their terms. They don’t tell us what is their idea of Americanism.
The same is true when they talk of un-American things. They still do not tell us what is un-American. If
something to which they are opposed comes up, it is promptly branded with the term and people are not supposed
to favor it. Talk is cheap and people who use such terms are usually only talking. They may think themselves
sincere, but often we doubt whether or not they know what they are talking about. Americanism means different things to
different people. It would be impossible to define Americanism in a way that would suit everyone, so we say that
what a number of people, papers, or politicians favor is merely talking to make an appeal. It is not to
take a stand.

Quotable Quotes

“More complete service, more expert observation, clearer and more interesting reports are the definite aims of the newspaper that strives
to improve itself. Certainly, the educator should realize the value of this service and utilize it to the advantage of
his students. He will have made an important contribution to our civilization if he can teach his students how to
read a newspaper.” — New York University’s Prof. B. Rathbone

“Our young men may come out all right—probably they will; but at college age they are still soft. For each
new generation infancy is being prolonged a little more. The law of the survival of the fittest is more and
more being suspended, both by government and by indulgent parents. The consequences are a little frightening.” — Pres. Tyler Dennet
of Williams College

“Hope for peace lies in the colleges, in the development of the things of the mind, the harmony of letters
and the cooperation of the mind. It would be almost impossible to raise a war of hysteria in that period.”
— Pres. William Mather Lewis, Lafayette College

Stolen Thunder

To Be Or Not To Be

To study, or not to study: That is the question
Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to make A’s and B’s and the honor roll
Or to take C's and D’s and by so doing forget it.
To cram and by cramming to say we stuff
Our heads with unimportant facts
That college is for, To review, ‘tis a situation
Devoutly to be avoided. To cram; to flunk;
To cram; perchance to pass—ay, there’s the rub;
For in cramming what good can come
When we have played one whole semester
Must give us pause; there’s the respect
That makes calamity of examination days.
For who can learn in one night
What should have been learned in eighteen weeks.
Who can think clearly the next day after
Having been up all night, drinking coffee
And smoking cigarettes
When he himself might study occasionally
And retire early on the eve of the
Eventful day and come prepared with
Sense rested and acute.
Who can bluff professors into thinking he
Knows something by his eloquent pen and words.
Who can fill in what an empty head doth not know;
Except for that fatal blankness which
Falls over us and from which no one
Can come out of at the decisive moment.
Thus cramming makes dunces of us all,
And thus the moral of this story is,
Prepare faithfully your assignments
From day to day and when the roll is called up yonder you'll be there.

John’s Girl

John’s girl is fair as a morn in May,
Her mouth is made for laughter, and she laughs all the day.
She’s just the right size, about five feet two
Her nose is up-turned and her eyes are blue.
She has tiny ears and curly brown hair,
She’s a nifty dancer, this maiden fair.
BUT—John’s girl is bad; my girl is good.
Do you think I’d trade with John? Gosh, you know I would!

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

SUPER SNOOPINGS

WOODROW WILSON WAS THE MOST COLLEGIATE OF ALL OF OUR U.S. PRESIDENTS. HE ATTENDED FOUR, (DAVIDSON, PRINCETON, VIRGINIA, AND JOHNS
HOPKINS); BECAME PRESIDENT OF PRINCETON; WAS OFFERED THE PRESIDENCY OF SEVEN OTHER UNIVERSITIES; RECEIVED 21 HONORARY DEGREES—MORE THAN DID ANY
OTHER PRESIDENT ON A PURELY ACADEMIC BASIS.

THREE IN ONE

EDWIN E. NEMMERS OF MILWAUKEE RECEIVED THREE DEGREES IN JUNE! B.A. FROM MARQUETTE, (MAGNA CUM LAUDE), M.A. FROM U. OF
CHICAGO AND MASTER OF MUSIC DEGREE FROM THE UNIV. OF WISCONSIN.

ATTENTION DIOGENES

PRES. JAS. C. KINARD OF NEWBERRY COLLEGE RECEIVED A $5 CHECK FROM A FORMER STUDENT STATING —“IN PAYMENT, WITH INTEREST,
FOR A TICKET TO YOUR 1927 THANKSGIVING DAY FOOTBALL GAME WHICH I ENJOYED THROUGH THE COURTESY OF A MISSING BOARD
IN THE FENCE!”

Letters To The Editor

Dear Bill:

May I comment on last week's “Campus Comments?” It seems that this year in particular a number of students have
been more or less vociferous about the “deplorable conduct” during chapel. And I agree heartily with them up to a
certain point—to be exact, up until about 10:30 A.M. At this time the devotional exercises are over, and the meeting
is turned over to the students. Locke's suggestion is excellent. I feel, however, it limits it to the organ and
the period of worship. I wish something like Assembly; outsiders hearing of our play-idea that we are being sacrilegious), But,
frankly, I enjoy the informal spirits, it should be bubbling I don’t believe anyone approves of the rather extreme items,
such as barrages of eggs and shoes, but apart from these, there is nothing wrong with a little boisterousness. Coming
when it does, it allows a short period of relaxation which is, if I understand my psychology, beneficial for all
concerned—students and professors. And something tells me that a student body which can be playful together feels itself more of
an entity than one which is forced to sit demurely with folded hands. Personally, I’m a little tired of all
this well-intended but, I believe, unnecessary criticism of our conduct. I for one enjoy passing C-cubed around, and I don't
believe he objects strenuously; I enjoy joining in the communal chorus of telling Butch to sit down; I enjoy the
cries of “Heil, Hitler,” of “Railroad! Railroad!” and of “Freshman!”; I enjoy almost everything which adds variety to the meeting.
And I believe I’m with the majority. But I’m amenable to reason; perhaps someone can point out to me what
harm does result from our little demonstrations. I doubt it.

Fun-Lover.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thursday and Friday, February 23 and 24th.

Idiot’s Delight, Clark Gable and Norma Shearer. A story of vaudeville. Clark Gable starts out as a “medicine-man” and finally
works up to vaudeville and meets Norma Shearer, who is in a act. Norma and Clark go together a little
while but beforethey get well acquainted they separate. Years later, Clark is well into the show business and is making
a tour of Europe with a company of beautiful American girls. While trying to cross the border of one of
the countries, they are held up and forced to stay in a hotel for a few days. While at the
hotel, Gable meets a very beautiful countess who is traveling with a munitions magnate. Clark thinks that she is the
girl that he met while he was in vaudeville. He tells her his suspicion, but she just laughs at him.
He keeps asking her about it, and in the meantime, falls in love with her. She finally admits she is
“phoney.” A very well-portrayed show and a clever script. You should enjoy it a lot.

Saturday, February 25th. Wings Of The Navy, George Brent, Olivia de Havilland, and John Payne. It’s a picture of a
good love story merged with the fascinating pictorial details of the naval service. Payne is the hero. George Brent is
Payne's brother. Both have a traditional Navy background and there has been a sort of friendly rivalry between them since
childhood; Brent has become a flying ace and John, desirous of proving his mettle, leaves the submarine division and enters
the government flying school. Here George is an instructor and so fascinated by his work that he neglects his fiancée,
Olivia de Havilland. John and Olivia meet and fall in love, in spite of the fact that they fight against
it. John becomes noble and persuades Olivia to remain loyal to his brother. Many entangling circumstances follow and it all
becomes very involved. In spite of the well-worn plot, it turns out to be a swell show. There are a
lot of spectacular flying scenes and crash scenes.

Monday and Tuesday, February 27 and 28th. Mickey Rooney and William Frawley in “Huckleberry Finn”, Walter Connolly. You know the
story of Huck. If you don’t, you should be ashamed of yourself. Anyway, here are the adventures of the outcast
Huck and his pal, the runaway slave, Jim, as they float down the Mississippi on an improvised raft while the
boy tries to find a way to free the Negro. Tom Sawyer was present in the original, but now he
is eliminated. Mark Twain's classic of boyhood—his yarn of life in the days when boys wore short pants unashamed—is done
by the movies. This time Mickey Rooney is the boy who as represented America once more in Douglas’ gloomy freckles
and civilization by the Widow Douglas’ pioneer decencies and the three R’s of her prim sister, Miss Watson. You will
find Mickey as Huck. Huck Finn has favor. How you accept the liberties taken with the story depends upon your
love of Mark Twain. But who doesn’t like Mickey Rooney?

Football Coach Dick Harlow has been appointed curator of oology in the Harvard University museum of comparative zoology. Oology is
the collection and study of eggs.

More than a million words have been written and broadcast by Drake University students during the last four and a
half years.

By KEN LAWSON

There is nothing that can create the wanderlust in a young man’s veins like the first warm week-ends which herald
the approach of Spring. So influenced by the cloudless skies and balmy weather Saturday afternoon, the bumming corner became a
picturesque spot, populated by large numbers of young men attired in the gaudiest of Spring fashions, and taking off for
girl’s schools and other concentration points of feminine allure. Yes, sir, it’s a sure sign of Spring when the fellows
can scrape up enough money for a big week-end this soon after Mid-Winters. The garden spot of the Carolinas drew
its share of Davidsons who wished treatment for the warm weather malady. La Petite Elite was visited by Jim Anderson,
Bill Ross, Bill Lemmon, Tommy Glenn, Dick Arnold, Charlie Smith, and several others wishing to hear the cuties that much
worked Converse phrase, “You're so-o-o sweet to me and I’m so-o-o undeserving.” Anderson led the dress parade in his all-green
outfit. There was only one hitch in the color combination—the suit bought for green under artificial light turned out to
be baby blue when exposed to the sun’s rays, but this did not deter Jim from showing up later with
a reddened collar. Also, I would rather get acquainted with the girl who remarked, “You seem to be getting more
out of this chewing gum than I am" than get stuck in the parlor like Lemmon and Arnold.

Converse, we played host to a goodly number of undergrads. Here Ray Pittman, the personality kid, was the main attraction
for the young ladies and his blind date especially; while Harry Hendrick, Bob Garvey, and Sam Woodward provided impromptu entertainment
for the lassies when they were inopportunely surprised by the night watchman. A quorum of the student body attended the
midnight showing of Ectasy, so a meeting was called and conducted just like those in Chambers even to the “passing
down” of Dan Walker and a special freshman meeting after the show. Reliable estimates put the number of freshmen in
attendance greater than that of upper-classmen—More work for the Court of Control and more enjoyment for “Bloodthirsty” Sophs.

Sam reports Bob Gaw, Spencer, Finlay, Bill Pryor, Warren Louis Hipp, and C. G. Yates ostensibly took a trip to
Montreat to do some mountain climbing but spent most of the time viewing Black Mountain College and learning its love
for Communism, informality, and freedom from conventionalities concerning religion, love, and other factors so dictated in our conventional world. Charleston
welcomed a Davidson delegation composed of Jim Currie, Paul Cooper, Pete Marchant, John Latimer, and others who practiced up on
“How to Win Friends and Influence People” at Henry's and then adopted the slogan, “Go West young man, go West.”

Other dope includes: Gene Liipfert and Dick Taylor catching a ride back from Asheville which took a long time but
which wasn’t bad after all... Bill Howell paying his regular visits to Tinytown... Bill Ross and Neal Scott lamenting the
absence of “The Prophet” from their chummy little sessions in chapel... Tom McLean and Ed Morrow engaging in a song
and dance routine to raise money for Miami detail... Warren Ludlam greatly impressed by a striking scene from Ectasy while
Paul Cooper made an interesting contact in the same theatre... Six Johnson reverting to “Cowboy and Indian” days of childhood
in an Asheboro filling station... Tom Crichton making an extended tour of Hollins, W. & L., Mary Baldwin, Sweet Briar,
Randolph Macon, and Carolina and creating plenty of dope... Charlie Pegram exhibiting Bohemian tendencies correctly and several others starting late
on a weekend trip... Bobby Gish, Bid Ivey, and Charlie Sherman red-topping and watching the airplanes but blinded by the
flashlights... “Bevo” Royster reported to have an embarrassing moment at the KA house, but this is unverified as yet... and
Stewart Ogglesby being led astray by Rea Tenney.

P. S.: If Pete Marchant's girl reads the column won't she please write him that old “bread and butter” letter
for the dances so he can be happy again.

By TOM PERRIN

Just like a story, as they say, are the facts about an invitation received by a certain B. M. O.
C. (big man on the campus) recently. A special delivery, it came to him while he was at his boarding
house. Inside the letter were a printed invitation, a calling card, a photograph, and a three-page letter of explanation. He'd
never heard of the girl whose signature was affixed.

The writer of the letter, it seemed, was a Mitchell college girl and wanted a date for a school banquet
to be given there. She’d seen this B. M. O. C’s picture in one of the papers, and the idea
of writing had come from a “Good Housekeeping” story. Debating was their common bond, she said, having seen him pictured
with a debating team. Would he R. S. V. P. by telephone, collect? The photograph enclosed was of a little
girl of very tender years, but she hadn't changed much since she was five, she explained. But the B. M.
O. C., unequal to the occasion, wrote back a polite but firm “no,” pleading previous engagements.

HOT SPOT... Over by the laundry is a college building you've undoubtedly seen, even come within a few feet of;
yet it’s about five hundred to one you've never been inside. It’s about the size of Phi or Eu hall
and would probably be missed considerably more than either if suddenly removed. We're speaking, of course, of the heating plant.

It is really a pretty interesting place, in a dusty sort of way. Mr. Mayhew, the “oldest hand” on the
job of looking after the place (fourteen years’ service) is cordial enough to inquiring students, possibly because they've never gotten
in the way much. There are three big boilers in the plant and all are used in winter, one, however,
being continually devoted to the laundry. On Sundays, when the laundry is dormant, the fire is extinguished under one and
it is washed out well.

Sometimes, during the warm spells, the fine coal usually used is adulterated with sawdust, which fools the mechanical stokers very
nicely but which, we gather, doesn’t make much difference. Mr. Mayhew doesn’t see much difference. They burn as much as
seven or eight tons a day, sometimes more. All the campus gets heat from this source, we learned, except the
Phi and Eu halls (which have independent furnaces), Elm and Oak row, and the Old Gym. The President’s house is
the only private home to benefit.

ODDS AND ENDS... Probably isn’t worth a second thought, but the average weight of the normal human brain is 1375
grams for the male and only 1244 grams for the female... Silly season for rumors seems to have set in
here, precipitated, possibly by the approach of the trustee’s meeting next week. A friend of ours got a basket of
food the other day from his mother’s church circle—an idea we'd like to see more generally adopted.

Dartmouth College has purchased a portable sawmill to cut the half-million feet of wood accumulated during hurricane reclamation activities. Tufts
College students are conducting a campaign to raise a loan fund for needy students. Scientists of Cornell and Colgate Universities
are making a special study of the aurora borealis.
