Elections Begin On Next Monday

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

New Men Chosen By Phi Beta Kappa

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 1939 No. 19

Five Receive Bids To Phi Beta Kappa In Chapel Tuesday

Mullen, Liipfert, Patterson, Torrey, and Stair Honored

Men Also Active In Extra-Curricular Activities

Bids were publicly extended by the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa to five members of the senior class during
the chapel period Tuesday morning.

The new members are: Thomas W. Mullen, Roanoke Rapids; Eugene T. Liipfert, Winston-Salem; J. Reid Patterson, Charlotte; R. Archer Torrey,
North China; and Fred Stair of Knoxville, Tenn. These men were selected by the executive committee of Phi Beta Kappa
from the senior class, and they were passed by the fraternity at its meeting Monday night.

It was announced by Price Gwynn, president of the chapter, that these men stood out above all other seniors as
automatically eligible for membership. All five have scholastic averages above 93, but no other member of the graduating class had
as high as 92, the local chapter's minimum grade.

These seniors cover the entire range of campus extra-curricular activities at Davidson as well as ranking high scholastically. Three are
fraternity men: T. W. Mullen, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Gene Liipfert and Fred Stair, Phi Gamma Delta. Stair is president
of the student body, commander of the R. O. T. C. battalion, and a member of ODK. Liipfert and Mullen
are members of the Pan-Hellenic Council of which Mullen is vice-president, and Liipfert is also a member of Sigma Upsilon
and a first lieutenant of the local R. O. T. C. unit. Both Liipfert and Stair are members of Scabbard
and Blade, the honorary military fraternity. Torrey and Patterson are also members of the Philanthropic literary society. Torrey was organizing
president of Pi Gamma Mu, social science fraternity, and is a member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and
executive board. Patterson is also a member of the Photography club and the track squad.

Trustees Appoint Professors To Faculty

At the mid-winter meeting of the board of trustees of Davidson College on February 25, two new additions to the
faculty were appointed: Dr. J. William C. Matthews, as associate college physician, and Elmer E. Brown, as associate professor of
biology.

Dr. W. C. Matthews, who is to be associate college physician, is a former graduate of Davidson, having graduated in
1934. He is also a graduate of the medical school of the University of Virginia, and now he is city
physician for the city of Roanoke, Virginia. Dr. Matthews is still a young man, as may be judged from his
recent graduation, and while he was at Davidson, was held in high esteem by both faculty and students. Dr. Matthews
is expected to be especially valuable in athletic work and in the taking care of athletic injuries. He studied much
orthopedic work while in Medical school, and has traveled frequently with the University of Virginia Athletic teams.

Mr. Elmer E. Brown, who will be associate professor of biology, graduated from Davidson in 1928. After having taught three
years in high school, he went to the University of North Carolina medi- [Continued on Page Six]

NYA Official Visits

On a recent visit to the Davidson campus Mr. W. K. Darien, State inspector for N. Y. A., expressed especial
interest in the recreational program which is being sponsored in the Davidson Unity Church community.

This program, one of the outstanding attempts of the college in community recreation, provides leadership for five activities: a craft
shop, for three age groups; informal and formal dramatics, for four age groups; athletics for three age groups; and maintenance
of a library and community room, all under the recreational council of the Davidson Church.

In connection with the church, and State supervision of Adult Education, the N. Y. A. is also sponsoring an Adult
Education class. Attendance of the community in all activities totals about 575 per week, while time spent by leaders is
about 375 hours per month.

Board of Trustees Sanction Construction of New Dormitory

Davidson College’s board of trustees, at their annual mid-winter meeting held on February 25, authorized the construction of a new
dormitory here on the campus. The dormitory is to accommodate one [Continued on Page Six]

Local Fraternity Men Are High Scholastically

Four Fraternities Have Higher Than General Average At Davidson

Davidson's fraternities during the past year helped to break down the myth that fraternity men are poor in scholarship, it
was announced this week by the national interfraternity conference. A survey which has just been completed by this organization shows
that the scholastic average of four out of nine fraternities on the campus was higher than the general average for
the entire student body. The report points out, however, that Davidson fraternity men dropped in scholarship as a whole from
the year 1936-’37. The average membership of a Davidson fraternity is 42.

Dr. Alvan E. Duerr, scholarship chairman of the conference, declared that the superior scholarship standing held by fraternity men for
the past eight years is all the more significant since average scholastic standing of student bodies has increased during the
last six years of the depression. The University of Illinois has made the greatest advance with 56 fraternity chapters almost
doubling their relative standing of a year ago. Other scholastic records were made by the University of Minnesota, where fraternities
improved their margin 58 per cent; at Indiana University, where the increase was 50 per cent; and at Washington State,
where fraternities jumped from 15 per cent below the non-fraternity men to 3.50 above. The outstanding record was made at
the University of Texas, where every one of the 36 fraternities and sororities are above the university average.

Cat Cagers Make Tourney

Davidson's 1938-'39 basketball team became the first 'Cat squad to be invited to the annual Southern Conference Tournament to be
held at Raleigh March 1st through 4th by finishing fifth in the conference. Thursday the Wildcats will meet Washington and
Lee in their first tournament game.

From left to right: Benny Harrison, Captain Ned Iverson, Jim Cowan, J. D. Hicks, John Tice, Means, Jim Hogg, George
Ficklen, Swede Johnson, and Jim Thomas.

Rifle Team Fires Matches

Numeral Club Picks Trophy

Best All-Around Frosh Athlete to be Awarded Cup

At the last meeting of the Numeral Club on Monday night, February 20th, the members selected a trophy to be
given to the best all-round athlete in the Freshman class. This trophy is a silver figure of a woman signifying
all-round athletic supremacy. This award will be presented to the numeral club at a smoker to be held the first
part of May.

The organization is going to be held the first part of March for the purpose of initiating new members from
the basketball and wrestling teams. At present the organization consists of thirty-three athletes. Twenty-three of these men were on the
freshman football team and ten received their numerals from work on the cross-country team.

Third Annual Open House Attracts Many Visitors

For the third consecutive year Open House was held last Thursday afternoon for trustees, members of the faculty, their wives,
and friends of the college. This annual affair that is sponsored each year by the members of the Senior Class.

The first part of this annual affair is opened for inspection by the Davidson students. All of the dormitories except
the barracks were open at this time, and although it was not compulsory for each room to be opened, most
men had their rooms in fine shape according to comments, to show the outsiders how the various students lived.

Printed invitations were sent out in the name of the Senior Class to members of the Board of Trustees, members
of the faculty and their wives, and a few of the townspeople. Refreshments were served in the parlor of Watts
following the tour of inspection which was from 3:30 until 5 o'clock. The committee that was appointed by Sam Newell,
president of the Senior Class, was made up of Alex Erwin, chairman; John Mawhinney, and Boo Walker.

A move has been started in the Iowa legislature to move the state’s college of engineering from the University of
Iowa to Iowa State College.

Rifle Club Defeats Davidson Co. Team

Davidson is now in the first stages of the Area Trophy matches. Last week the Kannapolis Rifle team defeated the
Davidson team. Another match was scheduled for March here.

“The team is coming up stronger,” said Major Willard, the team’s coach, “and should win this portion of the matches.”

The squad will fire matches with various Military Corps and universities in the United States and Mexico. This includes the
University of Florida, University of Mississippi, University of North Dakota, the University of South Dakota, and the University of Mexico.

On March 11 a shoulder-to-shoulder match is scheduled for Davidson College against the Citadel here. On March 18 and April
8 the team will fire shoulder-to-shoulder matches against Clemson and the University of North Carolina respectively.

Members of the Rifle and Pistol Club will be chosen soon for the fourth year of firing.Team with this team
has shown more than in past a fair pro- which it has total of six ious colleges. Their throughout with
Institute, Michigan, Montana, South of and all will fire against Clemson, Charleston meet the State program: will include a Maine,
a serious Mawhinney Leader Society to Have Installation For Officers John Mawhinney will take over his new duties as president
of the Eumenean literary society March holds the February. that installation evening, 7, when organization ceremonies for new officers elected
in who Walker, society “Boo” the same will succeed September. head of Bob Kellogg will turn over the duties of
president to Ramsey. Ed Maxwell Johnston will succeed Sam as vice president and Tommy Webb will continue as the secretary-treasurer.
President-Elect Mawhinney declared that the entire society is expected to attend this function with a feed. Bob Ramsey announced that
the story will end with a short talk, and a “harangue.” “Y” Service and matches with scheduled 14 respective squad
and To Begin Soon Will Be Conducted Last Four at the end of the season each member will receive a
gold medal black—the Davidson following men are on Gene Bailey, Solin, R. E. Carter, J. Eagan, Pat Hackney, Carl Jonas,
Southgate Jones, Malcolm Kunz, Walter Lewis, Bob Rankin, John Strandwitz and Ed Cloyd, of Raleigh, was elected first lieutenant Company
of Scabbard and Blade at its regular meeting last Wednesday night. Cloyd, a First Lieutenant assigned to the Band, was
chosen to fill the vacancy created by M. A. Turner’s graduation. The position of first lieutenant is comparable to that
of vice-president in a civil organization. at this meeting possible before the Spring Holidays be awarded in and colors. The
squad: Ballard, Jay T. Chastain, Claude Jones King, Malcolm Kunz, Bob Shewmake, Bill Ward. of Raleigh, was elected first lieutenant
Company of Scabbard and Blade at its regular meeting last Wednesday night. Cloyd, a First Lieutenant assigned to the Band,
was chosen to fill the vacancy created by M. A. Turner’s graduation. The position of first lieutenant is comparable to
that of vice-president in a civil organization. at this meeting possible before the Spring Holidays be awarded in and colors.
The squad: Ballard, Jay T. Chastain, Claude Jones King, Malcolm Kunz, Bob Shewmake, Bill Ward. Plans officers as Thursday, begin
ties, Days Before Spring Holidays Begin By setting the date of the annual Spring Services for the week before spring
recess, the Y. M. C. A. hopes to ensure even larger attendance at the meetings than was present for the
fall services. In the past, they have usually waited until the year after the services, but this year the services
are set for four days before the holidays begin on March 23rd. The Reverend C. Davis of Asheville will conduct
the worship programs beginning with Sunday night vespers on March 19. Since this period is comparatively dull with respect to
school activities, it is hoped that larger crowds will turn out than would have if the services had been delayed.
The speaker is a Davidson graduate of recent years, having been given his first pastorate in 1932. He has been
in Asheville for only the past year, going there from the Second Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va. Mr. Davis was
very outstanding as a student here. He served as president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and Treasurer of the Forensic
Council. Among his many activities were included the ‘Y’ Cabinet, Alpha Phi Epsilon, and the Glee Club. Kneeling, left to
right: Back row: Apie Tuesday Student Elections To Start Monday; Will End In April Dance Set on May 5th and
6th Not Yet Contacted Freshmen to Vote as Result of Amendment Orchestra for Spring Ray Pittman, president of the Pan-Hellenic
Council, announced that the date for the annual spring dances has been set for May 5th and 6th this year.
As usual, there will be four dances in the set: a tea dance on Friday afternoon the 5th, the formal
with the Pan-Hellenic figure on Friday night, another tea dance on the afternoon of the 6th which is Saturday, and
all good things will end on Saturday night. Although no bands have been definitely contacted yet, several of the top-flight
bands in the country are being considered. Everyone may be assured that the Pan-Hellenic Council will present another good set
of dances. The success of mid-winters proved that the dance committee really knows what Davidson students enjoy, and they will
do their best to provide the necessary entertainment. The first weekend in April has usually been the time set for
these dances, but this year, if this plan were used, there would be two dances on Good Friday, a thing
which could not be tolerated; also Easter would follow the dances, and many men might wish to be at home.
Scribes’ Club to Order Key Constitution Changed to Tighten Entrance Requirements At a meeting of the Journalism Club on last
Wednesday night, February 22, a motion was made and passed that the Club obtain a key. The key will be
made up in the form of a scroll with the proper signs of journalism engraved upon its face. The key
selected was chosen from a group of three drawings presented to the Journalism Club by the Herff-Jones Co. Constitution Discussed
Several matters concerning the constitution were discussed. The requirements to enter the Club were tightened to a considerable degree since
the Club is no longer a general class with a journalism teacher. The suggestion was made that a faculty member
be obtained to act as a sponsor for the Club and to help in securing speakers from the various fields
of journalism. [Continued on Page Six] [Continued on Page Six] Suggestions Are Made For Senior Class Gift A Number of
the Best Ideas Will be Voted Upon By Senior Class Each member of the graduating class has been asked to
hand in some idea, and if the members fail to respond, the committee will organize a man-to-man canvass. “The gift
will probably be announced by spring holidays. A new plan was inaugurated this year for collecting funds for this present.
The assessment was paid by the seniors as they paid their mid-term registration fees to Registrar F. W. Hengeveld this
January. Members of the committee to the class gift were appointed by Sam Newell, president of the seniors, earlier in
the year. They include: John Reisner, chairman; Locke White, and Charlie Sample. The committee declared that suggestions for the gift
are coming in very slowly.
