WED., JAN. 11, 1939. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Collegiate Digest Will Hold Snapshot Contest
Photo Magazine Offers Prizes For Best Pictures Of College Life

Collegiate Digest will publish an annual Edition again this year to give recognition to the outstanding photographs taken by college
and university amateur photographers. All students and faculty members of Davidson College are invited to enter their photographs in the
annual competition, a special communication to the Davidsonian states.

All Amateurs
Besides giving recognition to individual photographers, the Collegiate Digest Edition will show the high quality work being turned out by
the nation’s most active group of amateur photographers and will show the great progress made by that group since publication
of the first Salon Edition last year.

For this special edition, Collegiate Digest’s editors will select two or three prints in each of the divisions listed below,
the number selected depending upon space needed for the presentation of the winning photos in each division. To the first
place winners in each division, Collegiate Digest will present a special cash award of five dollars. To second and third
place winners, awards of three and two dollars will be awarded.

Rules of Contest
The following are the rules for this Edition:
1. All Salon material must be sent not later than March 1, 1939. Address packages to Editor, Collegiate Digest, 323
Fawkes Building, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
2. Send technical data about each photo submitted, giving the special faculty standing of the photographer. Information about the subject
of the photo will be helpful.
3. The following divisions have been set for the contest: (a) still life; (b) scenes; (c) action and candid photos;
(d) portraits. A special division to be called “College Life” has been added this year to give recognition to those
photographers who take a special interest in recording the life and activities of students and faculty members.
4. There is no entry fee. Photos will be returned if requested.

Numeral Club Holds Forum
Coach Norman Shepard To Lead Discussion

Because of a Freshman basketball game in Baden Wednesday night, the regular meeting of the newly-formed Numeral Club has been
postponed until Thursday night at 7:30.

Following a short business meeting, Coach Norman Shepard will talk on “The Value of Spring Football.” After this, the club
will hold its first open forum with Coach Shepard answering questions on athletic policy and on spring football. During the
section of the meeting devoted to business, the following motions were discussed and passed: that the Numeral Club should have
a group picture in the annual, that membership certificates should be printed, and that all present members should continue in
the club until next fall to carry on the business.

After President Hackney had appointed several committees, the club enjoyed the pictures of football games of previous years shown and
explained by Coaches McEver, Chapman, and Harrison.

Attend Conference
Three members of the college music department represented Davidson at the annual meeting of the national association of music teachers
in Washington City. The convention, held December 28 through 30, was attended by Professors James Christian Pfohl, Thane MacDonald, and
Franklin Riker. These representatives went on to New York City. While there, they attended the regular Saturday evening broadcast of
the New York symphony orchestra under the direction of Artur Rodzinski. Professor Pfohl and Jack Tillotson attended the national high
school band, orchestral, and choral clinic at the University of Illinois, Jan. 4, 5, and 6th.

Be it ever so humble, there is no place like that on the winning ticket. New Year’s eve.

Queens Group To Be Guests At Phi Social
Spectator Club Will Take Part In Program

The Spectator Club of Queens-Chicora College will be the guest of the Philanthropic Literary Society at a “literary-social” to be
held in Phi Hall Friday, January 13, at 7:30.

Included in the program will be a humorous debate on the subject “Resolved: That coiffures should sweep heavenward.” The Queens
girls will defend the affirmative side of this question, while members of the Davidson club will take the negative. An
“Information, Please?” quiz bee will also be a part of the program. Fifteen minutes will be allotted to the members
of the Spectator Club to present their part of the program. Afterward, refreshments will be served in the Social Center
which will be appropriately decorated. Olive Crosby is president of the group.

At the meeting of the Phi Society held last night in Phi Hall, final plans were made for the joint
meeting with the Spectator Club and nominations were made for the officers for the second semester. The election will be
held next Tuesday. Various nominees were discussed. An “Information, Please?” program was held in preparation for the tilt with the
Queens girls on Friday night. Dan Walker was in charge of the program.

Famous Tree Slowly Dying
Whitfield Poplar Stands Witness to History

One of the biggest things about the town of Davidson—and one of the oldest—is not to be found on the
college campus.

Instead, the researcher must journey across the tracks to the little negro Baptist church, beside which stands the “Whitfield Poplar.”
This famous tree, believed to be the largest in Mecklenburg County, towers around 125 feet above the ground and measures
twenty feet around the waist. Many botanists and historians who visit it regard it as a natural phenomenon and a
shrine.

For, according to local tradition, this tree has been an important figure throughout the known history of this section of
the country. Two hundred years ago in 1739, this strapping poplar sheltered the famous evangelist, George Whitfield, when he preached
to the frontiersmen of this section. It is believed to have marked a Cherokee or Catawba burying ground even before
then, and soon after Whitfield’s visit, settlers began to bury their dead there, for there was no church in this
vicinity at that time.

Saw Cornwallis
However, its history is not all connected with religious events. It saw Cornwallis and his redcoats come by on their
way to Yorktown, and one of the British soldiers shot a ramrod into its trunk. But the time of the
Whitfield poplar is fast drawing to a close. Botanists who have viewed the landmark feel that the tree is slowly
dying. The poplar stands on land owned by Miss Louise Sloan of Davidson.

BREWER CALLS
[Continued from Page One]
All men who will have sponsors’ pictures in the annual, including fraternities, are requested to get these photographs in as
soon as possible. Brewer further stated that work on the book is coming along fairly well. He hopes to have
all work completed and ready for publication by Spring examinations.

CLASS DECIDES FATE
[Continued from Page One]
Twenty-five members attended the social. During the evening, the class presented Professor Smith with a combination pen and pencil set.

Bookkeepers and washerwomen always know where to draw the line.

Chandelier Has Romantic History
For 86 years the old crystal chandelier hanging in Phi Hall has been an object of interest to Davidson students.
Under an exact replica, Emperor Napoleon III was married to Eugenie in 1853. This chandelier was first exhibited at London
in 1851 and at the Crystal Palace in New York in 1853. At the end of that year, Mr. W.
W. White of Sumter, S. C., an alumnus of Davidson, purchased the chandelier and presented it to the society.

Among the Greeks
Sid Crane led a meeting at Rev. John Rick’s Rocky River church. He was accompanied by a quartet composed of
Ed Ray, Kenneth C. Hogate, and others.

BANDS INVITED
[Continued from Page One]
The essays are to be submitted by July 1, 1939, and will be judged by a distinguished Jury of Awards
made up of Kenneth C. Hogate, President, The Wall Street Journal; James M. Landis, Dean, Harvard Law School; Harold Moulton,
President, Brookings Institution; Robert G. Sproul, President, Univ. of California; and Robert E. Wood.Wood, President, Sears, Roebuck Co., will meet
in Eu Hall, and the N. C. bandmasters’ association and the N. C. orchestra association will meet in Phi Hall.
The day will close with a student conducting contest at 4:30 P.M. Jack Tillotson and Rex Beach will be with
the Davidson band, and all directors will act as judges.

Purpose is Educational
The chief purpose of the Association is an educational one, and they realize the importance of a better understanding on
the part of the general public of the significance of the investment banking function in the American economy. By this
contest, they hope to extend knowledge of the nature and purposes of banking not only among people in business but
also to the general public. They hope to stimulate interest in the subject on the part of that important segment
of our population represented by the college undergraduates. There are no restrictions as to the scope and method of the
essays sought.

REVISION OF GOV.
[Continued from Page One]
The annual, which has a thirty-point value, was moved from eighth place, which it occupies in the present order of
election, to fourth place in line with the other three thirty-point offices. In like manner, the election of the editor
of the magazine was moved from ninth place to eighth place to follow other twenty-point offices.

Election Order
With the exception of these two changes, the order of election will remain the same as at present. This change
in the order of the election is proposed solely for the purpose of arranging the order of elections in accordance
with the value that the Point System puts on them. Because this article for which a revision is proposed is
a part of the by-laws, in accordance with Article 14 of the Student Body Constitution, it is necessary that it
be submitted to a vote of the student body. A two-thirds majority is required to carry the revision. Monday morning
after chapel, there will be a meeting of the student body at which time the floor will be open for
discussion. On Tuesday morning, a vote will be taken by secret ballot.

Y.M.C.A. Makes Trip
The Investment Bankers Association of America has recently announced their Essay contest. The competition, which will be open to undergraduate
men or women in American colleges or universities, offers three cash prizes of $300, $150, and $50 for the best
essays which, in the judgment of the Jury of Awards, will contribute to better public understanding of the business of
investment banking. The subject can be anything concerning the business of investment banking.

A deputation from the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte last Sunday evening conducted a foreign missions service at the meeting
of the Young People’s Group. Addresses were made by representatives of the missions in Korea, China, and Japan. Reid Newland
spoke on Korea, John Currie on China, and John Brady on Japan. Each speaker gave a short discussion of the
customs of the people and the history and progress of the work in his field.

Beta Theta Pi
All of the brothers and pledges have returned from their Christmas vacations to resume their work for the year. During
the last weekend, Eddie Steere visited Jim Gamble at his home in Lincolnton. Bill Howell spent Saturday and Sunday with
Dan Isom. Granville Sharpe went to Statesville. The rest of the brothers followed the throng to the Davidson-Carolina game in
Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta
Ficklen and Buck Powell went to Winston-Salem Thursday night to visit Salem College and attend the Davidson-Duke basketball game. South
Carolina called several of the brothers over the past weekend, Charlie Luther going to Spartanburg, and Locke Hunter, Bill Beaty,
and Read Harmon journeying to Rock Hill. Several of the members went to see Bill Boyd, who is in the
hospital in Charlotte recovering from an operation for appendicitis. A feed was held at the house Sunday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The following boys attended the Duke-Davidson game at Winston-Salem last Thursday night: Ed Cloyd, Charlie Sample, Walter “Bozo” Kunz, Jim
Thompson, Rufus Powell, Rufus Plonk, Joe Craver, Andy Turner (accompanied by Mrs. Turner), Wesley Coghill, Marshall Houston, and Tom Mullen.
“Teepie” Porter, our lost prodigal, has finally returned to the campus.

Pi Kappa Alpha
A feed was held Sunday night, at which Dr. Howard B. Arbuckle was present to tell some mighty interesting stories.
Miss “Teeny” Waddill, Louise Batson, and Phyllis Crooks were also guests at the house over the weekend. Brothers Lady, Coltrane,
Youngblood, and Pledge Hoover made their usual trip to Concord. Pledge Mickey Long and Brother Shelton went to Statesville. Brothers
Latimer and McElwee journeyed to Rock Hill Saturday, “Si” Anderson following them down to South Carolina.

Kappa Alpha
Most of the brothers spent a quiet weekend on the campus, resting for the examinations coming up in the next
two weeks. Saturday night found practically the entire chapter in Charlotte for the Davidson-Carolina basketball game. Caton Dennis took an
extended jaunt to Lynchburg, Virginia, Friday through Sunday, and Sam Newell went to Rock Hill Sunday afternoon. The usual Sunday
night feed was canceled.

Phi Gamma Delta
A feed and sing were held at the house Sunday night. Gene Liipfert went to Randolph-Macon College in Lynchburg, Va.,
over the weekend, and Frank Barker dated in Charlotte. Jones visited in Greensboro Sunday afternoon. Pledges Walter Wooten, Ralph Williams,
Louis Harvard, and Douglas Rogers spent Sunday in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother Hank Bahnson journeyed to Spartanburg, South Carolina, where he spent the weekend. Brother Charlie Smith spent the weekend at
his home in Greenville, S. C. Brothers Pete Marchant, Ken McLean, Lem Kornegay, George Ficklen, and Buck Powell went to
Winston-Salem Thursday night to visit Salem College and attend the Davidson-Duke basketball game. South Carolina called several of the brothers
over the past weekend, Charlie Luther going to Spartanburg, and Locke Hunter, Bill Beaty, and Read Harmon journeying to Rock
Hill. Several of the members went to see Bill Boyd, who is in the hospital in Charlotte recovering from an
operation for appendicitis. A feed was held at the house Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi
Officers for the second semester are as follows: Paul Cooper, President; Herbert Swasey, Treasurer; Paul Bumbarger, Secretary; Billy Master Warden;
Roy Gunningham, Historian; and Lewis Hyte, Chaplain. Bidwell Ivey went to his home in Rock Hill. A feed was held
at the house Sunday night, with Miss Julia Hobbs of Charlotte as a guest.

Character is what you are; reputation is what people think you are. Some people have pretentious title numbers—usually number one.

Don't test your mind's capacity for absorption with a wet blanket.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Davidson Students Always Welcome—Come and Enjoy Good Meals With Us.
THE LITTLE PEP CAFE — AND — DELMONICO’S GRILL of CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Victor, Brunswick, Decca, Vocalion, Bluebird 35c—75c Each. Any record not in stock can be quickly secured. Phone 8257.
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Pianos-Radios-Accordions—Since 1898
Charlotte, N. C.

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay!
Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF RUBBER — From —
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL CO.

Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, and Candy
Manufactured by SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, North Carolina

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from—
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
J. K. HAMPTON
DAVIDSON, N. C.

GROCERY
Full Line of Meats For This Weekend
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber
BEST HAIRCUT IN TOWN
Davis Barber Shop
Right by White Drug Co.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY
