WED., JAN. 11, 1939. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

There has been much discussion recently about damage to College property. Last Friday Fred Stair appealed to the student body for suggestions on how to cope with the situation now and in the future. One plan brought up was a reversion to the old “damage fee” system. Under this plan, a damage fee would be charged to each student at the beginning of the year, and after the costs of damage to the college property had been deducted, the fund was “pro-rated” among the students at commencement time. The question this week is: “Do you favor a return to the ‘damage fee’ system and if so, what fee would you suggest? Have you any suggestions about this situation?”

Tom Magill, Senior:
I do not favor a return to the damage fee system because I think the ones who actually do the damage should pay for it, not the whole student body. Anyone who has to get his pleasure by destructive means should be willing to pay for it just the same as he would a picture show or some other entertainment. The collection of this entertainment fee, which the destructive students should pay, now becomes the problem. I think a true Davidson student should be glad to admit this weakness and pay for his own entertainment.

Pete Marchant, Senior:
Having been painfully separated from $24.23 of my hard-earned essential lucre, and being over-burdened in my capacity as President of the Student Fine Paying Association, I would like to go on record as being heartily in favor of paying a damage fee at the beginning of the year rather than being undressed financially in the middle of the semester. Being very partial on the subject, I much prefer to pay $2.00 at the beginning of each year instead of $24.23 in the middle of the semester. Besides, some of the damage fee is returned. There is no hope for the other.

Sherrard Rice, Senior:
Speaking theoretically, I don’t favor a return to the old damage fee because it tends to become nothing but a blanket assessment and is apt to make the destruction of college property seem like a minor offense. But since we have the problem constantly recurring and must handle it somehow, I can think of no better solution than a $5.00 damage fee, paid in at the beginning of the freshman year and refunded when we graduate or leave. I urge this provision, however, that every effort be made to deduct the cost of damages from the fees of those who caused it, and not from the student body as a whole.

Phil Edwards, Junior:
Since the damage fee system has proved effective in the past, and thus far no other plan seems evident, I think the plan is most plausible. This system seems rather unnecessary and bothersome, but when such damages as have occurred in the past return, the faculty would have the damage fee to fall back on; and there would be no such complications as we have at present. The usual two-dollar per year fee would be sufficient.

Gray Hunter, Junior:
I am definitely against the return of the damage fee for two reasons. First, such an assessment would not bring to an end student riots; in fact, it would encourage them. Second, because the fee would not bring to an end these displays of vandalism, I see no reason why the innocent members of the student body should pay for something they didn’t do.

George Milne, Junior:
A return to the “damage fee” system would in no way stop malicious damage to college property. Not until the students who do this are fixed with the sole responsibility of their actions, and those who in no way condone the breakage take it upon themselves to suppress and discourage the outbreaks, will the problem be solved. A “damage fee” only spreads the cost caused by a few to fall upon many who had no part.

Bobby Williams, Sophomore:
No, I think that the Davidson Student Body is old enough and responsible enough to accept the obligations which it incurs. Our life here is preparing us for the world outside, and there we are responsible for our actions. We must get used to paying for our own negligence in taking care of our community.

(Continued on Page Six)

Language Professors Attend French Meet

Dr. G. B. Watts Delivers Paper At French Convention in New York

Dr. G. B. Watts and Dr. W. P. Cumming represented Davidson College at conventions of the American Association of Teachers of French and the Modern Language Association of America in New York during the Christmas holidays. At the former convention, Dr. Watts was one of the speakers as chairman of a committee of the French Group of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association. The convention of the Associated American Teachers of French was held at the Hotel Commodore on December 27 and 28. Three hundred fifty members attended. Principal speakers of the convention were Dean Gauss of Princeton University and Dr. John H. Finley, former editor of the New York Times. At the banquet held on December 28th, His Excellency Rene de St. Quentin, Ambassador of France, was the principal speaker.

At the meeting held on December 28, Dr. Watts delivered his complimentary address on “The Status of Foreign Language Teaching in the South Atlantic States.” The Metropolitan Chapters served tea to all the delegates. The Modern Language Association of America met on December 28, 29, and 30th in the Hotel Pennsylvania and at Columbia University. Six hundred members were present. On Thursday, Columbia University gave a complimentary dinner to all members at which Nicholas Murray Butler, President of Columbia University, gave the address of welcome. Former members of the Davidson faculty who were present were Prof. Robert G. Bailey, now a graduate student at Princeton, and Prof. Sydney S. Minault, professor at Baldwin Wallace College, Ohio.

Pastor Talks On Ignorance

Albert Sidney Johnson Is Speaker At Vesper Services

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, chose the third verse of the tenth chapter of the Epistle to the Romans as his text in addressing the student vesper service last Sunday night in Chambers Auditorium. Having brought out his text, “For being ignorant of God's righteousness, and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God,” Dr. Johnson explained that the trouble with the world today is that too many people are trying to establish a righteousness of their own instead of submitting themselves to the righteousness of Jesus Christ, our Lord.

Mistaken Purpose

In the effort to establish a righteousness of their own, many people usually come to the conclusion that the main purpose of their religion is to save themselves. They will try to make up for the past evil or try to pay off their sins in some other manner. But since man is ignorant of God's righteousness, where can he get an estimate of it? He can't get it from himself, and his environment can't help him a great deal.

Explains Righteousness

To clear this up, Dr. Johnson explained, “God's righteousness, centered in Christ, is the end of the law of righteousness to everyone who believeth. No one who has not believed in Christ will ever see God.” Dr. Johnson concluded: “God has a standard which he requires of all men, and it is found in the righteousness of Jesus Christ, our Lord.”

Sigma Upsilon Meets

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held its regular meeting last night at the Phi Delta Theta house with its president, Sam Newell, in charge. The president presented to the group his chapter in the novel which the society is writing. Professor Davidson read an essay, and Bill Marquess presented a book report. The program closed with a short story read by Professor Erwin. Ed Morrow was in charge of the program.

Dr. G. B. Watts, official delegate to the Language Association, spoke on “The Status of Foreign Language Teaching in the South Atlantic States” in New York City.

Rev. McClure To Be Visitor

Former ‘Y’ Secretary To Talk At Sunday Vesper

For next Sunday's Vesper service, the speaker will be Reverend Albert B. McClure, of the First Presbyterian Church in Lincolnton. Reverend McClure is a graduate of Davidson College and while here he played an important part in student activities, being vice-president of the Senior class and holding other positions of importance. He was also a member of the Delta Omicron Kappa fraternity and numerous other honorary fraternities. For two years he was secretary of the Y.M.C.A. and student pastor of the Chapel. Up until two years ago, Reverend McClure was here and many will remember him in this capacity. He left this position to enter the active ministry. Reverend McClure is also a graduate of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. He comes from Rabun Gap, Georgia. Reverend McClure plays an active part in the young people's work in the King's Mountain Presbytery. He also participated in several young people's conferences at Montreat this past summer.

Church Plans Big Field Day

Recreation Council Will Present Varied Program

On Saturday, January 21, the Recreation Council of Unity Church will stage a big field day in which almost the entire village will take part. The field day will begin early in the morning when the men and boys are to see that a large supply of wood is cut and hauled to the church while the women set up and display their Arts and Crafts exhibit. This exhibit will foster especially the finesse of the culinary artists in the village in addition to other attractions coming from the resourceful minds of the village women. Russel Smith, Jack Davidson, Harold Chapman, and Paul Kissling are working in connection with the Arts and Crafts exhibits other than in the line of cookery. At one o'clock the Boy Scouts under the direction of Mr. Abernathy and the Girl Scouts under Miss Eunice Houston will open an afternoon of ceremony.Contests under the direction of Swede Johnson, horseshoe, Scouts, and contests such as races, ping-pong, volleyball, and checker tournaments will be held. Both genuine husband and hog calling contests will be a part of the planned program of which Rod Williams is the general director. (Continued on Page Six)

Sum Raised “Y” Reveals For Lepers of the North Carolina Chapter of South Atlantic Modern Lan- Over Three Hundred and Fifty Dollars Given In Annual Donation

Something over $350 is the sum that has been donated by Davidson College to the work of the Biederwolf Leper Colony in Korea. The custom of making an annual gift to some mission cause has been established at Davidson. A new departure in the method of raising the money was adopted this year, with the result that about half as much as usual was raised. This, of course, was the general prediction.

The “Y” authorities view the situation as follows: We do not consider, however, that this is cause to blame the student body or to grumble. Nor do we think that it means our approach was wrong. Why do we defend the approach used this year in the face of the smaller amount raised? Because we have re-examined the purpose of the Christmas Gift Fund and decided that its first importance is not as a donation to some cause, but as a gift from our students. That is, it is intended to be an expression of the spirit of love and generosity in our hearts. The Gift Fund is practically the only measure which the Y.M.C.A. has of its effectiveness. If the money is raised by pressure methods, it ceases to be any measure at all. The purpose of the "Y" at Davidson is to make Christ real to every man. If this is done, each of us will have His Spirit in our hearts. Paul says that the by-products of the Spirit of God are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, (Continued on Page Six)

Music Club Ladies’ Chorus, With Glee Club, Will Present “Daughter of Jairus”

On the nights of the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth of February, Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, respectively, the first annual Davidson Music Festival will be presented, offering selections by the Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra of this school. For the first performance, the Glee Club, with a picked ladies’ chorus, will sing, at the Sunday Vespers, the Daughter of Jairus, by John Stainer. On Monday, the thirteenth, in conjunction with the Little Symphony, Land Sighting, by Brieg, will be presented. On the following night, the Glee Club and the girls' chorus from Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte will present a concert version of Flotow’s opera, Martha. This will close the Music Festival, which is to be presented each year under the auspices of the music department.

On Sunday night, the nineteenth of February, the Glee Club and Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra will go to Winston-Salem, where they will present a concert of sacred music at the First Presbyterian Church. On Friday, the twenty-fourth of February, they will appear in Charlotte where they will sing at the annual ladies’ night meeting of the Charlotte Masonic Fellowship Club to be held at the Chamber of Commerce. In the early part of March, the annual tour will be taken. However, a definite time and schedule for this trip have not yet been made out. Following this, on March the twentieth, the annual spring concert will be held in Chambers Building.

Members of Faculty Publish Many Works

Few Attend Movie. A disappointingly small crowd turned out last Sunday after Vespers to view the movie “Every Man in His Own Tongue” which was presented by the Life Fellowship Group. This picture depicted the Home Mission work among the Mexicans, Jews, and Indians in the South. Next Sunday after Vespers, the Ministerial and mission candidates will meet in the banquet hall of Chambers for the purpose of getting acquainted as this will be their first such meeting. Wade Boggs, Dave McLain, and Dave Woodward will be in charge of the program.

Faculty Committee Releases Figure On Number Of Publications

Approximately 300 different pieces of writing have been published by present members of the Davidson faculty, according to a list recently released by the faculty committee on productive scholarship. This figure is not entirely accurate, for it does not count several regular columns by faculty members, appearing periodically in various magazines, nor many other short pieces of writing such as book reviews, of which the authors themselves have no accurate count. This total includes 32 complete books, 95 articles in scientific journals or encyclopedias, 77 contributions to religious periodicals, 59 miscellaneous works, and unnumbered book reviews by eight different faculty members. A listing of these published writings fills a bulletin of twelve pages compiled by the faculty committee on productive scholarship. Dr. I. M. Shewmake heads the group with Dr. W. P. Cummings, Professor Chalmers Davidson, Professor W. L. Porter, and Dr. G. R. Vowles as the other members. The most prolific faculty writer is President (Continued on Page Six)

Camera Group In Discussions

At the last meeting of the Photographic Club held on Wednesday night, January 4th, at 6:45 in the classroom of Dr. Lyons, many subjects were discussed. To begin with, a talk on “Beginning Photography” was presented by Angus Lytch. This talk dealt with the taking of better pictures by beginners, giving many helpful hints as to how to go about getting better pictures. Then a discussion of prints was begun. This is done to point out the best prints presented to the Club. Each print is carefully criticized in detail in order that other members may be aided in the taking of their pictures. There will be no more meetings of the Photographic Club this semester. It is hoped that the time of its members will be helpfully used in studying for the exams.

When Hal Kemp comes to Charlotte on February 11 to play for Davidson’s Mid-Winters, he will be in familiar territory. At the time Hal attended Carolina, he called the Queen City home. His first orchestra, organized at Central High School there, was called the Merrymakers. Some of the members of his present band were classmates of his at the University.

Sunday Class Hears Brown “Peter Commended And Rebuked” Is Lesson Subject

Dr. C. W. Brown gave his first of a series of lectures before the Sunday School class in Shearer Hall last Sunday morning. His subject is the standard Sunday School lesson for this week, Peter Commended and Rebuked. The scripture was taken from the sixteenth chapter of Matthew. Dr. Brown stated by way of introduction that the Sunday School should not stress much who it was that would speak but that the service was intended for the worship of God.

Confession Necessary

The lesson was mostly concerned with Peter’s great confession, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God,” and Christ’s following remark. This confession is necessary for all of us. Dr. Brown interpreted the passage “and upon this rock I will build my church” as referring to Peter’s faith rather than to Peter himself, as some interpret it. In the following passage “and the gates of hell shall not (Continued on Page Six)

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant FOOD DELICIOUS AT REASONABLE PRICES 221 W. Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Concert To Be Given By Kemp’s Unique Rhythm

Comes From Carolina Mid-Winters Bandleader Spent Much Of His Youth In Charlotte

Local boy makes good! That is what can be said about Hal Kemp by the people who live in and around Charlotte. Kemp, who will appear at Davidson Mid-Winters with his orchestra, although born in Marion, Alabama, spent most of his youth in Charlotte. He calls himself a true “Tar Heel” for not only did he live in Carolina but he also attended college here. In 1922, Hal entered the University of North Carolina and more as a hobby than as a profession he organized an orchestra—this was known as the Carolina Club Orchestra. He has built his organization up from a small college band to the position of one of the top-notch orchestras of the country. Hal Kemp and his orchestra have made dance history and gained international prominence as the creators of a distinctive band of syncopation. Their ultra-modern, fresh, lilting style has elevated them to the front ranks in a comparatively short time. A few months ago, in a poll conducted among thousands of dance academies of the United States, Hal Kemp and his orchestra were voted the most popular dance aggregation in the country. His music is a favorite not only among laymen but also among musicians. Unlike many maestros who build their bands around star musicians, Hal has taken unknowns, preferring to develop his musicians himself to conform with his own distinctive style. Thus, many popular figures such as Bob Allen and Eddie Kusby are all products of Kemp training.

Kemp will be an awkward newlywed when he arrives at Davidson, for he is to be married on January 21 to a blond debutante night club singer, Martha (Continued on Page Six)

STARTING WEDNESDAY THEY’RE ON THE LOOSE! TOUGH! ROWDY! VICIOUS! “LITTLE TOUGH GUYS IN SOCIETY” with MISCHA AUER MARY BOLAND EDWARD E. HORTON ALSO FLOYD GIBBON’S ADVENTURES MUSICAL NEWS

MONDAY-TUESDAY ON OUR STAGE Major Bowe’s “International Revue” Featuring THE PICK OF 20,000 AMATEURS ASSEMBLED IN ONE STAGE UNIT THE TOPS IN STAGE ENTERTAINMENT On The Screen “ARREST BULLDOG DRUMMOND” with John Howard Heather Angel

Official Student Store Exam Pads 3 for 25¢ PARKER QUINK — All Shades PARKER PENS — Special 10% Off During Exams Student Store Bill Telford Sam Hemphill