The Sports Roundup
By BOB WILLIAMS
DAVIDSON SPORTS
Wed., Mar. 22, 1939

Yes, sir! It certainly looks as if Spring is here, and with it naturally comes baseball, track, golf, and tennis, and possibly even thoughts of summer and freedom. Baseball is drawing the spotlight right at the present, not only on our campus but also in the sport pages of the country round. The big league teams are getting warmed up for the coming campaign, and it won't be long before they will be in full swing. The most disappointing thing about this season is the lack of holdouts... even Dean, Di Maggio, and Van Mungo are in the fold. The managers must have had something up their sleeves to get all the boys in the first go-round. We see that the Yankees have started their winning ways already by edging out the Cards a couple of times. They look stronger than ever with a rookie outfielder that is slated to take the right field post away from George Selkirk. However, they may face some unexpected opposition from either Detroit or Cleveland which have potentially great teams. One of the many teams to watch in the National League is this Cincinnati team... all young boys, but extremely dangerous. But don’t count the “Jints” out by a long shot.

Pete Whittle had his first view of his proteges in action last Saturday when the Varsity engaged in a practice meet with the Freshmen. The team showed up fairly well for this early in the season, but it is very evident that we will be woefully weak in several departments. A jump of 5 ft. 7 in. will not win very many meets, nor will a 55 second 440. Then the Varsity only got a third place in two events—the discus and the 220 low hurdles. However, very surprising was the performance turned in by a Sophomore, Jack White, in the running of the 100 in 10.3 and the 220 in 23.5. Whittle may have a find there, if White continues to improve as he has lately. The team will miss Bailey Williams and “Cruper” Crisp in the weights, because it does not have an outstanding discus hurler or shot putter. Swede Johnson is again having trouble with that arm that bothered him last year, and unless it improves some it is apparent that he will not be able to throw the javelin up to the 200 ft. mark that he has been aiming at for three years.

While most of the Davidson students are blissfully enjoying the needed holidays of this weekend, the tennis and golf teams will be representing the school and having a good time meeting teams in the South and Southwest. The net men are journeying all the way to Texas to engage several teams out there, and the whole student body is behind them as they go out. We are proud of our tennis team and the record that it is making, for although we cannot compete with the tremendous schools in some sports because of enrollment and finances, we can meet them on the tennis court and golf links on even terms. The racqueteers defeated the Myers Park Country Club Saturday 3-2, but the interesting match of the day was when Billy Turner, playing number one, defeated Teddy Burwell, the North Carolina champion for a number of years straight.

The Golf team is also going gallivanting around the Southern States in quest of wins on different courses around the country. Jimmy Cooper, playing superb golf, is playing number one man, and the other men making the trip are Ray Pittman, Granville Sharpe, and Charlie Pegram with Jack Abels playing as first alternate.

In looking over past issues of the Davidsonian the other night, the write-ups in some of the fall issues of the year 1921 came to the special notice of the writer. The accounts of the football games of that year were both amusing and informing. In the September 29 issue of that year we find these words: “By squeezing over a touchdown in the last 15 seconds of play the University of Virginia succeeded in making the count 28-0 over Davidson in the opening game of the season.” Then an excerpt from the Oct. 27 issue: “The missing link in Coach Grey’s Little Electric Machine has been found. The Wofford Terriers were fed into the machine by Manager Price last Saturday, and they came out in the form of 87-0 sausage. The Davidson pup-eating Wildcats greedily devoured the canines in six and seven point margins.” In that Wofford game Davidson scored 87 points, made 34 first downs, and gained 853 yards. We must have been a veritable Duke in those days, but considering the 70-0 shellacking we got at the hands of Georgia Tech, maybe the team wasn’t so potent after all. That year among the notable achievements were that we held Wake Forest for six straight times within our one-foot line, before they finally put over the touchdown that beat us 10-7. We had three ties on consecutive weeks with Richmond, 14-14, with State, 3-all, and with Carolina, a scoreless deadlock.

Golfers Take Southern Jaunt During Holidays

Deacs Lose In N.C.C.A. Eve

Last Friday night in Philadelphia, the mighty Demon Deacons basketball team from Wake Forest was defeated by an Ohio State aggregation 64 to 52 in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.

Davidson's varsity golf team did not swing into actual competition last week as was expected because of the cancellation of a match scheduled with The Citadel for that time. The team has exhibited some fine golf already this season in practice and qualification rounds. Jimmy Cooper, much improved this year, was the qualifying medalist and will play the no. 1 position. Granville Sharpe, only Sophomore to crash the line-up, also qualified high. Veterans Charlie Pegram, junior shot-maker from Charlotte, and Ray Pittman, senior and Captain of this year’s team, have also been hitting the ball exceptionally well in early rounds. Pittman had a 72 and 73 in practice rounds last weekend. Jack Abels and Caton Dennis will serve as alternates for this year's regulars. The linksmen are already looking ahead to the Southern Intercollegiate Tourney, to be held at Athens, Ga., April 13-15. The ’Cats placed ninth as a team there last year and their last year’s no. 1, Charlie Pegram, went as far as the finals in individual play.

Overcoming a six-point deficit at half, Ohio State’s dazzling quintet grew stronger as the game progressed to chalk up a decisive win in the first round battle. Wake Forest made a flying start with a bewildering run of one-handed shots, but the Ohio boys soon began to click.

Waller Fouls Out

With eleven minutes remaining in the game, Captain Jim Waller of the Forestmen was banished from the game for excessive fouls. With him went Wake Forest’s chances for victory. He was the individual star of the game, although Baker, an Ohio State forward, and his teammate Boyd Owen, center, both outscored him. Ohio State, in scoring the win over Wake Forest, broke two tournament records. The team shattered the scoring record previously held by Army at 53 points. And Dick Baker tallied 25 points for the Buckeyes on 10 field goals and five free throws to destroy the individual scoring mark held jointly by Roy Menzel of Pennsylvania University and Lou Myers, Dickinson College.

Other Games

In the other first round game Friday night Villanova licked Brown 42 to 30, Saturday night (Continued on Page Six)

“Tubby” Hand, veteran of two years varsity competition, is expected to hold down center field for the 1939 edition of the Wildcat nine. Hand hails from Lowell.

S. P. E’S Win In Frat Track

Archie Taylor Leads Scorers; Records Fall

Sigma Phi Epsilon dominated the scoring as the cream of the fraternity runners, jumpers, and field men vied for their respective groups in the annual Interfraternity Track classic held here last Wednesday and Thursday. The Phi Gams emerged a close second with the S. A. E.’s in third place, followed by the Kappa Sigs in fourth. Four fraternity records fell and one mark was tied during the two afternoons of competition. Best individual performer of the two-day session was Archie Taylor, Phi Gam freshman from Winston-Salem. Elmer Knoeller, S. P. E. freshman, broke Iverson’s record in the discus with a 116.9 ft. toss and Don Bell of Pi Kappa Alpha established a new record of 46.6 ft. in the shot. John Strandwitz, of Sigma Phi Epsilon broke Bill Black’s old record of 5’ 6” in the high jump as he cleared 5’ 10”.

Summary

The summary follows:
100 yd. dash—(1) (Phi Gams) (2) Harrison (Kappa Sigs) (3) Tice (S. P. E.) (4) Scott (Kappa Sigs) Time: 10.4.
220 yd. dash—(1) Loy (S. P. E.) (2) Scott (Kappa Sigs) (3) Plonk (S. P. E.) (4) Harrison (Kappa Sigs). Time: 24.8.
440 yd. run—(1) Bahnson (S. A. E.) (2) Williamson (Pi Kappa Phi) (3) Fetzer (Betas) (4) Turnage (K. A.). Time: 58.3.
660 yd. run—(1) Parrish (Phi Gams) (2) Colvin (Pi Kaps) (3) Kenyon (Phi Delts) (4) Coppedge (S. A. E.). Time: 1:34.4.
Low hurdles—(1) Taylor (Phi Gams) (2) Harrison (Kappa Sigs) (3) Tice (S. P. E.) (4) Rock (K. A.). Time: 43.1.
1 mile run—(1) Harnsberger (Phi Gams) (2) Watt (K. A.) (3) Sprunt (S. A. E.).A. E.) (4) Jackson (Betas). Time: 3:48.6.

Field Events
Broad Jump—(1) Tice (S.P.E.) (2) Taylor (Phi Gams) (3) Youngblood (Pikas) (4) Plonk (S.P.E.). 20 ft. 5½ in.
Shot Put—(1) Bell (Pikas) (2) [Continued on Page Six]

Taylor

THACKER’S, Inc.
“A Good Place to Eat”
Private Dining Rooms For Banquets
Phone 5490

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Netters And Linksmen Tour During Vacation
Page Four

Ball Season Opens With Holiday Tilt
Varsity; Sophs Show Up Well in Drills

Practice games featured varsity baseball practice during the past week with three such affairs being held. Coach Gene McEver was in charge of the nine in the absence of Laird. Pitchers were frequently changed during the practice session to ward off sore arms and stiff muscles, and players were frequently warned not to bear down.

With a game scheduled for the day before school reopens after the holidays, the squad was put through its paces at a more rapid rate as the time approaches for the season to begin. Larkwood will be the ‘Cats opponents for the first game on March 28.

No Cut Yet

During the week, the positions on the team remained in the same hands, with all candidates being given equal opportunity to show their talents. The team will return early after the holidays for practice before the opener, and at that time, playing uniforms will be issued to a part of the candidates. Thus far, no cut has been made in the squad of approximately thirty-five men. Pitching seems to be the popular choice for try-outs, as there are ten men out for this position.

Sophs Push Vets

Most of the veterans have been showing up well in batting practice, with some of the rookies pushing them for positions. Rusty Edmondson appears to be a likely choice for utility man should he fail to crash the starting lineup. Frank Niven, the other sophomore who appears sure of breaking in at first base, is working regularly with the first-string infield. Behind the plate will be Rusty Hellekson, an ineligible transfer last year, who is expected to take care of the receiver's duties capably.

Varsity Slate
Mar. 28—Larkwood, here.
Mar. 31—Colby, here.
Apr. 5—Catawba, here.
Apr. 8—Carolina, here.
Apr. 12—Duke, here.
Apr. 14—Furman, there.
Apr. 15—Wofford, there.
Apr. 17—Lenoir-Rhyne, here.
Apr. 19—Oglethorpe, here.
Apr. 21—Wake Forest, there.
Apr. 22—N.C. State, there.
Apr. 25—Wofford, here.
Apr. 27—Carolina, there.
Apr. 28—Duke, there.
Apr. 29—Duke, there.
May 1—Virginia, here.
May 5—Furman, here.
May 8—Catawba, there.
May 10—Wake Forest, here.
May 13—N.C. State, here.

Frosh Netmen Play Matches

Twenty-eight Freshmen have entered the annual Spring Tennis tourney and have drawn their first-round opponents. Most of the first-round matches will be played off before the holidays. Four men were seeded and given byes. These men were picked because of past performance in the fall tourney and because of their recent showing on the courts. Wilson Coker is No. 1, Crichton was given the second rating, John Talmage occupies the No. 3 slot, and Charlie Allcott rates the fourth bye.

The annual tournaments are proving ground for the first-year netters and are a source of material for Varsity Wildcat teams. The Frosh team will be chosen later from the men taking part in this tourney.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By BILL MARQUESS, 125

FREE DELIVERY
PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley
Dial 5041
J. K. HAMPTON
Davidson, N.C.

GROCERY
PAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Varsity Wins Against Frosh
Tracksters Hold First Practice Meet in Preparation

Climaxing a week of hard work, Davidson's varsity and freshmen track teams met Saturday afternoon in a trial engagement in preparation for their first meets which come after the holidays. Captain Walker and Woodward dominated the distance runs, taking first in each specialty: Woodward the mile and half-mile, and Walker the 880. “Popeye” McAlpine returned to his last year’s form to win the 440 for the varsity. He was closely followed by Black and Baker. Dave Spencer, freshman four-sports star, easily won the low hurdles in 27.2. Harbin took the high hurdles for the varsity, barely nosing out Williamson and Cauble in a close race.

In the feature event of the afternoon, Jack White, product of last year's freshmen team, topped Charlie Sample in the 220 in a close finish. Sample also emerged victorious in the hundred-yard dash, closely followed by Loy.

Sample Wins Vault

Charlie Sample, last year's Southern Conference indoor pole vault champion, took his specialty with an 11 feet 6 inches jump. In the broad jumping, “Footsie” Cowan emerged victorious over Spencer and Shannon, who tied for second. Strandwitz took the high jump for the freshmen by nosing out Black and Dave Gammon. Don Bell won the shot put, while Warden Freeze took the discus for the freshmen. Swede Johnson, school record holder, nosed out Bell in the javelin with a throw of 169 feet 10 inches. The meet was marred by the absence of several varsity and freshmen stars.

Gym Event Is Won By Rock

Bob Rock became the first freshman to hold the gymnastic title when he emerged victorious last week over a field of 66 participants in the annual event. Out of the 61 possible events, Bob successfully mastered 57 for an excellent grand total score of 321. He was closely followed by Dave Sprunt, who is at present gym instructor, with 286 points. George Mitchell was third, Boo Walker fourth, and Woodall Rose fifth.

Tennis Team Leaves Tomorrow For Trip Through Southwest
Seven Players and Manager to Make Spring Holiday Tour To Texas; Tenney and Turner Lead Team

Park Club Beaten by ’Cats

Davidson's varsity racquet-wielders played a match last Saturday afternoon with the Myers’ Park Club and were leading 3-2 when a high wind forced suspension of the matches. Billy Turner, playing No. 1, defeated Teddy Burwell in straight sets, 8-6, 8-6. Jimmy Myers defeated Trotter of Northcross in the second match. Ernie Eubanks of Charlotte emerged victorious over Davidson's Locke Hunter in the third setto. Dick Shore of Davidson beat Van Wagner 4-6, 7-5, 6-4 in the fourth match, and Ed Cloyd beat McLaughlin 6-1, 6-3 in the final singles match. The doubles were not able to be played because of excessive wind and cold.

Seven Make Trip

Seven men will make the trip through the southwest during and after the Spring Holidays, leaving today and returning about April 2. These men are: Rea Tenney and Billy Turner, who will alternate at the No. 1 position, Wilson Northcross, Locke Hunter, Capt. George Jones, Dick Shore, and Ed Cloyd. Manager Ken Lawson will of course accompany the team, although Coach Frontis Johnson will not be able to join the tour.

The Wildcat netters seem to have a very good chance to emerge victorious over all their opposition on this tour with the exception of the University of Texas’ Southwestern Conference Champions. The Texans boast a team in the class with North Carolina and several of the big eastern universities. Their Bobby Kamrath is nationally rated.

Former Cat Star

The Cats will meet a former teammate when they engage Emory University in Atlanta. Leonard (Bones) Woodward, ex-Davidson star, is now performing for the Atlantans. The Cats will meet the Wofford team tomorrow afternoon and should reign as favorites as Davidson previously has beaten them. The schedule for the season is not yet available because of some late cancellations and changes, but the scheduled matches for the southwestern tour appear as follows:

[Continued on Page Six]

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N.C.

Wed., Mar. 22nd.
“YES, MY DARLING DAUGHTER”

Thurs.-Fri., Mar. 23-24th.
“TAILSPIN”

Sat., Mar. 25th.
“WHILE NEW YORK SLEEPS”

Wed., Mar. 29th.
“BOY DOUBLE”