“SCOUT HATTER "Of Troops Thurs., Dec. 14, 1939

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
The Betas had their annual Christmas party last Saturday night. The pledges gave the party this year with the theme “Variety Show.” All pledges took part. A feed was held and gifts were distributed. Misses Ann Wiley and Lib Hoppe of Charlotte; Guests at the party were Kay Vanstory of Converse; Polly Price and Alice Withers of Davidson; Dot Summerville and Marguerite Mason of Charlotte. Bob Benfield, guest of the chapter this Brother of Concord, was the week-end. Mr. and Mrs. Joyner and family of Kernersville, N. C., were visitors with the chapter.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Several of the brothers took trips this week-end. Among them were Ross McElwee to Statesville, Vernon Youngblood and Toddy Latimer to Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill. Roger Rite went to Greensboro, Jim Crutchfield and Asheboro and Greensboro respectively. Bub Coltrane went to Casey Jones journeyed to Washington. Brothers Abels, Byers, Lane, and Shewmake went to Columbia, S. C. Bob Washington and Ed Scott went to Winthrop and Statesville respectively. Visitors of the chapter were Misses Mary Spencer, Margaret Chandler; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Allison of Charlotte, Mr. and Mrs. Youngblood, and Miss Pamela Read of Concord.

Kappa Alpha-Kappa Sigma
The annual K A.-Kappa Sig Christmas ball and banquet was held Saturday night in the Hotel Charlotte. Dr. William Neal was the toastmaster. Greetings were given by the president of Kappa Sigma, Scott McGavock, and Dave Sprunt, president of Kappa Alpha. The main speaker was Dr. Frazier Hood of the faculty. Chaperones included Dr. and Mrs. Hood, Mr. and Mrs. Whittle, Dr. and Mrs. McGavock, Col. and Mrs. McKenzie, Dr. and Mrs. Bailey, Dr. and Mrs. Schenck, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Abbott. Sponsors for the ball were Tom Davis with Melvin Means, Harriet Perrin with Lewis Hengeveld, Scottie Tyson with Neal Scott, and Nellie Boy Scout Area Board Meets To Give Awards.

Dr. Gwynn Presides at First Meeting of Board Of Review
The Boy Scout Board of Review for the Davidson area held its first meeting Monday night, December 4, in Phi Hall. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, a Professor and member of the Troop Committee, presided. W. W. Wood, also a member of the Troop Committee, and Colonel C. L. Steel were present. After examination, the following awards were made: Jim Steel received the Second Class rank; Jim Hough, Star rank and Firemanship, Civics, Reading, and First Aid Merit Badges; Watt Withers, Life rank and Scholarship, First Aid, Safety, Athletics, and Handicraft Merit Badges; Cloyd Goodrum, Stamp Collecting Merit Badge; LeConte Cathy, Electricity Merit Badge. These badges will be presented at the Court of Honor, which will hold its next meeting on the second Friday in January at the Phi Hall.

There are six Boy Scout troops in the Davidson area: Troop 58, which meets at the Davidson High School, under the direction of Colonel C. L. Steel as Scoutmaster, assisted by Jim Kerr and John Brady.

Versions of Poe’s Plays
Page Five

Fraternity Bull Session
Dr. Lingle Speaks At Large Sunday Class
Dameron with Sam Spencer, Kay Spencer with Ed Watkins, Louise McLean, Betty Luke, Author of “The Christmas Story,” Is Discussed. Series of Programs By Speaker. Sigma Alpha Epsilon banquet and a ball was given by the chapter last Saturday night in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. Chaperones were Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood, Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyons, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell, and Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Douglas. Dates of the members of the fraternity were Eleanor Newman, Fairfax Foster, Tiny Waddill, Marion Harrison, Jo Bridger, Nan Latham, Ellen Ellerbe, Marie Pons, Peggy Beatty, Ann Brown, Florence Partridge, Caroline Cooper, Mary Jane Cooper, Mary Copenhaven, Lilly Sutton Ferrell, Eleanor Key, Elizabeth Brower, Libby Dooley, Delice Young, Aileen Brooks, Tolper, Betsy Hitt, and Peyton.

Pi Kappa Phi
Many of the brothers left the campus on the week-end. Among them were Harry Hendricks to Winston-Salem, and Bob Garvey to Raleigh. Charlotte seemed to be the mecca of the moment. Among the pilgrims were Dave Colvin, Calhoun Hipp, Leon Paine, Herb Swasey, Blanton Williamson, Bob Ballard, and Julian Lokey. Several of the Queens College students were initiated as honorary members, since they are not connected with the college.

Bible Class
Dr. Walter Lingle spoke to a large Bible class on Sunday morning. The topic of Dr. Lingle’s talk was the Gospel of Luke. He talked about Luke, the man who wrote the beautiful story of the Saviour. He disclosed the reasons for his course of action. Luke was shown to be reliable, faithful to the end, correct and accurate in historical facts, and a possessor of much ability. The story of Luke contains ample evidence of his strong points.

Skeptics Are Convinced By Frank Atwater’s Strange
The Flying Club
At the meeting of the Flying Club last week, ten new members were taken in, bringing the total membership up to 26. They are at present associate members. They are E. T. Watkins, Blair Miller, Francis Van Landingham, Clarence Anderson, Fred Martin, Eldridge Brown, and Bill Wood. Coach Chet Chapman also became an associate member. He is the first faculty member to join the club. The Flying Club received recognition from the Aviation Authority in New York on Dec. 1 and 2.The Cakers were guests at Sunday night supper. New Members ng e Xu pea «S§ bs 8g * linictantett Tail Fey | ; Powers < nations the tact it Ke rv do t Wi per | Although there have been many ee x Aliment ia ern Phi Gamma Delta applications for membership in the On ] rad ttons Have you ever heard of a thaicn lArolalia besniarccrent Phe annual Christmas party kept | Radio Theatre, it has been, im hypnotist making a subject ey, | | h ; H | i . 1 Ib t ( in 1V the brothers on the campus for] possible to work any new talent Addresses Members of Quad- rigid suspending him between other -persons at cil nat he Aveeksend, Frank Batker: pre-| into the shows so far However, wranglers Club On His- the backs of two chairs, “and OF THE PAST foubtial EeNen Paul t ided as master of ceremonies: Wal- | the organization will expand early tory Of Davidson eet tim to hold up a see- (MARIAN SHERRI nd ter Wooten took the role of Santa } in the year and any other stu 1 ond person on his torso? You Five Years Ago lid of He] d God and Claus. Members of the faculty] dents who are interested in this Dr. Walter I. Lingle was) jaye heard of it, but have you Cole Windham and Henry Cathey | Serve “ Nothing BrokeitAveree CNET. AHO GAL Se Wit he of work should get in touch| speaker at the Onadwranglers Club h ld Local Mage 1935-36 David football m | ji ; f avidson football tea ming, Dr.2 and Mrs, Knight, Dr. | The following faculty members on ‘Thursday evening, Dec. 7, wo. weeks ago on three con | ail ; | : : anit ‘ \ © Ouadwranglers’ room 1 | aa] ros \ ley was cleet and Mrs Johnston, Dr. and Mrs.| are helping the organization with tH the © i £ iee night to remember of out " Hood | production Prof. Davidson, Dr. Chambers building. The subject proved to at least |. | ‘ \ ae ee sdnedilie ° " ” ( i ‘ 1 it ey \mone the fairer sex who graced PKnight, and Mr, Burton, alumni) ject of the speaker was “Day nite nude neetidcnitsetlind ; ts last : , | \ Coll ses y PetaNG ; g Prueetn Below is the '40 football sche- the occasion were: Mona Mosley, | secretary IASON COMle ne Wty Cars o 4 | done Not only that, he | R i | FEA TED ol ase ; hea y dule as released by Coach Shep- \lice Payne, “Buteh” Steele, Rolly Sd ‘ MEE One omeht before a crowd | \W4 © ovarsit ettermen 1 5 z a +! Mast xt the are membership HES: ribose ard. Centre, Sewanee and Hamp- Price, Martha Withers, June Nel B: | T GC o—.. 5 Vie 1th irene i ! forty boys, Frank Atwater the-1LsdeJd5 d Syd 1 Wake F {Continued on Page Six} | an¢ oO yIVE ‘ the club, which is made up en t econd student “to sleep” and Kee | lool unusually en- yc ney, rep ace a ec or- | brett venom eres Baki tie | est and South Carolina. Citadel | “ hy 0 ae Leu and other ide fim remember things that he { at ; Th eos; | Ve Cy Oe i idministrative members of the col 1 hil wal | w3ll be met on Thanksgiving ‘at | uast Conc ¢ I t could never recall while awake, | * } a | leve, w present at this fall meet FeAtlicll iinoaiiitaver lies umecst | Ten Years Ago an undetermined place. : roof the group ed and chimaxed the how with wae ies adaean k Sept. 28—-N. C. Sta., Greensboro Last Radio Program In Fall) Speaking of Davidson “Vifty | the demonstration of a man’s supet!| raya up pl Sheva VST Oct. 5—-U. N. C., (Undecided) . : . Craw yo prdeat ora hristmas | Series To Be Presented Years Ago and Since,” DF. Lingle finan power by making his sub-} piouse Parts. All met 4 Oct. 12—V. M. L., Here alin é 1 HNetbbhers «a u Over WBT Thursday told many interesting incidents of | jee tpport him while suspended | Qadent body will be are 3 Oct. 19—Sewanee, Here x | the college, relating what Davidson | yor een two. chairs F Oct, 26—Furman, There : y i A puny fer ’ ° | ; : ‘ slike inthe past and: discussie nites otiues (Hine: Frank Vhad Brock, ace Davidson back, Noy osCentre, Here CH "g) | Davidson's last radio program : : t , : Han —_102—yards-tpainiste Duk | . 2-*Centre, Here -com’g YSICS. Y | all ‘ ate it as it appeared: to him: through) qiakes his subjects cast for trout, arnhere : "oy % ae Nov. 9—Duke, There gram in the fall series will be ‘ rs 3 ( tailed tay scores? Tt was the : ved 1 popcorn, and run a detail_to}, . » 16 “Sy ree hic Thursday night ; : : = lat peorn, and run a de ul fondest rinicticerid listorycaiot To Nov 16—H.-Sydney, Here ears a er presented this Thursday night his gathering was one of the) yye Stud Stores*When these are \ hd T.-giving—Citadel, (Undecided) Dec. 14, over station WIT in regular meetings of the club; the weested the subjects go through ny pe era ae A ‘regular meeting of Sigma Pi] Charlotte. This program will be sf meeting of the group will not) ai) the actions and sémonologue nec 3 : P : s ; be held until college convenes ‘ Ree 4 Sigma, honorary physics fraternity given by the Symphonic Band under the direction of To become a member of this fra- coay EVE | flere Are f : : James Christian Pfohl. ternity, which was founded at] - , Davidson, it is necessary to obtain Featured Soloist Wf h R . h high scholarship as well as | show Featured on the Christmas carol e 1g t dtre—interest—in--the-tretd-—of phat ell bein Ilizabeth Clonuinger - eed So ee i a cl Le semen sics. President Bud Gilmore an- of Lenoir. Miss Cloninger is a spe C 1 ot h es nounces that at this meeting the| cial student of music here and following men were initiated: | studies Harp under Mrs. Ed Guth- Chase Brenizer, Tom Guion, Ed] ric. of Salem College at Winston Maxwell, and J. W. Moore. | Salem, N. C. She has attended sev- C v2 lor Your Highlight’ of ~ the meeting was | eral sessions. of the National High Cowd4 ate look; . a paper given by Professor Wil- School Music Corporation at Inter- | ‘ng in at , { ~ aga; ’ . Me oa “1S al liam Douglas on “Millikan’s Oil| bocken, Mich Mas Badge. | and John Turner; the troop that} meets at the Davidson’ —-Unity Church, with, Mr. Abernathy as | Drop Experiment.” Scoutmaster,’ assisted by Ben Col- kitt Parks; the at Cornelius and Huntersville have and Ross troops not yet asked for any of the College boys to help them. Dave McLean and Tommy Brown are help Bill McLauchlin and Langley Land are helping at the Cornelius Colored Troop, Ernest Ellison, Inc. “JUST INSURANCE” 115 East Fourth Street Charlotte, N. C. if a) FAUL & CRYMES e ALL SPORTING GOODS e 415 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. SEE US FOR The Final Touches BEFORE THE HOLIDAYS NORTON’S BARBER SHOP - Davidson, N. C. DELUXE ICE CREAM BEST TO BE HAD N. C. Mooresville, ganization from the Glee Club and is composed only of members of the this group. Now Playing... An Amazing Coincidence Never has the screen had such a momentous climax of a play reacted in tragic reality .... as was the fate of the Royal Oak . known as the El Mirante in ..with... H. B. Warner” - Richard Cromwell - Noah Beery Hazel Terry and The British Royal Fleet | 4 SS = — “] STARTS MONDAY - - Charles Dicken’s Beloved SA Christmas Carol” | Yavalarbse | Reginald Owen - Lynn [4 Carver - Gene Lockhart | Terry Kilburn ANN RUTHERFORD Broadway ~~ C(C an Italian folk song, | Ciribiribin, will be sung by the Band Quartet. This quartet is a separate organization from the band. Ms. Pfohl is the director of! I “Torpedoed” _ Wz tches por Ceisemas SOPHIE—17 jewels. 14K natural gold-filled. 18K applied gold numerals . . $50 BOWMAN-— Double-curved dial. 17 jewels. 14K natural gold-filled. 18K applied gold $52.50 numerals Other Hamiltons priced from $37.50 up. ” Use Our Lay-Away or Budget Plan— $5 Monthly Payments iP - GARIBALDI & BRUNS “LEADING JEWEL our windows THIS WEEK Special selection of the NEW HAMILTON 104 South Tryon Street showing a natural ERS SINCE 1896” Holidays— ‘There will be about town now and ready with the clothes. if they come from Mellon’s Dept. you'll know they're right Sport Coats $12.50 to $15.00 $20.00 Tails $27.50 STUDEN FE S—BEP Floor Co. 2nd TA Liat Christmas Dinner OPEN NIGHTS .- - - - Before You Leave at—— | LITTLE PEP SANDWICH SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C. S. Tryon Street THACKERS, Inc. ‘““A Good Place To Eat™ Christmas Dinner Sens BVA IE Ie 13, IR Charlotte, N. C.