Wed., May 17, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Two years ago a poll was taken by Dick Vowles, editor of the Davidsonian, concerning criticisms and suggestions that could be made for the Davidsonian. This poll of the student body proved extremely helpful, although it was not continued this year. The editor and the staff of the Davidsonian are always open to hear criticisms and constructive suggestions. Since no poll has been taken this year, the question this week is: “What suggestions or criticisms would you make for the Davidsonian at the present time?”

George Jones, Senior: I think that the Davidsonian could be improved greatly by having more pictures. During the past year, we have had more than the usual number of pictures, but I believe the students would welcome an even greater number. More pictures of campus events and campus life would add a lot of life and color to the paper.

Norris Erb, Sophomore: For a college newspaper, I think the Davidsonian is excellent; but I think that the students would be interested in knowing what other schools are doing by way of new ideas to improve the school and better satisfy the students. As recent “revolutions” show, Davidson students aren’t satisfied.

Addison Long, Senior: The Davidsonian serves its purpose of publishing campus news excellently. However, it seems that the paper could be a much more ardent booster of projects which make for a better Davidson, as against being a mere recorder of new projects. Make use of its more or less dormant influence and let’s make a good Davidson a better one.

Frank Atwater, Freshman: As a matter of fact, I think the Davidsonian is about as fine a college newspaper being published, but of course, there is always room for improvement and also room for new material. I know many of us have noticed the lack of pictures, and as Confucius (or somebody) once said, “A picture is worth a thousand words in itself.” Why not think about this, for after all, this is the age for speed, even in college. By the way, if some of our local talent were used, maybe a few cartoons could be run each week. I know this doesn’t leave much room for the Scripts 'n Pranks, but from a candid viewpoint, who cares? I doubt if these suggestions go very far, (Abernathy’s note—They certainly don’t), but I believe if we did see more human interest pictures and cartoons appearing in the Davidsonian, we would hear more sayings such as “Lend me a nickel to buy a Davidsonian.”

J. Daniel Gilliam, Junior: The main criticism of the Davidsonian that I have is that we should take care about having the names of people and organizations correct in our newspaper. Also, the wording of headlines could be better prepared at times. Some of them appear a little crude, following a cheap yellow press tendency rather than that of a dignified paper. It is the small things that make the difference between a good and an excellent paper, that will give us an All-American standing. I believe we can gain the honor again.

Ned Iverson, Senior: The sports page is hardly but a sports bulletin; it should consist of two pages. There should be more [Continued on Page Six]

Bee GOODS GROCERIES RADIO SUPPLIES HARDWARE M. H. Goodrum & Company DAVIDSON, N. C.

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Dave Sprunt Elected President of ‘Cercle’
French Circle Holds Final Meeting at Home of Dr. Goldiere Today

David Sprunt was elected president of “Le Cercle Francais,” honorary French fraternity, for the coming college year of 1939-’40, at its meeting held Tuesday, May 9. Sprunt, of Wilmington, N. C., was also recently elected president of his social fraternity, Kappa Alpha. Secretary-treasurer of Pi Gamma Mu, another honorary fraternity, Sprunt will hold that office next year. Sprunt belongs to Eumenean literary society, Delta Pi, and Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish honorary fraternity. He has been a member of the Student Council for three years, has served on the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and has held the office of vice-president.

Last Meeting May 17

The last meeting of the year of “Le Cercle Francais” was held Wednesday afternoon, May 17, at the home of Dr. A. V. Goldiere, in the form of a French restaurant. A business meeting was held following the supper hour, in which other officers for next year were elected. The work of the year was reviewed in several reports. A bronze medal was awarded to the most outstanding French student of the Senior class, by the French Council. French songs, French games, and a social hour closed the evening.

National French Club

“Le Cercle Francais” is a national French club organized for students who are especially interested in the study of the French language and literature.

ROTC Men Are Named
Thirty-Seven Sophs To Take Advanced Course

Colonel Armstrong, head of the R. O. T. C. department, announces that thirty-seven members of the rising Junior Class have been selected to take the advanced R. O. T. C. course. The following men were selected: Barnwell, W. H.; Davidson; Brenizer, C.; Bolin, W. J.; Bumbarger, P. W.; Browne, E.; Codington, H. A.; Cooper, S. P.; Dunlap, J. A.; Eagan, W. R.; Finley, F. W.; Hall, F. G.; Hamilton, W. H.; Hay, J. F.; Hite, L. C.; Hobson, P. H.; Hollifield, P.; Johnson, R. C.; King, J. H.; Lattimer, J. T.; Lemmon, W. M.; Lewis, R. E.; Liles, J. M.; Little, F. E.; Love, R. E.; McDaniel, R. W.; McDonald, G. H.; McDuffie, J. H.; McElwee, R. S.; McLucas, J. F.; Niven, F.; Purdie, J. A.; Saunders, J. W.; Sharpe, G. A.; Summerville, W.; Thompson, D. B.; Watson, E. B.; and Youngblood, V. H. Colonel Armstrong stated that [Continued on Page Six]

Reweaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

New Staff Elected

Herbert Codington, Jack Covington, “Casey” Jones, Fred Little, Hector McLean, and John Moore will assist Jim Currie on the Business Staff of the Davidsonian next year. These men were chosen from stiff competition last week by Currie, who is the new Business Manager, and John Latimer, holder of that office this year, with the advice of other members of the present staff. McLean and Jones will be the Advertising Managers, and the Circulation Managers will be Covington and Moore. Fred Little will hold the post of Collection Manager, while Codington will be Assistant Business Manager. This selection completes the personnel of both the Business and the Editorial Staffs of the Davidsonian.

“Yellow Night” Is Presented On Broadcast
Original Mystery Drama by Dan Hodges and Monroe Bush is Heard

“Yellow Night” was the dramatic presentation offered by the University Theatre, composed of students of Davidson college, Saturday night. The story was written especially for the Theatre by Dan Hodges and Monroe Bush and was reviewed by Dr. Cumming. The dramatic presentation, a heavy mystery dealing with the evils in war and the evils in human beings, featured Pat Rudolph in the leading role of Lord Galsworthy, a traitorous member of the great English House of Lords.

To Give “The Lagoon”

The University Theatre, through arrangements with Doubleday, Doran and Co., Ltd., and Talbot House of London, has been granted permission to open their season next fall with the immortal picture story by Joseph Conrad, “The Lagoon.” The Theatre will complete its Spring series of presentations with a final show next Saturday night at the usual time, 6:45 P. M., over radio station WSOC of Charlotte.the Chairman’s Board, composed of Monroe Bush, Jr., Pat Rudolph, and Ralph Williams, entertained their producer and director, Mr. George Brengal, on Tuesday evening. Mr. Brengal is well known for his recent work at Radio City and is currently serving as Program [Continued on Page Six]

"The Roadhouse" Davidson’s Only Night Spot No Cover Charge

You will find warmth and friendliness at Bridges’ CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pictured above are Gales McClintock of Charlotte (top) and George Richmond (bottom) of Concord, managers of the student store for the year 1939-'40.

By Alumnus William Coleman Branton, Davidson graduate of 1930, has recently been named winner of the Phi Delta Phi award, the highest honor a student in the University of Mississippi School of Law may attain. Branton, from Greenville, Mississippi, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He has been selected to the hall of fame for the year 1938-'39, is a member of the student executive council, president of the Junior law class, and editor of the Mississippi Law Journal. While at Davidson, he was tapped for membership in both Phi Beta Kappa and O.D.K. He was also a freshman advisor, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, a member of the “D” club, a cadet Major in the R.O.T.C. Battalion, and a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council. The award winner is chosen by the law school faculty on the basis of scholarship, personality, character, and general ability.

Victor Decca Brunswick Vocalion Bluebird 35¢-75¢ Each Any Record Not In Stock Can Be Quickly Secured PARKER-GARDNER CO. Phone 8257 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Coward Play Is Presented By Masquers “Hay Fever” Stars Caddie Willis and Kalista Hood Tuesday Night

“Hay Fever,” a comedy in three acts by Noel Coward, was presented in Chambers auditorium last Tuesday evening by the Red and Black Masquers. Miss Caddie Willis of Concord and Miss Kalista Hood took the feminine leads while Warren Gaw and Ed Morrow portrayed the two leading male characters. The production, the second one put on by the Masquers this year, was under the direction of Professor Ed Erwin Morrow. The play was based on the experiences of the four unusual members of the Bliss family. The opening of the play found this family at home awaiting four guests for the weekend. However, it developed that each member of the family had invited one of the guests and none of them knew that any other guest would be there. Each of them had planned to entertain his or her visitor in the same room, unhampered by the rest of the family. The guests all arrive Saturday afternoon. That night several love affairs are started, the whole thing ending in a confusion of misunderstandings, and Sunday morning the visitors leave, one and all. The Blisses almost immediately forget that anything unusual has happened and everything runs along as smoothly as before.

Nine Form Cast

The cast was as follows: Judith Bliss, Miss Caddie Willis; David Bliss, Warren Gaw; Sorel Bliss, Miss Kalista Hood; Simon Bliss, Ed Morrow; Myra Arundel, Miss Susie Jackson; Richard Greatham, Tom McClean; Jackie Coryton, Miss Gladys Scott; Sandy Tyrell, Dick Cobb; Clarence, Bill Summers. The three acts of the play were in the same scene, the hall of the Bliss home. Scenes for the play showed fine work on the part of the stage committee. Phil Peyton was in charge of the stage crew.

Atmosphere of Household

The following quotation from the play was placed on the program to [Continued on Page Six]

Send Your Trunks Home VIA Railway Express QUICK, DEPENDABLE & EFFICIENT Student Representatives: JOE GORDON CHAL VINSON See them for rates or PHONE 4121

Tentative plans for Senior Class Day, which will be held in the auditorium of Chambers building at four o'clock on the afternoon of June 3, have been announced by Sam Newell, president of the senior class. Fred Stair will serve as valedictorian; Warren Gaw, as salutatorian; Shaw Smith, as historian; Rut Miller, as poet; Gene Liipfert, as orator; and Don Davidson will render two selections on the organ. These students were appointed to these positions, and they will hold them only during the class day exercises. Newell said that further plans would be made public upon their completion.

SDP Features Two-Act Skit Monday Nite Spanish Fraternity Holds Final Meet of Year

Presenting several readings, Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, held its final meeting for this term last Monday in Chambers building at 9 o'clock. Charles Mashburn opened the program by reading an article on “Reconstruction in Spain Today.” This was followed by another paper, “Pan-American Highway,” presented by Roy Cunningham. A feature of the program was a two-act skit entitled “La Comida,” which means “The Meal.” Taking the part of the host, Don Pedros, was William Black, with Tom Roberts playing the part of Don Juan, and Fred Harbin as Don Carlos. Reality to the skit was added by the stage property, which was in the form of real food. All the talk [Continued on Page Six]

Whittle Named Head Week Camp Session Held Each Summer on Catawba River by Charlotte Observer

A. Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, will be camp director of the Charlotte Observer Fresh Air camp for underprivileged boys during an eight-week session this summer, beginning June 29. Assisting “Pete” in the management of the camp will be a staff composed entirely of Davidson students. The group will number 11 in all, seven being members of the senior class. The site for the encampment is located on the Catawba river about 15 miles from Charlotte and is equipped to care for 125 boys at a time. The Fresh Air camp is a yearly affair, sponsored by the Charlotte Observer, with the purpose of giving unfortunate boys a brief glimpse of outdoor life. Plans already laid by Director Whittle, who is well qualified by reason of his present position and his experience for the past three years in directing recreation at the Davidson summer music camp, call for an extensive sports program embracing almost every conceivable form of athletics.

Davidson Counselors

Each staff member will have his share in directing these games in addition to his routine duties. Heading various phases of camp life will be: Ned Iverson, general supervisor of all sports; John Maw [Continued on Page Six]

CAMERAS Photograph Supplies W. I. VAN NESS N. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hugo Extends Thanks to FACULTY

THE COLLEGE PHARMACY Davidson’s “Most Popular Drug Store”

HOW CAN YOU LOOK SO HAPPY? Make Your Getaway The Greyhound Way!

The danger's all past now! Everybody's so low Greyhound fares home they've forgotten! Likely as not you can buy your Greyhound ticket home with just the money you get from the second-hand store for last semester’s textbooks—and you know that’s not very much! With fares so low and Super-Coaches so comfortable, it’s no wonder Greyhound is the easy course that everybody’s taking to get out of college! See your local Greyhound agent—and incidentally, have a nice vacation!

Greyhound Terminal

Sample One-Way Fares
Winston-Salem $1.35
Greensboro 1.50
Richmond, Va. 4.25
Roanoke, Va. 3.10
Columbia, S. C. 1.60
Greenville, S. C. 1.60
Spartanburg, S. C. 1.15
Raleigh, N. C. 2.90
Chattanooga, Tenn. 5.50
Asheville 2.20
Wilmington 2.95

GREYHOUND