Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring Rev

Boy Scout Troop Holds Review Courts

General Advancement Prevails Throughout All Troops of This Area

Friday night before spring holidays the Boy Scouts of Troop 58 at Davidson held a court of reviews in the Philanthropic Literary Society’s hall. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, chairman of the troop committee presided over the meeting. Also sitting in the reviewing board were Mr. W. B. Hamrick, Mr. F. Beadle of the troop committee, with Bob King and Jim Kerr. This court was typical of the advancement made by the boys throughout the year. At this session two boys, Cloyd Goodrum and Jimmy Huff, were advanced to first class rank. Wat Withers and Creasy Copeland were awarded the rank of star, and Maurice Hamrick attained the highest rank of scouting, that of Eagle. Charles Steel, son of Major Steel of the R. O. T. C. department received a bronze palm and Bob King a silver palm. These two, with Jim Kerr, also passed several merit badges. The troop is contemplating a social in the near future in conjunction with the local Girl Scout troop.

Court of Honor

The badges awarded two weeks ago will be presented at a Court of Honor to be held about the second week in April. When definite plans have been made, students of the college will be invited to attend. According to a survey made last year by Bob King, leader of Troop 58, about one-twelfth of the student body have at one time been awarded their Eagle rank.

The colored scout work is progressing rapidly under Dave McLean and his assistants, Vernon Youngblood and Bob Garvey. The troop was re-registered recently and received a new charter. There are at present 14 Tenderfoot in the troop, with several ready for advancement. A hike is being planned for sometime in the near future.

Colored Troop

The colored troop at Cornelius under the supervision of Bill McLauchlin and Al Winn put on a play a short time ago, the proceeds from which are to be used to defray the cost of re-registering the troop. Two dollars and ten cents was taken in at the first performance, and a second show is also planned.

David Huffines is carrying on alone the entire work of another troop (white) at Cornelius. He reports the work to be of an encouraging nature.

REV. WATT M. COOPER

[Continued from Page Three]

As last year visitors will be asked to vote for their choice in each of several groups and the artists whose pictures receive most votes through these ballots will be awarded the cash prizes. The sixteen students who have already entered pictures in the exhibit are as follows: Frank Atwater, Bob Ballard, Paul Crane, Dan Hodges, Gordon Horton, Fred Harbin, Ed Jackson, Southgate Jones, Ed Morrow, Walter Plunkett, Wallace Shearer, Ed Shewmake, Joe Robinson, Archie Torry, Walter Wooten, and Chal Vinson.

The very vow of marriage is in itself a struggle if one is to live up to it. Too many people marry who shouldn't, for they don’t know enough about it. It must be a mixture of good old-fashioned virtues and religion to succeed. As Dr. Lippman said, “Love and nothing else soon becomes love and nothing else.” The life of Dr. and Mrs. L. Grenfell on the Labrador is a shining example of a life together with God, too.

Nevertheless, the most important is spiritual triumph and victory in all relationships. Without the other two happiness can be attained, but without this one it is practically impossible. Real troublesome Christianity is not popular now—it is a long hard struggle against exhaustion and skeptics. Too often people substitute a false brand and then become immune to the real thing. No pilgrimage is made alone, however. We must be prepared to help others as well as advance ourselves along the way to rest in God. There is an old eastern legend that says the gate to heaven is very narrow when one man tries to enter, but when two men or a group of men who have worked together and helped each other come along, it is easily wide enough. We climb to spiritual victory through Christ. Without him nothing can be accomplished. Young people must think of all three but unless we are willing to climb, all hope of ever attaining spiritual bliss is lost.

STUDENTS TO SHOW ART

[Continued from Page One]

This year the art show will fill the three rooms of the Social Center. Students are urged to see the exhibits there on April 17, 18, and 19. Thirty-six countries on six continents are represented on the roster of University of Michigan graduates who have entered the church professions.

Full Line of Meats For This Week-end

FREE DELIVERY

Dial 5041

J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

SENIORS VOTE

[Continued from Page Three]

Chairman John Reisner states that the committee used a new method of collecting ideas this year. Each member of the graduating class was asked to contribute some idea. The gift was scheduled to be decided upon before spring holidays, but suggestions were so slow that the committee has not yet decided. Also, a new method for collecting money was used this year. The fees were paid to the treasurer at mid-term when the seniors paid their registration fees. In the past such gifts to the school as the illuminated clock on Chambers, the portrait of Dr. Harding, and the campus drinking fountain have been made.

WILDCAT NINE OPENS

[Continued from Page Four]

Slattery took care of the mound duties for the Yankees. Hand and Capt. Hicks were leading hitters of the afternoon, each with three singles for losses.Four trips to the plate. Errors Hurt Colby Errors in the infield proved very costly to the Colby lads, only one error was made by the Cat infield. On Tuesday, March 28, Davidson opened its 1939 diamond campaign by trouncing Larkwood, a semi-pro outfit from Charlotte, 9 to 3. The Cats chalked up a seven-run lead in the early chapters of the fray which was too much for the Queen City boys. Hicks, McLean, and Thomas did the hurling for the locals.

JOURNAL TELLS MUNICH STORY [Continued from Page Three] The closing installment of Duncan MacBryde’s story on his bicycle trip through Europe will also be carried. In this section, he gives his personal observations of the crisis in Czechoslovakia and the treaty at Munich. There will be several articles by members of the faculty and Dr. Lingle, as well as a sports review by Toni Casali.

TRIO OF FRATS [Continued from Page Four] Interclass Tourney In the Inter-class Volleyball Tourney, the final results placed the Seniors on top with six wins and no defeats. The Juniors were next with four wins and two losses. Next in line were the Sophomores having two wins against four defeats. In last place were the Freshmen with six straight losses. The seniors are leading the Inter-class competition with the Juniors second, the Sophomores third, and the Freshmen with but one first place bringing up the rear.

GOV. H. A. HOLT [Continued from Page Three] day for a short visit with Prof. W. W. Wood, whose sister is Mrs. Holt, on his way to South Carolina. On the trip home, the Governor and his wife spent Sunday night with Prof. Wood and saw the campus the next morning under the guidance of the Professor. Governor and Mrs. Holt were reported as particularly impressed with the beauty of the campus and were quoted as saying that the College had a “nice plant.” They were here only a short while and did not have the opportunity of seeing much of Davidson.

YMCA GROUP IS ACTIVE [Continued from Page Three] ple’s theme, “Thy Kingdom Come.” Wade made the inspirational address at the evening service. Today, Al Bixler went to Kannapolis to address the high school and junior high school during their week of religious emphasis. Special music was furnished by George Milne on his violin accompanied by Philip Edwards. Tomorrow, Warren Gaw will address the same group. At that time, special music will be furnished by George Mitchell, violinist, accompanied by Norris Edwards.

DAVIDSON MEN TAKE TRIP [Continued from Page One] Richmond Times-Dispatch; Dr. Clyde Eagleton of New York University; Harold B. Hinton, New York Times correspondent; and Dr. Calvin B. Hoover, of Duke University. The program is to include sightseeing tours of reconstructed Williamsburg, Jamestown, and Yorktown; round-table discussions, elections, addresses; receptions, a banquet, a dance in honor of visiting delegates; and a special Easter service for those wishing to stay over Sunday. The local delegates will participate in the discussion on “Economic Adjustments for Peace.”

SOUTH CAROLINA WINS [Continued from Page Four] and Cauble placing in both highs and lows. Field Events Charlie Sample tied for first in the pole vault, while Ned Iverson took first in the high jump and third in the broad jump and discus. Warden and Johnson were close seconds in the shot and javelin respectively. The Wildcats will engage Maryville in their first home meet of the season on Friday afternoon, April 7. The Tennessee lads are led by Weldon Baird who holds a record of 1:58 in his specialty, the 880.

TENNIS TEAM UNDEFEATED [Continued from Page Four] Memphis and Southern Methodist. In the closest match of the trip, the Wildcat racqueteers eked out a 6-4 win over Baylor. The majority of these matches in this engagement took three sets to decide the victor. Hilley of Baylor kept his record for the season clear by nosing out Turner in the feature match of the day. The margin of victory for the Cats lay in their clean sweep of the doubles. In the only match which is unreported on, Davidson meets the Univ. of Texas, last year’s Southwestern champs.

NEW MANAGING EDITOR [Continued from Page One] have served two years on the staff being eligible. Those eligible in addition to those named were: Frank Barker, Roy Cunningham, Bill Hamilton, James McDuffie, Ross McElwee, Phil Peyton, Miller Sproull, Winston Taylor, and Bobby Williams.

Court To Remove Louis Hipp, Recorder, Announces That Other Regulations Still Hold The fight over freshman caps is at long last finished, for this year anyway. In chapel on March 23, Louis Hipp, recorder of the Court of Control, announced that the “rats” would no longer have to wear their little red caps. Frosh Celebrate Following the announcement, bedlam broke loose. Freshmen yelled with delight; upperclassmen, with dismay (or relief). The Court of Control has had its hands full this year keeping the freshmen attired as becomes their low estate. This is the earliest any class has been allowed to stow away, give to girls, or burn their caps in several years. Last year’s class was required to wear the caps until the middle of April. Other classes have been more or less the same.

Not Exempted Recorder Hipp made clear in his announcement that the freshmen were not at this time to be exempted from their other duties, such as carrying laundry and keeping their seats in chapel.

Harvard University has established a radio workshop to explore new possibilities in the development of broadcasting as an art form. Vassar College is expanding its instruction in the field of primitive cultures.

April 5, 1939 Permits Frosh “Rat” Caps

GWYNN CONTINUES TALKS [Continued from Page Five] of life, he is a barbarian. With this spirit, man has infinite possibilities. Our second duty as citizens of the spiritual commonwealth is to live a life of service and sacrifice. We should have a desire to help the sick, poor, needy, and even the wicked and repulsive. This philanthropic duty is also applied to the church. Our third duty as citizens of the spiritual commonwealth is to “hunger and thirst after righteousness.” This should apply to business dealings, along the Golden Rule, international relations, to discover the brutality of war; and in the treatment of other races.

Trustees of eastern colleges and universities will go to school at a special conference on their problems to be held at Lafayette College.

How to Ease a Cold FIRST—massage throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. This relieves the distress. THEN—to make its long-continued action last even longer, spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and cover with a warmed cloth. AFTER restful sleep comes, VapoRub keeps working—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air passages—eases coughing—relieves local congestion. Often, by morning the worst of the cold is over.

VapoRub

GIVE THE CANDY OF THE SOUTH Nunnally's Easter Packages and Novelties beautifully dressed for the occasion. The ideal Easter Gift. Prices from 25c to $5.00

THE COLLEGE PHARMACY Cold Drinks, Sandwiches, Fruits and Candies

Complete Auto Service “THE ROADHOUSE” Davidson, N. C.

BUY THOSE LITTLE CONVENIENCES For your room, from— SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

IN SMOKING PLEASURE Before and after seeing Bette Davis in “DARK VICTORY” Bette DAVIS WARNER BROS. STAR ...coming soon to your local theatre enjoy Chesterfield’s Happy Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos Thanks to their can’t-be-copied blend Chesterfields are refreshingly milder, taste better and have a more pleasing aroma. Chesterfield gives you just what you want in a cigarette. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY

Chesterfield The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. They’re Milder... They Taste Better Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.