Wed, May 17, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Most of the brothers attended the dances during the weekend, both on Friday and Saturday evenings and the tea dance
on Saturday; there was a banquet held at the Charlotte Hotel on Saturday night at 7:30. Girls up for the
dances were: Mary Hollis and Ann Brown from Columbus, Ga.; Peggy Beattie from Greenville, S.C.; Catherine Martin, Smithfield; Pat Ridgeway
and Gale Johnson from Columbia, S.C.; Helen Dennis from Greensboro; Martha Bowman of Lumberton; Jane Cauble and Betty Brewster Shelton
from Winston-Salem; Sally Brothers of Anniston, Ala.; Ailene Long, Harriet Davis, and Lib Thrower of Charlotte; Jane Spruill and Lem
Boyd of Rocky Mount; Georgia Keeter of Morganton. Mary Marshall Jones, Tiny Maddill, Alma Hall, Geoffrey Jordan, and Lucy Lee
Sandridge, and Dot Jones of Charlotte; Sybil Trexler of Concord.

Other visitors during the weekend were Alumni Brothers Neil Whitlock and Archie Schuford and Dr. and Mrs. Allen McLean.

Brother Caldwell went to Spartanburg to attend dances there. Brothers Lucas and Freeze went to their homes in Greensboro and
High Point, respectively, Sunday morning. Brothers Kornegay, Hector McLean, Bahnson, Tom Cauble, and “Muff” Grantham traveled to Winston-Salem Sunday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

At the regular Sunday night feed, many visitors were present. Among these were Wiley Bradley, Andy and Betty Turner, Henry
Lyons, Demond Turner, and Dick Vowles. Many brothers had girls up for the spring dances: Irene Mitchell, Wilson; Lulu Gravely,
Rocky Mount; Libba Hancock, Atlanta; “Kat” Scott, Hamlet; Betty Carver, Washington, D.C.; Sarah Ramseur, Lincolnton; Ann Corinth, Rocky Mount; Becky
Tucker, Charlotte; Jane Montgomery, Reidsville; “Butch” Steele, Davidson; Nancy Lee Seamor, Charlotte; Margaret Blount, Tarboro; Frances Manning, Tarboro; June Coble,
Burlington; Elizabeth Henry, Hopewell, Va.

Kappa Sigma

Most of the brothers stayed on the campus this weekend and attended the spring dances. Among the girls here for
the function were: Misses Martha Alexander, Evelyn Bagby, Jackie Burns, Bet Fishbourne, Meredith Jackson, Eleanor Henderson, Mary Ann Morrison, Maxie
McLaurin, Sarah Oliver, and Betty Waldron. Brothers Finley, Gaw, Walker, Webb, White, and their dates attended the Y house party
at Montreat. Brother Phipps went to Greensboro, and Brother Loftin went to his home in Gastonia.

Beta Theta Pi

Most of the brothers attended the dances in Charlotte over the weekend. Girls who were guests of the chapter over
the weekend were: Mary Jo Frizzel of Burlington, Katherine Vanstory of Converse College, Kay Underwood of Liberty, Caroline Miller and
Sybil Searcy of Charlotte, Virginia Hickman of Queens, Lucy Kiher of Reidsville, Eleanor Upchurch and Harriet Harvey of Montgomery, Jane
Rankin of Queens, and Helen West of Mooresville. Brother Eller and Mrs. Eller of Charlotte were guests of the chapter
at the feed. Brother Taylor spent the weekend in Mooresville. Brother Atwater went to Burlington for Sunday.

Kappa Alpha

Most K.A.’s were out of town during the weekend. Among these were Dave Sprunt, who went to Winston-Salem and Caton
Dennis and Tom McLean who went to Red Springs, Tom’s home. Jimmy Houston, Bob Rock, and George Mitchell attended the
dances at Presbyterian College. Among the girls up for the dances were Peggy Harrison and Peggy Cleveland. Sam Spencer with
his date, Carrie Goggins of Columbia, and Sam Newell with his date, Louisa Hay, left after the Friday night dance
for a house party in the mountains.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Over the weekend the members of Pi Kappa Alpha enjoyed a house party at Myrtle Beach. Approxi- [Continued on Page
Six]

Regular Sunday night

Are Chief Positions Offered

Many students graduating this spring will owe their luck in getting jobs to the placement bureau of the college. Work
is being carried on in the bureau by Dr. P. H. Gwynn for the placement of those students who desire
to teach, and through the office of the registrar, with the cooperation of Prof. A. M. Hillhouse, for the placement
of those who wish to enter business.

Teachers Wanted

A large number of requests have been received during the spring for public school and preparatory school teachers. Little difficulty
is expected in locating all the men who desire to teach next year. For the past few months interviews have
been arranged with seniors in order to discuss their business prospects. Representatives from various business concerns have been sent to
the campus to interview seniors.

Life Insurance

Four life insurance companies have sent representatives here. Also agents from such companies as Proctor and Gamble, Tomlinson of High
Point, and Goodyear Tire, etc., have interviewed seniors. F. W. Hengeveld says that “the prospect of locating interested seniors in
business positions is better this year than in many years past.” Mr. Hengeveld also said, “It is sincerely hoped by
the college that the placement bureau will grow in point of service both to the graduating students and to the
alumni.”

WE OFFER YOU UP-TO-DATE MERCHANDISE SOUTHERN 5 & 10

Bureau Secures Jobs For Spring Graduates

Teaching and Life Insurance

Communion Led by Gwynn

Communion services were held last Sunday night, May 14, at Vespers. The minister for the evening was Dr. Price H.
Gwynn. Dr. Gwynn delivered a short sermon, elaborating on his text about the necessity for forgiveness throughout life. Then an
account of the Crucifixion was given preparatory to the singing of the hymn, Break Thou The Bread of Life. Communion
followed immediately, and while sacrament was being served, Dr. Gwynn read a scripture on faith, hope and charity. The services
were concluded with a hymn, Beneath The Cross of Jesus, and the benediction was rendered by Dr. H. M. Moffet.

Cooper Union’s library last year circulated 230,819 books, only four percent of which were fiction.

CONGRATULATIONS!! CLASS OF 1939! Finish your college career eating at COPELAND’S Ken McIntyre, Mgr.

The Citadel Heads List Of Reading

‘The Yearling’ Was Most Popular Book With Members of Faculty

Circulation statistics in the library show that among the students at Davidson Cronin’s “The Citadel” was the most popular book
during the school year. These statistics do not include the required reading. In that category Shakespeare and Chaucer usually lead
the list.

First Ten

The following ten non-curricular books circulated among the students the greatest number of times last year. They are arranged in
the order of their popularity: Cronin, “The Citadel;” Hertzler, “Horse and Buggy Doctor;” Mitchell, “Gone With the Wind;” Rawlings, “The
Yearling;” Halsey, “With Malice Toward Some;” Allen, “Anthony Adverse;” Carnegie, “How to Win Friends and Influence People;” Daniels, “A Southerner
Discovers the South;” Tressler, “How to Lose Friends and Alienate People;” Allen, “Action at Aquilla.”

Faculty Choices

The most popular books with faculty members were in respective order: Rawlings, “The Yearling;” Bottome, “The Mortal Storm;” Cronin, “The
Citadel;” and Vercel, [Continued on Page Six]

‘Colin the Magician’ To Present Wonder Show For Unity

‘Stoop’ Kornegay to Highlight Magic Display With Wonderful Apparition

Davidson College’s own mystic and masterful master of magical mystifications, Shaw Smith, better known in the realm of Black Arts
as “Colin The Magician,” will present his show of wonders at the local high schoolauditorium next Friday night at 7:30.
Semi-Colin, assisted by Kornegay, Harry Gasteiger, and Don Davidson, will furnish the musical entertainment for the show. Highlights will be
the feature attraction of the evening, and Semi-Colin, “the man without a middle,” will be the victim. Other highlights of
the show include “Shooting through a floating light,” and “walking through a ribbon.” There will be numerous other feats with
linking rings, cards, and other mystifying apparitions. Colin’s show of wonders is being sponsored by the Unity church, and part
of the entertainment goes to the Unity baseball department. The show will last approximately one and a half hours. (Continued
on Page Six)

Eta Sigma Phi Fraternity Elects Officers for 1939

Eta Sigma Phi, classical Greek and Latin fraternity, met last week at the home of Dr. Harding. The program was
opened with the installation of new officers: president, Warren Ludlam; vice-president, Andy Dale; secretary and treasurer, Frank Barker; and sergeant
of arms, Boyd Flynn.

Bailey Speaks

Professor J. C. Bailey featured the program with a general survey of the most important and outstanding Greek writers, among
which were Homer, Hesiod, Sappho, Herodotus, Pindar, Xenophon, Pythagoras, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle.

Spread of Greek

Professor Bailey closed the lecture with a discussion of the life of Alexander the Great and the influence he had
in spreading the Greek language to Egypt and other parts of the world.

Annual Staff

Charlie Luther, business manager of next year’s annual, has announced the staff which will assist him. They are as follows:
Tom Hatcher, Ed Watson, Ralph Harkey, Roy Cunningham, Frank Barker, and Casey Jones. Last year’s business manager was Mark Lillard,
and his assistants were Charlie Luther, Rea Tenney, Tom Harnsberger, Sam Spencer, and Cary Dowd.

Our Compliments to the DAVIDSON SENIORS

THE SOUTHERN COTTON OIL Co.
Davidson, North Carolina

Davidson, N. C.

L. J. Ludlam, a Phi Installs Leaders For Next Year

Beavers Bid Five Sophs

At its meeting, held last Wednesday night in the parlor of Watts, the club voted to invite fourteen men, five
from the rising junior class and nine from the rising sophomores, to become members of the club. Bob Balsley called
the meeting to order, and the newly-elected officers assumed their duties.

Rising Juniors

From a roll of the sophomore class, nineteen men were selected and voted on. Those winning bids to membership are:
Ed Watson, Bob Johnston, George Grantham, Woodall Rose, and Jack Abels.

Freshmen

Freshmen who have been invited to join are: Bob Carter, Jim Owens, George Marsh, Dick Coppedge, Jack Simonds, Pat Rudolph,
Don Bell, Claude Hackney, and Ed Lucas.

Church Fund Showman

Hudson Plans '39 Handbook

Editor of “Y” Handbook Reports on Progress

Work on the 1939-40 edition of the Wildcat Handbook is progressing rapidly, according to Karl Hudson, its editor. There have
been several additions to the staff, among whom are Harwell Darby and “Pie” Means as assistants to Hudson, and John
Barnhardt as assistant to Bill Ross, business manager of the Handbook.

Improvements

Next year’s edition will contain several improvements and additions, but the general plan and layout will be similar to that
followed in the 1938-39 number, with the exception of a change in the policy concerning the accepting of advertising. All
recent issues of the Handbook, except last year’s, have contained advertising, and Hudson has decided to revert to this plan.

New Cover

A new type of cover is being considered, but as yet no definite action has been taken. However, it is
nearly certain that the cover will be changed. Copies of the Wildcat Handbook are to be sent to all incoming
freshmen and to those members of the present student body who request it.

CONGRATULATIONS to the SENIOR CLASS

Staple and Fancy Groceries
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20 - Davidson, N. C.

COMING TO SUMMER SCHOOL?
Eat at the LITTLE PEP
Davidson, N. C.

SALESMEN POSITIONS?

A few summer positions for college men. Free course in salesmanship, healthy outside work, remuneration above average. Write FULLER BRUSH
COMPANY, GREENSBORO, N. C., for particulars.

“National Club” SPORT COATS
“National Shirt Shops”
COAST TO COAST
Tryon and Trade Streets
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SENIORS

Congratulations and Best Wishes from MARION DAVIS COMPANY
203 SOUTH TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Good Bye, John!

It had to be a HAMILTON for me...

“I want to tell you about my Dad. Here I am graduating. I've got my varsity letter and my share
of other honors, too. But leave it to him—he gave me top honors again—a Hamilton Watch.

"I really didn’t expect the best! But he said it had to be a HAMILTON for me. That’s Dad.”

DUNKIRK. A finest choice for him. 19 jewels. With black or silver dial, $125.00. Others from $37.50.

FRITZI. 17 jewels. Set with 14 diamonds, $100.00.

ESTINE. 17 jewels. With gold-filled bracelet, $50.00.

BUDGET-PLAN $5.00 Monthly Payments

GARIBALDI & BRUNS
Leading Jewelers Since 1896
Charlotte, N. C.
