April 5, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Accusations, by the Student Council, toward various fraternities of forming combines in Campus Elections, have prompted this week’s question. It
is a vital question, one which can be decided only by student opinion. For this reason, we have chosen the
following for the Question of the Week: “Are you in favor of open elections on the Davidson Campus?” From the
students here questioned, the opinion seems to run highly in favor of open politics and elections.

Scotty Raynal, Senior: “The way I look at it, it seems hypocritical to try to have elections on the campus
without some politicking. We will either have to have open politics or some active steps taken by the Student Council
to curb all politics. I am not in favor of absolutely open politics as they have in some Universities, but
I think they should recognize the fact that there are politics going on and should take steps to keep them
at a minimum.”

Hector McLean, Sophomore: “Even though the system of open politics is what we will have to contend with in later
life, it seems to me that Davidson, as a school, is much too small to enable such a system to
be successful. The Davidson College political system has its evils, but at the same time, we can say that in
the majority of cases the most capable men are usually elected to fill the offices. If a policy of open
politics were adopted, I think that it would tend to jeopardize the operation of what should be, with a little
more cooperation from the students, a fair and satisfactory system as we have it now, and cause strife among the
students in that it would allow practically anyone to be elected to fill positions which actually demand the best material
that Davidson College has to offer.”

Charles MacArthur, Sophomore: “Yes, I am in favor of open politics on the Davidson campus, because by such a practice
each candidate’s qualifications will be brought to light, whereas, under the present conditions a large majority that vote, vote for
a name and not what the person has done. Then, too, I do not believe that so-called combines can be
done away with, so why not bring it all out in the form of open politics?”

Archer Torrey, Senior: “I think open politics will have several advantages: (1) Frankness will be substituted for hypocrisy, (2) Men
will be provided with training in politics and everybody will take a more active interest in Student Government, (3) Officers
will be more evenly distributed among Fraternities, (4) On the whole, better men will be elected; at least, they will
be just as good, and (5) It will be a lot more fun.”

Pete Marchant, Junior: “I certainly am in favor of open politics. We need something around here to liven up things
and campaign speeches, and other parts of true politics should wake the place up a bit.”

Bill Diehl, Senior: “In view of the present impotency of the body that runs elections on the Davidson Campus, we
should indeed, have open politics. This will promote fair play in our student elections. Open politics will enable us to
elect men more for qualifications than reward. Furthermore, open politics is the will of the student body.”

Tom Mullen, Senior: “No, I am not in favor of open politics or elections on the Davidson campus. To my
mind, the main consideration for this viewpoint is the college itself, its size, and its type. I mean by this,
Davidson's difference from a large state university, with its many separate schools such as Medicine, Engineering, etc. In such an
institution there is no close contact between all the students as there is at Davidson. Consequently, in a large university
there is really a need for a political organization to find candidates and bring them forward. However, at Davidson, I
believe I can truthfully say that any candidate for any office is personally known by a majority of his fellow
students. So, for this reason I am sure that the most capable man will almost invariably be chosen.”

Princeton Professor Compliments College

Mr. McKnight Tells of Past War In China

Davidson Alumnus of Class of ‘28 Has Been Foreign Correspondent

Of probable interest to Davidson students will be the following quotation from the Charlotte Observer of March thirty-first. T. D.
Kemp in his interesting feature “Time” says: “that splendid reporter John P. McKnight, describing the surrender of Madrid tells how
happy the people were to get decent food after all these months.” The cheering, singing, sobbing multitude of men, women,
and children danced through the yelling ‘Viva Franco’. One little girl told Mr. McKnight that they had been eating dogs,
and cats—and liked it. That is the reason why you don't see any dogs or cats on the streets. When
cats were gone the city was full of big rats. At the end the people were selling them for food.

Mr. McKnight was graduated from Davidson in 1928. He was very prominent on the campus, some of his outstanding activities
were: Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, International Relations Club, President of the Spanish Club, Omega Phi Alpha, Reporter’s Club, Class
Historian, winner of oratorical medal, Chameleon staff, Quips and Cranks staff, Debating, Spanish class poet. Mr. McKnight has been for
some months in Spain getting an inside view of the Spanish Civil War for a New York Syndicate.

Riflers Take Tight Contest

Jay Bolin Shoots High With 181 Out Of 200

The Davidson rifle team nosed out the Kannapolis Rifle and Pistol Club by the close score of 878 to 874
in a thrilling, hotly-contested match fired here on the gallery range last Friday night. Jay Bolin, leading the local sharpshooters,
chalked up a new school record for shoulder-to-shoulder competition with the amazing score of 181 out of a possible 200.
Five men from each team fired for a possible 200 making the highest possible team score 1,000. R. O. T.
C. officers said that they felt that this victory was particularly significant, because the Kannapolis club has a very high
rating throughout the state and ranked very well at the national matches at Camp Perry, Ohio. “We are particularly gratified
over this improvement,” said Major J. L. Ballard, “because the same team defeated us by a margin of 73 points
on February 25. We feel quite proud of this evident improvement.” The local marksmen will encounter the same team once
more on Wednesday, April 12, and will end the season with a match with Clemson here on April 15.

Seniors Vote On Class Gift

At a smoker to be held at 8:00 P. M. Tuesday night, April 11, the Senior class will probably take
the final vote on the type of gift it is to leave with Davidson as a memorial. John Reisner, chairman
of the Senior Gift Committee, stated that any new suggestions will be gladly received by either Locke White, Charlie Sample,
or himself. The latest suggestion, an apparent dark horse in the bunch, is that a large bench or a row
of bleachers be set up on the bumming corner. This has been suggested from year to year but has always
missed out by a narrow margin. Someone suggested building a new gym. Among other screwy suggestions from the fanciful seniors
is a sprinkling system to be installed over the Armory to make R. O. T. C. officers think it is
raining on drill days. A ring around the cinder track on Richardson field, a project for improving the center of
the fraternity court and installing a fish pool there, and a lighting system for Chambers auditorium have also been considered.

[Continued on Page Six]

Schoolmate of Woodrow Wilson Makes Special Trip To See Campus

“Davidson is charming!” This was the opinion of the college expressed last week by Dr. John Howell Westcott, professor emeritus
of Latin and Roman Law at Princeton and for over forty years a friend of Woodrow Wilson. The retired professor,
who knew Davidson's greatest alumnus first as a student at Princeton, then as a colleague on that faculty, and finally
as president of the United States, made a special trip here last Friday to see for himself the first campus
that Wilson knew. The general layout, he observed, with its old brick buildings and simple quadrangle is very similar to
hundreds of colleges throughout the country which grew up during the nineteenth century. One thing which highly interested the Princeton
professor, however, was the lack of femininity at Davidson. Dr. Westcott was puzzled when he saw no girls on the
campus during his stay here. This, he explained, placed Davidson in an entirely original class. Chapel Hill, which has its
co-eds, is like Davidson in many respects, andSeveral schools in Florida “look like the kind with so many girls.” Dr.
Westcott, who graduated in 1877, first knew the future president when he entered that school in September 1875. At this
time, he explained, Wilson was in Princeton almost as mature as he was in later life. When Woodrow returned to
“Old Nassau” as a professor of law and jurisprudence, he and Professor Westcott, already an established member of this famous
faculty, were again thrown into intimate contact. Later, Wilson rose to the presidency of Princeton, and here he demonstrated the
crusading spirit against engulfing odds which the world later felt during and after the World War. Dr. Westcott visited the
White House, but when the president returned to Princeton, he never visited his friend's home. The Davidson doctor declared that
he felt Wilson always tried to “right things,” and his actions were perfectly sincere. One of his main faults was
his apparent inaccessibility. “Sometimes he was not a little intolerant,” he declared, “of those who disagreed with his opinions.” Admitting
his love for the South, Dr. Westcott declared, “The North is perfectly ghastly, it's so big!” The Princeton professor explained
that skyscrapers were distasteful to him, and he was sorry to see Southern towns, with plenty of space, building upward.

Frats Select Heads
Locke White announced today that all the Honorary fraternities were requested to get their elections for presidents over as soon
as possible. The constitution states that these elections must be held by May 10th. President White further stated that shortly
after May 10th he is going to call a meeting of the incoming Honorary Fraternity Council to select officers for
the coming year. Each Honorary Fraternity President represents his fraternity on the council unless the members of the fraternity choose
to elect someone else to serve in this capacity. The council is composed of one member from each fraternity.

Gov. H. A. Holt Makes a Visit
Davidsonians who noticed an automobile license on the campus with a big ONE on it will be interested to know
that it belonged to Governor Homer A. Holt of West Virginia. Governor Holt dropped by Fri- [Continued on Page Six]

Friend of Wilson
DR. JOHN HOWELL WESTCOTT
Dr. John Howell Westcott, professor emeritus of Latin and Roman Law at Princeton and friend of Woodrow Wilson for over
forty years, last week paid a special visit to the Davidson campus to see for himself the first campus which
his old friend had ever known. He was deeply surprised at the lack of girls at Davidson, in contrast to
many of the other colleges he had visited, but stated unrestrainedly, “Davidson is charming.”

Y.M.C.A. Group Is Active During Spring Holidays
Deputation Groups Visit Many Carolina Towns
During the spring holidays and the days that have elapsed since that time, the Y.M.C.A. has been very active. They
have sent deputations to several schools, colleges, and churches, and the work of these groups has been along varied lines.
On Sunday, March 26, Dave McLean went to the Mission Presbyterian Church at Eagle Springs, and there preached a sermon
near his home. That same night Wade Boggs went to Flora MacDonald College and spoke to the girls at their
evening vesper service. The annual Young People’s Rally of Orange Presbytery was attended by three Davidson students: Sid Crane, Ivan
Stafford, and Wade Boggs. Sid made a talk on world fellowships and Wade presented the Amsterdam conference. The rally met
at the First Presbyterian Church in Mebane. This past Sunday night Dave McLean made a trip to Queens to talk
at their Sunday Evening Vespers. On the same night, Leonard Fisher spoke to the people at the Mt. Mourne Church.
Sunday afternoon and night Sherard Rice, Sid Crane, and Wade Boggs attended the Young People’s Spring Rally of Concord Presbytery.
Sid is president of this group and he was in charge of the meeting. Sherard presented the new young people’s
[Continued on Page Six]

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-432
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DRIVE A CAR THAT IS IN STYLE
M. P. Henderson
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CARS FOR RENT

Drink a Quart of Milk a Day
Drink Pasteurized Milk, It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, North Carolina

Fellowship To Hold Meeting
The Canadian Student Christian Movement, the National Intercollegiate Association, the University Commission of Church Boards of Education, and the Student
Volunteer Movement will hold a consultation at the University of Toronto, at Toronto, Canada, according to information received from the
Student Volunteer group. The meeting will last from December 21, 1939, until the first of the new year. The discussion
will be built around two phases: first, the acquisition of relevant facts about the world-wide Christian movement; and second, the
exploration of the responsibility of these movements in relation to these facets. The North Carolina Student Volunteer Union, which is
merged with the state Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. cabinet, will send delegates. George H. Theuer, associate sec- [Continued on Page Four]

Now Playing
Destined to be one of 1939's Greatest
JOHN BARRYMORE
In “THE GREAT MAN VOTES”
— With —
PETER HOLDEN
VIRGINIA WEIDLER
Musical Acts, Sports, and Cartoon
Friday-Saturday
Mark Twain's “TOM SAWYER DETECTIVE”
BOBBY COOK
Donald (Small Fry) O’Connor
Easter Mid-Nite Show
Sunday Nite 12:23 on the Stage
“ROLLING RHYTHM REVUE”
— with —
JACK WARDLAW & Orch.
BROADWAY THEATRE :: CHARLOTTE

Allegory of Climbing ‘Ladder to Heaven’ is Considered In Address
Taking his text from the twenty-eighth chapter of Genesis, the passage on Jacob’s vision at Bethel, Rev. Watt M. Cooper
of the Presbyterian Church of North Wilkesboro, addressed Vespers last Sunday evening on the climb to heaven and heaven on
earth. Prior to his assuming his post at North Wilkesboro, he was affiliated with the church at Chapel Hill as
student pastor over a period of three years.

Message
The following is a summary of his message. In the twelfth verse of the above passage, we read that Jacob
dreamed of a ladder. This, for Jacob, was a very strange dream, for a ladder represents hard work and climbing,
exactly opposite to his usual method of advancement. He expected to go through life obtaining everything as easily as he
had cheated Esau out of his birthright. He was unwilling to pay the proper price for achievement. However, it is
perhaps true that this dream focuses all that was before Jacob and brings out all the good in him. In
life, it is a good dream to have, to dream of a ladder to climb. Jacob's ladder reached up unto
heaven. We all have widely varied conceptions of heaven, but all of us realize that heaven is to be attained
only after a struggle, and a hard climb. There are three conditions of life which make for a heaven on
earth, or at least make those who reach them have a glimpse of heaven. The first of these conditions is
vocational achievement. To have a part of the deep joy of human experience, one must do something worthwhile in the
line of his vocation. The peace of heaven is to be had only after linking with God in the work
of the world. Consider the Curies, who, after years of hard work, danger, privation, and self-denial, gave their priceless discovery
to the world, representing the triumph of a life's work. One must find his place according to his abilities, and
work. Certainly not too much, but equally as much not too little; work for the glory of God in the
work He wants you to do.

Marriage
The second condition is happiness in marriage. No one falls in love and marries happily. Perfect [Continued on Page Six]

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Rev. Watt M. Cooper Preaches At Vespers

Journal Tells Munich Story
The spring issue of Davidson's Alumni Journal, edited by Prof. K. J. Foreman, has been sent to the printers and
will probably be put in the mails by April 20. The magazine will have approximately 24 pages. Featured in this
issue are articles on freshmen history, musical activities, summer school, and the proposed change in the Alumni department. [Continued on
Page Six]

Cool and Smarter
“Moontones” by Varsity-Town
Why “Cool”? Because they're light, airy, featherweight fabrics! Why “smarter”? Because they're modeled in drape and lounge models to keep
young men at their smartest during the hottest months!
$25 to $27.50
YOUNG MEN’S SHOP
THIRD FLOOR
126 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
PAUL & CRYMES, Sporting Goods, Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wed., April 5th. “SUDDEN MONEY”
Thurs., April 6th. “HOUND OF BASKERVILLE”
Fri., April 7th. “7M FROM MISSOURI”
Sat., April 8th. “ARMY GIRL ON TRIAL”
Mon.-Tues., April 10-11th. “SERGEANT MADDEN”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
Davidson, N. C.
