Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Feb. 8, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

BILL MARQUESS... Editor-in-Chief
JOHN LATIMER... Business Manager
Tite Auermachy... Assistant Editor
Austin... Managing Editor
Carl Hudson... Sports Editor
Ovid Sil... Associate Editor
Wesley Coghill... Associate Editor
Perry Sloan... Movie Editor
Henry Baker... Staff Photographer
Walt Kunz... Business Staff
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Collection Manager
Fairy Lokey... Advertising Manager
Tom Hackney... Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore... Collection Manager

Fraternities

During this period of the year when many men are being initiated into fraternities there are some who always wonder, and not entirely without cause perhaps, if these organizations are worth what they cost or if the money put into them is not at least partially wasted. We realize fully that any discussion we might undertake on this subject will be done with the same security felt by a man setting out on quicksand, but regardless of any trepidation we might feel, perhaps some discussion will not be entirely out of place. If this turns out to be a defense of fraternities, it will be based on sincerity, which neither needs nor offers an apology, in spite of the stand taken by some of the leading educational institutions in the country.

During the years that fraternities have been in existence they have collected enough skeletons in their closets to give their critics ample grounds to call them sponsors of football heroes and social go-getters. Their attitude toward scholarship has been alluded to as wholly passive, if not unconstructive. And the loyalty of the fraternity has been called narrow and selfish toward the dishonest or weak brother, and the fraternity house has been referred to as a cradle of campus politics. This is not at all a pretty picture. Nor is it all true, either of fraternities in general or of Davidson frats in particular. Fortunately, there is another, a truer, side to the picture.

Dr. Fred H. Turner, Dean of Men at the University of Illinois, has this to say about fraternities: “In general the fraternity man is democratic. He has nothing to be high-hat about, since any normal student who desires to be in a fraternity can usually attain membership. He does not have to come from a wealthy family nor need he be a good athlete nor the best-dressed man on the campus. Inter-fraternity relations are better now than ever before. Many fraternity men work to help pay their way through college, and the working student has just as much opportunity to be in a fraternity as the one who does not work. From the standpoint of the student, the fraternity is a good institution; from the standpoint of the parents of the student, they can feel that their son in a fraternity is in good hands; from the standpoint of the college, the fraternity provides a desirable type of organization which can do much to make college life better, more wholesome and more satisfactory.”

The words of this noted educator could not be improved upon in describing the fraternity situation at Davidson. Here, where the members do not live in the houses, we avoid nearly all of those things which have done so much to give fraternities their black eyes and have a set-up beneficial to the college in more ways than one.

Higher Or Lower

Higher education was the object of an attack by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching recently. This was based on an intensive ten-year study of 45,000 high school and college students. The Foundation charged that college students preparing to teach were intellectually inferior to other academic groups, and that the majority of those preparing to teach were doing it because they could not do anything else. Another criticism made was that college training injured education in a large number of cases. To substantiate this claim, test results showing students making higher grades as sophomores than seniors were cited. Still another criticism was that many who go to college are the intellectual inferiors of those who do not. Yet although these attacks were founded on extensive investigations, the Foundation did not offer remedies for the deficiencies.

College curricula have been and will continue to be subject to abusive attacks such as these, but the gradual evolution brought about by those who are working for the development of better educational opportunities will do much to decrease them in the future.

Campus Comments

Davidson has gone far in her hundred years’ history and started well into the second century of her development. Her men stand high in all walks of life, and in educational circles the name Davidson has come to stand for big things. No longer is there a struggle for existence, and the administration can be more or less selective in choosing men to carry on the honors of the school. But lately, we wonder if our selective system is carried far enough. Are all men taken in because they register early of the same standards as some who do not enter their names until the summer months? Is Davidson really being selective enough?

The time has come when Davidson can be self-confident and yet not cocky in believing that she should take only the very best men. As the situation has been in the past, the first two hundred men or so registered early are investigated, and, if their high school records prove satisfactory, admitted. But still anywhere from twenty to forty of these men have to leave after the first semester. Have choices really been selective enough?

Men are beginning to register now for the next term of school. Names of good, bad, and mediocre students are probably being received. And admitted applicants are notified when their records have been examined and approved. Since Davidson can afford now to be more selective, would it not be possible to accept all applications up to a certain date in the summer, and inform the applicants that admissions would be announced at a later date? With this plan, more comparisons could be made as to the desirability of different students, and in the end a much better group would result. Possibly there would not be the general exodus of freshmen on the first of February, and Davidson would gain much toward her goal of higher scholastic standards.

Sincerely yours,
CAGE BREWER, Editor
Quips and Cranks.

P. S.—I request Locke White, President of the Honorary Fraternity Council, to write the next “Campus Comments.”

Cornell University is conducting research into the methods of training vocational education teachers.

Union College is organizing a conference on industry and government to be held April 17.

The oldest Goethean literary society in the world, founded at Franklin and Marshall College in 1832, will hold its 3,500th meeting next month.

City planning is now offered to Connecticut College students in a special course called “civic art.”

New York University has instituted three courses in religion to combat the tide of persecutions “now common in the dictator-controlled nations.”

Lauritz Melchior, Metropolitan Opera star, has been appointed special lecturer in the education of the handicapped at Teachers College, Columbia University.

University of Kentucky mathematicians have figured out that the average parade band member marches 160 miles in formation during the football season.

A University of Mississippi professor has developed an eight-headed flatworm—and these worms are less than a quarter-inch in length.

The Texas College of Arts and Industries has the largest privately assembled geological collection in the south.

Your Film Report Card
By CHARLIE LUTHER

Thursday and Friday, February 9th and 10th
** “Paris Honeymoon,” Bing Crosby, Francisca Gaal, Akim Tamiroff.
Bing Crosby's newest picture is, unfortunately, not another “Sing You Sinners.” Bing’s swell, as usual, but the story gets all bogged down in tedium. Bing plays a wealthy young fellow who wanders about the French countryside while his intended bride, Shirley Ross, gets herself a Paris divorce. Bing rents a castle from Akim Tamiroff, and falls in love with Francisca Gaal, a local peasant girl who is chosen to be queen of the Rose Carnival. Shirley, excellent as a snooty society girl, goes back to her husband, leaving Crosby free to marry his French Mademoiselle. Edward Everett Horton plays another perfect valet role.

Saturday, February 11th.
** “Storm Over Bengal,” Patric Knowles, Rochelle Hudson, Richard Cromwell.
A bang-up melodrama, that has action, thrills, the oldest of plots, and a simulated English accent. Patric Knowles plays the intelligence service aviator who finds the secret radio station which is inciting natives to rebellion. Dick Cromwell dies in a plane crash while trying to warn marching troops of an ambush. And then you have it, except for Rochelle Hudson.

Monday and Tuesday, February 13th and 14th
** “Son of Frankenstein,” Boris Karloff, Basil Rathbone, and Bela Lugosi.
Boys, here is a thrill. A sequel to the horror play Frankenstein. Boris Karloff is back in his sixty-four pound makeup of the monster created by the doctor Frankenstein. Again the indestructible monster stalks the ancient Hungarian castle of the Frankensteins. It seems that Wolf, the son of Frankenstein, returns to the bleak and somber castle twenty-five years later with his wife and little boy, little thinking that Mr. Monster still survives. In as tough a storm as Hollywood can create, he learns differently. It seems that the monster who still has his master’s formula, wants a mate created pronto. He is lonesome, bored with stalking dark stairways and strangling mere caretakers.

Basil Rathbone plays Frankenstein’s harassed son, Bela Lugosi is in for a good chill measure, and Donnie Dugan is Frankenstein's little grandson who arouses the worst from Mr. Monster.

The Inside Dope: Manufactured chills, but Frankenstein and the monster he dashed off in an idle moment are still something.

From Campus To Campus
ITHACA,N.Y.—(ACP)—Another blast at intercollegiate football, which branded it as a disquieting factor in the realm of higher education, has been made by Cornell University’s Dean Robert M. Ogden, president of the New York State Association of Colleges.

“We know too well,” says Dean Ogden, “that football games bring to college certain young men who may never have taken the time to attend were it not for the fact that they can and like to play football.

“We know that football brings other students who, though they do not play the game, can be induced to attend college by a once-a-week opportunity to escape from the drudgery of learning and ‘let off steam’ in the football stadium. But we shall certainly not succeed in giving an adequate preparation for modern life to students who are required only to mark time during the weekdays, with the promise of royal entertainment on Saturday.”

Columbus, Ohio—(ACP)—Yes, believe it or not, today’s co-eds are in need of men to escort them to social and good-time functions. Proof of the fact is a brand-new survey, made by two Ohio State University students, J. W. Danner and Don Zeigler—proof that was so conclusive to them that they’ve announced the establishment of an escort service on the Buckeye campus. Of the 213 girls questioned, 109 indicated they would “perhaps” patronize such a service, and 32 would definitely make use of it. More than three-fourths of them would use the service to get a date for a visiting friend, while half of them would patronize the services for themselves.

“Oddly enough, some of the most popular girls are among the most interested,” Danner pointed out. “Part of the interest is created by the novelty of the idea, and part of it seems to arise from advantages we didn't see ourselves until they were pointed out by some of the girls.”

“At present,” Danner and Zeigler have 10 escorts engaged in the service. Prices are, in addition to the expenses of the date, 75 cents for afternoon, $1.50 evenings, $3 formal. Photographs of “esquires” will be furnished upon request.

“As young democrats in the world’s greatest republic, you have a two-fold task, as I interpret conditions. You have to fit together the broken pieces of our shattered civilization; and you have to bring to bear on every phase of civilized life the influence of learning and scholarship.” University of Alabama's Dr. George Lang charts a course of responsibility for today’s collegians.

“Youth must make up its mind to participate in public life, to purify and dignify public office and public administration. It cannot afford to be cynical and aloof in this juncture of our civilization. Too much depends on intelligent cooperation and good will,” Pres. C. A. Dykstra, University of Wisconsin, urges youth to take its part in public life.

“Any university which wishes to do its share for the public welfare must have a strong faculty of education with the same degree of professional feeling as exists in other professional faculties.” Harvard University's Pres. J. B. Conant urges a “concerted attack” on the problems and procedures of public education.

In addition to bringing out all of the learning ingenuity of cram-minded collegians, examination time seems to whet the brains of fact-finding and rhyming students who should be spending more time on their studies.

For example, an over-ambitious University of Texas student has figured out that Longhorn students (10,103 of them) used 20,000 pencils to write approximately 13,000,000 words a day during the recent 10-day mid-term examination period. They studied 130,000 books for 200,000 hours in preparation for 45,000 examinations.

SUPER SNOOPINGS By KEN LAWSON

Vacation time is over! After the two weeks respite furnished by examinations, the wee small hours of Tuesday morning are again enlivened by the sleepy efforts of the Davidsonian staff from Editor Marquess down to the lowliest freshman to “get the baby to bed.” Which reminds us of a perplexing question. Did Master Marquess acquire his bashed brow upholding the freedom of the press or was it done in a weekend brawl?

Much water has passed under the bridge since the last key-pounding session. The playing of “Going Home” as a vesper prelude in honor of the freshmen by Don Davidson, and the Chi Omega party sprinkled so plentifully with Davidson swains are long past. Even the phenomenal driving of “Barney Oldfield,” the pride of the S.A.E.’s, has lost its punch as column material and passed into the limbo of memories.

But easy times appear ahead: From advance notices, the forthcoming Mid-Winter dances should be about the finest affair ever presented at Davidson for the student’s enjoyment. Personally, I am stocking up on notebooks and sharpened pencils. Don’t miss these if you want to hear the best orchestras ever to play at a local dance.

Returning to the past week, there was a nice delegation down for the President's Ball in Columbia headed by Crichton, Pete Spencer, and Hank Johnson. South Carolina also drew the Kappa Sigs, both liberals and conservatives, to the Spartanburg conclave. Johnston entertained all Converse in general and a young lady with a decided Charleston brogue in particular by giving a rendition of “Mistole—the rat of Brother Rat” before a mirror. According to reports, the young lady enjoyed the show immensely. Louis Clipp had a perpetual date with Betty Heath, while Bill Rainey, Warren Gaw, and others were on hand to see the conclave done up right.

Tommy Caton, Dennis, and a friend whose name has not been disclosed enjoyed a sojourn to Hampton Sidney. Dennis not only got an introduction to one of the chaperones and acquired the name “Slick” and “Pretty Boy” but also slept to the accompaniment of train whistles. While absent, however, he and competitor Tom McLean were both forcibly ousted on the Broadway question by Ed Morrow.

By far the largest exodus of the weekend was to Chapel Hill to swing to the music of Glenn Miller. Among those attending were Hank Bahnson, George Stowe, Gene Liipfert, Karl Jonas, Bob Balsley, Cage Brewer, Bob Johnson, Perry Sloan, Jimmy Cooper, Bitts Watkins, Bill Ross, and Charlie Smith. The order of rank was (1) Knobby Smith (2) Gene Liipfert (3) George Stowe, and (4) Bill Ross. Knobby asserts that the hand may be quicker than the eye but it is still not quick enough to stop some things.

UNCLASSIFIED DOPE: Fifi McAfee enjoying a long and interesting ride to Charlotte... Tom Crichton making a poor showing in Cornelius but scoring a comeback in Huntersville... Karl Jonas and Bill Lemmon riding to Spartanburg with Everett Roberts, the real friend of every Davidson boy, and having a most interesting time although Lemmon didn’t like getting left... Tommy Glenn scared to death we will print the true dope about him, so to keep it from feminine readers we'll let you pick it up in bull sessions... John Latimer on an extended campaign after Coach Spearman’s niece while Johnny Tice, although greatly interested also, acts exceedingly bashful and not trying to crash in... Billy Boy Ross training for his golden gloves match with extended exercises at Chapel Hill, at laundry and while hanging up clothes... George Ficklen greatly perturbed over a letter from the FBI which was concocted by Ray Pittman and Mark Cauble... Nick Marshall exercising his throwing arm in preparation for the baseball season... Dick Taylor just crazy about Walgreen waitresses, especially President's balls who go to Hill Cooper correctly writing in the “for” blank on a check “Wild Hair”... Mark Lillard and Wally Tonnison taking a trip as extended as it was unique... Question: Who knocked out the caboose window and then ran hard... Pittman, Dale, and Scott the triangle boys this weekend although we hear a hometown lad has the inside track... Several lodge brothers of Warren Gaw wondering why he showed up four hours late at the Spartanburg dance.

In the Groove By TOM PERRIN

MORE FUN... Social life hereabouts seems to be taking a healthy spurt, now that the inmates of this institution have ceased to regard the place as a concentration camp—which it was during exams. This past week saw dances at Carolina (both N. and S.), Converse, and an affair at Limestone. See space just above for gorier details. The Limestone party in particular, where the freshmen entertained some half hundred Davidsonians, looks like the sort of thing we'd like to have more of. Pulchritude is plentiful if not positively universal down there, they say.

FLOWERS... And even if you didn’t read the “Davidsonian” you would have learned long ago about the local set from student flower salesmen. It seems to us that the faction that wanted to ban flower-giving at Mid-Winters missed a winning argument when they failed to point out no flowers mean no flower boys. Maybe, though, we shouldn't have mentioned that; we'd hate to have all those nice salesmen mad at us. Why, we'll bet you couldn't throw three eggs at random into the junior and senior sections without hitting a florist’s agent. It would be a nice experiment, anyway. Seriously, we were a little glad to see the no-flower movement die a quiet death this time. Mid-Winters, where traditionally every effort is made to put on the best dance Davidson is capable of, just doesn’t seem the most propitious moment to campaign against this minor expense. Now, for the spring set, it'll be a different matter, we believe.

VISITING ROYALTY... Queens Day is on us again, and this time it caught us a little by surprise, coming at this unusual season. The damsels have seen us principally as devotees of sports in the past, if we remember. Now they’ll glimpse that true, deep, esthetic nature which is common, we're sure, to every D. Gentleman. Davidson has so many music lovers who haven't missed an opera on the campus in years, (and, to put it bluntly, who probably wouldn't miss it if there weren’t another for just as long). Still, it should be a very happy occasion for all concerned.

FABLE FOR THE COURT... Once upon a time there was a freshman who wore his little red cap. It was raining, he said, and he didn’t want to get his good hat wet.

FOGGY DAY... Overheard (on passing someone, probably Dirty Dan Cagle, on a campus walk one of those foggy, drippy, Davidson mornings): “I’ll say, old chap, beastly weather, what?” Cheerio.