Cat Tales By TONY CASALI

At last! ... after two years of tough breaks, hard luck, and what-have-you, Davidson’s hardwood quintet gets a chance to display their wares in the Southern Conference playoff tournament ... last year only a difference of eleven points in seven games kept us out ... the year before, the toss of a coin ... The ‘Cats should do well too even if they are in the toughest bracket ... Washington and Lee will be no set-up ... The Generals are always plenty tough in tourney play but if Davidson gets by them, they'll probably hook up with Wake Forest's Demon Deacons! And the Baptists have licked us twice this year already. However, Jim Waller and his mates won’t have an easy time in the playoff as they did during the season ... the ‘Cats will have plenty on the ball ... maybe enough to gain sweet revenge for that Saturday night defeat they received from the hands of the Deacs.

Waller, who usually hits high above the 15-point mark per game and is never outscored by a teammate or opponent, was kept well bottled Saturday night and even outscored by our own Jim “Footsie” Cowan ... Much of the credit for holding Waller to a reasonable score (after all he is the holder of the Conference scoring crown) is due to Jimmy Hogg ... Jimmy played a good floor game, probably his best of the year and also got plenty of rebounds off the opposing goal ... The margin of victory for the Deacs was not in their scoring ability but their passing ... those Baptists can certainly toss the ball around, seldom losing possession of it before taking a crack at the hoop ... Then, too, they are well tutored in the FINER TACTICS of the game ... know what I mean ...

Getting back to the tourney ... Naturally, it would seem to us that Davidson is in the toughest bracket but there are good teams in the lower, too ... Duke, Citadel, and Maryland are no chumps ... and it wouldn't be at all surprising if one of these three teams didn't win top honors ... especially Duke or Maryland. Maryland has taken the measure of good teams and they looked plenty classy in doing so ... Personally, Duke is this columnist’s pick with Davidson as runner-up ...

The outlook for Davidson's baseball team appears bright ... With Russell Hellekson, who was ineligible for competition last year, behind the plate, the 'Cats will have a receiver with plenty of power ... Rus has a fine throwing arm, and can stand up with the best of ’em when it comes to hitting the ball ... In the pitching department, several veterans will have things well under control ... J. D. Hicks, and Eddie Steere can toss good ball and Hayseed Thomas, who can use his head plenty when he is on the mound, is no slouch at twirling ... these three should form a good staff of starting pitchers ... First base seems to present a problem but Frank Niven, a sophomore who handles himself nicely around the sack, should come through ... The other infield places should be thoroughly taken care of with Sam Hemphill, “Black Dog” Hunter, and Walter Fitzgerald, three men who earned their monograms last year, around ... However, Jimmy Hogg, and Russell Edmondson, up from last year’s frosh nine, should give the three a race for the positions ... Edmondson, besides being a classy fielder, can hit the old agate ... The outfield, with Tubby Hand in center, and Hugh Verner in one of the other gardens, is well in hand ... The team, as a whole, should have good pitching, good defensive play, and potent power at the plate ... what more makes a baseball team ...

HERE AND THERE: Frank Caredio, who is better remembered for his football prowess, is coaching basketball at Mississippi State ... His team has played a nineteen-game schedule, fifteen of which were against conference foes ... In one day (February 22) Prince- (Continued on Page Six)

Re-Weaving Service
Burns and Tears Rewoven
501 Independence Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON SPORTS

Davidson To Play W.&L. In First Game March 1, 1939

Hayseed
“Hayseed” Thomas, colorful junior cager from Ramseur, has played some good ball as a reserve this year. The genial “Hay” is a good man on the floor and a capable long shot.

UNC Wins
North Carolina's indoor track legions swept to easy victory in the South Conference Indoor Games to which they played host at Chapel Hill last weekend. Maryland beat Duke out for second place by virtue of superiority in the distances, relegating the Devils to third place. Records fell frequently during the meet, with Mason Chronister’s 4:16.1 mark in the feature Lionel Weil Mile the outstanding feat of the meet. The Maryland Flash beat Williamson's four-year record by four seconds.

Davidson’s team did not fare so well, with Sample’s tie for fourth in the pole vault being their only varsity place. Woodward ran a good race in a star-studded mile field to place fifth, however. The ‘Cats were severely handicapped by lack of practice due to inclement weather and lack of indoor facilities for practice. Archie Taylor won the 70 yd. high hurdles in the freshman division to garner the only points for the Wildkitten squad. Taylor also won two heats in the 60-yd. dash, but failed to place in the finals. Williamson, another frosh hurdler to compete, failed to place but looks to be promising material in the future. Strandwitz was beaten out but cleared 5’ 9” in the high jump, which gave him a fifth place.

Twenty-one hundred spectators packed Carolina's new gym to watch the finest edition of the games yet.

Loop Scoring
Jim Waller, Wake Forest's high-scoring forward and captain, continued to lead the loop’s scorers during the week as he ran his total points to 287. In second place with 211 points is Owens, Waller’s teammate and center of the Wake team. Behind him in the third slot is Jim Cowan of Davidson who has 177 points to his credit. Burrows of the Citadel is fourth with 154 points.

Player—Team F G T
Waller, Wake Forest 59 114 287
Owen, Wake Forest 49 81 211
Cowan, Davidson 43 67 177
Burrows, Citadel 36 59 154

DeLuxe Ice Cream
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 56

Indoor Games
“Footsie” Cowan Outshines Jim Waller in Exciting Contest Saturday

Davidson's varsity hardwood Wildcats looked good in defeat as they bowed to Wake Forest's loop-leading Deacons 38-32 in the local gym Saturday night. Things looked bad for the ‘Cats as Jim Waller, the Deacs’ shining light, began the scoring by hooking in two left-handed shots from a difficult angle. Two baskets by “Footsie” Cowan and a foul shot put Davidson into a lead which it held until the half. The Wakes were baffled by the locals' zone defense and scored mainly on long shots during the first half, at which time they were on the short end of a 16-14 score.

The visitors opened the second half with a rush as they scored several points before Cowan dropped in a snowbird. The Wildcats were weakened at this stage of the game when J. D. Hicks was ejected from the game for pushing. Despite a spirited rally, led by the invincible Cowan, the Deacons managed to freeze the ball well enough during the closing minutes of the game to preserve their slim lead. “Foots” Cowan, lanky Davidson pivot, outscored the Deacs’ mighty Jim Waller, to gain some glory for his team in defeat. The elongated center was accredited with 18 points while the Wakes’ Waller was second with 14 markers.

On Tuesday night of the past week the ‘Cats had defeated the Wofford Terriers 40-22 in a listless game that saw the Wildcat quint pull away to a one-sided victory in the last few minutes of play. Last Thursday night they downed South Carolina 36-30, as soph Jim Hogg led the scoring for Davidson and shone generally on the floor. Alexander and Hutto paced the Gamecocks.

Baseball To Start Soon
With baseball practice holding up early due to bad weather, Coach Laird still has had the pitchers and catchers working daily in the gym with outdoor drills slated soon. Returning from last year’s team will be hurlers J. D. Hicks, Eddie Steere, Dave McLean, Jim Thomas, and Parker Connor. The receiving end will be well taken care of by Rusty Helikson, who was ineligible for last year’s team. Sam Hemphill, seasoned veteran, will be back on the hot corner, with Black Dog Hunter and Walt Fitzgerald slated as almost sure-shots for the short and keystone positions. In the outfield there will be Tubby Hand, and Hugh Verner, back from last year’s team, with one of the pitchers ready to cover the other field if necessary.

Sophs To Try Out
Several members of last year’s frosh nine will be out battling the veterans for places on the team, and they should furnish capable reserves and utility men to back up the regulars. Lost to graduation are three regulars from last year. Joe Kellam, captain and catcher, Fielding Clark, outfielder, and Ellwood Moyer, shortstop are gone via the cap and gown route. Jim Dunford, who was heavily counted on at first base this year, failed to return to school, as did “Bully” Rudisill, outfielder. Coach Laird will have to pick a first baseman from reserves or frosh candidates, with Frank Niven, Kit first-sacker last season, appearing to have the edge. A full schedule has been made out, including a trip which will last (Continued on Page Six)

Deacs Beat Cats Again; Cowan StarTHE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Four

High Scorer

Jim Cowan, lanky center and third high scorer in the conference, led the scoring in the Wake Forest game Saturday night. From Rocky Mount, this is “Footsie’s” second year on the varsity, being a transfer last year.

Frosh Defeat Greensboro Hi

Thursday night in a game played at Greensboro the Wildkitten cagers closed a very successful season by defeating the Purple Whirlwind 38-24. Greensboro broke the scoring ice and jumped into an early lead, but the Freshmen, Don Bell leading the way, soon forged ahead. The Whirlwind pulled up toward the end of the second quarter and the score at half-time showed the Kittens ahead only 21-16. However, in the last two periods with Ralph Stair, Kit guard, holding high scoring L. E. Dempsey to two field and foul shots and Spencer and Bell hitting the basket consistently, the Frosh put the game on ice. For the High's Dempsey and Thompson with 7 points with big goals three apiece led the scoring, while for Davidson Bell with 17 and Spencer with 9 were best. This victory gave the Kittens a record for the season of 10 wins in 16 games. In total points the Freshmen showed their worth by tallying 541 points to their opponents' 465. The season was a very successful one despite the losses to the Big Five foes, Duke and Carolina, the Kits held victories over some of the best junior college, prep, and high school teams in the south, Don Bell tallying 189 points.

(Continued on Page Six)

Cat Quintet Gets Bid To S.C. Tourn’y

Precedent Set as 11 Teams Get Tourney Bid; ’Cats Play W. & L. Thurs.

Davidson’s Wildcat basketball team drew a first-round bye Sunday when the Conference basketball committee chose eleven teams to compete in the annual event at Raleigh to be held March 1st through 4th, inclusive. By beating South Carolina Tuesday night the Wildcats ran their record to 9 wins against 7 defeats for a .562 percentage and fifth place in the conference standing. Wake Forest continued to hold first place and finished with fifteen wins against three losses to lead the circuit and seeded favorite in the tourney. Washington and Lee, and Maryland tied for second place with eight won and three lost each, while The Citadel finished in the number four spot. The teams are ranked in the tournament according to the position in which they finished the league race. In bidding eleven teams to the Raleigh affair the committee set a precedent, as there have always been only eight teams invited before. However, because of the closeness of the race in the second division, it was decided to allow three extra teams to participate this year. The committee announced that in the future the old rule would be followed, with defending champions and the runner-up in the previous year’s tournament being given first consideration if they are among the deadlocked teams. As a result of the added teams, the tournament was extended a day, and will begin tonight as V. M. I. takes on Richmond. Davidson plays her first game Thursday afternoon against Washington and Lee, seeded second. The ‘Cats were the only non-seeded team to receive a first-round bye. Wake Forest's first game will be with the winner of the North Carolina-Clemson event to be played earlier.

Although he has to make up with speed what he lacks in height, “Apie” Means has shown up capably in a reserve role this year. Means, a Concord boy, was unable to play last year because he was a transfer student.

K. Sigs Win In Frat Tourney

In the final game of the intramural tournament last Wednesday afternoon, the Kappa Sigs won the consolation honors by soundly trouncing the S. A. E.’s 33-15. After the first few minutes, the outcome of the game was never in doubt. Scott opened the scoring and the Kappa Sigs soon had a lead of 6-2 which they lengthened to 14-4 at the half. The second half was a duplicate of the first and the game ended with the Kappa Sigs ahead by 33-15. Rose and Scott led the victors with 10 and 11 points respectively while Wood and Hackney were best for the S. A. E.’s with 13 points between them. In an earlier game, the Phi Gams clinched the frat crown by defeating the Pi Kappa Phis 22-8. The S. A. E.’s were the defending champs in the tournament.

The next intramural event is the [Continued on Page Six]

Kit Matmen Lose Match

In their final match of the season, the Wildkit Grapplers lost out to the Orphans of Barium Springs, 21-10. This was the second time the Kittens had lost out to the Barium wrestlers, having been beaten here earlier in the season by a more decisive score. The final totals of wins and losses were four lost and one win. In the first match, Davidson failed to produce a man for the 121 lb. class and lost on forfeit. The second bout also went to the Orphans when Beeshears tossed McEachern. Ralph Williams was the first to appear for the Frosh and lost to Weeks by a fall. In the 145 lb. division, Norman Aarseth gained five of the Kits' ten points when he contacted the mat with Jessup’s shoulders. Bosworth then took up again for the Bariumites when he decisioned Turnage in the 155 lb. bout. Baxter Freeze then garnered the final five for the Freshmen. He pinned Cranfill of the Orphans in the 165 lb. fight. In the final bout of the afternoon, Bolton decisioned Ed Hipp.

WE INVITE YOU TO VISIT US
Drinks, Sandwiches, Fruits and Candies — Also — Complete Auto Service
“THE ROADHOUSE”

Southern Conference Standings

W L T Pts Opp
Wake Forest 15 3 524 436
W. & L. 8 3 501 429
Maryland 8 3 501 429
The Citadel 11 7 620 618
Davidson 9 7 562 563
N. C. State 7 7 536 562
North Carolina 7 7 536 562
Duke 7 7 536 562
Richmond 5 9 524 579
Wm. & Mary 4 9 524 579
South Carolina 2 8 306 412
Va Tech 5 10 413 598
Clemson 0 10 322 465

Charlie Parker, former Davidson Varsity Wrestling Captain, has been in charge of training the first-year men. A captain for the team will be selected soon.

(Continued on Page Six)

SPORT TROUSERS: $2.95, $3.95, $4.95
Tweeds, Stripes, Checks, Gabardines
NEW SPRING GOODS
Hats — Ties — Shirts
NEWBERG’S MEN’S SHOP
115 W. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

FAUL & CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 SOUTH TRYON STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

All-Frat

The following is the All-Fraternity team as selected by Junior Alcorn and Johnny Tice, who officiated at the annual Frat tournament held recently:

First Team
F—Hemphill
F—Branton
C—Rose
G—Tenney
G—Walden

Second Team
F—Pyke
F—Reshetz
C—Plyler
G—Hackney
G—White

Honorable Mention
Robinson

Grid Drills Finish With Squad Game

Weeks of Intensive Practice To End Soon; Intra-Squad Game Looms

Winter football drills, now in the fifth week, are bringing forth plenty of good material for Davidson's football squad next fall. Many members of last year’s freshman team and “B” squad have been showing up very well in the sessions to date. A great deal of rain has made it necessary to call off practice many afternoons during the past three weeks, and this has somewhat hampered progress in the drills. But with the return of good weather last week, a schedule of rough work was resumed, scrimmage games being held on Wednesday and Saturday.

Injuries Appear

Fate has dealt another blow to winter practices in the form of injuries. Many were forced to the sidelines last week with hurts, most of which were minor, however. The injured list now includes Grey Hunter, Charlie Allcott, George Marsh, John Barnhardt, Marvin Pennington, Karl Jonas, Claude Hackney, Granville Sharpe, and Bill Faison, all out with bad legs. John King, Bill Shaw, and big Stan Yoder are having to take it easy because of injured shoulders. The highlight of Saturday's intra-squad game was the scintillating 80-yard run of Stan Yoder, fullback of the “Blacks.” After his team had desperately fought the entire first quarter to hold the determined “Reds,” as they continually bore deep into the Blacks’ territory, Yoder grabbed the pigskin, crashed through center, and weaved through the secondary for the initial score of the game. The second quarter saw the “Blacks” again having trouble with the offensive attack of the “Reds.” Soon after half-time, the “Reds” again drove to the shadow of the Black’s goal post, and this time made their threat good. Bill Pharr went off-tackle for the marker, tying up the ball game.

Shannon Shines

Shannon, Red tail-back, passed and ran in fine fashion, proving a threat the entire afternoon.

(Continued on Page Six)

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
DELICIOUS FOOD AT REASONABLE PRICES

Pikas
F—Jones
F—Thomas
C—Marquess
G—Woods
G—Pike

221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE HIGH SCORE of Last Week Was Set By CHARLIE PEGRAM 159

PITCH-PATCH Bowling Alley
Davidson, N. C.

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4362
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone.

Printing is our Business

For a representative call 3-5727

Printers of The Davidsonian

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.