Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., March 8, 1939 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at
the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879 BILL JOHN MARQUESS... LATIMER... EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor Assistant Editor Managing Editor Erle Austin Managing Editor Sam Spencer Managing Editor Tom Casali Sports Editor Calvin Associate Editor
Editor Henry Baker Editor Walt Kunz Asst. Business Manager Gus Advertising Manager Ross Advertising Manager Julian L. Lide Circulation Manager
Hackney Circulation Manager Bud Gilmore Collection Manager Best Editorial Recently the editor of the Auburn Plainsman was asked to reprint
the article that he considered his best work. Saying that this was impossible he printed the piece which had brought
the most spontaneous and general approval from his readers. It is one that would be applicable to almost any college
campus. “Tonight as we pound the typewriter at this late hour with the lights turned low and soft music filling
the room from over the radio, we're moved to say: “On the table over there is a copy of the
Plainsman. It reports the campus activities of those we term ‘great’—the grand marchers, the campus politicians, the big shots. If
a committee were at work to select ‘Representative Auburn Men’ it would consider their activities—title against title, honor society against
honor society, committee membership against committee membership. Then we would have our representative students who would be great, and we
would honor them. “But the names of the truly great are not in the Plainsman. Our nomination would be a
girl we know who works in one of the college buildings during the day when she does not have classes
and goes home, not to rest, but to cook and keep house for her brother and one or two friends.
As we write she is at her study table battling between sleep and study. She fights a good fight and
keeps smiling. That’s our nomination, but instead we glorify the girl who simpers in soft surroundings in richer campus homes
and chases after ‘positions,’ ‘activities,’ and fellows who possess the power of petty political appointments. “Another nomination is the boy
who lives in a near-shack, works at odd jobs when he can find them, and does his own cooking. His
folks don’t see him often; he can’t spare the money to go home. Yet he gets top grades and is
a good fellow. “But we honor as ‘great’ the boys with the political jobs who play petty politics, have their
fingers in all kinds of pie, and are on scores of committees. “But then we couldn’t honor our nominations for
obvious reasons. They would not want it. Those who would be honored—they would want it. But when the years have
passed, and we ask the unheralded great who lead the parade about these years—they would only smile. Social Security Under
the leadership of the fraternities at Amherst College, there is growing over the country a campaign to petition congress to
exempt college students from the Social Security payments. This campaign seems to be based on the following assumptions: (1) The
Social Security is a tax (2) College students should not pay any tax until they get out into life. (3)
The Social Security is meant to benefit the participants in it, and college students will most likely receive no benefits.
(4) Regular college employees are exempt, and there is no difference between them and students. Before anyone lends support to
this campaign he would do well to look at the other side of the question. In answer to the above
contentions the following, among many other things, can be said: (1) The ordinary Social Security is not, in the strict
sense, a tax. A tax contributes toward defraying government expenses. On the other hand, the government itself contributes to the
support of the Social Security, which is managed as a separate agency with a separate account. (2) There is no
particular reason, except purely selfish ones, why college students, who by far wear better clothes, have more spending money, and
reap more benefits from government-supported institutions than the average American, should be exempted from anything. (3) The benefits a college
student will receive from Social Security while he is in school are not large, because of the smallness of the
contributions, but they are nonetheless real. In every case for every cent the worker pays in, the employer and the
government put up an equal amount. Where else can you get 200 per cent on your investment? Even considering the
employing fraternity and its employees as a unit, there is still a 50 per cent return, which is not bad
at that. To qualify for old age payments, a person must work one day in each of the five different
calendar years before he reaches retirement age. A student who starts work Christmas his Freshman year fulfills that requirement, at
a few pennies a month, while he is in school. If it should happen that a person does not for
some reason qualify for old age payments, he receives a lump sum from one-sixth to two and one-half times greater
than his total contributions. In other words, you can’t lose. Perhaps we are too young to start saving, but the
number of college students who carry life insurance indicates that we are not. (4) Regular college employees are exempt. This
exemption is for reasons of expediency rather than for the benefit of the college employees. I imagine quite a few
professors would gladly put up some dollars, if the government and the employer were putting in like amounts to their
individual accounts. And for eight cents a month just to feel like I am taking part in what’s going on,
before I get out into life. Anyway, as for me, it’s worth my eight cents. VANCE MYERS. Campus Comments Each
year with the graduation of the Senior Class I have thought that next year maybe we would have order in
Chapel. It seems this is a utopian dream, an El Dorado that we shall never reach. Up until this year
the disturbance has come mainly from the Senior Class, a tradition- al custom whose origin is shrouded in the silence
of the past. But this year even the Senior Class has taken a back seat. In fact, Senior, Junior, and
Freshman Classes have all been outdone by the Sophomore Class. This class taken as a whole is a Frankenstein. When
in a group they seem to forget every gentlemanly principle they ever knew. They forget the meaning of: Reverence to
God, co-operation, consideration of others, and the old saying “there is a time and place for everything.” Pranks cease to
be funny when they might mean injury to someone or when those pranks soil other students’ clothes. I am speaking
of throwing eggs, shoes, and snowballs. Also that infamous act of passing a boy to the front is dangerous and
disturbing. Any person with self-pride should be ashamed of himself and his class when it is requested to leave the
auditorium. This seems to have had no effect on the present Sophomore Class. It is a pretty sorry state of
affairs when this class must show itself even when we have visiting speakers. An example of this was given Monday
morning when several late comers were hissed into their seats. Nothing seems to do them any good. There have been
talks in chapel; articles in the paper; and as mentioned above, dismissal from chapel. Perhaps some day the fog will
clear and they will see the goal to which they are heading is not the everlasting hall of fame but
the quicksand of oblivion for rabble-rousers. TOM ABBOTT, Senior Member of the Student Council. P. S—I request Sam Hemphill, manager
of the Student Store to write the next Campus Comments. CAMPUS IN CARTOON SUPER SNOOPINGS CATCHING COACHES FRANK TUMBLING CAN
WALK ON HIS HANDS ALMOST AS EASILY AS HE CAN ON HIS FEET. HE ONCE STOOD ON HIS HEAD ON
TOP OF THE WRIGLEY BUILDING IN CHICAGO AND CALMLY PLAYED A TROMBONE SOLO! HIS BAG OF TRICKS INCLUDES DOING A
CHEEK STAND AND SHAVING HIMSELF AT THE SAME TIME! Letters To The Editor Dear Bill: Either Bill McLaughlin misunderstood my
last letter, or I am too realistic to agree with him. As I stated, I approve whole-heartedly of any attempt
to make the atmosphere as quiet and reverent as possible during the devotional exercises at chapel. But the remaining minutes
that I called the “horse-play” period is completely changed. And as I see it, reformation of such an atmosphere would
make no sense. Therefore I still approve of a certain amount of harmless fun in the last part of the
period. However, prompted by the recent unwarranted expulsion of the sophomore class, I hasten to define the word “harmless,” which
eliminates some of the more violent demonstrations which employ snowballs, eggs, etc. The disadvantages of the present system suggest the
possibility and advisability of changing the whole set-up, so that the devotional exercises will be entirely separate from the student
body meeting. Exactly how this could be done I’m not sure. The purpose of anonymity is to present an idea
without having to deal in personalities. If anything is worthwhile, it’s the idea, not the person presenting it. However, in
case others, like Bill McLaughlin, misunderstand— O. V. ARMSTRONG, (Alias Fun-Lover). Your Film Report Card By CHARLIE LUTHER Wednesday, March
8 THEY MADE ME A CRIMINAL—John Garfield, Claude Rains, and Gloria Dickson. This order was built to fame John Garfield,
New York's young actor who rode to fame in his first film, Four Daughters. John plays a young pug who
disappears when a murder ties him. He wanders to an isolated date ranch in the Southwest, is brought into the
ways of clean thinking by a priest'sWho seems to be pinned on an aged sister who runs the ranch. When
he tries to earn money in the prize ring to help her, still hiding his identity, the police get him.
The six Dead End kids are present, playing cocky young New York ruffians sent to Mother Rafferty to have their
lives straightened out. May Robson plays the reforming rancher. John Garfield has more color and promise than any new actor
of the last year and this tailor-made role may help him, though some may find it too made-to-order.

Thurs.-Fri., March 9-10

"ST. LOUIS BLUES"—Dorothy Lamour, Lloyd Nolan, and Jessie Ralph. The plot is washed along by a Mississippi flood. Miss Lamour
plays a blues singer who has been masquerading on a barnstorming tour as Aloma of the South Seas. Tired of
her sarong, she runs away from her manager and joins up with a showboat managed by Mr. Nolan. The boat
is beached on the lawn of Tito Guizar’s plantation. But in no time there is romance on board as the
boat, awash again, heads southward. The Mississippi River is the Paramount's big $20,000 concrete tank which holds 375,000 gallons of
water. This is a chance for Nolan to get back into big films and there’s Lamour with and without her
sarong.

Saturday, March 11

"YES, MY DARLING DAUGHTER"—Priscilla Lane, Reginald Owens, and Jeffrey Lynn. If you didn’t see this while it was in Charlotte,
don’t miss it here. It is really a good show and is the kind that will appeal to you college
boys. Priscilla, who is the daughter of a well-to-do banker and whose mother was a modern girl of her time,
is in love with Jeffrey Lynn. She has been in college and has been prevented from seeing him much. One
day he pops up and says that he has a job in Belgium and must leave the next week. Priscilla,
who hasn't taken too much interest in Jeffrey, suddenly realizes that she loves him a great deal, so she decides
that they should go off and spend a weekend together, in spite of the fact that it may look a
little out of line. Her mother gets wind of it and tries to stop her, but her daughter brings back
memories of the young life that she led, and her mother is forced to let her go. The young couple
spend the weekend in a cottage together. Most of this weekend will be cut, most likely, before you see it.
Many complicating circumstances arise before the weekend is over, making it most interesting.

Monday and Tuesday, March 13 and 14

"YOU CAN’T CHEAT AN HONEST MAN"—W. C. Fields, Edgar Bergen, Charlie McCarthy, and John Arledge. W. C. Fields is the
manager of a circus. His son and daughter (Arledge and Constance Moore) have been brought up in the way they
should go and have attained high positions in high society. Miss Moore has become engaged to one of the “blue
bloods.” W. C. turns up and his kids do not want it to be known that their father is from
a circus and get him to pose as a big game hunter. W. C. gives some of his best comedy
as a circus fellow masquerading in high society as a big game hunter.

Approximately one-fourth of the University of Vermont freshmen are scholarship holders. A new major in recreational programs is now listed
on the curriculum of Massachusetts State College. In the last 25 years, Colgate’s debaters have won a greater percentage of
victories than have the institution’s athletic teams.

By KEN LAWSON

Besides playing host to the annual Southern Conference basketball tournament, Raleigh was also a center of gay social activity last
weekend. It was a merry place with all the eliminated teams being fixed up with dates and invited to rounds
of parties so that it was almost hard to decide whether more fun was had by the tournament winners or
those teams eliminated in the first round. Johnny Tice captured the hearts of the crowd with his brilliant floor work,
just as he has done here for the last three years, but his conquest of one heart did not end
with Davidson’s elimination; he got a date with her for Monday night by a long-distance call which incidentally was placed
by another person. I never realized Ned Iverson had such a gruesome puss until several people in Raleigh mistook this
columnist for the Miami Swisher. Lock Hunter also came in for his share of tribute by being mistaken several times
for J. P. Tice.

Raleigh Reminisces: Shorty (Bolo) Purdue going to the tournament a staunch Clemson man but ending up as Davidson’s No. 1
backer. Hayseed Thomas, J. D. Hicks, and Swede Johnson all good friends of Citadel’s brigade, the Major, the Captain, and
Casey. Editor Marquess staying over at Wake Forest and reporting the Deacons have no great love for Clemson. Lock Hunter
following up an introduction to Bob Wyatt's girl with a letter just as soon as he returned. George Ficklen unable
to find “the girl in the silver dress” for the late date he had asked for. The mysterious friend of
Ned Iverson who was not interested in the revelation of personal secrets.

But while basketball held the spotlight, other things were happening around-about. The Tobacco Road appearances in Charlotte and Statesville drew
large crowds of Davidsons, more for the purpose of finding out just how much the censors missed than for a
genuine interest in dramatics, if current reports are right. Those attending testify that the censors must have used up a
lot of pencil lead marking out the script. One carload of boys ostensibly headed for Raleigh was sidetracked in Greensboro
and ended up in Lynchburg where a most enjoyable time was had by all. The most interesting thing seen by
them was Colonel Liipfert displaying a borrowed Phi Bete key before the eyes of Randolph Macon femmes. This was necessitated
by the failure of the Colonel’s key to arrive in time to be worn.

When the Converse Glee Club visited the campus Friday night, Jim Ballard and Dave King, who have been directing lovely
dovey feelings in the direction of two Queens girls for years now, turned their attention on Converse gals with noteworthy
success. We would like to know the motive behind all this, because such unorthodox moves should be of interest to
psychology students.

Dope from here and there: Shaw Smith a perfect gentleman Friday night. Tom Mullen and Karl Jonas around Charlotte Saturday
night with casual acquaintance. Charlie Smith practicing up to be the human fly of Georgia dorm. Bill Egan and Phil
Peyton two scared boys Sunday afternoon. Dear P. C.: Please don’t believe all you read in this column about your
friend Rich; most of it originates in the minds of his scheming friends.

In the Groove By TOM PERRIN

AMUSING ... What with the spring snow the other day, just before the snow, and our hearts being young and
male, after all, our thoughts naturally and lightly turn to woo. Purely professional interest though. Maybe, we haven't been paying
sufficient attention to the muses of late—‘wooing the muse” as the writers used to say and still do. Why shouldn't
any columnist do a better job with one of Melpomene or Erato or the other seven on his side? After
running it over in our mind though, we've found we can’t recall any of those ladies of classical mythology who
would be interested in a job like this, prose, poetry, art and science being more their line. Oh well, maybe
no muse is good muse.

PRANKS ... Incidentally, sooner or later, but inevitably: you can expect the humor magazine to print a cartoon showing a
freshman reading the Davidsonian, with the caption: “No. News Is Good News.” We will laugh politely.

SOPHS ... Just when we were about to give the sophs a pat on the head and an “A” on
deportment for the past month, someone or two of them had to bring snowballs to chapel. Possibly that was their
last little outburst, but right now we can't resist clipping a few lines from the Poly Spotlight:

You can always tell a Senior
By the way he’s neatly dressed.
You can always tell a Junior
By the way he swells his chest.
You can always tell a Freshman
By his timid look and such.
You can always tell a Sophomore,
But you cannot tell him much.

BALLOTS ... Elections have the center ring now, and of course you’re voting conscientiously once a day. “Politics” being outlawed,
things should run off very smoothly. So smoothly in fact, that you could probably name most of the winners of
the 25 and 30 point offices in advance. Think maybe we'll write down our guesses on the flyleaf of our
bacteriology book; then when we open it to study for exams, it'll be interesting to compare selections with the actual
results. One genuine improvement in the management of the voting is the introduction of long, narrow ballots instead of the
almost square ones of former years. You simply haven't got the proper dimensions to make paper airplanes with these new
slips. That should add to everyone's peace of mind.

SHORT AND LONG ... The reason for that short first period Tuesday morning, followed by an extra long second period
(the only such irregularity we can remember) was this: A guest speaker was slated to make a chapel talk, hence
orders were given to shorten all periods. Then the speaker found he couldn’t come and the orders were cancelled. It’s
as simple as that.

University of Michigan men sported corsages of vegetables at a special party given for them by their co-ed friends.

Final examinations are given only once every four years in German colleges.

The Drake University music department has been given 200 orchestral arrangements.

Indiana University is assisting in the codification of all the Hoosier state's blue laws.

Operators of the Oregon State College telephone exchange say “number please” on an average of 2,045 times a day from
8 a.m. to 6 p.m.

Kent State University’s wrestling team has won 45 straight victories on its home mat.

Sixty-seven foreign countries are represented in the collection of 18,000 postcards in the University of Kentucky library.

In 22 years, Oklahoma A. & M.’s wrestling teams have won 125 of 130 wrestling meets.

John H. Gran, University of Alabama chemistry instructor, has new definitions for “energy” and “work.” “Anything that exists contains energy,
and energy is the capacity of a body to do work,” he says.
