Page Six

DAVIDSON PRESENT: 
[Continued from Page One]

This concert was presented with an exactness and artistic appeal that definitely won the approval and commendation of the audience. The auditorium was packed and jammed with music lovers from all over the state. Monday evening's concert consisted of: “Overture to the Opera ‘Joseph’ by Mehul” by orchestra; “Concerto In D Major ‘Coronation’ for Piano and Orchestra” by Mozart, presented by Nelson Pfohl, pianist accompanied by The Louise Little Symphony Orchestra of U. of Michigan; “Interlude in Ancient Mode, Op. 15 No. 3” by Glazounov; “Valse-Badinage, ‘A Musical Snuff-Box’” by Liadov; “Suite in F Major” by Franck, all by the Michigan Little Symphony; and “Olaf Trygvason” by Grieg, a presentation of the Davidson College Glee Club, accompanied by the Festival Orchestra.

Tuesday evening the concert was presented before an audience largely of Queens girls and their escorts, who were completing the annual Queens-Davidson Day with an evening of music. The Little Symphony presented a short concert of: “Symphony No. 12 in E Major” by Haydn; “Adagio, Opus 3—‘Les Fleurs Pales du Souvenir’” by Lekeu; “Five Pieces from ‘For The Children’” by Tansman consisting of Hide-and-Seek (Cache-Cache), Waltz (Valse Lente), Mechanical Horse (Cheval Mecanique), Blues (Disque), and Military March (Marche Militaire). This was followed by a concertized version of the opera “Martha” by Von Flotow (the version, an arrangement of J. S. Zamecnik). This was presented by a selected group from the Queens and Davidson Glee Clubs, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, and accompanied by the Festival Orchestra. The Opera was made up of an Overture; Chorus—With Song Trudge Along; Chorus—Came to Richmond Fair; Duet and Chorus—Step in, this is our Homestead; Women's Trio—This is Such a Trying Situation; Chorus—Through the Window You Must Scurry; Tenor Solo by Franklin Riker and Chorus—May You Peaceful Rest in Slumber; Duet (Soprano and Alto)—Wily Dame Hunt Your Game; Chorus—'Tis the Last Rose of Summer with solo by Eleanor Alexander; Chorus, Duet, and Trio—Ladies Grace the Noble Chase; Duet (Tenor and Bass)—Why is Old England Queen of the Ocean; Duet and Chorus—In My Heart, Love I Hold; Chorus—May the Lord Forgive Your Doing; Chorus—If your Baking and your Cooking; Chorus—All Hearts Now Are Beating With Joy.

This Festival presented to the public and especially to music lovers a widely diversified selection of the best in the field of music. Its purpose was to bring such music before the students of Davidson and friends throughout the surrounding country, for their enjoyment and edification. The Music Department of the college is hoping to make this an annual occasion.

BOGGS SPEAKS
[Continued from Page Three]

make a team or two, we begin to get the idea that we are really somebody and such an idea is always disastrous as far as Christian leadership is concerned. The primary requisites for Christian leadership are found in these verses: “He that would be greatest of all must become the servant of all,” and “Only he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.” Who then can be Christian leaders? According to Boggs, God can work through the ordinary man provided that the individual is willing to surrender his life to God. God does His best work through ordinary individuals such as you and I provided we are willing to let Him work through us. As his closing point, Boggs asked the question “To what do we lead?” It is a terrific indictment against the program of religious education that has been carried on here at Davidson and in our Sunday schools that this question even need be raised. The answer constitutes the very center of our religion. Christ described the nature of our goal posts in these words, “I, if I be lifted up on the cross to draw all men unto me must lead men to the foot of the cross before they can have their spiritual rebirth” through an acceptance of the work that Christ performed on it for them before they can ever begin to live the Christian life.

FIRST DEBATE
[Continued from Page One]

erary laid out for each of the teams, which will be composed of two varsity men and one alternate. Each trip will take place at the same time—that is; a few days before and after the Spring Holidays. The Southern trip includes Georgia Tech, Berry College, University of Alabama, and Charleston College. The Northern trip will take in Bard College, division of Columbia University, Rutgers, and Washington and Lee. The North-western itinerary includes Louisville, Centre, Oberlin, Ohio Weslyan, and Denison. Debates scheduled at home are; Washington and Lee on February 21; William and Mary, somewhere between March 5 and 18; and Georgia Tech on April 12.

DANCES ARE
[Continued from Page Five]

Suffice to say that we predict a great future for them and Davidson wishes them plenty of luck, for they certainly “put out” here. Hal Kemp was superb, as expected. If you go to a dance to listen then there is no doubt that you and your date were thrilled by Kemp's orchestra. His staccato style of syncopation kept the dancers fascinated until the last slow strains of “When the Summer Is Gone.” The combining of a modulated restraint with audaciousness showed careful and capable arrangement and direction. Judy Starr seemed to capture the hearts of boys and girls alike with her pertness, vitality, and general “umph.” In contrast, Frances Long will be remembered for the duet with Saxie Dowell, scat singer, and Harry Wiliford of “Oh Mama” with emphasis on “the fisher boy.” Now it is all over but the memories, thanks a lot, Pan-Hellenic Council, for a big week-end. Let's make it the best year of dances at Davidson and look over Shaw or Clinton for Spring! Oh, come to my arms, little pillow, and let me dream of a wonderful week-end well spent!! Gosh!!

MID-WINTERS
[Continued from Page One]

Mullen with Miss Mary Louise Riddick, Phi Sigma Epsilon; Hemphill with Miss Elinor Henderson, Sigma; Monroe Gaw with Miss Sarah Munroe, Kappa Sigma; Charlie Sample with Miss Lilliard, Pi Kappa Phi; Fred Stair with Miss Frances Edmunds, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Jim Moore with Miss Nell Slean, Kappa Alpha; Joe Calvin Sample with Miss Frances Stitt, Phi Gamma Delta; Perry Searcy with Miss Mary Nolan, Delta Theta; and Tom Ab- with Miss Sybil Bee, Pi Kappa Alpha.

EMORY PAPER
[Continued from Page Five]

finds it difficult to handle most bare fact stories in an interesting manner. These radical changes caused quite a reaction on the Emory campus, not a favorable reaction at first, but when the criticism finally died out, favorable comments poured in from faculty and students. Advertisers also seemed to like the idea. In some future time the Davidsonian might “streamlinize.” Editor Marquess would be glad to receive comments as to whether the Davidsonian should follow the Wheel.

MUSIC FESTIVAL GROWS
[Continued from Page Five]

The little symphony has been acclaimed wherever it has played; the Davidson band features, arrangements and novelties which Pfohl has introduced have likewise been praised whenever seen and heard. The August Mozart festival in Asheville, held annually,is directed by Thor Johnson, and James Pfohl has always been present, playing himself and aiding in training other players.

They Meet Again

So, Saturday these two met again, this time with Pfohl directing and Johnson playing and training, and music lovers who heard were satisfied once again with the results.

(Continued from Page One)

for new men, he added. The purpose of these brochures is to acquaint prospective students with Davidson College.

REGISTRAR STATES DATE

DAVIDSON HIGH

(Continued from Page Four)

Forest, this being followed by a return game with N. C. State on Tuesday night. The Davidsons then rest until Saturday night when they meet Duke again. Carolina’s Phantoms, seventh in the conference, and third in the Big Five gained ground during the week as they defeated both Davidson and State. Virginia and N. C. State will meet the Phantoms this week.

Standings in the conference at the end of last Saturday's games were as follows:

Team Won Lost
Wake Forest ------------- 8 2
Maryland ---------------- 7 2
DAVIDSON --------------- 8 3
Citadel ------------------ 4 4
Richmond ---------------- 0 7
N.C. State --------------- 0 4
North Carolina ----------- 6 6
Virginia ----------------- 4 4
Washington & Lee -------- 3 3
Duke --------------------- 0 7
William & Mary ----------- 3 5
South Carolina ----------- 2 5
Clemson ------------------ 2 6
VMI ---------------------- 2 8
Furman ------------------- 0 8

PRETTY FEMS

(Continued from Page Three)

Wiley, Grace Bugg, Novella Pope, Betty McClintock, Dianne Guion, Jeanne Anderson, Eleanor Echols, Frances Grubbs, Praether Siske, Margaret Byrd Smith, and Nancy Lawrence.

WILDCATS LICK DEVILS

(Continued from Page Four)

with 16 points. Davidson forged into an early lead and were never headed during the contest. An unlucky casualty of the Duke skirmish was an injury to Johnny Tice in the last minute of play. Against the Virginia Tech Gobblers, he was able to perform only three minutes, and his action during this week will undoubtedly be limited.

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS IN CARTOON

WITHOUT ANY PREVIOUS SCHOOLING, HERBERT SULLIVAN, 14-YEAR-OLD CHILD GENIUS, IS PREPARING TO BE A MATHEMATICAL PHYSICIST BY TAKING PHYSICS, CHEMISTRY, MECHANICS, AND TRIGONOMETRY AT SANTA ANA JR. COLLEGE. ALTHOUGH HE ALREADY HAS PASSED THE ENTRANCE EXAM TO THE CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, SULLIVAN PLANS TO ENTER OXFORD UNIVERSITY IN ENGLAND.

The University of Vermont has a cat on its payroll. The black feline receives $16 per year (for food) for catching mice. Rice Institute is still using several of the light bulbs that were installed when the school was founded.

YOUNG SULLIVAN NUMBERS AMONG HIS FRIENDS, EIGHT OF THE WORLD'S OUTSTANDING MATHEMATICIANS.

CHURCH COMMEMORATE

(Continued from Page One)

Pleasants, T. P. Porter, W. W. Preyer, W. T. Rainey, J. S. Raynal, J. H. Raisner, J. S. Rice, J. G. Rigan, C. W. Roberts, W. S. Robinson, P. A. Sloan, J. G. Squires, F. Tice, J. S. Tillotson, R. A. Torrey, T. E. Walker, A. D. Warden, S. C. Webb, Locke White, J. R. Williams, J. K. Wilson, D. B. Woodward, E. M. Yow.

COLLEGES LEAN

(Continued from Page Five)

Daily: The state of the nation’s health must be dealt with immediately; it cannot await the solution of our economic problems as a whole. The passage of the president's health program, calling for extension of free medical and hospital service and a national system of disability insurance, will attack this one example of social maladjustment.

February 15, 1938

Colwell and Starr Give New ‘Dope’

Miss Colwell was quite sick and one of the band boys seemed very disturbed over her condition, and she seemed very appreciative of his attentions, which probably does away with these rumors of late dates. Especially, seeing they came from very unreliable sources.

Now the one popular report that did seem to be good enough for the Davidsonian also did not give forth. The rumor has it that one Mr. Rea Tenney practically had Miss Starr on her knees begging for one of the favors from the Phi Delt banquet. However, Tenney had not finished his weekend and was still in Atlanta, so we couldn't check on that tale.

Ralph Monger seems to be the power in fair Frances Colwell’s house. Thursday he traveled down to Winthrop’s Midwinters and did his best to bring her to the Pika banquet. However, the Kappa Sigs and fraternity brother Dean Hudson had an edge on the Monster one, and he fought a losing fight.

So you see, just as we said, there really wasn’t any story, only rumors, and the Davidsonian never prints rumors.

Ease Dryness, Coughs DUE TO COLDS

GIVE YOUR RASPY THROAT THIS MEDICATED BATH...

If your throat’s tormented with irritation, huskiness, dryness, or coughs due to a cold, a Vicks Cough Drop dissolved naturally in your mouth will give the troubled membranes a soothing, medicated bath—for 12 to 15 minutes! Relief comes fast because Vicks are medicated with the throat-soothing ingredients of Vicks VapoRub—famous for relieving coughs and discomforts due to colds.

Chesterfield... the blend that can’t be copied... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

You’ll enjoy these three stars in “WINGS OF THE NAVY,” a Cosmopolitan production released by Warner Bros., coming soon to your local theatre.

GEORGE BRENT
OLIVIA de HAVILLAND
JOHN PAYNE

Chesterfield gives millions More Pleasure... and millions of people before and after the show are getting more pleasure from the happy combination of mild ripe American and Turkish tobaccos found in Chesterfield. It is the exact way these tobaccos are combined together that makes Chesterfields milder and gives them a more pleasing taste and aroma. This exact combination is found in no other cigarette. When you try them, you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure... why THEY SATISFY.