~ Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, 1939 — The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO Entered as
second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. TONY CASALI -
_..EDITOR-IN-CHIEF _BUSINESS MANAGER Andy Dale --- Erle Austin - Jack Holland Karl Hudson ‘Sam Spencer --- Bobby Williams - Angus
Lytch --- Herbert Codington ©... ---- Fred JIM CURRIE ...---.-.-------------- EDITORIAL STAFF Jack Abernathy... ..-.-------..<.-....---- Assistant Editor Pat Bumbarger --------
--Managing Editor Tom Cauble ---- = -Managing Editor Joe Ellis' .-<.2.<- ps -Managing Editor Ed Watson —-- “ -Managing Editor
Lawson Withers ----- Managing Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor BUSINESS STAFF SOGCRANBS CH Manager Business Casey Jones Fest
... Advertising Manager Hector McLean - _.Advertising Manager John Moore -c--- ms Se Circulation Manager Jack Covington - _-Circulation Manager
Dittlesctaccas: “Collection Manager “School year. ate Pe The Davidsonian expresses its deepest sympathies to Richard Shore of the Junior class
in the recent death of his father. TA To You, Freshmen... Although we're a little late we would still like
to welcome the frosh. By now you are well on your way to successful or otherwise. To some of you,
all of this is new—others of you who have attended preparatory schools are merely stepping into a larger institution but
we'd still like to hand you a little advice. It’s the usual custom to greet new men each year with
much advice but too often it goes unheeded. We realize that you have probably had your share of it but
certainly a little more wouldn’t harm. Little do many realize it but there is a great responsibility placed on freshmen.
Davidson, famed throughout the country for its high scholastic rating, its faculty, its student body, and its school spirit, lives
through the years only because of the “types” of men that pass out each year into the world. These men
are high-minded individuals that lead good lives. If this were not so Davidson wouldn’t and couldn’t go on. So it’s
up to you—to keep Davidson at the top. Certainly one would say that your habits and actions haven't amounted to
much yet but in three short years, before you can hardly realize it, you will be seniors. You will have
charge of various affairs around the campus, incoming freshmen will seek your advice and will form their habits around you.
Thus you cannot learn too early that traditions and beliefs here are more than an intangible subject—they are real things
that we come in contact with every day. It is a part of Davidson’s tradition that we exhibit friendliness, assume
responsibility, have a willingness to work hard, and have the proper respect for authority. Our little bit of advice is
to strive toward these things. * * * * * It Might Work... While it is most too early to
start bringing out suggestions as to certain changes that should be made, we cannot help but offer a plan suggested
to us by a larger University of the south. Freshmen are new here. They are forming habits each day, some
good, some bad. Some of them know how and when to study. Some of them don’t. Here is where we
come in. A “big brother” plan has been installed by a large southern institution. Each year a group of upperclassmen,
numbering the same as the entering frosh group, are selected by the dean and YMCA to act as “big brothers”
to incoming freshmen. They act as advisors, help freshmen get established into routines, teach them the importance of study. They
are not responsible for any failures or misunderstandings of the men they “advise” but their service is invaluable. Why not
instigate such a plan here? Many of you remember the sad, tragic moments of freshmen, who fumble their books and
are forced to leave at the end of the semester. Much of this could be terminated through such a system
as this, and many will agree, some of these unfortunate ones could have easily stayed had they secured some advice
and guidance of upperclassmen. * * * * * Thank God for the Atlantic... Thank God for the Atlantic! We
say that in fun, but have we ever paused to think just what that means. How many of us have
ever stopped to consider what a war on our own soil would mean to us? We have never known the
horror of war at our front doors, of troops marching by our homes, of sirens screaming out air raid warnings.
Have we ever seen helpless women outraged, helpless children stabbed, old men bludgeoned, and younger ones shot down by a
heartless steel-jacketed bullet? How would you like to see your home go up in flames, your luxurious auto confiscated because
some powerful dictator needed it to carry his men from one fighting ground to another, your ample supply of meat
cut down to a bare nothing, your sugar and cream, small things that you hardly notice now, taken away? These
are only a few of the things that can happen, and HAVE happened, already, in foreign countries. You say, “Let
us help our friends stamp out these isms that are overrunning Europe.” You say, “We are not safe here, even
though there is the Atlantic between us; we must help them.” BUT, while the Atlantic is on the East, and
the Pacific on the West, until these dry up and furnish dry land for armies to march on, we need
not fight abroad! Why leave our homes to go devastate another people’s land? How can any foreign power hope to
conquer us here? Let us change the name of the Atlantic, now. Let us call it by a name that
was derived from the Latin “Pax,” meaning Peace. Let us rename the Atlantic and call it the Pacific. Let us
have two oceans, one on each side, each named for Peace, each a mighty and strong assurance that while their
billows roll, while their lengths separate us from Europe and Asia, they will mean PEACE! W. A. D. Stolen Thunder
OUR TOAST TO FRESHMEN May your disillusions be gentle; Your loves be fleeting; Your parents be lenient; And may you
be a freshman only once! —Auburn Plainsman. CAMPUS IN CARTOON IN U.S. COLLEGES THERE IS ONE CAR FOR EVERY 10.7
STUDENTS! Ben HALPERIN, N.Y.U. STUDENT, CAN APPROACH THE PROF'S DESK, STOOP DOWN AND CLUTCH IT HUNGRILY BETWEEN HIS TEETH AND
CARRY IT ACROSS THE ROOM! BUCKSHOT: CALIFORNIA, CHICAGO, COLUMBIA, HARVARD, ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN EACH SPEND MORE THAN $2,000,000 ANNUALLY ON
RESEARCH! Letters To The Editor Mr. Toni Casali Editor: “The Davidsonian” Davidson, N. C. Dear Toni, On September 21 Congress
will meet in the interest of American neutrality. Yet it is possible and very probable that some very radical changes
will be made in the existing Neutrality Law. However it is admitted that some changes should be made. In my
opinion, the main changes that should be made is regarding exports. Those goods that shall be exported to belligerent countries
should be sold f.o.b, American ports. In other words, let the nations who wish commodities, come here for them. Judging
from past experience, should we deliver to England, France, or any other nation, the German submarines would sink some of
these shipments. The inevitable result would, of course, be war. Sober minded people should think just what engaging in this
war would mean. There are two wide oceans between this nation and the hostile nations of this conflict. There is
no reason under the sun why we should cross these oceans for the purpose of bringing about another war in
this country. We should stay at home, attend to our business and then we will be in a position to
reorganize civilization at the end of the war and do it on Christian rather than Nazi or Communistic principles, both
of which, of course, are anti-Christian. I think, America’s most appropriate motto for this war should be “CASH & CARRY.”
Sincerely, Tom Rogers. By BOB WILLIAMS. Murphy’s Mumblings Wednesday, Sept. 20 FOR SALE —Robert Rice, Frank Young, Florence Craven, Henry
Hull. Robert Young, as would be expected, plays the lead as a retired salesman of magician’s tricks, and in the
picture we find him getting mixed up unwillingly with a group of murderers and magicians. He solves the murder with
a trick of his own, and everything turns out on the bright side in the end. Even though this is
a mystery it is extremely humorous, because of the amusing scrapes into which the characters get themselves. Florence Rice plays
an especially good role. Thurs. & Fri, Sept. 21 & 22 THE WIZARD OF OZ—Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Bert Lahr,
Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, and Billie Burke. The many who have seen this picture will witness that it is one
of the best of the year. Though it does depict a child’s story, it is made for adults, and it
is excellent entertainment even for the most mature minds. It is the story of Dorothy, played by Judy Garland, who
engulfed in a tornado is whirled into another world, the world of the Munchkins. To find the great Wizard of
Oz, who is theOnly one that knows even the way home for her, she is told by the good witch
Billie Burke, to travel along the “yellow brick road.” On the way, she meets the scarecrow—Ray Bolger, the iron man—Jack
Haley, and the cowardly lion—Bert Lahr, and together they make the trip to the magic land of Oz. As you
can imagine, all turns out well and good for Dorothy, and she is returned to her home by the Wizard
of Oz, Frank Morgan.

Saturday, Sept. 23 +94

THESE GLAMOUR GIRLS—Lew Ayers, Lana Turner, Tom Brown, Anita Louise, Ann Rutherford. Built around the social whirlers, the story concerns
the most important social function of the year, the debutantes; a Kingston College, an exclusive boy’s school, house party. Complications
arise for Lew Ayres, a senior, when he invites Lana Turner, a hostess from a dime-a-dance palace, to come and
hobnob with the pedigreed socialites. Anita Louise, jealous of Lana's popularity, reveals Lana’s real occupation and from then on the
ten-cents-a-dance girl is the envied center of a storm of tuxedos. A fair picture for a college audience, because it
has a college setting, and an excellent entertainment for a Saturday afternoon.

Echoes of the Past

TEN YEARS AGO
Dr. Walter L. Lingle began his duties as president of D. C. Chambers Building was opened for us. A heavy
Clemson team beat a fighting Davidson team in the fourth quarter by a score of 32-14. Joe McCall, Davidson's quarterback,
took the ball from the kickoff to make a touchdown.

5 YEARS AGO
A Davidson team led by triple threat back J. MacKorell defeated Elon 33-6. The outstanding play of the game was
when Joe McCall took the ball from the kickoff to make a touchdown. The cut system with slight changes was
first put into effect.

3 YEARS AGO
Teeny Lafferty, leading a fast wildcat team, won a decisive victory over the highly favored wolfpack team from Raleigh. The
noted poet Carl Sandburg spoke in the Chambers auditorium. Coach Shepard came to D. C. from Randolph-Macon to take over
his duties as athletic director.

GLEANINGS
The old SNOOPER has gone—I have donned my black hat and dark glasses and started on the trail he has
vacated. A challenge has been left—new men have come in; good snoopings have gone with the graduation of the ducks,
Steere and Harrison et al; but word has reached our ears that everything has not been dead this summer. It
seems that our editor and our student body president have the same tastes. Rumor has it that pictures and affections
have changed hands. Better watch the boys in the Holy City, Casali. And the white-collar boys couldn't wait for school
to get officially underway—they jumped the gun and caught the debutante ball. Word has reached us from Raleigh that the
Sir Walter was pretty well under Davidson control; the contingent leading the sway seems to have been Jonas and Grantham.
Of course, Wild Bill Ross didn’t get lost in the crowd. We wondered why Bill Bolin was so anxious to
find a ride for two to Charlotte the other day until we saw the “two.” Then we couldn't understand why
he had so much trouble getting it. Must have been a good trip, for Bill came back all smiles and
Ann went on her way with a mighty big ring. When are the bells to ring, Bill? Pledge night afforded
some of the milder souls a chance to relax a little. Our local Charlie Yates suddenly became a great golfer
and had quite a chat with some fellow named Lineberry who seems to have been a chief of police or
something. Maybe they were both mixed up? Wonder why Billy Turner was so lonesome with his glass of water? The
Cooper twins should have taken theirs over and joined him. The SAEs new heartthrob, High Fever, made quite a hit
with the co-eds during the faculty reception. Wonder if he kept all those dates he is reported to have made.
And bringing back memories of Julia Depuy is Black Dog's latest. This time he is transgressing the hill country. Started
the year off right by bumping over the countryside to Brevard. Even Whiskey Bob Finley is cultivating a hair—he was
off to Spartanburg to do some wooing. And Ross continued his escapade of last week with a Sunday at Converse.
“Apie” is suffering along with Casali—both having KA trouble. You fellows be careful, you might get stuck on one of
those pins. The frosh this year certainly aren’t losing any time—Did you notice the ones with their attachments in the
loft at church? George Tate and his blonde made quite a goal for the class to keep up with. Familiar
faces also seen at church were Bub and Phil and Gales and his missus. Sweetbriar and N. C. will separate
them tomorrow though. Looking for a good night in Greensboro Saturday. Hope you fellows won't let up on me. Have
already heard plans of parties that should furnish good material. See you at the game.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

Editorials and features are always the hardest at this time of the school year, with the exception, of course, of
the Super Snooper’s. He always has an easy time. Therefore, any subject matter that may come up in this issue
is to be overlooked if it appears far-fetched.

“Hell Week” is over now and most of the hostilities are forgotten, thank goodness.

For a Better Davidson
Last year several ideas were broached for a regular credited public speaking course, and many of us had hoped for
this to come true this year. But evidently, the faculty didn’t see fit to grant such a request. Again, I
should like to suggest such a course that will give us an outlet to one of the most important phases
of an education. The two literary societies can give us practice for what we could learn in such a course,
but since they are without instructors now, they are of little benefit to those who know nothing about speaking.

Pete Whittle’s idea of having inter-dormitory athletics seems to be catching on fine. “Beat Duke” is already the motto, and
while it looks now as if West will win easily, something might upset the dope. I wonder if these games
will take the place of the Watts-Georgia water fights of previous years.

Another suggestion that has been advanced is to postpone Rush Week until the second semester. This will have many advantages
over the present system as can easily be seen. Most notable of these is that there will be fewer misfits
in the fraternities; boys who live out of this state and who have no conception of the different fraternities here
will have a better chance to see the frats as they really are and not with all the fanfare and
back-slapping that goes on this first week of school. Then, too, the actives will have their chance to know the
freshmen as they really are, and see them without their trying to put their best foot forward. After all, a
freshman is just a freshman, but after he gets through Rush Week he seems to think that he runs the
campus and that he is the cog that makes the wheels turn inside the various chapters. This paragraph was suggested
to me by several rush chairmen and it seemed best to them to try out this plan of rushing. The
ideas were theirs, and it is their sincere belief that on a whole the second semester rushing would prove to
be more satisfactory in the long run.

Thumb Nail Sketch
This boy is a former Davidson senior and Omicron Delta Kappa man. Because of his modest manner, likable personality, and
more because of his character, he was appointed to a high position this year on campus. He is always on
the job, and works doubly hard for the freshman. He went to New York to the fair this summer and
came back with something like $13 more than he started out with on account of his talent for letter writing.
Spinner of tales, upholder of moral standards by his own actions, this fellow has made quite a name for himself
during the past four years. He intends to enter the ministry, but right now, he can be found under the
Phi Hall.

UNANIMOUS
I would I were beneath a tree
A-sleeping in the shade;
With all the bills I've got to pay
Paid.

I would I were beside the sea
Or sailing in a boat—
With all the things I’ve got to write
Wrote.

I would I were on yonder hill
A-baking in the sun;
With all the work I got to do
Done.
