Basketball Squad Leaves On Annual Trip: North Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sideline Delights
By ANDY DALE
Thurs., Dec. 14, 1939
Page Four

Cagers Leave Tomorrow On Annual Trip
Five Meets: V. M. I, Richmond, and George Washington

Davidson’s varsity quintet leaves tomorrow morning on a holiday trip which will take them through Virginia to Washington, D. C.
Before the vacation sets in though, they meet two Southern Conference foes, plus an intersectional opponent. With not so strong
prospects as were present at this time last year, the quintet will need every conference win they can get to
be sure of getting that bid to the tournament at Raleigh which will close the season in mid-winter.

“These two opening conference games may catch the quint still too inexperienced and green. Only one man, Cowan, has played
as much as two seasons of regular ball, and only three others have seen anything like much regular action. Last
year, and during their sophomore seasons, Hayseed Thomas and Benny Harrison played some, Benny a good deal last year, alternating
with Jim Hogg, who played a lot, especially toward the end. Outside of these four men, there are none who
have played at all regularly, and experience counts in basketball, too.

A trip is always hard on the team, and too much is not to be expected of them, but more
competition, more practice, and more experience should bring home an improved outfit. Last week against “Jo” Jones the team looked
sluggish and spotty, missing the hole consistently, and being shown up on the floor by Earl Ruth’s great exhibition of
passing. However, many underrated the Jones boys, who had a nice team, and almost took the ball game. The game
did just what it was supposed to though, by bringing out faults and errors, and showing the whole squad that
more practice is needed in all phases. Post-holiday games should find a much improved team, with more coordination, surer passing,
and that added experience and nerve which only actual play can bring. Watch those boys on this trip. Two conference
wins are in the offing if everything clicks right, and a good start will head the Cats toward that tourney
again.

Varsity manager, Captain Jim Cowan, Benny Harrison, Jim Hogg, Hayseed Thomas, and Apie Means will make the trip along with
Ed Lucas and Don Bell from last year’s freshman team. The other three men will be chosen from Shore, Yarborough,
Furner, Wright, Taylor, Carter, and McLeod.

Coach Norman Shepard tomorrow takes his varsity basketball quintet northward into Virginia and on to Washington, D. C., for a
pre-holiday series of three games. A native of Wilmington, Shepard came to Davidson as athletic director after a time at
Randolph-Macon and Guilford. Besides coaching basketball, he also will take over varsity baseball this spring for the first time.

Grapplers To Hold Tourney
Davidson’s varsity wrestlers, under the watchful eye of Coach Chet Chapman, have been working out regularly for the past two
weeks and are rapidly rounding into shape. Led by Captain McFadyen, the grapplers face a tough six-match schedule. Due to
the large number of boys out for the team, a keen competitive spirit has developed among the boys. No definite
team has yet been picked, but Coach Chapman expects to hold a few trials today, and thereby gain a more
definite knowledge of this year’s team.

Fall Sports’ Awards Given
The following men have received recognition in various fall sports:
Football Lettermen: Jim Cowan, Robert Smith, Gales McClintock, Frank Niven, Elmer Knoeller, Don Bell, Hank Bahnson, Bob Balsley, Frank Caldwell,
Poss

Four Teams Undefeated In Fraternity Tourney
By virtue of two wins against no defeats, the K. A.’s and Phi Delts continued to lead the current interfraternity
basketball race with the S. A. E.’s close behind with one win against one defeat. The interfraternity basketball race begins
to tighten up after a slow start. Using the High School gym in order to have more floor space available,
the quints have seen some hard action. That gym is about the size of a minute though, and promotes more
contact in a game that is already hard enough to referee. An open letter to “Santa Claus — Please tie
a new gym on your sleigh, and bring it to Davidson.

Freshman Matmen Open Work
The Freshman wrestling squad under Coach Charlie Parker began hard work in earnest this week with instruction in wrestling tactics
and inter-squad bouts which will determine the men to represent the team in the various weight classes. Until this week,
the work had been entirely made up of exercises for conditioning the men.McLean, Bob John-George Marsh, Marvin Pennington, George Richmond,
Jay Bo-Shannon, Tubby Hand, Granville Sharpe, Bill Bolin, Dave Spencer, Claude Hackney, Stan Yoder, Dick Winters, Gray Hunter, Jack Powell.
Managers: Gladden, Dan Cagle, Gene and Buck Mashburn, Ferguson, Coltrane. Football Numeralmen: R. L. Brinson, Blake Brown, Wilbur Carter, Ashby
Dick, Wileman Ehly, John Frederick, Hugh Grey, Bill Dick Hevener, Lacy, Long, Alva Lumpkin, Scotty Patterson, Rainey, Hugh Sprunt, George
Tate, Walton, Washburn, Peter Young.

Cross-Country Lettermen: Bob Kellogg, Dick Gammon, Charley Watt, Dick Coppedge, Dave Colvin, Shorty Parish, Jimmy Mann, Dan Gilliam. Cross-Country Numeralmen:
Dick Smith, Langley Land, Ru Nimmons, Erskine Parks, Bill Tarleton, Campbell Ansley, Archie McNeil, Lacy MacLean; manager—J. Used Cp fus
Ragsdale. Soccer Lettermen: John Farrior, Joe Gammon, Tommy Harnsberger, Joyner, Graham McFadyen, Sam Spencer, Bob Washburn, Joe Wilson. Numeralman: Chester
Price.

Oscar ing Off Second Half Threat To Win Close Victory From Crack Charlotte Quintet Led By Earl Ruth

Davidson’s 1939-40 basketball season was launched successfully last Friday night at the Wildcat gym when the hoopsters battled to a
34-30 triumph over the crack J. O. Jones quintet from Charlotte. Although the ‘Cats appeared sluggish at times, they managed
to hold the lead which they assumed in the first few moments of play. Trailing 15-10 at intermission time, the
Charlotte five came back strong in the second half to provide a thrilling finish.

Cowan High Man

Captain “Footsie” Cowan, last year’s high scorer, carried off scoring honors for the evening, garnering 13 points. Don Bell, top
scorer for the frosh in 1938-'39, rolled away on pivot shots to chalk up 9 points; and Jim Hogg potted
enough long ones to make it 7 for his credit. The J. O. Jones quintet divided scoring honors with Earl
Ruth, former captain and All-Southern Conference guard, playing a bang-up floor game. Starting line-ups were as follows:

Davidson Pos. J. O. Jones
Bell (9) F Fred Dunn (6)
Dun (6) F Frank Dunn (4)
Harrison (7) C Sims (5)
Lucas (1) G A. Levi (3)

Substitutions:
Davidson—Thomas, Means, McLeod 2.
J. O. Jones—Fort 4, Quick 4, J. Levi.

MUSICAL FRAT HAS (Continued from Page Three)

Alpha, and difficulty is in charter. Beta Gamma has been organized quite a year, and yet it has sponsored numerous
musical events, the most outstanding of which was the Don Cossack concert. “Our policy is one of activity—one of keeping
well supplied with good music,” says Harper Beall.

Davidson We Furnish Christmas and Groceries

Pikas divided their points equally.

FOR DAVIDSON TOWNSPEOPLE AND STUDENTS

Earlier in the week the S. P. E’s took the Kappa Sigs to town to the tune of 26-17, as
Sid Daffin paced the winners with eleven points. Neal Scott garnered thirteen points.

On Monday night in the local High School gym the Phi Delts posed the Betas 19-17 in a close finish.
Hunter led the Phis with seven markers and Barnwell led the Betas with five points.

Phi Gams Win

Later that night the Phi Gams trounced the Pikas 23-9 with Bob Johnson ringing the bell for nine points.

In Monday night's last game the Pi Kappa Phis chalked up their second win of the season by whipping the
Kappa Sigs 31-13.

Coach Parker will have the problem of getting the team in good shape for the opening match with Barium Springs
on January 12. The squad has four lettermen from last year’s team. Other lettermen on the squad are Maloney, Fredericks,
Wayman, and Gamble. The frosh prospects are promising but they need more drill. The weight chart is as follows: Pelford,
135 lb. class; Crane, 145 lb. class; L. Ritchie 141; Preston Oliver 143; Charlie Henderson 143; J. F. Sherrill 145;
R. L. Parks 150; R. L. Gringo 187; R. C. Clontz 215; W. C. McCoy 215. There are vacancies in
the 45, 65, and unlimited class.

Wishing You The Season's Greetings

BUFF & DAVIDSON, N. C.

Cold Weather Is Here To Stay! Don’t Fail to Get A GOOD SUPPLY OF FUEL —From: DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL
CO.

Saturday, Dec. 16 Mon. & Tues., Dec. 18-19 Wednesday, Dec. 20 Thurs. & Fri., Dec. 21-22
“BIG TOWN CZAR” “WHAT A LIFE” “CONSPIRACY” “NIGHT OF NIGHTS” “EVERYTHING HAPPENS AT NIGHT”

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Campus Boys Say “Thumbs Up!” The new Custom Finish has met with more favor than any masculine style factor in
recent years. It’s easy to understand if you'll just “look 'em over”. And Edgertons are unusual values.

J. O. Jones, Inc.
210 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
