Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

For those who read these articles and see these films it creates the impression that our Greek letter organizations are places where boys and girls care little or nothing about morals and studies.

1938 | Member | 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3rd.

TONY CASALI JIM CURRIE
EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy - Assistant Editor
Bill Owens - Managing Editor
Ron Cauthen - Managing Editor
Joe Liles - Managing Editor
Ed Watson - Managing Editor
Lawson Withers - Managing Editor
Andy Dale - Sports Editor
Erle Austin - Associate Editor
Jack Holland - Associate Editor
Pat Hudson - Associate Editor
Sam Spencer - Associate Editor
Bobby Williams - Movie Editor
Angus Lytch - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Codington - Business Manager
Casey Jones - Advertising Manager
Hector McLean - Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown - Circulation Manager
Jack Covington - Circulation Manager
Fred Little - Collection Manager

Journey’s End

Again the Red and Black Masquers showed their dramatic abilities with an enjoyable reproduction of "Journey's End," a widely-known play, last Wednesday night. This group has continuously in the past presented the Student Body with several well-rehearsed plays and should be given plenty of credit for their fine work. While those boys taking part in these plays, the stage hands, actors, etc., are due plenty of consideration, much of the credit goes to Professor E. J. Erwin, who has tirelessly and willingly given the group the benefit of his dramatic abilities. Much of the success of these plays is directly due to him and his work, which is merely a sideline for him and in no way connected with his duties as Professor of English. The dramatic organization owes plenty of its success to Professor Erwin and undoubtedly realizes the capabilities of this genial English tutor. Congratulations Red and Black Masquers and Professor Erwin for another fine performance.

Davidsonian Advertisers

Each year the slogan "Do Your Christmas Shopping Early" prevails throughout the nation and is spread across the faces of American newspapers in the hope that the populace will not wait until the rush of the week before to do their Christmas shopping.

Although we may be a little late in doing so, the Davidsonian likewise adopts this ever prevalent slogan and recommends that the students and faculty not leave their Christmas shopping until they return to their homes for the holidays. There now remain eleven shopping days until Christmas. Before the student body and faculty adjourn to their respective homes for the holidays, they will spend a couple of days on the campus. During this time there will be an opportunity for many to complete a large part of the needed purchasing and at the same time give extra business to the merchants who have helped make possible the publication of the Davidsonian this fall. So why not start spreading Christmas cheer immediately by doing your shopping with the Davidsonian advertisers and show them that it does pay to advertise with the Davidsonian!

False Pictures

Recently there has been a deluge of sensational articles and pictures that are supposed to be typical of the college fraternity life. These by no means give the true picture of life in our Greek letter fraternities and some action should be taken to stop this flood of harmful publicity. This is one of the big problems facing our fraternities today. Much harm is done through the exploited incidents of "Hell Week" and false impressions of our dances and social affairs. This gives false ideas of fraternity life to the public and is one of the chief sources of parental objection that offers an obstacle to the pledging of men by the chapters.

With the Staff

No man who attended the panel discussion conducted by the Y.M.C.A. Dec. 6, who heard those intensely interesting discussions by four of the most brilliant members of the faculty, and who saw the way that group of students were loath to leave Phi Hall even long after the formal discussion was ended, can help but realize the necessity for continuing this series. For little more than half an hour four professors expressed their opinions on “A Christian Outlook Toward War.” Then during an hour which swiftly passed by, the audience subjected the leaders to a terrific cross-examination, giving their own viewpoints as well. It made no difference when Chairman Kenyon called the meeting to a close; most of the students only surged to the front and the discussion continued for some time in little groups. Every member of that audience left the building somewhat wiser and glad that he had come. In the dormitories he probably told his roommate and friends what they had missed, and there will undoubtedly be a larger audience at the next meeting. So we see the potentialities which may be easily developed by these panel discussions. A group of students became vitally interested over an issue of importance today and stimulated their minds by intelligently talking it over with friendly leaders who knew their business although, incidentally, they all had different opinions on the subject. It doesn’t matter what subject the Y.M.C.A. chooses to discuss at future meetings, provided it is within reason. If they succeed in waking up a sizeable group of Davidson students and interest them in wider circles of thought, they will have succeeded in one of the finest missions they ever attempted.

—Lawson Withers.

The Modesto Junior College Collegian has announced a novel “Citizens of the Week” contest, in which the editors pick and publicize the names of the students who have done most for the college during the week.

The University of Nebraska Daily Nebraskan is running a feature each week on the “Prof. of the Week.” They interview the professor selected for the honor, and tell something about his activities.

DISC-CHORDS
By Billy Masters and Hoss Reeves

The latest campus craze in the way of records seems to be Jan Garber’s “Powder Your Face with Sunshine.” (Ah me!) It reminds us of our last night. It seems that no suitable title could be found for the boys.Orchestra broadcast from the number, and since it happened to be on page 720—well, “720 in The Spice of some of the things Artie Shaw pulled. We certainly hated to hear of his death. Bradley and Kay McKinley are really going places with their new band. The best move Tony Pastor made was obtaining the former songstress with Jan Savitt. She does some nice yodeling of “Up To Be Tied.”

Next to these sorry radio serials, the thing that gripes us most is to hear some commercial program take a good song and murder it into an advertising song. A song which is written as an advertisement is bad enough, but there ought to be a law against ruining good songs even with the copyright owner's consent.

Listen for Woody Herman and his crew playing from the Famous Door over NBC four times a week. In our opinion, his is the most underrated band of today, with Jimmy Dorsey running a close second. Both have fine bands, and though Woody may be overshadowed by clarinet, he is overshadowed by none on the sax.

Shaw felt some good records behind him to make us keep him in mind. Among his fast is “All The Things You Are,” which seems to reoccur every time you hear it. “Back Bay Shuffle” is still in all his recordings.

We pick the wee small hours of the morning after the Saturday night festivities. Something is very much in the air besides Christmas now. Mid-Winters. The little more bird dropped us the dope that it might be the most improved band of the year (Benny Goodman), or perhaps Tommy Dorsey. There's no denying that Goodman really has a fine bunch of musicians, and his success in playing at the Waldorf shows that he can and does play sweet music for dancing. Incidentally, Shaw was elected to take over, but they elected George Auld to do the fronting. It is now known as George Auld’s band.

Bosco still isn't dishing out much dope concerning Mid-Winters, but if you are wise, you will make your dates during the holidays if you haven't already done so. The College is not quite so reluctant to talk and let it be known that we will have one of the best bands in the nation. What is a census taker? I have my own answer for that one. The SAE’s will say nothing more concerning it in all seriousness if he wasn't a freshman. That took quite a little pep out of him. The doubtful trio of Ballard, Swank, and Caldwell had the “bumming” corner pretty much to themselves after the program Sunday night—the participants and others at a feed at the house. We know they had a good time, but didn't know that Shore and Barker and a couple of others were so attached that they had to go back to Charlotte and spend the better part of the night getting the girls “home.” Crutchfield should take Coltrane home with him again—they managed to “work” Greensboro and Crutch's blind date which Bub got for him really made a hit. So much so that he went back again Sunday night. As she is from some of the wilds of the deep eastern part of the state, Crutch went to a great deal of trouble in an attempt to change some of her ideas.

The KA-Kappa Sig banquet and New Year's had a fine time. With so many blind dates in attendance, I know Crutch succeeded. And the final word this week is—A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

But, wait a minute. By FRANK BARKER

Once more all the student body is rejoicing over forthcoming holidays. I hope you all have a very merry Christmas and a happier New Year's Eve. Some of us will, I know; especially those of us who live several days away from this fair state and who will be sleeping when 12 o'clock rolls around on January 1 with the intentions of reading this column. That would make a star production.

Isham Jones may have an orchestra, but the students at L. S. U. Jones were booked to play there on two nights for homecoming dances, and it seems that “his band” was composed of members of local orchestras. The students recognized them and demanded their money back. P. S.—Jones didn’t show up the second night.

As for Tommy Dorsey, we all know that his smooth swing, Herman, and Jan Savitt are also very much in the running. Any one of the four would give us a top-ranking band; so here's hoping that bird is shooting us straight dope. Be sure to get your dates early, boys, for it really promises to be a snazzy set of dances.

Due to the fact that the Davidson student body will have a chance to go to Davidson's most swanky affair at the Charlotte Country Club before they go home for the holidays, and even though I don't know what the name of the picture is, I'm sure it will be fine.

MAINTAIN GOOD POSTURE

Maintain good posture and you'll feel better. That's the prescription of the University of Wisconsin’s Dr. Frances A. Hellebrandt, a member of the medical school staff. “To stand correctly is extraordinarily cheap from the viewpoint of its energy needs,” she said. “If the posture is relaxed, standing is practically indefatigable. It costs little more energy units to stand properly than to beat an egg, although nearly three-fourths of the muscles in the body are being used,” Dr. Hellebrandt continued.

No person can stand without swaying, she found. “A person’s center of weight falls remarkably close to the center of the base of support between the two feet,” she said. “Although nature is a geo-engineer, the center of weight dances to and fro as we stand, producing gravitational stress which must be met by the muscles of the legs to keep us from tottering.”

Experiments with high heels showed that the higher the heels, the more pronounced was the oscillation of the body. Although not apparent to the naked eye, the swaying was detected by instruments constructed for the experiment by Prof. L. E. A. Kelso of the engineering department. “Good posture can't be achieved by the application of a blanket rule,” Dr. Hellebrandt warned. “It is something the individual must strive for.”

Murphy’s Mumblings

Here comes that Kansas City-Florida Special. Easy, John, easy.

EXAMINATIONS AGAIN

This is something that is always bad news to everyone including the teachers. But, it has to be coped with twice each year, so you probably won't believe it for a while. Here we come ready or not. What do you say, Freshmen? A trip to Lynchburg and Randolph-Macon is already planned by a few fortunate gentlemen who have no exams the last three days. Won't we have fun? To many boys, exam week is just a long vacation for they have kept their work up day by day and have reviewed the semester's work completely before the exam takes place. It must be nice!

Rolling along a bit farther towards Gainesville, we got in a few seconds of the third quarter and the score was still 3-0 and at Spartanburg the train pulled out with one minute to play and Duke still ahead. And by the way, where is the song “Santa Claus is Coming to Town?” Some of us last night had even forgotten the words. And speaking of songs, what do you all think of the one that goes like this: “Do you believe in lovin’, honey? Ya better do, ‘cause I believe in lovin’ honey, when I'm lovin’ you.” It sounds swell in harmony.

STUDENT STATISTICS

Are you just an average student, or one whose grades are below “C”? If so, you had better go to class. Are you in the upper twenty-five percent of the grade brackets? If so, it doesn't make much difference whether you go to class or not, you'll be likely to pull down “A’s” and “B's” just the same. This is not mere advice. It is statistical information compiled by assistants of Dean Aaron J. Brumbaugh of the University of Chicago from the records of college students, 204 of whom had taken “R’s” in one or more survey courses, and an equal number of whom had done the work in the course. An “R” grade indicates a student took the course but not the final examination. The statistics also proved that university women don’t get as good grades in the college as men. Dean Brumbaugh said that one possible answer might be that they participate more in extra-curricular activities than men do. He didn't offer other possible explanations.

The table of results of the survey also revealed that there wasn’t a significant difference in the grades made by women who took courses for point credit and those who only went to class often enough to get “R's.” However, there was some difference between women in the upper grade brackets and women who only got average grades. Dean Brumbaugh’s reason for publishing the survey was so students could know the effects of taking advantage of the New Plan. He was not advocating that students go to classes if they didn’t want to. He promised that no action to make them go would be taken, but he said that students should at least know what the effects of their action would be.

Here comes that Kansas City-Florida Special. Easy, John, easy.