Alma Mater Waring Composes Z—528 Che. Dabidsontan ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS QO. D. K. Inducts Seven Seniors VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1939 No. 5. Band Leader To Compose Alma Mater Student Body Accepts Fred Waring’s Offer To Write School Song WARING MAKES OFFER No Financial Obligation Will Be Undertaken Sam Spencer announced Monday that he had wired Fred Waring the student body’s acceptance of Waring’s offer to write a new alma mater song for Davidson and that, as far as he knew, the band leader was proceeding with the work. Financial Obligation No New 0. D. K. Members ‘Art History Is By Mrs. Holt Author and Artist Will Be Heard In Chambers Tonight at Eight ber 21st. Gilmore and author will deliver Mrs. Elizabeth Holt, noted artist North Carolina, the Seniors order of first, in classes in descending order and seniority: the Annual Photos Made Dunbar, of the Dunbar Studios in Charlotte, has been on the campus all week, and will remain here until September 21st. Jack Holland, Editor of the annual, Quips and Cranks, stated that pictures of the members of various classes would be taken in the other Seven Men Receive Bids To Omicron Delta Kappa At Tap Day Ceremonies Cowan, Harnsberger, Hudson, Mashburn, Marion, Richmond, Sprunt Chosen VOWLES IS SPEAKER History and Purposes of Society Explained Seven seniors were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, National Honorary Leadership Fraternity, at the annual Mall Tap Day program held last Monday morning in Chapel. The men tapped were: Jim Cowan, member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, captain of the basketball team; President of the Athletic Association, and President of the D-Club, Tom Harnsberger, who is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, Cadet Major of the ROTC Battalion; and President of the International Relations Club Karl Hudson, who is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, President of Sigma Upsilon, Editor of the “YMCA” Handbook, and a member of the Student Council. Paul Marion, Kappa Alpha, who is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and Manager of Varsity Basketball. George Richmond, member of Phi Gamma Delta, member of the Student Council, and Co-Manager of the “Student Store.” Dave Sprunt, member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, president of Le Cercle Francais, and head of the Spiritual Development department of the YMCA. The program on Monday morning was opened by a scripture reading by Sid Crane. After this, Charles McClintock, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, introduced Dr. G. R. Vowles as speaker. Dr. Vowles explained that the organization was founded in 1914 at Washington and Lee University, and Davidson College was the fourth college to apply for a charter. Each chapter and its members is called a circle, Davidson being the Delta circle since it was the fourth. Spencer was further assured by Waring that there would be no financial obligation to be undertaken by the school, nor would we be called upon to adopt the song after it was written unless it was suitable to us. It is understood that the well-known maestro is doing a similar service for Ohio Wesleyan University. Continue from Page Six Reports from the speaker state that she will not try above all to interest Davidson students and townspeople in the appreciation of art but her main purpose is to bring out the history of the artists’ and the periods of their works. Blazers Samples for the senior blazers have been submitted to the Class of 1940 by the senior blazer committee. Jim Currie, chairman of the committee announced this week. The samples have been placed on display at the students store and will remain on display there all through the week. The seniors will make their selection of the blazers sometime in the near future. Several Companies Submit Several companies have submitted samples to the blazer committee. Included among these are: blue-tan and grey herring bone, all shades of Meadowbrooke Shetland, suede, camel's hair, tweed, and solid color wools. From a questionnaire submitted to the class two weeks ago it was found that the seniors prefer camel's hair, tweed, and herring bone, Currie announced. The class of 1940 has also voted not to have insignias. 150 Samples Examined The samples arrived from various nationally-known companies last week, and the committee inspected more than 150 pieces of goods before selecting the ones to submit to the senior class for its approval. Members of the committee include: Currie, chairman, John McGeachy. Doctor A. M. Hillhouse of the faculty has just published his ninth book entitled Local Government Debt Administration, which was written recently in collaboration with Mr. Chatters. I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that Davis misinterprets the letter explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,” Wade is alleged to have declared, “doesn’t have much of a team.” The letter received by Wade explaining these remarks reads as follows: “I had it called to my attention by some Davidson students that the Wildcat touchdown during the Davidson-Duke game was not made because of Davidson’s ability but because the Blue Devils were loafing: “Davidson,”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

is the! the fourth Circle f led - ye. A P. ea é. | +0). as c ur rele) foundes Burke Davis had quoted me in an] Will be posted and Davidson stu-| States and Two Continents (j,,:).6) 0 4f Jundiue Michael Schenck |= Dhe. original iad tt 5 f originale as we athe 5- linterview which I had with him| dents will be allowed to sign up Represented Fes erasures Svat i i Cu well an th pre inued ¢ es Ka eronis Esca NES ae r in such a way that it made it ap- for dates. : Raines ina estes ‘Goreme I | pear that I was casting reflections! The guests will arrive on the! Do you Know what. ri ligious | | Sa oO ATaTHeT Dawid eonfootballeteanieel {Continsied on Page Six] I denominations are represented | Dick Volos ee ) | | Wreck Without Injuries ve that anyone who had heard saad ANNs the freshman class bake Lf tT inues a | my conversation with Burke uty ling te ie Davidson 8 year? Do} ~) a flonan | have felt that Ivsaid nothing whicl Har hte know jrom what states; St | > I : ze ° ; ae. | : ale Meee eae Waa carat new men come, or Why | K Ut eS n K LO tb v to ri Automobile Skids and. Turns A ] ° Will would have been objectionable to a , y| Over on Concord Road umn lil anybody connected with David- | Wi It Ss ea k : ai Cale ve es ; = | le answer les ita list of sta-} Thursday A. M. | G ] BOD: Beep ltistics released this week by Dr sar of ie German. Pro- | Germans: Drs. von Euler, Ad sec iain 2 Real Meanin : ; ? : essor, orts On ar che sable f *tilar ; ss “a et Jour n a eae pty 43 . ; |P. H. Gw ynn, who is the freshman | fa SP : ler, and Schlenk: Dr, von Euler is Jimmie Ieaperonie: failure The substance’ of what I said Asheville ‘Teachers Meet To’ i The et ; auxeetared Measures In Sweden a Nobel Prize winnet to make the curve on Concord as was that the Davidson team ap- H Profe [REC rene sebcls sow. Valais x = Edited by Dye, XK. J. Foreman, the . AYICSOT am—af cater ssor | a tare 5 sehmantaning ice y , oe ine The outstanding '38 2 ate is Road near the outskirts of first isstie of. the Davidecn Alumni peared to me to be very well majority of students just ente ring | ; Dick Vowles, I ROTEL | . ' eee = graduate iP ; 5 ssue > D: ‘ f “Hare ¢ f | college are s , vterians. They | i aa: feasantly located at a “pensionat” town Thursday morning about ; ele Hee ey te “ill coached, that they were well or- Dr. Cale he ar ing of the} ¢ aoe © are still Presbytert ms They ja unins wd son—of Dr. and} pleasantly located at a pe nsior at sea | ’clock | aa eee ri aA AMAL aa as wen ars : Sy eaE Ss faculty. will, speak at | are followed by the Methodist rep-! Mrs. G. R. Vowles, js now] not far-from the Institute. Since eight o’cloc resulted in’ an appean soon! atten adomecoming ganized, and played with as much . } | 1 fell hip imtt thers who -stay tl { ! 4 ; E f F ; oe : PATati vee mprise < ox rine a fe ; +} others who -stay re are he Aeeident da aban Sacoie aaa Res ua ded Eniivvas ive Davidecnteamethat the annual conve ntion of the rese H ALIVE Ww : cK aie e approxi | he : Mnas 1 fs OWS pin the 1erec a ; or the } : z $s cet an tis fg Py Pe ately ‘a »-newce ‘rs. | Pidoche “ ‘ yest, most par yung en @ 2n, hurt, but heavy damages were! ‘phe Journal is “be les openenad I had seen; all of which he left out} Western. District ‘Teachers; mately one i ese e ae oa | aya kl et : @ L fe uC ee 2e ie Peas A Tee Mean 4 : SY eS | i g being epared| ‘ : Beano oA acaile + |The gr . ‘rare the| ks rede some Americans < > Swedes, done to the automobile. Too reat Oy, i : Nor Nisuintenviewal wen montirtherh pesoclmulOnedtls Asheville, Oct. | The group t iird in number are t wey. tockholm, Sweden, nericans and some. Swedes under the direction of Dr, Fore- i A) ‘ | Episcopalians. : Phe local German professor's son| he has an admirable opportunity for much speed and a wet pave=| man ando Tame Rion nee chi and commented on the fact that the | ©: : | | 18 . ' ; ars ‘ : é é sam: Fi - ‘i at paett ss = ra . : | was >of I ceive ¢ - ac : re ment were the causes of the]... A : ae 4s Davidson players were werty small | Dr. Harding will adaress. the North. Carolina’ Leads | wa one of to receive an appoint prac tice in S wedis 1 : aie care rector of public relations for the} mee inj ; lid : tt | Latin teachers of Western district,| Actual figures are as follows | ment to study in Scandinavia dar Sailing at midnight on August 7 é : 3 : ates ‘ é y opinion you did not have 3 ieee . vd ik 2 ss ‘ 5 college this year. Mr. Biirton de-} S Ae ree Friday afternoon using as his sub- | Fa ; >. ‘ : 43.|ing the year 1939-40 from the] on the plasty peesularly scheduled Jimmie was approaching’ town] ,- 5 i - _|as much ability in your squad as | 5 | Presbyterians, 122; Methodists 43, : ; f : VULVA St ee ; rene esrb) Saas clared that the personals for : just “The Case of and the Case for] Episcopalians 14, Baptists 13, Luth-| American Scandinavian Founda-j| eastbound voyage of the Polish just inside the town dimits when] ofacces beginni . Heete70saae ties had two or three years ago} 5 ares ered | pt SCOPAU ELS tu ae ae D : | : ea ay , F ~ . th t li t f orn re 2B ee Me eae wher battery. playing witty} atin inthe Public Schools.” 1 histerans 4, Church of Christ 3, Con-| tion, with offices in New York. motor ship Batory of the Gyndia- te car, traveling at a fast rate, seat ; 3 s er | -allerty fas) playing y : oat sas : ie . «ae : : ; went into a skid in front of Prof ie zs th senen col te eae you | convention, the seventeenth annual, | gregationalists 2, Christian Scient- | Fellowship To Continue American..Line, Vowles arrived” in a=s 1} —waale ’ ‘a iw Ps ¢ if ‘ : arate en eos sehing fal cStog 5 ‘ Hilliiiseiec house 1 LRE-car- cared t ee is : ; “I am sorry that the Davidson | 8:composed of eighteen of the} ists 2, Reformers 1, and Neraviahs| Tn return 23° f¢ Howships wert Stockholm on August 16; car turne Article he Al yazine ; : : H aban ' te®| Articles in the Alumni magazine ean Cheeni diene ek dere tiierng | western counties of North Caro-/1,* Five did not answer the ques- given’ Scandinavians for study in Emergency Measures Taken ) ately a Oo a ras . . eae SSR aS PYG @) PPR! brreeerp nena te pe teenie : as e years in a ; 5 y ys, ) é a ; ea - = ; is car was a 1939 Chevrolet Coach in| been able to observe all the eyents | qeaveardemofchare=beon inched: eae Davidson College. After being | coming frotinabdve the Mason and|_— 50 #lmost within - ear-shot, -of member of both Phi Beta Kappa good conmiion.. Mts Raperpait | of ther nest As waves eetead ina cup to aise from ae aie tl thin v3 | graduated from Davidson, Dr. | Dixon line, The states-from which} North Sea battles _amid-the rising | and Omicron Delta Kappa, He was ; 2 , a} | 72 $ y = > i 1¢ 1 s H : sae oe : ‘ : ; ° ; is car was a 1939 Chevrolet Coach in| been able to observe all the events | qeaveardemofchare=beon inched: eae Davidson College. After being | coming from above the Mason and|_— 50 #lmost within - ear-shot, -of member of both Phi Beta Kappa good condition. Mts Raperpait | of the present war in Europe. cn oe a eg | Harding came back to teach Greek | they come ate: North Carolina 117,| tension in the Scandinavian lands, editor of the Davidsonian and a . peerete ; ° . a = ° as arrass | 3 ASR: . - : | =} ae i Jimmie is a Junior in high school}. Student members lof ~the ‘staff | aEaar= Ue feb uae TP akyia- eb an adil his | South Carolina 20, Florida 17, Vir-| Dick Vowles is doing research wworlelanember of SieumeRhabos lonmeas ; ¢ : ry pete ; a s s >in a light en-| é ae : ; ; ; ; and the son of Mr.and Mrs. Paul} compiling the November publica-| pth Miieenent thot ae L_be-| Ph-D. from Johns Hopkins Univer -| ginia-13,-Georgia-12, Tennessee 6 | in enzymes at the “Biokemiska In-| cial’ fraternity. Under his leader- - : 5 ere . $ eee . 2 J . oO ; 2. : cod) 2 ’ ; and the son of Mr.and Mrs. Paul} compiling the November publica-| pth Miieenent thot ae L_be-| Ph-D. from Johns Hopkins Univer -| ginia-13,-Georgia-12, Tennessee 6 | in enzymes at the “Biokemiska In-| cial’ fraternity. Under his leader- - : 5 ere . $ eee . 2 J . oO ; 2. : cod) 2 ’ ; Kaperonis, who reside on School] tion include. Jack Ferguson, Angus flevecIcderer cota eneesacan | sity where he studied under Basil | Pennsylvania’ 3, Mississippi 3, Ala | stitutet.” His work is individual,} ship the Davidsonian attained; its Street. Mr. Kaperonis is the owner] Lytch, Tony Casali, and Lawson} Sincerely pe L. Gilldersleeve, noted Greek} bama Arkansas 3, Kentticky 3 | with no classes and no examina-| highest national rating in the his- f 2 ; ——Pp rt ely yi Ss, E “4 ama 2, Arkansi J, y :J; a " z 5 Oh tie OES ren |W ithers. | WALLACE WADE.” | Scholar of the nineteenth centiry. | [Continued on Page Six} { tions, Theomen he’ works‘ under are] tory-of the publication.