+ Cas Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 9, 1939 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879 TONY CASALI ..........- Managing Editor JIM CURRIE ..........- Assistant Managing Editor Andy Dale ..........- Sports Editor Kurt Dadees ..........- Associate Editor Sam Sp ..........- Associate Editor BUSINESS STAFF Alma Mater Many students, for the first time, heard Davidson's Alma Mater Hymn played and sung by Davidson's football band at the Citadel game. Last week there appeared an editorial, by this same person, in the Davidsonian concerning the selection of Davidson's new Alma Mater, either the one written by Fred Waring or by Alumnus G. M. Maxwell. Yet there has been little or nothing done about it. Now, 1939, is the time to make our selection. Davidson is probably the only school of its size in the country who hasn’t got an Alma Mater. We have two songs and now would be a good time to settle the question, once and for all. Why not have the Davidson band render both compositions at some early chapel program and let the student body vote on the question after some discussion has been made from the student body meeting? But Waring’s contribution should be rendered by Davidson’s band, not the Waring Glee Club which is a group of professionals that could make “Take Me Out to the Ball Game” sound like Schubert’s “Serenade.” —B.C.G. The Davidson Spirit While the Davidsonian has no set policy in following certain movements that come up on the Davidson campus, the suggestion made by the Student Body President, Sam Spencer, in chapel recently, in regards to the laxity of the Davidson Spirit is heartily backed by this sheet. During the past few weeks, especially since the Davidson Wildcats have failed to win any of their games, support of the team by the entire Student body in general has been decidedly on the poor side. Support has fallen off to such a degree that several members of the varsity have complained of the fact that “instead of backing the team, several students were hoping against victory.” This is the wrong attitude. Davidson has had plenty of tough breaks. Football games are won or lost by “breaks.” For instance, the V.M.I. game in Bluefield. Rain halted Davidson’s best offensive weapon—the forward pass, but the ‘Cats, with their “never say die spirit” fought against tremendous odds and held V. M. I., Paul Shu, Son Shelby, and the whole team, to a mere 2-0 score. The next weekend V. M. I. romped over Vanderbilt. That made that 2-0 score look mighty big. Davidson students shouldn’t expect victories over such teams as Duke, Carolina, etc. There’s not fifteen other schools in the country that would expect the teams representing their institutions to lick teams like this and just because eleven hard-fighting Wildcats fail to do it is no reason for the entire student body to go against them. Davidson’s oldest, and best, tradition is her spirit. It is known all over the country as the finest support given to any team by any college. Are we going to lose this distinction and honor merely because Davidson’s football team has failed to win, not because we haven’t got a team; simply because the breaks have been decidedly in opposing teams' favor. As was stated by Spencer, instead of expecting the freshman class to uphold this tradition, why not expect and make the whole student body take a hand in it. Davidson vs. Wake Forest Davidson plays a mighty band of Demon Deacons from Wake Forest College for the last time November 30. Reports have come from the Baptist campus that the Deacs are planning to give Davidson a lesson that they’ll never forget. In fact the “Old Gold and Black,” Wake’s weekly paper ran a cartoon at the beginning of the year that looked something like this. The Wake Forest team was pictured as a huge roller smoothing out the bumps in a rough road. The bumps were labelled, Duke, Carolina, State, Clemson, etc. Instead of a bump for Davidson, a small hole was drawn and labelled “Davidson.” Frankly, the Davidsonian is in favor of making that hole an endless cavern and when the Wake Forest team comes to Charlotte, let it, and the whole Wake Forest student body drop into it. Let's start that Davidson spirit to rolling and get the entire Student Body, Faculty, Alumni, and Football team, in the proper mood for a last, one-sided victory over the Deacs. Campus Comments It is self-evident to any and all on the Davidson campus that the step taken by the faculty in modifying the cut system is one of signal importance, first of all in cementing relations between students and faculty, and secondly, in proving beyond a shadow of a doubt that intelligent thinking and cooperation constitute the only way in which progress can be made. Last semester the Student-Faculty Relations Committee suffered quite a good deal of abuse and criticism from the student body on the grounds that it did nothing. However, as members of the group pointed out, the very objectors themselves were tying the hands of the committee by constant demonstrations resulting in damage to college property. Never had the faculty done anything as a result of force, and each new outbreak stiffened determination to do nothing so long as the student body resorted to violent methods. Hence, nothing—absolutely nothing—was accomplished. Matters this semester have been a pleasant contrast. On a whole, the student body has acted intelligently and sanely; as a consequence, the faculty has naturally been willing to deal with the students as mature, intelligent, thinking persons. Also, affairs not being at a fever pitch; all concerned have been able to consider things from a logical, long-range viewpoint. In view of this attitude of cooperation, the Student-Faculty Relations Committee, headed by Dr. C. K. Brown and including H. Gwynn and M. Eagle from the faculty, succeeded in recommending to the faculty for consideration the new cut system passed this week. Every student should take to heart the fact that a definite step has been accomplished through cooperative methods, and that other progress can be made no other way. True, all changes take time, but careful consideration of problems almost invariably proves more valuable than snap judgments. It’s something for all of us to remember; now that we've learned the right way to progress, let’s stay on that road and work together for a better Davidson. SAM SPENCER, Pres. Student Body Football Players Need ‘Success Motive’ Football coaches who like to play the role of “Gloomy Gus” before every gridiron battle are poor psychologists and invite defeat. That is the opinion of a University of Minnesota psychologist, Prof. Charles Bird, and he thinks something ought to be done about it. “After all, football players are like the rest of us,” he says. “We do better when we get a little praise, or when we can look ahead to victory. “Most football players are young and susceptible—about 19 or 20 years old on the average. They feel keenly. I don’t believe it does any good to have a coach point to nothing but defeat. Like the rest of us, they need the ‘success motive’.” AN ARMY OF 21,000 PLAYERS MAKE UP 700 COLLEGE TEAMS: CAMPUS CARTOON FACTS AND FIGURES ON FOOTBALL 700 COLLEGE TEAMS PLAY BEFORE AN AUDIENCE OF 18,000,000 UNCLE SAM COLLECTS AROUND $2,000,000 IN FOOTBALL TAXES GLEANINGS By MELVIN MEANS Hats off to Bosco and co-horts for the finest Homecoming in years—a fine band, plus beauteous girls gave the best and most orderly set of dances that we've had in the Fall for many a moon. Already looking forward to Mid-Winters ... From that Miller Sprouill and Bone Rinehardt deserted the dances Friday night for a trip to Rock Hill. Was it worth it, boys? It must have been they whipped back in time for the game Saturday. And all advanced dope on B. B.’s girl proved only too true—she was a beauty. Hugh- john Throop thought so too. Even after “Indian Sensation” Stowe delayed coming in until after 4:30, Throop trooped out both a.m.'s for late dates. Some snaking on the dance floor by Billy Masters and Hoss Reeves to startle the dancers with “Ca-a-Il-ll for Phil Mo—rr—iss” and dish samples at the door. His red tux coat was that way to some other ... This isn't a football column, but Coach Melver had better keep an eye on one of his star tackles, or a talent scout will be picking him up for some orchestra. Those who were at the Saturday night dance know we are referring to Elmer Knoeller, who received an ovation from the crowd for his renditions of “To You” and “What's New.” While on the subject of dances we might add that Dutch McMillin made a hit last weekend. Although Dutch was unable to use all of his own arrangements, for they are mostly swing, he really gave forth some delightful music. Most outstanding in the orchestra, composed entirely of Duke students, were Dutch on clarinet and Bubber Thompson on drums. Glad to hear that the “old left-hander,” Joe Sanders, is returning to the Blackhawk inChicago. He opens there November 24, and swing our opinion she’s the had. Put in your order early for what is expected to be the biggest seller in 10 years. It is the Decca waxing on Nov. 2, released by the Andrews Sisters (what a combination!) with Joe Venuti’s band accompaniment. Speaking of records, Tommy Dorsey has recently made a recording “Stomp It Off,” in which Tommy’s band finally gets into the spirit of things as it hasn't, on records, in “Night Glow.” Artie Shaw's latest is his best in quite a while in typical Shaw fashion, and “Surrender” could be classed as his best of 1939. Artie’s clarineting is superb in “Back Bay Shuffle.” Louis Prima has had a five-piece band for a long time, but is enlarging to a 14-piece outfit. Someone told us Louis can’t sing, but he can yell cute. His best is “Down Beat.”

Down Beat is again conducting its poll for the top performers in the field of popular music. For the top band we nominate Artie Shaw, and for sweet band our vote goes to Glenn Miller. Right now we feel like that new hit “Scatterbrain” is a lock for a date for the dances. Take it away, Toni.

Mumblings By BOB WILLIAMS

“Yodelin’ five” and “Ciribiribin” Bing Crosby and another get together on it, with “Indian Summer,” “Lady Be Good,” and “I Surrender Dear.” “I Surrender Dear” is one of his masterpieces. You might casually inquire of Neal Scott his whereabouts during the dance Friday night. It has been reported that he had a fine time. And a beauty among all the beauties was Colvin’s Miss Harriet Davis. You could not help noticing the “Figure” Friday night. We’ll put the dates up against any other in the country. Many an inquiry has been put concerning Jack Abel’s model. Not at all bad, Jack. Where did she hail from? The alumni were back in full force—many of last year’s Pan-Hellers with covetous eyes trooping in at the doors. Among the oglers—and snugglers—were last year's prexy, Ray Pittman, and Rich Taylor. Also from out of the past appeared Bobby Abels, Pete Marchant, Wyatt, Whitlock, et al. And those of us who didn't know Elmer Knoeller could croon as well as play a lot of tackle were treated to a swell surprise Saturday night. He was tops. Congratulations to Editor Abernathy for the one good joke on page 22. Numerous members of the football team have reminded me that they certainly have appreciated Prof. Pfohl’s cooperation this year, especially the cheers he led in the rain in Bluefield. They meant their appreciation. And for no good reason at all—KARL JONAS—except that he seems to like to see his name in print. Not to be outdone by brother Bill—Jay seems to take notice whenever the name Susan is mentioned within his hearing. Since last week another torch has been re-lit—“The Jeep” took up again where he left off (after Losh Hunter was “flushed”) and welcomed once again the presence of Miss “Pet” for the dances. “Frisco Flo” is reported to have given Shorty Partrish quite a fit this weekend—looks like Spencer isn’t the only one extremely interested in the Con. And finally, “Peewee” Johnston reports that he believes he could have done better with Ross’ date than Bill himself did. Could you really, Percy?

Campus Verse By FRANK BARKER

HANGOVERS

“A Lover’s snow” and long-awaited weekend is a “has been,” maybe we can get back to a period of normalcy again, but before it is placed in the column of memories, I think it is fitting to notice one thing: that we were able to awaken on Sunday morning without that “alkaline buzz” (so they tell me) in our head. To you, the student body, it should be deemed a fine compliment when so many of the visitors noticed the fact that there was no drinking either at the game or dances. In this phase, we are rather unique from the other colleges and universities, and it seems to me it is a notable distinction. The Betas did themselves proud on decorations again this year. Charlie Sherman stole the show with the aid of various Stooges, and whoever thought up all those puns for the various members of the Citadel team certainly should have a place on the staff of the “Scripts ’n Pranks.” By the way, did you all read Elmer Bishop’s column in this month’s issue? Pretty good advice.

DAVIDSON SPIRIT???

Are those question marks apt? This is a subject that is advanced almost every year; a great many upperclassmen hold that the Freshmen aren’t worth a darn as far as Wildcat Spirit is concerned. They say that they don’t speak on the campus, and all in all, that the school spirit is sliding fast. Cheering at the football games is their best example of this decline. But I don’t quite agree with them in all of what they say. Why should the Freshmen be held entirely accountable for the ups or downs of our school spirit? After all, we are the ones who have been here for two or three years and not the freshmen. Doesn’t it seem logical that it should be up to us as upperclassmen to uphold the school spirit and to SHOW to the freshmen what typifies our moral strength? Next year they will be the ones to carry on our spirit to the oncoming generation of Davidson men. To these freshmen each year who are new to the College, it should be an integral part of our duty to prove to them convincingly that we have a school spirit that is not sterile nor sporadic in its nature, but that it will live on and on, so that although our teams may be defeated, no newspaper writer will be able to call us listless, disheartened, or meek. Ever since I have been here and we have been beaten, the sports writers have always admired our fighting spirit and our “never say quit” team. Italy is trying to live on her past-glorious empires of the Caesars and Augustus, but this should not be for us. So to you as upperclassmen, I offer this challenge: that we take hold now and show to these new men at Davidson just what the traditional Davidson Spirit is, and that we may be so successful that henceforth this Spirit may linger in our college forever.

Thurs. & Fri., Nov. 9 & 10

“JAMAICA INN”—Charles Laughton, Maureen O'Hara, Leslie Banks, Emlyn Williams, and Robert Newton. If you can recall how intensely you detested Charles Laughton when he played the villain roles in “Mutiny on the Bounty” and “Les Miserables,” your liking for him in this hero role will be just as intense. He, of course, dominates every scene because he is practically the only top-ranking actor in the movie. You're not supposed to know it, but Mr. Laughton is the leader of a gang who wrecks ships for their cargoes in this adaptation of Daphne du Maurier’s novel. But neither the members of this gang nor pretty Maureen O'Hara know that he is the archvillain. Hairbreadth escapes and last-minute rescues will satisfy those stout-hearted ones of you who glory in sheer action.

Saturday, Nov. 11

“SHERLOCK HOLMES”—Basil Rathbone, Nigel Bruce, Ida Lupino, Alan Marshall, Terry Kilburne, George Zucco, Henry Stephenson, and E. E. Clive. “The Hound of the Baskervilles” was the starter of this series of detective thrillers that portray the life of the super-sleuth (some have named him “Apie”), and those of you who saw that picture will not miss this one, I’m sure. The part of the man with the long, curved pipe and the double-billed baseball cap is, of course, played by Basil Rathbone, another former villain who has lately come into his own as a hero of the first order, and he has an excellent supporting cast. Henry Stephenson especially will add a great deal to the program. You can’t miss this episode.

Mon. & Tues., Nov. 13 & 14

“THE ROARING TWENTIES”—Jimmy Cagney, Humphrey Bogart, Gladys George, Frank McHugh, Jeffrey Lynn, Paul Kelly, and Priscilla Lane. A panorama of the post-war Prohibition era, this fiction gives an authentic picture of the rise and fall of bootleg liquor rackets through the story of Eddie Bartlett (James Cagney), a composite character of all the big shots of the speakeasies. After the World War, Cagney, Humphrey Bogart, and Jeffrey Lynn return to find their old jobs gone and in futile attempts to earn an honest living discover a mint is being made in bootlegging. Cagney, financed by an entertainer, Gladys George, starts his career in a small way but becomes a big-shot racketeer in no time. Bogart is his partner, and Lynn his lawyer. He falls in love with a young chorus girl, Priscilla Lane, but she loves and marries the young lawyer. As the 20s come to a close, the stock market crash and the repeal of Prohibition combine to ruin Cagney and he returns to honest cab-driving. However, his ex-partner continues in the various rackets and to protect the girl he loved and her husband from him, Cagney gets his gat and lets him have it. In the exchange of gunfire, Bogart is killed, but a bullet hits Cagney, and the former big-shot boss of the bootleggers dies while trying to elude the police.

Wednesday, Nov. 15

“THE ESCAPE”—Amanda Duff. Not much to say about this picture because it is rather obscure, but it would be something to do between dinner and drill, so you might take it in.

BROWN NETWORK TO GIVE COLLEGIATE BROADCASTS

Providence, R.I.—(ACP)—New England college students will soon be the first in the country to have their own radio broadcasting system, if plans backed by the Brown Network at Brown University develop according to schedule. The project calls for linking Brown, Dartmouth, M.I.T., and Wesleyan together over a leased wire system so that each college can broadcast to the other. Arrangements are already nearing completion for a tie-up between Brown, Wesleyan, and Harvard. Dartmouth and M.I.T. have expressed interest and other colleges and universities are being invited to join.