Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Oct. 5, 1938

New ROTC Commander Has a Colorful Career

Lieut. Col. Mackenzie is Long Experienced in Military Service

(Continued from Page Four)

netted the Cats a first down on their own 48-yard stripe. Colonel then ripped through the Duke line and raced on for a 24-yard gain, putting the ball on Duke's 28. A few plays later, Sharpe faded back and shot the ball, but his placement was wide.

Lieutenant Colonel Gabriel T. Mackenzie was assigned to duty here at Davidson. The new professor of military science and tactics has acquired an officer with a varied and colorful history. Colonel Mackenzie was transferred to Davidson from Fort Douglas, Utah, where he was in command of the 15th Infantry from January 1, 1939, to June 14, 1939. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees from St. John’s College at Annapolis, Maryland, and a B.S. from the University of Maryland. He was graduated as a Second Lieutenant from St. John’s College, having been designated as Honor Graduate of the class of 1916. 

Spanish Club Has Meeting

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, opened its annual series of meetings Tuesday night in Chambers Building. Business included the election of Tom Roberts to the position of treasurer. This election was due to the absence from school of Sonny Cunningham, who was elected treasurer last year.

Davidsonian Relates Tale of Bicycle Tour

Duncan MacBryde Presents Viewpoint of Europe’s “Little Man”

By LAWSON WITHERS

Equipped with only a bicycle, knowledge of both German and English, and an attractive personality, a young Davidson graduate has dared totalitarian prejudice and censorship for a year to reach Europe’s “little man” and study his viewpoint toward the present war. For over twelve months, Duncan MacBryde, a native of Linden, N.C., and a member of Davidson's class of 1933, has been studying and visiting most of Europe’s raw spots. As a student at the University of Munich in September 1938, the North Carolina youth stood in the throng that watched Hitler, Chamberlain, Daladier, Mussolini, and other notables drive to the momentous conference postponing war for a year. Since then he has pedaled through the Balkans, across the Fascist axis into Danzig and Poland. Now studying for his Ph.D. in Edinburgh, Scotland, he has found time to record some of his startling impressions, many of them contrary to reports and rumors now circulating throughout the United States.

Every iron fence, practically, in Germany has been hacked down and turned into the ever-increasing stream of munitions. Practically every person in the Reich has some job in some skeleton organization which would function in wartime, assigned to anti-air-raid precautions. One thing the leaders are definitely instructed to do is, after the air raid, before the people are let out of the bomb-proof cellars, they themselves must go around and hastily gather up all leaflets and propaganda dropped by hostile airplanes.

Fred Waring and his famous Glee Club rehearsing his original “A Football Song” for introduction on “Chesterfield Pleasure Time” over the Coast-to-Coast N.B.C. Network.

NEW FIELD TO BE NAMED

(Continued from Page One)

Mr. Wm. H. Sprunt and his brother, Dr. James Sprunt, have for a long time been generous supporters of Christian education, particularly of Davidson College and Union Theological Seminary. Mr. W. H. Sprunt is the grandfather of three of Davidson's present student body, Dave, Bill, and Hugh Sprunt.

SIDELINE SIDELIGHTS

(Continued from Page Four)

Gales McClintock and George Hackney were outstanding for their defensive play at the game here Saturday. Although both are very light, they showed us one good reason why Pitt marched on last year. Hackney, especially, looked like a rough boy for any man’s backfield. Carolina trampled Citadel, then marches on over Wake Forest. Looks as if they’re really loaded for bear this time. The big question now is, how badly is George Stirnweiss injured? Of course, there’s Lalanne to fill in, but what a man to lose! Jay Bolin looked hard as nails in the backfield, almost breaking through the tackles. Sites nearly slid by the entire line, then later having a long pass barely knocked away.Aner Milam Nis Get | In a letter received at the college alumni office recently, Davidson pos ROTC Denier McClintock, off the National League bunt-guard, sparked the Cincinnati Reds, having picked when in the clear. Metols | eyal: Le Palais de la McLeait ing. are underdogs in the World Series. What a surprise if they should win. HARRIERS HOLD TRIALS Widely publicized, the composition was presented during Fred's regular Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday night football smoke at Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia. Bill Bolin and Hackney playing did score. ON TO V.M.I. Davidson team for last Friday