Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumnus Comments On Hitler’s Latest Coup
Rev. J. H. Caligan Reviews Taking of Czechoslovakia By Nazis

Rev. J. H. Davidson Caligan, an alumnus of the College who at present is residing in Nice, France, writes graphically
of the effect that Hitler’s seizure of Czechoslovakia is making upon Europe. Rev. Caligan toured the ill-fated republic several months
before it ceased to exist. Rev. Caligan expresses the shock that he felt as he read the headlines “Hitler in
Prague” although he and all of Europe knew that the event was inevitable. When he visited there last summer he
noticed that Hitler’s gloved hand was already tightening its crushing hold on the prosperous little country. The propagandist agents were
already there stirring up coals with threats and intimidations.

Czechs Certain
The Czechs, however, were unwaveringly certain that they would win out against the Nazis. To them it was inconceivable that
Hitler would ever enter Prague as its ruler. In questioning some of the inhabitants, Rev. Caligan reports that he soon
found the contempt that the citizens of this old capital felt for the ruthless policies of the Third Reich. In
leaving Czechoslovakia, Mr. Caligan’s party saw the expressions of the whole Czech nation as an intelligence officer showed them a
rough cartoon based upon the European map which showed Czechoslovakia being gulped down by a monster in the shape of
Germany.

Observers Skeptical
Outside observers were already at this time saying that the swallowing of Czechoslovakia was inevitable. The Czechs, however, did not
believe this. “We have an army, too. Further, England, France, and America are on our side and will not let
us down,” they believed. After the pact at Munich when Germany gained Sudetenland and many thought that the brave little
nation of the Czechs was safe, Mr. Caligan still remembered the cartoon of Germany swallowing Czechoslovakia. He stated that he
could not believe that such a tidbit could satisfy the monster.

Feels Impact
In knowing the warmth of the hospitality of the Czech people, having viewed their beautiful nation, and in knowing the
splendid people and their intellectual and spiritual vitality, no one could realize the full impact of the tragic fusion as
Rev. Caligan felt it. The nation, which so closely resembled the United States in vigor and one of the strongest
of Europe's nations in creative vitality, was usurped, and her people served up as a delectable table dish to feed
the wolfish hunger of the Hitlerites.

CONVERSE AND DAVIDSON
[Continued from Page One]
M. Dergos: Bob King as Mme. Dergos: Sam Spencer, Oscar Armstrong, and Dave Colvin as the three other bridge fanatics;
Drury Thompson as the doctor; and Terrell Porter as the maid. The “piece de resistance” of the evening was “L’Anglais
tel qu’on le Parle” presented jointly by both groups. Centering around an elopement and a false interpreter who doesn’t know
a word of English, this production, with its rather involved plot and tender love scenes, was the comedy highlight of
the entertainment. The cast included: Sid Crane as the false interpreter, Chase Brenizer as Julien Cicandel, Mary Stone as the
English girl eloping with him, Dave Colvin as her father, Mary Goodman as the hotel registrar, Oscar Armstrong as the
bell-boy, and Sam Spencer as a police inspector. The members of the French Alliance in Charlotte were among those especially
invited to the performance. The guests were given a reception after the show. Organ music between the acts was provided
by Phil Edwards and Don Davidson.

DAVIDSONIAN REPORTER
[Continued from Page Five]
changed and an enormous amount of reading was done in the building. The doors are thrown open three times during
the week; on Mondays and Tuesdays between the hours of 11 and 4, and on Wednesdays from 2 ’till 7.
Try it sometime; we think you will find it quieter than Sapps’.

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]
However, those journeying off were Brothers “Dun” Dunlap, Sproull, Carter, Turner, McGeachey, Beatty, and Norman Stevenson who went to Winthrop
and Rock Hill; Brothers Withers, Wells, Rudolph, Westall, Robinson, Harmon, and Reinhardt and Pledge Brothers Burton and Wright who went
to Charlotte, and Brothers Boyd, Lee, Kenyon, Morrison, and Owens who went to Greensboro. Brother Lillard spent the weekend in
Salisbury while Brother Luther went to Charleston. Brother Glenn attended the dances at Darlington School in Rome, Ga. Pledge Brother
Plonk week-ended in Spartanburg while Brothers Chalk and Beall visited in Red Springs, and Brother Verner in Forest City. The
S. P. E. Dance in Charlotte was attended by Brothers Bell, Luther, Foote, and Ludlam. Among the visitors of the
week were Brothers Mahle, Beauchamp, and Bingham of West Virginia University, and George Dhu of Charleston, S. C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Has Big Weekend
The local chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon topped off the regional meet held here with an alumni banquet and a
dance in Charlotte. Representatives from State and Duke attended the conclave. Honored visitors were Brother Mark Wilkins, traveling secretary, and
Brother Tubby Hanks, governor of this district.

PARADE OF OPINION
[Continued from Page Two]
leon, for he has already conquered 16,000,000 people without firing a shot. The rest of Europe still lies before him,
with freedom of speech and press, the guns of liberty being spiked as he advances. Can Hitler become another Napoleon?”
—Cornell University Sun. Meanwhile, the University of Chicago has become the center of the movement which protests the death of
Czecho-Slovakia, for on its campus as a visiting lecturer is Dr. Eduard Benes, former president of the war-born republic. Just
what Dr. Benes’ plans are have not been announced, but rumor has it that he will form a strong organization
to fight for the re-birth of his country.

FOOTBALL
One of these periodic educational storms that brings to the public more noise than light has hit the University of
Pittsburgh—and has all of the U. S. college-town talking. It all started over the announced simon-pure amateur policy of the
University and the resignation of famed Coach Jock Sutherland (supposedly because of the new policy). Students struck, meetings were being
held, and statements flew back and forth in the college and the professional press. So far as the college press
is concerned, collegians view the whole thing as another step in the long march to de-emphasize big-time intercollegiate football. Here’s
a cross-section of opinion that will give you an accurate idea of the current trend of thought on football and
amateurism: “The fortunes of other educational facilities may rise and fall, and students merely shrug their shoulders in their lethargy.
When there is retrenchment along other lines it

NO-YONG PARK
[Continued from Page One]
70 percent of Japan’s armaments, an amount which could not be received from any other nation should America call an
embargo. The foreign trade of Japan, composed almost entirely by American markets, is also its mainstay, and the curtailment of
imports would vastly curtail Japanese fighting power. The speaker, who was educated in China, Europe, and America, declared that a
lecturer, but an authority on international relations. Dr. Park, who was brought to Davidson by the committee on public lectures,
was introduced by Dr. Frontis Johnston, who stated that Dr. Park was not only a lecturer, but an authority on
international relations.

STONE GIVES ENDOWMENT
[Continued from Page One]
dowment Fund and is to endow the new infirmary.

Individual Gifts
“A $25,000 addition to the stadium on Richardson Field was recently made by Messrs. Lunsford Smith and Richardson of the
Vick Chemical Company in New York. A Professorship of $50,000 has been given by a Davidson Alumnus who desires that
his name be withheld. Scholarships to the amount of $28,000 have been received from wills of Davidson Alumni and friends.
Approximately $35,000 has been realized from individual gifts. All told, Davidson's assets have increased by more than $425,000 in the
past three years.”

DR. BECKERATH GIVES TALK
[Continued from Page One]
in a race for armament. The condition is only kept from breaking by the actions of the masses who still
have a hatred of war. Any time this may develop into actual warfare. Dr. Von Beckerath stated that the bestThe
world can hope for is to and wait for more conservative developments on both sides. Dr. Von Beckerath is holding
a professorship at Duke University, the University of North Carolina, and also at the University of Bonn in Germany. For
the last number of years, he has been a voluntary exile from his fatherland, Germany.

QUARTETTE SINGS [Continued from Page Three]
Rachmaninoff's “Prelude in G Minor” and Chopin’s “Etude, No. 3.” Immediately following, the Quartet sang the Forsyth-Kraft arrangement of the
Lord’s Prayer and a hymn, “Beneath the Cross of Jesus.” The closing number was “College Ties.”

Program Shortened
Due to a special commercial program that was presented over WBT, the Davidson College program was cut to fifteen minutes
in length; however, next week a half-hour program will be presented.

Club Approves Laws
At their last meeting, the members of The Commerce Club approved a new constitution which will go into effect at
the beginning of the first semester next year. According to President George Jones, this new constitution will correct a great
number of the bad features which are in the present club and will also help the incoming members of the
organization. Bids for membership in the club will be issued to a small group at the beginning of next week,
and all who accept will be initiated at the meeting next Wednesday night.

FROSH SELECT OFFICERS [Continued from Page One]
Watt, and Ralph Williams were the committee’s choice for the vice-presidency. Jim Kerr, Bill LeGrand, Bobby Carter, and Mickey Long
were put up from the floor. In the race for secretary and treasurer, the committee named Bob Barnhardt, Rowe Driver,
Dick Hudson, Jim Owen, and Walter Wooten. Pat Rudolph, Bill Loy, Ed Scott, and Davis Thomas were nominated from the
floor. The race is expected to be concluded the latter part of the week.

GWYNN LEADS MEETING [Continued on Page Five]
After lengthy discussion which made no progress toward any definite decision, Dr. Gwynn closed the meeting with a prayer. The
discussion for next Sunday night will be led by Dr. Foreman; however, he has not as yet disclosed what his
topic will be.

WAIT A MINUTE [Continued from Page Two]
Five years ago, Mrs. E. J. Erwin (Mrs. Front-Page) was presented with playing the Wildcat links. The University of North
Carolina, the Masquers, and Miss Lucy Currie Johnston garnered prominent roles. Men defeated the Georgia, South Hampden-Sidney. Parker knocked two
home runs as Duke “Ace” defeated Davidson 5-1. Rev. John A. Redhead held the annual Spring Vesper Services. Davidson observed
its 98th birthday with a half holiday. The science department students visited Queens Chicora. The Pan-Hellenic Council invited the student
body to the Friday tea dance free at their Spring Dances. How original!!!

STUDENT BODY MUST REGISTER [Continued from Page One]
This year’s has been placed in the lobby of Chambers. All students, before reporting to the registrar's office, are required
to pay a registration fee of $10 to the treasurer, and at the same time make their selection of room
for next year. All freshmen and sophomores taking R.O.T.C. may pledge their deposit instead of paying the fee.

McCLINTOCK PRESIDENT [Continued from Page One]
Davidsonian. However, since the point system places the editor of the annual higher, this election was put before that of
the president of the Athletic Association.

CAMERAS
Photograph Supplies
W. I. VAN NESS
N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK [Continued from Page Four]
Useless and wanton waste of printer’s ink and fairly good paper that I have ever seen. Not that our magazine
is any worse than other colleges’ similar publications (they all have the same jokes), but it’s the waste of the
whole lot that I’m complaining about. I remember only one joke which approached being funny. It was a cartoon of
Dick Vowles (Editor Davidsonian '38) showing a French cook hanging up pots and pans in his kitchen by means of
suspenders. The gag line read “I always use suspenders to keep my pans up.”

SPECTATOR CLUB TO JOIN [Continued from Page Three]
Cumming, Prof. D. C. Davidson, and Prof. E. F. Shewmake are to help in the selection of papers. Other members
of the faculty are invited to submit papers of their students for consideration. Three types of writings will be recognized:
term papers, creative work, and work done for the societies. The library will bind the anthologies, and they will be
used for reference work.

ALUMNI PASS [Continued from Page Five]
He was instrumental in locating and superintending its construction. He was instrumental in locating presbytery’s high school for mountain boys
and girls at Glade Valley, but on account of ill health, he was unable to do much preaching for a
period of eight years. Funeral services were conducted at 4 o'clock April 13 at Buffalo Presbyterian church and interment was
made in the historic cemetery of that same church.

Wed, April 19, 1939
Davidson Men Present At Student State-wide Presbyterian Student Conference Is Well Attended
Nine Davidson students represented the school last Friday and Saturday at the Presbyterian Student Conference of the Synod of North
Carolina held at the West Raleigh Presbyterian church. The state-wide meeting was attended by over 110 students representing some 12
Presbyterian and non-denominational schools. Opening Friday afternoon at 4:15 o'clock with a Worship service led by Miss Jane DuPuy of
the Woman’s College in Greensboro and closing at lunch Friday with a final address by Dr. T. W. Thompson of
Union Theological Seminary, the program included such speakers as Miss Lucy Steele, Peace College; Rev. J. N. Thomas, Richmond, Va.;
Rev. John H. Marion, Durham; Miss Wilmina Rowland, W. C. U. N. C.; Rev. J. K. Roberts, Greensboro; and Rev.
James M. Appleby, Maxton. Those attending the meeting from Davidson were Wade Boggs, Eldridge Brown, Sid Crane, Bob Finley, Warren
Gaw, Bill Loftin, John Mawhinney, Dan Shields, and Sam Webb. After the close of the meeting Saturday afternoon, the group
journeyed to Greensboro to participate in a joint discussion with the Woman’s College “Y” cabinet.

“Study more. The more ignorant a class is, the harder the instructor has to work. And you ought to get
more sleep so that you would not yawn so much in class.”

Miami Conference New Feature In Davidsonian
“Echoes From the Past” to Be Introduced in Next Week’s Issue
Beginning with the next issue of the “Davidsonian,” a new weekly feature will be introduced, which will be entitled “Echoes
From The Past.” This column is to contain excerpts gleaned from “Davidsonians” that were published one, five, and ten years
ago. The notes will include the most important news events of the years gone by. This feature was in Davidsonians
up to three years ago and is being revived by the new administration. In the past, the column was very
popular with students and they found it both amusing and interesting.

University’s Dr. F. B. Joyner offers a most obvious way to make life easier and more pleasant for professors.

Heap Coughs
A few drops bring comforting relief. Clears clogging mucus, reduces swollen membranes—helps keep sinuses open.
Vicks VA-TRO-NOL

WHERE CAMERA ENTHUSIASTS MEET
Holly Smith
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
106 S. Church—Phone 3-4362
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The right combination for a satisfying show is ERROL FLYNN & OLIVIA de HAVILLAND in DODGE CITY, a WARNER BROS.
picture coming soon to your local theatre. The right combination for a really satisfying smoke is Chesterfield's can't-be-copied blend of
the world's best cigarette tobaccos.

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

OLIVIA de HAVILLAND
The right combination for a satisfying show is ERROL FLYNN & OLIVIA de HAVILLAND in DODGE CITY, a WARNER BROS.
picture coming soon to your local theatre. The right combination for a really satisfying smoke is Chesterfield's can't-be-copied blend of
the world's best cigarette tobaccos.

ERROL FLYNN
Chesterfield’s Happy Combination (blend) of the finest American and Turkish tobaccos satisfies millions because it gives them smoking pleasure they
get from no other cigarette. Refreshing mildness, better taste, and more pleasing aroma are Chesterfield’s feature attractions with smokers everywhere.
When you try them, you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure...why THEY SATISFY.
