Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Jan. 18, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE “GREEKS

Phi Gamma Delta
Brothers Mack Otts, Billy Pharr, Henry Baker, Bill Bolin, and John Throop spent Saturday night in Charlotte along with Pledges
“Kid” Shelton and Rayal Branton; “Bargalye” stayed on the campus. Brother Bob Johnston and Tom Crews from Knoxville, Tenn., visited
the chapter and were welcomed by the brothers. Dick Shore and George Jones made the trip to South Carolina with
the basketball team. Sunday afternoon Miss Maujer Moseley and Miss Harriet Davis of Charlotte visited the chapter, and later a
song fest was held at the house.

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Julian Squires and Tom Abbott paid their usual respects to the Queen City over the weekend. Also there were
brothers Granville Sharpe, Gales McClintock, Charlie Pegram, and pledge brother Stanley McAfee. Pledges Frank Atwater, Howard Cheney, and Jim Howell
traveled to Rock Hill. An informal feed was held Sunday night at the Delta house with several visitors as guests.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Charlie Smith digressed from his regular trek to Greenville and went to Greensboro. Brothers Mark Cauble, Perry Sloan, Hector McLean,
Mish Cauble, and Lem Kornegay went bowling in Mooresville to relieve themselves from the monotony of the campus. Phi Delta
Theta Brothers Jack Lee, Tommy Glenn, George Wright, Roy Burton, Joe Robinson, Loche Hunter, and pledge George Lilly, attended the
square dance in the Davidson High gym Saturday night. The chapter is glad to welcome Brothers Edgar Watson, Bill Loy,
and Vic Shaw spent the weekend at their homes in Berry Hill. Lilly White went to Rock Hill. Jimmie Thompson
went to Mocksville, and Joe Craver went to McGeachy traveled to Rock Hill on “strictly business,” and pledge Bill LeGrand
went to his home in Shelby for the weekend.

Kappa Alpha
Brother Sam Spencer is sick in the infirmary here in Davidson. Sandy Moffit and Brother Joe Robinson of the class
of '38 were guests at a feed Sunday night. Due to the exams most of the brothers remained on the
campus and only a few ventured forth to the big city. Brothers Richard Taylor and Boscoe Marion were there, and
Tom Cumming corner in Davidson.

Pi Kappa Alpha
An almost general exodus was noted in the Beta Chapter of Pi K. A. this weekend. Brothers Ralph Monger, Joe
Brinson, Hugh Willis, Parker Conner, Ed Shewemake, Enoch Stephenson, and Dave Russel went to Charlotte for the Saturday night affair.
Sunday Brothers Ross McElwee and Latimer went to Statesville along with brother Joe Shelton. A feed was not held this
weekend due to the exams. Also noted were Bub Coltrane, Vernon Youngblood, Paul Lady, and pledge Hoover in Concord.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Brothers Kunz, John Hay, and Wesley Coghill journeyed to the Queen City in search of entertainment; with them were Ed
Watson and Phil Peyton. Perrin was left on the Square Dance Is Sponsored By Civic Club Attracts Many Students and
Townspeople; Club Has Twofold Purpose Davidson's Civic Club sponsored a real old-fashioned square dance last Saturday night, Jan. 14th, in
the high school gymnasium. Many high school and college students attended the dance along with many townspeople. Real country fiddlers
were imported to give the regular old-fashioned tunes that were popular when our grandmothers and grandfathers were young. “Skit” McConnell
called the figures and had them demonstrated when anyone seemed to be in doubt. The Davidson Civic Club has a
twofold purpose in sponsoring this entertainment in the high school gym. The first reason is to provide entertainment for the
high school students and for those boys from the college who like to attend. The second reason is to earn
money to carry through the Civic Club's building program in the Negro section of Davidson. Investigations were made concerning the
Negro’s housing conditions and things were found to be an appalling array. The Civic Club started its campaign by buying
four lots and building a house on one of them for Negro occupation.

---Salisbury. Dr. Gwynn, and Dr. and Mrs. Fulcher were guests at the house for Sunday dinner. Kappa Sigma

They hope to get others interested in the project enough to buy lots and build good houses to be rented
to Negroes. The Civic Club is using the proceeds from the square dances to finance their housing project as well
as other projects which are for the betterment of the community.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

LIGHTNING STRUCK A SPIRE OF THE DUKE U. CHAPEL TWICE WITHIN THREE DAYS

To Be Resumed

The Davidson radio programs, which have been presented over Station W. B. T. throughout the fall on Tuesday evenings, have
been discontinued until January.

REV. CHAS. COLLINS GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE IN 1837 AND WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT OF EMORY

Fellowship Organization Outlines New Schedule

Mitchell Deputation Is A Success as Students Organize Society

A special deputation to Mitchell College in Statesville, a committee meeting for outlining plans for the new semester, and a
well-attended prayer.

Dr. C. K. Brown Speaks To Sunday School Class

Smith Writes Of New York And Business

Snow Storm Included in First Week; Has Seen Many Carolina Friends

Fred Smith tells how he has already gotten a permanent position in New York, seen several new plays, and also
a regular northern snowstorm. “A snowstorm would catch me about the third day in New York,” he says, “It is
now about 8 inches deep, but doesn't look as pretty as it does around Davidson.”

Sees “Hellzapoppin'”

Fred tells about the play “Hellzapoppin’” which he saw on the stage the other night, and describes it as “a
rip-roaring story which has a little bit of any and everything in it.” His address is: Morse International, 122 East
42nd Street, New York City. This is his business address as he has not yet gotten his personal affairs settled.
Mail sent there will get to him the quickest.

Fred writes that he has already seen many Carolina friends in the metropolis, though he has only been at his
new post for a little over a week. Most of them are buyers for various stores in this section who
are taking advantage of the after-Christmas lull. Fred, as he will always be known to those students who knew him,
doesn’t say what his new duties are, but he is working for the New York offices of the Vick Chemical
Company.

“Peter Sees Christ’s Glory” Is The Subject Of Address Given in Phi Hall

Dr. C. K. Brown spoke for the second time in Sunday School last Sunday in Phi Hall. His subject was
the standard Sunday School lesson for this week: Peter Sees Christ's Glory and he took his text from Matthew 17:1-5.
As Dr. Brown stated, Christ had previously been revealed to his disciples on the occasion of Peter's great confession. However,
he was still misunderstood by everyone. Thus the transfiguration was for the purpose of letting the inner group of disciples
gain a fuller revelation of Christ's purpose.

“Mountain Apart”

As Dr. Brown has imagined it, Christ took Peter, James, and John up into a “mountain apart” for the purpose
of spending the night in prayer as was Christ's custom. Possibly the three disciples were dozing off and on during
the night while Christ prayed that they might gain a fuller knowledge of the purpose of his mission on earth.
And then in the wee hours of the morning came the actual transfiguration. Christ appeared to his three disciples in
his spiritual form—“and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.” Moses and
Elias also appeared to them. And again Peter’s habit of saying the wrong thing at the wrong time is shown
as he asks that tents be built for the three and that they remain on the mountain top always. Soon
afterwards, however, they left the place and went down into the village. This ought to be a lesson to all.
