Thurs. Oct. 26, 1939 \ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Betas Visit Charlotte and Burlington

Bob Balsley, joining the fourteen other Davidson boys, witnessed the Alabama-Tennessee game in Knoxville, Tenn., this weekend, and also attended
the U.T. Homecoming dances. Visiting in Charlotte were Tom McKnight, Charlie Sherman, Albert McAuley, Spencer Propst, Gales McClintock, John Sherrill,
Morton Church, and Allan Graham. Bill Burch visited his home in Reidsville. Burlington, N.C., seemed to be the destination of
most of the Beta weekenders... Holt Barnwell, Granville Sharpe, Bob Rankin, Frank Atwater, Jack Faucette, Joe Barnwell, and Frank Mebane
made this trip.

Pikas Go To Knoxville

Brothers Coltrane, Abels, Crutchfield, and pledges Pollock and Lane took in the game of the week at Knoxville. Pledges Brinson
and Neill visited High Point, while brothers McElwee, Latimer, and Scott passed the weekend in Statesville. Brothers Henderson, Parson, and
Perdew visited their respective homes in Wallace, New Bern, and Wilmington. Brother visited his home in Greenville, and Ray Hoover
and Bob Wastits enjoyed the weekend in Concord. Among the Charlotte visitors were brothers Shelton, MacDonald, Rice, and Monger. The
fraternity enjoyed the usual Sunday night feed after church Sunday evening.

K.A.’s Witness Duke Game

Charley Watt was in a critical condition Saturday as a result of "over-exertion" during the country meet with Carolina. Brother
Watt's condition is greatly improved and he will probably return from the hospital at Chapel Hill sometime Wednesday. Brothers Houston
and Mitchell took an unexpected jaunt through Virginia and spent Saturday night in the K.A. House at Washington and Lee.
Brother Coppedge and pledge brothers Belk, Harris, Peace, and Ansley attended the Duke-Syracuse game at Durham. Brother Wallace also attended
the game, spending Saturday night in the K.A. House at Chapel Hill. Brother Royster went to his home in Oxford
and later came to Durham for the Duke-Syracuse game. Sam Spencer and Dave Sprunt journeyed to Montreat, Hank King went
to his home in Johnson City, Tenn. Dick Arnold spent the weekend at his home in Greenville.

S.A.E.’s Attend Carolina-Tulane Game

Running down to New Orleans for the Carolina-Tulane game were brothers Cauble, Ficklen, Jones, Currie, John Crichton, and Hector McLean.
Brothers Balmson, T. Hackney, C. Hackney, Poss McLean, and B.F. Moore went to Knoxville to the Tennessee-Alabama game. Austin spent
the weekend at his home in Rocky Mount. Ed Lucas and pledges Grosse and Rogers went to Greensboro. Sprunt visited
his one and only in Winston, as usual. Grantham and Freeze went to Fairmont and High Point, respectively. Brothers Faison
and Smith and pledges Stewart, Young, and Tate went to their respective homes in Charlotte. Pledge Lumpkin took in the
fall dances at the University of South Carolina. A feed was held at the house Sunday night.

Discontent Causes Sin

Former Davidson Student, Serving Eight Churches, Talks At Vespers

Dr. R. H. Stone, former student at Davidson, delivered a sermon at the vesper services Sunday evening, speaking about people
who are not content with what God has given them. His text was Psalm 106:15, "He gave them their requests;
but sent leanness into their souls."

Flight From Egypt

As an example from the Bible, Dr. Stone related the story of the people of Israel when they were fleeing
from Egypt. He brought out how well God had taken care of them, giving them manna for food, and then
how the people became so discontented that they requested meat instead. God was displeased, but He fulfilled the request, even
though it sent leanness into their souls. "And God caused a great wind to blow quail up to the camp.
The people feasted on them until they became sick and many of them died."

First Sin

Dr. Stone also used the story of the first sin as an explanation of his topic. Eve wanted some of
the forbidden fruit, although God had furnished her with everything she could possibly need. She took some of the fruit,
and as so often is the case...

(Continued on Page Six)

Famous Orchestra Leader Specializes On Glee Club Arrangements

In a letter to the Davidsonian recently, Hilda Cole, Publicity Director for Fred Waring’s Pennsylvanians, disclosed some interesting facts about
the unusual set-up of Waring’s organization. Fred has a staff of six composers and arrangers. It is with this staff
that he is collaborating on a Davidson alma mater. Waring maintains a complete workshop, occupying a full floor...

Take Additional Annual Pictures

Mr. Dunbar, the annual photographer, last week took the pictures of five hundred seventy members of the student body, the
proofs of which will be available in the...

(Continued on Page Six)

Plan Roll Call Soon

Increased Problems Abroad Necessitate Action

Faced with increased responsibilities at home and abroad, Red Cross leaders in North Carolina held two conferences this week to
plan for the annual Roll Call November 11 to 30.

Meet In Winston

In the western part of the state, chapter representatives met on Tuesday, Oct. 24, at the Robert E. Lee Hotel
in Winston-Salem. For chapters in the eastern half of the state, the conference was held in Edenton at the historic
old Parish House, on Thursday, Oct. 26.

Delegates from the Cornelius-Davidson Chapter included the chairman, Professor Fleagle, and Professor Johnston, Professor Thies, Mrs. Rene Williamson, and Mrs.
Frank Sherrill of Cornelius. They attended the conference at Winston-Salem.

FAUL & 415 S. Tryon St.

ALL SPORTING GOODS DAVIDSON STUDENTS Always Welcome Delicious Short Orders and Sundry Refreshments

Principal Speaker

The principal speakers at the...

Seen in Greensboro this weekend, Lim Ballard went to Aiken and...

(Continued on Page Six)

Henry Harkey Recently Elected President Of Freshman Law Class

Henry Harkey, a Davidson graduate in the class of 1938, was recently elected President of the Freshman Law Class at
the University of North Carolina. This honor came soon after his entrance into the Law School at Chapel Hill. While
at Davidson, Henry was president of the Philanthropic Literary Society during his senior year here. He is a member of
Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He was instrumental in the organization of the Commerce Club and was a member of
the Masquers and has been quite prominent in dramatic productions. He is also a Pi Kappa Phi, and represents...

(Continued on Page Six)his fraternity at the Pan-Hellenic Council. McIntyre is the Masquers’ president and has been busily engaged with
the supervision of the three one-act plays of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He was a second lieutenant in the local
ROTC battalion and was on the Dean's list. Since graduation from Davidson, Henry has been given the rank of First
Lieutenant in the Organized Reserve.

Page Five

Stone Says Alumnus Is Colvin Elected Head Of Alpha Psi Omega

Carolina Hendrick and McIntyre Are Four Attend Music Meet

FOUR ATTEND

Presbyterian Church at Statesville Celebrates 175th Anniversary

Four members of the music faculty of Davidson College took part in the musical services of the First Presbyterian Church
of Statesville when it celebrated its 175th anniversary Sunday, October 22. The music service, which was held at night, was
attended by a large number of people. Musicians from Davidson taking part were Mr. Franklin Ricker, who appeared as tenor
soloist; Mr. James Christian Pfohl, organist; Mrs. Pfohl, pianist; and Mr. Warren Perry Babcock, cellist.

Ballet Caravan Group of Davidson's junior class.

Latest Books

An election of new members will be held shortly after points have been awarded for performance in the plays. Only
Red and Black Masquer members are eligible for Reach Library. New Guide To North Carolina Is On Shelves

Books were added to the library shelves during the last week. One was a novel by Ethel Vance, Escape. The
other was Guide to North Carolina, one of the series being published by this group on all of the states.
It has many illustrations that portray the state. At present, the group numbers seven members, all seniors.

A number of Davidson musicians assisted in the presentation of the Ballet Caravan Group at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium at
8 o'clock Friday night, Oct. 20. The Ballet Group, which came from New York, was secured by the Charlotte Symphony
Orchestra and appeared as one of the series that will be presented by them. The Ballet Caravan Group is one
of the most outstanding in its field. A large group was present at the concert.

Alpha Psi Omega is one of the honorary fraternities on the campus, but the national organization numbers 170 chapters throughout
the entire United States. Membership in the Masquers is achieved by making a certain number of points in local Thespian
productions. Two new members will be elected shortly.

Warren P. Babcock of the faculty.

Will Return

The salute to Davidson is to be sung by the Glee Club of forty-five voices. This group is composed of
the All College Choir of twelve voices, the male soloists, and the members of the band, all of whom sing.
Although Waring has been chiefly interested in vocal work, he failed to make the Glee Club at Penn State; in
fact, the only way he made it was by...

Dunbar will return later to make additional pictures, including those of students who did not find it convenient to pose
during the allotted time. There will in all probability be an additional charge for all late student pictures.

Other Pictures

Among the other pictures not yet made are those of Scabbard and Blade, the Pan-Hellenic Council, and certain athletic groups.
The photographic department of the annual staff strongly urges any and all amateur photographers to submit such snaps and candid
shots as they may have.

Winston-Salem meeting were Eliot Wadsworth, member of the Central Committee, and acting Vice Chairman in charge of Insular and Foreign
Operations, and Clarence F. Rowland, Washington, D.C., Assistant Director of Roll Call, Eastern Area.

Hope For Gain

National officials said all indications point to another sizeable membership gain this year. They expressed the hope that North Carolina
would equal its 1917 enrollment of 159,300 members. Mr. Rowland described activities of the Red Cross in the present war.
Throughout North Carolina and the nation, the Red Cross is gearing its peace-time organization of 3,700 chapters to aid refugees
of war-torn Europe with medical supplies and to assist in the repatriation of American citizens fleeing danger zones.

CRYMES Charlotte, N.C.

Always Ask for "S & P" Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products Charlotte, N.C.

Ernest Ellison, Inc. "JUST INSURANCE" 115 East Fourth Street Charlotte, N.C.

Fraternity Stationery 60 SHEETS—50 ENVELOPES $1.00 COLLEGE PHARMACY DAVIDSON'S "Service Drug Store"

Thurs.-Fri., Oct. 26th-27th BABES IN ARMS Saturday, October 28th $1000 A TOUCHDOWN Mon.-Tues., Oct. 30th-31st MARX BROTHERS AT THE CIRCUS
Wednesday, November 1st PACK UP YOUR TROUBLES Thurs.-Fri., Nov. 2nd-3rd HOLLYWOOD CAVALCADE

STATEMENT AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY October 2, 1939

RESOURCES Cash in Vault, Bank, and in Other Banks $42,054,731.75 U.S. Government Obligations, Direct or Fully Guaranteed (Average Maturity 2½
Years) $15,012,282.58 Obligations of Other U.S. Government Agencies (Average Maturity 2½ Years) 831,491.85 State of North Carolina and State of
South Carolina Bonds (Average Maturity 3 Years) 3,765,001.47 Municipal Bonds and Notes (Average Maturity 2½ Years) 1,934,542.24 Accrued Interest on
Bonds 110,259.94 Premium on all Bonds Owned, Reducing Them to Par 21,653,578.08 Cash Surrender Value Life Insurance Policies Carried on
the Officers of the Bank 157,003.00 Stock Federal Reserve Bank, Richmond, Va., and Other Stocks and Bonds 26,595.25 Banking House,
Fourth Street Property, and Reserve for Depreciation 42,329.04 Other Real Estate (The Appraised Value of which is $195,746.50 and the
Assessed Value is $147,110.00) 94.00 Prepaid Insurance, Taxes, Etc. 657,994.11

LIABILITIES Capital Stock $1,200,000.00 Surplus 1,800,000.00 Undivided Profits 600,741.75 Reserve Unallotted 500,000.00 2,900,741.75 Accrued Interest, Expenses, and Income Collected But
Not Earned 93,777.67 Reserve for Taxes, and Contingencies 274,800.00 Deposits 75,277,584.23

$79,546,897.78

OFFICERS: W. H. WOOD Executive Vice-President JOHN FOX Vice Pres. and Trust Officer RED FERRA Assistant Vice-President C. R. CAMPBELL
Secretary and Treasurer F. W. DeARMON Asst. Sec. and Treas. J. B. HENLEY Asst. Sec. and Treas. HERBERT THOMASON Assistant
Trust Officer WALTER LAMBETH Manager, Insurance Dept.

DIRECTORS: J. C. Lowe J. A. Jones W. H. Wood M. L. Cannon T. E. Hemby J. Caldwell McDonald R.
L. Johnston F. C. Whitlock Walter Lambeth George Snyder W. Frank Dowd, Jr.

Largest Unit Bank in the Carolinas AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
