Page Two THURS., SEPT. 28, 1939 THE DAVIDSONIAN The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated
Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North
Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO Entered as
second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879. TONY CASALI EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER JIM CURRIE EDITORIAL STAFF: Assistant Editor Managing Editor Managing Editor Managing Editor Managing Editor Managing Editor Sports Editor
Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Movie Editor BUSINESS STAFF: Photographer Asst. Business Manager Advertising Manager Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager Circulation Manager Collection Manager There’s an exhibit in the show cases of the College library for the students
who don’t believe in fair play. Let’s Stop A his i). lies NM but. AS Vis; It It's three-thirty. Not
VeSm Ae Nig Miyeeiad does look rather comfortable and does need untouched. someone to break up the smooth monotony of
its comfortableness. But [, because of pranks and childliness of some foolhardy lads that have no regard for property, sit
My 12 here—and usual bedtime—is o'clock, Gentlemen, (some of you may stop reading now), why don’t we put an end
to all this “junk”. It’s a pretty low pass when a group can’t get together and have “fun” without destroying
property and inconveniencing others. Of course, we think that we, after paying a five (5) dollar damage fee, can go
out, break up a few windows, flood floors, and cause a general disturbance, without having to pay anything extra. But
remember, many of us, and those who participated in such childish pranks, will be plenty “sore” at the end of
the year when a small envelope with about thirty cents is returned to us marked “balance of a five-dollar damage
fee deposit.” Come to think of it, not many of us will mind, that. We aren't the ones who actually
pay it. It is our guardians who paid a small part of the entrance fees. Then too, we inconvenience only
a few of the boys, who really don’t mind after all. But that is a, yes, lousy attitude to take.
We have an occasional problem with the faculty and usually they do the thinking for the problem—just because we act
like children. If we act like children then we do need someone to figure out our problems. Let’s act like
men for several reasons, namely, so we can get the faculty to believe that we know more than children and
don’t have to be governed as such, so we won't inconvenience the privacy of others, and so I’ll get my
five-dollar damage deposit fee back when school ends, (Yep, I’m mercenary). Intramurals... For those who are incapable of making varsity
teams here at Davidson, a program of intramurals exists. To those of us who participate in these contests between dorms,
fraternities, etc., it is an invaluable pastime. To those who direct the program, congratulations and thanks are in order. This
year the program has been elaborated to a greater extent and more boys can be active along these lines. Not
only does it afford students a chance to improve their physical capacities but also creates friendship, keen rivalry, and interest
around the campus. For this new program to be a success, more men must enter and take an interest in
it. Frankly, if a person ever enters one of the many contests (there are games that everyone can play or
do) he will continue. Again, the proverbial orchids are due to our Director Heath Whittle. Watch Out!!! He's on the
loose again! That daring, unscrupulous, omnipresent, omniscient, frank, fearless, foolhardy, fomenting, flippant, effervescent, flamboyant, fathomless spinner of yarns, is on
the loose again! It’s not safe. He’s lurking in every dark corner and he’s prexy of the local gossip group.
So good are his “yarns” (and some of them are truths) that the local sheet would be a “flop” without
them in print. Better watch your step, for it may be you next. He can ruin smooth running operations with
a single sentence, put an end to your secret “affairs” with a phrase, or control your destiny by the mere
mentioning of your name. Yes, the snooper is on the loose again. Who he is no one knows, but from
all indications he’d better keep his identity a secret. I know plenty of men who are “sore” at his dry
and subtle wit. To You... Gentlemen Over in the library is an exhibit in one of the show cases which
would undoubtedly make some Davidson “Gentleman” very much ashamed of himself, if that exhibit was placed on the stage in
Chambers Auditorium before the student body. The man or men responsible for cutting up and tearing up expensive new magazines
and books before they have been used by other students rightfully ought to be ashamed of himself. Davidson students ought
to point their fingers toward him and condemn him for unfair play. It is very unfair for one man to
use these new books and magazines, and then thoughtlessly prevent their being used by anyone else. The library is here
for the use of all students and not for a certain person or certain group of persons. We have ready
and free access to any reading matter in the library now, but we can’t expect to keep on tearing up
parts of it and still have such free access. Maybe somebody ought to put a bug in the guilty party’s
ear and just tell him what’s around this place. If you ever meet him, you do just that! Green Parade
of Opinion WAR... A note has entered the opening-of-the-year editorials in the college press... a note that is ominous and
fearful in contrast to the usual happy welcomings of other years. Almost without exception, first issues of the college newspapers
for this school year carry warnings to their readers to keep a weather eye on the war and diplomatic movements
of the world, and to study with renewed interest the causes of war and the ways and means by which
the U.S. can keep out of armed conflict. Many college editors are making good use of the analogy between our
battles of the gridiron and Europe’s battles on land, sea, and air to point out the advantages of U.S. collegians
over the youth of other lands. Here’s how the University of Tulsa Collegians put it: “Today, students find bloodshed and
heroes enough on the football field. Today, boys working their way through college as a result of the last war
know that a war boom is a fickle, unstable thing. Today, co-eds realize that glamorous uniformed troops lead to very
unglamorous breadlines. Today, T.U. students say flatly that they will refuse to fight.” There is a general feeling among collegians
that we must stay out of this war, come what may. The anti-war oaths popular some two or three years
ago seem to be cropping up anew. Listen to the University of Richmond, Collegian: “To the man who says we
can’t stay out of war, say: ‘We owe nothing to Britain, and we have nothing to fear of Germany. We
can stay out of war; we must stay out of war; we will stay out of war.’” CAMPUS IN CARTOON
by A.F. JOHNSON STAR NORTHWESTERN U. HALFBACK IN 1898, WAS SELECTED ON THE ALL-AMERICAN TEAM BUT DID NOT LEARN OF
THE AWARD UNTIL 41 YEARS LATER! ALLEN AND ELMER CORNELL, STUDENTS AT RUTGERS STATE COLLEGE, HAVE COMPLETED 27 YEARS OF
SCHOOLING WITHOUT MISSING A DAY OR HAVING BEEN TARDY! NANCY MATTHEWS, WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY SOPHOMORE, IS THE SIXTEENTH MEMBER OF
HER MOTHER'S FAMILY TO BE INITIATED INTO KAPPA KAPPA GAMMA SORORITY! Dis-Chords By HOSS REEVES How many of you radio
“bugs” heard Bob Chester last Sunday night from 11:00 to 11:30? This is one band that is slated to go
over in a big way. It sounds like a combination of Jimmy Dorsey and Glenn Miller—and what more could you
ask? His playing of Moonlight Serenade had yours truly guessing whether or not it was Glenn Miller after all, for
they sound just alike on that piece—even the saxes. Chester is another who got a break as a result of
being picked to play on the Fitch Band Wagon this past summer. Before he was a substitute for the one
and only—thank goodness for that—Shep Fields. Goodman plans to make another change in his band real soon—must be a habit.
He is adding two more Negroes, Charlie Christian on guitar and Clarence Profit at piano. Profit replaces Fletcher Henderson at
piano, for Fletcher is going to devote all his time to arranging and to rehearsing the Goodman band. Incidentally, Goodman’s
Saturday night commercial outshines Bob Crosby's Tuesday night show, which is still being hindered by Johnny Mercer. One of the
top-notch bands—if not THE top-notch band—at present is Glenn Miller's organization. It might interest some of you to know that
the unusual effect produced by Miller's sax section is accomplished by blending four saxes and the clarinet, with the clarinet
carrying the melody. Congrats to Kay Kyser for receiving Radio Guide's Award for having the best studio audiences during the
past year. Will somebody please tell me who is the “King of the Saxophone”? Jimmy Dorsey, Charlie Barnet, and even
Carmen Lombardo claim the title. Cab Calloway once again brought himself into the limelight with his “Jumpin’ Jive.” His broadcasts
would be much more enjoyable without so much of the “Hi-de-Ho.” JackJenny has a new organization that sounds like a
million, plays like a million, and probably makes a million. Lucille Matthews, brunette Lombard, and has plenty to give, will
be his vocalist. Jimmy Dorsey recently broke down. He recently made some swell twelve-inch discs for Decca, “The Pagan Love
Song” being one of the best. It is beginning to look as if “Jumpin’ at the Woodside” might become one
of Count Basie’s swing classics of the decade. Deane Kincaide, arranger for T. Dorsey, did a good job on “Peckin’
with Penguins” and “March of the Toys.” Good stuff. Bon Bon, vocalist with Jan Savitt, is another of the good
colored vocalists of the day. There is something unique in his style. Ina Ray Hutton dropped her all-girl orchestra this
past summer for a strictly male band. Wow. Since Ella Fitzgerald took over Chick Webb's band, it is still good,
but not like ole Chick. Bob Zurke's new band started out on Bluebird about mid-August. Watch him, for he is
another that ought to go places. It might interest some of your juniors and seniors to know that Bunny wants
to file his outfit into bankruptcy. The catch is that Bunny didn’t have the necessary forty bucks with which to
pay the fee for filing papers. Benny Goodman is recording on Vocalion, a thirty-five cent waxing, in order to compete
with Artie Shaw's Bluebird records. Goodman completed a five-year contract with RCA Victor this past summer.

Records Recommended: “What's New” by Charlie Barnett; “Running Thru My Mind” by Jan Savitt; “Blue Orchids” by T. Dorsey; “Little
Brown Jug” and “Stairway to the Stars” by Glenn Miller; “Melancholy Mood” and “Out of Nowhere” by Artie Shaw. How
many of you remember last year when we were to have Glenn Miller for Mid-Winters? Well, this year we have
a chance to get this now most popular band on the campus. Let’s all back the Pan-Hell in both sets
of dances this fall. This will show them we REALLY want Glenn Miller for Mid-Winters this year. “Yours truly is
Truly Yours.”

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Wednesday, September 27

Way Down South—Bobby Breen, Alan Mowbray, Ralph Morgan, Steffi Duna, and Sally Blaine. Also the Hall-Johnson choir. It’s Bobby Breen
again in this film with better interest than most of his preceding pictures. The extremely colorful atmosphere of New Orleans
just prior to the Civil War is reproduced, and this affords the Hall-Johnson negro choir a chance to render some
beautiful spirituals in true negro style. The setting is in Louisiana where Bobby’s father, Ralph Morgan, is killed, and an
unscrupulous lawyer, Alan Mowbray, tries to wrest the great fortune from Bobby. Of course, Bobby's singing is one of the
highlights of the show.

Thurs.-Fri., Sept. 28th-29th.

Four Feathers—John Clements, Ralph Richardson, C. Aubrey Smith, June Dupree. Adept students of English History will remember that in 1898,
England’s Lord Kitchener conducted a thrilling and bloody campaign on the East Bank of the Nile to win back the
Sudan for the British Empire. United Artists’ Alexander Korda takes these pages from history books, and on the exact location
has produced on an extravagant scale one of the most exciting and massive war pictures you've ever seen. It is
done in technicolor, and you cannot imagine what a thrill color can give to the battle scene with the thousands
of natives on the great sun-scorched plains of Egypt. The story has to do with four officers who are pals
in a swank British regiment on its way to the Sudan. Three of them sail, but Harry Faversham, who believes
himself a coward, resigns his commission, and pretends to his friends that he loves his home better than the army.
As a result, he receives four white feathers, a sign that he is considered a coward, three from his pals,
and the other from his girl, who breaks their engagement. Shocked by the feathers, he leaves for Egypt secretly, has
himself disguised as a native, and after saving the life of one comrade blinded in the desert sun, he becomes
the hero in the capture of Khartoum. He returns to London—a hero. John Clements plays the young Englishman who redeems
himself, and his performance is matched only by that of [Continued on Page Six]

GLEANINGS

And another week comes to an end—another slightly bleached column of gossip and filth finds its way into the local
sheet. After the dust of battle had cleared away in Greensboro, Davidsonians proceeded to lose themselves. Notable among the missing
were Benny Harrison and Jasper Currie—just wouldn't leave, I’m told. What was the attraction, boys? Then they broke up such
a perfect quartet with Hackney and Hayseed, which was conspicuous at the game without girls, to form an even more
formidable one with ex-Davidsonians—Slugger Mathis and Horace Lutz. Many of last year’s grads were back in fine fettle—‘Colin” Smith, and
Perry Sloan caused quite a stir in front of the stands. SAE brethren gave the old grip, and last year’s
Pan-Hell prexy, Ray Pittman, was looking just as smooth as ever. Sam Spencer has certainly developed into the Casanova of
the campus—Friday night it was Converse and Scotty Dameron, and Saturday night it was Greensboro and the “one and only”
Sara Ramseur, KA pin and all. We wonder who the two lucky boys were that got the much sought-after date
with the good-looking babe in the O’Henry drug store? Have our own idea who they were! Rather belated congratulations from
this column to Louis Garrou whose wedding took place not long ago. Rumor has it that the same congratulations are
due Hugh Willis whose absence has been noted since school got underway. You can certainly tell everything is back to
normal again—two Huntersville girls were quite busy last Thursday night looking for a couple of studs who were on their
books. The SPE’s had things pretty much their own way on the third floor of the King Cotton—the local chapter
just couldn’t keep up with their cohorts from State. And why were the Cooper twins sharing one date? Couldn't one
of them take care of her? Can't understand why some of the boys couldn't find time to go to the
game, but spent the better part of Saturday night at a skating rink in Charlotte. Several of Charlotte’s younger set
reported Tenney, Bobby Carter, and Stephenson quite adept on the ball-bearings. Another lover who seems to have stored his interest
in W. C. for the winter is Bub Coltrane, but like Sam, he too, trucked off to Spartanburg Friday night
before spending two consecutive ones in Greensboro. Wonder why Joe Brinson looked so “hacked” after he had wasted a number
of nickels buying peanuts to harass a State fan and disturb that whole section of the student body, only for
the target to calmly pay for a bag himself and toss them back to Brinson to throw? Better not be
too hasty next time, Joe. The College seemed to be a common meeting ground—and we always thought Davidson students hung
out of the windows when a girl came on campus. The W. C. girls beat us at our own game.
And Junior Phillips acted like a kid at his first circus. Didn't miss much, did you, Junior?

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

DID YOU KNOW ... That it is illegal to make a U-turn at the 5 and 10 corner under the
stop light? ... that up to this year the College for six consecutive years from Chambers Building? ... that Junior
Speaking was formerly the time of year when each member of the Junior Class delivered an oration, and that this
was a requirement for a diploma at Davidson. A companion to this was Senior Speaking, when the Seniors spoke. Gradually
it broke down into teas, then dances, and now, something for the upperclassmen to talk about.

SWING ON THE DECLINE... Dr. George Gallup, in an excursion into popular tastes, on “Do you like Swing,” finds that
there are some inevitable signs that swing music has reached its peak with the American public, and that it is
now on the decline. For two years, jitterbugging has been a common sight on our dance floors, and that is
a rather long time for a fad to last, according to Dr. Gallup. In August, the poll shows that 62
percent answered YES to the query, but now, 56 percent say YES, and 44 percent say NO. But still in
the larger cities, 74 percent of those under 30 like their music hot, while in the canvass of those over
50, only 30 percent were in favor of swing. The typical oldster’s complaint was that “it was alright until they
started swinging ‘Annie Laurie’ and ‘Loch Lomond’.” An interesting item to notice is that Southerners, 63 percent in favor of
swing, are more enthusiastic than the rest of the country.

SURPRISE

Did you know that you were a “serious-minded person who gives intelligent cooperation to every progressive move?” Anyway, that’s what
Dr. Walter A. Jessup, president of the Carnegie Foundation, thinks about us. In his annual report, he said that the
“rah-rah” boy of yesterday, long considered typical of the American campus, has taken his place beside the flapper and speakeasy.
His place on the campuses of the colleges and universities in the United States has been taken by a more
serious-minded person who is hard-working and ambitious.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH

“Forward, March! One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.” Three times a week this fellow appears in uniform to
give orders, and he is really a mean driller as well as a soccer player. Sometimes he is teasingly called
“Mish,” but this passes after one knows him only a short time. He can speak Chinese, and was once called
“Greek God” by the same young lady who typed R. O. Kellogg “Adonis.”

FRIENDS-ALUMNI
Subscribe to THE DAVIDSONIAN
$1.50 per year ANYWHERE IN U. S.
Send To JIM CURRIE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
