Foreign Policies
By Rene DeV. Williamson

ITALIAN FOREIGN POLICY

The foreign policy of Italy since 1922 has been one of the most personal in Europe and bears the unmistakable
imprint of Benito Mussolini. In both internal and external affairs, the Duce has kept a tight hold over decisions by
having all important matters referred to him, shifting even his highest aides from one position to another, and having held
himself practically every Cabinet post at one time or another. No one in Fascist Italy has had the independence of
Hess, Himmler, and Goebbels, or the permanence of Goering. There is but one star in the Roman firmament.

The Italian dictator is without doubt extraordinarily endowed with a keen mind and an inexhaustible supply of energy. He is
the creator of Fascism. He achieved his present eminence by taking stupendous chances. He loves risk and danger. In 1921
and 1922, he told an Italy that was torn by strikes and social unrest that he would establish order. He
promised a people whose government was one of the weakest in Europe that he would restore the authority of the
state. He assured the Italian citizenry that he would do away with organized gangs of criminals and put an end
to the bloody clashes of political factions. In 1925, when the murder of Matteotti rocked Italy with indignation, Mussolini boldly
took all responsibility upon himself and put down the opposition with ruthless violence.

Achieve Power

To make such promises as these in the then existing situation was beyond daring in view of the belief. It
looked so impossible coming from a man backed by a small and hastily improvised Black Shirt organization that the people
who could have stopped him did not bother to take him seriously. By unshakable determination, will power, shrewd calculation, reckless
daring, bluff, and violence, this twentieth-century disciple of Machiavelli achieved complete power.

Fascist foreign policy is inspired by the “principles” which worked so well at home. As he originally did in domestic
politics, Mussolini pursues foreign objectives so gigantic that now as then few people take him seriously. He brazenly proclaims to
the world that he seeks nothing less than the resurrection of the Roman empire. This seemed so fantastic as to
be beneath notice until it began to look as if the Italo-German combination might destroy the French and British empires;
the Italian record in Spain, Ethiopia, and Albania shows that Mussolini’s methods are as ruthless and devoid of principles as
those of Hitler.

Nazi Hook-Up

The Italian dictator took another colossal chance in lining himself up with the Nazis. He knows perfectly well that Italy's
national interest is inconsistent with German expansion in central and southern Europe.

[Continued on Page Six]

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Ten Davidson Seniors Have Been Selected For Collegiate Who’s Who

Ten Leaders Of Graduating Class To Represent Davidson in Yearbook “Who’s Who In American Colleges”

On October 24, ten members of the Senior Class were selected. Those nominated were Holland, Harnsberger, Sprunt, Spencer, Crane, Ramsey,
Kenyon, McClintock, and Guion.

Jack Holland, from Jackson, Tenn., is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, O. D. K., Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Delta Pi,
Eumenean Literary Society, and I. R. C.

Tom Harnsberger, from China, belongs to O. D. K., Phi Beta Kappa, I. R. C., Scabbard and Blade, and is
Cadet Major of the Battalion.

Dave Sprunt, from Wilmington, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, O. D. K., and a member of the Student
Council.

Sam Spencer, from Columbia, Va., is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, O. D. K., Scabbard and Blade, Le Cercle
Francais, and Hi O. Le Cercle Francais.

Tony Casali, from Welch, W. Va., is Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, President of the Student Council, and Director of Publicity
for Davidson College.

Sid Crane, from Hickory, is President of the YMCA Cabinet, a member of O. D. K., and Le Cercle Francais.

Dick Ramsey, from Jonesboro, Ark., is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, and Pi Gamma
Mu.

Kenyon, from Gainesville, is President of the Senior Class, and a member of the International Relations Club.

McClintock, from New Bern, is President of O. D. K., a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and
the Spanish Club, also a First Lieutenant in R. O. T. C.

Tom Guion, from Charlotte, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the Spanish Club, also a
First Lieutenant in R. O. T. C.

Application Blanks

Most of the candidates have sent in their application blanks. Each candidate is required to answer several questions about himself.
The “Who’s Who In American Colleges” is published annually at the University of Alabama. In it is given the college
record and other facts about leaders on campuses throughout the nation. Copies of the book are placed in the offices
of the leading corporations and businesses of the nation as a guide to the graduates of that year.

Winston-Salem Acts As Hostess To ‘Cats

Many and various were the celebrations in Winston-Salem on Armistice Day, both before and after the Davidson-Carolina game which took
place in the afternoon. The entertainments were in the form of bands, parades, cheerleaders, sponsors, and dances, with the game
standing out as the main attraction.

On Saturday morning at 10:00 the sponsors and their escorts began arriving for the parade. These sponsors were selected from
fourteen Piedmont northwestern North Carolina cities, each sponsor having been appointed by the mayor of the respective city. Every sponsor
was accompanied by the mayor of her city in the parade.

Parade

At 10:30 the parade began and was directed through two downtown streets in Winston-Salem. Several bands were in the formation:
R. J. Reynolds high band appeared first in its brilliant black and gold uniforms; this was followed by the Davidson
band marching in its usual precise formations. Then came the American Legion, the National Guard, and the Bandmasters Band, followed
last of all by the great musical organization from the University of North Carolina. Between the bands and riding in
cars supplied by local dealers, were the sponsors—the girls accompanied by their escorts, and the mayor of the particular city
from which they had come. A large crowd was present all along the parade route, and all seemed to be
pleased with the highly colorful and musical affair.

Football Game

At 2 P. M. came the Davidson-Carolina football game. The sponsors were present at the game in full regalia, and
their escorts had special seats of honor directly on the edge of the playing field. At half time, the sponsors
of each team were taken before the stands of the opposite team and introduced to the audience there. After the
game there was great preparation for the dances which were held during the evening. There were five principal dances that
the college boys might attend. One was on the roof of the Robert E. Lee Hotel, one at the Smoke
House, one at the Armory, and one at both Salem College and Salem Academy.

Who’s Who

Wake Gets Stadium

The much-divided question of who would get the Charlotte Stadium for future Davidson football games, Davidson or Wake Forest, was
virtually settled at a meeting of the Stadium Commissioners, Davidson and Wake Forest officials, and others in Charlotte last week.

Davidson has recently been the recipient of another gift from another of our Alumni. Last week in chapel, Dr. Lingle
presented to the student body a painting donated to the school by Steve Smith. The picture, about three by four
feet in size, can best be described by a quotation from Smith's letter: "A red-shirted football player which seems to
me to typify the Davidson players who have played and are playing."

Tryouts Held Early

Tryouts are being held earlier than usual this year so that the team can compete in the Southern Forensic Tournament
to be held at Winthrop College. Neal Scott, president of the Forensic Council, will be in charge of the tryouts,
assisted by other members of the Council. Last year three teams made extensive trips to the northern and southern states,
engaging in non-decision debates with many leading colleges.

Ten Seniors Nominated For Who’s Who

No. 9

Converse Invades Campus Saturday For Erskine Game

Guests To Arrive Early

DATE BUREAU SET UP

Varied Program Planned For Entertainment

Davidson campus will be invaded by bus-loads of Converse students from Spartanburg, S. C., Saturday as Omicron Delta Kappa and
the student body play host to the Converse student body. Miss Sis Tice, president of the Converse students, says that
the girls will arrive by bus and car in the early afternoon prior to the Erskine game. They will meet
their eager dates for the first time at a special front of Chambers building and the Stadium, operated by the
cheering squad. The couples will immediately go to the game.ae I MAE; 1 Richardson stadium to see the Davidson Wildcats
meet the Erskine Flying Fleet on the gridiron. Fraternity houses and the social center will be open to all as
the game ends. The dates will have the last part of the afternoon to get acquainted. At 6:15 supper will
be served by the Converse students in the Banquet Hall of Chambers building. The ODK and the student council are
planning extensive entertainments in cooperation with various campus organizations for the evening. "Submerged," a one-act drama based on a submarine
tragedy, will be staged by the Red and Black Masquers immediately after supper. Tentative plans also include concerts by both
the symphony band and the Glee Club. Final arrangements will be announced by the music department at a later date.

All Good Things Must End
That sad time when all good things must end will come at around ten o'clock P.M. when girls will again
board the buses and return to Spartanburg. A list of the students who have visited the campus will be posted
on the bulletin board in Georgia Dormitory.

Letter To Lingle
He goes further to state, "I am happy, therefore, to give this painting which I have named 'Spirit of Davidson,'
to the student body of the college." In an accompanying letter, he expressed his suggestion that it should be hung
in the gymnasium, where it would likely have a bolstering moral effect on the players themselves.

Senior Blazers
Last measurements for senior blazers were taken Monday night in the parlor of Watts by Mr. Jack Woods, representative of
Marion-Davis Co., Charlotte. Unusually poor cooperation was shown by the seniors in the matter of buying blazers. Judging by the
number of seniors who voted on the blazers, it was expected that a large number would buy the blazers. However,
by last Monday night, only 30 had purchased the tan basket-weave jackets. Though no more measurements will be taken on
the campus, those seniors who decide to purchase the blazers may confer with Marion-Davis Company in Charlotte.

Stolen Articles
When arrested, Wood had practically all the watches, typewriters, clothing, and other articles he had gathered from college students. He
appeared to have spent all the money which he had so easily made. This young thief, who was only 20
years old, has been carrying on an extensive thievery throughout the campuses of the University of North Carolina, High Point
College, Catawba, Davidson, and probably others.

Red Cross Drive
Davidson students have had an opportunity to join the American Red Cross for the past few days. Bernard Rice made
an announcement to this effect at chapel on Monday of this week but no report is available as to the
response to the call. Leaders of the local drive requested that no real canvass be made on the campus but
that it should be announced that student members would be more than welcome. The membership fee may be any amount
over one dollar. There is the dollar membership, a five-dollar one, and one for ten dollars.

A new plan in Wallace music will be demonstrated to the public by Miss Grace Reynolds, professor of music at
Queens-Charlotte, and Professor James Cheek of Davidson. The two colleges will also present a combined concert next spring. The first
of this kind was the Music Festival last year.

Debate Team To Be Chosen
Ten men in cast
A team of six regulars and three alternates will be chosen from the thirty men who have signified their intention
of trying out for the debate team. The debate question is "Resolved, that the United States should follow the policy
of strict economic and military isolation toward all nations engaged in international conflict."

War Play To Be Presented Soon After Thanksgiving
The Red and Black Masquers have announced the cast for the forthcoming production, "Journey's End." The cast was picked following
the tryouts held Monday and Tuesday nights of last week. The following men were chosen for roles in the drama:
Stanhope (Commanding Officer), Tommy Harnsberger; Raleigh (Young Second Lieutenant), Sam Spencer; Osborne (an older officer), Bob Kellogg; Mason (Cockney orderly),
Dan Gilliam; Trotter (a good-natured Lieutenant), Jack Holland; Colonel (Efficient Battalion Officer), Dave Colvin; Hibbert (Cowardly Second Lieutenant), Ed Hay;
Hardy (Retiring Company Commander), Ray Tenney; Sergeant Major (tough Sergeant), Boyd German; and (Prisoner), Pat Rudolph.

Although the members of this cast were not chosen on the basis of military accomplishments, their training fits in very
conveniently with the setting of the play, since all the seniors having parts in the play are officers in the
college ROTC Unit. The production will be directed by Ken McIntyre and Melvin Means, under the direct supervision of the
Faculty Director, Professor E. J. Erwin.

Speaking of Professor Erwin, Ken McIntyre said, "The Red and Black Masquers owe Professor Erwin a debt of gratitude for
his faithful service during the years of his association with the dramatic organizations of the campus. In spite of his
arduous duties as a member of the college English staff, he has unselfishly devoted much of his time and effort
to directing plays, designing sets, and choosing casts. Without his counsel and aid, there would have been little hope for
the success of many productions."
