Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., April 19, 1939

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

Casali Latimer Editor-in-Chief
Tony John Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Managing Editors
Jack Abernathy
Paul Bumbarger
Tom Cauble
Lawson Withers
Andy Dale Sports Editor
Erle Austin Associate Editor
Jack Holland Associate Editor
Karl Hudson Associate Editor
Sam Spencer Associate Editor
Bobby Williams Movie Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Angus Lytch Asst. Business Manager
B. B. Plyler Asst. Business Manager
Jim Currie Advertising Manager
Bill Ross Advertising Manager
Julian Lokey Circulation Manager
Nat Hackney Circulation Manager
Bud Gilmore Dry Cleaning Collection Manager

Politics

From our exchange it is purely evident that Davidson is not the only college around that is having trouble with
her election system. Below is an editorial from a well-known collegiate sheet.

Politics aren't kept clean by being washed. They must be thoroughly aired at least once annually. Realizing that, Phi Gamma
literary society is holding an open meeting Monday at which students will get to cross-examine candidates for the presidency of
the student body. The society hopes to promote balloting on the basis of stands on issues and qualifications of candidates,
instead of personalities and political webs. Perhaps, also, too many elections in the past have been lost through sabotage of
defeated candidates. Such a method of campaigning has been widely employed. The meeting Monday will encourage a more straightforward approach.
Merits of candidates will be compared in a healthy fashion, while alleged personal inabilities will be left in the closet.

The campus will not only get to find how candidates feel about matters at hand. It will be able to
discover just how much the hopefuls know about the campus government. No lark is in store for the candidates, but
if they're solid material, they can take it.

It is certainly encouraging that candidates this year are announcing themselves, instead of arranging to be pushed into it by
fraternities. This fact, along with the Phi Gamma discussion meeting, indicates that campus politics are becoming less political and more
democratic. Frankly, The Wheel would like to see still more politics drawn from fraternity house libraries and handled in a
man-to-man fashion in outdoor mass meetings. Bonfires and stump speeches can help office aspirants. And they’re a lot of fun.
—THE EMORY WHEEL,

And This!

Also, from reliable sources, comes the information that members of the student body will stoop so low as to “swipe”
ballots. Each and every member of the student body has a right to vote and a right to have that
vote tabulated. A person, who sees that the ballot cast by the man sitting next to him in chapel is
not in favor of his man, and then deliberately takes this ballot, puts it in his pocket and carries it
out, doesn’t stop to think. He may be depriving some worthy candidate of an office in some cases, while on
the other hand it may not affect the final results, but by all means, it is a nasty situation, and
should be stopped. A remedy for this might be to put ballot boxes in the rear of chapel and let
each voter drop his ballot in the box. These two evils are the biggest of our present balloting system. Why
not wipe them out before they go too far?

Flaws

While most of the students are concerning themselves about Davidson's policy in regard to elections, little do they realize that
there is a practice carried on by some students that is definitely “unbecoming of Davidson gentlemen.” This practice, known as
“absentee balloting,” has no place here. It is truly one of the flaws of our system. Whether the students advocate
open politics or not, such practices should not be allowed to continue. A candidate running for some office certainly does
not want to receive votes this way and certainly if one should be elected by such practices, he would feel
that he had done the other candidates an injustice.

Although there is very little of this going on it should be cut out. A “sure” way of discontinuing it
would be to check the monitor’s absentee list each day in chapel and let those ballots voted by some characters
that would see their “man” get in, be thrown out.

Quotable Quotes

“Mental narrowness, intolerance, zeal to choke somebody else’s belief or theory are out of place in an institution of learning.
A university should be a sanctuary of intellectual freedom.” New York editorialist campaigns for free discussion of “all the news
that’s fit to print.”

“Scientists and educators have a moral obligation to the American people and to the world. Today as never before their
influence must be exerted in a positive freedom.” Columbia University’s Prof. Franz Boas urges faculty support of the new American
Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom.

“The universities of this country are now in a critical period. In Europe, to a considerable extent, the professors must
play up entirely to popular sentiment. Slowly but surely this dominion of mass psychology, with its foibles and hysteria, is
gaining a foothold in American universities.” Harvard University’s Prof. Carle C. Zimmerman strongly condemns faculty members who constantly “play to
the galleries.”

“Social institutions change whether one likes it or not, and the student who has been encouraged to think seriously about
social problems while in college will be more likely to adjust himself to such changes when they occur, and will
be less in danger of being captivated by a shallow demagogue, than he who has never been compelled to evaluate
conflicting arguments.” A Harvard University faculty committee cites another great reason for complete academic freedom.

“Great books represent the work of the human mind in its highest quality, as well as in relation to its
most significant themes. One of the greatest educational influences is found in this closeness of contact with the leaders in
human intelligence. Teaching rests largely in the hope that greatness of mind may be contagious.” Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn, former University
of Wisconsin professor, believes that ‘unless we develop a thinking, intelligent, well-read public, our democracy will fail.”

“We have no choice, if we love liberty and respect individual worth, other than to place behind the Christian colleges
of America the full strength of our resources, both material and spiritual. The body politic is in constant and sore
need of the leavening influence that flows from these institutions.” Nebraska’s Senator Burke argues that college should graduate students “firmly
grounded in the fundamentals of Americanism.”

The Oberlin College Review stated the current position of the college newspaper editorial writers in this way: “We cannot censure
too severely the weak-kneed bowing and scraping and the magnanimous sacrifices of other peoples which the French and English governments
have made. So long as the desire for peace and our own security is uppermost in our minds, we can
hardly hope that more will come out of the rumored four-power conference to stop Hitler than more guarantees.”

Many collegians predict that the latest moves of Der Fuehrer are steps in the direction of his downfall. The University
of Baltimore Baloo states this position in this way: “For the first time since the beginning of the Third Reich
Germany has seized foreigners and not Germans. Germany now has a strong, exceedingly brave minority within its own borders. Any
further advance will bring more foreigners. The first step toward Germany’s downfall has been taken, but watch the future.”

By Don Herold

1-MINUTE SAFETY TALKS

Whose itty tootsy-wooty tee as 8 8. STW ~S< lA — iar 77 Here are some tid-bit items in regard
to automobile accidents which I have picked up here and there. The Soviet Government recently executed a hit-and-run driver by
the firing squad method. Well, why not? Murder is murder whether you commit it with a six-shooter revolver or a
six-cylinder motor car.

Not long ago, in a Midwestern traffic court, a driver who had been involved in an automobile accident was brought
before a judge. It developed that he had been drinking, that he had a glass eye and that his car
had little or no braking power. And I suppose he had one arm around a girl, Well both be odlsy
wootsy Sa» sa , It syou don watcl, where oure driving _ Broken Glass and Dented Fenders

Warning horns are forbidden in Berlin; consequently drivers must keep a sharp lookout; the pedestrian death rate has been considerably
reduced. The horn-driver is still a menace in America.

A coupe going 60 miles an hour can turn over a 10-ton truck. The steering wheel probably goes through your
chest. Want to try it?

More than 100,000 accidents a year are directly charged to drivers asleep.

About 60 per cent of the “autocides” occur at night according to The Travelers Insurance Company, when there is only
25 per cent of the traffic on the roads. When it’s dark, crawl!

CZECHIA. Loudly though they condemned Hitler’s grab of Czechoslovakia, collegians throughout the U. S. during the past week have been
more concerned over the future than they have been over the latest step in Der Fuehrer’s march to the east.
Along with their condemnations of the move, they were quick to point out that their predictions of the futility of
the “peace” of Munich had come true. The college press could not say too much against the appeasement policies of
the democracies.

The following quotations neatly summarize the collegiate attitude on the Hitler coup:
“This new aggrandizement of Nazi territory points the finger of condemnation at the ‘peace agreement’ policies of France and England,
makes them seem more short-sighted and futile than ever. Pretty soon it may be too late for democracy to take
a firm stand.”—University of Wisconsin Daily Cardinal.

“The stronger and more successful the dictatorships become, the more they are likely to want and demand. Therefore, if the
policies of the democracies and dictatorships are carried to their logical conclusions, a world war in the near future seems
inevitable.”—University of Iowa Daily Iowan.

What will Hitler's next move be? That is the question that most are seeking to answer. The majority of the
strategists believe that he is headed for the Ukraine andits vast wealth of raw materials of one kind or another.
And in that move they see many complications: collegians believe “Hitler has much more than mere prestige staked on his
drive to the east, and little Hungary sitting up on its legs and barking at the master is very likely
to find itself slapped down for its impertinence.”—University of Michigan Daily. “Hitler has proved himself a superior even to Napo-
[Continued on Page Six]

Movie Musings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thurs.-Fri., April 20-21
“BROADWAY SERENADE”—Jeanette MacDonald, Lew Ayres, Frank Morgan, and Rita Johnson. A rather old plot dressed up in a brand new
way with the wife-singer and husband-player combination. The wife—Jeanette MacDonald is recognized and continues up the ladder to sensational success,
but the husband, Lew Ayres, flops miserably. A male companion enters the welcome heart of the wife and a divorce
follows. He becomes a composer, and she sings his songs, and well you can figure out the rest. But MacDonald’s
rendition of “Broadway Serenade” and “Magic Melody” and others are well worth hearing.

Saturday, April 22
“BOY SLAVES”—Anne Shirley, Roger Daniel and James McCallion. If you are a born and bred reformer you'll probably love this
picture: With cold anger it chooses the Deep South as the locale and paints a brutal picture of child labor
as it is supposed to exist. Anne Shirley, James McCallion and Roger Daniel all do exceptional work in morbid characterizations.

Monday, April 24
“THE FLYING IRISHMAN”—Douglas Corrigan and Eddie Quillan. In this Doug (Wrong-way) Corrigan wears his plain leather jacket and a charming
smile to fascinate theatre-goers in portraying the story of his life. He has three facial expressions: low—which signifies dejection at
the many tough breaks life brings him, medium—which is when he is flying, and high—when he smiles. That smile does
something to your heart when you see it. The plot is not unusual, because Corrigan’s life has been primarily one
of hard work. The climax is when foolhardy desperation takes place of relaxed ambition. He works hard for a mere
pittance, all the while sending his brother to college, but successive disappointments do not dismay the fighting Irishman, not even
when his plane is ruined by a crackpot ex-war ace. Of course his brother helps in the expedition.

Tuesday, April 25
“NEVER SAY DIE”—Martha Raye, Bob Hope, Bette Davis, Andy Devine. While Bette Davis completed her eight months of remaining life,
Bob Hope, on another screen, is told he has only one month to live, because he is hyper-acid and is
going to digest himself. It is all a mistake, but Bob doesn’t think so, and neither does Martha Raye, the
Texas heiress who marries him to escape being sold in wedlock to a Prince. Then at this point Andy Devine,
Martha’s home-town true-love, appears in the Swiss town where this all happens, and you are treated to the highly comical
situation of a couple on a honeymoon with a fiancé in attendance. Naturally it is confused, but out of the
chaos Bob manages to pull a succession of funny gags. Martha Raye is less boisterous in this than usual, and
the hilariousness of the picture furnishes two hours of relaxation and entertainment.

Wednesday, April 26
“THE LADY VANISHES”—No dope on the characters or the plot of this attraction, but Modern Screen magazine rates it as
a four-star picture. It should be worth seeing.

SUPER SNOOPINGS
By KEN LAWSON

Call it madness or call it Spring breezes, but there is just something about this time of year that makes
every college man exercise his three inalienable rights—life, liberty, and the pursuit of women. Which of these two things it
is we cannot say after seeing TOM McLEAN and PHYSICAL ED MORROW leaving on another tour of Concord and vicinity
Sunday night accompanied by two of Davidson College’s fairest. Spring must really be here when SAM HEMPHILL can bear all
the scathing remarks on baseball tour last weekend and still appear at Converse Saturday night to see his O-A-O “Pony.”
I just can’t help stealing a little thunder from the Sports Dept. and mentioning that the greatest news of last
weekend in the realm of athletics was choosing of the red and blue ball teams. Concerted action by these groups,
led by John Latimer who barely missed out on making one of the teams, is expected to secure a return
engagement with a team composed of HANK BAHNSON, KARL JONAS, GEORGE GRANTHAM, KEN DARBY, and company. It is said that
the reds and blues prefer hard ball to the soft ball so prevalent on the campus recently.

The student art exhibit which is now on display at the Social Center proves one point which we have always
suspected—the main interest of Davidsons in their spare time is the thinking about and painting of women somewhat a la
Petty. This is true even of the Davidsonian Dream which reveals that our own Elijah thinks of other things besides
tear gas at times.

Main social events of the weekend were the SPE district conclave and the Phi Gam hay ride. Our condolences go
out to JACK ABERNATHY for making the supreme sacrifice of allowing his roommate to take his girl to the SPE
social functions, but from all reports he’s sorry now as Casali passed him on first base and was safe at
second. And still speaking of TERRELL PORTER, who was supposed to have been only a manager for the wrestling team,
but he displayed the finesse of a seasoned grappler to the astonishment of all present. BUSTLE HOLLAND and GEORGE RICHMOND
experienced a little difficulty just before the Phi Gam affair but an eleventh-hour appearance of the girls in question made
everything right again.

Bob McClelland, who proved to be the scourge of the cut-ups with no punches pulled on his first deviation into
the journalistic field, will again become a printer’s devil next week. A word to the wise, sports, and to “Picket
Fence” McLean who is unclassifiable, should be sufficient.

Sadness was mixed with joy on the campus last week as Glucose and Dextrose mourned the passing of their dearly
beloved friend Sucrose. Mourning attire was principally composed of dirt picked up by food on the “Stud” store floor and
the workings of the mind of WARREN LUDLAM. According to Glucose, an eye witness of the tragedy, there is no
ground for charges against the driver of the car; it was a clear case of involuntary manslaughter. (Glucose seems to
have been in on too many Polit 31 crammings.)

Things we would like to know: Why MARK LILLARD backed out on the four bits main attraction Saturday? ... Which
Davidson student took the vows of matrimony during Spring holidays? ... Where LOUIS HIPP was during the French play Monday
night? ... When BOB BENFIELD will again be flushed with filthy lucre so HIRAM WHITE can get off the merry-go-round?
... How some people get all the breaks like trips to Washington via R. M. with all expenses paid as
Colonel Lippfert did? ... WHY REA TENNEY rode over to school in a taxi when he had a u-drive-it parked
in front of the Hotel Charlotte? ... What there was about Ruthie that made SONNY CUNNINGHAM fall so hard for
her Friday night? ... When GEORGE FICKLEN is going to file his suit against the telephone company for misplacement of
property? ... Why a certain KA is always so willing to dish out hush money to this columnist? ... and
how in the world I am going to end this column? Sure as his Aprille with hath icumen!!!

The ever-present soote saddle shoe has gained unprecedented popularity this season to the tune of 30 out of every 150
students. Loud socks and polo shirts have announced their arrival with Mawhinney and Webb doing a big business (commercial). Besides
the age-old proverbs concerning the arrival of spring, there is another barometer—the Post Office. And to you gentlemen whose thoughts
must be put on paper, the records show an increase of both the incoming and outgoing mail so hasten down,
me laddies, that pink scented envelope may be there.

CAMPUS COMMENTS
“Let’s flip a coin. If it’s heads we’ll go to the movies; tails we’ll go to the dance; and if
it stands on edge, we’ll study.”

A new version of the old four S’s of Sincerity, Simplicity, Sympathy, and Serenity: Shave, Shine, Shower, and Shove off
... and at last a way has been found to prove the adage that “the pen is mightier than the
sword;” a football game between Sing Sing and the Army ... that’s not so funny as it first sounded.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON ... No one can deny the advantages of being able to speak well before an audience.
To be forever a Casper Milquetoast is a definite handicap; so why shouldn’t the administration include a Public Speaking course
in the curricula for next year? Many of the smaller colleges have incorporated this already, and it has proved a
success as proved by the results of the contests held at Winthrop twice each year. Davidson has sent representatives only
once, and the outcome was negligible, while Mars Hill, Lenoir Rhyne, Appalachian, Wake Forest, and The Citadel ran away with
the honors. Then again, it would certainly improve the quality of our debaters. Fundamentals of speech, rules for preparing debates,
and extempore speaking will greatly enhance the development of our preparation for the outside world.

SWING ON THE DECLINE... Dr. George Gallup, in an “excursion into popular tastes,” on “Do you like Swing Music?” finds
that there are some inevitable signs that swing music has reached its peak with the American public, and that it
is now on the decline. For two years, jitterbugging has been a common sight in dance rooms, and for a
fad, that is an extraordinarily long time. In August, the poll shows, 62 percent answered YES to the query, while
38 percent said NO. Today, 56 percent say YES, and 44 percent answer NO. But still in the larger cities,
74 percent of the persons under 30 like their music hot, while in contrast to that, only 35 percent of
the people over 50 like swing music. The typical “oldster” complains that “it was alright until they started swinging ‘Annie
Laurie’ and ‘Loch Lomond.’” An interesting fact is that Southerners, 63 percent in favor of swing, are more enthusiastic than
the rest of the country.

IT WAS NEWS ... 3 years ago. The Richardson brothers made a gift of an additional unit to the College
Stadium ... the Veterans of Future Wars made their official debut on the Princeton Campus asking for a $1,000 bonus
before they fought. The Red and Black (Continued on Page Six)
