Spring Holidays Tomorrow

2528 ALENDA UBI ORTA Che Mavidsonian LUX LIBERTAS

Spring Holidays Tomorrow

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1939 No. 22

Council Advocates Plan Changing Procedure For Election of New Editor

Proposed Changes to be Presented to Student Body After Investigation

APPROVAL SOUGHT To Be Tabled For Ten Days

The Student Council passed a proposed amendment concerning the election of the editor for the Davidsonian last Monday night to
be submitted to a vote of the student body after rumors of combines had reached it and investigations had been
made. After a deep and lengthy investigation of the rumors, the council resolved to place the Davidsonian election under the
direct supervision of the council this year. On the basis of its evidence, the council drew up an amendment which
was submitted to the student body Tuesday morning, March 21.

“Proposed Amendment to the Constitution of the Davidson College Student Body, passed by the Student Council, March 20, 1939.

“The editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian shall hereafter be elected from the six managing editors of the present Junior Class by
a committee composed of the editor-in-chief, the associate editors, the managing editors of the present Junior Class, and the managing
editors of the rising Junior Class. For this election, full attendance of this committee shall constitute a quorum.

“Each member of the committee shall be entitled to one vote. A simple majority shall be necessary for election. Voting
shall be by secret ballot, elimination by dropping the lowest candidate in each balloting.”

In discussing the proposed amendment, Fred Stair, President of the Student Council, stated: “The purpose of the proposed amendment is
not to favor nor disfavor any of the candidates eligible for the office, but rather for the good of the
student body, and for the good of the Davidsonian in particular.”

The proposed amendment will do away with political combinations that may arise between any groups. Men who have worked on
the Davidsonian editorial staff for three years and at the least two years will elect the editor-in-chief. These men know
the qualifications and the abilities of all the six men eligible for the office. The student body as a whole
does not know which of the candidates is better fitted for the editorship.

If the amendment is passed after it has been tabled for ten days, it will necessitate a revision in the
time of the selection of the managing editors from the rising Juniors on the editorial staff. At the present time,
they are selected after the editor-in-chief has been elected. This amendment, if passed by the student body, will cause the
new managing editors to be selected before the editor is elected in order to include them on the committee which
will elect the Davidsonian editor. This matter of selecting managing editors can be changed easily, since there is no law
stating the specific time at which they must be chosen.

Davidsonians Attend Meet

Dr. Schenck and Dr. Foreman Representatives at Bible Conference

Dr. L. B. Schenck and Dr. K. J. Foreman represented the Davidson Bible Department at the Bible Conference in connection
with the Centennial Symposium on Religious Problems at Duke University. Monday evening they were entertained with a banquet given by
Duke University for all the Bible professors in the state. They were given the opportunity to attend addresses by the
following (Continued on Page Six)

Newspaper Heads Pick Six Editors

Fifteen Students Vie for Junior Editor Positions on Davidsonian

Fifteen men are eligible for the six posts available on the managerial staffs of the Davidsonian next year. These include:
Phil Peyton, Bill Hamilton, Ed Watson, Andy Dale, Bob Williams, Miller Sproull, Tom Cauble, Jamie McDuffie, Frank Barker, Winston Taylor,
Lawson Withers, Paul Bumbarger, Joe Liles, Ross McElwee, and Roy Cunningham.

For the past two issues, these men have been instructed by the present editors as to how the make-up of
the paper should be constructed. Formerly, the Sophomores and the Freshmen have just written the stories and heads for the
paper, and the Junior editors have had full charge of the make-up until the period of tutelage began with the
last issue. In this issue, Winston Taylor and Frank Barker made up page one; Cunningham, Sproull, Liles, and Withers made
up page three; Cauble, Dale, and Williams made up the sports page; Jimmie McDuffie and Phil Peyton made up page
five, and the last page was made up by Ross McElwee. Ed Watson and Paul Bumbarger were assignment editors. The
election of the six men to manage the paper for next year will be made by this year's staff.

New Dorm’s Site Chosen Below East

Final Blueprints for the New Dormitory Have Not Been Selected

In a recent meeting, the Building and Grounds Committee decided that Davidson’s new dormitory should be constructed on the vacant
lot just east of East Dormitory. Several sites were discussed at the meeting, but the Committee finally agreed to keep
the present Dormitory Row intact, and to have the new building in line with East, West, and Georgia. As yet,
final blueprints for the dormitory have not been selected, but it will probably vary considerably from the dormitories now on
the campus. One of the best innovations, from the students’ viewpoint at least, will be the fact that there will
be no fourth floor in the new building—which is expected to accommodate from 80 to 90 boys. So far, several
plans have been submitted and rejected, though it is reasonably certain that the building will run at right angles to
the present East and West dormitories, with entrances at the front, [Continued on Page Six]

J. L. Ballard Is Lecturer At Meeting

Major Ballard Speaks on “General Allenby’s Campaign in Palestine”

Major James L. Ballard, professor of Military Science at Davidson College, presented a lecture to the student body last Friday
night on “General Allenby’s Campaign in Palestine.” Invited to speak by the Bible department, he compared Allenby’s success in overcoming
the Turks with many military triumphs told of in the Bible, such as Joshua’s conquest of Jericho. He then proceeded
to outline the victories of Allenby after he had succeeded General Murray as commander of the British troops around Jerusalem.

First Campaign

He told of how General Murray attempted to drive the Turks out of Gaza, their stronghold, and his failure. After
Murray had attempted several attacks, failing each time, he was succeeded by General Allenby. Allenby made all his troop movements
under cover of night, and attempted several cavalry raids upon Beersheba, a town near Gaza from which the Turks obtained
most of their water supply. After Beersheba was captured, the artillery was used to fire upon Gaza, which fell in
late November, 1917. Jerusalem was the next objective of the English, whom by sheer determination and will power Allenby drove
toward the capital city in the rain and mud. When Jerusalem fell on December 11, the entire region of Palestine
was under British control. General Allenby, commented Major Ballard, was a combination of the best qualities found in Lee, Grant,
and Jackson. Though little is heard of him today, he was one of the most outstanding World War generals, dying
in London in 1936. Major Ballard was introduced by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of the Bible department of the college.

Spring Holidays

At 12:30 on Thursday afternoon, March 23, the annual spring holidays for Davidson College will begin. There will be a
period of rest from studies for about five days, and all students will be expected back for classes on the
morning of Wednesday, March 29 at 8:30. The holidays this year do not, as in several former years, come during
the Easter weekend. Easter comes so late in the year that it was impossible to wait until then for the
spring vacation. A number of students, who will be unable to go to their homes because they live too far
away, will remain here on the campus during the five days; and in contrast to this, several students have already
left for their holidays. Students who plan to take examinations or re-examinations during this period of the year should make
the necessary arrangements with Mr. Hengeveld.

Davidson’s Orchestra Takes Trip

Glee Club and Little Symphony Give Concerts in Various Cities

The Davidson Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra returned last night from a four-day tour of the cities in eastern
North Carolina. The musical organizations left at 9:30 last Saturday morning on two new Queen City buses for the destination
of Wilmington. They paused for dinner in Lumberton and arrived in Wilmington at 2:30. In this city, they gave a
formal concert at the New Hanover High School at 8:00 Saturday night, and on Sunday night they gave a sacred
program in the First Presbyterian Church. Also, a radio broadcast was made over station WMFD, Wilmington, on Saturday afternoon.

Monday morning, the organizations left for Flora McDonald College in Red Springs where they gave a concert. Tuesday morning, they
stopped at P. J. C. in Maxton where they rendered a concert. Tuesday night's program was given in the auditorium
of the high school in Troy. The organizations then returned to the campus after the program Tuesday night. On this
trip, the Glee Club was under the direction of Prof. Thane McDonald.

Seventy-Fifth Birthday Observed By Magazine

Scripts ’N’ Pranks Publishes Forty-Page Edition to Celebrate

“Scripts and Pranks,” the college magazine, makes its appearance for the 75th year on the campus this week. In the
spring of 1864, the first issue of a Davidson College magazine was run off the press to amuse and to
display the talents of the students. Celebrating the anniversary of this first publication, the staff of the “Scripts and Pranks”
for this year have turned out the largest magazine ever edited by the students. The anniversary number contains 40 pages
of concentrated humor, which is eight pages longer than any previously published, (and 40 more pages of humor than ever
before published). The cover was done by Fred Harbin, chief cartoonist on the staff.

One of the main features of the issue is the comprehensive questionnaire on the likes and dislikes of the students
in regard to the habits and character of the feminine multitude. Although not much was learned by the questionnaire, it
gave the editors a chance to make a few nasty remarks. Besides the cartoons, which are more numerous than ever
before, there are several stories.by Earle Austin, Bob Ramsey, and Scotty Raynal. The snap-shot page contains pictures of the “boys”
in their off moments and the poet's corner displays the high-minds of several modern Byrons. An unpaid advertisement was broadcast
over the loud-speaking system at the student body as- (Continued on Page Six) McDonald and the Little Symphonic Orchestra under
the direction of Prof. James C. Pfohl. Also, a quartet under Thane McDonald composed of James Ballard, John Wilson, Stuart
Oglesby, and Harper Beall gave numbers at each concert. In each town visited, the organizations were well received and the
concerts were well attended. The members stayed in private homes while on the trip.

Seniors Plan ‘Faculty Day’
Class of ’39 Expects to Hold Outdoor Function With Faculty This Spring

Plans are rapidly being completed for an outdoor function between the Senior Class and Faculty to be held sometime this
spring, according to Ovid Bell, chairman of the committee for arrangements. A definite date for the occasion has not yet
been fixed, but the affair will probably be held late in April. A whole afternoon will be devoted to outdoor
sports featuring contests between Seniors and Faculty members, such as golf, tennis, horseshoes, and bowling. After the sporting events, members
of both groups will gather around a bonfire for a barbecue supper or some similar feed, after which entertainment will
be provided. Besides Bell, the students are represented on the arrangement (Continued on Page Six)

SEVEN SERVICES HELD
Rev. I. M. Ellis Secured as Sidney Crane Is Chosen New President of YMCA; Davis Conducts Services

Rev. C. Grier Davis, Davidson Alumnus, Leads Spring Devotionals

Speaking on “What A Christian Ought To Do,” Rev. C. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville,
will close the annual YMCA spring services tonight at 7:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Rev. Davis opened his series of seven
services Sunday evening at the weekly Vespers, when he spoke on “Faith.” Carrying out his general topic, “Faith and The
Cross,” he has spoken at the expanded morning chapels on “What Must I Believe To Be A Christian,” and at
the evening services on “What Ought I To Do, Since I Am A Christian.” The YMCA has also brought Rev.
I. M. Ellis, assistant pastor of the Gastonia Presbyterian Church, to lead the hymns. During the week, the Asheville minister
has shown that Christian faith is not a problem but life itself, consisting of a conviction about God followed by
a glorious adventure based on this conviction. A Christian should not be interested in how little but how much to
believe. He must realize that man belongs to God and should therefore walk in Christ’s footsteps. If a Christian discards
his belief that God is like Jesus, throws his emotion overboard, or discards a good conscience, he will shipwreck his
faith. Rev. Davis has pointed out that a Christian’s first responsibility is himself, and that until he has repented, which
means changing one's mental outlook on life, he cannot expect to take part in any social redemption. Christianity is really
just a response to God's love; if man wants to believe, he will be rewarded. To follow Christ, one must
substitute God for his own desires and then assume responsibility for some cause or person. The seeming paradox in Christianity
is that life which is loved shall be destroyed, while life which is consumed will be preserved.

The YMCA speaker, a native of Monticello, Ark., graduated from Davidson in 1927. In 1929 he entered Princeton Theological Seminary
and transferred the next year to Union Seminary in Richmond, where he received his Th. B. degree in 1931. While
serving as assistant pastor at Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond, he continued his studies and received his master's degree
of Theology in 1935. He was called to the Second Presbyterian Church at Norfolk in February 1933, and again to
the First Church at Asheville in 1938.

Debate Teams Leave On Trip
Group to Travel North, South, and West to Speak on Pump Priming

Three Davidson debate teams left the campus last week on their annual spring tour which takes them into several sections
of the country. The Northern team, composed of John Reisner and Locke White, left last Saturday on a trip which
takes them far into the Middle Atlantic States as north as New York City, where they will make their general
headquarters. Sherrard Rice and Joe Calvin, the Southern team, also left Saturday. They will make a tour of the southern
states through Atlanta, as far south as the University of Alabama, where they will meet a team. The third team,
composed of Bob Ramsey and Dick Warren with Kenyon Ladlam, will tour the far western states, going as far as
Cleveland, Ohio. The teams will alternate, using both the affirmative and negative side of the question: “Resolved, That the Federal
Government should cease using public funds for the stimulation of business.” Besides this question, the northern team will also debate
several times on the topic “Resolved, That the United States should form an alliance with Great Britain.”

Eight Juniors Will Be Eligible for Election After Spring Holidays
Elections Student will be resumed immediately after the completion of spring holidays. The election of the editor for the “Quips
and Cranks,” the college yearbook, will be the first election to take place after the vacation. The men to be
voted on are this year’s Junior editors of the annual. They are as follows: Julian Lokey, a member of the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, who is the present snapshots editor of the college yearbook, and who is also a circulation
manager for the Davidsonian. Bob Doty, member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, who is also in Gamma Sigma Epsilon and
Alpha Epsilon Delta. Frank Hand, Beta Theta Pi, has been feature editor of the annual. Jim Anderson, who is at
present assistant editor of the annual and who is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. Tom Perrin,
Kappa Alpha, who has been the sports editor for the “Quips and Cranks” and who has written feature columns for
the Davidsonian. Paul Marion, Kappa Alpha, who at present is the Fraternities editor for the yearbook. Stewart Oglesby, who is
the photographic editor of the annual and who is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Jack Holland, Phi
Gamma Delta, who has served as a Junior editor of the Davidsonian and who is the activities editor for the
annual.

Crane Elected Over Kenyon by Narrow Margin on Third Ballot
HAS MANY ACTIVITIES
Finley and Watson Are Made Vice-Presidents

President of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year will be Sid Crane of Hickory. Crane was elected
to this position in the second of the Spring Elections which was held during the past week. Trailing by 51
votes on the final ballot was Dick Kenyon of Gainesville, Ga. The election was held over a period of three
days before the final selection was made. Bob Finley of North Wilkesboro was voted the first vice-president on the second
day, but the second vice-presidency was not decided until the fourth day at which time Ed Watson of Charlotte won
over Bob Balsley. Six men were nominated for the presidency. They were as follows: Crane, Kenyon, Dave McLean, Bob Ramsey,
Dave Sprunt, and Tommy Harnsberger. Sprunt was a strong contender for the position and ran third in the election. Nominated
for vice-presidency positions were six men from the Sophomore class. These men were Watson, Balsley, Tom Cauble, John Hay, and
Bob Williams. Bob Williams lost on the third day by a small margin.

Crane is now a member of the “Y” Cabinet and is in charge of Sunday School work. During the past
year he has served as First Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A. and has been very active as a
worker in the Unity Church. He is a member of the Glee Club and made his letter in wrestling. Sid
is interested in “Y” work throughout the state and is President of the Young Peoples’ Group of the Concord Presbytery.
He is a non-fraternity man. Bob Finley is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He has been interested
in Boys “Y” work and traveled on many deputations. Bob has taught a class at the Student Sunday School several
times and is a sophomore basketball manager. Ed Watson is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He is
a member of the Student Council and is on the Davidsonian editorial staff, also a member of the editorial staff
of Quips and Cranks. Sherrard Rice, who is now president of the “Y,” will be replaced by Crane. Rice will
take the place of Wade Boggs as Secretary of the “Y” during the coming year. Crane and Sprunt are the
retiring vice-presidents.

Senior Robes Contract Set
Statesville Firm Awarded Contract for Caps and Gowns

The contract has been awarded by the Senior class for caps and gowns according to an announcement by John Mawhinney,
chairman of the caps and gowns committee. The committee awarded the contract to a new firm in Statesville this year.
The firm has formerly dealt only with high school caps and gowns, but is buying an entire new set of
caps and gowns for rent to colleges. Approximately one hundred and thirty-five seniors have been measured for the new caps
and gowns, which will be made especially for them. They will be of mercerized poplin material which will be much
cooler than the usual serge material. The gowns will arrive before June 2. The committee, composed of John Mawhinney, Scotty
Raynal, and Stitt Robinson, are expecting [Continued on Page Six]
