Z—528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA THE DAVIDSONIAN LUX LIBERTAS VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1939
No. 12

CATS, DEACONS CLOSE LONG RIVALRY

Two Davidson Men Represent Council At Interfrat Meet

Informal Discussion Will Be Heard Over CBS Saturday Morning

Paul Marion, president of the Pan Hellenic Council, and Jim Anderson, secretary, will be Davidson’s representatives at the National Interfraternity
Council meeting in New York on December 1 and 2. The two men will leave for New York on Wednesday
to attend the convention being held at the Biltmore Hotel. It is an annual affair attended by representatives from all
major colleges and universities in the nation.

Theme of Conference

The theme of the conference will be “A Functional Program for the Undergraduate Councils.” Highlight of the session will be
an address by Mr. C. S. Geddes of the University of Minnesota. This will be followed by a discussion on
“The Scholastic Requirements for Pledging and Initiation.” On Saturday morning “The Question Box” will be held by the undergraduate members.
At 10:00 A.M., the Columbia Broadcasting System will present the regular program “Bull Session.” At this presentation, the members of
the National Interfraternity Council will be the guests and commentators. The topic for discussion will be “Are College Fraternities Worth
While?” The informal program will be entirely impromptu and spontaneous.

Mid-Winters

To clear up any misunderstanding that may arise, President Marion stated that they could not definitely promise that a band
would be booked for the Mid-Winters dances on this trip. He said he had appointments with all of the booking
agencies, however, and, if possible, contracts will be made.

Flying Club Is Allowed By Faculty Group

Organized To Promote Flying And to Help Those Interested

Approval by the faculty of the Flying Club, Davidson's newest extra-curricular organization, was officially announced to members at the group's
third meeting Monday night. Faculty action recognizing the new addition to the fast-growing list of campus clubs was taken at
a faculty meeting on Nov. 20.

First Meeting

The first meeting of the group was held on Monday night, November 13, and was called by Dave McLean. The
group was organized and elected officers. The officers are Bob Miller, president; Dave McLean, first vice president; Ben Colkitt, second
vice president; and Howell, secretary-treasurer. Since the first meeting, a constitution has been drawn up and approved, and initiation fees
and dues have been agreed upon. Monday night at 10 o'clock has been adopted as the standard time for weekly
meetings.

Aims

The aims of the group, which now numbers some 20 members, are to stimulate student interest in flying and to
create cheaper flying time for members by pooling time and securing the purchase of a plane. Plans for future meetings
include speeches by instructors from the Cannon Aircraft Corporation in Charlotte. Officials have promised cooperation with the club.

Y.M.C.A. Picks Uses For Christmas

Six Projects Were Considered By Cabinet As Likely Activities

Suitable recreation facilities for the colored section of Davidson was set as the objective for this year's Christmas Gift Fund
by the Y Cabinet in a special meeting Monday morning. A goal of $800 has been set as an adequate
amount for erecting a suitable community center and grading an athletic field close by. Location of the building is not
yet definite, but both building and field will be placed near the colored school.

This year’s project is a departure from the traditional gift to foreign missions. For the past four years, the Christmas
Gift Fund has gone to the foreign field.

Carefully Planned

The cabinet is anxious for students to know that the project is not the result of a hasty decision, but
has been under constant consideration and the subject of much prayer for over a month. Six projects, covering a wide
range of activities in both home and foreign missions, were given detailed consideration by the cabinet before a vote was
taken.

Many aspects of the project figured in the final decision. First, the cabinet felt that student interest would run higher
in an affair so close to home, a very tangible gift that can be watched and improved from year to
year. Another advantage will be the creation of a closer cooperation between the students and the local community.

[Continued on Page Three]

Gift Fund

Groups Give Band Feeds

Musical Organizations Give Varied Program

Today and tomorrow, Davidson musical organizations are invited to attend the banquets of two Charlotte organizations, the Chamber of Commerce
and the Good Fellows Club.

At 1 o'clock today, musical organizations from Davidson, Wake Forest, and Queens-Chicora provided the program for the meeting of the
Good Fellows Club. Between 300 and 400 people attended the luncheon, which was held in the Chamber of Commerce dining
room. The Queens-Davidson orchestra played for the luncheon, and double vocal quartets from Davidson College and Wake Forest College sang.
Norman Shepard and Jim Weaver, athletic directors at Davidson and Wake Forest, respectively, and the coaches and captains of the
football teams of the rival institutions were honor guests of the club and were presented.

On tomorrow, Thanksgiving Day, the Chamber of Commerce will be host at a luncheon to members of the Wake Forest
and Davidson bands. About 80 students are expected to attend the event, which will be given in cooperation with the
Davidson and Wake Forest alumni associations. J. Caldwell McDonald is president of the Davidson association and John Knott of the
Wake Forest association.

Bill Bolin
Jim Cowan
Dan Cagle
George Richmond

These eight seniors will don the red and black for the last time tomorrow. They have contributed much to the
Wildcat tradition of hard play and good sportsmanship. It will fall to them to form the backbone of the Cat
defenses as they and their mates meet a powerful Deacon squad in Memorial Stadium in Charlotte.

Pep Meeting

The biggest pep meeting of the year will be held tonight in the new gym at 7:30 o'clock. After a
few yells, Dr. S. C. McClintock is scheduled to give a brief pep talk on behalf of tomorrow’s game with
Wake Forest. Loch Hunter, head cheerleader, announces also a shirt-tail parade and a tentative free movie.

Special Thanksgiving Service

Dr. McGavock Leads Special Thanksgiving Service in Chapel Tuesday

The only official observance of the holiday by the student body was the special Thanksgiving service held in the chapel
on Tuesday morning. Dr. McGavock was in charge of the service. His program was much like the regular worship programs,
consisting of a hymn, scripture reading, and prayer, differing in that there were no announcements made.

Planned By “Y”

This service was similar to the one given by Dr. Frontis Johnson earlier in the year in preparation for the
Fall holidays. The “Y” cabinet had selected Tuesday for the most suitable date as Thursday was an official holiday. There
will also be held a special Thanksgiving service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church at 10 o'clock Thursday, Thanksgiving morning. The
guest minister will be the Rev. Dr. Willis S. Wilson of Davidson, who, before retiring, was pastor at Mooresville, Montreat,
and Lincolnton.Time a special offering will be taken for the benefit of the Barium Springs Orphanage.

Portuguese has been added to the long list of foreign languages taught at the University of Texas.

A show for freshmen only, if they come to the meeting, will follow. Loch states that upperclassmen as well as
freshmen are expected to attend this, our last and most important pep-meeting of the season.

Students Aid Boy In Quest

A large increase has been noted lately in the student body's collection of match covers. At present, around 3,000 covers
are on hand, this sum being increased by a box of 500 sent by Mooresville High School. Although there has
been a rumor circulating around the campus that the collection was merely a hoax, this conclusion has not been verified.
The campaign began several weeks ago when Sam Spencer received a letter from a student at W. C. U.N. C.
in Greensboro asking the Davidson students to help a blind boy in Rocky Mount by saving match covers. It was
understood that if the boy collected a million covers by a certain date he would receive a “seeing-eye” dog free.

Careers Tomorrow

“Poss” McLean
Marvin Pennington
“Tubby” Hand

Slight Change In Cuts Made

Cuts Will Be Single On Tuesday, Jan. 2; Other Cuts To Be Doubled

According to an announcement made by Sam Spencer, president of the student body, at Friday's chapel service, the cut system
has been slightly changed by a recent action of the Absence Committee. Under this new plan, cuts will be single
on Tuesday, Jan. 2. Cuts will, however, be doubled if students have taken double cuts the week preceding the holidays.
This change has been made to favor the students that it may be necessary for them to travel on Sunday
in order to return to school, or to take double cuts.

Double Cuts

It is understood that cuts will continue to be doubled beginning Sunday, December 10 and continuing until Friday, the 15th.
They will be doubled from Wednesday, January 3, throughout the week. The holidays will formally begin at 12:30 on Friday
afternoon, Dec. 15, and will come to an end at the 8:25 bell on Tuesday morning, Jan. 2. The students
will thus have a holiday of sixteen and one-half days.

Group Will Discuss Question

“The Christian Outlook Toward War” is Theme

The Christian Outlook Toward War will be sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. on Dec. 6, at 7:30 and
will be held in the Phi Hall. Both students and members of the faculty will participate in the discussion, which
will be led by Dick Kenyon. Although Kenyon will lead in the discussion, Dr. Johnson, Williamson, Gwynn, and Professor McGavock
will make short speeches. After each five-minute talk by members of the faculty, the floor will be thrown open for
discussion. At this time the audience will have an opportunity to support or oppose various ideas on the subject.

New Idea

This discussion is a new type of program on the campus and is being tried as an experiment. If the
meetings prove successful and absorbing, the Y. M. C. A. cabinet is planning to hold similar meetings in the future
to discuss other vital questions. Since the subject is of vital importance to Davidson as an institution and is a
popular topic, an enthusiastic audience is expected. If the Phi Hall will [Continued on Page Three]

Old Foes To Clash In Last Battle At Memorial Stadium

Game Will Mark Twenty-Sixth Meeting of Two Teams Since 1908

The gallant Wildcats will meet Wake Forest's Demon Deacons tomorrow in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. By virtue of their season record,
the Deacons are ranked as favorites to keep the battle within their grasp. The game will be a climactic finale
to Davidson-Wake Forest relations on the gridiron.

Deacs’ Record

Peahead Walker's charges have plowed through formidable opponents like Elon, N. C. State, Miami, Western Maryland, Marshall, and Clemson. The
Deacons have shown a powerful line and a versatile backfield. Duke barely eked out a win, and the Deacons defeated
Furman and gave plenty of trouble to other teams. Wake Forest's eleven has had its share of brilliant sophomores who
have put up good games against State, Duke, and others.

Journey's End Cast Progresses On Play

December 13th Is Date Set For Red and Black Masquers’ Production

The Red and Black Masquers announce that their next production, "Journey's End," is to be presented on December 13. The
play, set in World War I, is a drama that has been successfully staged in England and America. Rehearsals have
been progressing smoothly during the past weeks, and the cast is expected to complete preparations by the first of next
week. The play is taking definite shape, and a small ensemble of the Symphony Orchestra will present selections from a
varied repertoire of semi-classical and popular pieces.

The performance promises an entertaining evening of drama and music for both students and townspeople. Meeting last night in the
Quade Wranglers’ Room, the Masquers determined to make their newest production a success.
