Thurs. Oct. 5, 1939 GLEANINGS Page Two The Davidsonian THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS IN: | “the stu- on. America’s people have been called world’s best informed,” but—college | ing himself informed as to what is going | Founded By the Class of 1915 dents, and particularly Davidson students, y seem to be miserably ignorant about world affairs. Last week-end didn't end until 1938 Member 1939 AFAR ES \ny D ids. « Mia tTe ho hz 0. *. . SMA GUYS- | Tuesday for you, so don’t gripe. affairs. ny Davidsonian reporter who has 2 . ONE “BY SPOILED THE | Hatha, ‘aE OE we i i “31 ao font 7 aL a Ths : am Another point of query— Associated Collegiate Press | tried to gather student opinion on this. THAT JIMMY WILSON, (LEFT) | wonder what has happened to Peg- Now reading a daily newspaper and in- 13 YEARS OF SCHOOLING / | inseparable last year? . Hunters- Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson SEGUE AINE RICK AgUEpAnETe EMESIS STELZENMULLER SHATTERED | Don't know why we haven't noted | HIS FATHER'S RECORD 97.50 | the details run down that way this Printed By The | ous in their work of creating accurate im- AVERAGE WHICH HAD STOOD | | year that were so noticeable last STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY | pressions, but many of them are prejudiced. SINGS eos | | year. Word reaches us that one Charlotte, North Carolina Even from the honest ones false impressions are gleaned. Michael Evans in | of the belles of the fair city has | Coronet gives some very wise points to enrolled at Peace this year. Tch! SUBSCRIPTION RATES | follow so as to be on guard against false | Light Horse Harry | Ten cents per copy. $1.50 news: His BOUL . : {merged with Betty Mallory not, the staff of The Davidsonian and National Advertising Service, Inc. | “(1) Is the report credited to a foreign long ago. The story is verified by| enlisted her aid during the game. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y. service, Reuters of England, Havas one who saw the license, still the, He went over to Salisbury Sunday CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO of France, the official D.N.B. agency of | announcements haven't come forth) night to help her with a story Germany, the Tass of Russia? If so, dis- pas. Set GUKLE Bp One OE need ne bis Geteme Nigkien was Entered as second-class matter at the fines eH PE KALL ‘a a pon INGS ... And straight from one ing-mighty dapper as he rolled in ri arch 3re (2 E I says : ac H Ss i 5 i North Carolina, under the act 0 eA what it aE es re fact that it is | of his brothers comes the dope late Sunday night from what ap- TONY CASALI aii DITOR INACHIER credited to the foreign agency means that | that Karl Jonas upset all tradition| peared to be a very successful JIM CURRIE } the U. S. press service has not been able | by having a date of his own up| week-end. Never could find out EDITORIAL STAFF | to confirm the news. life a change. What's the matter, | just where he had spent most of ‘ SS . , ’ . c ‘. Jack—-Abernatliy...----——---- | en Oe . j ae : + eee | Karl, didn’t any of the brothers’) the time after the game Rea : t2 es-the-dispateh bear » date tin TY ; fries Pave oes ; ‘ x nul Rut cMEy atl : a ; mans ; ie : at ee cae : i UNIVERS! MEN | dates suit you this time ? ? ? Prexy | Tenney's technique seems to have ‘om Cat --- oes ch tad woneditallvAtmupnte ( Bice a i = < sare - 3 foc Liles fee Ce eee audtellof events uanother | reas CO-EDS ; Spencer continues to make the| picked up with practice—went on \ su i ’ poy: aS 4p = ; "i | ? ; A ; ; eg ; au Nat Withers | lhe skept ical if it.does. These reports, TO ae adds Hg news—again this week-end it was/a skating rink picnic this week eee ae E “Associate Editor are apt to be compounded of gossip, propa- | } AT FOOTBALL | Converse and Scotty. This time] after last week's practice. Did you AAS pene aot ten, a _.-Associate Editor ovations; | | oa & apn + : j lege mike % Tih ae Karl iets JeeCANS NG iditor ganda, and imagination | GAMES AT MIAN { she-came to see Sam tavet Did you| get plenty to eat, Re are Inci- Sam Spencer : ------------Associate Editor | rar) ) ireceatpear Taeey ; | On’ HOWDY DAY" AT LOS ANGELES CITy UNIVERSITY (oH10) / | two love-hirds enjoy the Charlotte} dentally, the rink is rapidly prov- Bobby Williams Sapeesaws ssccoosts Movie Pues (3) Does the story disclose where the COLLEGE. STUDENTS.-WEAR IDENTIFICATION, era rT T we We lin = F David = ial ony + ¢ Staff Photographer : Tey cary z Ival- sa ay <nignt? EEA A ) ger? 9 ecea- tor AVIGSON § SOE - ee BUSINESS STAFF ; == j news originated (some official announce- TAGS AND SAY HOWDY’ TO EVERYONE THEY MEET / wonder if W. C. U. N.C. is losing | ites It was quite crowded Saturday Heibert Codingts ment or interview) ? “Ttxvas _Asst. Business Manager Or does it say out? You might ask Russell} nite, aA Ae AAVBECIM NEEM TRRSES! rea HEM : sharing popularity honors with Heeis: M Lean Advertising Manager | learned, it was revealed, ‘a high of- ur ) *s Mum slings Edmondson why his date for the} the Carnival ... And speaking of SHAY Circulation Manager |_| iy ~ : : ey, <5 : ict Hilde Cae sis Circulation Manager |™ ficial source,” or some phrase of that kind? , | game—made weeks before—didn’t | Carnivals, Mooresville’s annual af- Fred 11 Little Collection Manager | remember his name and why come she turned up Sunday with Bogo. . Observers have wondered why fair opens this week—the report is ° that they changed the gold- fish bowl to the finger-bowl. — Those phrases are red flags geo NMicEver And Co. By BOB WILLIAMS have “(4) Does the story tell just what hap- |assk ee | | | does it interpret the-event-and Thurs. and Fri, Oct.5"& 6 | | | | Roy-t bh) {lege audience, and: so get in on| |. ; : eaey: pened ?—¢ sue 7 mi - 7 of ri Gleek Luther-was looking-so glum}See aH you Jads at the—Carnival, : all reigns - f ; i ! » premier showing s amus-| ... . Once again King Football reigns through forecast what will happen next? — Inter- 2 fe eaeeceanteeee Sie os oe reer sitting alone at the Dook game.|I suppose Some of the Fiji ‘ P - nasi es i ; Pe ’ ; - , , fs aie fing cinemaoin is yar oO 1¢ , . ° out the nation. — Davidson, after early sea- pretations and forecasts are only as good IN NAME ONLY—Cary Grant, ey : You might have got the answer had] brethren seemed rather tired after ; é = ms cat Charles Coburn, Helen’ Vinson,-and? Wednesday, October 11 seen S vu ri Gleek's date. . i i Geko etartin arith. a good team.’ Of them: een track Otaviio maken thenmant es Cob on y seen Sproull with the Gleek’s-date.|-party in’ Mooresville Saturday nite. : A deorehalited | i . : Katherine Alexander, | eee And who. were the freshmen . Warren Green Ludlam looked course Duke and State have chalked up | how they turn out. Then, next time you'll ; : : : : arent hibiti : : ve de | G McBver's : If you're crazy about Cary Grant WHEN FOMORROW COMES— | that gave the swimming exhibition | lonesome Saturday as I hear he victories over the ’C its rut zene Mi | know whether it’s likely to be right. and Carol Gonibardsay most movie! [rene Dunne, Charles ‘Rover, in Charlotte the other night? Did-| could not get a- reservation proteges have the distinction of being the Does the story editorialize the news ? fans are, you'll like this one, and 5 1a fe aaa n't know we had-a Johnny Jones| Where were all of your dates this ’ % ks rene unne anc laries »oyer, e ~ : . : : F reak Duke’s unscored-on record | , : apt ap eanalanaaiad ¢ TW Fidiites ws are Spas ba visto ; . svery—mi } : . 7 -aiee from Cornelius registered with us.| week, Clark? Jon’ “pe team to break Duke unsco | pea Hee 11 Ct} phrase s as “the Raw —Deat it wilt be worth every minute you ACCRA COCR ian GE LeATTICn EGO: ( oO s g eek, ark Don't depend. on and also scering on State twice.—( Pennes- | (mstead of the New Deal) are used’ tthe spend watching it 1 he acting «1s Affair’! are) united again. The: pic- : peligenn ay aa eee BG ue apa ee ee Joe A i , - le s rz . ve 7 3 ra detanec esbDy oa yOCK- | a ‘r a years lapse aga 2co § see could do no better). | author is trying to make up your mind marvelous, but it -is rather un RPC AUNTORTciauely teu vathee: eloweles g \ W er a year’s lapse again becomes Gradie-t Davideoat Hate poe ito slot : fl letti % fortunate that with such good ac- Hace ANU Mined end ikeiwate end on campus—the first of the} a Tavern fixture It looks as ; r avidson’s show *s ty ste: ‘ eae s 3 2 miced ane syoined, 4 $ ¢ Sood bw redit fo ( gers, tor vou instead of letting you form) your fonaac IGrant and een Warne die Snape 7 arcane NO tar Pa CU After the past few weeks,| if the football team has a mono- Hee » These vo . ‘ reauls $17} ‘ . Ci i) e é ¥ “l'o three men, These three men, all regular OW opimion writer, Richard Sherman, had such | |, ai I SaaS err er Shaw, you should welcome the ae poly on the co-eds. : Bess i : BY : , ous predecesso yas. ul se, fellows, have taken a squad of 35 men, | (6) Does the stor¥ say all itseems to? A sickly basic story to work with. The two popular stars are excellent, all inexperienced, light, but willing. The handsome Boyer, who makes women’s hearts flutter both on and off the screen, drops in at Karbis restaurant one noon and is served a plate by waitress Irene Dunne. Quite intrigued by Miss Dunne, he follows her to the staff quarters where she makes a stirring speech on the sisterhood of the working class. The facts of the case are that Davidson didn’t have much of a team, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You couldn’t, that’s why. Our team was fighting the way they knew best, and by golly, it was pretty good too. Listen, you have offended and affronted us with your statement that we “don’t have much of a team.” If we don’t have much of a team, then why was the score 7-6 at the end of the half instead of 14 or 20 to zero? You