Spencer Elected Head Of Student Body

Z528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

“Y” Services Will Begin Next Week

VOL. XXVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1939 No. 21

Currie Is Appointed To Regulating Board For Police Personnel

William H. Bobbitt, 14th District Resident Judge, Makes Selection

THREE-MAN COMMISSION

Thomas Glasgow of Charlotte Also Appointed

Prof. Archibald Currie of Davidson faculty was appointed to the Mecklenburg Civil Service Commission Saturday by Judge William H. Bobbitt,
resident judge of the 14th Judicial District. This board, comprised of three men, is responsible for the personnel of the
Mecklenburg County police force, and the post carries neither salary nor expenses.

Other Appointment

Thomas Glasgow of Charlotte was appointed at the same time as Dr. Currie. Mr. H. H. Lewis of Charlotte will
continue on the board. The Davidson professor will succeed James M. Blake and will be sworn in sometime this week,
according to Judge Bobbitt. They will hold office until March 4, 1941. The order of the judge further provides that
the board shall, upon qualification by law, effect the organization of the group, therefore involving the election of a chairman
and a secretary. The law states that one of the members shall be a resident of Charlotte, and that the
other two members shall be rural residents of the county. The last appearance in public of the county police problem
was an attempt to pass a bill in the General Assembly allowing the civil commissioners to be named by the
county commissioners instead of by the resident judge. But sentiment has registered so much against it, that the proposed bill
was regarded as dead.

Spring Dances Date Is Fixed

Council Is Fairly Certain of Obtaining Big Name Orchestra

A tentative date for opening of the Spring Dances has been announced by President of the Pan Hellenic Council, Ray
Pittman, as the first day of May. May 1 has been chosen in preference to other dates because this is
the week-end on which most of the athletic teams will be on the campus. Uncertainty about securing the Charlotte Armory
and a dance band render this date uncertain.

Dame Rumor has it that the bands of Isham Jones and Larry Clinton are being seriously considered by the Pan
Hellenics, but President Pittman refuses to endorse these rumors. It is fairly certain, however, that a big name band will
be secured.

Last Year’s Set

Last year the last set of dances was held on April 8 and 9 in the Armory. Dean Hudson and
his Florida Clubmen, who also played the formal dance of this year’s Midwinters, furnished the music. The Friday night dance
was a Military Ball, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity. At this dance all Senior officers wore
their R. O. T. C. uniforms. This dance set was regarded by a majority of the students as the most
successful set of the year. President Pittman promises an equally good group of finals for this year, to match the
Mid-Winters Set at which music was furnished Saturday night by Hal Kemp.

Rollins College annually “Edits” an animated magazine which features articles delivered in person by famous U. S. leaders.

Indiana University is constructing 20 new tennis courts as part of a campus WPA project.

Honored

Dr. Archibald Currie, Davidson professor, recently chosen a member of the Mecklenburg Civil Service Commission, has been active in local
civic affairs during most of the time he has been a professor at Davidson. He has served on the Davidson
School Board for a number of years.

Paul Popenoe Speaks Twice On Marriage

Stresses Three Factors Which Are Necessary for Happy Marriages

Dr. Paul Popenoe, Sc. D., nationally-known biologist and author, spoke to the Davidson student body twice on Monday, March 13.
During the chapel period Monday morning he spoke on “Factors For Success in Marriage,” and Monday night he lectured again
on “Who Shall Inherit America?”

Dr. Popenoe is general director of the Institute of Family Relations in Los Angeles, Calif., and is the third lecturer
brought to Davidson this year by the lecture committee.

Monday Morning’s Talk

In his address Monday morning Dr. Popenoe stated that there are three factors for a happy marriage. These are: proper
choice of a mate, a correct attitude toward what one may expect from marriage, and a certain amount of technical
information about the other sex. An unhappy home is the worst handicap a person can have in seeking success, while
a normal home with intelligent parents increases one’s chances for happiness a 100 percent. The amount of work and self-sacrifice
one puts into marriage will determine the amount of joy one derives from it.

In his lecture Monday evening Dr. Popenoe stressed the need of decreasing the birth rate in lower-class families and increasing
the number of children in families which are capable of giving them the best start in life. The number of
undesirable children may be reduced in several ways, while the problem of getting more children in desirable homes is largely
an economic one and differs markedly on the farm and in the city.

[Continued on Page Three]

Carnegie Set Ready

Professor James Christian Pfohl, head of the Department of Music at Davidson announced today that the Carnegie Record Set is
again ready for operation. It will be open regularly from 7:30 to 9:30 every night with an attendant in charge.
For the past two weeks the machine has been in Charlotte undergoing extensive repairs.

Five To Be Candidates For Editor

Davidsonian Head Will Be Elected Before Spring Holiday Period

Sam Spencer, one of the six “Davidsonian” managing editors and recently elected president of the 1939-40 student body, will not
be a candidate this week for editor of the college newspaper.

This leaves five managing editors, all the junior members of the staff, whose names will form the ballot. They are:
Jack Abernathy, Earle Austin, Jack Casali, Tom Holland, and Fred Hudson. Stair announced that voting on these men will probably
begin in chapel tomorrow morning with final ballots cast early next week. The new managing editors, probably five from the
old sophomore class, will be named Monday.

Candidates Active

The five “Davidsonian” candidates have taken an active part in extra-curricular activities at Davidson. Four are fraternity men and three
are also managing editors of “Scripts and Pranks,” the Davidson humor magazine.

Jack Abernathy, the non-fraternity candidate, was re-elected vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society last year and is this month, treasurer
of Eta Sigma Phi, classical honorary fraternity. He also served as secretary of Pi Mu, social science fraternity. Abernathy is
a junior baseball manager. He is also a managing editor of the magazine, and a member of the Journalism Club.

Earle Austin, a second candidate, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He is also a managing editor
of “Scripts And Pranks,” and vice-president of the Journalism Club. He is also a member of “Quill And Scroll,” international
journalistic society. When the Alumni Office was reorganized this winter after

[Continued on Page Six]

Seniors Take Gift Opinions

Suggestions Offered in Chapel Poll

A poll of the Senior Class was held Saturday, March 11, in order to obtain an idea of what type
of gift the senior class is to leave Davidson as a memorium to the class of 1939. Voting was conducted
on nine suggestions which were considered the best. One hundred and two seniors cast their ballots on the two suggestions
which they considered the most worthwhile. The votes were distributed in a fairly even ratio. Suggestions and votes were as
follows: Concrete Curb around the running track, 32 votes; New Lighting System for stage and speakers stand of Chambers, 26
votes; Campus Lighting Fixtures for the “D,” 25 votes; Concrete Walk between Dormitories and Fraternities, 24 votes; Pool and Fountain
for Fraternity Court, 22 votes; Conversion of the Intramural field into a park, 20 votes; Refrigerating Units for student drinking
fountains in Chambers, 15 votes; Memorial to Woodrow Wilson, 12 votes; and Contribution to new Library, or fund to buy
books, 11 votes.

At the bottom of the ballot was a space in which any other ideas as to what to contribute were
to be written. Only twenty of the seniors had any other ideas as to what should be done. The plurality
of these new suggestions were in favor of placing a bench on the bumming corner for the convenience of the
students. One man went so far as to suggest that a sign be placed at the spot indicating that this
was the Davidson Bumming corner. Two of the men wanted to have

[Continued on Page Six]

Kenyon and Crane Ahead

Flake Laird, for ten years coach of baseball at Davidson, has been offered a coaching position at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
“Red,” admitting that the offer “has its advantages,” declared that he will not make a final decision for several weeks.

VPI Offers Position To “Red” Laird

Head Baseball Coach Is Not Ready to Make Decision on Matter

Flake (Red) Laird, Davidson's head baseball coach and coach in other sports, has received an offer from Virginia Polytechnic Institute
for a coaching position in that school similar to the one which he now occupies. The Davidsonian has known for
some time of developments to this effect, but, as the authorities repeatedly denied them, was not authorized to make them
public. Coach Laird has, however, seriously discussed the matter with college officials.

No Decision YetCoach Laird states that he has not reached a decision as to whether he will accept or reject
the offer from V. P. I. and that it will probably be some time until he decides definitely. “I’ve been
at Davidson so long it would not be easy to pick up and leave. However, the place at V. P.
I. has its advantages,” was his statement. Laird, a former Davidson all-round athlete, has many old pals at V. P.
I. Among them are Monk Younger and Tex Tilson with whom he worked for many years here at Davidson during
the ten years that he has been affiliated with the school. Prior to his coaching at Davidson, Laird coached for
two years at Catawba College. At the present Coach and Mrs. Laird are in Atlanta where his mother is very
ill. Therefore it will be some time before his decision is made known.

Davis To Give Vespers Talk

On next Sunday, March 19, Rev. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, will conduct the weekly
vesper services. Dr. Davis is an alumnus of Davidson, and was a leader in Y. M. C. A. and literary
work while here. He will speak at the local Presbyterian church during the morning service and in the school auditorium
for the evening service. Rev. Davis will remain here to conduct the annual spring evangelistic services, which will last from
Monday through Wednesday of next week.

New President Will Begin Spring Series On March 19

Rev. C. Grier Davis of Asheville to Speak During Four-Day Period

Spring Services of the Y. M. C. A. will begin next Sunday, March 19, and will continue through Wednesday night
with the Reverend C. Grier Davis of Asheville in charge. At the regular Sunday service of the College Presbyterian Church,
Reverend Davis will speak. Dr. Moffett, the pastor, will also speak at the regular vesper service in the college auditorium
for the night. Monday through Wednesday, there will be two services each day, one at the regular chapel hour and
the other at 7:15 each night. The services will be concluded with the service Wednesday night.

To Have Song Leader

A special feature will be inaugurated with these services, Wade Boggs, secretary of the Y, has announced. At the Monday
and Tuesday meetings, the Reverend I. M. Ellis will be present to lead the singing of the audience. In addition
to leading the songs, he will also present several solo selections and play a number of pieces on the marimba.
He is the assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia, and is very well-known among the Young People’s
Conferences in Virginia. Recently Mr. Davis has been studying advanced work at the Union Theological Seminary, completing his course at
the end of the short term in January. While there he spoke at one of the Sunday services of the
Seminary, and proved to be very popular among the students there. Monroe Wicker, 1938 graduate of Davidson and now a
student at the Seminary, congratulated the school upon securing him and pronounced him one of the most interesting ministers he
had ever heard. Mr. Davis is an alumnus of Davidson, and was a leader in Y. M. C. A. and
literary work while here. He was a classmate of Dr. Johnston and Professor McGavock, teachers of American History and mathematics
here now.

School Photo Will Be Made

Roy D. Young Studios, a traveling photographic concern, will be present on the Davidson campus before the spring holidays or
immediately after to take a group picture of the entire student body and the faculty. This photographer has been in
this vicinity all during the winter, specializing in group pictures of college student bodies and various organizations within the college.
He was at Davidson during the first of the semester taking pictures of the different fraternities. The student body picture
will be taken under the sponsorship of F. L. Jackson, college treasurer, and Fred Stair. The distribution of the pictures
will be ready for the day after the photograph is made, and it is guaranteed that the faces of the
students will be clear. Recently the concern has been making pictures at South Carolina colleges. He has received high praise
from college presidents and other officials wherever he has been engaged. Among the schools he has visited recently are M.
I. T., V. M. I., Clemson, Agnes Scott. Harvard and Columbia universities’ dramatic organizations have both chosen “Fair Enough” as
the titles of their 1939 productions.

Spencer Wins Presidency of Student Body

President of Davidson’s student body for 1939-40 will be Sam Spencer, a member of the rising senior class from Columbia,
S. C. Spencer was elected over Gales McClintock on a second ballot last week. He has served during the past
year as first vice-president of the student body. Bahnson and Jones Are Made Vice-Presidents; Hackney Is Secretary

Sam Spencer, of Columbia, S. C., was elected president of the Davidson College student body last Wednesday morning on the
second ballot. Tank Bahnson was elected first vice-president on the second ballot and Casey Jones, second vice-president on the third
ballot Thursday morning. Spencer defeated Gales McClintock, Charlotte, for the office by a number of votes on the second ballot.
Bahnson led the field of nominees for the office of vice-president, winning out on the second day of voting. Casey
Jones defeated Bob Balsley by a slight margin in the final count of votes for the office of second vice-president.

Sam Spencer, a rising senior member of the student body, has been very active in extra curricula activities on the
Davidson campus. He is a member of the Student Council, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, the Eumenean Literary Society, Le Cercle Francaise, and the Alpha Kappa Upsilon. He has been vice-president of the Student
Body during his present Junior year, a member of the editorial staff of the Annual, and assistant business manager of
the Davidsonian. He received the Alumni Medal for the highest average in the Bible class and the Freshman Bible Medal
for the highest average during his freshman year.

Hank Bahnson, of Winston-Salem, is a member of the varsity football team and the editorial staff of the Annual. He
played football for Davidson this year. [Continued on Page Six]

Grades Will Go Out

Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, announced Monday that mid-semester grades will be assembled in his office by March 18. These
grades will be available to the student body before the Easter Holidays. Members of the three upper classes may secure
them from the Registrar’s office, but Freshmen are required to report to their Faculty Advisor for their grades. These reports
will be sent home to the parents next week. This will be the only report issued this semester until after
the final examinations.

Students’ Art To Be Shown

Many to Enter Contest Sponsored by the Fine Arts Department

Davidson’s Student artists will have an opportunity to put their work on display when the college sponsors its annual Fine
Arts exhibit on April 17, 18, and 19. The exhibit will be sponsored by the Fine Arts administration instead of
the Davidsonian, which originated the idea last spring. The exhibit will again be held in Eumenean Hall, but because of
the large number of student artists who plan to enter their work, the exhibit space will be enlarged to two
rooms and a hall. The student body and other outside visitors will vote on the best pieces of work, and
prizes will be awarded. Any student at Davidson may exhibit his work, but all are asked by the sponsors to
sign up with the committee on arrangements as soon as possible. Gordon Horton, chairman of the student committee, plans to
exhibit every type of artistic creation in oil, pencil, charcoal, water color, and pastels. Some of the students who have
already planned to enter are: Paul Crane, Arch Torrey, Ed Jackson, Chal Vinson, Dan Hodges, Jimmie Houston, Fred Shewmake, Southgate
Jones, Walter Wooten, and Bob Ballard. Gordon Horton is chairman of the student committee which is working with Dr. C.
R. Harding, head of the Fine Arts Department. Other student committee members are: Ed Jackson, Dick Cobb, and Fred Harbin.

Brown University authorities have reported unusual success of a “Vagabonding” scheme—a plan by which students may drop in to various
courses in which they are not registered to watch experiments and listen to lectures.
