Mellen Will Play Friday And Saturday

Z528

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Members Are Chosen Senior Council

VOL. XXVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1939

No. 28

Publication Board Appoints Luther, Currie, and Plyler Students to Be Business Managers of Annual, Paper and Magazine

Jim Currie, Charlie Luther, and B. B. Plyler, of the rising Senior class, have been appointed business managers of the
three campus publications for next year. Members of the Publications Board announced their appointment last week.

Jim Currie from Raeford was elevated from the office of advertising manager of The Davidsonian which he has held this
year. He will be in charge of the business department of the paper next year. Currie is a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Charlie Luther is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. For the past year he has been assistant business
manager of the Annual, one of the Junior cheer leaders, and Junior track manager. He was appointed business manager of
the 1940 issue of Quips and Cranks. Luther is from Beaufort, S.C.

B. B. Plyler, from Wilson, was appointed business manager of the magazine. For the past year he has been assistant
business manager of the Annual and the magazine. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

By virtue of their appointments, Plyler, Luther, and Currie will be nominees for the Publications Board which will be elected
by the student body next week. Other nominees will be the three editors of the publications. Three members of the
board will be elected from the six nominees. However, under the point system two and maybe all three of the
editors will not be eligible for the position as they have already received the maximum of 40 points. In the
event that the three editors are not eligible the business managers will automatically become the members of the board.

Under the Constitution of the Student Body the Publications Board is to be in charge of all business matters concerning
the magazine, annual and newspaper. It is to be composed of three students and two faculty members.

Rod Williams To Be Pastor

At the regular annual session of the Davidson Unity Church Rod Williams was elected pastor for the coming year and
Sid Crane was elected assistant pastor. This election is held on the first Sunday in May every year, and the
congregation of the Davidson Unity Church elects the pastor, assistant pastor, and the board of directors for the coming year.
It is usually understood that the pastor is chosen from the graduating class at the college, and that he will
remain for one year. Watson Street has been pastor for two years due to the fact that he was pastor
during his senior year at the college and also pastor during the past year.

Rod Williams, the newly-elected pastor, was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa, was president of the Philanthropic Literary society,
president of the Friendship Council, and was a Monitor.

Sid Crane, newly-elected assistant pastor, was recently tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, is the new president of the Y. M.
C. A., and is a member of the college Glee Club.

Both Rod Williams and Watson Street will attend the Well Youth Conference in Amsterdam, Holland during the summer months. Sid
Crane will act as supply pastor during Rod Williams’ absence.

On last Wednesday night, Watson Street presented the annual report of the Unity Church to the session of the Davidson
Presbyterian Church and the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control. It was reported that there were 40 new members
(Continued on Page Six)

Heads Council

Paul Marion, of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, has been elected to succeed Ray Pittman as president of the Pan-Hellenic
Council for next year. Marion is a native of Charlotte and has been prominent in Pan-Hellenic social functions.

Proficiency Drill Takes Place Here

Major Arther E. Burnap of State College Is Inspecting Officer

On Friday, May 12, the R. O. T. C. Battalion of Davidson College will hold its annual proficiency drill, beginning
at 2:00, on Richardson Field. The inspecting officer will be Major Arther E. Burnap, who is now stationed at North
Carolina State College.

Major Burnap will conduct tests in the R. O. T. C. department's classrooms on Thursday. Freshmen will be examined on
their knowledge of rifle marksmanship, map reading and making, discipline, courtesy, and military sanitation. There will be questions on higher
military subjects for the sophomores and advanced R. O. T. C. students. While not conducting examinations, Major Burnap will inspect
the R. O. T. C. building, grounds, and equipment.

The inspection of the battalion will be divided into several parts. First, there will be a calisthenic drill; then the
battalion will pass in review and will be inspected. After this each company must execute different phases of closed and
extended order drill. In conclusion, the company which is judged best will execute a tactical problem on the golf course.

This year, as in past years, a large number of students, friends, and alumni of the R. O. T. C.
Department will witness the climax to a year of constant drilling. Colonel Armstrong, Major Ballad, and Major Steel feel certain
that this year’s organization will receive an “excellent” rating from the inspecting officer.

Ross Is Manager

Karl Hudson, member of the “Y” Cabinet in charge of Publications and the editor of the 1939-40 Handbook, announced recently
that Bill Ross would be business manager of next year's book. The managing editors are Albert Winn, Auston Thompson, and
Frank Barker. It is possible that one more will be added to this list in the near future. Bobbie Williams
is Sports Editor.

This Handbook is an annual publication and is sent to all freshmen before school opens. Upper classmen may get a
copy by requesting it. The printing contract will be let some time in the near future.

Faculty-Student Committee

Juniors Elect

In regard to the cut system rules that have been recently passed, the faculty wishes “The Davidsonian” to publish again
the amendment governing the Faculty-Student Conference Committee to show to Davidson students the functions of that committee in settling the
current “cut dispute.”

1. The faculty-student conference committee shall be composed of three faculty members elected from the faculty by the faculty, and
five student members, which shall be the presidents of the three upper classes, the freshman adviser, and a fifth member
selected from O. D. K.

2. For purposes of consultation and exchange of views this group of eight persons shall be considered as constituting a
single committee, whose purpose will be to facilitate a free and frank interchange of ideas and viewpoints upon matters of
general interest to the students and faculty. For purposes of making recommendations, the student and faculty members of the group
shall be considered as constituting two separate committees, so that a majority of each shall be required to bring any
matter to the attention of the proper authority with recommendation.

4. Any student of the college has full right and privilege to meet with the committee of eight, to express
any ideas which he may hold with respect to matters lying in the committee’s province, and to participate in its
discussions.

5. The establishment of the committee of eight in no way precludes or abridges the right of all students to
petition the properly constituted agencies of the faculty or administration whether such petition is preceded by discussion in the committee
of eight or not.

Eleven Initiated By Omicron Delta Kappa

Two Selected As Managers

McClintock and Richmond Elected by Board

Gales McClintock and George Richmond will be co-managers of the student store next year, the Student Store Board has announced.

McClintock, from Charlotte, is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, is the present president of the junior class,
on the varsity football team, a member of the “D” club, will serve on the Pan-Hellenic Council next year, was
elected president of the Athletic Association (he has recently resigned from the former office).

Richmond comes to Davidson from Concord, N. C., is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, has played varsity
football for two years, received his letter for football as a sophomore, is a member of the Court of Control,
and is a member of the Student Council.

The Student Store Board is composed of Fred Stair, ex-president of the student body; Perry Sloan, representing the Student Council;
Bob McClellan, representing the Athletic Association; Mr. F. L. Jackson and Mr. M. W. McGill, representing the faculty.

McClintock replaces Hemphill in the financial side of the managership; Richmond succeeds Bill Telford, who now is the purchasing manager
of the store.

Miller Goes To Meeting

Rutledge Miller, editor of the Scripts ’n Pranks, was Davidson's only representative to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at
Greensboro the past weekend.

Miller, who served as first vice-president of the association, has made the following resume of the convention:

Thursday night, May 4, Greensboro College gave a reception for the delegates; following the reception, the guests were entertained at
an informal dance at W. C. U. N. C. Friday morning, the first business meeting was held; Charles Driscoll, well-known
columnist who now edits the late O. O. McIntyre’s column, was guest speaker at the Friday night banquet at the
O. Hotel. Saturday morning the main business session took place; Sherwood Staten of Wake Forest was elected president of the
association for next year.

Other guest speakers at the convention included Dean Jackson of W. C. U. N. C, Gerhard Beeker, managing editor of
the Collegiate Digest, and C. W. Phillips, director of Public Relations at Womans College.

Henry Initiation Followed by a Banquet Presided Over by Fred Stair

Eleven men gained entrance into the Delta chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, on Monday night at 6
o’clock, in the Dome Room of Chambers. Immediately following this initiation a banquet was held in the Banquet Hall, with
Fred Stair presiding as toastmaster. Alumni from chapters in Davidson and other attended, along with all of the faculty members.

President Lingle was the first speaker of the evening, talking on the “Problems of a College President,” giving as his
principal worry the attempts of erstwhile well-meaning persons who try to run a school. Toastmaster Stair nextcalled for two-minute speeches
from six of those present, each speaker representing a part of a college system. The theme of the talks was
from where the authority to run should come. All of the speakers spoke of the need for harmony in the
running of a school. Those speaking were: R. A. Dunn, president, representing the Board of Trustees; William Covington, of the
class of '26, representing the alumni; Cage Brewer and John Reisner, representing the faculty; Prof. Archie Currie and F. L.
Jackson, representing the administrative point of view; and general students speaking from the student point of view. After the recognition
of Brother Atkins of the Duke University chapter, the main address of the evening was presented by Dr. Frazier, president
of Queens-Chicora College in Charlotte. Speaking on the “Essentials of Leadership,” Dr. Frazier stated four prime requisites, giving illustrations for
each virtue. The four requisites are: 1. Character, 2. Reputation, 3. Action, and 4. Personality. He elaborated mostly on character
and reputation.

Dr. Hillhouse Writes Paper
Appearing in April, “The Municipal Year Book, 1939,” carried an article by Dr. A. M. Hillhouse. Dr. Hillhouse, writing on
“Intergovernmental Tax Exemption,” declared that states should have the power to tax the income from Federal bonds, and that the
Federal government should also be able to tax income from state and local bonds. The author feels that the end-result
should be reached on this question by a constitutional amendment rather than congressional action. The author feels that Federal and
local autonomy are best preserved by the former cause, since a Supreme Court decision in March removed intergovernmental tax immunity
from salaries of public employees. A bill taxing these was passed by Congress in April.

Five Men For Council Job
Hudson, Sprunt, Powell, Mashburn, Richmond to Be Representatives
Five members of the Student Council from the rising Senior class are to be Karl Hudson, Dave Sprunt, Buck Powell,
Charlie Mashburn, and George Richmond. Hudson and Sprunt were elected May 4 on the second ballot, while Powell, Mashburn, and
Richmond were chosen the following day. The original ballot was made up of the five and Julian Lokey, Neal Scott,
Harper Beall, Bud Gilmore, Benny Harrison, Haywood Thomas, Bub Coltrane, Dick Fitzgerald, Tommy Gammon, Dave Maclean, Walter Watkins, Dave Harnsberger,
Colvin, Jack Ferguson, and Bob Kellogg.

Activities
Karl Hudson is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and president of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. He
is also editor of the Wildcat Handbook for next year and a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council. This year
Karl was a junior editor of two of the student publications. Dave Sprunt, president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity for
next year, is on the YMCA Cabinet and the Friendship Council. His honorary fraternity memberships include Sigma Delta Psi, Pi
Gamma Mu, and Le Cercle Francais. Dave is on the council this year and has been outstanding in gym work,
acting as instructor during the past season. President of the Beaver Club and a member of the Student Council, Buck
Powell is on the varsity football squad and was president of the Sophomore class last year. Buck belongs to the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Further Honors
Charlie Mashburn is second vice-president of the student body this year and vice-president of the rising Senior class, having held
the same office in his sophomore year also. Mashburn will be varsity football manager next fall, and he was recently
initiated into the Scabbard and Blade, honorary military group. He is on the Student Council and is secretary of Sigma
Delta Pi, Spanish fraternity. Mashburn will be president of his social fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, next year. George Richmond, manager
of the Student Store for next year, is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

[Continued on Page Six]

Plays Here
Earl Mellen and his orchestra will furnish the music for this year’s Spring Dance Set, which will comprise a formal
sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, a tea dance, and an informal dance on Saturday evening. The music for two of
Davidson’s dance sets in the past has been rendered by Mellen.

Spring Dance Set Opens This Friday With Military Ball
Davidson Chapter of Scabbard and Blade to Sponsor Military Dance
WILL GIVE BANQUET
Dates of Senior Members to Be Sponsors
This year’s Spring Dances will feature a formal dance on Friday night to be sponsored by the Davidson chapter of
Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity. This dance will begin at 10 P.M. and will end at 2 A.M.
There will be a tea dance Saturday afternoon from 4 until 6:30 P.M. and an informal dance from 8:30 till
12 on Saturday night. Music for this set will be furnished by Earl Mellen and his orchestra. Scabbard and Blade
will give a banquet on Friday evening at 7 P.M. This will be attended by all senior members and their
dates, and also the new Junior members and their dates. It is expected that the Military Ball on Friday night
will be a very colorful event. All members of Scabbard and Blade will attend in uniform, and this will add
to the effect of the occasion.

Sponsors
Sponsors for Scabbard and Blade at the dance will be Miss Eleanor Long; Miss Ellen Munroe of Spartanburg with Major
Sam Hemphill; Miss Maxie McLaurin of Dillon, S.C., with Captain Louis Hipp; Miss Bettie Carson of Baltimore with Lieut. J.
D. Craver; Miss Patterson; Miss Lula Carrington Gravely of Rocky Mount with Captain Wesley Coghill; Miss Evelyn Drennen of Birmingham,
Ala., with Lieut. Gene Liipfert; Miss Hilda Graham Roberts of Salisbury with Lieut. Mark Lillard; Miss Frances Edmunds of Knoxville,
Tenn., with Lieut. Colonel Fred R. Stair; Miss Elizabeth Henry of Hopewell, Va., with Lieut. E. L. Cloyd; Miss Fant
of Anderson, S.C., with Bill Beaty; Miss Helen Gambell of Charlotte, with Captain Esmond Bailey; Miss Martha Mauney of Salisbury
with Captain George Jones; and Miss Helen Cumnoch of Davidson with Captain J. L. Ballard.

Rice Presides At Transition
The annual transition meeting of the old and new “Y” cabinets took place last Wednesday night at the home of
Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle, with Sherrard Rice, retiring “Y” head, presiding. Following a devotional led by Sid Crane,
incoming “Y” president, retiring cabinet members were called upon to give advice to those replacing them. Special emphasis was laid
on the value of personal Christian contact between each cabinet member and his fellow students. Tribute was paid to Wade
Boggs, retiring secretary, and to Dr. Arbuckle, the founder of Davidson “Y” some 27 years ago. Both responded with valuable
advice for the incoming cabinet members. The transition meeting is a yearly event and is always held at Dr. Arbuckle’s
home. The sole exception to this rule was last year’s affair, held elsewhere on account of the professor’s illness.

Offices “transmitted” were: president, Sherrard Rice to Sid Crane; freshman work, Warren Gaw to Bob Ramsey; student life, Rod Williams
to Dave Sprunt; vesper services, John Mawhinney to Bill Boyle; deputations, Dick Kenyon to Bob Finley; boys’ work, Locke White
and Dave Sprunt to Casey Jones and Albert Winn; publications, Boo Walker to Karl Hudson; world evangelism, Archie Torrey to
Dick Gammon; chapel services, Sam Newell to Edgar Watson; social life, Sam Webb to Boyd.

[Continued on Page Six]
