Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., May 9, 1940

Jo Newell Robinson Will Lead
Gordon Horton And Pat Rudolph Will Be Other Officers of Dramatists

Jo Newell Robinson, rising senior from Talladega, Ala., was elected president of the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s dramatic honor
society, at a meeting held Wednesday, May 1. Gordon Horton, also a rising senior, was chosen vice-president, and Pat Rudolph,
rising junior, was named secretary-treasurer. Two more officers will be elected next fall, according to plans.

Masquers Students Will Hear Morgan Sunday Night

Dr. Frank Crosley Morgan, newly elected pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, will be the guest minister at
the vespers service Sunday evening. Dr. Morgan, before his recent association with the Concord Church, was a professor at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. He was a noted Professor of Bible there.

Holland Elected

Jack Holland of the Senior class was elected by the Alumni Council to be the tenth man on the council.
Nine men from the senior class are elected by the class and they choose the tenth man themselves. The purpose
of the Council is to act as a focusing point for class interest. All class activities after graduation come through
this organization. The requirements for the members are that they must spend one night on the Davidson campus each year.
The other nine members are Tony Casali, Footsie Cowan, Sid Crane, Dick Kenyon, Charlie Mashburn, Gales McClintock, Bob Ramsey, George
Richmond, and Sam Spencer.

Other business of the meeting included the discussion of the forthcoming burlesque on Davidson life, to be staged on Monday
night, May 20. Robinson is a member of Phi Delta Theta, social fraternity. He appeared in the production “Submerged.” He
is on the staff of Scripts ’n Pranks, and served as activities editor. He is a member of the Davidson
Little Symphony and has been actively engaged in Y. M. C. A. work. Gordon Horton belongs to Kappa Alpha, and
has served as make-up artist with the Masquers for three years. He was art editor of Scripts 'n Pranks this
year. Horton appeared in “Dulcy” his freshman year. He has been chairman of the student art exhibit for the past
three years. Rudolph is a member of Phi Delta Theta. He appeared in “Journey’s End.” He was an officer in
the Davidson Radio Guild. Last year, he sang in the Glee Club.

SCIENCE FINDS
(Continued from Page Five)

...have set down certain definite habits and distinguishing characteristics which may help the average student to recognize it. Although the
old grad theoretically can flourish at all seasons of the year, there are certain times at which he is most
noticeable about the campus. On weekends in the fall during football season he is everywhere in evidence. The grandstands are
thickly populated with his kind, ranging in virulence from the mere sitter-watcher to the hat-crushing, flag-waving, clowning inebriate.

Another season, shorter in time perhaps, but no less bothersome, is commencement time, when they flock back to alma mater
to see new alumni issue forth upon the uncloistered world, and to welcome new members to the ranks of the
old grads. Their presence is not so noxious, however, as long as they are confined to the auditorium or stadium.
It is only when they are allowed to break up into small groups at the frat house or common hall
that they burgeon forth into full violence. Here they abandon themselves to plague the undergraduate in many and ingenious ways.

First, there is that type who always comes back, but who never knows anybody. He sits in a corner and
looks embarrassingly inane, until some poor student, completely taken in by this ruse (for it is nothing short of subterfuge),
comes to him and tries to brighten his existence by cheerful conversation. Little does he realize it at the outset,
but he is now within the clutches of this fiend who will monopolize his time, keep him away from his
girl, and all the while bore him almost to the point of extinction by reciting some of the jokes which
appeared in the college magazine when he worked as exchange editor back in ’21. This old grad is fully cognizant
of the fact that the student had ample opportunity to refresh his memory along this line by reading the latest
issue of Scripts ’n Pranks, but still he persists in his torture.

Then there is the other extreme who firmly plants himself in the doorway, having appointed himself a committee of one
to welcome all alumni, old grads, students, and dates into the old chapter hall. His strident voice and raucous laugh
drown out the more demure murmurings of the less savage alumni and students. Moreover, he devours all the refreshments.

There will be but three more vespers services this semester. Speakers for the remaining two services are as yet unannounced.
The staff was unable to learn the subject of the sermon which will be delivered by Dr. Morgan this Sunday
evening. Charles E. Scott, D.D., a missionary on furlough from China, was the speaker at vespers this past Sunday night.
Dr. Scott has two sons who are alumni of Davidson College.

SCIENCE DEPT
(Continued from Page One)

This discovery has not been perfected as yet, and therefore is still beyond the bounds of practical use.

Promotes Interest

It is the object of the Academy to stimulate interest in the sciences as well as to promote study and
scientific research. It is through such an organization that some scientists are able to make known their discoveries and ideas
to the general public. Any person actively interested in science or the promotion of science may, upon nomination by two
members, be elected a member of the Academy by a majority vote of the Executive Committee. At present there are
more than 300 members, of which a fourth are women. During the last day of the meeting, the North Carolina
section of the American Chemical Society held its spring meeting. The scientists who belong to this society are members of
the science academy who are especially interested in chemistry. At this meeting Dr. Samuel Knight of Davidson, in conjunction with
Dr. Bost of Carolina, read a paper on “The Preparation and Characterization of Certain Aliphatic Mercaptans.”

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
(Continued from Page Five)

The advantages of this plan, I believe, far offset the burden which the fraternities will have to bear. This system,
tested and found successful in several other colleges in this part of the country, should work very effectively here at
Davidson.

George Marsh, Sophomore: Since our dance weekends comprise the greatest part of our social functions here at Davidson, I believe
that some plan should be worked out whereby these weekends could be made better and cheaper. This plan just presented
by the Pan-Hellenic Council appears to cover these points very well. Also, under this plan the non-fraternity men will benefit
as they will receive their tickets at the same price as will the fraternity men. There has been criticism on
the point that those fraternities not selling the guaranteed number of tickets will have to make up the difference. If
this difference could be absorbed by the regular monthly dues, without assessing the members, it seems to me that the
plan would ameliorate the present situation.There are many other identifying markings and distinguishing traits which can be noted after a
small amount of observation. However, these few facts have been presented here for the purpose of warning all undergraduates against
this vicious species, of whom the male is more deadly than the female, in the hope that the unfortunate victims
may be more fortunate hereafter in all encounters with “discipulus graditus.”

FLAG CEREMONY FOR SCOUTS

The Girl Scout annual court of awards of troop No. 16 will be held Wednesday, May 15 at 4 P.M.,
in Dr. and Mrs. Lingle’s garden. An international flag ceremony will be the main feature, with sixty-eight Girl Scouts of
Davidson and Mooresville participating. Dr. Lingle will confer the badges. In case of rain, the ceremony will be postponed to
the following day. Everyone interested in scouting is cordially invited.

The 60th annual national archery tournament will be held at Massachusetts State College next August.

Only 20 years ago, Mariana Scott is the University of Cincinnati’s youngest candidate for a Ph.D. degree.

Softball To Be Organized

Summer School Students Will Aid In Local League

For the first time in many years, Davidson will have a softball team entered in the Cotton League. This team
is being sponsored by the local Purol Station and will be composed of summer college students and town boys. The
season will begin May 20. All games will be played on the Cornelius High School Field. Other teams entered into
competition are Gulfers, Cornelius Town Team, Woodmen of the World, Davidson Mill Team, and several Cornelius commercial teams. Players signed
by Manager Jim Mooney are, “Apie” Means, Dick Winters, Bill Bolin, Bob Wood, Ed Shewmake, Graham and John Gibson, John
Fidler, Charles Sherrill, Bill Wood, and Jimmy Fulcher.

High School’s Talent Gives Comic Drama

Youthful Cast Presents ‘Here Comes Charlie’

The senior class of Davidson High School, under the direction of Mrs. F. S. Clark, presented a play yesterday entitled
“Here Comes Charlie,” by Jay Tobias. This comedy told of the trials of young Larry Elliott, metropolitan man, when his
rural cousin Charlie came to visit him. He was rather disgusted when he found Charlie to be a female, but
in the end, love triumphed and matrimony was definitely contemplated. Leading characters who played were Isabel Linker, LeConte Cathey, Ethel
Steel, Charles Armstrong, Patty Wingate, Marice Hamrick, Dux Pharr, Sue Sherrill, LeConte Cathey, Isabel Linker, Lucille Wilson, and Paul Gillispie.

Alumnus Honored

Charles N. Lanier of Florence, Ala., has recently been elected to Omicron Delta Gamma at Vanderbilt University, where he is
a member of the graduate school. Mr. Lanier graduated “cum laude” at Davidson in 1932 and was president of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity. This recent honor, the election to Omicron Delta Gamma, requires members in graduate classes of business
administration and economics to have a B-plus average in their major and better than a B average in other subjects.

Unity Church Services Led By MacClure

Rev. Albert MacClure held revival services at the Davidson Unity Church through the week of April 12 to April 21.
Reverend MacClure is well-known in this locality, having been president of the Davidson “Y” in his student days, and later
general secretary. He is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lincolnton. Special nights were held for young people,
for women, and for men, and many of the services had special purposes. With the cooperation of the community, the
eight services were a marked success, church workers stated. The final night was marked by a reconsecration service of all
classes. Reverend MacClure, being an old friend in the community, was able to contact many people that an outsider would
have been unable to reach, attendants on the services declared.

“Pee-Wee” football is now a part of the intramural program at Mississippi State College.

Yale was the first U.S. university to establish a school of fine arts.

Carrot-topped Louisiana State University students have formed a “Red-Head Club.”

Withers President

New French Books

Mrs. R. A. Dunn, wife of the President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, is responsible for the
French Department’s recent purchase of deluxe editions of French books for the college library. Mrs. Dunn, who is much interested
in French language and literature, is Vice-President of the Charlotte Alliance Francaise. This is the second recent gift of books
for the new library.

FOREMAN WILL (Continued from Page One)

kagathon: A Re-survey of some Parallels of Platitude.” As a climax of the meeting, the members had tea at the
home of Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood. Although most of the members are professors of philosophy in various colleges and
universities throughout the state, several members do not teach philosophy but are merely interested in it. Members of the Davidson
faculty who are in the society are: Professors Foreman, Sentelle, Hood, Richards, and Gwynn.

STUD STORE MANAGERS (Continued from Page One)

letic Association, and Sam Spencer the student body. Parrish, who is from Winston-Salem, and Arnold, from Greenville, S.C., will announce
the clerks for next year sometime this week. Applications for these positions were to have been in last night.

Loftin And Hite Also Are New Officers Of Social Science Group

Lawson Withers, Winston-Salem, was elected President of Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science fraternity, at a regular meeting last week. Bill
Loftin was elected vice-president and Louise Hite, secretary-treasurer. The new officers will take over their duties immediately. Withers, a pledge
of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, is editor of the Y.M.C.A. Handbook, an associate editor of the Davidsonian, and vice-president of
Sigma Upsilon. Loftin, a Kappa Sigma, debated on the varsity team this year and was recently elected president of the
Forensic Council. Hite, a Pi Kappa Phi, is the new president of Beta Gamma Phi and is a member of
the new Pan-Hellenic Council. Plans are being made by the Social Science fraternity to sponsor for the coming year a
series of lectures similar to those presented last year by Dr. Paul Popenoe of the Los Angeles Institute of Family
Relations.

FILM REPORT CARD (Continued from Page Two)

Great support is given him by Andy Devine and Allen Drew.

Wednesday — May 15

Although no definite pictures have been secured as this goes to press, we have been assured of two good movies
for next Wednesday. Remember — it’s bargain day — don’t fail to miss them.

Introducing Chesterfield’s own graduation cap

Just make your next pack Chesterfields, that’s all, and as quick as you can light up, you'll learn the meaning
of real mildness... and you will learn this too, Chesterfields are cooler and definitely better-tasting. You get all of the
right answers to your smoking pleasure with Chesterfields... the busiest cigarette in America. THEY SATISFY

Copyright 1940, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
