Sports RoundUp
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Curtain Falls On Winter Sports

The winter athletic program of Southern schools comes to a close this weekend, when the annual basketball tournament is held in Raleigh. Duke and North Carolina are seeded one and two respectively for the tournament. Too bad that Coach Shepard's team was unable to secure a berth for this year’s tournament. On parade will be some of the greatest basketball players in the entire South. Glamack of Carolina, McFadyen of Clemson, Price of Duke, and DeWitt of Maryland will be a few of the many stars participating in this year’s tournament. But don’t sell those ever-dangerous Generals of Washington and Lee short. They look mighty strong from this column. It seems only a short time ago since our own team was down there at Raleigh.

Spring Football Hits Full Swing

Spring football has been moving along at a fast clip and as it reaches its halfway mark, we find a smooth and tricky team. Next year our Wildcats are going to be better, good enough in fact to be a winner. Next year’s team will be big and fast, but without many reserves. The line will have capable players, but reserves are lacking. In the pivot position, Coach McEver has moved a tackle to center. As the picture now shapes up, we will have one good team and that’s about all. Several rising sophomores help to make the picture a little more cheerful. Herb Rainey should add extra strength to the line, while Fredricks, Maloney, and Lacy will be of great service in the backfield. Last year’s inexperienced team should be fast and dangerous to all comers. Some things to look for next year will be Spencer’s running, Sharpe’s passing, and Yoder’s blocking. Fredricks should help the offense with his line plunging, while Hackney, Maloney, and Shannon take care of the wingback positions. A heavy and fast-charging line should pave the way for many a touchdown this fall.

Basketball Season Comes To Close

Coach Shepard’s basketball club hit their full stride last Monday night as they swept through the Purple Hurricane of Furman. Too bad that they couldn't have been that hot all season. Davidson will miss many of those boys next year. Gone will be Footsie Cowan, a mainstay of the team for the past three years. Benny and Hayseed will surely be missed for their all-round play has added much to the team’s success. Apie Means, playing his first year of varsity ball, turned in creditable performances the entire season. After last Monday's game, Referee Blume said that the Wildcats played the cleanest game that he had called all season, a truly great compliment. Also, his first all-state basketball team would be as follows: Glamack at center, Cowan and Price at forwards, and Cline and Hogg at guards. For a man who sees them all play, that should be a fairly accurate team. By scoring eighteen points against Furman, Cowan grabbed second place among the conference scoring leaders for this year, Hogg came in at sixth place. Next year’s basketball team should prove to be better than this year’s club. With the returning of Hogg, Simonds, Yarborough, and McLeod, and the rising of several promising freshmen, Coach Shepard should be able to mold a formidable quintet for next year. Hats off to the student body, who backed the team 100 percent this year.

Spring Athletics Begin

Spring athletics will soon be under way. Already baseball pitchers and catchers have begun to work out and the entire team gets down to practice next week. Thomas, McLean, Lucas, and Ficklen will take care of the mound duties. Hunter, Fitzgerald, and Carter should add to the batting average of this year’s team. This year’s tennis team should again be good, with the returning of Tenney, Turner, and Hunter. Already a long trip has been planned and the team, under the direction of Coach Johnson, looks forward to a successful year.

Matmen Down Winston Kittens Lose To Barium

Davidson's varsity wrestling broke into the win column Saturday night when they defeated the Winston-Salem YMCA grapplers 22 1-2 to 9 1-2 in the local gymnasium. Led by McIntyre in the 121-pound class, the ‘Cat grapplers got off to a fine start, taking five points in the first match. They allowed the visitors only two victories, one a pin by Vosse over Wilson, the other a decision by Cline over Moore. Parish (D) and Hailey (W) furnished the highlight of the evening when they fought to a draw. The summary: 121 pounds—McIntyre (D) pinned Barber (W) Time 1.32; 128 pounds—Cline (W) decisioned Moore (D); 136 pounds—Parrish (D) and Hailey (W) draw; 145 pounds—Vosse (W) pinned Wilson (D) Time 4.38; 155 pounds—McFayden (D) pinned Petree (W) Time 2.36; 165 pounds—Crane (D) pinned Marion (W) Time 4.43; 175 pounds—Bahnson (D) decisioned Reece (W). Unlimited—McDuffie (D) decisioned Meyers (W). Friday, the Frosh wrestlers lost a close match to Barium Springs, 11 to 12, at Barium Springs. Conyers and Brinson in the 145 and 155-pound classes respectively won by decision for Davidson, while Carter pinned his man in the 175-pound class. The feature match was in the 165-pound, where Dick (D) lost by a close decision.

Frat Standing

With only one game still to be played, a tie exists between the Phi Delts and Kappa Alphas, coming as a result of the K.A.’s upset win over the Phi Delts last week. The S.A.E.’s, in third place with six wins against one loss, have not yet completed their schedule, meeting the Kappa Sigmas in the final contest of the tournament. In the event of a tie, there would be no playoff, the points being evenly divided between the teams.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, Charlotte, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM BEST TO BE HAD Mooresville, N. C.

Wildcat Sports

Wildcats Defeat Furman In Closing Cage Season

Blue Devils Are Favored In Tourney

North Carolina, Washington-Lee And Wake Forest Seeded With Duke

At the close of the 1940 season, the “Little Blues” stand at the top of the heap in the Southern Conference court race, with 13 wins and 2 losses. Carolina follows with 12 wins and two losses. Seven teams won definite places by their percentages of wins and losses throughout the season. These are: Duke, North Carolina, Washington and Lee, Wake Forest, Maryland, Clemson, and Richmond. The Citadel and William and Mary were tied for the eighth post, so according to tourney rules, the committee drew from a hat to decide the final entrant. Fate smiled on the Cadets of Citadel, so Thursday will find them in Raleigh seeking the coveted crown.

Duke Choice

Duke, Carolina, Washington and Lee, and Wake Forest are seeded one, two, three, and four respectively. Thursday’s schedule is as follows: Duke vs. Citadel (4:30 P.M.); Maryland vs. Washington and Lee (9:30 P.M.); Wake Forest vs. Richmond (3 P.M.); Clemson vs. North Carolina (8 P.M.). Ticket sales for the annual event held in the Raleigh auditorium have exceeded any previous year. The tournament will open Thursday with four elimination games, continue Friday night with the semi-finals, and the final championship game being held Saturday night.

Frosh Quintet Beats Harding

With a 21-12 win over Harding High of Charlotte Friday night, the Davidson Frosh five completed the '39-'40 season. The Golden Rams' defeat, second at the hands of the frosh this year, gives the freshmen a record of four defeats in twelve games. Friday's game was a raggedly played contest, marred by wild passes and off shots by both teams. Belk and Keffer led the Davidson scoring with seven and six points respectively; Adams was high for Harding with five.This Kittens tallied 390 points in their twelve games, allowing their opponents 340. Individual year’s scoring was led by lanky John Belk, ace center, with 101 points, scored in nine games. Johnny Fredericks was second with 89 tallies in seven contests, the highest average points per game. Bob Keffer was third with 62 points, scored in eleven games. Following Keffer were Grosse with 42 and Maloney with 33. Bertrand Russell, famed English philosopher, has been appointed special lecturer at Harvard University.

The Rev. Ambrose J. Burke is the new president of St. Ambrose College. Harvard University’s President James B. Conant has been judged the nation’s best-dressed man.

Dependable Performer
“Hayseed” Thomas, sterling guard, closed out his basketball career Monday night as the 'Cats downed Furman 46 to 35. He has played consistently good ball all year as he teamed with “Apie” Means to give Coach Shepard a pair of dependable guards. Jim hails from Ramseur and has been a letter winner for two of his three years on the squad. He was co-captain of basketball his freshman year and is captaining this year’s Wildcat baseball team from the mound. He garnered 72 points to finish fourth among the ’Cat scorers this year.

Kappa Sigmas Lead Field In Frat Bowling Tourney
As the inter-fraternity basketball tournament rapidly draws to a close, the Phi Delts and the KA’s have tied for first place with seven wins and one loss each. The SAE’s also have only one loss but have yet to play the last game of the tournament with the Kappa Sigs. Should they win this game, the standings will be a three-way tie for first place. If the SAE’s win from the Kappa Sigs there will be an unusual situation of having three teams tied for first place, five teams tied for second place, and one team in third place. The Kappa Sigs continue to lead the bowling race although they lost their first match of the season to the SAE’s today. They have five wins and one loss to their credit. In second place are the Phi Delts, also with only one loss but with only three wins.

Standings
Won Lost
Kappa Sigs 5 1
Phi Delts 3 1
SAE’s 2 2
Pi Kapps 3 3
Betas 3 3
KA’s 2 3
SAE’s 2 4
Pikas 1 4
Phi Gams 1 4

THE TAVERN
We want “THE TAVERN” and the “HOTEL CHARLOTTE” to be headquarters, “in Charlotte,” for Davidson College and their friends.
HOTEL CHARLOTTE
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
“The Carolina’s Largest Hotel”
J. FRANK GOUGH, Resident Manager

Season Scoring
Davidson’s varsity cagers closed the present season with a total of 799 points in 21 games, which gives an average of 38 points per game. “Footsie” Cowan led the Davidson scorers with a grand total of 290 points, and with this, he placed near the top of Southern Conference scorers. Jim Hogg was also well up in the Conference race with 177 points. A total resume follows:

Player F.G. F.T. T.P.
Cowan 116 58 290
Hogg 71 35 177
Harrison 33 18 84
Thomas 34 4 72
Means 26 8 60
Yarborough 11 8 30
Simonds 5 3 13
McLeod 4 1 9
Shore 2 0 4
322 155 799

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

On The Stage...
FRIDAY & SATURDAY
From the land of Sweet Leilani... a festival of song and dance... The show you liked so well last season... back by request... All new—All Different...
BELL’S ORIGINAL “HAWAIIAN FOLLIES” (1940 EDITION)
Featuring
Honolulu City Trio - Robert Bell Hawaiian Star - Gorgeous Hula Girls - Beautiful South Sea Island Music
ON THE SCREEN
“Kid Nightingale” with John Payne - Jane Wyman
Broadway
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcats Close Year With Victories Over Birds and Hurricane
Hogg and Cowan Lead Way in Decisive Wins Over South Carolina and Furman; ’Cats Play Best Ball of Year in Winning Two Final Games
Playing their best game of the year, Davidson’s Wildcat cagers closed the season with a bang by downing Furman’s Purple Hurricane Monday night by a score of 46 to 35. The ‘Cat five had previously avenged an earlier defeat at the hands of South Carolina by defeating the Gamecocks 51 to 38 here last Wednesday night. The early 'Cats quickly overcame a Furman lead and forged into the lead after three minutes, never to be headed. Jim Hogg hit the bucket four straight times to give Coach Shepard's boys a 22-13 lead at half-time. Coming out after the rest period, the ‘Cats rapidly built the lead with “Footsie” hitting basket after basket. With two minutes to go and the score 44 to 25, Coach Shepard turned the game over to the reserves and here the Furman’s went to work and closed up the score.

Cowan, Hogg Hot
Captain “Footsie” Cowan topped the scorers with 18 points, while Jimmy Hogg hit the bucket for 14. Benny Harrison and Jackie Simonds played good floor games, while “Apie” Means did a superb job in holding little “Pepper” Martin to six points. Wofford tallied 10 for the visitors. The Wildcats were never headed in the game with the Gamecocks. They had a 22-15 lead at intermission and rapidly added to this in the second half with Hogg and Cowan continually hitting the bucket to give them a margin of 51 to 38. “Footsie” tallied 21, Hogg hit 17, and Harrison got 8 to lead the scorers. Westmoreland and Anderson got 17 between them to head Carolina.

Bringing down the curtain on their basketball careers in the Furman game were Captain Jim Cowan, Benny “Hayseed” Thomas, Melvin Means, and George Wright.

Harrison, Injuries Mark Grid Practice
Due to heavy rains the first two days, and many players out with injuries, spring practice ran rather slow last week, with the coaches resorting mostly to light scrimmages and pass defense and offense. Coach McEver spent most of his time last week working on new pass plays and pass defense setups. The backs also spent much time working on play-timing and executing. The three tailbacks, Spencer, Sharpe, and Fredericks worked on quick-kicks, while the ends were coached in pass receiving by Coach Spearman.

Blocking Machine
Last week, Coach Spearman brought his new invention, a hydraulic blocking machine which registers the pressure of a block, and also puts up a resistance as of a charging lineman. Coach Spearman has just completed this gadget and has gotten a patent on it. The linemen have spent much of their time working on this machine, in an effort to improve their charge.

Many Injuries
Several of the boys out with injuries are Dick Arnold, Bob Johnson, Ed Hipp, Dave Maloney, Granny Sharpe, Bill Pharr, and Jay Bolin. They are, however, expected to be back in uniform before long. Several others of the early starters have dropped off—some for scholastic reasons and others for numerous reasons. The squad now stands at about 40 members. Practice last week was topped off with a game scrimmage on Saturday, in which the two teams battled on even terms. Both showed well-developed offense but weakness on defense. Attempts will be made to eradicate these weaknesses in the practice sessions that will continue till the holidays.

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N. C.

MEATS and Groceries
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

Printing
Garland Court
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Printers of The “Davidsonian”
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
Printing is our Business — For a representative call 6300
CHARLOTTE, N. C.