Thurs., Feb. 15, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

Due to the coming elections, the question of the virtues and faults of the political system has arisen. In order
to get a cross-section of student opinion, the following question was put to the following Seniors: Do you think a
better system of politics can be evolved for Davidson’s elections or is the old system satisfactory?

Charley Yates: I don't heartily approve of the old system, as I am in favor of open politics. Something is
definitely wrong when year after year there is disputing, protesting, and rerunning of elections. There are always some few that
wish to combine forces and ruin the purpose of closed politics.

Ross Gladden: I think that the present system of electing the officers could be improved. For instance, the balloting system
is not adequate for getting an accurate number of the votes cast. If this could be worked out, it seems
to me it would help the Council in counting the votes, and also be beneficial in other ways.

George Ficklen: The old system of politics has some advantages, but I think its disadvantages outweigh these. A system of
“open” politics would at least bring the evils to light so that these evils could be removed. If the “open”
system did not work after a thorough trial, it could be replaced with the old system.

Tom McKnight: As to the matter of “open politics,” I think it has no place on the Davidson campus, for
it can lead to much competition and cause friction between groups. I’m for the old system as the merits of
our leaders show themselves vivid enough for all practical purposes.

Dick Gammon: I am rather inclined to believe that our present system of politics is as good as any method
that will be worked out for a school the size of Davidson. It seems that in most cases the men
we have chosen as our leaders have proven competent, and as long as we don't go to the point of
“combines” or vote for a man merely because he is a “fraternity brother,” we will be treading on firm soil.

Loch Hunter: Politics are corrupt and will continue in that way as long as elections are held. A new system
could in no way be worse. So let a man for once in a while in Davidson fight his own
battle—I am definitely in favor of open politics.

Russell Edmondson: The old system of politics at Davidson is not a good one and will never be. There will
always be some who will violate the old system by forming combines, and thus keep some deserving candidate from being
elected. I think we should have open politics so as to give everyone a fair chance. It might also help
us to develop some good future politicians.

Billy Masters: Certainly the old system of politics can be improved. A change in the balloting system would be a
great help, but that is not enough. That will not eliminate the undercurrent of political maneuvers by any means. Certainly,
politics will keep on, no matter what precautions are taken. The Seniors have seen it for the last three years,
and there is every reason to believe it will continue if the present system is adhered to. It might be
surprising, also, to some of us if we knew who some of our “Davidson gentlemen” are who have taken not
only a part but a leading role. Isn't open politics better than dirty politics?

Jim Anderson: We will have dirty politics and combines here at Davidson as long as we have closed politics. During
the elections here now, we pledge ourselves not to enter into any combines during any campus elections. These combines, however,
still exist and always will as long as politics here remains as it is at present. So why not have
open politics?

Daniel Gilliam: The old system is better than this idea of “open politics.” The old system, although imperfect, is being
improved. If we have this idea of “open politics,” it will divide the college into two or three groups that
will openly work against each other. This will be detrimental to our college spirit, which needs unity in the student
body above all things. Davidson is too small for “open politics.”

Camera Club Hears Lecture by Dr. Lyon

Dr. S.C. Lyon spoke to the Camera Club on the subject of “Color Photography” last night when the club held
its regular meeting in the classroom of Dr. Lyon in Chambers. Plans were later discussed for a field trip to
Charlotte. The lecture was accompanied by the showing of colored slides made by Dr. Lyon himself.

Most of the members of the Club were present at this lecture on “Color Photography” in which Dr. Lyon pointed
out many of the difficulties in the making of color slides. At the close of the meeting, members were given
the chance to ask Dr. Lyon any questions they might have.

Field Trip

Also, plans were made for a field trip to Charlotte which will be taken this weekend on Saturday, the 17th.
This trip was scheduled for last weekend, but due to outside interference, particularly by the weather, it was postponed. On
the trip, which will be made to an industrial plant in Charlotte, members will have the opportunity of taking pictures
of the work in all stages that is carried on in the plant. After the lecture and discussion of the
trip, the meeting was closed by the president of the Club, Angus Lytch.

Maurice Hindus

Maurice Hindus, Russian author and lecturer, will return to this vicinity on February 19, speaking at Central High School in
Charlotte. He spoke here last February and has recently returned from a trip through Europe. He was in Poland when
the war broke out.

Group Brings Noted Author to Charlotte

Social Science Teachers Sponsor Return of Hindus to Charlotte

Maurice Hindus, noted author and lecturer, and a native of Russia, will return to this section on February 19 when
he will speak before an audience in Central High School auditorium in Charlotte at 8 o'clock that night. His topic,
“Stalin and Hitler, Friends or Enemies,” is one of vital importance to those interested in the present foreign crisis. Mr.
Hindus is very well informed on these matters, having recently returned from a trip through Europe.

Group Photos Will Be Taken for Annual

Photographer is Rapidly Completing Yearbook

Mr. “Dunny” Dunbar, annual photographer from Charlotte, was on the campus all day yesterday taking group pictures for Quips and
Cranks. During the morning it was planned that he should take shots of the campus. In the afternoon, Mr. Dunbar
was to take pictures of the class officers, members of the Forensic Council, the Debate Team, Honorary Fraternity Council, the
Athletic Council, members of the Court of Control, and the Student Council. At this writing, permission had not been obtained
to photograph the ROTC Battalion, but it was hoped that pictures could be made of the officers and the Battalion
during a parade. Members of the YMCA cabinet and the Publications Board were also photographed for the annual yesterday afternoon.
Last night it was planned that pictures of the staff of the magazine and the Davidsonian should be made.

Photographic work for Quips and Cranks has almost been completed. All student pictures and photos of members of the faculty
were finished several weeks ago. Fraternity sponsors were photographed during Mid-Winters. An entirely new set of campus scenes has been
made. The above-named will be offset by spreads of informal snapshots of various campus activities. As usual, there will be
a section devoted to “les belles femmes” which has not yet been completed.

Library Adds New Volumes

Josephus Daniels’ Autobiography Put On Shelves

Four new books have been added to the library collections: an autobiography, an international political plan, a technical study of
jazz, and a historical novel.

Tar Heel Editor, by Josephus Daniels, is a spirited autobiography of an intensely Southern, thoroughly American, democratic Democrat who is
as local as the tar he could never get off his heels.

Clarence Streit’s Union Now offers a daringly simple and convincing plan to unite the United States and European democracies under
one government. The author states that this will free humanity of war, taxes, guarantee cut and democracy.

The first book with the subject of jazz as a whole, in its technical as well as historical aspects, is
Wilder Hobson's American Jazz Music. In it, Mr. Hobson deals with the technical difficulties in the making of color slides.been
selected. It elaborates on the theme that jazz is not a collection of tricks but a language. "Statesmen of the
Lost Cause," by Burton Hendrick, is the story of Civil War history from the viewpoint of Jefferson Davis and his
cabinet. It presents the generalship and valor of these statesmen, the old aristocracy of the South, with brilliant portraits of
Davis, Stephens, Benjamin, Toombs, Yancey, Mason, Slidell, and a host of others.

Harvard University has an 85-ton cyclotron capable of producing atomic projectiles of 11,000,000 volts energy.

Two-thirds of the Badger state’s lawyers are graduates of the University of Wisconsin law school.

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 6300
“Printers of The Davidsonian”
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
Garland Court
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Completing Work For
“Baby Is Born”
Dr. Walter Lee Lingle, left, and Dr. W. J. Martin will be honored with certificates celebrating their half-century membership.

Observe Prayer Week
During this past week the Student Volunteer Group has observed the week of Prayer and Self-Denial for Missions as set
aside by the Southern Presbyterian Church. The group gathered at the “Y” two mornings before breakfast for prayer, and on
Friday afternoon they met with Mr. W. M. Miller, the missionary from Persia, in the reading room. A visit from
one of the regional secretaries at Duke is expected soon, but the exact date has not been set as yet.

Beta Theta Pi social fraternity at Davidson will celebrate its centennial with a banquet in Chambers Hall Saturday night. Present
at the affair will be Clarence L. Newton, Beta Theta Pi’s national president. A picture of Dr. Martin, president-emeritus of
Davidson, was unavailable for publication.

Deputations Travel Over Two Carolinas
Five Groups Of Y. M. C. A. Speakers Are Heard In Several Churches

Five groups of Davidsonians traveled throughout the state and into neighboring ones over the weekend representing the college YMCA on
deputations. The first group, composed of Sid Crane, Dick Gammon, Dave McLean, Casey Jones, Ed Watson, and Williams, went to
Raleigh for a meeting of the North Carolina Student Christian Movement. There they heard Robert Mackie, Secretary of the World
Christian Federation. The program began at 2 P.M. Sunday and lasted through 8:30 P.M. They returned to the campus late
Sunday night.

Atlanta was the destination of the second group. At the request of the Central Presbyterian Church, Bob Finley, Bill Loftin,
and Eldridge Brown went down to aid in the weekend services. Dr. Stuart Oglesby is the pastor of the Central
Presbyterian Church.

Gammon Speaks
Joe Gammon went to Huntersville where he continued the studies in “Through Tragedy to Triumph,” by Matthews. For the last
three Sunday nights, Joe has been teaching a lesson from this book in place of the regular night services. However,
this lesson finished the book. Six boys were at the Young Peoples’ Evangelistic Rally at the My- [Continued on Page
Six]

“That’s A New One On Me.”
That’s what many Davidson men have said within the past month and a half when they tried on these 1940
sport coats. Half were experienced sport coat wearers who keep odd jackets in use all the time. The other half
were men who were just breaking into the habit of the Herringbone and the Harris tweed. These sport jackets are
amazingly new and we have yet to see the young man who doesn’t take them off... reluctantly. Like to slip
into one just for the fun of it?
$15.00 to $25.00
Real Camel Hair $25.00
J. O. JONES Inc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Dramatics Frat Bids Four New Members
Horton, Jackson, And Cobb Selected By Alpha Psi Omega

Four new members are to be taken into Alpha Psi Omega, honorary dramatics fraternity, at its next meeting on February
21. They are Gordon Horton, Boyd Flynn, Ed Jackson, and Dick Cobb. These candidates were selected from the members of
The Red and Black Masquers.

Gordon Horton has appeared in “Dulcy” and has charge of the make-up for the Masquers’ plays. Boyd Flynn has appeared
in “Dulcy,” “The Boy Friend,” “Hay Fever,” and “Journey’s End.” Ed Jackson has also aided in the technical part of
the Masquers’ productions, being property manager and publicist. Dick Cobb has appeared in “Man in the Bowler Hat,” “Hay Fever,”
and “Journey’s End.”

Honorary Fraternity
Alpha Psi Omega is the national honorary fraternity for the recognition of dramatics in colleges. Davidson’s chapter is the Zeta
Kappa cast. Founded in 1925, it has 176 chapters. Its officers are David Colvin, president; Harry Hendricks, vice-president; and Ken
McIntyre, secretary. Dr. R. de V. Williamson of the Davidson faculty is the faculty advisor.

Twelve New Members To Be Initiated Into The Fraternity Tonight
Dr. P. H. Gwynn of the Davidson faculty will speak at the meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, national social science
fraternity, which will be held tonight at the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house. Dr. Gwynn’s discussion will deal with the
honorary fraternity system at Davidson. This talk will be preceded by the initiation of twelve new members into the fraternity.
The new men who were elected to membership before Christmas include four seniors, seven juniors, and one alumnus.

A list of the twelve men to be initiated is as follows: Paul Bumbarger, Tom Fry, Louis Hite, Don Holt,
Casey Jones, Ted Leinbach, Bill Loftin, Bob Pritchard, Steward Rice, Ed Watson, John Withers, and Lawson Withers.

Frank Simmons, president of the fraternity, disclosed plans for a meeting in the near future to be led by Judge
Redd of Charlotte and Dr. R. de V. Williamson of the Davidson faculty.

Miller and McLean To Make Inspection Tour
Methods for closer affiliation between the flying clubs at Duke, North Carolina, and State were discussed Monday night at the
regular meeting of the Flying Club. In the absence of president Bob Miller, who is now working at one of
the Charlotte airports as an assistant instructor, vice-president Dave McLean presided.

On the weekend of the first week in March, Bob Miller and Dave McLean will go by plane to the
above-mentioned institutions on an inspection tour. The main object of this trip is to establish closer relations between the four
clubs. The local chapter of the Flying Club was recently extended a bid to join the National Flying Association, a
nation-wide aeronautical organization.

An ice-cold Coca-Cola is a thing by itself—the familiar bottle of goodness that represents four generations of experience in refreshing
millions. Its clean, tingling taste brings a delightful after-sense of real refreshment.

PAUSE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Building
Davidson, N. C.

PAUL & CRYMES
ALL SPORTING GOODS
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
