Trustees Hold Meeting > Z—528 ALENDA LUX The Davidsonian UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Artists To Exhibit Works VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1940 No. 19 Election Proposal Presented Council, Wednesday Night New Article And Several Amendments
Are Proposed At a meeting of the Student Council yesterday, a petition was presented favoring strict control of elections by
a representative Elections Board, who will have final power of decision. Authors and signatories are Erle Austin, George Richmond, Tony
Casali, and Neal Scott. Due to a great deal of discontent within the student body as to the method of
conducting elections, these members of the senior class took it upon themselves to cleanse politics and end all further dispute
by putting down in black and white that which is legal and that which is illegal. If the student council
and the student body should pass the proposed amendments, it is believed that there will be no further argument or
dissatisfaction. Committee Ends Abuse Student-Faculty Relations Committee Takes Action On Over-time Chapel The problem of over-time chapel has recently been
discussed by the Student-Faculty Relations Committee. Action to correct this abuse was inaugurated last week by a series of announcements
from Sam Spencer, president of the student body. The fact that chapel exercises and meetings after chapel have often been
broken into third period classes has been taken up at the last meeting of the student-faculty relations committee, and the
student body. Several amendments to the elections of officers have been proposed. It provides for the establishment of a representative
board designed to keep chapel within its allotted time limit, has been taken up and was announced in chapel last
week. First, all speakers have been asked to limit their talks to a reasonable length; second, students have been requested
to use the bulletin boards for all announcements except those of immediate and general importance; and to eliminate entirely announcements
directed to only one man; third, meetings after chapel have been requested to disband at the bell or as soon
thereafter as is possible. Committee Presents Series Of Addresses, Seminars, Interviews The committee on lectures in connection with the American
Association of Colleges will present Dr. Dennett. Dr. Dennett, who is the president of Williams College, has been lecturing at
several colleges throughout the country. To Talk In Chapel To begin his work here, Dr. Dennett will address the student
body in chapel services on Monday, and then he will pursue a varied program for the rest of the week.
Regular class periods will hear Dr. Dennett lecture on certain international and national problems from time to time through the
week. Seminars will be conducted for group discussions also. Faculty Lecture One evening during the week the faculty will be
entertained with a lecture concerning some educational question or policy, while the other time will be allowed to individual students
and small groups. At the present time the committee is arranging Dr. Dennett's schedule, which will be given later. Conrad
Smith Accepts Post Conrad Fradeviz Smith, former Alumni Secretary of Davidson College, has recently accepted a position with the newly-formed
firm, Charlotte, Inc. Fred, as he was popularly known on the campus last year, had previously worked with the Advertising
Department of Vick Chemical Co., in New York City after leaving his position at Davidson last January. While a student
at Davidson, Smith acted as Editor of the Davidsonian his senior year and was originator of the Journalism club. Music
Library Receives Gift Three Thousand Valuable Records Are Added To Carnegie Set With the addition of 3,000 recordings, including many
of Caruso recordings, Davidson automatically became a mecca for music lovers throughout the state. The discs were presented to the
Davidson and Queens departments of music by executors of the Ferris estate in Charlotte. According to Prof. James C. Pfohl,
the records are very valuable and include several which have been lost from the files of the Victor Co., manufacturers.
The set is filed in handsome cabinets and is completely catalogued. With the addition of these recordings to the Carnegie
set presented to the college last year, Davidson will have one of the most valuable collections of records in the
south. The new donation differs from the Carnegie set in that all the records are over ten years old. In
addition to Caruso, the set has preserved the music of such early twentieth-century artists as Geraldine Farrar, John Phillip Sousa,
and others. There are over twenty complete operas. The music department has adopted a new and permanent schedule for operation
of the Carnegie record set. Beginning this week the set will be run every night in Room 7, Shearer Hall,
from 7:30 to 10:00 P.M., and on Saturday and Sunday afternoons from 2:30 to 5:00 P.M. Dennett To Lecture On
National Affairs Davidson's faculty committee on lectures in connection with the American Association of Colleges will present Dr. Dennett. Dr.
Dennett, who is the president of Williams College, has been lecturing at several colleges throughout the country. To Talk In
Chapel To begin his work here, Dr. Dennett will address the student body in chapel services on Monday, and then
he will pursue a varied program for the rest of the week. Regular class periods will hear Dr. Dennett lecture
on certain international and national problems from time to time through the week. Seminars will be conducted for group discussions
also. Faculty Lecture One evening during the week the faculty will be entertained with a lecture concerning some educational question
or policy, while the other time will be allowed to individual students and small groups. At the present time the
committee is arranging Dr. Dennett's schedule, which will be given later. Celebrated By Betas Fiftieth Anniversary Doctors Lingle and Martin
Win Awards A group of over one hundred twenty-five members attended the half-century celebration of the continuous existence of the
Phi Alpha Chapter of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Betas from various sections of the South were present at this
two-day affair, climaxed by the presentation of the Fraternal Fifties Award to Dr. W. L. Lingle and Dr. W. J.
Martin. Drs. Lingle and Martin both made remarks as they received their fraternal fifties award. Dr. Lingle recalled humorous experiences
at an early Beta convention, which he attended while an active member of the chapter. Dr. Martin pictured the scenes
of his initiation and outlined his connection with the fraternity in the years that followed. Dr. Moore Toastmaster Dr. Oren
Moore of Charlotte was toastmaster of the banquet held in the Banquet Hall of Chamber's Building Saturday night. Clarence L.
Newton, national president of Beta Theta Pi, was the featured speaker. A twenty-minute sound film of the Centennial Convention, held
last summer at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, birthplace of the fraternity, was shown at the banquet. Other notable Betas
present were the District Chief “Abe” Lincoln, Karl Fisher, an Indianapolis publisher and editor of the Beta Theta Pi magazine,
three representatives from the University of North Carolina, and two each from Washington and Lee and Duke. Reunion The District
Reunion was also held in conjunction with this celebration, the members attending chapel in a body Saturday morning and following
this by a business meeting of representatives from all chapters in the district. Alumni present agreed to back the active
chapters in financing the publication of a chapter history. This history has been written by two active members and is
the only one in all the Beta world that has been written by an undergraduate. A historical exhibit of local
Beta relics has been set up in the library. Departing Professors Professors W. L. Porter and A. M. Hillhouse have
announced their decision to discontinue their work as members of the Davidson faculty. Dr. Porter has reached the usual age
for retirement and has requested that he be permitted to resign. Professor Hillhouse is leaving Davidson for an attractive, highly
lucrative position. This announcement, along with certain financial reports, was made by the trustees early this week. Men Elected By
Phi Betas Phi Beta Kappa will hold its annual meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Faculty room in Chambers. At
this meeting the election of new officers will take place and the election of new undergraduate members from the student
body. All members of the faculty and undergraduate members of the Fraternity are requested to be present at this important
meeting if it is at all possible. New business will be the discussion and voting upon new members chosen from
the student body. The election of officers for the organization for the coming year will then be taken up. As
is usually the custom, the new members elected to the Fraternity from among the student body will be announced later
on in the year at the customary chapel program. Crane Heads Organization Among the recent features whoSucceeds Hunter of N.C.
State, Who Was President in 1939

Paul S. Crane was elected President of the Presbyterian Student Association at their recent meeting held at Salisbury Friday and
Saturday of the past week.

Succeeds Hunter

He succeeds Charles Hunter, from North Carolina State College, who was president for the year 1939. The Presbyterian Student Association
is an organization composed of members of most of the Universities and Colleges from North Carolina. Among the other duties
of the new President will be the planning for the annual summer conference. Among the other Davidson representatives were: Sid
Crane, Dick Gammon, Dave Talmage, and Al Dimmock. Dr. J. J. Murry of Lexington, Va., gave the address Saturday morning
on the theme of the Amsterdam Conference.

Kenyon Represents YMCA

Dick Kenyon represented the Davidson YMCA at the University of North Carolina Brotherhood Day observance on last Sunday. Ten students,
one from each of the leading colleges of North Carolina, attended the Brotherhood Day at Chapel Hill. Plans were made
Saturday night for the meetings which were held the coming day. Sunday morning, the representatives divided into twos; each two
speaking at one of the various churches in Chapel Hill on the subject of “We Declare Our Faith.” Sunday evening
a panel discussion led by Miss Rose Terlin, a member of the staff of the World Student Christian Federation, was
held.

ARTICLE XVI.—Elections Board

Section 1. There shall be created an Election Board made up of a senior from each social fraternity on the
campus, four non-fraternity men from the senior class, and two senior representatives of the Student Council.

Section 2. These members of the Elections Board shall be elected to their post, and not appointed.

Section 3. One representative of the Elections Board shall be elected Chairman of the Body by fellow members. His duties
are that of the presiding officer. The duties of the Elections Board are: to conduct all elections strictly according to
the provisions set out in this Constitution, to count, file, and post all election returns within twelve hours after the
polls are closed, to set forth, previous to the election period, a set of definite and specific rules including clear-cut
definitions of such election terms as “combines”, “soliciting votes”, etc., and the penalties which shall accompany the infraction of the
same, and to make the same public to the student body.

(A) Ballots shall be counted and tabulated in the Council room in Chambers building.

(B) All ballots shall be filed for a period of two weeks. No person except Election Board members shall have
access to the ballots.

Section 5. The members of this board shall be sworn in by the Student Council, subject to the Honor System,
and shall reserve the right to place any witnesses or witness under oath subject to the honor system. This board
shall also receive any complaints or charges of violations of Articles IV or XVI and shall try them. Any complainant
shall be required to appear before this board to testify and the burden of proof shall rest upon the complainant.

Signed:
NEAL A. SCOTT
GEORGE RICHMOND
ERLE AUSTIN
TONY CASALI

Trustees Announce Porter and Hillhouse Will Depart At Close of College Year

Dr. Hillhouse Accepts Position in Cincinnati; Dr. Porter Resigns

Trustees of Davidson College in their semi-annual meeting yesterday adopted a proposal handed them by the Committee on Physical Education
to incorporate the Athletic Association with the Student Health Service and set up a new department under the heading of
“Department of Student Health Service and Physical Education.” Under this new set-up the College will assume all liabilities and debts
for the present Athletic Association.

Nothing was reported on the presidential situation at the end of the morning session. Besides routine matters, the Trustees also
announced that no changes in the Athletic Staff would be made and the present Staff will remain intact until December
31, 1940. Reports of President Lingle and Treasurer Jackson were reviewed before presentation by the Executive Committee to the Trustees.

Dr. Lingle, in his regular report to the Trustees, announced that Dr. Hillhouse has decided to accept a very attractive
position in Cincinnati. Dr. Porter, because of health conditions, requested the Trustees to release him from active duty.

REPORTS ON FINANCES

Many approve of the unique new endowment plan. Treasurer Jackson reported that the budget will be balanced for the coming
year. This is the first time in many years that the budget has been balanced. The Treasurer explained that this
was possible because every department has since last September operated on the most economical basis possible. The student enrollment this
year has been larger than for last year and the income from investments has continued to decline. Encouraging reports were
made to the Trustees with reference to the Living Endowment. Commitments on an annual basis already amount to more than
$96,000.00 which, so long as continued, is equivalent to the income on an endowment of $1,500,000.00. Testimonials regarding the unique
idea of the Living Endowment have come from far and near. Alumni, Trustees, Faculty members, students, and the parents of
students have manifested fine cooperation.

Improvements

Among the improvements reported to the Trustees are the following: the erection of Duke Dormitory; the building of the William
Weir Wing of the Library; the construction of the new Athletic Field; and the renovation of the Chambers Building.

Art Exhibit To Be Held

Art will again invade the campus with the opening of the third annual art exhibit. The exhibition will open on
March 28 and remain open for public inspection through March 29. Substantial cash prizes will be offered this year for
winning pictures in several classes: oils, watercolors, charcoal, ink, and pencil. In contrast to last year’s system, the artists’ works
will be entered unsigned. The public will judge, making their choice of the single best picture in the exhibit, and
five judges will determine the best artist. The judges that have been appointed are: Chalmers Davidson, Henry Lilly, Dr. Kenneth
J. Foreman, Dr. Richard C. Harding, and Professor J. J. Murry. The names of the winners will be revealed only
at the awarding of the prizes. The judges will award a first, second, and third prize in each class.

A picture of interest to be exhibited is a surrealistic portrait of Mrs. Chalmers Davidson by Gordon Horton and lent
for the occasion by Mr. Davidson. Gordon Horton will be the director of the exhibit again this year. Gordon Horton,
director, urged an interview with any freshmen who are talented in any of these fields to participate.

Bill Bolin and Jimmy Cooper Take Place Of Tommy Harnsberger

Two officers of the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary fraternity for the recognition of military excellence among
college students, have been promoted in the best company. These men are Bill Bolin and Jimmy Cooper. With the graduation
of Tommy Harnsberger, former Company Captain, these men will take over his duties.

Proposed Amendment

Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College:

ARTICLE IV.—Election of Officers

Section 7. All ballots cast for any student office shall be signed and placed in a locked ballot box by
the voter himself.

Section 8. Ballot boxes must be located in a central voting place, kept open a reasonable length of time, and
be under the surveillance of a member of the Elections Board or Student Council.

Section 9. It will be illegal for any group, organization, fraternity or club to combine their votes or form a
clique.

Section 10. It will be illegal for any person, group, organization, club or fraternity to solicit votes for a candidate
for office.

Section 11. It will be illegal for any person, group, organization, club or fraternity to use an expense whatsoever in
electing their candidate.

Section 12. Any candidate found guilty of violation of Articles IV and XVI shall be disqualified from further participation either
as a candidate or voter, in the election in question and throughout the remainder of the entire election period. Any
person or persons, other than the candidates, found guilty of infraction of the same articles shall be disfranchised for the
election in question and all other elections during the period.

YMCA Plans Panel Discussion

“Compulsory Religious Exercises” Is Topic Of Second Discussion Of Year

The YMCA will hold its second panel discussion of the year on the subject of compulsory religious exercises. The discussion
will be held at Kelly Hall. Dr. C. K. Brown, Jr., Professor J. K. Fleagle, and Professor Chalmers Davidson will
speak against Dr. Archie Currie. This topic should be of particular interest to a great many students, and it is
expected that a large number will be present.

The first of these panel discussions was held shortly before Christmas. Professors Rene Williamson, W. W. Johnston, W. A. McGavock,
and B. B. Blakely discussed the subject “A Christian Attitude Toward War.” In the past, these discussions have been a
marked success, and it is planned to continue them in the future. It is hoped that at least one more
will be held this year and several more are planned for the 1940-1941 school year.
