Thurs., May 9, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Jay Bolin Is Elected New Judge Of Court Succeeding Arnold

Arnold Resigns Control of Freshmen Because Of Point System

Jay Bolin has recently been named Judge of the Court of Control following the resignation of Dick Arnold from that
position. Due to the resignation of Dick Arnold from the post of Court of Control Judge, the senior members of
the Student Council have approved the selection of Jay Bolin as the person to fill the office. It was the
decision of the council that Arnold should become Recorder of the Court, thus swapping the places of these two members.

Bolin’s Record

Bolin, from Knoxville, Tenn., has had one year’s experience on the Court of Control, is a letterman in football and
worked on the business staff of the Scripts ‘n Pranks for three years. He is a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

Arnold, who has recently been selected co-manager of the student store, was forced to give up one of his positions
due to the ruling of excessive points in activities.

Other Members

The 1940-’41 court includes six members besides Bolin and Arnold: George Grantham, Bob Reinhardt, Don Bell, Frank Caldwell, Matt Long,
and Joe McCoy. It is the duty of this body to “hear, investigate, and deal with charges of upperclassmen against
the freshmen of improper conduct, violating Freshman Regulations or breaking college traditions.”

Dr. R.W. Ward Gives Speech To Educators

Professors To Hear Eminent Speaker At Greensboro Conclave

Invitations have been issued to members and eligible non-members of the American Association of University Professors throughout North Carolina to
attend a meeting sponsored by the Woman's College chapter of the A.A.U.P. at the O’Henry Hotel, Saturday, May 18, at
6:30 o'clock. Dr. Paul W. Ward, associate secretary of the National Association, will be the principal speaker. His subject will
be “College and University Procedures.”

Ward’s Background

A native of Indianapolis, Indiana, Dr. Ward received his A.B. degree from Butler College in Indianapolis; his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from Columbia University, and a diploma from Union Seminary. For a year he studied at the London School of
Economics and Political Science, and has traveled extensively in Europe.

Dr. Ward is an eminent scholar in the fields of social and political philosophy, and is at present on leave
of absence from his position as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at Syracuse University. He holds his professorship there
in the School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Dr. Ward is the author of “Sovereignty,” “Intelligence in Politics,” “A Short
History of Politics,” and is co-author of “The Fields and Methods of Knowledge.” He has contributed numerous articles to various
philosophical journals.

Address Topic

In his address on May 18, Dr. Ward will discuss the results of the recent investigation of the committee which
he has headed on “Place and Function of Faculties in College and University Government.” There will be open discussion following
Dr. Ward's speech.

Invitations have gone out to members and eligible non-members of the A.A.U.P. in the following colleges and universities by the
Woman’s College chapter: High Point, Salem, Elon, Duke, State, Guilford, University of North Carolina, Queens, Wake Forest, East Carolina Teachers
College, Lenoir-Rhyne, Davidson, Catawba, and Greensboro.

Judge JAY BOLIN

Fleagle Urges Enrollment In Summer Class

Summer School To Last From June 12-July 19

Prof. F. Kew Fleagle, director of the summer session, recently urged all students wishing to take summer work to enroll
as soon as possible. Classes for the 1940 session, opening June 12 and closing July 19, are already being formed.
(A list of courses offered has been published in a previous issue of The Davidsonian). No course will be offered
unless at least five students sign for it. Extra courses will be offered if there is sufficient demand for them.

No student can earn more than six hours’ credit in one summer session except for a science course. All three-hour
courses meet for a recitation period of seventy-five minutes, while a six-hour course meets two such periods daily. Science courses
require additional time for laboratory work.

Most Popular Book Checked Out 43 Times

“Grapes Of Wrath” First With “The Yearling” Second, G.W.T.W. Third

The most popular non-curricular book in Davidson's library is John Steinbeck’s "Grapes of Wrath,” checked out 43 times. Catherine Rawlings’
“The Yearling” is second with 29 withdrawals, while the highly touted and lengthy “Gone With The Wind” of Margaret Mitchell
could only come in with a poor third, having been out 27 times this year.

Davidson students have withdrawn books for a total of 12,956 two-week periods, 707 more than last year. Fiction is the
most popular type of non-curricular reading as nine of the first ten in this classification are books of fiction. Adolph
Hitler's monumental revolutionary work “Mein Kampf” is the only non-fiction work which crashes this big ten. It is fifth with
21 withdrawals.

The Davidson man has a hankering for very dramatic fiction as shown by his fourth choice of Ethel Vance's “Escape.”
In sixth place comes Wolfe’s “The Web and the Rock.” The fact that English professors quite often assign parallel reading
by the number of pages is shown by the popularity of that seemingly endless epic, “Anthony Adverse,” which holds seventh
place in the list. Eighth is “Rebecca” by Daphne du Maurier. Lloyd C. Douglas’ latest novel with a religious theme,
“Disputed Passage,” and Griswalds’ “Sea-Island Lady” round out the list of the ten most popular non-curricular books.

It would seem that the English Department assigns the most parallel reading if we could judge this by the most
often withdrawn curricular book, “British Drama,” by Lieder, Lovett, and Root, which was withdrawn 46 times. The Bible Department doesn’t
lag far behind as both the Apocrypha and the “Doctrine of the Prophets” by Kirkpatrick tie for second with 31
each. The Greek and Spanish Departments come fourth and fifth in order with “Greek Literature in Translation” by Howe and
“Don Quixote” of Cervantes.

Others rounding out the big ten of curriculum books are: “Complete Poems and Tales of Poe,” “The Odyssey” and “The
Iliad of Homer,” “The Twelve Minor Prophets” by Robinson, and finally “Best Plays of 1928-'29" compiled by Mantle.

Fairmont State Teachers College is the oldest teacher training institution south of the Mason-Dixon Line.

Headline of the Week: Harvard Ape Man to Speak Thursday. (William & Mary Flat Hat).

Students, Faculty and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Pi Kappa Phi

Brothers Hite, Saunders, Mobley, Niven, Miller, Horan, and Pledge McCall visited Florence, S.C., for the weekend. Brother Murray went home
to Raleigh, and Brother Larkin to his home in Washington. Brother Logan went to Rutherfordton and home. Brother Geddie Herring,
warden, and Frank Woodward visited Salem for the May Day festivities, as did Brother Hendrick. Brother Covington and Brother Plunkett
went to their respective homes in Wadesboro and Aiken, S.C., and Brother Williamson made his usual jaunt to Atlanta. Erb
went to Salisbury and Badin. A chapter house feed was held at the house Sunday night, for which several guests
were present.

Officers elected for next semester are: Paul Bumbarger, president; Norris Erb, treasurer; Richard Saunders, secretary; John McCrea, chaplain; Ed Murray,
historian; Geddie Herring, boarding house manager. The chapter is looking forward to its forthcoming dance in Charlotte the night of
May 11. Chapters at Duke, State, Furman, and South Carolina have been invited to send representatives.

Kappa Alpha

Brothers Spencer and Marion spent the weekend at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, for the Derby. The regular Charlotte contingent
included Brothers Sandifer, Wallace, McLean, and Pledge Brother Belk. At Converse for the weekend was Brother Wilson. Brother Tom McLean
and Dick Winters picnicked on Sunday. Those going home were Brother Gladden, to Chester, S.C.; Brothers Dave Washburn, to Wilmington;
and Brother Sinclair, to Bluefield, W. Va. Brother Perrin went to Chapel Hill with Brother Harris, and Scotty Patterson took
his usual jaunt to Statesville. On Sunday night the regular feed was held.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

“Bogo” Kunz and John Hay spent the weekend with Tom McLauchlin at his home in Raeford. Phil Edwards went home
for an extended weekend to attend the Gallopade in Rocky Mount. Cameron Dudley and Tom Galbreath attended the May Day
festivities at Salem. Brother Ed Watson went to Concord. Bill Hamilton went to his home in Hemmingway, S.C. John Hay’s
parents visited Sunday and Monday, as did Alumnus John Doty from Rogersville, Tenn. The chapter announces the pledging of Lawson
Withers.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brothers Coltrane, Youngblood, and Crutchfield went to Spartanburg over the weekend. Brothers Neill, Brinson, McElwee, and Pledge Allison went to
Charlotte, while Brothers Wine and Perdew went to Harrisonburg, Va., to the dances at Madison College. Brother Brooks and Pledge
Brother Byers went to Winthrop, and Brothers Anderson, Browning, Latimer, and Pollock went to Greenville, S.C. A feed was held
Sunday night with the S.A.E.'s as guests. Officers for next year are: Jack Abels, president; Vernon Youngblood, vice-president; Jim McDonald,
secretary; and Jim Crutchfield, sergeant-at-arms. David Williamson, of Kenansville, was pledged last week.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Crook, McGee, Dewitt, Timmy Cooper, Hunter, Black, and Ehly spent the weekend in Goldsboro. Brothers Hudson and Ross went
to their homes in Raleigh. Ashby Dick sojourned at Converse, while Bob Finley traveled to the Kentucky Derby at Louisville.
Brother “Beester” Burwell caught up on his psychology homework in Charlotte.Delta Theta

Climaxing the year, socially speaking, for the Phi Delts was the hayride and picnic given Saturday night. The following young
ladies were guests of the chapter for supper and the hayride and picnic: Misses Rosemary Holland, Libby Jones, Elsie Moseley,
Mona Moseley, Clare Courtney, Parrish, Harriet Long, Sara Searcy, Shirley Lewis, Betty Lindler, Lorraine Wilcox, Margaret Swicegood, Anna Ray Long,
Pauline Long, Hilda Graham Roberts, Becky Davis, Martha Withers, Helen Copeland, Libby Hamrick, Yvonne Reinhardt, Martha Davis, Betty Beasley, Aileen
Brannan, Jane Kirkpatrick, Rebecca Patten, Winnie Shealy, Peggy Howard, Mary Marshall Jones, and Lu Lowrance, of Charlotte; Miss Jane Campbell,
of Queens College; Misses Shirley Lewis and Betty Lindler, of Rock Hill; Miss Lorraine Wilcox, of Carthage; Misses Margaret Swicegood,
Anna Ray Long, Pauline Long, Hilda Graham Roberts, and Becky Davis, of Salisbury; Misses Martha Withers, Helen Copeland, and Libby
Hamrick, of Davidson; and Miss Yvonne Reinhardt, of Lincolnton. Dr. and Mrs. Lewis B. Schenck were chaperones.

Bearing the Sword and Shield to distant points were Phi Delta Theta’s star harriers, Brothers Raynor and Simpson, who struggled
up to Louisville Churchill Downs. Brother Kenyon attended May Day at Winthrop, and Brother McGeachy trekked to Tryon. Guests of
the chapter at various times over the weekend were Brothers Setty, of Duke, Gennett, of Carolina; Tyson, Andy Adams, of
Carolina, and John Dumas, now of Georgia Tech, who took Brothers Stevenson, Howell, and Hollis to Converse.

Annuals Sent For Printing

Many Sections To Make Up Quips and Cranks. Quips and Cranks went to press on Friday, the twentieth of May.
Sections devoted to classes, fraternities, sports, honorary fraternities, and beauties will constitute the make-up for the 1940 edition. Senior pictures
this year are larger than those in the past two years; numerous snapshots will be one principal feature. A roster
of students in the advertisement section remains a part of the annual. Dedication of the annual, as in past years,
will remain a secret until publication.

Rapier

Ted Strain, Michigan State College basketball player, has been nicknamed “Nervous.” Eighteen pairs of brothers are now attending the Missouri
School of Mines.

North Carolina Gamma of Phi Delta Theta announces the initiation of Jim Cowan, Shelton Colson, and Bob Simpson.

Phi Gamma Delta

On Thursday night the members of the chapter entertained the graduate chapter of Charlotte at a formal meeting followed by
a feed and song-fest. Brother Kellogg attended the Kentucky Derby at Louisville, while Brothers Bellamy, Wooten, Otts, and Barker went
to the May Day festivities at Randolph-Macon, accompanied by Brother Jesse Plyler, who visited Sweet Briar. Brother Dillard went to
Greensboro, where he was best man in the wedding of a friend. Also going to Greensboro were Brothers Holland, Stowe,
Thredgill, and Long. Brother Shorty Parrish visited at Converse, and Brother Winston went home to Mooresville. On Sunday, Dick Shore
and Paylor Williams visited at Blackstone College, Virginia.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Many of the brothers were scattered far and wide over several states this weekend. Straying farthest from home perhaps were
Brothers Benny Harrison and Dick Hudson, present at the Kentucky Derby. Next in distance come Brothers George Ficklen and Frank
Lee, who heard Tommy Dorsey at the Little Commencement in Athens, Georgia. Brothers Crichton and Douglas went to Greenville for
the May Day at Converse; Brother Lean was in the May Day celebration at Salem; and Brothers Grantham and Cauble
attended the festivities held in Greensboro. Brother Pegram went to his home in Petersburg, Va. Gales McClintock visited friends at
Sweet Briar. The chapter was honored in having as guests at the Sunday night feed Mr. and Mrs. J. A.
Withers, of Greenville, S.C., and their daughter, Miss Polly Withers, both of Statesville, and Miss Allie Davidson, from Davidson.

Dr. C. M. Richards, Bible Professor at Davidson, delivered the third in a series of lectures last night to the
local Hi-Y Club on “The Modern Interpretation and the Application of the Ten Commandments.” “Dux” Pharr, newly elected president of
the organization, introduced the speaker. Dr. Richards spoke first to the club and then held an open discussion. His text
was the Sixth and Seventh Commandments. Next week this series will be concluded when Sherrard Rice, retiring secretary of the
College YMCA, will address the club on the last two commandments.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Police Chase Fugitive Car Over Town

Long Arm Of Law Thrills Loiterers On Davidson’s Main Street
By ED ERWIN

On Thursday evening, May 2, at approximately 7:30, the Post Office loiterers and citizens of Davidson were awakened from their
admiration of passing cold by the whining flat of a police siren and the screech of tires on concrete. Around
the corner of Concord and Main swept a black 1940 Ford sedan, and close behind roared the silver mount of
Patrolman B. B. Plyler, alias the local lone ranger. Spectators quickly shot out of the way, scattering students and citizens
alike, leaving much for speculation among the members of the chase. The car sped toward Concord, scattering students and leaving
food for thought among the aghast citizens on every side.

Dr. Hood Addresses Sunday School Class On Biblical Visions

Treats Peter’s Visions From Aspects Of Psychology

Dr. Frazier Hood was the speaker at the Student Sunday School at 10:15 Sunday morning at Phi Hall. Dr. Hood
took as his subject “Psychological Aspects of Peter’s Vision.” Bill Tyson, in the absence of John Moore, the president, led.
Ed Watson, newly elected president of the YMCA, led in prayer.

Psychological Approach

Dr. Hood stated that he, as a teacher of psychology, is interested in dreams and visions of the Bible, and
has made a study of them. He said that he would deal with the subject from a psychological instead of
a religious viewpoint. “It was natural for Peter to dream of food,” Dr. Hood pointed out, “because he was at
his lowest ebb, after fasting, was very hungry and tired. Also, it was natural for him to dream of a
great sheet holding the food, as the sheet referred to here was probably a sail, and Peter was a sailor.”

Purpose of Dream

The speaker showed that the purpose of the dream was to change Peter’s strict views about Gentiles. Peter previously had
been a very strict Jew, but now was to become a humble man. He was being prepared to meet Cornelius,
a low Gentile, as an equal.

Spanish Club Elects Heads

The following were elected officers in Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary scientific fraternity, at their meeting last Thursday night: Ed Maxwell,
president; Chase Brenizer, vice-president; John Moore, secretary-treasurer. Plans for a steak fry on May 10 were discussed and acted upon,
at which students at Queens College in Charlotte will be invited. Phil Peyton also discussed and explained “Compton’s Electric Magnetic
Radiations Chart.”

In the past, it has been the custom of this fraternity to open the Martin Chemistry Laboratory and other laboratories
for the inspection of the general public so that they might see the various equipment, experiments, and progress made, but
it was decided to postpone this until next year.

Since the first establishment of baseball as a college sport, some 500 institutions have organized and then discontinued it.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
Charlotte, N.C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER

We can make those old white shoes as good as new.
Buff’s Shoe Shop
Davidson, N.C.

Printing is Our Business
For a representative
Plexico Printing & Publishing, Inc.
Formerly Standard Printing Company
Charlotte, N.C.

415 S. Tryon St.
ALL SPORTING GOODS
CRYMES
Charlotte, N.C.

Garland Court

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your telephone.
Printers of The Davidsonian

ORDERS AT DAVIDSON!
STUDENTS—ALWAYS WELCOME

WE SERVE DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND SHORT ORDERS AT ALL TIMES
JIM’S TAVERN
Davidson, N.C.
