Page Two 7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALTON ........................................... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON .................................. BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumbarger ........................................ Assistant Editor
Tom Cauble ................................................. Associate Editor
Joe Liles ....................................................... Associate Editor
Ed Watson .................................................. Associate Editor
Lawson Withers ........................................ Associate Editor
Dick Cobb .................................................... Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett ........................................... Managing Editor
Al Winn ......................................................... Managing Editor
Bob Carter ................................................... Sports Editor
David Vosburgh ........................................ Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Jim Onken .................................................. Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly ................................................... Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott ....................................................... Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt ............................................... Circulation Manager
John Crichton ........................................... Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze ........................................... Subscription Manager

WELCOME ALUMNI!

Davidson’s student body and faculty this weekend extend a very hearty welcome to our returning alumni and their friends at this, Davidson’s 1940 Homecoming celebration. No doubt there will be many men back for the first time in a number of years, and to them we say that it is hoped they can be with us at more Homecomings in the future. To those who have been able to attend regularly, we extend a welcome once again. It is a fine thing that so many former students can reunite once each year on their old campus.

Many changes have taken place through the years, and especially during the past year. Davidson has been fortunate this last year in securing donations which enable the trustees to authorize construction of two new buildings, the library and chemistry buildings. Also, the arc lights on the football field make Davidson’s stadium very up-to-date, and add much to the college’s athletic facilities. Our alumni will surely be pleased to note these improvements.

Our present students will endeavor to make this weekend an outstanding attraction each year, and this year, as always, will be glad at any time to do anything possible to help any alumnus, friend, or guest. Homecoming is put on in honor of our alumni, and we want to see every one of them, besides all others, have a fine visit to Davidson. Again may we welcome you, and ask you to return in the near future.

BE THERE!

Friday night Joe Shelton and his junior assistants plan the biggest Pep Rally of the year. While definite plans are not known at this writing, it has been stated that the Pep Meeting will be “monstrous, superb, and colossal,” to quote one of the cheerleaders.

We wish to urge every student to attend this rally. Last week our team was beaten badly at Greenville. This is no time to alibi or go over that game again. But we have to get in behind that team, back it all the way, win or lose, and show them that we are for them.

Friday night there will be a number of girls on the campus. Instead of using the fact that you have a date for an excuse, why not show her what a real Davidson Pep Meeting is, and something of what the Davidson spirit is? The right place for every man in the student body on Friday night is at the Pep Rally.

We came across such an outstanding editorial that we think it deserves to be read by Davidson students as well as others.

“Europe is a madhouse. China is reeling under the cannon blows of Japan. Spain has tottered before the onslaught of Fascist Franco. The United States has warned the Axis that it will tolerate no foolishness. The world is arming, and fighting.

“But I don’t want to die.

“I’m just starting life. I’ve seen but little of the world and I want to see more. But I want to see more of a peaceful world, not one torn with passion and bleeding with hysteria. Yet, ironically, because of my age and physical condition I shall probably be called in the first draft when the United States declares war. But I don’t want to die.

“I shall have to shoulder a rifle, even though I don’t want to. I shall be asked to shoot down my fellow men whom I have never seen and against whom I have no grudge, with whom I would rather be friendly. I shall have to shoot him before he shoots me, whom he has never seen and against whom he has no grudge, with whom he would rather be friendly.

“Why do I have to go to war? Why should I have to go to war? There is no reason in the wide world why I should be forced to shoulder a rifle and take part in wholesale destruction. I’m young and there is no reason why I should die—defending my country against invasion by fighting on a battlefield in England or Germany.

“But what chance have we, the youth who must lose our lives, when that military music starts, when the band swings down the street? What chance have we when the worms scream at us, ‘Will you go or must you be dragged?’ What chance have we when the high-powered propagandists turn out atrocity stories by the dozen, vividly imagining how foreign women and children are being tortured and killed?

“Why must we have war? Why cannot we be rational? Why must we damn the youth of another nation for something they have not done? Why must we kill these youths, protecting our frontiers in Europe? Why must we be such asses as to plunge wildly into an abysmal war that may end in a return to barbarism?

“I am not afraid to defend my country, but I do not want to defend others when I live in America. I do not want war. I DO NOT WANT TO DIE.”

—The Northwestern.

The Wild Cow

With The Staff

Since Homecoming this year falls immediately after Hallowe’en, not much attention has been given to this widely recognized night. On this campus, no dances or parties will recognize it, as has been done in the past, and it will probably pass with a minimum of practical pranks. However, it might be interesting to some to look at the tradition behind Hallowe’en, and at some of the superstitions that have grown up around it.

The majority of superstition concerning Hallowe’en started back in ancient Ireland and Britain (so we are informed). There the people thought that on the night preceding All Saints’ Day, Saman, God of Death, forced the spirits of the condemned to enter the bodies of criminals. From this came the legend that if witches greased a broomstick and slept with it under their pillows they would be transformed into a spirit, with magical powers which would enable them to fly with these broomsticks.

Many superstitions soon grew up about methods for girls to find out who the one man should be. One such superstition held that if a ball of twine were thrown out of the window, when it was rewound the future lover of the maiden would be on the rope’s end. Others preferred to climb the cellar stairs at midnight and look into a hand mirror by the aid of a candle held in the left hand, where the image of the future lover would appear.

Another interesting superstition concerned peeling a large red apple, so that the peel remained in one piece. This peel, when thrown over the shoulder, would form the initial of the future lover’s name.

The Collegian’s Broadway

By JOE WHITLEY

The “twilight of the world,” as the professors call our era, is no time for comedy. Too, it is not the best of omens under which a maiden column ought to be sent on its way. Before the last installment is written, it is quite possible that we will have seen the handwriting on the wall, bearing the seal of the War Department and breaking the news that we've been chosen. Better paragraphers than we'll ever be have carried a typewriter to the barracks and even the trenches. But they've never tried to cover Broadway from that distance.

Sometimes we could almost wish that we had never finished college so that we could be using this year of grace in gradually learning how to become a captain with minimum effort. “C'est la vie!” Or rather “C'est la guerre.”

Goodbye in the Night

He was a star back on one of the local college elevens last year. She was a dewy-eyed freshman from North Carolina and “adored” big strong men. Last week he rode sadly away with his regiment to a year’s training at Ft. McClellan, down Alabama way.

They vowed to be true forever and ever until he trooped back on his white charger. Every day, as he grooms the army mules, he thinks of her. Every night she thinks of him—at the Versailles, where she’s forever dancing with one of the conga set from Park Avenue and glancing adoringly at Desi Arnaz, Cuban singer.

Subtle Explanation

The other night we stopped in at Madison Square Garden to see the cowhands who have crowded out Uncle Mike Jacobs and his boxers, and landed smack behind a party of Brooklyn College coeds. The ro-day-o, as the city slickers call it, was something they had never seen the likes of, not even in Flatbush where anything can happen. A milking contest was going on, and a lantern-jawed cowboy sporting a red shirt was having a time with one of the stubborn critters. She jumped and she kicked. She lunged at him and sent him flying. Finally, four cowboys rode herd on her and hustled her away.

“Now you see,” quoth one of the girls, “why milk is so high. It takes so many men to catch one of those things so they can milk him.”

The Right People

A merry Yale sophomore recently invited a sheltered young thing from Vassar to New York for her first view of Manhattan night life. She arrived with a determined female spinster who informed the Yale that there would be no trekking to the dens of evil in Greenwich Village. Only sweetness and light for her innocent. Dancing was permissible but only where the “right people” go.

They landed knee-deep in debutantes at the first Saturday Night Supper Club in the chi-chi Pierre. No sooner had the trio been seated than George Malcolm, of the cafe socialite Malcolms, tweaked the nose of Ted Peckham, late entrepreneur of an escort service. Mr. P. countered with a left hook. Debbies fled screaming into the night. The Yale’s table was overturned in the scuffle and landed in the stomach of the female Cerberus.

They ended up in the comparative quiet of one of the hottest bistros in Greenwich Village.

Bagdad on the Harlem

Up in Harlem there is a Taj Mahal called the Savoy Ballroom. Rubbing shoulders nightly you see the meek and the mighty—pilgrims come to the Mecca of Swing. Here there are no rhumbas and no congas. Here there is plenty of brass—plenty hot.

It is a paradise for the sociology majors from Wellesley and Radcliffe in search of material for a paper. Nightly you see black faces, yellow faces, white faces—all blended in the fever of the Lindy Hop. There is no such thing as color.

[Continued on Page Six]

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday October 31 and November 1 — “Lucky Partners” Ronald Colman and Ginger Rogers. This is one of the best romances to be shown here.Lately, Ronald Coleman plays the part of the down-beaten artist who brings luck to Ginger Rogers in that he causes her to win the sweepstakes. As a part of the agreement, they make a trip together around the world and—well, we will let you come and see what finally happens to the adventure. A lot of catchy and novel songs are introduced here.

Saturday, November 2
* Cherokee Strip—Richard Dix returns to give us an exceptionally good “westerner.” The story is based upon the many fights that occurred in the West with the Indians and the romances surrounding such things.

Monday and Tuesday, November 4 and 5
* Wyoming—Wallace Beery returns to give one of his best performances in this show. It is a movie that centers around the early life in the State of Wyoming. Beery rises once again to be the leader in the fight for what he proves to be the fight for life. The setting is laid in the beautiful western mountains, and there the bad men of the West roamed until Beery cleaned them all out.

Wednesday, November 6
* Devil’s Pipe Line—Although we do not know who plays in this movie, we can give you a little idea of what it is about. The story centers around a fight racket where every young fighter tries to make the big top. The leader, Lemon, gives only his friends a break while he cuts the others after having used them for a little publicity. His two best men are finally given the gate, but that was his fatal mistake. The two strong young men rise up against their crooked and snooping friend and throw him in a tank of boiling red paint. Can they beat the rap? Well, you come and see just how it turns out.

Song Of The Sirens
By JULIEN M’CALL and LOUIS HITE.

Homecoming is practically here. Tomorrow night the festivities start, with the first dance set of the school year. Freddy Johnson and his boys swinging out. Sparkplug of Johnson’s band is Bob Hartsell, piano player and arranger, who hails from Salisbury. Bob played solo piano with the “Louisiana Kings” when they were the up-and-coming band of the nation some four years ago. Favorite pastime of the other members of the band is listening to Hartsell beat it out on the keyboard.

7:30 is at the Pep Meeting. Let’s all get together and talk this thing up. Let’s show those footballers that we’re with them, and EAT AT THE BIG PEP MEETING!

I DON'T WANT TO DIE!

Running through some exchanges we came across some interesting tidbits. For instance, it was believed that a walnut, when thrown over the head, would form initials on the ground to indicate some person. A combination of walnut, sugar, coconut, spices, ashes, and spirits were supposed to form a dream potion, which would cause the girl to dream of her future husband (what a nightmare!). So lovers and witches take note. For tonight is the fatal night—when all such things come true, and when destiny is made.

—Bob Carter.

Carolina. He plays some nice left-handed trumpet, but can hardly see for his hair, which is about two feet long. He and Harry Lee Clark, who plays first sax, annoy Carolina supporters by playing “Oh, Davidson” at inopportune moments. Harry Lee attended Davidson for two years and was the backbone of Chubby King’s band of a few years ago. Tommy Pharr, the newest member of the band, is from Charlotte and features in the trombone slot. You should get some nice kicks from his sweet solos. Johnson’s is one of the finer bands of the South, featuring a five-man sax team in which Freddy plays alto, and many kick arrangements by Hartsell. The vocal department is well taken care of by Miss Gloria Missel, and a very fine quartet made up of members of the band. Thanks to Jim McDonald of our own student body, who has played with many of these boys, for the above information.

Let’s all be there Friday night.

Thurs., Oct. 31, 1940
BILL LEMMON DAY’S DIARY

Leading the barber shop and campus rumors this week was the marriage of Dick Winters and Sophie Walker some weeks ago. However, this proved false as they were married in the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in the city Sat. afternoon before a small group of friends and several of his frat brothers. They whipped up to Hendersonville for their honeymoon and the weekend. May the Diary be the first to extend publicly greetings, salutations, and two qts. of rice!!!

Bad News Gaffney has been on the zip getting out the flush notes to the boys this week. Buddy Carson was among the first to get the good news. Frankie Chandler shot down to Skump Hollow to seek the society of a fair high school maiden. Marion Mobley jerked Jungle Jim Saunders, the turkey hunter, down to Florence to take inventory on his pre-Thanksgiving chase. George Council (44) shot up to Baltimore to speak to his mother and to spend the weekend with his Cleopatra. Young Dicky Phillips got all wound up and gave his frat pin away. On the Carolina deal comes the dope that Scott Cooper got definitely in the groove on a bicycle until he was side-tracked by Hogg and alluded into a football game. While this was in progress, Mat Long was making money by selling “singing telegrams” to various and sundry persons. Dead Pan Lucas complained about his date being in a hurry; she waited a half-hour and then went to bed but Billy Rainey ('39), noted chemist, did not let the wee hours annoy him as he continued his lab analysis until daybreak. This same crew formed a new society at W.C., where they enjoyed the afternoon by calling themselves C.B.A.’s. Lucas made the round in 67, Hogg in 89, Hill Cooper stuck to the parlor, and Beester Burwell in 100. Beester rose in the estimation in the eyes of the Carolinians by attempting to lock with Dolores O'Neil, Chester’s rooting, tooting, hooting torch singer.

Put Put Vereen, the one-cylinder robot, extends a cordial invitation to the student body to attend his big steak fry on the golf course, where he will serve kickapoo juice. He is making his first million by selling combination dance, football, and steak fry tickets for $9. Supply is limited, so get yours now! Any propaganda concerning the author of this column is entirely false and ungrounded as it is being manufactured by the pageful in order to fill space in the forthcoming magazine. Also, all dope on Bone Reinhardt is untrue. Moose Sein, alias Dr. Spain, had the misfortune to be in Clontz’s car on the return zip from the game and is now in a hospital as a result of the wreck. Mac Morris played the part of a hero by aiding in getting the boys out of the car and giving first aid. Dick Kelly was snooping around the ATO house over at Carolina trying to catch a late. Joe Hopper eased over to Queens College to thrill his date. Harkey is a charter member of this year’s Kampus Kid Klub, along with Lover Wallace and Jonas. Jonas sought to remove a noxious passenger from the football bus and was swatted in the face with a pocketbook. Queenie Smith had never been to a dance before Sat. night in Greenville; he got lost and had to be led around the floor so he could locate his date. Bob Pollock sprained both ankles on the deal to Keyhole Browning’s cabin. Paul and Mother Ables have a tri-combination with Letta, who as you recall is so short one has to put her on a chair in order to dance with her. Enoch Stevenson got lost in the rush after the game but made the dance. Hipp received a mysterious call for a date, so Hoc McColl and “Good Buddy” Hite put in applications, only to slip off leaving the girls holding the well-known bag. Hite made news again by seeking a date at Converse on Sunday at 10 a.m. and winding up the day at 10 p.m., still without a date. Gorgeous George Grantham and Operator Bruce caught lates after the Furman dance and a little nap on the campus of the vine-covered seminary the following afternoon. Ripper Hunt ended up in Lincolnton. McElwee held things under control at the cabin. Sawbuck Powell and Red Burke pulled a big raid on the Graham St. Casino, where Red found a lock. Edmunson spends his time making connections between Tarboro and Statesville.

Compassing Campuses
BY TOM CAUBLE

ON VARIOUS COQUETRIES EMPLOYED BY YOUNG LADIES IN THE BALLROOM TO INSURE PROMPT BREAKING:

Perhaps the most common stag-bait employed by modern beauties is the tried and true phrase: “Come back—I’ve got something to tell you.” When the young gallant rushes back to receive this important communication, he is never quite able to get out of the young lady just what she meant, but he receives further meaningful and sly glances, and thus taps scores of her partners on the shoulder throughout the evening.

Again, the coquette is quick to establish a bond in common with the innocent collegian and is sure thereby to know at least a dozen people that he knows. She can thus employ stock remarks in conversing about them and make the average undergrad feel that he has indeed won friends and influenced people. Again, many a lively evening is insured by flattering the dancing of the powerless college man. His reaction to this is immediate, and he promptly vows to impress his mastery of the dance on her throughout the course of the evening.

Some young ladies new to the wiles of ballroom coquetry have used to great advantage the most fundamental of all stag-stoppers—namely, the wink. The success of this artifice is practically assured and, as it is relatively simple to execute, it is indeed one of the most popular ways and means. A few of the more farsighted in the sisterhood are well-informed enough to blow up visiting Pan-Hellenic men with an eye to future cotillions and figures. This choice bait is generally reserved for the more veteran of the trotters, however.

There are certain mechanical devices which are in general usage also. The pat on the back is said to be generally effective, while the hand-squeeze is very pertinent to any situation also. Every competent trotter has seen the collegian somewhere before. That is, she creates for him the illusion that he has been around, and as this is much satisfying to the vanity, it is a very effective means.

The young ladies work on the principle also that everyone is a senior. Freshmen have been known to break time and again on trotters employing this simple artifice. Again, the trotters’ creed recognizes every fraternity as the best. There is nothing quite so able to raise the collegian to the heights as to realize that his is the best fraternity.

Subscribe To
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Send To: JACK COVINGTON, Davidson, NC