Page Two

thing to be put on as the occasion demands and utterly discarded at other times. The question becomes, “is this
the real thing: will it last, and arise to its former importance, or will it die out again?” The students
must decide and must act. Inaction will answer the question in the negative!

Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

“DOC” WHITE

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Chambers Building, and less recognized than the psychology books in the library, that's our conception of Doc White. Not many
students outside of the athletes and sports managers have ever met this man, we'll wager, but all those who have
been privileged to know him personally agree that it is remarkable how one human being can do so much with
so little effort. He is an accepted fact of the college athletic picture, just as the new gym and the
Stadium.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE NEW YORK, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

Paul Bumbarger Managing Editor
Ed Watson Associate Editor
Mason Withers Associate Editor
Harwell Davis Managing Editor
Nat Garvey Managing Editor
David Vosburgh Music Editor
Rol Carter Sports Editor

We take off our hats to Doc as a living example of a workman that needeth not to be ashamed.
He asks for nothing, gives all, and nobody has ever seen him out of sorts. He keeps the gymnasium cleaned
out, has charge of the stock room there, heats the water for the showers, six afternoons a week, runs the
baking room, gives cut downs, travels to all the games each week to look after the boys, keeps the football
field and baseball field in shape the year round, lines off the field for games, and does the hundred and
one odd jobs that bob up every day.

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt Circulation Manager
John Chachis Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze Subscription Manager

OUR RISING SPIRIT

Davidson’s spirit took on new vitality, and apparently is about to rise to its former heights. Thursday night’s informal Pep
Meeting in the field north of Chambers did a great deal to raise this spirit, and Friday night the balcony
of the gym was almost half full, with upperclassmen crowding the entire center section and almost overflowing into the end
sections, something which has not happened since late last spring.

It is my understanding that the president of the student body was approached at the beginning of school this year
by the music department on the subject of having both songs played and sung by the Band and Glee Club
before the event. One of them, which the department had since the Centennial celebration, was written by an alumnus of
Davidson who is a descendant of Maxwell Chambers. Another song, which was presented to the school by Fred Waring, was
not played or sung for this reason. When the publication was released it was in the form of piano sheet
music and, as you might say, it was not arranged especially for the Band and Glee Club.

I heartily agree that we should have a new Alma Mater. The musical organizations are only too willing to present
these songs when they are asked to do so. I also think that both songs should be sung by the
entire student body before either upperclassmen or the school for its approval or disapproval of both.

DAVIDSONIAN

Bubby Crabby When You Drive? Show Him This

Thurs, Oct. 17, 1940

DAY’S DIARY

Are women worse drivers than men? That question was born with the automobile, and for lack of conclusive data, no
answer other than that of opinion has ever been given. According to the figures in “Lest We Regret,” the ninth
annual highway safety booklet published by the Travelers Insurance Company, there were 36,950 automobile drivers involved in fatal accidents in
1938. Of that number, 34,700 or 93.95% were men and only 2,250 or 6.1% women. This seems to indicate that
on the highways the female of the species is not more deadly than the male. There are, however, no data
on the relative number of miles driven by male and female drivers; nor does anyone know how many more miles
are driven by men than by women. In the absence of such data, no definite conclusions can be drawn.

The Question of the week this lot of hanky panky is: goodness-gracious, have all. Yo! The wildness with the Flying
Dutchman Reinhardt as he whipped off on Wed. without telling he was going — he didn’t know where he was
off to until he got to Greensboro where he met a mechanic from Va. who talked him into joining the
flying corps: he shot a wire back that he was departing to Langley Field. He was a fourth-columnist. Good, we
reason, honored in early Fr. morn. of Va., got hot when Teep Johnson Alston Thompson, the Junior Casanova, cut him
off.

Concerning last week's “Question of the Week,” and your editorial about a new Alma Mater for Davidson, I heartily agree
that we should have a new Alma Mater. The musical organizations are only too willing to present these songs when
they are asked to do so. I also think that both songs should be sung by the entire student body
before either upperclassmen or the school for its approval or disapproval of both.

Dear Mother: The handbook says that freshmen ought to write their parents once a week, so I guess I ought
to write you and Pop a letter. I'm sorry I haven't written since I've been here, but I've been very
busy. When I first got here they sent me down to an office where they took all my money and
my extra shirt. Then they put me in a big room with a whole lot of other guys and started
calling out names. They gave me all kinds of papers to fill out with funny squares and circles and all.
It didn't look like any beer signs I'd ever seen so I left it blank. While I was wondering what
they meant, a number of upperclassmen came into my room and started shaking my hand till it nearly came off.
They were real nice to me and kept talking Greek and all sorts of queer stuff. They took me off
somewhere to eat and gave me a cigar after dinner. I got real sick, and when I came to, they
were all congratulating me on becoming one of them. I don't know what they mean. Everybody hollers at us freshmen
no matter what we do.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

were talking about. - I was trying to figure that out when they all quit being nice and began treating
me it by all that. A whole lot of guys rushed in — six strangely reminisces of the end of
the evening. For either the Vithd or the Glee the time has come for action. So, Club before it could
be presented, may I suggest to the Student Council, to my knowledge, there is a basic feeling that the Band
and/or Glee few persons at Davidson who Club be asked to present these are good arrangers of music and songs
to the student body at once. Those are on the faculty. The immediate consideration of these persons, formed. were too
heavy at the time; TALMAN MATERS — Song of the Sirens By JULIEN M’CALL and LOUIS HITE.

My very fine! Announcement on Johnny is of the Long's Saturday after Hellenic Council that Freddy broadcasts from the Roseland
would furnish music for the Ballroom in New York have been popular and entertaining these past few weeks. Each Saturday
Johnny presents a different nationally known musician who does his stuff with the band. His sax section carries off with
the great Mid Winters. Glenn Miller's recent appearance at Keith Theater in Boston caused a riot. The bandleader offered to
hand out autographed photos and about one thousand applied. The cops had to be called to quiet the mob. Glenn's
"Heat, Me Daddy. Fight to a Bart with Eating Leaves" on the current tune is "Music in the Moon" and
was written by one of the boys in the band. Woody has recently completed a successful engagement at the Hotel
New side has also been creating a riot.

The rally was every morning for all the guys making a lot of noise. Didn't they care to help show
the team that the student body is behind them, win or lose? The second thing which we would like to
point out is the fact that while spirit may be running fairly high now, it is almost certain to drop
again, unless there is continuous support. Week-end interest and enthusiasm is fine too. But it isn’t the real thing. The
real Davidson spirit is more than that and will be present during the week and after football season is gone.
But while football is here, the spirit must show itself in football interest and pep. And this must be with
us at times other than on weekends. Otherwise, it is merely a wrap; some-

Lots of love, — ICHABOD.

Report Card

Dillagene is the lovely vocalist who shares in his rapidly rising fortunes. Carroll Carroll, the lad responsible for the words
used during the hour "Kraft Music Hall" has turned songwriter and has written, "You Are the One." with John Scott
Trotter doing the music. It is causing his un-

This is a rejection of your proposal for peace. PUT, PUT! One of the covey of cuties, Frisco, began: BILL
LEMMON. Apie Means, the Mad Monk to most of the boys, has thrilled all of the girls up at Salem
but did not thrill Miss Jane Harris much when he just stood on the sidewalk and said "Christmas gifts" to
her and handed over the Sig pin. He made no effort to plumb her as is the custom on such
occasions.

Lacy McLean to work with the Queen City. They had heard Ox Alcott and Morris had two slick nos, they
wouldn't sign him. Bone roll-

The trail to arrange eliminated up to make some connections after the cadets got themselves listed worrying the Pi bucks
out of the men and especially at one thought he was a jock — Greenville: Queens. yet! broom in their
hotel room in Winston, just cleaning up. Cheerful Charlie the Cheerleader, and his cohort, Mac in the Sat. but couldn't
arrange a common meeting place. Ox is now out of the Woman Haters’ Club. Butch Caldwell is still a charter
member for he still can't get a date after three years of trying. Clontz appears to have caught the worst
of the riot. Fri. now that he can find only a few parts of his car. Jim Howell was seen
cashing a check at the dance while Shelton and Frog Bell were arguing whether she had no little bind one
tune Miss Harriet was of Green fame. Haysced Thomas pulled the light-cord the Delmonico Dick Rankin had a wonderful date.
From Gastonia to Levite Sink tried to lock with her but she only asked who the noxious man confronting her
was. She is in the know. Bay Ru Neil masqueraded as a man in the tub after the dance. The
freshmen were on Dale’s trail and also his date "Sahara" Bumbarger was on the ball and Kappas as did Hite
he checked out everything they had. Mish was trying at every corner to old flame from Dees with his.

We have a request — Amentene (Teen) Dunlap asks that her name appear in print. She has on a K.
Sig. pin, is supposed to be a Pi Kapp girl and was dating Phi Delt Murphy Williams. You sho’ wot
cut. Murph!! Harris McReynolds is certainly trying his best to hitch. He found a 4-yr-older Mrs. at the high school
game and is heading to Petersburg in quest for a lock he bean at the shin dig. Tim Saunders says
that Jungle has (Continued on Page 6)

The fame of the Cadet Prowess Against That of the Non-Uniformed Collegian... Let us say that we are at a
dance. for what spot offers a better proving ground than the ballroom. When the young lady sights one of the
lads in cadet grey, she seems to hear the silvery peal of the bugle and across her mind flits the
picture of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" (which she learned in grammar school). She feels in reverse inwardly the
surge of the troopers as they flash across the battle-torn landscape with drawn sabres. The civilian under-graduate is handicapped by
the emotions which these brass-buttoners cause the ladies. Sight behind the conquering cadet, (and immaculate he is in black broadcloth),
the best he can hope for is a perfunctory smile or a comradely smile. Needless to say, both of these
greetings are much-dreaded by the average college man. Any advantage the non-military

By DAVID VOSBURGH

THURSDAY & FRIDAY Oct. 18 & 19

to be right. All the hardships, romances and thrills are presented in an accurate picture of the old west.

"BRIGHAM YOUNG" — Tyrone Power, Linda Darnell, Dean Jagger, Mary Astor and Jean Rogers. One of the greatest pictures Twentieth
Century Fox has ever made. It reveals the story behind the Mormon trek westward where 20,000 people sought a land
where a man, wives and children could find the freedom they were willing to die for. A true and real
picture of a fight for what many thought

SATURDAY, Oct. 20

"SOUTH OF PAGO PAGO" — Victor MacLaughtin, Frances Farmer, Olampe Bradna, and Jon Hall. One of Kipling’s best novels. The
scene is laid in the South Seas, reeled off in a beautiful setting. The island is one of beauty and

(Continued on Page 6)

where adventure and romance are

might have through long association or acquaintance with the Beauty Vanishes immediately to the spectacle of the men in grey.
The normal distance at which the young lady makes known her military aspirations to the cadet is normally twenty paces,
although the attack is often begun at distances far in excess of this figure. Usually she regales him with a
glance having the potency of a 155 mm howitzer. Often three or four cadets are winged with this same jocular
salute and sometimes the young lady can retain almost a platoon if she is well-versed in ballroom coquetry. The ladies
seem also to be attracted by the gaudy yellow stripes on the cadets’ sleeves, and gate divided by the number
of breaks to average at least three stripes, she may mentally award herself the Distinguished Service Cross. The poor undergrad
is thus driven from the floor by the military and, much disgruntled, to a corner to counter-plot. The fraternity pin,
traditional symbol of all that is coveted and desired by the beauty, is a mere head among diamonds when the
be-medalled, Rotcer halts his caisson. The cadet who can escape with all medallions (and buttons) intact on his tunic has
obviously not been within twenty paces of a female. The stoop-shouldered civilian, reflecting on the sudden deflation accorded his Greek
gem, retires further into melancholia and, though apparently disinterested, watches closely the female warriors cavorting with their catches. Alas, his
only advantage (a trifle it is), is that his smooth shirt front is often a relief to the young lady
after a fox-trot with a cadet, all of whose tunics are spattered with egg-sized gold buttons. Female chins are often
seriously bruised by contact with these ornaments. The cadets, following the glorious service traditions for gallantry, feed the female vanities
with compliments far beyond the scope of the average collegian, who has come to converse more and more in monosyllables
and vague grunts. Thus the military remains in undisputed possession of the field and the neglected undergrad bides his time
until Homecoming.
