Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., April 18, 1946

Students Nominate National Presidents’ Political Conventions—Democratic, Republican and Independent Liberal—to be held on the Westminster College campus at Fulton, Missouri. Students with a political bent will rant and rave, orate and lobby, debate and wrangle for their favorite candidates, before making out the 1946 slates for each party. More than 500 delegates from colleges and universities throughout the country are expected to have a say in selecting the students' choices for presidential and vice-presidential candidates. The keynote: “Practical politics with ‘no holds barred’” will govern the conventions. And, though the more serious aspects of a political convention such as electing officers and debating platform issues will hold the important spots on the convention calendar, all the ballyhoo and hoopla of a major political convention is expected. Gymnasiums and auditoriums in Fulton will be converted into convention halls with flags, bands, banners, and sound systems. Keynote addresses and speeches by nationally prominent figures are scheduled. A “fusion” dance is planned for Saturday night with a name band broadcast nationally. Highlights of the convention will be a nationally broadcast keynote address.

SPORTS SCHEDULE (Continued from Page Four)
Varsity Baseball vs. Georgia, Charlotte
Soft Ball
Pikas vs. Pi Kapps
S. A. E. vs. S. P. E.
Phi Delts vs. Sigs
Phi Gams vs. K. A.
Tuesday
Betas vs. Phi Gams
Varsity Baseball vs. Wofford
Soft Ball
Pikas vs. Phi Delts
Betas vs. K. Sigs
Wednesday
Varsity Tennis vs. W. & L., Lexington
Soft Ball
K. A. vs. Phi Delts
Phi Gams vs. Betas
Thursday
Varsity Golf vs. N. C., Greensboro
Soft Ball
Pikas vs. Phi Delts
Phi Gams vs. Betas
Kapps vs. Sigs

CHINA ESSAY CONTEST (Continued from Page Three)
not to exceed 1,500 words, and each contestant is limited to one essay. All entries must be typewritten, double spaced, and written on one side of plain white paper. No name is to be placed on the manuscript itself; but, the name of the contestant, his address, college, college classification, and home address should be written on a separate paper and placed in an envelope to be attached to the manuscript. All entries must be submitted (postmarked) by midnight June 30, 1946. No essays will be returned. All entries will become the property of the China Essay Contest. The decision of the judges is final. The directions should be specified. The bibliography should be included.

Drs. Goldiere And Watts On Program Of French Convention Held
Dr. A. V. Goldiere and Dr. G. B. Watts, of the French department at Davidson, represented the college at a meeting of the North Carolina chapters of the American Association of Teachers of French held at Lenoir last weekend. Dr. Goldiere presented a paper to the gathering Saturday morning on “Some Aspects of Realism in Balzac.” Dr. Watts was appointed to serve on several committees. Miss Mary Hamilton, formerly of Davidson and now a teacher of French at Lenoir High School, was a hostess at the meeting. Friday night the group was entertained at a banquet at the high school followed by a program of music and French plays. Saturday the members heard a number of reports and held elections of officers.

REUNION PROPOSED (Continued from Page Five)
are being thrown overboard. This condition has occurred three times with the same result—contempt of courts, moral collapse, economic collapse, and a chaotic condition. This line of thought is called Utilitarianism. In the Northern Presbyterian Church, a great majority of the ministers believe in this, while in the Southern Church, there is only a small minority. If there was a union, everybody would become Utilitarian. The Southern Church should stay out to return the world to the old standards of right and wrong. The committee will decide soon, and have a meeting to consider whether or not to abolish this move.

IF PAUL REVERE HAD (Continued from Page Five)
“But what,” broke in Paul, “is yon light which was just lit?” “That,” explained Coppe, “is in Georgia. One of the lads hath just returned from a wild hare.” “Well,” said Paul, “whether by land or by sea, the British are coming.” “Warn them,” cautioned the Watchman, “to be sure to register their horses with Dr. Sentelle.” “Ods bodkins, zounds, quotha, foo,” cried Paul Revere. “’Tis a pack of madmen!” And he galloped away down the road, still wondering about the cider.

HITCH HIKER’S (Continued from Page Five)
The association plans to issue an elaborate sticker for the baggage of the traveler when the membership has reached 1,000. The fee for membership, thirty-five cents, will be used for the payment of cards and stickers.

Quotable Quotes
Associated Collegiate Press
“College men and women are peculiarly the sentinels on the outer walls. There was never more need for clear thinking and courageous doing by college men and women than there is today. We of the universities must more aggressively, more militantly combat these fallacies and heresies and more earnestly, more expound and ‘sell’ representative democracy. It is the bastion of our liberties; and the foundation of our faith must not be undermined.” Diplomat Joseph E. Davies (Wisconsin '98) urges collegians to fight the fallacies of today’s world.

“If we cannot conduct our intercollegiate programs without subsidizing our athletes or proselyting athletic candidates, let us frankly admit that we have gone the whole professional way and that henceforth we shall pay our athletes for their services.” Harvard University’s athletic director, wants no half-way measures in solving the play-for-pay problem.

“A person's intellectual capabilities do not decline after he is 40, if he uses those capabilities. The average person may show a little decrease in speed, perhaps, but in real intellectual accomplishments no substantial decline is indicated.” University of California’s Dean Frank H. Freeman can cite many tests to prove his theory that keenness of mind does not decline in the “frightening forties.”

“Modern civilization can scarcely be attributed to acts of God. The chaos of today is not of human structure rotten but sound. It is the defective utilization of human culture that lies at the bottom of our present trouble. The most exigent task in education today is the appraisal of the biological and social capacity of the individual so that his proper niche—if any—can be found and he can be stuffed into it.” Harvard University’s anthropologist, Dr. Ernest M. Hooton, presents his own blueprint for Utopia.

“I am deeply sympathetic with youth today coming to earning age in a jobless society. I do not wonder that they meet in congresses. I wish to put no obstacles in their way. It is not so important what we think of them. I just wonder what they think of us as they look about a world in ruins—two-thirds of all the people involved in war, and here in peaceful America millions hungry, miserable and hopeless. It seems strange that in an American Congress it should be pertinent to remind members that our capacity to reflect, observe, and study, and to use our minds leads some to accept a political philosophy foreign to others. Who constituted anyone in this free system the judge of other men’s opinions?” Oregon representative Walter M. Pierce has his own perspective on the A. Y. C. Congress.Source any bibliography of all books and articles consulted in the preparation should be listed at the end of the essay. The winners will be announced and notified by mail as soon as possible after the closing date (June 30, 1940).

ATHLETES WILL (Continued From Page Three)
year, for then they will have four years to complete the requirements. A sports letter may be substituted for any one of the requirements with the exception of Swimming, which has to be passed. Mr. Whittle stated that approximately seventy-five boys turn out each year for the trials, and of this number around six or eight will pass the membership requirements.

Prince Hubertus zu Lowenstein has been appointed visiting professor in international relations at Iowa State College.

“I hope you never belong to Youth with a capital ‘Y’. You ought not to be marked off as a special pressure group because of age, just as your women shouldn’t be marked off because of their sex. You are not a special class, but citizens.” Mrs. Robert Taft, wife of the G. O. P. presidential hopeful, told University of Minnesota collegians the place they ought to assume in national affairs.

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK IT’S SAFE
DELUXE ICE CREAM
BEST TO BE HAD
Mooresville, N. C.

Students, Faculty and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N. C.

Some of the points of interest there are: Pirate's Alley, the Haunted House, Old Absinthe House, and numerous antique shops. On one evening, the delegates dined at the famous Antoine's Restaurant, where all the waiters speak French. According to Taylor, the place, as so many New Orleans buildings, “looks like a dump on the outside, but inside is beautiful.” Antoine’s will be one hundred years old this year.

Typhoid Shot Given Juniors In R. O. T. C. Before Entering Camp, Army Requires Vaccine
By W. C. PLUNKETT

Sore have been the arms and sour the faces of the ROTC sergeants this week. The face trouble is as yet unaccounted for, but doubtless the sore arms are results of the vaccination proclamation issued last week. As is the rule, the War Department requires all who will attend training camp this summer to take vaccine shots before leaving for the six weeks’ period. This year’s junior class is proving no exception, and its members received their invitations to the infirmary late last week. One unhappy Sergeant proved his stamina last Friday when he took two shots. He visited the infirmary for his second treatment, and while standing around waiting for a friend, was shoved back into line. One of the college doctors attempted to vaccinate him the second time, whereupon the student protested that he had been stuck once. The doctor replied that they were doing it a second time—so the student—unable to explain—received a double dose. The happy ending of this story is that the boy—withstood his double trouble with never a pain, which proves the age-old adage that “Davidson men can take it.”

The American Red Cross Plans Water School
Camp Carolina, At Brevard Will Be The Training Camp For N. C.

The nineteenth consecutive session of the National Aquatic Schools, sponsored by the American Red Cross, will be held this summer in several places over the entire country. The purpose of the school is to teach young men and women to be instructors, life guards, and counselors at recreational camps. Courses include instruction in recreational and stunt swimming, plain and fancy diving, water games, handling canoes, boats and paddle boards, life saving, general water safety, and first aid. Basic and advanced instruction are offered to qualified students and opportunity for specialization is for those who have previously successfully met necessary requirements. Men and women not less than eighteen years of age and in sound physical health are eligible for enrollment. Each applicant must possess a fair swimming ability. The American Red Cross has been teaching swimming, life saving, and water safety for a quarter of a century during which time deaths from accidental drownings have decreased from 9,975 to 6,700.

Camps at which these courses are offered in the East are located at Pass Christian, Miss.; Brevard, N. C.; Edgewater, Md.; Narrowsburg, N. Y.; and Chautauqua, N. Y. In North Carolina the location is at Camp Carolina, Brevard, N. C.

COMPASSING CAMPUSES (Continued from Page Two)

In this column next week will follow the climax, denouement, and anti-climax of our conquered hero’s amour under the title: Restive Reminiscences of Rowe-Buck or the Candid Confession of a Conquered Converse Cony.

The new two delegates have many ideas on matters of student publications and student government. They will present what they learned to the various groups on the campus in the near future.

WITH THE STAFF (Continued from Page Two)

The greatest number of relatively important decisions to make from day to day. These men will find this type of preparation very retarding unless they are able to cope with decisive problems. Thank goodness for one thing: Davidson traditions, customs, uniformities of thought, or whatever they might best be termed, tend to follow the general trend which our homes instilled in our minds. There is great comfort in the realization that as we blindly follow, we are often submitting ourselves to a mode of living that should be easily livable for the longer portion of our lives.

W. C. PLUNKETT,
Managing Editor.

The Louisiana State University zoology museum recently was given a collection of 300 rare bird skins.

Plans are now under way for the opening of the new LaSalette College in Arnolds Park, Iowa, in September.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant, 221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Shampoo’s A Specialty
Johnson’s Barber Shop
HENDERSON
Knox Building

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH? COME TO
JEWELRY SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

PAUL & CRYMES
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL SPORTING GOODS

THE WOODEN BOWL
Off Tryon at Fourth
Have Your Banquet For The Last Dance Set At...
Charlotte, N. C.

Chesterfield goes to bat with the DEFINITELY MILDER, Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting Cigarette

...these are the three good qualities that every smoker wants and every smoker gets in Chesterfield. That’s because Chesterfields are made of the world’s best tobaccos; blended in the right combination. You can’t buy a better cigarette.

“The Yankees,” says JOE McCARTHY, “win championships because they're good in the box, at bat and in the field”... CHESTERFIELDS win more smokers every day because they're tops for cooler smoking, better taste and real mildness.

Chesterfield
Milder, Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting Cigarette

© 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.