¢ Music Festival This Week-End : Z—528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS Dean Hudson To Return VOL. XXVII.
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1940 No. 17 Music Department Will Stage Annual Festival Feb. 10-12 Four
Colleges and Two Uni- They’re Back Again Military Ball To Feature Dean Hudson: Midwinters Introduces Bob Chester Many Events Take
Place In Busy Mid-Winters Week-end PFOHL IS DIRECTOR VOCALIST “BACK AGAIN” University of Michigan Phi President Graham McFadyen, varsity wrestler
in the 155 pound class, won the championship in his class at the North Carolina A. A. U. wrestling matches
in Greensboro, N. C. Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen will be featured at the next dance set which will
take place the second week-end in March, the 8th and 9th. Musical representatives of four colleges and two universities will
take part in Davidson’s second annual mid-winter music festival, to take place February 10-12. Prof. Joseph Maddy, native Carolinian and
now director of the University of Michigan Little Symphony, will be orchestral conductor. The Michigan Little Symphony, which played a
prominent part in the opening festival last winter, will again be heard in all three concerts this year. Seven soloists
will be heard during the festival. They are: Mrs. Grace Potter Carroll, concert pianist of Asheville; Katheryn Swain, advanced student
of music at Salem College; Mrs. D. M. McSpadden of Charlotte, soprano; Mrs. Elizabeth Tavis Jensen of Winston-Salem, contralto; Donald
Pfohl, head of music at Wake Forest, baritone; John E. Toms, tenor, head of U. N. C. voice department; and
Italo Frajola, concertmeister of the Michigan Little Symphony. The initial concert, February 10 at 8:30 P. M., will feature the
Michigan Little Symphony, the Davidson Glee Club, and Mrs. Jensen. The program includes the overture to “The Shepherd King,” Mozart;
Schubert’s third symphony; and the Beethoven violin concerto.Fifteenth year. An added attraction of the program was the degree of B.S.
in Political Science. He made his nun Dre men’s chorus and orchestra; Pierers of the senior class, was elected president
of the Bank. Sierra Breeze, the executive Officer on, with George Fickleny—minerals in baseball and was on the soccer team
his junior and senior years. He was a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and the Debate team.
The former board of directors was re-elected at the same meeting. The principal business of the evening consisted of a
discussion of the club's proposed spring trips. Cast were selected for the various plays and skits to be presented on
these trips. It was announced that a date during the last week in February had been selected for a trip
to Coker College at Hartsville, S.C. The first week in April, the Cercle will visit Converse College at Spartanburg, S.C.
Refreshments were served by Dr. and Mrs. Watts to those members present.

The annual report of the bank’s officers to the board disclosed that the bank had enjoyed a very successful year.
Gratification was expressed that the bank had reached the half-million mark since the first of the year, while the total
assets were in excess of $600,000. The Bank of Davidson is a saga of financial faith and judgment. Organized about
forty years ago as a subsidiary of the American Trust Co. of Charlotte, in 1916 it was purchased by a
group of local businessmen. The routine of the president first took the bank has enjoyed a marked increment of resources.

Davidson’s varsity debating team met Wake Forest. The contest was a debate with the team from Wake Forest. The speakers
followed the order of first affirmative, first negative, second affirmative, and second negative. The routine allowed each speaker ten minutes
for the first speech and five minutes for rebuttals. Frank Barker and Dick Kenyon took the negative side of the
question: "Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of strict neutrality (economic and military) toward all nations outside
of the Western Hemisphere engaged in armed international or civil conflicts."

Other home debates scheduled are with Williams College, Massachusetts State, Georgia School of Technology, and the University of Alabama. Davidson's
varsity team consists of Frank Barker, Dick Kenyon, negative; and Neal Scott and Bob Ramsey, affirmative. These varsity members of
the debating team were chosen from a field of approximately 20 contestants by the Forensic Steering Committee.

Approximately 125 seniors were measured for their commencement togs. The measurements were completed this week under the supervision of the
committee. George Wright is the tallest boy, reaching 6 feet and 7 inches. Lock Hunter is the shortest, being approximately
5 feet and 7 inches. Charles Sherman was the heaviest of the group with a chest measurement of 45 inches.

The committee found some interesting facts concerning the seniors. This same committee is in charge of the graduation invitations and
they announced that each senior would get ten free invitations and that each additional one would be 8 cents. These
invitations will be of the usual formal type. The class of 1940 is the 100th graduating class of Davidson.

Cadet Captain Oscar Joyner, Jr., was relieved as Battalion Plans and Training Officer, and assigned as Battalion Adjutant. Cadet Captain
John W. Kennedy, Jr., was relieved as 2nd in Command, Company “B”, and assigned as Company Commander, Company “B”. Cadet
Captain Charles M. Mashburn, Jr., was relieved as 2nd in Command, Company “D”, and assigned as Battalion Plans and Training
Officer. These changes were made by order of Lieutenant Colonel MacKenzie from the Headquarters of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps,
of Davidson College and became effective on February 5, 1940.

The Little Symphony will inaugurate the season when, under the direction of Earle Copes of Norfolk, Va., a member of
the class of 1939. Their program will include an overture to the “Magic Flute” by Mozart; minuetta from “The London
Symphony,” Haydn; a selected solo by Copes; prelude from “L’Arlesienne Suite No. 1,” Bizet; “Praeludium,” Jarnefelt; waltz suite “For My
Little Friends”; “Chanson Triste,” Tchaikovsky; and the procession of Sardar from “Caucasian Sketches,” Ippolitov-Ivanov.

The Little Symphony is the most recent organization on the Davidson campus. The second musical tour will be taken by
the glee club combined with the Little Symphony, who will be presented in concert by the American Legion Auxiliary at
Forest City, N.C., Feb. 23. The bowling alleys were installed in Davidson last year and have operated continuously with the
exception of a short holiday last spring. They have been used by the Davidson students for inter-class, inter-dormitory, and inter-fraternity
bowling tournaments as well as for the general recreation of the student body. Mr. McConnell announces that new pins have
been installed for tournament play and that White Drug Co. offers a box of Whitman’s candy for the high score
for the week.

In a bid to revive student interest in literary achievement, the Philanthropic Literary Society, announced this week that the organization
will again present awards at graduation for the best essay, short story, and poem written by any student during the
year. These awards, five dollars each for the winning works, will be presented at the graduation exercises next June. The
plan was first inaugurated last spring when both the Philanthropic and the Eumenean societies combined in sponsoring the contest. Prizes
were presented at Commencement to Albert Winn of Greenville, S.C., a member of the present sophomore class, for the best
poem; Fred Stair of Knoxville, Tenn., for the best essay; and Rut Miller of Johnson City, Tenn., for the best
short story. The latter two were members of the class of 1939.

Final details for the 1939-40 competition have not been completely worked out, the Philanthropic leaders declared, but a committee headed
by Lawson Withers has been appointed. The Eumenean society has not yet decided whether or not they will take part
in sponsoring the event again this year, but President McLean declared that if necessary the Philanthropic society will carry it
out alone. Tentative regulations allow any student in school to take part in the competition. A student may enter either
or all three contests, and a committee of faculty and student judges will select the winning papers.
