Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. Feb. 8, 1940

Rifle Team Has Schedule

Major J. L. Ballard of the Davidson ROTC Department announced that, although the schedule is not complete, matches for the Rifle Team will be fired weekly from January 17 to the first week in April. Correspondence matches have definitely been arranged with the University of Florida, the University of Idaho, the University of Georgia, Virginia Military Institute, the University of Maine, the University of South Dakota, Georgia School of Technology, the University of Dayton, Washington University, Michigan State, and the University of Hawaii.

According to the present schedule, the Rifle Team will go to Clemson on March 26 to fire a four-way shoulder-to-shoulder match with teams from Clemson, Wofford, and Presbyterian College. Other shoulder-to-shoulder matches will be fired here at Davidson, but arrangements have not as yet been completed for them. Besides definite intercollegiate competition matches, five men will represent the team in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match, which must be completed by March 20. A group of ten men will also fire in the 4th corps area competition, which is to be fired in four stages between February 12 and March 6, 1940.

KING WINTER
(Continued from Page Three)

The high schools were closed, and the professors got out their red flannel underwear. Dr. W. L. Porter of the faculty said that it was the coldest weather in his entire nineteen years here at Davidson. Mrs. Grey, who is the wife of Dr. W. R. Grey, a retired professor, said “it’s the coldest weather we've had here in forty years.” Official weather reports from the United States Weather Bureau in Charlotte stated that according to their records it was the coldest that it had been in Charlotte in sixty years.

The cold wave affected the locality with between six and seven inches of snowfall. The radio announced that it was colder in Alabama than in Boston. In Florida, where millions of dollars of produce and fruit were destroyed, the thermometer fell to seventeen degrees in Miami. In this city, where the public buildings depend on the sun for their winter heat, the schools have not opened since Christmas.

SOCIETIES TO CONTINUE
(Continued from Page One)

The deadline will be set in the first week in May. This contest is a resurrection of an old custom on the Davidson campus. During the first seventy years of this college's existence, when the literary societies were the leading social organizations, medals presented by these groups at the final commencement were the highest honors a student could receive. When the societies began to decline relatively in importance, these competitions were discontinued.

MUSIC DEPARTMENT
(Continued from Page One)

The contralto aria, “The Spring With Her Dower” from Saint-Saens’ “Samson and Delilah”; “Strimpellata” by Wolf-Ferrari; and Graener's “Divertimento.” The Sunday afternoon program at 4:30 will be the oratorio “Elijah” by Mendelssohn, presented by the festival chorus. Students are not required to attend. The final concert will feature Mrs. Carroll and Mr. Frajola. Mrs. Carroll will play the Mozart “Concert Rondo in D Major,” while Mr. Frajola's number is Kreisler’s “Praeludium and Allegro.” The glee club and the Michigan Little Symphony will also present two groups of numbers. The festival will close with the patriotic hymn “Onward Ye Peoples” by Sibelius.

Oberlin College has a Pullman car named after it. The University of Pittsburgh has announced a $6,000,000 expansion program. A crime prevention club has been formed by Canisius College students. The College of Emporia was the first U.S. college to receive a Carnegie library.

POLITICS IS
(Continued from Page Two)

Expressed or unexpressed, tacit or alignment between groups on the campus. We didn't think that there was a union between groups. The question revolved itself to an interpretation of ‘union,’ and as soon as we had cleared that up in everybody's mind, we understood, and we proceeded. As long as there is striving for pledges, long scholastic and athletic competition will there be the separate groups to try to best all the others. That is natural, normal ambition. You cannot legislate it from existence. You can prevent its being the ‘idee fixe,’ the controlling factor in all the activities of a student, the force behind his every action. What we should do is prevent its being bigger than the groups, bigger than the offices, and bigger than the student body, if you please. And since that bigness seems to always be a concomitant of the open system, I am against the open system. You say that that is an extreme form of open politics, but in no school that I know of is the open type managed in any other way than that which I have just written. True there are modifications, but the basic principle and its workings are the same.

I have already expressed my opinion of the plan to publicly parade the particulars pertaining to the several candidates. That is certainly contrary to the friendliness that we at Davidson are so justly proud of. Now as to the actual method of casting ballots, that can be improved. Last year we had a few plans under inspection, but we failed to agree on any one best procedure. There could be one central balloting place so that all the students could cast their votes for a certain group of non-overlapping offices at the same time and on the same ballot on a particular election day. Voting in person at a booth, say in Chambers, would eliminate the absentee ballot complaint, it would place voting more completely under Council surveillance and control and would reduce the strained and tedious period of elections by about half. It would make voting more of a personal ballot, with more individual initiative needed, and would stop the practice of peeping and sly campaigning that now occurs to a somewhat small degree in chapel. There were other ideas and suggestions made, but that seems to be the best, in my mind. That (by “that,” I mean (1) against open politics, (2) favor modification of the closed system, (3) central balloting to replace the chapel period technique now used), roughly, is my feeling on this highly controversial subject. More, lots more, could be said for and against both sides and against the views that I have expressed. I do hope that all the discussion and suggestions and plans of all the students, student organizations, other colleges, and interested friends of Davidson will bear some tangible and constructive fruit in a better, more acceptable plan than we now have. Incidentally, to get this thing before the students and to get new thoughts and the benefits of others' experiences is a splendid way to get at some substantial thought. Frankly, I was rather proud that you wrote to ask my opinion, and honored that you should request from me a plan that you would consider publishing. I am glad to help you, and if this expose of my thinking helps you any, I am glad. Naturally, this letter is not suitable for publication, but I do hope that what I have said will aid you in your commendable efforts to improve Davidson.

Sincerely yours for a better Davidson,
FRED STAIR.

Position of Y Clarified

Board Of Control Reaffirms Affiliation With the National YMCA

Davidson's Y. M. C. A. Board of Control last Monday night clarified the relation of the local branch to the National Association, and reaffirmed the affiliation of the Davidson organization to the Student Division of the National Y. M. C. A. First evidence of this re-affiliation is a deputation which will be sent to a state meeting of the Y. M. C. A. to be held in Raleigh next Sunday. This will be a meeting of Christian groups of this state, and it will be under the leadership of Mr. Mackie, Executive Secretary of the World Student Christian Federation. National offices of the Y. M. C. A. are in New York, and the Regionaloffices for this Section are in Atlanta. Davidson is a part of the Student Division of the Y. M. C. A. Each year a state-wide Conference is held at Blue Ridge, and last summer Dick Kenyon represented Davidson at this Conference. Davidson's Y. M. C. A. is also one of the organizations in the World Student Christian Federation. This is a rather loosely knit union of student groups all over the world. The value of the W. S. C. F. to Davidson is in the fact that it brings its campus into closer contact with world organizations, and thus broadens its horizons and its sphere of influence.

DICK VOWLES RELATES
[Continued from Page Three]

with a deadly accuracy and fitted together to perfection. Except for two small glassed-in windows, the opening was at the top. We wondered whether it didn’t snow in, but they said not. The larder consisted as far as we could see of limp cardboard boxes strewn haphazardly about. The only signs of civilization were a zipper sweater, two magazines, and an alarm clock. And yet it was altogether quite pleasant and homey. Christmas eve, we had a big dinner with our Uncle R. R. and also two girl Finns and a Lapp. Afterwards, the blonde Finnish hosts played Santa Claus and they gave us little souvenir ivory skis.

Of the mountain scenery, Dick wrote: “We can't see the sun, but we can see its light on the beautiful glacial peaks outside the window. The color combinations on the mountain slopes were magnificent, reds and greens blending into fairy-like touch. Finally, Marsfjallen became almost golden except for the cloud-draped peak.”

Dick welcomed the New Year far from Lapland, with friends in southern Sweden, which looks like the Minnesota lake country. On the return to Stockholm, the oil-burning Diesel locomotive ran out of oil and the train was delayed most of the night. On arrival in Stockholm, he had his passport renewed, a frequent process in war times, had to furnish two more pictures of himself and undergo fingerprinting. For reasons of conservation, some things, though evidently not food, are rationed. There is no gasoline for private cars in Stockholm, and hot water for bathing is restricted to Saturdays and Sundays. Dick says that he appreciates America and especially life in Davidson and Chapel Hill all the more for his experiences abroad.

President Charles Eliot. Conductor Thor Johnson, a native of Winston-Salem, will bring his University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra here for the Davidson Music Festival on Feb. 10-12. The Ann Arbor organization, conducted by Johnson, was the highlight of this festival last winter.

Brown Speaks To Scientists
1.7 Average Made

Last year at the end of the second semester, the scholastic average of the entire student body was found to be 1.7, or approximately C-plus. At the same time, the average of the N. Y. A. work was found to be 1.9, a difference of two-tenths of a point. Of the one hundred and fourteen approved men on the N. Y. A. roll, not one was dismissed from school on account of scholarship at the close of the first semester. Any man who fails in two subjects is dropped from the N. Y. A. rolls, on a government rule. This evidence, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, N. Y. A. director, declared, points to the fact that the N. Y. A. men do not neglect their studies, as they continue to be on a par with or even better than the average student scholastically.

Subject Is “Feeding Habits Of Water Snakes”

Dr. Elmer Brown of the Biology Department addressed the Science Division of the faculty at their meeting, Monday, January 29. His subject was “Feeding Habits of Water Snakes.” According to Dr. Brown, the subject is of vital interest to fishermen because they believe that the various water snakes eat large quantities of game fish. Upon examination of the stomachs of water snakes, it is found that they contain large numbers of small fish, principally game fish. The water snake has an eating capacity of from twenty to forty percent of its actual weight. When it does not eat for several days, it may eat from thirty to forty percent, while when it eats regularly it eats much less. After the meeting, the Science Division enjoyed refreshments and discussed present scientific problems and discoveries. Dr. Martin, president Emeritus of Davidson, was a guest at the meeting. At the next meeting to be held on February 12, Dr. W. L. Porter will be the speaker.

HERE AND THERE...

The University of Chicago Roundtable was the first program series on any network produced without the use of scripts. Rutgers University has a new course in the organization of public relief. Fordham University this year has a special seminar in playwriting. The post office department this winter will issue a special one-cent stamp honoring Harvard's famous president, Charles Eliot.

JONES SPEAKS
[Continued from Page Three]

but the eccentricities of its inhabitants. The advent of Christ, which wrought such untold good in the world, is likened by Mr. Jones to one window of heaven being opened with God being able to open an infinite number of similar windows at any time.

Mr. Jones, class of ’31 at Davidson and a graduate of the Union Seminary, was introduced by Dr. Lingle.

SENIOR GALES McCLINTOC RINGS

A Complete Line of SCHOOL SUPPLIES For the New Semester

FRESH FRUITS STUDENT STORE GEORGE RICHMOND

Knox College, the original “Old Siwash,” has been selected as the location for a series of “Old Siwash” motion pictures. St. Mary’s University (Texas) owns a bus for athletic trips that holds 53 passengers.

Chicago President Gives Indictment

CHICAGO, ILL—(ACP)—Amid thunderous cheers of approval by the student body, the University of Chicago’s president, Robert Maynard Hutchins, has delivered a vigorous indictment of football and an explanation of why the sport was dropped from the Midway campus’ program.

“There is no doubt on the whole that football has been a major handicap to education in the United States,” President Hutchins affirmed. “I think it is a good thing for the country to have one important university discontinue football.”

“Though football is a wonderful game for the spectator, it is not so good for the participant as many other sports. It is time-consuming, and the time is consumed just when the player ought to be devoting himself to the new courses begun with the opening of the academic year. Other sports develop team cooperation, spirit, sportsmanship, and fair play just as well as football.”

At a special student forum, only two of about 30 students eligible to participate in the discussion opposed the discontinuance of football as an intercollegiate sport.

PICTURES OF SNOW SHOWN
[Continued from Page Five]

It was also decided at this meeting that the Camera Club would go on a field trip on Saturday, February 10, to Charlotte. There they will have the opportunity of visiting and photographing all phases of the work in an industrial plant there. Then at the weekly meeting of the group, prints of this and following field trips will be criticized and a contest will be held to determine which of the number presented the best prints. Also, various other expeditions have been planned by the group.

BOWLING ALLEY
[Continued from Page One]

as well as for the amusement of individuals. Many commercial establishments have at times offered prizes for high scores and for set scores. In the tournament this fall, West Dormitory emerged victorious with the Barracks and East tying for second. At present standing, the SPE and Betas are in the lead in inter-fraternity competition.

You can look the whole world over and you won’t find another cigarette with Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the best American and Turkish tobaccos. In Chesterfield you find just what every smoker looks for... COOL SMOKING, definite MILDNESS, and the one thing that really satisfies... downright GOOD TASTE.

The famous COCHAND family... father, son, and daughter (the only combination of its kind)... show thousands every winter the fine points of skiing, America’s fastest-growing sport.

Chesterfield the cooler, better-tasting, DEFINITELY MILDER cigarette