Thurs. April 4, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Dr. John R. Mott Has Colorful Life Story
Otts Lecturer Is World Traveler, Genius In Dealing With Youth

Phi Gamma Delta
Nashville, Tenn., Max Hendrick, of Greensboro, and John Barnhardt, brothers John Throop and Rowe Powers of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., went to Camden, S. C., to attend the races. George Stowe, Jack Holland, B. B. Plyler, and William Lyman spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. Duke Gilliam, Rufus Nimmons, George Richmond, Dick Shore, and Charlie Martin went to their homes in Washington, Seneca, Concord, and Winston-Salem, respectively. Mrs. N. T. Smith Sets Out Cutting of Historic Tree Near Phi Hall

It would be a mistake to bring Dr. John R. Mott to the Davidson campus without some attempt to sketch his rich and varied life. It is easy to dwell in superlatives when speaking of him. It would be a mistake to condense his record into a few sentences and thus retain only a small part of his accomplishments. Dr. Mott has traveled over 710,000 miles, speaking to students in thousands of colleges and universities in over sixty nations—and with such success that he became known as “world evangelist to students.” It is estimated that he has raised over $100,000,000 for philanthropic causes and he has been instrumental in training a large number of leaders.

Although not a minister, he was at one time offered the position of head of the Divinity School at Yale University. He has spent his entire life in religious work. He has had to decline such attractive places as the presidency of Princeton University and minister of the United States to China. During the war, he served on several government committees by operation of the War College in Washington.

Kappa Alpha
Brother Kellogg went to Chapel Hill. Brothers Winston Taylor, Matthew Long, Walter Wooten, Ralph Williams, and Walter Kyle attended the jamboree at Mooresville. A feed was held Sunday night at the house. Dates present were Greta Taylor, Bernice Lafitte, Alice Payne, and Mary Jones.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brother Jim McDonald went to Greensboro to attend the dances at Greensboro College. A feed was held at the house Sunday night at which time the brothers enjoyed having members of the Kappa Alpha fraternity as guests. Jim Anderson went to Charlotte Saturday night and ended up at Mooresville. Brothers Ross McIlwee, Tom Lane, and Roger Rice visited their families over the weekend. Brothers Stretton and Youngblood went to their homes in Statesville and Concord, respectively. Saturday night most of the brothers left on the campus attended the show at Cornelius.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother Watt went on a deputation to Concord. In the Queen City were Brothers McLean Winters, King, and Arnold. McDuffie, vice-president; Ed Lucas, secretary; Bill Sprunt, treasurer; Tom Lane, historian; and Joe Jamwell, sergeant-at-arms. The new officers will take over this week.

Beta Theta Pi
The new officers elected for next year include: Holt Yarnwell, president; Leith Garrou, vice-president; Granville Sharpe, Pan-Hellenic representative; Till Summerville, treasurer; Bob Balsley, boarding house manager; Ed Taylor, alumni secretary; Albert Winn, secretary; Craig Schmidt, recording secretary; and Joe Jamwell, sergeant-at-arms. Brothers Bob Wood, Bud Wilson, and Ed Baldwin had dates in Statesville. Bill Burch went to his home in Reidsville over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi
Floyd Frye visited his roommate in Petersburg, Va., and his mother returned with him for a visit. Brothers Bosco Marion, Gladden, and Lemmon were in Camden, S.C., for the horse races. Brothers Ben Marion, George Grantham, George Ficklen, Tom Hackney, and Tom Crichton. Baxter Freeze went to his home in High Point for the weekend.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity will hold their annual banquet and dance at the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday night, April 6, at which they will celebrate their tenth anniversary on the campus. The toastmaster will be Professor Dan Lyon. The speakers for the evening will be two prominent alumni, E. D. Turner, from Gainesville, Ga., and H. D. Burke of North Wilkesboro.

Physics Frat
Dr. Richard M. Sutton, Associate Professor of Physics at Haverford College, gave a lecture in Chambers auditorium Wednesday evening under the auspices of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity.mate in Gastonia over the weekend. Brother Boyce went hunting at Lizard Gulch, where he caught a big black bear. Marion Mobley and Lonnie Miller visited their homes in Florence, S.C. Geddie Herring went home to Roseboro for the weekend. Brothers Hite, Saunders, McCall, and Niven went to Albemarle. Louis Hite was selected as next year’s Pan-Hellenic representative Thursday night.

Most of the brothers stayed on the campus over the weekend, resting up from the vacation. However, some journeyed over to Charlotte for the usual Saturday night round-up. Among those taking a more extended tour were: Brother Kenyon to his home in Gainesville, Ga; and Brother Beall likewise to his home in Lenoir. Brother Verner made his way up to Winston-Salem while Ludlam went to Asheville to look on some golf. Brothers Rudolph and Westall made a quick trip up to Chapel Hill.

The chapter was glad to welcome Brother Rea Tenney back on Monday when he returned from a rather extended vacation.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

A feed was given at the house Sunday night with Misses Laura Sellinger, Ruth Clodfelter, Amelia Bradham, Eunice Watson, and Mr. Faison Williams were guests, all from Charlotte. Hugh Knox had dates in Rock Hill and spent the weekend there. Mr. Bob Rummell and Ed Watson went to their homes and a number of the brothers spent Saturday night there.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Grey Hunter and Court Robinson went to their homes in Charlotte. A feed was held Sunday night at which visitors were: Alf Taylor, of Darlington Prep School and Miss Mary Turner, Duke University, was a visitor at the house Monday night.

Only Coca-Cola gives you that happy after-sense of complete refreshment. That's why millions enjoy it every day. It had to be good to get where it is. So, get a Coca-Cola, and get the feel of refreshment.

Delicious and Refreshing

Charlotte, N.C.

NORTON’S RAZOR Is Too Sharp For Barbed Comments

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

PAUL & CRYMES 221 W. Trade Street Charlotte, N.C.

ALL SPORTING GOODS Davidson, N.C.

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 415 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.

Private Dining Rooms Available

S&W Cafeteria CHARLOTTE, N.C.

TRY Our Delicious HAM & EGG SANDWICHES

LITTLE PEP Davidson, N.C.