MOMING — DONALDSON VS. CENTRE BEAT AT THE PEP RALLY ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ™ Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31st, 1940 Number 5.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA BIDS SIX OUTSTANDING SENIORS

Fifteenth Homecoming Plans Include Address By Ex-Governor of N. C. Arnold, McDuffie, Bolin, Loftin, Parrish, McLean Get Taps Professor E.
A. Beaty Outlines Purposes and Ideals in Brief Talk MEMBERSHIP NOW 13 Jim Hogg Presides at Annual Fall Tap Day

Six outstanding seniors, Dick Arnold, Jay Bolin, Bill Loftin, James McDuffie, Hector McLean, and Hewes Parrish, were extended bids to
membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership and service fraternity, at chapel today in the annual Fall Tap Day, under
the direction of local chapter President Jim Hogg. All of the six men have been outstanding in leadership and activity
in various fields of the college, and membership in O.D.K. comes as a distinctive national honor to them.

Activities of New Men

Dick Arnold, member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, is this year co-manager of the Student Store. During his freshman and
sophomore years, he was a member of the football team until forced out by an injury. He is a member
of the Court of Control.

Jay Bolin is Judge of the Court of Control and a standout football back, serving as game captain in several
instances this year. His social fraternity is Phi Gamma Delta.

Bill Loftin is president of the Forensic Council, and he has been active in all debates. He is a member
of I.R.C. and the Eumanean Literary Society, also serving as president of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Hector McLean, who is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, was connected with the Davidsonian business staff as a junior manager
and resigned the head managership when elected by the Pan-Hellenic Council. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

James McDuffie is freshman football manager, a member of Delta Phi Epsilon, a major in the R.O.T.C. battalion, and a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Hewes Parrish collaborates with Arnold as manager of the Student Store. He is captain of the cross-country team, a member
of the Student Council, and a wrestler. His social fraternity is Phi Gamma Delta.

Program Given

Old members of O.D.K., seven students, and faculty members sat on the stage during the ceremony. After a brief devotional
by Ed Watson, Prof. E. A. Beaty explained the purposes and ideals of the fraternity. (Continued on Page Eight)

Dunbar Takes 1941 Pictures For Yearbook

Annual Photographer M. F. Dunbar will be in the lobby of Watts Dormitory through Friday, Winston Taylor, editor-in-chief of “Quips
and Cranks,” announced this week. Mr. Dunbar will be in the studio there from immediately after lunch until 10 o’clock
at night and will take a student’s picture at any time during that period. “All that will be needed will
be a dark tie and coat.” Taylor called special attention to the fact that all students must have their pictures
in the yearbook. Every year somebody, especially freshmen, becomes confused and is almost left out of the annual. The annual
will contain the pictures of all Davidson men, and students are requested to have their pictures made in the parlor
of Watts before Friday afternoon.

Johnson Band Will Feature Gloria Missel

Charlotte Ballroom Hotel Scene of Dance Set

Davidson’s socialites will open the 1940-41 social whirl with the first group of Pan-Hellenic dances of the current season, the
Homecoming set, to the smooth music of Freddy Johnson and his University of North Carolina Band, featuring Miss Gloria Missel
as vocalist. Perhaps the most notable change from last year’s set is the change in location. This year’s dances will
be held in the recently remodeled and reconditioned ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. The ballroom has been fitted with a
new air-conditioning unit to warrant comfort at all times, and a modern amplifying unit which will greatly improve the hearing
of the orchestra by the dancers.

Many who have complained about the size of the dance floor will be glad to know that the hotel authorities
have stated that the ballroom has the capacity for six or seven hundred dancers. The floor space has been nearly
doubled and the new ballroom has a very modernistic mezzanine. The lighting arrangement is of the diffused type, and many
color effects can be obtained. The fact that the hotel is in the center of town will be an important
item to Davidson’s many Scotchmen, for it eliminates much of the transportation problem. Rooms in the hotel have been obtained
by the different fraternities and there is a plan afoot whereby the non-fraternity men will have room for their dates.

Two dances, a formal from 10 till 2 tomorrow night, and an informal from 8 till 12 Saturday night, will
make up the set, which will be one of the main attractions of the Homecoming weekend. There will be no
tea dances this year because of conflicts with plans for decorating fraternity houses on Friday afternoon and the Centre football
game on Saturday. Johnson brings a band that does not specialize in any one style but combines both sweet and
swing. (Continued on Page Eight)

ODK BIDS SIX SENIORS

At Fall Tap Day Wednesday, Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership and service fraternity, tapped six men from the senior
class. Left to right they are: Dick Arnold, Greenville, S. C.; Jay Bolin, Mascot, Tenn.; Bill Loftin, Gastonia, N. C.;
(bottom row) James McDuffie, Columbus, Ga.; Hector McLean, Lumberton, N. C.; Hewes Parrish, Winston-Salem, N. C. All men have been
outstanding in the student body during their past three years here.

Pep Meeting

A mammoth pep meeting, including yells, songs, speeches, a bonfire, and a shirt-tail parade, will be staged Friday night at
7:30 as a part of the Homecoming program. “Since the crowd should be a very large one, the meeting will
be held outside in front of Chambers,” stated Joe Shelton, head cheerleader. “Everyone, freshmen, upperclassmen, and alumni, are urged to
come and bring their dates. We want to show the best spirit that has been heard of at Davidson.” The
bonfire and shirt-tail parade will be on the freshman field. The cheerleaders are planning to burn in effigy the Centre
team.

Dr. Lingle Welcomes Davidson Graduates

First of all, let us address a word to ourselves. The members of the faculty and student body are the
hosts on Homecoming Day. It is our privilege to show the courtesies of the occasion. There is nothing that a
returning alumnus appreciates more than some courtesy that is shown him by a member of the faculty or by a
student. So, we are hoping that every member of the faculty and every student will think of himself as a
committee of one whose function it is on Homecoming Day to show all of the courtesies of the occasion to
our alumni and friends. There is one thing that I wish every member of the faculty and every student could
do; and that is to attend the address by the Hon. O. Max Gardner in the College Chapel on Homecoming
Day at 11:30. It is a courtesy which we should show him and we may be sure that he will
bring a message that will abundantlyRepay any effort that we make to attend the exercises at that hour. DR. W.
L. LI To our alumni and friends, we wish to extend a hearty welcome in advance of their coming. The
(Continued on Page Eight)

Because of this would-be Centre Bring S Tricky Eleven To Face Cats By BOB CARTER Deckert thrice-beaten Centre College ling
Saturday | pose Davidson in the Coach Quinn brings his Pray- Colonels here to op- coming game. Coach Decker, of
Davidson’s Gene University of ing third being assisted by former teammate McEver at the serv- Tennessee, is his year as
head DeWitt Weaver. This brilliant. Col- and the Victories Centre’s record far sea- so has been none too The lost
to lege, Mississippi College, University of Cincinnati. They have been won over Hanover Col- son Colonels Boston College and the
University of Louisville. Prospects were bright as the sea- son opened, as 14 lettermen re- turned, who, along with 16
sopho- mores, formed a larger squad than usually represented the Gold and White. (Continued on Page Four)

Greek “Lodges Decorate For Gala Weekend As Homecoming Day draws near, backyards of boarding houses and fraternity court ring with
the merry clang of hammers. The woodcraft amateur is, of course, the inter-fraternity Homecoming decorations contest. Each year the lodges
vie with one another to gain the coveted cup now resting with the Beta Theta Pi’s, the object being to
impress dates and returning brothers with the originality and humor of the chapter. Little dope is in circulation as to
the actual strategy of the societies, but competition is expected to be keen when Professors Lilly, Knight, and Jeter declare
the winner Saturday.

Banquet Schedule
Beta Theta Pi, Thacker’s, Saturday, 7 p.m.
Pi Kappa Alpha, Hotel Charlotte, Saturday, 7 p.m.
Kappa Alpha, Hotel Charlotte, Friday, 8 p.m.
S. A. E., Thacker’s, Saturday, 7 p.m.
Kappa Sigma, Hotel Charlotte, Saturday, 6:30 p.m.
Pi Kappa Phi, Hotel Charlotte, Friday, 7:30 p.m.
Phi Gamma Delta, Saturday, 7 p.m.
Phi Delta Theta, Hotel Charlotte, Saturday, 7:30 p.m.
S. P. E., Wooden Bowl, Saturday night.
S. & W., Saturday night.

Phi-Eu Debate Revives Past D. C. Tradition Barker, Brown, Thompson, and Finley Take Part Phi and Eu Halls were the
settings for a gala affair, which took the political form of an old-time rally, last Tuesday night at 7:15. A
brass band parade was held for the participants in the rally. Many candidates were led before the parade by a
torchlight carried by the participants in the parade. Different placards were held for Bob from the balcony of Phi Hall,
and Kerr, running on the independent ticket, spoke for himself from the balcony of Eu Hall. Representatives from the political
parties, Frank Barker who spoke for Roosevelt, and Drury Brown who spoke for Willkie, were: Eldridge Thompson, who spoke from
the balcony of Phi Hall, and Jimmy Finley, who spoke from the balcony of Eu Hall. All of the speeches
were received with much applause and cheering from their supporters, and many boos and hisses from friends of the opposing
parties. Cigars were distributed freely by representatives. During the rally, telegrams were received from Roosevelt and Willkie both praising the
interest taken by Davidson in the politics of today. Eu Hall, presided over by John Moore, president of the Eumen-
jean Society, was decorated in bunting with a large sign for Roosevelt suspended from the balcony. Phi Hall, presided over
by Paul Crane, president of the Philanthropic Society, was embellished with red, white, and blue bunting with a sign for
Willkie hanging from its balcony. A large group from Charlotte and other neighboring towns attended the rally with high praises
for the representatives. A straw vote was taken for presidential candidates Wednesday morning. “It is hoped that this rally will
create interest in public speaking and will put it in a place of prominence on the Davidson campus,” said Presidents
Crane and Moore.

Bahnson Urges Best Homecoming Day Yet Hank Bahnson, president of the student body, speaks for the students in the following
statement: “Saturday, November 2, will be a happy day for the Davidson students, for on Saturday comes the annual Homecoming
Day celebration and with it the opportunity of seeing once more our old friends. We always extend a most hearty
welcome to alumni and are always glad to have them back with us. It brings back fond memories and reflections
of happy days of years gone by. The new men at Davidson are doing their part towards strengthening the ideals
and traditions which are made stronger by every true Davidson man. We hope that, in your opinion, the student body
will, in the present, rank with those of the past. So we hope that we are living up to the
ideals and traditions which you established and that you are as proud and glad to come home to Davidson as
we are to have you.”

Address By Gardner Saturday Will Open Homecoming Events Centre-Davidson Football Game Climaxes Holiday Saturday Afternoon FRATS DECORATE Harlee Branch to
Preside at Alumni Luncheon Festivities for Davidson’s fifteenth annual Homecoming Day will officially commence at 11:30 Saturday morning with an
address by Hon. O. Max Gardner, governor of North Carolina, 1929-1933. Ex-Governor Gardner, who has now retired to private life
in Shel- by, takes an active interest in national and international affairs in Washington. The topic for his Homecoming address
has not been announced.

Luncheon The luncheon for the alumni will be held at 12:30 in the banquet hall of the Chambers. Mr. Harlee
Branch, president of the Alumni Association, will preside over the scheduled program of short talks and extemporaneous speeches. The Davidson-Centre
football game at 2:30 will highlight the holiday. Guests of honor will be Davidson’s team of 1910.

Dances The weekend will also be featured by the regular Homecoming dance set. The informal dance will be held Friday
night from 10 o'clock until 2. The formal dance will be held Saturday night from 8 until 12. Both dances
will take place in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel. All of the fraternities will exhibit their gala decorations. The
annual contest will be judged Saturday. (Continued on Page Eight)

Brengel Sets Tryout Dates A new system of tryouts will be inaugurated next Monday night in Chambers auditorium by the
Red and Black Masquers under the direction of Prof. George Brengel. Professor Brengel announced the new system at the last
meeting of his class in dramatics. He stated that he felt the system used in the past was not adequate
for the rising interest in dramatics on the campus. “Margin for Error,” by Claire Boothe of “The Women” fame, is
a contemporary tragi-comedy of Nazi sabotage in America. Professor Brengel requests that all students interested in trying out for the
play look over, carefully, the copies of it on his reserve shelf in the library.
