Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Jan. 11, 1940

The Davidsonian — Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
TONY CASALI

EDITORIAL STAFF
JIM CURRIE
Paul Bumbarger
Tom Cauble
Lile Pap
Managing Editors
Lawson Withers
Erle Austin
Jack Holland
Karl Hudson
Sam Spencer
Bobby Williams
Angus Lytch

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Casey
Business Manager
Hector Eldredge
Advertising Manager
Jack Covington
Circulation Manager
Fred Little
Collection Manager

The Davidsonian extends its deepest sympathies to Billy Masters of the Senior Class in the recent illness and loss of
his father.

Continue Bosh

Although not many students admit it to outsiders, there is a bi-semester publication on the campus that has been listed
(by those in charge of it) as a humor magazine even if to most of us its content is about
as funny as a funeral procession. It seems also, that this publication whose name is not worthy of type in
the Davidsonian, comes out with sarcastic remarks (someone told me, I didn’t read the thing) about the Davidsonian and then
defies us to uphold them.

Firstly (although we hate to admit it), the so-called editor of this humorous magazine is assistant editor of the Davidsonian.
Since he has failed to realize it, we might mention that his duties are to proof-read copy for the Davidsonian.
He is supposed to catch the mistakes yet he comes out and accuses the Davidsonian of having an editorial with
four grammatical errors in it. It seems to me that the fault is his, not ours, that his accusations reflect
back to himself.

Secondly (since the magazine is the only place where this bard could have his trash printed), a poem appeared in
which a goat (which reminds us of this humor magazine) dies from eating it. This poem could very well tell
the story of the magazine and Davidsonian—if the magazine doesn’t quit biting off more than it can chew, it’ll soon
be in the same shape as the goat.

Finally, since the magazine has so unjustly accused us as it has in the past, let’s look at the other
side of the situation. Since so few Davidson students are interested in this dead-wash, the editor has much trouble in
getting boys out for the staff. Last year when the publication changed hands this difficulty reached a new peak. Being
a good friend of the editor, we graciously aided pleas and beggings by letting the managing editors of the Davidsonian
serve as managing editors of the magazine. Of course, it was the biggest boost ever attained by this humor (?),
sheet, but the editor, little realizing the courtesy, dares to come forth and ridicule the Davidsonian. Shame on ya. Why
don’t you fight in your own class? A boxer who steps out of his own weight usually gets his ears
pinned back.

Clemson Did It, Why Can’t We?

Time has come for the Class of 1940 to choose a gift which they will present to the college that
their name may not be lost in the memory of those who shall afterwards come and go on the Davidson
campus. Clocks, gates, and fountains dot the campus today as monuments to the classes who have passed this way before
us. Fine enough are these things in their own monumental way. And many of them serve well-deserved needs, as they
should. However, for the Class of ’40 our ambitions are higher and greater.

Thusly, as we cast about today for a worthwhile gift to make Davidson’s athletic situation, more specifically football, present an
attractive opportunity. We don’t propose, by any means, to say that we haven't had good, well-coached, fighting teams in the
past several years. Davidson has merely been playing football out of its class. Nevertheless, the Wildcats have been playing with
teams and in a league in which the student body and the team would prefer to compete. However, the trend
today seems to be away from this league and into a lower order of football. Therefore, a gift for the
Class of 1940 has been suggested which possibly would slow down this movement and give us a more equal footing
in the big-time.

The idea brought forward would ask every member of the class to give ten dollars—approximately one thousand dollars for the
class—to the formation of a scholarship fund to be offered to worthy athletes. And by “worthy athletes” we mean boys
who would ordinarily come to Davidson, pass their work, and live up to the standards of a Davidson gentleman. This
fund would be continued from year to year by a like contribution from each member of the class, if he
is financially able. The selection of men to be awarded the scholarships can be done in one of two ways.
Either a committee made up of members of the class and advised by the Athletic Director and Head Coach of
Football can make the choice or it can be left entirely up to the members of the coaching staff.

Ten dollars may sound a bit stiff, at first mention, but by the use of various funds on hand such
as the Senior fund collected at registration and the damage fee rebates (if there are any after Monday) the entire
ten will not have to be paid this year. And who can tell but what some member of our class
who may become suddenly rich in the next several years can contribute enough to make up for those who cannot
pay in those lean years.

Others may contend that a thousand dollars is not much to offer if it is divided in many parts. Little
that it is, it’s something and classes after ours may follow the lead toward building a greater band of fighting
Wildcats. Clemson went to the Cotton Bowl on a plan similar to this, but on a much larger scale. Maybe,
Davidson could, at least, beat Carolina.

KARL HUDSON

CAMPUS COMMENTS

POLITICS ARE NOT PURE!

This is not the first time this statement has been made and we are far from being alone in making
it now. Can anyone purify it? If so, please notify the authorities at Davidson, in order that proper steps can
be made toward this end.

The student council, faithfully striving to better all conditions on the campus, have for some years back decreed that there
shall be no “politicking” in the form of campaigns, fraternity cliques, combines, or combinations of swapping votes. This evil has
existed regardless. The difference now is that it is done in an underhand method and it is being tolerated by
the good-natured students of Davidson. Under the present system, the qualifications of a man are not brought to the eyes
and ears of the voter. Any “good-fellow” might be put on the slate by an ambitious fraternity brother, but his
qualifications have to go by the way of the grapevine. Yet these very harnessed politicos cause a situation that makes
unfriendliness and hate steam up in the student. Accusations are made which are usually true. It is a period when
feeling and emotions run rampant. Most of us become poor sports. This is not typical of Davidson or its students.

In order to make an earnest and sincere attempt to eliminate the situation caused by the present system, we heartily
endorse the plan of “open” politics. True—combines will be made, fraternity cliques will get a foothold, votes will be solicited,
campaign managers will make speeches, issue posters, etc.; but IT WILL BE LEGAL. We will cease to be hypocrites and
fools. Furthermore, for the first time since “closed” politics gripped the campus, a keen interest will be aroused in the
students. Instead of the movies, students will attend open political meetings for fun and entertainment. Pent upFeelings can be voiced
without a summons before the council. What formerly existed in the darkened room can be freely discussed in front of
Georgia. It is not too early to bring the subject up, because in a very short time the election period
will commence. We must rid ourselves of this cloak of hypocrisy before it is too late. Some of the statements
made above may seem daring and untrue. However, the evils cited are fact and can be proven. ERLE AUSTIN, Associate
Editor.

In up with Nelson Eddy, who looks Mon and Tues, Jan. 15 and 16: “The Cisco Kid And The Lady”:
Caesar Romero, Marjorie Weaver, Chris-Pin Martin, George Montgomery, Harry Green, and Virginia Field. Caesar Romero continues the role of romantic
outlaw made so popular by Warner Baxter, and he acquits himself nobly. The plot is familiar, of course, just another
variation of the Robin Hood theme. This picture can be considered only fair.

“Balalaika”: Nelson Eddy, Ilona Massey, Charlie Ruggles, Frank Morgan, Lionel Atwill, C. Aubrey Smith, Janice Compton, and Dalies Frantz. No
doubt all of you are wondering what the meaning of the unusual name of this movie is; well, Balalaika was
the name of a cafe in Russia in 1914, and Ilona Massey’s father owns it. Which brings us to Ilona,
who is more interesting to talk about anyway, being as how she is so stunning and has such a swell
voice. She is teamed up with Nelson Eddy, who looks and acts like a Cossack prince. Of course, there are
some leaders in a revolutionist plot including Lionel Atwill and Dalies Frantz, the famous pianist. Eddy realizes that he cannot
do any good as a Cossack, so he disguises himself to get her an audition in the Imperial Opera. There
follows a street brawl; Frantz is killed, and Ilona finds out about Nelson. Very conveniently, the war steps in and
eases one hectic situation and introduces another even more so. The next scene is in Paris in 1923 where Charlie
Ruggles, who used to valet a bit for our hero, has a cafe Balalaika of his own, and practically the
whole cast is celebrating when a Beester by the same sort of wound, and no evidence of Humphrey. Dr. Navier
turns out to have been electrocuted two years ago.

Random Shots: “Butch” Caldwell and “Ox” Allcott have recently dissolved their Woman-Haters Club due to repeated infractions of the club
by “Pokeberry” Caldwell. Burwell has devised a new system of reciprocative laundry carrying, whereby he takes the frosh's laundry down
if the frosh will return his. Beester’s junior-soph-frosh status makes this innovation quite practicable. George Ficklen recently took a trip
to New Orleans, La., and returns with a total expenditure of only fifteen cents. Ficklen stated that the trip could
have been done very economically had he not lost a dime through a hole in his pocket. Dolores O'Neill, featured
vocalist with Bob Chester and his band, is a niece of Eugene O'Neill, famous dramatist. At a meeting last week
of the Journalism Club, “Burly” Osteen set up a dictatorship with himself as Der Fuhrer. “Little Davey” Lemmon, famous as
“the man that took his girl on the Sigma house-party,” will return soon to the field of poetic endeavor with
his “Ode To Bone.” Three hundred representatives of colleges in all parts of the world were at the Catholic University
golden jubilee celebration.

GLEANINGS By MELVIN MEANS: If not the mornings after came the information that Charlie Mashburn spent most of his vacation
working on the annual. In case you didn’t know, Mash is editing the annual at Queens this year. Know that
it is going to be a fine one. He’s selecting the beauty section himself, competition was through personal interview. And
with the Christmas of the magazine, this column was certainly “cut”—so Abernathy seems to think. The funny part about the
whole matter is that after panning GLEANINGS for not making the revelation of such seeming importance, he failed to do
so himself. Will hand it to Jack; his column has certainly called for a lot of attention—won't embarrass him by
saying of what mode and type. Ever heard one fellow say he wondered who could be writing SUCH a column?
Wasn't hard though. The simple, inane style could be traced to the editor of Ye Olde Magazine. Don't let the
boys discourage you, Jack, I think it was wonderful. After considerable ribbing about his hat by some observer, “Duke” Gilliam
comes through with the remarkable remark—“On the whole, I don’t wear a hat.” Who does, Dan? I wonder how many
of you know the man and the story: He was making quite a figure announcing his engagement and approaching marriage
in a double ceremony for the summer until he found that it was to be announced publicly. Then, to top
the matter off, he became the fourth side of a square more awkward than the proverbial triangle when one of
his own fraternity brothers split his capital by asking “the other girl” down. Few stories came to us over the
holidays that could possibly find their way past the censor. From those few which I heard, I know some of
you guys had a fine holiday. From some unremembered source came the information that Angus Rinehardt recently was entering the
training for the current edition of the Golden Gloves. He has been “working out” regularly and almost had his first
heavy work composing ballads with Don Budge. Budge appeared perfectly willing to assist him in his proposed work-out but several
of Bone's “backers” persuaded him that he wasn't quite “ready.” We wonder how many flu germs Scott brought back from
Greensboro with him over the weekend? With the holidays came the marriage of Bob McClellan and Dell Sutherland. We wish
them all the happiness in the world. Best wishes are in order for Dave Warden, former football captain, who quit
trying to run away from his Tennessee belle and gave up during the holidays. Comes word from Florida that Lytch
Swasey spent one or two nights at his home during the holidays. Can imagine that his family enjoyed the visit.
Much more time and many nights were spent with his girl in a neighboring town. Are you ready to make
an announcement, Herb? The Stud Store should be congratulated for the novel way of announcing our Mid-Winters band. Incidentally, boys
have no reason to apologize about anything concerning Mid-Winters. From reliable sources comes word that Bob Chester has everything any
of the big “name” bands have. We're lucky to get him before we begin to have to pay for the
“name.” All indications point to the best dance set in years. Is Holland set with his boys for the intermission
performances? Rusty Edmondson is probably the most changeable man on campus. First, he maintained that Virginia Intermont was the only
place and all the time he was beating a path to the Queen City. Now, he seems to have had
another change of mind and has turned to G. C. for his Mid-Winter's date. Best be careful, Rusty. Neal Scott
didn't lose a great deal of time in getting to south Georgia during the holidays. Too bad Miss Bird spends
her time in New York. Still, understand the reason Scott has been so happy lately is that she is coming
down for the dances. What happened out Tennessee way, Strandwitz? Strandwitz can’t wait until Spring to pen his answer to
Muses. Bard Strandwitz is spending much of his spare time composing ballads to one Miss Becky Davis over Salisbury way.
Miss Davis has been seen quite frequently on the Davidson campus this fall.

Parade of Opinion: By Associated Collegiate Press

TO PAY OR NOT TO PAY? THAT IS THE QUESTION

Although the 1939-1940 football year ended in a blaze of bowl battles that drew more cash customers than ever before,
the season just closed will not be famous for its spectacular plays or players. Rather, it will go down in
the record books as the year of the big unfinished debate: To pay or not to pay? Spotlighted into national
prominence by the dramatic decision of the University of Chicago to discontinue intercollegiate football, the old question of subsidization of
gridiron players was more vigorously discussed and more definitely acted upon than in any other year since the advent of
big-time, highly publicized pigskin encounters. It all began with the disastrous point-a-minute losses of the Chicago team, a team that
took beating after beating in Big Ten competition, much to the chagrin of Maroon fans. The fans, aided and abetted
by sports writers in all sections of the nation, began the clamor for alumni funds to aid in securing hot-shot
gridmen. Then came the bombshell announcement of the Chicago board of trustees, which said in part: “The university believes in
athletics and in a comprehensive program of physical education for all students. It believes its particular interests and conditions are
such that its students now derive no special benefit from intercollegiate football. The university looks upon all sports as games
which are conducted under its auspices for the recreation of the students. The university will continue to promote intramural sports
and will encourage all students to participate in them.” With this announcement, Chicago authorities canceled all football games scheduled for
the future and asked Big Ten authorities to allow it to continue intercollegiate participation in the 11 other sports sponsored
by it. It is expected that the Big Ten’s answer to the Chicago proposal will be made in the near
future. Meanwhile, with less fanfare and less comment from the columning quarterbacks, Loyola University of New Orleans calmly announced that
it is discontinuing intercollegiate football so that the “large sums of money spent annually on football can be spent on
educational expansion.” On other fronts, too, subsidization was a large topic of discussion. At a meeting of the College Physical
Education Association, Prof. L. C. Boles of College of Wooster urged his colleagues not to allow collegiate physical education to
become a field for men of “very limited mental capacity” to continue in college for the sole purpose of playing
on teams. At the University of Pittsburgh, famed for its great football teams and for its recurring subsidization debates, Pres.
John G. Bowman asserted that recent sports staff upheavals at Pitt were made because “we want most of all that
football be a game for students. I want to keep the game on a truly amateur basis here.” However, simon-pure
football is not receiving the support of all students, for at many colleges undergraduates have begun movements to subsidize players
so that losing streaks may be stopped. At the University of Buffalo, the student newspaper asked the college to give
ten tuition scholarships a year to men who would be the nucleus for winning grid teams. At the University of
Rochester, Pres. Alan Valentine rejected student demands for paid players. There you have the summary of the great football debate
of ’39-’40. Collegians everywhere are watching with interest the proposals and moves intended to solve the problem—and you can bet
that the debate is far from settled at the present time. You are bound to see startling developments on the
subject during this year.
