Covington, “and ~ Newton Page Eight

AMONG THE GREEKS

DR. LINGLE WELCOMES

(Continued from Page Six)

and Morris, Wadesboro Brother Pledge Gaither. Brother Williamson went to Greensboro and High Point.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Some of the brothers went to the Davidson-Furman game in Greenville via Converse. Brother Freeze had a date with Eloise
Bethel from Converse, Hackney dated Betsy Armistead from Converse, and Bahnson dated Peggy Beaty from Greenville. Pledge Brothers Carson and
Clark dated Julia Bridger and Catherine Cansler, both from Converse. Brothers Lucas and Jones attended the game and dance at
Chapel Hill. Pledge Brothers McGeachy, Millikan, Graves, and Preyer went home to Greensboro. “Pop” Rodgers also went home to Gate
City. Pledge Hunt and Bruce went to Greenville for the game, while Brothers Grantham, Faison, Caldwell, Smith, and Moore were
with the team. Brother Tate has gone to S.C., to be in his brother's wedding. Sunday night the chapter gave
a “feed” in honor of the Betas. Singing featured the evening's entertainment.

Kappa Sigma

Most of the brothers went to Greenville over the weekend. Present at the game were George Marsh, Jack Clark, Wilbur
Carter, Ben Lacy, Karl Jonas, Wileman Ehly, Apie Means, Jim Crook, Alf Taylor, Leigh Scott, Pinky Wilson, and Joe McCoy.
At Chapel Hill over the weekend were Jim Hogg, Scott Cooper, Dick Phillips, Alston Thompson, Dick Kelly, and John Purdie.
In Greensboro were John McHill, Cooper, Max Hendrix, Jim Davis, and Bill Grimsley, while Gee, Bob Amos, Pat Williams, and
Bill Loftin were in Gastonia. Shep Booth took the longest jaunt of the weekend, to Harrisburg, Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Those going to Greenville for the game were Jack Abels, “Keyhole” Browning, Ned Pollock, Enoch Stephenson, Sam Overby, Tommy Lane,
and “Bayru” Neill. After the dance at Furman that night they all went to the Browning Cottage in the mountains
for the remainder of the weekend. Brother “Casey” Jones made one of his famous trips to Winthrop, accompanied by Brother
Latimer. Brother Wine went to Harrisonburg, Va., to the dance at Madison College, while Pledge Borders went to Roanoke. Dave
Henderson and Dave Williams went to Chapel Hill, and Carlton Parsons went to Raleigh. Brother Parks and Pledges Brochman and
Hodges went to their homes in Black Mountain, High Point, and New Bern. Charlie Byers again went to Greensboro and
Shewmake, Sample, and Stroop made their usual visit to the Queen City. Charlie Brockman’s family visited the chapter Sunday.

FRENCH GROUP

(Continued from Page Six)

stand a competitive test, and the ones who make the highest grades will become associate members of the club. After
the refreshments, ice cream and cake, were served, the meeting adjourned.

(Continued from Page One)

The very name, Homecoming Day, is significant. The alumni who return on that day are simply coming back home, back
to their Alma Mater. Your presence will add much to the good cheer of the day and will bring us
encouragement and inspiration for days to come. We always think of the alumni as the best friends that a college
has. We wish also to extend a hearty welcome to the football squad, members of the faculty, and of the
student body, from Centre College. Davidson and Centre are very close akin in their history, their ideals, and their traditions.
Not only so, but the president of Centre is an alumnus of Davidson College. So, we say to our friends
from Centre, thrice welcome. We are hoping that it is going to be a great day, a real red-letter day
in the history of Davidson College. One striking feature of the day will be the return of the football squad
of 1910. That was the team which won the first state championship in North Carolina. There were mighty men of
valor in those days. The presence of the members of that notable squad will add much to the day. So,
here is a hearty welcome for them too. They will be an inspiration to the football squad of 1940 and
help them to maintain the fine spirit and traditions of the Davidson team. As the program for the day will
be printed in another place, I need not repeat it here.

WALTER L. LINGLE, President.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA

(Continued from Page One)

President Hogg then explained the method of extending a bid. At each tap of the gavel, one member of O.D.K.
rose, went into the student body, and tapped one of the members to whom a bid was to be extended.
Each man so tapped signified his acceptance of the honor by following the old member back to the stage where
he was presented with a formal bid. The addition of these seniors brings the total active membership of O.D.K. to
13 students, besides Dr. Frontis Johnson, Dr. Kenneth Foreman, Dr. C. K. Brown, and Mr. F. H. Hengevelt, who are
active faculty members. Old student members of O.D.K. are Hank Bahnson, Andy Dale, Bob Finley, Casey Jones, Jim Hogg, Winston
Taylor, and Ed Watson.

WIT MAGAZINE

(Continued from Page Three)

issue. It is meant to be a pun on Spenser's “Faerie Queene.” Bumbarger and his staff are making plans to
publish three more issues during the current year featuring stories by various members of the student body.

Real Relief for Miseries of

Put 3- Va-tro-nol each nostril... (1) It shrinks swollen membranes; (2) Soothes irritation; (3) Helps flush out nasal passages, clearing
clogging mucus.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

FRED WARING

Fred Waring, nationally known orchestra leader, is scheduled to present for the second time over a coast-to-coast hookup the alma
mater that he and Pat Ballard wrote last year at the request of the Davidson student body. Waring and his
Pennsylvanians will play the song Friday night, November 1st, on the Chesterfield program.

Waring Plays Alma Mater November 1

Maestro and Chorus Repeat Composition on Chesterfield Program

Fred Waring and his “over half a hundred Pennsylvanians,” will present for the second time over a coast-to-coast hookup the
alma mater written by himself and Pat Ballard for Davidson. The repetition of the composition, entitled “Davidson, Our Alma Mater,”
is scheduled for the Waring college smoker broadcast Friday, November 1, 1940. The college glee club and orchestra have presented
the song in chapel as a proposal for the Davidson Alma Mater. An excerpt follows:

“Davidson, our Alma Mater, praise to thee we sing, Through the years a thrill of loyal pride your name will
bring Davidson, our Alma Mater, guiding light you'll be and forever, hail to thee.”

Complimentary printed copies of this song were given to the students at the time of the song’s presentation. Additional copies
may still be obtained, printed in school colors and official seal, either by ordering through local music stores.

WATSON GIVES

(Continued from Page Three)

laid out and speakers for the coming meetings were announced. Paul C. Crane, Y cabinet member, was secured as the
speaker for the next meeting. Officers for the current year are Dux Pharr, president; Reid Johnston, secretary; James Wallage, treasurer;
and Bob Hughes, corresponding secretary.

VISITOR TO

(Continued from Page Three)

administration fully aware of her arbor heritage, and devotes a great deal of money and attention to its preservation. Mr.
F. D. Hobart, local superintendent of grounds and buildings, is constantly looking after the condition of the arbors. In addition,
a special tree surgeon is brought to the campus every two or three years to examine and, if necessary, treat
each tree.

Comparatively few of the arbors are part of the original forest from which Davidson’s campus was laid out. Several of
these trees, mostly large, can still be seen near Elm and Oak rows and the literary society halls. But the
whole of the trees here now have been planted almost yearly for over 100 years. In the earlier days of
the college history, students were encouraged and awarded certain privileges for planting a tree. President Wilson, when he was a
student here, is said to have planted one in 1874, and today that one is called the Woodrow Wilson Tree.Other
memorial trees include the George Washington Tree and the Napoleon Bonaparte Tree. In his poem, “Trees,” Joyce Kilmer has written,
“But only God can make a tree.” One has only to drink in the autumnal grandeur of Davidson's arbors to
realize what a wonderful creation they are.

BUSINESS WILL ER A

(Continued from Page Six)

commercial art, advertising, optometry, and osteopathy. One hundred and fifty-five boys are still undecided as to what they are going
to make their life work. Among these, 72 are freshmen, most of whom will probably decide on some profession in
a few more years, but there are still 24 seniors who have not decided what they are going to do
after finishing school.

An $80,000 airplane motor testing laboratory is being completed at the University of Kentucky.

The library at the University of Texas now houses 639,732 volumes, an increase of 26,117 over last year.

dealer or by writing direct to the publishing house, Words and Music, Inc., 1697 Broadway, New York City, for 35
cents per copy.

WELCOME, ALUMNI!

Make This The Best Homecoming By Making Our Store Your Headquarters

The NORGE $0.89

WELCOME,

Eat At

THE LITTLE PEP Davidson, N. C.

ALUMNI!

WELCOME, ALUMNI!

"The Academic Barber (M.T.A.: Master of Tonsorial Arts) Get Another Haircut By 210 South

CAMPUS PACS

Yes, Sir! They’re called Edgerton CAMPUS PACS... One of the doggiest models of the season! Soft reverse brown calf and
smooth tan calf give a two-tone effect that is truly smart. Thick russet rubber soles add to the luxurious comfort
of the moccasin style pattern. Also available in all calfskin with leather or rubber sole.

J. O. JONES, Inc. SHOES FOR MEN

Other Edgertons to $6.50

THE SHOW!

THE DAVIDSONIAN COLLEGIAN’S BROADWAY

(Continued from Page Two)

line at the Savoy. It melts under the white heat of the trumpets: You see a Bund leader from Yorkville
dancing with a high brown. Soft Chinese girls whirl with great black men. Sitting in the booths you see sleek
girls of cafe society drinking rum with the swing rajahs who wait their turn to make music. You always feel
that Haroun-al-Rashid must be about somewhere.

State of the Theater

What may prove to be the most important contribution to racial drama was launched last Monday night when the Negro
Playwrights Co. launched Theodore Ward's “Big White Fog.” A drama of social significance at once moving and thoughtful, “Big White
Fog” traces the deterioration and collapse of a Negro family through the futile attempt to escape race barriers. Mr. Ward
makes it plain that he believes the one hope for his race is to seek salvation in Communism.

On Friday, “Cabin in the Sky,” another Negro acted but white man inspired musical drama (John LaTouche wrote the words;
Vernon Duke, the music) was touched off. With Ethel Waters balancing most of the fantasy on her competent head, the
production could not help but come off well. Critics were rather lyric, to which rare mood Katherine Dunham and her
colored ballet, and Rex Ingram, who played “De Lawd” in the movie version of “Green Pastures,” contributed.

The Eternal Ballet

If you are within 100 miles of an invasion point of that organization called the Monte Carlo Ballet Russe, for
heaven's sake go pay them a visit. Verily this is Senor Ponce de Leon's vaunted fountain of youth. The sight
of these airy creatures making a sap out of Newton’s law of gravitation is something positively out of the world.
Also, if you're disenchanted with women, it provides an opportunity for that wonderful agony, a crush on a ballerina. New
numbers: “Poker Game,” “The New Yorker,” “Nutcracker Suite” and others. Incomparable tonic: “Gaiete Parisienne.”

JOHNSON BAND

(Continued from Page One)

into smooth rhythm. The orchestra has just terminated a six-weeks engagement at Seaside Park, Virginia Beach, Va., where they were
acclaimed by many who heard them. All members of Johnson's band have at one time been members of the University
of North Carolina student body. He is following in the footsteps of some of the nation’s greatest band leaders who
began their organizations on this musically minded campus. Kay Kyser and Hal Kemp are outstanding examples of this fact.

CULPRITS FIND

(Continued from Page Three)

class should at least foot the bill for the paint; Gaines Stubbins and Finley Tucker, who actually climbed the ladder
and did the painting, say they got a big scare when they were about halfway up and happened to look
down into the enormous chasm of nothingness below them. The one on the bottom while climbing was always insistent that
the one above not fall, if you please. After they got up and performed their work of art, they had
a hard time persuading themselves that they wanted to come down at all. The remaining paint was left up on
the tank, perhaps for the convenience of future painters, but more likely so that they wouldn't have to lug it
down again. The boys deny vehemently that they had anything to do with the later painting and with their paint
being knocked off and spattering the monuments in the cemetery. This deed is now blamed on the mysterious campus painter
who does his work before football games. The freshman painters think that the football boosters at least could have found
another spot on the tank to do their work rather than cover their 4D4. Stubbins wants it to be clearly
understood that if there is to be any more tank painting, someone else will have to do it. This is
not hard to understand considering the fact that he has been on campus all but two weeks of his freshman
career and will be around rather consistently until Christmas.

Thurs., Oct. 31, 1946

ADDRESS BY GARDNER

(Continued from Page One)

at 10 o'clock Saturday morning by a faculty committee.

History

Homecoming Day as it now exists was first celebrated on November 13, 1926. Before this, a holiday known as Davidson
College Day and Armistice Day had been observed every November 11, but this had none of the features now enjoyed
at Homecoming. At the first Homecoming Day 14 years ago, Richardson Stadium was dedicated, and the Davidson football team won
a 10-0 victory over the University of North Carolina.

WILDCATS SET

(Continued from Page Five)

after a humiliating game in Greenville.”

Set for Colonels

Bill Shaw, “After a week of hard practice the team will be ready to claw those boys from Kentucky.”

Ed Hipp, “With Davidson's champions of 1910 on the bench, and alumni of other great years in the stands, how
could we help but fight our hearts out for a victory?”

Sam “Porky” Woodward, “After such a defeat in South Carolina, we ought to be ready for a victory.”

Bob Johnson, “We don't lose Homecoming games.”

George Marsh, “Those ‘Praying Colonels’ will really be on their knees when the boys finish the game.”

Herb Rainey, “Haven't much to say except that we are going to beat Centre.”

B. F. Moore, “Time for us to win, so we will be right on Homecoming Day.”

Wildcats Due

Bill Grosse, “Team has been having on and off Saturdays. This Saturday, however, we are due to be on!”

Ashby Dick, “A repetition of last year’s Homecoming, only more so.”

Wilbur Carter, “Comeback with a bang to cut the ‘Praying Colonels.’”

Frank “Butch” Caldwell, “Team spirit fine, think we will take Centre on Saturday.”

Bob Balsey, “If we are ever hot we should be so before the Homecoming crowd and I believe it will
be our day.”

Make your next pack

For today, more than ever, people are taking to Chesterfield because Chesterfield concentrates on the important things in smoking. You
smoke Chesterfields and find them cool and pleasant. You light one after another, and they really taste better. You buy
pack after pack, and find them definitely milder.

Complete smoking satisfaction — you can’t buy a better cigarette

CHESTERFIELD
