(Thurs. Oct. 10, 1940.) THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Vowles Returns Home After Scientific Study

Koomer Editor Discontinues Work As Fellow of Scandinavian Foundation.

Reprints of an article published in Sweden by Richard Vowles have recently been received in America. The article appeared in the series Arkiv for Kemi, Mineralogi och Geologi in July, 1940, under the title “Ueber die Thymonukleinsaure aus Tensenhorn.” Vowles, son of Dr. G. R. Vowles of the faculty, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and editor of the Davidsonian, also had an article in the autumn issue of the American-Scandinavian Review — “An American Returns Home.” The first mentioned article contains the results of Richard's study of nucleic acid in rat tumors, which he had almost finished when he was forced by the European situation to leave Sweden. The writing of the paper was done after Richard left by Professor Hans von Euler, head of the Biochemical Institute and Nobel laureate.

RICHARD VOWLES

Among the Greeks

Pi Kappa Alpha. The entire chapter again left the campus this weekend, most of the members going to Winston-Salem and to High Point, where Jack Abels entertained the brothers. Pledge Brother Mclver’s parents were guests of the lodge for lunch on Monday.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The activities of the fraternity for the first and third weeks of 1940 were varied. Brothers Scott and McKie went home to Statesville. Meade Tolleson was pledged.

Varied Topics Are Featured In New Books

In the Twin-City, a good representation of the pledge class was made by Brothers Port, Preyer, and invited guests, Brothers Henderson, Parsons, and Neill. Most of the activities centered around Winston. Brothers Moore, Bahnson, Smith, Fitton, Grosse, Hackney, Caldwell, Grantham, and Moorehead traveled to Winston with the team. Brothers McLean, McLand, and Maxwell went to Charlotte. Brothers Rogers and Graves, McGeachy, and Millikan attended the game in Winston-Salem. Brothers Pete Young and Ivey went to their homes in Charlotte. Brother Leas and Pledge Brother Buck Enqua went to see the Dukes and Vols in their battle in Knoxville, returning Sunday. Brother Cobb in Winston. Brother Withers journeyed to Bristol for an extended weekend. Watson was in Durham for the Clemson State game and Brother Lemmon Couch, Washburn, and Webster. Pledge Brothers Burke, John Jenkins, and Willard and Baxter King.

Sigma Delta Pi. Sigma Delta Pi was founded at Davidson. The first chapter of Sigma Delta Pi was established at Davidson. There are now thirty-five chapters scattered across the nation, extending from New York and Washington to as far south as Florida.

CONSCRIPTION

October 16 is registration day for all men between 21 and 35. Students in this age bracket must register at home or in Davidson. Under one provision of the conscription act passed by Congress, college students are permitted to finish their education. The advanced ROTC course, offered by the military department, had more applicants this year than any other in the history of the school. Some persons attributed that influx to the fact that the students wished to hold higher ranks if they were drafted. Almost all of those taking ROTC courses are becoming more interested in their work. The instructors are very pleased at the increased activity the future officers are showing.

(Continued)

THAT IS STYLED RIGHT AND TAILORED RIGHT!

Fine Virgin Wool Fabrics Full Harmony trim In the Season's Smartest Patterns $25 and $30 With Two Trousers

attended the dance after the games! attended the Duke Tennessee game in Knoxville. In Durham after the Davidson game were Brothers Sinclair, McLauch, and Pledge Brothers Jenkins and Webster.

Library Adds One Hundred and Fifty Volumes.

Phi Gamma Delta. Lynchburg and Winston-Salem were the main destinations of the Phi Gams. Brothers Wilson, McLean, Winters, Arnold, Wallace, Paterson, Pilkerton, and Williams attended the game in Winston-Salem. Pledge Brothers Williams and Jack Sloan went to Atlanta. Brother Jack Westall was elected reviewer and Jack Westall was appointed chairman of the social committee. As an extra incentive for attendance, they have decided to have a feed after every other meeting and a social once a semester.

Dr. G. B. Watts Writes About Racine’s Life

Davidson Professor Writes Story of Waldensian Settlements.

Dr. George H. Watts, Professor of French at Davidson, has an article in the September number of “The Publications of the Modern Language Association of America,” entitled “Louis Racine’s De la Grace.” His study, based on research done in the Bibliothèque Nationale of Paris and the British Museum, tells for the first time the story of the composition, suppression, and publication of this long religious poem by the eldest son of the great French dramatist. Professor Watts also has several reviews of recent French books.

Rev. Julian Lake, pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian church, spoke at the Sunday night Vesper program. His subject was: “How do you react to success or failure?” Rev. Lake, a native of Georgia, was a graduate of Davidson in the class of1928. While at Davidson, he was very active in the Kappa Sigma fraternity. A majority of the Brothers attended the game in Winston-Salem. Brothers Hough, Means, Tit, Couper, Scott Cooper, Metay, Johnston, Smith, Lortin, and Carnko were among those present. Pledges present were: Sim, Ames, Scotty Wilson, Ten, and Taylor. Brother Logan vacationed in Concord, while Brother Watson attended the Clemson State game with friends from Clemson. Brother Mobley was at his home in Florence for the purpose of being a freshman at Clemson. Brother McArthur and Pledge Brothers Brewer and Robinson were at their respective homes in Charlotte and Derita. Pledge Armstrong went home to Gastonia and Brother Maller was in Spartanburg. W.G. Clankett was at Coker College in Hartsville, and Jesse Tain spent the weekend in Columbia. Brother Kelly went to Knoxville to attend the Tennessee game. Brothers McArthur and Robinson were at their respective homes in Charlotte and Derita. Pledge Armstrong went home to Gastonia and Brother Maller was in Spartanburg. W.G. Clankett was at Coker College in Hartsville, and Jesse Tain spent the weekend in Columbia.

The chapter was represented in Winston-Salem by the following crew: Brothers McIntosh, Laie, Hobbie, McLean, Howell, Lewis, Williams, Pledges Drake, Pierce, Archer, and Wilson. Brothers Hobbie, McLean, and Howell attended the dance at Salem College Saturday night. The State-Clemson fracas in the Queen City plus the added attraction of Queens lured Brothers Cook, Howell, McAtee, Rankin, Spike Mehane, Sharpe, Batsley, Shaw, Jack Phillips, Winn, Caterson, Schmidt, and Taylor. Pledge Brothers Chandler, Cushman, Marshall, and Phillips. Brothers Barnwell and Howell visited in Burlington. At the Salem dance in Winston were Brothers Jack Phillips, Howell, and Barnwell. Brothers Summerville, Bird, and Church went to their homes in Charlotte, and Pledge Brother Upchurch went to Gastonia. Brothers Bryant, Raney, Church, and McAfee went to Greensboro College.

At the first meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics society, a petition from the Citadel requesting that a chapter be formed there was approved by the local chapter. It was announced that new men will be voted upon within a week. At the present time, it is composed of five student members and five faculty members. A picnic is also being planned for October 21.

Rev. Lake preached at vespers last year, and because of the many requests that students have made, he was invited to speak again this year. Rev. Lake made the point that "A man may be down, but he is never out." This, the old Salvation Army motto, is a good principle to follow. Christ failed many times, but never in the deep recesses of his heart was he a failure. Even if a man fails outwardly, if he is not defeated inside, and still believes in himself, then he is a success.

Rev. Lake showed what Margaret Mitchell was trying to put across in her best seller, "Gone With the Wind." He said that the real purpose of the book was to show how people reacted differently to misfortune or success. Rhett Butler, for example, was hardened to the outside world, and passed any misfortune off with a "devil may care" attitude while Ashley Wilkes was a weakling; when misfortune came to him he was broken and became melancholy. Melanie was the really great character of the book: She was like a blade of green buckwheat, which, after it has been blown to the ground by the wind and the wind is gone, springs back and is just as it was. Scarlett O'Hara was like ripe wheat, which, when the wind of sorrow and misfortune struck it, was broken. She was selfish, and couldn't take it.

Mrs. Cummings, wife of Dr. Cummings, spoke to the Statesville Women's Club at its opening dinner Thursday, October 3. "The Incredible British" and "Gone With the Wind." Mrs. Cummings read some recent letters from some British friends, one of which was written in a bomb shelter while an air raid was in progress. She then made a brief analysis of the spirit of the British resistance, and an explanation of the outcome of plans for sending British children to this country. Mrs. Cummings had the responsibility of finding homes in this vicinity for thirteen British refugees, and several faculty members volunteered their homes. These plans were never executed, however. "The letters are filled with the deepest appreciation for American generosity," she said, "but because of the risk of the voyage, most of them have decided to keep their families together and to take the risks of war."

The Statesville Rotary Club has asked Mrs. Cummings to repeat her talk at a forthcoming meeting.

Visitors to the chapter house Sunday were Mr. and Mrs. D.D. Phillips of Charlotte, Miss Alice Withers of W.T.U. N.C., and Misses Annie Taylor, Rena Davis, and Little Pep Sandwich Sho.

Philip Brooks, he illustrated, was a failure in many things, but when he finally found what he was supposed to do, he became a wonderful preacher. If a person strives hard in one line of work and fails, he should go into some work for which he is talented. Even though he is a failure he may become a great success in the work which Christ has intended that he do.