ef Sis bh Wildcat Sports ’Cats Set For State Tonight; Matmen Open Saturday Thurs., Jan. 11, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four Phi Delts and Court Captain Wildcat Quint Faces SAE’s Remain ’ ‘ j Cats Better Against Phantoms After a tough start and a poor showing against conference competition before the holidays and afterwards against Duke, the ’Cats showed a lot more stuff Saturday night while losing to the White Phantoms at Charlotte. While Carolina hasn’t got the best team in the league either, they do have a good one, and Davidson’s showing against them wasn’t bad at all. Mister Glamack astounded everyone with his one-handed wheel shots under the basket as he garnered 26 points, but Footsie Cowan broke up more passes and took more balls off the board than mighty Glamack was looking at any time this year previously. He looked sick a good many times when he went for that pass only to find that Footsie was gone with the ball. You can’t take it away from him though; he’s a great ball player, and one of the best shots under the hoop to appear on a local court in years. His style and number of points reminded us of Wake Forest's Jim Waller last year. The ’Cats’ main troubles now appear to be centered about the inability of any other member of the squad to break into the big score column along with Cowan. Of course, the attack is centered about him, and he is counted on to score a lot, but with other mates scoring freely too, the team’s hopes would rise considerably. However, after the showing made at Charlotte last week against the Phantoms, our Wildcats can be counted on to furnish trouble for those teams with big reputations to uphold this year. Tonight’s game with the Red Terrors of State at the NEW gym is another conference tilt that the ’Cats need to cop in order to be in line for that invite to the Frat Leaders Three Wins Each Rates Tie! For First Over Ka’s and K. Sigs Bowling Starts The Phi Delts and S. A. E.'s remain deadlocked for the lead in inter-fraternity basketball. The S. A. E.'s, losing none, and the Phi Delts by virtue of a 21-13 victory over the Phi Gams last Monday, have won three games while losing none, and pulled up to a tie with them at three won and none lost. In the encounter last Monday between the Phi Delts and Phi Gams, the score was knotted at 9-all at the half. Coming out after intermission with a smoother working offense, the Phi Delts scored 12 points to their opponents' 4 to snatch victory away, and defeat them 21 to 13. High score for the winners was Loc Hunter with 6 points, while B. Plyler was high scorer for the losers also with 6 points. Last Week’s Games tourney. According to reports, the Terrors are not so terrible this season, and the ’Cats should ride over them tonight. “Footsie” Terrel for the winners, scored 8 points each, accounting for all but one of the entire team’s points. Flynn was high scorer for the Pi Kaps with 5 points to his credit. Earlier the same afternoon, the Kappa Sigs won over the Phi Gams by the score of 23 to 16. The score at the half stood at 10-all, but the Kappa Sigs forged ahead in the second half scoring 13 points—10 of them by Scott who was high scorer for the game. Taylor and McReynolds with 6 points each were high scorers for the losers. With three victories and no defeats, the K. A.'s follow closely behind the Phi Delts and S. A. E.'s for the lead. The Kappa Sigs are fourth with 3 wins and 2 losses, followed by the Pi Kappa Phis and Phi Gams with 2 victories and 2 defeats each. Leading the 'Cat quintet into their Big Five battle with the Terrors of N. C. State tonight will be Captain Jim Cowan, 6:4 center from Rocky Mount. Last year, his second as regular, he was the third-highest scorer of the Southern Conference. This year he is bidding for higher honors with 107 points in games to date. Carolina and Duke Trip. Cats as Big Five Opens Quintet Beats V.M.I. on Trip Davidson's basketball forces opened their 1939-40 campaign before Christmas on its annual trip through Virginia. The ‘Cats tangled with the “Little Blues” of Duke and routed them by a score of 51-28 in Winston Thursday. The ‘Cat five jumped off to an early lead but with Glamack dropping in shot after shot, Carolina staged a late surge and had a 25 to 19 margin at intermission. “Big George” tallied 22 of his team’s 25 points in the initial half, but was held to only two field goals in the last stanza by a close ‘Cat defense. However, with the huge Glamack held to only two field goals in the last stanza by a close ‘Cat defense, Davidson took the lead and dropped in 13 points, all in the second half. The Wildcats eked out a 32-31 win over the Cadets in a fast-paced game. Cowan led the winners with 11 points, while Foster’s 9 points topped the losers. The next night, the Wildcats were defeated 33-32 in the last seconds by Richmond.Before this year’s curtain riser, Davidson led by 10 points at the half, but the home team rallied in the final period to pull the game out of the fire. Captain McFadyen led his team in scoring. All of the Cats played nice ball, but were unable to cope with the superior height of the Phantoms and the deadly one-hand shots. 

As yet, Coach Chapman has not announced a starting line-up but expects to have the final cuts this week. Graham McFadyen, captain of this year’s team, is a certain starter in the 155-pound class, but all other classes are wide open. Little is known of this year’s team with the exception that it is well balanced and thoroughly trained in all fundamental principles.

Duke Wins, 31-14

In Winston last Thursday, the Cats fell victim to the fast-breaking, smooth passing, and deadly shooting of the Dukes, and were never really in the battle. The “Little Blues” seized an early lead and never relinquished it. They had a 31-14 margin at half-time. Glenn Price and Tom Connley played brilliant floor games for the Dukes and accounted for 23 points between them. “Foots” Cowan and Jim Hogg were best for the Cats with 11 and 7 tallies respectively.

Although the varsity grapplers will hold the spotlight this week, it should be remembered that the Frosh also hold their initial meet this week. On Friday, the Kittens meet the strong Barium Springs team. Coach Harris is as yet undecided but hopes to put a well-balanced team on the floor.

Winter Sports Slate

Jan. 9—Basketball—Varsity vs. Charlotte, here, 8:15
Jan. 11—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State, here, 8:15
Jan. 12—Basketball—Frosh vs. Sphinx Club, here, 8:15
Jan. 12—Wrestling—Frosh vs. Barium Springs, here, 4:00
Jan. 13—Basketball—Varsity vs. Furman, there
Jan. 13—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Duke, there
Jan. 15—Basketball—Frosh vs. P. J. C., here, 8:15
Jan. 16—Basketball—Varsity vs. Wake Forest, here, 8:15
Jan. 16—Basketball—Frosh vs. High Point, there
Jan. 31—Basketball—Varsity vs. Guilford, here, 8:15
Feb. 5—Wrestling—Varsity vs. State, here
Feb. 7—Basketball—Varsity vs. North Carolina, here, 8:15
Feb. 7—Basketball—Frosh vs. North Carolina, here
Feb. 9—Basketball—Frosh vs. High Point, here
Feb. 10—Wrestling—Frosh vs. N. C. State, here, 4:00
Feb. 10—Wrestling—Varsity vs. North Carolina, here
Feb. 12—Basketball—Varsity vs. N. C. State, here, 8:15
Feb. 12—Basketball—Frosh vs. Lees-McRae, here, 8:15
Feb. 13—Basketball—Varsity vs. Wake Forest, here, 8:15
Feb. 17—Basketball—Varsity vs. Citadel, here, 8:15
Feb. 17—Basketball—Frosh vs. Charlotte Hi, here
Feb. 17—Wrestling—Varsity vs. V. P. I., here
Feb. 17—Wrestling—Frosh vs. V. P. I., here
Feb. 19—Basketball—Varsity vs. S. Carolina, here, 8:15
Feb. 19—Basketball—Frosh vs. Shelby Hi, here
Feb. 21—Basketball—Varsity vs. Shelby Hi, here, 8:15
Feb. 24—Wrestling—Varsity vs. Winston Y. M. C. A., there
Feb. 26—Basketball—Varsity vs. Furman, here, 8:15

An early season review of the Southern Conference basketball race finds six quintets tied. North Carolina, Duke, Maryland, Richmond, Wake Forest, and The Citadel have won the only game played in the conference.

N. C. State Terrors In League Game Tonight

Davidson, seeking their second Conference victory, will encounter North Carolina State's Wolfpack here tonight. The Wildcats have had little success so far this season, winning only one of four Conference engagements and only three out of eight against all foes.

Cowan, Hogg Lead Scorers

So far this season, Captain Jim Cowan has been high scorer for the Wildcats in every game. Cowan observed a warning to Conference opponents and at the same time entered into the race for scoring honors with a brilliant performance against North Carolina when he tallied 20 points. Second high scorer for the Cats is Jim Hogg, playing for the second year on the quintet. Hogg and Cowan have accounted for more than half the points scored by the Davidson team this season. Melvin Means, Benny Harrison, and Jim Thomas, all Seniors, will probably round out the starting line-up. Others who will see action are sophomores Don Bell, Ed Lucas, Tommy Yarborough, and Bob McLeod.

Very little is known of the strength of the Wolfpack quint this year as they have played only one game. The State team will feature “Red” Sevier, a forward. Missing from last season's potent team are rangy Bill Mann and Little P. J. Hill, the sparkplug of the team.

Frosh Cagers’ Initial Win

Coach Little's freshman cagers opened their season last Friday night by chalking up a 28-21 victory over Bessemer City on the high school court. John Belk, a tall junior, led the Kittens' attack with eight points. Neither team was able to score until after the opening whistle. Finally, Belk was able to shake loose for a crip shot to start the scoring. Although there was a small margin between the points racked up by both teams, Davidson held the lead throughout.

Thirst and the need for refreshment recognize no season. The pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is a year-round answer to thirst that everybody welcomes. It leaves you with an after-sense of complete refreshment.

PAUSE THAT REFRESHES

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Delicious and Refreshing

WE HAVE FOR THE NEW YEAR AND EVERY YEAR—

PAUL & CRYMES
ALL SPORTING GOODS
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.