ports lants

By BOB CARTER
Wildcat Sports

Hackney, Spencer Honored; Courtmen Go North

Page Four varsity Throt

The recent announcement by those in charge of the award that Jay Bolin had been chosen to receive the Tim
Pharr Blocking Trophy for the season 1940 could not but be applauded by those who have followed the Wildcats this
year. Aside from his task as blocking back, Bolin also took on the added duties of backing up the line,
bucking the line from the short position, and calling the Wildcat plays on prize is awarded.

Grapplers Mat Squad Drills Hard In Practice
Bahnson, Dick, Hipp and Freeze Strengthen Squad

THE DAVIDSONIAN COURT CAPTAIN

Bolin, after three weeks of stiff work on the mat, the varsity wrestlers are getting into shape. Jay not only
contributed much to the Wildcat cause physically, but also helped to pull Davidson through many a tight spot. So we
say congratulations to you, Jay, and we hope that Davidson will be blessed in the near future with another lad
possessing your natural ability and great love for the game.

WILDCATS HONORED

The latest release from the Duke University student newspaper, the "Chronicle," shows that Claude Hackney, who raced all over Duke
Stadium last month, was rewarded for his efforts by the Duke players last week when they placed him on their
first string all-opponent backfield, in a poll conducted by "The Chronicle," Duke student newspaper. Hackney received 48 out of a
possible 50 points.

In bowling last week, the Betas and the SPE’s came through without a defeat in their first two games. On
Tuesday the 3rd, the Pi Kaps defeated the KA’s and the SPE's out-bowled the Phi Gams. On Wednesday, the Phi
Delts downed the SAE’s and the SPE's knocked over more than 1,000 pins to give a very good account of
themselves.

Frat Bowling

The only team to defeat the Kappa Sigs was the Pi Kaps. On Thursday, the Pi Kaps vs. Phi Delts
and the Kappa Sigs vs. Phi Gams. On Friday, 4:30—Monday the Betas topped the Phi Delts by 360 ducks and
the Kappa Sigs ran over the Pi Kaps to the tune of a 66-pin win.

In bowling, pool, badminton, and ping pong, the seniors were having little trouble with the professors. Some 10 scheduled games
in class basketball will be played. Seniors vs. Frosh, Sophs vs. Juniors.

The most singular honor of all fell to the smallest man on the Wildcat squad, Dave Spencer. The Mighty Mite,
polling many votes throughout the state, was elected to the post as the "most valuable player" on the North Carolina
squad. Aside from this, Hackney...was voted the “most underrated player,” polling 26 points to 14 for the second choice, Jim
Gates of North Carolina. In winning his position on the mythical first team, Hackney garnered 32 out of 33 votes.
Jim Hogg, the Wildcats flashy forward, is playing for his third year and is captain of this year’s team. Hailing
from Waynesboro, Virginia, Hogg is capably taking care of the 155-pound class. Graham McFayden, captain of last year’s team, wrestled
for Fishburn Military Academy before coming to Davidson.

Betas, Spes Top Bowling; Class Basketball Begins Seniors Top Profs. All books were forgotten last Thursday as the first Senior-Faculty
Day of the year was held. Although the “Old Boys” were not the masterminds in outside activities, they managed to
hold their own.

EXPERT AND EFFICIENT WATCH REPAIRING AND CLEANING HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP Davidson, N. C. Wishes to announce that Mrs. Ledwell’s daughter,
Helen, who is a student at the Marshall Beauty School, will assist her during the holidays. Please make your appointments
early.

For—CHRISTMAS CANDIES, FRUITS, CAKES J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY Davidson, N. C.

GIVE “HER” A BIBLE THIS CHRISTMAS -STUDENT STORE

Quint Defeats Union: Seven Day Trip To Begin Friday Top Ranking Clubs in George Washington and Seton Hall; Lick Union
Theological 61-26; Shepherd Pessimistic Davidson's basketballers leave tomorrow for an extended northern trip, on which they will encounter opposition from
some of the nation’s top-ranking quints. They meet Lynchburg College on Saturday, George Washington on Monday, and Seton Hall on
Tuesday.

Colonials Powerful Outlook for a successful invasion is dark. Coach Norman Shepard ranks this year's George Washington outfit as one
of the five best in the country, and Seton Hall not far behind. The Lynchburg game is considered a toss-up,
with slight odds on the home team. Coach Shepard and his cagers, hampered by the lack of a high-scoring pivot
man, are resorting to a slightly changed system of play in which a fast break and speedy offense are stressed.
Coach Shepard was well pleased with the success of the game in practice.

Union Beaten In the first of a series of preliminary games, the ‘Cats defeated Union Theological Seminary, 61-26, in a
free-scoring encounter. Both aggregations looked ragged and ball handling was faulty. Don Bell and Jim Hogg led the Wildcat scoring
with 14 and 12 points, respectively; Carter was high for Union with six. McLeod sank seven points and Yarborough and
Sink both had four. Coach Shepard used many combinations in the win.

Northern Frosh Drill On Passing Coach Crowell Little wasn’t particularly happy about the mid-semester report cards, for when they were
issued several men who had looked particularly promising were dropped from the basketball squad because of scholastic ineligibility.

Use Figure Eight In the early sessions this week, the Kitten mentor put his freshmen courtmen through passing and floorwork
drills, putting a great deal of emphasis on the “figure eight.” Although the freshmen do not play any games before
Christmas, Coach Little has been selecting his first team candidates. Working on the number one quintet this week were Pat
Williams, Mac Bruce, George MacWilliams, Bob Currie, and Bob Pierce.

Meet Belmont The first team the Davidson first-year men will encounter will be the Belmont High School five on January
3 in Belmont. The following week the Kittens will journey to High Point to play High Point High School. The
Panthers, state champions in 1940, beat the freshmen in their first game last year.

“Alma Mater” (Latin for ‘Beloved Mother’) came into collegiate use because a statue of Mary, mother of Christ, is placed
over the entrance of Bonn University, Germany.

MOONEY’S CHRISTMAS TREAT A NEW ’41 FORD STATION WAGON AT YOUR SERVICE The Season's Best Greetings To Everyone Mooney’s Service
Station DAVIDSON, N. C.

A Complete Printing Service... As Near As Your Telephone Dial 6300 STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY 117 GARLAND COURT CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Printers of “The Davidsonian”
