Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., March 7, 1940

“What Is God” Is Text Of Dr. Lyon’s Address
Topic For Sunday School Lesson Taken From Shorter Catechism

Dr. S. C. Lyon was the speaker at the regular Sunday morning class held March 3rd in Phi Hall. Dr. Lyon's subject, discussed from the scientific viewpoint, was the question—"What is God", as taken from the shorter catechism. The topic this week related to God as a Spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. Dr. Lyon pointed out the difficulty in finding God through the infinite in a scientific sense. He illustrated ways, defining “infinite” compared to our present means of measurement. Dr. Lyon showed how infinite wisdom could be matched with the atomic ways of measurement and how hard it was to gain the values of wisdom, using the tangible problems of science as illustrations.

An interesting point concerning the “light years” was also discussed. If a machine could be built to stop the light rays, one could see the light as it approached the universe. “This of course,” explained Dr. Lyon, “will take many years to perfect and by that time, the world may have changed in many aspects so as to void the use of such a machine.” Thus he proved, by the invention of such an apparatus, how infinite the wisdom and spirit of God could really be and how hard it is for man to come in contact with the standards which God presents. Dr. Lyon also used the first five words in the book of Genesis to prove his statements.

Student vote approves constitution: Martin And Six are taken into Phi Beta Kappa Society
Dramatic fraternity planning production
Chemical fraternity represented at Duke Convention
Dr. Gwynn talks to ministerial students
Fraternities prepping for cinder contest tourney
J. Y. Templeton wins 2 annual gym contests
Charlie Martin And Orchestra Steal Show at Faculty-Student Game
Junior dances to feature Allsbrook and his Orchestra
Alumni Journal to go to press soon.

Charlie Martin and his Orchestra made their World Premier appearance in the Davidson College gymnasium (the “new gym”, of course) last Saturday evening. The occasion was an entertainment sponsored by the ‘D” Club which featured a faculty-student basketball game but the new band stole the show. Probably the most outstanding talent which has been shown here for some time was exhibited by Joe Barnwell, the man with that certain lick. His sizzling “hides” brought the house down. He was described by many as the hottest hide hitter that had hit this campus in many moons.

Another freshman showed promise in the reed section. “Artie” Church ripped off several clarinet rides in the true Artie Shaw fashion. Other standouts on the jam session were Bob Bryant in several sweet trombone choruses and Swinging Jim McDonald with his really hot trumpet. In short, the entire organization was in the groove once they got started. Besides those occupying the “hot chairs” mentioned above, the orchestra includes the following: Sax- Jack Philips, McAfee, Stanley and Charlie Martin, the organizer and director; Trumpets: Craig, Roth; and Charlie Norris; Trombone: Schmidt, and John Erb in the second chair in the trombone section.

File Petition
Charlie Martin organized the new musical group recently for the fun of an occasional jam session. Although they have had several requests to play at entertainments off the campus, it is impossible for them to accept under the present faculty rule. However, a petition is being filed with the Executive Committee to get permission to play off the campus.

JUG BAND ENTERTAINS
[Continued from Page Five]

Arrayed in tails, “Dizzy Dave” McLean and his band, giving their first performance, were the feature of the evening. From the music files of the past, the Jug Band brought back the old beloved string music so familiar to the day when square dancing reigned. Closing the performance, the band rendered a special piece recently composed by the conductor, with Bill Summers accompanying.

WAIT A MINUTE
[Continued from Page Two]

...land and Germany from Nippon markets. The United States is now selling to the Japanese eighty per cent of their materials. All that America has to do is to refuse to sell them any further supplies, and they will be unable to continue their conquest. America will have the rising sun stalemated by a bloodless economic war. To keep Japan from having any credits in the United States, however, we must refuse to buy Japanese goods. This seems to be the main flaw in the plan, since over seventy per cent of the silk, her main export commodity, is used to make women's silk stockings. How long it will take to persuade women to be satisfied with cotton and rayon stockings is open to question.

SIGMA UPSILON
[Continued from Page Five]

...members and professors in the society.The novel started years ago and has been presented one chapter at a time at each meeting of the literary fraternity. The first chapter, as well as the last, was written by Professor Davidson. The novel was about two... Also on the program was an initiation story by Dan Hodges, the Sophomore Class. Dr. William's paper was a part of his initiatory work. When 11:00 o'clock rolled around, the dancing stopped and the Queens Classics bid adieu to their dates and returned to the dormitory, closely followed by the members of the Philanthropic Society who returned to the hill by bus.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Professor Delehanty’s report also called attention to the fact that the present-day freshman can chin himself on the bar nine times, as compared with five times before the war.

SCHEDULE SET
(Continued from Page Five)

The team will go to Clemson College where it will compete in a four-way shoulder-to-shoulder match with teams from Clemson, Wofford, and Presbyterian College at Clinton participating. No definite information could be obtained regarding other schools, but several other shoulder-to-shoulder matches, both here and at other schools, are pending. Five men have been firing for the past two weeks as representatives of Davidson in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match. Also, ten men are in the midst of firing for the 4th Corps Area Rifle Competition. Each of these matches is fired in four stages.

MURPHY’S MUMBLINGS
(Continued from Page Two)

Clark Gable plays the role that he is so famous for as Verne Andre, a Guiana penal colony convict. After her super-glamour role in “The Women,” Joan Crawford goes to the opposite extreme as a cabaret entertainer in “Strange Cargo,” playing most of the picture in a cheap cotton dress that gets more ragged as the plot progresses. With a band of desperados, Gable escapes from prison, forcing the cabaret girl to go with him for fear that she will act and divulge the escape plans. They set out in a sloop to make their way through the impenetrable jungle to reach Trinidad and freedom. However, this cargo of human derelicts is strange and noxious, and all but Clark and Joan are reformed by love. He returns to serve out his time in the colony when she promises she will wait until his release. If you have seen the pictures in the magazines about this movie, the evilest forces in Hades could not keep you away.

Wednesday, March 13th.

“City of Chance”: Lynn Bari and Donald Woods. You'll thoroughly enjoy this melodrama which has Lynn Bari as a girl reporter, posing as a gal from Texas, visiting a huge gambling place to get a story for her paper. Donald Woods plays the youthful operator of the gambling house, and it develops that they used to be childhood sweethearts. A gambling picture that has neither a great cast nor a wonderful plot, but it is interesting because it unveils many of the secrets of the gambling table that secretly intrigue so many college students.

MON. & TUES.
“HIS GIRL FRIDAY”
CARY GRANT
ROSALIND RUSSELL
A Wild Man Loves A Wild Woman.
STAR THEATRE
CORNELIUS, N. C.
Station Wagons Run—1 P. M., 7 P. M., 9 P. M.
Mooney’s Service Station

“Y” Sponsors Club

Last Thursday evening, Davidson boys assisted in the Myers Park 4-5 Gray-Y Charter Service in Charlotte. This club, which is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A., was organized to aid the youth of Charlotte. It is to cultivate healthy standards of living in the community. The charter service consisted mainly of an exhibition of the handicraft and talents of the youthful members. This organization, which is national in scope, is a very great asset in coping with child delinquency. This was the second charter service of Gra-Y Clubs in Charlotte. The first was held by the Eastover Sixth Gra-Y Club on February 1.

After the charter service, refreshments were served and a tour of inspection was conducted through the Charlotte YMCA. This work is supervised by the Davidson YMCA. Bill Bolin and Jim Owens are in charge of the project.

Did you ever hear of a jug band without a jug? No? Then tune in on Dave McLean and his Little Sympathy Jug Swingsters for a treat that would startle Mr. Ripley himself. For an infant of only a few weeks, the band is reported to have made rapid strides in the direction of fame and fortune. Thus far, they have played one engagement at the Philanthropic Literary Society square dance, but it is reported that they have been tentatively booked for the D Club’s night of mirth and entertainment.

The band itself makes up in gusto what it lacks in number. The musicians are Dave McLean, guitar and caller; “Skeeter” Murray, mouth organ; “Spider” Kunz, guitar; and Jack Davidson, fiddle. Experts in the field of distinctive native American music report that a string band, like a swing band, can function best when not so many cooks have their fingers in the pie or not so many musicians with their fingers on their instruments. Titles of the tunes played by these organizations are of constant amazement to the onlookers. Although we do not have a copy of the repertoire of the Davidson stringsters, it is expected that they have the old favorites of “Ole Zip Coon,” “Jealous Hearted Me,” “Sourwood Mountain,” “Carroll County Blues,” and “Chinese Breakdown.” We shall see!

NOW YOU CAN BREATHE!
Clear Cold-Clogged Head This Quick Way

Clear that tormenting stuffiness—breathe more freely! Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol—that’s what you need. Feel it go right to work—bring real comfort. This treatment is successful because Va-tro-nol is active medication—containing several essential relief-giving agents plus ephedrine—expressly designed for nose and upper throat. Next time don’t wait for a cold to get a head start. Used at the first sniffle or sneeze, Va-tro-nol helps keep a cold from developing.

WAKE UP YOUR NOSE
VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

EAT AT THACKER’S THIS WEEKEND
Rooms For Private Parties
THACKER’S, Inc.
“A Good Place To Eat”
Charlotte, N. C.
12 West of Tryon on Fourth
Come In And See Us This Weekend

THE WOODEN BOWL
Fraternity Banquets A Specialty
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME

WHEN YOU GO TO THE DANCES THIS WEEKEND, RENT A CAR AND DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc.
110 South Church Street

Private Dining Rooms Available
S & W Cafeteria
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Every Camera In Our Store Is For Sale
Charlotte, N. C.

VIVIAN BOSWELL, operator at the busy switchboard of Chicago's Stevens Hotel, largest in the world, takes time out to enjoy a Chesterfield.

CHESTERFIELD is America’s Busiest Cigarette because it’s Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting, and Definitely Milder.

Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

W. I. VAN NESS
REASONABLE RATES

ASK FOR CHESTERFIELD
Today’s Definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking, Better-Tasting Cigarette

Call for all the good things you want in a cigarette... Chesterfield has them.
COOLNESS ...Chesterfields are Cooler
MILDNESS ... Chesterfields are Definitely Milder
TASTE ... Chesterfields Taste Better

In size, in shape, in the way they burn, everything about Chesterfield makes it the cigarette that satisfies. You can’t buy a better cigarette.

Chesterfield