Sports Round Up By Bob Carter

Wildcat Sports Scrimmages Feature Early Football Drills

The question of whether our Wildcat cagemen will qualify for this year’s Southern Conference tournament will probably be settled this
week when they take on North Carolina State, Wake Forest, and The Citadel. Winner of only three out of ten
Conference engagements, the Wildcats must win all but one of their six remaining loop games to attain the .500 or
better average usually necessary to get in the tournament. The outlook is not as black as it seems, for if
the ’Cats can get by the Demon Deacons, they face second division teams through the rest of the schedule. Furman,
South Carolina, and State are all near the bottom of the loop and the Wildcats stand an excellent chance of
beating them. So don't give up, we may make it to Raleigh yet.

As for the rest of the Conference, it looks now as if Duke’s “Little Blues” will lead the pack home.
The Blue Devils face their severest test this week, playing Clemson’s defending champs, Wake Forest, and Washington and Lee. The
Dukes will prove that they really belong at the top of the heap if they vanquish these three potent fives.

Diamond Outlook

Although we may be rushing the season a bit, the balmy weather turns a young man’s fancy to thoughts of
the diamond. Considering the local prospects for the coming season, it looks to this corner as though Coach Norman Shepard
will have a wealth of material, with no outstanding candidates. The main problems at present seem to be to find
a capable catcher. Dan Cagle, “Rusty” Edmondson, and Walter Fitzgerald, all veteran infielders, have reported for early mitt workouts and
the opening game will probably find one of them behind the plate. Bob McLeod, a soph, is another candidate. At
first base, we find Frank Niven back for another year of duty. At second, “Black Dog” Hunter will face strong
competition from Tommy Yarborough, leading hitter of last year’s frosh team. Either Hunter or Yarborough may be shifted to third
base to get more hitting strength in the lineup. Shortstop, in the event that Edmondson catches, will probably be held
down by Jim Owens, another sophomore. Owens hit well over .300 last year and is an excellent fielder. The loss
of Sam Hemphill leaves the third base position vacant with no one to step into that breach. Loss of Hicks,
Steere, and Hand leaves the Wildcats without a veteran outfielder. Coach Shepard has plenty of good fielders on hand, but
the problem is to find powerful hitters to patrol the outer garden. Verner, Morris, Daffin, Hogg, and Smith are possible
outer gardeners. The pitching staff will apparently be the strongest part of the team. Despite the fact that Hicks’ departure
will be keenly felt, veterans Dave McLean and “Hayseed” Thomas should form the nucleus of a good staff. Ed Lucas,
Bob Reinhardt, and George Ficklen will undoubtedly see much service.

Things we've often wondered about—How George Glamack can ring ’em up when he can scarcely see the basket from the
foul line... Who's going to stop the Duke’s cagers in 1941 when Mock, Allen, and Spuhler are Seniors... Why so
many Pennsylvania boys come all the way down to Duke when there are many good schools up there... Why the
University of Virginia had to drop out of the Southern Conference to subsidize athletes... Whether Banks McFadden is as good
as he’s cracked up to be... Why we can’t have a new gym... Why the same students who are always
complaining about the football team haven't turned in any prospects to Coach McEver... Who will be All-Southern Conference center this
year, Footsie, George, or Banks... Why Carolina doesn’t use a two-man team, Glamack to shoot and Jimmy Howard to feed
him the ball... What happened to last year’s starting Wildkitten quintet... How Tennessee has the nerve to make its schedule
public... What happened to “Whizzer” White... Why “Dizzy” Dean doesn't realize he’s washed up... Who'll stop the Yanks... Whether we'll
ever beat “Dook” on the gridiron again...

Cat Wrestlers Beaten By State and Carolina

With the addition of Bill Bolin to the ranks of the Golden-Gloves entries, Davidson's list is swelled to three. Buck
“Whizzer” Powell and “Cactus” Dick Hudson have been entered for some time. The 'Cat grapplers were defeated rather decisively in
both matches. At Raleigh, on Tuesday, February the 6th, the State varsity triumphed by a 24½ to 9½ count. Davidson
men who marked up points were Captain McFadyen, who pinned his opponent, Jack Abels, who battled to a draw, and
Ed Hipp, who gained a decision. The Wolflets also downed the frosh, the score being 26 to 6. Ashby Dick
and Wilbur Carter accounted for the six points by earning decisions.

Bow to Heels

Last Saturday afternoon in a dual meet at the Davidson gym the “grunt and groan” men of North Carolina tumbled
the ’Cats varsity and frosh contingents. Big Ed Hipp pinned his man and Graham McFadyen continued his victory streak to
chalk up eight points and make the final score 20-8. The freshmen failed to counter and were whitewashed 31-0. The
main bright spot in Davidson wrestling this year has been the grappling of the varsity captain, Graham McFadyen. He has
been undefeated in every bout this season and won the championship in his weight at the annual North Carolina A.
A. U. wrestling matches held in Greensboro. This Saturday the squad travels to Blacksburg, Va., to take on V. P.
I. This will be followed by an invasion of the Winston YMCA.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Johnson’s Barber Shop
Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Thurs., Feb. 15, 1940
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Four

Duke’s Blue Devils Lead Conference

Break Tie For First Defeating Carolina 50-44

Duke “Blue Devils” held undisputed possession of the top position in the Southern Conference today as the nip-and-tuck campaign gave
promise of a rousing championship tournament at the close of this month. North Carolina was toppled to second place by
Duke's 50-44 triumph Saturday night. Washington and Lee, Clemson, Wake Forest, Maryland, and The Citadel are better candidates. Of the
15 members, only Virginia Tech has definitely been eliminated as a tourney candidate. Davidson's Wildcats, with three victories against seven
defeats, must make a brilliant comeback to qualify for tournament play. V. M. I. and N. C. State will need
an uninterrupted string of wins to get into the title event. Duke faces the most active week, meeting Georgia Tech,
Wake Forest, and Washington and Lee. North Carolina plays only State Friday night. Richmond meets V. M. I. and Washington
and Lee on Monday and Tuesday. Clemson, Davidson, and The Citadel will launch a drive to get back in the
title race when they take on State Monday night, Wake Forest Tuesday, and The Citadel Saturday.

Phi Delts Top Frat Tourney

Phi Delta Theta with a crushing 42-20 win over the Pikas held their position at the top of the inter-fraternity
standings in basketball by virtue of an undefeated campaign. The KA’s and SAE's were close behind in the race each
with one loss. Both second-place outfits risk their standing this week, with the feature gamePredicted in the Phi Delt-KA battle
next week. Results of the past week were: Pikas 11, SAE 27; KA 28, Kappa Sig 12; Phi Delt 33,
SPE 15; KA 18, Beta 14; SPE 23, Pi Kap 14; Beta 17, SPE 13. The most exciting game of
the week was the KA vs. Beta struggle, decided only after two overtime periods, with the KA’s victorious 18-14. The
Betas had a close call at the expense of the Phi Gams, 15-14. At the beginning of the fourth round
of the bowling tournament, the Betas and SPE’s alone remained undefeated, both winners of two contests, with the Phi Delts
second, scoring two wins with one loss.

GYMNASTS REPORT
Inter-dormitory competition in gym work will begin Monday, according to a recent announcement by Pete Whittle. Any man may attempt
the various exercises in tumbling and acrobatics, and any one that he completes or passes satisfactorily will count for his
dormitory. Points may be scored when a test is passed at any time that the instructors, Woodall, Rose, and Dave
Sprunt, are present.

FRATERNITIES, ATTENTION!
Buy your supply of wood and coal for the Winter Season from DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL COMPANY

WILDCAT BATTLER
Buck Powell, lately nicknamed “The Whizzer,” led the Davidson Golden Gloves boxers into action yesterday. After a month’s training period,
Buck boxed in the 155-pound class, but results were not known as the paper went to press. Hailing from Whiteville,
Powell has been a reserve end on the Wildcat football team and is making his debut into fistic circles. Other
Davidson entrants were Dick Hudson and Bill Bolin. (Photo by Angus Lytch).

Intra-Squad Skirmishes Feature Spring Drills
Spring football practice, after having been held up a week because of rainy weather, is now in full swing. Coach
McEver’s candidates have been working out daily since last Thursday.

Sport Card
Friday, February 16:
Bowling: Betas vs. KA’s, 4:00
Phi Gams vs. Pi Kapps, 4:00

Saturday, February 17:
Basketball: Varsity vs. The Citadel, there

With 15 lettermen returning, the coaches are facing a stiff task in forming a strong combination for next fall. At
the end position, lettermen Frank Niven and Bob Smith are returning along with reserves Jim Cruchfield, John King, and Bill
Faison. Freshman Ben Washburn, up from the freshman ranks, will strengthen this position. Knoeller, Bell, and Bahnson are the returning
lettermen at tackles. Bahnson has been shifted to the pivot post. At guard, Johnson and Marsh are the regulars returning.
Also, Arnold and Moore of the Beesters and Grosse and Rainey of the freshmen should see plenty of action. The
center slot left vacant by Poss McLean will likely be filled.

[Continued on Page Six]

Suspense! Thrills! Drama!
Wrestling: VPI, there
Frosh vs. VPI, there

Monday, February 19:
Basketball: Varsity vs. S. C., there
Frosh vs. Bessemer City Hi, home, 8:15
Pikas vs. SPE’s, 4:00
KA’s vs. Phi Delts, 4:00

Tuesday, February 20:
Bowling: SAE’s vs. Pikas, 3:30
Kappa Sigs vs. SPE’s, 3:30

Wednesday, February 21:
Basketball: Varsity vs. S. C., home, 8:15
Bowling: Betas vs. Kappa Sigs, 4:00

Thursday, February 22:
Bowling: SAE’s vs. Pi Kapps, 3:30
Phi Delts vs. SPE’s, 3:30

Varsity vs. Never before has the screen delved into such an intimate story... emerged with a drama so rich... so
real... so human, here is a picture every adult will enjoy...

Powerful Loop Leaders Score Team; “Footsie” Cowan Garnering Big Five foes Duke and Carolina took the Wildcat cagers over the
ropes last Tuesday and Wednesday to the tune of 47-30 and 44-31 respectively, giving the ’Cats a record of three
wins and seven losses in the conference. Playing listless ball, the ’Cats started slowly, and the “Little Blues” had built
up a 10 to 0 lead at the end of the first five minutes. However, with Hogg and Cowan hitting
the basket consistently, Coach Shepards’ boys pulled up to 24-20 at intermission. The Dukes maintained this margin until the last
five minutes when they rapidly crept away from the tired 'Cats.

Cowan Leads Scorers
Captain “Footsie” Cowan had 13 points and Jimmy Hogg had 8 for Davidson. Sophomores Bill Mock and Clyde Allen led
the “Little Blues” with 12 and 8 respectively. Carolina’s White Phantoms jumped off to an early lead which they maintained
throughout the game. A specially constructed defense held the Phant’s high-scoring center George Glamack to seven points, but the ’Cat's
inability to hit the bucket proved their downfall. Jimmy Hogg was high-scorer for the Wildcats with 11 points, while “Foots”
followed with 9. Jackie Simonds and Benny Harrison played nice floor games. The Carolina scoring was spread evenly with Chuck
Pessar getting 8 for top position.

Play Cadets Saturday
Yesterday and the day before, the ’Cats took on State and Wake Forest respectively. Saturday they journey to Charleston to
engage the Citadel. They continue to Columbia to take on South Carolina Monday. Then Coach Shepard’s boys return home to
play host to the Gamecocks in a return game Wednesday. So far, in conference competition, the Wildcat quintet has won
three and dropped seven and will have to play brilliantly to qualify for the tournament.

Devils and Tarheels Defeat Cat Quintet In Loop Competition
Impressive Wins Over Wildcat Continues Scoring Pace, 22 Points

Kit Five Bows
Lees-McRae
After trailing 8-15 at the half, the Lees-McRae basketeers, taking advantage of wild play on the part of the Wildkittens,
came back to hand the Frosh a 33-29 defeat. Last week the Kittens nipped the High Point Hi Panthers 30-25
after suffering defeats by Carolina's Babies and Duke's Blue Imps. Handicapped by the absence of Fredricks from the line-up, the
Kittens, led by Maloney and McRae, bowed to a tall and rugged Lees-McRae five. Going wild in the last half,
the Kittens lost their lead in the last five minutes of play, never to regain it. Isaacs led Johnny Mackorell’s
quintet in scoring with four field goals. Seeking revenge for an earlier defeat, the Kittens nosed out the High Point
Panthers 30-25 last Friday night in a close game played at the local gymnasium. Wayman with eight points for the
Kittens and Hussey also with eight for High Point led the scoring. The Blue Imps of Duke University nipped the
Kittens 36-33 due to a rally in the final minutes of play last Tuesday night in Duke's new gymnasium. Fredricks,
with twenty points, was high scorer. The following night, Carolina's Tar Babies, led by Nelson with 18 points, bowled over
the Kittens.

Sophs Take Over
With this issue, sophomores on the sports staff begin making up the sport page and writing the column. This will
continue until a new sports editor is selected in March, with the various members of the staff rotating each week.
The sophomore staff is composed of Bob Carter, Bob Elder, Ed Lucas, Julien McCall, Bob McLeod, and Dave Vosburgh.

Mellow and elegant colors, neatly set off with well-spaced corded stripings. They'll act like a spring tonic to your winter-weary
wardrobe. They blend or contrast neatly with your spring suits.

OTHER ARROW SHIRTS ... $2 & $2.50
ARROW TIES ... $1.

MEN’S STORE — BELK
The Shirt of the Month in Esquire
ARROW BEDFORD STRIPE SHIRT
Charlotte, N.C.
STREET FLOOR

BROS. MEATS and Groceries
LITTLE Shop
TREAT YOUR APPETITE... By Visiting Us Often
“THE BEST IN TOWN”
Davidson, N. C.
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON

PEP GROCERY
DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N. C.

SEE US FOR The Final Touches BEFORE THE HOLIDAYS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Davidson, N. C.
