By BOB ELDER

Sports RoundUp

Track Outlook

On consulting the crystal ball, we are informed that the approaching season is to be one of the best that a Davidson Track and Field team has enjoyed in recent years. The track squad as a whole has been working out for about two weeks under the guidance of Coach "Pete" Whittle, and they are gradually rounding into shape in preparation for the first meet, which is only a few weeks away. The thinly clads will inaugurate their campaign when they oppose a strong team from Maryville College of Tennessee on April 6th at Richardson Field. The 'Cats decisioned this aggregation in a close dual meet last year by a 68-62 count. However, Maryville went on to down the University of Tennessee and cop state laurels, so the Whittlemen may expect a good deal of competition again this year.

On the next three successive Saturdays, the Wildcat tracksters face Southern Conference foes; they journey to Blacksburg, Va., on April 13th to meet V. P. I, and they take on N. C. State and The Citadel, respectively, at the home track on the 20th and 27th. Rounding out the dual meet program, the harriers invade Greenville, S. C., to face the Furman "Purple Hurricane." The schedule will be completed when the 'Cats travel to William and Mary for the Conference meet on the following weekend.

Coach Whittle expressed the opinion that this year's squad would be a better balanced team than the one which represented the school last year. He expects this to be a banner year for the varsity tracksters. Several important men, including Iverson, Walker, Wood, Johnson, Warden, and Sample, will be missing from this year's contingent. However, many likely prospects from the Freshman track team of last year will seek to fill the gaps made by those lost through graduation. Competition has been keen for the regular posts, and the assignments for starting berths are as yet uncertain.

In the 100-yard dash, there will be Spencer, White, Taylor, and Williams to select from. Spencer was high point man for the 1939 frosh tracksters and shades close to ten in the century. White and Williams will also be on hand for the 220-yard sprint. Veterans will have the upper hand in the 440, with McAlpine, Phipps, and Cauble returning from last year. Captain Bob Kellogg, Colvin, and Coppedge are out again for the 880-yard run; also, Kellogg will be the mainstay in the mile, assisted by Eldridge Brown. In the two-mile run, Dick Gammon, Mann, and Grier are the men who will probably earn starting roles. The high hurdles will be well taken care of by Harbin and Williamson, and the low hurdles by Taylor and Cauble. In the latter event, a new Davidson record may be set during the course of the year.

The field events will line up somewhat in this manner: broad jump—Phipps, Cowan, Spencer; high jump—Strandwitz, Black, Cowan; pole vault—Shannon and Strandwitz; javelin—Spencer, Cowan, and Brenizer; shot put and discus—Bell, Yoder, Knoeller, and Freeze. Strandwitz has an excellent chance to break the school record in the high jump, for he leaped consistently around the 5 feet 11 inch mark last year.

Sports Shorts

Several members of the Southern Conference teams were voted mythically All-American basketball positions—George Glamack, ace Carolina pivotman, gained the third quint, and DeWitt of Maryland received honorable mention. William and Mary downed Wake Forest in a Spring practice game last week. Did you see that champion Cincinnati Reds clash with the Boston Red Sox? Major League fans can get a glimpse of some of their favorites April 3rd at Statesville when the Red Sox play. I wonder if Bobby Feller will ring up those 30 wins this season, or if the Yanks will stretch it to five straight.

Varsity Beats Faculty In "Finger Bowl" Game

In the first "Finger Bowl" game played as the feature of Club-Faculty day, the annual Varsity five nosed out the Professors by a score of 38 to 34. The game was hotly contested throughout, but Hogg led the Wildcats to victory in the last few minutes, as the Faculty rapidly tired. The Professors began fast and jumped off to a 6-0 lead on two baskets by Prof. Johnson, and two foul shots. The varsity pulled up, but with Professor Johnson continuing to lead the way, the score stood 16 to 16 at intermission.

"Old Boys" Fight

After listening to the music of "Duck" Martin and Dave McLean during halftime, the "Old Boys" came out and fought the 'Cats on even terms for the first ten minutes of the last half. But with Hogg and Cowan hitting the bucket consistently, the varsity pulled away. The Faculty, with the help of a basket by referee "Dutch" Hengeveld, nearly closed up the gap in the last minutes, but the gun stopped their rally. Professor Johnson, former Davidson captain, led the scorers. He was greatly aided by the fast play of Crowell Little. Coaches Chapman, McEver, and Shepard led the zone defense which proved very difficult for the varsity to penetrate. Cowan and Hogg looped the varsity scorers, while diminutive Jackie Simonds thrilled the crowd continually with his floor antics.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
"JUST INSURANCE"
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Wage Leads Cage Tourney

George Wright, who is commonly known as "Shike-poke," substitute on this year's varsity quint, recently entered an A. A. U. Gold Medal Basketball tournament in Mooresville as a member of the Mooresville Town team, and won two medals—one for being high scorer in the tournament, and another as a member of the runner-up team. In this tournament were eight amateur teams of this section. The Mooresville Town team, of which "Shike-poke" was a member, was led by Johnny Miller, promising Wildcat footballer who "flunked out" at mid-term. Mooresville won the tournament.

Wildcat Sports Spot

Football Practice Ends; Light On Spring Sports

With the end of spring football, the tracksters are ready to get under way in earnest. The absence of football players has hampered practice, but others have been training for the past two weeks and are rounding into shape for their first meet against Maryville College on April 6. Coach Whittle is counting heavily on his sophomores this year. Among them are: Spencer, high score man of last year's freshman team who handles the sprints and the javelin; Williamson and Taylor on the hurdles; Shannon in the vaulting department; and Knoeller, Bell, Yoder, and Freeze in the weights. Captain Bob Kellogg, veteran miler, should have his best season this year. White will be of much use in the dashes. Bill Birmingham will handle the quarter and Dick Gammon the two miles.

Coach Whittle expects a most successful season. The schedule follows: April 6, April 13, April 20, April 27.«3, -V.P.1., N. G: State schedule and successful season, schedule is: Maryville, here; there; April 20, here; April 27, Citadel, here; May 11, Furman, there; May 17-18, Southern Conference Meet, Williamsburg.

Netters Begin Work Monday

The varsity tennis team has not been able to begin practice yet because work has not been completed on the college courts. However, serious practice is slated to begin next Monday. The first match will be with Michigan State, Thursday, March 21st on the home courts. Returning lettermen from last year's team are co-captains Rea Tenney and Lock Hunter, Bill Turner, and Dick Shore. The leading contenders for the position vacated by Captain Jones’ graduation are Miller Sproull and B. B. Plyler.

Following the match with Michigan State, the team will play the University of Georgia on the 22nd in Athens, Emory on the 23rd, and Georgia Tech on the 25th in Atlanta. They won their first two games, but lost the third in the finals to Geyer’s Business College of Charlotte. Feature of this final game was “Shike’s” brilliant shooting—14 points, bringing his total to 43 for three games.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Big Boy Drink BIG BOY COLA “Because It’s Better” Try PEP-UP “A Mighty Mixer” Bottlers, Inc.

Dorm Volleyball Tennis Leaders

Co-captains of the 1940 Davidson varsity tennis team are Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter. Tenney, from Atlanta, Ga., will play at the number one or two post, while Hunter, who hails from Alexander City, Ala., will hold down the number three slot.

Led by the three Coopers, Bits Watkins, and Gene Sutton, the Kappa Sigs were winners in the interfraternity bowling tournament, with seven wins and one defeat. The bowling competition was completed Monday night when the Phi Delts lost to the Phi Gams.

Interfraternity volleyball came into the intramural spotlight this week when the S. A. E.'s, K. A.’s, K. Sigs, and S. P. E.’s started off with a clean slate by defeating the Pikas, Pi Kaps, and Phi Delts, respectively. The second round scheduled to be played on Monday was also cancelled because of rain. In the interdormitory competition begun last week, the Watts, Georgia, and Jetas emerged victorious. Volleyball is scheduled to end before spring holidays.

MEATS and Groceries DIAL 5041 J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat. Co-starred for the first time in a howling HIT!! Mae West W. C. Fields “My Little Chickadee” LATE SHOW SAT. NIGHT “Congo Maisie” With ANN SOTHERN STARTS MONDAY NELSON EDDY ILONA MASSEY “Balalaika” IMPERIAL THEATRE Charlotte, N. C.

Kappa Sigs Cop Bowling Volleyball Starts As Spring Practice Closes

Winter Practice Closes With 18-0 Red Triumph Over Whites; Hackney, Jonas, And Ehley Score For Winners

Spring football practice was brought to a close last Saturday with an inter-squad game in which the Red team won an 18-0 verdict over a White squad. Putting the ball in play on its own 35-yard line, the first Red eleven, after one exchange of punts, drove 60 yards to pay dirt. A short pass from Hackney to Jonas finally put the ball over. The quarter ended a couple of plays later with the ball in the possession of the Whites on their own 35.

Reds March

Moore, of the Reds, recovered a White fumble on the White 38-yard line as the second quarter began. The Whites held, however, and Simonds punted to the Red 30-yard line. Again the Red jerseys began to march. A seventy-yard drive down the field for a second touchdown was climaxed by an 18-yard pass from Spencer to Jonas. After an exchange of punts and an intercepted pass by Spencer of the Reds, the half ended with the ball on the mid-field stripe and the score 12-0, Reds.

Spencer Runs Wild

As the second half opened, the Whites marched for two first downs; the drive was halted when Powell, Red tackle, broke through and blocked Simonds’ punt. Then came the most spectacular play of the day—a 50-yard off-tackle cut-back run by Spencer. He was pulled down by two Whites 10 yards before he hit the double stripe. On the next play, Ehley took it over on a reverse around left end. After this score, the Whites seemed to be on the roll, chalking up two first downs and driving to the [Continued on Page Six]

Spencer Paces Reds In Inter-Squad Game Drills End

Captains Elected

At their banquet held last Wednesday night, the basketball lettermen elected Jim Hogg varsity Captain for next year, and Mack Otts, varsity manager. Hogg, second among Wildcat scorers this year and sixth in the conference, succeeds “Footsie” Cowan, while Otts succeeds Roscoe Marion. Bob Finley was elected freshman manager, succeeding Tom Hackney.

The wrestling lettermen elected Jack Abels to head next year's team. He succeeds Graham McFadyen. They failed to appoint a manager to succeed “Bogo” Kunz. Abels has won his letter two years in the 135-pound class.

Baseball Men Hold Practice

Coach Norman Shepard's varsity baseball candidates topped off a week of light work Saturday by settling down to the serious business of full-speed batting, and infield and outfield practice. Strengthened by the addition of the men who have been out for spring football practice, the team is now holding inter-squad workouts, with games billed for the remaining few days until the opening contest with Clemson. The program for the workouts has been batting practice with all the pitchers taking a turn on the mound, followed by infield practice and fungo hitting to the outfield.

Infielders Battle

In the infield, Frank Niven, last year’s first baseman, has returned; but he is receiving stiff competition from Bob Carter, up from last year's frosh team. At second, “Blackdog” Hunter is receiving a stiff battle from Tommy Yarbrough, leading hitter of the frosh team last year. Jim Owens, a sophomore, is holding down the shortstop position at present. Rusty Edmondson, last year's shortstop, is holding down the hot corner. His competition is provided by Lantham Latta. Walt Fitzgerald, a letterman, is slated for the catcher’s job at present. The only returning letterman in the outfield is Hugh Verner. Taylor, Barnwell, and Bolin, reserves of last year, are battling it out with sophs Daffin, Clark, Smith, and Morris for the other positions. The pitching duties will be well taken care of by Captain Thomas and McLean, lettermen, Ficklen, Rheinhardt, and Lucas.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant 221 W. Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

For Your Easter Trip “Dress Up” For Specials Visit Marion Davis Co. 118 South Tryon Street Featuring Now Spring Sports Wear and Equipment Tennis and Golf Balls, Shorts and Shirts Beer Jackets and Socks

“Patronize Your Own Store” STUDENT STORE George Richmond — Managers — Gales McClintock