Thurs, Feb. 15, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
Brother McClintock went to Sweetbriar last Friday for the annual set of Mid-winters held there. Brother McClintock was the guest
of Miss Caroline Miller of Charlotte. Brothers Sharpe and Mathews went to Converse College Saturday for the Junior Valentine Dance.
Brother Sharpe was the guest of Miss Katherine Van Story of Fayetteville. Brother Sherman went to his home in Summerville,
and Brother Burch went to Charlotte. Brother Jones visited in Raleigh, while Brother Latimer went to Bennettsville. Pledge Brothers Brooks
and Elder were noted in Rock Hill. Brothers MacDonald and Coates remained in Salisbury and Winston-Salem respectively. Glenn Terrell and
Bobby Carter led an attack on Converse, while Brother Pat Rudolph journeyed to the Queen City. Brother Mason Wallace spent
a hilarious week-end recuperating from an appendectomy in the Presbyterian hospital. Brother Dave Sprunt returned after an illness in Wilmington.
Brothers Dick Winters and John Belk visited their families in Charlotte. Pledges were initiated into the chapter Tuesday.

Pi Kappa Alpha
At the formal initiation Friday night, the following were made brothers: Pollock, Browning, Eller, Sink, Parks, Martin, and Orby. Brother
Shelton made his usual trip to Charlotte. Brothers Shewmake, Sink, Pollock, and Abels took in the Jitterbug Jamboree in Mooresville.
Brother Coltrane journeyed to Greensboro. Brother Jones visited in Raleigh, while Brother Latimer went to Bennettsville. Pledge Brothers Brooks and
Elder were noted in Rock Hill. Brothers MacDonald and Coates remained in Salisbury and Winston-Salem respectively. Glenn Terrell and Bobby
Carter led an attack on Converse, while Brother Pat Rudolph journeyed to the Queen City. Brother Mason Wallace spent a
hilarious week-end recuperating from an appendectomy in the Presbyterian hospital. Brother Dave Sprunt returned after an illness in Wilmington. Brothers
Dick Winters and John Belk visited their families in Charlotte. Pledges were initiated into the chapter Tuesday.

Kappa Sigma
Kappa Sigma takes pleasure in announcing the initiation of George Marsh, president of the sophomore class, and the following freshmen:
Stone Sutton, Dick Smith, Dick Phillips, Langley Land, John McAfee, Ben Lacy, Hugh Grey, Ashby Dick, Vincent Dewitt, and Priestly
Conyers. Last week-end found Brothers Bryant and Harris at their homes in Charlotte. Pledge Brother Kenyon went to Charlotte with
Brother McAfee. Brother Boscoe Jones, Harris McReynolds, Bob Garvey, and Porkie Woodward adorned the walls of Converse’s Valentine Cotillion. Julian
McCall and W. C. Plunkett went up to see the contents of Catawba. Pledge Brother Hugh Verner journeyed to Winston-Salem,
while Brothers Bobby Williams and John McKinnon went to Chapel Hill respectively. Jack Westall was detained on campus. All pledges
were unavoidably detained on campus.

Phi Gamma Delta
Initiated into the fraternity Saturday afternoon were Bill Long, Lyman Oliver, and Preston Simmons. The fraternity enjoyed its biggest event
of the year at the Norris Pig Dinner held at the S and W Saturday. Brother Kellogg was the toastmaster,
and speeches were made by Brothers Harnsberger and Wooten. Many alumni were present at the gala occasion. Brother Harnsberger returned
but will leave to begin training for the Air Service. Brother Kellogg has returned from a week in New York,
attending a district conclave of Kappa Sigma held at Beta Upsilon chapter at State. The meeting was attended by representatives
of the six other chapters in the two Carolinas which comprise the VIII district. Brothers Ashby Dick and Sutton spent
Saturday and Sunday in Rock Hill and Winthrop. They report that they have things well lined up for the Military
Ball.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brother “Jim” Currie journeyed to Lynchburg to see “Friends.” Brothers Hector McLean and Tom Cauble sallied to Greensboro for the
week-end. Brother Tom Crichton spent the week-end courting with Baxter Freeze in High Point. Brother Southgate Jones, unable to get
to the Sweet Briar Mid-Winters, found solace at Chapel Hill dances and game. Also present at the University were Brothers
John Crichton and Ed Lucas, and Pledge Brother Grosse. Brother Claude Hackney and Pledge Brother Erwin jittered at the Sweet
Briar dance.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Most of the Sig Eps spent the week-end resting up from Mid-Winters. Brothers Rod Turner, John Hay, Jack Davis, Tom
Casali, Felix Bell, Fred Harbin, Dick Cobb, and Raymond McDaniel took the usual Sunday night detail to Charlotte and Queens.
Brother Ed Hay went to his home in Hickory over the week-end. Pledges Yoder, Knoeller, and Strandwitz, and Brothers Horner
and Kunz enjoyed the Mooresville dance Saturday night. Brother Tarleton enjoyed an extended week-end entertaining Converse girls in Spartanburg. The
chapter takes great pleasure in announcing the initiation of Bill Tarleton, Clarence Legerton, Jim Fulcher, Bob Sleect, and Hugh Knox;
also in the pledging of David Vosburgh of the sophomore class.

Davidson Hi-Y Club To Send Delegates North
Plans to send a delegate to the third national Hi-Y conference were discussed at the meeting of the Davidson High
School Hi-Y. The club desires to send one representative and Casey Jones, club leader, to the convention. The third national
conference is being held at Oberlin College, Ohio, the first two being held at Berea College in Kentucky in 1936
and 1938. Delegates from each of the forty-eight states and territories as well as a number from foreign countries are
expected to attend. June 20 through 24 is the date set for the gathering. Although the program has not been
completed, plans have been made to have speakers of national importance lecture on all phases of Y. M. C. A.
work and sociology. Discussion groups will be held and the delegates will be allowed to air their problems and through
mutual aid be given a chance to solve them from each other’s experiences. To be eligible to attend the conference,
the delegate must be an officer of a local Hi-Y chapter and must have at least one more year in
high school. Definite plans for sending a representative have not been made as yet, although Casey Jones will go, independent
of the club. For the spring program, business men and women of the community will speak of the four planks
of the Hi-Y platform.

Warning For Would-Be Authors
Some time ago Edgar B. Wesley, professor of education at the University of Minnesota, received an 81-cent royalty check for
a book he had helped to write. By the time he had mailed a share of the check to each
of his three collaborators—all of whom live off the campus—he had 11 cents to show for his trouble.

Chemistry Club To Play Host To N. C. Academies
At a recent business meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the possibility of establishing a Chemistry Club for students not having
sufficient chemical training to be eligible for Gamma Sigma Epsilon was discussed. A committee was appointed and plans discussed for
an open meeting to be held in April. The North Carolina Academy of Science and North Carolina Branch of the
American Chemical Society will meet here on the 3rd and 4th of May. Plans for financing the meeting expenses were
discussed. These included plans either to levy financial assessments or to charge regular dues when needed to raise enough money
so that no dues would be necessary. The decision was postponed until an accurate measurement of the semester's expenses could
be determined. Professor Thies told of plans for obtaining moving pictures which will be shown in the spring. These pictures
will deal mainly with scientific subjects in the manufacture of steel. At the conclusion of the meeting, a committee was
appointed to put in permanent form the file of information concerning all members of the chapter.

Scout Week Is Observed
Unity Church Troop Holds Function; High School Troop Aid In Drive
Davidson Scouts have been observing National Scout Week as Scouts all over the United States have been doing. This week,
which celebrates the beginning of Scouting in America, began on February 8 and extends through the 14th. The Unity Church
Scout Troop has been very active for the past several weeks. On January 29 they held an indoor campfire when
marshmallows were roasted and ghost stories told. At last Sunday’s Church service, the Scout Troop had an informal candlelight service.
A hunt is being planned for the coming week.Meeting they held their regular Unity service. The morning service was a
special treasure. Lacy and Head. Numeral Club Herb Rainey is elected Vice-President and Ashby Dick Secretary. At the initial meeting,
Ben Lacy was elected President, Herb Rainey Vice-President, and Ashby Dick Secretary. These men will serve throughout the remainder of
the year. The meeting was opened by Claude Hackney, president, who explained the purpose of the club and read the
constitution. New members are to be taken into the club at the close of the winter and spring sports season,
President Lacy announced. An informal initiation may be conducted for the new members. All the newly-elected officers are football numeral
men; Lacy is a fullback and a member of Kappa Sigma; Rainey a guard and a member of Sigma Phi
Epsilon; Dick a guard and a member of Kappa Sigma.

DELUXE ICE CREAM BEST TO BE HAD Mooresville, N. C.

The Scout troops at Davidson have been assisting the Finnish Relief Drive by selling tags. The High School troop, No.
58, has just finished repairing its Scout hut. They will hold their regular Court of Honor this Friday. The High
School troop has been assisting the Davidson Finnish Relief Drive by selling tags.

Northwestern University has a Campus In Cartoon

THE AVERAGE PARADE BAND MARCHES 160 MILES IN FORMATION DURING FOOTBALL SEASON.

HARVARD HAS HAD THE MOST REPRESENTATIVES IN THE PRESIDENTIAL CHAIR—FOUR—BUT THEY HAVE REPRESENTED ONLY TWO FAMILIES—ADAMS AND ROOSEVELT.

THE FIRST SHOT OF THE CIVIL WAR WAS FIRED BY CADETS FROM THE CITADEL, MILITARY COLLEGE OF S.C.

Orchestra Presents Work Of Earl Copes

Michigan Symphony Adds Sophomore’s Composition To Repertoire

At the regular meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, held last Friday night in the Zoology Lab, plans for attending the
national convention were discussed. The convention will be held in March at the University of Oklahoma. The group has been
invited to give a program at Winthrop College under the auspices of the Biology Club of Winthrop. It will be
presented at some date near the first week in March.

Davidson experienced its first premiere in Chambers Auditorium, Feb. 12. At the final concert of Davidson's second annual music festival,
the initial public performance of a musical composition by Earl Copes of the sophomore class was played by the University
of Michigan symphony orchestra. The little number, a Berceuse, was received with enthusiastic applause by the audience. Conductor Thor Johnson
made the young composer stand up in the audience and receive applause.

Dr. Hunter Blakely To Address Congregation

At the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society last Tuesday night, February 6, a debate was held, entitled: Resolved,
that freshmen shall wear Freshman caps. The affirmative was taken by Don Hott and John Talmadge; the negative by John
Grier and Maurice Coleman. The debate was won by the affirmative. Following the discussion of a social with the Spectator
Club of Queens, which was set for March first, the approval of the new constitution of the Society was completed.

The meeting was cut short to allow the varsity debate team to take over the hall for a debate with
Wake Forest. The team had intended to use Eu Hall, but due to some negligence by this society, the hall
was not available.

Lilly Host To Sigma Upsilon

At the regular meeting of Sigma Upsilon, held last Tuesday at Professor Lilly’s residence, two papers and an original play
were read. Dr. A. V. Goldiere read a paper dealing with his impressions of Davidson when he first arrived here
as a young professor, some years ago. A paper was also read by Dr. Rene De Visme Williamson, of the
Economics Department. Then refreshments were served by Professor Lilly. At the close of the meeting, George Milne, of the senior
class, presented a play entitled "UWA Jokes Gain."

The programs for the remainder of the semester will be announced at an early date.

Phis Debate On Rat Caps

The average attendance at a college football game this year was 22,733.41.

Literary Society To Meet With Queens Group In March

At the meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, plans were made for a social with the Spectator Club of Queens,
which was set for March first.

PRICES SLASHED IN THIS February Sale Of JAYSON SHIRTS with regular soft or Jaysonized no-starch no-wilt collar Regularly $2. Now
$1.55. A wide variety of patterns and styles await you in this outstanding sale. JAYSON SHRUNK—Fabric Shrinkage less than 1%—Federal
Specifications CCC-T-191A

MEN’S SHOP Street Floor CHARLOTTE, N.C.

NORGE GAS RANGE RULANE GAS RANGE GROCERIES HARDWARE M. H. Goodrum Company DAVIDSON, N. C.

Students, Faculty and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street
