New Faculty Members

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Fraternity Rush Week

Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1940. Number 1.

Fraternities Pledge 132 New Men During Five Day Rush

Day Of Silence Formally Ends Rushing Period On Saturday, September 21

62 TAR HEELS PLEDGE

Four Months Training Period Follows Pledging

After rushing officially ended for the local nine fraternities on Saturday afternoon, Hector McLean, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced that 132 boys had been pledged. For five days through Friday, September 20, the local chapters of the Greek-letter social fraternities conducted their annual fall rushing. An 18-hour period of silence, during which time rushing was not allowed in any form, ended Saturday afternoon at 4 o'clock when the pledges went to the fraternity lodge of their choice. For the next four months they will be trained for membership, and formal initiation for most will come next February.

Davidson greets three new faculty members this fall. Left to right, they are Dr. Erich Lawson, Shaw Smith, and Dr. Douglas Jeter. Dr. Lawson succeeds Dr. Hillhouse as Professor of Business and Economics; Shaw Smith takes over the duties of "Y" Secretary, and Dr. Jeter joins the department of Geology and Geography. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Bids were accepted by one of the largest groups ever to pledge at one time at Davidson College, including one senior, two juniors, a sophomore, and approximately half of the freshman class. Not quite half of the fraternity neophytes live in North Carolina. They volunteered their services at the hospital. Twenty-five were accepted.

BETA THETA PI: Staley Garrison, Jr., Burlington; Elliot White, Graham; Bob Welsh and Charles Upchurch, Charlotte; Finley Tucker, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.; Gaines Stubbins, Birmingham, Ala.; Tom Milliken, Bastrop, La.; Paul Welch, Miami, Fla.; Frank Chandler, Sumter, S.C.; Dewey Marshall, Rock Hill, S.C.; Charles Robinson, Gastonia; Paul Neisler, Kings Mountain; Van Wilson and David Yogum, El Dorado, Ark.; Rufus Woody, Forrest City, Ark.; Crawford Wheeler, Nyack, N.Y.; and Drury Thompson, Danville, Va.

KAPPA ALPHA: Jack Law and Job Paddock, New Britain, Conn.; Mac Jeffries, Thomasville, Ga.; Wayne Jordy, Madison, N.C.; George McWilliams, Lawrenceville, Ky.; Ralph Dunn, Sumter, S.C.; Russell Beam, Lumberton; Tom Burke, Washington, D.C.; Joe Bachman, Bristol, Tenn.; Ernie Webster, Worcester, Mass.; Jim Stimson, Chattanooga, Tenn.; and Henry Royster, Oxford.

KAPPA SIGMA: Bob Amos and Bill Simmons, High Point; Pat Williams, North Wilkesboro; Bill Grimsley and Max Hendrix, Greensboro; AlfTaylor, Nashville, Tenn.; Association: Lowry Wilson, Lowell; Bill Lacey and Doug Swing, Richmond, Va.; Shep Booth, Lawrenceville, Va.; Scott, Goldsboro; and Jimmy Davis, Salisbury.

Delts on Davidson Athletic Director Appointed To Basketball Rules Committee: Watson, Tampa, Fla.; Lawson Hayes, Lyman, S.C.; John Armistead, Rockingham; Dan Hoover, Lincolnton; Bob Pierce, Farmville; Don McIver, Bristol, Va.; Leon Drake, Greensboro; Buck Archer, Shelby; Bill Wilson, Rome, Ga.; John Robertson, Sarasota, Fla.; Ed Coslett, Drexel Hill, Pa.; Riley Vittle, Spartanburg, S.C.; Walker Green, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; and Ralph Fetner, Jacksonville, Fla.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Jim Bellamy and Adolph Larson, Knoxville, Iowa; Leonard Pharr, Clarksdale, Miss.; Rhea Dabney and Tommy Hart, Jackson, Tenn.; Ed Sutherland, Paris, Ky.; Pete Lewis, Nashville, Tenn.; Tommy Howard, Cormorant, Miss.; Dick Hair, Rock Hill, S.C.; Budge Thompson, Bristol, Tenn.; John Northcross, Memphis, Tenn.; P.H. Hobson, Jr.; George McCormack, Birmingham, Ala.; Bob Cooke, Summit, N.J.; Frank Smith, Greenville, S.C.; Howell Morrow, West Point, Ga.; John Storey, Wilmington; Amos Niven, J.W. Saunders, S.P. Cooper, J.A. Purdie, R.N. Rumley, A. Sharpe, H. McLean.

Rush Week: Davidson Man Passes After Brief Illness. Robert Ramsey Is Sudden Victim of Paralysis. A respectful chapel service was held last week in memory of Robert Wilson Ramsey, Jonesboro, Ark. graduate who died at Union Theological Seminary on September 20, a sudden victim of infantile paralysis. Ramsey was affected in the lungs. Twenty-five students attempted to fight against time, giving artificial respiration until an iron lung arrived.

NEW FACES ON CAMPUS: Lawson, Smith, Jeter Replace Porter, Rice, and Hillhouse On Staff. Phi Mu Alpha Grants Local Club Charter. Fraternity Accepts Beta Gamma Phi Petition. Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia fraternity granted a charter to Beta Gamma Phi, a local club, last Saturday. The ceremony was held in the college chapel. Members of the fraternity who attended the ceremony were particularly active in the cause.

Fifteen charter members will draft the constitution and by-laws. Four Elected Cheerleaders: At a recent election, four juniors were chosen as cheerleaders for the 1940-41 academic year. The men received their first publications board makes first election of the year. The board, which is elected by the student body from the editors and business managers of the three Davidson publications last spring, made the following appointments.

New Heads For Business Administration, Geology, And YMCA: Both Professors Have Teaching Experience. Dr. Jeter succeeds Prof. Porter in the Geology Department. Dr. Jeter, who holds a Ph.D. degree, comes highly recommended. Dr. Smith, who replaces Dr. Rice, has a background in business administration and education.

Court Clamps Down On Four '44 Classmen: Judge Bolin Announces Sentences at Chapel. The penalty was announced for the freshmen who were caught climbing the water tank. The judge warned the class that all members would be sentenced to two weeks or more of strict campus confinement unless the culprit is turned in or admits his guilt.