Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 29, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

TONY CASALI --------EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE --------BUSINESS MANAGER

Jack Anderson --------Assistant Editor
Tom Cauble --------Managing Editor
Jack Holland --------Associate Editor
Karl Hudson --------Associate Editor
Sam Spencer --------Associate Editor
Bobby Wilkins --------Sports Editor
Angus Lytch --------Movie Editor
Herbert Washington --------Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Casey Jones --------Asst. Business Manager
Hector McLean --------Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown --------Advertising Manager
Jack Covington --------Circulation Manager
Fred Little --------Collection Manager

Let's Find A Solution...

Little needs to be added to all that has been said pro and con the proposed election amendment. The fact
that our Student Council has looked over the proposal, added a few minor changes, and then adopted it as it
now stands, should be evidence enough to the entire student body that it will bring about a more desirable election
period than Davidson has been accustomed to in the past. Perhaps there are many who do not agree with everything
that constitutes the amendment. We welcome criticism—constructive criticism—and urge those that do have points that should not be overlooked, to
bring them out in the discussion Tuesday. But those that criticize merely for the sake of argument should not enter
into the discussion. We do not feel that the plan is perfect, and we realize that many new, helpful points
can be brought out to help us bring about a desirable election set-up. Our purpose is simply to bring about
an election system that will abolish the evils, hard feelings, and hypocrisy of the old one. With your suggestions and
points in chapel Monday we can arrive at this goal, but with arguments for the sake of argument only, we
cannot.

(We present the much-discussed proposed election amendment again in order that the entire student body can have a chance of
going over it individually so as to get their points, criticisms, or suggestions well in mind before the student body
discussion in chapel Tuesday. Several points have been changed since last week, but basically the proposal is the same. The
Student Council, after receiving the amendment, passed it as it is printed below.—Ed. Note).

Proposed Amendment to the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College:

ARTICLE IV. Election of Officers

Section 7. All ballots cast in any student body election shall be signed and placed in a locked ballot box
by the voter himself.

Section 8. Ballot boxes must be located in a central voting place, kept open a reasonable length of time, and
be under surveillance of a member of the Election Board or Student Council.

Section 9. It shall be illegal for any group, organization, club or fraternity to combine their votes with another group
or organization, or form a clique.

Section 10. It shall be illegal for any person, group, organization, club or fraternity to solicit votes for a candidate
for office.

Section 11. It shall be illegal for any person, group, organization, club or fraternity to use any expense whatsoever in
electing any candidate.

Section 12. Any candidate or any other member of the student body found guilty of violation of Article IV. shall
be disqualified from further participation either as a candidate or voter, in the election in question and throughout the remainder
of the entire election period.

ARTICLE XVI. Election Board

Section 1. There shall be created an Election Board made up of a senior from each social fraternity on the
campus, four non-fraternity men from the Senior class, and two Senior representatives from the Student Council; and these members of
the Election Board shall be elected to their post by the Student Council.

Section 2. One representative of the Election Board shall be elected Chairman of the Body by fellow members, and he
shall vote in every ballot taken by the Board. Eleven (11) members shall constitute a quorum.

Section 3. The duties of the Election Board are to conduct all elections strictly according to the provisions set out
in this Constitution; to count, file, and post all election returns as soon as possible after the polls are closed;
to set forth previous to the election period, a set of definite rules including clear-cut definitions of terms such as
“Soliciting votes,” “Combines,” etc., and these definitions and rules to be composed by the Board each year subject to the
approval of the Student Council; and to make public the penalties as listed in Article IV. Section 12, which shall
accompany the infraction of the same.

(a) Ballots shall be counted and tabulated in the Student Council room in Chambers building.
(b) All ballots shall be filed for a period of two weeks after an election is completed. No person except
Election Board and Student Council members shall have access to the ballots.

Section 4. The Election Board shall be under the sworn oath: “I do solemnly swear that I will to the
best of my ability, perform the duties of the office to which I have been elected; that I will neither
charge anyone, nor as far as I know, encourage anyone to be charged or tried from envy, hatred, malice, nor
shall I suffer anyone to escape the proper judgment of the Election Board or Student Body for fear, favor, reward,
or hope of reward, so help me God.”

Section 5. The Election Board shall have the power and right to call any necessary witness or witnesses, and to
place them under the following oath: “On my honor before God and this Board, I do solemnly swear to tell
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth; furthermore, I do swear never to reveal anything said or
done in this meeting, so help me God.” Violations of the above oath shall be subject to the Honor System.

Section 6. This Board shall receive any complaints or charges of violations of Article IV., and shall make proper investigation
thereof and try them upon the request of any member of the Board.

Section 7. Any plaintiff shall be required to appear before this Board to testify and the burden of proof shall
rest upon the plaintiff.

Section 8. This Board and its decisions shall be subordinate to the Student Council, and any party, plaintiff or defendant,
through any member of the Board or any Student Council member shall have the right of appeal to the Student
Council in any controversy.

Section 9. The Council shall have the power to change the personnel of the Board, either individually or as a
whole, at will; and shall investigate any action of the Board upon recommendation of any member of the Student Council
or the Elections Board.

CAMPUS CAMERA

TWIN * DUPLICATE PROBLEMS
THE WORLD'S LARGEST SUN-DIAL IS ON THE CAMPUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MANILA (PHILIPPINES). IT IS 65 FEET WIDE AND
40 FT. HIGH!

ALBERT AND THOMAS PALMERLEE, ALGEBRA INSTRUCTORS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS, CONFUSE STUDENTS WITH DUPLICATE FACES AS WELL AS PROBLEMS.

GLEANINGS — By MELVIN MEANS

A lot of dirt has been sifted from the waters that have passed under the bridge since I last sat
down to peck out this column. Three Guest Columnists have done admirable jobs for which I want to thank them.
Couldn’t understand why they should be called “Guests” as there certainly is little pleasure derived from the efforts. Karl Hudson's
fine column went unheralded as did Percy Johnston, III's. Kellogg did brave the critics and emerged the victor. Thanks, fellows...

With so much activity around the Annual’s offices, Winston Taylor is reported to be having a difficult time choosing a
sponsor for the Junior Class. It appears that a certain young lady to never be...

NEGRO BUTLERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA FRATERNITIES HAVE A FRATERNITY OF THEIR OWN - THE SIGMA KING!

DISC-CHORDS By Billy Masters

The thirty-minute program of music comes each Tuesday night at 9:30. It's none other than Dean Hudson and his Florida
Clubmen. This is the band for our next set of dances, and it really deserves our backing. The dances he
played for here during the last two years were the best sets we have had. The council is giving us
a good band for this set, and our party promises to be the best yet.

Les Brown, of Duke Blue Devil fame, is now playing at the Arcadia Ballroom in New York, which puts him
more in the limelight. He has Wendy Bishop, formerly with Dick Stabile, as vocalist.

Jan Savitt is coming again, this time at the Trianon. He has smashed all records at this spot, which has
been held down by the best for many a year.

Although we hate to see Ellery Queen cut to a half-hour program on Sunday nights, the time from 10:30 to
11:00 is certainly well-filled, with a program featuring Raymond Scott. His band really sounds plenty good. The new fourteen-piece group
of vocalists, the Ink Spots, is fine, sounding like a real band rather than a bunch of electric organs each
trying to outdo the other. You hear him on Columbia's recording of “Just a Gigolo,” with the reverse side “Huckleberry
Duck.” By the way, Raymond Scott's real name is Harry Warnow, and did you know that he is the brother
of Mark Warnow, the hit parader?

In the disc department, Charlie Barnet has come forth with four tops.Shaw has put out “Watching the Clock.” Shaw's old
band is much missed in the world. Here's to hoping he continues with a band, for it was Cab Calloway
who played before, and it has turned up that Count Basie will be in a corresponding position with our next
Midwinters. The Count will be accompanied on his visit to the Charlotte Armory on March 7. That night is now
set. They may be colored, but they’re famous.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

Having asked almost everyone in school from Freshmen to Seniors to write this column tonight, I find that the group
of budding aspirants to the mighty heights of columnists is remarkably small... in fact, nil. Isn’t there anyone who wants
to be a guest columnist for a week or so? Apply at 114 West at any time, any hour, but
please, boys, don’t crowd.

I ran across an interesting theorem the other day, the data of which follows:
Theorem: If you love a girl, she loves you.
Given: You love a girl.
To prove: That she loves you.
Proof:
1. All the world loves a lover. (Shakespeare).
2. Your girl is all the world to you. (Evident).
3. Your girl loves a lover. (Substitute 2 in 1).
4. You are a lover. (Hypothesis).
Conclusion: Therefore your girl loves you.

Now try and make your girl believe it. The only rub comes in the third point; maybe somebody else is
a lover too, as it often proves the case. You're being it, you can, and if you can’t, just remember
that many others have failed before you.

EXTRANEOUS DOPE...
Free wheeling is not confined to automobiles alone, for in England a locomotive has been developed which uses this coasting
service, with the result that the machine uses only half the usual amount of fuel. The total cost is only
about three cents per mile, and they figured that one-half the distance run would be in free wheeling. The new
device is able to make 60 miles per hour on a level stretch.

A rather unique business is being carried on in Dublin, Ireland. This is a rosary manufacturing company, which makes the
beads and sends them to all parts of the world. In this factory are 170 working girls who elect a
council to control the business of this company. Under this system of capital and labor in this particular concern, the
proprietor has no more power to decide on the policy of this business than any one working girl. The employees
know all the details of the business and set their own wages. It is said that the working conditions are
favorable, and that the concern makes a profit.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH
Having been accused in the past of making these too obvious, this time pains shall be taken to obscure him
from identity. He is a well-known campus figure who has just recently come into his own. A likable sort of
chap who doesn’t say much, but when he does, it’s a mouthful which would do well to be listened to
and heeded. He rooms in Georgia by himself and is a senior. Connected with the Eu's.

Now, guess that one.

In Winston-Salem, the first suggested to appear in print—even heard that she knew a little something of the arrangement. But
since then, it seems that Ookie has designs on an equally attractive miss in Charlotte that also likes the idea
of sponsoring the affair. Why not work the problem out by Winston? Why couldn't Vosburgh get his date with Mary
Carson for this Sunday night? Speaking of last week-end, were they to be with a beautiful Preston Oliver, completely “whipped”
along these days. Walker, the Coltrane detail to be come through Saturday afternoon. In- cidentally, George caught with Sophie Mason?
Now, that you have it, get along.

Tuning up for your first visit to Lynchburg next week-end, Biggie? We wonder if the new election rules—if put into
effect—will affect the working of the 13 Club, semi-secretly operating on the campus. The Club in its objectives wasn't last
year.

The most interesting week-end reported was that of the group who visited Greenville and worked in the dance at Hendersonville
on Saturday night. At some roadside stand on the way back, it appears that a couple of girls had a
little more than words and that during the ensuing difficulties our innocent Davidsonians were kept quite busy dodging blackjacks and
coca-cola bottles. Don’t believe that the owners of the car that rolled off the mountain ever discovered what happened. For
further details consult any of the following witnesses: Lochinvar Hunter, Keyhole Browning, and Jim Anderson. And what is this about
“Yank” Kellogg slipping off to Chapel Hill and dating “Butch”? Barker and Jesse Wooten had to compromise in Lynchburg this
week-end. Both had the same girl. Once again the frosh earned another victory as Wooten got the date. Also along
the trip were Bellamy, Southgate Jones, and Gales McClintock, whose name is being prominently mentioned as a candidate for a
political office in that famous Virginia city. He really should take out his residence papers there.

Karl Jonas, alias Jimmy Land, had quite a time getting along with some of his girls in Charlotte Friday night.
They seemed to think that he had been shooting them too much double-talk. Why, girls, should you know that Jonas
wouldn't lie to you?

And just before turning the copy to Casali comes word of the contingent catching the Beautician’s Ball in Charlotte Monday
after the game. Could Hayseed have been looking for treatments for the Ladyface? Bennie Bird-dog went along just for the
sport. The group was completed by Bosco, Ross Luther, Bahnson, Richmond (George has really been getting around lately). Doug Steward
also managed to make the fracas.

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday and Friday, Feb. 29 and March 1
“Little Old New York”: Alice Faye, Fred MacMurray, Richard Greene, Brenda Joyce, Andy Devine, Henry Stephenson, Fritz Field. The showing
of “In Old Chicago” again proves this production to be a good history of New York City as well as
a love story. It is the New York of many years back, when the city was just becoming recognized as
the principal city of the United States, and Miss Faye and Fred MacMurray are intricate parts of its society. The
supporting cast is excellent, and to be frank, they often carry the production along.

Saturday, March 2
“Charlie Chan In The City Of Darkness”: Sidney Toler, Lynn Bari, Richard Clarke, Harold Huber, Pedro Cordoba, Dorothy C. Tree,
Henry Gordon. This is just another of the Charlie Chan pictures, but this one has an unusual touch. The scene
is laid in Paris, and there is a series of mysteries occurring during the blackouts that occur so regularly. Lynn
Bari helps Mr. Chan to solve, but the results are only fairish.

Late show—Saturday, 10:30
“Seventeen”: This has been released only about two weeks, and Jimmy Fiddler in his broadcast last week recommended it very
highly to all who have the chance to see it. It is the portrayal of Booth Tarkington's most famous work
with the part of Willie Baxter being played by Jackie Cooper, and to see him on the screen is a
thrill that not many will forget.

Wednesday, March 6
“Santa Fe Marshall”: William Boyd. Not much more than a Saturday western, but the acting of William Boyd makes it
much more interesting than the average western movie can be. A good 15¢ worth anyway, I hope. This one is
definitely listed!

Parade of Opinion:
By Associated Collegiate Press

Quotable Quotes
“The problem of the liberal college is the preservation of liberalism. If the liberal colleges are to fulfill their functions,
they must be liberal in the truest sense of the word, and know what liberalism means in the truest and
broadest sense. Liberalism is not a one-way street. It is necessary we tolerate the points of view and the opinion
of those we do not agree with,” Dartmouth College’s Pres. E. M. Hopkins defines the duties of the liberal college
in the world of today.

“Don't go to college expecting to learn how to make a living. The purpose of college is to train students’
minds so that they may intelligently confront any problem. If we cannot develop citizens with sound character and sound intelligence,
democracy will be a failure. To develop character and intelligence, colleges should stress mental discipline, simply by means of the
three R’s—reading, writing, and ‘rithmetic; and they should pass on to the student the accumulated wisdom of the race.” University
of Chicago’s Pres. Robert Maynard Hutchins summarizes the classicist’s theory of education.

This Collegiate World
A new society has cropped out among disgruntled Harvard men who are appalled by the prospect of standing in line
and paying high prices to see “Gone With The Wind.” Its name is The Study Group For Those Who Plan
To Avoid Gone With The Wind At Least Until 1941. A novel clause of the group’s constitution provides that any
member who abrogates the agreement and sees GWTW shall be required to crawl under a rug without leaving a bump.

Dancing lessons were a regular part of the University of Virginia curriculum as early as 1830.

A University of Cincinnati scientist has developed a new method of effecting standardization of printing inks.
