Page Two ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN . Thurs., Nov. 24, 1940

detin board in Chambers or in front of Watts, or appear in this paper. Many other schools work on that
system entirely. Because we have never bothered to read the bulletin boards doesn't mean that we can't.

Letters to the Editor

Founded by the Class of 1915

To be concrete, we suggest that New Chapel bulletin boards could also be used to good advantage for other events.
Meetings could be called at that time. And certainly there could be no objection to a rally for the ball
team if held on a day when there had been no religious exercises.

Andy Dir, Linute continue his three weeks augmented by one

Associated Collegiate Press

The three unscheduled days could also be used to good advantage for other events.

For a Better Davidson

Even though most of the boys up at WC but appeared very aware of the services' incompetence, and consequently is
looking

Second, the services came too

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N.Y. LOS ANGELES
SAN FRANCISCO

The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Managing Editors: SULLEN M'CALL and LOUIS HITE

Play Safe

Tom Wonk gles strictly to retain his talk was for.ings. By members, in all. G 1 rake tik sid Dick
Kelly has Freddie Fick un prams it all. Girry Gordon, 10 ATake Toth sides Edo Seer adds up to another
fine week of a "collegiate special" Warren Thante

Chapel Change?

For some time there has been considerable talk among our students concerning the possibility of a change in the present
system of chapel services at Davidson. This week a letter published in another corner of this page raises the question
once again and proposes a more or less definite plan by which the writer believes the student body would receive
more profit from the chapel services. While we do not agree wholly with all parts of this communication, we do
think that something should be done about our chapel services. The plan offered by this man may not be perfect
in any or all of its parts, but it is a start. Last year the YMCA put up a drive
to make chapel programs more interesting and more worshipful. Their aim was to lift the plane on which these exercises
were conducted, thereby creating a better religious atmosphere on the campus. To a small extent they have succeeded, and it
is not the fault of the YMCA that the chapel programs have not become better. The YMCA has worked hard
and has made a sincere effort to better this phase of college life. In our opinion, it is not the
fault of the student body either. On the whole, and as a general rule, the majority of students try to
profit by the service. But on a college campus, with its many activities, both scholastic and extracurricular, after a man
has been present at just so many of the same kind of services day in and day out, he loses
interest, and try as he may, they don’t mean much. For too long we have beat around the bush, looked
at it from the ideal point of view, and gotten little from our chapel services. To the majority of our
student body, daily chapel comes only as a brief time for relaxation between classes, a chance to study for a
coming "writ," or a time to catch a short nap.

Some people hold that it is wrong to choose the lesser of two evils. We do not agree. We do
think that it would be best if we could have daily chapels which meant something in our daily lives. But
they don’t! From whatever viewpoint one takes, the fact remains daily chapel means little or nothing to the average student.
That is the truth, and we must face it.

As "AI. B." states in his letter, the three-devotional-a-week system has been used successfully at other schools. Is it not
worth a try here? Anything would be better than the present system. No one can predict with certainty, but it
seems that the three-a-week system might work here. And we'll never know until we try it out. The present six-a-week
system goes over with a few men. But would it not be better to have the number of services cut
in half if the lesser number would be for the betterment of the whole?

The preceding deals entirely with the devotional part of chapel and offers no plan whatsoever for student body business meetings
or announcements. However, these factors can be easily worked out. The majority of announcements can be posted on the bulletin
board in Chambers or in front of Watts, or appear in this paper. Many other schools work on that system
entirely. Because we have never bothered to read the bulletin boards doesn't mean that we can't.

Certainly there could be no objection to a rally for the ball team if held on a day when there
had been no religious exercises. All arguments seem to be in favor of a change if we look at the
thing from a real, not an idealistic viewpoint. The time has come to face the facts: The present plan is
not accomplishing its purpose. Perhaps a change will help. Although it may be hard for some to admit, our weekly
chapel services are not fulfilling their intended purpose.

It is indeed a pause to think that we might lose one of over two thousand killed in North Carolina
this year. If it's time we thought and thought hard about something that endangers us every day and cannot be
controlled by bitterness, and supposing we do think, what then? Shall we sit back, smugly complacent, confident that we won't
be affected by anything like an automobile wreck? Or shall we act, and act now? Today we have a real
chance to do something concrete to stop this menace. Instead of letting the State worry about how safe our highways
are, the State is worrying too, as is evidenced by the action they're taking to reduce traffic dangers to a
minimum. No doubt many people would be surprised to hear that it is the death rate among young people that
is increasing year by year, while the rate for other age groups is declining slightly. You might be startled to
know that more people are killed and injured every year in Mecklenburg County than any other county in the State.
This group is causing more and more accidents every year that the Safety Division of the State Highway Commission is
sponsoring a program in all the high schools and colleges. The purpose is twofold: to acquaint people with the seriousness
of the problem and to ascertain the causes of accidents. There isn’t a great deal we can do as citizens
to aid the survey of causal factors, but there is a tremendous amount we can do in the other direction.
Public opinion is the country’s greatest weapon against reckless drivers, and we can all do something even if it’s only
to drive safely personally. Suppose everyone took it upon himself to drive cautiously and courteously. Then just imagine how many
fewer families would be grieving for their son, who took one curve too many at seventy-five.

In the auditorium immediately before these pep meetings, has contributed partly to our "lost spirit."ae Uhestreant paces bere than on
PEsOUs «Sy cet riar. sides since. he originated this oui nt wath its strings and woodwinds im adie cn to
reenlation dance band bras-es ard reeds. Goth aumbers var tll, and vichly colored. with Shaw's chimeet as always, stand- rae
ony Many comments hate been re- ceived as StoT Ui fine cinitsie Jur Wished artim dance pet. by Freeldte “Johison.
This colgmn hard cxpressed tts views as to the oro Tit thade in Freddy's band eos ovratified to tind so
mary on eemmpleie accurd after having | heard liam, F ilm Report | Card By DAVID VOSBURGH i Thursday and
Friday | November 14 and 15 & _Lie_sultey_Suuth- Seas_tor_tite back = ! Dietrich | around tor sultry Marlene i ore
“Arise, My Love™-—-Claudett Col- ct and Ray Milland. This piclare that he tilled soit hs To rset Coivdyositinianegan * Lins
Garversake® “Seven Sinners [Strong tiga weaken whenever she pMlinks in sigat. particularly Tohn with atuon trom the beg: ‘onine to!
Wane. but she's a gal with a heart itis ist because people in the 35-24 age <[the end. Krom the
time the Amer- iol geld and gives chiny back to jiean ‘newspaper woman Tesemes the ySpannh tier from war prison,”
Jat is Tiled with fast aetion and ex- leuement. In between Timonients voull find a. charming (love story in a
thrilling setting 7 \ | | laughin. This is anotiter one of the better “Westerners” and is am accurave land
thrilling story of the tight tor Saturday, November_16 .o4 “Diamond Frontier” ~Victoc.. s|the rich dtamond fields of the West. {Fast
action and 2 iove story ntake tteoone that ts anll-packed with pleaty ot action and lawl, Monday and Tuesday November
18 and 19 * #8 € rich, Jota Wasne Li itly Gi A taeulty coramittee. in eoniunetion sith vohinteered to
help with the problem at Davidson. lrofessor Fuleher is atctheshead-ef this grou p, and three cam! and Mischa Auer. Devious
doings in the cens of the ‘Serious | “Seven Sinners” — Marlene Diet-| pthe Navavand his sweetheart. Wednesday, November 20
~The the show fol vet released bigs movie for tnis wate sorry. manager OL Thursday and Friday November 21 and
22 es 8 Foe Argentine Way’ *_Retty Grable. Don Ameche ‘and Charlotte, + Greensvood. VAIS is a mvovie tha: has
color. muse and humor. Betty Grable re- turns ta the sereen to sine and dagee and display gorgeous ciothes Jou
au even more gorgeors igure. "Romance plays its pact when she ‘Don Atmecthe. the, son of a wealthy Argentine landowfer,
who the -fastest horse in the [world but refuses to race him be- cause ot an old track tragedy. Betty
inallypersiiades Dont ron—the horse_ secretly ud in the end oi | everything turns out beautifully. Meets Possesses Parade _Of Opini
inittees are working under his instruetions :— Dr. Johnson and Winston Taylor on the ducation Committee, Mr. Ilobart anc Casey
Jones on the Fntoreement Commit- tec, and Professor Wood and Bob Finley ‘on the Kngineering Committec. Shrubs and lawns on
the campus | of San Diego State 15,000 gallons of water daily. oo A wind tunnel with air speeds |
up to 100 thiles_an hour is being built at_ —- Seven mea can’t do much aione to stop accidents, but
seven hundred men who realize the tull significance of the danger and wish to do something about it can ac-
complish a great deal. Let's co-operate, and the next time you drive over to Charlotte try to remember that a-lot
of people would miss you, and DRIVE CAREFULLY. ~—G.WeT ‘JYornia extension division. Clara. —__ Twenty southern California com- fmunities are
served through classes offered by the University of Cali- University of IMlinois News reports 85 to 90 per cept of
1940 graduates are. employed in| year identifies from 300 to 800 p plant |are_ convinced that. the young lady |
. of today has developed an appre-l. ork of their choice. College uytilege are raising cattle on a dict that
the University of Santa school has -decided_to continue its) -|Tereford Breeders Association. Alumni Scientists at Kansas State Col- | substitutes
powdered limestone for taltaita. | ————- ~ The University of Minnesota law {three-year course for students who enter with a-B.A,
v7 —_———_—_—- @ Proi. J. C. Holbert of Lowa State College is secretary. of the -lowa —___¢ —____— O. A.
Stevens, North Dakota Ag- ricultural— Colege botanist, each species for farmers. recorded. Nts. at their dance, ha ¢ 1d [1-8
Nea —nen—espeeiallywhensehes be-sweatered ‘bays rated. first. ou reert-yress cooiyeniten bathe - Whiskey > Bob veain Hal ketun shot on aFetreauing
Ye ie “AT withdrawal Vinley and Dar. desl - dealing owas censored. Rasster has tirued musician con ets now that
he tatches the weekly re eral up Wi has trans-1| “tered to a imajer in mitsie in that dept. ‘led
Letnbach took wipfup tumther to cultivate hiy lock haurat Salem and qo cirill the wirls att ar! loys, vthe week-end
so he cotid, give the ; bors on the campus a view of the »Dook game irom the broadcasting thooth.
He ctriins to have been of- toy Lewis shot; tower to. Charlotte but ended up in! i Jacksonville a football
game | Fri. where he coveret a wide ‘acid in his operations. Sanirret | al un Vellamy is in bed
straits with his, tye ia velar lover an Lyachourg now. word comes that he is me the vaniBbh before the
(lush. _ 7% ure fume sotgadhe tmagasines as came off the press and used then as smoke signal material, !Therg@uwas
considerable dealing, wheeling and. readiag at the sorority convention after some o the boys etashed ther dance Sat. | ‘Lack
Phillips had a date that was | they lim Tlawel\ flonky ithe impatience \f wis Whipped ou he luckecl men
on the campus, caught : i his date with 1. weekly Sara Vaylor mn, Te WET Ree Tobie here tieir
Bevo, Apie Means dei his trai pin tor, Lik Abner oh contemporary fitera-! jon a iholding lots. of doge bur
due to! Tonk ; ‘yj Shore, one or Ute MS coAipleceiy for duty at press tune’ 7 — Shep Toot
Tad his date to burn the, ware up when delennull not locate Ragin se he could get on campus Salejuy
stl go anes i Sit. ts) on pe. Timbo Tolimson | the lipstich tend of the own shet WO thwihie
cetreat in the waeuig— ‘taies aitter playing in Durham along juith Patiang Peacon Bahnson. A ‘rumor here declares that Jumbo
has Shree frat pins in cirealation at times » ... What an operator? There is a notoriaus gang of thin
_ “tnen pulling deals from_theit-head- Ga, every might ase! Mabama ta Nags gang made up ot MeReynolds and Thin Kegers,
who spend the dies a Tanarters in _. ranging trem Itead. « This “enata” is Tanned Mit ob ia Eade
| a aah wir the EUS + We : - : that is aetumy to be a hibit wath Prank
Tinale. Swine vune to belatso have. another hig radio man, sleeping and their nights ream. lahis relatively fe nmestroe and
coupled with hise cutting of “Au-jin our midst and te is no other than! fing the Southern States hunting his
cequally new hand. This side cumin on the Campus.” a aew.cal- Barber Mcleod, (he famous cae) with muck alist pies
Lodi, a i Ue samme boogie wangie @roovelegiate Lidlad. The title or teemewin | operater_oi Lee Kirhy of Stition keys.
The lutkey is the samartest Bente ee necentt Hem Me “Curtin, the Cass ail wep oT _. oe band. one
sof the hardest bird. of RB. wi Coe ts. the corbration of this barrel-1 Frank Barker. whe fading shadow, the.
forest tor corner and bas, ace Wor meet, ter uaelt oon ensean hotoer aad the sweet Ballad, both cane the
man a ho has beer so thu. cording to these naturalists, Thin best sclhina disk -let-. The reverse. in tha
collegiate vein. has naj dee sive this vear: uutned the ude irom | Man spent last Salon the Dartks *Celery
stathe.at Midnigin, hemes a; ridl the Joe and ue Cot ite Queen City ta several pointe! Ol the Catawba op
the trail of one’ Mthe whele ork tack anita the glee lesor= : enti —Ehe—repert—tnr—te— press of the largest birds
he had ever Tre, on 9 linnoraus instrunie nud wo new oone by Shaw imeludes states that-he formed a lock
im the) SST 8% he says. and when he fel- tunmber chit has the typical Tete 68 0. Castle in
Scotland.” and! city with some unknawn man wha} Hat the time was ripe for the lal! and & wh. Ir
obs. Yous. Teeorded by Victor itwisted his arm and forced him th wamer escaped.-Toweser, he is - ~ Charlie Harner
on Blaclint fas Stas pus his big hand Jhrough’ inte going up ta chase “foxes hot to be deteated by
ahis tirst Steere AV Aeloot the Fos—iruch: xtratghtermand-more concen Fihvough the commtry &mowr as jattempe fer des -lunting gronnd ‘and
“rvews he will endeavur vo the bes [mnths ability to locate aim grab by the beautiful neck this well Known
turkey hen Young MeReyn- olds je serving bis - apprenticeship now and says he has hopes of re- wiving his
degree from We ter in the near cature, ‘Rug Catter King and Skinny pNolds were so infatuated with ona of
the Hlameooming eitis that they whipped over into the inlts of Tenn. Tue. to catch a late and- back pon
Wed... Stutts, silent: operator vot the senior class, seems to be headed tor a big jUb in N. Yoand— rt
largesestate on Long foland. Ne dope on Noxious Narman this week. but an uncontirmed dasis t{rom Charlotte lists him as
.a po- venta) Casanova-- with: -the -heaw — on lip ren&e. Seems he's trying to keep up with) Mule—the Dred
Epnoed. recling-dealing— man. as - Nee acoent CONCERNING THE “D” SWEAT. ER AS A SOCIOLOGICAL. FACTOR: _ attracting female dtteiftion,
the monogram sweater seems lately to have fallen into disrepate as charm for young ladies. The. reasons for this can
be aseribed both to the foibles of the lemates and to a wearers of the “D" themselves. In regard to
the iormer group it is believed that the ladies. in the first place. are tending more to an appreciation ot
the polish inherent to glee club- Compassing Campuses Once a very powerful Weapon in: eo BY TOM CAUBLE a ciation
for the intellectual and pol- ished collegian and thus haliback’s have given, way, to teofs and Phi Jetes. Another school
is as adamant in its belief that athletes have gained. the right of security within their, sweaters because the athletes
them- selves are mot able to tender the young ladies the neccessary amount of attention due to the demands which
sports make upon their time - and energy. ‘They complain of the habit of getting a dateless frater nity brother
or visiting fireman cto squire them about during _a_ large t iracurricularites * im general, to the ‘detriment of the
athletic addicts. Yhe days are well within the re- Twiembrance of the seniors, five and the coed ladder. It was
then that it. was. every young lady’s— fre- quently fulfilled dream to strip at least one young man of his.
mono- gram. It was an accepted fact that ho war-bag or trophy case eomplete= without one. Specific reasons for the
changes that time chas_thus—wroncht can perhaps not be given. However, the facts are clearly prominent and appear to support in
fair credence several popular, lines of conjecture. As it hdd been* before remarked, was bets, dance oommiticemen, and ex-| part
of those dance week-ends which happen to. coincide with athe letic seasons. Again young men sein to be much inclined
‘to yawn- ing after’ 9:30 p.m. on those days pwhen—tey—hare had ‘ard or long practices. . Yet.a third group reminds
us that athletic associations are not pass- ing out sweaters with :-the alacrity of the boom years, and thus for.
reasons that are obvious they can- not be passed on. Then a-respectable namber prot. fer the opinion that young ladies
have been forced to withdraw irom this field of endeavor for the sim-. ple reason that they have iound it
too difficult to remain well enough versed in the various sports “lin- gos" to hold their own in athictic a
goodly, group of campus: Sages o conversations. When it became evi- dent that they would have to mas- (Continued on
Page Six)
