Thurs., May 9, 1940

Question of the Week

For several years, it has been suggested to the Pan-Hellenic Council that a plan be worked out whereby the price
of dance tickets can be reduced by securing a budget from the council. In order to insure a budget throughout
the year, the council has worked out a plan in which each fraternity guarantees the sale of thirty tickets for
each set, while non-fraternity men are required to sign up a reasonable time before each set in order to secure
their tickets at this reduced price. This plan, with variations, is in effect at Clemson, Indiana State, and many other
schools. Do you favor such a plan?

Ralph Williams, Sophomore:
There are two ways of looking at the question: (1) The Pan-Hellenic standpoint and (2) The fraternity standpoint. From the
Pan-Hellenic point of view, I should definitely be in favor of adopting the new system. First of all, the council
would know its budget from the financial angle, balancing it, etc. This would make it possible for the students to
know the types and caliber of the orchestra far in advance. To the individual student, the system would provide less
expensive weekends, and in this light, I am definitely in favor of giving the system a try.

Holt Barnwell, Junior:
I am heartily in favor of the plan that the Pan-Hellenic Council has brought before the students. This plan gives
them something to work on and assures the students a cheaper dance rate. It should also mean that we would
get a big-name band for at least one set of dances. I think we should all give the “Pan-Hell” our
full cooperation and back them at every set by voting in this new plan.

Jackie Simons, Sophomore:
I think such a plan would be fine. It would make the fellows look forward to the occasions and plan
accordingly. As it is, too many fellows never make up their minds until just before the dances. The only drawback
I can see is a lack of cooperation from the student body, and such a plan would not function properly
without it. I don't think anything would be lost in giving it a try.

Jim Hogg, Junior:
Frankly, I think that plan should meet with the approval of the student body. In the first place, this arrangement
seems designed to assure students a top-rate band, and with a certified amount with which to work, the Council will
know what bands to contact. As a result, I believe that we would get a good band for each set.
Furthermore, this plan reduces expenses, as under the old one, if we had a good band, the price would certainly
exceed $4 or $5 a set ticket. Naturally, this plan will need the full support of all the fraternities to
be successful, and with this cooperation, I believe it will be.

A Complete New Line Of Spring Merchandise
Visit Us Often
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

Frat Singers Will Compete For New Cup
Greeks To Render Songs On Chambers’ Steps, Thursday, May 16

Songs of nine national fraternities will resound from the front steps of Chambers Building next Thursday, May 16, as Davidson's
Greeks vie for the cup offered to the group judged best in singing. For the first time in Davidson history,
fraternity men will present their songs in a public competition. Drinking tunes, humorous ditties, and sweetheart songs will be rendered
by the competing groups.

Sponsoring the contest is the Davidson music department, headed by Director James Christian Pfohl. The permanent cup offered will become
the possession of the chapter winning it three times in a row. Each group is limited to ten minutes in
which to display its vocal talent. Although one number may be rendered by a quartet, the rest must be sung
by a group numbering not less than three-fourths of the chapter enrollment. The singers may be accompanied by piano or
not, as they choose. The competing groups will be judged on such points as direction, selection, tone quality, content, and
originality. Judges will probably include Eugene Kraft, director of the Charlotte chorus; L. R. Sides, director of music at Central
High School, Charlotte; and Professor J. Dickenshertz, choral director at Catawba College.

Ashby Dick, Freshman:
In addition to being of a very practical value to the Pan-Hellenic Council in their efforts to construct and maintain
a suitable budget, this plan will also benefit the students. Besides making it cheaper for each student to attend the
dances, it will enable the council to look ahead towards securing good orchestras for the different functions. Since it is
an obvious fact that practically three-fourths of the fraternity members do attend the dances, it would not be imposing any
too great an obligation on the respective fraternities to have them guarantee the council thirty tickets for each set. Furthermore,
there would be a larger representation of the student body at the dances due to the reduced rates, and consequently,
the dances would be more of a success.

Ed Lucas, Sophomore:
I believe that this proposed plan will both save money for the individual and improve our dances. The Pan-Hellenic Council
has been greatly handicapped in the past by not having a large enough capital to work with in securing bands.
Under this plan, the Council will know just how expensive a band to engage. And the reduction in ticket price
will make it possible for more boys to attend.

(Continued on Page Six)

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.N. C. Sponsors For Pi Kappa Phi Celebration

MISS JULIA HOBBS
MISS BETTY DICKERSON
MISS JEAN JONES

PI KAPPA PHI FORMAL

Science Finds “Old Grad” Has Unusual Ways
‘Disciplus Graditus’ Termed Queer Specimen In Anonymous Paper

By ARCH TAYLOR

After the recent conclave of scientists adjourned from our campus last week, the following anonymous paper was found in front
of Chambers. Doubtless, it was intended to be read at one of the meetings. To ensure it reaches its intended
audience, it is here reproduced in full:

The “Disciplus Graditus” is a peculiar specimen. It is often misunderstood due to its striking similarity to the common alumnus.
This confusion leads to serious consequences, as the uninitiated cannot differentiate between the two. There is a case on record
of a freshman who, in his earnest attempt to apprehend all old grads he could find, mistakenly pursued the Dean.
This error, though regrettable, is somewhat excusable due to the great resemblance between the two.

Epsilon chapter of Pi Kappa Phi, a national social fraternity, will celebrate its 28th anniversary on May 11 in Charlotte
with a formal dinner and dance in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. Seniors of the local chapter will be
honored at the affair, with the Charlotte Alumni Chapter as co-hosts. Toastmaster for the occasion will be Frank Kuhn, president
of the Alumni Chapter, who will introduce Epsilon’s incoming officers and present the seniors with alumni charms.

Officers for the coming year are Paul Bumbarger of Hickory, president; Norris Erb of Albemarle, treasurer; Geddie Herring of Roseboro,
warden; John McCrea of Miami, Fla., chaplain; and Jim Saunders of Albemarle, secretary. Outgoing officers are Harry Hendricks of Cliffside,
president; W. C. Plunkett of Aiken, S. C., secretary; and Jim Saunders of Albemarle, chaplain.

Sponsors for the dance are: Miss Jean Jones of Hickory, with Dave Colvin; Miss Louise Sullivan of Decatur, Ga., with
Tom Fry; Miss Dot Brannon of Thomson, Ga., with Julian Lokey; Miss Julia Hobbs of Davidson, with Billy Masters; Miss
June Burks of Charlotte, with Horace Reeves; Miss Shirley McCullar of Corinth, Miss., with Frank Simmons, Jr.; Miss Betty Dickerson
of Marianna, Fla., with Herbert Swasey; and Miss Margaret Patterson of Charlotte, with Harry Hendricks. Gib Todd and his orchestra
from Charlotte will furnish the music for the dance. Chapters of Pi Kappa Phi at Duke, State, Furman, and South
Carolina have been invited to attend.

Journal Printed

The quarterly publication for graduates and friends of the college will be mailed on or near Saturday, May 18, according
to Lamar Burton, alumni secretary. Approximately 9,000 copies will be distributed, as the journal is mailed to all living Southern
Presbyterian alumni, all preachers, and some 2,000 friends of the college. Material for the forthcoming issue is now in the
hands of the printer, and proof will be reviewed soon.

Starts Friday

The funniest picture you'll see this year! Weaver Bros. & Elviry in “IN OLD MISSOURI” with June Storey. Hell Bent
for Hilarity! You'll laugh till your sides need repairing at your favorite Hill Billy family.

Also featuring Marjorie Gateson and the latest war news. Porky Pig Cartoon.

Starts Monday

From the hit tune that swept the nation... “MA, HE’S MAKING EYES AT ME” with Tom Brown and Constance Moore.

Big Boy Bottlers, Inc. Charlotte, N. C.

Try PEP-UP “A Mighty Mixer”

Andrews Music Co. 231 N. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

Veronica - Platinum, studded with 5% sparkling diamonds... $275

Rosalie - Golden beauty with white decorative relief... $69

Lady Hamilton - Thrilling, sparkling with a black dial. White gold with 10 diamonds... $85

Gifts to delight the eye and touch the heart—fine gifts for a lifetime of remembrance! And especially HAMILTON, “America’s Finest
Watch”. These are our recommendations for wise buyers, no matter what the season or occasion. Here is a sample of
the overwhelming beauty you will find throughout our complete store. We're ever pleased to see you and show you Gifts
of Fine Jewelry.

Garibaldi And Bruns
“Leading Jewelers Since 1896”
Charlotte, N. C.
