Spring Frolics Will Feature Week-end

THE DAVIDSONIAN

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1940 No. 27

SHAW SMITH BECOMES “Y” HEAD

Johnny Long Will Play At Set Of Dances Given By Pan-Hellenic Council

Two Tea Dances and Two Evening Dances Will Feature Week-End

LONG IS CAROLINIAN

Band Appears Tonight At Broadway Theatre

Davidson’s annual series of four dance sets will come to a close this Friday and Saturday nights with “Spring Frolics,”
featuring the winsome melodies of Johnny Long, outstanding swing stylist. Spring will be the theme carried out in all features,
including decorations for the Charlotte Armory, where the dances will be held.

Four Dances

The set will open with a tea dance from 5 to 7 o'clock Friday afternoon. This will be followed by
a formal dance from 10 until 2 Friday night. The figure, including Pan-Hellenic members, alternates from each fraternity, and their
dates, will be presented at that time.

Another tea dance will be given from 4:30 to 6:30 on Saturday afternoon, followed by an informal dance which is
scheduled to begin at 8:30 and close at midnight Saturday night. Set tickets cost $5.00, and may be secured from
any Pan-Hellenic representative through noon tomorrow. Individual prices will be: evening dances, $2.50; afternoon dances $1.00.

Preview at Theatre

Students anxious for a preview will be able to hear Long’s band Thursday at the Broadway Theatre in Charlotte. “Songs
by Long” seem to be quite popular with Broadway patrons, who voted last fall that the young maestro’s band was
their choice for a personal appearance in the theatre. Left-handed Long is a native of Charlotte, and members of his
band were chosen from among his classmates at Duke University. Featured singers with Long's musicians will be Helen Young, radio
songstress; Jack Edmondson, song stylist; Paul Harmon, baritone; and “Swede” Nielson, comedian.

Smooth Music

Long is noted for his smooth style of playing. Although it is said that he often plays pieces that are
on the “hot” side, he is chiefly interested in smooth music. It is in the smooth variety that the Long
aggregation achieves the unusual effects for which it is noted.

Pfohl Names Date Of Sing

Fraternities To Compete For First Time

James Christian Pfohl, Davidson music director, has announced that the inter-fraternity singing contest will be on May 16. For the
first year in Davidson history, the social fraternities will compete in a singing contest. Prof. Pfohl says that he hopes
the event will become an annual affair. A loving cup will be presented to the winning group. Probable judges for
the occasion will be Eugene Kraft, choral director of the Charlotte Chorus; L. R. Sides, director of music at Central
High School, Charlotte; and Prof. J. Dickenshertz, choral director at Catawba College. The present plan is that the fraternity groups
will sing on the front steps of Chambers Building.

Elections Deterred

Final election of a member of the “Y” Board of Control will be postponed until the business manager of the
Publications Board is chosen. These two elections will be run on a single ballot as soon as the business managers
of the publications are selected. Bob Finley, Casey Jones, and Ed Watson, incoming president of the Y. M. C. A.,
are automatically members of the "Y" Board of Control. Several other members had also been chosen when the decision to
withhold the final election was passed. Chase Brenizer was elected over Bob Balsley to represent the rising senior class. In
the election of junior representatives, Charlie Watt was chosen for one position, while Jim Owens, Ralph Williams, and Albert Winn
are still in the race for the remaining post.

Myers Leads Local Series Of Meetings

Services Held at 10:30 Each Morning and 7:30 P. M. For Four Days

Dr. Charles F. Myers of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C., will conduct the Sunday night service in
Chambers auditorium. The public and members of the student body are cordially invited to attend the service which will be
held at 7:30 o'clock. Dr. Myers, who is the father-in-law of Dr. L. B. Schenck, of the Davidson faculty, graduated
from Washington and Lee and has been at Greensboro for nearly five years. He comes to conduct a series of
evangelistic meetings. He has conducted several evangelistic services in connection with the church- es in the South. The series is
being sponsored by the local church. The services started yesterday morning and will continue through Sunday night. Morning services are
being held at 11 o'clock on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Sunday and at 7:30 at night. It is to be
noted that no Saturday services will be held. The Sunday night service will be held at Chambers while all the
rest are being held in the church. Several members of Dr. Myers’ church are in Davidson now and many of
the students will remember him from his previous visits here. He has conducted several Vesper services and one or two
programs for the YMCA.

Davidsonian Attains First Honor Rating

665 Points Are Awarded Paper By Associated Collegiate Press

Toni Casali, Davidsonian editor for 1939-40, received word that the paper had been given First Class Honor Rating by the
Associated Collegiate Press of the National Scholastic Press Association. Accompanying this notice came a detailed study of the Davidsonian, and
the rating Excellent that was awarded. Among those points to receive the individual grade of Excellent was Coverage. The paper
was judged as “very good.” Originality, as found in Davidson's paper, was classed as “good.” Treatment of the news was
rated as “Very good.” Also adjudged as “very good” were the Features. The proof-reader’s work received the classification of “excellent,”
as did the Typography. Vitality was judged “very good.” News Stories were classed as “good.” “Very excellent” was awarded the
Headlines, as well as the printing. The front page make-up and the inside make-up were given the “excellent” grade. The
Editorial page, features, sports and Editorial Column were placed in the “excellent” class. Casali has worked with Paul Bumbarger, Tom
Cauble, Joe Liles, Edgar Watson, and Lawson Withers, as managing editors and Andy Dale as sports editor, on Davidson’s newspaper.
Total points won by the Davidsonian were 665 out of a possible 1,000. As divided into their respective categories, the
points were as follows: Headlines, Typography, and Make-up, 195 out of 250; Department Pages and Special Features, 165 out of
220; News Writing and Editing, 160 out of 280; News Values and Sources, 155 out of 250.

IN THIS ISSUE

New ‘Y’ Secretary - page 1
Editorials - page 2
Dance Story - page 1
Dance Sponsors - page 5
Among the Greeks - page 3
‘D’ Club Election - page 4
Question of the Week - page 3

Service Omitted

Compulsory college vespers will be omitted Sunday, on account of services being held this week at the Davidson Presbyterian Church.
Dr. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro will close a series of services Sunday night in Chambers auditorium. All other services
in the series will be held at the church. Because of the special nature of the sermon and the large
congregation expected for the closing meeting, student attendance will be voluntary. Students, however, are cordially urged to attend not only
the vesper service but the meetings throughout this week, stated President Walter L. Lingle.

Members Of Class Of '39 Will Fill Place Vacated By Resignation Of Rice

Sherrard Rice Resigns To Enter Union Theological Seminary

New Secretary will Assume Duties Sept. 1

Colin Shaw Smith was recently elected secretary of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. by the Board of Control
to succeed Sherrard Rice who has resigned to enter Union Theological Seminary. Smith is a graduate of Davidson in the
class of '39, and is now teaching English at Oak Ridge Military Academy. He transferred to Davidson at the beginning
of his junior year from Oak Ridge. While here, he worked on the staff of the Davidsonian and the Scripts
‘n Pranks. He was a member of

the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and leader of one of the hall prayer groups. During his senior year, Colin
served as vice-president of the Red and Black Masquers.

Davidson's principal student officers were held in chapel Monday, as retiring leaders handed symbols of their offices to their respective
successors. Remarks were made by old and new officers as the traditional ceremony of exchanging chairs and symbols was staged
in Chambers’ auditorium.

Offices were passed on by: Sam Spencer, student body president, to Hank Bahnson; Sid Crane, “Y” president, to Ed Watson;
Dick Kenyon, senior class president, to Casey Jones; Jack Holland, editor of Quips and Cranks, to Taylor; Tony Casali, editor
of the Davidsonian, to Andy Dale; Bob Ramsey, freshman advisor, to Bob Finley; and Jack Abernathy, editor of Scripts 'n
Pranks, to Paul Bumgarner.

Principal remarks of the occasion were those of retiring President Spencer to his successor. Spencer declared that in spite of
all criticisms leveled at Davidson's system of student government, it is still one of the best in the South. He
then went on to point out that in order to maintain that standard, students must give their utmost cooperation to
student officers.

The inauguration of the 1940-41 student council was completed the following day at chapel.

Crane Barely Avoids Injury
Firer Misses Aim At Paul S. Crane

It seems that the students at Davidson are living in constant danger of having their lives suddenly taken from them
one of these first spring days. At least, that is the startling opinion that Paul S. Crane of the Junior
class now has. Last Sunday, Paul was allegedly studying at his desk in Rumple dormitory when a shot was heard
by said student. A bullet promptly entered the window, leaving a small round hole in the glass—horribly indicative of its
potentially destructive velocity. It whizzed past his head about a foot away and buried itself in the wall. It was
evidently fired from the road outside the northern exposure of Rumple. There are absolutely no clues as to who the
malicious marauder could be, and Paul states that he can't think of anyone who could possibly want him removed from
this earth. Here is afforded an excellent opportunity for ambitious amateur detectives to try out their skill as possible Sherlock
Holmes or Philo Vances, and it would undoubtedly be a great relief to Paul Crane who lives with the shadow
of death over his head.

Shelton Will Transfer
Direct Yells

In the final ballot of the election for head cheerleader for the coming year, Joe Shelton was elected over Charlie
Martin by a slender margin. Robbe Williams and Jack Abels were eliminated in the first ballot.

Also chosen in last week's election were three new members of the Student Council. Ralph Williams was elected in a
runover with Tommy Yarborough.

The Junior class was to have revoted between Chase Brenizer and Winston Taylor for the last representative of next year’s
seniors on the council, but Brenizer was automatically elected when Taylor withdrew.

Of the members of the 1940-41 council, three men have had experience as varsity debaters. They are Bill Loftin, Drury
Thompson, and Frank Barker. John Farrior and Albert Winn were alternates on the 1940 squad, and Bill Summers was runner-up.

"He was not particularly active in work while at Davidson, being a transfer student, but he was one of the
best known and most highly respected men on the campus, both because of his attractive personality and his intensely spiritual
nature,” says Sherrard Rice, present secretary of the YMCA.

Off the Davidson campus, the newly elected secretary has been very active in religious work. He was president of the
Wilmington Young People’s presbytery. For several years, he was a leader at the Davidson Young People’s summer conference.

Organized Groups

Though his job at Oak Ridge was not predominantly of a religious nature, Smith has voluntarily organized a student group
which is carrying on an active program of religious work among the Oak Ridge cadets.

Duties of the YMCA office will be taken over the first of September by the new secretary, at which time
Sherrard Rice will depart for his work at the seminary, previous to entering the ministry.

Hector MacLean Will Head New Pan Hellenic Council
McDaniel Is Secretary and Cooper Is Treasurer of Council

Hector MacLean of Lumberton, N.C., was elected president of the Pan-Hellenic Council for 1940-41 at the first meeting of the
new council April 17. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon national social fraternity, the Beaver Club, and vice-president
of the International Relations Club. Hector is also advertising manager of the Davidsonian.

Raymond McDaniel of Tarboro, N.C., was elected secretary of the council, while Scott Cooper of Henderson, N.C., was chosen treasurer.
Raymond is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and Scott is a Kappa Sigma.

Other members on the council are: William Lemmon of Sumter, S.C., Kappa Alpha; Eugene Vereen of Moultrie, Ga., Phi Delta
Theta; Louis Hite of Florence, S.C., Phi Kappa Pi; Ross McElwee of Statesville, N.C., Pi Kappa Alpha; and John Farrior
of Mooresville, N.C., Beta Theta Pi.

As yet the newly elected council has not made plans for the 1940-41 Pan-Hellenic rushing season, but according to Hector
MacLean, the newly elected president of the council, these plans will be made in the very near future. It is
expected that the dates for this season will be about the same as last year’s.

ODK Taps Monday

Spring ODK Tap Day ceremonies will be held in Chapel Monday, April 29. This occasion will honor members of the
graduating class as well as the newly tapped members from this year's junior class. These men will form the nucleus
for next year’s Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa. Gales McClintock, President of Delta Circle, will preside at this meeting
which is one of two annual tap days. The other of these days comes early in the Fall session.

Work Starts On Handbook
Withers Announces Plans For New “Y” Book

Work on the new "Y" Handbook has already begun, according to Jim Withers, editor, and Frank Barker, its business manager,
in cooperation with their respective staff members. All assignments have been given to the managing editors. These are Dick Cobb,
Tony Darby, Don Williamson, Myron Sandifer, and Gordon Horton. Bob McLeod is sports editor of the handbook.

Next year's book will have approximately one hundred and thirty pages with many pictures. Editor Withers expects to make a
number of changes in its material and make-up. A printer has not as yet been chosen. However, the staff expects
to have the book ready to be printed by the first of June and in the hands of the Board
of Control by the middle of the summer.
