ports lants By BOB CARTER

Cindermen Shine

About time to take a look at the Wildcat track team, now that they have opened their season with a one-sided triumph over Maryville College’s team. It appears that Coach Heath Whittle has a well-balanced squad, with no shining light. Members of the team are predicting an undefeated season, and, looking over the schedule, we see no reason why this shouldn’t be. Bob Kellogg, Jack White, Dave Spencer, and Blanton Williamson each copped two first places and ten points for the Wildcat cause. Kellogg romped home to wins in the 880 and the mile, while White scored in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Spencer won the javelin and the broad jump, and Williamson got no competition in the two hurdle events. In the weight events, the Wildcats appear especially strong. In the shot-put, Knoeller and Bell ranked first and second, Yoder, Freeze, and Knoeller finished in that order in the discus. Another clean sweep was marked up in the broad jump when Spencer, Jim Cowan, and Chase Brenizer finished far ahead. Other Wildcat triumphs were scored by Gene Shannon in the pole vault, by Bill Loy in the 440, and by Dick Gammon in the two mile. The only loss suffered by Davidson came in the high jump, when a Maryville cleared the bar at 6 feet.

Tennis And Golf

Our netters and linksmen continued to make fine records, the former routing Colgate and The Citadel and tying Kalamazoo, the latter beating Catawba and Kalamazoo during the course of the week. In the match with Colgate, Co-Captains Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter continued their fine records, defeating the Red Raiders’ number two and three men. The Wildcats had no trouble at all with The Citadel, winning with the loss of only one set. The match with Kalamazoo was a real struggle. Billy Turner went down before the masterful stroking of Shane, who is one of the top-ranking players in the Midwest. Tenney and Hunter each won three-set matches, while Dick Shore beat his man 8-6, 7-5. The golfers completely routed Kalamazoo, 18-0, with Granville Sharpe and Jimmy Cooper low men with 74’s. The match with Catawba was much closer, the ‘Cats barely squeezing through with a 10½-7½ victory.

Hither And Yon

Banks McFadden recently copped 25 points in one of the Tigers’ track meets. And that despite the fact that Clemson boys were handing out the dope that he had low blood pressure and wouldn’t be able to take part in any athletics. Yankees drew $41,000 in four exhibition games en route North, chicken feed to the Champs, who pay their third base coach $10,000 a year just to tell Keller, DiMaggio, and Company to tag all the bases. The opening game at Crosley Field in Cincinnati is already a complete sell-out. But a record along these lines—for professional sport at least—is being set by the Washington Redskins. Today, six months before the pro football season starts, 7,500 tickets have been sold to Redskin games. This corner has taken quite a beating since saying “Black Dog’s” homer carried 400 feet. Well, even an honest newspaper man can be had. Eddie Shokes, Duke first sacker, blasted a 475-foot drive into the hedge in right field against one of the oft-beaten Yankee invaders—and that’s no bull. Wonder why those teams don’t stay up there in their own league. Maryland and Virginia routed the University of Pittsburgh 14-0, 19-5 on straight days. The Wildcat netters did quite a fine job in tying Kalamazoo’s crack team. The battle of the year will be the Davidson-Presbyterian College match to take place soon. Rea Tenney, playing in the number one and two spot, is as yet undefeated. Worth reading is the recent story in Collier’s about Nurmi and Maki, the two great Finnish distance runners. Maki once lost a race by a stride because Nurmi had given his instructions to run the distance in a certain time and Maki was afraid to disobey his master’s voice. “Rusty” Edmundson’s hitting in the clutch is a thing of beauty. Four trips to the plate with the bases full so far this year and a base hit every time—can’t beat that. When the Highland Park boys hit ‘em, they stayed hit. Three home runs and five triples is distance hitting, with a capital letter. Jackie Abels recently upset Jimmy Cooper in a challenge match, one up in 36 holes. That’s all, till next week.

Fraternities Prepare For Softball And Horseshoes

After the track meet was run off Thursday, the fraternities turned back to other spring sports as the race for the Interfraternity Sports Cup entered the last laps. If the weather will settle down, Heath Whittle hopes to run the remainder of the volleyball games off by the end of this week.

Softball Starts

Besides volleyball, the round robin in softball is scheduled to start soon. Last year the Phi Gams topped the Kappa Sigs in the finals of the softball games and they will have most of their champion team back this year.

Badminton Crowded Out

Also scheduled to start soon are the horseshoe matches. The Phi Delts won this last year, but their ace, Miller Sproull, will be ineligible this year. This will leave this race open. Badminton, which is usually run off about this time, will be omitted this year due to lack of time. Back games in other sports crowded out the bird game this year.

Wildcat Sports

Cindermen Down Maryville
Diamonders Take To Road

Thurs., April 11, 1940
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

Cat Netmen Top Citadel And Raiders
Kalamazoo Ties Cat Courtmen; Rea Tenney Continues Unbeaten

With the conclusion of spring holidays and the continuation of tennis play, the Davidson netters continue their winning ways. They still remain undefeated; however, the match with Kalamazoo College resulted in a tie. The netmen defeated the Colgate team 6-1 at the Myers Park Country Club. The Bolwer (C) defeated Turner (D) 6-2, 9-7; Tenney (D) defeated Borkhuis (C) 7-5, Hunter (D) defeated Barrett (C) 6-0, 6-1; Shore (D) defeated Andrews (C) 6-4, 14-12; Sproull (D) defeated Reid (C) 1-6, 7-5, 6-3; Hunter and Turner (D) defeated Barrett and Borkhuis (C) 6-3, 6-2; and Shore (D) defeated Bolwer and Reid (C) 6-4, 6-2.

Rout Citadel

Next to fall was the Citadel team, which was completely blanked as Davidson routed them 9-0. The summary: Tenney (D) defeated Beatty (C) 6-0, 6-4; Turner (D) defeated Linder (C) 6-2, 5-7, 7-5; Hunter (D) defeated Marten (C) 6-2, 7-5; Shore (D) defeated White (C) 6-4, 6-4; Sproull (D) defeated Edens (C) 6-1, 8-6; Plyler (D) defeated McCauley (C) 6-1, 8-6; Turner and Hunter (D) defeated Linder and White (C) 6-1, 6-1; Tenney and Shore (D) defeated Beatty and Martin (C) 6-4; Sproull and Plyler (D) defeated Edens and McCauley (C) 6-4, 6-4.

The match with Kalamazoo College was called on account of darkness. The standing at that time was a 4 to 4 tie. The summary: Shane (K) defeated Turner (D) 6-1, 6-1; Tenney (D) defeated Pratt (K) 1-6, 8-6, 6-2; Hunter (D) defeated Worth (K) 3-6, 7-5, 6-2; Shore (D) defeated Hunter (K) 8-6, 7-5; Darbrecht (K) defeated Sproull (D) 2-6, 14-12, 15-13; Williams (K) defeated Plyler (D) 8-6, 6-4; Hunter and Turner (D) defeated Shane and Worth (K) 3-6, 8-6, 14-12; Darbrecht and Williams (K) defeated Sproull and Plyler (D); Tenney and Shore (D) defeated Pratt and Hunter (K) 6-3, 5-7 (darkness).

Linkmen Take Kalamazoo 18-0

Last week the varsity golf team defeated Kalamazoo College 18-0 and Catawba College 10½-7½. On April 2, when they defeated Catawba, Charlie Pegram was medalist with a 74, Granville Sharpe had a 77, George Wright had an 80, and Jimmie Cooper had an 84.

Blank Kalamazoo

Against Kalamazoo College from Michigan the divot diggers played under very adverse weather conditions, for there was a mild gale whipping across the links. In spite of these conditions the 'Cats made this meet a grand slam, defeating the Lakesiders 18-0. Granny Sharpe and Chick Cooper were low men with a pair of 74's. They were followed by Pegram with a 76 and Jackie Abels with an 80. The golfers left for Athens Tuesday, where they will participate in the Southern Intercollegiate Meet in Athens today, tomorrow, and Saturday.

Abels Beats Cooper

Jimmie Cooper qualified for the fourth position on the team, Jackie Abels, the number five man, was entitled to challenge him for the fourth spot.place. They played at Salisbury for their first 18 holes, and Abels had a 78 to go six up at the halfway point. Then they played a match within a match when they were playing Kalamazoo. At the end of 33 holes, Cooper had evened up the match, but Abels won one up—in spite of Cooper's 74.

During February 1940, a West Virginia University librarian discovered, in checking out a book, that it had been used last in May 1901.

Evanston, Illinois, high school students, assembling in their auditorium to hear the Coe College band, waited half an hour, and discovered there had been a 30-day error in dates.

SOPHOMORE SENSATION
Blanton Williamson, a sophomore timber topper from Atlanta, grimaces as he takes a high hurdle in style. Williamson, a protégé of Coach Spearman, took first in both the hurdle events against Maryville and is counted on for a number of points for the varsity tracksters this season.—(Photo by Angus Lytch, Staff Photographer)

Kappa Alphas Capture Interfraternity Meet
Winning two and a half first places and amassing thirty points, the Kappa Alpha fraternity won the interfraternity track meet last Thursday afternoon. The Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams placed in second and third places respectively. Trailing the K.A.’s were the Kappa Sigs in second place with twenty-three points, the Phi Gams in third place with fifteen points, in fourth place the SAE’s with twelve and a half points, the Phi Delts in fifth place with ten and a half points, sixth place the SPE’s with ten points, followed by the Pikas with nine and a half, the Betas with six and a half, and the Pi Kap's with four points in the seventh, eighth, and ninth places respectively.

The Summary
100 yard dash—McDaniels (SPE) first, Jonas (KS) second, H. Sprunt (KA) third, Hackney (SAE) fourth; Time: 10.7.
3-quarter—Kenyon (Phi Delt) first, McGee (KS) second, Oliver (Phi Gam) third, Cruthfield (Pikas) fourth; Time: 3.48.4.
Hurdles—Martin (Pika) first, H. Sprunt (KA) second, Green (Phi Kap) third, Belk (KA) fourth; Time: 14.82.
440—Bahnson (SAE) first, Washburn (KA) second, Lacy (KS) third, McElwee (Pika) fourth; Time: 56.7.
660—Garrou (Beta) first, W. Bolin (Phi Gam) second, DeWitt (KS) third, McDuffie (SAE) fourth; Time: 1.38.
220—Jonas (KS) first, H. Sprunt (KA) second, McDaniels (SPE) third, Martin (Pika) fourth; Time: 24.4.
Shot put—Van Landingham (KA) first, D. Sprunt (KA) second, Terrell (Phi Delt) third, Dillard (Phi Gam) fourth; Distance: 43 feet, 10 inches.
Discus—Van Landingham (KA) first, Fredericks (SPE) second, Terrell (Phi Delt) third, Arnold (KA) fourth; Distance: 121 feet.
High jump—Belk (KA) and Brenizer (Phi Gam), Taylor (Beta), Gilmore (Phi Delt), Terrell (Phi Delt) and Crighton (SPE) tied for third place; Height: 5'8".
Broad jump—Brenizer (Phi Gam) first, Lacy (KS) second, Hackney (SAE) third, McClintock (Beta) and Sink (Pika) fourth; Distance: 20' 9 1/4".
Relay—Kappa Sigs first, SAE’s second, Pi Kappa Phi third, and Pikas fourth; Time: 1.41.2.

More than 225 pounds of bread are baked daily in the Arkansas A & M College bakery.

Davidson's varsity track team opened its season Saturday with an 89 2-3 to 41 1-3 victory over Maryville College. The ‘Cats took first place in all events except the high jump and the relay, the latter being won by Maryville on a forfeit. High scorers for Davidson were Captain Bob Kellogg, Dave Spencer, Don Bell, and Blanton Williamson, each winning two first places. Husk was high point man for the visitors with 10 points.

The Summary
Shot Put: Won by Knoeller, Davidson; second, Bell, Davidson; third, McCury, Maryville. Distance: 42’ 3 1/2".
Mile Run: Won by Kellogg, Davidson; second, B. Baird, Maryville; third, Green, Maryville. Time: 4:44.5.
Pole Vault: Won by Shannon, Davidson; second, Husk, Maryville; third, Strandwitz, Davidson. Height: 11’ 6".
Javelin: Won by Spencer, Davidson; second, Tipton, Maryville; third, Cowan, Davidson. Distance: 168’ 4".
440 Yard Run: Won by Loy, Davidson; second, Lloyd, Maryville; third, Proctor, Maryville. Time: 52.0.
100 Yard Dash: Won by White, Davidson; second, Taylor, Davidson; third, Husk, Maryville. Time: 10.2.
120 Yard High Hurdles: Won by Williamson, Davidson; second, Harbin, Davidson; third, Husk, Maryville. Time: 15.7.
Discus: Won by Spencer, Davidson; second, Yoder, Davidson; third, Freeze, Davidson. Distance: 120’ 7".
880 Yard Run: Won by Kellogg, Davidson; second, W. Baird, Maryville; third, Purkey, Maryville. Time: 2:05.8.
220 Yard Dash: Won by White, Davidson; second, Jonas, Davidson; third, Heinze, Maryville. Time: 23.5.
High Jump: Won by Etheridge, Maryville; second, Strandwitz, Davidson; third, Nicely, Maryville, Black, Davidson, Cowan, Davidson, tied. Height: 6 feet.
Two Mile Run: Won by Gammon, Davidson; second, Kent, Maryville; third, Davies, Maryville. Time: 10:48.3.
220 Yard Low Hurdles: Won by Williamson, Davidson; second, Husk, Maryville; third, Graham, Maryville. Time: 26.6.
Broad Jump: Won by Spencer, Davidson; second, Taylor, Davidson; third, Brenizer, Davidson. Distance: 20' 9 1/4".

Wofford Next Foe For Nine
The baseball varsity, failing to engage the South Carolina Gamecocks because of wet grounds, will leave tomorrow for Spartanburg to meet Wofford, and travel to Greenville Saturday to play Furman. Returning home for a three-day rest, the ‘Cats move to Hickory on Wednesday to match sticks with Lenoir-Rhyne and journey to Chapel Hill for an encounter with Carolina on Friday.

Lose Lead
Highland Park Mill’s No. 3 baseball team of Charlotte defeated the Wildcats here last Friday by driving across seven runs in the eighth inning for a total of 12 runs to 8 for Davidson. The Wildcats led until the eighth, 8-5, when the visitors pounded Ficklen and Reinhardt for their seven tallies. The game was called at the end of the frame on account of darkness. Coach Shepard engaged his entire mound staff, which gave a combined total of 14 hits to the invaders, while the ‘Cats secured twelve safeties.

Edmundson Leads Attack
Fowler, visiting third sacker, led the hitting with a perfect day at bat, swatting two circuit clouts, a triple, and a single. Edmundson, Wildcat receiver, topped the Davidson sluggers with three base knocks for four trips; Carter followed with two singles. Rusty secured one single.

Ten mining engineering students have been sent to the University of Pittsburgh by the government of India.

BIG BOY COLA
PEP - UP
Charlotte Big Boy Bottlers, Inc.

Give Us A Chance!
The HIGHEST Quality Goods at the LOWEST Price
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Stores
Davidson, N. C.

Students, Faculty, and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot
114 West Sixth Street

WE SERVE DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND SHORT ORDERS AT ALL TIMES
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
JIM’S TAVERN
Davidson, N. C.