“ful and speedier craft in which they —they—will receive more extensive | “Before Christmas Holidays announced the following schedule for
“polis on December 4th. Thurs., Nov. 28, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three Ross Gladden Finishes Important Air Course Last Year’s
Man Ends Basic Work; To Get Advance Work At Kelly Field W. R. Gladden, Davidson graduate of the class of
1940, is among the 650 pilots-to-be taking their training at Randolph Field in Texas. The Chester, S. C. member of
last year’s Senior Class was scheduled to complete his basic course at the “West Point of the Air” on November
22. Having mastered the fundamentals of flying and logged 65 hours of flying time, Gladden and his 265 classmates were
given more powerful and speedier craft in which they gained 75 additional hours and got a taste of night flying,
taking off and landing in the dark, and “blind flying.”

Kelly Field The flying cadets have now been transferred to Kelly Field where training in navigation and formation flying will
continue. This class, the tenth in the government’s expansion program, which started training in early July, will receive its coveted
wings early in January and will be commissioned 2nd Lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve. They will then be ready
for service on the combat squadrons of the Air Corps. Gladden is one of 12,000 pilots being trained annually to
meet the demands of the national defense program. The army has set an objective of 12,000 planes, for which a
ground force of 103,000 will be maintained, as a first line of defense.

Copy Being Made Ready Fraternity Section Near Completion; All Pictures Must Be Finished Soon The new 1941 edition of “Quips
and Cranks” is rapidly beginning to take shape. The general plan has already been laid out for this year’s Davidson
annual and at present work is progressing rapidly. Winston Taylor, editor in chief of the yearbook, reports that the Fraternity
section will probably be completed before the Christmas vacation begins. Pictures of all the fraternity sponsors have already been selected.
Several of the pledge brothers took pictures upon that section devoted to the fraternities.

Music Dept. Makes Plan Varied Program To Be Given Davidson Music Department has announced plans for music activities until Christmas
vacation: Football Band will leave Friday after chapel to go to Wilmington and play at the Davidson-Citadel game. The players
will stay at homes of “friends of Davidson” and will return on Sunday. Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra will present the same
concert that they presented at Davidson several weeks ago at Kannapolis on December 4th. Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra will play
at the Mint Museum, Charlotte, on December 8th. This orchestra is composed of sixteen members chosen from the regular symphony
orchestra. Davidson Glee Club will sing at Salem College on December 13th through the sponsorship of the Salem College Choral
Ensemble.

Scripts ’n Pranks The cartoons and cover of the Christmas issue of the “Scripts ’n Pranks,” which will soon appear,
will carry out the Christmas theme. The magazine, nearing completion, will go to press in the near future. It will
be mailed to the students shortly before the Christmas vacation. “There will be several special articles in the Christmas issue,”
stated Editor Bumbarger. Four issues of the Scripts ’n Pranks will appear during this school year.

Annual Christmas Vespers will be held Sunday night, December 15th, at 7:30 in Chambers auditorium. This is one of the
most beautiful services held at Davidson during the year. Messiah will be presented on December 17th at the Armory Auditorium
in Charlotte. In this widely acclaimed oratorio by Handel, both the Davidson Glee Club and the Queens-Davidson Orchestra will appear
along with over 350 other people. Four well-known singers will come down for the occasion from New York to act
as soloists.

Lilly Donates New Testament Volumes Are Placed At Student Disposal Professor Henry L. Lilly of the faculty has donated to
the library for the Observation 67 students, a group of New Testaments translated into Icelandic, Danish, Italian, Dutch, Spanish, German,
Latin, Swedish, Sanskrit, Hebrew, and Greek. These books are on display in the big room on your right as you
enter the library. Five new books are also available to students, these having come in within the last week or
two. “Marxism: An Autopsy,” by Henry B. Parkes, a story of the death of Marxism and the practice and the
continuance of the theory of this belief. “The Living Goya,” a biography by Mercedes C. Barabarrosa, gives an interesting account
of this world-famous artist, poet-philosopher, and statesman. “Three Cups of Coffee” is a novel about three women and one man
by Ruth Feiner. It tells the story of the opinions of three women about a man. The three women are
the one who married him, the one who failed him, and the one who loved him. “The Lure of Gold,”
by William S. Pogue, gives an accurate and historical account of the five lost ships of Christopher Columbus. The last
book, “The Quest of the Cavaliers,” by Faith Yingling Knoop, is a story of the adventures of DeSoto and other
Spanish explorers.

Carnegie Set Has Schedule “Davidson College’s Carnegie Set,” located in room five Shearer Hall, is being operated on a new
schedule which went into effect last week. The schedule is as follows: Monday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 7:30-10:30; Tuesday and
Wednesday 4:00-6:00; Saturday and Sunday 2:00-5:00. At these times, anyone can have played any of the approximately 900 compositions which
the set contains by simply filling out a card bearing the title and composer of the desired selection and giving
it to the student in charge. No one but these students are authorized to operate the machine which is maintained
on N.Y.A. time. According to David Huffins, who is in charge of the set, there are four ways by which
a person may locate a number: by title, composer, form (i.e. piano), and medium (i.e. opera).

Music Groups Form Unit To Give Concert Sunday Afternoon Concert Packs Shearer Hall The overture to Weber’s “Oberon,” the four
movements of Beethoven’s First Symphony, the five parts of the “Carmen” suite by Bizet, and Ravel’s “Bolero” constituted the concert
presented by the Davidson-Queens Symphony Orchestra at their first concert of the season last Sunday afternoon. Tate Shearer Hall auditorium
was packed for the occasion, and the presentation received an enthusiastic ovation from the appreciative audience. The orchestra has improved
notably since last year; the players as a whole seem to have a much better tone and smoother coordination. Of
the four selections, Weber’s “Oberon” overture was in this writer’s opinion the best played, with the “Carmen” suite and First
Symphony following closely. Although the “Bolero” was not quite as well done as the others, it was good enough to
receive the biggest ovation from the audience. Its haunting and sensual rhythm was particularly well carried out by the percussion
section. With such a good opening concert, we expect the subsequent presentations by the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra to be even
better. Prof. James Christian Pfohl, conductor and director of the orchestra, has obviously done a great deal of work and
shown a high degree of skill in leading the players, assisted by concert maestro Merle Kesler.

Among THE GREEKS Sigma Alpha Epsilon The week-end proved to be a breather for the more experienced Brothers who were
getting into condition for the forthcoming Thanksgiving holiday. However, extended tours of the neighboring countryside managed to get all the
way to his home in Greenville, S.C. while roommate Chatta- Brother Stewart retired to his home in Chester, S.C. while
Brothers Hector McLean, Deacon Bahnson, Cauble, and Grantham visited Winston-Salem and its environs. Greensboro was the center of activities for
a group consisting of Pledge Brothers Prayer, McGeachy, Gray, Millikan, and Brothers Lucas, “Dot” Rogers, and Tate. Brother John Creighton
used his “brain” and enjoyed the rustic beauty of the week-end. Several other brothers made expeditions into nearby Mooresville and
Statesville. Mac Bruce moved in nooga over the week-end.

Beta Theta Pi With nothing to hold the Brothers and pledges in over the week-end, many and their destinations. Joe
Varnwell went to Burlington for the week-end. Brothers Church, Bryant, Enrd and Pledge Brothers Church and Welsh went to Fayetteville.
The vicinity of Ma Gilerd was the scene of a duck hunt with Brothers Duck Rankin, Towelle, Walker Summerville and
Caterson participating. Brother Drury Thompson made his usual trip to his home in Lynchburg, Va. Dave “Lil Ab” Yocum went
up to Sweetbriar for a week-end with his Daisy. Various brothers went home to Charlotte, Davidson, and Fayetteville. Brother Jack
Phillips and Pledge Brother Bob Cushman went to Spruce Pine. Pledge Brothers Chandler, Marshall and Neisler went to Rock Hill,
S.C. and Kings Mountain, respectively. However, several students have still neglected to choose their pictures for the annual. Proofs are
still available in room nine.

Phi Gamma Delta The past week-end the Phi Gams ranged far and wide covering quite a bit of territory. Pledges
Bellamy, O'Hair, and Pharr went to Rock Hill and points thereabouts. Quite a few of the brothers found time to
help swell the week-end crowds in the city of Charlotte. Pledge Ragen withdrew to Thomasville while Winston-Salem was the destination
of no less than four, Dick Shore, Winston Taylor, Arch Taylor, and Bill Lyman. Dan Hodge and Tony Darby and
Rufus Simmons went to Greensboro and witnessed the Clemson-Furman game.

Kappa Alpha The chapter turned out en masse this week-end. KA’s were in all parts of the section. Here are
some of our brethren and their destinations: Greenville, S.C. Brothers Bumbarger, Irvin, and Watt, McLean, and Washburn, and Pledge Brothers
Burke, Paddock, Law, Councill, and Jordy. We also had several visitors in the upper part of the state, among them
Brothers Coppedge and Turnage at Winston and Greensboro College, and Brother Page Marcus at Greensboro. Brother Francis Vanlandingham made a
week-end wild hare to Brevard, N.C. Pledge Brother Ernie Webster visited relatives in Augusta, Ga. Brother Dick Arnold spent the
week-end in Clinton, S.C., and Brother George Mitchell went with the Queens Davidson Orchestra to its concert at Spruce Pine.
Brother Davis Thomas watched Florida beat Georgia Tech in Atlanta. Pledge Brother Lard Royster, after waiting for a date, had
received no answer from his fair one by the time he was supposed to leave and decided that he had
been uniquely flushed, and as fate may have it, stayed at school. Pledge Brother Ralph Dunn spent Thanksgiving Day, Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday at his home in Sumter, S.C. where he reports having an exceptionally fine time.

Sigma Phi Epsilon The social spotlightHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

For this week in shared by Brothers Watson and Gann, "Wad Uarty and very. ayh- Pledges Brown and Robbitt made
an extensive tour of the State of Virginia while Read journeyed to his home at Sumter, S.C. for the weekend.
Long Hollar made his usual weekend jaunt to Hickory and Brother Yurn and Pledge who attended appropriate aqre, Lay Indiantown,
S.C., and Ingstroe claimed Hamilton and Davis who Brothers Niven and Saunders went home to Albemarle. Brother dade which was
given by the chap. J pledges. My astania Bere g Dr. weekend in Hamlet, NC W. Va. and took in
Gene Head extended tour to his home Fort Meade, Fla. Thanksgiving in South Carolina took some of the Brothers. Hite,
McCall, Miller, and Mobley spent the weekend at their homes in Florence, Brother W. C. Plunkett went to his home
in Aiken, S.C. and Pledge Maynard Wat- to Ridge Spring. Pledge son his home in and Covington went to a
dance at W. C. along with Pledge Bob Hutchins. Erb went to Catawba. Brother Herring journeyed to Raleigh to spend
the weekend. Brother Tipp went to the Furman-Clemson game in Greenville. Other brothers going home for the weekend were Met
and McArthur to Nannapahs Charlotte respectively. Other pledges off the campus for the weekend were Tatu, Evans, McAllister, Raymond, Davis,
Armstrong, and Gaither. Phi Most of the brothers and pledges remained on the campus Saturday, because of the Steak Fry
and Thay - Delta Theta. The young ladies present were: Misses Martha Brandon, Peck Smith, Helen Golson, Maurine Latta, Whaley
Phillips, Caldwell, Peggy Sadler, Mitzsimmions, and Aileen Long of Charlotte and Marty Dees and Beau Miller of night to honor
Among other Saturday Lorna Queens. Marion Bursenich of Wrond- haven, Lorna New York; Martha Withers and Carolyn Lagsiter of Davidson;
Harriette Carter of Rock Viaonne Keihardt of Lincoln, Nin Middlesworth Aiken, S.C. Gloria of Bennett. Chaperones for the affair were
Mr. and Mrs. McGavock and Mrs. Mount. It Mount's and Knight House was the scene of the try. The Furman-Clemson
tussle in Greenville drew Brothers Robinson, Dew, Renhardt, and Brother Machinuen Anderson, S.C. while Llsru and Pledge Armistead spent the
and Stevenson journeyed to Brother Bay Davidsonian and Jay in Greens. Many Casualties Result From Football Season Cunningham Is Magnetic
Personality Newly Nominated President Noted For Outstanding Characteristics Crutches Whether they last week's issue of The imposing array of the
accomplishments of Dr. John K. Cunningham, newly nominated president of Davidson College, were set forth. An attempt to present a
more personal side of the noted clergyman. Dr. Cunningham lives in the beautiful home of the First Presbyterian Church of
Winston-Salem with his children and charming wife. His home life is torn Salem first wife make one to vied Personality
Dr. Cunningham has a magnetic personality. He has the unusual knack of defying resistance and making friends and admirers with
plenty of his eyes and descriptions. He is popular wherever he goes from undergraduate days at Westminster College through the
pastorate he now holds in Winston-Salem. He has been during his life this ability and personal charm created for wide
circles of folks. Executive Ability Cunningham is also noted for his capable executive ability. Dr. Cunningham has been executive ability
has been at the churches of which a master, as well as Louisville Theological Seminary. An institution of which he
was president from 1930 to 1947. He held several executive positions in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Dr. The annual Thanksgiving
dinner was held at the fraternity boarding house on Tuesday night. The festive, spent an extended weekend atmosphere of candlelight
and sore their homes. Brothers Daffin, Teelerton, Carleton, Divins, Edmondson, Mizell, and Galbraith attended the Atlanta Tech-Central game. Also operating
in Charlotte were Dudley, Cabb, Knox, and Mon. Kappa Sigma Brother Mark Jones made a trip to Sweetbriar this weekend
while Johnny Purdie on a tour Pi Kappa Phi scattered from West Virginia to Florida over the past weekend. Brother
Sam Woodward journeyed to his home in Bluefield, Court Of Control Judge Jay Bolin announces that the Court of Control
will hold its next meeting sometime next week, at which a large attendance from the freshman class is predicted. Judge
Bolin also strongly advises more support from this was given freshmen at last week's meeting than week. Life In Med
School Told Hears Report of several points in the eastern part of the state. Weather job Minley continued an Mee
Sip YMCA Cabinet From S. Smith Members of the YMCA Cabinet were entertained at their weekly dances November 20 by
Mrs. ley last week. Its purpose is to promote an exchange of ideas and to provide contact among student leaders.
According to Shaw, ideas and By Matthews Dr. W.C. Matthews, college physician assisting Dr. John W. MacConnell, was the principal
speaker at the regular meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity. Dr. Matthews gave an informal talk on life
at medical school as he experienced it when he attended the University of Virginia Medical School at Charlottesville. He also
discussed the problems of the pre-medical student, and the members of the club joined in with discussion and questions. In
conclusion, Dr. Matthews demonstrated the use of some medical instruments that he had brought for the occasion. He took the
blood pressure of several members and showed the use of other instruments such as those used for examining the eye,
ear, nose, and various other organs of the body. After the discussion and business meeting, a feed was enjoyed by
the Alpha Epsilon Delta members, who convened at the lodge of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. At the meeting,
Bob Balsley, president of the organization, presided. considerable consideration was given to it was so successful that there is developing
into a regular similar J. Erwin and Mrs. Gene McIver at the Lewis home. During the first part of the
program, a business meeting was held, at which time Shaw Smith, "Y" secretary, gave a report on the Student Pastors
and Leaders Conference which he attended in Raleigh. Cannady is noted for his erudition and scholarliness and has continued to
study since he was a court case stirred To Dramatic Class Monday Illustrates Importance Position In Acting Newell Robinson, president
of Brengel Talks Give Campus Appearance Of Home For Crippled Veterans By FRANK SMITH Visitors to our fair campus have
possibly quizzed themselves as to the night in- Indeed our student body. An old soldier's home for crippled war veterans.
Sympathy was issued the first or unfortunate on crutches as the various causes, but temporary cripples those physically sound. No
longer a rare sight is the phenomenon of the who lauded result of now in the is quite as common
who are physically sound. Groups of two and three pairs of crutches sauntering amiably side by side, their occupants chatting
amiably having acquiescently succumbed to the commonly shared fate. Newcomers to the improvised powder less curse the necessary vol admiring
the sea- by some new beneficiaries to an will attract his fellow sympathizers. Probably the last these crutch Football readily
ACLCIR to perfect was the advantage which used source are the while other crutches such as athletes. foot for exterior
protection. further names to the touch names, minor all or those foster antics were as deadly bored ankles, usually senten-
claimed to the Meets two weeks and participate Other cases were fortunate in only having bad sprains which occupied them
about a week and ten days. Not being able to venture, Dr. MacConnell the caretakers of the so-called Veterans insufficient
list for these destined to above mentions compiled Walter "Kipper" who following Way Wooten, Roy Don Bell, Charley The Wards
late Joe Marta Tollingon and Wy Anderson personnel the involuntary the probable football stars against undue recklessness lest they become
footballs scars. The supply of crutches is low. New Members Are Initiated In Eu Society Fields, Patterson, Smith, Join Literary
Group Three new members were initiated into the Balmencien Literary Society Tuesday evening at Eu Hall. The initiates are sophomores,
Fields, Patterson, and Smith. Chairman of the Phi committees held, and Scottie Part ran and are Dick Cobb, property Dan
Hesham Peak Sande Alva Itty paper entitled "We Stand." Other initiatory papers were The Influence of one of Our Foolish
Language by ten Wastin play, "She Stoops to Conquer" by Dan Hodges. and a short course on Public Speaking by
the President Friday scripture, and the president Newell Robinson read the was fedoan Westall. The evening was spent on business.
The next meeting was the last held outside Moore Hall by TS. The meeting was to be held inside but
since has been cleaned for the Now Playing The Season's Surprise Hit! Melvyn Douglas Alvrna Loy "THIRD FINGER LEFT HAND"
Late Show Saturday Night. Gary COOPER "THE WESTERNER"
