Sports RoundUp
By ED LUCAS

Baseball Candidates Begin Drills

Coach Shepard has issued a call for his diamond candidates and preparatory work began Monday for a stiff 20-game schedule. The ‘Cats will open the 1940 campaign with a game Saturday, March 23rd, against Clemson. Presbyterian will be met on the next Monday, Erskine Tuesday, Richmond Wednesday, and Colby Thursday, making five games in six days—a really tough stretch for early season.

The chief problem facing Coach Shepard seems to be finding some potent sluggers. With Hic, Hand, and Steere, last year’s leading extra-base sluggers, gone, the hitting question becomes a serious one. The boys who hit will likely be the ones to play. Not one of the nine positions is cinched; an open battle is being waged for each. Either Edmondson or Fitzgerald, two veteran infielders, will probably be at the catcher’s post this year, with Cagle and Williams offering competition. Carter, a lanky soph, and Niven, last year’s first sacker, will fight it out for first base. Letterman Hunter and Yarborough, a sophomore, are the leading candidates for the keystone sack. Owens, another soph, and either Edmondson or Fitzgerald will be at the shortstop post. The third base position is wide open. Coach Shepard will probably shift one of the infielders named above to the hot corner. The outfield posts are also big question marks. Verner is the only letterman reporting. Bob Smith, Daffin, and Morris are up from the frosh nine of last year. Taylor and Latta, reserves of last Spring, will probably see some service. Pitching duties will be handled by Captain Hayseed Thomas, letterman Dave McLean, and reserves Reinhardt and Ficklen.

Golf And Tennis

Davidson’s golf team opens its 1940 schedule with Hampton-Sydney in Charlotte, Tuesday, March 19. Then, on a trip into Florida, beginning on Friday the 22nd, the linksmen tangle with Georgia, Florida, and The Citadel. Pegram, Jimmy Cooper, and Sharpe are the returning regulars from last year’s successful team. The remaining place will in all probability go to Abels, McReynolds, or Bryant. However, the four making the Florida trip will be the low men over a 72-hole qualifying route which must be completed by Saturday the 16th.

Co-Captains Tenney and Hunter will lead their tennis team into action Thursday, March 21st, against Michigan State on the home courts. Friday they journey south on a four-day trip for matches with Georgia, Emory, and Georgia Tech. Tenney, Hunter, Turner, and Shore are the returning lettermen from the crack team of last year. The leading candidates for the other two positions are Sproull and Plyler. This spring Davidson’s courtmen face perhaps the stiffest schedule in tennis history here. Such teams as Pennsylvania, Virginia, N.Y.U., Catholic U., and W. & L. will be met on a trip to New York.

Here And There

Did you know that “Footsie” Glamack, ace Carolina center, further proved his basketball prowess last week in the Southern Conference tournament, finishing with a total of 62 points scored in three games and being unanimously chosen by the A.P. for the pivot spot on the All-Conference team? Other members of the mythical All-Tourney team were: George, Clemson, forward; Mock, Duke, forward; DeWitt, Maryland, guard; and Swee, Wake Forest, guard.

Spring football drills will be brought to a close tomorrow with an inter-squad scrimmage. And while on football, did you see where Burke Davis, Charlotte News Sports Editor, after checking the winter drills at most of the Southern Conference schools, has picked Davidson as one of the two most improved teams in the Conference? He said the ’Cats would be in the win column often next year. Hope that’s right!

Some fellow, by the name of Paul Maloney, coach at Columbia University, has gone nutty over the idea of eliminating the backboard from basketball. Wonder what the court game would be like without backboards?

Maryland Grapplers Win Over Cats 16-14 In Finals

After winning the first three matches, Davidson's wrestlers were defeated by Maryland, 16-14, in a thrilling meet last Saturday afternoon. In the 121-pound class, McIntyre pinned Maxwell in a little under two minutes. Moore defeated Meade by decision in the 128-pound group. Jack Abels decisioned Ayers in the 136-pound group. Rockstrok decisioned Latta in the feature match of the afternoon, Chapta McFadyen in the 145-pound class. This bout was the one the Cats needed only two wins to clinch the meet. Then Baxter Frieze decisioned Race in the 165-pound class. This made it necessary for the Old Liners to secure two falls over the Wildcats.

Wildcat Sports

Baseball And Track Open As Football Drills Close

Phants Win Conference Tournament

George Glamack, the ace Carolina center, paced the Phantoms from Chapel Hill to defeat Duke's Blue Devils to the tune of 39-23 in the Southern Conference Tourney finals last Saturday night at Raleigh. In winning the championship, the Phantoms defeated Clemson, last year’s champs, 30-41; Wake Forest, strong contenders this year, 43-35; and Duke. The Blue Devils defeated the light brigade of Citadel 40-35, and the Terps from Maryland 44-32 before bowing to Carolina.

Glamack Leads

Glamack, Carolina’s near-sighted scoring center, set a new tournament record by scoring a total of 62 points in his three games. He scored 16 against Citadel, 28 against Wake Forest, and 18 against Duke in the finals. Glamack was by no means the whole show, as Jimmie Howard, speedy little Phantom guard, played a fine court game throughout the meet. In the first game of the Tourney, Carolina and Clemson fought it out. This game was mainly a duel between Banks McFadden, last year’s man of the meet, and Glamack, the hero this year. The stellar center from Carolina bested McFadden by scoring 16 points during the game.

All-Tournament Team

The team was made up of McFadden, Clemson, and Mock, Duke at forwards; Glamack, Carolina at center; DeWitt, Maryland, and Swee, Wake Forest at guards. Glamack and Mock were unanimous choices.

Cat Trackmen Begin Drills

Last Monday afternoon the Wildcat varsity track team staged their first official practice. Although this was the initial regular session, many have been working out for several weeks. Coach “Pete” Whittle expects a banner year for the tracksters. He expressed the belief that this year’s squad will be much better balanced than the team which represented the varsity last season. Several men from last year’s aggregation will be missed, including Ned Tyerson, Dave Walker, and Swede Johnson. Many of last season's varsity starters are back this year. Also, there are many men trying out for regular positions from last season's sterling Frosh team.Berths up Spencer, who was the main point scorer for the Kittens last year, is expected to count several firsts for the Wildcats. Strandwitz, who consistently jumped around the 11-foot mark for the frosh, has a good chance of breaking the record in that event. Kellogg, McAlpine, White, Black, and Dick Gammon are among last year's returning varsity competitors. Davidson Harbin, Phipps, and a few others are also expected to contribute.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.

In the 175-pound class, McNeil pinned Sid Crane after a terrific battle of a little more than eight minutes. Then in the last match in the unlimited division, Ed Hipp was pinned by Krause, a huge 235-pounder, in about five minutes.

Sat., March 9th.
All Latest Hits
ON VICTOR, DECCA & COLUMBIA RECORDS

Thurs.-Fri., March 7th-8th.
“NORTHWEST PASSAGE”
“TRADE WINDS”

Mon.-Tues., March 11th-12th.
“STRANGE CARGO”

Wed., March 13th.
“CITY OF CHANGE”

Thurs.-Fri., March 14th-15th.
“HOUSE ACROSS THE BAY”

ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Spring Practice Action
Coach Chet Chapman and players look on as Ed Hipp and Don Bell block Elmer Knoeller in spring football drills. This two-on-one blocking is typical of the work being carried on in these practice sessions. All three men are tackles and are counted on heavily for next year’s edition of the Wildcats. Knoeller and Bell won their letters as sophomores last winter, while Hipp saw some service. The drills, which have been going on for four weeks, will be brought to an end this Saturday with an inter-squad game. —(Photo by Angus Lytch)

Baseball Squad Starts Work Under New Coach
Baseball practice opened last Monday with light exercises and a session of batting practice. The pitchers and catchers have been working out for about three weeks. Coach Shepard has charge of this year’s squad, succeeding Flake Laird, last year’s varsity coach, who resigned. The outlook for a good ball team this year appears very good. Captain “Hayseed” Thomas leads this year's nine from the mound.

Competition Stiff
Catching seems to be the main problem at present. Dan Cagle, “Rusty” Edmondson, and Walter Fitzgerald, all veteran infielders, and Bobby Carter, last year’s freshman, are in line for the position. Carter and Edmondson appear to have the inside track. In the outfield, we have Verner, almost certain of a position, and several sophomores—Morris, Daffin, and Smith. Bolstering the pitching staff of last year’s starters will be Bob Carter, Bob Reinhardt, and Lees if Carter doesn’t catch.

At second, Tommy Yarborough seems to have the edge over “Black Dog” Hunter, a letterman, because of his heavy hitting. Hunter may be shifted to third or the outfield. Shortstop, in the event Edmondson catches, will be held down by Jim Owens, last year’s freshman ace. Third base appears to be a hard position to fill since the graduation last year of Hemphill. One of the aforementioned infielders will probably be shifted to this position.

Spring Brings Showers
Be sure you are well protected from the ground up.
Buff Shoe Shop
Davidson, N.C.

Drink BIG BOY COLA
“Because It’s Better”
Try PEP-UP
“A Mighty Mixer”
Charlotte Big Boy Bottlers, Inc.

McEver To End Grid Work This Saturday With Practice Game
Spring football practice, which has been moving along at a fast clip for the past four weeks, comes to a close Saturday. During these four weeks, Coach McEver has had a chance to look over prospects for the coming year and size up a fairly accurate picture of next year’s team. Last Monday, an inter-squad game was held between the “Whites” and the “Reds,” in which several men showed up exceptionally well and gave promise of developing into dependable starters for next year.

Fundamentals Stressed
This year’s spring practice has been devoted chiefly to the fundamental principles of football. Blocking, tackling, timing of plays, and other small but important details have been thoroughly rehearsed in an effort to develop a smooth and well-rounded attack for next year’s battles. The returning of many of last year's team and the rise of several promising freshmen have helped to make next year’s outlook far brighter than last year’s team.

Spencer and Sharpe will take care of the tailback position for next year’s team. Both boys have a lot of experience and are expected to alternate next year. Yoder has continued to show up well in practice and will handle the blocking back position next year. Bolin and Fredricks have been alternating at the three-back position during spring practice. Lacey, Hackney, Maloney, Shannon, Simonds, and others make up a fast and well-balanced backfield for next year’s team.

In the line, the work of Bell, Rainey, Knoeller, and others has been outstanding during spring practice. Coach McEver, in an effort to strengthen the pivot position, has moved Bahnson over from tackle to center. Many of the linemen have missed a greater part of spring practice due to injuries of various types.

IT’S BELK’S
Golf or Street Jackets $2.95 - $3.95
These jackets, made of a sensational new fabric in natural color, are taking the country by storm. They’re light in weight and ideal for the Spring season. Made with zipper neckline and slant pockets. Sizes 36 to 46.
Caps and Hats to Match - 97c
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
Charlotte, N.C.

NORGE GAS RANGE
RULANE GAS RANGE
GROCERIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum Company
DAVIDSON, N.C.

SATURDAY IS THE BIG DAY
The Third Issue Of
Scripts ’n Pranks
WILL BE OUT

PRINTED BY
The Herald Press, Inc.
225 S. Church St.—Charlotte, N.C.
“A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE”