Thurs., Jan. 18, 1949 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

For many years Davidson has had a system of electing officers which was based on the candidate's qualities and personality
alone. There has been no “open politics” so far, but recently there has been considerable agitation in favor of a
new system somewhat similar to that used by the national parties. So we have picked as the question of the
week, “What do you think of the idea of ‘open’ politics, as suggested by Earl Austin’s article in last week’s
Davidsonian?”

Poss McLean, Senior: “I am definitely in favor of open politics. It seems to me it is much better to
come out in the open with our politics than to carry on the dirty, sneaking combines which we all realize
cannot be excluded from our present system. There is just too much hypocrisy in the system we now use.”

Theron Sain, Senior: “I am in favor of open politics because I think that would eliminate certain combines that are
carried on to a small extent. If this politics is being carried on, you might just as well come out
in the open with it. I think that the campaigning of the candidate would put more pep in the elections.”

Bob Garvey, Sophomore: “Personally I would not like to see the system of politics changed here at Davidson. This is
one of the few old traditions that we have left, so why not keep it? I admit that there is
some fallacy in the present plan, but aren't these errors small enough to overcome? I have no better plan to
offer but I believe that something could be worked out if the energy of our leaders was exerted to that
end. However, the student must cooperate if anything is to succeed, so let's keep our old system and pull with
our leaders to get a system better than any previous one, and one that will prove that we are better
men than our neighbors.”

Porky Woodward, Sophomore: “It seems that open politics are about the only method that can be used to end evils
that have risen in past elections. Past leaders have been unsuccessful in doing away with the ill feelings that arise
during the election periods, but I think open politics will remedy this undesirable condition. Here is my vote for open
politics and better feelings during elections.”

Don Hott, Senior: “I do not believe the solution of the Davidson electoral system lies in ‘open politics.’ The very
idea of non-fraternity vs. fraternity seems contrary to the spirit of Davidson. So far there is no animosity between those
two groups; I cannot believe as Mr. Austin does that the Stough brothers will go bankrupt if we get ‘open
politics.’ Davidson, I believe, is too small for such campaigns. Everyone knows everyone else. I would certainly like to see
a solution to the problem be something other than ‘open politics.’ If we have failed in the past to prohibit
these evils, I see no reason to quit trying. If and when our student body is made to realize the
advantage of a real ‘no politics’ system, then these combines, cliques, et cetera, will disappear. I would suggest this as
a campaign of the ‘Davidsonian’ instead of trying to get ‘open politics.’ Why not try to make our present system
work better?”

Bill Shaw, Sophomore: “General evils connected with our present system of so-called ‘politics’ were very aptly pointed out by Earl
in his editorial. Although there are certain evils in his proposed open-politics, I am inclined to believe that the new
system would have a much better reception among the students and would therefore be an improvement over the ‘closed’ type.
I am heartily in favor of the open forum because everyone has a chance to impose his ideas on all
without fear of hearing someone cry combine, et cetera. This open and above-board method would show the position taken by
the majority of men. It seems as though it could be arranged to have these open meetings preceding or during
the election period at which everyone could have an opportunity to ‘say his piece’ and thus silence the petty hates
and secrets for all time.”

Approximately one-third of the University of North Dakota students are Lutherans.

Miami University tests have proven that men have more rhythm than women.

Reigning Mid-Winters Beauties
MISS RUTH HALL
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
MISS CAROLINE MILLER
BETA THETA PI

Maridoon Pfohl Directs Western N.C. Band Division
Salisbury Plays Host To Music Clinic

Furthering an idea first demonstrated in the state at Davidson last January, Prof. James Pfohl will be one of five
directors at the western division “N.C.” band clinic January 26-27 in Salisbury. This clinic is one of two being sponsored
by the North Carolina Bandmasters Association this month in preparation for the state high school music contests in Greensboro next
spring. Several hundred youthful musical aspirants will attend the meeting in Salisbury’s Boyden High School with their bandmasters.

Five leading bandmasters of the state have been appointed by the state association to direct the clinic. They include: Prof.
Pfohl of Davidson; Earl Slocum, director of the UNC band; James Harper, director of music in the Charlotte city schools;
James C. Sides, director of the Lenoir high school band, and Larry Rogers of Salisbury.

The 1949 clinic will feature an “All-State” band of musicians picked from 25 western high schools which will demonstrate the
contest numbers and give a concert in the Boyden high school auditorium Friday night. Plans are also underway for entertaining
the bandmasters attending the meet. A dinner for leaders and members of the all-state band will be held Friday evening,
while a smoker will follow the concert. The executive committee of the Bandmasters Association will meet Saturday morning.

The Davidson music department was the first organization in North Carolina to stage a band clinic, when it played host
to over a hundred high school students.

New York University has more students (37,476) than any other U.S. college or university.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ester of the basin c eopeg P | lla y ch jin | Hall \ tinatine eomn eC ide a
! nd the flor Wi pened rther n ition Results of t coul } hitai ! H ‘ inne |
ooo, , ‘ 1 S aw Letty oat m9? ou S | the” last 1esday_night_were:| wn Cl pod levine \!
Stine presiiener roe fan on ith ji aicerr ere 916 i au ink Melachern, secretary Revision of the constitution was
discussed and a committee appointed to report back to the group. They planned no program, the feature of the next
meeting, scheduled for January 3, will be a debate.

During examinations, the student store will stay open an hour later at night for those who wish to prep for
that early morning grind. The closing hour will be at one o'clock instead of twelve. Chapel services will be held
on each day at twelve noon, immediately after the morning examination. As is the usual custom, seniors will be excused
from these exercises during the period.

Grier Martin, former alumni secretary of Davidson College, will address the Atlanta Chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association on
January 10, at the Frances Virginia Tea Room in Atlanta. Prof. Beaty will be the speaker from the faculty and
will take with him stills and movie recordings of the campus and the two alma mater hymns.

The Atlanta Chapter has for many years been among the most active of all the Davidson alumni chapters. Warren Ludlam,
president of the fraternity, gave a talk on the "Value of the Classics" at their regular meeting on Wednesday night,
January 10th, at 7:30 o'clock. At the opening of the meeting, members were presented with copies of the Nuntius System,
national quarterly of Eta Sigma Phi. Shingles of the fraternity were then given to each member, after which Ludlam gave
his address. Wells appointed John Hay in charge of the next meeting, which is to be held on February 14th.
Frank Barker, secretary, announced new plans for the next semester.

MISS KAPPA SIGMA: MISS GLORIA MCCALL
KAPPA ALPHA: ELLEN MUNROE
PHI DELTA THETA: MISS LILLIAN KILGORE

Society Discussed By Vespers Talk: Rev. V. S. Broyles of Canton, Miss., Stresses Vision For Young People. Taking his text
from the chapter, Rev. Broyles discussed the importance of vision for youth, emphasizing that without vision, the people perish. He
challenged the youth to have a vision for their future.

Phis Select New Chiefs: Discusses Constitution, Plans Debate

Bob Chester Runs Professional Scale: Davidson’s Mid-winters Maestro Waves Bat and Baton With Equal Ease. From baseball to the bandstand,
the versatile young Bob Chester, the maestro with his orchestra, will play at Davidson’s Mid-winters through arrangements with the local
committee. Despite several major league offers, Chester chose to pursue his passion for music. He joined several New York bands
before forming his own group in 1935. Returning to his home city, he climbed up the musical ranks, serving his
apprenticeship with Arnold Johnson’s orchestra and later with Paul Specht, Ben Pollack, and Charlie Barnet. Just before going out on
his own, Dolores O'Neill, his black-haired vocalist, joined him.

On the Stage: MON. JAN. 22
1940’s Greatest Musical Revue “AMERICA SWINGS”
40 — People — 40
On the Screen: “HEAVEN WITH A BARBED WIRE FENCE” With Jean Rogers

ENJOY GOOD MEALS: The Little Pep Sandwich Shop and Delmonico’s Grill. Students always welcome. Charlotte, N.C. Open till One A.M.

EXAM PADS: 3 for 25c
FRESH FRUITS: STUDENT STORE

Gales McClintock
Mers. M. during E
George Richmond
Xams
