*- Clubmen, Hudson To Feature Frances Colwell

Z—S28 ALENDA LUX UB! CRITA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Scabbard And Blade Bids Twelve

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1940 No. 21

SPRING DANCE SET OPENS TOMORROW

ROTC Dance To Be Held This Friday

Third Pan-Hellenic Set Will Include Four Dances At Armory

Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen will open the third Davidson dance set of the year tomorrow afternoon at the
Armory in Charlotte. This set is being sponsored as usual by the Pan-Hellenic Council but the formal tomorrow night will
be observed as the Annual Military Ball of the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade. The set will include four
dances. Friday afternoon the tea dance will be held from five to seven-thirty. The formal will be from nine to
two tomorrow night. The dances Saturday will be from four-thirty to six-thirty and from eight-thirty to twelve.

Popular in Colleges

Hudson's band has been popular on college campuses throughout the East for the past three years. This weekend will mark
the third appearance of the organization at Pan-Hellenic dances here. Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society, will sponsor the dance
Friday and the figure will include only members of Scabbard and Blade and their dates. This affair has been an
annual custom with the military fraternity. A banquet will be given by them between the tea dance and formal tomorrow.

Colwell Returns

Frances Colwell will again be featured by Dean Hudson. She has been with the orchestra since it was first founded
at the University of Florida. Set tickets have been on sale for the past week at five dollars. Anyone wishing
to obtain them should see some member of the Pan-Hellenic Council before Friday. Admission to the individual dances will be
one dollar for each of the tea dances, two dollars Friday night and two-fifty Saturday night.

Rev. McGeachy To Talk Here

Dr. Mott To Deliver Otts Lecture In April

Rev. D. P. McGeachy, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Monroe, N. C., will preach at the vesper
service, Sunday, March 10. Rev. McGeachy graduated from Davidson College in 1922. He taught for a few years in Leesburg,
W. Va., and then entered Union Theological Seminary. After graduating from the Seminary he studied a year at the University
of Edinburgh, Scotland. On his return to America he was called to a church in Atlanta, Ga.; from Atlanta he
was called to Monroe, where he is now pastor.

On Sunday evening, April 7, Dr. John R. Mott will preach, and during the following week will deliver five lectures
sponsored by the Otts Foundation. Dr. Mott is well known in this country and abroad. He has held many high
offices in the YMCA and from 1926 has been chairman of the World’s Committee of YMCAs. During the World War
he served as general secretary of the National War Work Council of YMCA and extended association services to Allied Armies
and to the prisoner-of-war camps in Europe. He was awarded the United States Distinguished Service Medal.

Bahnson Will Head ROTC Frat

Twelve Members of the Davidson ROTC unit were tapped into membership in Scabbard and Blade, National Honorary military fraternity at
a special parade last Friday, March first. They are W. W. Bahnson, A. R. Hamilton, Jr., J. T. McDuffie, Jr.,
D. B. Watson, V. H. Youngblood, H. Hobson, H. P. Barnwell, W. Finley, W. H. Latimer, J. H. Thompson, E.
F. Cooper, and R. D. Cooper. W. Shepard was tapped as associate member Monday afternoon, March 4, at a special
parade.

Scabbard and Blade sponsors and their dates will recognize lovely Frances Colwell, who has done such fine vocalizing for Dean
Hudson’s talented group ever since its organization at the University of Florida several years ago. The famed trio, which is
noted for its humorous specialties, will also be featured.

D Club Gives Yearly Frolic At Winston

Bands Play With Faculty

Concert Tour Is Begun With Program At Salem College

Miss Marjorie Crisp with Miss Kennedy Stuart Oglesby, Sara Thompson with Bill Birmingham, Miss Eleanor Waddill with Tom Hackney, Miss
Ann Brown with Benny Harrison, Miss Mary Garvey with Harry Hendrick, Miss Virginia Coleman with Tom Perrin, Miss Fannie Cooper
with Bob Phipps, Miss Caroline Cunningham with Beecher Sitterson, and Miss Becky Davis with Walter Fitzgerald. The remaining members of
Scabbard and Blade are: Oscar Joyner, Rhea Tenney, J. K. Pope, Jim Thomas, Bob Kellogg, and Charlie Mashburn.

The Davidson symphonic band will open its 1940 season of concert tours Saturday evening, March 9. Memorial Hall at Salem
College will be the scene of the concert, sponsored by Troop 10, B.S.A., of Winston-Salem. The program ranges from Bach
to such modern numbers as Ferde Grofe’s “Mardi Gras” and Alec Templeton’s “Bach Goes To Town.” The Twin City concert
will also feature a cornet trio, composed of Robert Strietman, John Roth, and Craig Schmidt, who will play “The Three
Trumpeters” by Agostini. A clarinet quartet, composed of Bob Hill, Fred Speas, Ted Murray, and Charlie Henderson, will play “Bach
Goes To Town.” The program includes: the chorale “Sleepers Awake” and “Prelude and Fugue in G Minor,” Bach; “Serenade Roccoco,”
Meyer-Helmund; “The Three Trumpeters,” Agostini; “Mannin Veen,” Wood; “Introduction to the Third Act of Lohengrin,” Wagner; “Mardi Gras,” Grofe; “Bach
Goes To Town,” Templeton; “Three Rhythmic Moods” by Yoder; “Russian Sailor's Dance” from “The Red Poppy,” Shostakovich; “All Hail, O
Davidson;” and “O Davidson.”

Magazine Will Feature Spring Issue On Campus

Saturday, each of you will find a little slice of Spring, in the form of the third issue of Scripts
‘n Pranks. On that date, a weatherman to the contrary, Spring will officially be here, at least enough of it
to give you the idea.

Since to the minds of all college boys ideas of Spring are inevitably though pleasantly connected with thoughts of girls
and even more girls, the staff has decided to devote a most interesting issue to this subject. For the real
lowdown on what girls think of college boys, the magazine has secured an article by one of the most popular
of Hollywood's glamorous stars. Look for that.

A college girl looks ‘em over, tells us what is right and what is wrong in the form of “Manual
For Men Only,” by Betty Jean O'Brien of Agnes Scott. Editor Abernathy stated in his best Italian accent, quote: “Konfeedensally
eet steenks unquote.”

Then there are the results of a poll conducted at Mid-Winters by the staff members to find out what your
dates really thought. The results are not quite what you would expect.

Address Closes Series

Tyler Dennet Lectures On Policy In Far East

Dr. Tyler Dennet told an attentive audience on Friday night, March 1st, that the United States has never, and probably
never will, stay out of the political entanglements of other continents.

This lecture, held in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening at 7:30 o'clock, assembled a group of students, faculty members, and
townspeople, many of whom had been present at several of the series of addresses by this traveler. The lecture found
its theme around the general idea that the United States has never pursued the policy of non-interference. The speaker pointed
out example after example of interference that has been indulged in by this nation, and told something of the effects
of these efforts. Among the situations in which our country has found reason to have interest was the Russo-Japanese War,
which might be comparable to the present struggles in the Orient.

The story of the Philippine Islands occupied no small part of the lecture. Dr. Dennet attempted to point out how
these islands were procured for economic reasons, but had been used so profusely for political purposes. Also poignant was the
independence which the Philippines have been promised in 1946. The lecturer pointed out the necessity of a continued protection that
will persist. To quote Dr. Dennet’s words as he summarized the main thought running through his lecture:“In the East, we
have the greatest opportunity of forcing Peace. Is it advantageous? If so, we should make known to the world that
we do not plan to relinquish our rights in the East. I have no solution. The American people will have
to decide for themselves. I can only offer a discussion of the question.”

Arch and Ed Taylor tell of love ‘as she is done’ by a dance band player and a mountain boy,
while the usual featured columnists hold forth.

And then there is the Beauty Section. The editor plagiarized from Confucius in describing this.

Scabbard and Blade Taps 12 escorts for the Military Ball in the Armory Auditorium next Friday night. The ball will
be led by Bill Bolin, captain of the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade, and Miss June Escott. The others
are as follows: Miss Catherine Webb with Jimmy Cooper, Miss Scottie Dameron with Sam Spencer, Miss Elizabeth Hendrick with Dave
Calvin, Miss Janie Knox with John.

Looking into your mailbox—

New President

“Hank” Bahnson of Winston-Salem, above, will lead the Davidson student body next year. His margin of victory was one of
the most sweeping since the days of Teeny Lafferty, who was elected on the first ballot. Bahnson lacked forty votes
of winning on the first ballot.

Student Body Gains Big Margin Over Dale, Watson Amendments Are Accepted

New Set-Up To Go Into Effect Immediately; Board Will Be Selected

By a majority of the student body, Davidson voted yesterday to accept both the amendments, setting up a new electoral
system. The first amendment, changing the machinery of student elections, passed by a vote of 341 to 66, while the
second amendment, establishing a board to supervise elections, won by 271 to 129. Both amendments will go into effect immediately
and a board consisting of one man from each fraternity, four non-fraternity men, and two representatives of the Student Council
will be appointed in the near future.

Following the recommendation of The Davidsonian, the new ruling calls for a locked ballot box, defined and written regulations concerning
elections, sharp penalties for breaches of election rules, and an electoral board to supervise all balloting.

The proposed plan was discussed at a student body meeting Tuesday, after being passed by the Student Council at an
earlier date. Irle Austin, George Richmond, Bill Ross, and Tom Tsali are the authors of both changes. The plan was
presented to remove Davidson from an undesirable political set-up and with the intention of making student elections more efficient.

Lieutenant Colonel G. T. Mackenzie, commander of the Davidson ROTC department, has been assigned to make the annual inspection of
North Carolina State College in Raleigh in May. Colonel Mackenzie was transferred to the local battalion as Professor of Military
Science and Tactics last summer. He succeeded Lieutenant Colonel Armstrong, after serving a similar detail at Virginia Military Institute. Immediately
before coming here, he was stationed at Fort Douglas, Utah. This was the highest command ever held by a Lieutenant
Colonel. The State inspection will be carried out by Colonel Mackenzie and General C. P. Summerall of The Citadel, commanding
officer of the Fourth Corps Area.

Seniors Registered

According to a statement by Mr. Hengeveld, registrar of the college, a list of the candidates for graduation this spring
has been posted on the bulletin board in Chambers Building. Since the diplomas will be given at commencement, it is
imperative that every senior checks his name carefully and make any necessary corrections with regard to spelling and the degree
to be received. This list has been posted unusually early in order to avoid the many errors and complications encountered
in the past.

China Missionary Lists American Errors

A forceful presentation of the far-eastern situation by Dr. Walter H. Judd, missionary to China and famed speaker, filled the
entire chapel period Monday morning. American opinion, according to Dr. Judd, consists of three major tenets. First, “We know all
about it, and it’s terrible!” Second, “It’s none of our business.” Third, “There is no way we can help.”

“But, do we know all about it?” queried the speaker. “War has changed. The present war is not being fought
by the Japanese people, but is under the absolute control of a self-perpetuating military clique whose sole aim is the
absolute crushing of China.” China’s most vulnerable points are her homes and her schools. Chinese civilization has been built on
those two foundations. Therefore, schools have become a military objective and the public humiliation of Chinese women a part of
the plan of conquest. The Japanese soldiers are not beasts; they are acting under orders. “It is foolish to say
that because Lenin has absorbed invaders, she will do so again,” Dr. Judd vehemently declared. “A man who has recovered
from chicken-pox has no sure cure for cancer.”

Passing on to the second point, he declared that America’s struggle is vitally America’s business. In 1938, over 56 percent
of the materials needed for warfare came from America. Since the outbreak of the European conflict, almost all Japan’s munitions
have come from us. In reality, America is giving lip service to China, while we are Japan’s strongest ally. In
so aiding Japan, we are helping her to seize our markets in China and are helping destroy our strongest ally
in case of a Russian or Japanese attempt against the United States.

“What can we do?” demanded Dr. Judd in the closing point of his address. “We can stop the war by
stopping our shipment of arms. We can hold those whom we’ve elected to office responsible all the time.”

Claude Hackney Elected First Vice-President On Same Ballot

OTHER RACES CLOSE

Three Left In Secretary-Treasurer Election

Henry Bahnson of Winston-Salem will lead the Davidson student body during the next school year. He was elected on the
second ballot over Edgar Dale. Claude Watson of Live Oak, Fla., was also chosen as first vice-president on the same
ballot. Remaining in the running for second vice-presidency were four men, closely bunched after Tuesday’s ballot: Marsty Marsh, Ralph Williams,
Albert Lucas, and George Winn. These men were Marsh with 193, Winn with 126, Lucas with 119, and Williams with
117.

In the race for secretary-treasurer, four sophomores remained in the running after the second ballot Tuesday: Jesse Lacy, Ben Wooten,
and Hugh Sprunt. Wooten led with 122 votes, trailed by Lacy with 91 and Sprunt with 65.

Activities

Bahnson is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, a medical fraternity, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, a social fraternity. He has
been on the football and wrestling teams for the past two years. He succeeds Corey Rees, the retiring president. Hackney
is a member of Alpha Epsilon and was secretary-treasurer of the student body last year. The new president will take
over the office immediately.

Other candidates included B. Winston and Paul Crane for president; Hackney, Marsh, Lucas, Winn, Williams, Phaer, Knoettés, Daffin, Crook, Johnson,
Taylor, Casey Jones, and Jim Fred for vice-president; and Lacy, Wooten, Sprunt, Frederick, Welford, Ashby, Dick Young, Herb Martin, and
Peter Harper for secretary-treasurer.

Harper Weds H.B. Arbuckle

Professor’s Son Honeymoons In Caribbean Sea

Miss Jetty C. Harper became the bride of Howard Bell Arbuckle, son of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, professor and alumnus
of Davidson, in a wedding ceremony at the Hickory Church. Reverend John Hay officiated.

Prior to the ceremony, Miss Rainey Pfohl played several selections on the organ, including “Andante Cantabile” and “Ah Sweet Mystery
of Life.” Donald Pfohl of Wake Forest also sang “Because” by D’Hardelot. The Wedding March from Lohengrin was played for
the processional and Mendelssohn’s Wedding March for the recessional.

The bride, given in marriage by her father, Mr. Finley Gwyn Harper, was followed by a reception given by the
bride’s parents at the Hickory country club. Mr. Arbuckle and his bride left for New Orleans and from there will
take a cruise in the Caribbean Sea. Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle will make their home in Charlotte following their return
from the Caribbean.

The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle of Davidson. He was graduated from Davidson College where he
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Alpha Phi Delta.
