Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN The Staff | Wi th . c By ALBERT WINN

It has been said that a tradition lurks behind every tree on the Davidson campus, and that a heritage is
liable to spring up from beneath your feet and poke an accusing finger at you in the most unexpected times
and places. Be that as it may, there is certainly a liberal dose of tradition and legend connected with The
Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 1938 Member 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

First of all, there are the evident traditions that confront the most casual passerby if he will only keep his
eyes open when he pushes the rickety door and enters amid the clatter of typewriters and the irate yells of
junior editors. There are the spots on the walls where editors tossed ink-bottles in moments of desperation. There are pictures
of former staffs, old papers written by aspiring journalists of years gone by, framed certificates won in banner years of
the past. And there are more subtle things: scribblings on the window sills, little carvings on the desks, doodles on
old scraps of cardboard—all indications of the fact that the reporters of the past were likewise confronted with heads that
wouldn't count and lead paragraphs that wouldn't click.

But around old Elm Row, there is a deeper tradition yet. Years ago, the rows were used as dormitories. And
the boys of bygone days played and slept and studied within these self-same walls. They built their own fires, drew
the water for their frigid weekly baths from the college well. And that spirit of independence, somewhat diminished but still
evident, is a force on the campus today.

The reader (if anyone has pursued these two-o'clock wanderings thus far) will perhaps wonder that a staff backed by such
a worthy past and so many inspiring traditions can often produce a virtually newsless, uninteresting paper. Much of this is,
perhaps, the fault of the staff. But a newspaper, and preeminently a college newspaper, must be a cooperative affair. If
it is to be worthwhile, the reader must meet the writer halfway.

This paper is the official history of college life and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such,
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

PUBLIC SPEAKING One of Davidson's main needs at present is a professor of public speaking. We have dramatic organizations, a
debating team, and the forensic council, but no person who has been especially trained to teach public speaking and who
devotes his entire time to that work.

Mental, Not Mechanical Defects Cause Accidents Of all automobiles involved in fatal accidents in 1938, only 1.9% were found to
have defective brakes; in fact, only 7.6% were found to have any mechanical defects at all. These astounding figures are
found in an analysis of the automobile accident experience of 1938 just issued by the Travelers Insurance Company. Many drivers,
if they will be honest, can usually trace the cause of an accident to some failure of their own mental
or temperamental equipment rather than in their mechanical equipment, the analysis states. They will insist that the steering wheel locked,
or that the gas pedal stuck, or that the brakes failed; but figures indicate that more than 90% of all
vehicles involved in fatal and non-fatal smashups are in apparently good mechanical condition with none of the numerous defects that
drivers claim.

Of a total of 37,250 motor vehicles involved in fatal accidents in 1938, only 2,820 were found to have any
mechanical defects at all. Out of more than a million involved in non-fatal smashups, only about 58,000 were found to
have defects. Defective conditions that were found, in the order of their importance, were: defective brakes, puncture or blowout, one
or both headlights out, faulty steering mechanism, tail-light out or obscured, and glaring headlights.

Letters To The Editor IN DEFENSE Dear Andy: It seems that we are never satisfied! There appeared in “Sports Slants”
of last week's Davidsonian a complaint concerning our intramural equipment. I disagree with the Sports Editor and would like to
speak in defense of the Intramural Department. This year, through the efforts of our Intramural Director, Coach Whittle, the student
body is offered more in the way of intramural athletic equipment than ever before. Previously, no one but the athletic
officials have been allowed to check out equipment. This year, since the Intramural Department has established an intramural headquarters, the
student body has been offered more in the way of intramural athletic equipment than ever before. According to statistics just
released by the department head, more boys participated in the intramural program this year than ever before.

In the column referred to, it was brought out that the softballs furnished by the department were unfit for game
use. Why is this true? Obviously, it is because we abuse them. It was also pointed out that the various
fraternities have to furnish their own catcher's mask. I think this is only fair. It certainly would not be fair
to make the non-fraternity men pay for those things which do not benefit them. Besides, it looks as if the
fraternities could contribute a little.

GLEANINGS By MELVIN MEANS Guest Columnist—P. P. Reith Here's a hand to the Pan-Hellenic Council of '40 for the wonderful
dances, the fine bands, and beautiful girls who came to be in on the good times we have had this
year. Hope Glutt and his boys have a year as successful as those who preceded them.

Saturday afternoon, the happiest man in town was down at the track meet with a shining new cigar, beginning his
five-month vacation after spending two weeks on the drive at his keyboard trying to get dates for us. We all
know “Bad News” Gaffney as the man who resides in the Flush House and emerges several days before dance time
with the standard whipped-off-the-pot-form. Hats off to this man who is a definite part of any dance set promoted!

Nobody would think that innocent Sexy Rose would do any little, poor, defenseless girl as he did. He shot Hussle
Holland's date, Kelly Ann, the girl who never heard of Jamaica, and who stayed locked in a closet all during
the banquet Friday night, the most convincing line I've ever heard. Why don't you write a book on it, Woodall,
and sell it to the Cuties at Converse for new material? And speaking of this type, who would think that
Tom Friar is to be among the first married men from the class of '40? They say he gave her
a beautiful diamond this weekend.

When reconstructing the weekend, we find another silversmith or should we give him the title of jeweler, for Pussy McLean
presented the girls at the Alumnae Luncheon bracelets. It seems that we are never satisfied! There appeared in “Sports Slants”
of last week's Davidsonian a complaint concerning our intramural equipment. I disagree with the Sports Editor and would like to
speak in defense of the Intramural Department. This year, through the efforts of our Intramural Director, Coach Whittle, the student
body is offered more in the way of intramural athletic equipment than ever before. Previously, no one but the athletic
officials have been allowed to check out equipment. This year, since the Intramural Department has established an intramural headquarters, the
student body has been offered more in the way of intramural athletic equipment than ever before. According to statistics just
released by the department head, more boys participated in the intramural program this year than ever before.

In the column referred to, it was brought out that the softballs furnished by the department were unfit for game
use. Why is this true? Obviously, it is because we abuse them. It was also pointed out that the various
fraternities have to furnish their own catcher's mask. I think this is only fair. It certainly would not be fair
to make the non-fraternity men pay for those things which do not benefit them. Besides, it looks as if the
fraternities could contribute a little.

Scott seems to be the biggest snake for he managed to have one date Friday and two Saturday. How did
Jonas feel when he got flushed for the dances and also on a late? Tell us how you keep your
record so clean, Karl.

Gentle Ghost coming from the deals to W. & L. and to Chapel Hill by Cauble and Bahnson in the
first lot with Rice, Winn, Watt, etc. pulling for the Hill. Why can't the Ape get in the operator class
instead of sitting back and making weak cracks about the column now that he is retiring? The wreck was not
that bad, Means. By the way, the guy who has been writing the stale and sorry Snooper in the run-down
magazine is Tud the Stud Ludam—Don’t try to deny it, Abernathy!of stimulating ideas. It’s a cooperative enterprise, and we all
can do nothing. Naturally, it is hard to find a man who measures up to the standards set by the
administration and who is at the same time a capable person. But, if Davidson is to hold its place among
the leaders in southern educational circles, there must be a public speech department. When a man goes out into business,
teaching, science, or any of the professions, he finds many uses for a good fundamental knowledge of the art of
public speaking. Without such knowledge, he is handicapped, and although this may be overcome, it is usually only with difficulty
and hard work. How much better it would be if that man had learned how to speak well in public
while a college student!

The administration realizes the need for such a man and has been attempting to secure one for next year. It
is our belief that the acuteness of this need warrants any extra expense or trouble that it would take to
get a man to teach such a course next year.

SUPPORT THE SING

Thus far, there has been little said or heard about the interfraternity sing. The date has been announced. The sponsors,
without you, the stockroom, any member of the student body can check out footballs, basketballs, softballs, bats, or nearly any
kind of athletic equipment. We also have a new and larger intramural field. Evidence of the enlarged and greatly improved
intramural program is obvious from the fact.

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

After all, intramural softball is conducted only for them. Of course, I agree that our intramural program is not perfect,
but what is? One thing is certain, however, and that is that we are enjoying much better athletic facilities this
year than last, thanks to “Pete.”

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
May 2, 3, and 4

“Gone With The Wind”: Clark Gable, Leslie Howard, Vivien Leigh, and Olivia de Havilland. Finally, the show of our time
has reached here. Not enough can be written in praise of such a performance as this. When you see it,
you will realize why it is the most exciting topic of conversation of the day. All that you ever hoped
for on the screen has come true, all the beauty is revealed in Technicolor, all the thrill, the heart-stabbing drama,
the tense action, the powerful love story, are here for you to live over again on the screen. A true
representation of the Old South before the war, during the war, and after the war. The scene of the story
is laid around Atlanta and the adjoining land. Clark Gable as Rhett Butler and Vivien Leigh as Scarlett O’Hara give
the greatest performance of their career in this thrilling movie. Anyone that misses this show has missed the picture of
a lifetime. All seats at night will be reserved.

Monday and Tuesday
May 6 and 7

“40 Little Mothers”: Eddie Cantor, Judith Anderson, Rita Johnson, and Ralph Morgan. The wild man of the screen returns to
action to give us a performance of laughter and vigor. Eddie Cantor plays the part of the bad boy who
is always in trouble and is constantly worried by the helping hand of old ladies, friends, and girls. Eddie smooths
over his many troubles with the aid of Judith Anderson, who adds much to the show.

Wednesday
May 8

“Courageous Dr. Christian”: Jean Hersholt, Dorothy Lovett, Robert Baldwin, and Tom Neal. The lovable old doctor of the screen returns
to give us another remarkable movie. This show gives one the idea of the many good things that may be
done in one's own hometown. Jean Hersholt plays the part of the small-town doctor, who lets his medicine fall by
the wayside in order to help out in the family affairs of the town people. He then gets himself in
serious trouble as the result of notable gestures. Well-acted with deft comedy touches to lighten the more heart-trying sequences. “The
Courageous Dr. Christian” is a film for the whole family.

Quotable Quotes

“Colleges cannot talk about democracy and at the same time refuse to allow democratic principles and methods to be used
on their own campuses. Boards of trustees, faculties as well as student bodies, must see democracy as a way of
life effective here and everywhere.” Dr. Gould Wickey, Council of Church Boards of Education secretary, demands that students and faculty
members practice what they preach.

“So long as the state pays the expense of junior college education at the state university or the state teachers
college, there is every reason why it should also participate in the expense of local public junior colleges which operate
on the same level.” Dr. George F. Zook, president of the American Council on Education, thumps for support of junior
colleges.

By TOM CAUBLE

Compassing Campuses

A DISSERTATION ON SALEMIC SIRENS
By TOM CAUBLE

As recounted at the eleventh hour from the real-life experiences of Beester Burwell:

The term “Salemic Siren” seems to have been first used in the case of the famous “Maid of Salem” who
was put to death in the year 1692 along with seventeen other persons accused of participation in witchcraft in the
village of Salem, Mass. Since the martyrdom of the original, however, Salemic Sirens seem to have fared enviably well. To
the best of my knowledge, not one has been burned at the stake since. This decreased mortality rate in the
ranks is more understandable, however, when one considers that while the 1692 Siren was thought guilty of casting evil spirits
into fellow-beings and communing with the devil, the modern S. S. is suspected of lesser misdemeanors such as accepting a
Mid-Winters’ Invitation, and at a slightly later date regretting that she won’t be able to come until the Saturday dances.

And whereas the Pre-Revolutionary Salemite sat in church in mortal fear of the Sexton's pole, a willow with a squirrel’s
tail at one end, which would be applied to her person in case she nodded or dozed, the modern Miss
is more interested in that pole which casts, on a sunny afternoon in May, its shadows across her shining visage
and fluffy white pastel. Again, whereas the old order thought more or less simply of witches and sorcery, the contemporary
colleen’s mental processes are more of the jumbled “stream of consciousness” type.

(Continued on Page Six)
