Vote For Roosevelt!

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vote For Willkie!

Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24th, 1940 Number 4.

Societies Sponsoring Presidential Contest

Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls Scene of Willkie-Roosevelt Debate

STUDENTS CAST VOTE

Local Plan Attracts Nation-Wide Attention

Bringing back to life the former custom of debating between the society halls, the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies will
stage a spectacular political rally on the night of Tuesday, October 29, and will open the polls the next day
so students may register their choice for President. The Eus announced that their speakers for the occasion will be Bob
Finley for Roosevelt and Drury Thompson for Willkie. The Phis have chosen Frank Barker, Paul S. Crane, and Jim Kerr.
Speeches will last about five minutes each, and two-minute rebuttals will be allowed.

Brass Band

The program, to be directed from the porches of the halls by the presidents of the literary societies, calls for
numbers by an old-time brass band between speeches, and a glaring torchlight parade afterward. During the rally, campaign leaflets, buttons,
cigars, stickers, and posters will flood prospective voters. State posters for each state represented in the student body will be
made so students can rally around their respective posters and try to “carry” their states for one candidate or the
other. Topping off the rally, students will report the next day to vote for their favorite candidates.

Publicity

Complete news coverage of the rally is assured, for “Life” magazine is considering carrying the story, and pictures are to
be sent to “Collegiate Digest.” Newspapers all over the state are to carry full accounts of the event. A letter
received from the Republican National Committee stated that committee headquarters will try to arrange to have telegrams sent here from
Willkie and McNary on the night of the rally.

National Parties

The Republican National Headquarters has sent considerable campaign material, and the Democratic headquarters in Charlotte is co-operating by supplying paper
bunting and streamers for decoration, as well as buttons and campaign material. Presidents of the literary societies stated that besides
having the rally as a student get-together for fun, it has been planned to awaken interest in political issues and
to broaden the students’ viewpoints on matters of national importance.

Military Unit Holds Parade

Scabbard and Blade to Have Tap Day Soon

Davidson’s R.O.T.C. battalion will stage its first parade of the year this Friday afternoon, October 25, at 3:05, according to
Cadet Major J. H. McDuffie. At drill period on Monday and Wednesday, the battalion practiced for Friday’s parade. The five
companies marched in mass formation, passing in review, and also practiced the manual of arms as a unit.

Sometime next week, the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity will hold “tap day” at which new men chosen by the
chapter will be bid. The date had originally been planned for this week but was postponed because of the parade.
Staff officers for this year include Cadet Captain John H. King, cadet adjutant; Herbert Cottington, cadet plans and training officer,
and D. V. Rhea, staff sergeant. There are still quite a few pairs of R.O.T.C. shoes on hand. Those men
not taking R.O.T.C. and wishing to purchase a pair of these [Continued on Page Six]

Dr. Thomas To Conduct “Y” Services

Cabinet Goes to Montreat to Complete Plans for Fall Services

Plans are still in the process for the 1940 YMCA fall services. Shaw Smith stated that they are expecting very
successful services this fall. Letters are still being passed between the “Y” and Richmond. Sherrard Rice, last year’s “Y” secretary,
wrote that he had talked with Dr. Thomas, the speaker, and was very enthusiastic over his interview.

Youthful Appeal

Dr. Thomas has been very successful in the ministry yet he is still a young man appealing more to the
students. Dr. Thomas was Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee University. He was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Charleston, S. C., and Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va. He was called this fall to the Union
Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va., to fill the vacancy left by the late Dr. Porter Smith.

The YMCA Cabinet is looking forward to the annual retreat held at Montreat, N. C., the weekend of November 9.
They expect to complete further plans for the fall services and to map out future plans for “Y” work and
activities coming later on in the year.

Last Year

“The fall services held last year by Rev. S. S. Wiley of Thomasville, N. C., were very successful and very
well attended by the students. It is hoped that they will be as well attended this year,” Secretary Smith said.
The climax of the services will be a communion service held the last night for the entire student body. The
dates for the fall services this year are November 12 through November 14.

“Conscripts”

As a result of the Military Selective Service Act, 59 students registered in the college office on October 16, and
10 registered in their home towns. Also, several professors were required to register. Nine students were excused from registering because
they are taking senior R.O.T.C. R. E. Shore, a senior, was 21 on registration day. Also, several members of the
freshman class were within the age limits and were required to register.

NEW DRAMA INSTRUCTOR

Black Masquers. Mr. Bringel is shown discussing the feature of dramatics at Davidson with two members of the faculty who
have been very active in the work of the drama groups heretofore. These men, Professors Erwin and Dr. Cumming, will
continue to work with Mr. Bringel in his productions by the Red and Black Masquers. Mr. Bringel, standing between the
previous instructors of drama, has had a wide experience in the field of Drama. He has been with companies that
have done heavy Shakespearean plays and then he has directed lighter works in the Little Theater in Charlotte. While he
has been in Charlotte, he has been serving as Drama critic for radio station WSOC. For about eighteen months Mr.
Bringel aided in the production of the original scripts presented by several Davidson students over station WSOC.—(Photo by Barker).

Music Groups Give Concert

Band and Glee Club Plan Homecoming Program

Among the future activities of the musical organizations at Davidson is the Homecoming Concert given by the Symphonic Band. These
annual concerts have always been well attended and Prof. J. C. Pfohl, director of the band, says that a well-arranged
program has been planned this year. Concerning the organizations, the Queens-Davidson Symphony is planning a concert on an indefinite date
in November. The Mint Museum Orchestra, composed of Queens and Davidson students and a few outsiders, is arranging a series
of Sunday afternoon concerts to be given at the Mint Museum in Charlotte. Later on in the year, five or
six guest artists will appear at Davidson under the sponsorship of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary musical fraternity.

Davidson's singers will also be active this fall. Two concerts will be rendered by the Glee Club this weekend, in
connection with the Queens Choral Club. An a cappella choir composed of students from both schools will be featured. One
concert will be held here tomorrow night and the other at Queens on Sunday afternoon.

Patriotism Displayed In Band Performance

By ALBERT WINN

Old Glory, emblazoned in fireworks, shone forth at the northern end of the stadium Saturday night as Davidson’s new arc
lights were extinguished to add impressiveness to an unusual band display. Spectators at the Davidson-Sewanee game thundered applause and sprang
to their feet when a large flag appeared in red, white, and blue flames. The band, formed in a large
U. S., played the Star Spangled Banner, outlining their formation with sparklers and by Head Drum Major Bob Garvey twirling
a flaming baton. This display, punctuated by flares and skyrockets, climaxed a day of emphasis of band music and maneuvers.
During the afternoon, from 4:30 on, visiting high school bands had marched and counter-marched across the turf of Davidson’s playing
field.

Assuming that this question arose in the minds of many besides its own reporters, the Davidsonian has attempted to gather
information from various sources as to how bands learn to form figures and execute maneuvers without many flaws and mixups.
Strange as it may seem, many hours of tedious work are spent long beforehand in mapping out in detail the
exact location of the band members with respect to each other and the yard lines on the field. The movements
of each musician are carefully charted, to avoid any possible collisions between tubas and piccolos in forming and reforming various
figures. Thus when the figure is worked out for the first time on the field, the band director has in
his hand detailed charts showing the movement and position of each player for every formation. With this information so readily
at hand, according to Director James Christian Pfohl, it is a simple matter requiring only time to instruct each man
and to work up the entire band into the desired formation.

D. A. Huffines, junior and property manager of the band, has drafted all formations taken by the band this year.
The figures used to date include a short

Grades Go Out

First month reports will appear either Friday or Saturday, October 25 or 26, Registrar F. W. Hengeveld announced this week.
The reports will cover approximately the first five weeks of classes, from the opening of school on September 18 through
review week. The purpose of the early appearance of reports is to enable freshmen to better plan their efforts in
the future by letting them know how they are progressing in their studies.Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores may obtain their grades
by calling at the office of the Registrar, where the grades will be recorded, and Freshmen will get theirs from
their faculty advisers. Reports will be mailed to parents and guardians at the same time that the students are notified
of their grades.

Sigma Upsilon Gives Varied Presentation
Original Works by Students Are Highlights

The second meeting of Sigma Upsilon was held at 9 o'clock Tuesday night, October 15, at the Pi Kappa Phi
house. The program featured an original poem by Al Winn Greene, entitled “Vaerie,” a parody on Spenser's “Faerie Queen,” written
in the Spenserian stanza form and concerning the adventures of a Davidson freshman with his ladies fair, the post office,
and the executive committee. Another feature of the evening was an original story by Winston Taylor entitled “Repaid,” a dramatic
work somewhat resembling the style of Poe. Paul Bumbarger also presented “Davidsonia,” a group of incidents and anecdotes connected with
the history of the college. The first chapter of a novel as yet untitled was read by Dr. Curtis Johnston.
The chapter dealt with life during the founding of Davidson and the Synod of Mecklenburg County. Dan Hedges is to
write chapter two for next week’s meeting.

The entire program for the remainder of the first semester was announced. This program includes all forms of original works
such as plays, essays, short stories, and poems. All members are to contribute at some time during the year.

Newly chosen officers assumed their duties at this meeting. Comprehensive and humorous minutes were read by Joe Newell Robinson, as
his secretarial debut, and a feed was provided by the newly elected steward, Al Winn.

Court Trails Tank Culprit

Clues disclosed within the past week indicate that the freshmen guilty of painting the water tank will be apprehended in
the near future, according to Jay Bolin, judge of the Court of Control. As the Davidsonian went to press, it
seemed to members of the court that confession might be obtained from the culprit on Wednesday night, during the regular
session of the court. Also a moot question at press time was whether the freshman class was to be campused
an additional week for disorderly conduct in chapel. Freshman boisterousness reached such an excess last week that Student Body President
Hank Bahnson was forced to request the class to leave the auditorium. Over 30 first-year men were up before the
court Wednesday night, although detailed accounts of trials and sentences could not be obtained for this issue. Freshman caps have
been ordered by the Student Store and are expected in shortly. As soon as they arrive, the rule concerning caps
will be enforced without delay.

Ex-Governor To Address D.C. Alumni
Luncheon, Football Game, Dance to Enliven Week-End

A speech by the Honorable O. Max Gardner, the annual luncheon, and a football game in the afternoon will be
included in the list of events scheduled for Homecoming weekend, which will fall on Saturday and Sunday, November second and
third. At 11:30 A.M. on Saturday morning, the Honorable O. Max Gardner will speak in the College Chapel. Mr. Gardner,
who was the former governor of North Carolina, is well acquainted with the national and international life of America. Although
he now lives in Shelby, N.C., he has spent much time in Washington. The subject of his address will be
of his own choosing.

Luncheon

The Annual Homecoming Luncheon will be staged in the basement of Chambers. President Harllee Branch, of the Alumni Association, will
act as the presiding officer during the luncheon. Many short speeches are scheduled for the period following the meal.

Football Game

Following the luncheon, the alumni will adjourn to Richardson Stadium for the Centre-Davidson game. Other features of the day which
may be enjoyed by the Alumni are: the Homecoming Decorations prepared by each fraternity on the Hill for the occasion,
and the annual Homecoming Dances to be held on Friday and Saturday nights in the Hotel Charlotte.

Dance Tickets

Tickets for the Homecoming Dances are still available and can be purchased from any Pan-Hellenic officer. The dance tickets were
placed on sale early last week. Hector McLean, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has reported that the sale of tickets
has been unusually brisk this week. Set tickets will go off sale Tuesday, the 29th of October. This Homecoming, the
set ticket is priced at four dollars. Individual tickets may be obtained for two dollars and a half each. Following
the custom of most Davidson dances, no corsages will be worn on the dance floor.

Spirit Provoker Still Shrouded In Mystery
By BOB GARVEY

When the paper came forth with its stand for a greater and bigger school spirit, it was never dreamed that
someone would accept the challenge so readily. Quite naturally, there was some action expected, but the “painter” beat everyone at
the game of arousing school spirit. With our mysterious booster started out brush and bucket in hand, the first we
saw of his works was a large glaring sign on the walk to the P.O. This particular sign was a
demand for the old spirit. Soon the idea of beating V.M.I. was brought forth and then this theme was carried
to all parts of the campus very shortly. From spreading paint high and low (from the tank to the streets),
our friend put up a sign big enough to hold those vital words—BEAT V.M.I. This painting spree ended with one
grand gesture—that was the small but quite prominent reminder on the walk to each frat house that we were to
beat V.M.I.

One of the most outstanding features of the whole campaign was the quality of paint used by said painter. Many
is the sore hand and back from the efforts. Workmen and freshman pledges have been trying to remove these signs
rather vainly ever since they made their appearance.

Campus opinion on this subject has been quite varied. Some think that it is a good idea and that we
should see that the good work is kept up. Others think it is a good idea but that the paint
should be of the removable kind so that the team to beat could be changed with each week. Then there
are others that think the artist should confine his work to paper where it can be judged by the world
and maybe win a prize in the annual art contest. However, regardless of the opinion on the matter, our mysterious
friend may rest assured that he has had a great part in the job of keeping the students aware that
there is a football team here and that they play each week.

George Bringel Will Direct Drama Group
Charlotte Radio Critic Will Lead New Department in Dramatics

CLASS ON MONDAY
Red and Black Masquers to Work Under Bringel

Mr. George S. Bringel of Charlotte, the dramatic critic of WSOC, held his first class in dramatics at Davidson Monday
night to a group of more than 150 students. The first subject for Mr. Bringel’s discussion was “The Ideal Stage
and How to Use It.” He explained the 15 areas of the stage and how these areas can be used
to create effects. Mr. Bringel then developed the elements in producing a play, including the methods of casting and rehearsals.
He divided rehearsals into several periods: interpretation of the characters, blocking out of action, association of speech with movement, perfection
of entrances, exits, and emotional and comic scenes, and a final week to perfect timing and to accustom the actors
to the props. Photographs of Shakespearean plays were then passed to illustrate the possibilities of a single set and grouping
of players on the set. The floor was then opened for discussion. Mr. Bringel plans to have short scenes produced
in class to demonstrate proper technique. He also had pantomime, speeches, and script reading tryouts for NBC radio actors.

Mr. Bringel is at present taking a leading part in the Charlotte Little Theatre production “Margin for Error.” He has
had extensive experience in directing and acting with a number of stock companies, including a group of Shakespearean players.

Student Vote Defeats Song
Choice of Alma Mater Deferred Till Later Date

“Davidson, Our Alma Mater” and “All Hail, O Davidson” were both rejected by the student body on Friday in a
vote to choose one or neither of the two songs as an official Alma Mater hymn. The former was written
last fall by Fred Waring at the request of Davidson students and played on his “Chesterfield Pleasure Time” radio broadcast,
while the latter was presented to the school in 1937 by Dr. G. M. Maxwell of the class of '96
to help celebrate the centennial. “All Hail, O Davidson” received the most votes, but since the majority was not sufficient
for its adoption, “O Davidson” will remain the official song of the college until further suggestions may be offered.

Before the election on Friday, the songs were sung by the Glee Club in chapel Tuesday, played by the band
on Wednesday, and sung by the student body on Friday. Professor Pfohl arranged them for presentation and Professor McDonald made
the arrangements for the band and Glee Club.

IN THIS ISSUE
New Drama Class
Presidential Contest
Lost and Found Department
Among the Greeks
Question of the Week
Editorials
Davidson-Sewanee Game
Y Services
Band Festival
