a » dormitories

Thurs., May 2, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

Site Week

After a one-year test of the new interdormitory sport system do you

Rushing's Question

Masquers Burlesque

New Music Organization Heads

Rev. Scott To Speak At Church

favor a continuance of this plan, or would you rather have class competition instead, as has been done every year until this? And

Pat Rudolph

Hoss Reeves, Senior:

Criticism has been given inter-dormitory sports on the basis that class spirit is hurt and that it is often hard to get a full team out for some interdorm game. During the time of the inter-class sports a small group from each class controlled and played in the intramural games. The dormitory sports have not seemed to come to such a basis and even if they do you will have almost twice as many students—a chance to participate in some sport of their liking. The difficulty of getting full teams for dormitory games will disappear in a short time when the rivalry between dormitories gets better—remember the old spirit of the inter-class games.

Pat Rudolph, Senior:

I am in favor of the interdormitory sport system as I believe that after a one-year trial it has proved to be very successful. As it is at present there seems to be enough distinction made between classes while the other system would only tend to separate the classes still further. Since there are only four classes, the plan of the inter-class sports would only permit four teams to participate in each sport while the inter-dormitory plan allows almost twice as many teams to enter in the sporting activities of each sport.

By Die fedber

Returned Presbyterian Missionary to China to Speak at Sunday Vespers

Rev. Charles E. Scott, D.D., Presbyterian minister at home on furlough from his work in Sian, China, will speak in the Chambers Auditorium at the weekly vespers service next Sunday night.

Dr. Scott has been in China since 1900, having gone there after graduation from Princeton Theological Seminary, a period of study in Munich, Germany and a short experience in the pastorate in the church in Albion, Mich. For several years he was stationed at Tsingtao, a port city of Shantung Province. Despite city headquarters, however, Dr. Scott spent much time in the country, congregations; becoming familiar with the life in the thickly settled village areas in this section.

He has written widely in church and religious periodicals on Chinese Christian life and work. He has also written “Chinese Twice Born” and “Answered Prayer in China.”

Dr. Scott has had two sons to graduate from Davidson College: They are Rev. Francis H. Scott and Kenneth M. Scott. Rev. Scott is now in the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and Kenneth M. Scott is attending the University of Virginia Law School preparatory to being a lawyer.

Masquers Burlesque

An original burlesque will be presented by the Red and Black Masquers in the near future, it was decided at the last meeting of the organization on Wednesday.

The production was written by members of the fraternity, Pat Rudolph and Dan Hodges. The theme of the farce will be rush week and the consequent comedy and tragedy. The cast will be all male.

This burlesque will be similar to the ones given by the University of Pennsylvania's Masque and Wig Club, Harvard's Hasty Pudding Show and Princeton’s Triangle Club. The cast boys will take all female parts as well as forming a shapely chorus.

Three original songs have been written by the authors with music by Jo Newell Robinson, also a member of the club. The lyrics will be a take off on Davidson College.

At the last meeting of the Masquers, Miss Mary Sneed of Concord spoke to the group on her experience in the summer theater at Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The talk was followed by a general discussion. Among the faculty present were Prof. and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson and Dr. Hood.

Fredrickson’s Flames

Boarding House Damaged By Fire Starting From Unknown Cause

By W. C. Plunkett

Halfway through the second period Monday afternoon, unfortunate students confined to labs were made miserable by the moaning sounds of the local fire truck's siren. Anxious heads hung out of lab and dormitory windows were unable to determine the exact location of the blaze.

Curious members of the student body who found themselves unoccupied at the time of the alarm soon discovered that the fire was in the boarding house of Mrs. Fredrickson. The fire, which started from an unknown cause, was confined to the kitchen and was soon brought under control by the local fire department. No one was injured, but the kitchen was badly damaged.

Pi Gamma Mu Alumni Meeting

At its last meeting Pi Gamma Mu made plans for a buffet supper on the lawn of Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Gwynn. This took place this evening. New officers for the fraternity were elected in chapel last Tuesday.

A group of Davidson College alumni will hold a meeting on Thursday, May 2, at 7 P.M., in Lenoir, N.C. The meeting will be held in the form of a banquet in the Carlheim Hotel.

Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson College, will be the principal speaker at the banquet and he will also show several motion pictures of the faculty, the campus, and the football team.

The group which will meet at Lenoir is composed of members living in or around Lenoir, Hickory, Morganton, and Marion. Dr. A. A. McLean of Lenoir is the President and

ATHLETIC FRAT HOLDS TRYOUTS

Sigma Delta Psi, Honorary Athletic Fraternity, is holding trials for membership around May 1st. Dick Gammon, president of the fraternity, has announced that anyone who can pass the tests is eligible for membership. Varsity letter men who have earned their letter may substitute it for any test except swimming. The list of events includes: 100 yard dash—11.6 sec.; 120 yard low hurdles—16 sec.; mile run, 6 min.Archie Shu- | ASTRA Pack AAPA Ginn Jim Kerr, Sophomore: Selects E 1 gS h t sity passe class; of just sitting /1) ~Stot distance varies according |] ford of Hickory is the Secretary. || Si | << Ss t ul d (S nh t S| oF i i ne i : ape ape | }around in general, took out after to-woights baschall--250 Tl. or jave | i Ny Family Missionaries nirA-MYral—— sports Nave nt N Me rae ihe red wagon and found one of] jj, 130° ff linia 5° ft | Dr Seott also has ‘three daugh- highly beneficial for the amusement | CW em 9e 1 S| the local boarding houses suffering | , 2. 1 ; : 7 ‘ f i ; 46 (Ue leg ad Me eu HA GO| ters in missionary work in Ching and edification of those unable to | iro fire erecdy flames, Mrev rode DNS NO art MD SND 2s) Ay \ i = | Pace ees Ea ta nema! take part in varsity athletics, but (aie iben nis ail ea rile One ha teEnieS rope in ) sec,; hand stand--10 see ‘| isst open house for townspeople | See One of the daughters,’ Mrs. John I feel that there would be a greater | Members Vote On 1 Most Ath: eae dabeate fei eas | DANCES NINE fence vault chit) Held, Joe Gammon, Claude Hiekney,| ©. Stam, was killed with her hus- : Spitiee cetcs ; ce | letic Freshman to Re- j eating place was the fire-infe sted | height; punt football 40 yvds.; and} Golf team wins second place in} ,, ; ? : : a‘ competitive spirit between classes, | ‘vedic ; Peete ie . ee : 2 lee seen c : ! Bob Johnson, Sherrard Rice, Bobby | band by Chinese communists Avhile than between dormitories: Further- ceive > Loving Cup uilding—but to the agreeable dis-| swim 100 yards—1 min. 45 sec pes live tournament | Williams and Charhe-Watt—ftermed+ aretheir-awork in their station in more, simple mathematics would DAViARGHie freclan aihinie ore papRointment of the group of ob- Sree years ie Davidson yen Five Years Ago fa deputation that conducted sery ae Piece a hi tre Phe show that there would be~ fewer ganization, the Numeral Club, held | SST"! tres ting-wae seGne Un er ppc Re heaate PiSa eves Professor IF. K. Fleagle tapped |jces Sunday evening, April 21, at! ene : i Se games to be played off. This year |i, annual spring initiation last | control. ; ah ite ut aa : bay (0); 1b) [Westminster Presbyterian Chureh | lant daughter this couple was badminton was omitted due to the night—in-the-D~Club Roan The Raa Se cara a Preadway Purnell chosen judge [Continued on Fige Six) werlooked by the bandits increased amount of games to be) coremony w: Pays er : pwr een ; st scoreof the «court of Control. e : played, with the result that some BEER Ik TORT Tae James C. Pfohl, Jr. in theynation | Dr. W. A. Shimer, sécretary ‘of boys who were good at badminton ship” fonothecieire hieinbere A __ Besides Dick SAROR other) Phi Beta Kappa, visits Davidson 5 were unable to take part in intra- Wee cal ceneivine lide tou thesalul Professor and Mrs. James j members of the fraternity are Dave | Davidson's tennis team reaches w ae- murals. In addition, division of the? vere. Pete Casvcrt, Jim Darracott,|| Christian Pfohl of Davidson have Spencer, Dave “Sprunt, Dave Me-) quarter-tinials in singles and semi- do y1) student body by dormitories is N= Jimmy Fuleher Ron Keffer, clini AnnbUnood: the birth of a son on Lean, and Joe Gammon fmals in doubles in the state tourna wor tirely arbitrary; a boy who would Belk, Jack Wayman, Priestly Con- April 16, 1940 re oe change his dormitory would fatten and Craige Schmidt. These ' b ECHOES OF Ten Years Ago on one team one week and against | ney have received. numerals in eith- Thence ng anywho Sat ae THE PAST Otficerss of student body and oth it the next. Then there is also the er, basketbatl or” wrestling. An- at _in-_Charlotte—hospital, has Sea ener er organizations imrstalled at) sec- | disadvantage of having all the day other initiation will be held soon been given the name, James Three Years Ago ond Stadler body banquet students allotted to the Barracks, | fo. those receiving numerals in| Christian, Jr. He weighed eight | Mayen Charles: L.. Steel named as iDiileote clraelinernteovenehein who already have more boys than asahallmatraciomen meancteni ia aoa ives ta Ganinri a peand want }Suecessor for Seifert in the. David \GHTIREI BENE ORI tie? Rumple. On the whole, therefore, 1h clk akin acthasiedl thie oMueis. : ila birth on military department. it would appear that inter-class Prominent Freshman Athlete, but Bee Sey = sports are more desirable) than in- the result of this election was not Mrs, Bfohl and, the aon, re-if terdormitory available by press time The win turned from Charlotte last week Joe Parrigan, Freshman: ner of this election will receive. a}{ and are reportea to be doing This being my first year on the loving cup, which is given each year nicely. q Davidson campus, I am unfamiliar.; by the club, as a permanent posses i aes with the ee system of ie sion. This award was won last year competition, but it seems to me that ) ave Si Sees : : 5 | our present system of inter-dormi- ae Fee ne Set eee Ernest Ellison, Inc. | tory sports is the better of the | and wrestling. John Frederick is the “JUST INSURANCE” two. With the dormitory system only member of the freshman class 115 East Fourth Street more boys are given a chance to to have earned four numerals thus Charlotte,-N..C.... participate and after all that is the, fat object of intra-mural sports. Also the teams would be more evenly matched. Since there than games are played and it does not are more classes more hurt a team’s standing to lose a game or two. Although class com- (Continued on pave Sis) EXPERT BARBER SERVICE Shampoo’s A Specialty Johnson’s Barber Shop. MEATS and Groceries DIAL 5041 J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY Charlotte Big Boy Drink BIG BOY COLA “Because It’s Better” Try PEP - UP “A Mighty Mixer” i Aerts EE Here They Are eo, Mellon’ s Palm Beach Suits | @ Yes Sir ‘ve the best looking array of these smart looking, | varm weather its vou've ever seen. You'll like the new models ] I and patterns that go so well for every oceasion, tans, blues, greys Bott ers, nc. | ureens anid ol course whites Student's Size Tailored by Goodall PALM BEACH $15.50 ey eve From the Genuine Cloth NORGE Gas Rangers Refrigerators Groceries Hardware M. H. Goodrum Company Davidson, N. C. CHARLOTTE IN. ©; | SLACKS $395 SUMMER TUX $] 75° Student’s Dept.—2nd Floor | and refresh- ing.” These are the reasons why the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is moment. welcomes the pleasing taste of Coca-Cola and the happy after-sense of complete refreshment. PAUSE THAT REFRESHES Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by “Delicious America’s favorite Everybody Delicious and Refreshing THE CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTELING COMPANY ED, MELLON CO, 106-108 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. | | WHEN IN CHARLOTTE EAT AT __ | THE WOODEN BOWL | Delicious Food at \Reasonable Prices EAT AT THACKER’S THIS WEEK-END Rooms For Private Parties THACKERS, Inc. “A Good Place To Eat” S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N.C.