Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed. March 20, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915, 1938
1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Member
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Issued Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York N.Y
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Angus
BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Collection Manager

The election system is a topic of interest. The number of votes cast in past years is approximately the same,
and the reason is that voting has decreased due to the slight extra trouble needed to walk downstairs. Some men
sit in their rooms and do not vote because they believe they are uninterested in the outcome of the election.
This should not be true in any year. Every student who has a vote should exercise their choice. When there
is a large minority, it represents the choice of the majority. All eligible voters, whether interested or not, should take
the time to vote.

A New Amendment
More amendments to our constitution have reached the student body and are now on the table for the necessary ten
days. This time it is more than a new amendment. However, we should not pass anything without proper study and
consideration. As we understand it, this entire revision is suggested so that all future presidents of the council will have
been members of the council for a term or two before sitting at its head. This is admitting that the
President of the Student Body is elected his Freshman year, when he assumes the office of Secretary-Treasurer, or his Junior
year, when he becomes either of the two Vice-Presidents. It is true that this has occurred to a great extent
in the past—but why change the constitution?

AGAINST PROPOSAL
The revisions should not pass the vote of the student body. There are several reasons why these revisions should not
pass. The first reason is in the fact that the constitution already has taken care of the possibility of a
new council and a new president in Article IX, Section 4, which states “Three members of the old Council, namely,
the retiring President, the President of the Senior Class, and one other Senior, to be chosen by the old Council,
shall be retained, and sit with the new Council at all meetings between the time the new Council is inducted
and the end of the college year.” These three men, acting as representatives of the graduating class, shall have the
same status as the new council members.

The second reason is found in remembering that two years ago the student body voted for a point system, which
in theory was devised to keep too many offices from some of our leaders and to spread them out more
among the student body. It is quite true, and we agree, our leaders are capable; however, we have an exceptional
student body and there are in reality not enough offices for our capable men. If we pass this petition, we
will be cutting out some of the few positions that our students can hold and putting more duties on other
officers. What we should really do is to revise the constitution so that neither of the Vice-presidents nor the Secretary-Treasurer
could also be council members.

SUMMARY
Of course, there are points of favor or it would not have been brought up in the first place. But
will it really be the thing that we—the students—want? The proposal was presented with the plea that it would enable
the president of the Council to better perform his duties because he would have been in the council. But why
pass this measure when Article IX, Section 4, takes care of such occasions? The President of the Student Body and
the President of the Council are two separate offices. In most cases, a member of the Council has never been
the President of the Student Body—and there is a distinction between the two. Therefore, why should we vote for an
amendment that is not necessary and is opposed to our beliefs in office holding?

THIRTY-NINE
With The Staff. On Panel Discussions
Panel discussions are the answer to fellowship between the students of Davidson College, and this is to be highly commended.
For the benefit of those who have never experienced one of these discussions, let me explain the procedure. A topic
of current interest is chosen and a panel of three well-informed professors is chosen to make talks on that subject.
At the close of these talks, any student may ask any question to any member of the panel or may
present his own views on the topic. These sessions are indeed highly entertaining and thought-provoking. There is none of the
classroom atmosphere of pedagogue but rather of the bull session. The professors speak not as representatives of the college, but
as individuals giving their personal convictions, carefully thought out and derived from years of experience. For the student, these discussions
have the advantages of the bull session plus the aid of a friendly guide. Let's have some more panel discussions.

DICK COBB, Managing Editor.

Collegiate Review
(By Associated Collegiate Press)
For college amateur photographers, April 1 is more than a day of pranks and practical jokes. April 1 is also
the final deadline for mailing entries in the third annual national collegiate photo competition being conducted by Collegiate Digest—a contest
that is held annually to select pictures for the rotogravure section’s annual Salon Edition published each spring. To compete for
national recognition and money prizes, all students of Davidson College are urged to send in their entries immediately. Enter your
pictures in one of the following divisions: still life, scenes, candid, portraits or “college life.”

One Out of Twenty
Next time your club meets, or you have a family reunion, list the names of 20 of those present. Let
them be members of your family, relatives, close friends. Look well upon their happy faces, for at the present rate
one out of that 20 will be killed or injured in an automobile accident within the next five years. It
may be you, or your daughter, or your mother, or perhaps your sweetheart. It may be a minor injury; it
may be a crippling, disfiguring casualty; it may be death. These figures are based on the law of averages, assuming
that the annual total of traffic deaths and injuries reported by The Travelers Insurance Company for 1938 will not increase
in any of the next five years. Fortunately, you and your relatives and friends can evade the law of averages.
You can beat it by being above the average in your walking and driving habits. If you and your group
of 20 will walk and drive safely, the average injury probably will not strike in the next five years; it
may not strike in the next 20 years; it may, in fact, never strike.

DISC-CHORDS
By Billy Masters and Hoss Reeves
The new Victor record by Artie Shaw, it seems that Tony Pastor, who played sax and vocals, has captured that
style which first skyrocketed Artie to fame. You can pick up his band on WEAV on Saturday nights. And the
vocalist is Bob Eberly.

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS Guest Columnist
Spring Fever
The first thing that I have to say is that all of Davidson is sorry to hear of “Apie’s” accident,
and we sincerely hope that he will soon be back with us, well, and ready for that last grind. And
here's hoping that we can do his column justice during his brief absence.Return from their respective trips after the holidays.
The C. U. N. C. seems to have been one of the feature attractions of the week-end. Here we found
Bob Hunter, Colvin, Johnson, and Frank Niven dragging poor “little” Ed Hipp off to a blind date. Reports say that
Ed was not disappointed in the least; in fact, they say he’s going back for more. Murphy, of “Murphy’s Mumblings,”
climaxed the affair with a very embarrassing situation. He seems to have wandered over to catch a little “EYE” at
the dance, dropping his date by the dormitories. A friend greeted him at the door with a sensible question, “Did
you have a good date?” Murphy replied, “Oh, Boy, she was fine!” With this, his friend added, “Yes, she must
have been by the looks of your face.” Murphy immediately pulled out his handkerchief to remedy things, and was it
RED!!!! But not nearly as red as his face from EMBARRASSMENT!

It seems that Ed Lucas has been having trouble finding out how to spell a certain young lady's name. He
must have met her at a party in Greensboro during the week-end and no doubt thought her very attractive. An
S. O. S. was sent abroad to find out the correct spelling, and the best we could do was Wilhelmina
Etird. Is that O. K., Ed?

I don’t know whether this recent gush of Spring just gave everybody such a bad case of the “Jitterbug Jamboree”
... but we have one of those every night here in old Davidson on the first floor of Georgia in
the Sin Din. By the way, “BUMP” Holland, I overheard some of the West boys plotting your downfall soon if
you don't start slowing down and giving a pause for station identification every once in a while. The Converse Kid,
Sam Spencer, of course, is back at his old tricks down Spartanburg way, but this time it was another young
lady. They say it must be just another TOOL in Sam’s big chest.

Everybody seems to be hearing from old “Izzy” Lewdlam since he began his tour with the debate team. Maybe he
has quit pinching that penny for a while and can buy a three-cent stamp. Too bad we could not get
much dope on this Winston-Salem deal that was pulled by McLean, Grantham, and Day Lemmon. We did find out this
much though, that the Little Man’s snaking efforts at the last dances were not in vain. I think the regular
columnist, the Ape, must have done pretty well for himself too, after taking a look at his date book for
April 26 and 27.

We Wonder By A. S.
We wonder whether it will be clear for our glorified week-end. What the baseball boys will do at Due West
and Clemson if it rains. Whether all the running around that Sumner Wells is doing really means anything to Mr.
A. Hitler. Why more boys do not go out for debating considering the trips that are available. Why Apie likes
to make “U” turn if he will recover. Why Currie gives written semester exams. Why the Yarborough Dog has the
football will eight next as they plan to do. Why the members of the basketball squad of “Rub-a-dub-dub” words at
the faculty to build a dormitory building. Result? Faculty feel that the student should comply. Don’t blame them either. Other
side of the question. Maybe they’re lazy, they haven’t bucked faculty. We’ve seen senior the Ex for favor—the privilege for
seniors to bring cars back on the campus after this year. The students, maybe the committee saw once. The class
went to the Spring holidays. Being a group broad-minded and that the students had quit horseplay, the faculty granted this
request. Proving what—that you get what you want if you go about it in the right manner.

Now that the seniors have been granted this privilege, it would be a good thing if we wouldn’t abuse the
privilege and really comply with the regulations concerning it. We’d only go farther in showing the faculty that we are
more than a bunch of “little boys” and have a much better chance of putting something through the next time
we want it than we did last year when there was so much confusion. Hope that this’ll fill up the
space.

My sympathies,
TONY CASALI, Ex.

Granny Sharpe is disgusted because it waits so long to get dark these days. Why Ookie Taylor always consults his
father’s books before going out at night. What makes the world go ‘round. Who would print this? The most profound
comment that can be made about youth's interest is the simple one that they ask the same questions every year,
take to the same types of attacks of satire and ridicule. They want, ardently, a quick and easy solution and
are impatient with the philosophy of slowly resolving ideas about significant matters. Sarah Lawrence College's Kathryn Mansell points to today’s
collegiate view of religion.

During the fall quarter, Colorado State College of Education students spent 2,500 hours playing ping pong.

Cooper Union has a collection of 4,000 buttons, some of which are four centuries old.

The University of Cincinnati in one year has 38,000 columns of news printed about it in the nation’s newspapers.

The University of Rochester men’s glee club will sing at the White House on Easter Monday.

University of Georgia authorities have limited to $2,500 the price that can be paid for an orchestra for a student
dance.

Student waiters of the University of New Hampshire commons annually hold a special dance and banquet.
