Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thurs, May 16, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
David Vosburgh — Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALE - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumbarger - Assistant Editor
Tom Cauble - Associate Editor
Joe Liles - Associate Editor
Ed Watson - Associate Editor
Lawson Withers - Associate Editor
Dick Cobb - Managing Editor
Harwell Darby - Managing Editor
Bob Garvey - Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett - Managing Editor
Al Winn - Managing Editor
Bob Carter - Sports Editor
Angus Lytch - Sports Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Codington - Business Manager
Casey Jones - Advertising Manager
Hector McLean - Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown - Advertising Manager
Jack Covington - Circulation Manager
Fred Little - Collection Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hand by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

A President Passes
As the last man in the Senior class receives his diploma, Dr. Walter L. Lingle will step down from his position as President of Davidson College, turning over his duties to a yet unnamed successor. During the thirty-eight years in which he has served the college in one capacity or another, Dr. Lingle has set an example that will long be remembered by every student who has come under his influence. His task, especially since he became head of this institution, has often been difficult, never easy. Most men would never attempt to be a college president; few make a success of it. On one side are alumni and parents, steadfastly demanding certain things; on the other side are students, clamoring vigorously for other things, while the faculty remains ever-present, desiring some of those things which are the other two classes, and again presenting a strong front against other demands. A college president is in the middle. To him goes the duty of keeping everyone satisfied, listening to all woes, and directing the policies of the institution along sound, fundamental lines. Dr. Lingle has shown himself to be an excellent man from every standpoint. To the students he has been a firm and sympathetic friend upholding the highest traditions of honor and character. To the alumni and parents he has shown every consideration, while constantly urging them to help the school build towards higher goals through their cooperation after college years are done. The faculty has been carefully selected, and has found ready cooperation in every worthwhile undertaking. Aside from his activities as Davidson’s president, Dr. Lingle has been the center of a wide sphere of Christian influence stretching over the entire South. Not only have college students felt the impact of his character and life, but men and women from all walks of life have followed him as a capable leader and a Christian gentleman. Dr. Lingle has done a fine job here. To him go the thanks and appreciation of thousands of college graduates, undergraduates, and alumni, to which is added the general approbation of all those with whom he has come into contact during his long and useful life. So today we take off our collective hat and extend our thanks for past work, and our best wishes for the future to Dr. Walter L. Lingle, truly a Christian, a gentleman, and a scholar.

Dance Come To The Sing
Tonight after supper comes the last inter-fraternity event of the year—the much-talked-of and planned-about Interfraternity Sing. The various brotherhoods have been heard yodeling loudly for the past week, and all indications point to a good start for this new function. Some say this affair is sentimental nonsense, but we are more inclined to view it as a wholesome and natural outburst of the average man’s desire to make music (or rhythmic sounds) of some sort or another. Most of Davidson’s fraternities have always sung to a certain extent, and the “sing” will henceforth give our melodiers something to work towards. As yet there is necessarily doubt as to which of the chapters can sing best; and the program presented by each should be interesting, since points will be scored for originality as well as for harmony, direction, and musical ability. Rumor has it that some very complex arrangements will be presented, which will make the sing more than a series of “barber-shop” choruses, and consequently make it a well-rounded affair, since the barber-shop element is bound to be present also. The music department has done its share by providing a beautiful trophy for the winner. The fraternities show signs of hard work and good programs. All that remains is for a large audience to turn out, and the sing is bound to be a success.

Plan Defeated
The Pan-Hellenic Council has done the wise thing by abandoning their new dance plan for the time being. While the plan seems to offer many advantages, it would not work without the whole-hearted support of all fraternity men. Although there was a majority of the fraternities in favor of the plan, it would be foolish to go through with it without unanimous support. Another difficulty was that some chapters passed it by a bare majority, which meant that there would have been a large minority opposed to the plan. When a new plan such as this is tried, it must receive full support of all concerned, else it is bound to failure. If this support had been guaranteed by every lodge, the plan would have worked out; but as this was not done, the Council has wisely dropped the matter until next year. Perhaps next year, after all sides of the question have been presented more fully, the plan may be presented again. Or there may be a compromise plan, which seems the best thing now. However, whatever comes of it, the Pan-Hellenic group is definitely working toward better dances for next year, and for this they are to be commended.

Closing Remarks
As the last issue of this year’s Davidsonian goes to press, it is fitting that some few remarks be made concerning “the end.” Almost anything which could be said would be a rehash of past writings, but certain things are fundamental truisms, and should be said once more. However, in order to conserve space and time (plus probable boredom), we present a list of the usual topics which are used about this time each year. If anyone perchance should desire a more full explanation of any topic, he will gladly be given an oral discussion at any time.
(1) Seniors have finished the happiest period of their lives, even though they do not realize it.
(2) Seniors are about to start at the bottom once more, now being “little frogs in a big pond,” instead of “big frogs in a little pond.”
(3) Seniors look backwards upon their college years with nostalgia, their minds full of a thousand and one reminiscences.
(4) Seniors are sorrowful about “many things left undone.”
(5) Juniors are stepping up into positions of leadership, and henceforth may be called “big shots.”
(6) Sophomores have finished exactly one-half of their college life, not counting summer school.
(7) Freshmen will soon be sophomores, and then juniors and seniors can say that they have “that sophomore attitude.”
(8) Upperclassmen should guide next year’s freshmen in the right paths, with various things under this heading.
(9) Summer vacation is a time in which one should build his strength to meet the demands of next year’s rigorous work. It is a time of rest for mind and body.
(10) Let us all resolve to work harder next year, just as we did this year.
(11) Best wishes to everyone for the summer—and those coming exams.

Letters To The Editor
NOSTALGIA
Dear Andy:
This letter is not one of criticism. Neither is it a blasting missive for some new “cause” or clarion call for righteous reform. It is a note of nostalgia. Every fleeting moment warns us of the swiftness with which we approach the final day. No more can we write letters to the editor... not to the editor of The Davidsonian. It is a day of no mores. In spite of the administrative blitzkriegs, the executive committee injunctions and the professorial edicts, our days here have not all been sad ones. Perhaps it is with a certain delight that we recall “one-night” stands for a term paper due the next morn. And is it entirely with regret that we muse about the early morning “drives” for a sophomore English review? How fondly we open a book, unlooked at for several semesters, and pride ourselves with our freshmanic underlinings. Yes, gentlemen, I would recall those hours for the thousand feverish “grind,” and yet our life has not been only that. Bitter have been the Saturday evenings of defeat, but glorious, too, our moments of triumph. OUR TEAM has had its part in glory and it is not with futility that we look to future victory. Think back upon your days—and they have been good ones, filled with the happiest hours you'll ever know. The careless moments of procrastination in the Stud store—the “dope” you “dope”—a fire in the left barrel of Rumple or an unappreciated sing on the porch of Georgia—the armory, gradually filling itself with music and beauty—the long rides back in the wee hours of the early dawn... a bitter “flush” note from bad news Gaffney—the disappointing heartache of an empty mail box—the new magazines at Hugo's, a quick change from “Strong's Lectures” to Superman... the never-ending wait for that sure ride—the eternal thumb waving hopelessly in the Charlotte breeze—the half-filled auditorium at a concert when you first discovered the thrill of Brahms—the disconcerting breath of spring during a fourth-period class on Saturday morning—the languid sun, fine for an afternoon of golf—the friendly boos, the more ominous silence of disapproval... the paradox of chapel—a quiet moment at vespers in the twilight as the organ assumes the proportions of a symphony—the scraping feet of youthful impatience—the hopeless riots, the buzz of politics, the hope for reform—the words we’ll never use again... “listed” men who one day we will wish we knew—the hopelessness of being in love with love—the flurry of a few co-eds—the sweat of a May drill, final parade... the forgetfulness of a week-end... ad infinitum. This has been our Davidson experience. We have been coated with a gloss of knowledge, a little polish of culture. Into the world we go, little knowing what really lies before us but with a thousand memories behind us. “O Davidson, you are the best...”

Compassing Campuses
By TOM CAUBLE
Madcap Monte Completes Subjugation of Conquered but Still Smirking Converse Cony: However our Homespun Hero was immediately re-whitewashed. In lieu of our hero's restive reminiscences of his first Converse captivity, we have been forced to alter our offering because we find the Lothario of the Lowlands off on another amorous bender. As only the Wistful Whizzer himself knows just how this came about, we will offer no explanation for this sudden transfer, but will present from the point of the transfer the facts as reflected in the crystal mirror above.It seems that Mad Monte rolled in one fateful Friday afternoon on the Whizzer’s bid to Frat Frolics. She had the usual over-supply of luggage and a quite uncommon repertoire of banter, a continuous barrage which was directed at Marshy Casanova all week-end. However, Rowe, the easy-going and generally broad and brown, was not at all confused by this raillery. He merely smirked and said “Sho” or “Yup” in the gaps in a nonchalant and knowing manner. When he squired her through the fraternity court and into his house with a dazzling dental display ablaze (for she was looking good), he reflected contentedly that the phonograph played without nickels—all the while remembering one in La Riffe in Spartanburg that didn’t.

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

This is neither the time nor the place to wax sentimental nor would I like to be considered a sentimentalist; however, I would like to say in making my adieu that I have enjoyed penning what little dope I have been able to garner over the past months and if—by some freak of fate I have done anyone irreparable damage I apologize. In turning this column over to next year's Snooper—whoever Andy may have chosen—I leave him my regrets that he will not have such ripe material as Lewdhim, Hayseed, Troop, etc., to serve him... It is certainly too bad that one senior had to have a friend in Huntersville for three years only to have her go to his home town in a well-known city in the eastern part of the state and meet his father in Sunday school. And it was such a nice friendship, too.

McClintock and Otts must have attended strictly to old flames when they accompanied Hughjohn Troop and Stowe to Lynchburg this week-end. Troop spent the better part of Monday washing out petite pieces of clothing. While it is reported that Stowe refused to drive on the return trip and spent the time sitting in the back seat tightly embracing a fine picture of the lovely Catherine Crosby. We can't blame you, Snow.

Gams bring back tales of an interesting week-end in Charlotte. Duck Martin took advantage of Shore’s absence to take over his girl. Have heard that they danced beautifully together, too. Better hurry home, Richard. Jay Bolin has some of the West boys worried with his talk of slippers, an easy chair and an open fire. And the girl—Susan Buchanan. Are you going to beat Brother Bill to the altar, Jay?

Also feting in the city over the week-end were the Phi Pi Kaps. Understand that Colvin got along quite well with his fourteen-year-old. Another feature of the affair was Boyd Flynn having a date of his own for a change. The first of the year, I believe. We don’t know how long Niven's danced, but we do know that Ruthie spent a great deal of time pacing the halls looking for him—and all the while he was lying down “resting” because he was too “tired” from dancing so much.

The Bachelor Club’s Beach Ball called quite a number of Davidson’s upper social set to the Queen City Friday nite. Seen dealing were Bosco, Currie, Buddy Roe Powell, Ross, Hayseed, Casali, Watkins (on the drums), Poss, and of course Hughjohn Troop. A good time was had by all.

By the way, it seems that Tony has started another snaking detail. This one happens to be up G'boro way, too. If the story is correct we are led to believe that he is receiving numerous letters from Miss Frances Manning at G. C., while her ex, Ray McDaniel, struggles along completely ignored. If it isn't your roommate, it’s a brother, isn’t it, Guiseppi?

And along the same line of thought, it has been called to our attention that Harris McReynolds has taken over Pole Edmondson’s territory in Statesville.

Murphy Williams is definitely among those who should be “listed”—after accepting a date to Virginia Intermont for a dance, he calls up on the morning of the dance and tells her he can't make it. Then the pay-off—ten minutes later he is off to the U. of Georgia for a set of dances. Don't blame her if she “cuts” you, Murphy, you certainly deserve it.

Jimmy Houston stoutly denies visiting Erskine and Due West over the week-end. He wasn't on campus; that’s all we...

[Continued on Page Six]

by Madcap Monte, who dispatched him over to the Snappa House to deliver a message from one of the Converse Covey. The now restive Rowe thrust his hands deeply into his pants pockets and sauntered off, whistling pseudo-cheerily all the while the latest hit of the hill: “There's a Limber in the Timber.” His mission successfully accomplished, the Whiz breezed back to the house and cast an eye around for his date. She was in a corner exchanging banter with two young low-landers. So, smirking the smile of the victorious, Rowe shot over and attempted to regain his rightful position of favor. However, he had only begun this process when desired by Merry Monte to dispatch himself again—this time to town for cokes. Rowe’s diffident “Sho” was less heartfelt. He was deflated. However, he did as she bade him, though leading a mental crusade against domineering cuties and social evils in general as practiced on the hill.

He secured the cokes and ambled back to find the Madcap the center of an admiring circle. He wrinkled his tawny tan brow and succeeded in shouldering his way up to a position some ten feet away from M. M. in the fourth row of brethren. Alas, the once-proud terror of the Marshes was subjugated once more.

Jive Chatter
By JULIAN McCALL and JACKIE SIMONDS

It seems as though the inimitable Glen Miller has created a new dance style that has fostered innumerable swing leaders to follow in his steps. A new band with an old leader comes by the way of Ben Pollock and his double-barrel rhythm, double-barrel insinuating sweet and swing. He has just finished a successful three-week engagement at the College Inn of Hotel Sherman in downtown Chicago. Incidentally, Glen Miller used to play with Pollock. Another new band gaining popularity rapidly is the McFarland Twins. Although they have only been organized about a year and a half, they have set several attendance records at different places. Then there is Bob Chester—nothing much need be said of him around here. We all know that he is definitely on the up-grade, and nothing short of disaster will keep him down. It wouldn't take a fortune teller to tip-off young Ted Straeter that 1940 is going to be a successful year for him. Though his band is only two seasons old, he is becoming society’s favorite batoner, dishing out sweet-swing around New York’s jive spots. Besides leading, he tickles the ivories in fine fashion. Our own Dean Hudson is ascending the well-known ladder and absorbing some lime-light. His commercial program has helped him immensely. With a little recognition in the “Armstrong” section, his cats will be kopasetic. There are numerous other up-and-coming bands such as Johnny Long, Van Alexander, Harry James, Tommy Reynolds, and many others. P. S.: The ‘noxious’, “unhip” Artie Shaw also has a new 31-piece, no-jive organization.

Platter Chatter

Decca: Jan Savitt steals swing honors with a thrilling rendition of “Kansas City Moods,” backed by a double-tempo version of “Tuxedo Junction.” Ella Fitzgerald with her ork, handles a pair of torch tunes to satisfaction: “What's the Matter with Me” and “I’m Not Complaining.”

Columbia: Gene Krupa revives the old favorite “Marcheta” and a rhythm standard “Symphony in Riffs,” both solid.

Blue Bird: Charlie Barnet discs a fast pace for “Clap Hands, Here Comes...

[Continued on Page Six]

With The Staff
By BOB CARTER

With the coming of spring and the balmy weather, a tendency which seems to be prevalent among Davidson students becomes even more pronounced; the habit, or custom, of sitting back on our haunches, complaining about the sorry state of affairs, criticizing everything and everybody, and never doing anything about it. By doing anything about it, we don't mean staging a riot or any such foolishness as that. It is very easy to patch up our troubles with the administration, if only we go about it in the right way. If you feel that your professor is doing you wrong, don’t lay up on your bed and “cuss” him, go and have a talk with him and take a look into the grade book. Then you'll see where that D came from.

Many students here at Davidson criticize the Y. M. C. A., its methods, and its members and officers. Well, it’s our Y. M. C. A., and if anything’s going to be done about it we've got to do it. This also brings us to another point. When we naively assume the privilege of criticizing everything and everybody, by what right do we assume it? We say, “What a sorry football, or basketball, or baseball team we have.” Before you enter into this subject, just ask yourself what you have done to contribute to the success of any of these teams. To most of us the answer will be “Nothing.”

The usual reaction to an accusation of this kind is to “pass the buck.” “Let somebody else try to improve things, I'll just sit around and talk about how bad conditions are, it’s much more fun.” We'll leave it all up to the president of the student body. Gentlemen, Davidson College is supposed to be a democratic body, with the students ruling themselves. If it has ceased to be so, it is because the students themselves have brought on this condition.

Let us therefore remember in the future that if we feel that we have been done an injustice, don’t be one of the “Dead End” kids. Do something about it besides complain.

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday May 16 and 17
* * *
“IRENE” — Anna Neagle, Roland Young, Alan Marshall and Billie Burke. Anna Neagle rises to new heights as she co-stars with Ray Milland to give us one of the grandest musical romances of 1940. Featuring a galaxy of stars—the most singable, swingable melodies—the latest springtime fashions and a love story that will sing its way into your heart.

Saturday May 18
* * *
“1,000,000 YEARS B. C.”—Victor Mature, Carole Landis and Lou Chaney. A great picture of pre-historic times comes to our theater. All the life of a million years ago is brought to us in a thrilling manner. See 70-ton monsters locked in deathly battles and the stampeding of monsters against man. A million years ago the courting caveman says it with gifts—when mama thinks the pile is big enough, daughter will show him it’s all ok by offering him a drink. Also he might toss nuts into her lap—if she leaves them there all is fine, but if she tosses them back, “Nuts to you.” The picture shows the world’s first lovers overcoming danger; all they missed was the clinch because in those days they didn't kiss, only rubbed noses.

Monday and Tuesday May 20 and 21
“TYPHOON” — Dorothy Lamour and Robert Preston. Dorothy Lamour returns to give us another great love story which centers around the South Sea Islands. Misfortune overtakes her as storms arise but with the aid of Robert Preston she is able to tide out the storms. A great and unforgettable love story that offers adventure, excitement and thrilling romances.

Wednesday May 22
“Flight Angels”: Although no dope is available for this show it is ranked very high and is an aviation picture centering around the World War. It has plenty of breath-taking scenes and an excellent plot. Another show will also be shown as it is bargain day. Be sure to be there.

Thursday and Friday May 23 and 24
“Edison the Man”: Spencer Tracy, Rita Johnson, Charles Coburn and Henry Travers.

(Continued on Page Six)