Sports RoundUp | By JULIAN McCALL

What’s the trouble with our basketball team? This seems to be the question on everyone’s mind these days. The Wildcats
started off the season as if they were going to do big things—defeating V. M. I., and playing a beautiful
game against North Carolina, and defeating N. C. State. Here the trouble started, since then they have won only one
conference game, beating Citadel with “Footsie” Cowan scoring 31 points; and since then have not come near to winning a
game. What could be the trouble with a team such as ours with fine possibilities—such as Jim Cowan, one of
the best centers in the Southern Conference; and many other able ball players. It couldn’t be the coach because we
have a fine coach in Coach Shepherd. But what could it be? Are we not giving them enough support—this may
be the trouble, but not likely so—as we have always supported our athletic teams, win or lose. The trouble may
be the lack of interest in basketball because of the gym facilities we have here at Davidson. The remedy to
whatever it is will come too late now, as we are already out of the tournament picture, so all we
can hope is that our team—which is a good team—will snap out of it for the remainder of this season
and seasons to come. Here’s hoping.

FOOTBALL PROSPECTS

Prospects for the coming year in football seem to be the best that we have had in several years. At
present, the boys running in practice as a first team will average about 190 to 195 in the line, and
about 175 to 180 in the backfield. There seems to be more round versatility on the team than in former
years. We have three triple-threat backs in Sharpe, Spencer, and Fredricks; two fine blocking backs in Stan Yoder and Jay
Bolin; and a bevy of fine ball carriers, such as Hackney, Maloney, Lacy, Shannon, and our three triple-threat backs. The
line is well taken care of by lettermen Niven and Smith at ends; Bell and Knoeller at tackles; Johnson and
Marsh at guards; and Bahnson, Caldwell, and Balsley at center. Strandwitz and Crutchfield, reserves, and Faison will strengthen the ends;
Shaw, Arnold, and Hipp add to the tackles; Moore and Rainey back the guard positions; and the three lettermen centers
seem well fixed. Coach McIver and his staff are working hard in an effort to round out a well-balanced and
deceptive team. The new plays put in this year have much more deception than before. From an interview with a
reserve lineman who says that nine-tenths of the time he can’t even tell which side of the line the play
is coming over, this columnist is able to state that they must be deceptive.

GOLDEN GLOVES

Our two Golden Gloves representatives, Dick Hudson and Buck Powell, although not having the needed experience, put up great fights
in the gloves wars last week. Hudson seemed to fare the best of the two—winning his first two fights by
technical knockouts, while losing his third to a much more experienced fighter by a T.K.O. in the last round. Powell
won his first fight by a well-earned decision, but lost his second by a T.K.O. at the end of the
first round to a very powerful and well-schooled fighter. The winners of open championships were as follows: Russell Merriman of
Florence, Woodrow Womack of Charlotte, Glenn McCrary of Florence, Howard Hettrick of Elizabeth City, Edgar Tyner of Florence, Zane Winters
of Raleigh, Carlyle Thompson of Greenville, and Fred Hill of Charlotte. These, and all the other fighters that entered the
tournament should be commended for their fine sportsmanship, spirit, and fighting ability.

Something to think about... Who will win the Southern Conference tourney... “Footsie” Cowan now in second place in the conference
scoring... The fine record our Freshmen cagers have shown... Will we beat Carolina in anything this year?

Freshmen Cagers Defeat Harding; Bessemer City

The Davidson Frosh quint, with wins over Harding High of Charlotte and Bessemer City High, added two more victories to
their game column. The hosts won both contests, winning from Harding by 36-13 Friday, and conquering Bessemer Monday 35-15. Cancellation
of a scheduled encounter last Saturday night with Central High of Charlotte leaves only one more game, that with the
Central Streaks in Charlotte. The Bessemer City contest was very raggedly played with the visitors failing to tally before the
third quarter. Davidson subs saw an unusual amount of service. John Belk, star center for the Kittens, was high scorer
in both games, tallying 17 against Bessemer City and 16 against Harding. Bob Keffer, Davidson guard, was just behind Belk
in each game with 8 and 11 points for the two. Clemens was high for Harding with 5 and Adams
with 8 for Bessemer City.

Winter Drills

In spite of injuries, Spring football will swing into high gear this week. The week's practice will be climaxed by
a game scrimmage Saturday afternoon. Several new faces, along with minor changes, are expected in the first string line-up. Among
the changes are Bahnson from tackle to center; Arnold from guard to tackle; and Shaw from the backfield to tackle.
These changes, along with Rainey at guard and Fredericks in the backfield, up from last year’s Freshman team, will make
the team much heavier than last year. The line will weigh approximately 190 pounds and the backfield about 170 pounds.
Although positions are not fixed as yet, the probable starting line-up for the first string Saturday will be composed of
Smith and Niven at ends, Bell and Knoeller at tackles, Johnson and Rainey at guards, and Bahnson at center in
the line. In the backfield most likely will be Yoder, Sharpe, Shannon, and Fredericks. Friday and Saturday, pass offense and
defense were stressed, with Sharpe tossing the pig-skin.

Duke Holds Top Spot In Conference

As the curtain prepares to drop on the regular season of Southern Conference basketball play, the main question is which
teams will earn bids to the annual championship tournament. So far, only three teams are assured of invitations to this
classic: Duke’s “Little Blues,” Carolina’s “White Phantoms,” and Washington and Lee’s “Generals.” The remaining games this week will decide which
of the other quintets will earn the right to go to Raleigh on February 29th. On the basis of won
and lost records, these will then be seeded and paired by the committee at its meeting this day in Raleigh.

Duke Leads

Duke is at the top of the heap in standings with a record of 12 victories and one defeat. North
Carolina is the runner-up to the leaders and has 9 wins and 2 on the wrong side of the ledger.
These two will probably be seeded in different brackets, which means they will meet in the finals. Washington and Lee
holds down the third slot, although losing a thriller to Duke last week. Wake Forest and Clemson are tied for
fourth, needing only one more game to clinch berths in the tournament. Richmond has to be victorious in two out
of its three remaining contests. The Citadel must break even in its games, while Maryland has to defeat V.M.I. to
annex a tourney bid. Furman and William and Mary, the ninth and tenth teams in the standing, have broken even
in loop competition and this week's performances will decide whether they will be invited to the tourney.

Tech Matmen Pin Wildcats

Davidson's varsity and frosh matmen each took it on the chin from Virginia Tech’s teams during the week. The Gobblers
won the varsity event by the score of 17-11, while the Wildkittens were beaten 24-6. Ken McIntyre opened the match
by pinning Cocoros in 5:04 minutes. Moreland of Tech won a close decision over JackieAbels in the 128-pound class. Captain
Holland of Tech followed this up with a win by decision over Irish. “Shorty” Par-Davidson went ahead for the only
time when Lantham Latta and Captain MacFayden won decisions over Irving and Graves in the 145 and 155-pound classes.

'Cats Lead
The lead was short-lived as Gagarine defeated Frieze in extra periods and Zydiak decisioned Bahnson in the 175-lb. class. Davidson
was forced to forfeit in the unlimited division. Murray and Conyers recorded the Wildkittens’ only wins. In the 121 (Continued
on Page Six) the top eight clubs will be selected.

State, Wake Forest, and Citadel Ring Up Wins Over Davidson
Wildcats Lack Scoring Punch; Hogg Grabs 14 Points Against The Citadel; ’Cats Out of Conference Race After

DEFENSIVE ACE
Benny Harrison, consistent forward on the 1940 Wildcat quintet, finishes out his basketball career this year. Benny, who hails from
Milan, Tenn., is a smooth floor man and deceptive passer as well as an expert defense man. His ability to
feed the ball as well as to retrieve it from the backboard has accounted for many points this year.

Phi Delts Lead Quints As Tourney Nears End
Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta still remains on top of the inter-fraternity basketball standing, being the only undefeated team. Beside the Phi
Delt-KA tilt, there remains the SAE-Kappa Sig game to be played. At this point, the SAE’s and KA’s are tied
for second place with six wins.

In games this week, the SPE’s won from the Pikas by the score of 27-20. Hamilton and Edmondson were high
scorers for the winners, while Brooks and Shelton shared the spotlight for the losers. The second place SAE’s won from
the fourth place Pi Kapps by 21-15 with Wood and Ficklen setting the pace for the SAE’s and with Morris
and Flynn featuring the offensive of the Pi Kapps. In a game last Monday, the Phi Delts defeated the Kappa
Sigs 38-16 to keep their slate clean. Glen Terrel was high point man of the contest, counting 16 markers. The
Phi Delt-KA game should afford much interest as it is a crucial one, possibly deciding the tourney.

Cat Pugilists Lose Matches
“Cactus” Dick Hudson and Buck “Whizzer” Powell, Davidson's two entries in the Carolina Golden Gloves Boxing Contest, were both defeated
last Friday night in their quarter-final matches at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium.

Hudson Wins Opener
Hudson's cool fighting and powerful left jab brought him successfully through two bouts, winning both on technical knockouts. In his
first round match, Cactus tangled with slugging Richard Mauney, of Lincolnton. Mauney, attempting to rush Hudson, was rocked back time
and time again by the latter's left jab. The referee stopped the fight in the second round because of Mauney’s
battered face. Using the same type of fighting, Hudson again scored a second-round T.K.O. in his next match against Russell
Triplett of North Wilkesboro. Before a crowd of capacity fight fans, Bandy Herman stopped Hudson's string of victories Friday night.
After taking the first round on points, Cactus tired in the second and third frames. The fight was stopped in
the third round when Herman's lightning rushes wore Hudson down.

Powell Takes Decision
In his first round match, Whizzer Powell won over G. W. Harding in a closely contested bout. Both boys, slugging
furiously throughout the three rounds, tired greatly toward the end. Buck had a slight advantage in all three rounds. Next,
Buck met Forrest Gaines, of Hickory. A powerful hitter with both hands, Gaines fought furiously the first part of the
round, landing many solid blows on the head. The fight was stopped by the referee near the close of the
first round.

Wrestling: Var. vs. Winston ‘Y’, here, 4:00
Monday, February 26:
Basketball: Varsity vs. Furman, home, 8:15

Westmoreland and Alexander paced the South Carolina attack with 25 points between them.

Standings
Won Lost
Phi Delts 7 0
SAE’s 6 1
KA’s 6 1
Kappa Sig 3 4
Pi Kapps 3 4
Betas 3 5
Chi Psi 3 5
Sigma Gams 1 7
Lambda Chi 0 8

Cats Lose
Davidson's Wildcats lost another Southern Conference game, last Monday night when they went down before the Gamecocks of South Carolina
47-39. South Carolina led the Wildcats 21-14 at halftime. Hogg was high scorer for the ‘Cats with ten points, while
Cowan was able to grab only eight points.

WE SERVE DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND SHORT ORDERS AT ALL TIMES
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
JIM’S TAVERN
Davidson, N. C.

Golf and Tennis Balls
Sweat Socks
Davidson Pennants For Sale
W. I. VAN NESS
Charlotte, N. C.

MEALS ALWAYS TASTE BETTER AT THE WOODEN BOWL
Just West of Tryon at Fourth
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
GALES McCLINTOCK

PATRONIZE YOUR OWN STUDENT STORE
Fraternity and College Crest Stationery
GEORGE RICHMOND

Disastrous Trip
Davidson’s varsity basketball quintet lost all chances of being invited to the annual Southern Conference basketball tourney by dropping three
consecutive contests to league foes this week. North Carolina State, Wake Forest, and The Citadel all took the measure of
the Wildcat court representatives.

Cats Lose to State
Last Monday night the ‘Cats journeyed to Raleigh to engage the ‘Red Terrors’ of State. At intermission, the score was
close, but in the second half, the Terrors gradually drew away, winning by a 40-27 count. Cromartie played an exceptionally
good game for State.

On Tuesday night Davidson traveled to Wake Forest to battle the “Demon Deacons.” Here the 'Cats failed to click as
the Baptists assumed an early lead and held their edge to win by a wide margin. Davis and Cline showed
well for the home team.

The Citadel gained revenge last Saturday for a licking administered earlier in the season. Playing inspired ball on their home
court, the Cadets immediately piled up a ten-point lead. Not till then did the Wildcat basketeers whip one through the
cords. Once having gained that headway, the “Light Brigade” was never threatened from there on in. The score at intermission
time was 26-16; and in the second half, the Cadets built up this margin to breeze to a 46-31 decision.
In doing so, they gained ample revenge for their loss at Davidson, in which Cowan rang up thirty-one points for
a gym record.

“Footsie” Burrows Hot
“Jake” Burrows, Cadet forward, hit his stride to rack up twenty markers. Eight of these came as a result of
charity tosses, and he scored six fielders. For Davidson, Jim Hogg was high man, accounting for 14 of the ‘Cats
31 points. Following this game, the varsity basketball team has but three contests to play. The quintet met South Carolina
on Monday and Wednesday nights and will engage Furman cagers next Monday.

THURS.-FRI.-SAT.
CHARLIE McCARTHY
MORTIMER SNERD
EDGAR BERGEN
in
“Charlie McCarthy Detective”

LATE SHOW SAT. NIGHT
And Starting Monday
BARBARA STANWICK
FRED MacMURRAY
in
“Remember The Night”
IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

NORGE GAS RANGE
RULANE GAS RANGE
GROCERIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.
