Thurs., Dec. 5, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Among THE GREEKS

Tate Takes Kappa Sigma

The Kappa Sig Turkey Day was celebrated all the way from New York to Athens, Ga. Scott Cooper went to the Big City over the holidays and managed to take in the Army-Navy tilt en route. Brother McCoy went to North Wilkesboro and then to the Georgia game in Athens. Brothers Land, Hogg, and Yarborough were spectating at the Duke-Pitt affair and later returned to Greensboro and Virginia Beach. Finley and Pat Williams went off on a detail madly into the wilds of Wilkesboro, while Brother Crook took them to Charleston. Brother Clark visited his home in Fayetteville. Brothers Lacona, Dick, and Ehly were with the football team. Brother Means was wandering in Wilmington.

Phi Delta Theta

Most of the brothers left Wednesday for various points north and east. Brother “Jumping” Gene Vereen hit the highway to New York for the Pan-Hellenic Council. Brother McIver managed to arrive at his home in Virginia, and practically all of the Tar Heels journeyed for the second Thanksgiving year. Murphy Williams visited W. C., while Leon Drake trucked down to Drake, S.C. Pledge Robert Pierce sojourned to Farmville, N.C. Pledge Hoover and Brother Reinhardt sped down to Lincoln for the holiday. Pledge Lawson and Brother James Chapman abducted Rosie Boykin to Spartanburg, where they spent a few days. Rudolph and Westall roared to “old Heidelberg” Asheville night club. Brother Hob Carter, Brothers Stevenson, Sproull, Robinson, and Jooker remained on the campus for the popcorn popping. And several extended visits to the “friendless city.” Pledge Archer rushed over to the wilderness of Shelby. Pledge Armistead fled to Rockingham.

Pi Kappa Alpha

This weekend found those Pikas who left the campus widely scattered. Brother McElwee went the farthest, going to New York and the national Interfraternity conference. Among those who went home for Thanksgiving were Brothers Abels, Scott, Parsons, Wine, McDonald, Overby, and Youngblood. Pledges Williamson, Morehead, Maxwell, Symmes, Hodges, and Pearsall also went to their homes for Thanksgiving. Brother Joe Shelton went home with Jim McDonald to Hamlet. The senior dance at W. C. drew Carlton, Parsons, Shewmaker, and Ross Parks to Greensboro. Brothers Overby and Wine and Pledges Pearsall and Symmes attended the game in Wilmington. Brother John went home to Lumberton with a case of the flu. Brother Watt and Pledge Brother Jeffries raced over to Athens Saturday morning with Bill Fagg.

Scabbard and Blade To Hold Annual Fall Tap Day

Phi Gamma Delta

Taking full advantage of the Thanksgiving holiday, many Phi Gam brothers ventured forth on extended and gala trips. Of course, Wilmington was the destination of many who either took in or witnessed a Davidson football victory. Preston Oliver and Karle Bell arrived here. Serge Munger succeeded in transferring. Carl Mason spent time in Wilmington. Cavert was ordered to Wilmington.

Rally Planned By Old Grads

Old Grads Chat Regional Meetings To Be Held During Year

Sigma Phi Epsilon

These young ladies will be sponsors for the annual Christmas dance of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity to be held Saturday, December 7. This affair is to take place at the Charlotte Woman's Club. Gibb Todd and his orchestra will furnish the music. The sponsors are, top row, left to right: Miss Virginia Ogletree of Atlanta, Ga., with Bill Tarleton of Charlottesville, Va.; Miss Betty Jean Moore of Graham, with Felix Bell of Burlington, and Miss Ceil Harris of Manning, S.C., with Bill Hamilton of Hemmingway, S.C. Bottom row, left to right: Miss Mary Dunn of Rocky Mount, with Russell Edmondson of Tarboro; Miss Peck Smith of Herodsburg, Ky., with Rod Turner of Jonesboro, Ga., and Miss Florence Beasley of Pilot Mountain, with Joe Bivens of Elkin. Felix Bell is secretary of the Davidson chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Bill Hamilton is senior marshal, Rod Turner is junior marshal, and Russell Edmondson is comptroller of the chapter. Photo courtesy Charlotte Observer.

Tommy Kirkpatrick spent Thanksgiving in Columbia, S.C. Pledge Brother Jack Peters went to Raleigh and Ed Watson to his home in Charlotte. The fraternity is glad to welcome back Pledge Brother Jack Peters.

Seniors Prepare For New Blazers

Bob Reinhardt, chairman of the senior blazer committee, announced Monday night that the 1941 Senior Blazer had been selected. A shetland cloth of light tan color has been chosen.TAR TA [SRA IA Re tor alliheeccbenttlhteinle ape yes adiiinably as a setting for the poem chosen. I MA calle bam wees football Hay, Morristown, Tenn.; Virginia faculty Field Day. It will be appearing from nowhere. Yea, Pitta football lead SALE dinner dance. Levi Sink, of the junior class, is a site parent. Campbell, Randolph-Macon; Ellen Campbell, Charlottesville, Va.; Betty Dalton Tailoring Company of Cincinnati, Ohio, manufacturers of the cloth. He began taking measurements last Tuesday, and will continue until midnight. Loretta Cowper, Vassar; and Shirley Ann Frazier of the Farmington Hunt, Va. Other events scheduled are pool at 3:00, ping pong also at 3:00. The fact that a stormy review per session will not daunt the spirit of the brave Greeks. The Betas went traveling this weekend. Perhaps it would be better if they sold the house and bought a trailer. Surely it would be used more.

In the driver's seat was Brother Hy who scurried all the way to get a date for Midwinters and save the price of a stamp. Brother Thompson got off at Danville, Va. Brothers Garrow and Howell shouldered their cameras and followed the team to Wilmington where they watched Brothers Balsley and Sharpe play their last game. Big Bill Shaw was also in that line. Following the team were many horn-toters among whom were Brother Joe Barnwell, Schmidt, Caterson, and Pledge Brothers Dave Henderson. The popularity of Brother Dave Henderson was evident. 

Brother McA was late in getting to Chapel Hill this weekend, not arriving until Saturday afternoon. Brother McA, Herb Rainey, Johnny Fredericks, and John Wilson were pledged last week. Kappa Alpha Thanksgiving and the weekend brought the brothers to the campus. Among those going to the game in Washington were Brother Speas and Pledge Brothers Paddock, Dunn, and Bachman with the band, Brother Washburn with the football squad, and Brothers Mitchell and Sprunt who also went home on their trip. Brothers Wilson and Watt attended the Sequoia Club dance in Charlotte Wednesday night. Others who went to Charlotte at various times during the week were Brothers Wallace, Lauck, Lemmon, Washburn, McClean, and Ansley, and Pledge Brothers Stimson, MacWilliams, Webster, “Lard” Royster, and Abbot. Pledge Brother Burke went on an extended trip to Greensboro during Thanksgiving, and Brother “Bevo” Royster went with Pledge Brother “Lard” to Greensboro also. Brother Turnage went to Farmville to his home for Thanksgiving. Brothers King and Lemmon visited Johnson City; and Brother Harris went home to Roxboro and hasn't returned yet. Pledge Brother Beam had to go.

Starts Thur., Dec. 5 Double RECORDS. It's easy to shop with the Victor Record Gift Book. Ask for your free copy. Consult the complete Victor Record Catalogue—a golden treasury of gift ideas. 

SEE WHAT YOU GET! RCA Victor RECORD PLAYER-PAK. All you need to convert your radio into a phonograph-radio. Starts Wed., Dec. 4. BETTE DAVIS, Herbert Marshall in "THE LETTER." 

CAROLINA THEATRE, Charlotte, North Carolina. Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE.