(Thurs., Oct. 10, 1948.) THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of The Week

Last year there was much talk of a new "Alma Mater" for Davidson. Fred Waring was kind enough to write
one and play it over the radio. Several other suggested songs were taken under consideration, but no decision was made.
It may be that the student body and faculty would prefer to have our football song, “O, Davidson!” continue to
serve as Alma Mater. There appear to be good reasons for not doing this, but we would like to know
the general feeling on this subject.

“Do you want one of the suggested songs to be chosen as a new Alma Mater for Davidson, or would
you rather have ‘O, Davidson!’ continue to serve as such?”

Lyman J. Parrigin, Sophomore:
I am positively in favor of an Alma Mater song for Davidson. “O, Davidson” is a swell fight song, but
I do not believe that it has all the qualities of an Alma Mater hymn. The student body should reach
some decision, and that soon, as to whether or not we are to have an Alma Mater song. If the
students vote definitely that they want an Alma Mater song, then steps can be taken to choose an appropriate one.
But let’s come to some decision in the matter.

Jim McCrary, Sophomore:
I do not think we could have a better pep song than “O, Davidson,” but I do not think this
is the type of song for an Alma Mater. Hence, I am in favor of adopting a different Alma Mater
song.

Gus McLean, Sophomore:
“O, Davidson” has always been recognized by students and people everywhere as one of the most spirited college songs in
existence. I am strongly against doing away with it, but I do feel that we need an Alma Mater for
use on solemn occasions. A plan could be worked out whereby “O, Davidson” could still be used as a marching
song and one of these new compositions could be inaugurated as an Alma Mater to be used for more serious
gatherings. Other schools have a marching song plus an Alma Mater. It would be fine for us to follow suit.

Chase Brenizer, Jr., Senior:
Fred Waring did a fine bit of song writing last year when he composed “Davidson, Our Alma Mater,” but I
think that it’s much too stately to replace our peppy “O, Davidson.” The Alma Mater wouldn't offer much encouragement to
our players at our football games, so until a better song is found, I think we should stick to our
old standby.

Walter Wooten, Junior:
In my opinion, a true Alma Mater should be a hymn, rather than a pep song such as “O, Davidson.”
“O, Davidson” is the best of the fight song type that I have ever heard and serves the purpose of
a football song very well. Some Alma Mater songs of the hymn type have been submitted in the past, but
none were satisfactory; therefore, I believe that we should be on the lookout for a suitable Alma Mater, at the
same time retaining “O, Davidson” in its present status until one is found.

Craig Schmidt, Sophomore:
I think that Davidson, like other schools, can and should have two Alma Maters—a pep tune or a march like
“O, Davidson” and a hymn for more solemn occasions. For this hymn, I would suggest Dr. Maxwell's “All Hail, Oh
Davidson,” because it is written by a Davidson Alumnus and contains words and spirit more suitable to Davidson than that
of Fred Waring.

Hank Bahnson and Jim Hogg, Seniors:
“O, Davidson,” as a fight song, can't be beat. However, we think that every school should have a suitable Alma
Mater, in addition to a fight song. One member should remember that the years must roll along and a sentimental
value be attached to a song before it can really be appreciated as an Alma Mater.

Tony Darby, Junior:
In my opinion, “O, Davidson” is excellent as a fight song, but there should be an Alma Mater too. The
two songs presented to the school seemed to have caused a definite split in the student body’s opinion concerning the
choice. If both songs could be sung to the student body by the glee club, a vote of the students
could be taken to decide the matter.

YMCA Leaders Attend State Meet At U.N.C.
Jones and Watson Help Plan Youth Program

Casey Jones and Ed Watson represented the Davidson YMCA at a state committee meeting of the North Carolina Student Christian
Movement held at North Carolina College for Negroes, October 3. Casey Jones is vice-president of the organization. The committee met
to plan a youth conference to be held at the University of North Carolina, November 3. The theme of the
conference is to be “The Christian and the Warring World.” Probable speakers will be Dr. A. Hinnenburg, professor at N.C.
College for Negroes, and Dr. A. O. Steele, professor at Smith University in Charlotte. Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of
Bible at Davidson, was asked to speak, but will be unable to attend the conference because of a previous engagement.
The North Carolina Student Christian Movement was innovated last year to promote inter-racial relationships and bring the Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.
closer together. The organization holds two conferences each year. The other conference will be held sometime next spring.

Alumni Study Recent Graduates In Physics

LOVELY MINORITY
Davidson, with six hundred and fifty boys enrolled, also boasts of five new co-eds. These lovely girls are from the
town of Davidson, and all plan to go here two years. Left to right they are: Carolyn Lassiter, Betty Kerr,
Martha Withers, Ruth Newman, and Isabel Linker.—(Photo by Billy Barker).

Thoughts and Special Work Department Study In Many Schools

Five recent graduates of Davidson are taking graduate work in physics, holding scholarships and fellowships at various institutions. These are
as follows: Johnny Reisner and Bill Johnsen at the University of Virginia, Reid Patterson at Duke, Bud Gilmore at Vanderbilt,
and W.A. Douglas at Carolina: All these men were members of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics society, and majored in
physics and mathematics. Dr. Beams, Director of Physical Research at the University of Virginia, has made a discovery which will
be a real contribution to the field of physics. The publication of this will be made in the next few
months. Reisner is devoting his entire time to research. W. A. Douglas served as instructor in the Physics Department for
two years, dating from 1938 to 1940.

Allison From the Chemistry Department: Allison is holding a fellowship in Chemistry at the University of Virginia, while Tom Guion
holds one at John Hopkins University. This department has fellowships at Cornell, Carolina, and Duke. More scholarships and fellowships are
now being offered in the fields of Chemistry and Physics than ever before. Students prepared in these subjects are in
high demand.

Johnson Head ‘Y’ Committee: Following the custom inaugurated by the YMCA of previous years, prayer meetings were held Wednesday night
at 10:15. These meetings, directed by Ralph Johnson, are under the supervision of Bob Williams. Each member is appointed to
lead the devotional each time so that everyone may participate. The general program includes the devotional followed by a discussion
and sentence prayers. Outsiders will augment the groups in getting up the programs. It is planned to have faculty members
and prominent religious leaders from the student body conduct some groups.

Students would perhaps settle the question for good. If the alma mater is not singable for a large group, we
should admit it and immediately adopt another entry.

KNOX BUILDING BREAK THE CRYSTAL On Your Watch? BRING IT TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C.

Fred Waring is not. I think Weights Vary In ’44 Class: Largest And Smallest Freshmen Interviewed. Holly, 1, and Maxwell,
250-lb freshman here at Davidson. Pearsall Maxwell, from New Bern, where he is a familiar sight, hits “Two Ton” Maxwell.
In contrast, “Midget” Pearsall possesses a sawed-off li chu. The boys hold something in common: they both support Willkie. Maxwell
is tooth and nail for Willkie. “Look at the lineup,” he says, “Will hat Roosevelt.” The opposite. He says that
Lamarr is his idea of a dream girl. If only her four feet. Whistling at girls, Maxwell is fond of
football, track, and driving cars, but fast! Once he wrestled a person, but the other fellow is all right. Maxwell
is waiting for his uniform, being specially made.

Masquers Meet: At their first meeting of the 1940-41 season, which was held Wednesday night at the Phi Delta Theta
house, the Red and Black Masquers discussed plans for the presentation of a play this fall, probably in November. Among
the plays prominently mentioned were “There Must Be Night” and the well-known “Night Must Fall.” Don Hodges, who is in
charge of the selection of the play, said that the play will probably be produced in November. The members also
discussed the production of a light musical comedy sometime this spring. After the meeting, a feed was held at the
Little Pep.

Scabbard And Blade: Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, held its first meeting of the current year last Wednesday
night at seven o'clock. A quorum of members was present, and President Holt Barnwell urged that all members continue to
attend regularly. The regular business meeting was held, and plans for the year were undertaken. Later in the year, the
local chapter will hold its annual fall tap day. At this time, certain members of the junior class will be
extended bids to become members of the honorary fraternity.

MERA TS and Groceries —DIAL 5041— J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

Pre-Med Frat Has Initiation: Alpha Epsilon Delta Holds First Meeting. Delta that McDu has if to them medical wisttal M
ral ne Handy M “AC ACK NG IN COIN. PRINTING A telephone. For a representative Dial 6300 — 6309 ailing
COMPU! 3 A SCiIVviGce

Co-eds Charms Prove Threat To Bachelors: New Freshmen Add Color To The Campus By Thompson, Morrow, and Cooke. Uae Is
Our Business. Ru eb Nes Printing as ir! as yOULe Printers of The Davidsonian. STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY FRED H. PLEXICO,
Owner Garland Court Charlotte, N. C.

Negro Center: David McLean Center Proves Valuable Gift. New Buildings To Be Opened Next Session. Fall Program Is Begun For
Scout Work. Special Work Gaping Holes Mark Sites Of New Library And Chemistry Building. Face Each Other Old Laboratory.

Sigma Delta Pi: Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, held its first meeting of the school year Monday night, October
7, at 9 o'clock in Professor Blythe's classroom. Heading the evening's program was a talk given by Professor Blythe on
the “Andes Mountains.” After the talk, plans for a feed, to be held sometime in the near future, were discussed.
It was urged that all members be punctual in their attendance, and it was suggested that members be stricken from
the roll should they fail to attend the meeting.

ALWAYS ASK FOR AIS: Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy Manufactured By SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS, Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER

SCARBROUGH BROTHERS U-Drive-It: Invite you to rent a car. Bar-B-Q Grill, 826 North Tryon Street. Tasty, Delicious Sandwiches of All
Kinds.

NEWBERG SAYS: ALWAYS Make This Your Charlotte Headquarters. Newberg’s Cut-Rate Men’s Shop. First in lowest prices. 115 W. Trade Street.
Seale Atlee Dental, Charlotte, N. C.
