Pan-Hell Offers New Plan ° Z—528 ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS The Davidsonian Three New Phi Betas Elected VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 9, 1940 No. 29

New Members And Officers Are Chosen For Phi Beta Kappa
Abernathy, Crane, And Perrin Are Elected To Scholarship Group
ALL THREE SENIORS
New Leaders Are Johnston, McGavock, Cummings

Jack Abernathy, Sid Crane, and Tom Perrin, members of the senior class, were elected to membership in the local circle of Phi Beta Kappa at its annual May meeting on Monday night in the faculty room of Chambers. Also at this time new officers were chosen to head the chapter. Dr. John- ston was elected to succeed Prof. E. J. Erwin as President. Dr. W. G. McGavock will take Dr. John- ston’s place as Vice-President. Dr. W. P. Cumming was re-elected to his post as Secretary-Treasurer for next year.

Outstanding on Campus
All three of the seniors have been prominent in extra-curricular activities as well as in scholastic fields. Abernathy, whose average was 92.11, has been Editor of Scripts ’n Pranks this year and also served as Assistant Editor of The Davidsonian and President of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Perrin, whose average was also 92.11, is a member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, and also of Sigma Upsilon, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and International Relations Club. He also held an assistantship in Political Science. Crane, whose average was 92.00, has been President of the YMCA for this year and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Le Cercle Francais, and the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Dr. Cummings Delegate
Other business taken up at the meeting on Monday night included the election of a delegate to the Triennial Council of Phi Beta Kappa to be held in San Francisco, California, August 28-31. Dr. Cumming was elected delegate, and Dr. Johnston as alternate delegate.

Original Play Will Be Given By Masquers
All Male Cast Will Fill Various Roles

“Solomon Without Wives,” or “Can This Be Davidson?” an original three-act play by Pat Rudolph and Dan Hodges, will be presented by the Red and Black Masquers, Monday night, May 20, in Chambers auditorium. The play is a take-off on a small college rush week and administration.

All Male Cast
The cast is all male and all student. Pat Rudolph plays the part of a Nazi propagandist, sent by the Bund to Solomon College to spread the doctrine. The part of Vivian Vamp, the college sweetheart, is taken by Joe Newell Robinson, and Dick Cobb plays Victor Arthur, III, a wealthy boy who attends the college and whose father has promised to give the school a gymnasium if he fulfills certain conditions.

Original Work
Three original songs were written by the co-authors with music by Joe Newell Robinson. They are “Take It or Leave It,” “Cooperation,” and “He's a Limber from the Timber.” These will be featured in the show. A large cast will include every member of the Red and Black Masquers and several from the student body at large. Further details including the hour of performance and price of tickets will be published next week.

Books Grow As Library Is Expanded
Since 1837 Library Has Grown From Nothing To Many Copies
By HENRY McINTOSH

Construction of Davidson’s $150,000 library, which will begin within the next few weeks, adds another chapter to the colorful history of the college’s growth. When the college was founded in 1837 there was no library or even a collection of books provided for the students other than those furnished by various members of the faculty. But on April 14, 1837, the Polemic Debating Society, now known as the Eumenean Society, was organized, and the following June the Philanthropic Society held its first meeting. Soon these two societies, in competition with one another, organized libraries to “let out books two days a week at or before 8 A. M.”

Collection Grew
These collections grew rapidly, so that in 1839 the Eumenean Society borrowed $50 on the “faith of the Society to add to the books” then stored in Professor Sparrow's classroom. They also borrowed $500 in 1858 for the purchase of additional books. However, a year previous to this loan, they attempted to “purify” their library by burning all the works of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Paine. Records show that by 1860 the college owned about two thousand books, but these were “lost” in the Commencement Hall of the newly constructed “old” Chambers Building. In 1886 the collections of the two societies were combined, giving a total of about nine thousand volumes. These books were catalogued together in a room, thirty-five by seventy feet, which was planned with no conception of modern library work. During the winter months the “librarian wore a muffler and rubber shoes and kept the windows open because it was warmer outside than within.”

Carnegie Gift
In 1909 Andrew Carnegie gave $20,000 for the library along with an endowment of $20,000 more. The ground for this building was broken in September 1909, the building being completed in June of the following year. Soon the old Andrew Carnegie Library, after 32 years of use, will be emptied of its possessions and students of Davidson will be privileged to use the new Professor “Unknown” Foreman Memorial Library.

Foreman Will Head N.C.P.S
Philosophical Society Convenes At Davidson

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman was elected president of the North Carolina Philosophical Society at its sixth annual meeting held at Davidson College May 4, 1940. Dr. Foreman succeeded Dr. E. H. Henderson of Meredith College. With Dr. Foreman presiding, Professor John A. Clark of Woman’s College of U. N. C., gave a talk on “Intuition and Criticism in Ethics.” At 12:30 the members had lunch at the invitation of the college in the banquet hall. At 2:00 with President Henderson presiding, election of the coming year’s officers was held, at which time Dr. Foreman was elected president. After that Dr. Kuhn from the University of North Carolina presented a talk entitled “Poetry and Belief.” Then Dr. Foreman spoke on the subject of “Kalo- (Continued on Page Six)

Phi Beta Kappa Elects Members
CRANE

Science Dept. Leads Meeting
Convention Draws Many Scientists

The North Carolina Academy of Science held its thirty-ninth annual meeting at Davidson College May 3 and 4, 1940. The principal features of the meeting were: the Address of Welcome by President Lingle of Davidson, and the Presidential Address by the retiring president of the Academy, Dr. Blomquist of Duke University. Beginning Friday morning at 9 o'clock and lasting until dinner, the organization met as a general group to hear various papers which were of general scientific interest. Dr. Port- er of Davidson read “Notes on the Language of Science.”

Dr. Lingle Speaks
After dinner another general session was held. This was followed by a business meeting. At the Friday evening meeting, Dr. Lingle welcomed the Academy to Davidson as a group. Saturday morning the Academy met for a short while then it split up into several specialized sections. These were: Mathematics, Botany, Geology, High School Science Teachers, Physics, Psychology, and Zoology. Various members who had been making special studies in these branches of departments read fifteen-minute papers to the groups. Professor McGavock of Davidson read a paper to the mathematics section.

New Invention
A subject which excited a great deal of comment was Professor Stuhlman’s (U.N.C.) paper explaining his new weather barometer which he is developing. By working with a nest of mirrors and a thermometer, he is able to determine the moisture in the fleecy clouds in the stratosphere, and thereby predict the weather. Dr. Stuhlman said that

Stud Store Managers
HEWES PARRISH

In This Issue
New Student Store Managers Page 1
Pan-Hell Dance Plan Page 1
Phi Beta Kappa New Members Page 1
Junior Business Managers Page 1
Editorial On Dance Plan Page 2
Letters to the Editor Page 2
Court of Control Page 3
Among the Greeks Page 3
Inter-fraternity Sing Page 5
Question of the Week Page 5
New Masquers Officers

JACK ABERNATHY

N.Y.A. Reports
According to an announcement by Professor F. K. Fleagle, all N. Y. A. reports for the month of May will be due on May 21. This is the last day of recitations, as well as of work on the N. Y. A. Although it is rather early for the work to cease, this is being done to facilitate the issue of all checks before students depart for the summer. Otherwise, it would be with great effort that the checks would reach workers. The usual penalty will be in effect to those whose time reports are not in Professor Fleagle’s hands before Tuesday night, May 21st.several times, will be in the hands of Don Hot during the last year when the government weather man had made a false prediction concerning the weather. He, with the aid of his invention, had correctly determined [Continued on Page Six] of the senior class. During the process of the supper, there will be a program presented by members of both groups that will be arranged by Jack of the senior class.

To Succeed McClintock And Richmond

On May 1, the Student Store Board of Control elected Hewes Parrish and Dick Arnold to be Student Store managers for 1940-41. Parrish succeeds Gales McClintock as manager, and Arnold succeeds George Richmond as purchasing manager. The clerks of the store work through their junior year, as finance managers, when the managers are elected at the first of May. Those clerks that were candidates for the positions this year were: Bob Bals, Jay Bolin, Bob Johnson, Karl Jonas, Frank Niven, John Purdie, Dick Shore, Jack White, Bobby Williams, Dick Arnold, and Hewes Parrish. The new managers took charge of their duties last Monday, May 6.

Activities

Parrish is president of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and secretary-treasurer of the “D” Club. He is also on the varsity wrestling and cross-country teams, and a member of the Student Council. Arnold is vice-president of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, recorder of the Court of Control, and a member of the varsity football team.

Election

Five men compose the Student Store Board of Control, including one representative of the Student Council, one representative of the Athletic Association, president of the student body, Mr. Magill, school auditor, and Mr. Jackson, treasurer. George Richmond is the Student Council representative; Bob Kellogg represented the Athletic Association. [Continued on Page Six]

Seniors Meet With Faculty

Contests And Barbecue Feature Day

Senior-Faculty day has been set by the committee preparing this affair for next Tuesday, May 14. Annually the faculty meets the senior class in many different types of contests which they hold a barbecue on the college course. This year the sports will be in the hands of coach Charlie Yates, the faculty manager. All types of spring sports will be entered on this occasion by both teams. There will be: Golf, Softball, Tennis, Bowling, and Horseshoes. In the past, the softball game has been the biggest attraction.

Library Vote

There will be a special registration at Henderson's Jewelry Store, that will be open until May 11 for voting upon opening the Charlotte and Mecklenburg County Library. Voting will take place on May 25. Due to the fact that persons registering and not voting count against reopening, the first vote turned down libraries for Charlotte and the county. This is not merely a Charlotte municipal election, as many people seem to think, but it is a county question. Since the vote is passive (those not voting are counted as voting against) those interested are urged to give the matter consideration.

Pan-Hellenic Council Suggests New Plans For Sale Of Tickets

Publication Assistants

Junior Managers

Assistant business managers of the three Davidson publications for next year have been appointed by the business managers, Fred Little, of the Davidsonian, Gene Vereen, of Quips and Cranks, and Ralph Harkey, of Scripts ’n Pranks. Those on the Davidsonian are as follows: John Crichton, Plonk, Charlie Watt, Dick Kelley, Ed Scott, and Baxter Freeze. Crichton and Plonk are the advertising managers. Crichton is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has worked on the editorial staff of the annual. Plonk sings in the Glee Club and is secretary of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Watt is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and of the “D” Club. Watt is also vice-president of the YMCA, and is on the “Y” Board of Control. Kelly, assistant business manager, belongs to Kappa Sigma and is a junior editor of the annual. Scott, circulation manager, is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha and Cercle Francais. He is also a sophomore track manager. Freeze belongs to Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and is a sophomore football manager. Freeze made his varsity letter in wrestling and is a member of the varsity track team.

Annual

Assistant business managers for the Quips and Cranks are Charlie Watt, Hutch Booker, Mason Wallace, Bill Faison, George Matthews, and Jack Westall. Booker belongs to Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Wallace is a member of Kappa Alpha, and played freshman baseball last year. Faison is an S. A. E. and was on the varsity football team. Matthews is a Beta. Westall is a Phi Delt, and belongs to the Eumenean Literary Society.

Scripts ’n Pranks

Harkey’s assistants for Scripts ’n Pranks are Woodward, Caldwell, McAfee, and MacKinnon. Woodward is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and he is a wrestling and baseball manager. MacKinnon is a Phi Delt, and played freshman baseball last year. Caldwell is an S. A. E. and is secretary-treasurer of the rising junior class. He also made his letter in varsity football. McAfee is a Beta, and is a member of the school band and orchestra.

“Me By Me” Writers Pick New Officers

Liles, Hay, Carter, Jones Hold Offices

Joe Liles became president of Delta Epsilon, honorary journalistic fraternity, in their meeting after chapel Monday morning. Liles is business manager of both the Davidsonian and Scripts ’n Cranks. He is a member of Philanthropic Literary Society and Le Cercle Francais. He succeeds Erle Austin in this capacity. Other officers include Ed Hay, vice-president; Bobby Carter, secretary; and Southgate Jones, treasurer of the organization. Delta Epsilon was formed for the purpose of recognizing journalistic ability from the publications. Founded as a journalism class three years ago by Fred Smith, this class evolved into a fraternity. Today Delta Epsilon is petitioning for a charter of the national honorary journalistic fraternity, Pi Delta Epsilon.

Most Popular Picture

The Camera Club’s exhibit of prints by Davidson and Queens students drew a crowd during its three-day stand in Eu Hall. All visitors were entitled to cast three votes for their favorite photos. “Dobbin” by Angus Lytch, was picked as the best picture with a total of 110 votes. “Portrait,” also by Angus Lytch, came second with 103 votes and Ray Hoover’s “Boy and Dog” placed third with 72 votes. Honorable mentions were given to: “Tranquility,” “Early Morning Shadows,” “Winter’s Blanket” by D. H. Coblentz, and “Lagoon” and “Winter Beauty” by Billy Barker.

Social Function

In addition to sponsoring the exhibit, the local photo addicts have been active along social lines. The Camera Club invited Charlotte photographers to a picnic last Saturday night. Attending the affair, which was held on the Catawba river, were: Billy Barker, Dave Coblentz, Elmer Huleh, Ed Maxwell, George McDonald, and Mac Parker.