Thurs., Feb. 8, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

With the presence of Mid-Winters, the social fraternities of the campus had a busy weekend. The social-minded Greeks of Davidson overran the village with a wave of feminine pulchritude. The boys themselves were busy with dances, banquets, breakfasts, and feeds as well as greeting the alumni brothers. Among the social functions were banquets held in the various establishments of Charlotte. The Phi Delts had a banquet Saturday night at the Hotel Charlotte, at which the alumni of the chapter appeared in the form of Brent Green, Reid Harmon, Arthur Moore, Bill Beatty, and Pete McKnight. At the Beta banquet on Friday night at Thacker’s, the dates of the seniors were presented with appropriate gifts while all of the other girls received favors. The chapter received Paul Efird, a transfer student from Duke University.

The Pi Kappa Alphas held a formal banquet at the Hotel Charlotte on Friday night preceding the dance at which the returning brothers were Allen Parker, Ed Wooten, Addison Long, T. J. Turner, Bob Anders, Teeny Lafferty, Olin Davis, Jack Garrett, Joe Brinson, Tom Shelton, and Jack Roach. The Pi Kappa Phis turned out almost en masse for the dances and many of the brothers returned for the Friday night banquet. Among them were Paul Cooper, Bid Ivey, Dick Towill of the University of South Carolina, Sam Hemphill, Herb Willis, and Steve Moore of Clemson College.

The Kappa Alphas held their banquet Friday night at the Wood-Bowl preceding the dance. Tom Perrin presided in the absence of the president, Dave Sprunt. Speeches were made by Marion Harmon, Sam Paul, and Pet Dargen.

The SPE’s, Phi Gams, SAE’s, Phi Delts, and Kappa Sigs also had their share of girls and festivities which are too numerous to mention here. A list of the girls at Davidson follows:

Girls Attending Mid-Winters

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Tiny Spencer, Concord; Lucy Faire, Greenville; Peggy Hite, Florence; Virginia Waddill, Aileen Long, Charlotte; Mary Ruth Cannon, Concord; Mary Jones, Dalton; Mary Lee Lander, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi—Miss Margaret Patterson of Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta—Miss Ann Sutherland of Knoxville, Tenn.

Phi Delta Theta—Miss Ree Chalk of Meridian, Miss.

Sigma Phi Epsilon—Miss Marjorie Poole of Mullens, South Carolina.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Send NUNNALLY’S CANDY
COLLEGE PHARMACY
Davidson, N. C.

Campus In Cartoon

HANDLES THE KICKOFF ASSIGNMENT

JUANITA McCRURY OF PARIS (TEXAS) JUNIOR COLLEGE ACTUALLY PLAYS WITH THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL TEAM. SHE SPECIALIZES IN PLACEKICKING AND IS USED FOR CONVERTING EXTRA POINTS AND FOR FIELD GOAL KICKING.

FRATERNITIES, ATTENTION!
Buy your supply of wood and coal for the Winter Season from the DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL COMPANY

CORRECT EATING is Necessary for GOOD HEALTH
We Serve the Best Food at Reasonable Prices
LITTLE PEP
Davidson, N. C.

Marjorie Weaver, Harry Green
“Blondie Brings Up Baby”
Starts Monday! America’s most loveable family in “Blondie Brings Up Baby” with Arthur Lake, Penny Singleton, Larry Sims

Late News - Community Sing
Broadway CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Echoes of the Past

10 Years Ago
Glee Club arranges for extensive tour.
Scout organization to be formed soon.
Gridmen presented sweaters in chapel.
Davidson and Wolfpack wrestlers fight to tie in Raleigh engagement.
Senior class holding wide margin in intramural competition.

5 Years Ago
Three promotions are announced by R. O. T. C. Department.
Pianist offers concert lauded by newspapers.
Scientific Motion Pictures to be shown to students.

Rifle Team Participating In Fourth Corps Area Match This Week

Members of the rifle team are participating in the regular Fourth Corps Area ROTC rifle match this week. Although the entire team had not been completed as the Davidsonian went to press, the team was chosen in time to take part in the match. In this and a series of other matches, the firing will be done at the respective schools by the teams. The targets will be sent in to decide the winner of the annual competition. Only the ten high scores registered by fifteen marksmen firing ten shots each will be counted in this aggregate.

Other Matches

Other matches have been scheduled with such schools as the University of Maine, New Mexico Military Academy, University of Hawaii, and the University of Florida and fifteen other schools and universities. The only shoulder-to-shoulder match which has been arranged as yet for this season will be on March 2, when there will be a four-team match with Davidson, Clemson, Wofford, and Presbyterian College of South Carolina participating. Other matches of this type will be scheduled later.

Membership of the team will be announced in the Davidsonian next week.

Dr. W. L. Lingle recently donated seventy books from his own collection to the Davidson College Library. The library has also purchased a number of new books. One of the most interesting of these is a novel by Christopher Morley entitled “Kitty Foyle,” which is thought by many critics to be his best work. Another of the very interesting books is “The Rich Young Ruler” by Dr. Frazer Hood. Dr. Hood spoke to the Y. M. C. A. Deputations at many churches during the past month. He took his text from the tenth chapter of Mark.Mary Spencer, Nancy Jett, and Laurie Carlson of Greensboro; Anna Dixon, Campbell, Ann Felton, Martha Ellerbe; Eleanor Upchurch, Montgomery, Ala.; Lucille Eddie, Shelbyville, Ky.; Lurline Ross, Burlington; Katheryn Wilkinson, Jacksonville; Sue McKoy and Sybil Brody, Attenboro; Kitty Grady, Baltimore, Md.; Caroline Maller, Charlotte; and Kathryn Kerhulas, Tryon. 

Dr. Hood said that he would appreciate the new books now ready for circulation. Dr. Hood mentioned that he would appeal to the more literary teachers as a psychologist, suggesting an immediate union of all democratic countries in the present crisis. The Library has also sponsored numerous Foreign Mission deputations to churches all over the state. January is Foreign Mission month for the Presbyterian Church. 

Dr. Hood pointed out that Jesus never answered the young man’s question, "What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" Instead, he tried to make the young man see for himself. If any answer had been given, it would have been: "He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Dr. Hood applied this to college life, saying that many students wanted a list of questions and answers to memorize to obtain a good grade. However, he emphasized that his duty as a professor was not to give students a formula but to help them think for themselves.

The following men have led the Study School for one week: Dave Talmage, Russell Smith, Dick Coppedge, and Sidney Crane. Several girls from Queens College also took part in the series. 

Henry Crane and Judge Benny Harrison spoke at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. John Farrior and Tom Brown went to Burlington to speak at the meeting of the Auxiliary of the First Presbyterian Church. 

There have been two calls for men to report on the Foreign Mission Study book, "Tragedy to Triumph," by Basil Matthews. Bill Loftin and John Coppedge have each reported on a portion of the book at the Huntersville Presbyterian Church. 

At a meeting held last Wednesday, Judge Benny Harrison of the Court of Control campus-ed a number of Freshmen for charges of refusal to wear their Freshmen caps, insubordination to upperclassmen, and refusal to carry upperclassmen’s laundry. The sentences ranged from two to three weeks of strict campus, depending on the severity of the offenses. 

Pictures of snow scenes taken during the recent snow were exhibited, and plans were made for a coming field trip to an industrial plant in Charlotte. Among those who presented especially good prints were Bill Barker and Ray Hoover. 

The sponsors are as follows: Beta Theta Pi, Miss Caroline Miller of Charlotte; Pi Kappa Alpha, Miss Eleanor Dear of Atlanta, Ga.; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Miss Jo Bridger of Bladenboro; Kappa Sigma, Miss Betty Waldron of Greensboro; Kappa Alpha, Miss Martha Grier of Spartanburg; Harriet Southerland, Laurinburg; Ellen Self, Asheville; Matine Watson, Spartanburg; Marjorie Crisp, Lenoir; Pony Munroe, Charlotte; Helen Clark, Fayetteville; Jennie Linn, Savannah; Marcha Suwain, Spartanburg; Maxine Morris, Kannapolis; Nancy Alsers, Badin; and Nancy Frazier, Badin. 

These sponsors were elected by the various fraternities during the week preceding the examination period. They will act as official representatives of the lodges in the yearbook.