Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. April 11, 1940

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of
Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PAUL BUMBARGER BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
JIM CURRIE Assistant Editor
SEACH POM CATT Associate Editor
JOE WILES Associate Editor
ED WATSON Associate Editor
LAWSON WITHERS Associate Editor
DICK COBB Managing Editor
HARWELL DARBY Managing Editor
BOB GARVEY Managing Editor
W. C. PLUNKETT Managing Editor
AL WINN Managing Editor
LOST OPPORTUNITIES Sports Editor
BOB CARTER Movie Editor
BOB WILLIAMS
ANGUS LYTCH
HERBERT CODINGTON
CASEY JONES
HECTOR MCLEAN
ELDREDGE BROWN
JACK COVINGTON
FRED LITTLE

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hand by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Dr. Mott’s Lectures

Today marked the close of a series of lectures by one of the most outstanding men in the Christian world, and in the world at large. Dr. John R. Mott has throughout his long and useful life spoken continually to various groups of students in all parts of the world—at over three thousand individual colleges and universities, to be more specific. Davidson has indeed been honored by his presence on the campus.

It is a rare thing that a student body has the opportunity to listen to such a man as this. Men of his caliber are few and far between, and the college has been fortunate in being able to secure Dr. Mott for lectures. Once again the Otts Lectureship has performed a fine service to the college, and the thanks of the student body go to the donor, as well as to Dr. Mott, who has given a fine, inspiring series of lectures.

A prominent senior was heard to say recently, in discussing the Mott lectures, “If I had my life to live over at Davidson, I would make it a point to attend every lecture presented by the college.” Looking back over the many lectures that have been given in Chambers Auditorium the past three years, it is amazing how wide a variety of various fields of human endeavor have been presented. For instance: there has been a talk on necromancy, polaroid, Biblical research in Palestine, General Allenby’s campaign, the new approach to physical research, and many other subjects. Among the distinguished visitors to our campus have been Carl Sandburg, Maurice Hindus, No Yong Park, and recently Dr. Mott.

When a new lecture is announced in chapel, the average student usually hides a “ho-hum” behind an upraised palm, and wonders what is on at the show. But never in later life will he have the opportunities which are before him at Davidson to hear discussed the subjects in which everyone should be interested, by widely known and recognized authorities. And it is refreshing to note that at least some upperclassmen see fit to bewail the chances which they have lost forever to know more of what is going on in the world. We can only hope that more students can be made to see the value of our lectures early enough in their college life so that they can get the benefit to be derived from them.

P.W.B.

With The Staff

CONGRATULATIONS!

Glass shattered, water swished, horrifying cries rang out and we cringed at the thought of our damage fees fleeing away in a water fight that was being carried on in the tune of “Burn Rumple.” Often these affairs started as mere little rallies that had good intentions of getting the students something such as a few more cuts or cheaper football tickets. But the result was usually the same: some member of the faculty was offended or the students did so much damage to college property that they had to “shell out” a small fortune. Alas! the desired results were never gained. However, this year we have come to a turning point in the relations between the faculty and the students on subjects that the students want considered in their behalf.

Last year when the student faculty committee was organized the feeling among the students seemed to be that it was just a measure to put off the question of the cuts which at that time had just been reduced to almost half their former number and that it would be a group of students that would appeal to the faculty in behalf of the student body with no good results. However, soon in this school year we saw that anyone that had had this idea about the committee was badly mistaken, for right away they went into action and in perfect harmony with the faculty worked out new cut regulations not so strenuous as those put into effect last year. This was only a beginning, for later on as the Christmas Holidays drew near the committee again scored a hit as they secured the change in regulations concerning the double cuts before and after the holidays.

Now again we find that the committee has worked out another change in the cuts, appreciated by them. All of this can mean but one thing and that is we have at last found a way in which we can present our side of vital questions to the faculty and work these things out to the best advantage to both parties in the question. The committee has found, I’m quite sure, in their dealings with them that the faculty is interested in the students and that they want to help us get the things that we want most if only the students will go about it in the right way. This fact has been definitely proved and now if we will all stay behind this group that has worked so diligently for us and pull with them for the things that we feel will be an asset to the campus it will be amazing to see the headway we can make.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Ye olde author waxes bold here. Now that he has gotten on this subject of changes, he has one little thing that he would like to see made a part of the regular activities here each year. It is a very evident fact that there is much friendly rivalry between the classes, so why not each year have an annual mud, water, or what have you, battle between, say, the freshmen and juniors vs. the sophomores and seniors? This is an idea that has been successful in many schools, supervised by the intramural staff. It might work here at Davidson, until we try how shall we know that it is not a good idea? We certainly have boys here that love to engage in battles of this type, as is shown ever so often by the friendly water fights. However, some few boys have found these to be rather expensive and we all have found that they are not the thing to create a feeling of animosity with the faculty. So let’s consider the assets of an annual inter-class battle and if we think it would be a good thing why then our student-faculty committee can do what they think best about it.

Exchange

Unique thing. To the average logical thought in life by the worms. Called most intangible. Forget it. (I must confess this last idea was not entirely mine and so all the glory(?) or blame, whichever the case might be cannot be heaped on my head. I overheard one of our best “firemen” say recently that he thought it would be a good idea, so here it is).

Letters To The Editor

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION

Dear Andy:

I don’t want to be classified as the most vicious griper on the Davidson campus but there is one thing that I’d like to find out before the end of the election period. What has happened to our Athletic Association? From all indications no one knows. Frankly I have been investigating the thing a little and those connected with it apparently know no reason why this office has been so abruptly discontinued or just who did discontinue it? Apparently the change in the Athletic Department of the College made by the Board of Trustees at their February meeting instigated this move but why should we kill this office because of the Trustees action? Under the old set-up there were two distinct Athletic Associations—the College’s and the Students. The Davidson AA of course took care of all Athletic work and duties; the Student AA was merely an honorary set-up and had no connection whatsoever with the Davidson AA. It served merely as a means to honor several of our athletes who would not otherwise gain recognition for their services. Their capacity included nothing official; their duties were none; the organization merely existed. Why then should we destroy an office because of a new department put in by the college authorities? Our student AA will not interfere with the new college set-up. It’ll only exist as it did in the past—for the purpose of recognizing three athletes and naming them to three offices, the president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer of the Student AA. We have no other way to show our gratitude to boys who go out and give all they have for Davidson.j$— TUNING IN— - ; This whole setup called “College Education” is quite a student it means only a series of exams, registrations, class attendance, and vacations. To others, it is an escape from having nothing to do with a lot of time, and, to a very few, it is a means of cultivating mastery of a few subjects. Those in the latter group are sometimes referred to as “book- worms.” This thing called “College Education” can certainly be intangible. It isn’t something that can be seen, heard, or very adequately measured. One attempt that has been made at measuring the thing involves what a college graduate knows after he forgets everything he learned in college. This is also quite intangible, but the point is that we assimilate what we learn in college, and the mental growth that is caused by this process represents our education, while what we learned in college passes off as waste matter as we grow older.

This thing called “College Education” might be likened to a radio program and the receiving set. Picture a radio with the power on, the tubes hot, and all ready to pick up the programs that are floating about. It lacks the tuning-in process. What does it lack? It can be turned on indefinitely, but what is it worth unless the process of “tuning in” is applied? So might we view “College Education.” We register and attend classes. The music and program are all around us and the tubes are warm, but what is the value of the “set” if we don’t tune in? Stop and ask yourself the question: Am I just playing for the use of the “set” to get a piece of paper with my name in Old English letters across the face, or am I making an effort to tune in? Managing Editor—U. of Tenn. “Orange and White”.

give them a "D" and make them a member of the monogram club. Of course, captains of various sports are elected but since the captaincy of the football team has been discontinued only five or six captains are named each year. The athletic program at Davidson includes at least 35 percent of the student body through the course of a year. It is indeed a department, yet the participants have no means, except those meager ones stated above, of honoring members of the department if the AA is done away with. Personally, I would like to see something done about it. I would rather see it revived but if that is impossible I would certainly like to hear just why and who did away with the department. Perhaps those who did kill the Association have good reasons, but frankly, I sincerely believe that the Student Body should be informed of such moves before they take place—it’s our AA and why shouldn't we know the facts of the case? A student body discussion on the matter should solve the entire question, Tony Casali.

DR. MOTT

Dear Andy: I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Mott for his wonderful talks during the past week. Although he may not see this, I feel that the College should also know that a great many of the students appreciate the value of such things, and that a great many more do also, even if they won't admit it. It just occurred to me that no one might take the trouble publicly to thank Dr. Mott for his talks, and the college for getting him, and I'd like for someone to do it, so I take it on myself. "42.

(Continued on Page Six)

Thoughts

Another week and another guest columnist. Glad to welcome Apie back to the campus. I wish he could write this column, but it will take him a week or two to re-establish his snooping contacts. Last weekend was filled with quite a number of functions, the Chi Omega hay-ride, the S. A. E. dance, the S. P. E. dance, and the O. R. A. ball. Quite a lot of dope flowed back to the campus from these affairs. The feature of the O. R. A. ball was the blaring band of blacks which kept the crowd continually on the jump. Rea Tenney had an appointment with Colonel Steele for 12:20, but due to unforeseen circumstances he didn’t keep it. Hope he doesn't get court-martialed. Only about half of the ROTC boys attended but there were no uniforms left on the campus. Many new Davidson Army boys were present. The locker room was the scene of multifoliate action. Among the big noises were Luther, Barker, Anderson, etc. And speaking of Barker, I learned after returning to the campus that he, Vernon Youngblood, and several others took a long detour home by Concord after the dance. Butch and her visitors were among the notables present. We are sorry that Major Ballard and Lt. Col. McKenzie were unable to attend. Thanks a million to the Charlotte Reserve Officer's Association for a fine affair.

The Chi Omega hay-ride was another of the weekend successes. Everyone was distinctly shocked when Warren Lewdlam turned out with Loch Hunter's old flame, Weenie Shelley. Ed Watkins almost broke his leg when he fell through a rotten plank in the old haunted house. Mary Payne must have been chasing him. Mary told the simplest joke of the evening: “What did the 1st Wall say to the 2nd Wall? Don’t lean on me; I’m plastered, too.” Ralph Monger, Bilt Bolin, Doug Dillard, Charlie Mashburn, Julian Lokey, etc., were some of the Davidson luminaries who helped fill the hay. Why is Gene Sutton going around with such a dejected look on his face these days? Ans.: His babe was at the S. P. E. dance with another fellow. Sut had that helpless attitude toward the whole thing. He should have better control over his girls. “Noxious Norman” Stevenson has at last become one of the big operators of the campus. Phil Peyton says that last Saturday night's activities were all that Stevey needed to raise him to “stardom.” The S. A. E. dance at the Country Club was more or less of a closed affair, at least to super-snoopers. But I do know that Hayseed Thomas went around all night introducing himself and his date as “Old Thomas, and Old Wilson; and that’s all.” And that had better be all from me.

Compassing The Campus By TOM CAUBLE

The anecdote I am attempting to recount here has no very direct connection to anything contemporary in local life—in short it is neither open politics propaganda nor a shot at the Old Guard. It is merely one of the innumerable legends or what-have-you that Mr. Jackson so delights in recalling. It is probable even that its accuracy has been dimmed by time for it occurred during the era of mustachioed undergraduates and four-button coats. It seems that back there somewhere local politics were rolling along quite smoothly under the watchful eye of the conservative Old Guard. No doubt they felt they had things comfortably in hand and would re-elect the same old mayor who was a fixture of the office. However, a bombshell was tossed into their sleepy midst one morning with the announcement that a new party had been formed and was entering a candidate in the mayoralty race. It seems that the local rowdies, tired of domination by the elect of the community, had gotten together, prepared a ticket, and were offering the local blackguard to the populace as the next mayor. Naturally, the most disreputable chaps in town would sit on the town council if he were elected. The Old Guard really began to worry as the campaign waxed hotter. Things very frankly looked bad. The newly-formed liberals would probably repeal the town charter if they went in and it looked dangerously as if they would outnumber the conservatives at the polls. The liberals were no doubt plotting the repudiation of the nine o'clock curfew at that moment. At last the Founding Fathers conceived a plan whereby they could save the community and the curfew. It seems that Davidson students at that time were quite a bit older than present undergrads. Seniors were often in their middle-twenties, with the other classes for the most part being scaled in relation to that. The conservatives, therefore, decided to enlist student aid in repelling the rowdies at the polls. They found there was no law preventing students of voting age from casting their ballots in local township elections for they resided here nine months of the year. Consequently, the matter was taken to the students and a plea made in chapel for aid in fighting the evil element and allowing righteousness to triumph. Wild applause greeted the appeal. The students were all for it. Every eligible man pledged himself to vote. The day seemed saved for the Old Boys. They could settle down for a couple of years now and then re-elect their trusty candidate again. But alas! The conservatives were confounded the next day by the appearance of a third party—this time the Student Party advocating “Ollie for Mayor,” “Vote for Ollie, the students’ choice!” It was the most raucous mayoralty race in history. The bad boys, too, were a little abashed by the new turn of events for they feared some of the wishy-washies in their party might be drawn into the newly organized Student Party. 

(Continued on Page Six)

Film Report Card By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday April 12 and 12 “Virginia City”: Errol Flynn, Randolph Scott, Miriam Hopkins, and Humphrey Bogart. West of Dodge City there was no law and here Virginia City lay. It is a true story of the American Frontier where men loved, fought, and died fast. Here is the breathless saga of the gallant 73 who charged through the boldest adventure of America’s law—the forsaken West—history’s epic of the City of Gold that was built upon the lead of bullets. A truly great picture that represents man’s fight for the West and his love for gold, whiskey, and women.

Saturday, April 13 “Dr. Cyclops”: Albert Dekker, Janice Logan, Thomas Coley, and Charles Halton. Albert Dekker is a real yet unmerciful doctor that has gone to the jungles of Africa and while there discovered great resources of radium. Crazed by the presence of others he injects his radium upon five of his very close friends and reduces them to a height of 14 inches. Realizing that they will eventually grow to normal size he sets out to kill them. With skill and courage they fight back at the monster until they finally... well we will let you see just what does happen. Every scene is thrill-packed and exciting.

Late Show Saturday and Monday April 13 and 15 “It All Came True”: Felix Bressart, Anne Sheridan, Jeffrey Lynn, and Grant Mitchell. The scene of this plot is laid in a quiet and old-fashioned rooming house. Rummy and Gossip occupy the life of these people until a fast and shrewd poker player joins them. Anne Sheridan’s love affair with Jeffrey Lynn causes the household no end of trouble. Finally, the old home is turned into a nightclub where poker games and whiskey drinking, joined with love affairs, give the older people a severe shock. Just a case of Rummy and Gossip versus Poker and Whiskey. Anne Sheridan’s beauty plus that Oomph add gaiety and variety to the performance.

Tuesday, April 16 “Dr. Kildare’s Strange Case:”