Thurs. April 4, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

This week the Davidsonian presents a timely question about itself. This is a newspaper by the students, for the students,
and we therefore ask, “What are your suggestions for improvements in the Davidsonian?” (Of course the main fault is that
three days elapse between time of make-up and delivery, but this cannot be remedied because of prohibitive prices for faster
printing, since Davidson owns no presses.)

Dick Gammon, Senior: Looking at this question candidly, it seems that a few improvements could be made. For example, a
more personal touch would help a lot. If the name of the boy who writes the story were printed along
with it, he would try harder to do a good job instead of handing in something to which he would
be ashamed to have his name attached. Then too, it would give him some recognition for his labors. Another point
which could be improved on is a better covering of the news on the campus. Many times things happen here
that are never mentioned in the paper. And lastly, I think that some sports should get more recognition than they
do—especially the minor sports, which are usually crowded in some corner of the sports page and on the sixth page.

Winston Taylor, Junior: I would suggest that in the make-up, all the latter portions of the stories should not be
on the back page but should be mixed up throughout the paper. Also, there should be one or possibly two
feature stories on the last page. Another good point would be to remove the “Wait A Minute” column, or else
change authors. In some cases the dirt columns make statements which are understood by parents, as well as by the
students for whom they are intended, and the result has been known to be embarrassing.

Pat Rudolph, Sophomore: After looking through countless issues of The Davidsonian, I can find no really major faults with it.
This is evidenced by its ratings in national competitions. But to get down to what would appeal to the local
instead of national judges, there could be a few minor changes and additions. For one, I suggest the development of
an intercollegiate exchange as a regular column. Use the exchange papers to get interesting facts about other nearby schools; what
they are doing and how they are doing it. Many of us try to keep up with what is going
on at Carolina and Duke, et al., and this would be an ideal way to keep correspondence.

Eldridge Brown, Junior: “The Davidsonian” does very well in presenting the news of the campus, but perhaps in collecting and
compiling it should give more news of other campuses. At times it shows evidence of inaccurate haste and compilation. It
has done pretty well in the past in giving both sides of campus questions, but sometimes it is slightly partisan,
and I do not think it should be so.

Jack Abernathy, Senior: Naturally the biggest improvement that could be made would be to eliminate this sheet from the Davidson
collegiate scene. However, since it seems to be one of the necessary evils of the campus that there must be
a Davidsonian editor to fill up room 32 Georgia, I do have a few suggestions. Why not have a full-page
cut of Chambers Building on the front page of every issue? By the time the year is out every boy
could have supplied all his friends with pictures suitable for framing, which is certainly a valuable and unique thing. The
gossip column should be expanded to fill the entire editorial page—that’s all anybody ever reads. I think stories about the
dances are simple and should be on page six; if at all, with write-ups of all the wonderful lectures we
have on the slavery.

Dr. McLeod On: Jesus’ Revelation SPEAKS AT VESPERS Former Davidson Student Now President Of Centre College

Speaking on the subject “Revelation and Experience” Dr. R. L. McLeod led vespers on Sunday evening, March 31. Dr. McLeod
is president of Centre College of Danville, Ky., and a graduate of Davidson.

Revelation was the theme used by the speaker, using education as an illustration. The purpose of progressive education is to
increase the capacity of man as a follower of God, to receive His teachings. Jesus, a teacher above all, taught
his followers that He was much more than they could receive. He promised that there would be progressively more to
come as man’s capacity to receive it developed. The spiritual teaching would be supplemented as the capacity to receive it
increased.

Progressive revelation was illustrated by examples of men’s learning toward witchcraft. Not many years ago both of these were considered
acceptable Christian practices. Through revelation both have been outmoded and considered barbarous. “What shall be the test of whether or
not a new thought or ambition is a revelation of God?” asked Dr. McLeod. The answer he gave was that
the recipient must ask whether the thought came from God or the Devil. Revelation is personal and the Bible must
be used as a standard. As to whom revelation should come, the speaker pointed out that Christ revealed Himself after
His resurrection to those who had followed and believed in Him.

Birdmen Plan New Program Flying Club Arranges For Series of C. A. A. Speakers In Spring

Plans are being made for the programs and the activity of the Flying Club for this spring. Very soon the
members hope to have speakers at their meetings—men who are meteorologists, and inspectors from the civil aeronautic authority. The members
of the Flying Club are hoping that a C.A.A. training course for colleges will be established here. The students, who
are selected both scholastically by competitive examination and physically, are required to pay a laboratory fee of $40. For $40,
the student gets approximately 12 hours of ground training, and 35 hours of flight training, 12 hours of which are
under instruction. The government furnishes $350 of training to each student for which the student, after graduation, is under no
obligation whatsoever. Upon completing the course, the student will have a private license, which will enable him to take friends
up. If the C.A.A. training is brought here, all flight instruction will be given from the Charlotte airport. Transportation to
and from the airport will be furnished free with the course. The course is primarily to create flying interest and
to increase the number of pilots. After graduation, the student, if he wishes, may continue his training at the U.S.A.
Air Corps with further extensive military training, on completion of which he will be granted a commission of second lieutenant
in the U. S. Air Force, either in active duty or reserve commission.

Renovate Your Room For Spring See Us For Supplies SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store Davidson, NC

Frosh Free From Preaches Now Headdress Harrison Changes Roles To Bring Emancipation Proclamation

A change of roles took place in chapel Friday when Judge Benny Harrison, magistrate of that terror-raising crew known as
the Court of Control, shook off the garb of demon prosecutor and assumed the attire of a bearer of good
news. The frosh, he announced, will be allowed to take off their freshman caps. An expectant hush fell over the
auditorium when Harrison arose with dignity to speak. The frosh quaked in their seats and the sophs were grinning broadly.
“The Court of Control has seen fit to permit the freshman class to take off their freshman caps,” he began—all
else was drowned out by the ensuing noise, the wild cheering of the frosh and the groaning and other forms
of disapproval of the sophs.

Landscape Change

Once again there will be an absence of the familiar red dots that adorn the landscape and that the students
become so accustomed to that there seems to be something missing about the campus. Once again the upperclassman will have
to look carefully to find someone to take and fetch his laundry instead of the customary hail, “Freshman!”

Where They Go

What now will become of these little red balls of the past few months? If the class of '43 is
like all of the preceding freshman classes, they will find a number of resting places for their old age. Some
are given to girls as mementos; some are entirely discarded as a symbol of emancipation, but many are tucked away
in drawers to be kept and passed on to posterity with stories of their owners’ adventures as a college freshman.

Visitors Will Hear Dr. Mott YMCA Students From Many Colleges For Otts Lectures

Visitors from 37 colleges throughout North Carolina have been invited to hear Dr. John R. Mott, Otts lecturer, in his
opening address Sunday night, April 7, in Chambers auditorium. Feeling that they should share with other schools the privilege of
hearing one of the acknowledged leaders of the Christian World, the local “Y” Cabinet sent out a circular letter offering
to play host to two delegates from each of 37 schools. After the address at 6:30, plans call for a
discussion led by either Dr. Mott or Dr. K. J. Foreman.Ed Jackson is making preparations for the third annual art
exhibit on the Davidson campus this week. The event was started by the Davidsonian three years ago and was taken
over by the college. Many contributions have been entered this year, and prizes are being offered for the best work
in several classes.

Dr. Caldwell To Address Ministerial Band Here

To radio st } depart to ject. - French C Circle = | | ation WSOC work

Military Frat Elects

Camera Club To Hold Annual Photo Exhibit

Showing To Be Made In Eu Hall About May 1

Broadcast

At the regular meeting of Play Will Be Presented In Weinaseee ae neat ia French Over WSOC "oa Pitan aueh.
1 8S | eke Duke, plans for the annual | Davidson Gollesats language de: {Salon exhibit were made. Selected prints
from the work of broadcast, La Partie de Bridge, a members of the club will be play which is to
be given over mounted and exhibited. The during the last week in April. exhibit will be placed in Eu- The
play is to be cast entirely menean Hall around May 1. It from the French department and is probable that
the total num- it will be given in French. Dr. G. ber of prints will exceed fifty. S. W. Spencer
are now adapting Non-member students will be al- the play to radio broadcast. lowed to exhibit prints provided Mr. George
Brengle of the dra- that they comply with the require- matic staff of station WSOC will ments which will be
stated at the be in charge of the dramatic part next meeting. This meeting will be of the production and
Dr. Watts held Wednesday evening. will be in charge of the linguistics Angus Lytch, Mac Parker, and Che language department
hopes R. 7 i t Fi ; av over ie ze Ww § it will be able to get the
language == CONST WEEE present of some nearby college with this last year’s contest. Among the most theth on pro-
popular in last year’s exhibit were prints of landscape and portraits.

Theologian Will Speak On Life And Routine Of Seminary Student

Dr. Frank Caldwell, of the Louisville Theological Seminary, will speak tonight to the Ministerial Band. This meeting, which will be
held at seven-thirty tonight, will have Dr. Caldwell, the distinguished President of the Seminary, as the speaker. The speaker has
chosen as his subject "The Daily Life and Routine of the Students of the Seminary."

Dr. Elting Of Kendall Mills, Speaks On Industrial Research

At a regular bi-monthly meeting of the science division of the faculty, Dr. Elting, director of research at Kendall Mills,
addressed the group on the subject, “Some Problems in Industrial Research.” In addition to this speech, motion pictures on the
various phases of student life at the textile mills will be shown to the members. This organization has for the
past few years been carrying on research with large industrial plants of the Davidson faculty. The colored troop, which meets
in Cornelius, will make an eight-man pyramid. As yet it is not certain which event the Unity Church troop will
participate in. The Scoutmaster of the Cornelius troop is Bill McLaughlin, a Davidson sophomore. Mr. M. L. Abernathy of Davidson
is Scoutmaster of the troop at Unity Church. Both of these troops are sponsored and supervised by the Davidson College
YMCA.

Twelve members of the present junior class were recently initiated into this organization. During the fall session next year, additional
members of the same class will be tapped. Joel Whitten, member of the present sophomore class, won this honor last
year. The preceding year Jim McDuffie, of the junior class, won the freshman medal.

Plans for the selection of the best freshman cadet were discussed. The science division was organized last year with the
purpose of encouraging research and will feature papers by its members. This group is also much interested in research that
is being carried on by industries in the nearby cities. As the North Carolina Academy of Science will meet there
May 3 and 4, the scientists of the faculty are busy planning and arranging for this meeting. Three committees have
been appointed by Prof. W. L. Porter to take care of this meeting. Prof. Porter is general chairman of the
science group.

Dr. Caldwell received his A.B. degree from Centre College. Later he studied at the United States Military Academy at West
Point, University of Mississippi, Louisville Seminary, and Edinburgh University in Scotland. Since 1930, Dr. Caldwell has been on the faculty
of Louisville Seminary. In May 1937, he was elected President of that institution. Previous to his connections with Louisville, he
taught Bible at Centre College, of which he is now a member of the Board of Trustees. At present, Dr.
Caldwell, in addition to his presidential duties, is Professor of Homiletics at the Seminary.

While exploring Death Valley, College of the Pacific students keep in touch with their campus by short wave radio.

It would take a student 11 years to complete all the courses offered by the University of Pittsburgh.

Printing - “ADVENTURES IN DIAMONDS”

Thurs.-Fri., April 4th.-5th. “YOUNG TOM EDISON”

Saturday, April 6th. “PRIVATE DETECTIVE”

LATE SHOW

Mon.-Tues., April 8th.-9th. “PRIMROSE PATH”

Wed., April 10th. “HERITAGE OF THE DEATH”

“FARMER’S DAUGHTER”

Thurs.-Fri., April 11th.-12th. “VIRGINIA CITY”

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Garland Court is our Business

A COMPLETE service as near as your Telephone. Dial 6300

Printers of The Davidsonian

For STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sun Time Is Fun Time — When You Wear The ZHSEWADA

Here's the perfect hot weather companion. In soft Honeycomb Weave and Mercerized Yarn; Natural Colors. Shirt: Small, Medium, and Large.
Slack: 20-42 waist, 30-34 inseam. $1.98

Always Ask for “S & P” Tailored By Reliance

Shirts can be worn in or out

MEATS and Groceries DIAL 5041 J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products Charlotte, N. C.
