tors and members of Kappa Sigma men, Program New Men Are Thurs., Dec. 5, 1940 Davidson’s Delegates Hear Willkie Speech at Fraternity Meet McLean, Taylor, McElwee, Vereen, and Cooper Attend Huge Conclave OVER 3,500 DELEGATES L. G. Balfour Presides Over Large Convention

Five Davidson men who attended the National Interfraternity Conference at the Hotel Commodore, New York City, were among the more than 3,500 fraternity men at the dinner which highlighted the convention. Guest speaker was Wendell L. Willkie, member of Beta Theta Pi. Lowell Thomas, news commentator and fraternity member, was the toastmaster, and the combined orchestras and clubs of Cornell University and Dartmouth College, numbering 150, furnished music and entertainment of the collegiate type. The dinner program opened with the singing of "The Star-Spangled Banner" by Reinald Werrenrath, Metropolitan Opera star.

Trophy Presented

A handsome, four-foot-high bronze statue, the work of a noted European sculptor and the gift of an unnamed friend of fraternities, was presented by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union College, to the undergraduate interfraternity council who, in the judgment of the Advisory Committee, made the most constructive contribution to the educational and social program of the institution that year. Dr. Henry Merritt Wriston, president of Brown University, presented a solid gold medallion for permanent possession to the individual who has done the most to further the fraternity cause in that particular year. 

Arrangements for the dinner were in charge of L. G. Balfour, Sigma Chi and past president of the National Interfraternity Conference.

Speeches Heard

Among the speeches heard at the convention were “A Progressive Interfraternity Council” by Frederick J. Stecker, assistant dean of men at Ohio State University; “Fifth Column Activities as They Affect Colleges and Fraternities,” by Hugh Clegg, first assistant to J. Edgar Hoover. Other topics considered at the meeting were: professional fraternities and recognition societies, rushing, regional conferences, fraternity schools and instructional courses, and conference reorganization.

John Kennedy, Marine Officer Davidson Graduate to Finish Basic School

Lieutenant John Kennedy, a graduate of Davidson College, will soon realize an ambition to follow a military career. He will be graduated from the Marine Corps Basic School in Philadelphia next February. The officer is a former resident of Port Gibson, Miss. He accepted a commission in the Marine Corps three months ago, and in recent weeks has been attending the school in Philadelphia, except for a few weeks spent on special field training in a Pennsylvania military camp. More than 100 student lieutenants from various colleges and universities are preparing themselves at the Basic School for active duty with the Marines. The course includes instruction in all types of map making, military weapons, scouting operations, and the duties of a Marine Corps officer afloat and ashore. All of the young officers of the Marine Corps are required to attend the Basic School as a preliminary to beginning their regular duties with troops.

Six Linguists From College Attend Meet Dr. G. R. Vowles Elected to Executive Board

Several members of the Davidson faculty attended the 13th annual meeting of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association. This group of over 450 linguists met at Chapel Hill, N.C., November 29-30. The association was entertained by the University of North Carolina. The following modern language professors of Davidson College were present at the convention: Watts, Goldiere, Cumming, Irwin, Blythe, and Vowles. Professors Shewmake, Lilly, and Fleagle did not attend. Guy R. Vowles of Davidson College was elected as a member of the executive committee of the association. Dr. Holmes, a member of the French department at the University of North Carolina, was chosen as the organization's next president. This annual gathering adjourned after holding four departmental section meetings and a general business session at noon Saturday. A decline in the study of languages, especially Latin, French, and English, was reported, but Professor Thomas B. Stroup of the University of Florida saw a “turning back to the values of the Humanities,” and urged the delegates to work together for the “genuine liberal education needed by a democracy.” The South Atlantic Modern Language Association is made up of language men from five Southern states: North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, and Alabama. The State of Tennessee has recently applied for admission and its entrance into the organization is being considered. The association will hold its next meeting at Atlanta, Ga., where it will be entertained by Emory and Agnes Scott.

Local Men Initiated Into Literary Club Fields and Smith Are Accepted By Eumenean

Members of the Eumenean Literary Society formally initiated into their group Jay Fields, sophomore, and Frank Smith, freshman, at their semi-monthly meeting held November 27 in Eu Hall. Scotty Patterson, who was scheduled to be initiated at the same time, will be taken in at the next meeting, since he was unable to be present. After the initiation, papers by Ben Washburn and Alva Lumpkin were read, and these men were duly elected to become members of the society. They will be initiated into the society at the next meeting, December 10th. Other business consisted of the reading of Pat Rudolph's paper entitled “The Royal Flush” by Jack Westall. John Moore, president of the society, said that new members will be taken in at any time if those aspiring to membership write papers on any topic that would be interesting to the society and turn them in to Ralph Williams, reviewer. On the reviewer's discretion, the papers are read before the society, which then votes on the candidates. The regular business was taken up and a talk was given by Professor Fleagle.

Sigma Delta Pi

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their regular biweekly meeting Monday night at 9 o'clock in Professor Blythe's classroom. The fraternity and club are striving to enliven the interest in Spanish and to urge more people to take Spanish. They are always looking for men and women who are interested in the language and culture.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pfohl Speaks Sunday Night On Life Aims Future Services to Feature Jas. A. Jones and Christmas Musical

Bishop John Kenneth Pfohl of the Moravian Church in Winston-Salem was the speaker at the Davidson College vespers Sunday evening at 6:30. Bishop Pfohl was ordained as a minister of the Moravian Church in 1901, and became a bishop of that church in 1931. He is the father of James Christian Pfohl, director of music at Davidson College. Bishop Pfohl took as his text for his sermon the four words, “He saw a man.” These words come from the portion of the scripture where Jesus saw Bartholomew, also called Nathaniel, sitting beneath a fig tree. He showed how Christ thought of the matter and could decide on no definite plan of action for the preservation of these loved stories. 

Pictured above is John Snell, who is scheduled to speak here in the near future. Mr. Snell has been voted by the “Y” Cabinet to be the recipient of this year's Christmas Gift Fund, the goal for which has been set at $1,000. The desired amount would be sufficient to send Mr. Snell to the Orient and keep him there for one year. Mr. Snell is a graduate of Harvard and has recently returned to this country from South America. He plans to teach in Hangchow College in Shanghai, China.

Great Need

One of the greatest needs of today, Bishop Pfohl said, is “How we can play the game of life if we can't see the goal post?” Some of the reasons why the goal post seems dim to us is because of the teaching of science, and the weakness of our witnessing for Christ. What is needed now is men who will witness strongly for Christ. Bishop Pfohl described the battle of the Gods, when Elijah and the prophets of Baal called down fire from heaven, and showed how the prophets of Baal were unsuccessful, and that Elijah, who was witnessing for Jehovah, succeeded. There is a battlefield in each of our hearts where the god of pleasure, the god of science, and the god of wealth are fighting for supremacy. What is needed now is men who will witness strongly for Christ.

Library Adds New Volumes To Collection Several Best Sellers Bought and Placed on Shelves

The library has added a number of new books to its shelves. These books vary in type along the lines of novels, history, and science. One of the most notable additions is Ernest Hemingway's “For Whom the Bell Tolls.” The aforementioned novel was chosen by the Book of the Month Club as the outstanding literary accomplishment of November.Biography, essay, history, and research. The most popular of the new arrivals has been Ernest Hemingway. The god of war is battling for supremacy over the true God. Christ is always ready to help people in need as he helped Elijah. "Values are measured by man, not things. Man is the important thing, and Matthew had chosen things. He was a tax gatherer among the Jews and hated and despised by the other Jews. When he saw two men, he saw the man he discussed: Edward Sackville. Completion of thy plans. This movie, Eben Schuttas' "Gay's Beggar's Opera," explains the opera's contents, history, and influence. Hermann Wendell's "Anton," the biography of the dictator of the French Revolution. T. W. Arnold's "When he saw Matthew, he said, 'Follow me.'" It was his way of saying, "In me, you'll find those ideals which will change you from cunning to the man I want you to be." There is a sequel to this story, "The Symbol of Government." The Masked and Black Masquers are looking forward to a probable visit. Matthew is pictured in the upper room with the other 11 disciples of Christ. Then his gospel, the best in the New Testament, shows how the man had changed his sense of values and now valued man over mere things.

Fredorova's "The Family," a best-seller novel which has been previously highly recognized. "The Best Loved Poems of James Whitcomb Riley," Nora Waln's "The House of Exile," the Chinese novel which won the praises of Pearl Buck. Further novels and other writings have already been ordered and are awaiting arrival. Among these is the book of the month for December. The speaker for the vespers next Sunday evening will be Rev. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Mr. Jones is a graduate of Davidson of the class of 1931 and also graduated from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. Rev. Jones, after graduating from Union, went abroad to continue his studies. He gave a talk to the freshmen during the orientation period at the first of this year.

The service for December 5 will be a Christmas program. Mr. Pioht has planned a musical program, with the music to be furnished by the Davidson-Queens orchestra and the glee club. Guest musicians will also contribute to the program. The University of Minnesota has just unveiled large oil paintings of its late President Lotus D. Coffman and Mrs. Coffman. The men's gymnasium at San Diego State College holds 1,500 spectators. The college's new bowl will ultimately accommodate 45,000.

Members of the Camera Club devoted their last meeting to taking pictures Wednesday evening. The pictures taken by the members will be discussed at the meeting next week. The group also discussed plans for a contest which will take place during the holidays. They will judge the best pictures taken during the Christmas holidays.

Dr. Harding reports that this meeting was well attended, with representatives reporting from as far north as Massachusetts and as far south as Texas. Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama all furnished large contingents. One of the most interesting features of the program was a group of Latin songs, serious and comic, sung by Herbertome. Professor Mars M. Westington of Hanover College, Indiana, set all of these songs to familiar tunes like "Yankee Doodle," the church tune "Fleming," and "Carry Me Back to Old Virginny," among others. Illustrated papers on the recent excavations at Olympia, which was razed to the ground by Philip, father of Alexander the Great; on scenes from Herculaneum and Pompeii buried in the eruption of Vesuvius; on the remains of the great wall in England, which was constructed during the Roman occupation; and on a large collection of Roman coins were all presented. An interesting comparison was made between ancient and modern European horses.

Next year, this meeting will be held in Baton Rouge, though the decision was left to the executive committee by Professor Wobe. Jesus knew that the masses couldn't be changed in the mass but had to be changed one by one, so he had to use a person who had sacrificed almost everything we hold dear in order to make money. His family was in disgrace; he was ostracized from society and barred from the synagogue. But when Jesus looked at him, he saw the man he was to be.

Other recently acquired books are Charles S. MacFarland's "The Christian Ministry and Social Order"; "The Dreyfus Case" by Alfred Dreyfus and his son Pierre. This autobiography presents an expose with facts concerning the actual case. Since the appearance of the Atlanta articles, numerous Davidson students and faculty members have written to Disney studios urging them to preserve a period of Southern history that is rapidly being forgotten, they say. At an afternoon session held in Charleston College, the delegates were entertained with a formal tea. President Randolph delivered an address of welcome on this occasion. It is noteworthy that this college still holds to the tradition that four years of Latin are required for high school admission.

Dr. A. P. Hamilton, president of Millsaps College, Mississippi, was elected president. Dr. N. A. Smith of State Teachers College in Memphis, Tenn., was elected vice-president. Dr. Herbert C. Lipscomb of Randolph-Macon College is another member of the official committee.

Judge Jay Bolin will preside at the regular meeting of the Court of Control on Wednesday night at 10 o'clock. Many freshmen are expected to be given summonses to appear before the court. There is also a possibility that the entire freshman class will be campused again.

Tryouts for the Davidson College representatives in the Dixie Forensic Tournament were held last Monday night at the Social Center. Seven students were chosen to speak in the tournament, which will be held at Winthrop College December 3-7. They were Frank Parker, Fred Morton, Drury Thompson, Bill Loftin, Jim McCrary, Albert Winn, and Bill Rogers.

The faculty judges, Doctors Johnston and Cumming and Professor Williamson, had not decided at the time which events the men would enter, there being nine possible fields including debating, direct clash debating, problem-solving, extemporaneous speaking, impromptu speaking, radio announcing, situation oratory, and after-dinner speaking. This was the first time in three years that Davidson College has entered the Dixie Forensic Tournament, which is one of the largest undergraduate gatherings of its kind held in the South. Last year, 32 colleges and universities participated.

The first of four rounds will begin Thursday, December 5, at 1 o'clock, with the finals being held Saturday afternoon. A dance sponsored by Winthrop College will follow that evening. Davidson's roster at the tournament includes four Forensic Council members: Will Loftin, president; Drury Thompson, Frank Barker, and Albert Winn; also three sophomores. Will Loftin, president of the Davidson Forensic Council, stated that the selection of these men in no way bears on the varsity debating team except as added experience. He stated also that tryouts for the team will be held shortly after the beginning of next semester, but as yet a schedule has not been made. Last year's varsity debating team went on three extended trips, west, south, and north, as well as participated in several debates on the campus. The freshman team also made a trip, debating against various schools in the South.

On Wednesday night at 9 o'clock, the members of Sigma Upsilon held their weekly meeting at the Phi Delta Theta house. An outstanding feature of the program was a short story written and read by Dale. The story was a fantasy, "An Epic of Atlantis." Professor Lilly read an unannounced selection. As a customary part of the program, another chapter of the serial story was read.

JUST IN! Complete Line of CHRISTMAS GIFTS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Davidson, N. C.

EXPERT AND EFFICIENT WATCH REPAIRING AND CLEANING
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Bldg.
Davidson, N. C.

Morning, Noon, or Night, We Are Ready to Serve You!
THE BEST GROCERIES THE BEST PRICES
DIAL 5041
J. K. Hampton - Grocery

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK. It’s Safe!
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

GIFT STORE FOR MEN
BUY A GIFT THAT IS NATIONALLY ADVERTISED!
“Special Lounge Room for College Students”
Marion Davis Company
Charlotte’s Fastest-Growing Men’s Store

Watch For The NEW '41 Ford Station Wagon
Mooney Service Station
Davidson, N. C.