Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., April 25, 1940

Company A Awarded High Military Honor
Cadet George Horan of Co. B Chosen as Best Drilled Freshman

Company A was judged the best drilled company of the Davidson ROTC Battalion. This company is commanded by Captain Stuart
Oglesby. Platoon competition was won by the first platoon of Company A under the command of Lieutenant Beecher Sitterson. The
best drilled freshman award was presented to Cadet George Horan of Company B.

Selections for these awards were held last Wednesday on Richardson field in the annual ROTC competitive drill. The cadets were
inspected by Colonel McCollough of Charlotte, an adviser to the National Guard; Major Hardee of Oak Ridge Institute and an
officer in the standing army; and Captain Fuller of Gastonia, of 120th Infantry, National Guard. The best cadet drilled received
a cup which he is entitled to keep, as did the commanders of the winning company and platoon.

ECHOES OF THE PAST

3 YEARS AGO
Company “A” and the second platoon of Company “D” win in the ROTC competitive drill. Davidson plays host to Queens
students... Davidson tracksters win in meet with Maryville.

7 YEARS AGO
In spite of the loss of the last game to Duke, the Wildcats retained their lead in the Big Five
baseball race... The Red and Black Masquers present their last play of the season, “The Importance Of Being Earnest.”

10 YEARS AGO
D. S. LaFar elected president of the Senior class... Cabinet for the coming year installed at Easter vesper service; Dean
Rusk installed as president... Davidson's track team, led by Captain Whittle’s high score of nineteen points, defeats State.

Scholarships Received

Many members of the senior class have received scholarships to graduate schools. These scholarships have been given for graduate work
in chemistry and physics. Tom Guion has received a scholarship to Johns Hopkins for work in chemistry. W. A. Douglas,
laboratory assistant in physics, has received a fellowship to the University of North Carolina for chemistry, while Rufus Allison will
go to the University of Virginia for work in chemistry. Bud Gilmore has received a scholarship in physics to Vanderbilt.
J. H. Reisner and Bill Johnson, recent graduates of Davidson, have had their physics scholarships renewed and will continue their
studies.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
[Continued from Page Three]

are getting too old, and the condition of both rooms is not such that we would be proud to bring
friends there. It would also be helpful if some way could be devised to create more interest in the “Y”
among the student body. Somehow the “Y” seems a little too saintly and not quite human enough.

Jim McCrary, Freshman:
Believing that the primary purpose of the Y. M. C. A. is to promote the religious life of the campus,
I would like to suggest that more emphasis be put on personal devotions during the year. I was here a
long time before I even knew Davidson College had a prayer-room, and I would not be surprised if quite a
number of the students did not know about it. I could not begin to describe how much personal

Dr. Johnston Speaks To EU
Moore, Rudolph, and Hodges Are Elected Officers For Next Year

Library Buys L. J. Shafer’s Newest Book
Many Other Books Dealing With Various Subjects Are Purchased

Many new books on various topics have been added to the library lately. Five of the best are Mr. Skeffington,
The Trees, Native Son, Modern American Paintings, and The Christian Alternative to World Chaos.

Mr. Skeffington is a novel by Elizabeth. It is a story of how Lady Frances Skeffington realized with a start
that she was nearly fifty years old and no longer the great beauty she once had been, how she caught
up with her past and found how it looked brought up to the present, and how she filled the emptiness
left by her lost beauty. This situation, and the way in which Elizabeth deals with it, creates as fine and
moving a novel as Elizabeth has ever written.

Authentic Account
The Trees, by Conrad Richter, is not a historical novel, of which there are so many, but a novel of
authentic early American life, of which there are so few. This novel of great lyrical beauty and high excitement tells
the story of the transition of American pioneers from the ways of the wilderness to the ways of civilization. It
is a portrait of frontier life, as it must have seemed to the pioneers. In short, it is a masterpiece
by the man who gave us The Sea of Grass.

Native Son is a powerful novel by Richard Wright. As Henry Cauley writes, “It is the finest novel as yet
written by an American Negro. It is a novel which only a Negro could have written; whose theme is the
mind of the Negro we see every day, whose point and purpose is not race war or propaganda of any
kind, but to show how a ‘bad nigger’ is made from human material

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Three]

chapter are Duck Martin, Jay Bolin, and pledge brother Summers accompanied the glee club to Albemarle, and “Snatz” McReynolds visited
in Winston-Salem Saturday night. The chapter announces that Shorty Parrish is the newly elected president. Other officers are Tally and
P. Shore. Winston Taylor will be the Fiji representative in the Pan-Hellenic Council. George Stowe and Mac Otts visited two
friends in Lynchburg over the weekend. Brother Bill Bolin attended a dance in Statesville.

Kappa Sigma
The past weekend furnished a mass exodus of the brothers to many and varied points. Although some girls schools were
visited, most of the wanderers journeyed to their homes. Brothers John Purdie and Scott Cooper visited Hollins College, while Jimmie
and Hill Cooper passed the weekend at their home in Henderson. Grey Hunter, Tommy Yarborough, and Jim Hogg toured the
baseball circuit with the team. Stuart Oglesby visited in Lenoir, while Gene Sutton went homeward to Fayetteville. Bob Finley, Joe
McCoy, and Langley Land spent the weekend in Greensboro, and, while there, took in the Glenn Miller dance. Billy Squires
visited in his home at Greenville, S. C., while Dick Phillips trekked to Laurinburg. Wileman Ehly went to Greensboro.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
A hay-ride was given for the brothers and their dates Saturday night. Supper was served at Mrs. Gaffney’s, who also
attended the hay-ride as chaperone. Among the girls attending were: Lib Thrower, Sophie Walker, Tiny Waddell, Martha Daniels, Withers, Nan
Peyton, and Tibby Dooley. Among the brothers were: Smith, Pan, Powell, Rogers, Austin, and Hudson.

At a recent meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, Dr. Frontis Johnston delivered a talk, and this was followed by
the election of officers for the first semester of the next school year. Dr. Johnston spokeon the ideas of education
held by Henry Adams, who was both the grandson and the great-grandson of a president of the United States. John
Moore, of Winston-Salem, was elected president; Pat Rudolph from Biltmore, vice-president; Dan Hodges, of Raleigh, treasurer; and Ashby Dick, from
Sumter, S. C., secretary. They will succeed Dan Gilliam, Ed Maxwell, Phil Peyton, and Pat Rudolph, who are now in
office as president, vice-president, treasurer, and secretary, respectively. The officers will be installed at the next meeting of the society.

Three new members were initiated into the society. They are John Belk, Billy Rogers, and Jim McCrary.

A Tennessee woman went into a department store and said to the clerk: “Mister, can I exchange these stockings?” “Why,
certainly, madam; don't they come up to your expectations?” “Lawdy no, dey hardly come up to my knees.”

Heredity is that in which every man is a firm believer until his son makes a fool of himself—St. Norbert
Times.

“What are you thinking of?” “Oh, nothing much.” “Don't be so self-conscious.”

I asked her if she rolled them, She said she never tried Just then a mouse ran by And now
I know she lied. —Rammer Jammer.

Matthews, Rankin, and J. Howell attended. Kappa Alpha brother Tom Perrin took off Saturday with Cam Wilson and that might
have been something to see his family, Cam and the other Tom for other related business. Brothers Lucas, Grosse, Jones,
Rogers, Hudson, Tate, Young, McDuffie, and Freeze attended the Glenn Miller dance in Greensboro this weekend. Brothers Lucas, Ficklen, and
Thomas accompanied the baseball team on the tour to Duke and Carolina. Brother Moore went to his home in McColl,
S.C. Brothers Bob Wood and Bud Wilson journeyed to Statesville; Brothers Tate, Young, and Stewart visited in Charlotte.

Beta Theta Pi Matthews spent the weekend at his home in Fayetteville. Brothers Phillips, McKnight, Church, Schmidt, Raney, and Caterson
were at Winthrop College with the Symphonic Band. Brothers McClintock and Bryant were at their homes in Charlotte. Brothers McAfee
and Sherman were in Winston-Salem. The highlight of the weekend was the appearance of Glenn Miller in Greensboro at which
event Brother Joe Flowers spent the weekend at his home.

Always Ask for “S & S” Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER

COMING—Thurs., Fri., Sat., May 2, 3, 4 “Gone With The Wind” Reserved Seats at Night Tickets Now On Sale DAVIDSON
THEATRE

“What My Relation with my God has meant to me, and I think every student should carry out Dr. Mott's
suggestion of spending much time in quiet examining oneself and communing with God.”

Seventy-eight Indiana University graduates have become college presidents.

Every state and 47 foreign countries are represented in the Harvard University student body.

A 20,000-word thesis was submitted at Princeton University recorded on phonograph records. It took two ten twelve-inch discs to record
this thesis. (Professors can now review the thesis in record-breaking time.)

Some girls are not afraid of mice. Others have pretty legs. She who is a vision at night is probably
a sight in the morning.

The American Youth Congress will meet in the nation’s capital from February 9 to 12.

Author Thomas Mann has been named honorary rector of the University of Dubuque.

Rev. J. M. Alexander Is Vespers Speaker “How Big Is Your World” Is Subject of Fayetteville Minister’s Talk

“How Big Is Your World” was the theme of the regular Sunday evening vesper address delivered by Rev. John M.
Alexander of the First Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville, N.C. He brought out the fact that it all depends upon the
standard of measure used by an individual. The acceptance of all conditions, whether big, little, good, or bad depends upon
the qualities of your own soul. A person’s interest and experience determine the size of your world.

Influences Life

Rev. Alexander stressed the point that the mere size of a person’s world about them is not the only factor
that influences his life in respect to that world. He reminded us that there is a spiritual and moral world
for us. All we have to do is to accept it. “There are many stupendous statements in the Old Testament,”
he said. “God created man; He breathed the breath of life into him; He created everything under the sun and
yet He gave man—mere man, as we are—dominion over them all. He gave us natural laws to control the other
beings on this earth. He put these laws here for us to put to use. We have dominion over nature,
animals, etc., but what about dominion over ourselves?” He brought out that the governing of human nature is the most
difficult thing for us to do.

Dimensional World

It is a dimensional world in which we live, he brought out. We know distance, time, numbers, but do we
know where they lead us? As an example, he told of a poor mountaineer who suddenly became rich at the
discovery of oil on his land. After buying an automobile, he sought to acquire an education. When asked as to
how he was progressing in this latter objective, he replied, “I can read the number of miles on the sign
post but I can’t tell where to.” In conclusion, he answered the question of his address, “How Big Is Your
World?” by the response, “as big as you are.”

Smokers are buying ‘em “two packs at a time” because Chesterfields are DEFINITELY MILDER, COOLER-SMOKING and BETTER-TASTING. Chesterfields are made
from the world’s finest cigarette tobaccos and they’re made right. In size, in shape, in the way they burn... everything
about Chesterfield is just right for your smoking pleasure.

BETTYMAE AND BEVERLY CRANE

You get twice the pleasure watching the CRANE TWINS in the Broadway Revue Hit “Hellzapoppin’” because there are two of
‘em... the busiest pair of dancing twins you ever saw.
