| Sigma Phi Epsilon Homecoming Dance Wins Scholarship Cup Band Announced

LUX UBI ALENDA LIBERTAS

Volume XXVIII. X -528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10th, 1940 Number 2.

Freddy Johnson To Play At Homecoming

SPE Wins Scholarship Award For 1939-40

Phi Gamma Delta Outdistances Year Period

KAPPA SIGMA SECOND

Betas And Phi Delts Tie For Third With 1.876

Sigma Phi Epsilon led the other eight campus fraternities in scholastic ratings for the year 1939-40. The S.P.E.’s attained the initial post with the brilliant average of 2.038. Kappa Sigma followed close on the heels of the leader with a 2.030 average. Beta Theta Pi and Phi Delta Theta tied for the third place position, both hitting an average of 1.899.

The other fraternities were rated as follows: Kappa Alpha came through in fourth place, with an average of 1.876; fifth place went to Pi Kappa Phi after they reached the rating of 1.868; Phi Gamma Delta was sixth in line with the rating of 1.845; following close in line came Pi Kappa Alpha in seventh place with 1.821 and trailing the list was Sigma Alpha Epsilon with an average of 1.809.

The ten-year averages for the aforementioned fraternities told a different story. The ten years period was gauged from 1930 through the end of last year. Phi Gamma Delta outdistanced the remaining eight by attaining the highest average for the past ten years. The Phi Gams led the field with a 1.999 average. S.P.E. finished up in the second position with an average of 1.961. The next place for the ten years was covered by the Kappa Sigs after reaching an average of 1.942. Fourth place was taken into possession of the S.A.E. with a rating of 1.866. The Phi Delts attained a ten-year rating of 1.855 to step into fifth place. Following the others came in order, Pi Kappa Alpha in sixth place with an average of 1.806; Beta Theta Pi in seventh place with an average of 1.775; eighth place was filled by Kappa Alpha with the rating of 1.700 and the last position went to Pi Kappa Phi with a 1.727 rating.

Giving the places in single years in order to determine the ten-year averages the fraternities run as follows: In 1930-31 K.A. was first, S.A.E. second, S.P.E. third, Phi Gamma fourth, Pi K.A. fifth, Kappa Sigs sixth, Beta and Phi Delt tied for seventh place while Pi Kappa Phi trailed in ninth.

Northeross And Horton Show Work In Eumenean Society Hall

The first private art exhibit to be held on the Davidson campus will be shown November 4, 5, and 6. It will be presented in the Eumenean Literary Society Hall. This exposition is to further the interest in art on the campus. The exhibit is entirely separate from the annual Spring Art Exhibit, and is for the purpose of introducing new talent on the campus. Portraits and abstractions are the two types to be displayed. John Northcrosse of the class of ‘44 will show a number of portraits of notables and local personages. Gordon Horton of the Senior Class will contribute his collection of abstractions, which will include persons, things, moods, and studies in color and design. Horton is the co-chairman of the Spring Art Exhibit. All the students and townspeople are cordially invited by the artists.

Watson Given Leadership Of Company

Magazine Will Appear Nov. 2

The first issue of the Davidson magazine, “The Scripts and Pranks” will come out this year, on Homecoming weekend. There will be a variety of new features, including jokes, cartoons, and many snapshots. At a staff meeting held early this week, plans were made for this year’s four issues. In the new magazines, the literary and humorous features will be in separate departments. Editor Bumgarner said he believed this will greatly increase the readability of the articles and jokes. The staff decided that there would be no distinct themes this year.

Class Of '44 Largest In History Of College

By BILL LYMAN.

The Davidsonian annually devotes an article to statistics and general information about each new class early in the school year. This column attempts to supply such information to students, faculty members, and friends of the college on the class of 1944. Each paragraph discusses the new men in respect to:

Size: The class of '44 is the largest in the history of Davidson College, numbering 234 men. This figure is compared to the 188 men of last year’s freshman class. It is reported that the reason for the college authorities permitting such a large number of new students is due to the war threat and the recent passing of the conscription bill.

Home Towns: Over half of the freshman class come from cities outside of North Carolina, 125 of them, to be exact. Tar Heels represent 109 of the new men, while South Carolina claims 27, Florida 14, Virginia 13, Tennessee 11, and Georgia nine. All the remaining Southern states have representatives, and in all, 23 states, including the District of Columbia, claim new Davidsonians. Korea, China, Brazil, and Puerto Rico have five freshmen hail. McCallie alumni exceed those of any other preparatory school, with 14.

Glee Club Is Chosen From Large Group In Tryouts

Davidson's glee club this year has a record membership of forty-five, part of whom were selected from a large number of tryouts, and part of whom were members of the organization last year. As in former years, the glee club forms the Vesper Choir for Sunday evening services in Chambers Auditorium. Last week, Professor McDonald selected fourteen men from the glee club to sing in a combined Queens-Davidson A Cappella Choir. Those members selected were J. Behrman, A. J. Borders, Jr., P. E. Crane, J. Evans, G. E. Wilson, G. P. Whiteley, J. Crook, H. Dimmock, W. H. Plonk, J. K. Robinson, W. C. Robinson, W. F. Summer, and G. Watson. This choir, as well as the entire glee club, will appear in a concert under Professor McDonald's direction to be given here on Friday, October twenty-fifth.

Freddy Johnson and his thirteen-piece orchestra will hold sway at Davidson's Homecoming dances in Charlotte on November 1 and 2. Featured with Johnson's group is Miss Gloria, and the maestro himself. Although some of the men are graduated now, all attended the University of North Carolina at one time. Johnson concentrates on a smooth combination of varied types of music rather than specializing in one field.

Council Appoints New Ball Room Secured For Friday And Saturday Dances

SET PRICE IS $4.00

Hops Will Chime Homecoming Festivities

Sigma Upsilon Adds Four Seniors, Four Juniors; Officers Elected

Eight new members were initiated and officers were elected at the last meeting of the Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, on Tuesday night.

Pre-Medical Tests

The Association of American Medical Colleges will give an aptitude test for all pre-medical students who intend to enter the medical profession on November 8. This test is to be held in Room 10. A fee of $1.00 is required from all applicants.Profession take the test since no new appointments || other opportunity will be given. Made as R.O.T.C. unit receives shakeup. Joint Council drafts for speakers. Nearly one hundred students report for public speaking. Watson has been made CN EECH TOOLS oration. "Joe College Is Drafted" answered Council. Darlingtonians running a close tournament at Winthrop and North, and jumping up in chapel. What an upperclassman waited for the little machine to come down and bestow before he could finish reading the adventures of his detective hero. After, the phone would occasionally declare a holiday and give Joe College’s predecessors free calls anywhere in the states. Phone calls went out to famous band leaders, movie stars, national figures, and a few, of course, to the weaker sex.

More recently, Gwynn makes it a rule to talk five extra minutes (without extra cost) to his one and only Daisy Mae. At the meeting of the Davidson Camera Club on Wednesday night, talks were made. Co-Eds, conscription, honorary fraternity schedule, and new buildings were discussed. Freshmen than any other fraternity with twenty men. The approximate number for each fraternity. A period of fraternity training will start on the evening of October 1 at the S.A. house till two on Friday. Photographer starts work. New members are the following: Bill Sprunt, Archie Taylor, Winston-Salem; Joe Liles, Wadesboro; Pat Rudolph, Biltmore; Albert Winn, Greenville; Winston Vaylor, Mooresville; Robinson Horton, Talladega, Ala. The grand climax to the annual Homecoming festivities. Since October, the Charlotte Hotel has rebuilt their ballroom, enlarging and beautifying it. The Pan-Hellenic Council has secured it as the scene of this first set of dances.

Photographers will be here the week of October 14 to make pictures of the student body for "Quips and Cranks." Pan-Hellenic President McLean announced also that the price for this set would be four dollars, with individual dances valued at two and a half apiece. There are conflicts with plans for decorating fraternity houses. The Centre football game on November 12 urged communication at once. Bill Sprunt, Archie Taylor, Winston Vaylor, and Taylor Robinson were elected as officers. President McLean, in a statement to the Davidsonian, said he was entitled to a special Pan-Hellenic Council meeting. Joe Newell Robinson was elected president. Bill Sprunt’s paper was called "Philosophy of Nietzsche," and Gordon Winston read an impressionistic essay called "In Passing." The new set will greatly increase the number of students attending the dances. Each year, Upsilon writes a novel. Dr. Frontis Johnston, professor of history, will write the first chapter and present it at the meeting next week. The editorial staff for 1940-41 includes: Winston Taylor, editor-in-chief; Dick Welly, editor; Julian McCall, Bill Sprunt, Cam Wilson, photo editor; and Walter Wooten, business manager. Assistant business managers are: Bill Faison, George Matthews, Mason Wallace, Charlie Watt, Jack Westall, and Hutch Booker.

The plight of phones by Jimmy Fulcher. "I hear you calling," sings out Joe, "but why should I relieve your..." Joe turned from the sports page of the daily paper and began reading Mickey Finn. He turned a deaf ear to the great invention of Alexander Graham Bell and let it cry itself back to sleep so that Bessie, the family’s prize cow, whose descendants met the Pilgrims when they disembarked from the Mayflower, was the proud mother of a horse catching cold from venturing out into the cold fall air without his shoes. Then again, there is a possibility that would solve his ever-present financial troubles. Suppose that impatiently waiting on the other end of that little strand of wire, flashing a $1,000 bill in the face of Monsieur Tell La Phone’s brother—Bell La Phone—all to go to Joe if he will so much as walk across the hall, pick up the receiver, and say "Hullo." After all, the little machine has been known, in the past, to break patrons. Back in the legendary past, Davidson's Camera Club held a function on the local golf course. Alexander Graham Bell, ignoring the threats of his boss operator, went where La Phone, realizing the status of Little Abner, allowed Irene Davis of Queen's Horse, attending Sweet Briar College. Banker John Turner, a Mac Parker of Davidson, Chay Kerr, Jean Neu, "Dot" Summers, and others attended. Dr. Douglas Jeter and Dr. Howe spoke on the subject "Filters," by George McDonald and Mac Parker. Plans were also discussed for the annual photographic exhibit.