Thurs., April 25, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

The announcement of the new YMCA secretary for next year brings the realization that soon another school year will be upon us. Plans will be completed soon for all student activities for next year, and with these plans come those of the ‘Y’. Therefore, “What improvements would you like to see in the ‘Y’ program for next year?”

Ken Pope, Senior: It would be a hard job to suggest any improvements to the work Sid Crane has done this year. If the YMCA functions as well next year as it has this year, it will be of lasting value to the students and the immediate community. I hope that the ‘Y’ will keep behind the movement for better chapel services and plan them so that attendance will depend more on the benefits received than on the compulsory element. This may be a big task, but I think the newly elected handling it is capable of success.

Monroe Bush, Jr., Sophomore: If the ‘Y’ could dare to adopt a fresh and strenuous program for the coming year, despite the expense of inevitable mistakes, we might see signs of progress. The Cabinet has obviously failed to give to their job the life and leadership it demands. Aggressive efforts must at last be made toward developing the NORMAL man as exemplified by Christ. Spiritually and intellectually the ‘Y’ is thoroughly “muddling”; for our sakes, this must be corrected, despite the “old guard.”

Dan Gilliam, Senior: With the building of the new library, we have an opportunity to make the old library into a new social center. To bring more students to the new center, we might move the student store into the basement. The ‘Y’ Cabinet should represent as many types of boys on this campus as possible, both conservative and liberal, as well as fraternity and non-fraternity. This will probably help bring the “Y” into the lives of more students than it has in the past.

Blanton Williamson, Sophomore: My suggestion of improvement in the religious atmosphere at Davidson naturally turns to the daily chapel exercises. They fail so miserably, even to the extent of creating a satisfied boredom and an almost unerring monotony that is not caused by the attitude of the students but by the program itself. There should be some remedy for this condition. I would like to put before the student body a plan which I heard in a bull session, and which I think would prove successful. There would be five chapels a week with no meeting of the student body on Saturday. Three of these, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, would be for guidance with good speakers who present a stimulating talk, and students are not usually stimulating. I, personally, get tired of hearing the constant repetition of such words as goodness, faith, beauty, and happiness. Give us something to think about. The other two days would be devoted to student body purposes with fewer petty announcements. Under these conditions, the program would be relieved of monotony, and, because of fewer speakers, offer an opportunity for more select talks.

Dan Hodges, Sophomore: I realize that the Y. M. C. A. has a tremendous task to fulfill, but it seems to me that arrangements should be made to improve the social center. The billiard tables [Continued on Page Six]

Professor G. C. Stables

Professor Glenn C. Stables, director of the Converse College Glee Club, presented the chorus in a musical program, Tuesday evening in Chambers Auditorium at 8 o'clock. The program was sponsored by the Davidson College Glee Club. Professor Stables, baritone, rendered several vocal solos as did two members of the chorus.

Converse Glee Club Presents Selections

Boyle Chosen To Head Unit

German Club Elects Boyle, Youngblood, and Hodges

Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, elected Bill Boyle president for the 1940-41 term at the home of Dr. G. R. Vowles Monday night. Boyle, who has been secretary of the honorary German group this year, will take over his duties at the next meeting. Other officers are Vernon Youngblood, vice-president, and Dan Hodges, secretary and treasurer.

During the meeting, two books were awarded to outstanding members of the fraternity for their work during the past year. “Oberon” by Wieland and translated by John Quincy Adams was presented to Bob Doty, 1939-40 president. This book, the gift of the national society, was number 141 of a limited edition of 1,000 copies printed this year. An illustrated work on Albrecht Dürer, German artist, by Emil Waldman was presented to Casey Jones of the junior class, termed by Dr. Vowles an outstanding student of the German language.

Four new members of Delta Phi Alpha were initiated by the president during the meeting. They are Paul Crane, Herbert Coddington, and Winston Taylor, all of the junior class, and Dr. K. J. Foreman, professor of Bible. Other new members will be elected next fall instead of this spring. The program included a German play, “The Murderer,” translated by [Continued on Page Six]

BIG BOY COLA PEP - UP

Charlotte Big Boy Bottlers, Inc.

Drink “Because It’s Better” Try “A Mighty Mixer”

Forty Girls Are Guests Tuesday Evening

Approximately fifty college girls, forming the Converse College Glee Club, gave a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday night, April 23, at 8 o'clock. The glee club, under the direction of Professor Glenn C. Stables of the Converse voice department, is sponsored by the Davidson Glee Club. In addition to the choir, the program also featured a group of numbers by Mr. Stables, a baritone, and selections by two students from the Converse School of Music. The program included: “Dearest Lord Jesus” and “Bourée,” Bach, by the glee club under the baton of Miss Marjorie Andrews, assistant director; “What's the Air Today,” Eden; “My Johann,” sung by Miss Rose Goodman, soprano; “On The Steppe,” Gretchaninoff; “Forget-Me-Not,” Hahn; “O Lovely May,” Grieg; “Two Clocks,” Rogers; “O Divine Redeemer,” Gounod, by Mr. Stables. “O That It Were So!” Bridge; “By A Lonely Forest Pathway,” Griffes; “A Song of Sixpence,” Malotte, sung by Mr. Stables. “Will O’ The Wisp,” Spross; “A Toast To Converse,” the college Alma Mater, sung by the glee club.

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.

THREE FAVORITES in a swell show!!

ALICE FAYE RICHARD GREENE FRED MacMURRAY —in— “LITTLE OLD NEW YORK” with BRENDA JOYCE ANDY DEVINE

STARTS MONDAY

The screen's loveliest and most exciting new star!!

LINDA DARNELL JOHN PAYNE in “STAR DUST” with ROLAND YOUNG

IMPERIAL THEATRE Charlotte, N. C.

Converse College Glee Club, gave a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday night, April 23, at 8 o'clock. The glee club, under the direction of Professor Glenn C. Stables of the Converse voice department, is sponsored by the Davidson Glee Club. In addition to the choir, the program also featured a group of numbers by Mr. Stables, a baritone, and selections by two students from the Converse School of Music. The program included: “Dearest Lord Jesus” and “Bourée,” Bach, by the glee club under the baton of Miss Marjorie Andrews, assistant director; “What's the Air Today,” Eden; “My Johann,” sung by Miss Rose Goodman, soprano; “On The Steppe,” Gretchaninoff; “Forget-Me-Not,” Hahn; “O Lovely May,” Grieg; “Two Clocks,” Rogers; “O Divine Redeemer,” Gounod, by Mr. Stables. “O That It Were So!” Bridge; “By A Lonely Forest Pathway,” Griffes; “A Song of Sixpence,” Malotte, sung by Mr. Stables. “Will O’ The Wisp,” Spross; “A Toast To Converse,” the college Alma Mater, sung by the glee club.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Sigma Phi Epsilon

This weekend found few brothers remaining in Charlotte to detail the annual Sig-Ep Ball at State College, Sir Walter Hotel, and the Kappa-Sigs in honor of the installation of the Sig-Ep chapter at Wake Forest. Attending these affairs were Brothers Hay, Ed Watson, Doug Horner, Felix Bell, Cameron Dudley, Bogo Kunz, Rod Turner, David Vosburg, Tony Casali, and Raymond McDaniel. Those attending the Glenn Miller festivities in Greensboro were John Mortor, John Hay, and Tony Casali, while Dick Cobb went to his home in Winston-Salem and attended a dance at W. C. Brothers Galbreath and Edwards went to their respective homes in Rocky Mount and Kinston to attend the Glenn Miller dance at the University of Virginia. Bill Parleton visited his home in Charlottesville, and Joe Bivens attended a party at Meredith College in Raleigh. Brothers Knox, Davis, and Bogo Kunz journeyed to Winthrop. Brother Herring made an extended tour of the colleges of the state, starting at Duke, then Carolina, State, Meredith, W. C., G. C., and Salem, where they took in part of the S. P. E. Ball; other stops of the trip ended with the Glenn Miller dance in Greensboro. Also present at the Pi Kapp ball in Duke were Brothers Flynn and Hendrick. Present at the Glenn Miller dance were Brothers Swasey, Williamson, and Pledge McCall.who also went home to Florence, S.C. Brother Bumbarger went to Greensboro for Saturday night. Brother Garvey spent the weekend at Sweetbriar. With the band at Rock Hill were Brothers Hite, Murray, Larkin, and Pledge Patton. With the baseball team on its trip were Brothers Niven, Flynn, Hendrick, and Saunders.

Phi Delta Theta

The past weekend found many brothers. Helen Young, featured vocalist of Johnny Long’s orchestra, will be on the Davidson campus tomorrow. Helen is not only a first-rate contralto but a very comely lass with a grand personality. Helen began her career at the age of thirteen when she won the Sophie Tucker Voice Award contest in her hometown, Boston. Following that, she appeared on several commercial radio programs in Boston, after which she fulfilled a Warner “shorts” contract. Returning to Boston, she began regular broadcasts over NBC, where Johnny Long heard her sing. She’s been with his orchestra ever since. Helen Young is five feet one inch tall and weighs 103 pounds. Her favorite sports are tennis and horseback riding, both of which she indulges in whenever she can find time. Maybe that’s what keeps her figure so trim. Johnny Long, 23-year-old maestro, is returning to the city in which he was born when he plays in Charlotte for the Spring Frolics. His band includes only bachelors, all graduates of North Carolina’s own Duke University. Eleven of the men were in Johnny’s class, and the remaining three graduated in different classes but from the same school. Johnny has recently been playing successful engagements throughout the country. He is expected to make a big hit at Davidson since he is such a favorite with college students everywhere.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.

The majority of the brothers were found in Raleigh; some at the Glenn Miller dance in Greensboro. A delegation was made to the dance by Brothers MacKinnon and Steve Rudolph, while Brother Ludlam took in the dance on his return from an extended trip to Randolph-Macon. Brothers Williams and Howell, and pledge brothers McIntosh and Simpson, weekend in Greensboro. Brother Vereen took in the dance at Clemson Saturday night. Brother Hobbie and pledge brother Malony journeyed to Spartanburg. Brothers Rheinhardt, Owens, and Carter accompanied the baseball team to Chapel Hill. A feed was held at the house Sunday night at which the chapter was host to the Darlington tennis team.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brothers Coltrane and McDonald attended the NV2.GR Saturday night. Brother Crutchfield went to his home in Asheboro by way of Sanford. Brothers Hoover and Youngblood went to Concord while Brother Abels and pledge brother Brinson went to High Point. Bennettsville, S.C., played host to Brothers Coates and Latimer this weekend. Brother Henderson went to Queens with Brother Monger. Brothers Allison and Perdew visited their respective homes in Charlotte and Wilmington. Nearly half the chapter went to Greensboro to hear Glenn Miller. Misses Lugence Edger and Doris White were visitors Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta

Sections were held in their Hall from five to nine at Chapel Hill. Attending the annual convention last weekend were Brothers J. Hewes Parrish, Walter Wooten, Bill Mitchell, B.B. Plyler, George Richmond, Jesse Wooten, Matt Long, Dill Lyman, and Roland Jones. B.B. Plyler and George Richmond went to Wilson Thursday where George served as best man at his uncle's wedding. Brother Dan Hodges spent the weekend at his home in Raleigh and had as his guests on Sunday Bill Mitchell and Walter Wooten. Brother Arch Tay (Continued on Page Six)

Leading the throng invading the city for the Spring Frolics was Johnny Long, 23-year-old maestro. His band includes only bachelors, all graduates of North Carolina’s own Duke University. Eleven of the men were in Johnny’s class, and the remaining three graduated in different classes but from the same school. Johnny has recently been playing successful engagements throughout the country. He is expected to make a big hit at Davidson since he is such a favorite with college students everywhere.

NCCPA Holds Spring Meet This Weekend

The Camera Club is planning a photography exhibit to be held in Eu Hall about April 30 to May 2. Those contributing prints will be Mac Parker, Ray Hoover, Ed Maxwell, Angus Lytch, and Lin Banker. Although the pictures will not be hung on the walls according to types, they may be classified into the following groups: portraits, landscapes, still life, action, and animal studies. The exhibit is expected to contain about fifty prints. Although there were two exhibits last year, the fact that the darkroom was not ready for the Club’s use in the Fall made an exhibit then impossible; therefore, this will be the only photography exhibit of the year. With regard to there being only one exhibit this year, Angus Lytch, president of the Camera Club, said, “We'll try to make this one extra good.”

All Latest Hits ON VICTOR, DECCA & COLUMBIA RECORDS
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
213 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

“Meet Me At - - - THE TAVERN - - -”

We want “THE TAVERN” and the “HOTEL CHARLOTTE” to be headquarters, “in Charlotte,” for Davidson College and their friends.

Queens Colleges Are Hosts For State Convention

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will hold its annual Spring Convention April 25, 26, and 27, in Charlotte, N.C. Highlighting the convention, gold awards will be given to the editors and business managers of the outstanding publications represented. Copies of the Davidsonian, Scripts, and Pranks have been submitted, thus making their editors and business managers eligible for these awards. Elections of the staff of the Davidson publications are expected to be held soon. Several members of the staff will attend, but it is not yet known who will serve as officers next year.

Theme Picked For Magazine

The N.C.C.P.A. is the largest collegiate press association of its type in the state, ranking among its members State, Duke, Wake Forest, and numerous other colleges throughout the State. Representatives of the association will attend the convention. The speaker for the Friday night banquet to be held at the Hotel Charlotte (headquarters for the convention) has not been announced yet, but President Sherwood says that “this is going to be a convention to top all conventions.”

Alumni Meeting

Two professors of the Davidson faculty will be speakers at alumni meetings in North Carolina and Virginia. They are Prof. Ernest Beaty and Dr. Frontis Johnston. Dr. Johnston of the history department will speak at an alumni chapter meeting in Richmond, Va. The meeting will be held in Hunton Hall of the Medical Hall of Virginia, on April 26. Professor Ernest Beaty will speak at the Cape Fear Chapter of alumni at Fayetteville on April 25. He is a member of the German and Latin departments of the college.

Small, Medium, and Large.

MEN’S SHOP

ENSENADA SPORT COAT

It’s the perfect answer for weekends, for touring, for a day on the golf course, or for life on the campus; in fact, for all kinds of knock-about wear. It’s made of Hollywood Sacking that’s Sanforized Shrunk. Four large pleated pockets, self belt, sport back, wooden buttons. Sizes: ESQUIRE 1.00 STREET FLOOR HOTEL CHARLOTTE CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA “The Carolina’s Largest Hotel” J. FRANK GOUGH, Resident Manager

Have Your Banquet For The Last Dance Set At... THE WOODEN BOWL Off Tryon at Fourth Charlotte, N.C.