Thurs., Oct. 3, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Five

Question of The Week

Davidson this year turns a leaf in her football annals with the installation and use of arc lights for night
football. Since everyone has had a chance to see one game here under the lights, “What is your reaction to
night games at Davidson, and would you like to see more or less?”

Joe Gordon, Senior: I am against night games at Davidson. I believe that a large part of the game exists
in the happiness over victory and our sorrows over defeat. We cannot satisfactorily do this before a game, for obvious
reasons, and there is hardly time after a night game—unless we plan to miss church Sunday morning.

John MacKinnon, Junior: I am definitely in favor of night football here. It adds much color and excitement to the
game to have a large crowd on hand, and since Davidson has begun to lighten its schedule, night games will
be necessary to guarantee a good attendance. I would like to see Davidson play most of their home games on
Friday night so they would not conflict with the larger games in the state. This would give many Davidson alumni
the opportunity to see Davidson play several games during the season, while otherwise they could only see the Homecoming game.

Melvin Means, Senior: Personally, I do not like night games as well as those played in the afternoon. However, the
situation here at Davidson warrants more night games. It is our only financial solution. With the new arcs recently installed,
Richardson Field is probably the best-lighted gridiron in the South. The large amount of candlepower generated allows the spectators to
get the most out of every play. Under these conditions, I am in favor of night games here.

Charles Alcott, Junior: I think in the late summer night football is fine, but when the real autumn football weather
comes, night games seem to be lacking in something. I would like to see Davidson play its first few games
under the lights, but after these early games, I'd prefer to see the games played in the afternoon.

Wellford Hobbie, Sophomore: Financially, night football seems to be an outstanding success, and for that reason, it is probably best
for Davidson to continue to play night games. However, from a personal viewpoint, night games seem to lack something of
the spirit of football that afternoon games have. I may be one of the few who will appreciate the idea
more, but at present, I’m in favor of afternoon games.

Armstead Burwell, Senior: In good weather, night games should draw large crowds because many people have to work part of
Saturday afternoon, and none of the color and enthusiasm of the game is hidden in the darkness. The night games
might make it impossible to have a Converse or Salem day, but this could be compensated for by having a
Converse or Salem-Davidson Dance on an open date weekend. Fewer boys will be able to make it to Charlotte Saturday
night since the game will not be over until about 10 o'clock. This may be a major objection or a
good point depending on the individual. I think it would be a good idea to play night games in good
weather.

(Continued on Page 6)

Chemistry Building Will Match Library

The architect's drawing of the new Chemistry Building shows that the building is like the new library on the outside.
This building will occupy a position immediately behind the old Martin Chemistry Building and the library now under construction. Excavation
has been completed for this building.

Among THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi

The State game at Raleigh was attended by the brothers and pledges. The football squad and band included brothers Bob
Balsley, Bill Schmidt, Bob Shaw, Philips, Craig Monk, Jack Waterson, and pledge-brothers Dewey Marshall, Frank Chandler, David Yokum, Ed Philips,
and Rufus Woody. Also at the game were brothers Holt Barnwell, Spike Mebane, Jim Barnwell, Howie Burkhead, Walker, Jim McCrary,
and Morton Church; and pledge-brothers Charlie Robinson, Paul Neisler, Drury Thompson, and Elliott White. Off to Charlotte went brothers Stanley
McAfee, Tubby Etird, Bill Summerville, and pledge-brothers Frank Mebane, Bob Welsh, and Charlie Upchurch. Buck Rankin went to Mt. Gilead,
his home.

Pi Kappa Phi

At Chapel Hill last weekend, Niven Woodward made the trip with the football team. Others who attended the games were:
Julian McCall, Mac Morris, Bumbarger, Lynne Larkin, Mobley, Hite, Miller, and Plunkett. Brother Hill journeyed to Aiken, S.C. Brothers Patton,
Garvey, Murray, and Parks accompanied Rob Robinson to his home in Raleigh. Pledges who went to Raleigh were Tommy Bumbarger,
Bob Hutcheson, Bobby Gaither, Ansel Rymer, Jesse Tatum, and Tommy Raymond. Pledges Gere Head and Maynard Watson spent the weekend
in Maston, and Burwell Armstrong was at his home in Ridge Spring, S.C. Recently, visitors of the chapter have included
Brother George Horan, now a student at Presbyterian College, and Mrs. Paine, of West Palm Beach, Fla., mother of Leon
Paine.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

CaldwellFaison, her Bahnson, Hackney, Moort accompanied and Freeze Ho team to Raleigh. The brothers attended David State games—Lewin, Adcott, Young,
Grosse, Cauble, McDuffie, Chrichton, Wilson, McLeod, and McLean. Pledges Luqua, Clark, Carson, Port, Hunt, Bruce, McGeachy, Graves, Millican, and Preyer
also attended the game. Brother Codington visited his home in Wilmington. Kappa Alpha in Raleigh was the chief attraction for
most of the brothers last weekend. Those making the trip were Brothers Wallace Sandifer, Arnold, Harris, Pinkerton, Thomas, McLean, Ansley,
Sprunt, Stinson, Mowers, Vanlandsalk, Dunn, Jordy, Paddock, Turnage, Horton, Ingham, and Pledge Brothers Jeffries. Brothers also took in the game
at Chapel Hill during the afternoon. After the game, Brothers Watt and Wallace went to Durham. Friday was attended by
Brother Wilson and Pinkerton, while Pledge Brothers Webster and Laws took off as far as Chester. Brother Winters returned from
his extended trip to Georgia during the weekend. Sunday night, the brothers and pledges met for a feed at the
house.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Among those attending the game in Raleigh were Dick Cobb, Clarence Legerton, Joe Bivens, Ed Hay, Cameron Dudley, Felix Bell,
Rusty Edmondson, Lawson Withers, Dill Hamilton, Jimmy Pulcher, Dan Mizzell, and Tom Galbreath. Brothers Daffin and Henderson accompanied the band
to Chapel Hill and Raleigh. Edmondson, Dudley, and Legerton spent the weekend at the home of Brother Hale in Burlington.
Ed Watson and Bill Love spent the weekend at the home of Brother Knox in South Carolina. Brother Parleton was
in Spartanburg, and MacDaniel in Greensboro on Saturday night.

Phi Delta Theta
Brothers and pledges attended the Raleigh game on Saturday. Brothers Stevenson, Sproull, Chapman, Robinson, Rudolph, Hobbie, Dale, Williams, and Pledge
Alstead were there. After a very colorful weekend, the Phi Delts returned to Davidson. Game night, the Charlotte dance was
attended by Brothers Sprunt and Dick Arnold.

Complete Line of Sports Goods
TENNIS SHOES and BALLS
SWEAT SUITS
SPORT SHORTS
DAVIDSON SPORT SHOP

Managers: Shorty Parish
By station wagon (almost), auto, and air, Brother Westall flew to his home in Asheville. Brother Reinhardt toddled over to
his home in Lincolnton. Brother Mat visited the county seat and relatives. Mr. Harper Beall visited the chapter alumni over
the weekend. Also visiting were Alumni Brothers Westall, Bill Mark, Wally Tonnisen, and Mr. Hoover from Lincolnton. They were there
for the Rollins game. Visitors included Beaty, Mrs. Ballard, and parents.

Kappa Sigma
After a successful rushing season, the Kappa Sigs settled down to get their books in order after classes began and
then scattered suddenly to the irresistible call of the weekend. The not-to-be-spoken-of State game was the chief drawing card for
the migrants. Among those who went to spectate were Brothers Dick Welly, Jack Clark, John Purdie, Priestly Conyers, John McGee,
Scott Cooper, Hill Cooper, Jim Crook, Tommy Yarborough, Joe McCoy, Apie Means, Dick Phillips, and Pledges Davis, Amos, Simmons, Wilson,
Lacy, Grimsley, and Nelson. Traveling with the team were Brothers Karl Jonas, Ben Lacy, Ed Hipp, George Marsh, Ashby Dick,
and Pledge Ehly. Brother Carter went with the band. Langley Land went home to Virginia. Brother Langley went to Virginia
Beach.

Before and After the Games
Visit Us For Your Meal.
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE
CAFETERIA

Brother Johnston went to Hollins, Va. Brothers Apie Means and Alston (Continued on Page 6)

Paris Hat Cleaners
Pressing & Shine Parlor
We Render Prompt and Efficient Service
ABOVE HOTEL CHARLOTTE
217 W. Trade Street

Philanthropic Stages Party
Queens Spectators and Freshmen Are Guests
Starting the social season, the party was staged for members and spectators at the Queens Hotel on September 27.

"Look, Dad... now we can buy 'em both," Young fellas need both suits and overcoats. When they come with their
dads to this stock, it isn’t a question of which one will we buy today and which will we let
go until later. Our prices on men’s garments allow Father & Son and Suit & Overcoat to be pals and
go out young together.

University Club
Suits By SEINSHEIMER
$25.00 $39.00 $35.00
J. O. JONES, INC.
210 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.
DINING PHONE 3490

Thacker’s, 221 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.
ROOMS Banquets RESERVATIONS

Delicious and Refreshing
The popularity of Coca-Cola is assurance of its quality. Four generations of acceptance have made Coca-Cola known to all. You
will like it, too. Pause and refresh yourself.
PAUSE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
