N4 | Long To Play For Last Set ° i Z—528 ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA Che Mabidsonian | LIBERTAS Piecitinansiion
+ Finley Chosen | Frosh Advisor | VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1940 Bumbarger Chosen
To Edit Magazine For Coming Year Eight Men ‘Run In E First Ballot | For Scripts ’N Pranks HORTON IN
‘RUN OFF New Editor To Name His Assistants Soon Paul Bumbarger of Hickory was elected Editor of Scripts ’n Pranks
over Gordon Horton of Chattanooga, Tenn., in the final run-off Friday. The original ballot included the names of Bumbarger, Horton,
Frank Barker, John Hay, Charlie Martin, Joe Liles, Jo Newell Robinson, and Ed Shewmake. After the first day, the names
of Barker, Bumbarger, and Horton remained on the ticket. Defeats Horton On the last ballot, on which Bumbarger’s and Horton’s
names remained, Bumbarger received 183 votes to Horton's 113. Paul Bumbarger succeeds Jack Abernathy of Gastonia as editor of the
humor and literary magazine. He served for two years on the staff of the magazine before serving as a managing
editor for the past year. He was on the staff of the Davidsonian for two years, and managing editor his
Junior year. Recently he has been named Assistant Editor for next year by the new Editor. He is a member
of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, the Journalism Club, Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science
fraternity, and the Philanthropic Literary Society. Horton’s Achievements Horton served as art editor of the magazine during the past year,
and worked on the staff during his freshman and sophomore years. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha social
fraternity. The new staff of the magazine has not yet been announced by Bumbarger. It is understood, however, that the
new editor will name his assistants in the near future. Ten Students Form Alumni Council Here Spencer, Crane, Cowan, Casali,
Kenyon Automatically In Council Election of ten representatives for the alumni council was begun at the senior-faculty smoker held in
Chambers banquet hall last Thursday night. Five members of the class of ’40 were declared automatically elected in accordance with
elections rules in the constitution. These men were: Sam Spencer, student body president; Sid Crane, president of the YMCA; Jim
Cowan, president of the Athletic Association; Tony Casali, editor of the Davidsonian; and Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class.
Other Nominations Other nominations, based on offices held, were automatic, resulting in a large number of candidates for the five
remaining posts. The first ballot reduced the number to fourteen. Those remaining in the race are: Jim Currie, Tommy Harnsberger,
Harry Hendricks, Bob Kellogg, Warren Ludlam, Gales McClintock, Paul Marion, Charlie Mashburn, B. B. Plyler, Bob Ramsey, George Richmond, Beecher
Sitterson, and Jim Thomas. Other Committees Other business of the meeting included the appointment of two committees. The committee on
Class Day will be headed this year by Jack Abernathy. Beecher Sitterson will be in charge of the committee on
an Open House to be (Continued on Page Six) Scherer, Heston And Prizes Given In All Types Of Art Work
Selected As Best Faculty Group Prize-winning works of the two hundred drawings placed on exhibition at the Student’s Art Exhibit
were announced recently by a committee of judges composed of Professors Davidson, Lilly, Foreman, Harding and Beatty. Superlative drawings in
the four classes represented in the exhibit were: pen sketches, “Injun Joe” by Wallace Scherer; charcoal, “Phi Hall” by Paul
Crane; watercolor, “Bette Davis” by Gordon Horton; pencil sketch, “Lacy MacLean” by Gordon Horton. Those awarded honorable mention were: Wallace
Scherer, “Martha Withers” by Joe Robinson, “Horse’s Head” by Newell Dick Stevenson. According to the vote, the drawings rated in
the following order: Wallace Scherer, Horton, Chal Vinson, Crane, Walter Wooten, Bob Ballard, Joe Newell Robinson, Dan Hodges, Dick Stevenson,
Frank Atwater. The drawings voted best by visitors were: “Injun Joe” by Wallace Scherer, first; and “Bette Davis” by Gordon
Horton, second. The twenty-five single competitors were: Ed Jackson, Dan Hodges, Frank Atwater, Joe Robinson, Ed Shewmake, Tom McLean, Wallace
Scherer, Fred Harbin, Chal Vinson, Walter Wooten, Bill Preston, Walter Plunkett, Paul Crane, Bob Ballard, Jimmy Houston, Southgate Jones, Gordon
Horton, Dick Stevenson, Bill Lyman, Jack Campbell, Bennett Cowan, Mitchell Mack, and Louis Harvard. Dr. John R. Mott, world traveler
and widely known Christian leader wound up his series of lectures to the Davidson student body here today. Dr. Mott
gave the Ott Lectures this year, a group of five talks, given each morning during an extended chapel period. Many
townspeople and visitors have filled the auditorium for the services, and Dr. Mott has finished an excellent series. —Photo Courtesy
Charlotte Observer by Angus Perk Jr. Dr. John Mott Ends Lecture Series Here Hite To Lead Music Circle Louis Hite
of Florence, S. C., was elected president of Beta Gamma Phi honorary music fraternity April 1. Other officers were Francis
Magill, vice-president; Bill Hamilton, secretary; and Jim Crook, treasurer. Hite is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, of
the International Relations Club, advertising manager for the magazine, and a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council for 1940-'41. Magill is
active in the various musical organizations on the campus. His home is Lenoir, N. C. Hamilton of Hemingway, S. C.,
is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha honorary German fraternity, and Scabbard and Blade. Staff
Meeting There will be an important meeting of all Freshmen and Sophomores on the editorial staff of The Davidsonian tonight
at nine o'clock. It is imperative that everyone be present. This will be a session of constructive criticism by the
editor and the managing editors. Spring Play Is Cancelled By Masquers Unforeseen Difficulties Prevent Presentation Of Broadway Hit Red and
Black Masquers announced this week that plans for the production of the spring play had been definitely cancelled. “Our Town,”
which was to be the play presented, has been stopped as a result of unforeseen circumstances. This play has been
popular with amateur groups the nation over, but, as President McIntyre said, “It is a very difficult play to present
under the most favorable conditions.” Therefore the Masquers felt justified in discontinuing plans for the play in face of the
problems which have arisen since last week’s announcement of the play to be given. In view of the fact that
Erwin will be unable to serve as the regular faculty advisor this spring, the Masquers have decided to concentrate their
efforts on reorganization of the internal affairs of the group, with well planned programs, socials, etc., rather than plan a
three-act play. It was felt that a program along these lines would aid next year’s group in starting off [Continued
on Page Six] Prof. Crook of Spartanburg, S. C., is Today ended the period of lectures in which Dr. John
R. Mott, chairman of the World's YMCA, addressed Davidson’s student body. These addresses, known as the Ott Lectures, were financed
by Rev. Otts of Alabama, who donated a sum of money in order that expenses be paid for the speaker
to come to the campus four years. Introduced Sunday Introduced by Dr. W. L. Mott at the service Sunday, Dr.
Mott announced his first lecture. In chapel Monday, Dr. Mott delivered his second lecture, Life Plan and Life Purpose, in
which he outlined the necessity and characteristics of a person's life plan. Why a plan is necessary Dr. Mott answers
with three facts: a person can be certain of his bearings only when he has had those bearings, a plan
enables a person to detect and overturn perils and, lastly, a plan enables a person to make the best of
his talents. Johnny Long Will Play For Spring Frolic Long IN THIS ISSUE Election Results Cauble’s Column Movie Reviews Gains
Letters to the Editor Picture of the New Library Among the Greeks Carter’s Column Question of the Week Echoes of
the Past Orchestra Finished Engagement At William Penn Hotel Johnny Long and his orchestra will furnish music for the last
set of dances, at the Charlotte Armory, April 26 and 27, according to announcement made in chapel last week by
Paul Marton, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Christened the “Spring Frolics,” the set will be the third given this semester
and the last of the year. Price for set tickets has been set at $5.00; individual dance fees will be
announced later. Long’s band is composed of thirteen features Helen Other solo work theteen pieces and Young as vocalist, done
by Jack, the band’s male singer. Originating several years ago at Duke, Long’s band has been steadily on the up-grade.
For the past three summers, he has played at the exclusive Cavalier Beach Club on Virginia Beach, broadcasting over the
Columbia Broadcasting System three times a week. He has just finished a six weeks’ engagement at the William Penn in
Pittsburgh, where he broadcast over a coast-to-coast network. At present, he is playing at the Statler Hotel in Boston. National
recognition has been accorded the young maestro. He was featured on NBC's Fitch Bandwagon program as a definitely “coming” young
band. Long, who has recorded for Vo- [Continued on Page Six]

Frank Barker Succeeds Neal As Business Manager Of Freshman Class

Lawson Withers of the junior class has been chosen by the YMCA cabinet to edit the Y handbook that will
be distributed to the incoming students of next year. Frank Barker was chosen as business manager for the publication. Other
members of the editorial staff as chosen by the editor are: Dick Cobb, Harwell Darby, Gordon Horton, Don Williamson, and
Myron Sanders. Bob McLeod will be the sports editor. The complete business staff has not yet been chosen. The book
will be published late in the spring and sent to all students who will be entering Davidson for the first
time, both freshmen and transfer students. Deadline for all material to be included has been set as May 1, by
Lawson Withers. Approximately 130 pages will be included in this edition. All phases of campus life at Davidson will be
explained to the new students in this publication under the various sections. Withers is replacing Karl Hudson as editor of
the handbook and Barker is replacing Bill Ross as business manager. Withers is a member of the rising senior class,
vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, member of Sigma Upsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, and Pi Gamma Mu. Barker is a
member of the debating team, Eta Sigma Pi honorary fraternity, and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

Bumbarger Is New Assistant

Bumbarger Will Aid In Editing Davidsonian

Paul Bumbarger, of the rising senior class, has recently been appointed to the assistant editorship of The Davidsonian by Andy
Dale, editor. The Davidsonian has had an assistant editor for four years now, the first one, Fitzhugh Davis, having been
appointed in 1937 by Dick Jones. This past year Jack Abernathy held the position, assisting Tony Casali. Duties of the
managing editor include: proof reading, the managing position, and working in an advisory capacity in general when the editor is
incapacitated.

Bumbarger’s Record

Bumbarger was a managing editor of The Davidsonian this past year, and has recently been elected editor of the Scripts
'n Pranks, Davidson humor and literary magazine. He is also a member of the International Relations Club and the Philanthropic
Literary Society.

CUTS REVISED

Davidson's Student-Faculty Relations Committee recommended to the faculty on April 2 that cuts in all laboratory courses and ROTC be
increased by one; however, there would be no change in the total number of cuts. This recommendation was discussed and
passed by the unanimous vote of the faculty. As laboratory and military courses meet from one to three hours a
week more than other classes, the committee thought it advisable to make this change. This is the third action taken
by the Student-Faculty Relations Committee in regard to the reclamation of cuts since the drastic reduction in the number allowed
last spring. Faculty representatives on this committee are Dr. C. K. Brown, chairman; Dr. P. H. Gwynn, and Prof. F.
K. Fleagle.

Horton Gives Law Book Set For Library

IN MEMORY OF M. H. CLIFT

Five Hundred Books, Papers, Documents To Go To New Building

Approximately 500 valuable law books, papers, and documents were donated to the Davidson College Library by Gordon Horton, a member
of the junior class, in memory of his grandfather, the late M. H. Clift of Chattanooga, Tenn. This gift includes
the law library of Mr. Clift, a leading Chattanooga lawyer, banker, and industrialist during the last half of the nineteenth
and early twentieth centuries. Active in Tennessee's history, he served as chairman of the committee which drew up that state's
new constitution at the close of the Civil War, and the Davidson gift will include valuable old documents of this
committee as well as special drafts and copies of the constitution. The Clift memorial also includes several law books now
extinct and valuable. The gift will be catalogued and ready for use with the completion of the new library at
the last of this year. This library contains a very comprehensive allotment of law books up till 1920 where the
present college library begins. According to the present plans, there is to be a separate room in the new library
solely for law books and papers. Gordon stated that he wished the Clift Memorial to be in honor of his
grandfather who was especially interested in education and who was a member of the strong Presbyterian church.

Horton is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of the Red and Black Masquers, and has been
active in art work here on the campus.

New Orleans Bound

Winston Taylor, Casey Jones, and Hank Bahnson left for New Orleans to attend a convention of student body leaders from
colleges throughout the south. At press time on Monday night, Taylor planned to go if arrangements could be made, and
Jones and Bahnson probably to accompany them. Plans of the convention call for a three-day meeting in New Orleans where
modern college problems will be discussed by well-informed speakers.

King Elected Freshman Advisor

The Advisor At Polls

Rising Senior Class Breaks Precedent And Elects Advisor

17 VOTE MAJORITY

Youngblood, Flynn, Barker, Crane, Eliminated

Bob Finley was elected next year’s freshman advisor in the final election held last Tuesday in chapel. The other candidates
were Bob King, Paul Youngblood, Boyd Flynn, Bob Barker, and Eldridge Crane. Finley, King, Flynn, and Barker were eliminated in
the first vote, but Finley won by a 17 vote majority.

Election Changed

In the past, the office has been elected by the senior class. Recently, an amendment to the constitution has been
passed by the student body giving the rising seniors the power to select the office. Finley is from North Wilkesboro
and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is the first vice-president of the YMCA, a member of
the YMCA cabinet, and a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. King is from Johnson City, Tennessee, and
a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity. He is also a member of the Beaver Club.

Succeeds Ramsey

Finley will succeed Rob Ramsey of Jonesboro, Ark., who has been the freshman advisor for the past year. The duties
of this office are mainly at the beginning of the school year when Finley, with a staff of assistants, will
acquaint the incoming freshmen with the Davidson campus during orientation week. After the orientation week, this advisor will act as
leader in any meetings they shall have.

Board States Definition Of Voting Term

Meaning Of “Soliciting Votes” And “Combines” Set Forth By Committee

Fulfilling a provision in the amendment to the constitution, the Election Board has recently defined the terms “combine” and “soliciting
of votes.”

“Combine” is any official or unofficial agreement between two or more fraternities, clubs, or other organizations regarding political aspirations to
acquire votes for the same candidate at any one time. Furthermore, any single person or any of the aforementioned organizations
shall not reach an official or unofficial agreement with one or more of the aforesaid organizations to vote for the
same candidate at any one time.

“Soliciting”

“Soliciting of votes” shall be defined as any attempt of an individual or group to gain directly the vote of
any other individual or group by methods of bribe, reward, hope of reward, threats, or promises. Furthermore, any expression being
a mere commentary statement upon the qualifications of a candidate shall not be considered as an attempt to solicit votes,
and no student or any group of students shall express by word, means of public assemblage, posters, handbills, or in
any other way the qualifications of a candidate or group of candidates.

Authors

These definitions were submitted to the board by two of its members, Karl Hudson and George Milne. With a few
minor corrections, they [Continued on Page Six]
