Thurs., Jan. 11, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Betas Enjoy Holidays
All the brothers reported the past holidays as the best ever. Brother Burch went to his home in Reidsville this past weekend. Brother Rankin went to his home in Mt. Gilead, Brother Barrou to Valdese; Brother Sherman, Brother McAfee, Brothers Bryant, Summerville, McClintock, Hand, and Pledge Church went to their respective homes in Charlotte. The majority of the brothers were in Charlotte Saturday night for the Davidson-Carolina basketball game. Brother Matthews journeyed to Winston-Salem Thursday night for the Davidson-Duke basketball game. Skookie Neace from Burlington was a guest of the chapter Saturday. Pledge Faucette went to his home in Burlington for the weekend. Misses Alice and Martha Withers, and Polly Price were guests at the Sunday night feed.

Phi Delts Entertain
Pikas Attend Game
All the brothers returned from their respective homes after the holidays without one case of sickness, for which we are all thankful. A majority of the brothers and pledges attended the basketball game in Charlotte. Brother Crutchfield visited Greensboro. Brothers Latimer and Youngblood journeyed to Rock Hill, and Brother Shelton and Pledge Neill went to Laurinburg. Brothers Coltrane, Hoover, and McElwee visited Concord. The remainder of the chapter submitted to being snowbound. Miss Eleanor Deitz of Atlanta, Georgia, has been elected Chapter Sponsor for the year.

KA’s Return to Campus
Most of the brothers and pledges returned to the campus by Wednesday of last week, after an enjoyable vacation. The weekend found most of the members in or around Charlotte, the chief attraction being the basketball game. Among those present were Brothers Sherrin, Spencer, Winters, Lauch, and Wallace. Brother Watt spent the weekend in Mason Wallace’s home in Charlotte. Perrin went to his home in Spartanburg and Pledge Washburn went to his home in Wilmington.

Kappa Sigs Enjoy Snow
Snow, and the thoughts of what a fine Winter Carnival Davidson might have had, kept the boys about the house for the weekend. However, Jimmy Cooper visited his home in Henderson, and Charlie Yates made a like visit to Greensboro with Miss Betty Waldron, his date for the basketball game and weekend. Scott Cooper and Jim Hogg dared the snow and ice for the sake of feminine company in Greensboro. Brother Ed Finley visited the chapter Sunday evening for the feed.

S.A.E.
Inclement weather conditions forced “Alfalfa” Currie to stay on the campus over the weekend. Brother Southgate Jones, though corporally within the shadow of Chambers, was in spirit at Sweet Briar. He too was hampered by the excessive disorder of the atmosphere. Brother Gleucose McLean went skiing at St. Moritz in his ROTC shoes. Brother Bill Sprunt sojourned in Winston-Salem for pinning purposes. All brothers are on the drive as regards dates for Mid-Winters, the aforementioned Brother McLean's fam-femmes being in great demand for this purpose.

Pi Kaps Stay on Campus
With sweet memories of exciting holidays, undone thoughts of lessons, and forbidding weather, most of the Pi Kapps remained in Davidson over the weekend. A number of the brothers ventured as far as Charlotte for the basketball game Saturday. Brothers Harry Hendrick and Bob Garvey made a trip to Winston-Salem. Lonnie Miller visited his home in Florence, S.C. The entire chapter is delighted that Pledge Bob Patton is back in school after a severe case of flu. He returned from his home in Rutherfordton on Sunday. Miss Mary Elizabeth Bell was a guest of the chapter Sunday. Guests at the feed Sunday evening were Jim Anderson and Marvin Sink. Miss Conwell from Asheville was a guest of the chapter over the weekend and attended the feed. Most of the brothers attended the Carolina-Davidson basketball game in Charlotte Saturday night. Those who did not attend professed to be faithfully on the books. The snow which fell early Sunday morning proved to be a novel experience for our several Florida boys who had never seen a real snow before.

Phi Gams Hosts To S.A.E.
Due to the exactness of the college curriculum, the Fiji boys remained on the campus during the week and over the weekend. Several brothers, however, did hit the hi-road to Charlotte Saturday night. Brother Otts went on to Salisbury to visit Miss Butt. Brother Dick Shore played basketball for the home folks in Winston last Thursday. Brother Stowe is making up for his once lost privileges. Sunday night the Phi Gams were hosts to their neighbors, the S.A.E.’s, at a feed. This was the result of a wager lost by them.

S.P.E.’s Have Visitors
Among this week’s visitors at the house were Miss DeLillian Snowden, Miss Eleanor Lovitt, Mr. Harry Daniel, and Mr. Sellis Hanna, all of whom were guests of Bill Hamilton. On Saturday, Brother Watson journeyed to Concord for a visit, and Saturday night a large number of the brothers attended the Davidson-Carolina game in Charlotte. Brothers E. Hay and Hamilton and Pledges Knox and Davis week-ended in Rock Hill. McDaniel and Harbin were found somewhere in South Carolina during the week, while Rusty Edmondson attended a dance in Mooresville. Pledges Legerton and McLaughlin had Sunday dinner with Dr. and Mrs. Wilson.

Davidson Head Aids In Evangelistic Crusade
In connection with the Presbyterian Evangelistic Crusade, President Walter L. Lingle has accepted an invitation to lead the evangelistic meetings in the Presbyterian Church in Hickory. Leaders of the Southern Presbyterian Church have started the Crusade as one of the church's main objectives for the coming year. It is likely that a number of the members of the faculty will receive calls to lead these evangelistic meetings in the various churches of the Southern Conference. The plan, which was worked out by a committee for that purpose and adopted by the General Assembly at its annual meeting in May, 1939, will be carried on through the committees on evangelism in each of the eighty-eight presbyteries and the seventeen synodical committees of the Southern Presbyterian Church. They will sponsor evangelistic meetings in each of the local churches. These regular Spring Services of the YMCA here will be in line with the evangelistic program of the Southern Church. The speaker for this annual group of services is yet unobtained but the invitation has been sent and the Y will announce as soon as he has been secured.

President Lingle Leads Hickory Meeting Series

Dell, Bob; Dave, Margy Married
Two Alumni Married During Christmas Holidays
Two members of last year’s senior class sealed their destinies forever during the Christmas holidays by taking the proverbial trip down the “aisle of matrimony.” Howard Robert McClellan and Dave Warden, both from Johnson City, Tenn., were wed in simple but impressive ceremonies during the holidays. McClellan’s bride, Miss Dell Sutherland of Charlotte, was well-known on the Davidson campus and her picture has appeared in the Annual twice as a sponsor. Warden's bride, Miss Marguerite Vance of Johnson City, was also well-known here having made several trips to the campus. McClellan, after finishing Davidson last June, had accepted a position with Proctor and Gamble, being located in Spartanburg, S.C., and later transferred to Charlotte. Recently, he has been transferred to Massachusetts under the same capacity. While at Davidson, McClellan distinguished himself by being a member of the varsity football team for three seasons, vice-president of the Student Body, President of the Athletic Association, and Member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social order. Warden, since graduation, had been connected with the Commercial Credit Corporation in Salisbury but resigned this position for a job with Summers Hardware Co.Johnson City. He too was a leader on the campus, being captain of the football team, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and a member of the track team. His fraternity was Beta Theta Pi.

Grads Receive Air Promotion
T. P. Finlay and Paul Pittman, '36, Become U.S. Flying Instructors

Thomas P. Finlay and Paul C. Pittman, members of the class of 1936, will leave the Air Corps Training Detachment at the Dallas Aviation School at Randolph Field to become instructors at the army air base and training field at San Antonio, Texas. Pittman’s new appointment took effect on last December 20 while Finlay will take up his new duties on February 15. Pittman was known as the “Paul Pittman” of football fame while he was a student here. He was one of the outstanding athletes.

Announcements of both weddings were received by many students here.

CAMPUS CARTOON OF R.I. STATE COLLEGE SWISHED 477 POINTS THROUGH THE NETS LAST SEASON TO SET A NEW COLLEGIATE RECORD. HE BETTERED HANK LUISETTI'S MARK BY TWELVE POINTS.

Prof. Beaty To Address Atlanta Alumni Meeting

Princeton U. has but three graduates of 1940. The Atlanta, Ga., meeting will be the first of the 1940 schedule for Davidson graduates. Professor Beaty, a member of the college faculty, will address the meeting. According to Lamar Burton, assistant director of public relations at Davidson, the Atlanta chapter has always been among the most active of all the local chapters. The present secretary is Mr. Grier Martin, who was for a number of years alumni secretary at Davidson. He played football for four years, was an outstanding track man, and during this time, a member of the Council for two years. He is in charge of the next meeting. The only representative attending from Davidson will be Professor Beaty, who spoke at a similar meeting in New York the latter part of last year. It is planned tentatively to show the old Davidson students some stills and movies of student life, including possibly a movie of a football game. There are one hundred Davidson alumni within a fifty-mile radius of Atlanta. Included in this group are approximately sixty alumni who are now studying at Columbia Theological Seminary and Emory University in addition to several old graduates who hold prominent business positions. A total of 100 alumni live in Atlanta.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Get Off to a Good Start in 1940 By Visiting The Grill
You Are Always Welcome

All Latest Records By Bob Chester
BLUE BIRD VICTOR COLUMBIA DECCA
And other big name bands
Get your records here, we appreciate your business
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Vespers Will Hear Alumnus
Rev. V. S. Broyles of Canton, Miss., Will Speak

Davidson's second vespers of the new year will be addressed Sunday evening, Jan. 14, by the Rev. Vernon S. Broyles, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Canton, Miss. The guest minister is a graduate of Davidson, a member of the class of 1927. According to the administration, Mr. Broyles was a leader on campus and his honors included membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, and Business Manager of The Davidsonian. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and received his A.B. degree from Davidson in 1927.

THURS.-FRI.-SAT.
Daring Adventure and Thrilling Romance on the high seas!
“RULERS OF THE SEA”
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.
With a Grand Cast

LEAP YEAR LATE SHOW SAT. NIGHT
The girls must buy the tickets...
“BROTHER RAT AND A BABY”
— with The Same Cast of “BROTHER RAT”
Also Starts Monday
IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N.C.

We Offer 25% REDUCTION
FRESH FRUITS EXAM PADS 3 for 25c
OPEN TILL ONE DURING EXAMS
STUDENT STORE

Echoes of the Past
10 YEARS AGO
Davidson prepares for the Davidson-Carolina basketball game, which Davidson won with a 22-20 score. Dr. Lingle recovered his pocketbook which had been stolen in Chicago, relieved of $65, and dropped into a Chicago mailbox. The Faculty gave the Senior class a house party and urged all to bring girls.

5 YEARS AGO
The Pan-Hellenic Council announced the signing of Kay Kyser to play for the Mid-Winters Dance set. Three professors were married during the Christmas holidays: They were Prof. John C. Bailey, Dr. A. T. Clifford, and Prof. S. S. Minault. An editorial appeared in The Davidsonian criticizing the Southern Conference for refusing to admit Davidson.

3 YEARS AGO
Captain Bill Quick led Davidson to a 35-33 cage victory in an extra period thriller with Carolina. Georgia “Rats” emerged victorious over the Watts “Tea Hounds” by a score of 7-0 in the annual football classic. The proposed amendment to have a Freshman Advisor to replace the Court of Control was defeated in a meeting of the student body.

Work of Davidson Poet Albert Winn Gets Honorable Mention in National Competition

Albert Winn, of the Davidson student body, has received honorable mention in the Lanier Memorial Awards offered through the Southern Literary Messenger published in Richmond, Va. This was a contest to determine the best poem, essay, and sonnet written about the beloved Southern poet, Sidney Lanier, and participants included people from all over the United States. Only three prizes were awarded: one for fifty dollars and two for twenty-five dollars. The winners follow: V. P. I. Professor Dieo M. G. Harrison received the Lanier Memorial Award of fifty dollars, offered by the Virginia Division, U.D.C., for a poem entitled: “Our Poet of Dawns.” Miss Beatrice Mary Billing, of St. Paul, Minnesota, received the Sidney Lanier Appreciation Award, given by Dr. John J. Lanier, of Augusta, Georgia, for an essay on Sidney Lanier: “On Wings of Song.”

Winn’s Literary Record
Winn won honorable mention for a poem entitled “The Beta Theta Lanier.” The Sophomore, a member of Beta Theta Pi, was editor of his native Greenville, S.C., high school paper. He was winner last spring in the poetry division of the Student Anthology Contest sponsored jointly by the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies with a poem entitled “Trench Night.” He also won the Alumni Award for the highest average in the Freshman class as well as tying with Arch Taylor for the Hay Freshman Bible Award.

AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
STATEMENT OF DECEMBER 30, 1939

Resources
Cash in Vault, on Deposit in Federal Reserve Bank, and in Other Banks $42,161,586.35
Government Obligations, Direct or Fully Guaranteed $22,942,387.00
Obligations of Federal Agencies 172,863.75
State of North Carolina and State of South Carolina Bonds 3,123,252.10
Municipal Bonds and Notes 1,588,478.36
Accrued Interest on Bonds 107,353.09
Loans and Discounts 27,934,334.82
Cash Surrender Value Life Insurance Policies Carried on the Officers of the Bank 17,763,296.18
Federal Reserve Bank, Richmond, Va., Stock 76,854.24
Other Stocks and Bonds 135,003.00
Banking House, Fourth Street Property, and Furniture and Fixtures 90,218.55
Reserve for Depreciation 130,469.63
Income Earned to be Collected 350,748.92
Prepaid Insurance, Taxes, etc. 27,713.77
Customers’ Liability on Acceptances 19,938.96
Other Real Estate (The Appraised value of which is $178,797.50 and the assessed value of which is $325,000.00) 91.00

Liabilities
Capital Stock $1,200,000.00
Surplus 2,876,090.00
Undivided Profits Unallotted 576,090.00
Accrued Interest, Expenses, and Income Collected But Not Earned 97,954.29
Reserve for Taxes, and Contingencies 172,721.92
Reserve Sufficient to Retire Premium on all Bonds Owned, Reducing them to Par 571,802.16
DEPOSITS 1,031,478.37
Domestic and Foreign Acceptances 38,530.00
Insurance Department Not Included

Assets and Liabilities of Above in AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Largest Unit Bank in the Carolinas
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.