Thurs., Nov. 21, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Kappa Alpha | Pi Kappa Alpha

The center of interest for all the brothers this week-end was the initiation Saturday evening. The affairs will be held
at the Hampden-Sydney chapter house. Tent brothers stayed the night at the latter chapter house. Brothers Roxb, Nie, Royster, and
Phe attended the initiation. Other brothers included Bev, White, and Duke.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The week-end was spent at Chapel Hall, Charlotte. Brothers participated in the family activities of Mel, Francis, and others. Brother
Brown came up from Sumter, S.C. Other brothers included Spencer and Sha. Dr. Walter Lingle, president of Davidson, is shown
greeting Dr. Edgar Gammon (right), president of Hampden-Sydney College before the football game played between the two colleges at Richardson
Field last Saturday. Dr. Gammon is a former pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The chapter enjoyed the weekend festivities. Brothers had dates both before and after the game. Sigma Phi Epsilon members participated
in the Salem Day and Hampden-Sydney game festivities. Several brothers visited their homes for the weekend. Brother John Frazier Hart,
son of former National President Freeman H. Hart, joined the group. The chapter gave a banquet in honor of the
initiate.

By JOE WHITLEY

In spite of the hostility between the Davidson and Hampden-Sydney football teams Saturday, the spirit of the two schools seemed
very congenial. As an outward display of this spirit, Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha had the distinct privilege of
initiating John Frazier Hart, a student of Hampden-Sydney College. Young Hart is the son of Dr. Freeman H. Hart, a
former National President of Pi Kappa Alpha and a close friend of Dr. Howard Arbuckle, a retired member of the
Davidson College faculty. Dr. Arbuckle is one of the original refounders of Pi Kappa Alpha. The ceremony was performed at
Davidson because Dr. Hart wanted his son to be initiated by the chapter and see the game.

A crew down from Ithaca wanted to put the old fire back into the Cornell campus, or in Manhattan, merely
because they smoked. They failed by the two-thirds of the fraternity. Mr. N's latest verse printed in the humor magazine,
Yale Record, accused Cornell of using low-life football players. It insinuates, further, that culture was nil out in Ithaca. The
president and the deans paid homage to King Football with the rest of the school.

We think that you ought to acquaint yourself with at least a part of the spirit of fraternity. The ceremony
was performed at Davidson because Dr. Hart wanted his son to be initiated by the chapter and see the game.

District President Present

A delegation of the Pika chapter at Hampden-Sydney was present at the initiation. On Saturday night, the football squad thrilled
to the gridiron victory and the beautiful belles from Salem who invaded the campus. Despite this added attraction, Brothers McLean
and Westall took off to Winston-Salem and Asheville, respectively. Brother McIntosh and Pledge Vetner managed to visit their parents. Brother
Kelly attended the Duke Carolina game and dance at Chapel Hill. Refreshments were served at the fraternity house.The exodus of
must play Cornell the ceremony. Also among those basking in the sun, the former to his home in Plora McDonald,
Mona Sdeaeeoerh Joel. The team that by practice and present was Zeb Long, district president of the fraternity, latter to
his home in Jacksonville. Mary Shaw Smith, Dore, and others witnessed the Duke rigorous training. Among the guests of the
chapter during the week were Brother Tom Watson, alumnus of Florida Alpha, Mae Slagx, Jean Stafford, and Blue Smith.

Martin Hew Parrish developed a wonderful aggregation. Following this ceremony, Dr. Arbuckle gave a talk on the fraternity’s history and
ideals. After the program was completed, a banquet was served at the boarding house in honor of Linton with the
new initiate. Meals were served at the house Sunday night, and again Brother Hootcl Wileinam led the chapter in an
informal session. Brother Vereen was presented with a “Putt-putt” boat as the feature of the get-together.

Many new and inspiring correspondences are being born this week through the labors of the fraternity council. Visitors present were
Charles Marshall, B. B. Plyer, Mr. and Mrs. R. M. O'Hara, and Mr. and Mrs. Bobbie Long.

Now through Saturday, Nelson Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald star in “Bitter Sweet” in Technicolor.

By Ed Payne

However, don’t be deceived by statistics. From them, you would conclude that Davidson is dominated by a certain group from
one section of the country and that everybody else has the cards stacked against them from the first. This is
a completely false impression, as any student or faculty member will tell you. Wherever a Davidson man comes from, once
he matriculates, he is on his own, and whatever he may achieve while here depends entirely on himself.

Thanksgiving Late Show — Wednesday Night

Kay Kyser and His Band

Always ask for S & P Products

Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy

Manufactured by Carolina Swinson Food, Charlotte, N.C.

Dunbar Ogden Speaks About Lesser Apostles

Phi Mu Alpha Will Sponsor Six Musicians in Concert Series

Will Present Outstanding Artists

Judas, Son of James, James the Lesser

At Other Colleges

The vesper message on Sunday, November 24, will be delivered by the Rev. Thomas Cook, pastor of the Presbyterian Church
at Barium Springs, N.C. Mr. Cook is a graduate of Hampden-Sydney and Union Theological Seminary. Before coming to Barium Springs,
he served as minister at the Second Presbyterian Church in Salisbury, N.C. In commenting on Rev. Cook, Dr. Lingle said
that he possessed an attractive personality and was an unusually interesting speaker. Rev. Thomas Cook spoke at the local church
last summer; several students heard him last winter.

Coca-Cola with food is a taste experience millions welcome. A natural partner of good things to eat, Coca-Cola sends you
back to work with that feeling of complete refreshment.

CAUSE THAT R-E-F-R-E-S-H-E-S

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Charlotte.
