Page Six (sd) Thurs., Oct. 31, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Mu Alpha To Hold First Installations

Earl A. Slocum, Province Governor, Will Be in Charge of Ceremonies

Ceremonies will be held on November 10 for the installation of the Davidson Chapter, Gamma Kappa, into Phi Mu Alpha,
honorary musical fraternity. Earl A. Slocum, province governor, will be in charge of the installation and 17 members of the
Carolina Chapter will come to Davidson for the ceremonies. Men and faculty members going into the fraternity are Alwin Burns,
Jim Crook, Bob Hill, Louis Hite, David Huffines, Tom Plonk, Charles Isley, Francis Magill, Roy Suber, Thane McDonald, Jack Philips,
Reb Rummel and David Rhea. Prof. J. C. Pfohl has been a member of Phi Mu Alpha for a number
of years. Tickets for the concert series sponsored by the fraternity will be made available in the near future, which
will make possible the appearance of several artists and artist groups at Davidson.

Business Will Be Life Work Of Many Men

Medicine, Ministry, Law, Teaching, Music and Aviation Close Behind

Practically every profession and business imaginable will be represented by some student of Davidson this year. Business heads the list
with 112 boys planning on entering the business world after leaving school. Medicine is close behind with 111 taking the
pre-medical course, 38 of these are freshmen. The calling of ministry is the calling of 46 men, with four planning
on entering the mission field. There is a large number of students studying law, with 41 men altogether. Teaching is
to be the calling of 31 boys, and 16 Davidson students are planning on entering the field of aviation. Seventh
on the list is music, with 15 men working in some type of music. Twelve boys are studying to be
civil engineers. Davidson boasts eight men who are planning on being journalists. Six boys are studying for the foreign service,
one man for public relations, and one is to be a government worker. One man is striving to become an
F.B.I. agent some day and a student is working toward becoming a welfare worker. Two boys are taking preliminary courses
before entering the Naval Academy. There are two students of public utilities, one railroad student, three radio students, one student
of interior decorating, one anthropologist, a Spanish translator and a tobacconist. Two boys are studying to enter YMCA work and
one man is studying transportation. Davidson has 23 chemistry students, with only four physicists. Other professions included are several architects,
12 accountants, nine dentists, 13 bankers, five athletic coaches, four farmers and five textile students. Five Davidson boys are planning
on entering the field of scientific research. Two students are planning on being writers while one man has decided to
bring fame to Davidson by being an actor. Also, several boys in school are planning on entering the professions of
commerce.

LIB CHILES
VIRGINIA NIVEN
ROSALYN REID
SPONSORS FOR HOMECOMING GAME
ALICE WITHERS
SUSAN BUCHANAN
POLLY PRICE

Among THE GREEKS

Kappa Alpha

The K.A. brothers had quite an unusual week-end in the wedding of Brother Dick Winters to Miss Sophie Walker of
Charlotte. Brothers at the wedding included Brothers Sandy Sandifer, Jackson, Stimson, Lauck, Lemmon, Thomas, Sinclair, Wilson, Watt, Ansley and Flowers,
and Pledge Brothers McWilliams and Jordy. Brothers Arnold, Lemmon, McLean, Mitchell and Washburn and Pledge Brother Belk were at the
Davidson-Furman game in Greenville, S. C., Brother Belk also being seen at Converse and other points during the week-end. Brother
Beevo Royster went to Greensboro again. Brothers Sinclair and Pinkerton, and Pledge Brothers Law, Webster, Paddock and Jordy spent short
periods in Charlotte, while Pledge Brothers Dunn and Jeffries visited the former's family in Sumter, S. C. Brothers King and
Vanlandingham visited their Johnson City, Tenn., home, while Pledge Brother Councill and Brother Page Harris visited their homes in Baltimore,
Md., and Roxboro, N. C., respectively. The chapter welcomed Brother Ben Turnage back this week from a long illness which
has kept him at his home in Farmville, N. C. Brother Freddie Speas became a full-fledged member of the fraternity
at an initiation ceremony held Thursday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The past week-end found Brothers Dudley and Galbreath journeying to their home in Kinston. Brothers Daffin and Bivens spent the
week-end at Kinston visiting Tom Galbreath. They also took in the Tulane-U.N.C. game. Brother Ed Watson visited in Banner Elk
on Sunday. Brother Edmondson went to Tarboro, while the Greenville game claimed McDaniel, Frederick and Rainey on the team. Brother
Bell visited his home in Burlington and also saw the Duke-Wake Forest game. Brother Hamilton and John Hay took off
for Brother Hamilton's home in Indianton, S. C. (between Hemmingway and Kingstree) while Brother Sleet spent the week-end in Charlotte.
Brother Tarlton made his usual trip to Converse. Pledge W. Knox divided his week-end time between Limestone and Wofford colleges,
while Brother Fulcher dated at Queens Sunday night. Brothers H. Knox and Davis traveled to Chester, S. C.

Phi Gamma Delta

Phi Gams last week-end took trips to many points in the surrounding country. Going to the Furman game at Greenville
and other places nearby were Brothers Bolin, Pharr, Johnson, Darby, Wooten, Williams, and Pledge Brothers Smith and Lewis. The detail
going to Lynchburg this week-end included Ed Sutherland and Adolph Larsen, while George McCormack attended Homecoming at Darlington. Brother Bellamy
visited Brother Parrish at Winston-Salem, and Brother Long attended the homecoming set of dances at Chapel Hill. Jay Fields visited
in High Point. Guests over the week-end included the parents of Harris McReynolds, Dick O'Hair, and Ed Sutherland, not to
mention Misses Mary McReynolds, Kelly Anne Smith, Patsy McNeely, Louise Nichols, Dorcas Dawes, Rebecca McCrary, and Kitty McIntosh.

Phi Delta Theta

A large number of Phi Delts trekked to various places over the week-end. Brothers Rudolph and Westall journeyed to their
homes in Asheville, while Brother Owens made the long trip over the mountains to Knoxville. Brother Carter went home in
Alexandria, while Pledge Hoover did likewise to his in Lincolnton. Brothers Dale, Hobbie, Robinson, Lewis and Simpson went to Greenville,
while Brother Chapman went to...

Send The Davidsonian Home Only $1.25 Rest of YearSpartanburg and Greenville. Pledge Hayes spent an extended weekend in the great
metropolis of Lyman, his hometown. Taking in the doings at Greensboro over Saturday were Brothers Dew and Williams, and Pledges
Archer, Coslett, and Armistead.

Beta Theta Pi
Many of the brothers had a warmer-upper weekend in preparation for the Homecoming affairs this week. Traveling with the football
team were Brothers Balsley, Shaw, and Sharpe. All three saw plenty of action against the Hurricane. Others who seemed to
like Greenville were Brothers Walker, McCrary, and Caterson, who were guests of Brother Winn, and Brothers Howell, McAfee, J. Barnwell,
Bryant, and Garrou, who attended the game. Brothers Mebane, H. Barnwell, and J. Barnwell spent portions of the weekend at
their homes in Burlington.

PHONO - RECORD
Blue Bird
ALL VICTOR RECORDS REDUCED IN PRICE
Large Stock to Select From
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Brother Schmidt is spending a few days at his home in Shelbyville, Ky.

Pi Kappa Phi
This weekend, the brothers spread out, with many attending the game in Greenville. Brothers Hite, Niven, Woodward, Edwards, Hipp, Bumbarger,
and Pledges Tatum, Head, and Armstrong were in Greenville for the game. The Florence contingent included Brothers Saunders, Mobley, Miller,
and McCall. Brothers Erb and Larkin went to Salisbury and Winston-Salem, and Salem also claimed Brother Garvey. Brothers Patton and
Logan went home to Rutherfordton, Brother Flynn went home to Washington, Herring to Roseboro, McArthur to Charlotte, Pledges Watson to
Ridge Spring, S.C.; Hutchins to High Point, McAllister to Mt. Pleasant. Pledges Bumbarger and Evans went to Columbia, S.C., and
then home to Hickory. Brother Plunkett was in Aiken, S.C. Charlotte claimed Brothers Green.

(Continued on Page Eight)

The Pan-Hellenic Council Davidson Presents
FREDDY JOHNSON AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Playing for HOMECOMING DANCES
November 1-2
Set. Ticket, $4.00

ALUMNI -- C. S. GOODRUM, 1914
“WELCOME”
Remember Us — We Remember YOU!
“MEET YOUR FRIENDS WITH US”
WHITE DRUG CO.
“Davidson's Oldest and Best”
IRWIN JOHNSON, 1922

In your “home.” “It’s Homecoming — When in Charlotte make the Hotel Charlotte and the Tavern your crowd” and the
“dance crowd” will be there — join them for “Homecoming”

HOTEL CHARLOTTE
“The Carolinas’ Largest Hotel”
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Charlotte Too
“The football in Charlotte. Fraternities Banquets

CONDUCTOR
Freddy Johnson and his 13-piece orchestra will hold sway at Davidson's Homecoming Dances to be held at the Hotel Charlotte
Friday and Saturday nights of this week. Johnson’s band features Miss Gloria Missel, vocalist.

French Group Elections Held
Caldwell, Clark, Farrior, Gamble, Crane, Mack, Rummel, and Wood Join Cercle
Le Cercle Francais met at the home of Dr. Watts Tuesday night, October 22, for the purpose of electing new
members. The ones selected are as follows: Bill Wood, John Farrior, Reb Rummel, Mitchel Mack, Wallace Gamble, Frank Caldwell, Henry
Crane, and John Clark. It is a custom of the club to go to some other college and present a
French program. Tuesday the group voted to make a visit to Converse sometime this fall. The club will present a
French play; the Converse club will also give a play. The members voted to appropriate a small sum to Russell
Smith for the purpose of purchasing textbooks. Mr. Smith is teaching French in the Negro Settlement. It has been the
custom of the French Club in past years to elect associate members. Last year, however, no one was honored by
being elected an associate member, but this year Le Cercle Francais has decided to revive this custom and elect five
or six who are interested in French. Several names have been turned in to the club and approved by the
members. These men will (Continued on Page Eight)

To Hold For Alumni
Friday and Saturday Night Functions Add to Festive Weekend
During the Homecoming weekend each of the nine social fraternities will have some sort of dinner or banquet. The respective
faculty brothers and alumni brothers have been extended invitations to attend these various functions. The Beta Theta Pi’s will hold
their banquet at Thacker’s on Saturday night at 7 o'clock. The Pi Kappa Alphas’ banquet will be at the Hotel
Charlotte Saturday night at 7. Kappa Alpha brothers will entertain at the Hotel Charlotte at 8 o'clock on Friday night.
The S.A.E.’s will hold their banquet at Thacker’s on Saturday night at 7. When the brothers of Kappa Sigma gather
they will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Delta chapter. Their banquet will be at Hotel Charlotte on Saturday night
at 6:30. The Pi Kappa Phis’ banquet will be held Friday night at 7:30 in the Hotel Charlotte. Phi Gams
will celebrate in the S. & W. at 7 p.m. Saturday. The Phi Delts will hold their banquet Saturday night
at 7:30 in Hotel Charlotte. And the S.P.E.’s are going to have a breakfast in the Wooden Bowl. In addition
to the banquets, most of the chapters will have a “feed” sometime during the weekend.

Six Men Join German Club
Delta Phi Alpha Bids Clark, Larkin, McLeod, Talmage, Welborn, and LeFever
Six German students were extended bids for membership in Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary German society, last week. The following
men received bids: D. H. Clark, E. W. Larkin, R. W. McLeod, D. W. Talmage, S. G. Welborn, and R.
S. Lefever. These new members were initiated Monday night. This initiation ceremony, which marks the first meeting of Delta Phi
Alpha this year, was held at the home of Dr. Vowles. Outstanding members of the second-year German class were considered
for membership in the German club, Der Deutscher Verein. As part of the program, Dr. Vowles presented a short history
of Delta Phi Alpha, and J. N. Robinson gave several musical selections. Refreshments were served by Mrs. Vowles. The next
meeting will be in about two weeks.

SUPER VALUE
100% WOOL
CRAVENETTED
Regular Value $25.00
$19.50
SHED RAIN, SNOW, SLEET
DEMONSTRATION
WESTMINSTER SUIT
SHETLANDS, TWEEDS & WORSTEDS
Regular Value $35.00
$29.50
THE PERFECTLY TAILORED SUIT
Use your open account or our pay-plan:
1/3 Dec. 10th - 1/3 Jan. 10th - 1/3 Feb. 10th
Marion Davis Company
118 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
