Thurs., Oct. 24, 1940 —— THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of The Week

To show that Davidson men have ideas about something more than local topics, our question of the week is again one of national interest. As our position as a nation at peace grows more and more precarious, we should be interested in keeping peace if that is what we want. The question is, What should be our attitude toward the present European war?

Toddy Latimer, Senior:
England is fighting a war to save themselves from destruction, but us as well. That is, they are fighting our war. Therefore, I believe that we should give them all the aid that we possibly can, short of declaring war on the Axis powers.

Jim Hogg, Senior:
Frankly I disagree with the statement that England is fighting our war for us. I do believe that they are fighting for what we believe is right, but there is a vast difference. To start with we are not prepared for war, so why commit ourselves and suffer the fate of France? On the other hand, we should proceed wholeheartedly with our defense program and make our country safe for the ideals that we believe today and to protect our future but we cannot hope for this when we are not prepared.

John McCrea, Sophomore:
First of all, the people of the United States should learn to analyze the war situation without prejudices and without being influenced by lop-sided sources. We shouldn't, however, get to the point where we think that everything we read or hear is propaganda. From this clear, broadminded viewpoint, we should do everything in our power to stay out of the war as long as we do not sacrifice any of our liberties or ideals. If these are at stake, we should be prepared to fight to the last man to protect them.

Clarence McArthur, Sophomore:
It is quite evident that our position should be with the democracies in the European war. This is only a natural consequence when we realize that we are always proud to call our own United States the greatest and most influential democracy in the world. The question then arises as to how much shall we help them, if at all. Our aid to Great Britain should be in proportion to her need and our ability to aid her.

Bill McLauchlin, Junior:
The more I look at this war, the more convinced I become that this is a war which is being carried on by pagans who have only selfish interests in man and no regard for his life or his happiness. This creed has nothing in common with Christianity and thus nothing in common with my beliefs. I do not believe that to take life is Christian, but neither am I in favor of losing that precious freedom of thought and religion for which my and your forefathers fought and died. When I see that America and the things she stands for are in danger of disappearing into the channels of greed and paganism which are being established and enlarged by the dictatorships, when these things pierce my vision, I deem it wise to fight, and to fight to win that our land and its ideals may continue to be a priceless heritage for posterity. From my side of the box, it would only be foolish to do other than to fight.

Harold Chapman, Senior:
As a democracy it seems that our position is to remain a democratic stronghold. I stand as a semi-isolationist—ready to help other democracies only to that point which would not actively engage our resources in actual warfare. Having recently registered, my interest is more acute in the current issues involved. I am ready to serve my country in a defense program but very much opposed to any aggressive engagement in foreign affairs.

Bob Raney, Sophomore:
I think that we should help England in every way possible as far as sending war materials just as long as we don't have to send manpower, because I feel that England is our first line of defense, and that they are more or less fighting a battle which if lost will be brought closer to home. I think that Germany should be stopped now before it becomes any stronger.

Young men and women are more curious about economic problems of marriage than about sex, or anything else, according to Prof. Homer L. J. Carter of Western Michigan State Teachers College.

A.L.M. Chickering, Albion College biologist, reports that in Panama there are small spiders that seek security from the world’s dangers by taking up residence in the webs of larger spiders.

YMCA Takes Charge Of Lost And Found

Dr. Cumming Goes To Meet In California

Faculty Member and Alumnus Attend National Meeting of Phi Beta Kappa

Dr. W. P. Cumming, ‘21, of the Department of English at Davidson College, and D. Dean Rusk, ’31, Dean of Mills College, Oakland, California, were the Davidson delegates at the twentieth triennial council of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, held August 28-31 at the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco. This council was the first to meet west of the Mississippi River. The most important action at the council meeting was the granting of new charters to nine colleges and universities. Among these are Wake Forest College at Wake Forest, and Wofford College, at Spartanburg, South Carolina. They were the only Southern institutions granted charters. Davidson holds the second oldest charter of Phi Beta Kappa granted to a men's liberal arts college in the South; the society was founded at William and Mary College in 1776. Six universities and Randolph Macon Woman’s College had been granted charters previously; there are now 17 chapters of Phi Beta Kappa established in the Southern states, out of a total of 132 in the country as a whole. As election to Phi Beta Kappa in a college or university having charters is an indication of high scholarship, so among the colleges of this country the possession of a charter of Phi Beta Kappa is the highest distinguishing mark of academic standards among the colleges of the country.

SPEAKER

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., of the Davidson faculty, will take part in the program for the annual convention of the South Piedmont district of the North Carolina’s Educator’s Association to be held in Charlotte, this Friday, October 25th.

Gwynn Speaks In Charlotte

Dr. Gwynn Speaks at Educator’s Meet

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr., professor of psychology and education, will be featured on the program at the annual convention of the South Piedmont district of the North Carolina Education Association to be held Friday, October 25. Principal phase of the session will be a panel discussion at the evening meeting, which will be conducted by Dr. Gwynn. Clyde Erwin of Raleigh, state superintendent of public instruction, is another leader who will be present to take an active part in the meeting. In addition to the panel discussion, there will be various departmental sessions. A joint meeting of city and county superintendents, district, elementary and high school principals, is to be held in the auditorium of Central High School in the morning.of Newton will preside. A public forum will be conducted by Dr. Ralph McDonald of the University of North Carolina, and Dr. Donald DuShane, president of the National Educational Association, will speak.

COMMUNITY CENTER
The new David McLean Community Center was constructed last year with funds raised by Christmas Gift Offering. The structure contains two rooms, providing recreational facilities, meeting space, and kitchen service. It is supplied with an electric lighting system. The various activities centering around the hut include a Boy Scout Troop led by Tom Brown, which holds regular meetings there. The Davidson Civic Club leads girls’ and women’s work while the men’s and boys' clubs are led by Eldridge Brown of the Davidson Senior Class. Adult classes are held each Monday night for the interested.

McClure Will Speak
The Rev. Albert McClure, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lincolnton, N. C., will deliver the vesper message on Sunday evening, October 27. Rev. McClure graduated from Davidson in 1930. After completing his course at Union Theological Seminary, he returned to the Davidson campus to serve as “Y” secretary for several years. He won a place in the hearts of both students and professors while a student and “Y” secretary. The Davidson graduate has been in much demand as a speaker at Young People’s Conferences.

By CLARENCE LEGERTON
With the approach of the Homecoming Dances, the faces of most students seem to take on a brighter hue, as they daydream through classes by day and loaf through bull sessions by night, waiting on that happy day when Mr. Greyhound’s private cars will disembark a bevy of beautiful belles, all clamoring for their own dear little “Johnnie.” But as we all know, there are quite a few “Joes” wandering around with faces so long that their chins fairly scrape the ground. These poor unfortunates have been victims of that cruelest of cruelties—the “flush.” But even this sad-hearted group can be divided into two distinct classes.

First of all, we have what is sometimes known as the “straight flush,” which consists of “Joe's” one and only informing him in a sugary epistle that she has already taken all weekends and that she has a heavy date with “Spike,” who happens to be the star fullback for the “Cedar Creek Tigers.” This group includes the great majority of those “flushed,” and they will undoubtedly make further attempts.

Double Flush
Secondly, we have that very exclusive band who have been victims of the so-called “double flush.” This forlorn group, after waiting six weeks for “Mary's” answer, finally receives a yellow envelope, delivered through the courtesy of “Bad News” Gaffney, who becomes a familiar sight on the campus as the dances approach. The note usually reads as follows: “Dear Joe, Appreciate the invite, but have other plans. Perhaps next time. I hope you don’t mind my sending this collect, but I have no change at present.—Love, Mary.” After receiving this message a day or so before the dances, Joe's pride is so crippled that he either commits suicide on the spot, or goes to the dances “stag,” and suffers an irreparable fall in social prestige.

Students Tell Colored Folks Of Three R’s
All improvements to the cultural development of Davidson are not confined to the college campus, the public school, and the various civic clubs. Meeting every Thursday are enthusiastic groups of the colored members of the community who are improving themselves mentally by careful application to the arts and sciences. Reading, writing, arithmetic, and spelling are the most popular subjects taught in this adult school. Running a close fifth to the aforementioned subjects is French. Professors at this promising school include Bill McLaughlin, Russel Smith, and Chal Vinson. Visiting teachers will be invited from time to time.

At present, three women’s organizations of the Negro churches hold their regular meetings at the newly finished community center. These organizations are The Willing Workers, the Buds of Promise, and the Busy Bees. Soon the construction of a rock walk will be begun by the young men’s club. This group has also accepted the responsibility of supplying the logs to be used as winter firewood. A meeting of the YMCA representatives in Negro work, the Civic Club representatives, the Woman's Auxiliary representatives, and the colored Board of Control was held Monday afternoon. The purpose of this meeting was to determine future policies of the community and to plan for the coming season's activities. Application to the WPA for recreational workers to be supplied to this project has been made.

Seniors Have First Smoker
The first senior smoker will be held Thursday night at 9:30 in the banquet hall of Chambers, according to the announcement of class president, Casey Jones. The class will attend to important business at this time. Several committees will be appointed for the selection of caps and gowns and other duties that have to be done. Smokers have been the traditional business meetings for the senior class. The class meets several times a year for smokers, and sometimes members of the faculty attend. The officers of the senior class are: president, Casey Jones; vice president, Jack Abels; and secretary-treasurer, George Grantham.

ODK, honorary leadership fraternity, has recently chosen Dr. C. K. Brown as an active member of the student body in the regular custom of Davidson's chapter of ODK. The custom has been to select four members of the faculty to serve as active members; one of these automatically resigns each year. This first meeting of the chapter Monday appointed the committee to nominate future members of the organization. Those elected will be tapped sometime in the early part of November.

Charter Men Initiate More New Members
A new club appeared on the campus last year, and the few charter members called it the Alchemist Club. The name does not necessarily imply that its members plan to take up where those medieval chemists left off, but its purpose involves the study of that science. Under the sponsorship of the honorary chemical society, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Tad Larkin, Benny Cowan, Andy Date, Ed Maxwell, Clark Bell, and Doug Rein- hardt are charter members of this new group. This year those charter members are carrying on the work of the club with Pat Hobson, president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, as the club's adviser. Last Tuesday night, officers were elected and approximately 11 new men were initiated. The first meeting of the year was held Wednesday night, the sixteenth, with the sponsoring fraternity. All meetings of the new club will take place with Gamma Sigma Epsilon. The purpose of the Alchemist Club is to stimulate interest and fellowship for those interested in chemistry who are not fortunate enough to be admitted to the honorary chemical fraternity. Basic requirements for admittance to the newly formed group include the applicant’s presentation of two semesters’ credit of college chemistry with an average grade of “B” or above. Although no definite plans for the year have yet been formulated, it is expected that such plans will be worked out at the next meeting.

Spanish Clubs Meet Jointly
Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their second regular joint meeting tonight in Professor Fleagle’s classroom. The faculty members present were Professor Fleagle and Dr. Goldiere. The attendance was much better tonight and all were urged to bring other members next time. Plans were made to have a small feed at the next meeting to be held two weeks hence. The regular business was taken up and then all members took part in a verbal contest which proved very successful. The present officers of Sigma Delta Pi are: president, Holt Barnwell; vice president, Bill Summerville; secretary, George McDonald; treasurer, Frank Hall. Other members are Tom Galbreath, Felix Bob, and Steiner Bell.

PENDER’S COFFEE — Double Fresh 2 lbs. - 25c

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
“Shampoos A Specialty”
JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

NEWBERG SAYS:
NEW-STYLES EVERY WEEK
Make This Your Charlotte Headquarters
Newberg’s Cut-Rate Men’s Shop
115 W. Trade Street
Charlotte, N. C.

IN TROUSERS

Delta Epsilon Creates Journalistic Interest
Several New Members Will Be Elected at Meeting in Two Weeks
WILL HAVE SPONSOR
Committee Will Secure Speakers for Meeting

Delta Epsilon, honorary journalism fraternity, held its semi-weekly meeting Tuesday night, October 15, 1940, at the Phi Delta house with the president, Joe Liles, presiding. It was decided at this meeting that until new members were elected no further action would be taken pending the petition of the Davidson chapter seeking membership into the National chapter. Joe Liles, Dale Andy, and Ed Hay were appointed as a committee to select new members for the fraternity. The members voted to cooperate with the YMCA in securing lecturers throughout the year under the vocational guidance program. Lawson Withers and Ed Watson were appointed as a committee to secure a speaker for the journalism fraternity. Although definite plans for the year have not been completed, it is desired that the fraternity will secure some faculty member interested in journalism to act as sponsor and adviser. Delta Epsilon is looking forward to having a most successful year through the revival of interest in journalism on the campus. It is also desired that this group will prove beneficial to the staffs of the three campus publications in that meeting together to discuss new journalistic methods and to lessen the difficulties arising among them will form the nucleus of journalism on the Davidson campus. The next meeting of Delta Epsilon will be held October 28, 1940. The place and time will be announced later. At this time new members will be selected for the fraternity.

Print Contest Held
A print competition was held among the members at the last meeting of the Camera Club, Wednesday, October 23. The prints were discussed and criticized and an attempt was made to show each member his faults and help him to do better work with his equipment. A number of good prints were exhibited and the comments were lively and varied, according to Mac Parker, Camera Club president. The program later turned to a discussion of a Halloween party to be given for the Davidson Club by the Queens’ Club on October 30.

Yellow OIL SLICKERS with DAVIDSON EMBLEM Stenciled on Back
Absolutely Water-Proof $3.75
Just the thing for the football game and rainy weather.
Marion Davis Co.
203 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.