WELCOME COLONELS — Thurs., Oct. 31, 1940

THE 1910 Cat Team State Champs Stage Reunion
Coach Simmon’s Eleven to Be Feted at Luncheon and Centre

By LACY McLEAN

For many former Davidson men, the return of Coach Floyd Simmons’ 1910 football squad will be the highlight of the
Homecoming festivities. Recognition will be accorded at the alumni banquet Saturday morning and probably at the game in the afternoon.

Carolina Beaten

These 23 men, four of them now deceased, made themselves well-nigh immortal in Wildcat football history, losing only two games
and winning the state championship. Crowning glory was their 6-0 defeat of the gridders of Carolina, winning with the first
score ever tallied on a Tar Heel eleven by Davidson. Outweighed 40 pounds to the man and decided underdogs, the
famous squad crashed over in the third quarter before an amazed crowd.

Plans Made

Plans are incomplete as yet, but a special block of seats in the stadium is to be reserved for all
members of the team who are present. Harlee Branch, president of the Alumni Association, will preside at the luncheon and
provide suitable recognition for the squad. A special photographic layout with individual pictures of each man will appear in the
Charlotte Observer, and each player will be given a copy of this picture.

Coach Floyd Simmons, one of the number expected for the reunion, was instrumental in the founding of the “D” Club,
an active campus organization today.

The 1910 results:
Davidson 29, Catawba 0.
Davidson 57, Lenoir 0.
Davidson 6, V.P.I. 0.
Davidson 6, U.N.C. 0.
Davidson 12, W. & L. 14.
Davidson 27, Col. of Charleston 6.
Davidson 53, U. S. C. 0.
Davidson 32, Wake Forest 0.

PLUNGER RED SMITH - FULLBACK

KAPPA SIGMAS AND PHI [Continued from Page Four]

Purdie and Clark enabled the Kappa Sigs to defeat the Phi Gams, 18-0, the Pi Kapps, 30-0, and the Betas
12-0. The Pikas have looked impressive in their wins over the K.A’s by 18-6 and over the Betas by 24-0.
The passing combination of Shelton to Cole and Abels has accounted for the high scoring.

When In Charlotte Eat At—

Page Five

Top row: E. L. Booe, Lunsford Richardson, Left to right, they are: Rev. J. T. Pharr, and B. T. Neal.
Coach Floyd Simmons, and J. Y. Cashion. R. Barron, Phipps, and Rev. E. S. Currie. DeWitt Second row: manager. Fourth
row: D. A. McQueen, Rev. with Martin's brilliant performance been even more brilliant than last averaging 46 yards. Davidson lost
year and if he does not repeat on only 10 yards from penalties. Penal- the team, it will only be
because ties inflicted against Furman to- the Tar Heels are not as powerful taled 60 yards. Davidson recovered as last
year and do not attract as the only fumble made in the game. much national attention.

Third row: S. F. Ervin and J. R. Bottom row: E. H. Graham, Rev. W. D. Phillips

To Beat Crippled Cats For Colonels From Centre Wildcats Confident that Fight Will Win with Old Grads on Hand

Here the gathered in one-minute the fighting Wildcats out to win the Homecoming with Centre. As most of the put
it: “Furman forgot let’s take Centre at Homecom- play- inter- From opinions of ers, views, are really tilt boys ten,
Is PASSER

Here the statements of the players: Johnny Fredericks, “Better team spirit for Homecoming game, should go a long way toward
victory.”

Hello. Davidson By SAM B. ANDERSON, Sports Editor, Centre College Cento

There is much more truth than poetry in the saying that a prophet is not without honor except in his
own country. Here I am writing a column for The Davidsonian when I can’t even get a column in my
own paper. Consider this, dear reader, when you scan the following feeble effort of your most humble servant. To you
we wish the best of luck Saturday when you celebrate Homecoming. That is, we wish you luck insofar as it
doesn’t result in bad luck for Old Centre.

To get around to football, which I imagine is the expected topic, let’s first consider Centre’s record this season.

Lose Opener

Our first game was with Boston College in Boston on September 21. Centre came out on the tail end of
the ball game, having been smothered under a 40-0 score. Boston went on to conquer highly touted Tulane the next
week, so we didn’t feel so badly about our previous humiliation.

The next week the Praying Colonels again journeyed out of town. This time they invaded the deep South to meet
the Choctaws of Mississippi College in Clinton, Mississippi. The Colonels again came out on the short end of another score.
This time the Chocs whipped us 20-13.

Centre’s first victory was at the expense of Hanover College of Indiana, who bowed before the wearers of the Gold
and White by the lopsided score of 35-0.

On October 12, the Colonels went to Cincinnati, where they were taken in tow by the Cincy Bearcats. The Bearcats
shoved them around at will and came out on top of a 22-0 count.

Our prayers were finally answered Friday night, October 18, when the Praying Colonels tromped on the U. of Louisville and
passed their way to a 28-0 victory.

This was the most impressive game Centre played this year. Jack Haddock, a sophomore back from Hopkinsville, Kentucky, came through
with his sensational passing arm and filled the air with passes which just dropped into the receiver's arms. Haddock, for
his excellent work against Louisville, has already been mentioned for all-conference honors. Watch out, Davidson! You had better stir up
a strong wind Saturday.Wildcats, sure bet.” Leach, were begun last week. Two other backs seem to me to be worthy
of mention, Billy Pharr, “Will reverse last Saturday's score and show the old Wildcat spirit.” Short workouts with a limited
number of candidates reporting are held three times each week. Standly “Zeke” Czekala and “Red” Smith are the hardest running
backs we have. Zeke is the fastest man on the team and he never stops till he’s down.

1910 Team Present
Wyleman Ehly, “Don't see why we shouldn't win this Homecoming before the champion 1910 team.” McDaniel, “Prospects are bright, the
boys are working hard and ready to go.” Frank Niven, “We're overdue and ready to go and cut Centre.” Bob
“Queenie” Smith, “After running up the largest score of any team to play the Wildcats in the last eight years,
the Purple Hurricane will certainly be out to redeem themselves. My guess, Davidson by at least two touchdowns!”

Cats Will Fight
Bill F, “We’ve got the fightinest bunch of Wildcats ever seen on Richardson Field at Homecoming.” Jim Crutchfield, “We didn't
spoil Furman's homecoming and don't intend to spoil ours.” Karl Jones, “Best bet is on Davidson, our time and place
to win.” Ben Washburn, “Team laying for the Colonels after last week's setback.” R. L. Brinson, “We'll do them just
like we did the favored Sewanee bunch.” Dick Rankin, “Give the team your support and they will really carry it
‘home’ for a big Homecoming game—they are out to win it!” Don Bell, “Though we may enter the game as
the underdog we are sure to come out on top.” Hank Bahnson, “Mighty good chance to get back in good
graces.”

In a recent interview, Paul Severin, North Carolina All-American end of last year, expressed some of his feelings and emotions
on finding out that he had been chosen to this great honor. As a lad in high school, Severin weighed
110 pounds. It was only his great love for the game and desire to learn that made him successful. Although
many people told Severin in advance that he had been chosen on the All-American team, because of his extreme modesty
he would not believe it until he actually saw it in the paper. Severin says that the fact that he
is an All-American does not affect his play. He tries to remember that this honor should act as an incentive
to better play, not as a reason for loafing. So far this season Severin has...

(Continued on Page Eight)

Thurs.-Fri., Oct. 31st.-Nov. 1st.
“LUCKY PARTNERS”
“CHEROKEE STRIP”

Mon.-Tues., Nov. 4th.-5th.
“ESCAPE”
NORMA SHEARER and ROBERT (Oxford) TAYLOR

Wed., Nov. 6th.
“FATHER IS A PRINCE”
“DEVIL’S PRIZE LURE”

DOUBLE FEATURE — BARGAIN DAY — 15c

“WOODEN BOWL”
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

DAVIDSON THEATRE —DAVIDSON, N.C—
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

Before and After the Games Visit Us For Your Meal.
VSW. CAFETERIA
PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE

Football kept turnout down, but a large turnout is expected with the beginning of the regular season. Standouts in the
mechanical drills to date are Jimmy Hogg and Tommy Yarborough, holdovers from last year’s squad. A strong aggregation of sophomores
promises to strengthen the squad. Johnny Fredericks, John Belk, Jack Wayman, all numeral men, will be out at the beginning
of the season, while Dave Maloney, also a numeral winner, and Johnny Miller, ineligible now, will be ready for action
in February. Lettermen Hogg, Yarborough, Pie Means, Bob McLeod, Don Simonds, are all expected to report along with Marvin Sink,
Ed Williams, Bill Loy, B. B. Walker, and Jackie Wearer. Bob Kelfer, last year’s frosh, will be sorely missed.

LATE SHOW Saturday Night
WALLACE BEERY
LEO CARRILLO
ANN RUTHERFORD
“WYOMING”
— with —
LEE BOWMAN

STARTS FRIDAY
Radio Favorite Of Millions
LUM and ABNER in
“DREAMING OUT LOUD”

IMPERIAL. NEWBERG SAYS:
Special purchase leather zipper jackets for $9.95 top-grain all $5.88
Make This Your Charlotte Headquarters
Newberg’s Cut-Rate Men’s Shop
115 W. Trade Street
Charlotte, N.C.

GRAY FLANNEL
The all-purpose suit for the college man
Correct for both Sport and Dress wear
For wear with these suits we recommend
@ Arrow Shirts
@ Knit Ties
@ Inter-Woven Socks
@ Schoble Hats
126 SOUTH TRYON ST.
