Thurs., Feb. 29, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

Last week’s paper carried a copy of proposed amendments to the constitution of the student government. With several minor changes, the amendments appear on this week's editorial page. In answer to the question, “What do you think of the proposed amendment?” the consensus of opinion of the persons questioned was in favor of the amendment. The following answers were submitted:

Thanks to Charlotte and our good customers for another and greater Anniversary. Your acceptance of the values offered and the policies adopted by this store since its beginning has made us grow from a small beginning to a large and fine store. And now on the occasion of our 4th Anniversary, in appreciation of your patronage, we bring you a greater variety of stocks, all nationally known, at the lowest possible prices. Everything is new and fresh and SPECIAL.

GROUP OF 2 TROUSER SUITS $27.50

These suits are of 100% pure virgin wool fabrics. Double cold water shrunk. Tailored with the Hymo linen fronts that assure perfect shape during the life of the suit. Fabrics of soft rich Shetlands, Tweeds, and Worsteds. Finely tailored in the newest Spring models. Two trousers make this an exceptional value. Other Suits $25 to $50.

Special Group SLACKS

MALLORY WILSON HATS $3.95 to $7.50

USE OUR PAY PLAN: PAY 1/3 APRIL 10th, PAY 1/3 MAY 10th

Charlie Sherman, Senior: I think the proposed amendment is the most feasible method to carry on our system of elections, this side of open politics. Personally, I don’t think anyone can definitely say this is the best method until it has been tried out. Such an amendment can never be capably judged until it has been tried, unless its provisions are obviously distorted. This amendment can be said, without fear of contradiction, to take care of all evils and malpractices of elections.

Jim Anderson, Senior and Toddy Latimer, Junior: The proposed amendment seems to be the answer to the question of how to control and remedy the political situation which has been the case here at Davidson for many years. One clause of the amendment in Article XVI, section 1, states: The representatives of the social fraternities on the elections board should be elected by the individual fraternity instead of by the Student Council. Also, at the ballot box, which should be kept open at least three days at convenient hours and with a member of the elections board present at all times, there should be a list of the members of the student body, each name being marked through as that person casts his ballot.

Special Group New Spring SPORT COATS $12.50 Others to $25

Gabardine and Bedford Cords $6.95 Anniversary Special

In Brown and white wingtip with heavy red rubber sole. MANSFIELDS —— BOSTONIANS $7 to $10

Julian Lokey, Senior: I am 100 percent in favor of the proposed amendments, for they are undoubtedly improvements of the present method of voting. The use of locked ballot boxes would afford a more systematic, accurate, and safer means of securing the ballots of the students. It will prevent absentee voting, intentional removal of legal ballots, and careless loss of ballots. The elections board would provide an even and balanced representation of student group interests in controlling the elections, whereas the Student Council does not. The seniors composing the board will be capable men who can act on infractions of the voting rules justly.ac- cused group will have a personal representative to uphold its rights.

Sid Crane, Senior: I am completely in favor of Article IV, the first part of the proposed amendment, and I hope that it will become a part of the constitution and become effective in this year’s elections. The latter part of the proposed amendment is a good solution to the problem of hard feelings and other ills that attend annual elections; but I am opposed to it on a theoretical basis. The Student Council is elected by the student body to handle all matters of student government, and I do not believe it proper to set up another body, independent of the Student Council, to perform any functions which the Student Council is expected to perform. I should like for us to adopt the first part of the proposed amendment this year and leave it to be enforced by the Student Council. If experience proves that there is still a need for a body more representative of the various political elements on the campus, then it may be best to provide next year for just such a Board of Elections as has been suggested.

Warren Ludlam, Senior: There has long been a feeling on our campus that steps should be taken to clean up the method of running elections. To my mind, the two proposed amendments to the Constitution mark the first step in the right direction. On the whole, I think that they have been carefully thought through and written, but I would like to add one suggestion. In all public elections, it is customary to have a list of the prospective voters and to check them off as they cast their ballots. I would suggest that each man have a definitely assigned place to cast his vote, that there be an election officer at this box, and that this officer should be required to issue a NUMBERED BALLOT to each man and to check the man’s name.

[Continued on Page Six]

Anniversary Sale

MEN'S SHIRTS
A special assortment of collar-attached fine broadcloth shirts. Fast colors, full cut and pre-shrunk. Assortment of colors, also plain whites.

VALUE IN PAJAMAS
ALL SILK AND WOOL
Of broadcloth and madras. Full cut and preshrunk. Special elastic waistband that is guaranteed for the life of the garment. Coat and slip-over styles. Excellent assortment of patterns. Values to $2.00.

NECKWEAR
Hand construction, colorful new Spring patterns. Through the co-operation of a leading manufacturer, we offer these $1 Values.

ANNIVERSARY SPECIAL IN SOX
A famous brand obtained specially for this Anniversary Sale. Specially constructed toe and heel that will give extra miles of wear. Rayon and lisles in new Spring patterns. 35c Value, 4 Prs. $1.00.

MANHATTAN SHIRTS & SHORTS
A most outstanding offer in a national, advertised brand. The SHORTS are full cut with full seat, fast color broadcloth in a wide variety of patterns. Button and Gripper styles, also French back styles. The SHIRTS are of fine combed cotton yarns in two different styles of rib weaves. 4 For $1.00. Values to 30c.

An unusual group of woven madras and broadcloth collar-attached shirts made by a nationally known shirt company, that ensures you exceptional value. Large assortment of fancy colors and whites. $1.44. Values to $2.00.

We Invite Your Charge Account
Marion Davis Co.
118 SOUTH TRYON STREET
PHONE 7939
We Deliver. Free Alterations.