Cats Lose To State ° Z—528 ALENDA UBL ORTA Che Mabidsontan LUX LIBERTAS Be My Valentine VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1940 No. 18

Dr. Tyler Dennett Will Give Lecture Series At International Affairs

Authority Will Speak, February 26-March 2

WILL ADDRESS CLASSES

Dr. Dennett is Former Williams College Head

Dr. Tyler Dennett, former president of Williams College and outstanding authority on international affairs, will visit Davidson from February 26 to March 2. Dr. Dennett is being brought here by the faculty committee on lectures, under the auspices of the American Association of Colleges. Several select schools throughout the nation are receiving from the association the benefit of lectures from Dr. Dennett.

Dr. Dennett will launch his work here with an address to the student body at chapel exercises Monday, February 26. 

Individual Classes

During the week Dr. Dennett will discuss national and international affairs with several classes during their regular class periods. In addition, he will hold seminars open to all students for the discussion of the same topics. One evening of the week will be taken up with a lecture to the faculty on some question of educational policy. While here, Dr. Dennett will be available for conferences with individuals or small groups in the regular seminars. A complete schedule of Dr. Dennett’s stay will be published later. Details are now being arranged by the faculty committee on lectures.

O. D. K. Gives Voting Plan

Closed Politics, Balloting Recommended By Leaders

Omicron Delta Kappa, at its last meeting on February 6, received a report from its Committee on Campus Politics, composed of Karl Hudson, Jack Holland, and Sam Spencer, and, after going on record in favor of the report, passed it on to the Student Council as a recommendation. The principal suggestions put forth in this report to the Council are as follows:

(1) That a fundamental system of closed politics be followed and that there be strong opposition against any form of open politics.

(2) That the present system of politics and order of running off elections should be followed provided that elections are speeded up and are not allowed to drag out over an indefinite period of time. It was also suggested that all elections not be held on one day. The committee decided against speeches stating the qualifications of candidates.

(3) That the present system of voting in chapel be abolished in favor of voting by ballot. Two ballot boxes would be placed in Chambers under the constant supervision of Council members, and a registration list would be kept in order to check off each student as he votes.

(4) That a plan be favored which would place the curbing of possible fraternity combines in the hands of the Pan-Hellenic Council, because:
(a) Each Pan-Hellenic Councilman is an officer of his fraternity and has more influence in the group;
(b) Some fraternities are not even represented on the Student Council;
(c) It would enhance the importance of the Pan-Hellenic Council in making it more than a campus organization to sponsor dances.

The above reforms were accepted in full by the Council in addition to some supplementary material that was added by the Council itself, and it will serve to govern future elections.

ROTC Unit To Be Inspected Early In May

Colonel Mackenzie Asks Cooperation In Getting Excellent Rating

Annual inspection of the Davidson College ROTC department will be held on May 9 and 10 this year. Colonel M. P. Schillerstrom, PMS & T of the University of Tennessee Reserve Officers Training Corps, will be the official inspector.

The Colonel will inspect the following aspects of the work which the unit here has covered this year. On the drill field there will be a parade, review, close order, and extended order drill. In class the check-up will include the following subjects for students in the basic course for Freshmen: military sanitation and first aid, map reading, and the rifle and rifle marksmanship. The sophomore sections of the basic course will be responsible for the automatic rifle, musketry, scouting and patrolling, and leadership of the squad and platoon.

First-year classes in the advanced course will be responsible for the rifle platoon, aerial photograph and interpretation, company, machine gun squads, and heavy weapons company. The senior classes in the advanced course will be responsible for the rifle company, machine gun company, heavy weapons company, as well as anti-aircraft defense.

In his inspection of these aspects of the work Col. Schillerstrom will check the ability to command, direct, and lead the battalion, companies, and platoons. Since 1928 the Davidson unit of the ROTC has received an “excellent” rating in the annual inspection. This is the highest rank which is given to ROTC units. In connection with the inspection, Col. Mackenzie, the local PMS and T, has made the following statement: “I hope that every member of the battalion will feel his responsibility and throw everything he can into the preparation for this inspection. Let's get together and put your Alma Mater into the ‘excellent rating’ again this May.”

Many Seniors Top ‘B’ Grade

Fifty-two seniors have a B average for their college work to date, according to a schedule of senior standings released by Registrar F. W. Hengeveld. Tom Guion, of New Bern, still leads the group with an average of 3.104. Guion, a lieutenant in the ROTC and president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, was leading the seniors when averages were first announced in the fall.

Sam Spencer, of Columbia, S. C., holds second place in the class with a rating of 3.044. Spencer is president of the student body, a captain in the ROTC, active in numerous honoraries and activities, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Bob Ramsey, of Jonesboro, Ark., comes third with a 3.032 average. Ramsey is freshman advisor, member of numerous campus organizations, and president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

The next twelve men, completing a list of the fifteen highest rankings are: T. L. Harnsberger, 3.027; R. D. Doty, 3.020; B. W. Sitterson, 2.980; J. W. Holland, 2.941; E. C. Hulen, 2.931; W. V. Ludlam, 2.927; J. K. Pope, 2.860; T. J. Abernathy, 2.848; D. C. Colvin, 2.844; L. C. Menius, 2.807; R. C. Tenney, 2.781; W. E. Perdew, 2.751.

Festival Features Soloists

Pictured above are five of the soloists who took part in Davidson College’s second annual mid-winter musical festival, held in Chambers Auditorium from February 10 through 12. Donald Pfohl, baritone, of Wake Forest College. Mrs. Grace Potter Carroll, pianist of Asheville, was featured on the program Monday evening. Miss Kathryn Swain, soprano, is an advanced student of voice at Salem College. Travis Jensen, soprano, of Winston-Salem, was heard at the Saturday evening concert. Mr. John E. Toms is director of the music department at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Mrs. Elizabeth Tavis Jensen is head of the music department of Wake Forest College.

Y Discussions Lead By Profs

Panel Talks Feature Compulsory Attendance

Prof. Foreman, Prof. Archie Currie, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, and Dr. C. W. Brown will lead the second in the series of panel discussions, which will be held Thursday evening, February 22. The subject of this meeting, which is sponsored by the YMCA Cabinet, will be, “An Attitude Toward Compulsory Religion.” Some outstanding member of the senior class, whose identity has not yet been revealed by the Cabinet, will be selected to preside over the evening's program.

Each of the professors taking part in the discussion will deliver a talk of approximately five minutes. After these speeches, the meeting will be thrown open to any questions from the floor and discussion will ensue. The subject that has been selected is believed to be one of particular interest to a great number of Davidson students, so it is expected that a large number will be present at this time.

The first panel discussion was held a short while before Christmas. The subject of this meeting was “A Christian Attitude Toward War.” Leading this discussion were Professors Rene Williamson, F. W. Johnston, W. A. McGavock, and Beers Gwynn.

Soldiers Omit Informal Rite

Through the mediation of the Student-Faculty Relations Committee the informal initiation of the Seabbard and Blade which the Faculty has not approved has been changed, and has been submitted to the Executive Committee where it is expected to be approved today.

Scabbard and Blade voluntarily offered to change two parts of their informal initiation. The changes being that there will be no more early morning blowing of bugles rousing the students, and that no undignified clothes will be worn by initiates to classes and chapel services. The Faculty has long objected to these two parts of the Scabbard and Blade initiation.

President Roosevelt has been elected honorary member of the Temple University chapter of Delta Sigma Pi.

HUDSON WINS BY K.O.

Battling Dick Hudson started his pugilistic career off with victory late yesterday afternoon when he kayoed Richard Mauney of Lincolnton in the second round of their Golden Gloves encounter in Charlotte. Hudson, cool and collected, staved off a ferocious first-round assault by the Lincolntoner and boxed him groggy with a steady stream of right and left uppercuts. Midway during the second round Mauney’s seconds tossed the towel from the blisteringBattle. Whizzer Davidson's other entrant, his opponent today, in towel to save Mauney Powell, meets first Stages Party.

Beta Gamma Phi Sponsors Reception — Monday

Beta Gamma Phi, hi, had a reception Monday night for participants in the Music Festival, February 10-12. About one hundred and fifty guests enjoyed the lovely party, which was graced by Valentine decorations. In the receiving line were: Miss Frances Riddle, President of Zeta Gamma Phi and the Glee Club; Harper Beall, President of the Choral Club; Reb Rummel, President of the Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra; Mrs. Carroll, guest soloist of the Davidson University of Michigan Orchestra; Thane MacDonald of the Music Department; Miss Flowe, President of the Queens Little Symphony Orchestra; Mr. Thor Johnson, Director of the Little Symphony; and Grace Robinson, Director of the Queens Choral Club.

Harper Beall announced that the music fraternity is petitioning for admission to Phi Mu Alpha, a national music fraternity. The organization also expects to sponsor two more concerts in the spring, although definite arrangements for these have not been completed. Beta Gamma Phi was started this year when a need for such an organization was felt by students participating in the music department’s activities. The original members were the officers of the three musical organizations.

Musical Frat, in

Drs. Lingle and Martin Receive Awards as National President Visits

Two presidents of Davidson, Dr. Lingle and Dr. Martin, will receive certificates celebrating their half-century membership in Beta Theta Pi social fraternity at a banquet in Chambers Hall, Saturday night, February 17. The presentations will come as a climax to a two-day celebration of the Greek-letter organization's continued existence on the Davidson campus for fifty years. Both Dr. Lingle and Dr. Martin were members of Mystic Seven, a formerly powerful fraternity which united with Beta Theta Pi in 1890. Thus they became Betas at the beginning of Phi Alpha’s continuous existence, and are crossing the half-century mark along with the chapter.

Newton Visits

Clarence Newton, Beta Theta Alpha’s national president, will be the most honored guest during the celebration. Karl Fischer, an Indianapolis publisher, will present his history of Mystic Seven. The history, which has been prepared under the auspices of the national fraternity, was instigated by efforts of the local chapter. H. Robert Frazier, Chief of District Eight, which is located at Davidson and now a trustee of the fraternity, will be among the honored guests. “Abe” Lincoln, a Davidson graduate and newly-elected district chief, will also be attending.

Large numbers of alumni are expected, and representatives from the University of Virginia and the University of North Carolina will participate in the celebration as representatives of two other chapters of Mystic Seven. The program will open with the informal initiation of Phi Alpha pledges on Friday night. On Saturday morning at 10:15, sessions of the district reunion will start, including a business meeting of representatives from all chapters in the district. In addition to members of the Virginia and Chapel Hill chapters, delegates will be on hand from Washington and Lee.

Formal Initiation

Saturday afternoon, upon completion of the business session, there will be an informal feed and smoker at the house. Formal initiation of eight pledges will take place in the evening.

Second Annual Music Festival Made Up of Many College Groups

Council Votes Election Plan

Governing Group Adopts ODK Recommendations, Alters Balloting

At its meeting on last Wednesday, February 7, the Student Council approved and supplemented a report which will govern all future student elections held at Davidson. This report was passed to the Council, after being approved by Omicron Delta Kappa from a report by the Committee on Campus Politics of this group.

The report as it was finally accepted by the Council is as follows:

The Council went on record for a fundamental system of closed politics and is definitely opposed to any form of open politics. The Council went on record for a continuance of the present system of politics and order of running off elections, provided that elections are speeded up and that they are not allowed to drag out over an indefinite period of time. The Council plans to do all voting in Chapel and will establish the ballot box system. Ballot boxes will be placed in the lobby of Chambers, with Student Guards in charge of each box. At the voting location, there will be a list of the student body to be used as a registration list on which each voter will be checked off as he votes. The Council requests the aid of the Pan-Hellenic Council in curbing the tendency to corrupt methods among fraternities. The Council feels that with members of Omicron Delta Kappa, OGRE, Pan-Hellenic Council, and the Student Council working both individually and as groups against corrupt practices, the danger of such will be minimized.

Counting Votes

The Council plans to have the votes counted in closed sessions with only Council members and the head of the department which the vote concerns present. After tabulation, the votes will not be open to the student body as a whole. Following the above policies, the Council hopes to improve the methods of elections here at Davidson and to eliminate any tendency to corrupt methods concerning these elections.

Delta Beaton Taps Six Men

Members of Publications Enter Club

Delta Beaton, honorary journalism fraternity, received six new members at its meeting on February 8. These men were Beas Lytch, Currie Plyler, Charlie Melvin, Karl Hudson, Angus Means, and Jim Currie. These men were taken in because of their work in various fields of journalism. Karl Hudson is the editor of the MGA; Charlie Plyler is the associate editor and business manager of the magazine; Beas Lytch is the editor of the yearbook and president of the board; Angus Means is the business manager of the annual and a member of the publications board; Melvin Means is a columnist for the Davidsonian and a sports writer; Jim Currie is the business manager of the Davidsonian and a member of the publications board.

The purpose of the fraternity is to recognize ability in all phases of journalism. The local chapter has petitioned for membership into Pi Delta Epsilon, a national journalism fraternity.

Four Colleges and Two Universities Send Representatives to Conclave

MICHIGAN GROUP STARS

Five Soloists Featured On Colorful Program

Davidson's musical department staged its second annual mid-winter musical festival in Chambers auditorium February 10-12, under the direction of Prof. Jas. Christian Pfohl. Representatives of four colleges and two universities took part in the concert series. Orchestral conductor was Thor Johnson, a native Carolinian now director of the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra, which performed in all three concerts.

At last year’s festival, the Little Symphony was heard in the opening performance. Other organizations heard this year were: the Davidson Glee Club, directed by Prof. Thane MacDonald; the Queens Choral Club under the direction of Miss Grace Robinson; the Davidson-Queens Symphony; the Davidson He 1 Chorus of approximately one hundred members; and the Davidson Symphonic Band.

Soloists

A number of soloists of recognition were heard during the festival. They were: Mrs. Grace Potter Carroll, concert pianist of Asheville; Mr. Elizabeth Tavis Jensen of Winston-Salem, contralto; Kathryn Swain, advanced student of music at Salem College, and Mrs. D. M. McSpadden of Charlotte, soprano; John E. Poms, tenor, head of the University of North Carolina’s voice department; Donald Pfohl, baritone, head of music at Wake Forest; and Italo Frajola, concertmaster of the Michigan Little Symphony.

In the opening performance, given Saturday evening, February 10, the Michigan Little Symphony, the Davidson College Glee Club, and Mrs. Jensen were featured. The program included the overture of “The Shepherd King” by Mozart; Schubert’s third symphony; the Brahms Rhapsody for alto, men’s chorus, and orchestra; Pierne’s suite “For My Little Friends”; “The Spring With Her Flowers,” a contralto aria from Saint-Saens’ “Samson and Delilah”; “Strimpellata” by Wolf-Ferrari; and Graener’s “Divertimento.”

“Elijah”

The Sunday afternoon concert was the oratorio “Elijah” by Mendelssohn, presented by the festival chorus. This concert took the place of the regular vesper service. The final concert on Monday evening featured Mrs. Carroll and Mr. Frajola. Mrs. Carroll played the Mozart “Concert Rondo in D Major,” while Mr. Frajola’s number was Kreisler’s “Praeludium and Allegro.”

Honors Military Frat

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, will sponsor a military ball on Friday night, March 8. The ball will be in connection with the next dance set. All Scabbard and Blade members will attend in uniform, and the usual military figure, using drawn sabres to form an archway for the dancers, will be a feature of the evening.

Bill Bolin was named captain of the society at its last meeting to fill the post vacated by the graduation of Tommy Harnsberger. The captain of Scabbard and Blade corresponds to the president of other societies. Bolin will hold office until the initiation of rising seniors to the order. Dates of tap day and initiation are kept secret.

Selected members of Scabbard and Blade have been firing on the gallery range this week in a contest sponsored by the national society. Targets will be mailed to national headquarters where they are to be judged.