~ Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. April 4, 1940

The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939

In previous years various men have carried on heated discussions on currently important topics, have criticized weak points, and praised
the better phases of Davidson and life here. Upperclassmen no doubt remember “Boru” and his opponent “Ubor-

Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y. Chicago *
Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALE JIM CURRIE

EDITORIAL STAFF Paul Bumbarger Assistant Editor Tom Cauble Associate Editor Joe Liles Associate Editor Ed Watson Associate Editor Lawson Withers
Associate Editor Dick Cobb Managing Editor Harwell Darby Editor Rob Garvey Managing Editor W.C. Plunkett Managing Editor Al Winn Managing
Editor Bob Carter Editor Rob Williams Editor Angus Lytch Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF Herbert Covington Business Manager Casey Jones Advertising Manager Hector McLean Advertising Manager Eldredge Brown Circulation Manager Jack Covington
Circulation Manager Fred Little Collection Manager

A New Library

With the announcement that funds have been secured for a new college library, Davidson's building program comes one step nearer
completion. Our unknown benefactor deserves many thanks for his generous and liberal gift of $180,000. Men like this are few
and far between, and the college is fortunate to be able to count a few such men as their sincere
friends.

This building will be erected with a view toward a greater Davidson of the future. When the campaign shall have
been completed, and the college can match the quality of the student body and faculty with material buildings. The new
library will probably be the first of the four structures which will someday be located at each corner of Chambers,
forming a center for all classes and activities. With such material growth, it will be possible to accommodate a greater
number of students, if that is thought to be desirable. But more students or the same number as at present
hardly concerns us now. The immediate need is for the completion of the building program.

Even now it is not too early to look forward to the next thing on the slate, another modern and
well-equipped building. At present, the greatest needs are for a new gymnasium, science building, and church. All are pressing needs,
and each has arguments in its favor, but to us, it appears that the college is most sadly lacking in
gymnasium facilities at present, and because of that, it is our hope that the trustees will seek this next. One
thing must be done at a time, but it is essential that a new gymnasium be erected before many more
years.

It is necessary that the bulk of funds for almost any new building be given by one person, and naturally
that person has the final say as to what his gift shall be used for. Another consideration is the amount
of money available for construction. No one would wish the college to start a new gymnasium without sufficient funds to
complete an up-to-date, well-equipped building. But with these important factors considered, it seems proper now that all energies be directed
towards securing funds for a gymnasium. May the trustees see fit to direct emphasis towards this new goal. And may
we express the appreciation of the entire student body to that unnamed man who has given to us a large
unit of the building program, a new library.

Express Yourself!

During the past year, there has been a very noticeable decline in the number of communications and letters to the
Davidsonian. One of the primary functions of any newspaper is to publish student opinions, criticisms, and discussions. This is especially
true of a college paper. While it is important that the Davidsonian carry accurate news stories and feature articles, it
is also important that it be a medium through which students and faculty may make public their ideas regarding various
subjects. Without student opinion, it mainly becomes a dead history of past happenings.

In previous years various men have carried on heated discussions on currently important topics, have criticized weak points, and praised
the better phases of Davidson and life here. Upperclassmen no doubt remember “Boru” and his opponent “Ubor-” who argued for
several weeks on the merits of certain constitutional amendments. Besides these, there were others who discussed many things in these
columns. But for the past eight months, such writers have been sadly lacking.

College men change slowly. It is a certainty, through actual observation, that the student body is no less interested in
college affairs now than it was a year or two years ago. But for some reason, very few take the
trouble to write out their views so that others may read them. Is this because no one is willing to
take a public stand on any situation? Possibly that is so, and if it is, we are in a sorry
plight. However, it seems better to say that no one cares particularly what happens when a disputed question arises, or
what goes on about the campus. This cannot be true, and never will be. Heated arguments go on in “bull
sessions” where a few are present, and there each tries to convince the others of the good qualities in the
argument on his side. But how much wider is his audience when that argument is presented in the paper, where
all can read, and many do?

Therefore, we ask for more letters, more editorials, and campus comments. In these columns should be found a cross-section of
student opinion—both sides of any question, and constructive criticism about many different things. If you have something of interest to
the student body, faculty, or the world at large, let it be known. Write it out and mail or bring
it in. Or if you can't write, let one of your friends do it. Names will be withheld if that
is desired, so long as the editor knows the true author. Let’s have those editorials and letters! Campus happenings, political
arguments—every part of the daily whirl affects you. Express yourself!

With The Staff

“Aw gee whiz (modified by censors) fellows. Let's get out of here. It's three o'clock. We can't stay here all
night! Who cares what the paper looks like anyhow. I gotta get some sleep.

“Okay, anything goes... Let’s whip this thing out. Take any head that'll fit. Seven, eight, nine, ten, ten-and-a-half, eleven, twelve...
Hot dog! What do you think of this? RADIO GUILD LED BY CROOK.

“Heck, let anything go. What freshman wants to write a head? Well, don't everybody speak up at once. What happened
to the freshmen? Guess I'll have to write my own heads. This page is gonna be fine now. Look at
that precision! Wow!

“Look at it yourself: I've got work to do. Oh, for the life of a junior editor! Phooey!

“What happened to that story about Mrs. Smith's willow tree? We can’t let that slip through our fingers. It was
forty lines long.

“Here comes Dale! That ole slave driver. Bet he ate nails for supper again tonight.

“Listen fellows, I've gotten a cut for the front page. It's gotta go in. Run it in this column and
shift that story back on page three. Sorry, men. Good night.

“(I'll?) And so on into the night. See results Thursday.

Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote: “Life is not so short but that there is always time for courtesy.” There is more
need for this same philosophy now than when he wrote it before the motor car was invented. The automobile, according
to a new booklet entitled “Death Begins at 40” just published by The Travelers Insurance Company, has made many of
us into selfish boors. If drivers behaved as considerately when behind the wheel as they do in the drawing room,
the death rate soon would be sliced to a fraction of its present appalling proportions.

Letters To The Editor

Warm spring nights, bull sessions on the front porch of Georgia, students bemoaning the many reviews piling up and the
untouched term papers, nightly trips to Mooresville, Charlotte, and various other night spots—put them all together and what have you
got? In short, the answer is the two months from Spring Holidays to graduation.

Spring Holidays found Davidsonians wandering far and wide—from New York to West Palm Beach and New Orleans to Myrtle Beach.
The debating teams take first place when it comes to trips. Ramsey and Kenyon report forensic interest took a back
seat to such delicacies as Glenn Miller, “Hellzapoppin,” the Easter Parade, and all the other things that Gotham has to
offer. Good thing they didn't run into Dr. between Brooklyn and Manhattan, they might have seen him “drooling” from the
big city with tales of dating numerous debutantes at such swank joints as the Iridium Room of the St. Regis.

Terrible Tom McLean, Big Boy Winters, and Skinny Dick Arnold report that West Palm Beach was sizzling. Though they turned
down an invitation to the debut party of Barbara Hutton’s niece, everything was completely “zippy” and consolation was found elsewhere.

Dear Mr. Editor:

This is to comply with your request that I give the students of Davidson College some parts of the conversation
that we had this morning with reference to the next building that should be erected on our campus. It should
be stated, I think, that our conversation grew out of our observations of the enthusiastic applause which followed President Lingle’s
announcement that the need for a new library on our campus has been met.

The students undoubtedly would like to see a new gymnasium or a field house built next. I know of no
one familiar with our present equipment who does not see this existing need or who does not concur enthusiastically in
a desire to see this need fulfilled. It is possible that some member of the “buying” public, inspired by the
gift of the new library and the perpetuation of the memory of two great individuals, will be inspired to meet
this other great need.

As we think of the next building to be erected, let me request that we exercise some patience. Colleges are
not built in a day. The financial history of Davidson for the past twenty-five years or longer has been one
of steady growth. Every urgent need has been met. The picture is dark at times and then, as a dividend
on an endowment of prayer, comes from some source, sometimes least expected, some wonderful gift, such as the Duke Endowment
or the library building. It might be noted here that the library gift is the largest single donation the College
has ever received as an outright gift from any living donor.

Then, too, let's remember that Davidson is not “broke.” We have a considerable available cash balance and Centennial pledges yet
uncollected. It would be a wonderful boost to our plans and our spirit if some individual could beInspired to provide
a new gymnasium or field house. If this be impossible, I see no reason why representatives of the trustees, the
faculty, and the administration could not decide that a gymnasium is now our most needed building, and take available funds,
less than half enough to erect a new gymnasium, proceed with collections, and seek additional funds. It has occurred to
me, too, that if students now in college would join in a campaign to raise from their friends an average
of $100.00 per student, I believe the College could match such a fund and proceed promptly to erect the next
new building. Some students have asked why a gymnasium was not built instead of Duke Dormitory. The answer is the
dormitory was built with investment funds and it is expected to produce revenue just as the Fraternity Court or other
endowment investments. Had a gymnasium been built instead of a dormitory, the College would not only have lost the income
of such an investment, but would have incurred an additional burden on our limping budget to provide operating and maintenance
funds which a modern building requires. With reference to the library, it might be of interest to know that many
of the better New England colleges will not accept money for the erection of a new building unless it be
accompanied by a sum equally as large for an endowment to provide revenue for the operation and upkeep of the
building. With us and our new library, it is fortunate that the Living Endowment income promises sufficient increase in revenue
to provide increased maintenance costs.

Very truly yours,
F. L. JACKSON, Treasurer.

Turning this in to the editor, it was discovered that someone had written something similar in a previous issue... Well,
so goes it with the staff.

HARWELL DARBY,
Managing Editor.

Collegiate Review
By Associated Collegiate Press

Professors at the University of Pittsburgh don’t need marriage relations courses! This was brought out in a survey of marriage
figures among the elite of the faculty; 93.8 percent of the University’s professors are married as compared to the national
marriage rate of only 61.1 percent. To put this into a more concrete example, nearly nine and one-half profs out
of ten are married. The national figures, taking in even the Ozark mountains, average only six persons out of ten.
The marriage rate among profs doesn’t carry over to other university employees, however. Only 67.4 percent of the officers, faculty,
and clerical assistants of the University are married. This is still above the national figure. The latter marriage rate was
discovered when 515 out of 1,581 persons were found unmarried.

Pawith a real Clinton original, “Study in Surrealism.” This piece is descriptive of the 1940 swing style, and is among
Clinton’s best works. Those of you who saw “Road to Singapore” remember Bing Crosby's “I'm Too Romantic.” His recording of
this tune will make you wish that Spring Holidays were here again. Larry Clinton has come through with a real
Clinton original, “Study in Surrealism.” This piece is descriptive of the 1940 swing style, and is among Clinton’s best works.
Coupled with it is “Sunday,” an old familiar standard renovated by Larry. The Study gives a chance for solo work
by clarinet, bass, and electric guitar players. This is the first piece of Clinton’s that I know of that has
a guitar solo. So see Verner and Lud right now and order Victor record No. 26481. It’s headed for the
upper brackets.

The gent with the pyramided rhythm, Richard Himber, seems to have the most unique way of coming on the air.
He can easily fool you by the way he opens with Miller’s “Moonlight Serenade,” switches to Goodman’s “Let’s Dance,” and
drifts into Artie Shaw's “Nightmare” before getting to his own delightful theme. No doubt that Himber has a knack of
imitating other well-known bands, and yet has a distinctive style of his own. Sho’ would like to see the council
get Himber down here for the final set.

Quite a while back we mentioned that Louis Prima had enlarged his old band to fourteen pieces. Well, if you
haven't heard this enlarged outfit, now at the Casa Manyana in Back Bay Boston, you will be quite surprised at
the smoothness of it. Remembering Prima’s old jive crew, it hardly seems possible that he could have an organization like
his present. Of course, he still gets in the groove on some numbers, but not all is swing with him
now.

Count Basie gives out for Decca with “Jive at Five” and “Evil Blues.” The first side makes for easy listening
and dancing. Lester Young's usually grand sax is a little disappointing here, but Buck Clayton makes up for it on
the trumpet. As always, the Count’s piano is plenty solid. The second is fine blues. Clayton’s trumpet gives out with
the stuff, though Rushing’s vocal could be much better. Basie’s arrangement of this tune is excellent.

Our station wagon did it again—made a gigantic trip, this time all the way to Memphis, from which point boys
scattered to the Mississippi Delta, Arkansas, and various points in Tennessee. Everything was not quiet, however, in North Carolina—Quivering Karl
Hudson and Mayor Leigh, playing host to Biggie, Bosco, and Stinky Stowe. Biggie was completely floored with all the entertainment
provided. The racket wielders were royally entertained by Tenney while in Atlanta, though he failed to return to the campus
until Sunday night. Muler Sproull gave Mother Beall quite a bit of trouble, it is rumored; he was a bit
ill and Mother didn't know quite what to do. However, Dr. Oglesby’s Markoff came quickly to the rescue with his
long-tested Lactic Pepsin, and Muler was quite well again. Incidentally, speaking of Harpo—congratulations to him and Lorraine Willcox on the
formal announcement of their engagement. Best of luck from all of us!

And while we're on the subject of marriages, it would be sacrilege to fail to let all the members of
the class of '40 know that “Dad” Dunford, ex '40, was married on last Saturday. His bride was Margaret, whose
name was familiar to all the fourth floor West boys of '36-'37. And while we're tossing orchids, we can’t omit
the Executive Committee who granted Seniors the right to bring cars back from the Holidays. Bird Dog Crichton went over
to Charlotte to uncrate the “Cat,” and though it’s very small, everyone’s saying Big Tom did pretty well by his
son. Last weekend was quite a big deal for the week-end after the holidays. Camden and the Carolina Cup Races
were the main drawing card. About twenty of the local talent were down—Renny, Hugh John, Rogs, Tricky Dick, Bosco, Bird
Dog, Squirrel, Poss, Shorty, Glut, etc. Tricky Dick and Squirrel were staunch supporters of Pampas, and consequently were listed by
many of the local group. A Kappa Delta barn dance at the University of South Carolina in Columbia provided post-race
joy for the group.

The building where these enjoyable events were held was condemned until a fire escape can be put up for the
boys. One question and we leave: why doesn’t Melvin ever write his own column?

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

Having just come from room 105 West and read the remarks of one of my beloved brothers in the Question
of the Week column, it not only gives you all but myself pleasure to hand over this work to some
other sucker who falls for the artistic and smooth talk of the new editor. But, thanks for reading, ye few
who did.

As a parting fling, it might be interesting to some of you to read one part of an affirmative argument
that we met on our recent debate trip. This was the idea of switching our foreign trade from belligerent nations
to South and Latin American countries. Of course, this can be refuted somewhat by the fact that sixteen of the
twenty Latin American republics are tropical or semi-tropical. Of the 8,000,000 square miles of land, 7,000,000 are in these tropics.
Our agricultural experts are of the opinion, however, that with the aid of present-day research, technical guidance, and with help
on the organizing side, these nations could be made to produce a great amount of our need for quinine, medicinal
plants, and most important, rubber. This latter material, Henry Wallace, the Secretary of Agriculture of the New Deal Administration says,
comes from the Far East at the present time, but if we are really serious about a policy of isolation,
we should encourage the production of this article by our neighbors in the south. Thus, our sources of supply would
be close to home, and over water routes that could easily be protected by our navy. Another point which they
brought out is made in favor of having them produced in Latin America. It may discourage the production of cotton
and other semi-tropical products which now are in competition with our farmers. For example, in Columbia, they are trying to
raise wheat, cotton, and rice when, according to our experts, they could more efficiently raise quinine and other tropical products.
Fallacies in this argument are hard to find except for the jungle area which covers so much of this territory.
Also, the bad will which would come as a result of taking our trade away from Great Britain, France, Canada,
and other allied belligerents, enters into the conflict. It should be interesting to us to note what action Congress will
take on this measure.

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday and Friday, April 4 and 5
“Young Tom Edison”: Mickey Rooney, Fay Bainter, George Bancroft, Virginia Weidler, Eugene Pallette. To those of you who think that
Mickey Rooney is just a smarty-pants, kid actor, a revelation will come when you see this picture, which has been
termed by many of the critics, and rightly so, the picture of the month. At no time in the picture
is he Andy Hardy, and it is marvelous the way he has completely yielded himself actually to become the child
Edison. The scenario writers did not quite catch the spirit of the movie, because they just couldn’t decide whether to
make it a complete farce, in order to bring out all of Mickey's evident talents, or to make it a
very serious production. Therefore the script is a miserable mixture, but the acting of Master Rooney covers up all such
faults in this, his most masterful performance. The most thrilling scene is where Young Edison saves a train from running
off a broken trestle by sending a message in Morse code to his sister by means of the whistle in
the locomotive.

Saturday, April 6
“Private Detective”: Jane Wyman, Dick Foran, Gloria Dickson, Maxie Rosenbloom.
