BEAT BLUE DEVILS ORTA The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS FIGHT ’EM ’CATS Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1940 Number 6. Beta Theta Pi’s Win Decoration Contest With Kentucky Home Pikas and Phi Delts
Place Second and Third in Close Contest Top honors for Homecoming decorations went to the Betas again this year. The
Pikas and Phi Delts ranked second and third, respectively. Dr. Jeter, representing the judges, awarded the cup to Holt Barnwell,
president of the Beta Theta Pi chapter, at the dance Saturday evening. The other judges were Dr. Knight and Professor
Lilly. Al Winn, chairman of decorations for the Betas, worked out a unique plantation setting. Puns were used in a
song to the tune of “My Old Kentucky Home.” There was a “fagged out” dog representing “Scenter” after the game.
The Pikas showed students some of the equipment that one finds in a gambling house. Bob Simpson's Delta Theta for
his brotherhood. The K.A.’s had an automobile representing the Davidson Machine running over Centre. Instead of a “thoroughbred” horse, the
third place Phi Delts used an automobile. The Pi Kapps used a locomotive to run down Colonel. Sigma Alpha Epsilon
constructed a miniature water tank on the roof of their chapter house and predicted the score of the game on
it. Gambling was also the theme of the Phi Gam decorations. The Kappa Sigs had two graveyards. On one side
was Dunkirk Field, and on the other side the graves of the Centre players were lined up on Richardson Field.
The S.P.E.’s had Davidson attacking Centre in a blitzkrieg.

Davidson And Democracy Is Orator's Text With “Davidson and Democracy” as his subject, Hon. O. Max Gardner, former governor of
North Carolina, addressed a Homecoming gathering in Chambers auditorium on Saturday, November 2. Throughout the speech, Gardner paid high tribute
to Davidson and some of the individuals connected with the college. Referring to sports as a one-time opponent playing with
Carolina, he stated, “I never saw a Davidson man who did not play the game clean. Ben Lacy is the
toughest Christian man I ever saw.” In speaking of education in general, Mr. Gardner stated that education is not the
acquisition of knowledge, but the development of character. “You must teach a man to be master of his environment. That
is the science of education.” The speaker brought out that although our government is ruled by the majority, it cannot
take away the rights of the minority under our system. He went on, “No citizen shall be deprived of life,
liberty, or property except by the impartial judgment of 12 men. The conscience of these 12 men is one of
the foundations of our democracy.” Gardner was introduced by Harlee Branch, president of the Alumni Association.

Sigma Upsilon Extends Epic Dan Hodges read the second chapter of a historical novel, which Sigma Upsilon is writing, at
the meeting of this literary fraternity last Tuesday evening at 9 o'clock. The name of the novel is “Valley of
Humiliation,” set in the time of the War between the States. Another feature of the program was a poem read
by Prof. Chalmers Davidson. Archie Taylor also read an essay, and Joe Liles read a short story. Following the meeting,
refreshments were served.

Fall Services To Be Led By John Thomas YMCA Brings Noted Theologian for Annual Religious Exercises Davidson's YMCA will bring
a young minister and educator, Dr. John Newton Thomas of Richmond, Va., to the campus next week to conduct its
annual fall religious services. Dr. Thomas, newly elected professor of systematic theology at Union Theological Seminary, will give six talks
in Chambers auditorium from November 12 through the 14th. Services will be held Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday mornings at 7:15
a.m. and each evening at 7:15 p.m. In addition, interested students can make appointments for personal conferences through Ed Smith,
president, or Shaw Watson, secretary.

Speaker's Record The speaker, still in his thirties, assumed what is considered one of the most important positions at Union
this fall after eight years of educational and ministerial work. A native of Bedford County, Va., he received his A.B.
degree from Washington and Lee University in 1924 and his master’s degree at the University of Edinburgh in 1927. Returning
to America, he was awarded his Bachelor of Divinity degree at Union, where he was president of the student body,
in 1930. He then returned to Edinburgh and received his Ph.D. degree in 1932. Since that time, Dr. Thomas has
held pastorates in Rapidan, Va.; Charleston, S.C.; and Richmond, Va. He also served as chaplain and associate professor of religion
and Biblical literature at Hollins College and has been actively associated with the Massanetta Conferences in Virginia.

“Post-Boxosis” Malady Restrains Freshmen By HENRY McINTOSH From time to time, members of the lowly class of '44 experience that
malady which “Doc” Matthews would probably diagnose as “post-boxosis.” The symptoms of this strange disease, which is peculiar to the
freshman class alone, is a desire on the part of the affected frosh to be on such a heinous “drive”
that he finds no time to visit the P.O. to receive a personal message from Adolf Hitler’s Davidson embassy, the
Court of Control. But possessors of scarlet headgear need not expect this embassy to be closed should Hitler’s regime fall
in the near future. For being founded when it was, the Court of Control has become as much a part
of the tradition of Davidson as has its sister project, the construction of the New Chambers Building. It was in
the same year that the Davidson student body sang “O, Davidson” around the smoldering wreckage of the old Chambers Building
that this freshman control court was established. This same student body and faculty, having exceeded its construction quota of $25,000
by $2,000, under the leadership of Senior Class President Bascomb Sorrells, decided to pass the Davidson tradition on to those
who followed by means other than hazing. Thus, on December 18, 1922, the court was established to serve until April
15, 1923, at which time it would be voted on as a part of the constitution of the student body.
Needless to say, after the trial period, the proposed court was made a part of the constitution. Not only was
it made a part of the constitution but also the tradition as much a part as the football team of
that year which tied V.P.I. and Wake Forest and, although outweighed 18 pounds to the man, was able to hold
the famous Georgia Tech eleven to three touchdowns. Freshmen, today this court is as much a part of the school
as the comely group of coeds which at the time of its establishment were one by one beginning to suffer
from sunset to sunrise. So, Frosh, watch out.

“Y” Receives Surprise Gift Parents of Freshman Preyer of Greensboro Give New Pool Table Pool players no longer suffer from
the want or need of sufficient equipment because recently Davidson was presented with a new pool table and complete equipment.
This gift came from two benefactors, Mr. and Mrs. William Y. Preyer of Greensboro, N.C., at the suggestion of Freshman
Bob Preyer. It came as a complete surprise to the Y cabinet and Y secretary. Since this gift has been
placed in the Y room, it has been in almost constant use. At the opening of this year, contributions for
a new table were solicited throughout the student body. Although insufficient funds were collected for securing this table, whatMoney collected
will be used in improving the Y playroom and in improving the equipment of the Y recreation pool. Present Mr.
Preyer gave the EARATY to Davidson College several years ago. These men were selected from the members of the senior
class having the highest scholastic average. The group makes up the initiates of the fall initiation, and more men will
be selected in the spring. The initiation of the new members and the annual banquet and address are planned each
year by the Davidson chapter of the fraternity.

Paul W. Bum: Phi Beta Kappa Bids Seven Davidson Men With Highest Grades

To Pick Cast Of New Play
Masquers will Use Same Scenery as Charlotte Little Theater

Tryouts for parts in the Red and Black production, "Margin for Error," were held in Chambers auditorium last Monday night
under the direction of Prof. George Bringle, Masquers’ newly acquired dramatic coach at Davidson. About 50 boys tried out for
the various parts in the play, which was written by Clara Boothe. The Masquers have borrowed the set and stage
properties which were used for the Charlotte Little Theater production. The set is complete, and Mrs. Oscar, who played the
feminine lead, Sophie, in the Charlotte production, kindly consented to take part again. Mrs. Tice is a very accomplished amateur
actress and her acceptance of the role is greatly appreciated by the association. The cast will be selected from the
tryouts and will be announced very shortly. Professor Bringle stated Monday night that he was greatly pleased by the large
number of Davidson students who showed interest and marked potential ability in dramatics. Production will begin immediately in order that
the play may be presented the week before the Christmas holiday.

The 26 members of Phi Beta Kappa in the faculty direct the meetings of the fraternity and have as their
officers Dr. Johnston, president; Dr. McGavock, vice-president, and Dr. Cumming, secretary.

By GEORGE SINCLAIR

Through the years, perhaps, the racket has become a tradition at Davidson. No one knows exactly when it started. The
old-timers say that Davidson boys have been bumming to Charlotte as long as there have been automobiles. The first boys
who hitch-hiked to Charlotte had an all-day trip to look forward to. Today the trip is easily made in about
40 minutes. As judged, an average of 15 boys per day use the corner, except on Saturday, when the number
increases to nearly 50 boys. Approximately 150 rides are caught almost every week.

Bumming is a uniform rule and the accepted procedure is first come, first served, regardless of what class the boy
may be. Upperclassmen do not take precedence over freshmen. As a rule, not more than three or four boys stand
on the corner at a time. The rest of the boys stand back from the highway until the first few
get a ride, and then another small group takes over the corner. The usual procedure for getting a ride is
to stick out a thumb and smile.

While most of the boys use this system, a few rugged individualists on long trips have applied other methods. Last
year several boys used signs which they had printed in large letters on cardboard to show their destinations. Judging from
the reports of its users, this method worked very well. Drivers slowed down to read the signs and were more
inclined to stop, especially if the sign stated that the boy was bumming from Davidson. If the hitcher carries a
bag, it is usually ornamented with at least one Davidson sticker. Authorities on the fine points of hitch-hiking say that
they are picked up almost as frequently when traveling alone. Older married couples and students from other schools are likely
prospects. A good many truckers will pick up college students. Thumbers and drivers agree that a neatly dressed boy with
a small suitcase is most likely to get good rides.

Sudden thought: Since the bumming corner has assumed a traditional aspect, why doesn't some graduating class donate a bummer's bench
for the convenience and comfort of hitch-hiking students?

Besach Leads Davidson Men At Homecoming

Davidson’s annual alumni banquet was held on Saturday, November 2, with Harlee Branch, president of the Alumni Association, presiding. The
1910 state championship football team and Floyd Simmons, coach of the freshman team, were guests of the special gathering.

Lacy Speaks

Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, spoke to the student body Sunday night, November 3. President Lacy is
a former student of Davidson College and was for a time pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. The text of
the sermon was taken from II Corinthians 3:3. Dr. Lacy pointed out the fact that a person is a letter
of anything with which he has been in contact. For instance, a man who leaves a college and goes out
into the world is a letter of that college.

Any students who are interested in working with stage crews are invited to see Dr. Bringle next Monday night.

Bumming Is Ancient Davidson Institution!

The text of the sermon was taken from II Corinthians 3:3. Dr. Lacy pointed out the fact that a person
is a letter of anything with which he has been in contact. For instance, a man who leaves a college
and goes out into the world is a letter of that college.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Seven Davidson Men With Highest Grades

By GEORGE SINCLAIR

On Friday, November 1, Dr. Johnston announced in chapel that Henry Chase Brenizer, William P. Bahnson, Eldridge E. Brown, Paul
W. Bumbarger, John W. Jones, Ike Loftin, and William E. Moore had been elected to Phi Beta Kappa by the
North Carolina Gamma chapter of the national honorary scholastic fraternity. Phi Beta Kappa is the highest scholastic fraternity, which elects
a limited percentage of seniors each year. Initiations are held once each fall and spring, and the electees will officially
become members at an initiation in December. Several more seniors who have high scholastic averages will be elected in the
spring. The new members, along with those bid in the spring, will attend the annual Phi Beta Kappa banquet and
address, which will occur in March. Last year the address was delivered by Douglas Freeman, noted biographer.

Qualifications

Scholastic averages from which members are chosen are compiled by the school registrar. Attendance records in major and minor subjects
are included, and transfers must be considered according to a complicated scale. The seven new members are: Brenizer, 96.28; Bahnson,
95.81; Johnson, 95.77; Jones, 95.13; Moore, 95.09; Loftin, 94.41; and Brown, 94.19.

Students Admitted

Chase Brenizer is a member of the Charlotte Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Cercle Francais, Sigma Pi Sigma, and Gamma
Sigma Epsilon. In addition, he is a member of the Student Council and the YMCA Cabinet, and a senior track
letterman. Hank Bahnson of Winston-Salem is president of the student body and a member of Le Cercle Francais, Delta Omicron
Alpha, and Gamma Sigma Upsilon. In addition, he is president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and a member
of both the varsity wrestling and football teams. Casey Jones is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, as
well as Sigma Upsilon, International Relations Club, Pi Gamma Mu, Delta Phi Alpha, and O.D.K. In addition, he is president
of the senior class and a member of the YMCA Cabinet. Johnny Moore is president of the Eumenean Literary Society
and a member of the Sigma Pi social fraternity. Moore is also a wrestling letterman and is active in YMCA
work. Bill Loftin is president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a member of Pi Gamma Mu, International Relations Club,
and the Eumenean Literary Society. In addition, he is president of the Forensic Council and a member of the YMCA
Cabinet and the debating team. Paul Bumbarger is president of Phi Kappa Phi social fraternity and a member of Sigma
Upsilon, International Relations Club, Pi Gamma Mu, and the Philanthropic Literary Society. He is also assistant editor of the “Scripts
'n’ Pranks,” one of the editors of the “Davidsonian,” and president of the Publications Board. Eldridge Brown is captain of
Company A, a cadet R.O.T.C. unit, and a member of Eta Sigma Phi, Pi Delta Phi, and the Philanthropic Literary
Society. He is also a member of the YMCA Cabinet and is a runner on the varsity cross-country team.

Faculty Officers

There are 26 faculty members of Phi Beta Kappa, who meet several times a year. Officers of the fraternity are:
Dr. Frontis Johnston, president; Dr. William G. McGavock, vice-president; and Dr. William Cummings, secretary-treasurer.
