Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 15, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of © Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

TONY CASALI ---- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM CURRIE ---- BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
EGS Abernathy ---- Assistant Editor
Paul Bumbarger ---- Managing Editor
Tom Cauble ---- Managing Editor
Joe Liles ---- Managing Editor
Ed Watson ---- Managing Editor
Lawson Withers ---- Sports Editor
Erle Austin ---- Associate Editor
Jack Holland ---- Associate Editor
Karl Hudson ---- Associate Editor
Sam Spencer ---- Associate Editor
Bobby Williams ---- Movie Editor
Angus Lytch ---- Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Codington ---- Business Manager
Casey Jones ---- Advertising Manager
Hector McLean ---- Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown ---- Circulation Manager
Jack Covington ---- Circulation Manager
Fred Dittie ---- Collection Manager

Democratic Government

This week’s Davidsonian carries an account of the new plan which has been adopted by the student council, our governing
body, to clean up dirty politics and to quiet all the agitation that has come into being since the first
of the year. Adopting in part a suggestion made in the Davidsonian, the 1940 elections will have locked ballot boxes
and registry of voters. The council also goes on record in favor of continuing the present system.

Well, this is fine, but the change falls far short of any successful cleanup of illegal electoral activities at Davidson.
Since January 1 our editorial pages have been taken up with comments on the political situation here both pro and
con. Your editor has been accused of everything from trying to fill up space to rabble-rousing and playing politics himself.
The students have asked why the paper doesn't put forward a definite goal in this fight. Our answer this week
is simple: the Davidsonian wants every fellow to have a chance, but an equal chance, in seeing his candidate and
his vote through—and we won’t be satisfied and won't stop fighting until we are sure that this goal has been
achieved for 1940 and every other year.

The students have two alternatives, assuming that they want to have minds of their own instead of dictatorship by a
small clique. Davidson must either have closed politics with a democratic representation that permits no combines of any sort, or
we must have open politics where everyone can have the equal right to campaign. If we are to have the
first system, our election laws and definitions of combines, etc., must be in black and white. The only other course
must be open politics with no holds barred. There’s no middle road that is respectable and above board. Take your
choice.

The Davidsonian’s Plan

We don't want to hurt anybody’s feelings, but we truly feel from observing the past few years that the student
council is unable to successfully cope with the situation and attend to its other duties to the best advantage. Keeping
politics clean is a full-time job and a hard one. We want a board of elections to function the entire
year. This board will have equal representation, one man from each fraternity, and three non-fraternity men, two student councilmen and
two non-councilmen. Furthermore, these men have got to be fully acquainted with conditions as they are. It’s nice to feel
that Davidson men are superior to any wrongdoing, but while looking up at the angels we are quite likely to
slip up on the slime that’s oozing about. Our national laws declare a man innocent until he is guilty, but
that can go too far. Just because an act is illegal is no sign it won’t be committed. Let this
board be on the alert to nip dirty politics in the bud before they have gone too far for even
the student council, with all its powers, to correct.

This board will supervise elections, counting the ballots, and will define on paper for everyone to read just what sort
of thing a combine is. We don’t want a system where whole groups of men get disfranchised because they cast
a solid vote for one candidate, but where on the other hand individual members of a small clique can go
out and influence enough of their personal friends to swing an election. The danger from that sort of combine far
exceeds the present defined idea of fraternity combines. Penalties for combinations must be so severe that our budding politicians will
look twice before risking their necks. If a clique knew that its candidate would be struck from the ballot if
their odorous activities became known, dirty politics would be at a minimum.

Faults Of The Council Plan

To get back to this new plan set forth by the council. Instead of forever destroying the evil it opens
a gap bigger than any loopholes we have ever had in the history of student government at Davidson. True we
will have real ballot boxes, true that we will have student registration; but the votes themselves will not be signed.
This merely means that all evidence of future combines will be destroyed. What a beautiful setup! No matter how hard
the council tries to discover a combine, the accused only have to demand concrete evidence that suspected persons cast a
solid vote for one man; only a handwriting expert will be able to save our rulers’ faces. Then too, the
votes should be counted by just such an impartial board as we advocate. When a new student body president, a
new Davidsonian or Quips and Cranks editor is being elected, the old president and editors should not be present. If
they are interested in their successor, they must attend to this before the actual balloting. After the votes have been
cast their hands are tied, and legally they can do nothing about it.

Things are in a bad shape when a group of men begin to feel that it’s smart to be crooked.
Certain members of the Davidson student body have adopted the old Spartan code that anything is all right—the crime is
being caught. But remember, what we are today is what we will be twenty years from now—only more so. The
Davidsonian doesn’t want a student government; it wants a government of the students. We appeal to the student body to
make Davidson democratic!

The following letter was received from the President of the Student Body of the College of William and Mary.

Mr. Erle Austin, Associate Editor
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

My Dear Erle,

Davidson is evidently plagued with the same problem of “dirty politics” with which we are troubled here at William and
Mary. For a good many years a fraternity clique won in all elections. Last year, however, the fraternities “on the
out” and the Independents, whom I led, managed to put up a good fight, and this organization won a majority
of the offices by a narrow margin. Now if this situation could be maintained, it would work fine, because there
would always be enough rebels within each group to prevent anyone from being certain of an office, and both sides
would be compelled to nominate their best men. However, this cannot be counted on, and a workable plan would be
as acceptable to those here who really desire student government as it would be at many other schools in the
country.

Our student government at William and Mary is complicated by the necessity of a separate Women’s Student Government Association apart
from the regular class and student body offices. We have a Student Activities Committee composed of the President of the
Men's Student Body, and the President of the Women’s Student Body, the editors of the three publications, the presidents of
the two debate councils, and four faculty members. This body must approve petitions for nomination to class and student body
offices, the elections for which are then held under the supervision of the President of the Men’s Student Body and
his committee on elections. Besides having control of elections, the S. A. C. has control of approving budgets for all
student funds, and general supervision of the debate councils, publications, and student government.

To be truthful, however, real student government at William and Mary does not exist, or at least is not as
complete as it might be. The officers of the administration say that they are willing that the students should govern,
but the politics must be cleaned up before more power is placed in the hands of the officers. The fraternities
say that they are willing to reform just as soon as sufficient power is placed in the hands of the
officers to necessitate reform. Thus you have a rather hopeless situation. The coeds’ organization really has no power, but the
elections are at least “clean.”

I imagine you have written to other schools, and if you would send me a copy of the Davidsonian in
which the various replies are published, I would appreciate it.

Very truly yours,
JOHN S. HUDSON,
President, Men’s Student Body.

In Defense!!

There is and always has been a bit of resentment among the students because of the annual assessments placed on
the classes and various societies for their space in the annual. An argument is always presented that when the student
matriculates he pays for his space in the annual. This is true to a certain extent but this pays only
for his space in his class section. The sponsor of the class had to be paid for and who is
to pay for that but the class itself. The only income that the annual has is from these campus fees
and advertisements. This is hardly an ample sum to pay for a $7,000 annual, figure it out for yourself. There
is much space in the annual for which there is no income at all to pay for it. For instance,
the athletic, music, snapshot, and ROTC sections. These sections run into great expense and from what source are they to
be paid from but the student body. It is true that these sections could be left out but what would
you have left then? They are

CAMPUS

HARVARD HAS A UNIQUE COLLECTION OF 3400 ODD PLAYING CARDS.
THE U. OF KENTUCKY LIBRARY HAS 18,000 POST CARDS ON FILE.
THE AMERICAN FIRE-FIGHTING COLLECTION.
THE UNIV. OF TEXAS COLLECTS HAIR FROM THE HEADS OF FAMOUS WRITERS AND STATESMEN.
CORNELL U. HAS FIFTY PIECES OF EARLY CAMERA EQUIPMENT.
THE UNIV. OF ROCHESTER HAS A COLLECTION OF “PHONEY” STOCKS AND BONDS. FACE VALUE IS $25,000,000 - ACTUAL $0.00!

By Billy Masters

DISC-CHORDS

Woody Herman is finally getting the recognition he deserves, from the public as well as musicians. He has just finished
a short engagement at Chicago’s Hotel Sherman. His latest recordings are “Si-Si,” “Pick-A-Rib,” “Careless,” and “The Rhumba Jumps.”

Anita Boyer, who recently took Edythe Wright's place with the T. Dorsey band, has resigned, presumably to take up Paramount's
offer of a screen test and possible career. Allan DeWitt, Jack Leonard's successor, also vacated in favor of Frank Sinatra,
formerly with Harry James. DeWitt may go with Bob Chester, whose main need, as we see it, is a good
male vocalist.

Glenn Miller, still the talk of the country, says he doesn’t have a great jazz band and doesn't want one.
He does sound better on the sweet ones, but when he’s right, Glenn Miller tops, no matter what he plays.
His is one of the best commercials on the air, broadcasting with the Andrews Sisters on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday
nights.

Andy Kirk finally has the band he wants. This band has been rather in the background for the past few
years, but it really has something. If you don’t agree with us, listen to oldies such as “Foolin’ Myself,” “Sposin,”
“Julius Caesar,” “Clouds,” and “I Don’t Stand a Ghost of a Chance With You.” Kirk has been quiet for a
long time, but now that he has his band as he wants it, watch those “Clouds of Joy” roll. They're
headed places.is expected to return to the field of music with a 9-piece jazz band. A month ago he broke
a kneecap while saving an undertow in the Pacific, so his comeback has been detoured until March. Here’s wishing him
a successful comeback, but we still have our doubts.

Perhaps some of you heard Coleman Hawkins last week over WJZ. We have never heard anything that could touch the
way he took off on that sax. He started a solo playing “Body and Soul,” and he really put both
into it. He blew steadily for five minutes and really made that instrument do tricks. To top it off, instead
of laying out on the next piece, he came back on a killer-diller and was going strong as the program
went off. Some say he’s slipping, but nothing seems to show it's true.

We can't get over the way Joe Jarnwell beat it out on those drums with Bob Chester at Minwinters. Luck
to you, Joe, and we don't believe there’s any doubt about your getting into a top band if you ever
care to do so.

Although an old tune, take time out to listen to Count Basie’s disc “Let Me Dream.” We don't particularly care
for the Count on some tunes, but this is certainly indispensable for any good collection of records.

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thurs. & Fri. Feb. 15 & 16
“THE LIGHT THAT FAILED”
Ronald Colman, Walter Huston, Ida Lupino, Muriel Angelus, and Dudley Digges.

To those who believe in romance, this film re-creation of Kipling's story of Dick Heldan, a young artist, who goes
from a newspaper career in England to the Sudan. While there, he received a sabre wound from a fuzzy-wuzzy, and
he returns to London and is proclaimed a great artist. When he realizes that he is facing blindness, he is
inspired to do a great artistic work, which is destroyed the day he goes blind by his street-walker model in
a fit of fury. Completely blind, he manages to return to the Sudan and rides to his death in a
cavalry charge. Ronald Colman dominates the picture and portrays the lead in this romance of the men who fought for
glory beneath the desert sun.

Saturday, Feb. 17
“MEXICALI ROSE”
This is a westerner that has received a great deal of attention lately. This may be accredited partly to the
song that has made it famous, but even more, it is an unusual story of the golden age of the
west, when men were men, and the women were glad of it.

Late Show—10:30
Mon. & Tues. Feb. 19-20
“MAN FROM DAKOTA”
Wallace Beery, John Howard, and Delores Del Rio.

Wally Beery adds to his ever-growing prestige by giving a superb performance, and even though he doesn’t have a large
supporting cast, the picture is well worth seeing because of him. In this, he plays the part of a plainsman
who has to fight not only the elements but also those who associated with him.

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS
Guest Columnist: Bob Kellogg

Your tolerance and patience is all that it is fair for an inexperienced columnist to ask—so, if anyone wants to
give vent to his wrath, check your coat, bury the axe, and come to the door. Our clientele is not
exclusive, but nevertheless discriminating. Bustle (my own cute little name for the proprietor—you ought to see him when he suffers
from reverse peristalsis) tries to please everybody and goes to bed exhausted every night from bumping everything from cocktails to
machine guns. But before going farther, if you haven't been to “the door” lately, let’s look in as it’s just
11 P.M. Saturday.

Right up there near the floor show sits a party including such illustrious personalities as Gray Black Dog Hunter. His
arms are waving frantically as he toasts time and again to his condition. He had been paged to join a
deal up in 526 but just couldn't make it. Beside Gray sits Popeye MacAlphine, not saying much and not seeing
much. The ubiquitous but irresistible Skinny Dick Arnold, the Pacific Indian Joe, and of course “off campus” Tenney—just gunning at
the thought of his release. Off in a corner of the Tavern, I mean the Famous Door, stands Moe Ghouls—Marion,
Ross, and Holland discussing something, they only know what. As long as they don't get notions with their secret little
meetings, it'll never bother we, the people.

After the party, Tenney and Turner formed an incomplete lock in a big Greyhound—It was so promising. Tenney to Statesville
and Turner turned the tables somewhere between Statesville and Winston. Sunday Ayem, just after the party broke up, the Mayor
(Croft, N.C.) took off on a deal and spent the day sleeping in Lynchburg and the night dating. Yates was
forced to dust all Carolina Fijis when one rode flushed him out of a late date with his one and
only. Timber John Purdy was a part of that deal. Rumor has it that Tommy Johnston went into a “nose-dive”
in Charlotte the other night—or was it vice-versa—or maybe just vice. To whom did Tom Neon (Guion to you dopes)
pay his respect in Chapel Hill in the middle of the week, or did he discover a new light carbon
eénAntiomorph. Things were jumping in Lynchburg according to McClintock when Ross rolled in. All weekend. Granny Sharpe was the first
of numerous visitors to Converse to return Sunday. Was he whipped off too soon to make the trip to the
mountains Sunday?

By the way, here’s best wishes to the Betas who are anticipating celebrating their “Beta jubilee” (50 years at Davidson).
It grieved me to see Tommy leave this ayem. The major is going to sell Fuller Brushes in Richmond before
leaving for Pensacola. The Broom King had a busy weekend up in Ramseur. After Lady Face’s recent misfortune, his facial
disfigurement left him resembling “the Angel”. The contrast is to be noted on No. 4 Georgia. Funny Feller Fick's detention
has been a source of joy to me. He puts me to bed every night and tells me a story.
Why is Great Scoot, the Forensic King, so reticent about his deal to Salem? Did you hear about the Sigma
Frosh telling Black Dog that he was smarter than Elmer Johnson when he told them to blow him up? Buddy
Roe still holds his hands aloft when reminded of old Elmer Johnson, as does Fick when reminded of old Deac
Ellis.

Have you noticed the lack of dope about the Mad Monk? Well, I purposely omitted him because he'll get his
at Wake Forest and State this week. I hate to talk about a man when he’s down. See ya in
Chapel—your?—Dr. R. Mance.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

In the morning Observer on the front page was an article about the Youth Congress heckling and cheering in the
House of Representatives. More and more articles have been coming out lately concerning youth in the political field; both major
parties have young men’s clubs, and here is an editorial from the Hartford Courant about Government by College Men:

This is the day of Government by the college graduate. Proof is offered in the recent passage by the Senate
of a bill to prevent discrimination against the graduates of certain colleges in the selection of Federal employees. What was
once a mere trickle from the institutions of higher learning to Washington has now become a broad stream bearing the
recipients of degrees in the arts and sciences, in engineering, law, and especially business. The President hastened this movement by
turning, at the outset of his administration, not to established political advisors of his party, but to university professors such
as Raymond Moley and later to such young “brilliants” as Cohen and Corcoran. The faculty of business and law schools
has been drawn upon to head new administrative bureaus, while fact-finding, detailed work, skillful writing, and ready ideas have become
the province of the younger college men, brought by their professors and friends, lured by the opportunities for work in
a new field at a time when the established professors are filled. The new bill is aimed directly at the
tendency to favor Harvard graduates for Federal positions. If this is so, the fact redounds to the credit of that
University. It indicates that this scholar’s paradise has suddenly discovered an ability to turn out men equipped for public administration.
For years it has been famed for the large percentage of its graduates to be found among the great capitalists,
which makes it all the more surprising that it should number, aside from the President, so many participants in the
New Deal. For years it has been noted for its scholarly graduates, ideal men for grappling with ultimate truth but
not necessarily with the practical considerations of politics. Now comes a question which cannot be answered right away. Time will
produce an answer sooner or later; is the nation better off with college men with training and degrees behind them
working for it than it was before? Some of us may help to complete the reply some day.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH

He is a mainstay on the basketball team, but a thorn in the side to the class of ’43. Every
now and then he gets up in chapel and reads off a list of names and then sits down amidst
clamors of “more, more, more” from the upperclassmen plus the crestfallen looks on the part of too few frosh. His
dignified (?) air maintains order in the Court but produces laughter among his friends. He and his cohorts are always
being accused of slacking on the job and he is eternally hampered by the slackness on the part of the
three other classes. And by the way, you ought to meet his beautiful sister: Hi, J. B.

He is a part of the life on the campus and the idea of the annual is to portray as
vividly as possible the life upon the campus. Davidson has always produced an annual that ranks among the best for
a college of its size. It seems that a college annual is a necessary evil, if it may be called
that, and if this evil is to be continued it must be paid for. The question arises here, do you
want an annual that is worthy of the college and the students? The annual could be made smaller, it could
be cut down to a cost of $5,000 or even $2,500. But do you want an annual of this type?
I think that the majority of the students would rather have the annual as it is.

Another argument presented is that the burden of the expense is placed on the senior class. Well, why shouldn't this
be? The annual is the senior class book and they take up the majority of the space in the book.
Why shouldn't they pay more than the members of the other three classes?

Still another argument is brought up. There is fraud in the annual, the editor and business manager make a killing
every year. This is one of the biggest misconceptions that has ever been on this campus. The annual has to
keep strict books and every cent that comes in and goes out must be accounted for and the books are
audited by members of the faculty. The accounting system is airtight and there is no chance for misappropriation of funds.

I wish that the student body would take this matter into mind. The average cost of each page in the
annual is between $40 and $50 and if every organization was charged according to the space they occupy in the
book, as is done in many schools, there is no doubt that there would be a different tune sung. The
assessments this year were raised a little because of a debt of last year’s annual which was absorbed by this
year’s annual, for there was no other fund from which this debt could be paid.

I sincerely hope that this will help to clear up many of the questions in the students' minds as to
the assessments placed upon them and if anyone ever desires to examine the annual’s books he is more than welcome
to.

C. G. LUTHER, JR.
Business Manager of the Quips and Cranks.
