. "aes ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN , Thurs., Dec. 12, 1946 Page Two

What they should do with students as regards the national draft law. The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915
* Member: Associated Collegiate Press Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

DAY'S DIARY BY BILL LEMMON

It seems that one group favors the blanket deferment of all students, while another wishes such men to be placed
in vocational classes, and deferred or called out by that. Still other groups are behind various modifications of both systems,
with no final word as to what is to be done yet. As for the present, though, it seems highly
unlikely that any student will be forced to leave school this year to answer the draft. And to answer the
question of those who are not yet 21 years of age, the President can call for another registration at any
time he wishes, but it also seems highly improbable that he will do so before the fall next year. Which
should be heartening.

Note: This column is printed without benefit of copy-reading, changing of typographical errors, exactly as turned in to us.

Gene Wine popped up in Roanoke as usual to grab a quick date with his luck. Spider Kuntz, our singing
cowboy and hillbilly, put on a show in Mooney’s station with some of the town boys next week, playing his
guitar while he stuck to the violin. His dream is the “Silver Slipper”.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year Ten cents

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.

Since Ed Shewmake was the only boy in the girls' theater at W.C. Sat., he was the light which caused
a dubious crack. Here we find Holt Barnwell’s date offering to carry his bags as a result of the wrestling
exhibition given on the beach at Wilmington. Tommy Lane was approached by an advancing dawn patrol from the city early
this week who claims the Travelers Safety Service in college to condemn him to having on that sweet coca-cola syrup
even if it is sent through the mail. Watch your step fellow, she's slick!

A fact has come to the surface. After much experimenting it was decided by female psychologists that practice was not
put on but it was really caused some noise down that way about 10:03 pm. Burwell shot in the dark
at 9:43, two hours late claiming a fact. Peg Parsley had her finger bandaged up in cigar fashion at this
same affair. Frank Walker did his operating in the vicinity of Hollins.

Why do all the girls in Converse watch a certain junior from Florence walk when she is leaving the dining
room? If you can’t answer it see Dick Manning.

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Activities of all types should come under the heading of school spirit. We have had school spirit talked much this
fall that it has become a topic that some find repulsive. However, most of the talk has been about athletics
and I don’t think the field of athletics is the only place that we find school spirit. This fall every
time a group of students or any organization has offered the student body a program there has been a general
turnout for it. This is as great a show of school spirit as any amount of yelling at the football
games, and the students should be commended for it. This idea of attending the productions of the organiza-ions is not
only a display of school spirit but it is a definite step forward toward a more cultural education, one of
the rich heritages that we are supposed to receive upon coming to Davidson. Still, there remains a side of school
spirit that I think the students have failed to see or if they have seen it, they have not reacted
in the least to it. This is the support of disapproval shown toward student sentiment whether it be large or
small. Here I do not refer to the water fights and student “but I mean topics like the suggested change
in chapel. Several issues ago someone wrote a letter to the editor concerning the idea of a change students out
to see if they were in favor of a change and, if so, what type of change. As he said,
there was an open forum program last year in which the topic of compulsory chapel and church services was discussed.
At that time all the students present expressed a great desire for a change of the programs since they were
falling short of the goal set up at their beginning. However, since that letter was printed there has been only
one letter to the editor and one editorial on this subject. If the students are majority say that it is
not what it should be. Why, then, if this is the feeling of the group, doesn’t someone make some effort
to make the fact known that the students don’t like the present system of chapel? It is not the position
of the students to thoughts will arise in the minds of some men, and that there is the possibility that
some men will put the thought into action. Our student body dislikes to see any man dismissed from school for
violation of the honor system, but solidly backs the council when that body fairly finds the man guilty of stealing.
For there is no place here for a thief.

Arad Draft Items

According to news received from the Intercollegiate Washington Press, the Capitol Hill big-wigs are as yet still undecided as to
be made, but the administration in conjunction with students that are capable of handling such a question will not fail
to look into the matter when they see that the students are sufficiently interested in the matter. There is a
space in each issue of The Davidsonian given over to letters from the student to the editor, so let’s use
them and if there is a change desired, let the faculty help us to make one.

—BOB GARVEY, JR.

Thanks to Howard Barlow, the Co-Song of the Sirens

By JULIAN McCALL and LOUIS HITE

“Lite Day” Leminen has suggested that we vary our column by presenting the releases of the heavier type. So in
compliance with this request, here it is, “Day”: FLASH! Schubert's Second Symphony, a delightful little affair, finally has reached the
phonographs, new Columbia Broadcasting Symphony, and Columbia’s Album M-420. Bela Bartok doesn't conduct one of his productions, but he appears
as pianist in his “Contrasts,” with the collaboration of Joseph Szigeti and Benny Goodman (Columbia X-178). Its advanced saut?, played
brilliantly, which won't disappoint the Bartok following but may bewilder our patron, especially who knows Mr. Goodman as a swingster—or
as a Mozart specialist. Leopold Stokowski, as the orchestral arranger of Moussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition” might figure in this
roster of “those with roll their own,” for he conducts the Philadelphia Orchestra through his own transcription on Victor M-700.
Unless you take your original Moussorgsky territory seriously, you’ll enjoy this colorful adventure. In the list of new recordings there
is the Beethoven violin concerto played by Jascha Heifetz and the NBC Symphony, conducted by Arturo Toscanini (Victor M-705), which
is entirely up to the best standards of Heifetz, Toscanini and Beethoven. Strauss's “Also Sprach Zarathustra,” by Frederick Stock and
the Chicago Symphony, is well played and skillfully recorded (Columbia M-421). If, however, you already have the same work by
Serge Koussevitzky and the Boston Symphony (Victor M-257) the new isn’t by any means a mandatory replacement. A definite best
is Sir Thomas Beecham’s version of the overture to Mozart's “Don Giovanni” (Columbia 71305-D). Along this line, Thigo has suggested
the following: “I Want to Live” and “Don’t Let It Get You Down,” by Johnny Long; “I Ain't Got Nobody”
and “Henderson Stomp,” by the new Benny Goodman band; “I Ain't Gonna Study War No More” and “Minnie the Moocher’s
Dead,” by Jimmy Lunceford; “I Hear a Rhapsody” and “The Moon is Crying for Me,” by Charlie Barnett. The former
is this column's nomination for the record of the week.

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday Dec. 12 and 13

Betty Grable

This is one of the best shows to be shown here all year. Alice and Betty are two sisters that
come from a very poor home and seek their success on the stage and in shows. Alice has very bad
luck on the stage because of her many romances but Betty hits the top, except for the fact that she
hates all men. Finally, she falls in love and serious trouble starts. We will wait and let you see just
what happens.

Saturday, Dec. 14

“Texas Rangers Ride Again”—John Howard, Broderick Crawford and Ellen Drew. Ellen returns to her childhood ranch in Texas and is
very worried over the cow thieves that are very active. Howard and Crawford ride in and, after a lot of
excitement, settle the rustlers’ hash. Ellen, meanwhile, becomes accustomed to ranch life, even fond of it—and of John.

Monday and Tuesday Dec. 16 and 17

“You'll Find Out”—Kay Kyser, Peter Lorre, Boris Karloff and Dennis O'Keefe. The Ole Professor rides again and in an entirely
new and different manner. Kay plays six new and haunting songs in this show. The band gets caught in a
house of villains and has to play very hard to get out of Karloff’s grasp. The movie is full of
tense excitement and thrills that will keep you on your nerve's edge.

Wednesday, Dec. 18

“Fireman Save My Child”—This is one of the better hits of a few months ago. We are unable to tell
you anything about the show except that it is very funny and has a fast-moving plot. This will probably be
the last column before Christmas and the manager of the theater, along with the writer, wants to wish each and
every one a very merry Christmas and a most happy New Year.

afternoon he had to entertain her at Dr. Matthews' house until it got dark so that he could get on
his way to Tenn. He took his snacking frosh Red Burke as driver and even goes so far to say
they saw a big black grizzly on the return beat. Jim Owens got off to Knoxville on another one of
his dash and dot deals to see the queen who has him using no sugar in his tea or coffee.

Compassing Campuses

erton had a life-size picture of a Sunday. Rev. McLean read a note from one of his D.D. babes in
N.Y. city asking him to return the three tickets he didn't make use of. Henry McGeachy and Gus McLean, who
has turned from Queens to Winthrop, played the part of Santa Claus by bringing the girls some toys to entertain
them.

(Continued on Page Six)

BY TOM CAUBLE

ON CHANGING THE SUBJECT:

There are a great many times and a good many situations in which it is apt indeed to change the
subject. This sudden deviation from the trend of the conversation is a favorite device of young ladies. It is used
at such times as the subject under discussion is not to their liking or when the conversation veers from the
channels along which they are guiding it with a view to procuring information or with some other goal set in
mind. For instance, young ladies are always particularly anxious to find out just which girls were dancing in front of
the orchestra at functions at which they could not be present. Just why they feel they must know this is
not definitely known although certain surmises may be made. First, it is a possibility that front-of-band dancers are a threat
to the established order in that they are situated thusly for the purpose of better baiting other girls’ escorts at
this focal point of interest. Again, it is possible that girls might choose to dance there because she knew the
second trumpet or the tenor saxophonist. Recounts of such incidents are greatly in demand by girls as conversational tidbits. Changing
the subject will also administer a severe cut in many instances. A man proclaiming his own virtues or abilities can
draw an abrupt reprimand by this means. For instance, an undergrad might be extolling to his girl his reliability and
trustworthiness and be reminded by her of the time he shot off at intermission with a brunette. There is also
the non-apt situation where a delightful tete-a-tete is in progress and the girl suddenly interjects such a commonplace remark as
“Have you seen any good shows lately? heard any good bands? ... or read any good books?” Many regard this
as an offense that should be punished by life imprisonment if indeed capital punishment should not be inflicted. On the
other hand, there are times when young men can see the advantages of switching to a new conversational vein. It
might be that a discussion of his exploits of bygone days would prove embarrassing if continued long, so he immediately
introduces a red herring of enough import to detour the company. Perhaps some future weekend is brought up for which
he already has two dates. Naturally, he does not care to have this discussed in the presence of the lady-of-the-hour
so if he is out of red herring, he must either (a) fall out of his chair, (b) simulate insanity,
or (c) set fire to the rug and thereby startle the company enough to promote general amnesia. Let us pass
on to a discussion of certain female remarks, expressions, and noises thereunto appertaining. For instance, a long sigh in the
midst of a conversation is certain to stop said conversing abruptly and thus afford a chance for a detour (or
mental squads right). Girls with military experience can here employ three sharp blasts on a whistle which is universally interpreted
to mean “attention to orders” or “cease firing.” Probably the best and smoothest working expedient to cover all such situations
is a sly wink delivered at point-blank range. The object of the wink will in most cases become so enticed
as to immediately forget what he is talking about and fall to humming Spanish love-songs.
