ports lants FIGHT ’EM WILDCATS! Wildcat Sports By BOB CARTER | | | Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 14, 1940 cite toad TIGS’ CENTER | Devils ‘CATS | eaty rie Witty are colorful. Using a wide-open Late | Gallopin’ Gator Holmes Due To Pace poe Hampd’n-Sydn’ y ligs Drive! Wildcats 46-13 type of offense, the Wildcats have scored in every game with the exception of the N. C. State encounter. In winning three out of eight games, Davidson has rolled up the tidy sum of 107 points, an average of two touchdowns a game.

Hackney Returns Kick-Off 95 Yards to Score; Sharpe Passes for Second T.D.

Wildcats Dye Favored Over Hampden-Sydney Eleven; Tigers Weak in Reserves; Cats Hold Victories Over Maryland, Delaware, Guilford

With one win and one loss to date, let’s stick behind these Wildcats of ours through these last two games, because they always give their best and a good show at the same time, win, lose or draw.

SMALL TALK

Claude Hackney, Florida’s gift to this year’s Wildcat eleven, added two touchdowns to his already impressive number by scoring twice against Duke Saturday. Hackney now has 42 points to his credit this season.

Holmes Star

In the Garnet and Gray attack is built around Clith Holmes, a third-year man from Foxboro, Massachusetts. Holmes is a triple-threat man, excelling in passing and punting. Hess Richard, shifty runner, backs up the line on defense, and is one of the outstanding players. The Cats ran into stiffer competition against Duke and lost 46-13, but the Davidson boys were able to fight to the final whistle. Playing outstanding ball for the Wildcats were Dent at the half position; Brown, on the right inside, and Wilson, playing the right inside position. The starting lineup for the Duke game was the same as in the Virginia game except for Captain Schultz at tackle, and Umstead at guard form the nucleus of the line composed of Weed, Yancey, Toothman, Jessie, Dunn.

PREDICTS

Blue Devils In The Garnet and Gray attack is built around Clith Holmes, a third-year man from Foxboro, Massachusetts. Holmes is a triple-threat man, excelling in passing and punting. Hess Richard, shifty runner, backs up the line on defense, and is one of the outstanding players. The Cats ran into stiffer competition against Duke and lost 46-13, but the Davidson boys were able to fight to the final whistle. Playing outstanding ball for the Wildcats were Dent at the half position; Brown, on the right inside, and Wilson, playing the right inside position. The starting lineup for the Duke game was the same as in the Virginia game except for Captain Schultz at tackle, and Umstead at guard form the nucleus of the line composed of Weed, Yancey, Toothman, Jessie, Dunn.

Blue Devils trounced Davidson 46-13, to date the Wildcats have scored 33 points. The Wildcats hold victories over Maryland, Delaware, and Guilford.and Hol- | cept that Talmadge was in at cen- | ter instead of Hardie, and Oliver received a badly wrenched ankle. OKLAHOMA - NOTRE DAME, NEBRASKA, STANFORD - Oregon State, OREGON - TEXAS A&M, Texas Christian - TEXAS, COLGATE, V.M.I. 

The Wildcats have counted on many tall, rangy boys and able receivers for Holmes’ passes. The Hampden-Sydney team runs their plays from the single wing and from the punt formation. The Wildcat line will slightly outweigh the Tiger forward wall, but the Tiger backfield will have the advantage over the Wildcat backfield. 

The Davidson kickers are promising a defeat for the Blue Devils from Duke in the return game to be played on the Davidson field next Wednesday afternoon. This will probably be one of the best games of the season and a good attendance is expected. 

The Hampden-Sydney team will be playing without the services of Brown, star tackle, who was injured earlier in the season. 

The Tigers have played a relatively strenuous schedule this season and have had fair success as they won from Maryland, Delaware, and Guilford, while losing to William and Mary, Randolph-Macon, V.M.I., and South Carolina. 

Conference games this week will feature Washington and Lee meeting South Carolina, and N.C. State meeting Wake Forest. 

In other loop scores, Washington and Lee downed N.C. State, 20-14, while Virginia defeated Washington and Lee, 20-6. Games outside the conference included William and Mary downing Randolph-Macon, and V.M.I. trouncing Princeton University. 

The Devils turned on the heat in the second half after having the Wildcats score their two touchdowns in the first period. Scores were made by Jap Davis, Frank Darnell, Bill Wartman, and Wilson Seigfried. 

The outstanding player for the Devils was diminutive Gene McIver, who played every minute of the game. 

At the final whistle, Jay Bolin and Billy Pharr were in the secondary. Claude Hackney was injured on the first play and will be lost to the Wildcats for the Hampden-Sydney game next Saturday. 

Newest Sweater on the Campuses 

ALL WOOL DE LUXE SWEATER 

COLORS: Blue, Green, Wine 

Three Sweaters in One for $2.95 

Protect Your Head From the Rain With STUDENT STORE’S RAINCAPS 

New Supply of Toilet Articles 

ATHLETIC SUPPLIES, CANDY, FOUNTAIN PENS, PENNANTS, CAKES, PENCILS, STATIONERY, FRUIT, PAPER, JEWELRY, MILK, INK 

STUDENT STORE 

“Charlotte’s Fastest Growing Men’s Store” 

When In Charlotte — Eat At — THE WOODEN BOWL 

For Fraternity Banquets with Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices 

PHONE 5490 FOR RESERVATIONS 

T H A C K E R S, INC. 221 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C. 

SHORTY PARRISH — Managers —