Announced Magazine Staff — 2 Z—528

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Student Council Chosen

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1940 No. 26

Bumbarger Names Magazine Editors: Atwater, Garvey, Hodges, Plunkett, Arch Taylor, Ed Taylor, Wooten Chosen

Paul Bumbarger, newly elected editor of the Scripts ’n Pranks, recently selected his editorial staff. Archie Taylor, W. C. Plunkett,
Frank Atwater, and Ed Taylor will serve as managing editors; Walter Wooten and Bob Garvey, exchange editors; and Dan Hodges,
assisted by Frank Atwater, art editors.

Archie Taylor is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Le Cercle Francais, and the varsity track team. Last
year he won the Freshman Bible medal.

Editors Active

Walter Wooten is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, a football manager, and treasurer of his class. He
was recently selected managing editor of the annual. Plunkett is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and managing
editor of the Davidsonian. He was recently elected into Le Cercle Francais.

Others Named

Ed Taylor is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, managing editor of the annual and is a member
of the Red and Black Masquers. Garvey is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and is a managing
editor of the Davidsonian. He is also the drum major of the football band. Dan Hodges, a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity, and honorary Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity. He is also working on the annual staff. Atwater
is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and has published several cartoons.

Bumbarger added the exchange editors to his staff, endeavoring to secure a more enjoyable class of jokes for publication.

Singers, Aided By Orchestra, Give Concert

Musicians Perform At Burlington, Salisbury

Davidson’s Glee Club and Little Symphony Orchestra presented two concerts in Burlington and Salisbury on April the thirteenth and fourteenth,
respectively. The first concert was given Saturday evening at the Burlington High School. On Sunday, the two organizations presented a
musical program at the First Presbyterian Church of Burlington. This program was given in place of the regular Sunday morning
church service. From Burlington the groups journeyed to Salisbury, where they took part in the evening service of the First
Presbyterian Church of Salisbury. This program was broadcast from Station WSTP, in Salisbury. On the twenty-second of April, the Glee
Club will present a concert at the High School Auditorium in Albemarle, this being the final trip of the year.

Councilmen Named

In the recent election for the Alumni Council Bob Ramsey, Charles Mashburn, George Richmond, and Gales McClintock were chosen to
bring the number of the council up to nine. Some time in the near future these nine members will choose
a tenth member to complete the council. Those automatically on the council are Sam Spencer, president of the student body;
Tony Casali, editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN; Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class; Sid Crane, president of the YMCA; and
Jim Cowan, president of the Athletic Association.

Taylor And Jones Talk At Conclave

Davidson Delegates Lead Discussion, Aid Forum At New Orleans Meet

Winston Taylor and Casey Jones represented Davidson at the Southern Federation of College Students and Publication Representatives in New Orleans
on April 11, 12, and 13. Hosts for the convention were Tulane University and Newcomb College, both of which are
located in New Orleans. Headquarters were at the Jung Hotel. 164 students, half of whom were girls, were registered from
approximately 25 Southern colleges and universities, of thirteen different states. It was the nineteenth annual congress of the Federation.

Many Speakers

Two hour discussion sessions each morning and afternoon was the feature of the session, the main speakers were: Gerhart Becker,
Manager of Business Digest, who talked on “Promotional Ideas of College Newspapers”; Prof. A. J. Beedon, Head of the Journalism
Department at the University of Alabama, “What Judges Look for in an All-American Newspaper”; Prof. George E. Simmons, Head of
Journalism Department, Tulane University, whose subject was “New Ideas and Trends in Professional Journalism”; Laurence Eustis, former Business Manager of
the Tulane Hullabaloo, “College Contacts and Their Carry-Over Value in the Professional World”; Robert W. Elsasser, Professor of Business Statistics
and Management, Tulane University, “Making Decisions in Student Government”; Miss Nora Power, Dean of Women at Louisiana State University, “Developing
Student Leaders”; Miss Anna Many, Dean of Women, Newcomb College, “Student Faculty Relations in a Democratic Community”; Robert B. Faerber,
Alabama Engraving Company, Birmingham, “Engraving the Yearbook”; W. A. Jenson, Benson Printing Company, Nashville, “Relationship Between Printer and Yearbook Staff.”

Delegates Speak

Taylor, next year’s editor of Quips and Cranks, led a discussion on yearbooks. Jones, president of the rising senior class,
participated in a forum on the honor system. Aside from the value of the discussions, Taylor and Jones report a
very interesting time in New Orleans, known as “America’s Most Interesting City.” One of the features of the convention was
a boat ride up the Mississippi on the steamer “Capitol.” On Friday night the delegates enjoyed a dance in the
Blue Room of the Roosevelt Hotel.

Open House Next Week

Duke, Watts, Georgia To Have Guests Tuesday

The first floors of Duke, Watts, and Georgia dormitories will be open to the public for inspection next Tuesday afternoon,
April 23, from 3:30 to 5 o'clock. As in the past, this annual affair will be sponsored by the senior
class. Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class, said that “the class sponsors the Open House each year in order
to give the public an opportunity to see how the boys ‘live’ in the dormitories.” He added, that, “in the
past the boys occupying these rooms have given their wholehearted cooperation to this project and the same cooperation is expected
this year.”

Refreshments will be served to the visitors in the parlor of Watts. Beecher Sitterson, of the senior class, is in
charge of these arrangements. Last year visitors from all points throughout the Eastern United States inspected the dormitories and commented
very favorably on their appearance. The class expects about 100 visitors this year. Mrs. Smith, “Mother of Dormitories,” is assisting
the class in making the plans for this project.

Spring Frolics Feature Melodies

Johnny Long, Termed Outstanding Stylist, To Play At Charlotte Armory

“Songs by the Johnny Long and his Long” will furnish music for the Spring Frolics, April 26 and 27, at
the Charlotte Armory. Long is one of the nation’s outstanding stylists and has recently completed successful engagements at the Trianon,
Chicago; Bill Green, Pittsburgh; Cavalier Beach Club, Virginia Beach; and many other prominent amusement centers. This orchestra is composed of
ten southern men, and of Johnny Long’s classmates at Duke University and was organized during their freshman year at Duke
and has since played most of the colleges throughout the Eastern United States.

“An unusual style is produced by the Long aggregation. Although the tempos are definitely on the sweet side, Johnny will
play with reservations the faster type of music. He has never been swept away from his original love of the
smoother type.” Long, a native of Charlotte, holds the distinction of being one of the few left handed violinists in
the world. Naturally right handed, he was forced to switch to the left hand due to an accident which made
the intricate fingering of his violin with his right hand impossible.

“Songs by Long” will feature Helen Young, noted radio vocalist. She has also appeared in Warner Brothers shorts. The orchestra
will also be assisted by Jack Edmondson, song stylist, Paul Harmon, baritone, and “Swede” Nielson, comedian.

Managers For Student Shop To Be Named

Election On May 1

Election of the managers of the Student Store will be held Tuesday, May 1 by the Student Store Board of
Control, which consists of Frank Jackson, Mr. M. Gill, Le Spencer, Bob McClintock, and George Richmond. The new managers will
begin their duties on May 6, and will be made from the Junior class clerks of the store. The clerks
are Dick Arnold, Bob Balsley, Jay Bolin, Karl Jonas, Frank Niven, John Purdie, Hewes Parrish, Dick Shore, Jack White, and
Bobby Williams. From this field, two managers will be elected. Application for Junior class jobs in the Student Store must
be in by Thursday, April 25th. The Student Store will hold a sale, beginning this week, Gales McClintock, manager of
the store, announced.

Flyers Elect Colkitt Head SophomoreNamed President Of Aviation Group

Ben Colkitt of Waynesville was elected president of the Flying Club at a meeting held at ten o'clock Monday night
in the parlor of Watts. Dick Stevenson was elected vice-president of the club, and Gordon Horton was elected treasurer. Colkitt
has had over 17 hours in the air, Stevenson has flown more than 20 hours, and Gordon Horton is well
on his way to solo rating. At the meeting next week these officers will be installed.

On Monday night more rigid rules of entrance were made. To become a member, one has to pass a stiff
competitive examination and a solo test. However, one can be an associate member until he either passes or fails the
test. Monroe Bush, a new associate, began his flying training this week.

The flying club is one of the latest additions to Davidson’s field of extra-curricular activities. It was started this fall
by a group of students interested in aviation. The first president of the organization was Bob Miller, who is now
connected with the airport in Charlotte. His successor was Dave McLean, who has now been succeeded by Ben Colkitt.

Art Expert To Speak Here April 30

Dr. Ernest Derendinger, Ph.D., will lecture to the students and faculty of the college on the evening of April 30.
He is brought here by the lecture committee and will make an address of a non-technical nature on some phase
of art. Dr. Derendinger is a professor at Catawba College at Salisbury, N.C. He is a native of Reinfelden, Switzerland.
In 1905 he received an invitation to enter Presbyterian seminary at Bromsfield, N.C., and went there. After three years he
completed the course but realized that he was not meant for the ministry and returned to Europe where he entered
the University of Berlin, specializing in the history of art. From Catawba he went to the University of Heidelberg where
he won his degree of Ph.D. Returning to the United States in 1912, he accepted a position of teaching languages
at Hood College. Later he returned to Catawba College where he taught history and history of art.

Dr. Derendinger is the author of several books on the subject of art, the chief of which is "An Anthology
of Art." He has inaugurated many new systems in his teaching methods by having reproductions of masterpieces made for individual
students. He is now conducting classes all over North Carolina. His furthest point is in Roxboro and he has done
pioneering work in art at the University of North Carolina and Duke University.

Nominations Made

Nominations for the next year's Board of Control were held Tuesday. One rising Senior and two rising Juniors are to
be chosen in the final election. Bob Balsley, Paul S. Crane, and John Moore of the Senior class were chosen
by the nominating committee. The committee also selected Jim Owens, Charlie Watt, Ralph Williams, and Al Winn from the Junior
class.

Election of the leader for next year was also held Tuesday. Only last year’s Junior cheerleaders were eligible. These were
Jack Abels, Charlie Martin, Joe Shelton, and Bobby Williams. Junior cheerleaders will not be chosen until next fall.

Registration Closes

Registration for courses closes Saturday, according to plans announced by Registrar F. W. Hengeveld. All students who plan to take
courses here next fall or during the summer are requested to register by April 20. Registration for summer school will
be conducted at the same time as regular registration. A fee of $10.00 is charged to each student who plans
to return here next fall. As usual, students taking the elementary ROTC course may transfer their registration.

Hoge, King, Parrish, Sprunt, And Wooten Receive Posts On 1940-41 Student Council

Five out of seven representatives were elected to the Student Council for next year. From the rising Senior class, Jim
Hogg, Hewes Parrish, and John King were elected to serve on the council. Bill Sprunt was chosen to represent the
rising Juniors, but a second run-off between Ralph Williams and Tommy Yarborough was necessary to decide the other Junior member.
The rising Sophomores elected Jesse Wooten to the post.

Hogg Prominent

Jim Hogg is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He is a member of the baseball team and is captain
of the basketball team for next year. Hewes Parrish is president of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was a
member of the cross country and wrestling teams. John King is president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity for the coming
year. He was a Sophomore class officer and played B team football.

Sprunt Chosen

Bill Sprunt is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is a Junior editor of the annual for
next year and has served for two years on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. Jesse Wooten is a member
of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is a member of the Freshman debating team and is participating in a
number of campus activities. Another Senior council member was yet to be elected when the Davidsonian went to press.

Cups Offered For Contest

Competitive company and platoon drill, a highlight in the local ROTC department's annual program, was held in the stadium yesterday.
Uniform-clad students shouted commands, marched and counter-marched, and kept step with the blaring trumpets and stirring drums of the band.
Davidsonian press time was of necessity too early to obtain the results of the contest. However, three prizes were offered:
one each to the best-drilled company, platoon, and freshman cadet. Elimination in the best-drilled freshman contest was partially conducted at
Monday's drill. The winning cadet will get to keep his cup, just as the officer of the winning platoon or
company has the privilege of keeping the cups won by his unit. A blue ribbon was attached to the guidon
staff of the winning company and must be surrendered at the end of the year if that company fails to
maintain its position of leadership.

Next major event on the local military department’s docket is the annual inspection, scheduled for May 9 and 10. Colonel
M. Schillerstrom of the University of Tennessee will be the chief inspector.

Davidson And Converse Stage French Banquet

Davidson’s chapter of Le Cercle Francais joined the Converse chapter in a banquet held at the Hotel Charlotte last Thursday
night, April 4. Sam Spencer opened the program, welcoming the girls. After a short speech by Dave Sprunt, president of
the Davidson chapter, a Parisian girl from Converse delivered a talk on the students of France. She said the French
students study all of the time and try to find time to play, but that in America, she was surprised
to find, students play all of the time and try to find time to study. She added that she thought
this system “most delightful” and was anxious to inaugurate it in France this summer.

The remainder of the program consisted of the singing of French songs, followed by a square dance. The faculties of
both schools were represented by Dr. and Mrs. Vermont and Dr. and Mrs. Watts from Converse, and Dr. and Mrs.
Goldi- from Davidson. A French dinner was prepared by the Hotel Charlotte. The chef, M. Henri Montet, was formerly located
in Greenville, S.C., where he was visited by Dr. Vermont and his students. Both parties had found the custom so
pleasant that it was decided to travel all the way to Charlotte in order to continue it. Several members of
both circles suggested that the joint banquet in Charlotte be made an annual affair.

Darby, Lyman, McCrary Will Manage Book

Frank Barker, business manager of the 1940 YMCA Handbook, announced that his staff will be Harwell McCrary, and Darby, both
of Florence, and Lyman, both sophomores. Darby is a member of Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity, the International Relations Club,
the Philanthropic Literary Society, and the varsity debating team. Last year he was on the Court of Control and was
a writer for the Davidsonian column, “Wait a Minute.”
