Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN (Thurs., Oct. 10, 1940)

Dr. Gwynn Addresses CAMPUS CAMERA NEW BUILDINGS

Armstrong Is ECHOES OF The “The Challenge of Kingdom Building” Presented In Sunday School Class — PAST FIVE YEARS AGO State defeats the Wildcats in close match. Professor Blythe is appointed Athletic Director. (Continued From Page 3.) Reserve Pilot Same Size Both buildings will be the same size. They will have two stories and a large basement, and will be architecturally designed to harmonize with Chambers. Internal arrangements, however, will be decidedly different. In the science building, chemistry labs and classrooms will occupy the major portions of the basement and first floor, while the biology department will be housed in the second story.

Philanthropic — Professor's Talk. Dr. Maurice Henderson Gwynn, Jr., Professor of Education and Psychology and Director of Student Guidance, was the principal speaker for the Philanthropic Society last week. His address, entitled “The Challenge of Kingdom Building,” was based on the text Matthew 7:20. As an introduction, Dr. Gwynn presented the picture of a world in fear and confusion, the solution to its problems being Jesus Christ. Christ commands us to “build a kingdom on his teachings.” The love of the Lord, love of neighbor, faith in the power of truth to liberate the human spirit are some of the characteristics of the kingdom, according to the speaker. 

Dr. Gwynn pointed out that to build such a kingdom would be hard. To follow the gospel of Jesus is not easy. The price of discipleship remains the same—are we willing to pay for it? The speaker was introduced by Joel Whitton who is acting in place of the absent president, John Moore.

Philanthropic members made a drastic change in their regular session when they decided at their first meeting on Tuesday, September 24th to confine all business to executive committee meetings and thus have the entire meeting time for literary and social activities. After an address in which their president Paul Grinte set forth plans for the new year and asked for cooperation, they agreed to limit business to committee meetings and decided to raise their dues to be able to spend more on social functions, many of which will be conducted with the Queens’ Spectator Club. Kinistr Summers was elected as the new treasurer.

SONG OF THE SIRENS DR. G. B. WATTS. sent from the campus this year. Kath Williams in the absence of the President, John Moore. Piano accompaniment was furnished by Edwin Burns.

Bird Lovers! The Bird Club of North Carolina, a state-wide organization, will hold its annual meeting at a supper in Charlotte on October 25. A prominent member, Dr. Elmer Brown of the Davidson faculty, urges that all local members and any interested students attend. The club is four years old and its object is to organize all the bird lovers into one lovable unit. As the club wishes to make the meeting social as well as practical, it will close with a series of prompt speeches in which members made suggestions and the boys have put in their cooperative hand.

(Continued from Page 5) (Continued from Page 2.) 

In the current issue of “Books Abroad,” “Paper Gray’s Temptation,” an old ballad, receives a 1910 melodic treatment from the Casa Loma Corporation, a unique blending of reeds and horns, along with Kenny Sargent’s vocal standing out. “I Touched a Star,” a new ballad, is on the other side.

Dr. Hed has recently completed the manuscript of a book called “Waldenses in the New World.” In this history of the Waldensian settlements in North and South America, chapters are devoted to the colonial settlements of Waldensian refugees in New York, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Georgia, the Mormon missions to the Waldensian Valleys of Italy, and the migrations to nineteenth-century colonies in Uruguay.

SPE WINS SCHOLARSHIP Continued From Page 1. 

Phi Delt, Pika, and Kappa Sig still led with the highest scholarship on campus. Junior cheerleaders are elected.

TEN YEARS AGO Dr. Ben R. Lacy leads YMCA Evangelistic Services. Library receives five thousand dollars from the Carnegie Foundation. Wildcats smother Elon in opening game. Two weeks rushing season of ten fraternities closes Friday night. Three holes-in-one are made on local golf course since July.

The new library will be soundproof and will provide stacks for 190,000 books, more than twice the present number of volumes. Special seminar rooms, study cubicles, and a special reading room will be provided in the basement with a separate entrance, so that it may be left open at times when the rest of the library is closed. Regular arrangements will replace the present “mystic maze,” according to Professor Davidson.

Is Lieutenant In Air Corps Reserve. F. M. Armstrong, student at Davidson in 1938, has reported at Moffett Field, California for tactical training following his successful completion of the flying cadet course at Randolph and Kelly Fields, Texas. Second Lieutenant Armstrong is from Fort Wayne, Detroit. He is the son of Colonel and Mrs. F. M. Armstrong, his father being the commanding officer of the 2nd Infantry at Fort Wayne. Prior to his acceptance as a flying cadet, Lieutenant Armstrong attended Douglas High School, Douglas, Arizona, Marion Institute, Marion, Alabama, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, Davidson College, and the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York. He was active in high school football and basketball. 

Lieutenant Armstrong was accepted as a flying cadet on October 13, 1939, and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Air Corps Reserve on July 20, 1940. He will serve as a reserve officer for a period of three years, or until he passes the annual examinations for regular commissions.

Glee Club (Continued From Page 1.) 

Queens’ choral group, directed by Professor Pfohl, will appear on the same program. The Glee Club will present its annual homecoming concert this year on Saturday morning, November 2, at eleven o’clock.been assigned to the 20th Pursuit Group. Previous army experience includes a tour of duty with 'F' Company, 29th Infantry, Fort Benning, Georgia.

Twenty southern California communities are served through classes offered by the University of California extension division.

DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES?

A COOLER... MILDER... BETTER-TASTING

To accurately record bird observations, it is endeavoring to develop new and competent bird observers.

Considerable space is devoted to the study of the cooperation of American Protestants in the work of evangelization in Italy and the Waldenses.

In American Literature, the few old faces that will be missing from the bandstand will be Tony Pastor, who now leads his own band, and Buddy Rich, Shaw's old drummer, who now plays with Tommy Dorsey.

However, he did manage to get one pants leg up to his knee.

In 1937, they were taken over by the Phi Gam band. The other was invited to the World's Fair, but Maxwell declined, saying he'd rather stay at home in George Washington.

South Carolina will hardly have time to nurse the bruises received from Georgia's sophomores before they leave to clash with Davidson's Wildcats next Saturday. Last year, the Cadets scored a 2-0 win in Bluefield.

These boys are taking 11S. Aviation Club, laying plans for meetings. University of Illinois alumni news reports say 20 percent of shrubs and lawns on the campus use 15,000 gallons of water daily.

A wind tunnel with air speeds up to 100 miles an hour is being built at the University of Santa Clara.

Look! Life! 1940 graduates are employed in work of their choice.

Scientists at Kansas State College are raising cattle on a diet that substitutes powdered limestone for alfalfa.

Only six out of thirty members return to Davidson this year.

Plans are being laid for a Girls' Day which will be held some weekend during the football season. Neither the girls' college nor the date has yet been determined. Thus far, the active duties of the club have been limited to the entertainment of the visiting athletic teams.

Barnwell, who is from Charleston, is a member of the fraternity. Joe Wooten of Memphis, Tennessee belongs to Phi Delt, and John Frederick and Herb Rainey of New Jersey are members of Sigma Phi Epsilon.

The Aviation Club, created at Davidson last year, has been delayed because of lack of interest. Those interested in flying are requested to see Ken Colkitt, president of the organization, or Gordon Herton, secretary.

WHITE DRUG CO.

YOU WILL BE DELIGHTED EATING HERE—
Special Savory Steaks
Sandwiches — Meals
LITTLE PEP
"YOUR CAFE"

To see members of last year’s active organization have returned. Members of the club were granted reduced rates for flying during the last year. Several boys began flying as a result of interest created through the group.

The major objectives are specifically to secure a C.A.A. Training Course here at Davidson, and to create an interest in aviation here generally. Although attempts at organization this year have so far not attracted many students, the work of the club will continue.

Chesterfield has all the qualities that smokers like best—that’s why it’s called the smoker's cigarette. Smoke after smoke and pack after pack, they give you more pleasure. Chesterfields are made of the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.

SUSANNE TURNER, MARY STEELE, and JEAN DONNELLY, members of the Women Flyers of America.

MORE AND MORE... AMERICA SMOKES THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES.

Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.