Wed., March 20, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of the Week

George Marsh, Sophomore: Among the students, the question of the chapel programs has always been a point of controversy. We
all realize that if we do not derive something helpful from our morning devotionals, there is no real value in
having them. I, for one, have thought that the YMCA devotionals for the past few days have been especially well
prepared and presented. Also, I believe the student body has had a favorable reaction toward them. They have been concise
and to the point. The students have received some value from them, and I believe the services would be more
orderly and better if we should continue to have this type of program.

Tad Larkin, Sophomore: If a man is going to take the responsibility of conducting chapel services, he certainly owes it
to himself and to the student body to conduct the service well. These last few services have shown what a
little thought can do toward making a better service.

Pat Hobson, Junior: The recent series have certainly had a more deeply religious atmosphere associated with them. This, of course,
has been due to the subject treated and partly to the novelty of the presentation. Our chapel services in the
future would be enriched if there were more of these services; however, I would not advocate replacing entirely our regular
devotionals with them, for often one has something to say and would not like to be limited to a special
topic.

James McDuffie, Junior: Undoubtedly, our chapel services are usually the most irreverent of their kind one would imagine, but under
the circumstances, you don’t wonder why. This present setup of chapel exercises was well covered at the last group discussion,
and many faults were pointed out. Some step toward a change or revision to break the monotony of things is
at this time essential for the future success of these devotions. This new type of service seems to be furthering
this end more than anything so far, and in so far that it is doing that, it is doubtless worthwhile.
The trouble, I think, with the majority of chapel talks is that most or many of the speakers seem to
think a revolution will result from their talks. If we are going to have chapel at all, it should be
done right, and quiet, thoughtful devotions should be held.

George Milne, Senior: Any special effort to improve the attitude of worship is welcome, but it is necessary not only
for the leaders to be prepared but also for the participants. The next step is to completely divorce the worship
services from the student body meetings. Nevertheless, the present services have been a vast improvement in the right direction. We
just need to keep working.

Walter Kyle, Freshman: I believe this type of chapel is very constructive and that we should have more of it.
I think that we should always have music with the prayer or at least more often, as I am sure
we all found this adding greatly to the worshipful atmosphere as well as to the beauty of the service.

Sam Vickory, Junior: The chapel services for the last week have been much more helpful to me than the ones
that have been conducted previous to this date, and I, for one, would like to see the idea kept up,
perhaps with a little more quiet music and more times of silent prayer and worship. By all means, keep up
this more meaningful worship service. At a season of the year when religious thought is being directed toward one specific
theme, it seems quite appropriate that our chapel programs point in that direction. While too much of this would tend
to lead to monotony, planned programs can do much to enrich the significance of such seasons in the year.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”East Fourth Street, Charlotte, N. C.

This church is one of the projects of the Y. M. C. A., and each year a graduate of Davidson
is employed as pastor. There is also an assistant pastor who is a Davidson senior. Other members of the student
body serve as teachers in the Sunday School.

Jack Davidson, from Swannanoa, N. C., has worked on this project for the past three years.

Old German songs and “rounds” had been sung.

WE SERVE DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND SHORT ORDERS AT ALL TIMES
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
JIM’S TAVERN
Davidson, N. C.

R. Withers of the

1940

IF YOU'RE AN AVERAGE COLLEGE CO-ED YOU SPEND 176 HOURS OR 49 DAYS BEFORE A MIRROR DURING YOUR 4 COLLEGE
YEARS! AND IF YOU'RE AN AVERAGE COLLEGE MAN YOU NOW KNOW THE REASON FOR THOSE “LONG WAITS”.

Campus In Cartoon

AMONG THE GREEKS

Phi Delta Theta
Brothers Ludlum and Kenyon are still on their respective debating trips, Ludlum to the South and Kenyon up Nawth. Brothers
Rudolph and McLean journeyed to their homes in W.-ville, while Brother Boykin went to Anderson, S. C. Brother Slick MacKinnon
had as a week-end guest his cousin, Benny MacKinnon from Maxton.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brothers MacDonald, Wine, and Hoover attended the dances at W. C. and in Greensboro. Brother Coltrane was present at the
races in Pinehurst. Brothers Shelton, McElwee, and Scott returned to their homes in Statesville and spent Saturday night in Kannapolis.
Jim went to Greenville. Brother Anderson visited in Greenville. Brothers Pollock, Brooks, Overby, Reeves, and Monger spent the weekend in
the northern part of South Carolina. Brothers Henderson and Parsons went to Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C. Visitors to
the Sunday night feed were Jessamine Boyce and Frieda Myers of Gastonia, and Zoe Strawn and Catherine Wilkerson of Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brothers Hector McLean, George Youngblood, Tom Crighton, and Woodall spent the weekend in Charlotte at the home of John Belk.
Charlie Watt also spent the weekend in Charlotte with Ansley. Brother Lacy Campbell was slightly injured in an accident in
Charlotte Saturday night.

Professors
The professors are making as varied plans as their aspiring students. One ambitious couple is planning to tour Florida. Another
is going mountain wandering in search of more winter—which the average student finds hard to fathom. But did college boys
ever understand professors? And lest we forget, there is a professor who is going west for a convention of his
profession.

Phi Club Holds Short Debate
Authority On Ney May Speak At Next Meeting
The Philanthropic Literary Society held a short meeting last Tuesday night at 7:15 o'clock. Lawson Withers presided over the meeting,
which consisted of short impromptu talks, a short debate, and a discussion of the future. Talks were given by Ralph
Clontz, Joel Whittom, Ed Shewmaker, and John Brady. The question for debate was, “Resolved, that the United States should take
military action outside the Americas.” The affirmative side was presented by Johnny Clark and Joe Hopper, and the negative side
was given by Hank Crine and Davidson. A discussion then ensued on Mr. Legette Blythe, whom the members hope to
secure for the next meeting. Mr. Blythe, who is on the staff of the Charlotte Observer, is an authority on
Marshall Ney.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Brother Galbreath and Brother Edwards visited with Pledge Cobb at his home in Winston-Salem. Saturday the three dated at W.
C. Brother Legerton and Tarleton visited the Friendly City over the weekend. Brothers Turner, Harbin, and Bell dated at Queens
Saturday night. Mark J. Wilkins, traveling secretary of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, visited with the chapter over the weekend. The
chapter is proud to announce the following were initiated into the fraternity recently: Clarence Anderson, Ed Erwin, Bill Crosse, Frank
Lee, B. F. Moore, Stuart Rogers, Ivey Stewart, George Tate.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, Charlotte, N. C.
415 S. Tryon St.

PAUL & CRYMES
ALL SPORTING GOODS
Charlotte, N. C.
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Major Bowes “ALL GIRL REVUE” (Each Winner) 25 best and talented girls, ALL GIRL ORCHESTRA
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Garland Court
Sunline

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Dial 6300
Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte Big Boy Drink
BIG BOY COLA “Because It’s Better”
Try PEP - UP “A Mighty Mixer”
Bottlers, Inc.
