Page Two . THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., April 25, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

A Story

Once upon a time there was a man named Jim Jones, or he might have been called John Smith. He liked the usual things, and disliked just as many: Sometimes he was happy; then he smiled. Sometimes he was not; then he frowned. On sunny, clear Saturdays he played golf, or fished, or just loafed at home after work. On rainy Mondays (and on most sunny Mondays) he had the blues.

1938 4 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

He did his share of griping, and now and then spoke a brief (very brief) word of praise—if he didn't have anything else to say. When something new came in he was around the first to try it, and then to criticize it. If a different idea was making the rounds he immediately took it up, became wildly enthusiastic, and then forgot it. When a plan was presented, he was among the first to endorse it. His enthusiasm lasted a few days, and then his business became too heavy for him to bother with.

When he had a task to do he always set out to make a good start right away. Often other business forced postponement of that thing, but hurried and incomplete work usually finished it in the nick of time, for which he was sincerely thankful, and vowed never to procrastinate again.

Ever so often he became disgusted with his life, and began a complete overhauling of it, but that usually stopped before he became too tired. Once in a great while he did make a sacrifice, such as the time he vowed to save money by refraining from eating pickled hogs eyes.

He was a very liberal fellow. He believed in all the latest philosophies and ideas, but never liked to apply them to his own family. His radical tendencies were very apparent, but deep inside he knew he would always be a conservative, which is probably why he tried not to be. He liked to direct his course as he saw fit, but soon realized that he must also live according to the principles set down by others.

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion—such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Who Does His Best...

On Monday, last, new student body, class, and various other officers took over for the coming school year, amidst various speeches, comments, jokes, and thanks to those whom they succeed. Many were the promises of faithfulness, realization of responsibility, and determination to build toward better things in all respects.

Approximately one year ago a different group was saying somewhat the same things. Now they have handed over the symbols of office, plus the duties and responsibilities of the same. Their responsibilities, woes, hopes, recognition, and accomplishments have been varied. Some have traveled by harder ways than others. Some have received unearned praise, and some undeserved criticism. To some has come the reward of seeing the curtain fall on a job well done. To others the end has meant things left undone.

The majority has been faithful towards those who put them in their positions. Some few have not. But for the greater part, the various officers and leaders have done a good job, maybe not the best, but as well as has been possible. To this group on the thanks and commendation of the student body.

New responsibilities always seem too great, else they are not worth having. Unless a man may profit by his position, he should not have it. And this profit that may come to the man is dependent on the quantity and quality of that which he puts into his particular task. That old, but true, axiom still applies—“One gains only as one gives.”

Accomplishment is measured in various ways. To too many it means the actual results, or the lack of them. But every person should not be judged on the same set basis. Talents are always unequally divided. Judgment should be on a basis of relative ability—on the amount possible for each person. If, at this time next year, it can be said “He did his absolute best,” then the highest tribute has been given. Honor to the man who does the best, but the highest honor is reserved for him who does his best.

Therefore, as plans are laid for the coming year, we welcome Shaw Smith, and express the hope that through his life and work, along with that of a well-balanced group of leaders, Davidson’s YMCA may grow in strength, influence, and service.

Letters To The Editor

THE BARRACKS

Dear Andy:

Now that Duke Dormitory has been completed, it seems to me that North and South could finally be torn down. These “barracks” were originally put up only for temporary purposes. Of course certain improvements have been added over the years, but they are still rickety and are certainly an eyesore to the campus. We all feel proud to show Davidson to visitors, until we come to the “barracks,” and then always the emergency of their erection or some other weak excuse is put forward.

The administration has intended to tear down the “barracks” for years; why can’t they do it this summer? Of course there would necessarily be 25 or so fewer students than normally, but Davidson is tending to grow too large anyway. We still want our school small enough so that everyone will know everyone else. If necessary, the library might be turned into a small dormitory, but that is not the point. We want to be proud of the looks and equipment of our school, and we certainly cannot be until North and South are torn down.

—B. L.

CHOOSING AN ALMA MATER

Dear Andy:

In looking over the copy tonight I noticed what Hoss Reeves and Billy Masters had to say about a new Alma Mater for Davidson. I'd like to take this opportunity to say that I agree with them, and their idea. Davidson has too long been without a real Alma Mater. Any other school of this size and reputation would have a suitable Alma Mater, which has become traditional, and is known and loved. We should select a song this year; while the problem is familiar to the entire student body. If there is no selection made, then next year’s freshman class again will learn “O, Davidson!” partly as a football song, and partly as an Alma Mater, which seems to me to be a very unsatisfactory arrangement. Now is the time to make a choice. It is better to have no song than to have one which is not suitable. But let’s have one or the other.

—BOB CARTER.

(Editor's note: One anonymous letter was received this week. As no name was signed, and the editor had no way of finding who wrote it, it was impossible to print it. If the writer will come by, we will be glad to explain. Again let us say that names will be withheld from print, but the editor must know them).

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

Before catching all the latest on the wheelings, dealings, squealings, and hook-sliding that took place this past weekend, we hope that the students will give their cooperation to Bosco and the boys, on their deliverance of a wonderful climax to the social life of the seniors. Apie has given you all the straight dope on Johnny Long and his company of fine musicians, who are to play for the Spring Frolics, so there is nothing else to be said, but we'll see you at the dances.

Colonel Moonglow Gladden, pilot, with the aid of General Houston set the flashy blue in the ether, and headed for Clemson only to find a full aggregation of notables with it.

Film Report Card
By DAVID

Thursday and Friday
April 25 & 26

“Grapes of Wrath”: Henry Fonda, Jane Warnell, John Carradine, Charlie Grapewin.

If you have the idea that this entire story centersaround the Joad; jobs among the orange groves of California. Here they are driven from place to place by sheriffs and mobsters. All the human sufferings of life are shown as they wander in a futile search. Henry Fonda plays the part of Tom Joad while Jane Darnell plays the part of Ma Joad. For a startling reality of “Viva Cisco Kid:” Cesar Romero, Jean Rogers, and Minor Watson. Cesar Romero and Jean Rogers combine to give us one of the best Westerners in a long time. Out of a family from Oklahoma, they leave the Dust Bowl in a vain search for a better life.

Given a chance to go on his own, George Murphy has really proven his ability as a top tap dancer. Murphy, who is only a hoofer, meets Joan Blondell, an Indiana dance teacher, and forms a partnership with her. Finally given a chance on a coast-to-coast hook-up, they prove their ability as top-flight dancers. At once they leave for New York and carry with them Lana Turner, who falls fast for George but, in an effort to keep from hurting Joan's feelings, accepts a ring from a wealthy nightclub owner. This movie is glamorous and entertaining, set in a Hollywood setting. We suggest that you pass it up.

Operator No. 4, alias Wild Bill Ross, was in full regalia with his staff of Little Joe Currie, Luther Anderson, and that four-breakfast man, Keyhole Browning. The one submarine Commander (Vereen) submerging on the beautiful sofa with one of the army boy's dates. What three tourists were seen early Sunday A.M. in a ’28 green Ford convertible sedan, at a filling station in Mt. Mourne buying two gallons of gas and inquiring about the distance to Richmond?

The rumor goes that Judge Grantham was at the wheel with his dark glasses facing the morning sun. Have you heard the final misfortune of a blowout? Lucky you guys did not have any local dolls or the mothers would not have believed you. Admiral Stevenson, commanding U.S.S. Tavern, with the crew of Winters, Lauck, Cooky-boy King, Sproull (M.D.), and Limpy Turner, parked their boat, put on skates, and were off on the rinks. Slick Fick was locked in the front seat with ex-college boy Cooper Adams and the latter's date, a very pretty young maid of just 40 donning glasses, with Jo Hipp, Bone Reinhardt, and his lock, consisting of a babe of 12, and a sailor from the U.S.S. Wyoming, held the back firmly in place. The above went to a hot dance at the Carolina Club which had a band of four pieces, a broken drum, a car horn, a siren, and a trombone.

Plyler and Richmond, incorporated, took over the bowling alley along with its tables and cigarette stand. The only man who has ever slipped through the Citadel's iron bars. The next night, after investigating the noises coming from C. D. A. room, we spied Kenyon drooling as usual at Winthrop, while the other half, Ludlam, paid B’s a visit in Lynchburg. Ed Watson was about when he suddenly changed his mind on seeing his girl emerge on the arm of his strongest competitor. Ballard and Herring won first place among the prom trotters as they attended Duke, Greensboro this weekend. 

Lucas and Robinson had their introduction to the boxing world up at the deal in Greensboro when they appeared as referees to a tremendous bout. Frog Bell was also on the scene acting as part-time trumpet player, drummer, and head signal-master. Boyd was nicely bouncing all over the campus, especially in a certain club. The hottest is that Beacon Bahnson and Sophie Walker got along very well at the S. A. E. hayride. The S. P. E. Ball in Raleigh must have been a fine affair judging from the reports we receive. Casali, McDaniels, etc., headed the operations there. Last but not least we have Balsley, Colvin, Werner, and Hendrick at the Salem dance where Harry was cut by Jim Dorsett. Having trouble, Harry?

(Editor’s note: This column was written by two juniors this week. If there are any other juniors who would like to take a crack at it, let us know before Saturday noon. A columnist for next year will be selected soon).

“Beyond Tomorrow”: Charlie Ruggles, Richard Carlson, Jean Parker, Harry Carey, and Aubrey Smith. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of diversion, they plant two pocketbooks on the sidewalk outside. One is returned by a girl, Jean Parker, the other by a boy, Richard Carlson. From there on, the three old men try to play the part of fate and stage manage the youthful pair. This interest carries on after death in heaven, which may or may not agree with your idea of heaven. This is a movie about life after death. It centers around three old cronies who live in an old home beside a main street. By way of