Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 - Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ANDY DALE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bomlarger Assistant Editor
John Bales Associate Editor
Ed Watson Associate Editor
Lawson Withers Associate Editor
Dick Cobb Managing Editor
Harwell Darby Managing Editor
Rob Garvey Managing Editor
Wm. Burkett Managing Editor
Bob Carter Sports Editor
Bob Williams Assistant Sports Editor
Angus Lytch Movie Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Codington Business Manager
Fred Brown Asst. Business Manager
Jack Covington Advertising Manager
Fred Tuttle Advertising Manager
Collection Manager
Circulation Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

The Davidsonian extends its deepest sympathies to Joe Shelton in the recent loss of his father.

No Political Interest

Interest in campus politics seems to be at the lowest ebb in years at the present time. Elections have been run off so smoothly and efficiently under the new set-up under the control of an Elections Board, that the usual things which cause general comment and argument are lacking for the first time. Thus far we have not heard any rumors of “dirty politics,” or of politics at all. While many doubted the virtues of the new system, the test of use has proved that the Elections Board can and does do away with many of the evils of elections under the “closed” system. The ideal of this system is every man voting as he sees fit, with no outside influence on his vote. While this method may fail to bring the qualifications of certain candidates before the voter's mind, it certainly does away with swapping votes, and open solicitation of votes for a certain man or group. So far the elections have been run off with a minimum of these things but also with a minimum of interest. Of course the candidates and the groups with which they happen to be directly connected are interested, but general interest and concern is lacking. This is not as it should be. Naturally students do not control school policies and standards, but they do determine the vital character of the student body which composes the school. These elected leaders influence and help determine policies of the student body, and because these elected men are to be in such a position, it seems plausible that there should be a great deal of interest as to whom the offices should go to.

However, there appears to be no remedy for the lack of interest. As long as elections go on under the present system Davidson will have cleaner politics, and this is certainly better for a school of this type. If lack of student interest goes along with this, so be it. But how much better would it be if the student body was concerned about the outcome of each election. Perhaps this would draw out a few more votes, so that a man would be elected by a majority of most of the student body, instead of by a majority of the few interested, plus the few more who happen to pass the polls during the day. Let’s wake up! Find out what’s going on, and why. Use your vote, and be concerned as to who shall be our leaders.

Interfraternity Sing

Spring’s return brings to mind the interfraternity sing which was proposed last fall. Since that time there have been no evident preparations for such an event, although it was then stated a “sing” would be held during the spring semester, with a suitable trophy going to the fraternity judged best. There seems to be no very powerful argument as to why Davidson should have such a thing, and the school has gotten along very well in the past without one. However, at various other schools these songfests are held yearly, attended by great interest and long preparation on the part of the participants. It appears to us that this would be a tradition well worth starting, something which could be built up into a big thing. There would be no material value derived, and many would regard such doings as sentimental nonsense, but we believe the majority of students would welcome an interfraternity sing. From observation we believe that most students like to sing—at least to try. If this is true, then a “sing” would provide recognition for the various groups, and should become a worthwhile tradition. With the sponsorship of the Senior class, ODK or some similar organization, it could not fail to go over. There is no pressing need for it, but it would be another bright spot in a sometimes dull year, and would furnish a goal for the singers to work toward. Proper handling should develop it into a widely anticipated, yearly event, and become a vital part of Davidson tradition.

With The Staff

LET’S THINK!

In its interesting analysis of the hows, whys and whens of automobile accidents in 1937, The Travelers Insurance Company has published some revealing figures relating to pedestrian deaths. With fatalities and injuries to pedestrians rising at an alarming rate, the figures are worth the attention of every individual. Nearly 28 per cent of the deaths, the figures indicate, resulted from the obviously unsafe habit many walkers have of crossing in the middle of the block. Of the 27.5 per cent or a total of 4,450 pedestrians killed while crossing at intersections, only 280 met death while crossing, as they should, with the signal. No less than 1,100 died when they attempted to cross against the signal light or the officer’s signal. The remainder were killed while crossing diagonally in the intersection.

FRESHMAN CONDUCT

Has there ever been anything on your mind that you wanted to say publicly at Davidson, and that you never quite dared to? Have you ever changed your entire outlook on a subject because it was an unpopular outlook among the student body? This mass opinion is a dangerous thing, but it can be turned to happier channels. When the time comes for gathering replies to the Question of the Week, we see the darker side of a narrowed thinking. If the first two answers come in negatively, the remaining ones will be in the same vein. There are some few exceptions among our student body who will take the side of the underdog, but they are so grossly outnumbered as to be practically inconsequential. For this reason of uniformity, the great number of our readers are likely merely to skim over the Question of the Week after having the collected dope from Apie’s column. Every now and then someone gets up in chapel in support of an unpopular issue and this brave person sincerely tries to make the fellow students see his conviction. What are his results? He is booed down by a goodly number of students, or if the response is milder, he is politely ignored by practically everyone. How can we be subject to many changes if we keep in this rut? This year seems to have brought forth a few changes, which seem to be definite improvements. This has been due to the student body’s acceptance in a small part of what started out to be the opinion of a minority. Let’s let this spirit of ready listening increase itself daily among all six hundred or so of us! It cannot be denied that “mob feeling” can accomplish good things. Our honor system seems to rest on this spirit. Many freshmen come here from schools where cheating was considered great sport, only to find it frowned upon by the majority of our Davidson gentlemen. This realization is obliged to work hasty changes in the freshman’s outlook, and he can feel a beginning of the spirit that, if we permit it, can tend to dull our creative senses. We come to accept and admire everything that is handed down to us, good or bad, never stopping to judge whether or not it is suitable to our own personalities.

Why all of this column of “With the Staff?” After hearing complaints all evening of the poor response to the question sent out this week, something inside rebels again at the uniformity that pervades our thought as we pass our years at Davidson. It is not the fault of this particular student body; there are indeed few schools of Davidson’s small enrollment that do not have this condition, manifold. The larger universities seem to foster greater variety of thought and action, but a survey of small schools will doubtless prove that a majority of them exist under the same circumstances as does Davidson. Someday the larger percentage of the students here today will be faced with re-

[Continued on Page Six]

Dear Andy:

As freshmanI would like to comment a bit upon the slam of the Freshman Class by two of the Class of '40 in Letters to the Editor last week. Our conduct in Chapel most certainly is not everything it should be.

Letters To The Editor

or while crossing at intersections where there was no signal. Other leading causes of pedestrian deaths, in order of their importance, were: walking on rural highways, children playing in the street, coming into the street from behind a parked car, men at work in the roadway, and hitching rides. — Lemmond, Buddy-Roe, and Ross. Incidentally, word drifts back that Bill was “drooling” with Pony at the La Petite. And speaking of dances, I don't believe that we all fully appreciate the band that the Pan-Hell boys finally secured for us. Johnny Long at the price he is offered to the student body is far more than a bargain. While this is his first trip South in some time, his popularity in Boston’s Statler Hotel and New York's Roosevelt is unsurpassed.

NEW LIBRARY SITE

Dear Andy:

Now that the money has been raised for the new library, the next thing seems to be the selection of a building site. Thus far no definite place has been announced, but the campus is thick with rumors that it is to be placed flush with the roadway running by the outside of Fraternity Court. These may be just rumors, but they may be fact. The building could be placed far enough up in the lot so as not to be directly in front of the fraternity houses; that is, so that the library will not absolutely cut off the view of the three houses on that side of the court. It does not seem reasonable that the administration would see fit to place the library too close to these houses, but until the location is announced, it will seem very possible to those concerned. We hope the administration will keep these things in mind when deciding on the site.

BILLY ROGERS, '43.

The writers of this letter seem to think that it is the job of the freshmen to stand out by acting like gentlemen in Chapel. As I understand the situation, it is the function of the seniors to set an example for the rest of the school, particularly freshmen, to follow. Such an example has not been forthcoming. It is only natural that freshmen coming into a school copy the actions of the upperclassmen. The purpose of the Court Control is to keep the freshmen in order. The class can't be blamed because the Court is too impotent to see the matter through. As far as speaking on the campus is concerned, I think freshmen have been quick to catch on to this Davidson tradition and make it as regular a practice as any of the upper classes. We may be acting more and more like sophomores every day, but after all, aren't we getting closer and closer to that day when we shall be sophomores?

'40, '41.

Film Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday, April 18
Jane Withers and Robert Lowry. Gene Autry again plays the part of a singing cowboy in a western that is packed with action and excitement. Jane Withers adds much to the show as she sings, rides, and gives a general all-round performance.

"Swiss Family Robinson": Thomas Mitchell, Freddie Bartholomew, and Edna Best. An old and lovable childhood classic is brought to the screen with Thomas Mitchell playing the part of the father and Edna Best portraying the mother. The wealthy watchmaker takes his family out of London, during the Napoleonic days, in an effort to bring his four children up right. While they are at sea, a storm arises and leaves them shipwrecked upon a desert island. The mother tries to make the boys live as they did in London but is finally won over to the life on the island.

Friday, April 19
"Vigil In The Night": Carole Lombard and Brian Aherne. Carole Lombard sets out to do honor to the profession which she has chosen for her life’s work, that of nursing. Many obstacles have to be overcome by her in order to lead the life she wishes. Among them are plagues, bad people, and an unruly sister, Anne Shirley. Many a scene is stolen by Anne from Carole as they wage a friendly war. Brian Aherne plays the part of a young and good-looking doctor.

Saturday, April 20
"Shooting High": Gene Autry.

Monday and Tuesday, April 22 and 23
"Johnny Apollo": Tyrone Power, Dorothy Lamour, and Edward Arnold. Not since "Jesse James" has Tyrone had such a role. Johnny was looked upon by the law as a vicious killer breed—but only as a hurt and embittered boy in the eyes of his girl who desperately loved him. She attempts to make him reason and also to prove to the world that he was a good boy who had gotten a wrong start. Dorothy Lamour adds glamour and action to the story as she reveals more of her allure than ever.

Wednesday, April 24
"And One Was Beautiful": Robert Cummings, Lorraine Day, and Jean Murry. Although this picture has a two-star rating by "Movie Guide", we were unable to find any information about it. However, it is known to be a very romantic and entertaining picture.

Garvey, for some inexplicable reason, has his heart intent upon seeing Peggy Sadler's name in print. Saturday night with just such a fine... Karl Hudson and Oglesby were in the Queen City with Margaret Wood and Joy Paxton respectively. Hudson continued toward a more perfect weekend when in company with Pony Montoc, specifically, and Sam and Margery Toole generally spent a pleasant time in Montreat. Jimmy Houston isn’t handing out much dope on just why he has become so interested in Erskine and Due West. With the introduction of three Mooresville misses on the campus Monday night, Dick Hudson transferred his attentions from Cornelius and along with Balsley and Claude Hackney took an interest in the Spring. And in parting, thanks to all you fellows who have been struggling with this column for me.

Compassing The Campus

Guest Columnist: Horace Blutz

Wistful whispering of a Whiteville Whizzer or the art of Cony-Catching as carried out by one of a notable covey of Converse cuties: Step one in this stag-baiting episode is of course the attraction and the concentration of the unsuspecting victim’s mental and physical facilities to herself by the cutie. Each individual set of girls at the aforementioned institution seems to have its own rules and maxims for selected Cony. That which follows comes from the Memoirs of a Captured Converse Cony. The baiting in his case was accomplished thusly: the Cony being from a notably swampy country and therefore not used to the high altitudes of the Spartan City, is made more susceptible to the cutie’s wiles by a natural ethereal intoxication. He swaggers into La Riffe-Raffle Salle a manger and begins to thread his way toward a seat with ideas of procuring and masticating a frankfurter. The actual assault begins during the first few paces of this seemingly unfateful journey. The first volley is fired point-blank by the cutie in the very effective manner of a twenty-gun ocular salute. The carefree Cony is dropped dead in his tracks by this dazzling dental display. Faltering in mid-stride he sees immediately his possibility of approach in a conveniently placed nickelodeon which is within very close speaking distance of her. Little does he know that this is her planned means of engaging the prey. She carefully ignores our heroic Whizzer as he saunters over and contemplates the list of records, but as he withdraws from his pocket a handful of small change she whirls around, having detected out of the corner of her eye the gleam of the specie, and says (quote) "Would you mind too much if I asked you to play number ten? It's Charlie Barnett’s Cherokee." (unquote) Our Hero, figuring this his cue to look impressed, (although he didn't know the difference between "Moonlight Serenade" and "Turkey In the Straw") politely says: "Sho!" while nodding his head in a knowing way. He inserts his five cent piece and proceeds to put the remainder of his change in his pocket at which instance she invites him over to join her in a coke. Now that the Cony is snared, the cutie proceeds into the second phase known as “Advancing the Attack.” It is in this phase that the now useless equipment used in the approach march is cast aside and more effective armament unlimbered. She adroitly steers the conversation into such channels as will boost the already aroused ego of our hero—stoking her imagination with the Cony’s cigarettes, stimulating her thoughts with the numerous coca-colas, and conditioning the atmosphere with the playing of “Cherokee” time and time again. At this point our hero is feeling expansive due to her careful development and generates enough fortitude to ask her to attend the Annual Plow-Boys’ Frolic for which he has come to town. Now of course the unsuspecting Cony could not be expected to know that she had entered La Riffe-Raffle Salle a Manger for the express resolution of obtaining a consort for this Agrarian Ball. She has her answer ready and fires a demure acceptance, but later finds that she can't go to the dance after all so he is to date her in La Riffe that night. Naturally the two-block stroll from La Riffe to the dorm is too long for the militant cutie to perambulate, so the Wistful Whizzer contracts Mr. Clark (facsimile of Ben Beal) to transport the little beauty home, at which time several friends emerge from an adjoining booth to bear her company. During this interval between rendezvous, the cutie rushes dormitory-wards to pretty, polish, and paint, while our enamored swain repairs to replenish the depleted exchequer. As she enters the parlor at school that night, the spectacle of her beauty so inundates him that he has to grab a parlor pole for support. This phase is called “Attack with the Bayonet” in the military. When our hero can navigate again, they depart once more for La Riffe-Raffle. As it has been fully half an hour since she has heard “Cherokee”, she desires to hear same again immediately. This accomplished, they secure a strategic booth next to the jook-organ from which the cutie can command a view of all new-comers at some distance. As each new male saunters in, she smiles, waves, or gesticulates without exception. Finally it occurs to the whitewashed Whiz that the only way he can hold a part of her attention is to provide ample supplies of music, cokes, gum, etc., etc. The evening passes thus delightfully and our warrior being fully assured as to the latent possibilities of the young lady, asks her permission to bear her attendance at some later date. Such permission is freely and enthusiastically granted. In this happy frame of mind, the Whiz attends the almost forgotten Plow-Boys’ Ball at which he blissfully...

(Continued on Page Six)