Tap-Day ODK Holds Spring

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

Che Mabidsontan

LIBERTAS

New ‘Y’ Cabinet Appointed

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1940 No. 28

Ed Watson Chooses Fourteen To Become New YMCA Cabinet — Old and New Cabinets Discuss Next Year’s Plans At Joint Meeting

WEDNESDAY NIGHT

One New Department May Be Added For 1940-41

Ed Watson, President of the Y.M.C.A., Monday night announced the 1940-41 cabinet. This new cabinet will consist of Hank Bahnson, Bill Boyle, Paul Brown, Crane Eldridge, Bob Finley, Boyd Flynn, Casey Jones, Bob Johnson, Bill Loftin, Jim Owens, Charlie Watt, Ralph Williams, Albert Winn, and Lawson Withers.

Cabinets Meet

A meeting of the old and new cabinets was held last Wednesday night at the home of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle. This meeting took the form of a business session, followed by a social hour. This is an annual custom, which always takes place at the home of the Arbuckles. Dr. Arbuckle is known as the “Father of Davidson’s Y. M. C. A.,” having been President of the Y Board of Control for many years, and actively engaged in this work for over twenty-five years.

Organization

Deputations for next year will be in charge of Bill Loftin, of the senior class. Paul Crane, also of the senior class, will direct the chapel services. Charlie Watt of the junior class will head the Sunday school work. Bob Finley, Freshman Advisor, will be in charge of all freshman work. Jim Owens, of the senior class, has vespers and church relations in his charge. Bill Boyle will take World Evangelism as his task. Ralph Williams and Bob Johnson will be heads of the Spiritual Development end. Boyd Flynn is head of social life. Casey Jones and Al Winn will work with Boys Work again. Lawson Withers, Editor of the Handbook, will direct the publications of the YMCA. Hank Bahnson, as President of the Student Body, will represent the group on the Cabinet. A new department — the Community Service — which will include colored work, Red Cross, tuberculosis seal sales, etc., will be headed by Eldridge Brown of the rising senior class. There is a possibility of one more department being created which will be along the lines of vocational guidance. In the event that this work is created, an additional member will be elected to the cabinet.

J. L. Ballard Leaves ROTC

New Post Is In California National Guard

Major James L. Ballard received notice of a transfer during the past week from the Davidson College military department to the California National Guard which is stationed at Los Angeles, Calif. This transfer will take effect in the early summer. The order read as follows, “By direction of the President, Major James L. Ballard, Infantry, is relieved from assignment and duty at Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, effective in time to comply with this order, and detailed for duty as instructor, Infantry, California National Guard, with station at Los Angeles, California. At the proper time he will proceed to New York, New York, and sail on the transport scheduled to leave that port on or about August 23, 1940,” for the west coast. Major Ballard stated, “that though he hated to leave Davidson College, he had served his customary four-year period here and must answer the call of duty elsewhere.” Dr. Lingle expressed his disappointment in the loss of Major Ballard, “both as a military instructor and also as a gentleman.”

Science Meet Begins Friday

Academy Of Sciences Gathers For 39th Session

North Carolina’s Academy of Science will hold its thirty-ninth annual meeting here tomorrow and Saturday, bringing professors of science from all over the state to the Davidson campus. The first meeting of the conclave, which is sponsored jointly by the Academy of Science and the North Carolina Section of the American Chemical Society, will be a general session at 9 o'clock Friday morning in Shearer Hall. The program will follow with a second general session in the banquet hall. A business meeting, dinner, and evening session in Chambers Auditorium will complete the official program for the day. Davidson’s Quadwranglers’ Club, a local faculty organization, will sponsor, in cooperation with the science department, a reception in the banquet hall, following the Friday evening session.

Sectional Meetings

Sectional meetings on individual sciences will be the feature of the program Saturday morning. Starting at 9:30, the chemical society will hold its official sessions. There will also be a meeting of high school science teachers at 10 o'clock. Numbers of papers on many different subjects are to be read by scientists from all over the state. The principal address of the meeting will be delivered at the Friday night session by Dr. H. L. Blomquist of Duke, president of the academy. His subject will be “Grasses and Man.” Many exhibits from commercial laboratories and the museum, and exhibits from high schools will be displayed. Delegates will vote to name the winning schools entering the state finals. Schools in the exhibit are Buies Creek, Hayesville, High Point, and Salisbury. The convention will close at the end of the sectional meetings Saturday morning.

New ODK Members

The twelve men tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity at chapel Monday were: Bob Ludlam, of Meridian, Miss.; John Jones, of Norfolk; Jim Kellogg, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; Neal Scott, of Goldsboro; Bennett Hogg, of Pittsburgh, Pa.; James Harrison, of Milan, Tenn.; and Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class. The juniors tapped are: Frank Caldwell, Matt Long, Joe McCoy, George Grantham, and Don Bell.

Senior-Faculty Day

Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class, has announced that the date of the annual Senior-Faculty Day will be on Tuesday, May 14. On that day, members of the senior class and of the faculty will compete in various sports, such as tennis, baseball, and golf. The day will end with a barbecue on the golf course in the evening. The day is always looked forward to by underclassmen as well as seniors and faculty members, because of the fun it provides and the closer relations created between the faculty and student body.

Glamorous gals, Johnny Long, a young moon, and more gals featured the final set of Spring Dances presented by Bosco Marton and his Pan-Hellenic mates last weekend. Consisting of two tea dances and two night dances, the set was given at the Charlotte Armory. The Friday tea dance was turned into a concert when everyone stopped dancing and listened to the music and features of Johnny Long's orchestra. Local talent Neil Whitlock and Joe Barnwell shone at the drums, while Claude Hackney warbled several vocal numbers. Adding sweetness to Long's music was Helen Young, charming vocalist of the orchestra. Jack Edmundson and the trio also contributed to the vocal specialties.

Approximately 200 couples were present. The crests of the sponsoring fraternities were displayed. Saturday night's informal dance was featured by a display of much local talent. 

Dick Arnold Named Judge Court Of Control

Dick Arnold has been named Judge and Jay Bolin, Recorder of the Court of Control for next year. In a meeting of the newly elected seniors on the student council, Dick Arnold, Jay Bolin, George Grantham, Bob Reinhardt, Don Bell, Frank Caldwell, Matt Long, and Joe McCoy were chosen to manage the class of 1944. Arnold has served on the Court of Control for two years, is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, has been out for varsity football for two years, and is a clerk in the Student Store. Bolin, a Phi Gam, has had one year’s experience on the Court of Control, is a letterman in football, and has worked on the business staff of the magazine for three years. George Grantham, newly-elected president of the rising senior class, is varsity manager of the football team for next year and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Bob Reinhardt, of Phi Delta Theta, has been out for varsity baseball for two years, and has served on the Court of Control last year. Don Bell, also a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, has played both varsity football and basketball. The second rising junior member was Frank Caldwell.

Local Church Bids Farewell To Dr. Myers

Greensboro Minister Ends Series Of Addresses

Dr. Charles E. Myers, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, led the Davidson church in a series of services on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Sunday of last week. Mrs. Ferrell, also of Greensboro, was soloist at each of these meetings. This evangelistic series of services was held in connection with the Evangelistic Crusade of Presbyterian churches all year.At the Sunday morning service, several of the young people of Davidson united with the church. Although mainly for the people of Davidson, these meetings were large, with a hundred students present several times. Dr. Myers is the father of Mrs. L. E. B. Schenck, the wife of Dr. Schenck of Davidson's Bible Department. He attended Washington and Lee University for his undergraduate work and later attended seminaries in the South, as well as in other parts of the United States and abroad. Many Davidson students are familiar with “Dr. Charlie” who has led vespers here. Several years ago, he conducted the YMCA Spring Services. Several members of the church where Dr. Myers has been pastor for nearly twenty-five years are in the student body at present and were pleased with the opportunity of hearing him while away from home. The services Sunday night took the place of the regular required vespers which were omitted.

IN THIS ISSUE
ODK Tap Day 1
New ‘Y’ Cabinet 1
Court of Control Page 1
Editorials 2
Question of the Week Page 3
Among the Greeks Page 5

Seniors Make Auction Plans
By BILL LYMAN

“I'm bid two-fifty, two-fifty going, who'll give two-seventy-five, somebody bid two-seventy-five. I'm bid two-fifty on this beautiful chair, two-fifty going, going, etc., etc.” Thus will run the chant of the auctioneer at the annual Senior Auction to be held on the front porch of Georgia on Monday (May 20) at 7:30 p.m. At that time, seniors will sell old books, sports equipment, rugs, chairs, bookcases, and “what have you”—stuff that they can't use anymore. Underclassmen will get a chance to buy, and cheap too, things that they will need or can well use for the remainder of their undergraduate days. Five percent of the proceeds will be used further for a contribution towards the Senior Class Gift, one of the oldest traditions at 103-year-old Davidson. Last year was one of the few times when the custom has been omitted, but according to older Davidsonians, it’s so much fun that it should never be left out again. Besides plenty of merriment, music, and [Continued on Page Three]

Twelve Men Tapped By ODK Fraternity At Chapel Exercises
NCCPA Honors 1939 Editors
Keys Given To Managers Of Two Publications

Gold keys were awarded to editors and business managers of Scripts ‘n Pranks and Quips and Cranks of Davidson, and to heads of other student publications at a banquet Friday at Hotel Charlotte for delegates to the annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association.

Kellogg, Scott, Currie, Ludlam, and Harrison Are Seniors Chosen
SEVEN JUNIORS TAPPED
Dr. Kenneth Foreman Explains Purpose of ODK

Twelve men, including five seniors, were tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, at the annual tap-day exercises conducted by the Delta Circle in Chambers Auditorium Monday morning. The seniors tapped were Anderson Scott of Goldsboro, N.C.; Warren Ludlam of Meridian, Miss.; and Bennett Harrison of Davidson College. The juniors tapped were Henry Bahnson of Winston-Salem; Robert Finley of North Wilkesboro, N.C.; Winston Taylor of Mooresville, N.C.; William Andrew Dale of Columbia, S.C.; Edgar Watson of Charlotte, N.C.; John Raymond Jones of Atlanta, Ga.; and James Hogg of Davidson, N.C.

Tap-day exercises took the place of the regular chapel service. Faculty and student members of the Delta Circle were seated on the stage. The exercise was opened with a devotional, which was conducted by Sid Crane, after which Gales McClintock, president of the local chapter, introduced Dr. Kenneth Foreman, who explained the purpose of Omicron Delta Kappa. Following Dr. Foreman’s address, President McClintock explained to the student body the peculiar method of bidding employed by Omicron Delta Kappa. At a signal given by President McClintock, a student member of the circle would leave the platform, proceed through the audience to the person previously selected to be extended a bid, tap him, and return to the stage. A tapped student would signify his acceptance by following the member to the platform, where he was welcomed into the circle and decorated with a badge.

Charlie Martin, rising senior from Winston-Salem, was elected next year’s president of the International Relations Club at a meeting last Tuesday night at the Phi Gamma Delta house. Alston Thompson, rising junior from Richmond, Va., was elected vice-president; and Frank Barker, rising senior from Kansas City, Mo., will serve as secretary-treasurer for 1940-41. A feature of the meeting was a talk by Professor Rene Williamson of the economics department on “American Foreign Policy.” Emphasis was laid on the question of isolation, with Dr. Williamson favoring a policy of intervention. After the talk, the floor was thrown open for questioning and discussion of the much-debated question. Retiring IRC officers are: Dan Gilliam, president; Hector McLean, vice-president; and Bill Loftin, secretary.

Publications Board Names New Staff Leaders

Fred Little, Gene Vereen, and Ralph Harkey have recently been chosen business managers of the three Davidson publications for next year. Fred Little, Kappa Alpha, is the new business manager of the Davidsonian. He is from Wilmington, N.C., is taking advanced ROTC, and is a member of the IRC honorary fraternity. Gene Vereen, Phi Delta Theta from Moultrie, Ga., has recently been elected vice-president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association and has been chosen as a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Ralph Harkey of Charlotte, N.C., succeeds B. B. Plyler as business manager of Scripts ‘n Pranks. He follows his brother Henry Harkey, who also served in this capacity two years ago. Business managers were chosen by the publications board composed of the six editors and business managers of this year’s publications.

Davidson's Camera Club is holding its annual Camera Club Exhibit today and tomorrow in Eumenean Hall. The exhibit will be open tonight and tomorrow afternoon and night. This collection includes forty to fifty prints from the best works of all the members of the club. Prints are classified into the following groups: portraits, landscapes, still life, snowscapes, architectural studies, and baby pictures. Most of the pictures are the works of the following members of the club: Ray Hoover, Mac Parker, Bill Barker, Lennis Banker, Ed Maxwell, Dave Coblentz, and Angus Lytch.