College To Get New Library

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 1940 No. 24

College Receives Gift Of New Library

Bahnson Elected To Honor Post

Davidson Man Chosen Vice Pres. of NCFS

Bahnson and Spencer Attend Annual Convention At Chapel Hill

Davidson’s First Year Of Active Participation

“Hank” Bahnson was elected vice-president of the North Carolina Federation of Students held in Chapel Hill last week-end, the 29th
and 30th of March. Sam Spencer and Bahnson represented Davidson at this federation, marking the first time Davidson sent delegates
since the federation began. Other offices of the federation included William Friday of N.C. State, president; Adelaide Curtis of St.
Mary’s, secretary; and Virginia Cothran of Queens, treasurer.

Delegates from all the principal colleges in North Carolina attended the convention, discussing student problems and hearing speeches from several
of the state’s educators. Hank Bahnson participated in groups on Student Government and Student Law. Several of the speakers included
Albert Coats, director of the North Carolina Institute of Government; Frank Graham, president of U.N.C.; William Aycock, former president of
N.C. Federation; Dean R. B. House of the University of N.C.; and Dean F. Bradshaw of the University of N.C.

William Dees, president of the federation last year, and W. Pate Martin of U.N.C., arranged the details of this convention.
Headquarters of the convention were in the new Institute of Government Building and at the Carolina Inn in Chapel Hill.

Next year the convention will be held in Greensboro with Elon and Greensboro Colleges co-hosting. The date will probably be
in April.

Annual Staff Is Announced

McCall, Wooten, Sprunt, Taylor, Wilson, and Kelly Are Chosen

Winston Taylor, editor of the 1940-41 Quips and Cranks, has recently announced his editorial staff: Julian McCall, Walter Wooten, Bill
Sprunt, Ed Taylor, Cam Wilson, and Dick Kelly.

McCall will be sports editor, having served on the sports staff of the Davidsonian for two years, and also having
worked under the manager of the football team. He is a pledge of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Walter Wooten has been selected as fraternity editor. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, has also worked under
the football manager for two years, and has been on the editorial staff of Quips and Cranks.

Activities editor for next year will be Bill Sprunt. Bill, from Winston-Salem, has worked on the Davidsonian for two years
and is a member of Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Snapshots next year will be handled by Ed Taylor. Taylor has also worked on the Davidsonian.

Cam Wilson has been chosen as photographic editor for next year's annual. He is a member of Kappa Alpha social
fraternity and was on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian for two years.

Dick Kelly serves next year as assistant editor. It is his job to advise and help the other junior editors.
He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity.

No Band Selected

No announcement had been made on the name of the band for the final set of dances April 26 and
27 late Tuesday afternoon. Paul Marion, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced that the name of the band would be
made known within a few days. The final set of the year has been named the “Spring Frolics,” he announced.
This is the first year that the students have enjoyed three dance sets the last semester to one set the
first.

Masquers Cast To Be Chosen Soon For “Our Town,” Pulitzer Prize Winner

At their meeting this week, the Red and Black Masquers announced tryouts for parts in Thornton Wilder’s Broadway hit play,
“Our Town,” to be presented this spring by the dramatics group. The cast will be chosen as soon as possible,
and an announcement of the final choice will be made next week.

The play, which had a long and successful run in New York, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for drama. It
received much note for its unique technique, a new departure in theatre, and its stark makeup. The play requires practically
no scenery, but all the action takes place upon a bare stage with only the simplest of props. It is
the simplicity of it which heightens the dramatic appeal. In the words of the author himself, “Our Town” deals with
“life, love, and death in a small town.” The setting is Grover’s Corners, but in reality, it could be any
small American village.

“Our Town” will require a comparatively large cast, including a number of female parts. Already tentatively chosen are a number
of local actresses. As an outstanding play, it should attract typical Davidson attention.

Writers Meet In Charlotte

A great deal of journalistic activity will be the scene of a statewide Carolina Collegiate Press Association Spring Press Convention
in Charlotte, the week-end of April 25, 26, and 27. The highlight of the Convention each year is the presentation
of gold keys to the editors and business managers of the outstanding publications represented in the organization. Awards are made
in two groups, one comprising schools having an enrollment of 1,000 students or more, and the other including those with
less than 1,000.

In order to make the judging more uniform, each editor is requested to enter six representative copies of his newspaper,
thereby affording the judges a better basis upon which to make the awards. One of the most important business items
to be taken up at this meeting will be the election of new officers to serve for the coming year.
They will succeed the present officers.

Officials of the Convention announce that they are dickering with a prominent speaker for the banquet Friday night. Plans are
only tentative, however, but as soon as acceptance has been received, a formal announcement of the speaker's identity will be
made. In all events, this spring’s meeting of the Association promises to be the best in its history.

Adviser For Frosh

Finley and King Remain On Final Ballot, Juniors Elect Officer

Bob Finley and John King were the only entries remaining in the election for next year’s freshman adviser as this
week's edition of the Davidsonian went to press Tuesday. Finley was leading King 29 votes to 18 as the rising
seniors cast their ballots Wednesday.

A field of nine entries was nominated last week, but the first vote eliminated all but Finley, King, Vernon Youngblood,
Frank Boyle, Eldridge Barker, and Bill Flynn. The rising seniors have the power to select this officer.

Finley is from North Wilkesboro, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is a member of the
control board of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military organization, and is vice-president of the Beaver Club.

King is from Johnson City, Tennessee, and is a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Art Students Exhibit Works

200 Drawings Entered In Annual Art Contest

Twenty-five campus artists placed twoGrand total of drawings in the Social Center much has already and record of 650 number
of visitors, it is hoped that the visitors achieved last year will be surpassed. The exhibit, under the direction of
Gordon Horton, received a hundred visitors on Wednesday. The publicized exhibit has a grand total of drawings. Cash prizes totaling
fifteen dollars will be awarded to the best drawings in each of five classes (oils, watercolors, ink, pencil, and charcoal).
As last year, visitors will vote on the best single picture in the exhibit. Professors Foreman, Harding, and Davidson were
judges. Prize-winning works will be announced Friday.

Contributors to the exhibit were Ed Jackson, Atwater, Joe Shewmaker, Tom McLean, Fred Harbin, Chal Vinson, Walter Wooten, Bill Preston,
Walter Plunkett, Paul Crane, Bob Ballard, Jimmy Houston, Southgate Jones, Gordon Horton, Dick Stevenson, Bill Lyman, Jack Campbell, Bennett Mitchell,
Louis Harvard, Dan Robinson, Frank Hodges, Wallace Scherer, and Cowan.

Panel Discussion

Another in the present series of panel discussions will be held this Friday night in Phi Hall at eight o'clock.
The topic for discussion will be some phase of CAPITALISM. Dick Kenyon, acting for the Y.M.C.A., will again lead the
discussion and act as the chairman for the night. On the panel will be Professor Currie, Doctors Brown, Williamson, and
Johnson. These discussions have been very popular in the past, and due to their popularity, the Y cabinet plans to
sponsor another later in the spring if time permits.

Ashby Dick Elected President of Sophs

Ashby Dick of Sumter, S.C., was elected president of the sophomore class on the third ballot Tuesday morning. His opponent
in the final ballot was Jesse Wooten. John Belk of Charlotte was elected vice-president over Myron Sandifer, and Patterson was
chosen secretary-treasurer over Bill Grosse. The original ballot for president included Dick, Wooten, Joe McCoy, Ed Murray, Peter Young, Welford
Hobbie, Ned Pollock, and Hugh Sprunt. Nominated for vice-president besides Belk and Sandifer were Alva Lumpkin, Henry McIntosh, Bill Tarleton,
Jack Wayman, Joe Martin, Matt Long, and Billy Rodgers. Up for secretary were Patterson, Grosse, John McLean, Fred Morton, Craig
Schmidt, John McGee, and Dave Maloney.

Dick is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and was a halfback on the freshman football team. He was
also on the freshman wrestling team and is out for freshman track. John Belk is a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity and was a center on the Wildkitten basketball team. He is also out for track. Patterson is also
a member of Kappa Alpha and was an end on the frosh football team. He is a centerfielder on the
Kitten baseball team.

After the original ballot, Dick, Wooten, and Sprunt remained in the race for the presidency. McCoy, Tarleton, Belk, and Sandifer
remained in the race for vice-president, while Patterson, Grosse, Morton, and Schmidt were left for secretary-treasurer.

Construction or Building Slated to Get Underway in Middle of Next Month

Construction will begin in the middle of May on the new library recently given to Davidson College. President W. L.
Lingle announced in chapel Saturday that Davidson's Centennial Fund had received the fourth $150,000 needed for the building. This library
will serve as a memorial to a great teacher and his wife, whose names as well as that of the
donor were withheld from the statement. Tentative plans were drawn up last year, but two weeks will be allowed for
contractors to complete the needed materials and plans before bids on actual construction will be taken. Although the site of
the building has not been definitely decided upon, it will probably be at the northwest or southwest corners of Chambers
Building.

Fourth in Centennial Plan

This is the fourth and largest building to be outlined and authorized since Davidson began its constructive program in 1937
in connection with its centennial celebration. At this time, the committee in charge listed these new buildings as urgently needed:
an $85,000 dormitory, a $25,000 infirmary, and a $50,000 new library. Funds for the college have also been provided by
donations of a student loan fund and to endow a professional chair. The administration now turns its efforts toward the
construction of other buildings needed for the campus. Dr. Lingle, in his statement to the student body, included a new
gymnasium, a new science building, and an endowment for the church.

Grads Elected to High Positions

Several Davidson men, graduated in the last two years, have recently been elected to offices at Union Theological Seminary. William
Monroe Wicker of Charlotte, class of '37, was elected treasurer of the student body; Walter Dickson Jr. of Anderson, S.C.,
class of '38, was elected Director of Social Life; Charles Edward Raynal of Statesville, N.C., class of '38, was elected
secretary-treasurer of the senior class. Wicker was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK while at Davidson. He
was captain of the track team, president of the honor council, and a member of the Y Cabinet. Dickson was
president of the Y.M.C.A. and has been student pastor of the First Presbyterian Churches of Fayetteville and Charleston, W. Va.
He was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and manager of the basketball team at Davidson. Last summer, he
was assistant to the Rev. S. H. Fulton at Laurinburg, N.C.
