Thurs., Dec. 5, 1940 Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

CORNER
HANK BAHNSON AMONG THE GREEKS

By SHAW SMITH

Hank Bahnson’s talk in chapel this week was a propitious time for his effort in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere Christian character, found in few men anywhere, shone forth. His thought was given to his study of the Orchid in plenty. We still be in position from nine until twelve in this department. Not only did he have a family with him on the platform, but his sincere ChristianMembers of the point. While away from the camp, cigars, punch, and cake will be boisterous, highly conscientious Jewish policeman—he will give many good laughs in his relations to the Baumers. The part of Max—highly strung, emotional, loyal to old Germany, struggling under Baumer's tyranny. 

Make plans. Al Winn, W. C. Plun, us Hutchins wandered over to Winston-Salem. Brother Paul Bumbarger visited Greensboro, and attended a dance there. At Conver were Brother John McCrea. Pledges Ryan, Ding Don Bell, the promised news for this week, cut this corner last week and sent it home. 

Faculty-Senior “field” day was first held by the class of '39 and have heretofore been held only in the spring. This year the class is holding two, one today and another in the late spring. 

You'll see more news later, but in the meantime make plans for it. 

SIGMA UPSILON

This week's chapter was a historical novel, recording events that occurred at the time of the Civil War, by different members of Sigma Upsilon. 

EXCHANGE AND ENCOMPASSING CAMPUSES

Let on the door, so he can explain the situation in detail. Too hard you know, and the confetti. The gladiator was borne off, collapsed into the floor on the shoulders of four mechanical majors and deposited at the hat-check booth—to regain the vertical at his own pleasure.

Yours, Shaw Smith

THE RED AND BLACK MASQUERS PRESENT “MARGIN FOR ERROR” Clare Boothe’s Melodramatic Triumph Directed By George Brengel

Styled to the tastes of discriminating men, a fine broadcloth in a rare blending of subdued colors, accented by white and colorful satin stripes. Troy tailored by Jayson, in smart combinations of blue, tan, green, grey, and wine. In regular soft or Jaysonized no-starch, wrinkle-free collars.

MEN’S SHOP—STREET FLOOR

December 10th ADMISSION 25c “The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Brothers Mobley, Hite, and Saunders of Decatur, Ga., STOP STEALING! Several explanations might be made as to the cause of this stealing. It may have grown up from the practice of “coming back to pay later.” It may have come to pass after several men saw that the store was so crowded and so many men laid money on the cash register that there was no adequate way of checking on just who had paid their bill. But neither of these—or any other excuse—is acceptable. If we are to be treated as gentlemen, then we must act as such! This is no idle piece written about what might be taking place. Instead, it is written at the request of the managers of the Student Store after they and several of the clerks actually observed certain men failing to pay for what they had eaten! Many of us will not believe that this has been happening, but it is a fact! When an editorial was written last year along the same line it was stated, “Once the evil has been pointed out it should end, in a student body of this type, under our honor system.” It did stop last year, and should stop this time, too. The worst part of the whole matter is that it should never start. Let’s stop it right now!

(Continued from Page One)

SENIORS PICK

Seniors have been measured in the parlor of Watts, and according to Sink, it takes only a few minutes. As soon as the measurements are taken, they will be sent to the factory, and delivery will take place within a week or ten days. At this rate, many seniors will get their blazers either before or during the Christmas holidays. Since the coats can be made separately instead of as a group, a great deal of time will be saved by those who are measured early, and they may expect delivery sooner.

DR. CUNNINGHAM

(Continued from Page One)

The South represents a challenge to any man called to serve them in the ministry of Christ. Heading a church school will not be new work for Dr. Cunningham. He came to the First Church in Winston-Salem in 1936 after serving as president of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary for six years. Born in Williamsburg, Mo., in 1891, he received his education at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and prepared for the ministry in the Louisville Theological Seminary. He was ordained in 1917. During the war, he became an army YMCA secretary and was a member of the Presbyterian War Work in 1918-1919. Since that time, he has held pastorates in Grenada, Miss.; Gainesville, Fla.; Bristol, Tenn.; and Winston-Salem. Dr. Cunningham's nomination to the presidency of the college was announced recently by Dr. J. C. McNeill, chairman of the board of trustees.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

Put 3-purpose Va-tro-nol up each nostril...(1) It shrinks swollen membranes; (2) Soothes irritation; (3) Helps flush out nasal passages, clearing clogging mucus.

Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES? Chesterfield is the smoker's cigarette the world over and you can’t find the equal of Chesterfield’s right combination of Turkish and American tobaccos...the best tobaccos that grow in all of Tobaccoland.

Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

GRANTLAND RICE, dean of American sports writers, has a friendly visit with his charming daughter Florence—of the stage and movies.

FIRST STEP IN MAKING CHESTERFIELDS... the purchase by highest bid of mild ripe tobaccos, Chesterfield buyers attend every leading tobacco market in this country and in Turkey and Greece. (As seen in the new film TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A.)