ports lants By BOB CARTER

ROUGH WEEK... Wildcat took it on the chin on all sides this week, including the previously undefeated tennis and track
teams. The Davidson netters went down before the crack Presbyterian College team, winners of nineteen matches in a row. The
Wildcats were unable to win a set, showing the one-sidedness of the match. Coach Pete Whittle’s tracksters were upset by
the Wolfpack from State in a very close meet which was not decided until the last event. Mickey Thompson, State
dash man, won 15 points by copping the 100, 220, and the broad jump. Davidson’s diamonders had a rough and
stormy time of it in their invasion of the Carolina and Duke campuses, after shutting out Lenoir Rhyne earlier in
the week. The usual Carolina weather of semi-darkness had everyone, including the umpires, guessing where the ball was. After the
fourth inning of the Blue Devil game, it became not a question of whether the Wildcats were still in the
ball game or not, but of whether they would retire the slugging Devils in time to get back for Vespers
Sunday night.

EQUIPMENT NEEDED... This corner has been asked for better intramural equipment. The question is to whom should this plea for
more and better equipment be directed. In spite of the fact that nobody in particular seems to want to assume
the responsibility of providing aforesaid equipment, we shall plead for this worthy cause. Taking as a specific example the softball
situation, we find that it is not the case of lack of space as in former years; the new intramural
field has solved that problem. The balls provided are not fit to be used and the teams usually buy their
own. Masks are also non-existent unless some student happens to have one. Various and sundry other things are lacking which
are practically standard equipment. The usual answer to this plea is that there is no money with which to buy
this equipment. A logical answer to this is easily forthcoming; let each student who takes part in intramural athletics pay
a quarter at the beginning of the year, as a special fee, separate from the regular athletic fee. Surely each
student would be willing to pay this amount to prevent any more ankles being sprained on home plates which stick
up out of the ground, or badminton being called off because no one wanted to play with heavy wooden paddles.

CLASSIC COMMENTS... The lone Finn at the recent Finnish Relief Fund game held in Tampa, seeing his first game of
baseball: “The idea seems to be to take a stick and stand in front of a man dressed like an
armored tank and with a stick hit at the pellet which another man throws at great speed. If the man
with the stick can hit the pellet he makes a dash for one of the pillows, but instead of putting
his head on it, or sitting on it, he stands on it. It must take a lot of money to
keep those pillows clean. It all seemed very foolish to me, but the stickers enjoyed it and I guess I
did too.” “Muscles” Medwick, on being asked what he would pitch to himself if he were pitching: “A straight ball
waist-high—and then duck.” Ted Williams, on being asked what batting form he used: “I just stand up there and bust
’em.”

Spring Sport Wear!
SOCKS - SHORTS
SHOES - SHIRTS
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store

Wildcat Sports
Netters Suffer First Loss
Track Team Upset by Pack
Thurs., April 25, 1940
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four

Wolfpack Noses Out Wildcat Tracksters 68-58 On Slow Track
Capt. Kellogg Paces Cats With Ten Points As Davidson Drops First Meet; “Mickey” Thompson Is High Point Man With Three
Firsts

A crippled Wildcat track team suffered a 68-58 loss to the North Carolina State boys from Raleigh on the local
oval last Saturday. Due to a soft track caused by heavy rains, the times in all events were slow. Thompson
of State was high point man for the meet, winning the 100 and 220 and the broad jump for a
total of 15 points. Bob Kellogg of Davidson was high with 10 points.

Summary:
Shot Put—Stroupe (S), Rooney (S), (D). Distance: 42 feet.
Discus—Stroupe (S), (D). Distance: 120 feet.
Javelin—Windley (S), Brenizer (D), (S). Distance: 170 feet.
Pole Vault—Shannon (D), Hantt (S), Spencer (D). Distance: 11 feet 6 inches.
High Jump—(S), Brewer (S), McDougall (S). Distance: 5 feet 8 inches.
Broad Jump—Thompson (S), Brenizer (D), Cowan (D). Distance: 21 feet, 2 1/2 inches.
100 yard dash—Thompson (S), White (D), Paylor (D). Time: 10.2.
220 yard dash—Thompson (S), White (D), Birmingham (D). Time: 22.6.
440 yard dash—(S), (D), (S). Time: 54.4.
880 yard run—Kellogg (D), Fleming (S), Windley (S). Time: 2:10.6.
Mile Run—Kellogg (D), Johnson (S), Maddex (S). Time: 4:39.2.
Two Mile Run—Gammon (D), (S), Maddex (S). Time: 10:53.
120 yard High Hurdles—(D), (D), (S). Time: 16.

Kellogg Elected ‘D’ Club Head
At the meeting of the “D” Club on Monday night, Jim Hogg was elected president of the club for next
year, succeeding Jim Cowan, who was elected best varsity athlete for 1939-40 at the meeting. Hogg has been on the
varsity basketball team since his sophomore year, and next year will captain the Wildcat cagers. He is also third baseman
for the varsity baseball team. Vice-president of the “D” Club for next year will be Jay Bolin, outstanding backfield football
player. Succeeding Bob Kellogg as secretary-treasurer will be Hewitt Parrish, cross-country and wrestling man.

Cowan Chosen
Jim Cowan was unanimously voted the annual “best varsity athlete” award, for which he will be presented a trophy, won
by Ned Iverson last year. Cowan has been one of the outstanding players on the football team for two years,
playing in the end position. He was also captain of the basketball team, and ace broad jump man on the
track team.

Seniors Chosen
A resolution was passed at the meeting to elect the five outstanding senior athletes of the year. Pictures of the
five will be placed in the “D” Club room, and will be added to, for a permanent collection, from year
to year. The five voted most outstanding for 1939-40 were, in order: Jim Cowan, Bob Kellogg, Graham McFadyen, Geo. Richmond,
and Gales McClintock. Kellogg is captain of the track team this year, and was a prominent cross-country man. McFadyen captained
the wrestling team. Richmond and McClintock were outstanding members of the football squad.

Central Licks Yearling Nine
Handicapped by the absence of several first string players, the Davidson frosh baseball team bowed to the strong Central Hi
nine last Tuesday 16-2 in a seven inning game played at Hayman Park. Both teams used two pitchers, Frederick and
Ehly allowing 16 hits while Childs and Morgan held the Kittens to six scattered hits. The game was called in
the seventh because of inclement weather, which undoubtedly accounted for some of the wild pitching on both sides.

Phillips Hits Hard
Little Dickie Phillips led the Cat batting attack with two hits out of four trips tothe plate. Starnes, star second
baseman, took batting honors for the day with three hits out of four trips.

Return Game

Thursday afternoon the Wildcats hope to even the series when they face the Charlotte team on Richardson Field. The Frosh
will be greatly strengthened, especially in the hitting department.

[Continued from Page Four]

A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 6300

PLEXICO PRINTING - PUBLISHING, Inc.
Formerly Standard Printing Company
Garland Court
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NEW CLUB HEAD

Jimmy Hogg, Waynesboro, Va. Junior, was recently elected president of the “D” club for the coming year. Hogg was second
high scorer for the basketball quint, and is captain-elect of the team. At present he is performing capably on the
hot corner for the varsity baseball team.

Wildcat Golfers Down Georgia Bulldogs 10-8

The varsity golf team defeated the University of Georgia Monday at the Carolina County Club by the close score of
10-8. Sharpe was the low man for the day with a score of 68. This is the lowest score that
has ever been shot on the Carolina course by a Davidson man. Charlie Pegram was second low for Davidson with
a score of 75. Jack Abels had a 75 and George Wright a 78.

Summary of Monday's match:
Swift (G) 2½, Pegram (D) ½; Abels (D) 2, Mason (G) 1; Sharpe (D) 3, Bowen (G) 0; Dudley (G)
3, Wright (D) 0; Abels and Pegram (D) 1½, Mason and Swift (G) 1½; Wright and Sharpe (D) 3, Dudley
and Bowen 0.

Last Tuesday the Duke linkmen defeated Davidson 11½ to 6½. Per- of Duke had the low score of 67. Sharpe
of Davidson shot good golf, tying his match and winning his foursome with Wright.

Last Thursday the varsity golfers ran over the Catawba golfers by the one-sided score of 17 to 1. All of
the linkmen were in good form and won easily.

I had a little slide rule.
I worked it very well
I worked so fast, it caught on fire
And burned and burned and burned!

Don’t Forget
When In Charlotte
STOP BY TO GET THAT HAT BLOCKED
PARIS HATTERS
217 WEST TRADE ST

Kappa Sigmas Lead Tourney

With three wins and one defeat for a .775 percentage, the Kappa Sigs hold the lead in the fraternity softball
standings. The Phi Delts are in technical first place, having played only one game, and boasting a perfect record.

Davidson’s baseball team came out of last week's competition with one win and two defeats, winning from Lenoir Rhyne 6-0
and losing to Carolina 7-2 and to Duke 24-2. Lucas allowed the Lenoir-Rhyne nine only three hits while Davidson collected
seven from the two Bear pitchers, Sampsel and Cline. Three opposing batters were struck out by Lucas as he pitched
the entire game. The Cats took advantage of the shaky defense of the Bears in putting across their six runs
while they played errorless ball. Lenoir-Rhyne did not threaten and was never able to advance a runner past second.

Yarborough furnished the color as he snagged two line drives in the eighth. Edmondson led the Davidson hitters with two
hits each, one of Edmondson’s being a double. Hamrick led the losers with two hits.

The Cats next invaded the Carolina campus and were able to collect seven hits to ten for the Tar Heels,
but were beaten 7-2. Numerous errors made by both teams accounted for the score. Cheshire was the winning pitcher and
had nine strike-outs to his credit. Thomas for the losers got two hits for four trips. Niven led the Cats’
hitting with two for three, while Reynolds, Myers, and Rich each got two hits for the Tar Heels. The game
was called in the seventh inning on account of rain.

Duke Slugging

Duke's powerful nine routed the Davidson nine, 24-2, as three Blue Devil pitchers, Mock, Weaver, and McCahan allowed only four
hits, one being a triple by Hogg. Verner, Hunter, and Yarborough each got a single and Hunter was walked twice.
McAfee with four for four and “Crash” Davis with four for five led the Duke hitters.

Lucas Tames Bears

Blue Devil, Tar Heel Power Defeats Cats

Sophomore Ace Shuts Out Hard-Hitting Club; Rainy Weather Mars Tar Heel, Blue Devil Games; Duke Garners 28 Hits Off Assorted
Pitchers

Cat Netmen Beat State

On Monday afternoon Davidson's crack tennis team defeated an outclassed team from State 8-1. During the course of the matches
the Wildcats dropped only three sets. Rea Tenney, playing number one man, beat Lummis from State, 6-0, 5-7, 6-1. Billy
Turner defeated his man in the number two singles 6-0, 6-2. Lock Hunter breezed through the third singles by taking
Bill Owens 6-1, 6-3. Dick Shore showed up fine in defeating Baker, one of the Wolfpack aces, 6-0, 6-1. Miller
Sproull also gave proof of much improvement when he vanquished his man in the number five singles 6-1, 6-0. B.
B. Plyler also took Prewitt into camp without much trouble to the count of 6-1, 6-2.

Lose Doubles Match

Rea Tenney and Dick Shore teamed up to take the number one doubles from Baker and Lummis 6-0, 6-0. Billy
Turner and Lock Hunter also took the second doubles by a 6-0, 6-0 count. This gave the first two doubles
men a complete shutout for they breezed through without losing a game. However, with the last doubles team of Miller
Sproull and B. B. Plyler it was a different matter. They were defeated by Owens and Prewitt after they blew
a 6-1, 4-0 lead. The State aces came back to win 1-6, 6-4, 6-2.

Presbyterian Wins

On last Saturday afternoon Presbyterian College from Clinton continued their march towards the Southern Championship by taking the Wildcats on
the Clinton courts 7-0. The matches were played on composition courts which allowed them to play off and on all
that rainy evening. Billy Turner, playing against Kerdasha, who is reputed as being one of the best intercollegiate players in
the country, put up a splendid exhibition before going down 7-5, 6-4. The other Cats lost by large one-sided scores.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Thurs.-Fri., April 25th-26th.
“GRAPES OF WRATH”

Sat., April 27th.
“VIVA CISCO KID”
with Caesar Romero

LATE SHOW—Saturday
“AN ANGEL FROM TEXAS”
with Wayne Morris and Rosemary Lane

Mon.-Tues., April 29th-30th.
“TWO GIRLS ON BROADWAY”
with Joan Blondell

Wed., May 1st.
“BEYOND TOMORROW”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Drink
Coca-Cola
Delicious and Refreshing

Ice-cold Coca-Cola is all pure refreshment. Its taste satisfies completely and a refreshed feeling follows that leaves you wanting nothing
more.

PAUSE THAT REFRESHES

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
THE CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY
