Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., April 4, 1940

Hillhouse Addresses Sunday School Class
Professor Uses “Business Ethics” As Topic of Sunday’s Lesson

Dr. A. M. Hillhouse, professor of Economics and Business Administration, was guest speaker at the Student Sunday School class Sunday
morning in Phi Gamma Sigma Hall. Dr. Hillhouse chose “Business Ethics” as his subject. The scripture was selected from Matthew
5:13-17, and Matthew 13:31-34.

In his talk to the students, the speaker laid down four principles of Christian business ethics. The first of these
was that Christians as business men have to face realities. An optimistic combination of idealism and realism as well as
the mixture of a good head and a good heart are necessary for success. The second of these principles, as
outlined by Dr. Hillhouse, is that change must come from within. The motives have to be not just changing institutions,
but changing men and institutions. An example of the change in man coming before those changes in institution was Christ's
work among the Jews and their burdens in Palestine.

He pointed out the sad plight of the Jews at that particular time, and showed Christ's changes as evolutionary, instead
of revolutionary. Among the burdens of the day were overpopulation, poverty, and an approximate forty percent tax on all the
people of Palestine. These conditions are similar to those we meet today. Dr. Hillhouse used the parable of the leavening
as an example of his teaching that may be most useful and practical today.

Third of the principles is that Christians should strive to leave their particular field of endeavor better for their having
been there. Visualizing greater ideals and power would be a movement toward this end. The fourth is a demonstration of
the Christian's great heritage toward these ideals. He pointed out how Christianity can help influence fair prices, fair values, and
fair help. Results of following these principles, as presented by this teacher of method, would be a “universal brotherhood and
good neighbor policy,” said Dr. Hillhouse.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Honorary Chemistry Fraternity, initiated five men Tuesday, March 19. These men are Hank Bahnson, Chase Brenizer, T.
P. Johnston, Bill Squires, and Hugh Verner. Two years of Chemistry with an average of B or above is required
to become a member. These initiates were elected at the last previous meeting. Total membership in the fraternity can be
thirteen at present, or ten percent of all students studying chemistry.

After the initiation, a social was held at the home of Professor O. J. Thies. In addition to the student
members, the following were present: Prof. and Mrs. Thies, Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. The club met again on Tuesday, April
2, at which time officers for next year were elected. The names of these officers were not obtainable before the
Davidsonian went to press.

Of the new members, Bahnson is rising President of the student body and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity;
Brenizer is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, color sergeant in the ROTC, and a member of
Le Cercle Francais; T. P. Johnston is junior editor of Quips and Cranks, and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity;
Bill Squires is also a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity; and Verner is a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity and the varsity baseball squad.

Epsilon Gives Social For Initiates
BARNWELL TO BE PRESIDENT
Sigma Delta Pi Elects Officers For Next School Year

Holt Barnwell has been elected president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. Other officers for next year are Bill
Summerville, vice-president; George McDonald, secretary; and Frank Hall, treasurer. Tuesday night it was announced that the organization would sponsor a
Spanish moving picture at the local theater to be shown this week. Later in the meeting, a play was put
on by Professor F. L. Blythe, entitled, La Cueva de Salamanca. Taking part in this performance were Tom Galbreath, Bill
Summerville, Jack Moore, Frank Hall, Mac Morris, Boyd Flynn, and Bill Lemmon.

PAPER OFFERS (Continued from Page Five)
The great orchestras and conductors made only two stipulations; namely, that their names not be exploited, and that the recordings
be distributed through public service bureaus, educational institutions, and Music Appreciation Programs. James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson,
has enthusiastically endorsed the Music Appreciation Campaign. In a letter to the Observer, Mr. Pfohl said: “Congratulations on the fine
start the Music Appreciation Campaign has made. This is a wonderful thing for the cultural development of Charlotte and the
surrounding territory, and it has my heartiest approval and support. I want to secure an entire set of records for
Davidson and for myself personally.”

MURPHY’S MUMBLINGS (Continued from Page Two)
This mystery is good for a Saturday afternoon's entertainment because it has a fast-moving plot, and a good cast. Jane
Wyman and Dick Foran carry the love interest, while Maxie Rosenbloom offers laughs and thrills to the picture. Late Show
Saturday stars Isa Miranda, George Brent, and John Loder in “Adventures in Diamonds.” It seems that foreign stars are now
the top stars, and a new one is being introduced to the American public. Isa Miranda, fresh from Italy, makes
her debut in this picture that would be only average were it not for the superb acting of both her
and George Brent. She and her accomplices, John Loder, a crook who is out after some diamonds in South Africa,
mix with George Brent, a British soldier stationed in the colony. She is caught and sent to prison, only to
be freed later, and then she climaxes the picture by helping to capture another gang of thieves. These Saturday night
shows were started as an experiment, and at first they proved to be very successful, but lately the response hasn't
merited the shows that have been brought here. Of course, a couple of them weren't first-class shows, but this one
rates with the best of them, and unless they are better supported they will have to be discontinued. So if
you boys want to keep this well-nigh established institution, you'd better turn out en masse Saturday night. (P.S.—I haven't been
asked to say this).

NETMEN KEEP (Continued from Page Four)
Sproull (D) defeated Van Buskirk 6-1, 5-7, 14-12; Tenney-Hunter (D) defeated Bobbitt-Graham (L) 6-8, 6-1. Monday and Tuesday, April 8
and 9, “Primrose Path”: Joel McCrea, Ginger Rogers, Marjorie Rambeau, Henry Travers, Miles Mander, Queenie Vassar, and Joan Carroll. No
doubt many of you have seen the write-up of this picture in the current issues of Life and Look. The
story is about a girl who, wanting to better herself and her social standing, marries a high-class boy. She finds
that she comes from a family burdened with supporting themselves, and hence she turns to the only profession that she
knows anything about. Just as she is about to enter this degraded life, Joel McCrea rescues her, and her husband
sees about her.

Wednesday, April 10
“Farmer's Daughter”: Martha Raye, Charlie Ruggles, William Frawley, Gertrude Michael, Betty McLaughlin. If you like Martha Raye, this is good
news because she isvery good as the farmer’s daughter; but if you don’t like her you can go on your
way just as happily. She is more quietly casual than usual, and the high spot in the picture is when
she sings “Jeanie With The Light Brown Hair.” The other feature with it is “Heritage Of The Desert,” but if
you know anything about it you know more than I do. It is much less boisterous and on is Ernest
Ellison, Inc.

“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Rambeau, Hill he sends her away,

[Continued from Page Five]

covering him to all over among the months, and taking universities trip, resulted in months, World twenty-one 000) colleges world,
things, 60,000 miles, and This formation covering 60,000 Student Christian Federation, with Dr. Mott the it. The WSCF still functions
as the broadest and strongest organization unifying student opinion of the world. It is one of three international organizations begun,
and in large measure carried by Dr. Mott. The other two were the Student Volunteer Movement and the International Council.
Besides work in the student field, Dr. Mott has been active in church work, presiding at the World Council held
at Edinburgh in 1910, again at the conference in 1928, and at this recent world conference at Madras, India, in
1938. His other titles and jobs have been too numerous to mention, but he has always retained a strong place
in his heart for students.

CAT GOLFERS DROP
[Continued from Page Four]

Jimmie Cooper was the ’Cat medalist with 73 and Charlie Pegram was next with a 76. Tuesday the golfers met
Catawba College and today Kalamazoo.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Shampoo’s A Specialty
Johnson’s Barber Shop

ECHOES OF THE PAST

THREE YEARS AGO
Lenoir-Rhyne defeated Davidson Wildcats 7-1 in the first game of the season. The lone run of the day for the
home team was scored by Partridge.

FIVE YEARS AGO
Elon College bowed to Davidson’s scrapping baseball team in a slugging contest by the score of 15 to 8. Mathis
starred for Davidson in the hitting department by knocking out three hits in four trips to the bat.

Yow! Appears ’Mid Hisses and Cheers. The winning jokes included this bit of humor. “Who was that lady I saw
you with last night?” “That was no lady, that was my wife.” The student body voted unanimously to give half
of the damage fee return at the end of the school year to equip the college band.

TEN YEARS AGO
Davidson baseball players provided a thriller by beating North Carolina 4-3. Vachel Lindsay, famous American poet, will come to Davidson
and present his poems to students and townspeople.

Y Sends Men As Speakers
Hackney, Watt, and Bush Visit First Church In Concord

YMCA deputations carried the boys away from the vicinity last weekend. These boys visited several churches. Charlie Watt and Claude
Hackney visited the First Presbyterian Church in Concord, where they addressed the Young People’s Service in the afternoon. George Milne
and Bob Phipps went to Glade Valley, a home mission mountain school near Winston-Salem. Dan Rhodes, Davidson alumnus of the
class of 1938, teaches at this school and requested a deputation. Bob Ramsey and Jim McCrary conducted services at the
Bethel Presbyterian Church. Bob Ramsey delivered the sermon, and Jim McCrary led the men’s Bible Class. Davidson students have supplied
the pulpit at this church since it lost its pastor over a month ago. Fenton Miller spoke Sunday evening to
the Young People’s services at Huntersville.

The Chandelier in the University of Minnesota's Northrup Auditorium weighs 4,500 pounds and takes two hours to clean.

Oregon State College owns a 14-foot section of Douglas fir, alleged to be one of the mythical Paul Bunyan’s poker
chips.

Fifty years ago the University of Mississippi provided its students with a dry storage space where they might leave their
guns when they arrived at campus.

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY
DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Mooresville, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
BEST TO BE HAD
Mooresville, N. C.

NORGE GAS RANGE
RULANE GAS RANGE
GROCERIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Building
Davidson, N. C.

Off Tryon at Fourth
Have Your Banquet For The Last Dance Set At...
THE WOODEN BOWL
Charlotte, N. C.

TENNIS BALLS
Wright & Ditson — Wilson — Spalding
GOLF BALLS
Kroflite — Airflite — Parflite — Olympic
COLLEGE PHARMACY
“Davidson’s Service Drug Store”

New Chemists Club Formed
Cowan, Clark, Dale, Larkin And Maxwell Are Charter Members

At the first meeting of the newly formed Chemistry Club, held Tuesday night, April 2, Andy Dale, Benny Cowan, Doug
Clark, Tad Larkin, and Ed Maxwell were initiated. This club has been organized just this semester and these five are
charter members. The club is composed of members whose courses in chemistry have not been sufficient for membership in Gamma
Sigma Epsilon, honorary Chemistry Fraternity. Consequently, at a recent meeting, the constitution of this sub-organization was drawn up and adopted
by the parent organization, whose members are honorary members of the Chemistry Club. The latter part of this month, the
Chemistry Club, in connection with Gamma Sigma Epsilon and Pi Sigma, physics honorary society, both of which were organized here
at Davidson, will sponsor the annual open house. This open meeting will be similar to the one held last year.
Dale, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity and new Editor of the Davidsonian, and Ed Maxwell, of the Junior
Class. Cowan, of Bristol, Va., Clark, of Clarkton, and Larkin, a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, of Washington, are
members of the sophomore class.

WILLOW WHICH
[Continued from Page Five]

summer and brought back a willow slip from her friend, Mrs. Baskerville’s tree. After nursing it carefully for some months,
she has had it set out on the campus near Phi Hall, where it is beginning to show signs of
life. Thus from Chambers building the seal, reputedly designed by Ney, gazes down upon a willow taken from the tree
that grew at the grave of Ney’s commander and emperor.

featuring PATSY GARRETT and PAUL DOUGLAS of FRED WARING’S CHESTERFIELD PLEASURE TIME
Listen in Five Nights a Week
89 N. B. C. Stations

Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

When smokers turn to Chesterfield they enjoy all the good qualities a cigarette can give. Chesterfields are DEFINITELY MILDER...Chesterfields are
COOLER-SMOKING...Chesterfields TASTE BETTER.

These three good things and more about Chesterfields... their size, shape and the way they burn... make them the cigarettes
that SATISFY.

Chesterfield
Today’s Definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking Better-Tasting Cigarette
