Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Jan. 11, 1940

Blair Miller Tells of Sunny California Trip

Starting from scratch, then, he landed in rapid succession jobs with Paul Specht, Arnold Johnson, Ben Pollack, Irving Aaronson, and
Ben Bernie. After a few months with Bernie he left to enter on his first real musical venture. Returning to
his hometown of Detroit, he organized a group of unknown musicians, whipped them into shape, and landed a job at
the Detroit Athletic Club. His original contract was for a few weeks, but options were picked up until his stay
there lasted all of 1935. Since then his rise has been phenomenal. He has played successively at the Book-Cadillac Hotel,
Detroit; the William Penn, Pittsburgh; the Laurie, St. Paul; the Muehlebach, Kansas City; the Cincinnati; the Biltmore, Dayton; the New
Yorker, New York; the Van Cleve, Dayton; and the Adolphus, Dallas.

Miller has a style that is similar in many respects to that of Bob Chester, who will play for the
Davidson College Midwinters in February. Miller was awarded last week the Down Beat trophy for having the most outstanding band
in the nation.

Three Tennesseans Trail Volunteers to Rose Bowl Via Mexico

"Let’s go to the Rose Bowl," suggested Harry Gasteiger. "Wait till I get a shirt," agreed Blair Miller. And they
were off, together with Rut Miller in Harry’s new convertible Oldsmobile.

It was on December 27 that Blair, a Davidson Junior, with the other two, who were members of last year's
Senior class, made this lightening trip to California. The three Tennessee City men wanted to see Tennessee defend its unbeaten
record in the greatest of all football classics, the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California.

Their route was through Memphis, Dallas, El Paso, and where the three travelers decided to make a side trip south
of the border, down Mexico way. "Mexico," says Blair, "is undoubtedly the nation of women. When we stopped at Juarez
and Chihuahua City the Mexican belles swarmed all over the car before we could stop them. Couldn't walk down the
streets without having to literally beat them off with sticks." Blair also said that the Mexican women were very good
looking and were the most persistent group of the weaker sex that he had ever seen.

The voyagers finally left this haven and returned to the States, where they encountered a blizzard in which the thermometer
dropped to five degrees below zero. This did not last long, however, for they came to Arizona and the desert
country. Past Phoenix and Yuma, Arizona, the countryside began to change. The grass began to get green and the sky
became bluer. They were finally going to arrive at their destination, the Rose Bowl.

Then came the game. The voyagers had to pay eight dollars apiece for tickets to the game, as spectators had
cornered the supply. Over one and a half million people attended the famous parade of the Tournament of Roses, and
most of them desired to see the game. "Tennessee just wasn't in the game," stated Blair. "The California players were
all over 200 pounds and fast. A Tennessee tackle told Blair that all he saw of the game was Schindler,
the California back, running over him as he lay on his back. Coffman, a Tennessee back, also told him that
the players had had too much of Hollywood the night before the game."

After Tennessee’s heartbreaking defeat, its loyal sons turned homeward. The roads over the Rockies were snowbound, so they returned by
Las Vegas, Boulder Dam, Roosevelt Dam, and Coolidge Dam. In this return, they came through Dallas, Texas, where they encountered
a blizzard in which the thermometer dropped to five degrees below zero. This did not last long, however, for they
came to Arizona and the desert country. Past Phoenix and Yuma, Arizona, the countryside began to change. The grass began
to get green and the sky became bluer. They were finally going to arrive at their destination, the Rose Bowl.

TYPICAL STUDENT

[Continued from Page One]

Freshmen ranked in this order: Freshman: Girl friends, sports, studies, sex, war, and social functions tied. Sophomore: Sports and girl
friends tied, sex, war, studies, and careers tied for fourth, and travels. Juniors: Sports, girl friends, sex, studies, and religion.
Seniors: Girl friends, sex, sports, careers, and social functions tied for fifth.

Regardless of whether or not you belong to a social fraternity, do you think social fraternities should be on our
campus? Of the student body, only 19 answered yes: Freshmen, 8; Sophomore, 6; Junior, 6; Senior, 1.

PARENTS EARN

[Continued from Page One]

Parents engaged in miscellaneous occupations not listed and those who are dead account for the other 76. Presidents, landscape architects,
and journalists claim 2 each. One father is a U.S. Army officer.blankets and 2Ute¢ to the entire student body Indian
Reservation. No. 57 questionaries were distributed.

CHEST COLD MISERY
First—rub throat, chest, and back with Vicks VapoRub at bedtime. THEN—spread a thick layer of VapoRub on the chest and
cover with a warmed cloth. RIGHT AWAY, VapoRub goes to work—loosens phlegm—eases muscular soreness or tightness—clears air passages—relieves coughing, and
often by morning, the misery of the cold is gone.

"And they are just as beautiful as in their pictures," the unanimous opinion of the Tennesseans.

See FIR -answered: The steam engine noticed: tine fork (wel vacation of) and 478 answered them. The returns by classes
were: Freshman 151, Sophomore 141, Junior 100, and Senior 86.

"California certainly is different from the way it's described in the Grapes of Wrath," said Blair as a resume, "It’s
the prettiest country that I've ever seen, with the prettiest and most friendly girls that I've ever seen. In all
the cities that we went through, I didn’t see any slum sections or signs of poverty."

The fact about California which most impressed the three Easterners was the friendly spirit of the inhabitants. Cars would draw
up on the streets and question them about Tennessee’s team and chances in the game. In the famous night spots,
the Trocadero, La Conga, Earl Carrol’s, and Clara Bow's, this same friendly spirit was shown, which enabled Blair, Rut, and
Harry to have the time of their lives. This, Blair stated, made them feel a lot better than the New
York clubs.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE FIRST SEMESTER 1939-1940

Gets Award
Arbuckle To Marry
Alumnus Is

Mr. and Mrs. Finley Gwyn Harper of Hickory announce the engagement of their daughter, Betty Corinne, to Howard Bell Arbuckle,
Cadet Major, President of Eumen- ean Literary Society and Commencement Marshall. He graduated from Davidson College and is the son
of Dr. Arbuckle of the faculty. While in school here he attained many honors, among them: Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa, Alpha Phi Delta, Scabbard and Blade, President of the Pan-Hellenic council, Honorary Fraternity Council, and a member of
the baseball team.

Two Men Honored
Hugh Verner and Bob Doty of the Senior Class were honored this week when they were informed that their application
to Johns Hopkins Medical School has been accepted. Verner, who is majoring in Chemistry, is a member of the Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity and of the baseball team. Doty, also a Chemistry major, is a member of Sigma Phi
Epsilon social fraternity, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Badly Hurt
Harry Gasteiger Suffers Injuries After 5,000 Mile Trip to Rose Bowl

After traveling 5,000 miles to California without mishap, Harry L. Gasteiger, who graduated from Davidson last year, was badly injured
in an automobile accident the night of his return. Blair Miller and Rutledge Miller had accompanied Gasteiger to the Rose
Bowl game in Pasadena, California, from which they returned to Knoxville, Tenn. From there Gasteiger started to his home in
Johnson City. As he was rounding a curve at a very fast rate of speed, he struck some loose gravel,
causing his car to skid and overturn. He suffered severe injuries about the neck, spinal column, and lungs. For a
while it was thought that he would not live, but latest reports say that he is out of danger. His
convertible Oldsmobile was completely demolished. Throughout the accident and succeeding days in the hospital, Gasteiger did not once lose consciousness.
In his last year at Davidson, he was guard on the football team.

FROSH CAGERS
[Continued from Page Four]

Winters with nine points and Clements with five led Bessemer City’s offensive. They had an advantage over the Freshman both
in height and experience, having played eight games. Bill Grosse, Jack Belk, and Bob Keffer followed Belk to score six
points apiece. Keffer looked good on the defense. The game scheduled with Charlotte High School for last Tuesday was cancelled.
The Kittens will play their second game tomorrow night, when they meet a Charlotte independent team.

GENTLEMEN
If she is a senior—ask her about her ring and what she intends to do next year. (Hope she doesn't
think it's a proposition.)

If she is a junior—you don't have to talk. She'll tell jokes. Always remember to laugh, boys, she'll need encouragement.

If she is a sophomore—and does not seem to understand, try talking Anglo-Saxon. You may be surprised at the result.

If she’s a freshman—that's your problem—you took the date.

"...and I’m happy to present the combination of the Andrews Sisters and my band for your pleasure every Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday."
...GLENN MILLER

It’s a great tie-up ... America’s No. 1 Cigarette for more smoking pleasure ... America’s No. 1 Band for dancing.
Chesterfield is the one cigarette with the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. That’s why Chesterfields are DEFINITELY
MILDER, TASTE BETTER, and SMOKE COOLER. Everyone who tries them likes the cigarette that satisfies... You can’t buy a better
cigarette.

A MORNING DATE AFTERNOON
Applied Math. 51, Bible 11B,D, Biology 21C, Chem. 71, French 21B,D, Greek 71, Math. 11-LF, Economics 21B,D, English 11B,D,81, French
21A, German 51-61, Greek 61, History 41, Latin 31, Math. 21B, Physics 21A, Pol. Sc 31A, Spanish 21C, 61.

Thursday, Jan. 18
Bible 11F,H, Chem. 31, 41A, Econ. 41, English 11E, 41, Geog. 31, German 11B, Greek 21B, 51, History 51, Latin
11, Mathematics 51, Phys. Educ. 31, Pol. Sc. 81, Psychology 31C, Sociology 31.

Friday, Jan. 19
Astronomy 31B, Bible 21A,C,G, Biology 51, Business 31B, Educ. 71, English 21F, 91, French 11B, Geology 31, German 41, Latin
21, Math. 11E, Philosophy 61, Pol. Sc. 51, Physics 51, Spanish 41.

Saturday, Jan. 20
Basic Math. A, Biology 21A, Chem. 21B, 91, Econ. 51, English 21B,E,G, 31, French 21C, Geog. 41, German 21A, History
11B,D, Math. 11A, Philos. 31, Physics 21B, 31, Pol. Sc. 41, Psychology 31B, Spanish 11B.

Monday, Jan. 22
App. Math. 41, Bible 11E,G, Business 41, Chem. 21A, 51, English 11F,G, Fine Arts, French 31B, Geog. 31, Greek 21A,
History 71, Physics 11,81, Math. 11H, 21A, Pol. Sc. 31B, Psychology 51.

Tuesday, Jan. 23
Bible 21B,D, Biology 21B, Chem. 21C, Economics 21C, English 21A, French 11A, German 21B, Greek 11B, History 21, Math. 11B,
31, 41, Pol. Sc. 71, Psychology 31A, Sociology 31.

Wednesday, Jan. 24
Astronomy 31A, Bible 11A,C, Chem. 32, 41B, Econ. 21A,C, 71, English 11A,C, French 31A, Geog. 21, Education 81, German 11A,C,
History 31, Spanish 21B, 31, Ap. Math. 31.

Thursday, Jan. 25
Basic Math. B, Bible 21E,F, Biology 31, 71, Business 31A, English 11H, 21A,C, French 41, 61, Greek 11A, History 11A,C,
Phil. 41, Physics 41, Pol. Sc. 61, Psychology 41, Spanish 21A, 51.

Friday, Jan. 26
R.O.T.C. 41, 21, 31, 41.

Saturday, Jan. 27
Morning examinations begin at 9 A. M.—Afternoon examinations at 2 P. M. Classes of the first semester end at 12:30
P. M. Wednesday, January 17th.

Chesterfield’s the cooler... better-tasting DEFINITELY MILDER cigarette

Listen to Chesterfield’s Glenn Miller Program 3 nights a week Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 9 o'clock E.S.T. over all
Columbia Stations.

MAXENE
Copyright 1940, Liggett & MYERS TOBACCO Co.
