Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 28, 1940

AMONG THE GREEKS

Phi Delta Theta
Most of the brothers spent quiet weekends at school. “Slick” MacKinnon met an old friend at the Charlotte skating emporium. Brothers Westall and Rudolph skirted to Cornelius, while brothers Chapman and Owens headed in the other direction to Mooresville after supper Saturday night. Brother Gus McLean visited his home in Lenoir, while Tenney went to Charlotte. Dick “Bellboy” Kenyon journeyed to some unknown destination, enjoying himself as usual.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Highlights of the past week were the party given at the house Saturday night with about twenty-five girls present, and the feed given by the Pikas with the entire chapter as guests. The feed was enjoyed by all the brothers. Pledges and Frederick spent Saturday night in Statesville at the home of Brother Harbin. Brother Hiram White, '39, visited the chapter over the weekend, as did Rufus Plonk, also of '39.

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Holt and Joe Barnwell and Marvin Mebane went to their homes in Burlington. Brothers McClintock went to Sweet Briar, while Brother Matthews went to Converse. Brother Burch went to his home in Reidsville. Brothers Jim and Bill Howell went to their home in Ellerbe. Brother Cheney went to Atlanta last Thursday for an extended weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi
Many of the brothers went to their respective homes for the weekend. Brother Erb journeyed to Badin and home. Brothers Saunders and Niven went to Albemarle. Brothers Mobley and Miller went to their homes in Florence. Brothers Flynn and Hendricks were in Winston-Salem for the weekend, as was Brother Garvey, while Brother Colvin went over to Salisbury. Brother Horan accompanied Brother Bumbarger to his home in Hickory. Brother Suttlemyre was also there. Pledge Smith took an extended tour to Alabama.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The regular Sunday night feed was held with the SPE’s as guests. Many out-of-town guests were present at the feed: Doris Edgar, Florence Patridge, and Eleanor Lazenby, all from Charlotte. Brothers Latimer and Youngblood braved the mountains to Nashville, Tenn. Joe Martin went home. President Coltrane went to Greensboro to see the one and only. Jim McDonald went home to Hamlet, N.C.

Kappa Sigma
Neal Scott and Bill Loftin went off on a debate trip through Ohio and Kentucky. Priestly Conyers left Friday for Washington. Jim Crook went to Spartanburg. Dick Kelly also spent the weekend there and dated at Converse. Dick Phillips and Bob Finley went to their homes in Laurinburg and North Wilkesboro, respectively. Dick Smith went home to Elkin. Coit Robinson and Tommy Johnston dated at W.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Brothers Claude Hackney and Southgate Jones spent the weekend in Greensboro, while pledge Lumpkin journeyed to Rock Hill. Brother “Tabby” Sprunt whipped off to his home in Winston. Brothers Bahneon, Currie, and Lucas visited Sweet Briar. Brother Austin journeyed to his home in the “Frog Pond,” beyond Mooresville.

Phi Gamma Delta
Hats off to Dan Gilliam who managed to stay on the campus this weekend. Wildest hairs carried Jesse Wooten to Lynchburg, Tony Darby to Bristol, Dan Hodges to Spartanburg, George Stowe to Greenville, and Archie Taylor and Bob Kellogg to Chapel Hill. Many of the brothers went to a party in Charlotte Saturday night at which Pharr, Otts, Long, and Nimmons were ringleaders.

Kappa Alpha
Alumni of the chapter were entertained last Friday night at the house. A model initiation was held at Phi Hall. Hugh Sprunt was initiated at that time. A feed was served at the house following the ceremony.

ARTISTRY OF STUDENTS
(Continued from Page Three)
The first year there were no cash prizes; last year the prizes totaled ten dollars; and this year there will be cash prizes amounting to fifteen dollars. Every year, newspapers from Charlotte, Winston-Salem, and Chattanooga have had write-ups of the display accompanied by pictures of the prize-winning creations. There have also been several United Press articles about it and it is expected that this year’s exhibition will attract even a greater number of newspapers.

Sculpture Included
This year, an addition to the different types of drawings and paintings is to be shown — sculpturing. Anyone talented along this line is urged to participate. Gordon Horton, director of this year’s exhibit, announced that he would like to see all those who have not seen him as yet about entering pictures.

Rock since 1938. This week Dr. Ramsey is attending a meeting of the Field Council on Religious Education at Richmond. He is chairman of religious education in Arkansas, and will immediately return to his home duties after speaking at Davidson.

Porter Talks About Terms Science Uses
Professor of Biology Addresses Science Department Of Faculty
Dr. W. L. Porter, Professor of Geology, Geography, and Biology at Davidson, spoke to the Science Department of the Faculty Monday afternoon on “The Language of Science.” The group had as its guests Dr. W. J. Martin, President Emeritus of Davidson, Dr. Johnston, and Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar.

Dr. Porter explained that “Algebra as we know it today was introduced into Europe about a thousand years ago by the Arabs. In both arithmetic and algebra the terminology is largely of Latin origin, since Latin was the language of the schoolmen. They adopted the Arabic name since the idea of algebra was new but they employed the already familiar names for its processes.

Geometry Discussed
Geometry, the science of spatial relations, was developed by the old Greeks and considered by them the perfect science because its findings are true for all time. Dr. Porter pointed out the fact that this science has undergone less change than any other science having been in a state of relative stagnation since the time of Euclid, who lived about three hundred B.C. “As physics emerged inThe dim science past into a body of scientific thought, it was an omnibus,” said Dr. Porter. He showed how it embraced the knowledge of all natural phenomena and included chemistry, geology, zoology, botany, and geography, which today are considered separate sciences.

Committee Appointed

Prof. McGavock as chairman, Prof. Wood, and Prof. Fulcher were appointed as a committee to look into the situation of devising a new system for aiding students in making applications for graduate work. At the next meeting, the committee's work will be presented and some action will be taken. The plan, when perfected, will go into effect next year. Dr. Porter and Dr. S. B. Knight presided over the meeting.

DAN GILLIAM

(Continued from Page One)

Candidates for membership will be extended bids. Before they can be initiated into the society, they will have to write a paper on some phase or problem concerning political, cultural, or social conditions.

DEAN’S LIST

(Continued from Page One)

R. C. Tenney, J. Wood. Mr. Hengeveld also announced that the new catalogs were available to any students who may desire them, and that anyone desiring one sent elsewhere should notify him at once. Under the new absence regulations, the above men will enjoy the privilege of additional absences. These total twenty, with a maximum of five in any one class.

I.R.C. Elects 14 Members At Meeting

Invitation Extended To Eumenean Society To Hold Joint Meetings

Fourteen men received bids from the International Relations Club this week as a result of the club’s meeting Tuesday night, February 20. At this same meeting, the organization voted to extend an invitation to the Eumenean Society to hold several joint meetings. Two seniors, ten juniors, and two sophomores were extended bids by the I.R.C. at the recent meeting of the society. Those men receiving invitations were Tom Wells and Jack Ferguson of the senior class, Bob Finley, Charles Martin, Ed Watson, Casey Jones, T. P. Johnston, Frank Barker, Paul Bumbarger, Drury Thompson, Rex Lauck, and Lawson Withers of the junior class, and sophomores Davis Thomas and Alston Thompson. These members are required to write papers on some subjects pertaining to international relations. Each candidate will present his paper before the society prior to his initiation. Proposed joint meetings with the Eumenean Society were sanctioned at this meeting. At these joint meetings, discussions will be held on social and political questions of interest to both organizations. Dan Gilliam, who is president of both groups, will preside over these meetings.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK

(Continued from Page Five)

off the list when he casts his ballot. This would be a sure way of keeping the ballot box from being stuffed. Under the system as outlined in the first proposed amendment, it would be possible for someone to sign another person’s name to an extra ballot, and when the election officers find two ballots with the same signatures, they would have no possible way of determining which is the valid vote.

PROVED BY 2 GENERATIONS

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE

Shampoo’s A Specialty

Johnson’s Barber Shop

Students, Faculty and Towns-

when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Complete Line Of Supplies To Complete Your Room.

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store Davidson, N. C.

All Latest Hits ON VICTOR DECCA & COLUMBIA RECORDS

ANDREWS MUSIC CO. 213 North Tryon Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Come In For That Pre-Class Cup Of Coffee

LITTLE PEP Davidson, N. C.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH? COME TO

JEWELRY SHOP HENDERSON Knox Building Davidson, N. C.

Mon.-Tues., March 4th.-5th. “THE AMAZING MR. WILLIAMS” MELVIN DOUGLAS and JOAN BLONDELL Matinee Tuesday 1 P. M.

STAR THEATRE CORNELIUS, N. C. Station Wagons Run—1 P. M., 7 P. M., 9 P. M. For Special Parties Call Mooney’s Service Station

New Bus Schedule

Mr. Banks D. Thomas, attorney for the Piedmont Coach Company, announced this week that the Piedmont Coach Company, with its principal office at Wadesboro, will begin Friday A. M. running buses from Davidson to Albemarle by way of Concord, with connections at Albemarle for Wadesboro, Florence, Laurinburg, Lumberton, and Wilmington. Also connections at Albemarle for Asheboro, Liberty, and Burlington. Schedules will be published by Thursday or Friday of this week. Any information desired before then can be obtained at the White Drug Store.

Thirty-Five Members Of Flying Club Active; McLean, Miller Plan Trip

A discussion of the merits of monoplanes versus biplanes, and high wings versus low wings was the feature of the regular meeting of the Flying Club, held Monday night in the parlor of Watts. Bob Miller, one of the group’s founders who is now working at the Charlotte Airport, visited the campus for the meeting. The club roll now numbers 35, and a large crowd was present at the discussion.

President Plans Trip

Among plans the group has for the near future, is a trip to be made Saturday by Dave McLean, president of the club, and Bob Miller. They will take off from the Charlotte Airport about one o'clock Saturday afternoon, and will arrive in Chapel Hill by 2:30. There they will be met by the reception committee of the Carolina Flying Club. After a few hours’ visit on the Carolina campus, they plan to fly over to State, where they have been invited to spend the night.

Monoplanes, Biplanes Discussed By Fliers

Many members of the group have been flying this week. Outstanding work has been done by Ben Colkitt, secretary of the club, who lacks only a few hours for his private license. Dick Stevenson has completed his twenty-first solo hour, and “Bits” Watkins expects to solo soon. The Flying Club, youngest of Davidson’s campus activities, has recently begun correspondence with Alpha Eta Rho, a national honorary flying fraternity, to investigate the possibilities and advisability of affiliation.

SCHOLARSHIP

(Continued from Page One)

held in the fall of each year, but for the first time it will be held during the spring semester this session. Last year Professor Herbert von Beckerath, internationally known scholar of the Duke University faculty, delivered the address of the evening. He spoke on the causes of the rebellion leading up to the Munich conference.

It's impossible to tell you almost any mistake the stage and veret your pleasure it's Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Jack and Bob Casley is which pleasures you NESS and Chesterfield’s win Pleasures are Leal Nldness GSE You can’t mistake the extra pleasure you get from Chesterfields. Because of their right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, Chesterfields give you a cooler, better-tasting and definitely milder smoke. You can't buy a better cigarette

The Cooler... Better-Tasting DEFINITELY MILDER Cigarette