Thurs., April 11, 1946 THE DAVIDSONIAN : Page Five

Question of the Week

Davidson's largest single gift has recently been made in the form of a new library. Because this building will be
a vital part in the college life of every student, it should contain every convenience and aid the students. Therefore,
our question is, “What new (or old) features would you like to have in our new library?”

Monroe Bush, Sophomore: “There might be new features added to the new library that is soon to be built on
the Davidson campus that are lacking in the present one. For instance, I think there should be a paneled lounge
room for smoking, furnished with comfortable chairs and sofas. In other words, it should be a place where one could
relax for a little while. It should be equipped with a number of popular magazines. I know of several colleges
which have this feature in their libraries, and it seems to work out very well.

“I might suggest that there be a sort of reception room at the entrance of the library. Here should be
placed paintings, statues, and other gifts to the college as well as different trophies that the college has won in
past years.”

Frank Barker, Junior: “Since the sum that has been donated to the college is as large as it is, it
seems that several new features could be added which would make it on a par with the modern libraries of
today. First, I would suggest a lounge for the students where they could sit and read and smoke if they
desired. Second, I would suggest a separate room with a conglomeration of assorted books; history, fiction, biography, poetry, etc... classics,
if you please, which could not be removed from the room, but would have to be read there. In other
words, one could neither bring nor take out any books from this ‘library.’ Such a feature as this last one
has recently met with great success at the University of Alabama, and I think that it would meet with equal
success here.”

John Withers, Senior: “I suggest that in the new library there should be a large room with no book shelves
or books in it, but plenty of sitting room where one could read in comfort. It should also, in my
opinion, be equipped with collapsible tables for writing and taking notes. I think there should be private study rooms in
the new library where one could be able to concentrate better and perhaps special rooms for typing.

“A very beneficial change would be a better catalog or means of access to the magazines and old newspapers. It
should be arranged so that it would not take much time for the student to find what he is looking
for.”

George Matthews, Sophomore: “Personally I think the present system used in the library is sufficient to supply the demands of
the students. It is easy for one, according to the present system, to find any book he is looking for.
I don’t think it would be a bad idea to have a special reading room. As for more minor changes,
the lighting system should be better and the chairs should be more comfortable. Of course, there should be, and there
probably will be, more books, both fiction and non-fiction, but on the whole, I think the present system is satisfactory.”

Dick Kenyon, Senior: “There will, in all probability, be many new features in the new library that are needless to
mention in ‘The Question of the Week,’ but I will mention a few that come to my mind on the
spur of the moment. I think it would be better if there was a special room dedicated to antiques, historical
books, etc., of which there are many at Davidson. There should be niches in the walls for pictures, busts, statues,
etc., so they would not be in any danger of being knocked over and broken.”

Boyd Flynn, Junior: “For convenience’s sake, it would be helpful to have better restroom facilities in the library. I also
think more small tables for individual study would be beneficial. From experience, we all know that it is usually difficult
to study when there is a large group crowding around the long tables. This would also make for quieter study,
for when someone enters or leaves the room, he cannot disturb anyone else if he is working at a table
alone. Checking out of books should be permitted as long as the library is open.”

Endowment meeting

SAE Celebrates With Dinner-Dance

Fifty-Seventh Anniversary Is Celebrated At Charlotte Country Club

North Carolina Theta chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon celebrated its fifty-seventh anniversary at a banquet and dance Saturday night at
the Charlotte Country Club. George Ficklen acted as toastmaster. The function was given in honor of the newly initiated members,
who are Frank Lee of Washington, Ga., Clarence Anderson of Tampa, Fla., Alva Lumpkin of Columbia, S. C., Peter Stewart
of Greensboro, Bill Ivey of Charlotte, Frank Moore of McColl, S. C., and Ed Erwin and Bill Wood of Davidson.

Faculty members and their wives who were invited included Dr. and Mrs. Wilson McConnell, Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Lyon,
Dr. and Mrs. James M. Douglas, Professor and Mrs. Currie, Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, and Professor and Mrs.
W. W. Wood. Officers of the chapter are Jennie Harrison, president; Tom Crichton, vice-president; Tom Cauble, secretary; and Woodall Rose,
treasurer. The dance committee was composed of Jim Currie, chairman, Hank Bahnson, and Bill Faison.

Guests of the chapter included Lucile Paton of Fayetteville, Harriet Easterby of Laurens, Dot McCall of High Point, Marie Pons
of Valdese, Jennie Ann McQuire of Vassar, Mary Wilson Wall of High Point, Peggy Bell of Charlotte, Rosalyn Reid of
Charlotte, Dot Copeland of S. C., Martha Bowman of Lumberton, Betty Brougher of Agnes Scott, Nita Newbold of Hertford, Alice
Chandler of High Point, Delice Young of Charlotte, Helen Crowder of High Point, Happy Chisholm of Greensboro, Brooksie Folger of
Charlotte, Merriam LeGrand of Greensboro, Willodene Rion of Columbia, S. C., Frances Hull of Charlotte, and Jacquelyn Burns of Charlotte.

Phi Members Hear Barker

Four Talks Are Given At Philanthropic Society Meeting

At the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society on Tuesday, April 2, the main talk of the evening was
given by Frank Barker. Barker's dissertation was on “Confucius,” which he gave a serious discussion on the works of the
great Chinese teacher. Paul E. Crane gave a talk on “Facts about the New Library,” having consulted Prof. Chalmers Davidson.
Crane's talk was followed by an interesting account of how the first x-ray machine was made in Davidson, presented by
Jimmy Fulcher. Paul McLean, president of the society, announced that each member must present a poem in the near future.
Other officers presiding were: Lawson Withers, vice-president; Tom Plonk, secretary; and Ralph Harkey, treasurer. The meeting was opened with the
devotional, led by George Shannon.

Jackson Will Visit Florida

Davidson Treasurer Will Address Florida Alumni

Officers of the South Georgia-North Florida Alumni Chapter have arranged a meeting for Thursday night, April 11, in Tallahassee, Fla.,
at the Floridian Hotel, 7:30 P. M. There are about fifty-five men in this chapter. Mr. Frank L. Jackson, Treasurer,
will be attending a meeting of the Business Officers Association of the Southern Colleges in Tallahassee April 12 and 13,
where he is to speak on the subject of “Pooling Investments,” and has made plans to be present at this
meeting to tell of Davidson as it is today and the plans for the future. Not only will the members
be able to hear about the changes and plans, but they will have an opportunity to view motion pictures taken
recently by the members of the college.

New Editor

Pictured above is Paul Bumbarger of Hickory, who was recently elected Editor of Scripts ’N Pranks, campus literary and humor
magazine, over Gordon Horton of Chattanooga, Tenn.

D Club Invites New Members

D Club Takes In Ten New Members At Meeting Monday Night

Initiation of ten new members into the D Club was held Monday evening in the club room at 7:15. The
meeting was led by Jim Cowan, president of the Club, and Secretary Bob Kellogg recorded the minutes. Those initiated were
Hank Bahnson, Frank Caldwell, Dick Copedge, Oscar Joyner, Elmer Knoelson, Chester Pierce, Dave Spencer, George Moore, J. W. Marsh, and
Lantham Latta. Since there was no old business to come before the club, the subject of new business was brought
up. The only new business discussed was the planning for the next social event. No definite plans were made, but
a committee consisting of Bill Bolin, “Hayseed” Thomas, and “Poss” McLean was appointed to work out the details of a
skating party for the members of the club and their dates.

YMCA Begins Civic Center

Construction Of Community House Began Monday

Work began Monday on the Colored community house which was financed by this year’s Christmas Gift Fund. This project, to
be erected near the colored school, has been planned by a committee of representatives of the YMCA and the Davidson
Civic Club, and several faculty members. Colored men and women of the community are cooperating in erecting the house, and
have already given a number of programs of different kinds to furnish equipment for the center. The colored boys have
for some time been hauling stones for the chimney and fireplace.

Plans for the building include two rooms, a meeting room twenty by thirty feet, and a kitchen fourteen by twelve
feet. Mr. W. E. Potts, contractor, expects to have the building completed soon.

Matthews Engaged

Recently the engagement of the College’s assistant physician, Dr. Matthews, was announced by the parents of the bride. The young
lady is Miss Edith Mountcastle, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Summers of Johnson.City, Tenn. Dr. Matthews has only
been on the medical staff of the college since September. His home is in Louisville, Kentucky. Previous to his position
here, he was with the city health department of Roanoke, Virginia.

Sigma Phi Epsilon celebrated its tenth anniversary at the annual installation banquet and dance in the Hotel Charlotte ballroom last
Saturday evening. Many alumni and several charter members were present. New officers were installed for the coming year: Edgar Watson,
president; John Hay, vice-president; Felix Bell, secretary; Russel Edmondson, comptroller; Bill Hamilton, senior marshall; Galbreath, guard; Rod Turner, junior marshall;
Bill Loy, historian; and Raymond McDaniel, Pan-Hellenic Councilman.

Professor J. T. Kimbrough acted as toastmaster during the ceremonies. The retiring president, Edgar Watson, reviewed the activities of the
chapter during the present year and introduced the new officers. Raymond Turner, alumnus, briefly reviewed the history of Sigma Phi
Epsilon on the Davidson campus since its founding on April 5, 1929. W. F. Hanks, District Governor, spoke about fraternities
in general. Johnny Bobbitt and “The Southerners” played for the dance after the banquet. Many girls attended the dance with
the members, including Misses Babs Anderson, Mary Dunn, Mary Spencer, “Butch” Steel, Polly Marshall, Mary Jeter, Midge Sally, Mildred Thomas,
Mary D. Wolfe, Carolyn McLean, Goodrich, Turner, and Helen Brooks.

Dr. Frank Caldwell, of the Louisville Theological Seminary, gave an illustrated lecture last Thursday to the members of the Ministerial
Band. The speaker, who is President of the Seminary, was the main feature on the Band's program. He chose as
his subject, “The Daily Life and Routine of the Students of the Seminary.” A motion picture presented showed various phases
of a student’s life. Most of the scenes presented, however, were of a recreational type, showing a retreat held on
the Ohio River by the faculty and the students of the Seminary. Several shots of the Seminary itself were shown,
including a typical room.

Thurs.-Fri., April 11th-12th: “VIRGINIA CITY”
Sat., April 13th: “DOCTOR CYCLOPS”
Late Show: “IT ALL CAME TRUE”
Mon.-Tues., April 15th-16th: “DR. KILDARE’S STRANGE CASE”
Wed., April 17th: “MARINES FLY HIGH”
Thurs., April 18th: “SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Alumnus Gets New Position
Vick Chemical Company Gives Promotion To A. F. Schenck, ’34

A. F. Schenck has been appointed a division manager in the Vick Chemical Company's export sales department, it was announced
recently by W. Y. Preyer, president of Vicks. Schenck, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has
been with Vicks since receiving his degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, two years after his graduation
from Davidson. An experienced exporter, he will now be in charge of sales of Vicks VapoRub, Vicks Vatronol, and Vicks
Medicated Cough Drops in Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.

“The appointment of A. F. Schenck as an expert division manager,” said W. Y. Preyer, president of Vicks, “is indicative
of the steadily growing demand for Vicks products all over the world. By such promotions as this, the Vick Company
shows its increasing emphasis on export trade and its recognition of the men who are contributing to its growth.”

Library Adds Varied Books
Books On Architecture, Italy, Economics, And Expeditions Received

Five books have just been added to the Davidson College Library: “The Throne of the Gods,” by Arnold Heim and
August Gansser; “A Decade of Bridges,” by Wilbur J. Watson; “Mussolini's Italy,” by Herman Finer; “Defence of Art,” by Christopher
Herter; and “The Geographic Basis of American Economic Life,” by Harold Hull McCarty.

These books deal with many varied subjects, as can be seen by their titles. “The Throne of the Gods,” by
Heim and Gansser, is a book dealing with an expedition undertaken by the authors to the Central Himalayas. The authors
recount their experiences and discoveries with their observations of the lives of men, animals, and plants, not only among the
crags and glaciers of the high mountains but also on the way to Lhasa. “A Decade of Bridges,” by Wilbur
J. Watson, deals with the many varied types of architecture found in the bridges of the world and is excellently
illustrated. “Mussolini's Italy,” by Herman Finer, traces the growth and development of Mussolini and the Fascist party in Italy. “The
Geographic Basis of American Economic Life,” by Harold Hull McCarty, is one of the best works on American economic life
that has been written lately.

Original Large Bequest Left By Chambers In 1855

In 1855, Maxwell Chambers, a Salisbury businessman, died leaving Davidson College a bequest of approximately $200,000. This bequest made the
19-year-old school one of the richest colleges in the South and gave it a sustained life for many years to
come. Although only a member of the Building Committee of the school, Chambers was always interested in Davidson College.

In the report of the meeting of the Board of Trustees in 1852, it is stated that Chambers had donated
to Davidson College control and management of the Salisbury Factory and wood lot, sufficient to run the same. Also, a
capital of $5,000 requiring six percent interest per annum to be paid to him on the above-mentioned sum during his
life. Following the gift of $200,000 came the erection of the old Chambers Building. This building was the largest college
structure in the state at the time of its construction. The building contained seventy-two sleeping rooms, five classrooms, three laboratories,
a beautiful commencement hall, and a small library. Recitations were first held in the building on January 6, 1860. But,
60 years later, on November 28, 1921, the Chambers Building was burned. In the light of the still mounting fire,
President Martin challenged each of the 133 students to hear the call of the catastrophe. The response was immediate and
true to Davidson form. All pledged themselves to carry on, in spite of the obstacles, and with bared heads, the
student body sang “O Davidson.” Thus did Maxwell Chambers help to lay the foundation for Davidson College. In his will
is found this sentence: “I trust and pray that God, in His kind providence, will build up said college and
make it an ornament to the State of North Carolina and a blessing to the country.”

Dr. J. R. Mott Gives First Otts Lecture
“Need For More Leadership” Is The Subject Of Vespers Sermon

Dr. John R. Mott gave the first in his series of five Otts Lectures at the vespers service in Chambers
Auditorium Sunday evening. The speaker, who was heard by a capacity audience of students, townspeople, representatives of surrounding colleges, members
of Hi-Y, and other friends of Davidson College, was introduced in fitting terms by Dr. Lingle, President of Davidson College.
Dr. Lingle began by explaining the origin and purposes of the Otts Lectures and giving a brief resume of these
lectures in past years. In his introduction, Dr. Lingle said, “Dr. Mott has doubtless been heard by audiences in more
countries than any man today, more than any man in the history of the world.” The Davidson President told something
of Dr. Mott's life history, his education, and his travels.

The speaker began by saying that colleges and schools are generative and energizing centers of creative energy and spirits. In
his opinion, leadership has never been needed so much as now. There is a present demand for greatly augmented forces
of leadership in all parts of life. Never before has there been a greater need for a larger quantity and
quality of leaders in this nation. The reason is the stupendous changes. If we wage war on the age-long enemies
of mankind—ignorance, poverty, disease, and superstition—we must have more and more capable leaders. The problems today are greater than ever
before in the world, for the nations come into contact with startling speed, directness, and power, due to the many
improvements in transportation and communication. Today we have the first generation which could have been truly international. The general motives
of today’s peoples will have to be changed even to form peace. The problem we aren't prepared for is that
of the economic nature. To meet this, we must strengthen our volume of leadership, adding more quality at the same
time. The alarming tendencies that we see today, less in the United States than in other nations, however, are bitterness
and strife. Internationally thinking, it is time for men to put themselves in training for leadership. We have leaders now—a
few—but we need that reserve force that could take the place of those now in service. If we prepare a
“worthy succession,” we will cause the present leaders to be more productive.
