Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN: Thurs. Oct. 24, 1940

Dr. Foreman Speaks At College Vespers
Chooses “Making The Correct Decision In Time of Crisis”

Dr. Kenneth Foreman, professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson College, was the speaker at the College Vespers Sunday night.
“Choosing your path in a time of crisis.” Dr. Foreman said that in a case where the decision was to
be made between something that you ought to do, and something you want to do, the solution is not hard
to find. You should do what you ought to do. Everyone has something, some little thing, perhaps, that he hates
to do. He should begin by doing this thing. An example of this case, Dr. Foreman stated, is the case
in which you have to decide whether or not to get up and study in the morning, or whether or
not to shave before breakfast, or some such trivial thing. By beginning with little things like this, when a big
thing comes along, one is able to cope with the situation and make the right decision.

Second Decision
Another decision which has to be made is the decision between two things which ought to be done. This situation
is even harder for the Christian to meet than the other. One should choose the one which he thinks is
the best for him to do. For example, Dr. Foreman told of two men he knew who went as missionaries
to Mexico. Both of these men had strong convictions as to what was wrong and what was right. A proclamation
was passed by the Mexican government which prohibited any foreigner from being a preacher. One of the men said to
himself, “There are two things which I ought to do. One is to be a preacher and the other is
to be in Mexico and help these people.” He chose to stay in Mexico, and even if he could not
preach, he could help the people there. The other man thought about the same thing, but it seemed more important
to him to be a preacher, so he went back to the States and served as a preacher in another
field. Both of these men chose, and neither of them was wrong. Each chose what he thought that he should
do “no matter what.”

Third Decision
The last and most difficult case, Dr. Foreman said, is the case when a decision has to be made between
two things which are both wrong—a case where either thing you do is wrong, and not doing anything is equally
wrong. Then, Dr. Foreman stated, the thing to do is to choose the lesser evil. Use imagination and think about
what you believe the lesser of the two evils. Everyone will not agree as to what the right thing to
do is. War, which is raging in Europe today, and may shortly be here in America, and which may last
for many years to come, is an excellent example of this case. A person who does not believe in war,
as Dr. Foreman said he does not, is in a terrible fix. A conscientious objector, men say, is helping the
enemy, while when one becomes a soldier and shoulders a gun with which to kill men, he sins by killing
men and also by killing and injuring innocent people—women and children who have nothing to do with the war. In
a case of this sort, Dr. Foreman said, the only thing to do is to decide which of these two
evils seems to you to be the lesser and to act in accordance with this decision.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)
who later drove up to Winston-Salem for a visit. The week-end found both Brother Scotty Patterson and Brother Beevo Royster
in Greensboro, Scotty being at Guilford while Brother Royster was at G. C. Brother George Sinclair spent Friday through Sunday
at his home in Bluefield, W. Va., while Brother Hugh Sprunt spent some time in Charlotte. Saturday and Sunday we
had with us Mrs. T. M. Councill, mother of Pledge Brother George Councill, his sister, Jean; his aunt, and a
friend. At the regular Wednesday night pledge meeting Jack Law of New Britain, Conn., was elected president of the K.A.
pledges.

After the football game Saturday night the chapter held a feed, at which several of us were present. Harvard University
in the past year received gifts totaling $4,857,942.

Students Find Grades Trying
Registrar’s Office Scene Of Doleful News
By BILL LYMAN

On Friday or Saturday upperclassmen will march into Mr. Henley’s office as though they were going to the funeral of
their best friend. Some will come out joyous, but, alas, most will look either very dejected or very belligerent. All
due to the fact that tomorrow or Saturday the first six weeks’ grades will be issued from the registrar's office.
Those students who are joyous over their grades have nothing to worry about except their minority. Those who are dejected,
as most are, were hoping for better marks but dreaded the worst. But the belligerent fellow—he's another matter. First, he
scowls; secondly, he says naughty words under his breath, or, if far enough from hearing distance, out loud; thirdly, he
immediately tirades to a convenient acquaintance the injustice of such and such a mark and the corresponding professor; fourthly, he
decides to take action and tell off the said tyrant himself. Joe College then stalks up to the prof’s room,
but by the time he is at the door his fury has decidedly abated. The professor is expecting a stream
of “conscientious objectors” anyhow, and is not the least perturbed over the hurt feelings of said student. Whereupon a polite
but usually restrained argument takes place and it turns out that the student is wrong anyhow. He has forgotten to
take into consideration daily grades, or a certain writ not made up, or etc. etc. The student goes away feeling
that he has somehow been “smooth-talked” out of the whole thing and later thinks of numerous words that he wishes
he had said. This righteous indignation usually dies down after about a week, however, and Joe College begins thinking about
the next review. The subsequent problem confronting both the dejected and belligerent student is how to explain these grades to
the family. Let's look at Joe's report card: English, Spanish, Bible, Economics, Biology. Explanations run something like this: English is
terribly hard this semester and I was lucky even to pass; I really deserved at least a B in Spanish
and probably B+; in Bible I had good daily grades but messed up on the review as the professor tried
to see how tricky his questions could be; I’m improving in economics every day, etc. etc. Then follows the usual
vow to raise those grades and if the folks will just have patience they'll see a miraculous rise in the
mid-semester report. Joe is most sincere in his resolutions, and studies very hard for about a week, after which the
lures of college life gradually weaken his resistance to the former spasmodic driving. Oh, well, “one can get more from
bull sessions and activities than the classroom anyhow, so what the heck!”

FILM REPORT CARD
(Continued from Page Two)
to do better in this world. The story centers around Notre Dame and the great football teams that have come
from that institution. A story of a man that gave his life and time to the development of better boys.
For a show that is touched with thrills and heart-touching scenes, we give you a great man and a great
show. Wednesday, Oct. 30.

“Our Town”—William Holden, Guy Kibbee and The Old Timer who played in “City for Conquest.” This is the story centered
around a small town. Two families in this little old town see their children grow up and marry. The plot
is not well knit together but good acting and everyday scenes make this a good show. This column wishes to
welcome back the class of '44 to the show, and we have missed you(?).

New Building Will Replace Martin
As time marches on and the knowledge of chemistry increases, Chem-Chemists are “stirring up” new mixtures one after another, and
are then showing their fellow men new ways of doing things. Good equipment is indispensable to their work; therefore, they
must do away with old tools and invest in new ones. The 40-year-old Martin Chemical Laboratory has become an old
piece of equipment at Davidson, so the college has found it necessary to construct a new laboratory. When the old
building is torn down next summer, a historic landmark will disappear. It was built as a memorial to Col. W.
J. Martin, professor of chemistry at Davidson from 1869 through 1896. Dr. Lingle was a student under Col. Martin when
he taught at Davidson. The colonel was the father of W. J. Martin, president emeritus of Davidson and of Mrs.
Archibald Currie of Davidson.

In recognition of his contribution to Cleveland education and health, Western Reserve University’s president Winfred G. Leutner has been awarded
the B. F. Goodrich silver plaque.

A valuable private collection of mathematics books has been donated to Little Rock, Ark., Junior College by Miss Ursula Herring.

Washington and Lee University’s student body fund handled more than $40,000 in the 1939-40 term.

H. Stuart Hughes, a grandson of Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, who finished at Brown University in 1881, has been
appointed administrative assistant and instructor in history at Brown.

University of Wichita got the proceeds from more than 1,000 bushels of wheat raised in an area in front of
its administration building this year.

Ripon College, Wis., is Actor Spencer Tracy’s Alma Mater.

Farmville, Va. State Teachers College has enlarged its senior dormitory at a cost of $48,000.

M.H. GOODRUM & COMPANY GROCERIES Every Line of Hardware

MILITARY UNIT [Continued from Page One] shoes should see Sergeant C. C. Neely as soon as possible. According to officials,
parades this year should be more colorful than ever, due to the formation of an additional company and the better
quality uniforms now being purchased by the juniors.

Seventy-nine University of Oregon students enrolled for junior work with honors privileges.

The Alma (Mich.) College football team will play before four homecoming crowds this year.

Of 2,800 students at the University of Idaho last semester, 20 made perfect grades.

Daytime radio jam sessions in the University of Texas chemistry building have been banned by the faculty.

Danville is opening a $250,000 endowment campaign.

The United States pledge of allegiance was written by Francis J. Bellamy, member of the 1876 class at the University
of Rochester.

University of Detroit enrollment is up five percent.

Los Angeles City College has added 20 new courses in departments of business, cultural arts, drama, law, mathematics, life science,
psychology, and social science.

St. Thomas College, St. Paul, has a “math help” room in which counselors offer special assistance to freshmen in chemistry
and mathematics.

NOW PLAYING JON HALL FRANCES FARMER “South Of Pago Pago” —with— VICTOR McLAGLEN LATE SHOW Saturday Night JOAN BLONDELL DICK
POWELL “I WANT A DIVORCE”

IMPERIAL GREET HALLOWEEN with supplies from SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE Davidson's Leading 5 & 10c Store

ECHOES Of The PAST Ten Years Ago Wildcats trounce Citadel 6-0 in a hard-fought battle. “The Wild Grizzlies of Alaska,”
written in collaboration with John Halzworth, noted hunter-naturalist. Bob Jarrett and Bob King represent Davidson at North Carolina Collegiate Press
Association. Recent publications show Davidson first college in South to use forward pass. Homecoming this week. Wofford Frosh beat Kittens
6-0.

Five Years Ago Bonhumir Kryl’s Symphony Band gives concert. Davidson Theatre offers “Rainmakers” with Wheeler and Woolsey. Tars take Davidson
14 to 0. Seniors win class football. Branton, Griffin, Harlan, Marsh, Morrow, Purnell, and Cunningham tapped by ODK. Peter Marshall,
of Atlanta, begins YMCA Vesper Services. Yowl, college humor magazine, issues first copy.

Three Years Ago Juniors have able magician in Shaw Smith. Davidson band heard on air. Bust of Marshal Ney presented
to Davidson. Foreman leads Vespers. Practice for Intramural Wrestling begins. Cross-Country Team smashes State 43-16. Cats lose to South Carolina
12-7. Dick Shore moves into quarter finals of Frosh Tennis Tourney. Dr. Lingle starts speaking trip over East.

Work has been started on a new physical education building at Fairmont, W. Va., State Teachers College.

Dr. B. O. Williams, the new head of the department of sociology at the University of Georgia, has a collection
of 60-odd pipes.

Prof. Pfohl Attends Musical Conference Davidsonians Clutter Most States In U.S. Circulation Spans Over Continents Of World By FRANK SANFORD
When the producers of the Davidsonian go into a huddle over an issue they are gratified to know that they
may reach some Jean Coed or Betty College whether she be out in sunny California or way up in Maine.
Since almost half of our total circulation of 1,200 is sent to Miss Fairer Sex we feel safe in saying
that her heart must throb when she sees that dearest Joe is now the president of Alpha Beta Gamma or
Zeta Eta Theta. In addition to nearly every state in the Union we get out into the wilds of Africa
and down into Mexico. Our outside circulation has almost doubled in the last year or two so we may be
able soon to use a famous business slogan, “It Covers the Earth.” We have some alumni who have taken the
paper ever since it was founded in 1915 and even men who left in 1903 that still keep up with
their Alma Mater through the weekly gazette.

FROSH ADMITS (Continued from Page Five] man class was campused for two weeks. Another big event was when the president
of the student body asked the freshman class to leave the auditorium for making so much noise in Chapel. Well,
Rome wasn’t built in a day, and neither was Davidson College, so I guess that the class of '44 can
take a little more time to get settled down. But after we get used to the water fights, and the
laundry carrying, just watch our smoke.

Davidson’s Music Instructor Helps Lead Music Teachers’ Conference On Monday, October 21st, James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department
at Davidson, went to Women’s College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro to participate in and help lead
the 12th annual Music Teachers’ Conference. Approximately 400 North Carolina music supervisors, choral band and orchestra directors, and teachers of
instrumental and public school music were present. Prof. Pfohl was one of nine who laid plans for and directed the
conference. The head of the program was John Powell, nationally famous pianist, who led the piano teachers’ division. Future plans
were laid for the statewide music festival to be held in April. Featured at the conference were the techniques and
methods of North Carolina’s leading musicians. A comprehensive clinic program for class A and B schools was conducted with bands
from Duke, Carolina, State, Davidson, and Wake Forest participating. During the conference, meetings of the North Carolina Choirmasters Association, the
North Carolina Orchestra Association, and the executive committee of the Bandmasters Association were also held. In the morning, a business
meeting led by Dean H. Hugh Alvater, of the Woman's College school of music, was held. Climaxing the day was
a large dinner in the evening, at which A. McDougle of Greenville acted as toastmaster.

Prevent colds from developing at start. Put a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol in each nostril at the very first
sniffle or sneeze. Va-tro-nol stimulates Nature's defenses to help keep you from catching colds.

DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES? Definitely milder, cooler-smoking, decidedly better-tasting, satisfying cigarette. BETTER MADE FOR BETTER SMOKING Every
Chesterfield must conform to the one right standard of size and shape for a cooler, better-tasting, definitely milder smoke. (As
seen in the new film “TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A.”) Chesterfield is one up on ’em all. Smokers say that Chesterfield is the
one completely satisfying cigarette. Everybody who tries ’em likes ’em. Chesterfield’s right combination of American and Turkish tobaccos is the
best that money can buy. Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES? Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
