Thurs., Jan. 18, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Library Is Increased By Three New Books
Illustrated Volumes About North and South Carolina Are Added

Sigma Upsilon Hears Paper

Tommy Yarborough and Pledge Jimmy Hogg attended the Davidson-Furman game in Greenville, S. C. Saturday night. Pledges John McGee, Priestly Conyers, and Joe Nelson visited Winston-Salem and Salem Academy. Brother Jim Crook went to his home in Spartanburg for the weekend. On Sunday, Pledge Hogg visited in Greensboro. Brother Ed Hipp wrestled at Duke on Saturday and remained over for the dances. Cow DuPre and Burt Spain of Greenville, S.C., were guests of Brother Squires here and in Charlotte. Brother Bill Black attended a dance at Concord Friday night. Brother Dick Kelley fell on the steps in Watts Sunday night and fractured an ankle.

Among those staying on the campus this weekend were: Westall, MacKinnon, Dick Stevenson, Gilmore, and many more, now that exams are on us.

[Continued on Page Six]

Queens Observes Founders’ Day

There will probably not be any wild excursions.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Shampoo’s A Specialty
Johnson’s Barber Shop

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone.
Dial 3-5727
Printers of The Davidsonian
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Sunday Class Hears Wilson
Rev. W. S. Wilson Takes Forgiveness As Theme For Sunday School Address

FRATERNITIES, ATTENTION!
Buy your supply of wood and coal for the Winter season from
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL COMPANY

It’s good to know where it is. The drink that people the world over enjoy... winter... summer... every day in the year. Its clean, exhilarating taste brings a happy after-sense of complete refreshment that everybody welcomes.

DURING MID-WINTERS — EAT AT —
THACKERS, Inc.
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE PAUSE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by

The Rev. W. S. Wilson of Davidson was the teacher at Sunday School last Sunday morning. His theme was “Forgiveness,” and he took his text from the 18th chapter of Matthew.

Sigma Upsilon met Tuesday night, January 9, in the S. A. E. house. Tom Cauble read an initiatory paper entitled: “The Grand March,” a short story with a college football hero; and “Phantasmagoria,” a three-act playlet, was read by Dave McLean. This presentation was the first of its type made before the society in a number of years. Karl Hudson then read a short story, “Dark Glasses and a Gardenia,” the setting of which was laid in the Cafe Royale in Paris.

Invitations to Professors H. T. Lilly, A. F. Goldiere, and Dr. Frazer Hood, extended an invitation to the organization to meet at their residences sometime during the spring.

In the absence of the program chairman, Tom Perrin, Erle Austin introduced the speakers. Sigma Upsilon will not meet again until after the examination period, the next meeting being scheduled for January 30.

Three new and interesting books have been placed in the library, and two of them are especially recommended because of their interest to North Carolinians and South Carolinians.

First is “Old Homes and Gardens of North Carolina,” by Archibald Henderson and Bayard Wooten, a picturesque narrative of ancestral estates and gardens of North Carolina.

Next is a skillfully illustrated book on horses called “Black, Bay, and Chestnut,” by C. W. Anderson, who is widely known as an artist-author. Realistic sketches of famous horses on each page, and a short narrative of each horse make this an interesting book.

The other new addition to the library is “Prints and Impressions of Charleston,” by Elizabeth O. Verner. This book should be a treasure to all art lovers and particularly it should be treasured by those who are interested in the fascinating history of old Charleston.

These books will be found on the round table in room 1. They may only be checked out by special permission.

AMONG GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
Brother Bruch went to his home in Reidsville for the weekend. Pledge Brother Faucette went to his home in Burlington. Brothers McAfee and Sherman spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. Brothers Bryant, Summerville, McClintock, Hand and Pledge Brother Church went to their homes in Charlotte.

Miss Polly Price, of Richmond, was guest of Brother Lankle. He has been in the infirmary. Pledge Vincent DeWitt kept up an unbroken record of weekend trips to Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Most of the brothers remained on the campus this weekend, however, Brothers Faison Smith and Pledge Brothers Stewart, Young and Tate went to their homes in Charlotte.

Athletic trips were responsible for the absence of several brothers.the chapter at the regular Sunday night feed. The dance in Mooresville attracted many of the brothers Saturday night. 

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brothers Lucas, Thomas, Harrison, and McLeod journeyed with the basketball team to Greenville to play Furman, and Brother Bahnson went to Duke with the wrestling team. Brothers Coltrane and Hoover went to their homes in Concord. Brother “Whizzer” Powell was seen working out strenuously in the new gymnasium several times during the weekend. 

Pledges Brinson and Browning journeyed to Greenville. Brother Anderson passed the weekend in the Dreamland Night Club. Brother Abels journeyed to Duke with the wrestling team. Brother Shelton visited in Statesville. Among the Charlotte visitors were brothers Gibbs, Rice, Monger, Brooks, Byers, and Pierce. Parks went to Rocky Mount. The remainder of the chapter was either “on the books” or in the infirmary with flu.

Pi Kappa Phi

Very few of the Pi Kapps ventured away from the bounds of the campus over the past weekend. Sam Overby of Snow Hill was the only one who did. Brothers Niven and Saunders went to Winston-Salem, Brothers Lokey and Plunkett weakly accepted Charlotte's beckon, and Jack Covington made his way toward Wadesboro. The entire chapter is happy that Brother Colvin has sufficiently recovered from influenza to be out of the infirmary. The brothers welcomed Brother Bill Basil back for the weekend.

Kappa Alpha

The proximity of mid-year examinations and final reviews (also polit. cases) kept most of our brothers on campus this weekend. Brothers Gladden and Sidney Crane rolled up the most mileage, “Jeep” to Chester and “Bosco” to Greenville and Furman with the basketball team. Several of the brothers, including Tom McLean, Dick Winters, Little, and Sam Spencer, (not of the “Paradise Lost” Spencers) visited the Queen City. A few of the brothers are anxiously awaiting the confirmation of their dates for mid-winters. 

Phi Delta Theta

It was an unusually quiet week for the Phi Delts. Most of the brothers were either on or should have been on the books. However, there was that usual group that went to Huntersville to teach Sunday School. 

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Neal Scott, Apie Means, and Paul Crane spoke to the Intermediate Christian Endeavor at the Presbyterian Church in Davidson on the missionary work being carried on in Korea. Paul, who is well acquainted with the medical work there, told of the persecution and hardships endured by the missionaries. 

Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Charlotte
415 S. Tryon St.
Paul & Crymes
All Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N.C.