Council Moves New Amendment

ALENDA LUX The Davidsonian UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

Watson To Head Y. M.C. A. | VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1940 No. 22

Ed Watson Elected Y. M. C. A. President

Amendment Offered To New Student Council
Ruling Body Proposes To Revise Its Own Membership Provisions

An amendment revising Article 2, Section IV of the Constitution, which concerns the make-up of the Student Council, was passed by the Council at its meeting on Monday night, the 11th. The amendment was presented to the student body on Tuesday, the 12th, and will be voted on after Spring holidays, due to the fact that it must be tabled for ten days. The amendment is stated as follows: There will be a Student Council which shall be composed of fourteen members: President, Vice-President, and Secretary-Treasurer of the student body, the president of the three upper classes, and seven Councilmen of whom four shall be from and be elected by the Senior class, two from the Junior class, and one from the Sophomore class.

Committee Appointed

Some weeks ago a committee was appointed by Sam Spencer to draw up this amendment. The committee was composed of Buck Powell, chairman; Andy Dale, and Winston Taylor.

It is necessary that the voting of the student body on the amendment be put off until after the Spring Holidays because of the law which requires all amendments to be tabled for ten days before they can be voted upon.

Revision To Be Made

Revisions in the Council which will be made if the amendment is passed have long been considered necessary by many students. With the proposed changes, there will be little chance for a person to become president of the student body who has not served on the Council—a thing which has happened in the past.

This proposal is the second amendment submitted to the student body by the Council this year.

Phi Betes To Hear Speaker For Initiation

Dr. Douglas Freeman Will Address Novitiates

Dr. Douglas Freeman, prominent editor of a daily paper in Richmond, Virginia, will be speaker of the evening at the Phi Beta Kappa initiation on Thursday night. The initiation will take place in the banquet hall of Chambers at 7 o'clock p.m. A banquet will follow and will be in honor of the new members of Phi Beta Kappa and their dates. A large number of former members from surrounding towns are expected to be present. Invitations to the banquet have been extended to members in Charlotte, Statesville, and Salisbury.

At the time of the editing of this issue, the Davidsonian was unable to procure the details of the banquet. The toastmaster and various speakers of the evening will be a surprise at the banquet.

The address given by Dr. Freeman will not be public as has been previously announced in other newspapers. It will be exclusively for former members of Phi Beta Kappa, and the new initiates, according to Professor E. J. Erwin, president of the local chapter.

The initiates into Phi Beta Kappa will be: David Colvin, of Cliffside; Elmer Hulen, of Horse Cave, Ky.; Beecher Sitterson, of Kenansville; Kenneth Pope, of Mount Mourne; Bill Perdew of Wilmington; and Leonard Menius of Raleigh.

Staff Names New Editors

Managing editors of the Davidsonian for next year are: Albert Winn, of Greenville, S. C.; Tony Darby, of Florence, Ala.; Dick Cobb, of Winston-Salem; W. C. Plunkett, of Aiken, S. C.; and Bob Garvey, of Winston-Salem. Bob Carter, of Alexandria, Va., was elected Sports Editor.

Albert Winn is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Le Cercle Francais, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and the varsity debating team. Tony Darby is also on the editorial staff of “Quips and Cranks”, and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was President of the Reporter's Club. Cobb belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon and Red and Black Masquers. Plunkett is a member of Pi Kappa Phi and Le Cercle Francais. Garvey is also a member of Pi Kappa Phi, the editorial staff of “Scripts ‘n Pranks” and was drum major of the football band. Carter is a member of Phi Delta Theta, the Court of Control, and the varsity baseball team.

These men were elected to their positions by the present managing editors in a special meeting last Monday night.

Dancers Call Ball Success

Third Set Draws Small Crowd, Much Praise

Hudson rendered third on Dean Clubmen Davidson's held of last Charlotte. The formal observed ball Scabbard Florida music and his for the the dance Friday at set and the day week Armory night Military chapter of dance as the the local Blade. Friday was annual tary of and This dance in members of the Scabbard and Blade This dance has become an annual affair with the military fraternity.

Members of Blade were: Escott, Scabbard and the sponsors Miss with — Miss Harry Hendricks with Miss Mary Garvey, Tom Hackney with Miss Ellen Waddill, Spencer with Miss “Scottie” Stuart Oglesby with Marjorie Dave Colvin Miss Hendrick, Jimmie Cooper with Miss Catherine Webb. The chapter also gave a banquet for members and their dates after the tea-dance on Saturday.

During the dances, features were rendered by the Glee Club, and the vocals were ably handled by Frances Colwell. Hudson’s band has been steadily growing in popularity throughout the East for the last three years. This was his third appearance at the Pan-Hellenic dances, and although the crowd was not up to expectations, many students expressed the opinion that it was the best set of the year. As yet, the band for the next set has not been announced. Tentative dates for the set, however, have been set for April 26 and 27. This will be the nearest approach Davidson has ever had to a "finals" set.

Change in the former schedule of dances was made this fall when the Christmas dances were dropped from the schedule. Results at the final set will determine largely whether the experiment has been a success.

Next Issue

Junior Managers To Turn Over Paper To Next Year’s Men

This issue of the Davidsonian marks the swan song of the present managing editors of the editorial staff. When the paper goes to press next year, there will be a new charge. Some time this week after the editor of the paper has been elected, the present staff will hold a meeting at which they will elect the managing editors from the present group of sophomores writing on the staff.

Juniors Active

Juniors on the staff for the year were: Joe Liles, Paul Cauble, Ed Watson, Tom Bumbarger, Andy Dale, and Withers Lawson. All these men have been active in campus journalism as well as serving on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. Liles is a member of Le Cercle Francais, the “Scripts ‘n Pranks” staff, and the Journalism Club. He is from Wadesboro. Bumbarger is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Phi Mu, and a managing editor of "Scripts ‘n Pranks.” He is from Hickory. Cauble is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, the track team, and the Student Council. He is from Winston-Salem. Watson was recently elected President of the YMCA. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, Phi Gamma Mu, and the Phi Society. He is from Wadesboro. Dale, who was the sports editor, is from Columbia, Tennessee. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the Economics Club, and the Phi Alpha Delta Society. He is also a member of the Delta Phi Alpha. He is the alumni secretary of the college and has been assistant college Publicity agent. Withers comes from Winston-Salem.

Marsh, Lacy Named To Offices

George Marsh of High Point was elected second vice-president of the student body in the final ballot held last Thursday, edging out Lee Lucas of Greensboro in the finals. Miss Virginia Hengeveld, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hengeveld of Davidson, was recently honored when she was elected to feature in the May Day festivities at Converse College. Miss Hengeveld was one of the four freshmen to be elected from the freshman class as an attendant to the May Queen at the May Day Festival to be held on the fourth of May.

Election Ordered In May

The election of the class officers and the freshman advisor will follow the election of the editors of the Davidsonian and the Quips and Cranks. The Student Council expressed a desire to finish these elections in time to elect class officers and Freshman advisor before the holidays. However, if it looks as though there will not be enough time to complete the elections completely before the holidays, the elections will be postponed until after the holidays.May, at this event which the council said that the election would be held over till after the holidays. Marsh succeeds to the post vacated by “Casey” Jones. In the race for secretary and treasurer, Ben Lacy of Richmond, Va., finally won out over Jesse Wooten of Memphis, Tenn., taking over the post held for the past year by Claude Hackney. Other members of the original ballot include, besides Lacy and Wooten, Hugh Sprunt, W. H. Crane, John Frederick, Willifred Hobbie, John Marsh.

[Continued on Page Six]

Sigma Upsilon, Withers is doing honor to Sigma Upsilon, considered one of the highlights of the social calendar at the college, will also be fifteen other attendants to the Queen. The Queen will not be announced until the day of the festival. Following this election, the Editor of the magazine will be elected. The Student Council election, Cheerleaders election, Publications board, and last the YMCA board of control will be elected. All of these elections will be carried on in the manner that the elections have been run so far.

Each year the Reporter’s Club tries to find from among its student body, the individual features that they think the “Ideal Girl” of the current year possesses.

Committee Will Communicate With Hull, Senators, And Board Named To Supervise All Elections.

At its meeting on Monday evening, the 11th, the Committee appointed by Sam Spencer to take action on the part of Davidson in changing the Far Eastern Policy of the United States decided to write letters to the congressmen of North and South Carolina and to other colleges and universities throughout the country. The purpose of this committee, led by Julian Lokey and composed of John Farrior, Elmer Hulen, Dan Gilliam, and Harper Beall, is to promote a new attitude in the United States toward the war in China. The committee decided that two types of letters should be written: First, letters to the State Department in general and to Secretary of State, Cordell Hull, particularly; also letters to Congressmen from North and South Carolina. Second, letters to all State Universities and to any other colleges or universities at which members of the committee know students in order to urge these students to get behind a similar movement in their school. The Committee will undertake, Lokey announced, to get these letters out as soon as possible in order that immediate action in the case may be taken.

Fifteen seniors have been selected to serve on the new elections board which was provided for in the new amendment passed by the student body in a vote last Tuesday. Due to the resignation of Gales McClintock from chairmanship of the board, a new chairman will be selected. Four of its members represent the student council, and one man has been chosen from each fraternity. The purpose of the newly formed board is defined: “To conduct all elections strictly according to the provisions set out in the Constitution, to count, file, and post all election returns within twelve hours after the polls are closed, to set rules and penalties about ‘combines,’ ‘soliciting votes,’ etc., and to make public the same to the student body.” Those chosen on the board are: Beecher Sitterson, George Milne, Sid Craney, Jack Ferguson, Karl Hudson, Sam Spencer, Gales McClintock, George Richmond, Jim Currie, Bub Coltrane, Julian Lokey, Tom Perrin, Bill Ross, Charlie Mashburn, and Tony Casali.

Watson Succeeds Crane

Pictured above are the old and new heads of the Davidson YMCA. Ed Watson, left, was chosen to succeed Sid Crane, right, in balloting last Friday. Watson, who comes from Charlotte, defeated Bob Finley of North Wilkesboro in a close race to succeed Crane as head of the campus’ largest religious organization.

Watt, Owens Named New Vice-Presidents Dale, Taylor New Editors

Andy Dale To Head Davidsonian; Winston Taylor To Edit Annual

Andy Dale of Columbia, Tennessee, was elected to the editorship of the 1940-41 Davidsonian yesterday in a run-off between him and Paul Bumbarger. Dale, a rising senior, was elected by the Junior class in the same balloting to edit Quips and Cranks next year. Dale, a rising senior, won from a field of six men in the second ballot, four of whom were eliminated in the first ballot. He has been active in journalistic work, having served as Sports Editor during the past year. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He will succeed Tony Casali as the editor of the newspaper. Taylor was elected on the second ballot in a close race over Vernon Youngblood. He has served for three years on the Annual staff and will succeed Jack Holland as the Annual head. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and has been the president of the Junior class for this year.

Juniors Cast Blazer Votes

Hopkins Tailoring Company Submits Sample

Samples of a tan herringbone material with a thread are choices leading in the ballot for the Junior class for their “Senior Blazers.” The material was submitted by Hopkins Tailoring Company, who have had a representative on the campus for several years. Although only about seventy of the members of the class voted when the sample was taken, this material went to the leading position by four to ten votes. Samples were obtained from several clothing stores and tailoring companies. These samples are on display at the Student Store and are being taken there for the early voting. John Purdie, chairman of the blazer committee, announced he hoped that enough Juniors would cast ballots today and tomorrow so that by Saturday the class members could order their blazers. He said that many of the seniors were anxious to get their class jackets before the Christmas holidays of their final year. Other materials which are running close are samples from Perhis of Charlotte, and one from Ed Melton Company, also of Charlotte. Most of the materials being shown are priced between thirteen-fifty and fifteen dollars. This year, the seniors have voted in large numbers so that the class majority would be gotten before the blazers are ordered. Members of the committee in charge of getting the blazers are John Purdie, Joe Shelton, and Bob Reinhardt.

Charlotte Man To Succeed Crane As Campus Religious Head

FINLEY COMES SECOND

Watt And Owens Pass Winn On Final Ballot

Edgar Watson of Charlotte was elected president of the YMCA for the coming year, defeating Bob Finley of North Wilkesboro by a close margin in the final ballot. Also on the ballot for president were Paul Brown, Boyd Flynn, and Casey Jones. Finley was granted his request that his name be withdrawn from the final ballot. After leading the first ballot with 142 votes, Watson was first with 132 votes. In the final election, Watson was elected with 40 votes. In the race for vice-president, Charles Watt of Thomasville, Ga., and Jim Owen of West Palm Beach, Fla., took the lead from Albert Winn of Greenville, S.C., who had held it until the final ballot. Watt was elected first vice-president with 261 votes, and Owens second vice-president with 240 votes. Winn trailed close behind. Other names on the original ballot by the nominating committee were Ralph Williams, Archie Taylor, Richard Kelley, Jim Crook, and Ed Hay. Those elected were Watson, Watt, and Owens. Watson is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Delta Epsilon, honorary journalism fraternity, Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity, and is a member of the Student Council. He is also a sergeant in the ROTC and was recently tapped into Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity.

Outstanding Vice-Presidents

Watt is a member of the Alpha Kappa social fraternity, was vice-president of the club, getting numerals and a letter in varsity cross country. He is a member of the Davidsonian. Owens is taking a pre-medical course.

[Continued on Page Six]

Sidney Crane Resigns Unity Pastor’s Post

‘Y’ Head To Leave Mill Chap- Enter Seminary

Sid Crane, President of the Y, has resigned his position as pastor of the Unity Circle due to the fact that Sid does not expect to be here during the spring. He has withdrawn himself from the list of candidates under consideration for the pastor to take his place. He states that he feels his successor should take up his work as soon as possible, so he is stepping out unusually early to facilitate this change. An election to fill this place will be held on this coming Sunday, March 17. At this time, it is believed that either Tom Fry or Jack Davidson will be elected to this position. The man elected will probably serve as regular pastor next year. Near the end of April, a revival will be led by Albert McClure of Lincolnton. Rev. McClure is a former pastor of Unity and of the Y. M. A. Spring recreational activities have recently been commenced under the supervision of Jack Davidson, secretary.