Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 15, 1940

They'll Go On Tour — Music Group to Make Annual Concert Tour

A Brief Chapter? In Which Professors Are Educated

Little Symphony To Begin Spring Concerts

With the completion of the festival, Davidson’s organizations will go on the road for their annual concert tours. The college
little symphony will inaugurate the season when, under the direction of Prof. Pfohl, it plays at Montreat, Lees McRae College,
Elk Park, Pine Spruce, Lincolnton, February 15, 16, 17, and 18. This group of twenty-one musicians will have Earle Copes
of Norfolk, Va., a member of the sophomore class, as piano soloist. Their program will include the overture to the
“Magic Flute” by Mozart; minuetta from “The London Symphony,” Haydn; a selected solo by Copes; prelude from “L’Arlésienne Suite No.
1,” Bizet; “Praeludium,” Jarnefelt; “Hungarian Dance No. 5,” Brahms; “Caucasian Sketches,” Ippolitov-Ivanov.

The little symphony is the most recent organization on the Davidson campus. The second musical tour will be taken by
the glee club combined with the little symphony, who will be presented in concert by the American Legion Auxiliary at
Forest City, N.C., Feb. 23.

Echoes of the Past

3 Years Ago
The Davidson quint won over fighting Citadel by a score of 46-34. The team was paced by Ned Iverson and
Captain Bill Quick. Jan Garber, whose orchestra played for the Mid-Winters, commented on Davidson's excellent spirit. Wake Forest's basketball team
went down before a spirited Davidson quint to the tune of 43-31. Ned Iverson was Davidson's outstanding player. Davidson’s matmen
fought the grapplers from V.P.I. to a 14-14 draw in the Davidson gym.

5 Years Ago
The Honorary Fraternity Council presented a petition to the board of trustees requesting a social center and permission for campus
dances. The two new pay telephones recently installed in the dormitories were flooded with calls to all parts of the
U.S., when a student discovered that all money paid in was returned in the “money refunded” slot. The V.P.I. mat
team defeated the Davidson team here by a score of 17-13. The varsity basketball team won two hard-fought games, one
from Elon, 46-43, and one from Charlotte “Y” 35-31. The Wildkitten basketeers defeated the Darlington Tigers, 38-31, on the home
court.

10 Years Ago
Duke’s team defeated the Davidson quint in a thrilling game here by a score of 33-30. V.P.I.’s matmen won over
the Davidson gruntmen, 19-11, at Washington and Lee. The Davidson team took a highly successful trip, routing three Virginia quints.
The victims were V.M.I., 35-27, Roanoke, 49-16, and V.P.I. V.P.I.’s frosh won a close game over the Wildkittens by a
score of 26-21. The Wildkittens had just defeated the W. and L. Yearlings by a score of 35-23.

Sophs Try Make-Up
For this and following issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Sophomores of the staff have taken charge of making up the
paper. The Managing Editors are still supervising this work, but rapidly there has been showing up during the past several
years an even more famous day. This early taking-over may seem strange to many, but Editor Casali has stressed the
importance of a Managing Editor’s being thoroughly acquainted with his job by next year.

GROUP BRINGS [Continued from Page Three]
Visited England, Germany, Danzig, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, and Sweden. On the day the war broke out, he left
Warsaw on the last of the scheduled trains leaving that center. He was also an eye-witness to the early part
of the struggle between Finland and Russia. Mr. Hindus will speak under the auspices of the Social Science teachers of
Charlotte, headed by Miss Oma Lafferty. His speech was so well-liked by the people of Charlotte that he was given
an invitation to return to this locality this year. Born in a small Russian village, Mr. Hindus remained at his
home until his 14th year, when he emigrated to the United States. For some few years he received employment as
a farm laborer. He then went to Colgate University where he was graduated with honors. After his graduation from Colgate,
he studied in the Harvard Graduate School. He is regarded as a world authority on Russian peasantry.

DEPUTATIONS TRAVEL [Continued from Page Three]
Sherrard Rice and Rod Williams took part in the program at the Park Presbyterian Church Sunday afternoon and night. Monday,
Jim Kerr and Tom Brown journeyed to Rock Hill where they spoke to the Young People’s meeting at the Oakland
Avenue Presbyterian Church. They were especially invited, being sons of missionaries.

BETAS TO CELEBRATE [Continued from Page One]
The initiation will take place in the Dome Room of Chambers Building at 7 o'clock. Dr. Newton, Dr. Lingle, and
Dr. Martin will take part in the initiation. The gala banquet, with District Chief Lincoln as toastmaster, will be held
in the banquet hall at 8:30. The presentation of the half-century certificates, the innovation of the Mystic Seven History, and
the showing of movies taken at the national fraternity’s one hundredth anniversary convention last summer will be featured events.

INTRA-SQUAD SKIRMISHES [Continued from Page Three]
Backfield Prospects
At the tailback position, Spencer and Sharpe are returning, also last fall’s freshman ace, Fredricks. Both Hackney and Shannon will
be back to fill the wing back post. Maloney of the Kittens should strengthen this position. Yoder will return to
again take over his assignment of blocking back, with Shaw, a reserve, serving as his understudy. Jay Bolin will again
plunge the line.

St. Joseph’s College has discontinued football as an intercollegiate sport.

By HOWARD LEWIS
University of Alabama: February is a month famous for many things, such as Ground Hog Day, St. Valentine’s Day, and
George Washington's birthday. But rapidly there has been showing up during the past several years an even more famous day.
That day is sometime about the first of February when the Professors think back to final exam papers and try
to make up their minds whether to take up farming or just let out a big wail.

File Prize “Boners”
But usually they laugh and scribble the prize “boners” down on paper or stick them in the corner of their
mind where they stay until dug out by inquisitive reporters. For example, “watered stock,” corporation indebtedness with inadequate financial backing,
one student explained tothe Economics department, “is a herd of cows fed on dry corn and then watered to sell
the market.”

The Department of Mines was mildly surprised to learn from the paper of a mining student that “heavier alloy, brass,
is now mined from Maine to California.”

Bath Tub Philosophy?
“Diogenes was a man and he sat in a tub,” was the enlightening description of the classic thinker given to
the Philosophy department in a final.

“Pilgrim's Progress,” Bunyan’s famous allegory, “dealt with progress of English people as pilgrims,” the English department was informed. And “Paradise
Lost,” Milton’s Christian epic, “deals with a corruption which caused Hell.”

A Democrat Writes
Here’s one from an examination paper in political science that the Republican party might regard as dubious material: “I am
a candidate for the late Republican Party.”

“Hard Water is ice,” according to a new campaign slogan presented to the Chemistry department in a freshman exam.

A Holstein can no longer give milk, because it is a type of potato, it was pointed out in economic
geography.

A Sheepish Answer
“A Merino has commercial value for wool, but makes an excellent cherry to top ice cream sundaes” is another prized
bit of information taken from the geography exam-tester.

“Ninevah, famous Old World city, was ate up by Lions,” says a philosophy quick-thinker.

The Nazi war drive or “Blitzkrieg” is a famous American World War draft dodger, the Journalism department learned from a
freshman teaser.

The handsome Democratic presidential possibility, Paul V. McNutt, would possibly be a bit upset to learn he is standing Communist
candidate for president, at least that’s the contention of one journalism exam paper.

Dr. John R. McClure, Professor of Educational Administration, might also be somewhat surprised to find he is now head of
the “Bible Department,” according to a report on a freshman problem's brain-twister.

There are 160 college cooperatives doing an annual business of $2,700,000.

Exactly 659 University of Pittsburgh faculty members hold doctor’s degrees.

THE COLLEGIATE REVIEW
(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Catholic University of America has organized the nation’s first religious round table for law students and lawyers.

Exactly 91 per cent of the student body at Concordia College (Minn.) are Lutherans.

The flags of seven nations have flown over the acres which now constitute the Louisiana State University campus.

Enter your pictures in the Collegiate Digest Salon competition now.

Queens College has added 69 new courses for the second half of the present school year.

Harvard University has received a donation of 57,000 orchid specimens and $68,000 to care for them.

New York University safety educators will visit 20 states this summer lecturing on safety education.

A Canadian college student has transferred to the University of Georgia because she wanted to learn more about the country
described in “Gone With the Wind.”

Two Trousers
SHELTANDS, TWEEDS, and WORSTEDS
Use Our Pay Plan
90 Days to Pay
Marion Davis
118 South Tryon Street

Board Prexy Trustees
Dr. R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte, will preside over the Trustees of Davidson College semi-annual meeting to be held here
next Thursday. Dr. Dunn, one of the 49 members of the group, is president of the important board and has
served in that capacity for a number of years.

The Club
Dartmouth College Outing Club is this year celebrating the 30th anniversary of its founding.

Convene Here
Dr. R. A. Dunn, President of Group, To Preside Over Meeting

Trustees of Davidson College have been summoned by Dr. R. A. Dunn of Charlotte, president, to meet next Thursday, Feb.
22. The trustees meet semi-annually, next week's meeting being the first of this year. Usually the mid-winter meeting is taken
up with formulating plans for the next fiscal school year. The executive committee, as is the custom, will meet the
day preceding the trustee meeting, coming on Wednesday, February 21 this year. The next meeting will be held in June
at commencement exercises.

Of the 49 trustees, there will be approximately 35 or 40 present. The trustees will spend practically the entire day
at Davidson, and will eat lunch together in the dining room at Chambers. Trustees are elected by the Presbyteries of
North Carolina and Florida, and by the Alumni Association. North Carolina Presbyteries altogether elect 31 members, Florida six, and the
Alumni Association twelve. They each serve for four-year periods. Of the group, annually the fifteen are elected for the Executive
Committee. The Executive Committee exercises practically all the powers of the trustees during the intervals of the two annual meetings,
subject, however, to the review and control of the larger group.

The highlight of last year’s mid-winter meeting was the election of Dr. William C. Matthews, as associate college physician, and
Mr. Elmer E. Brown, as Associate Professor of Biology. Both additions were former students of Davidson.

ANN MILLER, star of stage and screen, now appearing in George White's Scandals, is definitely the outstanding dance discovery of
our time.

More and more smokers are making the discovery every day that CHESTERFIELDS are COOLER, BETTER-TASTING and DEFINITELY MILDER. You'll always
find these two qualities at their best, plus a far cooler smoke, in Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best
cigarette tobaccos. Make your next pack Chesterfield and see for yourself why one smoker tells another they satisfy. You can’t
buy a better cigarette.
