Thurs., Oct. 17, 1940 : : : THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of the Week

NEW R.O.T.C. OFFICERS | Music Section Plans New Program and Schedule For 1940-41

Local Business Men To Give Vocational Talks

Director Pfohl Announces the Program for Musical De- partment

CONCERT IN NORFOLK

Regular Concert Series Will Continue

Charlotte Minister Returns To Campus To Deliver Vesper Sermon

Frank Barker, Senior:
Having reached the age of 21 this summer and never having taken ROTC, I am eligible for conscription. It seems to me that every able-bodied man should want to serve for the best interest of his country. I heartily favor this bill.

Tom Plonk, Junior:
The wise man who has been successful in the field that the respective groups interpret should speak at the next meeting. It seems to me that every able-bodied man should want to serve for the best interest of his country. I heartily favor this bill.

Casey Jones has been named chairman in charge of the committee for the local military unit. Capt. Wilson is in charge of instructing the junior officers; Lieut. Marsh the freshman privates; and Lieut. Gaffney, the sophomore first-class privates and corporals. These officers are under Col. MacKenzie, local P.M.S. & T.—(Picture courtesy staff photographer Billy Barker).

How can we expect to defend against them without training our men? The only satisfactory way is through national compulsory military training. It is evident that our civilians are picturing a pending disaster.

R.O.T.C. Shoes Here

No more will the wide variety of shoes be shown at ROTC drill, because of the arrival of the new regulation shoe last week. The new regulation shoe is a streamlined tan coming in either a hard rubber sole or a scotch grain.Col. McCouts exhibited a leather sole. Colonel McKenzie expressed his wish that all cadets keep their shoes as neat as possible. Juniors hope to get their new uniforms this week.

Heated men with Caldwell Troop held their first regular meeting Friday night. 

KWO’s Are Hosts

Lawson Withers, Senior:
Conscription has potential benefits, such as physical development, mental alertness, knowledge of defense, etc., but I object to it in that it will keep me from becoming settled in my life work for at least a year and perhaps longer. I have no great moral objection, but only a selfish one.

Rod Turner, Junior:
At least a year and perhaps longer. I have no great moral objection, but only a selfish one.

Phil Busby, Sophomore:
Certainly, I am in favor of conscription. It is not only good for the strengthening of the manhood of America, but it shows the rest of the world that the United States does mean business and is still a power with which to be reckoned.

David Rhea, Junior:
Yes, I am in favor of it. We are forewarned by the deliberate attacks of the dictators. Free people, therefore, for the first time in our history, have undertaken to muster our own defense.

Brown Honored
Word has been received from Cornell University that Prof. Elmer E. Brown has been granted his degree of Doctor of Philosophy. Professor Brown joined the Davidson faculty last year as a member of the Biology Department. He received his A.B. degree from Dartmouth College in 1928 and has also studied at Davidson, Carolina, and the University of Michigan. Dr. Brown is a nephew of Mrs. W. L. Lingle and a native of North Carolina.

(Continued on Page 6)

When in Charlotte, eat at THE WOODEN BOWL. Delicious food and ice-cold Coca-Cola. Reasonable prices.

MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

LATE SHOW
Saturday Night
JON HALL
FRANCES FARMER
in
"South of Pago Pago"
with
VICTOR McLAGLEN

PRINTING... Is Our Business
Complete service—as near as your telephone. Our representative will call.

NEWBERG SAYS:
Dial 6300 — 6309
COLLEGE PHARMACY

NEW STYLES IN TROUSERS EVERY WEEK
See Newberg’s Cut-Rate Men’s Shop
115 W. Trade Street
Charlotte, N.C.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Printers of The Davidsonian
FRED H. PLEXICO, Owner
Garland Court
Charlotte, N.C.