Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 22, 1940

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member, 1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy Assistant Editor
Jack Tamblyn Managing Editor
Tom Cauble Managing Editor
Joe Liles Managing Editor
Jim Watson Managing Editor
Lawson Withers Managing Editor
Andy Dale Sports Editor
Eric Austin Associate Editor
Jack Holland Associate Editor
Karl Hudson Associate Editor
Sam Spencer Associate Editor
Bobby Williams Movie Editor
Angus Lytch Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Herbert Covington Asst. Business Manager
Casey Jones Advertising Manager
Hector McLean Advertising Manager
Eldredge Brown Circulation Manager
Jack Covington Circulation Manager
Whittle Collection Manager

A Good Chance To Present Your Ideas...

Tonight the YMCA Cabinet will sponsor the second in a series of panel discussions on subjects vital to both campus
life and life after the campus has been left behind. The topic under consideration tonight will be "The Problem of
Compulsory Attendance upon Religious Exercises.” The Davidsonian has no desire to insert itself into these discussions by setting forth its
opinions, one way or the other. Rather, we would simply choose to point out the obvious fact that the problem
of compulsory attendance upon religious exercises is a highly controversial question. And, that it is a basis upon which a
great deal of student dissatisfaction has its foundation. We would also urge that every member of the student body attend
these discussions if it be possible.

The first of this series of discussions was upon “The Christian Attitude Toward War.” Whether anyone came away from that
meeting with any definite idea as to what his belief on the subject, we do not know. However, ideas were
proposed, argued, and explained and there was a bit of that neglected thing called thinking done when the smoke had
cleared away. Both students and faculty alike were elated over the enjoyment and the benefits they received from the discussion.

If you like good bull sessions with faculty men as well as students, be at the Phi Hall tonight at
seven o'clock and let's see just how things stand as to this compulsory church and chapel question.

We Explain Our Proposed System

Much has been said both pro and con regarding the cleansing of politics at Davidson. For over a month and
a half these columns have been filled with many ideas on the subject. We have tried to present a clear
and unbiased discussion of the subject, and all persons who wanted to print their ideas were granted the privilege. Last
week the DAVIDSONIAN came out definitely in favor of control by an elections board. On the front page, you will
find a list of the proposed amendments that have been presented to the Student Council. It is our opinion that,
regardless of the type or form of elections, the method should be clearly stated in the constitution. In this way
the entire student body agrees to the method, and it is not left to a small group or board to
decide, dictate the form, and judge the validity of an election. The students, themselves, should decide the method, make the
rules and limitations, agree on the punishments for infractions of rules, and leave it to the elections board to act
as a supreme court, who has final jurisdiction in election controversies.

We believe that everyone is in favor of the central ballot system; but ballots must be signed, in order that
it will be possible to investigate the votes, if irregularities should happen to arise. Naturally, the boxes should be in
a central location where access is easy. Also, plenty of time should be given the student to vote. The student
must drop it in a locked box himself, which eliminates the absentee ballot controversy and the locked box gives everyone
the assurance that his vote has not been lost. When the box is under the constant care of a councilman
or member of the elections board, the student also has confidence in the election.

The petition presented is a defined system of political control. It clearly makes combines and cliques illegal, as well as
the solicitation of votes. No one can buy votes, issue circulars, pass out cigars, purchase advertising space in the DAVIDSONIAN,
or go to any election expense. Also, it limits the students from having mass meetings and campaign speeches. This should
be fully in accord with Davidson and its traditions, since it is a small school and any form of campaigning
is superfluous. It is also in accord because Davidson desires and demands truth. This elections board will officially handle all
elections according to the strict provisions in the Constitution. It will have no “implied” powers, but only those clearly stated
in the Constitution. It will be a representative body for just such a duty. Each fraternity is represented by a
senior member, non-fraternity men are represented from the senior class, and the student council has two senior members to assure
that everything is carried off under the honor system. Every member of the student body and every candidate for office
will have a representative on the board. Members of the board are elected and not appointed, which eliminates the possibility
of influence. All votes will be counted in Chambers by the board, which gives everybody the satisfaction of a true
vote.

The DAVIDSONIAN goes on record as heartily recommending the adoption of each section and article proposed as amendments to our
Constitution. We sincerely believe that it is fair, true, unbiased, and democratic.

Reasons For Election Board:

During the extensive discussion of the proposed plan for a new election set-up, it has come to our attention that
many students believe that the purpose of the plan is to take elections out of the hands of the Student
Council and merely to back the council down, term it as an incompetent group, and take away its prestige. If
we have conveyed these ideas in our discussion, it has been unintentional. We want to work with the council, not
against it, in outlining a plan that will weed out the evils of our present set-up. We sincerely believe that
the Council is competent and decisions handed down by them in the past have been honest, unbiased, and fair. Unfortunately,
the plan devised to run our elections as they should be run calls for an “Election Board” to handle the
entire situation and take altogether from the hands of the Student Council the unpleasant task of controlling it.

Our reasons are sound, we sincerely believe. Of course, the Council is the governing group of the student body and
theoretically it is they who should control elections. But we want a plan whereby Davidson can have an electoral set-up
that contains no flaws. Such a plan should insure the student body against the unrest, strain, and unpleasantness that has
been characteristic of previous elections. The plan would insure us against the unnecessary gripes and howls of defeated candidates and
their backing groups, for each candidate does have backing groups. This can be done only one way by having a
central group that has representation from all groups concerned, an Election Board. Of course, the Student Council, theoretically, is a
central group and does have equal representation from the student body. But during the election period, the student body cannot
be termed as 650 individuals, it is termed as 10 groups, nine fraternity and one non-fraternity groups. It has been
this way and always will be so. Each of the ten groups are striving to elect for the various offices
a member from his group. These ten groups cause numerous conflicts between one another. Shouts of protests and claims of
illegal practices are thrown from one group to another. In the past, we sincerely believe that the Council has honestly
tried to cope with the situation, satisfy the grievances of the groups, and hand down unbiased decisions, but those groups
that have no representation on the Council sometimes feel, and they can naturally do so, that since they have no
representation they haven’t got a fair shot at the final decision. The defeated group can say that if the Mu’s
and Xetas combine to beat them in an election and are caught and brought to trial, they would naturally go
farther with their representation on the Council to absolve themselves of all guilt since the defeated group has no representation
whatsoever.

Thus the real reason for taking the elections from the hands of the Council, which does not have equal representation
as far as the 10 groups on the campus are concerned, and putting elections in the hands of an Election
Board, which will have an equal number of representatives from each group, is clearly visible. It gives no opening for
the cries of those who think that simply because he hasn't a frat brother on the Council he was gypped.
It gives no loophole for a considerable amount of complaints and gripes that accompanies all Davidson elections. It will make
every person in every group feel that they have had an honest decision because they have a man on the
ruling body to see that they are dealt with squarely.

Thus the real reason for wanting to take the elections from the Council is stated and such silly reasons as
merely wanting to overthrow and ridicule the group are entirely false.

ATHLETICS...

This seems to be the hard luck year for the Davidson teams. Take football for instance: first we lose to
State by four points after out-playing them the whole game. We did score on Duke, and that sent our stock
sailing high again, but V. M. I. beat us by 2 points, followed by defeat at the hands of South
Carolina when we thought we might win. We played Furman to a 0-0 deadlock until the last four minutes and
then they beat us by 15 points and there is no need to bring up the Wake Forest game. We
did whip The Citadel Homecoming Day to make that weekend a little more pleasant, but the rain rather dampened the
affair. And football ended with Davidson having two marks in the win column. Now basketball is well underway and the
records show 3 to 10 defeats. There was that close...

CAMPUS CAMERA

FOR MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE

FRANK BARKER
THE DAILY NEWS STAFF OF NYU DISTRIBUTED 30,000 COPIES OF THEIR PAPER AT THE NYU-FORDHAM GAME LAST FALL IN YANKEE
STADIUM. IT WAS THE LARGEST SINGLE ISSUE OF ANY COLLEGE PAPER

Wait a minute: According to the track captain, they will not lose a single meet this year and that sounds
very promising. Graham McFadyen is the shining light of the wrestling team, undefeated in competition this year and champion in
his division in the State tournament. Next year’s football schedule looks like what we've been wanting for...ever to write! mighty
anxious to trip the Saturday and had not heiress on his return to Davidson. About their doings in Blacksburg, a
long die. Teams of our own size and strength with the same support that our schools give in the way
of athletic scholarships! Sewanee, Citadel, South Carolina, Furman, and V.M.I. But there is still the rivalry with Duke and the
University of North Carolina as a drawing card. Next year should certainly find us on the brighter side of the
win column than ever before. Here’s hoping.

THUMB NAIL SKETCH

One of the money bag twins and a wily high mogul of plutocracy in the Veta—stmts Originator of various

By MELVIN MEANS
GUEST COLUMNIST

Another week, more dirt, and another guest columnist. Isn't Melvin his own column again? Perhaps threats have caused him to
shift the responsibility to others, or maybe he is getting lazy in his old age. Anyway, here goes for better
or worse... As usual, the “bumming” corner was full of boys this past weekend going North, South, East, and West
in search of solace and comfort in the arms of beautiful damsels. Ah me!

Off to Agnes Scott went “Whiskey Bob” Finley and “Bashful” Chase Prenizer. They seemed light fantastic with their lady loves...
Jack Covington and Nelson Jennette whipped up to Greensboro, one but three dates apiece during the day. Covington had a
blind date whom he discovered was an... Reports have it that Philip Edwards is still faithful to his love although
she done him wrong. A quiet (2?) weekend was spent on the campus by “Bird Dog” Crichton in the company
of charming females. An open fire at the S.A.E. house was enjoyed by all... A certain Beta, named Mathews, is
mighty interested in a mysterious Miss Booger at Converse... The wrestling team, back from V.P.I., is mighty close-mouthed. All the
dancing, snaking seem to indicate a busy Saturday night. Where was “Chicken” Cooper Sunday? After his speech in chapel Saturday
about Sunday school, we expected to see him there—but, alas! “Chicken” was at Carolina. And speaking of Carolina, the majority
of the Davidson “wild-hairs” attended the Carolina “Mid-Winters” to enjoy the music of Glenn Grey and his orchestra. Among the
rug-cutters seen on the dance floor were Bib Coltrane, “Wild Bill” Egan, Major Stuart Roscoe Oglesby, Matt Long, Tommy Lane,
and other luminaries of the campus. The Betas concluded a late-dating and celebration with a Chambers banquet on Saturday night.
Highlight of the affair was Dr. Oren Moore’s efficient performance as toastmaster... “Bustle” Holland bumped around the campus during the
weekend and kept the local Famous Door open for business. Strange to see him bumping around the campus during the
weekend... Why is Walter Wooten called “Jug” by his companions? We'll give you three guesses... The Moe Ghouls were unusually
quiet this weekend. Must be the calm before the storm... At last Doug Dillard can smile again. R.O. Kellogg has
turned his love interests to Yankeeland and Dillard is free to go Greensboroing again... What does the basketball team do
besides play basketball on their trips? All reports indicate that they indulge in some form of pleasantry—The Citadel dances were
particularly enjoyed by certain individual basketballers whose names we are not permitted to reveal. N.A. “Boa-Constrictor” Scott, the silver-voiced orator,
was at home this weekend wooing Goldsboro's lovely Martha Daniel. What a line he must hand out... Billy Masters was
seen at the freshman basketball game Saturday night in the pleasant company of Julia Hobbs. Fortunate man... The Military Ball
is only two weeks away and all you guys had better hurry and get tickets... This set is always one
of the most popular and the military figure adds much color and glamour to the event. Roscoe and the Pan-Hell
boys have secured Dean Hudson and his band for the set. The popularity of Hudson is unsurpassed on the campus,
so let's all turn out to hear him, and enjoy a session of sweet and swing... Confucius say: if all
girls who attend Davidson Mid-Winters were laid end to end, it be some spread. In fact, now that Chick Smith
has left school, rumor has it that Thomas Percival Johnston, III, is striving frantically to lure his voluptuous child bride
down out of the mountains of East Tennessee again for the next set of dances.

Murphy's Mumblings

Thus the two main sports of the living in Charlotte game in Charlotte with Carolina trips to Sweetbriar and Lynchburg
coming out on top at the end and a 33-32 defeat with Richmond before Christmas. The conference tournament in Raleigh
is out for now after our placing last year. The varsity football player of repute with several brothers, aunts, uncles,
cousins, etc., often seen with college year are about over.

Biggie

Broadway Melody Of 1940: By BOB WILLIAMS

Haviland, Dame May Whitty, Dudley Digges, Douglas Walton, Lionel Vape, and E.S. Clive Thursday and Friday, Feb. 22 and 23—David
Niven steps neatly in the part of Raffles, a crooked gent,

Tips For News And Feature Editors

The Texas Daily Texan built a fine feature by getting the low-down on the slang used by the soda dispensers
in the local jelly joints. Might try it sometime. The University of Wyoming Branding Iron went back into the files
of faculty rulings on student conduct and found a swell feature. Sample paragraph from the story: “One early faculty member
moved that any student should be dismissed who was failing in one subject, if the failure was caused by dissipation
or social pleasure.” The Oregon State Barometer recently interviewed campus big-wigs about the five books they would like to have
above all others. It’s an old gag, but a good way to get new names in the paper. Tip: How
many different kinds of degrees are granted by your institution and what does each one mean?

Seventh Annual Student Peace Demonstration Against War

The United States Peace Committee has announced the date of the seventh annual student peace demonstration against war—Friday, April 19.
The first demonstration was held April 6, 1934, at which time several thousand students participated in a strike against war,
and demonstrated their opposition to measures which lead to war. Each year, the demonstration is held in April as near
to the sixth of the month as possible, as it was on April 6, 1917, that the United States entered
the World War. It is estimated that a million students will demonstrate this year that the “Yanks Are Not Coming”
to aid in the present imperialist massacre in Europe. They will be joined from coast to coast by non-student groups—youth
of all occupations—who are determined to live, not die, for democracy.

Parade of Opinion: By Associated Collegiate Press

Check Up On Posture

If you can do it, here’s the way to check upon your own posture, according to Dr. Ruth Bass, University
of Texas physical education professor. Drop an imaginary line from your ear to the ground. If it falls through your
shoulder, hip and knee, when standing, and through your shoulder and hip when sitting, you're on the right track. Next,
make sure that both your head and chest “push” up, that your abdomen pulls in. Then relax the parts of
the body not in use.

Paper Establishes Publicity Council

To aid campus groups in preparing and executing their public relations program, the University of Chicago Daily Maroon has established
a special publicity council headed by John Stevens. When asked to comment about this new idea in college newspaper work,
Mr. Stevens said: “The council serves as an advisory board for all campus groups desiring publicity. We have compiled information
concerning all types of publicity which have been used in the past. This information includes the effectiveness of each of
the types of publicity, the methods of organizing the various types, and the official red tape which must be complied
with. In general, therefore, we serve as an information bureau to which publicity-minded organizations may turn to find out what
they should do and how they should do it. In addition, we expect to give advice on story-planning and methods
of releasing news.”

Fred Astaire, Eleanor Powell, Morgan, Jan Hunter, Florence Rice, Lynne Carver, and George Murphy. Another issue of this annual musical
that grows in tradition with each succeeding year, because it has been appearing since long before most of our memories
can recall. M.G.M.'s selections each year seem to be the best in musical entertainment, and this year it is no
exception, because the fidgety feet of Fred Astaire and the electric extremities of Eleanor Powell is just about anybody's idea
of a captivating combination. Of course, the plot is nothing intricate, and no one expects it to be, because after
all the purpose of the picture is to show off the talents of the two leading stars for the purpose
of entertainment. (Side note: Ask any member of Dr. Foreman’s Philosophy 42 if this picture would have dramatic aesthetic beauty
if you really want in on the dope). If you like to laugh, and to hear good songs by Cole
Porter, and to watch the greatest dancers of our times, don't miss this production.

Saturday, February 24

Double feature with “Nick Carter, Master Detective” starring Walter Pidgeon, Rita Johnson, Henry Hull, Stanley C. Ridges, Donald Mack, and
Addison Richardson. This is about a famous detective and his sleuthing tricks, but we want to warn you that this
isn't the old Nick Carter of ten-cent paper-backed thrillers, popular in Pop’s day, but that old Nick has been modernized
and streamlined into a 1940 version of sophisticated sleuthing, hot after the spies who stole the blueprints for the airplane
factory. Walter Pidgeon is the handsome, debonair detective, and Rita Johnson is his leading lady.

Late Show Saturday night, 10:30 and Monday, Feb. 26

“Raffles”: David Niven, Olivia de Havilland, Dame May Whitty, Dudley Digges, Douglas Walton, Lionel Vape, and E.S. Clive. One of
the newest and gayest of the cinema productions, and it is so new that there is nothing known about it,
but with Miss de Havilland in the starring role it is bound to be well worth seeing. If you like
to laugh, and to hear good songs by Cole Porter, and to watch the greatest dancers of our times, don't
miss this production.

Wednesday, February 28

Bargain Day and Double Feature

“Calling Philo Vance”: Stephenson, Margot Henry O'Neill, James Stephenson, Edward Brophy. This is about a great detective who solves an
international crime. Despite the fact that this is the second time that a movie has been made from S.S. Van
Dine’s “The Kennel Murder Case” and that James Stephenson is the fourth actor to play the role of Philo Vance,
this picture has a new angle in that Philo gets a new interpretation for the solution of the crime. The
beginning is laid in Vienna and is rather confusing, but back on the home grounds of America the story gets
going in fine shape with Philo solving the murder mystery that has its foundation in foreign intrigue. This is a
good “who-dunnit.”
