Thurs., Feb. 29, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Election Of President Deferred By Trustees
Board Changes “Athletic Association” To Regular College Department

Election of Davidson’s next president was deferred by the Board of Trustees, in regular session last Wednesday, until the June meeting of that group. No action was taken in the naming of a successor to Dr. Walter Lee Lingle, who is scheduled to retire at the close of the present session. Dr. Lingle has passed the retirement age and asked last June to be relieved of his duties as president. The nominating committee, reporting at lunch, stated that no decision has been reached before that time. Action on the matter was then officially deferred until the June meeting of the board, although there have been rumors of a special meeting before that time to reach a committee decision.

172 Candidates

No small task has faced this committee. A total of 172 names were suggested by various parties interested in the college. The committee has investigated and considered a large number of these men. Members of the committee are: J. Archie Cannon of Concord, chairman; Irwin P. Graham of Greenville, S. C.; Smith Richardson of New York; Rev. A. A. McLean of Lenoir; Rev. Walter Goodman of Kannapolis, and Dr. R. A. Dunn of Charlotte.

Athletic Association

One of the most important actions of the board was the disbanding of the Athletic Association, placing its activities under direct faculty and trustee control. A standing committee on physical education advised the step. The Athletic Association grew out of the fact that athletics were originally started and managed by students. When athletics at Davidson continued to grow, faculty aid was solicited and the organization of an Athletic Association followed. Members of the committee on physical education felt that handling athletics under a separate organization was an unwieldy set-up. Accordingly, the following recommendations were submitted and adopted:

New Rules

1. The college will change the department of athletics into the department of student health service and physical education, to be conducted as any other department of the college.
2. It shall be under the general direction of the trustees, but its actual conduct shall be under the direction of the president, the dean of instruction, and the trustee and faculty standing committees.
3. It will be divided into the division of medical and student health and the division of physical education and athletics. The college shall assume all assets and liabilities of the present Athletic Association, setting up a separate ledger for athletics.
4. Members of the staff will be selected by the trustees, having the same character and training qualifications as any other faculty member.
5. An advisory athletic council of three members of the alumni association will work with the faculty committee and the college authorities, the entire plan to go into effect with the beginning of the fiscal year, May 1, 1940. All engagements with the members of the athletic staff for the year ending December 31, 1940, stand as made.

Other Business

Other business of the trustees included the hearing and approval of reports from President Walter Lee Lingle and Treasurer F. L. Jackson. The resignations of Professors W. L. Porter and A. L. Hillhouse were accepted.

NORGE GAS RANGE RULANE GAS RANGE GROCERIES HARDWARE M. H. Goodrum Company — DAVIDSON, N. C.

Artist Draws Comical Pans For Students
Mustachioed Zumpano Sketches Caricatures

“August Zumpano is the name and I’m really good” was the self-introduction which greeted a group of Davidson students in the Student Store not so very long ago. The speaker was a short, mustachioed, foreign-looking man who wore a very “artistic” outfit—dark shirt, wide collar, and big tie. It did not take him long to inform his audience that he was a very good caricature artist. Among the other outstanding facts that August divulged was that he was known all over the country, having made caricatures of the leading Hollywood stars and had traveled throughout the nation.

He said he started living at the age of fourteen. While employed thus on the University of Mississippi campus, his partner skipped with the meager earnings of the company. Quite disconcerted, August went to the college lunch room and sat down to what seemed to be his last meal. He started scribbling on a piece of paper that had been left there and the first thing he knew a student had stopped to admire his sketch and he had found a new occupation.

“Birthright” Is Vesper Topic
Dr. Richards Warns Students To Keep Heritage

Using the theme of the mess of pottage as his text, Dr. C. M. Richards of the Bible department spoke at vespers on Sunday evening, Feb. 25. Dr. Richards chose Hebrews 12:16, “Lest there be any profane person as Esau, who for one mess of pottage sold his birthright.” He considered the birthright of the Davidson college students rather than the birthrights of the individual students, since Sunday was the national day of prayer for schools and colleges.

Birthright of Freedom

The birthrights of all Davidson students are freedom, by this he meant freedom of individual self-mastery, honesty in everything, purity of life, good citizenship, trained minds, leadership in the church, and partnership with Christ. These birthrights, he said, could be easily sold for the mess of pottage of strong drink, cheating to pass, breaking rules, selecting easy courses, and irreverent profanity for holy things. The blame for these poor exchanges was placed on the lack of relative evaluation. To illustrate this he used the parable of Dr. Lingle’s eyes.

Profanity Scored

Profane, he explained, means unfenced. Esau’s soul was as an unfenced field. He compared the building of character with the building of a worm fence: The basic structure, which was the hardest part, was laid by our parents before we came to college. Whether or not we continue to build and become complete or whether we will destroy the foundations and become profane as Esau became depends upon us.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
Tenners 4, 221 W. Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Glee Club Will Perform for the Military Ball.

Cabinet Holds Joint Session
“Y” Group Discusses Race Relations With Johnson C. Smith Delegation

The YMCA Cabinet held a joint meeting last Wednesday night with the Cabinet from Johnson C. Smith University of Charlotte. There has been a custom for the past few years for the Cabinet to hold exchange meetings with the Johnson C. Smith Cabinet. At twelve, the group under a faculty advisor, were guests of the Davidson “Y”. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, who was one of the originators of the exchange meetings, was present. The topic of discussion was race relations.A meeting took place for a discussion on “How We May Help Each Other Toward Better Race Relations.” At a meeting held last Tuesday, February 20, a group of five men from Columbia Bible School met with the Student Volunteers of Davidson and led a worshipful meeting in Phi Hall.

THURS.-FRI.-SAT.
BARBARA STANWYCK
FRED MacMURRAY
— In —
“Remember The Night”
LATE SHOW SAT. NIGHT
And Starting Monday
5th Anniversary
FRED ASTAIRE
ELEANOR POWELL
“Broadway Melody Of 1940”
PAUL & CRYMES
415 S. Tryon St.
ALL SPORTING GOODS
Charlotte, N. C.
IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

An organization that gained the praise of many music critics will also be featured at the Military Ball. Have you ever heard of a glee club being signed for a dance set? Well, that is exactly what the Pan-Hellenic Council has done for the Military Ball. Of course, the gleekers do more playing than singing, but they are equally efficient at either part. When Dean Hudson and his Florida Clubmen were signed for the next set of dances, they were not considered altogether for their ability to play; their excellent A cappella work had much emphasis on the decision. At dances, Hudson's orchestra very frequently renders a song without the aid of mechanical music. When Dean Hudson started to organize a band, he conceived the idea of having a glee club to sing with the band. Of course, he was unable to have two separate organizations as that would involve too many people and too much equipment to take on trips. This fact left him one alternative, which was to find fourteen men who could play the required instruments and also sing. As the band finally rounded out, he found that he had made as big a success with the singers as with the musicians. Having secured fourteen men and one girl who were first-class singers, he had a successful ensemble.

Dean Hudson’s Glee Club Will Appear
Artistry Of Students Will Soon Be Exhibited
Spiritual Side Of Genesis Is Sunday Topic
Dr. C. K. Brown Completes Series Of Two Talks

Dr. C. K. Brown was the speaker at the regular Sunday morning class held in Phi Hall on the 25th. Dr. Brown’s subject, discussed in a series of two lectures, was “Spiritual Aspects of Genesis.” The subject this week concerned particularly “those men who seek God” in the book of Genesis. Dr. Brown pointed out that if we do seek God, we shall always find Him awaiting us, but this seeking must be a continuous process of searching. We cannot stop and wait; we must always be going in one direction or the other.

Abram is Example
Abram was chosen as the example of the man who sought God by Dr. Brown. Quoting the conversation between God and Abram, Dr. Brown was able to show how much Abram trusted in the Lord, carrying out the command to leave his home and go to a land that “I will show thee.” The strength that it took for Abraham to obey this command is something we can all learn from, as it was based on implicit trust in the Lord. Of course, the question comes up, as Dr. Brown pointed out, “What did Abram get from trusting in God?” Four principal things were gained: (1) the nakedness of Abram’s sins was covered by the righteousness and loving kindness of God; (2) the fear of Abram was covered by God; (3) Abram formed a partnership with the Lord of great importance; (4) Abram learned patience from God in forming his destiny.

Patience Stressed
Dr. Brown said, “True and proper understanding of the meaning of time—the ability to wait on the Lord.” Abram had the patience that we all should try to develop. We should all have patience in our relations with the Lord or we will try to carry out our covenant ourselves.

Masquers Lay Plans
At the regular meeting of Red and Black Masquers, held last Wednesday night at the Pi Kappa Phi house, several plays were discussed for the coming Spring season. As yet, no decision has been made concerning the plays which will be used for this occasion. It was also announced that the club plans to have Mr. Tom Humble, Director of Theatres in Charlotte, lecture on some phase of dramatics at its next meeting. Other outsiders will be invited to hear Mr. Humble at this time.

FRATERNITIES, ATTENTION!
Buy your supply of wood for the Winter from
DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL COMPANY

Millions of times a day people the world over enjoy a happy minute with ice-cold Coca-Cola. They like its clean taste and the after-sense of refreshment that follows. Thus the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola is America’s favorite moment.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

THURS.-FRI., Feb. 29th.-March 1st.
“LITTLE OLD NEW YORK”
Saturday, March 2nd.
CHARLIE CHAN, In “CITY IN DARKNESS”
Late Show “SEVENTEEN”
Wednesday, March 6th.
“JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN”
SANTA FE MARSHALL
Thurs.-Fri., Mar. 7th.-8th.,
“NORTHWEST PASSAGE”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The annual art exhibit, which will open this year on March 8 and remain open for public inspection throughout the following day, is a growing event on the Davidson campus and is attracting more attention each year. This is the third annual exhibition of the artistic talents of Davidson students. There will be twenty-one participants in this year’s exhibit. Last year there were sixteen who entered their works and three years ago, there were eleven.

Cash Awards
Another fact that points out the growing importance of the exhibition is the matter of cash prizes.

“Davidson's Service Drug Store”
Complete Line of RECORDS
DECCA
VOCALION
BLUEBIRD
BRUNSWICK
COLUMBIA
VICTOR
PHARMACY