ports lants By BOB CARTER Wildcat Sports Phi Delts Win Frat Cup Furman Nips Cat Trackmen Thurs., May 16, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Four Heels Beat DIAMOND DUST With only it seems appropriate to take two games remaining on a gander Cats, 14-45 Hoge Slugs schedule, and field- the at the lengthy batting Sophomore Hurler ing averages of our Wildcat diamonders, Leading the hitters with a very imposing .386 percentage we find Captain “Hayseed” Thomas, who has seen service both on the mound and in the outer garden. The averages (quite unofficial): With Willows Abe ok AR PAS oy AGH Per. PO AK Is ay North Carolina romped on Verner 20 43 5 1 9 .990 Davidson last Thursday, 14 to Yarborough 72 15 18 3 1 0 .250 47 6 .947 behind the five-hit pitching Hunter 27 7 0 0 0 .225 9 0 0 .908 of Cheshire in a game that was Edmondson 23 6 0 0 0 .260 6 0 0 .1000 called in the seventh because Carter 22 5 4 2 3 .328 49 7 3 .947 of rain. Lucas, Cat twirler, was touched Hoge 70 18 7 1 0 .257 24 3 9 .865 for eight runs in the first three innings before being replaced by Niven. The Tar Heels secured six more off the southpaw pitching of Reinhardt in four innings of drizzling rain. The Wildcats managed to get only five safeties off Cheshire. Radman Blasts George Radman, football star, led the Tar Heel hitting with two home runs and one single out of five trips to the plate. Hoge led the Davidson assault by batting one thousand for the day. He connected for a three-bagger and a single in two attempts. Stirny Shines Taking advantage of errors in the first inning, the Tar Heels tallied two runs. This was followed by three-run rallies in the third and fourth and again in the seventh. Davidson's only rally came in the third when Verner and Yarborough scored, but ended when Stirnweiss made the spectacular play of the day when he labeled a base hit. INTRAMURAL DOPE Now that the bitter battle is finally over, the intramuralers can relax once more. The Phi Delts, with their final horseshoe match, managed to hold onto a 2.48 margin over the S. A. E.'s. The Delts managed to win mainly on the strength of victories in the three major sports: football, basketball, and softball. Just in passing, let us take the opportunity to congratulate Pete Whittle for the splendid manner in which he handled this very tough job. No one but “Superman” could have kept everyone so interested and competition so keen, but Pete came about as close as anyone could. At last reports, two very avid members of a fraternity not even in the running were trying to have a volleyball game played over a month ago replayed, just to show who was up against who. HERE AND THERE Let’s shed another tear for the Wildcat track team on losing the Furman meet by one point, their second such loss of the current campaign. SIGH. We would like to see a game between the Mooresville Moors and the Charlotte Hornets. Our dough (if any) would ride on the Moors all the way. Can you imagine Hank Greenberg and Charlie Keller sitting on the bench for not hitting? Seems like a beautiful dream to see the Yankees in the cellar. Hope that awful alarm clock never goes off and we once again have the “Bronx Bombers” on the rampage. Wonder what happened to the D. I. tennis team on their northern trip? Had no business losing to Washington and Lee and Virginia’s Cavaliers. Lefty Livingston, Charlotte High ace, recently fanned 23 Baby Deacs in a 15 inning fracas. That’s hurling, so they say. Cats Close Season Lose To Harding P. J. C. 5-2 On Monday, May 6th, at Lexington, the W. & L. netters avenged an earlier defeat by beating the Wildcats 4-2. Dick Shore was the only Cat star to win his singles match. He defeated Mallory 6-1, 6-4. In the only doubles match, Billy Turner and Lock Hunter defeated Washburn and Robertson, W. & L., 6-4, 6-1. Kinck beat Furness 6-0, 6-1. Buchanan beat Penney 7-5, 6-4. Robertson defeated Hunter 7-5, 0-6, 6-4. Spindle defeated B. B. Plyler 6-4, 8-6. Cavaliers Surprise On Tuesday in Charlottesville, the Virginia Cavaliers beat the Wildcats to the tune of 5-2. Hunter and Tenney won both their singles to give Davidson their only two points. Hunter beat Strang 6-3, 6-3, and Tenney licked Feuille 8-6, 2-6, 6-3. Buchanan and Feuille, Virginia, defeated Hunter and Turner, 7-5, 6-3. Captain Elected Jack White of Spartanburg, S. C., was elected Captain of the 1941 track team at a meeting of the lettermen Monday afternoon. White has been one of Coach Whittle’s consistent point winners. At the same meeting, Ed Shaw was elected varsity manager and T. P. Johnston freshman manager. Johnny Ragsdale, who has been a track manager for three years, has decided to transfer. Johnston, who follows Jim Anderson, was elected to take his place.Dave Maloney led in batting with two for four, while Morehead and Fredericks were the game men for the frosh, each securing two for five. Sivertsen also contributed for G., scoring one run with a hit in the first, another in the third, and driving Bob Keffer off the mound in the fifth with a four-run uprising.

Every Camera In Our Store Is For Sale
W. I. VAN NESS
Charlotte, N. C.

Bob Kellogg, who has also seen three years of varsity, succeeded Billyourmer as the ace distance man, bringing the Wildcats many points during the past season with his victories in the mile and two-mile.

Buchanan beat Dick Shore 6-1, 6-1; Lerner beat Dick Shore 3-6, 6-4, 6-2; and B. Plyler lost his match to Channing 6-3, 6-4.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
Charlotte, N. C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY
DEALER IN MEATS and Groceries
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

The man in the foreground above with the two big bats and the wicked grimace is Ed Lucas, star sophomore hurler. Tubby Hand of last year’s nine is in the rear, along with Black Dog Hunter, senior fly-chaser and long-distance slugger. (Staff Photo by Angus Lytch, Jr.)

By virtue of their performance, Delta Theta nosed out Sigma Alpha Epsilon for top place in the inter-fraternity athletic competition for the entire year. The trophy will be presented on Athletic Day, to be held in chapel Monday.

S. A. E.’s Second
The victorious Phi Delts, with 877.91 points, took first place in football and were in first place ties for softball and basketball. The S. A. E.'s, holding only a third of a three-way tie for first, gathered points from second and third spots for a total of 875.23. Kappa Sigma followed closely in the third slot with 871.76 points.

Sigmas Win
In standings not previously announced, the Kappa Sigs won the tie for most varsity competition with 93 percent of the chapter participating; the S. A. E’s took second with 65 percent; and third place was a tie between the A.’s and the Pikas with 51 percent. The Phi Delts and Phi Gams split the K. softball crown with the S. A. E’s next and the Kappa Sigs following. The Phi Delts figured in first place in all three major sports and placed in everything except track.

The summary:
Shot put—Darnell (Rk), Lambeth (R), 47’ 6”.
Discus—Fredrick (D), Brewer (R), Belk (D). Distance: 144’ 7”.
Javelin—Washburn (D), Darnell (R), Long (D). Distance: 147’.
Pole vault—Horan (D), Dick Alspaugh (R) tied for first.

Phi Delts Win Trophy; SAE’S In Close Second
Davidson's frosh cindermen nosed out Reynolds track team in Winston-Salem by the score of 62 2-3 to 54 1-3. Frederick figured in three firsts and copped a fourth.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

Furman Tracksters Nip Wildcats In Last Race Of Final Meet
Furman’s relay team won the last event Saturday to beat Davidson by one point, 66-65, in Greenville. This was the second time that the Cat tracksters dropped a meet by the score 66-65 to a South Carolina team.

The summary:
Shot—Won by Farry (FP); second, Fleming (F); third, Edens (F). Distance: 43’ 11”.
Discus—Won by Grant (F); second, Terrell (D); third, Freeze (D). Distance: 115’ 11”.
Javelin—Won by King (F); second, Dorman (F); third, Brenizer (D). Distance: 169’.
High jump—Won by King (F); second, Talmadge (D); third, Cowan (D). Height: 5’ 9”.
Pole vault—Won by Shannon (D); second, W. Brubeck (F); third, Spencer (D). Height: 11’ 3”.
Mile run—Won by Kellogg (D); second, Green (D); third, Sprunt (D). Time: 4:57.2.
440-yard—Won by Brubeck (F); second, Taylor (D); third, Loy (D). Time: 54 seconds.
100-yard—Won by Brazil (F); second, Jonas (D); third, Birmingham (D). Time: 10.3.
120-yard hurdles—Won by Huppell (F); second, Williamson (D); third, Harbin (D). Time: 15.5.
880-yard—Won by Kellogg (D); second, B. Brubeck (F); third, Campbell (F). Time: 2:7.
Two-mile run—Won by Coppedge (D); second, Mann (D); third, Gammott (D). Time: 11:30.
220-yard dash—Won by Brazil (F); second, White (D); third, Jonas (D). Time: 23.8.
220 low hurdles—Won by Taylor (D); second, Williamson (D); third, Huppell (F). Time: 26 seconds.
Broad jump—Won by W. Brubeck (F); second, Brenizer (D); third, Huppell (F). Distance: 21’ 9”.
Mile relay—Furman (Brazil, Green, Walters, B. Brubeck). Time: 3:40.

Davidson's varsity linkmen completed their current schedule last Saturday at the Sedgefield Country Club, Greensboro, by winning third place in the Southern Conference Golf Tournament, following Duke's 599 and Carolina’s 617. The local boys shot 631.

Cooper Third
Hank Russell, of Duke, won individual honors with a low of 146 and was closely followed by his teammate, Chuck Alexander, who shot 149. Jimmy Cooper of Davidson tied for third with a score of 156, however, he was not shooting as a member of the Wildcat team. Sharpe tied for fifth with 152, and Wright tied for ninth with 150. Pegram and Abels, the other members of the Cat team, shot 158 and 165, respectively.

Letters Awarded
Co-captains Jimmy Cooper and Charles Pegram, Jack Abels, Granville Sharpe, and George Wright will receive their letters. As yet, the captains for next year have not been elected.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
See Our Large Selection of Palm Beach Suits, Drape Slacks, Students Suits $15.50, Young Men’s Suits $16.75, Slacks $5.00

ALL the LATEST HITS on RECORD
Victor Decca Columbia
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

EAT AT THACKER’S THIS WEEK-END
Rooms For Private Parties
THACKERS, Inc.
“A Good Place To Eat”
Charlotte, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
BEST TO BE HAD
Mooresville, N. C.

ENJOY GOOD MEALS
The Little Pep Sandwich Shop
AND
Delmonico’s Grill
STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME
Charlotte, N. C.

FAUL & CRYMES
ALL SPORTING GOODS
415 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Last Issue of SCRIPTS ’N PRANKS has just come out
Printed by The Herald Press, Inc.
225 S. Church St. — Charlotte, N. C.
“A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE”

Congratulations SENIORS
When you’re back on the campus — don’t forget to come in and tank up.
We’re always glad to see you
Reid’s Service Station