"i ) ’ ) r , = | Phi Beta Furman } ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS _—— - | Z—528 ; ; VOL. XXVII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1940 No. 20 Scholarship Group Bids Seven Men Colvin, Hulen, Menius, Perdew, Pope, Sitterson, And Tenney Are Chosen BANQUET TO BE HELD! Professor Erwin Announces Names In Chapel Friday Seven members of the senior class were publicly extended bids by the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa on last Friday morning during the chapel period. The new members are: David Colvin, Elmer Hulen, Leonard Menius, William Perdew, Kenneth Pope, Beecher Sitterson, and Rea Tenney. These men were selected by the executive committee of Phi Beta Kappa, and were passed on by the fraternity at its meeting on Thursday night. Activities David Colvin, from Cliffside, N. C., is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Captain of Co. C, member of the French Club, Pi Gamma Mu, and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He is a member of the cross-country team. Leonard Menius from Raleigh, was a member of Eta Sigma Phi, and a Second Lieutenant in ROTC. Elmer Hulen, who is from Horse Cave, Ky., is a member of the I.R.C., Pi Gamma Mu, and the Red and Black Masquers. William Perdew from Wilmington, is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, and the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Kenneth Pope, of Mount Mourne, N. C., is the Captain of the ROTC band, Scabbard and Blade, and a member of the French Club. Other Honors Beecher Sitterson, from Kenansville, is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Delta Phi Alpha. Rea Tenney, of Atlanta, Ga., is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Staff Captain in ROTC, also a member of Delta Phi Alpha. Last year he was Assistant Business Manager of “Quips 'n Cranks”. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and captain of the tennis team. Initiation These new members will be initiated in the near future. The initiation will be preceded by a banquet, and followed by a meeting, at which there will be some guest speaker whose name has not yet been announced. The initiatory banquet is usually [Continued on Page Six] Senior Gift Is Subject Of Smoker Several Suggestions Are Discussed But No Decision Is Reached Members of the Senior Class discussed possible class gifts at their smoker held last Tuesday night. One of the gifts suggested was that of building a walk to the fraternity court. Another suggestion, one that came up as a possibility for last year's senior class gift, was to have a curb built around the cinder path in the stadium. The Davidsonian suggestion of beginning an athletic scholarship fund was brought up also as well as the possibility of creating a living endowment fund. Another topic of the meeting was whether to repeat the senior-faculty day this year. On that day members of the senior class have athletic contests of various kinds in competition with members of the faculty. The day would end with a barbecue. It was announced that the annual senior-faculty discussion smoker will probably be held next month. Last year the Senior class gave as its gift a large clock which was just recently installed on the south end of Chambers building. It is an exact duplicate of the clock which faces dormitory row on the north end of Chambers. Both clocks are illuminated at night. PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATES Pictured above are the new members of Phi Beta Kappa; Beecher Sitterson of Kenansville, N. C.; David Colvin of Cliffside, N. C.; Elmer Hulen of Horse Cave, Kentucky; William Perdew of Wilmington; Leonard Menius of Raleigh; Kenneth Pope of Mount Mourne, N. C.; and Rea Tenney of Atlanta, Ga. These seven men were recently chosen from the senior class to join the other seven members who were chosen from the senior class last fall. Initiation will take place in the near future. Dr. Dennet Ends Talks Friday Junior Blazers The committee in charge of blazers for the rising senior class has made arrangements to have several samples on display at the student store next week. Those concerns already contacted are Tate-Brown, Marion Davis, Mellons, J. O. Jones, all of Charlotte, and Hopkins Tailoring Company of Baltimore, Md. The class of 1941 is the first to buy blazers before the senior year. Their decision was based on the practicality of buying before the last three months of the school career. ‘D’ Club Plans Novelty Night Stunt Program To Feature All-Star Faculty Basketball Games In Gym A basketball game between an all-star faculty team and members of the D Club will be highlighted in a night of mirth sponsored by the D club on either Wednesday or Thursday of next week. There will be four eight-minute periods in the game with entertainment during the intermissions. Among the features planned are Joe Barnwell and his drums, the songs of Elmer Knoeller, Dave McLean and his Jug Band, and a special attraction that has not yet been revealed. Joe Barnwell is known by the students as the freshman who startled the dancers at the Mid-Winters Dance set with his excellence on the drums. Elmer Knoeller is also known over the campus for his vocal renditions. Before coming to Davidson he sang for a time with an orchestra in hotel engagements. While at preparatory school he won a second place in the state-wide music contest as a baritone. Dave McLean’s jug band will be a complete surprise to the lovers of this institution. Before his agreement to give a brief concert for the occasion the existence of the organization was entirely unknown. The relative strength of the two teams to compete cannot yet be estimated as the line-ups are not yet completed. The faculty may boast of such stars as Dr. Frontis Johnson, former captain of the Davidson basketball team; Norman Shepard, varsity coach; Prof. McGavock, Prof. Kimbrough, Dr. Knight, Pete Whittle, Crowell Little, Coach Spearman and Coach Chapman, all former athletes. No member of the varsity basketball team will be eligible to play for the D club. Former President Of Williams College Presents Various Opinions Doctor Tyler Dennet, well known political scientist and former president of Williams College, opened a series of lectures Monday morning during the chapel period by giving an introductory address on the political sentiments of the peoples of the Far East. He traced his trips to the Orient by noting the change from friendliness on the first voyage to near hostility on the last as shown by the actions of the Japanese. Dr. Dennet stated that well-educated Japanese told him Japan was fighting the Chinese with her left hand but was saving her right for Russia. Seminars open to both students and faculty were held in the faculty room. Tuesday he spoke on “What is the American Way?”; Wednesday, “Federated Europe”; and on Thursday his last seminar was on the subject of “Neutrality in the Present European Conflict.” Three informal discussions in classes with visitors welcome were held on Tuesday and Wednesday. The topics for discussion were “The Foreign Policy”,Bu | trips about the middle of March, | ish fraternity, will initiate the fol- | a ‘an bureaucracy in a Democracy, and | Drury Thompson and Frank Bark- | lowing men into the fraternity at | ned rts with clean undergrad | Social Responsibility for Educa- | er will take the Southern route | their next meeting: Holt Barnwell, | ae a aoe OU a ee uo chy: = | down through Georgia and Ala- | Frank Hall, William Summerville, | \ 1e__avicsontan, Later, as Alum | Tonight at 7:30 Dr. Dennet will | bama. They will debate on the | George McDonald, and Felix Bell. | Secretary, he originated the | speak before the faculty in the | query stated above. A dozen men have just recently | Beaver Club and the Journalism | Quadrangler’s Room on the sub- | Dick Kenyon and Bob Ramsey | been initiated into the Spanish | Club, both of which are student | ne F font aR P | will leave about March 15 for a | Club, which is composed of men | ee : aut , L Vately Sontieled putes | trip up through Virginia, Mary- | who are interested in the study of | FOSIng ¢ 4 / - * and. ane Je Tork state... They | Spanish and who later hope to re- | gram consisted of a number of |= His closing address will be held | fecantle New York state. | ceive bids into Sigma Delta Pi. | skits, plays and dialogues. J. M. | in Chambers Auditorium Friday | will debate alternately the affirma- | At the last meeting of Sigma | Brinson and C. E. Parks gave a | night at 7:30 and the subject will | tive and negative of the same query. | Delta Pi, held Monday 19, the pro- | short comical dialogue in Spanish. | be “The Dilemma in the Far East- | Dr. C. K. Brown, who coaches | gram consisted of a number of | The public is cordially invited. | the debaters, has been working | skits, plays and dialogues. | Dean’s List Is Published. | Mr. F. W. Hengeveld has recent- | the Dean's list the semester. It | is comprised of who have aver- | aged B++ or over during their en- | tire course, or during the last two | ly announced second com- | seniors for | tisement semesters. The men on that list are as fol- | lows: T. J. Abernathy, R. K. Alli- | son, W. H. Boyce, D. C. Colvin, | J. G. Cooper, 9; D. Crane; she | Doty, T. J. Guion, F. R. Hand; P23 | W. Hand, F. F. Harbin, C. B. Har- | rison, J. W. Holland, D. C. C. Hulen, J. G. Hunter, A. R. yon, W. V. Ludlam, C. M. burn, L. C. Menius, W. E. Perdue, Hott, E. | Ken- | Mash- | T. S. Perrin, J. K. Pope, W. Y. | Preyer, R. W. Ramsey, T. A. Ro- | berts, F. Simmons, B. W. Sitter- | jon, S. R. Spencer, D. W. Sprunt, | [Continued on Page Six] formal debates have been held this | year as most of the team's activity | is on the annual gent. Largest Ad Appears Co., prominent Charlotte, this largest adver- the Da- Marion Davie clothing store in week is running the ever carried, in vidsonian. Student Council Passes Amendment; Students To Vote At Chapel Tuesday set of dances. bard and Blade, Military Fra- magazine, and student council- ternity, rather than the Pan- | men. The new cheerleader will Hellenic Council, will be the | be chosen from March 15 thru | Military Ball. 17, and publications and YMCA There will be 4 dances in the set. | board. Inauguration will be on Friday afternoon tea dance, Friday | March 22. dance, and the Saturday night in- | formal. As is the usual custom the | Fred Smith tea dances will be only exhibitions | by the orchestra. The Friday night | formal dance will be in charge of | Visits Here Seabbard and Blade, and the mem- | bers will execute a military figure. | Former Alumni Secretary, Ac- | Elections Election of student body of- ficers for next year will begin | on Monday, March 4, the stu- | dent interview. From March 4 through 8 will be election of the student body following these in this Y. ROTC Frat To Sponsor Next Dance Dean Hudson And Clubmen To Play For Four Hops | At Armory | council announced in an president; order will be the following: Music styled by Dean Hud- | M. C. A. president on March 11, son and the Florida Clubmen | Davidsonian editor, annual edi- will be featured at the tor, and Athletic Association next This set of dances | president on March 18, 19 and 20. which to be March 8-9 | Next will be class officers and fresh- under the auspices of the Scab- | man advisor, the editor of the night formal, Saturday afternoon tea accompanied By Jake Hous- | that will culminate in an archway | Gales McClintock’s announcement in chapel last Tuesday morning brought to light a situation which, if it is as widespread as the facts would seem to indicate, is certainly a reflection on the general honor of the Davidson student body. While anyone must realize that the practice of not fully paying for purchases at the student store does not include everyone, it looks as if it must include many. When McClintock and Richmond find three men who are taking more than they pay for in a short time, it indicates that this is done rather generally. Our honor system is one of the strong points of the school. In the past years, and this year, it is our sincere belief that it has been a high point in Davidson's system, but this incident tends to prove Appearing on page two of this issue, the ad has total of 140 inches, several inches greater than any advertisement heretofore used. This firm last year had the privilege of running the largest ad of the 1938-'39 Davidsonian. The advertisement comes in celebration of the firm’s fourth successful year in “The Friendly City.” It has recently moved into new and larger quarters on South Tryon Street and this new location is fast becoming Mecca for Davidson students. James Gordon Currie, business manager of the Davidsonian, obtained the advertisement. However, in all fairness it must be said that while the facts point to widespread “under-payment” at the student store, this may not be so general as it now seems. On the other hand if it is a common practice among the students, it is a vice that must be stopped now. Perhaps some men don’t realize it, but taking more than one pays for at the Student Store is just as much stealing as if one took the money out of the cash register, for that is what it amounts to, and as everyone knows stealing comes under our Hence System, and can be punished by the Student Council as such, it is our hope that once the evil has been pointed out it will not happen again in the future. To our mind the thing was started by those who ate and left without paying, but with full intent to return at some later time and pay in full. Technically this is also stealing, and, as it leads to worse habits, should be stopped also. Once the evil has been pointed out it should end, in a student body of this type, under our Honor System. Let’s be honest. Austin, Casali, Richmond, And Ross Write Proposed Amendment COUNCIL ADDS REVISIONS Student Body Will Vote Tues- day in Chapel Stu- pro- con On last Thursday the student council passed the posed amendments to the stitution of the student government, of Davidson College with a few revisions to clarify the forth by the petitioners. It authors gov- ideas set by the Bill Aus- council was presented by George Richmond, Erle the It was discussed during that hand weaknesses were brought to Ross, Tom Casali, and tin at a meeting of Wednesday whole night, as a meeting light. The meeting was adjourned to meet again on Thursday for further detailed discussion. At this time it was discussed section by section and the technical mistakes were ironed out with full consent of the petitioners who were meeting with the council. After all discussion had been terminated, the amendments were voted on section by section, as it is required by the constitution. Each part was passed with a majority of the votes being cast in favor of adoption. Changes Made The proposed amendments provide for limitations on elections and states the penalty for infractions of these clear and definite rules. It also provides for a specific Elections Board which is representative all parties who take an active interest in elections. This board was so created that everyone will feel satisfied that his candidate will have representation on this board, in case any dispute should arise. Discussion Monday After having passed the vote of the council, Sam Spencer, President of the Student Body and the Student Council, read in full the amendments at a meeting of the student body. According to the constitution, these amendments will lie on the table for nine days; then be brought up for discussion at a meeting of the Student Body. It is to be voted on the tenth day. Next Monday will be the day for discussion, and the voting will take place on Tuesday. The revised amendments to the constitution are printed in full on page two of this issue. Dan Gilliam Named Head Of Society Maxwell, Rudolph Elected Vice-President and Secre- tary Respectively At the meeting of the Eumen- Society last Dan Gilliam was filled as president for ter, Ed Maxwell as vice-president, ng of Dan Gilliam the was Pat week, we Hist is current ser installed and Rudolph as secretary. Phi fraternity, Re- the Gilliam is a member of the Delta President of Club, counter Stuart Oglesby, Ed Maxwell takes Bob place as secretary of the organiza- tion. Ed is Sigma Pi Sigma physics fraternity, of the on the soccer team Gamma social the International and a member of He lations cross vy team succeeds Finley's a member of honorary a club, and played last year. Pat is member Camera also Rudolph is a member of the Radio Theater, member of the soccer team, and a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He will held last year President Davidson fraternity. the position Crook. that he has drawn up a new plan for the selection members. Under his plan, which similar to that used by the social fraternities, can- occupy Jim Gilliam by states or new is [Continued on Page Six]