Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By 1938 Member the Class of 1915 1939 Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a
Better Davidson”.

BOB RAMSEY

“It is indeed rare when a man appears who is so universally liked, and more than that, respected by everyone
as was Bob Ramsey. He stood out in everything he attempted. Bob, nevertheless, was characterized by modesty, and was a
true friend to everyone with whom he came into contact. Having finished a brilliant college career and apparently headed toward
a long life of useful service, he was stricken and taken from us in the flower of his manhood.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.20 the Collegiate year

Davidson men’s hearts are saddened by his passing, and it will not soon be forgotten, either here or elsewhere. It
is with genuine, personal regret. Those who knew him respected him, not only for the kindness and friendliness with which
he treated all but also because of the upstanding Christian life he led.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. Chicago -
Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF Jack Herr Assistant Editor As the new scholastic year gets underway, it is well to review the mistakes
of the past, to observe closely the swiftly departing present, and to plan ahead into the unknown future. Most men
have already done this to a greater or less extent, and nearly all will think about it at some time.

Tom Canbie Managing Editor Joe Lites Managing Editor Ed Watson Managing Editor Lawson Withers Managing Editor Fay Dale Associate Editor
Jack Holland Associate Editor Karl Hivison Associate Editor Sam Spencer Associate Editor Bobby Withidins Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager Dick Kelly Assistant Business Manager Ed Scott Circulation Manager Charlie Watt Circulation Manager
John Crichton Collection Manager Baxter Freeze Subscription Manager

The Davidsonian extends deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Bob Ramsey, our friend and schoolmate.

“DAVIDSON SPIRIT”

Cheering at a football game does not constitute all, or even the greater portion of the famous “Davidson Spirit”, but
it should, and does, play a part in it. If last Saturday night was any indication, “spirit” seems to be
sadly lacking this year. While the Wildcats made their early bid, the Davidson stands roared wildly, but when State took
over and got the ball rolling their way, things quieted down. After that, comparative silence reigned. This might be attributed
to the fact that there were not many students present at the game, but on the contrary, a great majority
of the student body was there. It might be because the students were either too lazy to raise their voices
or else just didn’t care. In either case, the reason is inexcusable.

In the past, Davidson has lost a lot of football games. But each one of those, as well as the
ones which have gone into the victory column, has shown that Davidson always makes up a great deal of their
lack of experience, skill, and weight in sheer tight determination, which has been referred to at various times as the
“Davidson spirit”. This “spirit” has long brought much comment and great praise to both the athletic teams and to the
student body. It has become one of Davidson's most cherished traditions. There is no fear that the “spirit” is dying
out. That would be well nigh impossible. But it is in a sad state at present—a very let down condition.

To what cause this decline is due is hard to say. It could be the freshmen’s lack of cooperation, it
could be the upperclassmen’s unwillingness to help with the cheers. It could be both, and probably is. Freshmen should realize
that it is primarily their duty to sit together and lead cheers. But upperclassmen should also understand that they are
not too high and mighty to raise their voices in support of their representatives on the field. The team didn’t
let down, even in the face of the overwhelming defeat. But student support failed. If our “spirit” is to remain
as it has been in the past, all the factors in it must remain at a high level. And support
for the football team is one of these factors. Why not revive the “spirit”, and give our team some support
from the stands.

OUR LITTLE WORLD

It has been said, and probably rightly, that we at Davidson are so engrossed in our lives here, closely interwoven
with six hundred and fifty other men, that we fail to take into account the swiftly changing world which is
all about us, yet seemingly remote from this campus. Here we are wrapped up in our own little world, so
that the huge numbers of people outside, and the history-making events taking place there, can scarcely penetrate our brains long
enough for us to realize that they are realities also, and that they concern us vitally.

Now and then someone makes a vague reference to some event which is national or international in its scope, but
for the most part our thoughts are confined to collegiate and campus happenings and activities. “We’re getting along all right
here like we are, so why worry about anything else” seems to be the general attitude.

DAVIDSONIAN CAMERA

Earlier in the week we saw the way back from Raleigh Sunday. The weekend was well traveled and took on
the atmosphere of dust. Ray McDaniels held the Roysters in the road in G'boro and they bring back the news
that Old Overholt Barnwell was heard of but not seen at W.C. The mystery was as peculiar as the disappearance
of Rev. Maclean on Saturday night. Katty Mae was the most popular girl but trailed closely by one after the
game. Gorgeous George Grantham, Caldwell and Don Gell the frog, were very fortunate in that they had the pleasure of
little Dick Phillips making a big connection for almost nothing. Other scenes were at the Charlotte football game, among them
being Sproul, who connected the left his date in Lexington on Friday, Ten Douglas, and Pop Rogers otherwise known as
the floor to has tote in the shower wet well. AGEH was the scene of the big business men, though
such notables as Casey Jones, Rug: Cat- evel Thurs., Oct. 3, 1946 amorous Mac Otts quoting Byron to his date.
This is the first we have heard of blackouts until “Waters” Winters reported back for duty from a four-day leave
to his sister’s wedding. Cupid has shot him an arrow.

Film Report Card By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday, Oct. 3

WANT A DIVORCE—Dick Powell and Joan Blondell. Dick Powell and Joan Blondell’s first drama co-starring presents them as a young
couple who marry but don't live happily ever after. The breakup of sister Gloria Dickson’s marriage casts a shadow over
Joan’s life, and Dick’s career as a society lawyer doesn’t help any. Sincere presentation of divorce evils are clearly brought
out.

Friday, Oct. 4

HAUNTED HONEYMOON—Although this column was unable to find out any dope on this picture we can say that it is
an interesting and entertaining show.

Saturday, Oct. 5

YOUNG PEOPLE—Shirley Temple, Jack Oakie, Charlotte Greenwood and George Montgomery. You will find for the first time that little Shirley
Temple isn’t the whole show. Jack Oakie and Charlotte Greenwood are in there, too. The three stars are vaudeville actors
who settle down in a little New England town. There they receive a cold shoulder from the older people, who
are very suspicious about them. You will realize what a wonderful trouper Shirley is with her songs and new about
his work until King Football took him for one long ride that carried him to fame and then disaster. With
the aid of his childhood sweetheart, he is able to

Monday & Tuesday, Oct. 7-8

CITY FOR CONQUEST—James Cagney, Ann Sheridan, Frank Craven and Frank McHugh. It is an adventurous and fast-moving show that should
prove to be interesting and entertaining.

Wednesday, Oct. 9

THE SPIRIT OF WEST POINT—Robert Sterling, Jean Rogers, North and Russell Gleason. This picture gives us an interesting fact story
of some of the great football players.Start on a comeback trail and realize that there is more to life than
headlines and cheers. For an evening of "Pigskin" entertainment, we suggest that you put this movie on your "must see"
list. This is a story packed with fast entertainment and you'll enjoy it.

The conscription bill recently passed by Congress is just one of many examples of outside events which mean much to
our lives. The past is gone. Mistakes already made cannot be rectified. But if it is a mistake to confine
our thoughts and considerations to the collegiate world, and everything points to it as a mistake, then now is the
time to plan for the future. Now is the best time to "come out of the shell."

YESTERDAY'S HEROES—Many of us never know what becomes of them. Phil Edwards, Woodall (Lovebug) fists while Ann gets her desires.
Rob and Commander Green of Queens remained here to keep things intact. By game time, things in general were really
tight. Noxious Normie Stevenson was dealing in the usual way until the half when he aided the stadium in its
task of entertaining all of the spectators. Pat Ridaiph was admiring his usual physical attributes, as the BMOCs of last
year walked up. This group was composed of King "Converse" Spencer, "Randy" Neil Scott, the girls' desire, Whizzer Powell of
last week's LIFE magazine, Dissy Willow McLean, because of his ability to sleep so well, holding 4 L Rose, and
King Karl Hudson. Last but foremost, you could see Operator Wild Bill Ross shooting around with a most unfamiliar object
to Davidson men under his coat.

With a quick trip to Lynchburg, we settle in a dark room but only to hear the voices of "Goot"
Taylor, Frosh Cooke, and the overachiever Garvey broke through with a young school teacher. It's nice that Glamour Jonar was
not around to snake him or the other several fellows with dates. The Harkey brothers were talking of pecuniary matters
in the Marathon cafe at Chapel Hill while the Pikas packed the highway with Shelton at the wheel, Sink, etc.,
in the rumble seat. Genstein, Thomas was a typical stein in the Kentucky Derby which Lover Wallace used so often
during summer school. The latter narrowed his arrangements to Duke, Raleigh, and Carolina. Honk Shore and Peck Parrish double dated
two of the summer school co-eds.

Just a word of apology concerning the title of this column. It is extremely difficult to conceive a name for
the campus dope column that is somewhat original, so I have decided to just play upon a nickname of mine
for the title. Don't fail to get the gossip here next week and the weeks following.

On a Damosel's Priming of the Fall Frolicking: It was with regret that many a co-ed saw the smooth Buck
"Whizzer" Powell stroll through the portals of old Chambers for the last time in June, for the Whiteville Letter To
The Editor.

Editor The Davidsonian, Davidson, N.C.
Dear Sir,
Granted that the editors will bear with me for the space of this year. I shall endeavor to expose some
of the underhandedness and shady dealings which grace the "pure" name of Davidson with the slightly putrid ado of hypocrisy.
Just for the sake of sport, let's keep my identity and name a secret—just call me "Mish!" I have no
ideas of reform, only of expose. If I aggravate the editors of The Davidsonian, they can relegate my "news" to
the wastebasket, thereby admitting their cowardice or their subservience to a higher power, who evidently does not want a better
Davidson. If they want to delete my news, let them do it—a quaint French custom, merely leaving a blank space.
This will speak as well for me as the hound? (Ed. Note.—Here sixteen lines are omitted, for reasons explained below
this letter.)

Who wants to follow my trail? I warn you, it will be fainter than the facts it exposes. I'm one
jump ahead now! —MISH.

In the ordinary course of events, Davidson could also have a day designated for the fathers on which all would
be invited to come to the college and to live with their sons. The fathers would arrive in the morning
and if they wish, go to some classes. This letter would never reach the columns of The Davidsonian, but under
the circumstances, and because the editor does not know the author, it appears here because it is the wish of
The Davidsonian to deal fairly with any student or faculty member wishing to contribute to its columns by letter or
otherwise. No doubt the writer is unaware of the long-standing rule of all newspapers that the editor must know the
identity of any man who wishes to write in this paper. The sixteen lines omitted near the end of the
letter contained apparently spiteful references to several individuals and groups, identifying them plainly without using names. The letter seems to
be written as destructive criticism, since no solution was offered to any of the so-called "shady deals." It hardly behooves
a man who is not brave enough to sign his own name to impute cowardice to another organization. If the
intention of the writer was to write a weekly column, he should apply to the editor in the usual way.
Once again, we wish to state that The Davidsonian will not carry destructive criticism or derogatory remarks. Since this letter
falls into the above class, it could have been omitted entirely with no explanation given. However, because the writer is
unknown, we should like for him to understand why his entire letter was not published. But we wish to make
it plain that this paper shall contain nothing written in the spirit of spite or destructive criticism. Let the writer
make himself known, and if in the future he can contribute something worthwhile, it will appear.—The Editor.

Compassing Campuses the Unwary Collegian
By TOM CAUBLE

In view of the unwary collegian being defined as any college man possessing a suit shirt, let us begin our
dissertation on the off-season tactics of socially-minded young ladies. Perhaps the most common locale for this prom-priming is the beach.
Just why the lads are most susceptible at the seashore is a matter of conjecture and though not unexplainable is
beyond our scope. It is thus there on the sands that many girls plot their winter campaigns. The method seems
to be more or less uniform although variations are constantly put in practice. First, the gal checks the capable of
a mental list she pulls out materials and hastily sketches the prospects. After a hasty reconnaissance, she approaches the lad
seeded No. one and says coyly: "Aren't you Flative McDuffie of ROTC fame?" Whereupon this prime prospect answers blankly with
"Why, er... no, I'm not... but I know Fluffy." The beauty, quick on the uptake, immediately catches up this shred
of evidence and exclaims: "Oh, are you a Davidson man?" The lassoed tenderfoot, obviously not knowing much, offers the information
that he doesn't go to Davidson but once met Duff in the date parlor at Limestone College. On receiving this
information, the beauty forthwith listed prospect No. one as a probable agrarian and dropped him immediately from her mental list,
as the mere mention of anything pastoral aroused her hay fever. The beauty then trickled over to a 115-pound behemoth
whom she had listed No. three (No. two having been snatched from under her nose by a red bathing suit)
and almost floored him with the remark that she had heard he played tackle for Carolina. Tricked into admitting he
went to Carolina by this ruse and blown sky-high by her inflating remark, he advanced a step and on the
spot invited her to accompany him to the local cinema that afternoon. Names were then swapped and the beauty found
she had winged Noxious Normie. She further manned the pumps with various remarks about Normie's fine physique (much to his
elation) and by the time they reached the show house, the tanned charmer had extracted from him an invitation to
Mid-Winters. Immediately after the first reel, he extended his bid (which she snapped up on the spot) to include Homecoming
also. After the show, they cut a shake and a brief rug at the corner drug, whereupon she made her
departure with her "brother" in a flashy convertible and our hero soared beachward to bask in the sun and contemplate
his recent conquest.

SUBSCRIBE TO THE DAVIDSONIAN... $1.50 Per Year
Anywhere in U.S.
Send to: JACK COVINGTON
Davidson, N.C.
