Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. May 16, 1946

YMCA Retreat

Members from all over North Carolina attended the annual Y. M. C. A. Retreat which was held at Camp Hanes,
20 miles north of Winston-Salem, May 10, 11, 12. Three Davidson students held the Saturday morning devotionals: Ed Watson, Bob
Ramsey, and Casey Jones. The purpose of the retreat was to exchange student thought. Members of the Davidson student body
who attended were elected by the ‘Y’ Cabinet. They were: Sherrard Rice, Ed Ramsey, Casey Jones, and Bob Ramsey.

FROSH WIN
[Continued from Page Four]

Height: 10, 2". High hurdles—Mar- (D), Belk (D), Ashby (R). Time: 16.6. Mile—Nimmons (D), Jewett (R), Ansley (D). Time: 4:48.5.
440-yard dash—Stockton (R), Washburn (D), Moore (R). Time: 53.3. 880-yard run—Owen (R), Nimmons (D), Safrit (R). Time: 2:10. 220-yard dash—Clower
(R), Sprunt (D), Stockton (R). Time: 23 seconds. 200-yard low hurdles—Martin (D), Ashby (R), Dennis (R). Time: 25 seconds. Broad
jump—Belk (D), Clower (R).

MUCH SERVICE
[Continued from Page Three]

Dr. Lingle has truly proven himself a great man in the Presbyterian Church, and he has played an enormous part
in making Davidson College what it is today.

MUSIC SCHOOLS
[Continued from Page Three]

McDonald, assistant director of music at Davidson; Warren Perry of Babcock, instructor at Davidson, Catawba College, and Salisbury public schools;
Bernard Hirsch, director of instrumental music, Marion public schools; Julian Helms, director of instrumental music, Hendersonville public schools; A. Moreland
Cunningham, director of instrumental music, Morganton public schools; Jack Tillotson, director of instrumental music, Albemarle public schools; Arthur Rohr, director
of music, Cannon High School, Kannapolis; Dazil Bolich, director of music, Spruce Pines public schools. Other instructors will be: James
Weber, concertmeister, Charlotte Symphony Orchestra; Louise Nelson Pfohl, instructor at Salem College; Elizabeth Cloninger, student at Salem College; Magill, Davidson
student; and Bob Hill, Davidson student.

AVIATION CLUB
[Continued from Page Three]

Last week, and who only recently began his course, Francis Hugh Grey, is making rapid progress. During the summer vacation,
several of the members intend to add to their flying hours by flying to the various beach and mountain resorts.

STUDENTS AID
[Continued from Page Three]

For the relief of refugees in Belgium and Holland. The amount that has been set as a minimum is $10,000,000.
Anyone else who wishes to contribute to this cause can give the money to Professor Fleagle, Professor Thies, or can
leave it at the Bank of Davidson.

LIBRARY ADDS
[Continued from Page Five]

For themselves. “A Southerner Discovers New England” presents the New England's wise living of the present, which alone can give
the clue to her destiny. The new book concerning Europe and her crises is “Failure of a Mission” by Sir
Neville Henderson which tells of his attempt and his failure to avert the calamity of the European war. The book,
which may be regarded as a historical document, is essentially a chapter of autobiography.

SERVICE
EXPERT BARBER
Shampoo’s A Specialty
Johnson’s Barber Shop

AMONG THE GREEKS
[Continued from Page Five]

Brother Rankin was at his home in Mt. Gilead. Brother Sharpe was with Brother Matthews at the Kappa Sigma ball
in Burlington. Brother Howell went to his home in Fayetteville. Brother Shaw went to his home in Fayetteville. Brothers McAfee,
Church, and Bryant were at their homes in Charlotte. Brother McClintock went to Briar. Brother Balsley was at his home
in Reidsville.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The chapter held its annual celebration in honor of Mother’s Day with a buffet dinner at the chapter house on
Sunday. Mrs. Arbuckle and Mrs. A. M. Hillhouse entertained at an afternoon tea at the home of Mrs. Arbuckle. The
following mothers were guests: Mrs. J. L. Anderson, Greenville, S.C.; Mrs. L. D. Coltrane, Jr., Concord; Mrs. H. J. Allison,
Charlotte; Mrs. J. R. Pope, Mount Mourne; Mrs. T. G. Shelton, Statesville; Mrs. S. H. Overby, Snow Hill; Mrs. Murphy
McDonald, Hamlet; Mrs. W. A. Sample, Statesville; Mrs. F. M. Youngblood, Concord; Mrs. J. A. Scott, Statesville; Mrs. J. M.
Sink, Knoxville, Tenn.; Mrs. Frank Neill, Statesville; Mrs. E. E. Pollock, Asheville; and Mrs. T. G. Lane, Charlotte. Brothers Latimer,
Wine, Henderson, Parsons, and Hoover visited their respective homes in Anderson, S.C., Harrisonburg, Va., Wallace, New Bern, and Concord. The
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity was entertained at the feed Sunday night. Brother Charlie Akers visited the chapter Sunday. Miss Mary
Anderson of Greenville, S.C., Miss Mary Louise Pollock of Asheville, and Lib Porter, Marjorie Poole, and Dot Dawn of Charlotte
were guests on Sunday.

DUKE GILLIAM
[Continued from Page One]

Five percent of the proceeds will be given to the senior class gift fund. For many years back it has
been the custom to give a part of the money taken in to the fund. The remainder of the money
will be distributed among the members of the senior class.

Sul Ross State Teachers College (Alpine, Texas) has dropped intercollegiate football from its sports program.

Pope Pius XIII has named the Right Rev. Monsignor Joseph M. Corrigan, rector of Catholic University, titular Bishop of Bilta.

The University of Wisconsin boxing team has been unbeaten in 32 consecutive home matches.

THE UNIV. OF ALABAMA HAS A TREE WHOSE ANCESTRY CAN BE TRACED BACK 175,000,000 YEARS!

AT MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE, CLEMENT BURR IS PRESIDENT OF THE JUNIOR CLASS AND HIS BROTHER, FREDERICK, PRESIDES OVER THE FRESHMEN.

SUMMER STUDENTS
[Continued from Page One]

To get under way and until the heat of the afternoon has died down, silence reigns to the tune of
falling cards and abated exclamations (?). According to the feelings of the majority, the school either takes another nap, plays
softball, or goes out to Harris Lake for a quick wrestling match with the seaweeds and mud. As the supper
hour approaches everyone beginsto wonder what is on at the movie but since no one is in the know a
great multitude rushes down to see and later slander the present showing. The boy that studied last year, here found
time to do so but the rest usually wandered back to the deck of cards that by this time has
become much like those made of flannel. “Then came the week-ends,” here I become reluctant to proceed for fear of
the wrath of those that might be identified with the minor details that I would be forced to relate. However,
I might add that the beach along with the mountains seemed to offer the main attractions that drew the students
away. And a good time was had by all!

JIVE CHATTER
[Continued from Page Two]
Charlie,” backed with “Southland Shuffle,” in which he gets in several “tricky licks” with his sax. Miller has scored again
with his unusual arrangements of “Pennsylvania 65,000” and “Bugle Call Rag.” Though neither has met the disc there is a
large demand.

ROTC UNIT
[Continued from Page One]
order drill, under Cadet First Lieutenant H. V. Hendrick...Company C also presented drilling individually, under Cadet Corporals J. P. Rudolph,
M. R. Mobley, and G. T. Brown. The members of Company D, W. C. Fitzgerald, cadet captain, presented extended order
drill. A platoon commanded by Cadet First Lieutenant John L. Withers gave one demonstration, while the squad drill was carried
on by Cadet Sergeant Vernon Youngblood. Prior to the afternoon’s activities, the inspector had met one of each of the
classes in military science. At this time he quizzed the classes on assigned subjects.

FILM REPORT CARD
[Continued from Page Two]
Spencer Tracy portrays the great American inventor, Thomas Edison, and brings to life all of the trials and success that
were enjoyed by Edison. It is another achievement for Tracy who joins with Rita Johnson in the leading roles. Often
he is faced with ruin and always seems to be wrong, but in the end pulls through with greater and
better inventions. An entirely different show from “Edison the Boy.” Don't fail to see this show. Saturday, May 25, “Twenty
Mule Team:” Wallace Beery, Leo Carrillo, Ann Baxter and Marjorie Rambeau. Wallace Beery portrays the part of an old ruler
of the West, when men came West and died fast. He thought himself to be awful tough until he ran
into Ann Baxter. It is a good comedy with good acting and fast-moving scenes.

GLEANINGS
[Continued from Page Two]
know. Hear that it is more than just passing fancy Washburn has for one of the fair co-eds he has
been seen about town with recently... Among the many Davisonians “catching” the Kappa Sig function in Raleigh was the ever-popular
and attractive Phyllis Crooks. Returning from the same celebration we hear that Coach Ansley is no longer the gentleman that
he once was... Jack Abels spent a busy week-end running back and forth between G'boro-Davidson-High Point. The latter point being
home of Pearl Thompson, with whom Jack is said to be locked as tight as Jay Ross. Melwee finally gave
up and followed Bolin with Susan... Doris Edgar to Statesville for the week-end. Crutchberger went along with a girl that
he had said he wouldn't go to see again in a thousand years. No self-control, Crutch?... Where did Rod Turner
and John McCrea find all the babes they escorted on the “church” hike Sunday? Hope you had a nice walk,
boys... Glad to hear that Lewd-lum is feeling better again. The “doc” knew what the trouble was right away. Congratulations,
Abernathy, glad to see that you have given up the idea of attempting humor and turned toward a literary publication.
Give it away, Andy, here it is.

C. Morgan Is Vesper Speaker
Concord Minister Says That Man Should Deny Himself For Christ
Dr. Frank Crosley Morgan, newly elected pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, was the guest minister at the
vespers service Sunday evening, May 12. The text of Dr. Morgan's sermon was taken from two verses of scripture in
the eighth chapter of Mark, verses thirty-one and thirty-four. He compared and discussed the different subjects dealt with in these
verses under three separate outlines.

Sermon
“The Son of man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders;” so is man today under many
of the pressing problems and difficulties of the world. He expressed the idea that one must undertake these hindrances even
though a great many luxuries may have to be given up. Dr. Morgan explained that it would be necessary for
people to “take up their cross” and follow the Christian ways of life. Even though the way may be full
of by-ways and stones, the goal will be more than life can offer—Jesus Christ as our guiding star and goal.

Conclusion
In conclusion, Dr. Morgan illustrated that to find or gain the main theme of our religious customs, one would have
to have a clear understanding of the principle stories and theories which appear throughout the Holy Bible.

Listen to CHESTERFIELD’S MARION HUTTON in Glenn Miller's Moonlight Serenade for Real Milder Smokers by the millions are making Chesterfield
all Columbia Stations... Tues., Wed., Thurs, the Busiest Cigarette in America. ... It takes the right combination of the world’s
best tobaccos to give you a cigarette that is definitely MILDER, BETTER-TASTING and COOLER-SMOKING...all at the same time. For real
smoking pleasure, buy Chesterfields every day. Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
