Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wed., March 20, 1940

Paul Pittman, Texas Aviation School Alumnus, Is Transferred To Advanced Flying School At Kelly Field

Completion of his basic phase of flight training as Flying Cadet of the U.S. Army Air Corps at Randolph Field, Texas, is near at hand for a former Davidson College man, Paul C. Pittman. Davidson, '36, is among the 240 student pilots scheduled to be transferred from Randolph Field to the Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field, March 22, for a final three months’ course of flying instruction before being awarded their wings and commissioned as second lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve.

Started In October

These Flying Cadets started their military aviation career in October, 1939, when they were selected for elementary training at one of nine civilian flying schools cooperating with the Air Corps in its expansion program. Sixty-five hours of flying time were logged by the Davidson College Cadet during his first three months of training, more than half of it being solo. He was then transferred to Randolph Field for another three months’ course. Aerial acrobatics, night flying, and instrument flying are stressed during this phase of training which consists of 75 hours of secondary flying time.

Final Step

The final step in the training of these future military pilots is the three months’ course at Kelly Field where formation flying, day and night navigation, and advanced instrument flying are the main subjects of the curriculum.

Six Freshmen Read Papers At Last Meeting of Literary Society

Eumenean Literary Society

At a meeting of the society held Tuesday night, March 12, six of the candidates read papers. A motion was passed that the remaining candidates read their papers before the next meeting and make a report on the basis of which elections will be held. These try-outs were held as the result of a drive for members launched by the newly-elected president, Dan Gilliam. Practically no new men had been initiated into the group this year prior to the last meeting. Walter Kyle, a freshman, was initiated at the close of the meeting. Other features of the session were a speech by President Gilliam and the transaction of certain financial business.

Harding Talks At Louisville

Professor Represents Classics Department

Attending the thirty-sixth annual meeting of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South to be held at Louisville, Ky., March 21, 22, 23, will be Dr. C. R. Harding. Dr. Harding will represent the Department of Classical Languages of Davidson College. This convention will be held at the Hotel Kentucky, in Louisville. The program on Thursday evening will include an address by Dr. Harding, who has chosen the following as his subject: “Examples in American and English Literature of Aristophanic Types of Wit and Humor.” This trip will necessitate Dr. Harding’s being off the campus for several days during the spring vacation. Dr. Harding has been a member of the Davidson faculty for well over a quarter of a century.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi

After a big weekend last week, most of the brothers stayed on the campus this week. Brothers Church, McClintock, Bryant, Summery, and McAfee went to their respective homes in Charlotte. Spike Mebane went home with Jim Howell in Ellerbee. Pledge Brother Powell went to Winston-Salem and Brother Balsley went to Washington, D.C., for the weekend. Brothers Burch and McCary went to their homes in Reidsville and Columbia, S.C. respectively. Brother Morrow, '39, returned to Philadelphia after an extended visit with the chapter.

Pi Kappa Phi

Brother Niven, Covington, Saunders, Larkin, Woodward, and Glynn went to their homes in Rock Hill, Matthews, and Greensboro for the weekend. Brother Niven was a guest at the Sophomore Formal before the weekend. Brother Mobley went down to Horan as a guest of Brother Miller and journeyed home with him. Brother Boyce went hunting again in Alligator Swamp. Brothers Colvin and Hendrick went up to Salem for the weekend, and Brother Robinson visited Derita. Brother Erb made his usual trips to Salisbury. Clarence A. McAlpine moved to Charlotte last week and spent the weekend with them there. Also in Charlotte over the weekend were Brothers Plunkett, Swasey, and Ballard.

Phi Gamma Delta

Duke Gilliam, on the whole, enjoyed the weekend in New York. Okie Taylor and Shorty Parrish visited in Greensboro and Winston. Dan Hodges, Bill Norman, and Salter Kybe took in the jitterbug jamboree. Roland Jones went to Brenau College at Gainesville, Ga., for the weekend. B.B. Plyler visited his home at Wilson. George Richmond visited his home at Concord. Walter Wooten and Ralph Williams traveled to Converse. The chapter enjoyed a feed Sunday night, together with a song fest.

Kappa Sigma

Ashby Dick, Jim Crook, and Karl Jonas spent the weekend in Spartanburg, S.C. John McGee visited with Popeye McAlpine in Hartsville. Apie Means was involved in an accident in Charlotte Saturday night and is in bed recovering from shock. The chapter enjoyed a delightful feed at the Pi KA house Sunday night. Jimmy Cooper went to the dance at W.C. UNC. Oglesby, Shaw, and Bits Watkins were visitors in the Queen City Saturday. Gray Hunter and Wileman Ehly went to their homes in Greensboro.

COUNCIL PLANS

[Continued from Page Three]

The committee on membership reported to the student body in chapel on Saturday, March 16, and will be discussed March 28. This amendment will be discussed at its next meeting, scheduled for April 2. This change will make the president, vice presidents, and secretary of the student body automatically members of the council.

ELTING SPEAKS

[Continued from Page Three]

Davidson students will be better informed in regard to the advance of science in industry. The senior majors in the sciences are invited to hear this lecture. Mr. Allison Kuhn, a recent graduate of Davidson, who has been associated in this work for several years, was responsible for securing the speaker.

DRAMA GROUP

[Continued from Page Three]

Dr. McMullan gave numerous suggestions as to how to solve the problems that arise. In connection with the lighting and stage problems that arise, he urged the continuance of dramatic endeavor despite the difficulties which arise at a place as small as Davidson. No definite decision was made as to what play would be presented, but “Our Town” was given serious consideration as a possible production. It was decided to announce the selection of the play immediately after the Spring holidays and to hold tryouts soon following the announcement.

FLYERS’ GROUP

[Continued from Page Three]

After initiating two new members, Gordon Horton and Bill Wood, the club went into a panel discussion on landings and take-offs. No one led in this discussion but the whole club joined in giving and solving problems on the topics. The meeting was then adjourned till the next regular meeting time.

DR. ELMER BROWN

[Continued from Page Three]

Dr. Brown is spending his first year at Davidson, where he is a Laboratory professor of Biology, and assistant to Dr. Lyons. He lectured at the Sunday School last week for the first time. The selection of the subject used Sunday was of particular interest to students at this time of elections, and so near the time of graduation.

LINKMEN PLAN

[Continued from Page Four]

The golfers have been playing on the Carolina Country Club in Charlotte. They will play Hampton-Sydney College Tuesday afternoon and Boston College Wednesday on the Carolina Course. The Course has been in bad condition, so this may account for some of the high qualifying rounds. During Spring Holidays the team will take a trip through the South. Glenn and Pegram along with Manager Sharpe.Physics Frat Hears Moore Make Speech

John Moore Talks On Photo-Electric Cells

Groups Make Ramsey and Kenyon Travel North as Barker, Thompson Journey South

At the meeting of the Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, on Monday, March 18, in Chambers Building, John Moore gave the main talk of the evening. The subject of Moore's talk was “Photo-Electric Cells,” in which he expounded some new ideas circulating. W. C. Gilmore, president of the fraternity, presided at the meeting along with Rufus Allison, vice-president, and John Hay, secretary-treasurer. Three members were elected: John Lucas, Phil Peyton, and Joe Gammon. The club plans to have Dr. T. W. Sutton, of the physics department at Haverford College, give a demonstration lecture on April 3. Dr. Sutton is now making a lecture tour of colleges in the country.

LUCAS HEADS [Continued from Page One]

Lucas was on the basketball squad and also is counted on in track this season.

Caldwell Wins Early

Frank Caldwell was elected on the second ballot, the only one to win this early. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, played varsity football last fall, and has been active in intramurals. Original nominees for president included Charles Allcott, Bob Carter, Baxter Freeze, Bob Garvey, Al Winn, Tommy Yarborough, Lucas, and Williams. Vice-president nominations were Bell, Pat Rudolph, Davis Thomas, Alston Thompson, Sam Woodward, and Walter Wooten. The original field in the secretary-treasurer race was composed of Ed Hay, Dan Hodges, Julien McCall, Gene Shannon, Terrell, and Cam Wilson.

FOUR INJURED [Continued from Page One]

Means received a scalp wound and possible abdominal injuries, while Church suffered from shock. McLean and Sherrill were only slightly bruised. Means, known to all as “Apie,” is a member of the senior class and played with the basketball team. McLean, Church, and Sherrill are all members of the freshman class.

Two teams of two men are now on tour representing the Davidson debating team, one team visiting northern schools and the other making the rounds of southern institutions. Dick Kenyon and Bob Ramsey are taking the northern trip. Schools on their itinerary are: Wake Forest, William and Mary, University of Richmond, Rutgers, and Wesleyan. Only the forensic tilt at Wesleyan will be a decision debate.

Seasoned Speakers

Kenyon and Ramsey are seasoned speakers. This is Kenyon’s third straight year on the varsity and Ramsey's second. Since both men are seniors, it is their last tour for the Davidson team. Frank Barker and Drury Thompson are making the southern tour. Included on the list of schools where they are engaging their forensic opponents are: University of South Carolina, College of Charleston, Georgia Tech, Birmingham Southern, and the University of Alabama.

Ludlam Accompanies

Both of these debaters are juniors and it is their first year on the varsity. Warren Ludlam, one of the three alternates chosen in tryouts several weeks ago, is accompanying Barker and Thompson on the trip. A third trip, throughout the middle west and extending as far north as Cleveland, Ohio, was taken a few weeks ago by Neal Scott, president of the forensic council, and Bill Loftin.

DALE TO SUCCEED [Continued from Page One]

Garvey is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, the editorial staff of “Scripts ‘n Pranks,” and served this year as drum major of the football band. Plunkett is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, Le Cercle Francais, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and the editorial staffs of “Quips and Cranks” and “Scripts ‘n Pranks.” Albert Winn is a member of Beta Theta Pi, Le Cercle Francais, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and the varsity debating team. Carter is a member of Phi Delta Theta, the Court of Control, and the Varsity Baseball team.

YMCA Sends Speakers To Help At Kannapolis Spring Tours

Y’ Aids In Week of Prayer, Supplies Churches, Attends Meetings

Three Davidson men will represent the Y. M. C. A. next week at the Week of Prayer which is being held at Kannapolis High School. Jim Owens will lead the devotional portion of the program Wednesday, while Claude Hackney will render a vocal solo. On Thursday Sherrard Rice will conduct the service.

It is hoped by the school officials that this week will be of great value to the 1,000 students. A deputation from Clemson conducted the services last Thursday and Friday, and Catawba College was represented Monday and Tuesday. The services will be climaxed by the Davidson deputation.

Supply Churches

Davidson men have been supplying the pulpits of the Bethel and Cornelius churches for the past few weeks due to the resignation of the Rev. Johnston. Al Winn has spoken at both churches while Dave McLean and Paul Crane have supplied at the Bethel church. Jim McCrary and John McCrea have spoken at the Men's Bible Class at both churches.

Last Friday twenty Davidson men attended an open forum at Queens College which was led by Miss Nelle Morton. Miss Morton is the Associate Director of Young People’s Work of the Presbyterian Church. Immediately following the forum an informal reception was enjoyed.

Columbia College

Columbia Bible College held its Annual Spring Conference March 15 to 22 and five Davidson men attended. Dr. Walter L. Wilson, a medical doctor, was the main speaker. Those attending from Davidson were John Faine, Jim McCrary, Harry Barnett, Fenton Miller, and Sherrard Rice. John Faine also took a group of young people from Concord, where he does religious work each Sunday, and one of these boys accepted Christ as his Saviour while on this trip.

Editors Find Emancipation

Old Managers Celebrate Freedom as Their Successors Toil

While the new managing editors labored amid pressing discouragements, the managing editors of this year, who only this past Monday night turned the keys to the Davidsonian office over to their successors, celebrated in Charlotte their newfound freedom.

Casual observers on the porch of Georgia were all curious late Monday afternoon to see such an unusual group of boys leaving the campus on a real workday. But, little did they realize that this heretofore “serious Monday” group was headed for the bounds of renowned Charlotte for a celebration, such as they had never before experienced.

After suffering on Monday nights until late hours with heads that won't fit, freshmen that forget to look up their stories, and over-ambitious sophomores, the former managing editors are finding this newfound time hard to waste! However, it is rumored that rest will be their occupation on the Mondays to come, for it will be a long recovery.

Already, the new managing editors are planning a bigger and better celebration for next year, its long hours being surpassed only by the time of effort spent by their successors.

ROTC CONTEST [Continued from Page One]

A blue ribbon will be affixed to the company guidon. The local company of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, will award a cup to the officer whose platoon is judged the best drilled on the field. Both cups will become the personal property of officers receiving them. Judges of the competition will be: Lieutenant Colonel W. A. McCulloch of Charlotte, N. C., senior instructor of the North Carolina National Guard; Captain David L. Hardee of Oak Ridge, N. C., Professor of Military Science and Tactics at Oak Ridge Military Academy; and Captain Fuller, commanding officer of headquarters company, 120th infantry, North Carolina National Guard, located at Gastonia, N. C.

The competition will be open to the public, and students, faculty, and friends of the college are cordially invited by local military authorities to witness the spectacle.

ESTCOLDS ...Distressing symptoms quickly relieved... rub on VICKS VAPORUB PROVED BY 2 GENERATIONS

The Hill Sisters Queens of Basketball

Marjorie, Isabel, Ruth, Betty, and Helene of W. Hempstead, L. I., coached by their father, have won 80 out of 84 games.

The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos

You can look the country over and you won’t find another cigarette that rates as high as Chesterfield for the things that smokers really want. Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is way out in front for mildness, for coolness, and for better taste.