Page Two

Founded By the Class of 1915

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thurs., March 14, 1940

The Davidsonian

They Work Unrecognized And Still Go...

1938 Member, 1939 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

With this issue of The Davidsonian, six managing editors terminate their work. For the past three years, these six men have given their time and interest plus an immense amount of pure old country work in order that this sheet might make its weekly appearance.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

TONY CASALI .... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM TURRIE .... MANAGING EDITOR

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor: Paul Bumba

BUSINESS STAFF
Asst. Business Manager: Jack Covington
Collection Manager: Fred Li

The Davidsonian extends its deepest sympathy to Douglas Clark of the Sophomore class in his recent bereavement.

Question Of The Week

One of these six men will be recognized. He will be elected to the editorship and receive, if any, all the glory, honor, or distinction that goes with the office. The other five? They get only keys to let the outside world know that they too played an important part in making out this paper. Theirs is a thankless job, the most thankless on the campus. It's hard to see five men like this, each reaching a place after three years of labor, that qualifies them each for a better place. There should be some other way to show our appreciation to them than to add their name to the list of associate editors, or to give them a little gold key whose content would bring less than $1.50 at any corner pawn shop. It’s a situation much like that in football—the blocking back who does the dirty work, another season up.

Stolen Thunder

A Handful Reach The Peak

Several hundred boys enter a school. Three and a half years later, a handful of them make Phi Beta Kappa. That is a nation-wide story. The C-grade student adopts a sour grapes scorn, "So could I," he says, "if I spent that much time on the books." He couldn't, but we all realize that is rationalization, which psychologists say is necessary to keep us from going mad from defeatism. But if the third-rate student speaks the truth, it is just that much more to the credit of the honored boys. It is an admission that they have the intellectual and physical stamina to keep at it, despite temptations in the guise of shows and bulling and weekends, which are just as strong for them as for the playboy. Phi Beta Kappa is no fluke, no politics, no tube. It is one of the rare honors that can be proved mathematically, and no less a tribute because of that. Everyone that made it deserves credit and congratulations. But entitling them to extra envy is the fact that a large majority of the Phi Betes not only made outstanding marks, but made them while participating in one or more extracurricular activities, or made them while earning their way through school. Mathematics tells the story of Phi Beta Kappa. But it doesn’t tell the whole tale of these exceptional students. It doesn’t reveal what it takes to spend an afternoon practicing for track or tennis, legs and head slumping forward on shoulders, to force tired eyelids to keep open while they encounter the boresome trivia that are inevitable some time in every competent job of hitting the books. It doesn’t tell how to sandwich in hours a day on a publication, a debate team, the Christian council or an N.Y.A. job, and still stick to the honor roll. It doesn’t tell how to be a good fellow—take time out to bull with every chap that drops by the room to kill his idle hours with useless chit-chat—and still be up on tomorrow's assignment. It doesn’t say, "Here is a man who will make a million—who will be elected president—who will have a school named after him." It doesn’t even say he is bound to make a living. But it does say, "Behold a young man who came, as do many others, to learn. The scholars who have taught him say he has done better than any of the rest in achieving what he came to seek." And that, here or anywhere else, is success—Ring Tum Phi.

Question of the Week

Eleanor Wilcox, Sophomore: Should girls be allowed to walk on the streets with boys in the daytime?

Jo Bridger, Senior: I definitely think that we should be allowed to walk on the streets with boys. Why not? We do it at home and everywhere else except when here at school.

Helen Wanamaker, Junior: Yes, we are allowed to walk with them at night. It seems surely that the daytime. Don't they think we have any taste as to boys?

Fannie Brooke, Freshman: Yes, why not? We've been doing it ever since we were in grammar school and it seems only natural to continue it. It looks as if the Spartanburg people are ashamed of us.

Clementina Shanks, Sophomore: Yes, I think we should be able to walk with them in the daytime if we are allowed to at night. It’s much safer in the daytime.

Elizabeth Shuford, Senior: I think all this fuss they make about walking down the street with a boy is silly. It’s a regular course with girls and boys and when you reach college you should know by then how to pick your friends and use some discretion as to behavior.

Sally Brothers, Junior: Converse is a college and not being able to walk with boys on the street is even below "prep" school rules. The only advantage that I can see for not being able to walk with them is that it does keep some of the Spartanburg "riff raff" away from the college.

Ann Glenn, Junior: Yes, I don’t see why we shouldn’t be allowed on the street with boys in the daytime. After all, a girl isn’t going to do anything objectionable in public. And aren’t Converse girls ladies at all times?

Ann Glenn, Junior: Yes, I think they should be allowed to because there has never been a time when boys and girls weren’t together on the streets in the daytime and especially in this age, so why not in Spartanburg?

—From “Parley Voo”

Self-Aggrandizement

(By Associated Collegiate Press)

Well worth the Bargain Day ad- permanently from now on. but at- do than to stay here and go to

Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 19

“Three Cheers For The Irish”: Priscilla Lane, Thomas Mitchell, Dennis Morgan, Alan Hale, Virginia Grey, Irene Hervey, and William Lundigan. Priscilla Lane gets her first chance in a really starring role, and she fills it admirably. This picture is not the newest out and many of you have seen it, but for those that haven't let us say that it is fine. The plot is unusually good, but other than the three main characters the cast isn't so good. We've had to list Alan Hale for be so noxious.

Wednesday, March 20

“Ride 'm Cowboy”

Watch it girls! The Lone Ranger rides again. When you take this in you had better be prepared to dodge the dying hoofs of murderous horses and the red-hot missiles of barking guns. Can't say so much for this picture, but it's mission. (I'm paid to say that).

By MELVIN MEANS

Another dance set has come and gone and a lot of you fellows missed one of the best sets of the year. The music was excellent, the decorations attractive, and the girls—ah,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

res, the girls. They were tops. To Gene Vereen goes the top honors of the week—he had not one lovely miss down, but THREE. Billy Lemmend is still cussing because he gave way to Andy Dale on one of Gene's blind dates. And Bobby Williams is still smiling over the QUEEN Gene produced him. Don't blame him—am looking forward to seeing the beautiful Miss Morris down for some more dances. Don't see why Rusty Edmundson has had so much trouble deciding on the place of his affections. After meeting the snappy number he presented to Davidson society this weekend, I don't see why he should look further. The usual number of SNAKES made their noxious presence felt. The bunch of Winchell’s scallions for two-for-one Lewdlum—heard that Throop had to pay for it finally, though. While Granny Sharpe was busy escorting one of the popular co-eds, we happened to think and wonder what could have happened to Jessamine Boyce—then we remembered that she was quite in evidence down at State last weekend and had probably used up all of her weekends. She certainly didn’t seem to be wasting it either. Very becoming shade of lipstick—both for herself and Jack. Charlie Watt’s date must not have made much of an impression on him for he seemed to forget all about her and her habit of eating as he left her sitting in her room waiting for him to appear to take her to dinner. He finally showed up after being sent for around three-thirty. He said that he had been asleep. The dances proved a source for a wild weekend known as G.H.—neither he nor the bright lights and an audience of EO to these Pi Kappa Phis that ten late-dated two of their brothers both Friday and Saturday nights and finally took them to their homes without notice to the original dates, who, it is needless to say, were very much chagrined to find themselves sans dates Sunday. And Lover is now never answering to the call of “FOUR.” Even Pope Kenyon found interest beyond the confines of the walls of Watts and was disturbed frequently in the auto in front of Juke house. And while still on the subject of dances, all of you fellows that neglected to catch this set had better look forward to the 26th and 27th of April when Boscoe and his lads present our final set. TEEFFER MANS—he finally got a lot of riches. Tom Galbreath was date. Jasper and Poss went on a late snaking detail Sunday and did everything but throw Buddy Roe out of 504 Hotel Charlotte—such a stupendous weekend. Must have been a swell babe. Perhaps the most-snaked-on man of the weekend was one Mister Hugh John Throop. His FIND is Jean Bumstead brought the lovely freshman bride from Converse certainly attracted them in droves. Understand that Stowe beat all of the crowd in the rush—even out-distancing Scott who has been training on a “debate” trip. The climax of the affair occurred when Stowe accompanied Jean to supper at Tenner's and was so attentive that the waitress presented him with the double check—Throop and rather embarrassed for some unknown reason at the dance Saturday night—better ask him for the explanation. Have any of you fellows noticed the ghost of Ed Morrow haunting the campus this week? He floated down from med school. Never have been able to find out ALL about Bill Burch’s trip to Myrtle Beach Sunday. Too bad that Jim Anderson had to go to bed so early and leave his date—among the loveliest of them all—for a late-dater. And not worth mentioning, but Casali says better that his revelation was held back because of Abernathy’s pleadings and that he will be in his room on Friday and Saturday giving five-to-one that he can name the “rag’s” scandal monger. Social Mathematics By TULC McNAEL Statistics lately compiled show that Davidson boys used 178 fluid ounces of talcum powder during the last dance set. The average date, says Weggy Runnaway, used 17 fluid ounces, or enough to supply first, second, and the third floors of Georgia through Beester Burwell’s room on the third. Laboratory records have shown that a collegian of average resistance would have to inhale only 38.7 cubic feet of perfume during a four-hour period to qualify for a violation of the alcoholic control rule. There is, however, little danger of loss of life through lethal dosage during a four-hour period except with those who come too frequently in contact with that type of rural beauty (commonly found in S.C. lowlands) who insist on stocking up their perfume shelves from the well-known general store. Terpsichorean computations show that if all the weight frittered away by the jitters during one weekend of dancing (i.e. by Holland, the Coopers three, Herring, Throop, Deadman Glenn, Blackdog Hunter, etc.) could be somehow assimilated, it would boost the Wildcat line average some 4.9 pounds per man next fall. (More next week.) Extremely Frank Extreme youth is extremely frank—and if you don't believe it, listen to this story: On a recent school vacation day, a group of youngsters listened outside a Syracuse University lecture room while a professor delivered his usual classroom discourse. After listening for some time, one of the boys was overheard to say: “Holy smokes, how do they stand the junk he’s feeding ‘em?” Yes, how do they? “The bull session is an American institution. To let it slide into greater disrepute would be a shame. Next time the gang gets together for a talk-fest, why not try to do something constructive, why not try to reach a definite conclusion, why not think through a problem? The American student has brains; the American student must learn to use them. From the bull session could come something fine and valuable.” The University of Iowa Daily Iowan urges a more serious purpose of these gab-fests that are usually not so profound. Parade of Opinion Sete pave at