Neal Thurs., May 2, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Charlotte Members Of Vereen Elected NCCPA Officer
John Moore To Serve

Phi Beta Kappa Meet To Form Grad Chapter
Dr. Cummings Presided Over Meeting At Which Dr. Shimer Spoke

At a meeting of Phi Beta Kappa members in Charlotte, at Hotel Charlotte on Thursday, April 23, presided over by Dr. W. P. Cumming of the Davidson English department, Dr. Shimer, secretary of the United Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, and editor of the periodical, The American Scholar, spoke to one fourth of the two hundred Phi Beta Kappa members living in Charlotte and the vicinity. At the end of this talk, a graduate chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was organized, Dr. Mayer of the Nalle Clinic was elected president, Miss Abernathy vice-president, and Hugh Campbell, secretary. Dr. U. S. Alexander was elected chairman of The Defense Fund. Dr. Shimer’s talk gave a rapid survey of recent conditions in this country, and methods Phi Beta Kappa is using to aid and strengthen educational standards, not only in institutions where it has chapters, but in other colleges and universities throughout the country. This, Phi Beta Kappa is able to do primarily because it is in effect the highest accredited organization (Continued on Page Six).

AMONG THE Kappa Alpha
The Spring Frolic was the destination of most of the brothers on the weekend. On Friday night the members held a banquet at the boarding house here in Davidson. Saturday night the main affair besides the dance was the buffet supper held at Thacker’s in Charlotte. Among the dates here for the set of dances were: Lucille Patton of Fayetteville; Betty Crews of Chattanooga; Ann Winters of West Palm Beach; Sue Bochmann of Wheeling, W. Va.; Sue Wiley of Columbia; Louise Walker of Wilmington; Marjorie Toole of Columbia; Mary O’Keith of Bluefield; Scot Newell of Atlanta; Betty Berdan of West Palm Beach; Helen Foster of Columbia; Helen Weathersby of Wilmington; Mildred Anderson of Johnson City; Betsy Hightower of Wilmington; Frances Abernathy of Oxford; Crenson of Madison, N. J.; Eleanor Catherine Cansler and Janet Thomas of Rocky Mount.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Most of the brothers were found taking in the dances this weekend. Among the girls visiting the campus were: Ann Fountain, Tarboro; Helen Sutton, Kingston; Frances Saughtridge, Rocky Mount; Virginia Ogletree, Atlanta; Hobbie Salisbury; Mary Davis Wolfe, Charlotte; Sybil Trixler, Concord; Mary Steele Hubbard, Charlotte; Virginia Hengeveld, Davidson; Alice Hollis, Rock Hill; Catherine Scott, Kingston; “Bep” Pruitt, Hickory; Mary Alice Williams, Louisville; Lucy Martin, Charleston; Carol Webb, Spartanburg; Carolyn Erceman, Miami; Mildred Duffy, Norfolk; “Tenny” Cowper, Asheville. Brother Morton visited his home in Waycross, Ga., before and after the dance and Joe Bivens went to his home in Elkin. Brothers Edmondson and Fitzgerald went on the baseball trip and Knox, Davis, and B. Kunz journeyed to Rock Hill on Sunday. During the week the chapter was visited by Brothers Smith of Baltimore and Dick Bell of Burlington.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Dates on the campus of the Brothers were: Lily Warruck, Talladega; Vi Johnson, Greensboro; Ann Barrett, Houston; Marjorie Wilson, Greenville; Betty Sechrest; Louise Vandiver, Lithonia, Ga.; Monte Nicholson, Union; Jane Kirkpatrick, Charlotte; Dukie Clements, Durham; Marian Hornsby, Yorktown; Tiny Waddell, Charlotte; Barbara Brown, Tampa; and Ethel Lytch, Laurinburg. Alumni present were Perry Sloan, Colin Smith, Ken McLean, “Knobby” Smith, Torrey McLean, Springs Pharr, and John Latimer. On Friday night the members held a banquet at the Wooden Bowl in Charlotte. Brothers Bahnson, Cauble, and Faison attended the Province Convention at Washington and Lee.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Most of the Pikas stayed here for the dances this weekend. A banquet was held at the Hotel Charlotte Friday night and a feed was held at the fraternity house after the dances that night. Among the dates for the dances were: Phyllis Crooks, Peggy Moore, Lillian Kilgore, Frances Hallam, Mary Jane Good, Pauline Douglas; Dot Balsley, Carolyn Lassiter, Doris Edgar, Hull, Liles, Frances Davidson, Lucille Mitchell, Pat Weaver, Nell Johnson, and Carolyn Caudle. Brother Rufus Allison had a party at his home during intermission Saturday night. John and Charlie Aters returned for the dances. Bob Wersel, Lee Horton, and Ammon also visited the chapter. Brothers Monger, Parsons, and Rice attended the Junior-Senior banquet at Queens, while Brother Henderson went to the one at Peace, returning slightly sunburned. Brother McClellan went to his home in New Bern. Brother Overby went to Snow Hill for his sister’s wedding. Brother Coates and Latimer spent the weekend in Atlanta.

Phi Gamma Delta
The chapter entertained members at a breakfast sing festival after the Friday night dance. On Saturday night a banquet was held at the S & W Cafeteria. Dates for the occasions were: Floride McBee, Converse; Katie Kennedy, Randolph-Macon; Mary Raysor, Randolph-Macon; Ann Wiley, Charlotte; Kelly Ann Smith, Salem College; Shirley Lobert, Wilkesboro; Katherine Crosby, Randolph-Macon; Ann Sutherland, Knoxville; Walker, Charlotte; Tal Ewacker, Mona Mosley, Gunston Hall; Ann Mauldin, Charlotte; Susan Buchanan, Knoxville; Sophie Coan, Concord; Mariam Self, Macon; Mary Louise Rousseau, Salem College; Bernice Lafitte, Peace; Umstead, Greensboro College; Lura Self, Betty Craig of Agnes Scott.

Beta Theta Pi
Members of the chapter held their banquet on Saturday at Thacker’s in Charlotte. Present at the banquet and the dance were: Misses Margaret Patterson, Judy Stanley, Winthrop; Helen O’Neil, Frances Hardin, Burlington; Margaret Ross, Mary Kathryn McArthur, and Betty Ann McHaney, Hollins; Betty Elder, Burlington; Ethyl Ann Hutchenson, Reidsville; Caroline Miller, Sweetbriar; Alice Withers, Davidson; Martha Withers, Davidson; Betty McClintock, Charlotte; June Smith, Charlotte; Dot Pickard, Mebane; Mary Lib Moose of Greensboro; Dot Fowler, Burlington; Kitty Grady, Hollins; Polly Price, Davidson; and Lib Hoppe, Charlotte. Alumni who returned for the dances were Ken Lawson of Harlan, Ky.; Sam Hemphill of Winston-Salem; Bid Ivey of Rock Hill; Don Davidson and Jim Ballard of Salisbury; and Misses Betty Spainhour, Percy Whitney, and Virginia Campbell of Hickory. Miss Stanley is a regular of Corinth, Mississippi; Miss Dot Branan, of Thompson, Ga.; Miss Tuli Hobieoson, Davidson; Miss Mary Craig Roberts and Jo Ann Smith, Decatur, Ga.; Dell.Blackstone, Winthrop; Gene Vereen, first vice-president of the Collegiate Press Association of North Carolina, was elected Saturday morning at ten o'clock at the Hotel Charlotte. He was elected over Frank Greathouse, Jr., of Duke University. Fabe Clements of North Carolina State was elected president of the Association; Polly Goforth, of Flora Macdonald College, was elected second vice-president; Frances Staton, of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, was elected secretary; Norvell Ashburn, of Wake Forest, was elected treasurer; and Stephen Sailer, of North Carolina State, was re-elected as executive secretary.

At the annual spring banquet on Friday night at the Hotel Charlotte, retiring president Staton presided, and the speaker was James Boyce of The Observer, head of the English department at Sherwood Roberts College, Istanbul. On Friday afternoon, group discussions on various phases of journalism were held, and guest speakers included Douglas C. McMurtie of Chicago; Gerhard Beeker, Dr. Richard Kingsley, editor of The Carolinas magazine; and H. Battie, business manager of The Observer.

Davidson's representatives to the convention were Gene Vereen, who is the business manager of the Davidsonian; Luther, business manager of the annual; Jim Currie, business staff of the Davidsonian; Charlie Bek, business manager of the Scripts 'n Davidsonian; and Andy Plyler, editor of the Davidsonian. After the banquet Friday night, the delegates attended an informal dance at the hotel. Misses Margaret Woodhead and Helen Cumnock of Aiken, O'Brien and Louise Sullivan of De Lowrys, and Myron Sandifer were also present.

By ALBERT WINN

Issue after issue, the Davidsonian runs a column entitled "The Question of the Week." And issue after issue, a vast majority of students pass the aforesaid column by without so much as one good second under the optical apparatus. One suggested solution to this problem is that students are less interested in the question of the week than in the question of the weekend. For all students, as one faculty member is fond of observing, may be divided into two parts: those who use the weekend to rest up from classes and those who use classes to rest up from the weekend.

Dr. Foreman continued his discussions on the class. He chose as his subject the "Prophecies of the Book of Habakkuk." He told of this prophet of Judah and showed how his prophecies may be applied today. Dr. Foreman pointed out how similar this Book is to a modern newspaper editorial, in that it looks into the affairs of the day and discusses them.

Continuing his discussion of Habakkuk, Dr. Foreman, in his second lecture last Sunday, gave "A Conclusion of the Interpretation of the Book of Habakkuk." The themes that he advanced at this meeting of the class were: first, the praeterist; second, the futuristic; third, the continuous; and fourth, the symbolic.

Several feminine guests, weekend dates of the students, were present at this meeting on April 28. The names follow: Pat Jeter of Columbia, S.C., who sponsored the fraternity at the Friday Night Formal; Nancy Cleveland of Spartanburg, S.C., who was chosen alternate sponsor; Audrey Johnson of Asheville; Dot Dorn of Valdese; Jane Adams of Meridian, Miss.; Winnie Shealey of Gastonia; Meadors Luann of Rock Hill, S.C.; and Betty of Philadelphia, Pa. Alumnus Bob Sear was welcomed at the banquet. Other alumni included Rac Penney, Clyde Raynor, and Fred Boykin, who returned to Atlanta for important functions there, while the rest of the brothers lurked at the lodge playing host to the members of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity.

Joe Kellam, a graduate of the class of '38, has finished his naval flying training at Pensacola, Florida, and is now stationed at Manila Bay, where he will be on duty with a neutrality patrol. Since Joe graduated from Davidson, he has been at Floyd Bennett Field in New York and at Pensacola for his training. From there, he went to Hawaii, where he remained until he got his transfer to Manila. He is now connected with the division of heavy ships, flying a Patrol Bomber, which is the heaviest ship in the navy. His new assignment to go on duty in Manila broke up the plans of his marriage. While Kellam was in Hawaii, he had become engaged and was planning to marry in the near future, but according to him, he doesn’t think it safe to take a new wife to Manila. After two years in the Orient, he is hoping to return to the United States, where he wants to remain.

When at Davidson, Kellam was prominent on the campus. He was captain of the baseball team and a member of the varsity football squad. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Missouri Valley College has had a 40 percent increase in enrollment in the last five years.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant
221 W. Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
BEST TO BE HAD
Mooresville, N.C.

Every Camera In Our Store Is For Sale
W. I. VAN NESS
Charlotte, N.C.

PAUL & CRYMES
415 S. Tryon St.
ALL SPORTING GOODS
Charlotte, N.C.

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH?
COME TO
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
Knox Building
Davidson, N.C.

A Complete New Line Of Spring Merchandise.
Visit Us Often
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

Always Ask for
AN & PE? Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
Charlotte, N.C.

COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER

NOW PLAYING
The two master men of horror in a spine-chilling feature, like you have never seen before. Both actors doing the finest performance of their career. Thrill seekers can't afford to miss it.

Student Sunday School
Billy Tyson and Myron Sandifer Will Be Vice-President And Treasurer

Davidson Has Varied Types Of Weekend

Belk’s Style straws! Sailors and flexible brimmed straws. Panamas and Bakus! Also high-quality sailor straws as Stetson Sennit. $3.00 Stetson Panamas in smart shapes.

BELK BROS. MEN’S STORE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MOVIETONE NEWS
Porky Pig Cartoon

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 6300
Printers of The Davidsonian
PLEXICO PRINTING & PUBLISHING, Inc.
Formerly Standard Printing Company
Garland Court
CHARLOTTE, N.C.