Lectures Here Harvard Professor

David ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA VOL. XXVII

Professor Friedrich B. F. Marti Discusses Problems Of "The Next Peace"
Naturalized American of Harvard Faculty is Former German Professor

FORUM FOLLOWS TALK
Advocates Federation Of Nations in Future

Speaking on the topic “The Next Peace,” Professor C.J. Friedrich of Harvard University lectured to the students and townspeople of
Davidson on January 4, at 8 P.M., in Chambers auditorium. Professor Friedrich, a native German but a naturalized American citizen,
gave the reasons for the need of a new peace and explained his idea of what the next peace should
consist of. He said that the entire present trouble was brought about by the unjust settlement after the first World
War. The people were to blame for this settlement rather than the statesmen for they were so instilled with hate
that they wanted penalties imposed. Professor Friedrich praised the formation of the League of Nations and said that its chief
fault was that too much was expected of it, and that the democracies had not the right foreign policies to
make it work.

Just Settlement
To have a lasting peace, he said, a just settlement should be made and that settlement should be made with
the aid of the German people rather than forced upon them. He suggested that a series of federations be made
to embrace the countries of the world and then a league of continents be made to replace the present League
of Nations. Following the address a forum was held and the audience was invited to ask questions. Prof. Friedrich is
a professor of Government in the Harvard Business School and a former professor at Heidelberg University, Germany.

Debaters Set Try-Out Date
Tryouts for the varsity debating team will be held on Friday, Jan. 12, announced Neal Scott, president of the forensic
council. The judges of the competitors will be the Debating Committee of the faculty. Four members of last year’s debating
team will return this year. They are Bob Ramsey, Dick Kenyon, Warren Ludlam, and Neal Scott. Two alternates from last
year’s squad will compete again. They are Bill Loftin and Drury Thompson. The team will consist of six varsity debaters
and three alternates. The topic for debate this year is “Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of
strict economic and military isolation toward all nations outside the Western Hemisphere engaged in armed international or civil conflicts.”

Billy Jackson Forfeits Life In Car Wreck
Former Member of Class of ’42 Dies Christmas Day At Spartanburg

Billy Jackson, formerly a member of the class of ’42 at Davidson, was fatally injured in a serious automobile accident
during the Christmas holidays. The accident happened near Spartanburg, Billy’s home, on Dec. 22 and Billy died on Christmas day.
He entered Davidson in the Fall of 1938 but dropped out before the end of the school semester. Jackson was
a pledge of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity while at Davidson, and was initiated into that order at Wofford College, where
he transferred after leaving Davidson. He was a student at Wofford at the time of his death.

Car Overturned
The accident occurred on a highway near Spartanburg following a dance. The car seemed to have overturned when it failed
to negotiate a curve which had been responsible for several accidents in recent years. There were six occupants in the
car when the wreck occurred. James Tinsley of Spartanburg, who was driving the car at the time, was also killed.
He died before he could be rushed to a hospital. Other passengers were James Patch, a Wofford graduate of last
year; Kendall Hobbs, a freshman at Ohio State University; Charles Lindsey, a senior at Sewanee Military Academy; and George Box,
a sophomore transfer to Wofford from the Citadel. All of them were Spartanburg boys. None of the survivors were seriously
injured.

Examinations Start Jan. 18
Classes for the first semester will end at 12:30 P.M., Wednesday, January 17 and exams will begin the next day
at 9:00 A.M., according to the schedule released by the college administration. Two exam periods are scheduled for each day.
Morning examinations will run from 9:00 to 12:00; those in the afternoon, from 2:00 to 5:00. Chapel will be held
each day at 12:05. When the ROTC exams are finished on the last day, Saturday, January 27, the semester will
be officially closed. Regular classes will be resumed the following Monday, January 29, at 9:00 A.M.

Snowballs Fly As Heavy Downfall Covers Campus
And the snows came! Yes, nearly four inches of white, cold, wet snow—and it all happened between eight-thirty and one
o'clock Sunday. The snow, falling quickly on the already frozen ground, stuck almost immediately and soon built itself up to
a depth of nearly four inches—the heaviest snow seen here at Davidson in several years. The snow brought with it
its usual quota of snowballs, black eyes, broken window panes, and wet feet. It has become exceedingly dangerous for a
peace-loving student even to venture outside his room. His quiet reverie may be suddenly shattered by a well-aimed snowball. “Rearm!
Rearm! More munitions immediately!” might well have been the cry as snow battles raged along many sectors from Duke to
Rumple. The Chambers front was also the scene of much activity, especially about mid-morning each day. No casualties have been
reported as yet, but an official survey reveals a great deal of damage to have been done at each of
the battles. This sudden change in the weather also caused many sudden changes in the plans of Davidson students. Not
a few students were off the campus for the weekend and were unable to return in time for Vespers Sunday,
and some even missed their classes on Monday morning. The more important paths around the campus were quickly cleared of
snow Sunday afternoon, two mules pulling a drag-sled used for the purpose. The snow itself was followed by sleet which
gave the new-fallen scene of snow an icy crust.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 1940

Talks Here On Harvard
Students Interview Alumnus, Now Assistant Dean Of Business School

Boyce F. Martin, Davidson alumnus and assistant dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, visited the campus Monday
for interviews with students considering taking courses at that institution. While here, Professor Martin was interviewed by some 18 students,
mostly seniors. He was the guest of Dr. A. M. Hillhouse, who arranged for the interviews. After spending the morning
and early afternoon at Davidson, the distinguished alumnus went to Charlotte to address Harvard alumni and prominent businessmen at a
banquet at Thacker’s. His subject was “Business in 1940.” On Tuesday he visited Chapel Hill for interviews, making an address
before a similar group there. Dean Martin is a member of the class of 1928, and finished Harvard Business School
in 1930. Since 1934 he has been a member of the faculty of that institution, and at present serves as
assistant dean and Professor of Agricultural Industries. While at Davidson, Martin was editor of the Davidsonian and prominent in many
lines of student activity. He is a member of E. S. A. fraternity. Since 1934 there have been twenty Davidson
men enrolled at the Business School. Thirteen have received their diplomas. The class of 1937 had the largest representation there,
numbering eight men. E. T. Fant is the only Davidson man there at the current session.

Weber, Is Presented By Orchestra
Musicians, Aided By Queens Ensemble, Stage Program For Campus

Davidson's symphony orchestra united with Queens’ orchestra to present the Charlotte Observer Christmas Program at the Carolina Theatre on December
17. Proceeds from this presentation, as from other similar presentations, go to the Observer Fresh Air Camp fund.

Organ Prelude
Opening with a prelude of organ music by James McClendon, the program included several numbers by the entire group, two
songs by the double quartette of Davidson students, and several solos. Early in the program James Weber, violinist, accompanied by
Earle Copes, pianist, presented Allegro from the D Major Sonata by Mozart. Soloist Frances Riddle, contralto, rendered “Black Moses” by
Sibelius. The double quartette sang “Deck the Hall with Boughs of Holly.” The next selection given was a vocal solo,
“O Holy Night” by Mrs. D. M. McSpadden, accompanied by the double quartette and Thane McDonald, organist. James C. Pfohl
directed the entire performance. Members of the quartette are: 1st tenor, C. B. Efird, W. B. Babcock; 2nd tenor, Norris
Edwards, James Weber; baritone, J. N. Robinson, Francis Magill; and bass, Charles Isley Wallace.

‘Y’ Fund Goes For Civic Hut
Davidson students have pledged $809 to the building of a recreation center for the colored people of this community, it
was announced at the completion of the annual Christmas gift fund drive by the Y. M. C. A. Of the
$809 pledged, $323 has already been collected in cash while the remainder is in pledges. The total exceeded the quota
set by the Y. M. C. A. cabinet of $800, announced Sherrard Rice, secretary of the ‘Y’. More is being
added to the sum daily from unpledged sources. Pledges are due up to February 15, he added.

Duke First
Of the dormitories Duke led in the amount pledged with Watts running second, Georgia was third. Collectors for the dormitories
are: Duke, George Coates; Watts, Tom McKnight; Georgia, Tom Harnsberger; West, Bud Gilmore; East, Oscar Joyner; Rumple, Harold Chapman; Barracks,
Roger Rice. Several men were assigned to collect contributions from townspeople and from students living in the village. The actual
building will begin in February and many of the arrangements are already underway.

Field Leveled
The project is to include the leveling of two fields near the negro high school for football and basketball and
the construction of the building which will house the meetings of the Boy Scouts, the men of the community, and
the Woman's Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church. The Civic League will also use this building to conduct classes in cooking
and sewing for negroes. The negroes themselves have heartily endorsed the plan and expect to do much of the work
on their own time. The project will also extend the work of the Y.

Typical Student Shown In College Questionnaire
Figures Obtained in Poll Depict Cross-Section Of Student Life

A complete educational survey was made of Davidson by the College Cooperative Advisory Council in order to obtain statistical data
on the average college student. Davidson was chosen as one of the colleges to be surveyed. Spencer Austin, Erle Casey
Jones, and Baxter Freeze were appointed to cover the cross section of Davidson student opinion. A poll was taken and
here are the results:

What methods do you have of financing your college education other than parental help and scholarships? Among the answers were:
educational insurance, inheritance, Kiwanis club loans, personal gifts, relative aid, etc.

Name your method of earning money in the summer months. The answers were highly varied here. Among the unusual were:
horseshoeing, sailor, riding instructor, taxi driver, chauffeur, etc.

Estimate as near as you can the total amount you spend each year, all inclusive. The average student of the
entire student body spends $751.75. By classes the freshmen spend $817.18;The sophomore $723.29, the junior $724.20, the senior $742.15. The
highest estimate was $1700 and the lowest $90. Name your hobby or hobbies. Among the unusual here were: raising tropical
fish, raising calves, magic, and interior decorating. Name the five most discussed topics in your bull sessions. Of the student
body, the topics ranked in this order: sports, girlfriends, sex, studies, careers. By classes they [Continued on Page Six]

In This Issue
Story Page
Radio Broadcasts 3
Bob Chester 3
Miller’s Trip to Rose Bowl Game 6
Many Persons 3
Administration 3
Bob Cain 3

For Dances Feb. 2-3
Chester Will Play in Fund Concert
Davidson Midwinters To Feature Bob Chester as Nation’s New Sensation
Contribute To Financial Plan
$5,000 Of Annual Payments Already Made On Living Endowment Fund

Considerable heard about it in chapel and read about in a letter outlining this method of replenishing the depleted income
of the college before the Christmas holidays. Response to the general letter that went to several thousand persons has been
gratifying. The commitments to date for annual payments amount to $5,000, which is equivalent to the income on an endowment
of $100,000.

Companion Movement
While this is less than was hoped, it is realized that many receiving the letter had been canvassed for the
Centennial Fund and have still due installments. The Living Endowment is regarded as a companion movement to the Building Fund
solicitation, and the interest manifested in the Davidson College Living Endowment project when the students heard about it in chapel
and read about it in a letter outlining this method of replenishing the depleted income of the college before the
Christmas holidays. Response to the general letter that went to several thousand persons has been gratifying. The commitments to date
for annual payments amount to $5,000, which is equivalent to the income on an endowment of $100,000.

Music Master
Bob Chester, leader of a fast-rising band, will swing his baton in Charlotte's Armory February 2, 3 for the Davidson
Midwinter dance set. With critics exclaiming over his music’s close resemblance to Glenn Miller's music, Bob tells them that his
ideal is Tommy Dorsey.

Business Leads
In this widely diversified field, business claims the attention of 98 fond parents. Money earned in the various pursuits of
the financial world supplies the expenses of more students than money from any other one source. The next largest group
of parents consists of some 56 ministers whose sons attend Davidson. Throughout Davidson's entire history, this group has always been
prominent in all such tabulations or estimates. In third place are the 42 merchants, followed closely by 41 doctors. Next
comes a surprisingly large group of 36 farmers. Thirty lawyers send their boys here, 23 salesmen, and 21 employees of
government agencies. Next come the nearly equal totals of 19 railroad men, 18 teachers, 18 clerks, 17 bankers, 17 insurance
salesmen, and 17 textile men.

Other Vocations
Other vocations and their quotas are: manufacturers 15, missionaries 15, trades 15, druggists 11, contractors 10, brokers 9, law officers
8, accountants 8, dentists 7, engineers 6. Chemists, florists, and tax collectors 5 each.

Campus Politics 2
By Austin
Senior Gift Idea 2
By Hudson
[Continued on Page Six]

Newest addition to the 14-piece band will be Dolores O'Neill and Al Stewart, who will provide vocal renditions.

FOUR DANCES IN SET
Chester’s Music Closely Resembles Miller’s
Bob Chester, billed by publicity releases as “The Nation’s Sensation,” will play for all four dances at Davidson Mid-Winters, February
2 and 3, as was announced by the Pan-Hellenic Council during Christmas holidays. Special features of Chester's band will be
renditions by the winsome swing soprano, Dolores O'Neill, and sensational baritone soloist, Al Stewart.

Price of tickets has been reduced according to Paul Marion, president of the council, from $6.50 to $5.00 for two
afternoon dances and two night hops. Individual prices will be $1.50 for each of the afternoon dances and $3.00 for
each of the night hops. On Friday, December 2, the tea dance will run from 5 till 7, and the
formal dance from 10 till 2. Saturday's afternoon hop will last from 4 till 6:30, followed by the last of
the series running from 8:30 till 12.

Music at all four dances will be furnished by Chester’s band, termed by newspaper accounts as “dreamy, sweet, and swingy.”
Unable to book one of the very top-flight bands, Pan-Hellenic councilmen decided it would be better to secure a first-class
band that seems to be “on the rise” rather than hastily secure a declining “name orchestra.”

Chester’s music is said to closely resemble Glenn Miller’s. One well-known critic provides this description: “It is a combination of
the best elements of the Miller and Dorsey styles, with fine arrangements and smooth tempos: ‘sweet’ as well as ‘dreamy’—which
makes it ideal for dancing.”

Bob's ideal, however, is not Miller, but Tommy Dorsey. He once told an interviewer: “Tommy has the only orchestra that
can play any type of music and play it to perfection. To me, Tommy Dorsey exemplifies popular music at its
best. He added the element of tone to swing. Tommy always has been and always will be my idea of
the greatest individual the art of music has ever known.”

Parents of Davidson students labor in 31 different vocations. Into college coffers pours money earned in as widely different fields
as accounting and landscape architecture, chemistry and tax collection.

Early Contributions
Mr. Jackson reports that parents of students each sent $100, $2500, during the holidays and that numerous others sent smaller
amounts. Also, quite a number of students signed cards during their recent registration.

The Junior and Senior classes were solicited for contributions to the Building fund two years ago and subscribed more than
$8,000, which they are now paying. The suggestion has been made that a goodly number of Freshmen and Sophomores might,
without special inconvenience, be able to pay five or ten dollars a year.

The Court is also clamping down on walking on the grass. Too much laxity in observance of Freshman regulations has
prevailed,” says Harrison, “and the freshmen must do what classes before it have done. After all, the rules are for
one’s own benefit, and they are light ones compared with those of many other schools.”

Bob Chester is the scion of one of America’s wealthiest families, being the step-son of Albert Fisher, president of the
Fisher Body Corporation in Detroit. At school at the University of Dayton, Bob became a crack baseball pitcher, but his
passion for his saxophone led him to turn his back on baseball.

Baseball Offers
Bob Chester is the scion of one of America’s wealthiest families, being the step-son of Albert Fisher, president of the
Fisher Body Corporation in Detroit. At school at the University of Dayton, Bob became a crack baseball pitcher, but his
passion for his saxophone led him to turn his back on baseball.

[Continued on Page Six]

There has been another extravagant invasion of European royalty. This unusual invasion was made by Duncan McBryde, who is a
divinity student at Edinburgh, Scotland. McBryde pondered a great deal on the possibility of rubbing elbows with British peerage, and
finally an idea presented itself which later proved very successful. He donned the regalia of an Arab sheik and assisted
members of the Edinburgh nobility in conducting a Christmas bazaar for the relief of suffering among underprivileged tenement dwellers. He
presented a very convincing picture in his flowing white robe and multi-colored headdress. A picture showing him sipping tea with
Her Grace, the Duchess of Atholl, at the bazaar was published in the Edinburgh Evening News shortly before Christmas.

McBryde, class of '33, was recently pursuing a graduate fellowship from the Union Theological Seminary of Richmond in Edinburgh and
will finish requirements for the Ph.D. degree in the spring. During his stay in Europe, he has been widely traveled,
having witnessed speeches by Chamberlain, Hitler, Daladier, and Mussolini. He spent a year in Germany and also visited Danzig, Warsaw,
Prague, Istanbul, Rome, and Athens.

Being in the center of the European conflict and having witnessed several Nazi air raids over Edinburgh, McBryde has formulated
his opinion on the situation from his observations. He is impressed by the calm resoluteness of the dour Scots and
reckons that “the more the Nazis pepper the Scots, the more peppery their response will be.” He is of the
opinion that it will be some time before a change in the present phase of war will take place.
