Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs, Jan. 18, 1940

~ The Davidsonian ~

Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

TONY CASALI
BUSINESS MANAGER

JIM CURRIE
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Movie Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Athletic Manager

A Boost For Scholarships

More than a dozen years ago a plan for the Senior Class of Davidson to establish an athletic scholarship fund as its class gift was refused by the administration, because of the implication of “hiring athletes.” Since that time athletes have multiplied in importance so that a losing team (no matter how hard they fight, against whatever heavy odds) presents a serious problem. The modern prospective college student and his parents will consider a school’s team, and its class rating. This is considered by many as a sad state of affairs, but if he looks closely about him we are sure that he will be convinced that it is absolutely true. Does this mean that Davidson, or any other similar school, will deteriorate if it fails to produce a championship football team with a high rating? Certainly not. But there is much evidence to prove that a school will decline if it fails to keep pace with other schools of its rank. Enrollment is certain to decline, and this will undoubtedly affect scholastic rating after a short time.

Let us closely examine the schools about us which have refused to keep pace athletically. In last week’s Davidsonian, Karl Hudson outlined the plan of an athletic scholarship fund to be donated by the Class of 1940 which would enable worthy athletes to attend Davidson. This fund, if properly invested and increased by alumni and succeeding classes, would soon become sufficiently large for its use. We sincerely hope that this plan, if approved by the administration, is impartially considered. The Student Body is behind this plan one-hundred percent. BECAUSE this plan is sound, it will be realized when Davidson needs a sound athletic program. Certainly, there are enough clocks on Chambers Building!

JOE M. LEE, Managing Editor.

A New Ballot System

There is a movement in the student body today which is slowly gathering strength for agitation for open politics. By this, it is understood that candidates will either state their qualifications themselves, or have their campaign managers state them for them. Speeches will be made, accompanied by parades, free cigars, and whatever the party or “clique” treasury can afford. It is even rumored that this will entice students away from such attractions as Hona Massey. I doubt it! But will the situation be changed in any essential? No, for the fraternity man will still vote, with few exceptions, for the man that his lodge is supporting whether he be within his fraternity or not. Swapping of votes will go on; cliques will flourish galore. And to cap it off, as the commentator on this subject said last week, “But it will be legal.” And that makes everything rosy! Truly then will politics be discussed on the porch of Georgia, instead of the first floor hall.

Of what is there to be scared? What will happen to those students who do not belong to fraternities? Unless someone risks their political and perhaps physical neck to organize them, they will still vote for the man whom they have heard since their sophomore year is going to be elected chief Doorman. And he is! If they do organize, they will be outvoted on the count! So let us continue with the situation as it is. It gives us something to gripe about. Those who are being griped at just have to listen; they needn't worry. They’ll get elected, regardless. Perhaps I am now being a little nasty. But it is the way that I see it from my side of the fence. But I can be constructive and for the next election, propose first, that ballots be dropped into locked ballot boxes instead of put in the back of seats. Enoch is tired of picking up “neglected” ballots after a close race. Second, that the ruling that student government members be present at the counting of votes be observed. It hasn’t in the past. Third, that there also be present at each counting of the ballots a non-fraternity man. Fourth, that the counters make a conscientious effort to eliminate ballots signed by others for those absent.

COLLEGE

HE IS 7'2" IN HEIGHT AND CANDID CAMPUS CLEMSON COLLEGE CADET, CLAIMS TO BE THE WORLD'S TALLEST STUDENT WEIGHS A MERE 302 LBS.

ACTUAL PLAYING TIME OF THE AVERAGE BASKETBALL GAME IS 29 MINUTES 30 SEC.

J.H. HENICA, 83 YEAR OLD HEAD OF THE GA. TECH. WOOD SHOP, USES A PORTABLE MICROPHONE WHEN HE LECTURES.

GLEANINGS By MELVIN MEANS

The highlight of the week seems to have been the entrance of “Whizzer” Powell in the Carolina Golden Gloves. Amid much fanfare and publicity, Buck’s name was added to the list of hopefuls. The picture in Tuesday's paper failed to show his full shoulders from which, he states, he gets his power for his lethal blows. Don't imagine that he is going to let a thing like Mid-Winters interfere with his training program. Who is handling Buck? Managerial duties might be in the hands of Garrulous Cauble. And back from Greensboro, Waldren, Yates isn’t spending every night alone, tho. Sounds like Charlie is at home longing for Betty to graduate. Don't blame Yates for giving up, tho. Romance (Bob Kellogg) has been waiting for so long that he might as well give it up. We wonder if Charlie suddenly became quite popular with a certain young lady in Charlotte who has been longing for him to discuss by the fireside. You first floor Georgia boys might question R. O. on the subject of Marcelle. Incidentally, Kellogg also emerged victorious in the quest for a much-sought-after date for Mid-Winters. Too bad, Dillard. Just about any member of the basketball squad can furnish the last lines of the following for you if you are interested enough to find out: Rub-a-dub-dub, two in a tub; Lucas. Bosco Marion was rather worried about a phone call from Holland he received while at Furman until he finished his conversation and then he was all smiles. Seems that it has something to do with “BIG" band dances. The Pan-Hell boys spent Sunday afternoon and night running back and forth for Spring dances. What was the rush, Leonard?

DISC-CHORDS By Billy Masters and Hoss Reeves

Watch for George Olsen’s discs which start appearing next month on Bluebird. He has taken over Artie Shaw's old band and has changed the clarinet rides to sax parts as well as the theme to “Begin the Beguine.” Over the holidays some good discs appeared which are well worth mentioning. Don't miss Glen Miller’s “Careless” and “On a Little Street in Singapore.” Also Jan Savitt's “Honestly” and Woody Herman's “Peace Brothers” are really top-notch tunes. Our mil-o'-more bird ran true to form on his prediction of a Mid-Winter band. He missed by more than his name. The council, however, is promising us a band which is definitely THE coming band of the season. You might like to know that Kay Kyser and his organization, the highest priced band in the country these days, has been called upon to make another picture. This one will bear the title “Kay Kyser in Hollywood.” While speaking of Mr. Benjamin Goodman, the members of his crew are taking a vacation for the first time since the organization of the band. Benny himself has gone to Florida. (He's the only one who has any sense). Leonard Vannerson, the manager, flew

Let's admit the problem frankly. Until the non-fraternity man is encouraged to go out for activities, until he learns the ropes in his first two years, until he gets the necessary experience in those years to fulfill capably any office, he will not be and never should be elected. It is a man much deserving the admiration and loyalty of the student body who has in the past been elected from the non-fraternity ranks to high office. There have only been a few of them, because only a few of them have been prepared to take office. This is a fault of the college and not of “politics” or fraternities.

The problem of politics on the Davidson campus is one of preparation of candidates more than how they are supported. The other problem, as I have stated and offer suggestions for correcting, is the machinery for their election. Those are what we have to go to work on.

The latest rumor concerning a big name is that Lionel Hampton, vibes star with Benny Goodman, will step out with a band of his own. We don't care where he steps, but let’s hope it’s out of Goodman’s band. While speaking of Mr. Benjamin Goodman, the members of his crew are taking a vacation for the first time since the organization of the band. Benny himself has gone to Florida. (He's the only one who has any sense). Leonard Vannerson, the manager, flewto Los Angeles to marry Martha Tilton, blond heifer y'all together. Should Davidson have open politics? But I am not in favor of open politics at Davidson. Perhaps if we had a school of two thousand or more students, open politics would be the only solution, but in a school of only seven hundred students such a system has no place. There has been much hue and cry about the failure of our present system to put before the student body the qualifications of the candidates as they should be presented. But looking back over the men our student body has elected to the important campus offices in years past, I think it will be admitted that only in very few cases could better men have been elected to these offices. Of course, there have been exceptions, but the system of politics, open or closed, will always have these exceptions. There will be a goodly number who will swear that "the best man" was not elected in every election. I do not believe that open politics would to any degree raise the caliber of our leaders.

Granted that open politics would bring out into the open the so-called "hypocrisy" of our present system, I rather doubt that the elimination of this evil would be a fair exchange for the evils which are inherent in the open political systems. Conditions in colleges and universities in our own and neighboring states would hardly bear an honest investigation. Davidson students advocating such a system because of the "corruptness" of our own would, if as sincere as they apparently are in their condemnation of political corruption, be forced to really throw up their hands at circumstances surrounding these elections. We, in scrapping closed politics, would be making a very bad trade. Closed politics, idealistic as it may seem, is the only system in strict keeping with Davidson and Davidson traditions. And say what you may, Davidson traditions really exist and play an extremely important part in making the college what it is today.

HARRY HENDRICK.

Murphy’s Mumblings
By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday and Friday, Jan. 18 & 19
"Brother Rat and The Baby": Priscilla Lane, Wayne Morris, Jane Bryan, Eddie Albert, Jane Wyman, Ronald Reagan. Surely you won't be disappointed at this. Bing (Eddie Albert) and Kate (Jane Bryan) are proud parents of 14-month-old Peter B. Goan. Bing loses his high school athletic job when he leaves his baseball team in the lurch to go to Los Angeles to marry Martha Tilton. Then he loses a chance to coach at V.M.I thanks to the efforts of Billy (Wayne Morris). It takes the ingenuity of Dan (Ronald Reagan) and the girls (Priscilla Lane and Jane Wyman) to rescue Bing. All ends well with Dan and Billy altar-bound.

Late Showing of "The Earl of Chicago" 10:00 Mon. & Tues., Jan. 22 & 23
"The Earl of Chicago": Robert Montgomery, Edward Arnold, Reginald Owen, and Edmund Gwenn. Another picture on the gangster side, but it has not the usual story. Wait until you see it and see. Robert Montgomery is reputed to have given his best performance in this picture, with Edward Arnold in his usually excellent form, as the slick villain.

Saturday, January 20
"Geronimo": Preston Foster, Ellen Drew, Andy Devine, William Henry, Ralph Morgan, Gene Lockhart, Marjorie Gateson, Kitty Kelly, and Monte Blue. This is an extremely interesting historical picture. If you liked "Union Pacific" and "Jesse James" you surely won't be disappointed at this. Andy Devine has the role of a scout whose friendliness and cheerfulness keep William Henry's heart from breaking. Henry has been sent to serve with his father's regiment which is gunning for Geronimo. His father, Ralph Morgan, expresses no interest in his son, but the love element keeps the story moving.

With listeners paid ten dollars each for putting their heads together—but not giving out any dope. Wonder who it could be that they practically have signed up. Regardless of who they get, they should be congratulated for all the efforts they expended in securing a band for Mid-Winters, and even though they didn't get who they wanted, we are all looking forward to the best set of the year. Mason Wallace seemed to be doing TOO well in his quest for a date for the dances. Heard that a couple of days ago he was well set—as a matter of fact, he had TWO lovely dates lined up. Thanks to a frat brother, he now has only one. What was Tom Guion up to in Charlotte last Wednesday night? Better be careful, Tom. Fred Harbin certainly was relieved to hear of the abating of the flu epidemic in Charlotte and that Queens could start again. Has spent quite a few nights and innumerable hours in the City since SHE got Misses Bogo's company, though. Otts pulled the fastest trip on record to Lynchburg Friday when he whipped up in the afternoon and back in time for classes Saturday morning. Was it worth it, Mack? Funny thing but Vosburg and Pennington always show up at out-of-town basketball games—and with dates. Wish I knew how they always manage to get in for a share of Davidsonian spirit and attention. If the hat with the initials, D.G., really belongs to Dan Gilliam, he must be in competition with Lewdlum. Citrus didn't get all the trade this weekend that the Jitter-Bug Jamboree in Mooresville came in for.

Wait a Minute
By FRANK BARKER

I met an interesting fellow this weekend from Boston, Mass. He was a salesman for a carton company and a "damn Yankee"; he evidently was well educated and prosperous, for he spoke of having attended Harvard and he drove a new Buick sedan. As we drove up through Virginia and began to talk about where I was from and where he was from, etc., I learned that he was a Yankee and that he did not like the South. Immediately I was on the defensive, but I was interested to know his reason for having such an outspoken hatred for the section of the country. But before I give his reasons, I would like you to understand that he wasn't the garrulous, nasal-speaking Yankee that so many Northerners are prototyped; he was a friendly and likable sort of chap about 30 years old. In all due fairness to him, he was a "good fellow." With this introduction, I'll go on with his dislike of your South.

His reasons were threefold: First, the overrated "Southern hospitality"; second, the illiteracy and the apparent standstill of this country; and third, the filthiness and sordidness in the mill sections of the Carolinas and Georgia. And he was in a position to know what he was talking about, for his business brought him into everyday contact with these three states. Columbia and Charleston, S.C., are the first two most illiterate cities in the United States," he said, and checking up this afternoon, I find that he was right. His parting words were, "that he had been in the South for the last nine years, and that he was never coming this way again as long as he lived."

Having spent nine months each year south of the Mason-Dixon line for the past five years, I was able to refute his first comment about the southern friendliness, and I think that any boy here from another section of the United States will back me up in saying that the old "plantation hospitality" is still with the same degree of pleasantness. But what could I reply to his remaining statements? Those of us who don't live in your Southern States may never come back after we graduate, but the majority of you live in North Carolina and South Carolina and in Georgia. You are the ones who make your homes and live in Columbia, Charlotte, and Charleston for the rest of your lives; it is up to you to try and remedy the situations of which he spoke and to make your states known throughout the country as the ones with the best and cleanest mill districts and with the highest moral and educational standards. A CHALLENGE TO YOU, GENTLEMEN OF THE SOUTH.

Watch it boys! They're going to have some good pictures here during exams and with a matinee every afternoon, so to those that don't believe in letting their studies interfere with their "college education," here's your chance. Loosed from the confines of V.M.I's Barracks, Bing (Eddie Albert) and Kate (Jane Bryan) are proud parents of 14-month-old Peter B. Goan. Bing loses his high school athletic job when he leaves his baseball team in the lurch to go to Los Angeles to marry Martha Tilton. Then he loses a chance to coach at V.M.I thanks to the efforts of Billy (Wayne Morris). It takes the ingenuity of Dan (Ronald Reagan) and the girls (Priscilla Lane and Jane Wyman) to rescue Bing. All ends well with Dan and Billy altar-bound.

Author, Author
If you want to make an author squirm, send a story ending to Mutual's "Author, Author" show. Each Saturday (8 P.M.) a board of literary lights tries to tag beginnings to the endings listeners have sent in. John Chapman, MC, has four authors to keep in hand. Regulars are Heywood Broun and Vicki Baum, with two guests to help. They usually solve four endings.

Since the inauguration of an unlimited cut system, Williams College reports a steady improvement in the grade averages of seniors (ACP).

Yale University is collecting a library of written materials dealing with the wars now in progress.

The first football broadcast was made from Stagg Field at the University of Chicago on October 28, 1922.

Don't worry if your notes are low,
And if your brains are few;
Remember that the mighty oaks
Were once nuts like you.