Sports RoundUp
By Bob McLeod

With exams and Mid-Winters behind their backs, Davidson’s athletes settled down to the last lap of the winter sports schedule, with both the wrestling and basketball teams taking the road. Coach McEver has his prospective gridders out starting today, intramural bowling and inter-frat bowling and basketball are in full swing.

The Wildcat quintet took on Duke and Carolina, co-leaders of the conference, yesterday and the day before respectively. Monday and Tuesday they journey to Raleigh to take on N.C. State and Wake Forest. The ‘Cats gave the Red Terrors a good licking here in an earlier game, but State has shown great improvement in their last few games and should make it hard for the ’Cats on their home floor. Coach Shepard’s boys will be seeking to avenge an early season trouncing when they meet the Demon Deacons, but they are doomed to defeat unless they can find someone to hold down the scoring sophomore flash, Herb Cline. To get in the conference tournament this year, the Wildcat five will have to win both of these games, and also conduct a highly successful tour of South Carolina week after next. Wish we could get in the Raleigh tourney this year to uphold the good showing the cagers made last year in going to the semi-finals before losing to the champion Clemson Tigers. Main trouble with the team this year is the lack of scoring punch, and the scarcity of experienced substitutes. The loss of Ed Lucas through an injury to his hand hasn't aided in the solution to this replacement problem.

Spring Practice Begins

As the gridders begin their spring drills, the main trouble confronting Coaches Gene McEver, Chet Chapman, and Laurence Spearman is the discovery of capable replacements at the ends and a good combination in the backfield. Prospects for a successful season are the best in years with a more representative schedule and more seasoned material to choose from. In all, fifteen lettermen return from last year’s team. Frank Niven and Bob Smith are the returning lettermen at end. The coaches’ problem is to find suitable replacements for them during spring practice. Strandwitz and King from last year's reserves and Washburn from the freshmen are the best prospects. Three lettermen, Bahnson, Knocler, and Bell team with Hipp to give the Wildcats a sturdy group of tackles. All, however, are inexperienced and must gain needed polish during the spring drills. At the guard, we find four outstanding prospects: lettermen Marsh and Johnson, Beester star Arnold, and big Herb Rainey, who was outstanding as a freshman this year. They also must acquire the polish for which these spring drills are held. At center, lettermen Caldwell and Balsey will be fighting for the top position with Peter Young up from the freshman ranks to add to the opposition.

In the backfield, the prospects are the best in years. Coach McEver has lettermen Jay Bolin, Yoder, Spencer, Sharpe, Hackney, and Shannon back, and in addition has triple-threaters Malaney and Fredricks up from the freshman ranks. But the problem for the coaches in spring drills is to find a suitable combination. This is something strange for Davidson, having reserves to choose from. This item should add at least a couple of wins to the record next year. Here’s hoping they succeed because what one of us wouldn’t enjoy seeing Davidson back on the winning side in football.

AROUND THE CAMPUS: Sorry everybody couldn’t have been here Saturday night to see Footsie Cowan ring up 31 points as he led his team to victory over Citadel 52 to 42. This was a new record for the Davidson gym, and fell short of tying “Lefty Jim” Waller’s Southern Conference record of 32... Bouquets are handed to the West Dormitory team for going through the season undefeated in taking the intramural bowling crown... Also to Captain Graham McFadyen for winning the 155-pound crown in the Carolina A. A. U. wrestling tournament in Greensboro last week.

Wildcat Gridmen Start Spring Practice Today

Coach Gene McEver opened spring practice this afternoon for the 1940 edition of the Davidson Wildcats with fifteen lettermen on hand. With equipment issued, light exercise will feature the opening days, while scrimmages are to be held after a week or two. Fundamentals are the order of the day, and McEver hopes to work in his freshmen as soon as possible. Frank Niven and Bob Smith are returning as lettermen on the wings, with Strandwitz and King as reserves, and Washburn up from the yearling squad. The tackle slots are expected to cause the most concern.

Davidson's frosh cagers broke even in their last two games—winning from Chattanooga High on February 2nd, and losing to High Point, 29-30, on Tuesday, January 16th. In the Chattanooga game, Johnny Fredricks was high scorer with 13 points, followed by John Belk with 12. Chattanooga's scoring was evenly divided. In losing to High Point on January 16th, the game was close throughout and was not decided until the last seconds. High Point's Jim Hogg, the Wildcat’s brilliant forward, playing as a regular for the second year, is leading the Davidson scoring along with Jim Cowan. Hailing from Waynesboro, Va., Hogg made a splendid record while playing for Fishburne Military Academy before coming to Davidson, where he won his spurs as a sophomore.

West Wins Bowling Race; Phi Delts Lead Quints

West, winner of the interdormitory bowling competition; the Betas and SPE’s, leading interfraternity bowling; and the Phi Delts, at the top of interfraternity basketball, held the intramural spotlight at the beginning of the week. Walter Fitzgerald, Andy Dale, Scott Hill, Cooper, and Ed McFadyen were the key players.

Sport Card

Friday, February 9:
Basketball: Frosh vs. High Point, home, 8:15.
Bowling: Pi Kaps vs. SPE’s, 4:00.
KA’s vs. Phi Delts, 4:00.

Saturday, February 10:
Davidson’s varsity wrestling team engaged North Carolina State’s Wolfpack grapplers in a dual meet Tuesday night, there. While the fighters had not been announced, Coach Chet Chapman will probably start the same lineup that opposed Duke. Ken McIntyre and Jack Abels will represent Davidson in the lightweight divisions. Both are veterans with a year’s experience. Dave Spencer, sophomore, will fight in the 135 class. Captain Graham McFadyen will attempt to extend his victory streak in the 155-pound class. Sid Crane, Hank Bahnson, and Ed Hipp will wrestle in the three heavyweight divisions. After the State match, the Wildcats will engage North Carolina on Thursday.

Devils, Tar Heels Lead Conference

Washington and Lee, Richmond Far Behind Loop Leaders

Duke's “Little Blues” and North Carolina’s “White Phantoms” continue far in the lead of the Southern Conference basketball race. Both teams are tied up with seven games won and only one lost. These two rivals, who have been setting such a hot pace, meet Saturday at Chapel Hill in a very important game. Maryland's “Terps,” the only team to conquer them in loop competition this year, defeated Duke by a 48-37 count. Meanwhile, North Carolina was breaking even against circuit foes, losing to a powerful Wake Forest quintet and downing the defending champions Clemson, 39-31.

Other Leaders Bracketed

In the third position with three wins and one loss are Wake Forest, Citadel, and Maryland. Other clubs to select from the eight are William and Mary, Davidson, and South Carolina. Washington and Lee, Richmond, V.M.I., N.C. State, and Furman have yet to win a conference game. Virginia Tech heads the second division.

Among the eleven contests scheduled for this week are Maryland-W. & L. and Clemson-Citadel. With the exception of the Duke-Carolina tussle, conference standings will remain virtually the same. Perhaps the outstanding individual performance on the court last week was staged by lanky Jim “Footsie” Cowan, stellar Davidson pivotman, who led the Wildcats to victory over the Citadel, sinking 31 points for a new Davidson gym record.

Wildcat Sports

Graham McFadyen Wins Wrestling Championship

Thurs., Feb. 8, 1940
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Four10: Watson composed the victorious wrestling team, which claimed a record of no defeats and one hundred quality points by virtue of a forfeit by Rumple, which was unable to organize a team. The Barracks and East tied for second place with three wins.

In the heated interfraternity basketball competition, the SAE’s and KS's were trailing the Phi Delts in second place with three wins and one loss. Competition in interfraternity basketball will continue this week alternating with bowling. The Betas and SPE’s lead the interfraternity bowling as it reached the end of the first round last week. The Betas boasted a victory over the SAE’s, while the SPE’s had defeated the SAE’s and Pikas in two matches.

Monday, February 12:
Basketball: Varsity vs. State, there.
Frosh vs. Lees-McRae, home, 8:15.
Betas vs. SPE’s, 4:00.
Pikas vs. Phi Delts, 5:00.

Tuesday, February 13:
Basketball: Varsity vs. Wake Forest, there.
Frosh vs. Harding High, home, 8:15.
KA’s vs. Phi Gams, 3:30.
Pi Kapps vs. SAE’s, 4:30.

Wednesday, February 14:
Bowling: Betas vs. Pi Kapps, 4:00.
Phi Gams vs. Pikas, 4:00.

Thursday, February 15:
Bowling: KA’s vs. SPE’s, 4:00.
Kappa Sigs vs. Phi Delts, 4:00.

The 17th and Virginia Tech a week later followed by an invasion by the Winston Y.M.C.A., which will ring down the curtain for 1940.

Held Over STARTING MON., FEB. 12th, “GONE WITH THE WIND” All Matinees Except Saturday. Matinee will have usual continuous performances with no reserved seats. You may come anytime from 10 a.m. to 2:05 p.m. and see a complete show. For night shows at 7:45 and Sat. matinee at 2 p.m. All Seats Reserved! Mail Orders Now. Reservations for the night performances and Sat. matinee are being accepted through the mail now and are being filled in order of receipt. Mail orders must be accompanied by money order or certified check—also self-addressed and stamped envelope for mailing!

Duke UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N.C. Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character, and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.

Davidson Quint Wins Over Citadel Cadets; Davidson’s varsity cagers came back into the limelight last week in defeating the Citadel, 52-42, on Saturday night, the 3rd; and winning over Guilford, 47-27, Wednesday, January 31st.

Playing a fast offensive game against their conference opponent Saturday night, the Wildcats took an early lead and held to it throughout the contest—leading at half-time, 28-22. Pederson proved to be the main threat of the Bulldogs, registering 17 points. All seven of his field baskets came from the center of the floor—emphasizing Davidson’s tight under-the-basket defense.

Cowan Sets Davidson Record
Footsie Cowan playing a beautiful game, registered 31 points. This feat sets a new record for Davidson and probably for the conference. Most of Footsie’s field baskets came as a result of perfectly executed fakes on his opponent, and dribbling up under the basket to plunk them in—13 in all. Jim Hogg and Harrison played fine floor games handling the ball and passing in to Cowan. The entire team played excellently.

Guilford Game
Wednesday night, the Wildcats met a scrappy little team from Guilford College in a tune-up for the present conference campaign and ran up a 47 to 27 score. Guilford used a fast-breaking offense but was unable to reach the basket consistently because of the tight defense set up by the Cats. Most of their points came as the result of long shots. Jim Cowan was high scorer in this game with a total of 26 points, followed by Jim Hogg with 13. The whole team showed a much-improved offensive game and handled the ball well throughout the game, passing into Cowan and Hogg for crip shots.

Cowan Is High Scorer
Footsie Cowan Sets New Record for Davidson Gym With 31 Points Against Citadel—Wildcats Win Two Games During Past Week.

Buck Powell Set For Fight
With less than one week remaining before the opening gong of the Charlotte Observer Golden Gloves Tourney, Davidson's sensational 155-pound battler, Buck “Whizzer” Powell, is fast rounding into shape. For the past three weeks, Buck has been sparring daily. In these drills, he has been stressing a quick left jab followed by his powerful right hand. Crowell Little, an accomplished boxer during his college years at Carolina, has helped manager McLean no end in preparing the Whizzer for action. In addition to his sparring, Buck has done a great deal of road work, in order to get his legs in the best of shape. In his drills, Powell has been accompanied by another Davidson entry, a dark horse in the tournament, Dick Hudson, who will fight in the 145-pound novice class. These boys will see their first action on Wednesday, February 14 in the Charlotte Armory. A large crowd of Davidson supporters is expected to be on hand to back these entries.

Kits Lose
Jarnum Springs defeated the Davidson freshmen wrestlers six matches to one on Friday afternoon, January 12. The Wildkittens’ lone win came when Ashby Dick won his match in the 155-pound class by a decision. McGee, Sandifer, and Brinson were pinned; and Parks, Conyers, and Carter were decisioned. Brinson was pinned in a long extra period after holding his own during the match in the 165-pound class. There was no bout in the unlimited division. The Wildkittens traveled to Raleigh Monday, where they were pitted against the strong Wolflet matmen at N.C. State Tuesday afternoon.

Spring Will Soon Be Here... Don’t Be Caught Napping... Come To See Our New Colorful Living Suits By Varsity Town Clothes PACEMAKERS FOR SMART AMERICA $27.50 to $37.50 Also Accessories to Blend YOUNG MEN’S SHOP—THIRD FLOOR CHARLOTTE, N.C.

WE SERVE DELICIOUS SANDWICHES AND SHORT ORDERS AT ALL TIMES
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
JIM’S TAVERN
Davidson, N.C.