Thurs., Feb. 22, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Question of the Week

Due to the approaching elections and to the controversy stirred up by the recent discussions in the Davidsonian, the prevailing
question of the week is again in regards to politics on the Davidson campus. Last week in an editorial The
Davidsonian offered a plan which it believed would help to solve some of the problems that have arisen during student
elections in the past. The following cross-section of opinion was received in answer to the question: What do you think
of the plan for a board of elections as outlined in The Davidsonian last week?

Tom Fry, Senior: I think the plan offered by The Davidsonian is far superior to the one offered by ODK.
It is, however, by no means perfect. A fraternity man is not going to incriminate his own fraternity, and will
hesitate to incriminate other fraternities if his is guilty in any way. This control board could govern the mode of
elections but I believe combines and evil will last.

Karl Jonas, Junior: The plan as outlined by The Davidsonian seems to be a good remedy for a situation which
has long been in need of improvement. This plan for a board of elections, I believe, is the second best
of the plans submitted. I personally am in favor of open politics, but as that seems to be such a
remote possibility as to be a lost cause, this board of elections has my vote if it ever reaches the
polls. However, one point which has been omitted and which I think is important, is an efficient and impartial set
of provisions for the election or appointment of a capable, serious-minded board of elections. When this has been added, I
think the plan should be adopted.

Julian Squires, Sophomore: I think that as long as there are elections at Davidson that there will be combines, outside
as well as inside the fraternity. If the student council cannot handle voting properly, a board of elections would seem
to be a good thing, but I do not think they can break the traditional combines.

Bill Hamilton, Junior: I am heartily in favor of The Davidsonian’s proposed plan for a representative board to govern politics.
It seems to me that a board of this type would eliminate much of the “dirty” politics that is constantly
coming before us and would do much to avoid hard feelings between the fraternities in the support of different candidates.
As I see it, the board should have entire control of elections and see the student council relieved of any
say so or control whatsoever. They have enough to keep them busy without this. I think that the board should
publish before elections their interpretation of cliques and combines and have some rule applying to group “understandings” among non-fraternity men.
They should also publish their entire set of rules and prohibitions with the corresponding penalties and these should be subjected
to the vote of the student body before they become final. It seems to me that the complete and entire
attendance of members should be required before any action on the part of the board be undertaken. They should also
keep records of all actions and these be open to investigation when questioned.

Kyser Wilson, Sophomore: If the honor system works completely as we think it does we should need no ballot-box guards.
Nevertheless, I think it is a good idea. Seriously, I believe it is a good idea to have one board
to check the ballots, prevent combines, and otherwise supervise elections all the way through.

Herbert Codington, Junior: The plan as proposed by The Davidsonian for a board of elections appears to be a satisfactory
means for curbing any evils of the old system. This committee will not have powers in the sense of the
student council, but will be a committee for the prevention of any acts in violation of the present system of
elections. This committee could “nip in the bud” such evils as cliques and combines by being in closer contact with
the various fraternities and groups to a much greater extent than the student council could possibly be. It could not
hurt to try such a plan and through cooperation of the student body may prove to be the solution of
all problems that have arisen so far in connection with student elections.

Tom Guion, Senior: I think The Davidsonian’s plan is the best plan that has been suggested yet. I think a
representative of ODK should be on the committee.

William S. Woods Gets High Honor At Harvard

Graduate of Class of ’27 Listed As One of Twenty Most Successful

William S. Woods, of the class of 1927, was listed in the Harvard Business School Alumni Bulletin as being one
of the 20 most successful graduates of that school. After his graduation from the Harvard graduate school Woods went with
the Fourth National Bank of Atlanta, Georgia. He has advanced in that concern and when they merged with the Lowery
Bank to the First National Bank he was named vice-president of the Trust Company, a subsidiary of the Bank.

Davidson Honored Along with Virginia Military Institute

The University of Georgia, Virginia, and Davidson were the only three southern schools to merit the honor of having a
graduate listed among these men. An article telling of Woods’ honor was written for the Alumni Journal by Boyce F.
Martin, a graduate of 1928. He is also the Assistant Dean of the Harvard Business School. Martin visited Davidson last
fall for a few days. Besides being the assistant dean of the Harvard Business School, Martin works on the Harvard
Business Review. Recently he had published, along with Malott, “The Agricultural Industries.”

Outstanding Records

While at Davidson both of these men left outstanding records behind them. Woods was a member of Phi Beta Kappa;
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Pi Kappa, football manager for three years, and Assistant Editor of the Davidsonian. Martin, who graduated a
year after Woods, was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He was in Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma
Upsilon, Omega Phi Alpha, Delta Pi Kappa, I. C., and served on the student council for two years. He was
also editor of the Davidsonian, athletic editor of the Quips and Cranks, and a member of the golf team for
three years. He was also on the ‘Y’ cabinet, fraternity council, and a member of the Red and Black Masquers.

Echoes of the Past

3 YEARS AGO

The trustees, at their semi-annual meeting, mapped out plans for a Centennial Movement in connection with the celebration of the
one hundredth year of the college. The Wildcat basketball team lost games to both Wake Forest, 44 to 33, and
South Carolina, 40 to 29. The Davidson wrestlers upset N. C. State 16 to 12 in a match featured by
Loch Vass’ triumph over the previously undefeated Thompson of State. Bismark, the much-loved campus canine, was run over and killed
by an automobile.

5 YEARS AGO

Dr. Otto Nathan spoke at the Southeastern meeting of the I. R. C. held here. “Doc” Charlie, colored trainer of
Davidson athletes for over a quarter of a century, passed away after a prolonged illness. Harris, Morgan, and Peabody played
spectacular ball as the Wildcats lost basketball games to Duke, 34 to 35, North Carolina, 26 to 28, and High
Point College, 43 to 51. A petition for dances on the campus was over-ruled by the Board of Trustees. Led
by Leroy Blackwelder, the wrestling team defeated N. Carolina 16 to 14.

10 YEARS AGO

Dr. Walter L. Lingle will soon leave on a speaking tour of North and South Carolina. Later he will travel
across the nation speaking before Alumni Associations. Professor Fleagle has again been appointed dean of the Davidson Summer School. The
Davidson Wildcats triumphed over the Wake Forest Deacons 33 to 17 in a basketball game played here. The regular Sophomore
Banquet will be replaced by a weekend party.

Davidson Camera Club to show how much enlargement can be given. The prints will be discussed and criticized at the
regular weekly Wednesday meeting. Also discussed will be the planned trip to the Duke Power Company in Charlotte.

[Continued on Page Six]

Spring Brings Showers

Be sure you are well protected from the ground up

Buff Shoe Shop
Davidson, N. C.

[Continued on Page Six]

Printing — A COMPLETE service as near as your Telephone. For a representative Dial 6300

Printers of The Davidsonian is Our Business

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Garland Court

Page Three

Composer Leonard Marretta

Pictured above is Leonard Marretta, famed Lenoir High School Band. Mr. Marretta recently composed a march in honor of the
Davidson Band. Without a title for several months, the composition has

[Continued on Page Six]"Religious Exercises." The staff of the magazine acted as col- leagues and have been named "Men of
Might." Surrounds Campus: They sang two numbers alone, the combined voices sang two numbers. Another attraction offered by the pictures
is the Queens choral club directed by Miss Robinson. The Queens group numbers were directed by McDonald of Davidson.

Next Sunday night the Queens-Davidson symphony orchestra will broadcast over the radio. Professor James Christian Pfohl will direct. Davidson college
radio programs will begin in the early part of March. The Queens-Davidson Choir has presented two concerts this year, one
at Davidson and one at Queens College. In carrying out a new policy, Prof. James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music
at Davidson, has also been made Director of Music at Queens. Many joint concerts are expected in the future.

Leonard Merretta, assistant director of the Lenoir high school band, has written an inspiring march entitled "Men of Might," which
he dedicated to the Davidson Band. The march was played last year during homecoming as an encore by the Symphonic
Band. At that time, a name for the song had not been chosen, and a prize was offered to anyone
submitting an appropriate title. Mr. Merretta plans to publish the song in the near future.

The magazine committee has not definitely decided the time when this plan will be effective. The deadline has been set
for February 24. An alumnus and trustee of Davidson has taken an active part in functions here at Davidson, especially
in the celebration of the annual Christmas Gift Fund.

The total figure for the Christmas Gift Fund reached $522.36. The Davidson cub scout troop of colored boys not of
sufficient age to become Boy Scouts has been organized in the Davidson community. Work on the organization is now underway
with the colored boys aiding the Davidson students. In charge of the organization are Dave McLean, Bill McLaughlin, and Tom
Brown. At present, the colored men are hauling rocks in preparation for the erection of the meeting hut, which is
being built through the Christmas Gift Fund. Soon the Boy Scouts will begin work in digging holes for posts and
in bringing up lumber.

Some of the boys are ready to pass their tests in order to become second class scouts, but most are
working on the tenderfoot requirements, which include such elementary things as tying knots and learning the scout ceremony. With the
coming of spring, many long and informative hikes are planned. These hikes will feature nature study.

Dr. C. K. Brown gave the first of a series of talks on "Two Kinds of Men" to the Sunday
School class in Phi Hall last Sunday morning. He took his text from the third chapter of Genesis. Dr. Brown
stated that many men were inclined to doubt the scientific aspect of Genesis. He said that this question was not
as important as one thought, and that he would limit his discussion to the spiritual aspect of Genesis. He said
that essentially there were two kinds of men: (1) those who were fleeing from God and (2) those who were
seeking God.

As an example of this, the familiar story of Adam and Eve fleeing from God in the Garden of Eden.
Adam and Eve were hiding from God behind some trees when they heard the voice of God. When God asked
why he fled, Adam said that he was afraid because he was naked. Dr. Brown used this story to illustrate
some fundamental truths of religion today. Many of us, he said, were hiding from God behind one sin or another.
And many of us likewise have reasons to give God when we can no longer hide from Him, as it
is impossible to hide from God for any length of time. And like Adam, all those who sin are afraid
because they know that they have sinned and know that God knows they have sinned, for all sins are "naked"
in God's eyes.

This week the Camera Club had an exhibit Tuesday and Wednesday during the afternoon and night in the parlor of
Duke Dormitory. It consisted of thirty mounted prints, five of which are by leading professionals and twenty-five by amateur photographers.
In the exhibit were several prints from the famed series on the History of Medicine by William Martesen. The prints
were loaned by the Agfa Ansco Corporation to the Davidson Camera Club.
