**Wildcat Sports**

By BOB CARTER

Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN (Thurs., Oct. 10, 1940.)

Heel Power, Chinhiike

VMI To Throw Heavy

Licks?

Pecora, Severin Lead Carolina Offensive; Spencer Scores On Punt Return

Davidson’s score came on a lightning thrust. After Fredericks’ punt rolled dead on the Carolina five-yard line, Dave Spencer took Lalanne’s punt on the 42, twisted and squirmed his way to a score with the aid of some fine blocking. After this, the Tar Heels struck through the air and on land, led by young Pecora, who far outshone the mighty “Sweet” Lalanne. Paul Severin played his usual fine game at end.

Spencer, with his fine run, Johnny Fredericks, with his fine punting, and Frank Niven, with his savage tackling, were shining lights for the Wildcats. However, to the whole team, hats-off for giving one of the supposed powers of the Southern Conference a real battle.

Dave Spencer’s

Rated as pre-season favorites, the Carolina eleven vowed to win the state championship. Their ground attack, where they totaled 272 yards, proved to be the best. In the passing department, they totaled 120 yards, completing seven out of ten forward passes, while the Tar Heel team completed only four out of thirteen for 29 yards. Two of Fredericks’ passes were intercepted and run back for a total of 20 yards.

Johnny Fredericks, big hard-charging sophomore fullback, has proved his worth in varsity competition this year by his consistent ground gaining from both the plunging back position and from the tailback position. His long punts have kept the opponents far back in their own territory, and his passing ability has aided much in the 1940 Wildcat offensive.

In the forward wall, W. Walker, right guard, and Reutt, left guard, weighing 10 lbs. less than the Davidson linesmen, have been outstanding. The line averages 178 lbs. to Davidson’s 182 lbs. The backs average 182 lbs. against Davidson’s 173 lbs.

Although the Cadets didn’t appear particularly impressive, they managed to keep their record clean by defeating the powerful Tigers from Clemson last Saturday without the service of injured Pritchard and Center Andy Skladany.

This year’s All-Class Football Team was dominated by the Juniors and Seniors. There were three on the second teams. The game should decide who will tie or win the Southern Conference crown this year.

Saturday’s tilt, when they are expected to fill the air with aerials, called back. All of the first downs over Dartmouth last Saturday.

Clemson took the Deacons last year.Satie pies three on each. The soldiers have been victorious. Earned by Davidson, came as the Yale came: such a surprise to this cornet. Ntt B vedr to the tune of 20-7, but this squad. Sophomores were next with two men on the first and one on the second team. The frosh placed two on the second team. The Duke Blue Devils, 23-0. FIRST TEAM Cats Improve Junior McEver, pleased with his boys’ fine showing against the Tar Heel Saturday when they were tied at the half 7-7, and held the Carolina attack in check for three quarters, will pull some new tricks from his bag in an effort to get revenge for V.M.I.'s 2-0 victory last year. Showing marked improvement was given on the left flank. Rainey and Johnson also turned in stellar performances in the front wall last Saturday against Carolina. Speedy little Dave Spencer, who dashed 42 yards to score against Carolina, and Johnny Frederick, the A.C.C. Heels at bay with his superb punting, will again be counted upon to play.

Cowboys Invade The feature scrap on the interclass courts entailed a surprise upset to the Horned Frogs from Texas Christian who will be matched against North Carolina’s Tar Heels in Chapel Hill. Richmond's Spiders, undefeated so far in three tilts, will be on the road to play a strong Marshall eleven in Lancaster, Pa.

Other Games Maryland vs. Virginia team last weekend, and both teams, thirsty for Southern Conference glory, will be on the road to play a strong Marshall eleven in Lancaster, Pa.

HONORABLE MENTION Ends: McReynolds, Senior; Sink, Junior. Guards: Gaither, Frosh; Royster, B. S., Senior. Center: Royster, H.-P., Frosh. Backs: Wooten, J., Soph; Shelton, Senior.

Rymer Advances In the freshmen eliminations, Rymer has already advanced to the quarter-finals. Coach Little’s freshmen have developed a well-rounded ball club and are in fair shape and should present a fast team. The probable starting lineup is Williams and O’Hair or Crowell at ends; Grimsley and Gwyn at the guards; Burke at center; Bruce at tailback; Archer at wingback; Hunt at blocking back; and Bethea at fullback.

Other backs who should see some action are: Hendrix, Tew, Booth, Amos, Neisler, and White. While Wilson, Priester, Barnwell, Scott, Hill, Maxwell, Birmingham, Hutcheson, Fairly, R. Payne, E. Payne, Cooper, Thomas, and Hunter should see some service in the line.

Frosh Score Last Friday the Seniors rolled over the Frosh 30-0, while the Juniors eked out a 6-0 decision over the Sophomores. On last Thursday, the Juniors and Seniors battled to a 6-6 tie, with the Juniors winning by virtue of having rolled up 3 first downs to one for the Seniors.

Interfraternity football began on Wednesday and will be run on the same pattern as last year, with each fraternity competing for the championship. Pete Whittle stated that the schedule will be similar to that run off last year.