Thurs, Nov. 28, 1940

From the Vth chapter of the —idents, said Rev. Cooke—“in the — Did you ever send in jokes? Following this incident in the upper new program, we hear each rain. This is typical of the love peral Terminal. She put up at Stage.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

T. C. Cooke Preaches Foreman Leads Talk

Barium Springs Minister Talks On Christ’s Washing Disciples’ Feet

In his sermon at the Vesper service last Sunday night, Rev. Thomas C. Cooke dealt with the special significance of Christ's washing his disciples' feet. As a spiritual basis for his sermon, he read a passage from the gospel according to St. John.

"One of the most impressive incidents in the life of Christ was his washing his disciples' feet." Making this statement, he proceeded to point out specific reasons for having done so, based on scriptural sentiments. Jesus knew that He was going to depart from this earth on the day following this incident. Knowing this, He wanted to take advantage of those last few hours to impress His disciples with the spirit of love and forgiveness which He had been endeavoring to ingrain into their characters. Christ showed the true spirit of love when He humbled Himself by washing their feet. He did not display bitterness toward Judas Iscariot, who He knew was going to betray Him that night. Instead, He showed the perfect example of forgiveness by washing the feet of Judas along with those of the other disciples.

Attended Antioch College

As an illustration of the difference between real love and artificial love, Mr. Cooke told a story of a young man who was supposedly very much in love with a young lady. The young suitor wrote a letter to the object of his affections telling her that he loved her so much that he would climb the highest mountain, go through the thickest jungle, or pass through the hottest flames to be near her. As a postscript, he added, "I'll see you Thursday night if it doesn't rain."

Along with his analysis of Christ's actions in the upper room, Mr. Cooke pointed out the practical application of the incident to our daily lives. He pointed out that we should strive to incorporate these qualities of love and unselfishness into our own lives. Cooke is a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and of Union Theological Seminary. At present, he is pastor of the church in Barium Springs, N.C., and has among his congregation the 450 orphans of the orphans’ home located there. Mr. Cooke was accompanied by his father, Dr. Jas. E. Cooke, who delivered the invocation at the service.

Many People Come In From Chairman Says Suggested Programs Are Usually Too Original

Do you have a plow for skits or clever programs to gag writers? It might be interesting to look into the idea of people to see what they think of those they receive. Joan Jones, who has charge of the broadcasting system, likes only 3 percent of the ideas she sees. Last year, she read 312 scripts submitted by listeners and picked only eight for broadcasting. "That doesn't mean that the ideas people send us are unoriginal," Joan reports. "Many of them are too original."

Miss Jones has had a career jokingly called “Dr. Morgan's school for unusual boys and girls.” The curriculum includes one semester at an outside job for each student. During her three years as an undergraduate, Gwen traveled up and down the eastern seaboard, taking a new job in each city she visited. After the 1929 stock market crash, Gwen, financially unable to finish college, pawned her class ring and nine fraternity pins and stepped on a train for New York. With less than $10.00 in her purse, Gwen arrived at Grand Central Terminal. She put up at Stage House, where she met a girl who got her a job in a Wall Street office, cutting stencils. She soon became secretary to the vice-president. After several other jobs, Gwen went to work in the Phillips H. Lord office, a radio producing firm. After eight months, she was made supervisor of the “Gang Busters” program. At the same time, she became a member of the New Jersey Crime Detection Laboratory. She went to CBS two years later, becoming head of the new ideas department last year. Her appetite for originality in radio listening whets now.

Hector McLean, Ross McElwee, and Gene Vereen are spending this weekend in New York City at the Commodore Hotel attending the National Interfraternity Conference. These men are representatives of Davidson's Pan-Hellenic Council. McLean will represent Phi Sigma Alpha Epsilon; McElwee, Pi Kappa Alpha; and Vereen, Phi Delta Theta. They will be in New York for the remainder of the week, returning the first of next week.

Little Pep Is A Favorite Spot

Local Cafe Has Long History And Many Attractions For Students

By GEORGE SINCLAIR

Although nearly every Davidson student is an habitual frequenter of the “Little Pep” restaurant, Davidson's one and only “hot spot,” it’s very likely that not many of us know very much about its history. Before it made its debut into the realm of “hash slinging,” the building in which the Pep is located served as a sporting goods establishment. At an even earlier date, it was a shoe repair shop. About eight years ago, Mr. Nick Kaperanis, the brother of the present owner, opened the “Little Pep Cafe and Sandwich Shop.” A year later, it passed into the hands of Paul Kaperonis, who has managed it ever since.

Davidson Has Big Hi-Y Club

Dr. Frontis Johnston Will Lead Vesper Service

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of the faculty led an open forum discussion on the subject of Sabbath observance last Sunday morning in Phi Hall. The students asked various questions, and Dr. Foreman gave his personal views on the topic. He began by stating that there is definitely something to be gained by the keeping of this day, and that the church members should not be the only people to take advantage of this day of rest. The question of studying on Sunday first came up when one of the class asked the leader whether or not he thought professors assigned lessons too long or too hard to be gotten up on Saturday. The questions of driving automobiles, swimming, delivering and receiving mail, playing golf, and various other kinds of questions were asked in relation to Sunday observance. One student asked if it was as helpful to listen to a radio sermon as to attend church. Dr. Foreman said that the fellowship that one gets at the church is valuable in itself, this fellowship not being obtainable elsewhere.Received through radio services. Dr. Foreman made his remarks from Mark 2:27: "The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath." He said that the doctrine of the Pharisees and that of Jesus were in direct conflict. The Pharisees' doctrine was that God created the day and created man to observe it, whereas Jesus teaches that the Sabbath is the gift of God to man, a gift made for his benefit. Thus, the "breaking of the Sabbath" is not a breaking of the law at all, but rather a breaking of the act itself.

The enthusiastic response to the "breaking of the Sabbath" has been definite and unmistakable. It has been shown through warm verbal praise and applause. Members of the "Ten O'Clock Club" at Williams College have always been keen on these activities. The setting of the story is the Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia, and its characters are the "Greasy Spoon" regulars, including Mrs. K., the smiling proprietress, and Mary Sherrill, her charming daughter.

The Girls Civic League of Davidson will sponsor the annual T.B. Seal Sale. "Buy a seal, buy a Tuberculosis Seal!" will be the appeal of many young high school girls at the Post Office and elsewhere on the main street of Davidson next Friday and for about two weeks thereafter. Each year, beginning the day after Thanksgiving and continuing for a number of days afterward, a local committee makes a drive for the sale of tuberculosis seals, with the Civic League of Davidson as its sponsor. Seventy-five cents out of every dollar made from this drive goes to a milk fund which provides free milk for undernourished and underprivileged children of both the colored and white schools of the town. Last year, 49 children were furnished a pint of milk each day, resulting in notable changes in their physical and mental abilities. Of the remaining 25 cents, 20 percent is sent to the state fund and 5 percent to the national fund. If you buy a few of these seals, they sell for only a cent each. Each penny goes to a truly worthy cause. Your Thanksgiving and Christmas will be even happier if you cooperate in this drive, for you will be helping others as well as yourself.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its meeting Tuesday night. This meeting was postponed because of the fall services. Approximately eight men were initiated into the society. Papers were read by O. A. Dearman, Jack Moore, and John Brady. Russell Smith read some original poems. A smoker was enjoyed after the meeting was adjourned.

The late Dr. Francis To Werrick, professor emeritus of biology at Western Reserve University, was widely known for his study of American eagles. Several hundred gold objects dug up from ancient Indian burial grounds in Panama by University of Pennsylvania archaeologists have been placed on exhibition in the university museum.

We are serving a special turkey dinner this Thanksgiving at The Wooden Spoon. One of its attractions is its charge account system. An open book lies on the counter at all times, and customers may sign for their bills without confusion or trouble. Another special is the constant menu. It is very convenient to know beforehand what the menu will be. The restaurant's specialty is a tenderloin steak dinner, prepared in an experienced style.

The Chekhov Players, for only the third time, are sending the largest group from any town outside of Charlotte. Davidson's Hi-Yo will be represented by a hundred percent membership of 17 members at the annual Older Boys F-V Congress held in Charlotte December 6-8. Jimmy will accompany the boys as their adviser. Friday morning, the program will get underway with a discussion led by Dr. Frontis Johnston of the Davidson faculty on the subject, "Youth Today in a World of Confusion." Saturday night, the group of approximately 400 members from the two Carolinas will attend a banquet held in Efird's department store. Concluding the conference, Dr. Elmwood, state "Y" secretary from New York, will address the group Sunday morning. He will fly down for the occasion. The topic of his address has not been revealed.

The University of Pennsylvania's first youth football game in 1941 was against Harvard. The Chekhov tour started at Albany, NY, on October 15, after five performances at summer sessions of the Universities of Maine and Macon (Women's). The Chekhov Studio, with its truck full of scenery, two station wagons, and several actresses who feel their tour is vitally affecting American drama, will have covered more than 7,500 miles of highway, taking a distinguished repertory to colleges and universities in at least 15 states.

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its meeting Tuesday night. This meeting was postponed because of the fall services. Approximately eight men were initiated into the society. Papers were read by O. A. Dearman, Jack Moore, and John Brady. Russell Smith read some original poems. A smoker was enjoyed after the meeting was adjourned.

The late Dr. Francis To Werrick, professor emeritus of biology at Western Reserve University, was widely known for his study of American eagles. Several hundred gold objects dug up from ancient Indian burial grounds in Panama by University of Pennsylvania archaeologists have been placed on exhibition in the university museum.

We are serving a special turkey dinner this Thanksgiving at The Wooden Spoon. One of its attractions is its charge account system. An open book lies on the counter at all times, and customers may sign for their bills without confusion or trouble. Another special is the constant menu. It is very convenient to know beforehand what the menu will be. The restaurant's specialty is a tenderloin steak dinner, prepared in an experienced style.

The Chekhov Players, for only the third time, are sending the largest group from any town outside of Charlotte. Davidson's Hi-Yo will be represented by a hundred percent membership of 17 members at the annual Older Boys F-V Congress held in Charlotte December 6-8. Jimmy will accompany the boys as their adviser. Friday morning, the program will get underway with a discussion led by Dr. Frontis Johnston of the Davidson faculty on the subject, "Youth Today in a World of Confusion." Saturday night, the group of approximately 400 members from the two Carolinas will attend a banquet held in Efird's department store. Concluding the conference, Dr. Elmwood, state "Y" secretary from New York, will address the group Sunday morning. He will fly down for the occasion. The topic of his address has not been revealed.

The University of Pennsylvania's first youth football game in 1941 was against Harvard. The Chekhov tour started at Albany, NY, on October 15, after five performances at summer sessions of the Universities of Maine and Macon (Women's). The Chekhov Studio, with its truck full of scenery, two station wagons, and several actresses who feel their tour is vitally affecting American drama, will have covered more than 7,500 miles of highway, taking a distinguished repertory to colleges and universities in at least 15 states.