Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., March 14, 1940

Girl Suffers Severe Burns At Greenville

BREAK THE CRYSTAL ON YOUR WATCH? COME TO HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP Knox Building | Davidson, N.C.

PAST BOSCO AND DATE MARSH, LACY (Continued from Page One) tin, Ashby Dick, Herb Rainey, and Peter Young. Marsh is a member of Kappa Sig- SPENCER PACES REDS (Continued from Page Four) Red 30 yard line. A fumble halted this march, as the third quarter ended. With Fredricks plunging the line consecutive first downs for four and Spencer adding one more, the Reds pushed 67 yards to the White 3. A bad the ball back on the on the next play Shannon intercepted Spencer’s pass and raced to the White 17. The Whites turned to the airlanes in a desperate attempt to score. Two passes from Simonds to Niven netted 50 yards, putting the pigskin on the Red 33. Simonds flipped one to Bolin for another first down, but on the next play the center put eleven, and yard line. The drive was stopped when Fredricks intercepted one of Simonds’ passes. The game ended soon after with the ball in Red possession, the final score being 18-0 in favor of the Red machine. The Reds chalked up 13 first downs during the fray, the Whites garnering only 8. The Red team was composed of the following: Strandwitz and Jon- Shaw and Woodward, Moore and Johnson, as ends; guards; Holton, center; and Spen- to Hackney, Yoder, ricks, backs. Red subs were Grosse, Ehley, Powell, Washburn, Crane, Pierce, Thurston, and Pharr. The White team lineup is as follows: Smith and Niven, Knoeller Bell, tackles; Marsh and Rainey, guards; Bahnson, center; and Lacy, Shannon, Simonds, and Bolin, backs. White subs were Hipp and Brinson, Faison, Garvey, and ends; monds, DR. P. H. GWYNN (Continued from Page Three) pends of up to $500 were granted each Fellow. The Council Society its members Fellows which meets annually for study and discussion of their current problems. This has tioning in the above capacity unites in a of functioning for some time in the past and has thus organization been aided a large number of worthy individuals. very NOW YOU CAN BREATHE! Clear Cold-Clogged Head This Quick Way Clear that tormenting stuffiness— breathe more freely! Just a drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol—that’s what you need. Feel it go right to work—bring real comfort. This treatment is successful because Va-tro-nol’s active medication—containing several essential relief-giving agents plus ephedrine—expressly designed for nose WAKE UP YOUR NOSE don’t wait for a cold to get a head start. Used at first sniffle or sneeze, Va-tro-nol helps keep a cold from developing. Coast to Coast Chesterfield is today’s Definitely Milder...Cooler-Smoking

3 YEARS AGO Washington & Lee debaters this year made his letter hatter beetle at Davidson team and dime Au varsity football is this year’s Retired Deanna Daughter Plurt rat Greene important debate Davidson coach president of the sophomore class. At Haverford College Soet tay fare ti statl secures Lawrence Lacy member of Kap A social fraternity, hears Glee Club Phirkanrthircopene beta Sigma social fraternity, was recent Ceifert Mitir a member of the freshman football team and is a candidate for the varsity backfield next year. Willis, daughter of Prof. Divpad WH VATSILY The Tit CATHITHISASNIARAIEE Am tourney Tite fens player mannii Tryouts held for 1947 links quartet ent veut tyre eeoupied the ality Gradtivalldieta reel ue epal_soues au. uecipiedd. (Ye bi wi orauntention to Wo: TS erent A Amies, Canaan od DR. W. S. WILSON TALKS theta tlhe pererpee Teta Dirvredscon College. lowly red asl ie i i i seer (Or Present lecture to members of International Relations his A.B. degree, after which he did seminary work and was ordained as a Presbyterian minister. Dr. Wilson's subject was the second in a series leading up to Easter. Next Sunday's lesson will be: “Calvary: Triumph through Sacrifice”, followed by “The Sepulcher: Triumph over Death.” The subject to be presented the Sunday after vacation will be the denouement of the series: “The Continuing Task.”

5 YEARS AGO Debating team victorious on southern tour Dramatists to offer Mystery Junior Dances to be attraction of coming weekend. Dces chosen as varsity cheerleader Davidson ranks third on Southern Conference thick meet. prominent educators from the Carolinas will take part in the session of the Association. Among them are Lydon, President of the University, Dr. James Cl kin, President of Newberry College.Carson To Cover Varsity Founders Day [Continued on Page Six]

William Dick, a hit with the ladies, will be held at the French Club. Sherrard Rice, Sid Crane, and others threw several coats over her. 

Pictured above is Paul Marion of Charlotte, with Miss Alice Murdock of Salisbury during intermission at the Scabbard and Blade dance held last Friday and Saturday, the 9th and 10th, at the Armory in Charlotte. Marion is president of the Pan-Hellenic council, and at the dance, he was the announcer for the Figure. The dance was in honor of the Scabbard and Blade Society.

Donald is in charge of the special music for the programs. 

WHAT IS LIFE?

Recently, the cabinet has been trying to work out plans for unifying the thought and spirit of the chapel programs. Many students have expressed the wish that various themes be traced through a series of services, thus connecting one with the other, giving a clearer interpretation.

Next week, The Davidsonian will appear on the campus on Wednesday instead of Thursday. The reason for the premature appearance is that the spring holidays will begin on Thursday. This will be the first issue put out completely by next year's staff, since the editor was elected in the early part of this week. The junior editors for the coming year will be chosen by the present staff.

Every night, certain signs of spring are evident. Recently, Donovan's niece remarked, "Ah, yes! Spring is here."

WATT, OWENS NAMED [Continued from Page One]

Watt is a member of the Central North Carolina Boys Scouts.

Present Annual Circus In Charlotte

Hazel Brook of New York's new airport knows that Chesterfield satisfies.

DELICIOUS ICE CREAM TO BE HAD IN MOORESVILLE

DRINK A QUART OF MILK A DAY

MOORESVILLE PASTEURIZED MILK IS SAFE

Norton's Barber Shop

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
Davidson, NC
Mooresville, NC

TODAY'S COOLER-SMOKING, BETTER-TASTING CIGARETTE

Flying East or West, North or South, you'll always find Chesterfields a favorite of the airways. You'll never want to try another cigarette when you get to know Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best tobaccos. You can't buy a better cigarette.

BETTER-TASTING ... DEFINITELY MILDER CIGARETTE