Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

CATS FACE SETON HALL; S.P.E.’S LEAD BOWLING

Wildcat Sports By BOB CARTER Tues., Dec. 17, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

We don't like to toot our own horn, but hats off to the FRESHMEN who are spending money. Contact a certain member of the freshman class who is giving Boston College and two touchdowns in the Sugar Bowl game. Can't understand why Davey O’Brien wasn't on the all-pro league team. He was the sensation of the circuit, especially in completing 33 passes in one game against the Washington Redskins. Wonder what happened to the Wildcat football team’s proposed trip to the South Sea islands. What are the St. Louis Cardinals going to do with their ballpark, selling all their players? What member of the Wildcat court squad swears he'll “turn in his uniform” every year and yet is always on hand?

One last word about the Chicago Bears’ amazing outcome of the championship game by pouring the oil on to the tune of 73-0. Most remarkable defensive record we have ever heard of is that of “Buddy” Elrod, Mississippi State's great end. During the past three years, Elrod has held opposing teams to a mere 3 yards they gained in running his end. In the regular season just ended, the defensive halfback playing behind “Buddy” didn’t make a single tackle. And all this against some of the South's finest teams.

Hipp Faces Maxwell

Piminutive Captain Jack Abel extended his best to the Citadel frosh squad. Perhaps we should explain the facts a bit. The straight of the deal is this: 100 men reported, but after opening day, all but the cream of the crop were cut, leaving 50. In their first scrimmage against the varsity, the Pups came out on the long end of a 27-0 score, which ain't bad, as they say back home. Speaking of frosh teams, this year’s cage crew at Duke should be no slouch. Present on the Blue Imp squad are Bob Gantt, Garland Loftis, and Cedric Loftis, members of the Durham High School quintet which last year won national honors.

What a team Tulane would have had in the disastrous season just ended if they had shown a little more Southern hospitality in the fall of 1937. Present on the Wildcat campus and ready to carry the colors of the Green Wave to victory at that time were John Kimbrough and Jim LaLanne. Coach Norman Shepard, starting his fourth year as Director of Physical Education and varsity basketball and baseball mentor, left Saturday with ten players on the annual northern basketball trip. Tonight he takes his Wildcats to Orange, N. J. to meet Seton Hall, one of the strongest fives in the nation this year. Shepard formerly was at Randolph-Macon.

“Jarrin’ Jawn” up and left because Wave authorities wouldn't make his four-year scholarship an eight-year affair, to cover his med school sessions. “Sweet” was dismissed by the coaches as being too light to play college ball. The severest blow of all came when Tom Harmon, THE Tom Harmon, whom his brother, a Tulane graduate, had promised to deliver to the coaches, decided he liked Michigan better. There went a whole season.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.COLORFUL HISTORY football team, just like that of EOE ATO TAA MTG. It is our contention that the Sugar Bowl game this year is superior to the Rose Bowl classic; tickets to the deep south battle have been going like hot cakes, while tickets to the far west fracas have been the slowest in history. Some 45,000 people on the Pacific Coast have been given tickets, with the finest semi-pro court aggregation being North Carolina Hosiery Mills quint of Winston-Salem. Already they have polished off three Big Five teams.

The best team in the Tar Heel state this year should be Carolina, provided certain individuals do not cause dissension. George Glamack, Jimmy Howard, Paul Severin, Bob Rosey, and Hank Feimster form a first five which will be hard to stop. Incidentally, basketball “experts” consider Glamack the “outstanding basketball player in the country,” whatever that may mean.

Latham Latta and Raymond McDaniels were awarded service letters for football. This is really earning the “P” in the hard way and these boys deserve a lot of credit. Nobody seems to realize what the Wildcats are up against when they face Seton Hall tonight. The Setons have won their last 19 games in a row against some of the nation’s finest teams. They are ranked along with George Washington and Long Island University as one of the first ten teams in the country. The Davidson team will be slight underdogs in this game.

PUDGEY PERFORMER First Five Picked

Practices held last week saw Coach Little attempting to find Colonials Powerful. Prep School Stars have been impressive. Friday night they rolled over the Evel Ga team 91-4. In the Frat Standings, the results are as follows:

Won Lost
Pikas 3 0
Betas 2 1
Phi Delts 2 1
K. Sigs 2 2
Phi Gams 1 2
Pi Kapps 1 3
A. E. Q 2 1

Don (“The Frog”) Bell, a bruising basketballer from Bowling Green, Ohio, is one of Coach Shepard's starters this year. Tipping the beams at 240 pounds, Bell holds his own under the hoop and racks up most of his points on follow-up shots. Bell also plays on the Wildcat football team and performs for the track team. Cracked ice will emit glows and flashes of light if cold enough, according to Frances G. Wick of Vassar College.

Hampered by injuries last year, Ed Lucas gets his first real taste of varsity basketball this year. Ed, a junior from Greensboro, is a consistent performer, smooth in his passing and floorwork, and accounts for many 'Cat buckets. “Luke” also twirls for the Davidson diamond forces.