ports. lants

By BOB CARTER

Time has come to bid au revoir and farewell to a fine bunch of linemen who have graced the halls of old Davidson. Before we part, let me say a few words about these men who have so valiantly fought over the past season.

Hank Bahnson, center and tackle—a mere strip of a lad weighing only around 160 pounds when he first walked under the hallowed oaks of Davidson. Hard work bore results, however, and the battle-scarred youth from Winston-Salem now balances the scales at 180. With this physical growth has also come a fighting spirit, which makes Bahnson a savage tackler and fierce blocker. Long will we remember the scrappy play of “Beacon” here at Davidson.

Wildcat Sports Back The ’Cats For All-State

Page Four

THE DAVIDSON'S ALL-OPPONENT TEAMS
(SELECTED BY 21 MEMBERS OF THE WILDCAT SQUAD)

First Team
SEVERIN, Carolina
KIMBALL, Carolina
WINTERSON, Duke
STROUP, State (tie)
RUETT, V. M. I.
CORNWALL, Furman
DARNELL, Duke
DAVIS, Duke
PRITCHARD, V. M. I.
WATTS, State
MUHA, V. M. I.

HONORABLE MENTION: Ends, Centre (2), Caton, State (1); centers, Toothman, Hampden-Sydney (5), Barnett, Duke (1); Cathey, State (2), Czekala, none; RUFFA, Duke; Stokes, Dunkle, Carolina (4), Martin, Furman (4), Proctor, Furman (2), Huckabee, State (1), Higbee, V.M.I. (1), Swiger, Duke (1).

Second Team
APPERSON, Sewanee
WALKER, V. M. I.
SUNTHEIMER, Carolina (tie for 1st)
FAIRCLOTH, Carolina
SIEWERS, Carolina
No other end mentioned
SADOFF, Carolina
HOLMES, Hampden-Sydney
FOSTER, Citadel
(tackles, McDonough, Duke (1), Tipton, V.M.I. (1); guards, backs, Centre (2), Ty)

Jay Bolin, back—understudy to his older brother for two years, Jay won his spurs and blossomed into real stardom this year. Not the kind of stardom that draws the headlines and the delighted squeals of feminine fans, but the kind that people who really know the game appreciate. Jay is a player, as the saying goes. Backing up the line, blocking for others to run, battering through the center of the line are not spectacular tasks, but ones that must be performed. To Jay, because he performed these tasks and performed them well, goes our vote as the backbone of the team of 1940.

Granville Sharpe, back—blossoming into stardom in spring practice his sophomore year, Granny never really had a chance to display his real ability. Plagued by injuries for two seasons, being out almost the entire season this year with a badly bruised leg, Sharpe was prevented from leading the Wildcats as he might have done in good health.

Billy Phar—being the understudy to Jay Bolin is like being a pinch-hitter for Joe DiMaggio, so Billy saw comparatively little action this year. However, he was always there to fill in admirably when called upon to do so, showing that Davidson had more like him.

Bob Balsley, end—understudy to Bahnson, Bob saw very little chance to show his wares, but came through in fine style whenever the chance presented itself. His fine play and spirit will be greatly missed next year.

Kappi Sigs, In Tie For Frat Crown

The Kappa Sigs won from the Pi Kapps in a postponed game by a 6-0 score. This game had been protested and had to be replayed. The Kappa Sigs' second win was from the Betas, by the score of two first downs to none. Rex Lauck played good defense for the winners and was a mainstay as a blocker, while McLean, Davis, and Council played well in the backfield. A pass in the closing minutes of the game from Shelton to Abels gave the Pikas a 8-6 decision over the SPE's. The SPE's score was made on a pass from Daffin to Loy. Knox, Loy, Cobb, and Bivins were mainstays in the line for the losers. In their closing game, the Pi Kapps defeated the Pikas by a lone touchdown pass from Morris to Murray.

SPE’s Win

The SPE’s defeated the SAE's 6-0. Daffin passed to Bivins for the score that came late in the last quarter. Ed Erwin played good defensive ball in the SAE’s line.

Hammering Herb

The Phi Delts continued their winning streak by downing the KA’s 6-0. A pass from Williams accounted for the score. The only remaining game is between the undefeated Phi Delts and the undefeated Kappa Sigs to decide the championship of the intrafraternity football tournament.

‘Cats Start Hard Drills

Duke Parker Out

Matches Near

MOSE PREDICTS

Marquette, Arizona, Navy, Florida (Winners in meet?), Alabama, Mississippi State, Army, Rice, Holy Cross, Columbia, Stanford vs. California, Duquesne, Baylor, Boston College, Duke, Georgia Tech vs. Georgia, Kansas State, Nebraska, Tulane, Texas A&M vs. Texas, Arkansas, Washington vs. Washington State, Miami vs. Oklahoma, Mississippi vs. Santa Clara, Oregon State vs. Oregon, Southern California vs. California at Los Angeles, South Carolina vs. Wake Forest, Southern Methodist vs. Texas Christian, Vanderbilt vs. Tennessee.

(Record So Far: Won 54, Lost 12, Tied 1)

Let MOONEY Solve Your Transportation Problem

Rent A Station Wagon
Mooney Service Station
Davidson, N. C.

Enjoy Your TURKEY DINNER
—AT—
New CAFETERIA
This ThanksgivingHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

One of Furman University's battles to take Palmetto strong but twice clinched the crown in the scrappy State. This created a conference. Cavaliers Fall Blue Pittsburgh in a clash where the state to the not for the first time in several years have national is Charlotte will be the site. Wake Forest-South Purkey-Day some title at stake. One of the North Carolina classics where a Baptists' victory would advance them from sixth place to third place in the conference race.

NOW thru SATURDAY
RAY MILLAND in “ARISE, MY LOVE”
Starts Mon., Dec. 2nd.
Kay KYSER AND HIS BAND in “You'll Find Out”
CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte - North Carolina

Davidson's varsity continued their practice for the fast break, and they are getting in the groove, but are patiently waiting for the football players. Although these boys are expected to help the team a great deal, they are having a hard time getting past the basket. Their first game schedule is incomplete. Shepard scheduled by George Wet as he breaks behind the Luca Yard. Places are still wide open. Spirit has been high this season.

DAVIDSONIAN Wildcats To Tackle Citadel Saturday In Season’s Final Game
Thurs., Nov. 28, 1940
Bahnson, Niven, Bolin, Crutchfield, Jonas, Pharr, and Balsley Play Last Game; Leg Injury May Keep Johnson Out; Gold Leads Cadets
By JIM CHAPMAN

Little Tutors Kit Courtmen
Crowell Little was met by approximately thirty freshmen for the first practice for the freshman’s basketball team. During the first few sessions, most of the time has been taken by fundamental drills. Their first practice involved playing against each other, but in order to get a smooth working team, much work will have to be accomplished. Thus far, practice has consisted mostly of passing and dribbling. Some work has been done on crip shots and foul shooting.

Boasting a fine record so far this season, the Wildcats will encounter the Citadel’s Light Brigade in Wilmington on Saturday. By comparative scores, the teams are about even, with the exception of the State game in which the Bulldogs battled the Wolfpack on even terms.

Line Tough
The Bulldogs have a well-balanced line that averages around 185 pounds. Eddie Lockwood, 165 pounds, is at one of the flank posts, while Doug Kierstead, 185 pounds, does a superb job on the other end. Their two tackle posts are ably filled with the 200-pounders, Wolf and Connally. These boys always play tough. The running guard is Bel, who weighs 190 pounds but pulls out of the line to run interference with speed. At the other guard is Dave Kennedy, who tips the scales at 195 pounds. He has sparked the line stands for the Bulldogs this year.

Overman Ace
Overman has been playing the center position for the Bulldogs for one year. He is one of the few veterans on the squad. Alternating with Overman during the past season has been Tommy Duval, who along with Overman weighs about 190 pounds.

Sparking the running attack of the Cadets is Sophomore Marty Gold from Palm Beach, Florida. This 160-pound speedster starred on all fronts against Sewanee last Saturday. Being a triple-threat, he will bear watching in the contest Saturday. Gold is an excellent runner and passer as well as a fair kicker.

Foster Powerful
Hank Foster, along with Joe Balduc, handles all of the Light Brigade's power plays. These two backs had a good day also against the Tigers last Saturday. They set up Citadel’s second and winning touchdown. Dukes and Newell in the Bulldog backfield have been playing well. Newell finishes out the wingback position and Dukes has been calling signals from the blocking back spot.

Bob Johnson, one of Davidson's senior ends, may be out due to a leg injury.

STUDENT STORE
DICK ARNOLD — Managers — SHORTY PARRISH