Page Two THE Davidsonian Thurs. Nov. 7, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Weekend Travel Shoots Accident Rate Skyward

When the students felt that the sponsors knew what they were doing when they invited disaster, they set about to, and did rather successfully make the occasion a real “mock” rally. The whole thing was an unfortunate incident, and while it cannot be entirely overlooked, it can and should be partially excused on the grounds of mistaken ideas. Another rally four years hence will be something carried out in a more serious tone, and with it clearly understood beforehand by everyone, which is the duty of both Phi and Ku. And no irreparable damage has been done once we get the motive clearly before us, and so long as this motive was not “wicked.”

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy, $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

DAILY DISTRIBUTION OF ACCIDENTS
BY BILL LEMMON

On the highways, Sunday is the most dangerous day of the week and the hours from 6 until midnight are the most perilous hours of each day. These conclusions are drawn from an analysis of America’s highway accident record for 1939. Next to Sunday, Saturday is the most hazardous day of the week to venture out on the highways. Fewer accidents happen on Tuesday and Wednesday. An unexplained fact revealed by the figures is that although there are more persons killed on Sundays, there are more injuries on Saturdays. 

HOURLY DISTRIBUTION OF ACCIDENTS

More persons are killed in traffic between seven and eight o’clock in the evening than at any other hour of the day. The high point for injuries is between four and six o’clock in the afternoon, indicating that dusk, darkness, and fatigue are strong contributing factors in bringing the accident curve to its peak toward the close of the day.

Roosevelt or Willkie?

By now the presidential election of 1940 is over; the shouting, cussing, and discussing have died down for four more years. With the politics jumping all over the country it’s natural that they should do the same here and that is what happened when some of the Pan-Hellenic boys organized, with the help of their dates, a communist party. Sharpe, Vereen, and Taylor led the gathering on Fri. with McCall, Loftin had a date for a pending dance but saw in the paper Sun. that she is married. By the way, she happened to be his favorite. 

This is being written early Tuesday morning and only a few hours before the polls are opened for the voters to demonstrate their preference. In the last few weeks of the campaign the outspoken criticism of the Roosevelt regime by his Republican opponent died down somewhat, and the significant issue of the election of 1940 turned on the idea of a third term for a United States president. It seems strange indeed that at this critical point in our history the political turmoil should revolve around a minor issue. But on second thought, perhaps it isn’t so strange. The country is united, almost one hundred percent in the belief that we should surround ourselves with a ring of steel to prevent aggression. B.D. Roosevelt’s domestic policies, criticized by many, have been overshadowed by his invulnerable stand for national defense and his emphatic “no” to the dictators. With the main emphasis on foreign policy, Willkie finally realized that stabs in this direction would do him more harm than good, and brought into the limelight the idea that no President in the one hundred fifty year history of our land has dared to ask for more than eight years at the helm of the government. Both candidates advocate non-appeasement policies with the rulers of Europe, and the vote Tuesday showed primarily whether or not the people still cling to the precedent set by George Washington. We fail to see why any person should surround themselves with anything less than the best.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Tom Chubb, Assistant Editor
Joe Liles, Associate Editor
Turk McDonald, Associate Editor
Watson, Associate Editor
Dick Cole, Managing Editor
Hackwell Darby, Managing Editor
George Dew, Managing Editor
Jim Clipp, Managing Editor
Nob Carter, Myers Editor
David Vosburgh, Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Pink, Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly, Assistant Business Manager
Ray McDaniels, Assistant Business Manager
Charles Watt, Circulation Manager
John Urchton, Collection Manager
Arthur Freese, Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Tuesday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.Limited soon because of his intention for his autograph. After the wait, Monroe Bush blew in with the rally. I would want the job both fought so hard for. Rust then entered in the horses, returning with Goodman. Game on Saturday. Ficklen is in Statesville and out again Sunday.

Certainly, in our opinion, the seventy-five grand annual may be a letdown. The latest, maybe the fastest, looking for the man who sold us after a mysterious disappearance. The facts of the case appear to be for a white "Cocoanut Grove" car for $8, with the rest on time for the weekend. This brings much discredit upon the heads of all. Salary is enough for the leader of our reverse. "Scramble Two" makes those participants, who engaged in hurling various and sundry missiles, at the speakers. Fate, one man has now been elected, and it is up to everyone to see that he gets the full cooperation in his efforts. Against really smooth, the band gives Dan Grissom a dash. He has a tendency to acquire brown stains. This had been done with mischievous intent, not with malice aforethought. The world of the future will be very noticeable in "Five O'clock Whistle" and "Song of the Wanderer."

With the staff, Tom Cauble, we believe the whole thing was a mistake, possibly inexcusable. Nevertheless, it should be somewhat discounted as all the virtue has been cataloged. Indisputable evidence of the low state of the Davidson tradition for generations. When links are left on Chambers steps, when business such as the student store can be run on trust, the honor system has been proved. Nobody's Sweetheart, Dennis Laneis, listed by having one’s name affixed to a certain metal scroll. This process, a man may be academically listed for a number of reasons. We may habitually check campus on the preceding day. 

The sponsoring literary societies openly in sound. The workability of the honor system should be sanctioned along with other elements in the tradition. Even with punishments for such activities, the student body’s manners, through rumor and talk, backed-up. The honor system in a college such as Davidson should be a mutual agreement between faculty and students. On the part of the students, honesty shall be enforced barring none from its restrictions. On the part of the faculty, leeway shall be given to students as a result of the trust. 

The psychology of the honor system is that a student trusted will act more trustworthily than one whose every move is watched by the professor. Let’s maintain the honor system, students and faculty! Honestly, it’s the best policy. 

Tony Darby, Princeton University’s freshman class of 635, is the second largest in its history. Dean Ernst Bessey of the graduate school at Michigan State College has returned from Hawaii with 20 species of fungi. 

Another distinguished offense is that of asking someone else’s Homecoming date for the Midwinters. This is considered an especially heinous crime, and it is generally conceded that it is impossible to return to favor after having once been party to such an act. Anyone preparing a directory of the various abodes of the young ladies on a dance weekend with an eye to late dates is also liable to cause for entering a person’s name on the invisible roll. Again, all stags lingering back at social functions are listed in advance and are later exonerated when reports come in, insofar as each individual case merits vindication. 

Finally, we must consider the question: How may one return to favor after having once been listed? Generally speaking, long periods of penance and sackcloth are required along with certain specific redress. However, a return to favor has been gained by several days of concentrated study store sessions in which public favor is sufficiently reacquired to admit one back to sanctuary.