Be Wont apart ae ee By BOB CARTER Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Dec. 5, 1940 CAT CaGhhe oe eee as : SON inte Davidson grid season had ended the cares MS GRIORS AMI || kl Dad Bed ak adel Cats Defeat Citadel d ie has co to tak look at this ve . urt pros rE | s T | é i i aoe os ae I a Cc u ty ‘ O 5 Dec. 14—Basketball—Varsity, arate f ae ay | pects ° Dec. 16—Basketball—Varsity, George Washington. Here. | To be perfectly frank, the outlook is extremely gloomy. M . ff 1 : DEE. 17-0Baabathall-.Varaity, Seinen Hall. There. n eason’ S Coach Norman Shepard, whistling in the dark, says “Davidson will have a good basketball team this year.” The 2 cater eatmniatenit Pereae eevee “ * . ’ ‘Jan. asketball—Varsity, Duke. inston- em. loss of “Footsy” Cowan, main offensive cree id haan Holt Barnwell and Coach Jan. 9—Basketball—Frosh, High Point. There. ia al C rl id Strug gle son’s quintet, along with Jim Hogg, will be EY Whittle Arrange Va- ‘Jan. 11—Basketball—Varsity, N. C. State, Raleigh. | | jig weakness appears to be la any really high Jan. 11—Basketball—Fresh, Salisbury. There. | he big wea | ried Program rers. \ Fah the éxception of Hog By | iNeli scorer Wwe mean SEV ERA DER *Jan. 11—Wrestling—Varsity, Carolina. There. — scorers, ve NU RRTTSG: Heri tae UP PATNI STIG TI EST HIERCCLL” CE TTTEL LC D In Hise RANE Gavin TO ERTRTTE Jan. 11—Wrestling—Frosh, Carolina. There’ Bahnson, Balsley, ouRutany | a man, who in I ua a eines ae ni Iut Jties, the faculty will descend from |], es iWisitiine tie YONG Solace Haliahe | Bolin, Niven, Jonas, Crutch- ( at ( agers tune of » OF £U70IN 1 gan \ y > i ' " 3 a Pm OF . . liahle to break louse « } rit i tany time the intellectual atmosphere this aft *Jan. 14—Basketball—Varsity, South Carolina. There. | pyre and edt End ae aie ; mae ernoon When thes will battle the “Jan. 28—Basketball—Varsity,, Furman. There. | areers; redericks Scores epkean Jim ieee is the ‘anly man on ante entire squad t i t ~ | who seems to have a position on the first team cinched. [seniors 1 various” ‘sports of the rs 3 Behnke che Seite Sere: | Three Touchdowns eet sf nion Running with Hogg in practice so far as the starting five Senior Faculty Day exercises. *Jan. 30—Basketball—Varsity, Citadel. Here. Poses Site heerrrteectereeteerereriny iy four naviseciis CNESITS DaSketball hove been Tommy Yarborough, diminutive junior; Jack Att relrestronpearnrschoot= ‘Feb. 1—Basketball—Varsity, V.P.1. Winston-Salem. ' ies or : cies Masters as Dt rontis Johnston, | = pes her | years came to a close as the Cats] cquad began. hard practice early h “Bob McLeod, rangy junior, and Edo Jimast: is Dr. Frontis Johnston, | Feb. 1—Basketball—Frosh, Pfeiffer. There. oir Lene tui Ole Gas issed winni lett last Prot. Kimbrough, Dr. Knight, Coach | “Feb. 1—Wrestling—Varsity, V.P.1. Here. dawned “Citadel's Light Brigade by] this week for their tough schedule Lucas, tall ‘lad who barely missed winning a letter las ‘Actrier! sas M ( \ fd D Feb. 1—Wrestling—Frosh, V.P.1. Here. the seore of 20 to 6 last Saturday [which> will open with Union Théo year, f th eh pe 7” ; the el Feb, 4—Basketball—Frosh, Carolina. There. in Wilntington’ before,,a capacity |logical-Seminary team Cynitat Paiare (eli fobby Williams. - Marv Sink, ison will invade the -local} "Feb. 4— Basketball—Varsity( Carolina. bade i leeatra nat oeegy a nets . rat seas ee : 2 It and Bat Walker ‘oach Holt Feb. 5S—Basketball—Frosh, Chattanooga Hig ere. fies pehte zig cates ye squad was brought up to tual J 1 7 feniee s h Feb. 6—Basketball—Varsity, College of Charleston. Here. | Davidson's first, seore Was setup] strength Monday whem Don Bell, The sq \ tre nN : he oar tht followed by [| * Feb. 7—Wrestling-——Frosh, Barium Springs. There. }when Baldue kicked out of bounds George \larel Bill. Grosse and DG Reece TAIT Frederick George Marsh and Bil Phis ove Wik her tollowed! by | "Feb. 8—Basketball--Varsity, N. C. State, Raleigh. Vorchis ewn-d3 yard-line, After gaine|fahnny lredericks cast a feet iielt Gros Ping pons matches in the various | Feb. 10—Basketball—Frosh, High Point (tentative). |. etter te aaa ean eM Hate err Rete : : | Qi ite billiards in] Feb. 11—Basketball—Varsity, Wofford. Here. {Ms « Nrst down on running, plays.| football toys and took up theit ry | HM mainary : : auteaat ‘ irae Gee one er ; Wil tl Ve eatin tacieniat loknston, | Feb. 12—Basketball—Frosh, Belmont High. There. ; Spencer, threw i 23-yard pass to] basketball uniforms ft ) Aa ate Pe ae es ae : oe MacGavock and ( h Whittle will} Feb. 14—Basketball-——Varsity, College of Charleston, There. Frank Niven who gan to the nine Leading the Wildeats in the early iiaineleet MacGavock a on uittle wi Feb. 14—Basketball—Frosh, Oak Ridge. There. Wart ripOetinc: lave later peddle WEAGLIR Once WAT HGCiplh ; represent thee faculty paddlemen ‘Feb. 15—Basketball—Varsity, The Citadel. There. : Bs : i eas A season practice uh arborough, CHATTER om Profs. Kimbrough, Cumming, Law ‘Feb. 15—Wrestling—Varsity, W. & L. There. ericks plunged over for othe initial Hogg, lucas, Williams, Meleod, : HooTeN LOGIT eat ohe Feb, 17—Basketball—Frosh, Oak Ridge. Here. core of the game Bell, Marsh, Sink and Loy’ from eports from arolina_ot the freshnian quid aut The : pat M fh re a \ : ek Feb. 18—Basketball—Varsity, eta Bib 6 Bahnson Intercepts last year’s cagers, augmented by Citadel bndecitn : ne Pavey Sree SV ers ea paad ihe Bulldogs. mene ara ee Tania met z aan OR sCroon Pieioe tae oe The second quarter was a reall Belk, Sc hmidt, Grosse, : Walker, +4 ly Neat e proot eS } i > ‘“ syed mi : Faculty gollers President Lingle, Feb, 22—Basketball—Varsity, North Carolina. Winston-Salem. rattle, but the Davidson eleven took] Poole, Wayman, and. ‘Fredericks t th pud gana r t we pre C Rat Peitehard, Feb. 22—Wrestling—Frosh, Barium Springs. Here advantage of a break as husky] from last year’s freshman team the | an “Rats ty Clenaan by the R 0 el and rote ht SWRI Ae Nk Here. | Hank Bahnson intercepted one of} This year’s basketball team has Iv score t all these dads should suddenly Hive Mulehke Heo art] Macch (awenllinecveeds Gallaudet. There. Citadel's forward passes and plowed] been showing much speed and ac- be attracte Ttadel. ure ¢ Ice I urse, pure : ase PrP ea cents salva: aA | *March 3—Wrestling—Varsity, Maryland. There. to the 21. Sharpe then threw two]curate handling of the ball in early idence i n't sce the Duke- Pitt SRS toe Fey ae sot | Eegearat oa bey seein Teanao | “Southern Conference Games. passes,sone to Jonas which was}season practice and is expected to e wl lid. the Devils ere Se oa in. Three times’ Pitt {°° eran PTT Tea good for 13 yards and the other to] have an / all-around faster team hy e into the-&eh tor pav dirt, but ever ume It NR i ton matehe vill bef hit, Hackney for eight more. Fredericks | than last: year. i slow m ! Bei tee ran him down from behind. Doesn't 7 Ra etre \ Ren ] Ca G again crossed the double stripe First G. ARS : ea + PJohnstan chenck WacGavock a a tl age : sae ! ane ame k Vike ‘Pittsburgh’ s ite emphasts AS yriai ts " rking ut NS cat Ee aNEAN hi aie i Os 1 a gel S on nue The -Citadel-eameout-on the field Opening the basketball schedule Just can’t hel it il team Wn a Rel 4 to at the beginning of the second half | will be a game tomorrow night with 1 1 nent hy “Wake Forest theials that avidson l O ¥ 1 l determined to score. Iy IL plavs|a strong team from. the Union t AAEM In-anything.” Li ttle Da ve n ein amenta Ss they reached pay dirt. Lockwood Vheological Seminary, which is*com- vay i WM 1 ne ran an end-around for 13 yards and] posed of former college stars. Stagt- ose, JOstie tame, finished uy Gold aided in the drive with his Ing at torwards for the Seminary te, missing 7 ae 16 Bune t a ring ! ops Backs Continfiation of the mechanic 7 Final Standing powerful line bucks. Newell was! will be Taylor Reveley, who played 70 wins, 1 losses : Mens Ms modest so drills begun during the tirst week's the man-who hammered through] for three years at Hampden-Syd- saver retttses to have lis identity revealed, even now oo NI \} | 8} 1 Due to-the-inability-of-the two the line for the last six yards and * antl Lye H her Hamp- i ; ; an jraiomuntar( edhe tercebe marae ithough Citadel’s Light si practice was, again. stressed by ll téams to agree upon a date to c last s ar F ney, and Ivan Hoy, another Hamp thinks that some explanation is eas to why the chiampio vters made 13 first. downs to the Wild. ¢ x roe e 1 the gam d to the ineligi- at SOUT on Page Six) C ntinued on Page Six) - * 7) : oac owell Little in freshma play game, an & ET ier anion Bui Pt Aap Cah Bo at touch football game be Sel n the an nies and the Phi cats’ V1, Davidson eame through i : ; Or : x, = aoe pully of eeverel ale ne prayers . a Delts was ney | SUNG TIRETNOON WOME TING BING WHS TarrHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Due to the start of basketball practice, no regular schedule was followed. The referee showed up, but no players were present. The Kappa Sig-Phi Delt game was called off, and it was decided that the two teams should reschedule the game at a later date suitable to both teams. Dave Spencer carried the ball for the Kappa Sigs, who were handling the holders of the interfraternity football championship. The Phi Gams, the KA’s, and the SPE’s were tied for seventh, and the Pi Kapps were ninth. 

Coach Little is favorably impressed with the talent shown by his charges in the shooting and passing exercises. Real scrimmage, which began last Tuesday, is expected to give a better line on the material. The interfraternity football tournament ended in a deadlock between the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts, both of whom agreed to call the game off due to many conflicting circumstances. 

The Wildcats are preparing for the Sugar Bowl battle on New Year’s Day. The Wildcats’ backs averaged about 5 yards each time they carried the ball. Individual stars are hard to select due to limited workouts, but Williams, Bruce, McWilliams, Mitchener, and Tolleson seem likely to see service. 

The interfraternity bowling tournament got underway this week with the Kappa Sigs defeating the Pikas by a scant seven pins. The Sigma team, composed of Scott and Hilf Cooper, Land, Means, and Johnson, compiled 976 points, while the Pika team, composed of McDonald, Shelton, Browning, Jones, and Brinson, racked up 969 points. 

Basketball starts Monday. The scheduled Beta versus SAE game was postponed. Scoring in bowling this year will be taken from the aggregate of two rounds bowled by all five members of the team. The bowling tournament will continue along with the class basketball tournament. According to Coach Whittle, class basketball will start the last of this week or the first of next week. All of those who wish to participate in these games should see their class sports manager.

