‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1940 Number 9.

Davidson Debaters Will Stage Tryouts For Speech Tourney

4 Speakers Will Compete for Entries in Dixie Forensic Tournament

MANY EVENTS OFFERED

Winners Monday Will Speak At Winthrop Meet

Not having participated since 1937, Davidson College will again be represented in the Dixie Forensic Tournament December 5-7, at Winthrop College. Tryouts will be held next Monday evening in the Social Center to choose the college's entrants for the nine events. The judges for these tryouts, according to Bill Loftin, president of the Forensic Council, will be Professors Johnston, Beaty, Cumming, and These professors form the Faculty Committee on Debates and Oratorical Contests.

Events Listed

The events include debating, direct-clash debating, problem solving, oratory, extemporaneous speaking, impromptu speaking, radio announcing, situation oratory, and after-dinner addresses. Any student interested in the tournament should contact Bill Loftin.

Debate Question

Loftin stated that “this contest would have no bearing on the selection of the varsity debating team next spring, except as a matter of experience.” However, he added that “the same debate question will be used for both tryouts,” the question being "Resolved, that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” The Dixie Forensic Tournament is one of the most outstanding intercollegiate tournaments of its kind. Last year 32 colleges and universities participated.

Plan Outlined

Masquer Play To Illustrate “Margin for Error” Serves as Model for Talks

Dance Tickets

Sale of tickets for the Mid-Winter Dances will be handled again this year on the installment plan. Two dollars in November, two in December, and two in January, paid to a Pan-Hellenic representative will reserve a ticket for the dances. The balance, if there should be any, is to be paid in February. Further information concerning this plan may be gotten from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

First Concert In New Series Stars McRae

Mr. Brengel, director of dramatics, continued his series of lectures last Monday evening in Chambers auditorium. He interrupted the series for a period of two weeks in order to organize the cast and to begin practice for the coming play, “Margin for Error.” Mr. Brengel will use the cast of the play for demonstration purposes in his lectures, which will be held from 7:30 to 8:30 every Monday evening. Two one-and-a-half hour lectures were given previous to the beginning of play practice.

The dramatic director will discuss the following in his coming lectures: “Dramatic Interpretation,” “Stage Organization,” and “The Actor.” The Red and Black Masquers urge all students who signed up for the lectures to continue attending. Any who did not sign up are welcome.

A definite date has not been set for the production of “Margin for Error,” but the dramatic group is planning to present the play in December.

Supported By YMCA

Ed Watson, president of the Davidson YMCA, has general supervision over all activities of the Association, which in this issue announces the annual Christmas Gift Fund. The gift fund is one of the major projects of the ‘Y’, of which every student is a member.

Blazer Named This Week As Christmas Gift Fund For 1940

Voted To Sponsor Missionary For Service In War-Torn China

Seniors Hold Two Functions in December

Two Functions to Be Held This Year, One in Fall And One in Spring

Deputations

Shaw Smith and John MacKinnon motored to Anderson, S. C., last Sunday, where they presented a program for the young people of the First Presbyterian Church. A large crowd attended the program which was in the form of a supper forum. Shaw Smith gave a talk on “The Place of Young People in the World Today.” While in Anderson, the Davidson boys were entertained in the home of Rev. James Appleby, former ‘Y’ Secretary at Davidson and now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church.

World Situation Challenges, Says Ed Watson

At a recent meeting of the senior class, it was decided that in addition to the Senior Faculty Day observed each spring, this year a fall Senior Faculty Day will be held in conjunction with the annual fall smoker. The main reason for the inauguration of this new plan is that in past years seniors regretted the fact that they didn't become better acquainted with the members of the faculty earlier in the year.

The ‘Y’ Cabinet has set the 1940 goal at $1000, the amount required to finance a new missionary. In consultation with the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions in Nashville, Tenn., they have selected John Snell, an outstanding graduate of Vanderbilt and Harvard universities, who is going to China to teach in Hangchow Christian College. Snell, who will arrive in New York this week from Venezuela, where he has been engaged in a government engineering project, will visit the campus in the near future to address and become acquainted with the student body.

The YMCA sponsors a drive each Christmas for a gift fund to help some worthy cause. According to Ed Watson, president, world conditions have played an important part in this year's selection of a project. Missionaries are ambassadors of their own country as well as Christianity, and the success with which they do their work is illustrated by the recent expulsion of missionaries from all Japanese territory.

To Shanghai

Davidson's YMCA has voted to give the annual Christmas gift fund to sponsoring a young missionary to Shanghai, China, to teach at Hangchow Christian College located in the international settlement there.

Five Students Attend Meeting Of All Frats

Pan-Hellenic Council Men to Visit New York

Representing Davidson's Pan-Hellenic Council at the National Interfraternity Conference in New York City Friday and Saturday will be Hector Maclean, Gene McKee, Green Kass, McIlwee, Scott Cramer, and Winston Taylor.

Seniors Vote

Members of the senior class have voted upon the material for their blazers, but as this issue goes to press the result of this balloting is not known. The voting took place at the Student Store where the various samples were displayed. The blazers will be three-button, single-breasted coats, with a vent on the back. The color, which has not yet been chosen, will be either tan or brown. The price is not yet known, as it depends entirely on the material which is used in the blazer.

Wearing of the blazers has become a tradition among the seniors at Davidson College. The distinctive blazer immediately singles out the senior from the rest of the student body and reflects the school that the wearer is a senior.

Cercle Francais Presents French Drama

Cercle Francais, the Davidson College French Club, presented a play last night in the auditorium of Converse College in Spartanburg, S. C. The play, “Les Deux Anges,” was written by Lawson Withers, a Davidson College senior. The play is set in the time of the War Between the States.

Five Students Attend Meeting Of All Frats

Pan-Hellenic Council Men to Visit New York

Representing Davidson's Pan-Hellenic Council at the National Interfraternity Conference in New York City Friday and Saturday will be Hector Maclean, Gene McKee, Green Kass, McIlwee, Scott Cramer, and Winston Taylor.

Seniors Vote

Members of the senior class have voted upon the material for their blazers, but as this issue goes to press the result of this balloting is not known. The voting took place at the Student Store where the various samples were displayed. The blazers will be three-button, single-breasted coats, with a vent on the back. The color, which has not yet been chosen, will be either tan or brown. The price is not yet known, as it depends entirely on the material which is used in the blazer.

Wearing of the blazers has become a tradition among the seniors at Davidson College. The distinctive blazer immediately singles out the senior from the rest of the student body and reflects the school that the wearer is a senior.

Cercle Francais Presents French Drama

Cercle Francais, the Davidson College French Club, presented a play last night in the auditorium of Converse College in Spartanburg, S. C. The play, “Les Deux Anges,” was written by Lawson Withers, a Davidson College senior. The play is set in the time of the War Between the States.SEG0Q co expected: October arse ~ for 1940, Michigan Lith: Symphony on Feb. With events centering about tin | ln “Users with HC girls etc. present | Jipue tue es enosseress tl . a 10 r . <7 i ahead tse _ oa rie et. Fh eaane a Stee i o Bishop John Kenneth Pfohl-ist rary Ss-the Siberian Singers—ony Commodore Hotel. the conference ~ anne uu ; Nee i” a mg the 7p arse Claes OTT ae tablish im ae the dutlege._tor . . . fe _ Lisl Py eee a eee re. i a “ — Tachi, - sores TARP REESE . ¥ qer “ere. ft yo - scheduled to: speak on next Sune March” i: Dorothy Reitchel and! provera includes speeches HOM ee le ww a “h The securing of the plans ge on ge SHU presented one seat in ry more “than, Miter tes ihe wo . . av be 7 oe douuays, ’ ~ ¢ lap . 4 ‘amore —Oe ~ . . day. Bishop Pfohl was ordained Edith Stemmetz. two pianists, on Franklin. Do Roosevelt, Wendell bo, 1h . wen yer tne oungays branch-hotel An English father ng hard to the condensation of war Mission ‘ B ea wu qscinne. sup ho ; s—ordain ‘ rankin ¢ ; ! i oe : ! sh tu asi we Soorae Missions Bes " 4 e. as a minister of the Moravian| March 24, and Norman Cordon.) Witthic and 1 G.sBalfour, promi he prices of the materials, SOT one to Faunce to find his daughter | ~ Ln Pee ade BeSISEAHEE OF he por Church in 4901 and in 1931 became; bass baritone, on May 5. — nent fraternity jeweler and presi |! Sane ae AY Ae, TAM Te whe has fallen am fave with a | CSTE Weert savage and sentir o . . wt . io : . tram SI250 wu. S18 verre VOT J | : iy Ure ima U ante rs a bishop of that church, He lives! As previously announced. “cuir dent or the conference. « sunt inn i. . a 7 ‘ ed " Frenchman and has run away with Nei nn ie Stema Upsilon ty Mat . . . . . . . . a . Si Wes ere SHON Dee W . . u VAL s 7 : aves a "i in Winston-Salem and is -the fa-| dents tickets for the entire. series The purpose of the conference curious Nah vine ‘ - Lhe Tin. At the hotel is an interpreter LS ns " euenns travesty ws Student's Art ther of James Christian Pfohl, of Lare $2.00, other persons’. $3:00-— ‘Ta-assemble college dance commit DS EE Canepa yes aT UST dig camel spewka word oi Fath Mr The Tat Aiaak a of acr plan eye Davidson. . Fittle § 1 f ive th m thie in Charlotte “Phis amber ish. ‘The. fat] , “Al inot m let the suctets wathout sa leg (7 , , eCs Sur GES v wiv v aM Oppror shy, c lather, wihig anaal aK . . _ Thipredlichigan attle Symphony | ‘ ae nl Qn pesssbulutes vs eco bv dacleel a a _ MOS andonn _ 2 Rew Mp Jamas Acyones, pastor and the Siberian Singers: Nate ape TL TH TTA OFC NES AS Tete wntikah . hal Pree aves HSL Ute The, ; . of the Myers Park Presbyterian | peared at Davidson before. “bur te | Pictures on another page of the a 1 ™ The ‘ - " * HORE wrerpreter who. at course, mixes: Albert Winn provided the best trust Church of Charlotte, will speak one; " pe a samples, bh final choice will] - {Continued Pea ori ments for the meeting. - — A yen ariatte, spe: Cyother Tour artists are making ter j paper are three or the representatives from ‘Davidson: Hector Mac cin auttce WoO \ ‘ y " A 2 . . - . : . co, e640, ke Yoehanie ¢ graduated from Davidson in- 1931) Mr. Cordon is the first Metrapoli- Lean. president of the council: hia ee Pee RS - me Hu d, Hi Hort d Norther to Di . . . afer os “Cdtroth 1 “Oy bine , nan . “and has also graduated from Union fian star to appear at Davidson Rosy McElwee ant Gene Vereen | ha meee Pate ol umic isst ne lot OX ona oven cross to ns . Theological Seminary. Wer which, rly Retnluirdy Casey bane, . play Works.in..Remed:.,, he studied abroad. He has already: given the designer talk during their Orientation Services. i The Christmas program will be a musical, as usual. Christmas .music. will. be furnished by the orchestra: and glee club with the aid of guest musicians, a Watts | Speaks “AL Convention Dr. George 0}. Watts. of the Davidson College faculty, gave a lecture on Whittier’s “The Vandois | Teacher” at the thirteenth annual meeting of the South Atlantic Mod- ithe By BILL LYMAN Since the arrival from the fall semester in September, students have watched with Davidson ser keen tie gradual erecting in- terest of the library and science building near the south end of Chambers Building. Though the two buildings are still in their comparatively elementary stages, considerable progress has been noted from gap PERM S Own YP Perverer en es even he Senr—Fanmimee _ Arsocianian, AWOTYe seen in prembér ot -mecting was held’ at” the University of North Carolina in’ Chapel Hill on November 29-30, 1940 Dr. Watts. professor of. French. represented - the ~modern languages. department of the Davidson faculty The meet was attended by representatives of the faculties of many Southern colleges and universities, numbering among them professors | of the five modern languages, ing: | _lish,_French, “Italian. German and, Spanish. Highlights of the ‘two-day convention were a luncheon and banquet on Friday, and departmental meetings both days. , varied ‘basement toe . . The construction material he two buildings . ace ong con Vimetel ar the same time in order save both time ‘And money. The new library, next to the present Martin Chemical Laboratory, first, Its foundation, structure were. recently ie Was and i completed. and the construction material used for them were taken over the Science Building to be used for the same purposes. for the first floor and first-floor pillars were removed yesterday, since .the concrete that had Been poured in their. frameworks has hardened sufficiently. Buildings Being Built, In Economical. Method Shi. Heese for Bates oo Conquers Chilly Chills eled Art Center__ Speaker May When the average wil hese <q ; Ne fony wait dd opening a slung at ine sinew lew ness | pre ose in “ me Dit — Das itso Sade Art Callers 3S Be. _ Tr | itchett his. tonsilsin 4g yaw crutelli ong ye vetl, Leedp a “me a vhs Mendig December 2 aul ° reaches Troe and Trns mm Ve rae devia” building Oty fhe Cattbepetas uae thread Tees art Wels _ = oe SEES ans ; so : ane . , alist day. the third send) fourtin ates ass : : Captain Norton ty par herr, diater, and rates hegeptls Laek sto with Che execptien en the sotre ts cimctracerh pba. hy Gee Wor encienuby. As soc aw thes Relence i ohm bie Here atthe te in| shee ps chee scldamapasises fling bel heated: wath steamt a TT a wee ) Finding foundation and basement Stores ot Viren, bas been mvt of the Vinterestinge story Jpck clits comral phat Peas tenn hee at Theos een hettem oa ine _pstractinre are ready. these tinst-door ed ta speakoaroa. bo Cit ban fthe sudden gust lon steam thar acter beer rete the plentom ineh mre, _ cure a : “ cr Bar construction materials wall be used Paaer whieh will be ded \WWeduescdiey |e home a tine warts bis ie, poor Sree Vins gots [ged tu th —_ an T ule - ‘ Te er to oy het mebt. December 1 Ther man who makes i aineces ides inal Maddie. ac ded “Ty = v ue wren = twee bindings wall be done on this Capt Pritchett vias. until five pany lor reste arm nicer. ora ude | wath valves, to Se: down Ue ue ™ _ ued re Hisplay u simultaneous piling. wher in when wf years age, tue threctur of physical [ec picks to bed with them js AN] yiressure ~ ~ { wank * lets wall bec ieses cerlun part of the library has been education afd head track coach at} employee al whe Tllege whe nie} An interesting Sutras BY USC sree de Shon anid a trang feet completed, pe sane sane” construction | Davidson. ble is a’ graduate of the} the crack-oi days sill an insignis: | with die buildings or the: fraternity vont n College. — niatcrials.y will be used for, that University. of Tennessee, and wasyleant pope plods dis frost bitten wav | court, Vhe Hated condemnation D4 Phe Works presented in this co: ve er ee ee een er ST a aa iinineiae hain fea uit Spt bth a : The cdinee’s will be exactly dike: inf wa Chere pened bat Cav tai an the back campus. 2 aoe Pty chek te perce petit Pee ps Nuss padtibits: and) ies basic structure and exterior, though | Pritchett will accept the invitation,| Into the hungry maw of this bis] bin whe Fraternity cone] i dowe: wl tom and John Nor 7 ther “interior setup will, naturally Mrésitlemt Hoe said mgt monster, this little proceeding fj thar die, beeen plant. soa «lal me Veit rk aychott Horton and 7 ine quite different. ‘The second floor “tesa {f# Une meeting of the * spy factor of snoring shanberers pours | pump ha tu be installed ta return # theres. sel, be tramed and of the library is now being com-] Club on Monday night was taken} day's portion of Me 1863 tons] the. cand aaa TT the boilers, Teherl te the ten’ chosen from: jtie pleted. as ois the basement of the-fup with a discussion of and the fet coal consumed werman aver pun, is responsible tor the. ts! exhibits nal kept on display science building The material for making og plans for the banquet.; winter. During the day approx; molding and groans” that disturb 7) CMurenuy . the frameworks is concrete.—r- and it is hoped that it will prove mately seven and a half tons of the slnters or clic Kappa Snappa The exhibit will be open Mon -inforced with steel one of the last successful events coal will be burned. or enough coal boys. : daw. Tuesday and Wednesday for the new buildings. along with over given by the °D" Club. to stretch out lump by lump.-C Phat | be plans Wits erected) aft ant will o'clock in the morning until the Concord Road and the south wing The attendance of the members far” is about the distance from be nal cost of $50,000, ‘This money was the eve even and the public, see of “Chambers, will form a quad-|of the “D" Club at the meeting here to there. “The Davidsonian taken from a bequest made By Rob. | alls invited to attend. yo rangle. Various walkways and was brought up. It is hoped that does not specialize in math majors.) ert WK. Smith, president orb. Loni: | lig the exhibit that will be held shrubbery will be placed there and the prospects of a new meeting At any rate, the college spends | lard Smith Company. in 1922. Thelin. the spring there Will be choot so will present a striking appear- room will encourage more mem- an average of $7,500.00 a winter] erection of the two new buildings | works chosen to be added to the ance. The edifices will be finished | bers to take an active part in the on fuel alone. This is the cost. at will necessitate, the installation of | permanent display... About. 22. stu- and ready for use by the fall se- "D" Club Activities, and that more approximately $5.50 per ton. Of this another boiler in addition, to the|f dents are expected to display works, mester of next year. members will attend the meetings. three now in use. at this time, Lr!