Thurs., Feb. 8, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of the Week

In view of the question of politics and their virtues and faults, the question of voting has arisen. To obtain
a cross-section of student opinion on the systems of voting, the following question was put to several men: What plan
of voting would you suggest to replace the present system of placing ballots in the back of seats in chapel,
or do you think the present system is satisfactory?

Jim Crutchfield, Senior: The present system gives results that are remarkably good, but it seems to me that a better
system would be to place a receptacle by each door from which the ones who wished to vote could take
the slips of paper as they entered. After the choice of candidates has been made, the voters could drop their
votes in ballot boxes placed by the doors. Using this system, time could be saved and a more accurate vote
obtained. This system would also eliminate careless or lackadaisical voters who do more harm than good by voting for the
well-known characters, Joe Blow and Horace Lutz, and might, if the student is willing, prevent so much distraction in the
form of ballot airplanes being sailed hither and yon over the heads of the would-be voters.

Dan Hodges, Sophomore: The present system of voting hasn't been what we've needed in order to assure everybody’s getting a
chance to vote whether he is in chapel or not the day the slips are placed in the seats. To
remedy this, a locked box should be placed outside each chapel door on each election day and left there all
day with ballots beside it. In that way, a boy could vote anytime during the day—signing his ballot, of course—and
it would do away with having the ballots filled out in chapel and possibly getting lost, and would give chapel
absentees a chance to vote anyway. Then, in the evening, the ballots should be collected and counted at one time.

John W. Moore, Junior: There are some evils in the present system of voting that might be corrected. The malpractice
of absentee, duplicate, and neglected ballots might be eliminated by a checklist and a locked ballot box system. There should
be a student council member and a man present at the counting of the votes.

Albert Green, Junior: I favor retaining the present system. Undeniably, illegal voting has occurred in past years, but I think
we should try to educate ourselves to honesty, rather than create new rules and forms designed to frustrate unfair voting.
The temptation is not an overwhelming one, and I believe that a word or two by our president on that
subject should suffice. Is the Davidson Gentleman really without honor?

John Milnes, Senior: To have an honest and accurate election, we must follow the systems used in municipal and state
elections. That is, we should have a list of the student body at a specified place. A student council man
will be there, and when a student wishes to vote, he will be given a ballot and his name will
be checked off the list. This would assure only one vote to every qualified person. A locked ballot box should
be placed in a convenient place, and at the end of a day’s voting, the ballots should be counted.

Paul Crane, Junior: The present system of placing votes in chapel seats seems adequate, but an improvement might be found
in having ballot boxes at the chapel doors in which to place votes on leaving chapel. This would save the
collectors of the votes time and energy and ensure each man’s placing only one vote if the boxes were watched
by a collector.

Bob Carter, Sophomore: It seems to me that the present system of counting and collecting votes is rather careless and
inefficient. Many elections are decided by a few votes, and the very votes that would decide the issue are somewhere
on the floor of the auditorium. A ballot box in the back of chapel with a check-up list would eliminate
all the trouble, although it would take up a little time.

Beauty Will Be Feature

Davidson College’s Most Beautiful Girl to Be Chosen From Photographs

The Inter-Dormitory Scripts ranks announces a contest to find Davidson College’s Most Beautiful Girl. As soon as details can be
worked out, and in time for the Spring Issue, a member of the staff will visit each room in the
dormitories for entries. Pictures should not be snapshots but must be regular photographs. They will be handled with kid gloves,
and the editor will be personally responsible for their safe return.

The winner will be crowned as “The Dreamy Girl” in the Spring Issue, and her picture will be accompanied by
a court of lovely runners-up. Judges for the contest have not yet been chosen but will be announced in the
near future.

The results of a questionnaire which is being compiled by the juniors and sophomores on the editorial staff will be
published soon. The deadline for all material will be February 24. All short stories, articles, and cartoons will have to
be in his hand before this time.

King Winter Hits Campus

Such expressions as “Now in my day,” “When I was a boy,” and “Back in the good old days,” ceased
to be heard during the recent cold wave, for even the oldest of the local inhabitants didn’t attempt to say
that they had seen colder days in the old college town.

Official reports state that it was the lowest that the mercury column had gone in sixty years.

The maximum and minimum thermometer on top of the Chemistry Laboratory went as low as five below zero during the
night of Saturday, January 27, and during the course of the following night fell to minus eight degrees. The lowest
thermometer at the water plant reached was three degrees below zero, which took place Sunday. In the neighboring “Friendly City”
Charlotte, the mercury column failed to go below zero within the business section. The lowest which the business district claimed
was six degrees, while at the Charlotte airport, the official Weather Bureau thermometer fell to minus three degrees. The scientific
explanation is that the heat generated by the building along with the smoke kept the temperature above zero.

Charlotte’s Coldest

Indications other than the thermometer readings were that it was the coldest weather experienced in Charlotte in many years.Scientific) dent
kissing, much to the relief of Sigma Pi Sigma. Will also pointed to the presence of unusual weather. Ear muffs,
bright colored scarfs, heavy wool socks, boots, and extra heavy overcoats suddenly became the popular dress among the student body.
Transportation was at a standstill, county officials were considering a two-month ban on kissing to halt the epidemic.

North Carolina Academy of Science will hold its annual meeting at Davidson this spring. This fact was revealed at the
recent meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Physics fraternity. At this assembly, professors of science in North Carolina meet annually
to discuss discoveries and developments in their fields in the past year. The academy is composed of various branches of
science, one physics, one chemistry, etc. Each of the separate branches meets at the same time and each person attends
the branch in which he is most interested. Several professors on the faculty have been appointed as heads of committees.

Cab Calloway Draws Crowd

Thoughts of sleep to be lost during Mid-Winters did not daunt Davidson boys who made their way to Charlotte last
Thursday night to hear Cab Calloway play to a packed house at the armory. The great negro bandleader was playing
a dance for colored people only, but the balcony was jammed with white spectators. Before the end of the evening’s
entertainment, rows of chairs had to be placed on the floor itself to accommodate those who came to listen. A
jitterbug contest was slated to take place, but when the request was made to clear the floor to make room
for the contestants, the dancers refused to give way. The hall was so packed that there was little room for
them to clear off, if they had been able to stop dancing. The Davidson contingent watched proceedings with interest, but
the rhythms of the negro maestro became irresistible. So with their dates, they danced in the halls upstairs.

“There is no need for hauling a law wash with a jug of diluted carbolic acid. If there is an
influenza epidemic at the university, I might suggest there has not been enough kissing lately. Come to think of it,
they just got over their winter exams, and probably they have been too busy.”

“Married couples should kiss more,” Katzoff added, “It makes for better circulation and better health, mentally and physically. After every
kiss, Sigma Pi Sigma, he said, was kissing self-purifying.”

Tom Guion gave a paper, “The History and Manufacture of Polaroid.” “While polaroid is a fairly recent development,” he said,
“it is widely used in sunglasses and in automobile headlights and windshields to eliminate glare in night driving.” In the
business session, it was decided to form a social club of Physics students some time in the near future. Too,
the members voted to hold open house in the laboratories at an early date so that experiments may be seen
by all the students interested.

Former Davidsonian Editor Tells of War-Time Adventures Abroad

Dick Knowles, of the Class of '38, a past editor of the Davidsonian who is now studying in Vermont, spoke
on the subject: “Doubting God's Share in the World.” Mr. Jones used the story of the selling of the grain
at the gate of Samaria as a Biblical background for his address in which he treated God's share in the
world as a major part of the universe. The question is raised asking why God does not do something for
the world today, which is full of evil. Rev. Jones answered saying that God must work in a divine way;
it is not that He is not powerful enough, but He has His own special way.

According to Mr. Jones, God's facts are not definite, stretching over the years. Using as a parable the idea of
sentences spoken by God with the subject following the verb, the speaker illustrated his point. It is not the world’s
law which changes, but the divine law.

Marion Sawyer Allen is having a tough time of it at Syracuse University. In case you didn’t know, he’s a
boy—and that name is just what caused him all the trouble. Pre-registration officials had “her” all assigned to a room
in the women’s dormitory, with a feminine roommate and all.

Swedish Experiences Speech At Charlotte

Davidson's faculty Prof. Rene Williamson will give the first in a series of lectures for members of Charlotte’s Parent-Teacher Associations,
on Friday, February 9, at eleven a.m. This series of lectures is sponsored by Charlotte’s branch of the University Association
of Women in order that the Charlotte PTA groups may attain the standard rating. These groups will include Central High,
Graham High, Alexander Graham Junior High, Myers Park, Villa Heights, Wesley Heights, and O'Donoghue Schools.

Sophs To Take Over

Sophomore members of the Davidsonian staff will begin their customary practice of taking over the assignments of the six junior
editors with the next issue and will continue until staff elections take place at a later date. Duties of these
men will deal with make-up, assignments, and writing, and they will be aided by the junior staff. Each sophomore will
in turn make up certain pages of the Davidsonian, act as editor, and undergo a period of training until six
from their number are selected for the managing editors' positions. Announcement of those men making up pages will be made
each week in the Davidsonian.

“Boy! I can breathe now!” Just a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol in each nostril reduces swollen membranes, clears stuffiness,
and brings prompt relief. Used in time, it helps prevent many colds. VICKS VA-TRO-NOL DOUBLE QUANTITY 50c REGULAR Size 30c

Jones, Davidson Myers Park Pastor Preaches At Vesper Service Here

Sunday evening, February 1st, Rev. James A. Jones, present pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the
speaker at the Vesper service.

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N.C.

Sat., Feb. 10th. “FIRST LOVE” Mon.-Tues., Feb. 12th.-13th. “FIGHTING 69TH” Wed., Feb. 14th. “SUN NEVER SETS” Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 15th.-16th. “THE
LIGHT THAT FAILED”

NORGE GAS RANGE RULANE GAS RANGE GROCERIES HARDWARE M. H. Goodrum Company DAVIDSON, N.C.

Students, Faculty, and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street

Glamorous Vocalist Attracts Many Boys

Dolores O'Neill Sings With Bob Chester’s Orchestra At Mid-Winters

By ED WATSON

Dolores O’Neill’s flashing green eyes and winsome smile made more than one Davidson lad’s heart turn two or three extra
flip-flaps during the Mid-Winter dances. It didn’t help matters for Dolores to talk to your writer in a husky, but
crisp voice, either. It seems to be agreed among Davidson boys that she rates tops among singers with them.

Versatile

The attractive twenty-two-year-old brunette from Scranton, Pa., has been singing, traveling, and writing since she was seventeen years old. Jack
Teagarden heard her over the radio and offered her a job with his orchestra. After singing as feature vocalist for
Teagarden, a year in Rio de Janeiro, and later with Artie Shaw, she joined Bob Chester's orchestra when Shaw left
his band. Dolores packed as she talked of their Southern tour. Bob Chester and his company returned to New York
after leaving Charlotte, since their engagements were finished.

Likes South

“I like the South very much, and I think the boys—and girls at Davidson and Washington and Lee were very
nice to us. I hope that we can play for them some time again,” stated Miss O'Neill. Talking freely of
her ambitions, she said that she “hoped to devote full time to writing short stories some day.” She appeared to
be very proud of having had several of her stories published already. She thinks the writing fever must run in
the family, since she is the niece of writer Eugene O'Neill.

While talking of the orchestra and her singing she said, “One of my weaknesses is getting tickled in the middle
of a song. I can't seem to help it when we're playing for a dance. It just bubbles up and
I have to laugh. It's a silly thing to do, I know, but I can’t seem to help it!”

Trousers in SHETLANDS TWEEDS and WORSTEDS USE OUR PAY PLAN 90-days-to-pay Marion Davis 118 South Tryon Street
