Thurs. March 14, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
The most talked of Beta trip of the last weekend was the trek made by Brothers Burch and MeKnight and
their dates to Myrtle Beach after the dances. They report that the southern sun has possibilities this year. The sister
of the Barnwell brothers and Brother Atwater's date were guests of the chapter over the weekend. Brother Ed Morrow, alumnus
of last year, was also a guest. The dates of the chapter for the weekend were Miss Eleanor Barnwell of
Burlington, Miss Polly Price and Miss Allie Withers of Davidson, Miss Gloria Carter of Burlington, and Miss Betty McClintock of
Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta
Most of the brothers enjoyed a delightful weekend by attending the dances. After the Friday night dance, a feed was
held at the house for all the brothers and their dates. Among the girls attending were: Miss Marie Brice, Quitman,
Miss Marion Morris, Fla.; Miss Polly Leonard, Columbia, S.C.; Miss Carolyn Moultrie, Ga.; Miss Helen Norman, Salem College; Miss Lucille
McGee, Jackson, Miss.; and Miss Meadors Lunn, Rock Hill. Brother Scarborough returned for the dances. Brother Gus McLean accompanied the
band on its tour to Winston-Salem where he also attended a dance. Brothers Westall and Chapman journeyed to their homes
in Asheville and Spartanburg respectively. Brother McKinnon attended the Friday night dance before departing for his home at Maxton. Brothers
Ludlam and Kenyon have departed on debating trips which will take them to opposite poles of the nation.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Jim McDonald spent the weekend in Winston-Salem and Greensboro. Paul Browning went home to Greenville, S.C. Toddy Latimer spent an
extended weekend in Bennettsville, S.C. Among the dates for the dances were: Miss Phyllis Crooks, Miss Doris Edgar, Miss Martha
Brandon, Miss Anne Cromartie, Miss Mary Spencer, Miss Sybil Trexler, Miss Ruth Baker, Miss Virginia Beacham, Miss Janie Knox, and
Miss Nell Cooke.

Kappa Alpha
The dance effectively prevented very wild hair among the K.A.’s this weekend, but they made up for this by bringing
girls on the campus from various states. Among the dates of the brothers were: Miss Alice Bowan, Miss Virginia Coleman
of Raleigh, Miss Rosa Sims, Miss Meade Wilson, Miss Betty Sprunt, Miss Nancy Knapp, Miss Jane Kirkpatrick, Miss Frances Hall,
Miss Jo Bridger, Miss Martha Withers, Miss Sophie Walker, Miss Scotty Dameron of Goldsboro, and Miss Katherine Greene. Brother George
Mitchell came up from Furman University for the Saturday dances. Brother Turnage wishes everyone to know that he was in
Charlotte over the weekend. A breakfast was held at the New China Cafe immediately following the Saturday night dance. Brother
Houston planned a wild hair to P.C. but ended up by eating clams in Charlotte. The chapter enjoyed a feed
on Sunday night.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The SAE’s celebrated the weekend of the dances with a banquet held at the Wooden Bowl at 8:30 Friday night.
Nearly every brother and many dates were present. Among the dates present for the dances were: Miss Mary Nelson Adams,
Miss Mary Stock Hous, Miss Nan Daniels, Miss Betty Shelton, Miss Nancy Ann Paschal, Miss Ann Brown, Miss Harriet Easterby,
Miss Dot McCall, Miss Ellen Currie, Miss Marie Pons, Miss Happy Escott, Miss Nita Newbold, Miss Brooksie Folger, Miss Norma
Dozier, Miss Tiny Granger, and Miss Maryland Reaves. Brother Rose went to his home in Rocky Mount for the weekend.

Kappa Sigma
Almost all of the Kappa Sigmas turned out with dates for the Military Ball, and the other three dances of
the weekend. A breakfast was given by the chapter in honor of the dance set at the Wooden Bowl immediately
following the Saturday evening dance. Guests of the brothers over the weekend included: Miss Mary Toni Riddick, Scotland Neck; Miss
Betty Waldron, Greensboro; Miss Catherine Nicholson Webb, Washington; Miss Dorothy Ballsy, Greensboro; Miss Mary Guy Boyd, Durham; Miss Roseland Bennett,
Henderson; Miss Fannie Cooper, Henderson; Miss Myra Blount, Greensboro; Miss Harriet Davis, Charlotte; Miss Mary Payne, Charlotte; Miss Pony Monroe,
Spartanburg; Miss Virginia DeWitt, Charlotte; and Miss Mary Geter, Rock Hill. Brother Jim Crook visited his home in Spartanburg, S.C.,
over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi
A number of the brothers went to the dances over the weekend. Guests of the chapter for the dances included
Miss Frances Caldwell of Tampa, Fla.; Miss Mary Garvey of Winston-Salem, Miss Ruthie Strickhouse of New York City and W.C.U.N.C.,
Miss Jean Jorits of Hickory, Miss Julia Hobbs of Davidson, and Miss Elizabeth Hendrick of Cliffside and Salem College. Brothers
Louis Hite, Norris Erb, and Tad Larkin made the band trip to Winston-Salem Saturday and attended a dance that evening
given in honor of the band. Brother Alexander McArthur spent the weekend with his family in Rutherfordton. The fraternity entertained
with an informal banquet given at the boarding house on Friday night at 7:30. Brother Masters acted as Toastmaster. Brother
Jim Ballard spent the weekend with Brother W.C. Plunkett at IMM. Brother Lonnie Miller visited his home in Converse over
the weekend. Brother Lokey spent the weekend at home in Thomson, Ga., while Brother Tom Fry went to his home
in Atlanta, Ga.

Phi Gamma Delta
The greatest number of the Phi Gams attended the dance set in Charlotte throughout the weekend. After the Saturday night
dance, the chapter entertained at the Queens Grill with a breakfast. Among the dates of the chapter for the dances
were: Miss Greta Lafitte, Miss Pan Crews, Miss Taylor, and Miss Bernice Escott of Lynchburg; Miss June Taylor, Miss Maujer
Moseley, Miss Eleanor Duke, and Miss Ann Wiley of Charlotte; Miss Phyliss Blow of Chapel Hill; Miss Kelly Ann Smith
of Winston-Salem; Miss Ellen McGill of Greensboro; Miss Jean Greenleaf of Charlotte; Miss Jean Greenleaf of Spartanburg, S.C.; and Miss
Moses Michner of Staunton, Va. On Sunday afternoon the chapter and all the guests were entertained with a feed at
the fraternity house. During the weekend, Brother Tom Rogers visited with Brother Doug Heuvel. Brother Joe Brown, Jr. was selected
to represent the chapter at the National Conclave in Los Angeles, California this summer. Guests for the weekend included Miss
Becky Davis of Salisbury, Miss Alice Hoover of Charlotte, Miss Lois Lateman of Tarboro, Miss Jean Delilliam of Salisbury, and
Miss Jean Craver of Greensboro. Brothers Hay and Bell went on a wild, but eventful hair to the Gate City.
Brother Roth accompanied the band to Winston-Salem.

DAVIDSON ICE & FUEL COMPANY
WE SELL ICE, WOOD & COAL AT REASONABLE PRICES
Patronize Us and Be Prepared at All Times
Davidson, N.C.

Gate City’s Pledges Roth and Davis

"Union Now" Is Among Latest Library Books
Group On Musical Appreciation Also Added

"Union Now" by Clarence K. Streit, "Since Yesterday" by Frederick Lewis Allen, and a group of new books on music
appreciation have been placed on the shelves of the library. Streit’s book is a proposal for a federal union of
the leading democracies of the world. The publishers tell us, "In war, to guarantee order and to be free and
to cut taxes, the author of 'Union Now' offers the daringly simple and convincing plan: unite the United States and
the European Democracies under one federal government." "Since Yesterday" is a sequel to "Only Yesterday." In the new book, Allen
gives a full description of the "depression" and other events from 1929 through 1939. "Since Yesterday" gives a more vivid
account of a more illustrious period than that in "Only Yesterday." It includes everything from the New York "shag" contests
to Goodman's Carnegie Hall concert and from Huey Long to the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. The new music books
include biography in "Men of Music" by Walter Brockway and Herbert Weinstock; technical advice in "The Making of Musical Instruments"
by T. Campbell Young and "Musical Wind Instruments" by Adam Carse.ceived bids to the club: Tom Hemingway, S. C., Miss
Mary Steel Bumbarger, Drury Thompson, Rex Hubbard of Charlotte, Miss Vir- ginia Davis and Jack Ferguson of the senior class,
led the Sunday class; Bob Finley, Charles Martin, and Alwyn Burns played the piano. Ed Watson, Casey Jones, T. D.
Johnston, Frank Parker, Paul Jones, and Alston Thompson. Dr. Wilson is a retired pastor living in Davidson. He attended Hampden-Sidney
College where he

Tuesday, Dr. W.S. Wilson Talks On Pre-Easter Subject

I.R.C. Initiates Write Theme For Next Sunday

forehand at Gethsemane, when His three unfaithful disciples

Jim Owen, of the Junior class, and Sophomores. [Continued on Page Six]

“Calvary: Triumph Through Death”, Will Be Subject

“A Smattering of Ignorance” is a book by Oscar Levant in which, as one critic has put it, “One of
the most robust of modern wits puts music in its place.” “Music for Fun” by Sigmund Spaeth is a very
sensible introduction to music. “What to Listen for in Music” is a new book on music appreciation which has already
gained popularity among laymen as well as professional musicians.

Dr. Wilson took the regular Presbyterian lesson for the last week, which was “Gethsemane: The Great Agony and Suffering.” His
text, taken from Matthew 26, verses 36 to 47, was the familiar story of the faithfulness of His disciples, when
He went away to Gethsemane after the last supper. He told his three most beloved disciples, Peter, James, and John,
to watch for Him while He prayed. Thrice He found them sleeping.

The four main topics of discussion included: (1) the companions at Gethsemane; (2) the anguish of the events at Gethsemane;
(3) Christ’s prayer; and (4) the victory of Christ. Dr. Wilson stressed the fact that Christ died two deaths: (1)
the actual physical death on the cross and (2) the spiritual death beforehand at Gethsemane, when his three most beloved
disciples proved unfaithful.

At the chapter meeting last week, Brother Ed Watson was elected president for the coming year to succeed Brother Casali.
Brother John Hay was elected as vice-president, Brother Felix Bell was elected secretary, Brother Rustic Edmondson was elected controller, and
Brother Raymond McDaniels was elected Pan-Hellenic representative. Brother Watson was also

Friday and Saturday of Spring vacation, several members of the Davidson chapter of I.R.C. are planning to attend a conference
at Chapel Hill held by the Southeastern district of the International Relations Club. The initiation of the new members was
discussed. It was decided that the initiates should write a joint theme among themselves instead of the previous system which
required that each initiate write a separate theme. This change was made so that the club could participate in a
contest which will be sponsored by a Peace Organization. The subject of the theme will be “America’s position as regards
to neutrality in the present war.” A prize will be given for the best theme.

Masquers Hear Brinkle

Mr. Tom Brinkle of Radio Station WSOC, Charlotte, was the guest speaker at the regular meeting of the Red and
Black Masquers last Wednesday night at the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity House. Mr. Brinkle is the Assistant Director of the
Charlotte Little Theater and spoke on “The Improved Technique of Make-Up”. Also present were six men who have received bids
of membership but who have not as yet been initiated. They are as follows: Dick Coppedge, Ed Hay, Bill Summers,
Pat Rudolph, Bill Perdew, and Ed Taylor. A general discussion was held concerning the plays that will be presented this
spring, which was followed by a feed.

Banquet Held By ROTC Frat

Harnsberger Honored at Scabbard and Blade Festival Before Dances

Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, held a banquet at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte at 8 o'clock Friday night
before the formal dance of the Military Set. Tommy Harnsberger, last semester’s Captain of the chapter, was honored at the
banquet and was called upon to make a speech. Bill Bolin, present Captain of the chapter, introduced all the new
initiates and the faculty members, each of whom was asked to make a short talk. About seventy-five persons were present
at the banquet including the new candidates, the old student members of Scabbard and Blade, the commanding officers of the
Davidson College ROTC Unit, and the faculty and honorary members together with their wives.

The following men were tapped as members of Scabbard and Blade during a special parade Friday, March 8: William Barnwell,
William J. Bolin, Robert L. Finley, William H. Hamilton, John T. Latimer, James McDuffie, D. Thompson, Edgar I. Watson, Vernon
Youngblood, P. Hobson, Hill Cooper, and W. E. Couper. Coach Norman W. Shepard was tapped as an associate member at
a special parade held on Monday, March 4.

Tired Faculty Loses In Post Season Game

Diversified Entertainment Amuses Crowd In Finger Bowl Classic

To the swinging rhythms of Glenn Martin’s orchestra, the faculty made its final foul shot and retired sweating and tired
from the floor, beaten by the varsity basketball team in the first post-season Finger Bowl Classic. Hilarity was the keynote
of the evening of entertainment for the worthy cause of raising funds for the D Club. The first half was
a nip and tuck affair with plenty of roughness, most of which escaped the eyes of referees Spencer and Wengeveld.
Dave McLean and his comically clad Little Symphony Band belted out the refreshing strains of the mountain ballads during the
time-outs and the quarters. During the half intermission, Bob McLeod demonstrated his abilities with the Yo-Yo.

Game Close

Forging into the lead in the second half, the varsity forsook the orthodox methods of the game and turned the
affair into a three-ring circus, with Duke Gilliam as ringmaster. The Duke, garbed in a cheerleader’s sweater, led in the
cheer and introduced each player to the crowd.

Frosh Debate

The details of the Frosh debate were discussed in the council meeting. These details were to be worked out by
the council. It remains doubtful whether or not this debate will be conducted later in the season, for the Frosh
schedule has already been practically completed.

You are cordially invited to visit Wood Ltd. Company, 231 South Tryon Street, Men’s Apparel.

GREYHOUND’S LOW FARES

For Round Trip Fares:
Winston-Salem $1.65
Greensboro $2.70
Richmond, Va. $6.75
Roanoke, Va. $4.80
Columbia, S. C. $3.10
Greenville, S. C. $3.15
Spartanburg, S. C. $2.45
Raleigh $5.25
Atlanta, Ga. $6.50
Chattanooga, Tenn. $7.60

Greyhound Terminal
WHITE DRUG CO.
Phone 2111

“They've just got wind of your Spring Vacation trips! You can’t afford to hang around college this vacation—when it costs
so little to get away! Hop the very next Greyhound bus and head for home—or in the opposite direction if
the wanderlust’s got you. Small change is all you need to make a big change in your surroundings—Greyhound’s low fares
keep your capital practically intact! Have more fun where you’re going—with the money you save getting there by Greyhound!

PAUL & CRYMES
415 S. Tryon St.
ALL SPORTING GOODS
Charlotte, N. C.
