Thurs., April 11, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Barnwell Is Captain For ROTC Group
Barnwell, Watson, Bolin, Latimer Honored By Scabbard And Blade

Officers for 1940-41 were elected by Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, at its regular bi-monthly meeting April 3, in
the Scabbard and Blade room. Holt Barnwell was elected captain of the fraternity; Ed Watson, first lieutenant; Jay Bolin, second
lieutenant; and Toddy Latimer, first sergeant.

Captain Prominent
Barnwell is president of both the Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity, and the Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. He
is also a member of the Wildcat baseball squad. Watson is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and a
member of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Delta Epsilon, honorary journalism fraternity, Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social fraternity, and the
Student Council. He was recently elected president of the YMCA.

Other Officers
Bolin is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, social fraternity; a football letterman, and a member of the D Club.
He is on the business staff of the magazine and also the editorial staff of the annual. Latimer is a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha, social fraternity. He has also worked on the Davidsonian and has been a track manager.

This year's officers are captain, Bill Bolin; first lieutenant, James Cooper; second lieutenant, Bennett Harrison; and first sergeant, Robert Kellogg.
A group of by-laws drawn up by Bill Bolin were discussed. They will be voted on at the next meeting
of the organization which will be held in the club room April 17. Plans for the selection of the best
drilled freshman cadet were also discussed. The members are to submit suggestions to Bill Bolin during the next few days.
These will be voted on at the next regular meeting of the organization.

Ten Initiated By Eumenean
Three Papers Delivered By New Members

At the regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society Tuesday, April 2, three papers were read by prospective members and
ten sophomores and freshmen were initiated into the group. Papers read and accepted were submitted by Matt Long, Ralph Williams,
and Rufus Nimmons. After recommendation by the membership committee and election by the society, the following were initiated: John McGee,
Tom Lane, Douglas Dillard, Billy Conner, Bill Lyman, Rufus Nimmons, Ashby Dick, Ralph Williams, Jesse Wooten, and Matt Long. Several
others were bid and will be initiated at a future meeting. The program was also featured by a talk on
“The Art of Public Speaking” by Phil Peyton.

Blazer Choice Is Postponed To Next Year

At the last meeting of the committee on Junior Class Blazers, it was decided that the selection and purchase of
Blazers would be postponed until next year, since the members of the class were not satisfied with the blazer samples
on hand. Samples for the blazers were obtained from several clothing stores and tailoring companies. These were on display at
the student store and the balloting was held there. The class voted by a large majority recently to get the
blazers this year so that they would be of more service. Had they gotten them, it would have been the
first time that the blazers had been obtained until after the Christmas holidays of their senior year. Members of the
committee in charge of getting the blazers were John Purdie, Joe Shelton, and Bob Reinhardt.

A University of Iowa student statistician has completed tests showing that co-eds of that institution use enough lipstick in a
year to paint five barns.

NEW LIBRARY WILL RESEMBLE CHAMBERS

The architect's drawing for the new library to be built at Davidson this spring is seen here. A definite location
has been chosen for the building at the southeast corner of the campus between Chambers building and the fraternity court.
The building has been made possible by a $150,000 bequest by an unannounced donor. It will replace the present quarters,
which have been termed crowded and inadequate.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Beta Theta Pi
The hayride this weekend turned into a skating party before the evening was over. The chaperones were Dr. and Mrs.
S. B. Knight. The brothers’ dates were: Misses Mary Cason Jones, Lib Hoppe, Duddy Jones, Ethel Ann Hutchinson, Dot Summerville,
Margarite Mason, Allie Withers, Polly Price, Carolina Sharpe, Sara Brown Lee, Frances McClellan, and June Burkes. Brother McClintock spent the
weekend at Sweet Briar. Brothers Summerville, Bryant, Church, McAfee, and Sherman spent the weekend in Charlotte. Brother Matthews was at
St. Mary’s, while Brother Schmidt went to Converse with the Glee Club. The Chapter enjoyed the hospitality of the K.A.’s
at the Sunday night feed.

Kappa Alpha
On Friday most of the brothers went to Greenville to attend the Province Convention. Those attending were Brothers King, Sprunt,
Spencer, Arnold, Lemmon, Perrin, Little, Gladden, Wehan, Preyor, Lauch, Valhure, Watte, and Houston. The group left Friday and attended a
banquet, initiation, and a dance later on in the evening. Also in Greenville was last year’s pledge brother Bob Rock
who came down from Princeton. Brother Patterson went to Guilford while Brother Sherrin spent the weekend at his home in
Concord. On Sunday members of the chapter entertained the Betas who came over to the house for a feed.

Kappa Sigma
The chapter welcomes Apie Means, who has been recuperating in Concord, back to the campus. Jimmy Cooper visited in Richmond
and attended the Curles Neck Steeplechase. Bill Loftin went to his home in Gastonia while Bob Phipps and Jim Crook
went to Spartanburg. George Marsh went to the Junior-Senior Banquet at St. Mary’s and Stuart Oglesby journeyed to Salem Saturday
night.

Pi Kappa Phi
At the regular meeting many members of the Charlotte Alumni Chapter were guests. Plans were made for a dance to
be held in May to be sponsored by the alumni chapter. Brother Jim Morgan, now at Catawba, was a guest
of the chapter over the weekend. A strange attraction lured Brothers Horan, Logan, Horan, and Pledges Patton and Wyche to
the carnival in Charlotte. Charlotte and Fan James drew Brother Woodward from the campus both Saturday and Sunday night. Brother
Hipp spent the weekend in Greenville celebrating his birthday, Brother Hendricks made his usual little trip to Salem, Covington to
Wadesboro, Erb to Salisbury, and Fry to Atlanta. The Annual Re-serve Officer’s Ball held at the Myers Park Country Club
was the center of attraction Friday night as Brothers Sallard, Flynn, Niven, Saunders, Hite, Colvin, and Garvey served as hosts.
A guest at a very enjoyable feed given by the Pika’s Sunday night.

Phi Gamma Delta
Harris McReynolds visited Hew-parrish in Winston-Salem. Stowe, John Throop, and George Richmond visited points unknown. A delightful feed was held
at the house Sunday night, the main feature of which was a song test. A pledging ceremony was held for
Bill Summers of the Sophomore Class.

“All students who expect to return for the year 1940-'41 will be expected to register for courses the week of
April 15-20,” announced Mr. Hengeveld, registrar, this week. Prior to the registration for courses it will be necessary for every
student to call by the treasurer’s office and pay a deposit fee of ten dollars. As in previous years students
taking the basic courses in ROTC will be allowed to use the deposit on their uniforms as a fee for
registration for next year. Choice of dormitory rooms will also be made at this time. A tentative schedule of recitations
will be published this week to be used as a guide in the selection of courses. Members of the freshman
class will be required to consult their faculty advisor before signing for next year’s courses.

Final plans are now under discussion as to the details of construction. Mr. Jackson, treasurer, stated in an interview that
the library would probably be as wide as the south end of Chambers and about fifty feet longer. It was
listed by the centennial committee as one of the most urgent needs on the campus, and

Johnston, Currie, Brown, And Williamson Debate Over Capitalism
Panel discussions made their third appearance of the year at Davidson in Phi Hall last Friday night, when Capitalism was
discussed in Phi Hall.Master of ceremonies, Bob Ramsey, announced the topic as "Christian’s Viewpoint of Capitalism." There was some doubt
among the speakers as to whether these two things could be linked in one topic. On one side of the
platform were Dr. B.F. O.W. Johnston and Professor Archibald Currie, and on the other were Brothers Anderson, Browning, and Latimer.

The week-end saw various activities: Brothers Henderson and Wine visited in Wallace; Brothers McElwee, Neill, and Shelton went to their
homes in Statesville. Brothers Youngblood, Abels, and Pledge Lane went to St. Mary's for the dances, and Brother McDonald went
to Converse with the Glee Club. Brothers Coltrane and Hoover went to Concord; Brother Allison went to Charlotte. We announce
with pleasure the pledging of Dave Spencer and Gene Shannon. The Pi Kappa Phis were guests at the feed held
Sunday night. Doris Edgar and Martha Brandon were visitors Sunday.

Phi Delta Theta highlighted the week with the installation of officers for next year, which took place at the regular
meeting Thursday night. They are: President, Andy Dale; Reporter, Joe Robinson; Recording Secretary, Pat Rudolph; Alumni Secretary, Clyde Kenney; Treasurer,
Norman Stevenson; Chaplain, Bobby Williams; Chorister, Gus McLean; and Historian, Hutch Booker. Brother Gene Vereen was elected Pan-Hellenic representative for
the fraternity.

Among the excursions over the week-end were those taken by brothers Westall to Virginia Intermont at Bristol, Va., Vereen and
Owens to Brenau at Gainesville, Ga., and McKinnon to Red Springs. Brother Howell and Pledge Brother Goodrum spent the week-end
in Greenville.

Members of the 1939-1940 rifle team of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Battalion were presented gold medals for their excellence in
marksmanship. Captain Walter I. Kunz and the following members of the team were recognized: I. H. Hollifield, W. J. Bolin,
W. R. Eagan, R. E. Ballard, M. Kunz, S. Jones, W. L. Barker, J. W. Davis, H. V. DeWitt, E.
J. Erwin, R. A. Goyay, C. A. McArthur, R. D. Wilson, S. T. Withers, and W. W. Wood. The team
has fired several matches during the year, including a shoulder match with the Charlotte Rifle and Pistol Club and The
Citadel.

Dr. C.K. Brown and Dr. R. de V. Williamson represented the faculty. After each of these men had spoken for
five minutes on the subject, the floor was opened for questions and further discussion. One topic discussed by the faculty
members concerned the parable of the talents. One speaker contended that it was meant that a person should endeavor to
mount up income. Whether this income should be used to control government was not explained. Not only capitalism but other
economic systems and their employment in Christian and non-Christian countries supplied further enlargement of the topic. One theory advanced was
that there is no Christian or un-Christian system, but that a system is just as Christ-like as the people who
live in it. A Christian life, declared one panelist, is just as possible under capitalism as any other system.

Dr. John R. Mott, when asked his impressions of Davidson College, stated, "I was most impressed with the traditions of
character, gentlemanliness, and honoring religion; these are great traditions, not little ones." He mentioned that he had met many Davidson
men all over the world and that his relation to great world-wide organizations caused him to study the bodies, its
press, and its "feeders" or colleges from which these men come. He continued, "I meet Davidson graduates more than any
other graduates all over the world. Your leaders have been right in the heart of great Christian movements."

Dr. Mott also shared his optimistic view of the new generation, maintaining that youth believes in their leaders and large
organizations are ready to pay great prices. He concluded that a college like Davidson, which is pronouncedly Christian, is in
a position of greater influence than it now appears.

A real French banquet will be served to members of the local chapter of Le Cercle Français tonight at 7
o'clock at the Hotel Charlotte, under the direction of Henri Montet, French chef. Some twenty Converse girls, members of another
chapter of the nation-wide honor society, will be present at the banquet, accompanied by Dr. Vermont, professor of French at
the Spartanburg institution. No formal program has been prepared, but a native French girl studying at Converse is expected to
make a talk to the group. The banquet is an innovation for the local circle, although the Converse group has
carried on the custom for some years. It will replace the joint performance of plays staged by the two schools
in recent years.

Charlotte’s Leading Restaurant, "The Tavern," and the "Hotel Charlotte" aim to be headquarters in Charlotte for Davidson College and their
friends.
