—— ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA The Davidsonian LIBERTAS Forensic Steering Committee Names Davidson Debaters Kenyon, Ramsey, Barker, Scott, Loftin, Thompson Are Chosen Nine men were chosen in the varsity debate try-outs to represent Davidson for the season of 1940. These men were chosen by the Forensic Steering Committee in the Phi Hall, Friday, January 12. Dick Kenyon, Bob Frank Barker, Neal Scott, Bill Loftin, and Thompson were picked from a field of approximately 20 men. Albert Winn, Warren Ludlam, John Drury, and Farrior Ramsey were selected to serve as the alternates for the team.

Assessment of Students Involved in Recent Damage Will Cover Cost

At the suggestion of President Sam Spencer, a measure assessing all those involved in the recent damage to college property by the throwing of snowballs was drawn up and put into effect by the student body last Wednesday. President Spencer called for suggestions from the floor and three proposals were offered. The old plan of assessing each floor for the damage done on that particular hall was advocated by several.

Plan Adopted

However, the plan finally adopted after much discussion stated that those not involved in any way in the breakage of property must sign a petition to that effect. All those whose names did not appear thereon were to be assessed out of their damage fees on an equal pro-rata basis for the damage inflicted. This method was a completely voluntary measure on the part of the student body, with the faculty participating in no way whatsoever with the settling of the question. The student council had discussed the problem prior to the student body meeting and, deeming it an affair of that group, decided that the question should be presented for discussion.

Kenyon is president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, president of the senior class, and president of Omicron Delta Kappa. He is from Gainesville, Ga. Ramsey, from Jonesboro, Ark., is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Freshman Adviser, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Frank Barker is from Kansas City, Mo. Barker is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and columnist on The Davidsonian. Scott is president of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and president of the forensic council. He is from Goldsboro. Loftin is from Gastonia, and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Thompson, who is from Statesville, is a member of Le Cercle Francais.

Professors Erwin and Bailey and Drs. Cumming and Brown were the men who picked the team. These are the members of the Steering Committee of the faculty.

Debate Season

Immediately after exams are finished the team will begin work on this year’s debates. As in the past, the varsity team will make an extended tour debating colleges and universities all over the South. The topic for debate this year is: Resolved: “That the United States should follow a policy of strict economic and military isolation toward all nations outside the western hemisphere engaged in armed international or civil conflicts.”

Pastor of First Church of Lake City, Fla., Is Next Sunday Speaker

Rev. Dr. E. F. Montgomery, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Lake City, Fla., will lead the regular Sunday night Vespers service in Chambers auditorium, January 21.

Princeton Grad

Dr. Montgomery graduated from Princeton. From there he went to the University of Edinburgh, where he took two years of theological work. He is the originator and director of a young people’s camp near Hot Springs, Fla., for the young people of the Presbyterian Church.

For the first time there will be no vespers on January 28. Due to the fact that this Sunday is between the first and second semesters, the services have been called off. On February 4 an alumnus of Davidson will lead the vespers service. Rev. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, is one of the youngest pastors for the size of his church of any in the state.

Music Service

The music department will be in charge of the vespers on February 11. This service will be composed of music in accordance with their festival plans. There will be a change in time for this one service: it will be at 4:00 PM.

Damage Unknown

Just after chapel Wednesday, the petition was posted on the front porch of Georgia and remained there through the following night. As yet, the extent of the damage has not been computed.

During the discussions from the floor, the faults of the former system and the unfairness of a general assessment were pointed out. It was also stated that the only fair way to settle this problem was to assess only those directly involved in the breakage of property.

Rev. Montgomery Will Lead Sunday Vespers

EXAMS

Examinations, clad in the frocktail coat and twirling the black mustaches of the villains in the days of yore, have appeared again, and again our common and mortal foe has triumphed over the sturdy staff of The Davidsonian. The staff of The Davidsonian announce with regret that they, as all men must, have to study for examinations too and therefore will issue no paper for the next week. The continuance of issuance will begin immediately after examinations.

The fiftieth anniversary of its founding will be celebrated by the University of Chicago in 1941.

The Ypsilanti (Mich.) Normal College has the first building constructed especially for the training of teachers of handicapped children.

In This Issue

Page
FRAT-SPONSORS 3
OPEN-POLICIES 2
By Colvin, Hendrick, Milne
FEATURE ON CHESTER 3
WHIZZER WHITE 5
DR. GWYNN 6

Complimented

Paul Marion, capable head of the Inter-fraternity Council, will lead the Pan-Hellenic figure at the Mid-Winters’ Friday night formal with Miss Gloria McCall of Greensboro. As in the past, each fraternity will be represented in this figure by their representative on the Council and one chosen alternate.

Another proposal was that the entire student body be assessed for the damage.

Festival to Be Held Here

Second Annual Music Festival Slated For Feb. 10-12; Plans Extensive

The second annual Davidson Music Festival will be held at Davidson Feb. 10-12 under the direction of Prof. James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson, and Mr. Thor Johnson, Director of the University of Michigan Symphony Orchestra. The University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra, Davidson College Choral Club, and Davidson Community Chorus will be participating.

Guest Soloist

Saturday night, February 10th, Mrs. Elizabeth Jenson of Winston-Salem, former contralto soloist of Westminster Choir, will be presented as guest soloist with the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra and Davidson Choral Club. At noon, February 11, “Elijah” will be presented in Chambers Auditorium. The soloists will be Miss Katherine Swain of Winston-Salem, soprano; Mrs. Jenson, contralto; John E. Toms, head of the Voice Department at the University of North Carolina, tenor; and Mr. Donald Pfohl, head of the Music Department at Wake Forest, baritone. A program of Chamber Music will be given in Phi Hall the following afternoon, Monday, January 12, by the String Quartet.

Military Frat

Lieut. Nash Inspects ROTC Body; Commends Chapter

Lieutenant Emory Nash, district inspector from Atlanta, Ga., was guest and inspector of Davidson's chapter of Scabbard and Blade, Saturday, December 13. Lieutenant Nash inspected the books of the individual chapter. Later he met with college officials. At 1:30 o'clock the uniformed members of the honorary fraternity met in the Scabbard and Blade room where they were addressed by Lieutenant Nash. Besides commending the chapter highly, he pointed out certain improvements that could be made. In the course of his speech, Lieutenant Nash gave some much-needed information concerning the annual National Scabbard and Blade rifle matches. Davidson’s chapter is planning to enter these matches. Captain Tommy Harnsberger of China, who is also Cadet-Colonel of the college ROTC unit, is president of the chapter of Scabbard and Blade at Davidson.Chapter is Company B, 5th of 1st Regiment. [Continued on Page Six]

The program was begun with an organ prelude by Mrs. Elsie Stokes Moseley. Reverend James A. Jones, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church, gave the invocation, and a musical program was presented by Miss Marie Roseman and Miss Frances Riddle. Dr. S.C. Byrd, vice president and registrar of the college, pronounced the benediction.

Winthrop To Host Robert Casadesus, Pianist, and musical organizations. Mr. Blakely announced that the college hopes to make an annual custom of planting something on the college campus each Founder's Day. The Davidsonian, passed away after a brief illness. Mr. Purvianee, affectionately known as “Cap” by his fellow employees, handled the Davidsonian's make-up for many years, probably from the first issue published. The form that the paper takes, its arrangement, its columns, and its general appearance were under the supervision of this veteran printer. The position of stories was indicated by the managing editors, but Mr. Purvianee made all necessary adjustments. “Cap” was a bachelor and a faithful member of the Second Presbyterian Church. He has been characterized as “a veteran printer and craftsman.”

On the Friday before Christmas, the San Carlos Opera was added to the series. The Winthrop College Music Department announced recently a series of various musical groups from all over the world. On Thursday, January 18, Robert Casadesus, a famous French pianist, will be presented in the Winthrop College Auditorium. This will be his fifth American visit, following a tour last season. Mr. Casadesus has appeared with seven of America’s finest symphony orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic-Symphony and the Ford Symphony Orchestras.

Following this performance, on January 29, the San Carlos Opera Company will present two operas at Winthrop. The program will consist of a matinee presentation of “Faust” by Charles Gounod, and a night performance of “Madame Butterfly” by Puccini. This group is the largest traveling operatic organization in America. Its program is graced by the names of many distinguished American and European artists. The company, directed by Fortune Gallo, has traveled throughout a number of countries. It has widely presented the first opera ever to be given in Radio City Center Theater in New York City. Many students purchased season tickets for the series in the fall, and many more expect to go to one or more of these fine events. The matinee prices for the opera range from 50 cents to $2.00, and the night prices are from 50 cents to $2.50.

A party was given for the Standard employees. A take-off was staged, and the aging printer “Cap” seemed to enjoy it greatly. The same night he was taken sick and died the following Tuesday of heart trouble.

R.O.T.C. Cadet Form Second Special Column Formation Moves Through Main Street Of Davidson. Monday's drill, the last before examinations, gave Davidson’s ROTC a taste of civic-mindedness, as it required them to march down Main Street of the fair city. At formation, so many were absent that one company had to form its two platoons into one on account of insufficient numbers.

Cooper Commands. Led by the band and under the command of Battalion Adjutant Cooper, the unit marched east past Duke Dormitory, turned at Concord Road, and followed Concord Road to Main Street. Traffic had to be directed in order to let the battalion pass; people from the business establishments came out to watch this spectacle. This was the second drill of 1940. Snow and rain have prohibited three consecutive formations. However, on account of its novelty and brevity, the drill on Monday did not seem boring to anybody.

Printer Dies. Lyck Kelly, a member of the sophomore class, will spend several weeks with a cast on his foot as a result of horseplay by Kelly and his neighbor. On Sunday night about twelve-thirty, Kelly was being pursued over the terrain of Watts dormitory by a classmate when he attempted a prodigious leap from the second floor to the landing between the second and third floors. Missing his goal by a narrow margin, he caught his heel on the last step and twisted his ankle. It was learned that the leg was not broken as had been feared. The net damage totaled one badly sprained ankle. Kelly sustained this injury after completing a successful season as a member of the Kappa Sigma Intramural football squad.

School Conferences. “A Free College In A Free State” Was the Subject Discussed. Dr. P.H. Gwynn of Davidson attended the National Conference on Education in Washington, D.C., representing Davidson College. The theme of the conference was “A Free College In A Free State.” Dr. Gwynn reported that the conference stressed religious freedom. The first of these was a talk by Clarence Streit, author of the book “Union Now.” Mr. Streit discussed the question of whether or not the democracies ought to be organized now into a federation. A second impressive feature was a talk by (Continued on Page Six).