——Tom Gilbreth . JACK COVINGTON - Associate Editor Ed Watson - Associate Editor Lawson Withers - Associate Editor Dick Cobb - Managing Editor Harwell Darley - Managing Editor Bob Harvey - Managing Editor W.C. Blunk - Managing Editor Al Wain - Managing Editor Reb Carter - Sports Editor Dave Vosburgh - Movie Editor

Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thurs. Nov. 28, 1940

The Davidsonian
1915
Founded by the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N.Y.
Los Angeles
San Francisco
Chicago

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ANDY DALE

BUSINESS MANAGER
EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
Paul Bumbarger
Billy Barker
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Tom Pionk
Dick Kelly
Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott
Circulation Manager
Charles Watt
Circulation Manager
John Crichton
Rasier Freeze
Collection Manager
Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history and welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Amidst Our Blessings

Thanksgiving this year gives all Americans an excellent opportunity to view their situation and be truly thankful. But while many of us have said this in the past, and will again say it this year, just how many will stop to consider thoughtfully just how fortunate we are?

We at Davidson have blessings almost unnumbered. We live in a free country. We think as we please, meet when and where we please, say what we please, and if we don’t like something someone does, we can look him in the eye and tell him just where to get off. Our nights are not filled with the drone of bombers, nor our days with the thunder of marching feet. Our hospitals are filled with people, but not because of high-powered explosives which maim and kill. Our fire departments do rush forth to battle flames, but they are not the product of incendiary bombs. Our newspapers do not carry the daily casualty lists. For these things we can be thankful.

But we at Davidson have even more things to be thankful for, even though we do take most of them for granted. Our opportunities are multitudinous. Through no work of our own, in most cases, we have received the greatest advantages which can be made possible for young men. Here we are able to receive an education equal to any offered by a college with similar aims and purposes. Our student body is of the highest type, and it is indeed a privilege to live for four years in close contact with such a group. Notwithstanding the continuous “griping” which seems to be characteristic of homo sapiens, most students will agree that the numerous advantages of the college outweigh easily the faults which must be present with any earthly thing. And yet what have we done to deserve these things? Why should not some less fortunate young men have taken our place here, while we slaved away at some tiresome and monotonous job? What special virtue have we which entitled us to become the recipients of so many enviable opportunities? Are we essentially “better” than the thousands of other youths throughout the country who never went to college? Or were we just lucky in that our parents were able to give us these advantages? Sometimes it would pay to think about these things. Perhaps by this we could realize the moral responsibility placed on us along with the advantages. And in the meanwhile, we do have much to be thankful for. Maybe too much for the best.

With the Staff
By BILL LYMAN

It was dead hour. Only "grinders" for their theme paper had found time to whip in "grindings" of theme paper, ink, store, and the other essentials involved in getting set for driving. No bull sessions even hinted continuance on the green counter seats that support the finest baler ever produced. Such characters as P and S would appear later on in the evening to keep conversation going and varying from studies to the most remote weekend results. Freshmen, sophs, juniors, and even seniors tripped in at various times to listen to the sessions of these dealers.

7:15: Two frosh appeared in their simplest frosh manner and wanted to know if it was all right for two people to buy the same kind of stationery. One of these freshmen found the necessary extra dough to procure a rat cap to send to some old acquaintance long since left behind.

7:45: The seniors came in to vote on their senior blazer from the samples left by three or four concerns bidding for the choice of the class of 1941. These seniors also found time and funds to cut a coke, and in the process wound up on the green "session seat," where one immediately procured a pipe from somewhere in the inner recesses of his bosom and soon took on the appearance.

8:00: Two "Davidsonian" reporters strayed in abruptly, looking for a story on the number of drops of Coca-Cola consumed during a four-hour period at the stud. After being frantically quizzed concerning the number of cokes consumed in a year, the number of drops which the average student guzzled at one sitting, and the number of straws used per night, they rushed madly out into the rainy night (the monsoon had just set in), leaving the remaining students slightly agape.

8:30: Groups of three and four wandered in from glee club practice at Shearer Hall. However, they found this of little interest to the majority of the men present and soon gave in to the general trend of women and football.

9:00: Dead hour changed to rush hour. In 15 minutes about 50 people came in. A few clung on to hear the results of the story then in progress. The girls met a woman companion on the ship and the women were to be met by one (I never did find out which) at the dock. With the women getting more mixed up, someone jerked the lights a couple of times, bringing forth loud exclamations from those present and stopping the erstwhile romanticist cold in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. As the lights came back on, G. Miller tuned up, but when the crowd realized it was only an electrical transcription from WAI, the usual noise broke forth once more. The story continued, broken now and then by "20 simple rules for winning a box of dog biscuit from the None Letter Canine Food Corp, Incorporated of New York." This startling announcement was repeatedly bringing in the roar of the static as the clerk rang up three cents on the new, super-colossal, iridium, marvelous, practical, shiny, economical, time-saving, beautiful cash register.

9:15: The breaking up of a "Y" conference in Phi Hall occasioned the entrance of five new studs. Their discussion being of a rather weighty nature was not readily understandable to the multitude, so they were left peacefully to chatter on. Just then someone put one too many milk bottles on the pile in the box, causing all to roll down to the bottom amid sundry exclamations of fear and excitement.

10:30: A breezy little junior in a mixed R.O.T.C and pajamas whipped in to find if there were any stamps for sale. Consternation reigned when the question became known, but the explanation that it was only his fourth visit to the outside world since he hit Rumple seemed to satisfy all. Amid the mob scene which was constantly changing, the clerk attempted vainly to fill the coke cooler, only to be forced to drop his bottles every five seconds to make change at the register.

10:45: My relief still hasn't showed up, so I am resigned to a full night here. He is probably enjoying that sleep.

War Its Thousands Slays; Peace Its Ten Thousands

The nation has engaged in six major wars since its birth in 1776. In total, these wars extended over a period of about fifteen years. The number of American soldiers killed in action or died of wounds during these fifteen years of war was 244,357. Now look at our fifteen-year highways.

Letters to the Editor

Why Should Two Pay All?

Last week two members of the student body, from families of more-than-average prestige and wealth, were singled out and presented with a bill for $230.00 for the damage done to the two-literary society halls. Since all the students agree that it would be unfair for the ownership of these two buildings to pass into the hands of two boys, here are several excellent suggestions as to how the students could reimburse the unlucky pair:

1. Instead of putting anything in the collection plates at vespers for the next few months, turn what they would have donated over to the "reimbursement fund." This would also save the YMCA a lot of trouble getting students to take up collection every Sunday.

2. Do away with the SYS Christmas fund this year and set up a sinking fund for all future damages to buildings. This might be accomplished by having the students around, how it year's fund could be set aside for this purpose, too.

3. Let the students have an "Old Clothes Sale" themselves, and leave all the charitable enterprises of the town of Davidson out in the cold this winter.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

them over | Endowment to the students. Of course, all these ideas are absurd, but they are no more fan- pay for what half the student body did, and at the invitation of the recently released by pose can there be in the killing of The Travelers Insurance Com- these hundreds of thousands on the highways? Societies, even share, We can then turn the money in an efficient method of collection. 

1928...... 29,533 
1929...... 27,618 
1930...... 32,540 
1931...... 33,346 
1932...... 29,196 
1933...... 31,076 
1934...... 35,769 
1935...... 36,023 
1936...... 37,500 
1937...... 40,300 
Grand Total..... 441,912 

Fifteen years of war, 244,357 casualties; fifteen years of peace, 441,912 traffic deaths! In war, our soldiers fought and died. 

Many members of the faculty agree that these bodies brought on their own downfall. It was just an unfortunate occurrence which could very easily have been avoided. Should the last taste of it be made to linger on? However, it is extremely unlikely the faculty will forget. Why should the members of the student body be requested to donate a small sum each? I was not on the campus when the incident occurred, but I will be glad to contribute my share. Tell them to stick it in the bank or any other place they might desire, and forget about the whole thing. The students have already apologized through their official news organ, “The Davidsonian.” After this payment, it seems that our debt to society and the literary halls should be more than paid in full. I just happened to remember: 50 cents per head for damages done, but it was decided that it wouldn’t be “honorable” to charge the innocent boys. My reply is that this method is far more honorable than the present voted assessment. Please apologize for me to all those who would take the wrong part of this letter in the wrong way. I think the majority of students are pretty good guys, even though others don’t agree with me. 

Yours for more two-way cooperation, 
A SENIOR.

Film Report Card — By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Nov. 28, 29, and 30
“Dreaming Out Loud”—Lum and Abner, Frances Langford, Frank Craven, and Phil Harris. Lum and Abner, the radio stars, return from the radio to the stage and give us their homespun philosophy at their country store. The story drags at first until a city case of bath salts. From then on, the troubles of Frank Craven, the hit-and-run driver, and the illness of Bob Watson, which leads to the solving of the hit-and-run accident by serious Lum and Abner, will keep you quite entertained. As a whole, the show is disappointing.

Late Show Saturday, Nov. 30
“East of the River,” starring John Garfield, will be shown at a late show on Saturday night.

Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 2 and 3
“Moonlight in the Tropics”—Virginia Bruce returns to give us a great love and adventure story that is centered around the tropical islands. Due to the fact that we could not see the preview of this show, it will be impossible to describe the minor points.

Wednesday, Dec. 4
“Xmas in July”—Dick Powell and Ellen Drew. The story of “Xmas in July” is pretty fantastic—all about the adventures of a young couple who set out to spend $25,000 which they think they have won in a slogan contest, only to learn that their celebration is a bit—oh, quite—premature. Dick’s and Ellen’s performances, Sturges’ direction, and clever highlights, such as the antics of the slogan contest jury and the satire on slogan contests in general, add up to excellent entertainment.

Day’s Diary by Bill Lemmon

The possibility of the “right” kind of dates for Baxter Freeze and his cohorts in Wilmington this weekend. Good luck, boys. Hope none of you are disappointed. Matt Long couldn’t see his way clear to catch Monday breakfast after a LONG weekend in Virginia and Washington. From what bits of news he has permitted to escape from rather tight lips, it must have been some hangover. The popular and exclusive but elite night spot... Comes word from the 4-H Club regions that Ed Loy and Fritz Gwynn made auspicious debuts at the party in Berryhill. Understand that all the innocent young girls went simply wild over the college Lochinvars. The SPE’s honored their conquests with a presentation of engraved baby rattles. It has been quipped that Sandifer is the “error” rent: Massenet’s vehicle, Margin for Error. At any rate, the not-too-hard-to-look-at feminine lead from Charlotte had quite a time persuading Sandy to put his arms around her during one of the scenes of rehearsals. Not timid, are you, Sandy? Memories of last year’s dope material were revived over the weekend when Scotty Dameron, one-time favorite of last year’s student body president and Hub- were espied running the W. C. girls competition during the Converse holidays. Don’t know which one had the Guilford sheik in tow, much Greensboro’s Sunset. Dan Hodges and Paul Barger on his return from G’boro was in the vicinity at the wee small hours of Sunday’s dawn. Seems that someone of the trio insisted upon contacting a girl in the Twin City late Saturday night. Add familiar scene: one Miss Crane from out West B. G. Virginia way saying goodbyes affectionately two out of the past four Sunday nights at the local bus stop. Seems to me that it’s a mighty long way over the hills to come merely to see one’s brother? There seems to be little difficulty arising in evidence at Lee Liles and Bubbles Coleman—all-time heart-throb of a noxious junior from Richmond; attendance in Charlotte recently. This inform me that P. Pex is all aglow over the unexpected attendance. Yehoodi Johnston places no credence in “Aushgrams”—as he completely ignored a last-minute plea for salvation from his Hollins babe and took off on his excursion anyway. Can imagine her chagrin upon receiving a wire sent while en route informing her of his intent regardless. He must be holding little unexpected power, though, because he affirms that he had the date. Not to be outdone, Ben Lacy, Yehoodi’s roomie, managed to line himself up with two dates for a coming social function. Believe that the situation has been relieved by now though. Edmundson was certainly upset when he received a wire from his “old flame” in Virginia telling him she would be in G’boro over the weekend and would like to see him. Rusty already had a date in that city and decided that staying on campus would be the better part of valor. What excuses did you use, Rusty? C. C. Morehead, Johnny Fredericks, and Herb Rainey descended on S. C. over the weekend. A couple of Statesville misses still can’t understand what happened to their football heroes. George Buckley has become so “starved” since coming South that he has taken to frequent trips to Charlotte and Kannapolis to sate his desires... Hope that he picked the right restaurants. Duck Martin brings back stories of the “beautiful scenery” in the hills of Tennessee. On the same trip, Jay Bolin reports nothing but football and Dick Shore reports simply nothing—you see, his heart is still in G’boro. A summer school romance that is still alive... And finally, we note with interest that Tom Bell continues the summer school traditions of Cupid and is still more than attentive to a lovely local lass at WC.

On the Antics of Student Salesmen:

There are a great many students on the campus who represent clothing houses, shoe concerns, cigarette manufacturers, and various other mercantile firms. There are also a goodly number who have begun private retail enterprises. These are the men who, in plying their trades, plaster trees and bulletin boards with various entreaties and grand announcements. These vendors use many and varied approaches in disposing of their goods. Let us consider first the quasi-psychological or hearty, effusive approach in which the salesman begins the assault by attempting to cajole his subject into a good humor. He breezes into one’s room with a hearty: “Hello, Bill... not studying are you?... fine... by the way, how’s your sister.”... “Oh, you don’t have a sister... then how’s your brother.” Having by these devices readied his prospective vendor, he then proceeds into a discussion of his wares. Next, there is the type that uses satire or sarcasm in order to put his product across. He ambles rather than breezes in, takes a leisurely seat, fixes an appraising eye on, for instance, your shoes, and remarks: “Where’d you get those bargains... at the general store?” Or possibly he will administer a more severe cut as “hmm, bought those your freshman year at a fire sale, didn’t you?” Thus by deflating their prospects, these men often secure a speedy sale or an equally speedy no-sale. Again, there is the casual, off-hand salesman who saunters in, borrows a smoke, and conversationally puts forward his product. Probably he is in the business for the fellowship or for the heck of it, for the volume of his sales is not likely to be high. Free advertising is available to such salesmen in the form of chapel announcements. They compose novel and witty edicts and have certain accomplices to start the booing when the commercial touch becomes evident. The greater the volume of boos, the more his wares come before the public eye. A very interesting situation arises when salesman meets salesman in the process of a dormitory canvass. Proposal is met by counter-proposal, and generally, the situation terminates in a deadlock. Freshmen are without a doubt the class that these salesmen prefer to work on, they being as a rule the most gullible and willing. They are usually push-overs for novelties especially, such as pennants, plaques, etc. Within them, the patriotic fire waxes eloquent. In most cases, the monetary gain of these student salesmen is not great, but they are recompensed by the wealth of experience that their various receptions afford.