Thurs., March 14, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Week Lee

Since the outburst last week of the Scripts ‘n’ Pranks the question has arisen as to what to do with this magazine. There is agitation on the campus of doing away with it entirely. With this in mind the staff presents the question that will interest all; namely, “What is your opinion of the Scripts ’n’ Pranks?”

Paul Bumbarger, Junior: The magazine? Well, in the inimitable words of Mischa Auer, “Confidentially, eet steenks.” Just because a lot of trash has been thrown its way, there is no excuse for it to throw all the stuff back at the student body. Someone should report the editor to Jim Farley for using the mails to defraud. If he would only admit that the “Davidsonian” is a publication and quit knocking it every issue, he might spend more time looking for jokes and find a funny one some day. P.S.—Don't anybody tell her I said this.

Ralph Clontz, Freshman: Aside from the attempts of the archaeologically-inclined so-called humorists, the other departments are very instructive and very interesting in the “Scripts 'n Pranks.” “Peeping Tom” seems to get the newest news of any of the workers. He is beaten only by one... Means. As a whole, the Scripts ’n’ Pranks is a periodical, and one to go?

Joe Liles, Junior: The magazine should be annihilated, and liquidated and wiped off the campus. Not that it would do any good, for the persistive slow-footed Abernathy would continue to dish out his quarterly dish of salty mush even if the Dies Committee, N.L.R.B., the Ways and Means Committee, LCC, and Executive Committee all gave it the “no soap” sign. Not that Abernathy’s atrocity is much worse than the general run of jokes—they are all a putrid lot. Very constructive criticism of the week is that the atrocity should be worked over in the general form of “Film Fun.”

Lawson Withers, Junior: Magazine? What magazine? If you mean that censored collection of assorted grammar school themes, I think the government should step in and stop such a flagrant waste of our wood pulp supply. What Davidson needs is a humor magazine or a literary magazine. I have seen one on the campus stopped sending the Carolina Buccaneer through the mail. Mr. Abernathy and his stooges are laying themselves open to plagiarism charges every time they pick up the scissors—and the college would be sued too, if the real authors thought anyone read the Scripts 'n Pranks.

Tom Cauble, Junior: Well, frankly I'd hate to see it razed, but I hope the flames rage long enough for us to get Abernathy firmly ensconced in his fierce domicile. I think the “Scripts 'n Pranks”—both the funny and the fierce—should go. However, the aged potent order does have a plea for clemency—it is funny and fitting funeral for the old order.

University of Wisconsin men have organized an interpretative dance class.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Shampoo’s A Specialty
Johnson’s Barber Shop

Cabinet Lays Chapel Plans
Series Of Pre-Easter Projected By YMCA

A special series of devotional programs is being presented by the Y.M.C.A. cabinet during the chapel exercises from Tuesday, March 12 through Monday, March 18. They are given as pre-Easter services. The theme is built around the Life of Christ, six scenes from His life being presented: His boyhood, the calling of the disciples, Christ and the rich young ruler, the transfiguration, the crucifixion, and the resurrection.

Announced Monday

The series were announced at Chapel on Monday. The student body was requested by President Spencer to be as quiet as possible when coming into chapel and also during the services. The devotionals are planned after a general pattern that has been used successfully by conferences, young people’s organizations, and other groups in the church. Leaders of the programs are Bob Ramsey, George Milne, Bill Perdue, [Continued on Page Six]

NORGE GAS RANGE
RULANE GAS RANGE
GROCERIES
HARDWARE
M. H. Goodrum Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Printing
A COMPLETE service as near as your Telephone. Dial 6300
Printing is our Business
For a representative
Printers of The Davidsonian
Garland Court
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
ESTABLISHED 1907
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SPENCER MARCHES UNDER SWORDS

Captain Samuel Reid Spencer, Jr. is shown above with Miss Scotty Damefon of the Davidson ROTC, as they marched beneath the arch of upraised swords at the recent Scabbard and Blade military ball. This dance was held in the American Legion Armory-Auditorium last Friday night. Dean Hudson furnished the music for this as well as the other three dances in the last Davidson dance set. The arch was formed by newly initiated juniors—(Photo courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Frosh Debate Deferred

Details Regarding Unexpected Postponement Not Yet Ascertained

Many were the lovers of good argument who were keenly disappointed to find no lights, no debaters, no heat, and no debate when they appeared at the Phi Hall Monday night. Details of the call-off have not yet been discovered.

“What Is Life?” Is Subject Of McGeachy

Rev. D. P. McGeachy, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., delivered the sermon at Vespers last Sunday evening, March 16. For the Freshman and Sophomore courses, the grades will cover one set of scheduled reviews. The upperclassmen may obtain their grades on March 20.Deen Miscovered, Out Telarc taking as his text, “What Ischife??4 tain’ help eradesvontthe day. of information has been offered that the teams were anxious to debate. Dr. McGeachy selected as his text the last part of the 14th verse of the fourth chapter of James: “What is your life? For ye are a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away.”

Not to be disappointed at the lack of occupation during an evening which had been long reserved, the debating teams deployed between the local cinema houses. It is rumored that a prominent member of the Forensics Council spent a large half of the evening in making up beds for the visiting debaters. Whether or not the debaters returned from the Charlotte trip in sufficient time to make use of these troublesome accommodations is doubtful.

Seriously speaking, the debate call-off was due to a misunderstanding on the part of the local team. Some two or so weeks ago, the Frosh had prepared an argument on international politics, while the Darlingtons had a subject of railroads.

Dr. McGeachy answered his text by stating that life is a mist, here today—gone tomorrow. “It is an unstable, transient, uncertain, mysterious, awesome mist,” he said. “Life is at best a mystery.” From various figures of speech, he drew comparisons between life and mist. “Life is a powerful vapor, filled with power,” continued the speaker. He showed that this power may be constructive or destructive.

1940 Summer School Opens In June

Summer school will begin on June 12 this year, according to an announcement made to The Davidsonian by Dr. E. H. Fleagle this week. The faculty will consist of members of the regular faculty, but Dr. Fleagle, dean of the summer session, declined to announce which professors would compose this staff.

All of the regular courses will be offered provided at least 6 students apply for them. Dr. Fleagle said that any senior who needed a course to graduate should see him immediately. A student may take only one year's work, that is 6 hours of academic work or eight hours of laboratory work.

Scarlett and Rhett

SPECIAL! SPRING SOCKS AND SHIRTS

We Appreciate Your Patronage

SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE Davidson, N. C.

Thurs.-Fri., March 14th-15th. “HOUSE ACROSS THE BAY” Mon.-Tues., March 18th-19th. “THREE CHEERS FOR THE IRISH” Wednesday, March 20th. “RIDE ’EM COWBOY” DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C.

Come In For That Pre-Class Cup Of Coffee LITTLE-PEP Davidson, N. C.

THE CANDY OF THE SOUTH $1.50 the pound

The joyous act of giving at Easter can be expressed so thoughtfully with Nunnally’s—"The Candy of the South” for more than half a century.

The College Pharmacy “Davidson’s Service Drug Store” HUGO SAPP, Mgr.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn Returns From Council Meeting

Dr. P. H. Gwynn of the Davidson College Faculty returned early this week from New York City, where he attended a two-day meeting of the Fellowships Committee of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education.

The duty of this committee, according to Dr. Gwynn, is to choose from a hundred applicants to whom Fellowships will be given by the Council.

Financial Aid

The National Council on Religion in Higher Education was founded on the belief that the religious interest in our colleges depends on the interest of the teachers. To this end, the Council provides financial aid to graduate students who have a religious approach to their studies and who look forward to becoming teachers and administrators in higher education, to enable them to secure adequate preparation both in their field of specialization and in religious philosophy and methodology. These fellows find responsible positions in higher education and with them gives assistance to colleges in planning their courses of student religious work.

College seniors and graduates looking forward to professional careers in higher education in the United States and Canada who are interested in the purposes of the Council, and in participation in its Society of Fellows, and who are of Catholic, Jewish, or Protestant faiths are eligible to apply for the fellowships.

A Wide Field

All of the fields of college teaching and administration, including the university pastorate, are recognized as within the scope of the Council's interest. This year, six students have been selected to receive fellowships.

Every day people the world over stop a moment...enjoy an ice-cold Coca-Cola...and go their way again with a new after-sense of complete refreshment. The pause that refreshes is a real idea, really refreshing. Delicious and Refreshing

THE PAUSE THAT REFRESHES

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Monday and Tuesday, March 18 and 19 MAE WEST W. C. FIELDS “MY LITTLE CHICKADEE” STAR THEATRE CORNELIUS, N. C. Station Wagons. Run—11 P. M., 7 P. M., 9 P. M. For Special Parties Call Mooney’s Service Station