Thurs., March 7, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Harmon Ramsey Has ‘So What’ Little Rock, Arkansas, Pastor Speaks Here At Vespers

Rev. Harmon Ramsey of the Central Presbyterian Church in Little Rock, Ark., preached at the Vespers Service and the morning
service at the Presbyterian Church last Sunday. Mr. Ramsey, brother of Bob Ramsey, Davidson senior, graduated from Davidson College. He
then attended Louisville Theological Seminary, from which he graduated with honors. He studied abroad at Edinburgh and Cambridge Universities.

‘So What’

The theme of Mr. Ramsey's vespers sermon was “So What?” He asked the questions “What are the facts that gaunt
us?” and “What are the consequences?” “The central fact of the questions is Jesus Christ,” he stated. Mr. Ramsey then
pictured Christ as the Ideal, The Redeemer, and the Judge. He said that no one can afford to be indifferent
to Christ.

Asks Questions

The speaker asked a long series of questions that are pertinent to the students of today, and added a reply
to the “so what” which was added to each question. Mr. Ramsey, at this time pastor of a large church
in Little Rock, has held several other posts in churches of Arkansas. He is a native of Jonesboro, Arkansas.

Eight Invested Ten Girls Are Made Second Class Scouts

Girl Scout Troop No. 16 of Davidson entertained with an investiture service last Wednesday afternoon, at which eight girls were
invested and ten girls received second class rating. This service, which was held at the Presbyterian Church, took the form
of an investiture tea. About fifty guests were present to observe the circle ceremonies of saluting the flag and lighting
the candles, representing the Girl Scout Laws. Mrs. W. C. Lingle, wife of the President of Davidson College, was invested
with a miniature gold Girl Scout pin, as honorary president of the troop.

Girls Serve

Girls who had completed the hostess badge and fan which they made served the sandwiches, punch, and cakes. The motif
of Saint Patrick’s Day was used in the decorations. Mrs. Fulcher, chairman of the mothers' committee, served punch. Mrs. G.
T. Mackenzie, captain of the troop, and Mrs. P. H. Gwynn and Mrs. Knight, lieutenants, were in charge of this
ceremony.

AMONG THE GREEKS

Phi Gamma Delta

Brothers Otts, Stowe, and Holland spent the weekend in Lynchburg. Bill Mitchell, Long, and Cookie Taylor visited Brother Parrish in
Winston-Salem. Brother Plyler attended the dances at State. Dan Throop, Greasy Hodges, and Kid Oliver went to Converse Tuesday. Brothers
W. Wooten and Williams went to the jamboree in Mooresville Saturday night, and Brother Gilliam went to Washington.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Brothers FitzGerald and Edmondson went home to Tarboro and Crewe, Va., respectively. Friday night the 71st annual banquet celebrating Founders
Day was held, with Dr. U. S. Gordon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Gainesville, Fla., presiding as main
speaker and National Chaplain.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brothers Johnson, Austin, and Hudson spent the weekend in Winston-Salem and Lynchburg. Brother Grosse attended the dances at State. Brother
Harrison went to Greensboro. Formal initiation will be held tonight.

Food Officer

J. L. McClintock of the class of '10 was last month named head of the Mecklenburg Food Stamp issuing office
in Charlotte. Mr. McClintock is 51 years old and is an uncle of Gales McClintock of the graduating class of
'40. One of his assistants, Con- nell, is also a Davidson graduate, finishing in 1936. The group, named by a
special session of the county commissioners, has as its task issuing food stamps to the needy of Mecklenburg County. They
are authorized by the Surplus Commodity Corporation and are furnished the stamps by the local welfare department instead of money.
By the food stamp system, those desiring food are given stamps which they exchange for food at the grocer's. The
grocer in turn, turns the stamps into the Federal warehouse.

Opera Will Be Given

“Iolanthe,” one of Gilbert and Sullivan’s most popular operas, will be given by the Queens and Davidson music departments next
May, Prof. James Christian Pfohl announced today. Choral tryouts for this week under the direction of Prof. Thane McDonald, Mr.
Pfohl, and Miss Grace Robinson and Ethel King of Queens. Davidson's music head declared that the chorus will be open
to any member of the student body. Candidates are asked to sign up with either member of the music faculty
at once. Also helping in the production is Mr. Clifford Rummel of Charlotte.

Sigma Upsilon Hears Essays

Davidson Reads Last Chapter Of Novel

Sigma Upsilon held a regular meeting last Tuesday night. The scheduled program was presented earlier, but was not given due
to conflicts and the Senior Smoker trip. With Karl Hudson presiding, the program committee, Tom Perrin, chairman, presented the following
program. Papers were read by Dr. Rene deV. Williamson, Dr. W. A. Goldiere, and Professor Chalmers Davidson, as part of
the program. Dr. Goldiere’s paper was a sketch of his first impressions of Davidson as a young professor, some fifteen
years ago.

Davidson's Paper

Professor Davidson presented a special paper. His paper was the last chapter of a novel which has been written by
the student members.

Authority On South Pays Davidson Visit

Last week Davidson College was visited by Professor Richard Henry Edwards, noted authority on economic problems. This visit was part
of an extensive tour investigating the social conditions of the southern sharecropper and negro. His research has lasted three years
and has brought him into the city slums and poorer sections of farmland throughout the entire south. Professor Edwards said
that the change in the economic condition of the south should not be rushed, for such a plan would prove
disastrous. His wife is also an authority on social and economic conditions. She has written several books on the subject
and has conducted numerous classes for the poverty-stricken women of Dixie. Professor Edwards has held professorships at Southern and Vanderbilt
Universities.

Alumnus Gets Kappa Sigma House

Pi Kappa Phi

Pledges Knoeller, Yoter, and Straftdwitz attended the Swing Jamboree in Mooresville. Pledge brothers Covington and Larkin spent the weekend in
Greensboro; Brother Erb went to Salisbury; Brother Flynn attended dances at Salem College; Tom Frye went to Atlanta; and Brother
Boyce hunted in Bear Mountains. Major and Mrs. Ballard chaperoned a party Saturday.

Beta Theta Pi

Ed Taylor visited Al Winn in Greenville, S.C. Brothers Matthews, Mebane, Rankin, and Howell went to the basketball games and
dances in Raleigh. Charlie Sherman and Stanley McAfee went to Salem Academy. A feed was given for Dr. Harmon Ramsey
Sunday night.

Phi Delta Alpha

All the brothers enjoyed a feed which the Pikas invited them to on Sunday night. Brother McGeachy spent the weekend
in Rock Hill, and Brother Mashburn in Atlanta. Brothers Withers, Reinhardt, Rainer, and Wells went to Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha

Mason Wallace and V. Bo Royster attended the dances at Raleigh. Vernon Youngblood and Ray Hoover spent the weekend in
Concord.Notes Mrs. Smith Says Average Student’s Height And Weight Increasing

Mrs. Nannie Smith, dormitory supervisor, has called our attention to a newspaper article which she read recently. She tells us
that she might have written the same article about our beloved Davidson. It was an article stating that college men
are taller and heavier today than they were in former years. “They can’t tell me anything about this,” asserted Mrs.
Smith. “I've seen college men come and go for many years, but my observation as to their increasing height was
made long before this article was published. Why the difference is astounding!”

The article to which Mrs. Smith referred follows:

At Dartmouth, the modern freshmen class of ‘43 average 5 feet, 9 inches in height, weigh 152.6 pounds, and are
17.91 years old; while freshmen in the class of 1908 averaged 5 feet, 6 inches, 138.56 pounds, and 18.82 years.
The findings, announced by Professor Robert J. Delehanty, head of the college’s physical education department, were based on carefully kept
records of 18,506 Dartmouth students over the last thirty-five years. He added that the trend, also apparent in other colleges,
was largely due to radical advances and increased participation in recreation and sports programs.

[Continued on Page Six]

IN PERSON ... Thur. Only — 4 Shows

For the first time, here is your chance to see and hear “That Man of Mine Blues,” the world's greatest
trombone player and his orchestra ... The choice of the colleges ...

JACK TEAGARDEN AND HIS ORCHESTRA AND ENTERTAINERS ... featuring ... KITTY KALLEN, Lovely Songstress

—On The Screen— “MARRIED AND IN LOVE” ... With ... ALAN MARSHAL

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Senator Judicial Post

T. H. Stukes Elected To South Carolina Court

T. H. Stukes, a graduate of the class of ‘13, has recently been elected to the South Carolina Supreme Court.
Mr. Stukes, who comes from Manning, was formerly a member of the State General Assembly. He had been chosen on
the 71st ballot of the three-week election, receiving more votes than were necessary for a majority. Second on the ballot
was Arthur L. Gaston, Judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals, who received votes from 17 members of the State
General Assembly. Gaston is a member of the class of ‘17, while Stukes is a member of the class of
‘13.

Stukes attended Davidson, then did law work at Washington and Lee University. He went to World War I as a
first lieutenant in the air corps. He has been a Democratic Senator since 1926 and a member of the State
Executive Committee since 1938.

Dr. Gwynn and Mrs. Edwards were the guests last week of Dr. and Mrs. P. H. Edwards. For the past
three years, Professor Edwards has been studying southern economic problems intensively. His investigation has carried him from the poverty-stricken prairie
lands to the diversified farming areas. “The lack of a diversified farming system is the chief evil of the South,”
Professor Edwards cited. “Besides, the exploitation of cheap labor must be prevented. Many people do not recognize the changes that
have taken place in the South during the past 20 years. No one knows the answer to the many problems,
but a number of intelligent and interested people are working hard. All developments point to improvement and new conditions will
be made in the next few years.”

For the past 17 years, Professor Edwards has been director of religious work at Cornell University.

“Meet Me At - - - THE TAVERN” and the “HOTEL CHARLOTTE”

“HOTEL CHARLOTTE” wants to be headquarters for Davidson College and their friends.

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA “The Carolina’s Largest Hotel” J. FRANK GOUGH, Resident Manager

Printing Is Our Business

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY ESTABLISHED 1907

Printers of The Davidsonian

Complete printing service as near as your telephone. For a representative call 6300 CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Edwards Looks Over Campus

Sixteen Cadets Named On Rifle Team; W. E. Kunz Chosen Captain

At the drill on Feb. 26, the appointments to the 1940 R.O.T.C. Rifle Team were published officially by the first
sergeants of the various companies and the band. Members of the team, with Cadet Captain Walter E. Kunz as Captain,
include:

Cadet 1st Sergeant Pat H. Hollifield, Cadet Sergeant W. J. Bolin, and William R. Eagan; Cadet Corporals Robert E. Ballard
and Malcolm Kunz; Private 1st Class Southgate Jones; Private J. W. Barker, Jr.; and Privates Robert A. Gowdy, C. Alexander
McArthur, Rufus D. Wilson, S. Perry Withers, and William W. Wood, Jr.

Matches Scheduled

The team has quite a few correspondence and shoulder-to-shoulder matches scheduled for this season. Correspondence matches have been arranged with
the University of Florida, the University of Idaho, the University of Georgia, Virginia Military Institute, University of Maine, University of
South Dakota, Georgia School of Technology, University of Dayton, Washington University, and the University of Hawaii. On Saturday of this
week, the entire team [Continued on Page Six]

Band Entertains Phi Society’s Party

“Diz Dave’s” Ensemble Plays For Square-Dancing Guests From Queens

Dancing to the music of the Davidson Little Symphony Jug Band, the Philanthropic Literary Society played host to the spectators
and guests from Queens last Friday night at the community hut near Mt. Mourne where the groups did some fancy
square dancing and Virginia reeling.

After having made several unnecessary detours, the “Queens Special” arrived at the hut where they were greeted by the Davidson
men, thirty odd strong. Through the efforts of the genial master of ceremonies, Dan Walker, the boys soon found their
dates and the evening frolic began.

Melodious Rhythm

Lured inside by the melodious rhythm of the Davidson Original Little Symphony Jug Band, the literary jits began to square
dance. After two strenuous rounds, the group took an intermission and turned to roasting marshmallows and drinking fruit juice around
a nearby campfire.

Following the intermission, the band struck up again and square dancing was resumed. Dan Walker then stole the spotlight when
he conducted a “woman on the street” program with most of his questions centered around leap year customs. Interviewed on
the program was Mrs. N. T. Smith, college supervisor of dormitories, who said that as far as she could see
the customs [Continued on Page Six]

New Pajamas and Hats in the Interwoven new spring shades. The perfect gift to give you a new lift for
your step.

Tate Brown’s NEW YOUNG MEN’S SHOP

It will be open for you Saturday, Mr. Davidsonian—this smart, streamlined new shop for undergraduates. It’s designed to satisfy your
taste for all that’s new in clothes. Welcome to our NEW Young Men's Shop, you who want to wear new
things first. It’s the shop that Style, Smartness, and Individuality built just for YOU. Select your Spring outfit here, step
forth on the campus into gay weekends with the assurance your appearance will reflect good taste and the zest of
youth. Come up to our third floor, see the new fixtures and our greatly enlarged line of wearables. We'll welcome
you tomorrow or any day.

THE YOUNG MEN’S SHOP PRESENTS

Varsity-Town Clothes, Wilson Shirts, Botany Neckwear, Hickok Belts & Jewelry, Bantamac Rainjackets, Cravenetted Surcoats, Smart New Luggage for overnight or
long trips, Interwoven Socks, Sportswear, Underwear, and Telescope Hats.

TATE-BROWN CO. 126 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME

We serve delicious sandwiches and short orders at all times.

JIM’S TAVERN Davidson, N. C.
