ports lants

By BOB CARTER
Wildcat Sports

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN, Thurs. Oct. 24, 1940

HACKNEY DODGES SEWANEE’S BEARDEN

About The ’Cats

In regard to the game last Saturday night between the Wildcats of Davidson and the Tigers of Sewanee, we would like to quote an ancient proverb by Confucius or one of those fellers, to-wit: “He who didn’t get money’s worth is nuts.” Seldom has a more thrilling battle been waged than was unfurled before the spectators in the first meeting between these two ancient and esteemed institutions.

Take the first Sewanee score, for instance. The ball rested on the Tig seven, third down and seven to go, as the second quarter opened, with the Wildcats apparently in complete control of the situation. Then Earl Bearden passes to Woody Dunn who laterals to Frank Walker who runs thirty yards all by himself and bingo, Sewanee has a TD.

Davidson struck right back, with Dave Spencer, Johnny Fredericks, and Claude Hackney running, passing, and doing just about anything to drive over for the score, tying the count at 6-6. Things rocked along mildly with only three touchdowns being scored in the second and third periods. It was in the last quarter that “Old Man Thrill Kicked the Bucket” really and truly. With only six minutes of playing time remaining in the game, Sewanee held a 20-13 lead that looked as safe as the Rock of Gibraltar. Then with Davidson in possession of the pigskin on the Sewanee 40, Fredericks dropped back and threw a long pass to Hackney who was wide open on the ten. Bob Johnson again came through with the pressure on and split the uprights with a perfect placement.

About three minutes of the game remained as Davidson kicked off to Sewanee. A wild pass wandered into the arms of Dave Spencer and the 'Cats took possession of the ball on the ten-yard line. Three plays later Spencer shot through the line from the four and turned a tie into a glorious victory. Just for good measure, Johnson again kicked the extra point.

When it comes to singling out any of the Davidson team as individual stars, the task is an extremely difficult one. Fredericks’ accurate passing, Spencer’s fine running, and Hackney’s pass receiving are the most noticeable events in the victory. However, the play of the Wildcat line was the best seen on the Richardson field in many a moon. Jim Crutchfield’s savage down-field blocking, Bob Smith’s pass receiving, Don Bell’s and Hank Bahnson’s excellent tackling, are worthy of note, among many other things.

The two men probably least noticed contributed as much, if not more, than any other men on the field. Bob Johnson, playing his usual ferocious game at guard, broke through time and time again to spill the ball-carrier hard behind the line. Jay Bolin, backing up the line and working in the short back position on offense, picked up valuable yardage throughout the game on center sneaks.

As much as we hate to see either team lose such a tight battle, we are naturally glad to see the Wildcats win the opener in what this corner sincerely hopes will be a long rivalry. Sewanee is our type of school and we are sincerely looking forward to our games of the future with the lads from “The Oxford of the South.”

Chatter

Interesting to note that Centre has had scouts at every one of our games this year... Coach Little went out to look over the Praying Colonels a week ago and got to within 80 miles of where the game was supposed to be played, only to find that the Colonels had foxed him and played the night before... Kentucky and Notre Dame are the only big-time teams that still use a balanced line. By the way, the Irish used only 67 men in routing Carnegie Tech 61-0 last week... Preston Johnston, Southern Methodist star, followed up his 92-yard punt of a few weeks ago with a run of the same distance as the Mustangs beat Auburn 20-13.

Stick With The ’Cats.

Four Fraternity Teams Undefeated In Tourney

Schedule

Thursday:
K.A.’s vs. S.P.E.’s
Betas vs. Pikas

After the first two rounds of the interfraternity touch football tournament, the Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs, Kappa Alphas, and Betas remain undefeated.

Monday:
Pi Kappa Phi vs. Phi Delts
Kappa Sigs vs. Phi Delts

Tuesday:
Pikas vs. Pi Kapps
S.A.E.’s vs. S.P.E.’s
Phi Gams vs. Phi Delts
Betas vs. Kappa Sigs

Wednesday:
Phi Gams vs. Betas
Pikas vs. S.A.E.’s

Thursday:
K.A.’s vs. Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts vs. S.P.E.’s

The Kappa Sigs have looked very impressive in their wins over the Pikas and the SPE’s. Paced by Playing Manager Hogg, they are rated to go a long way toward the top in the current tourney. The Kappa Alphas are rated right along with the Kappa Sigs due to their wins over the Pikaps and the SAE’s. They have one of the best coordinated and snappiest looking teams in the tournament. Playing outstanding ball for the KA’s are McLean, Royster, Thomas, and Belk.

The Betas form the third part of the leading trio by virtue of victories over the Pi Kaps and the SAE’s. The fine passing and running of Walker, together with the consistent playing of Schmidt and...

The Phi Gams are trailing close behind the leaders with one win and one loss. After losing a heartbreaker to the SPE’s they got back in the win column by virtue of a hard-fought victory over the Pikas on Monday. Sparked by their triple threat, Dick Shore, they will undoubtedly end the tournament near the top.

Martin Leads Furman Team Against Cats

Furman’s Purple Hurricane Favored Over Improved Wildcats

With a team built around one of the best freshman squads from the Palmetto State last year, Furman’s Purple Hurricane will be pre-game favorites over the Davidson Wildcats when they play in Sirrine Stadium next Saturday. Captain Pepper Martin will lead the running attack from his wingback post and will be ably assisted by Jim Brazil. Both are of the scat back type and are fast in the open field. Paul Sizemore will hold down the tailback post. Big Dewey Proctor has taken over the fullback position left vacant by the graduation of All-Southern Roten Shetley. Weighing 190 pounds, he is the biggest man in the Hurricane backfield and runs with the same pile-driving knee action characteristic of Shetley.

Furman boasts a heavy line led by Alternate Captain Sam Fleming, Bill Cornwall, Gates Barker, and George Turner, all of whom weigh above the 190 mark.

Won Two, Lost Four

To date, the Furman team has won two of their four games this season. They scored impressive wins over Erskine and Citadel while dropping a 19-0 decision to a strong Wake Forest team and a 15-6 decision to Ohio University.

Coach McEver, pleased with the performance of his boys in defeating Sewanee, will have his underdog team set to pull an upset over the Furman team. The Wildcats showed marked improvement in their running attack against the Tennessee team.

Soccer Team Defeated 2-0

Davidson's soccer team, suffering from inexperience, dropped the first game of the year to High Point College, 2-0, in Davidson Friday afternoon. The next game will be with the University of Virginia here Saturday.

High Point licked the ‘Cats thoroughly, according to John Farrior, squad coach, but experience combined with a shift to a hard-charging front line should put the team in good shape for Virginia. A return match with High Point, generally considered one of the strongest elevens in the South, is on tap for Tuesday in High Point.

Individual stars for Davidson were hard to select, but Chal Vinson at goalie, Tommy Brown on right inside, Chester Pierce, halfback, and Joe Wilson all were reliable ‘Cat performers. A large turnout of talented freshmen should help rack up a number of wins. Included in the schedule are two games with Duke, Saturday’s encounter with University of Virginia here, a return match in Charlottesville on November 8, and the High Point game Tuesday.

Coach John Farrior commented that “The team looked fairly...well for its first game, and that he expected a good season.” Starting eleven for Davidson included Willard, Patterson, Pierce, Coppedge, Brown, Maxwell, Vincent, and Barnwell in the backfield has proven too much for their opposition so far. The Phi Delts recently rolled over the SAE’s in a second-round game and may prove to be the team to beat after a few more games.

PRINTING. ALWAYS ASK FOR “S & P” PRODUCTS Peanut Butter Sandwiches service as near as your telephone. For a representative... Is Our Business COMPLETE Printing Dial 6300 — 6309 Salted Peanuts Candy Printers of The Davidsonian Manufactured By SWINSON FOOD Charlotte, N. C. COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER Garland Court STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY, FRED H. PLEXICO, Owner Charlotte, N.C. Farrior, Murdock, Wilson, Hardy,

FIGHTING TACKLES DON BELL Hank Bahnson, senior, tackle from Winston-Salem, is a spark plug in the Davidson forward wall. Weighing only 180 pounds he has played consistently good ball for the starting eleven. Fitting neatly in the other tackle slot on the first string is big Don Bell, 235 pounder, from Bowling Green, Ohio. Power on both offense and defense, he turned in a stellar performance against Sewanee before an injured ankle forced him from the game.

HANK BAHNSON

Tigers, Devils Hold Lead In Southern Conference Duke's “Blue Devils” and Clemson’s Tigers will both go against conference foes this week in an attempt to notch another loop victory in their drive toward the Southern Conference title. Clemson's powerhouse, after a week’s rest, will tangle with South Carolina’s tough Gamecocks on Thursday at Columbia, while the Blue Devils of Duke will play at Wake Forest, in the dedication of the Deacons’ new stadium.

Wave, Bulldogs Invade Three other conference contests are scheduled for this weekend. Washington and Lee’s General meet Virginia Tech at Lynchburg, Davidson’s Wildcats will be seeking their first loop victory at Furman, and VMI will meet Richmond's Spiders at Richmond. In intersectional battles this week, Friday will find Oglethorpe at The Citadel and Maryland will meet Western Maryland at Baltimore, while William and Mary celebrates its homecoming against Virginia on Saturday. In two Southeastern-Southern Conference battles Tulane will play at North Carolina and Mississippi State will meet N. C. State at Raleigh.

Passes Click As Cats Win Davidson's thrilling victory over Sewanee, 27-20, was largely accounted for by the brilliant passing of Johnny Frederick along with Dave Spencer shared a 588 passing average, completing 10 out of 17 aerials. Sewanee’s passes were more effective but fewer in number, completing four out of six. In the yards gained by rushing, the 'Cats held a large margin, running up 178 yards against their opponents’ 122. However, Sewanee lost only 19 yards in this department while the 'Cats surrendered 28. Bearden, Sewanee's ace kicker, out-punted Frederick 6 yards in turning in a 40-yard punting average. Bahnson, who Coach Spearman claims is the best man he has ever seen on going down under punts, along with Niven and Smith allowed the Tennesseeans only 4 yards of punt returns, while the 'Cats managed to total 27 yards.

Wildcats Snatch Tilt From Tigs With Last Quarter Touchdown Spencer Intercepts Sewanee Pass to Set Up Last Minute Score in Cats’ Victory; Hackney Ties Count in Final Period With Long Pass With the score tied at 20-all and two minutes of playing time left, Dave Spencer intercepted one of Earl Beardon’s passes on the visitor’s 30-yard line and ran it to the ten, where two plays later he ran off tackle to score, winning the game for the Wildcats over the dangerous Sewanee Tigs 27-20. After a second-quarter score by the Purples the 'Cats repeatedly tied the score and finally jumped ahead in the closing minutes to come out on top.

Sewanee Scores On the first play of the second period Earl Beardon, Purple tailback, passed to Woody Dunn for 30 yards where, as Hackney tackled him, lateraled to End Frank Walker, who crossed the goal standing up. The Wildcats fought right back, Fredericks and Spencer running and passing with Hackney taking the ball on reverses to the seven. On three tries Johnnie Fredericks put it over to tie the score 6-6. The Tigs returned Johnson's kickoff to the 42 and advanced to the 'Cat 15 on aerials. A flat pass to Macon tallied and Sewanee led at the half, 13-6. Smith and Hackney gave Davidson the ball on the enemy four, and Fredericks hit center for the score. Johnson’s conversion was good. Score: 13-13. Another lateral advanced the ball deep into 'Cat territory, and several plays later Lyle scored from the 10, giving the Tigs a 20-13 lead.

Passes Final Touchdown Then late in the fourth quarter Sophomore John Fredericks dropped back and threw a pass to Claude Hackney that netted 40 yards and a touchdown. Bob Johnson kicked the extra point and tied the score once more. With the game almost over, Dave Spencer intercepted a pass on the ten. From there the 'Cats took it over for the touchdown and the game.

Hillers Nose Out Kittens An improved Davidson freshman eleven, still seeking their first taste of victory, bowed to the heavy Mars Hill team last Friday afternoon in Richardson Stadium in a game that saw the lead change four times. Making seven first downs to the Mars Hillers’ six, the Kittens outplayed the visitors in every department except kicking. The long, high punts of Edwards proved effective, and time and time again put the Kittens back deep in their territory with his quick kicks. Davidson was first to score when in the first quarter Bruce flipped the oval to Williams on his 20, who ran the remaining distance for the score. Bethea’s try for conversion was good. The mountaineers came back in the second stanza to tie the score when Smith swept right end into pay dirt. Carr’s placement split the uprights for the extra point.

Kittens Launch Drive In the second half the Davidson first-year men launched a 66-yard march sparked by Bethea and Bruce, running up four first downs before scoring. Again it was Bethea who smashed the center for the tally. The extra point was gained by a placement by Bruce. A few seconds later, McGeachy took two short passes from Carr which were good for six points. Carr again converted and the score was tied, 14-14. Determined to score again, Mars Hill halted several long drives by the Kittens and then took possession of the pigskin on their own 29-yard stripe after an exchange of punts. McGeachy hit the center of the line, broke loose into the secondary and raced over the goal to put the visitors in the lead again, 20-14.

Wakes Win In the two circuit battles last week, North Carolina defeated a tough N. C. State 13-7, and Washington and Lee eked out a 3-0 victory over a favored Richmond eleven. Most of the Southern Conference teams played intersectional games last week, with Duke’s 13-0 victory over Colgate pacing the way. Other teams in the victory column last week were Davidson with a 27-20 victory over Sewanee; Wake Forest overcame Marshall College 31-19; VMI upset Virginia 7-0, and William and Mary ran over Hampden-Sydney 41-0. Several teams were defeated by outside foes, with Maryland falling to Florida 0-19 and Ohio University rolling over Furman 15-6.

Now through Tuesday It’s 1940's SMASH HIT! MICKEY ROONEY JUDY GARLAND PAUL WHITEMAN And His Orchestra —in— “Strike Up The Band” Starts Wed., Oct. 30th. DOROTHY LAMOUR ROBERT PRESTON PRESTON FOSTER —in— “MOON OVER BURMA” CAROLINA THEATRE Charlotte - North Carolina

PLEXICO PRODUCTS COMPANY NOW IS THE TIME To Prepare Your Car for the Winter FLUSH THE RADIATOR WITH Plexico Radiator Cleaner The Cleaner that will prevent overheating from lack of circulation. NON-INJURIOUS TO METAL HOSE CONNECTIONS SOLD AT ALL STORES Manufactured By— Charlotte, N.C.