Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Nov. 14, 1940

ECHOES of the PAST

TEN YEARS AGO
Rufus Morrow wins first freshman cake fate. Davidson defeats Wofford, 13-0... Dr. Kirkpatrick, former Oxford professor, turns to tasks of
drilling men as England awaits Nazi invasion... Red and Black Mascot "Beester" Burwell sighting a difficult shot with a new
pool cue. Yes, no more pool shooting with a snake for a cue, for we have the new table with
complete equipment.

FIVE YEARS AGO
Homecoming crowd sees Duke beat Davidson, 26-7... Branton, Cunningham, Guffin, Harlan, Marsh, Morrow, and Purnell... Portrait of Dr. William J.
Martin, president emeritus of Davidson College, hung in library... Duke Frosh crush Kittens, 33-0... Armistice observed by special service at
Davidson Presbyterian Church.

THREE YEARS AGO
Earl Mellon supplies music for Homecoming... Organic chemistry voted hardest course... Harvard eleven licks stubborn 'Cats, 15-0, in muddy game...
Student body votes for control of drinking... Kittens defeat Blue Ridge Hilltoppers by 7-2... Lafferty appointed vice-president of R.O.A. chapter
in Charlotte... Blue Devil soccer men kick 'Cats, 3-0... Dick Shore wins freshman tennis match... Band takes Harvard trip with
team.

ROOMMATES
Alpha Epsilon Delta held its monthly meeting at the "Kappa Sigma" house November 6th. The feature of the program was
the talk by Mr. Brenizer, of Charlotte, who spoke to the group. The fraternity will have Mr. Brenizer speak again
in the near future. The fraternity officers are: President, Bob Smith; Secretary-Treasurer, Malcolm Kuntz.

PHI MU ALPHA
Phi Mu Alpha held a meeting on November 6th. The following appointments have been made on the "Y" organized staff:
Mail carrier, Gordon Skirrow; Pool orderlies, Tom Mills and Leo Johnson; Magazine orderly, Leo Johnson; Reading room orderly, Bob Klontz;
Lost and found orderly, Ralph Klontz.

SAE
Louis Hite, president; Magill, vice-president; Jim Crook, secretary; David Huffines, warden. All of us were struck with the realness of
Dr. Thomas as a preacher when he arrived Monday for our services. By the time that this is printed, we
will be well underway with the meetings. More will be said about this later, but we already know how fortunate
we are to have a man of this type to represent us.

AMONG THE GREEKS
Usual visitors at the S.P.E. house this weekend were Miss Sarah and Miss Jane.Soothes irritation; (3) at tenes iy, Pete
Monxoc nd D sh ne passages, clearing transient congestion.

Duke and feed Suatiay nis KS YA-TRO-NOL anded Latin-An it ul we d a bd.

Che r r of agai me t eve i H ar C,) Latin Ase n.

Give ’em the SMOKER’S cigarette.

ANG) direotir ideastin Y embarrassit cy ized, aS Colninbia In pre years, these, re d t h.

Fue atte ategee ot Cis Contcal (entunell Tac this Ie EES thes and watch em register.

Otte clas per Che Hl elebrat that they Ss itt Vay imate 1 oh never treshmen. However, thi To drill
Id Durin hre irs as the worst offenders seem to be the freshmen, who, when they the upperclassmen pass a
boy at once copied them and passed.

1915, Chester was a re classm On ne BGca ion, the freshmen became so unruly that President Hank Bahnson asked
themselves trom that the rest of W; ang UE eied> Hecredinned aa cole the UNMOuHeCHenTes Gauld™ be fend ith Chesterfields
the smoking nd otball.

came un end. Activitic he ie anportant ae. amy under General Pershing on the Mexican border and, after the campaign,
served in France with artillery. He returned to Louis ville after the war, remaining there through 1930. He covered the
Hat sheet with Theodore Dreiser and John Chin ipsiin.

Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES especially?

Chesterfield Ss right combination of American and Turkish tobaccos makes it the smoker’s cigarette.

One of his most difficult assignments was the Chilean earthquake of January, 1939. Chester was the first American newspaperman to
report the tragedy which brought death to 35,000 and left other thousands homeless.

Dr. C. L. CRANE (Continued from Page Three)

PROFS ARE IN (Continued from Page Three)

Dr. Gwynn suffered minor bruises. One side of Dr. Watts’ car was severely damaged, while the other car is slightly
dented. A state patrolman who arrived on the scene reported that the colored man had been drinking.

George Milne (Continued from Page Three)

YEARS OF PAINSTAKING STUDY AND RESEARCH HAVE PUT Chesterfield far out in front in the blending and preparation of tobaccos
to give you a cooler, better-tasting and definitely milder cigarette. (As seen in the new film TOBACCOLAND, U. S. A.)

A. S. BROWN GENERAL MERCHANDISE DIAL 2001 DAVIDSON, N. C.

Hardware M.H.GOODRUM & COMPANY

Copyright 1940, Laccutt & Mrxms Tosacco Ce.
