ports lants Wildcat Sports FIGHT ’EM WILDCATS! By BOB CARTER Page Four

Richards CO ULSs. 1 US pus Centre's over the field, but the outlook was indeed gloomy, and old grads talked politely of other things than football, occasionally whispering that this didn’t look like a Davidson team. True, Davidson had more yards gained, more first downs, more completed passes, still Centre held grimly to a 12-0 lead.

Conference Duke Routs Georgia Tech; Clemson Beaten by Tulane, Carolina by Fordham N.C. State, subdued by Furman 20-6, Saturday, but the Wildcats were not through. Taking the ball on the Centre 49, Spencer and Ben Lacy drove down to the four, where Spencer passed over the line to Jay Bolin for another TD. Smith again converted.

By TIM PHARR Davidson's fighting Wildcats, outplayed three periods by a strong Centre College team, pushed across four touchdowns in the final quarter to win, 27-12, in a thrilling game here Saturday. Coach Little used every man on the squad. Davey Spencer started the Davidson scoring parade on the second play of the fourth period when he tossed an aerial from the 40-yard line—standing—to Bob Smith, who made a successful conversion. From then on it was all Davidson. From their 40, the ‘Cats, on plunges by Lacy and Spencer, drove to the 12. On the next play Spencer skirted right tackle for a score. Smith's try for the conversion was good.

A few plays later Spencer intercepted Jack Haddock’s pass and ran it down to the 35. A penalty and rushes by Lacy and Spencer carried the ball down to the 12. On the next play Spencer skirted right tackle for a score. Smith's try for the conversion was good.

Davidson's final tally came when Hackney intercepted a Centre pass and sprinted down the sidelines to score. Big Don Bell missed the conversion.

The Davidson Wildcats gave the old grads something to be proud of as they blasted through Centre, 27-12. Davidson rolled up 16 first downs to Centre's 9. Davidson had too much power for the Praying Colonels, gaining 198 yards to Centre’s 82.

In the passing department, the Wildcats completed 12 passes. Centre, relying mostly on a ground drive, completed 6 passes.

All in all, this game was the most thrilling, if not the best, played on Richardson Field this year. Like Sewanee, Centre is our type of school and we sincerely look forward to meeting them again.

JUNIOR LINEMEN

GEORGE MARSH BILL SHAW

George Marsh, dependable junior guard from High Point, N.C., played fine ball against Centre Saturday. Marsh has been out with a back injury for several weeks, but is fully recovered now. Bill Shaw, also a junior, hails from Fayetteville. Shaw battled his way into a starting post at tackle, but was seriously injured in the Furman game and did not start against Centre.

Another lad who came through with the pressure on was Ben Lacy, light but hard-running back. Alternating with Spencer, Ben tore through the Centre line for sizeable gains in the last period that set up scores.

Centre was no disappointment to the 6,000 who paid their way into Richardson Field. Mixing passes in now and then to vary the attack, Jack Haddock and “Zeke” Czekala pounded and rounded Davidson’s line for about 100 yards. Captain “Pug” Brakefield stood out in the play of the rugged Centre line.

When we meet the right Wildcats at the right time, we must take our hats off to the punting of Czekala. Centre scored in the first period when Haddock tossed a pass over the goal line to Amo Amundsen after Centre had reached the 25 on a ground drive.

The final tally was scored by Hackney, who grabbed one of Jack Haddock’s passes and sprinted 25 yards with a flock of Centre men hanging on. The ball game ended with Davidson in possession of the ball on the Centre 18-yard line.

The freshmen scored freely with Bethea going over from the three for the first one. Hunt later intercepted a P.J.C. pass and returned it 45 yards for another tally with the aid of a well-placed block by Gwynn. Davidson's sixth marker came as a result of a blocked punt by Red Burke, Bruce passing to Hunt for the score. The last score came when Archer, on a reverse, took the ball over from the five. The entire freshman line, composed of Williams, O'Hair, Grimsley, Gwynn, Simmons, Taylor, and Burke played fine defensive ball, never allowing the P.J.C. offensive to get started.

Coleman, the Scot center, was the only outstanding player for the junior college, as he turned in a fine game.

Duke's 4-7 win over Tech’s Rambling Wrecks came as a complete surprise to the Southern football world and opinion among circles is that the mighty Dukes are finally on the march again. The task confronting the Davidson Wildcats is highly successful Saturday against Georgia Tech, the ‘Cats hoping for a letdown in the mighty Dukes.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

scored from the four; good defensive game from his line to many years of rivalry with the Prayin’ Colonels. Face Randolph-Macon Furman. Blue Devils started slowly and relied on their ground attack, threw early in the third period after Central backing position. 

The freshmen will close their season on November 15th when they meet a strong team from Blue Ridge Prep School in Davidson. Keep your eye on Norm Stanlee, 208-pound fullback who tears off the 100-yard 9.7 average. 

Colgate’s Red Raiders were next for the Colonels, got off some beautiful punts, averaging 45 yards per kick. Michigan and Minnesota. The Gophers, in a very unimpressive win for the Wolverines, played a good game for the Cats, although their first-half drives were nullified by fumbles. Davidson's victory was achieved before a Homecoming Day crowd of 5,000, including Davidson's "10. 

At Catholic University Washington, every victory is also a defeat by the strong eleven at High Point last Tuesday. The big Dukes scored almost at will in their rout over Fordham. 

Rushing Chart—Davidson:
Player Rushes Gained Lost Net
Spencer 12 103 0 103
Fredericks 12 52 0 52
Solin 1 4 0 4
Lacy 2 30 0 30
Lake 1 1 0 1

The loss of Moffatt Storer three weeks ago will slow the Blue team’s backfield considerably, putting them short of a fast tailback for climax assignments. This loss is filled capably, however, by Bingo Bill Wartman, reserve wingback, praised by Ray Howe of the Charlotte News as the fastest back in the South. Blocking assignments are handled by Jap Davis, veteran of two years’ service, while Siegfried and Darnell have been outstanding in the line this year.

Coach John Farrior’s booters will take to the road this week for a two-day trip. On Wednesday they met the University of Virginia in Charlottesville and today they face the powerful Duke soccer team in Durham. Defeated earlier in the season by the Cavaliers, 2-1 in a game played in terrific heat, the Cats will attempt to even the series. Duke, with more games in the win column, has suffered only one defeat this season. High Point nosed out the Dukes early in the season, 1-0. Hampered by injuries and lack of experience, the Wildcats will be seeking their first win of the season.

Phi Gams Win:
The Phi Gams rolled over the Betas, 48-6, in a game that was ripe for the Dis here.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.