Wed., March 20, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Sponsors In New Annual Are Chosen
Lassies Whose Pictures Grace Book

Jack Holland, editor-in-chief of the Quips and Cranks, has announced recently the names of the sponsors whose pictures will appear
in the 1940 issue of the annual.

Miss Harriet Holland of Jackson, Tenn., will be the sponsor for the yearbook itself, representing her brother, Jack Holland. Charles
Luther, business manager, has chosen Miss Alystine Brinkley of Ellenton, S.C., as his sponsor. The Davidsonian will be represented by
the sisters of the editor and business manager respectively. Miss Casali is from Welch, W.Va., and the business manager’s sister,
Miss Ellen Currie, lives in Raeford.

Class Sponsors

Miss Meadors Lunn of Winthrop College will appear for Dick Kenyon, president of the senior class. Winston Taylor, president of
the junior class, has chosen Miss Mary Louise Rousseau of Winston-Salem. Miss Mildred Marsh of High Point sponsors her brother,
George Marsh, president of the sophomores. The sponsor for the freshman class, Bob Ramsey, advisor, is as yet unannounced.

Sam Spencer, president of the student body, announces that Miss Caroline Goggans of Columbia, S.C., will be his sponsor. Miss
Louise Crane of Hickory will be the selection of the Y.M.C.A., Sid Crane, president. Jim Cowan, president of the D
Club, has stated that Miss Grace Funderburk will represent this athletic organization. The two sponsors for the R.O.T.C. Battalion will
be Miss Ellen Magill of White Plains, N.Y., for Tom Harnsberger, Cadet Major for the first semester, and Miss Fannie
Cooper for her brother, Jimmy Cooper, Major for the second semester.

Quips and Cranks, the humor magazine, will have Miss Betty Jean O'Brien for Jack Abernathy, editor, and Miss Teeny Tucker
of Savannah, Ga., for B.B. Plyler, business manager. The musical organizations will have a sponsor for the first time this
year. The young lady is Miss Lorraine Wilcox of Carthage, who sponsors Harper Beall, president of Beta Gamma Phi. Paul
Marion, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has chosen Miss Gladys Tillett of Charlotte. The sponsor for Scabbard and Blade, a
national military organization, will be Miss Marion Webb of Bronxville, N.Y., for Tom Harnsberger, president.

Fraternity Sponsors

The sponsors for the various social fraternities will be: Miss Josephine Bridger of Bladenboro, for Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Eleanor
Deas of Atlanta, Ga., for Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Marie Chalk of Meridian, Miss., for Phi Delta Theta; Miss Caroline
Miller of Charlotte for Beta Theta Pi; Miss Margaret Patterson of Charlotte, for Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Marjory Poole of
Mullins, S.C., for Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Betty Waldron of Greensboro, for Kappa Sigma; Miss Ann Sutherland of Knoxville, Tenn.,
for Phi Gamma Delta; and Miss Meade Wilson of Wilmington for Kappa Alpha.

Council Plans Amendment

At a recent meeting, the Student Council passed an amendment to the Student Government Constitution. This amendment changes Article X,
Section 1, from this form: “Immediately upon the selection of the rising Senior Class officers, the Senior Class shall elect
a man to be advisor to the incoming Freshman Class.” As the new changes affect the amendment: “... the rising
Senior Class shall elect a man to be advisor to the incoming Freshman Class.” This amendment was read [Continued on
Page Six]

Symphonic Presents Pre-Holiday Concert

As a special pre-holiday event before the student body left for spring holidays, the Beta Gamma Phi, honorary music fraternity,
presented the Davidson College Symphony band in a concert last night in Chambers auditorium. Departing from the usual band style
concert, this organization of fifty musicians, under the direction of Prof. James C. Pfohl, played classics and popular hits as
well as martial tunes.

Doing honor to St. Patrick’s day were “Strings from Erin” by Caillet while the program opened with Bach Chorale “Sleepers
Awake” with which the nationally famous Moravian bands greet Easter at daybreak each year. This is the first concert given
by this music group on the campus this year. The Davidson band allows it to play compositions formerly limited to
large symphony orchestras. Included in the group were flutes, saxophones, cornets, baritones, basses, drums, and the organ, which was played
by Professor Thane McDonald, director of the Davidson Glee Club.

Freeman Speaks About Drama Group

New Biography To Guide Board

Editor Addresses Phi Beta Kappas On ‘Recoil From Debunking’

Southall Freeman, editor of the Richmond Times, assailed modern biographers for not sticking to facts in an address at the
annual Spring banquet and initiation of the Phi Beta Kappa society.

Seven Davidson students were initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at exercises at 6:30 o'clock, and Dr. Frontis Johnston introduced Dr.
Freeman, who responded to the theme “Modern Biography; the Recoil from Debunking.” He pointed to three writers—Lytton Strachey, André Maurois,
and Emil Ludwig—to illustrate the methods of the “debunking” biographer. He pointed out that many biographers do not go to
the

[Continued on Page Six]source for their information about their subject but use material assimilated by some other biographer or writer.
With this material, which Dr. Freeman said was very likely to be inaccurate, the debunking writer proceeds to develop his
character as he sees fit for literary and dramatic effect rather than sticking to the facts.

Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship society, paid a surprise visit with his wife and has won the
title “symphonic” for its larger clarinet, oboe, and horn sections and the use of a string bass.

NYA Blanks Filled
Dr. Kilmer Brown Tells Class To Judge Values

It is necessary that all N.Y.A. workers fill in their blanks which they received with their checks. These blanks, which
are to be used in connection with the 1940 census, are to be filled out and sent to their homes
in order that they be counted when the census is taken. Students who have no parents or whose parents are
now in a foreign country will not fill out these blanks, as their place of residence is not in the
United States.

Biology Professor Uses Passage From Luke as Sunday School Text

Dr. Kilmer E. Brown, professor of biology here at Davidson, spoke on “Developing a Sense of Values” at the Sunday
School class in Phi Hall last Sunday morning. His text consisted of selections taken from the Gospel According to Luke.
Dr. Brown pointed out that when we finished our four years in college, the college is jerked out from under
us much in the same way as a tablecloth is jerked from under a set of dishes by a magician.
We are then on our own and are left to sink or swim. He stated that we should have a
fully developed sense of values on our graduation so that we may succeed in the world.

Three of the greatest things that we should build in developing our sense of values are: (1) Our personal integrity,
(2) Our dependability, and (3) Our ability at judging other people. He stated that the third point is perhaps the
most important, and he illustrated some of the connections found in Luke.

Criticizes Authors

“We owe no reverence to a man because he is dead,” Dr. Freeman declared. “If you are to write biography,
you must not be content with the secondary authorities; you must go to the source. There you get perspective; you
grasp the spirit of the times; you learn of the credibility of witnesses.”

“Strachey,” he said, “did not examine the source enough to allow him to sit in judgment. He wrote for dramatic
effect. Strachey represents the finest in literary effects but he was the worst influence on biographical method.”

“The fault of Maurois,” Dr. Freeman pointed out, “was that he approached biography as fiction and presented interpretation as history
without thoroughness. Cleverness cannot substitute for thoroughness.”

The speaker ridiculed the practice of the debunking writers in describing the thought of their characters at a certain time.
Dr. Freeman worked twenty years in assimilating the facts for his biography of Lee, and he declared that “I do
not flatter myself that I can capture a single thought of Lee at any given moment of his life.”

No Action Taken On Union With Alpha Eta Rho

In the absence of Bob Miller, president of the flying club, Dave McLean presided at the meeting held Monday night.
The main topic on the docket was that of discussing the invitation received from Alpha Eta Rho, national honorary flying
fraternity. The club took no definite action on this proposal since all members were not there and since the men
wanted to look the fraternity over before definitely passing on it.

Another point was brought up concerning the local fraternity council. Nothing definite was done on this till a later meeting.

Students, Faculty, and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte, kindly consent to take your cars to Moore’s Parking Lot at
114 West Sixth Street.

We Sell Ice, Wood & Coal at Reasonable Prices
Patronize Us and Be Prepared at All Times
Davidson Ice & Fuel Company
Davidson, N.C.

Featuring Now
Everything you need for spring sports to be in style and properly equipped:
Golf Balls, Tees, and Tennis Balls
Shoes, Shorts, and Shirts
Socks and Sweat Suits
Pennants and Stickers
Beer Jackets

“Patronize Your Own Store”
Student Store
George Richmond — Managers — Gales McClintock
