ports lants By BOB CARTER

SPRING SPORTS

To give credit where credit is due, we wish to inform one and all that last week’s column was written
by Master Robert Williams, yours truly being away on a baseball jaunt through the Carolinas. Now that the time has
almost arrived to hang up cleats, gloves, etc., it seems appropriate to make a brief resume of the won and
lost records of the spring teams.

Led by the crack tennis team, Wildcat aggregations have compiled what is considered a successful season according to Davidson standards.
The netters have compiled a remarkable record, winning ten and losing only one, that to Presbyterian College’s nationally famous team.
Among the Wildcat victims are Colgate, Ole Miss, Georgia, Washington and Lee, and The Citadel. The netmen are now on
an extended tour through the North on which they will meet some of Yankeeland’s finest teams.

Coach Pete Whittle’s tracksters, although hard hit by the loss of three key men in mid-season, have nevertheless compiled a
winning record, taking three meets and dropping two, both losses being by narrow margins. Last week’s one-point loss to The
Citadel could have been avoided if the Wildcats had been at full strength.

The baseball team with a record of eight wins and eight losses is not exactly setting the world afire. However,
considering the class of competition that the Wildcats face, a .500 percentage is nothing to be ashamed of. Any team
that faces the class of the Southern Conference in Duke, Wake Forest, North Carolina, and Clemson, can hardly be expected
to win consistently.

The Wildcat linksmen have also compiled a winning percentage. Every member of the team has fired consistently low and we
would not be surprised to find the name of Davidson ranking high in the Southern Conference tournament to be held
at the Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro shortly.

INTRAMURAL DOPE

Looking over the intramural situation, we find a bitter battle between the Kappa Sigs, S.A.E.’s, and Phi Delts, with the
latter holding a twenty-nine point lead over the second place S.A.E.’s, excluding horseshoes and Varsity competition. Horseshoes, being the final
item on this year’s list, will no doubt decide the winner. But no matter which fraternity wins, they can say
that they’ve been through the mill, for competition this year has been the keenest ever, and the fraternity that wins
will know that they’ve been in a battle.

West seems to be running away with inter-dormitory competition. With only one sport remaining, the West steamroller has flattened all
opposition, losing but one game during the entire year, that being the first football game of the season. If the
West boys can keep Melvin Means in line as their ace third baseman, they look like a cinch to cop
the softball title. We wonder why Coach Shepard isn’t using Melvin on his varsity baseball outfit. He and Jim Owens
would make a hot keystone combination.

Changing the subject slightly, have you noticed Taylor, Solin, and “Father” Parrish playing half-ball? This is an entirely new sport,
and according to “Ooky” it will soon vie with softball in intramural interest. The aforementioned three will open their half-ball
soon. So watch for the opening date and be on hand for the first lesson. That’s all.

Kit Nine Defeats Badin; Beaten By Harding High

Davidson's freshman baseball team trounced Badin High by the score of 13-8 on Wednesday, May 1, after dropping a close
game to Harding High on Tuesday, April 30 by the score of 11-6. In the Harding game, Davidson had a
two-run lead going into the seventh inning, when Harding put together two hits and two errors for four runs.

Poor Support

Dave Maloney pitched a seven-hit game, but five errors by his teammates spoiled the game for him. Davidson garnered nine
hits off the offerings of Green and Stokes. Fredricks led the Davidson batting with three for five, while Jordan was
best for Harding with two for four.

Kits Hit Hard

In the Badin game, Davidson scored three runs in the first, second, and fourth innings to clinch the game. Bob
Keffer limited Badin to five hits while his teammates collected 13 hits off the Badin pitchers.

All-Frat Softball

1st Base: Taylor, Phi Gam
2nd Base: Harrison, S.A.E.
Shortstop: Watt, K.A.
3rd Base: Johnson, Phi Gam
Shortfield: Bolin, B., Phi Gam
Leftfield: Thomas, K.A.
Centerfield: Cooper, S., Kappa Sig
Rightfield: Wood, R., S.A.E.
Pitchers: Means, Kappa Sig; Williams, Phi Delts

Dr. J.E. Smith, Youngstown College dean of men, is on leave of absence to act as research advisor to GOP
candidate Thomas E. Dewey.

Kit Trackmen Defeat Forsyth

Davidson's frosh cindermen defeated Forsyth team by the one-sided score of 78-39 here last Friday.

The Summary

High Jump—Belk (D), Ingram (F), Grubbs (F). Height: 5 feet 9 inches.
Javelin—Washburn (D), McKnight (F), Wright (F). Distance: 150 feet, 8 inches.
Shot Put—Keffer (D), Hankins (F), Fredrick (D). Distance: 43 feet, 9 inches.
Mile Run—Moore (F), Nimmons (D), Ansley (D). Time: 4:55.1.
Discus—Fredrick (D), Keffer(D), Logan (F). Distance: 117 feet, 2 inches. 440 yard dash—Washburn (D), Fandingham (L), Lacy (D). Time: 55.2.
Pole Vault—Horan (D), Grubbs (F), Dick (D). Height: 10 feet, 3 inches. 100 yard dash—Sprunt (D), Foster (F), Martin (D).
Time: 10.3. High Hurdles—Belk (D), Swain (F), Martin (D). Time: 16.7. 880 Yard Dash—Nimmons (D), Washburn (D), Whitman (F). Time:
2:10.6. 220 Yard Dash—Sprunt (D), McKnight (F), McCoy (D). Time: 23.4. Low Hurdles—Sprunt (D), Martin (D), Grubbs (F). Time: 27.6.
Broad Jump—Lincoln (F), Lumpkin (D), Lacy (D). Distance: 20 feet, 6½ inches.

Frosh Star Reliable Receiver
Russell Edmondson, a junior from Tarboro, is completing his second year of varsity ball. After playing shortstop last season, he
is now working behind the plate. His hitting in the pinches has been responsible for many ’Cat runs this year.

Nine new North Carolina Junior Conference records were established here last Saturday as the Belmont Abbey track team won the
meet from the two other entrants, Lees-McRae and Pfeiffer Junior Colleges.

The Summary:
Shot Put—Marshall (BA), Anderson (BA), Weant (P), Atkins (LM). Distance: 48’, 8¾". (New Record).
High Jump—Pollock and Briggs (BA), Smith (LM), Cutler and Gupton (P). Height: 5’ 7⅝”, (NR).
Mile Run—Robinson (LM), Blanton (LM), Sherill (P), Tolle (P). Time: 4:45.9. (NR).
100 Yard Dash—Hupp (BA), White (LM), Atkins (LM), Gupton (P). Time: 10.2.
440 Yard Dash—Volleman (BA), Fetzer (LM), Weant (P), Condon (BA). Time: 52.8.
Discus—Marshall (BA), Anderson (BA), Ferebee (LM), Weant (P). Distance: 119 feet. (NR).
120 Low Hurdles—Hartsock (BA), White (LM), Fetzer (LM), Tolle (P). Time: 13.9. (NR).
880 Yard Dash—Robinson (LM), Sherrill (P), McDonald (LM), Gillis (BA). Time: 2:07.
220 Yard Dash—Hupp (BA), Volleman (BA), White (LM), Atkins (LM). Time: 23.1. (NR).
Pole Vault—Hartsock (BA), Ferebee (LM), Gupton (P), Pollock (BA). Height: 10’ 6". (NR).
Broad Jump—Hupp (BA), Pollock (BA), Atkins (LM), Smith (LM). Distance: 21’ 10”.
Javelin—Marshall (BA), Ferebee (LM), Weant (P), Anderson (BA). Distance: 200 feet. (NR).

Belmont Abbey Winner In Junior College Meet

Tennis Team In Tenth Win
Davidson’s varsity netters won their tenth match out of eleven starts on last Wednesday afternoon at the Myers Park Country
Club, defeating Mississippi six matches to one. Ole Miss’ lone win came when Joesh, playing number three, defeated Loch Hunter,
6-2, 6-3.

The Summary:
Turner (D) defeated Pegram—6-3, 3-6, 6-1.
Tenney (D) defeated Bevis—6-2, 5-7, 6-3.
Joesh (M) defeated Hunter—6-2, 6-3.
Shore (D) defeated Touchstone—6-0, 6-4.
Sproull and Hunter (D) defeated Pegram and Jones—6-0, 6-4.
Tenney and Shore (D) defeated Bevis and Touchstone—5-7, 6-4, 6-2.

On last Monday the team left for Lexington, Va., the first stop on their extensive northern trip, on which they
will engage some of the North's best netmen.

@ Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
A rough and rowdy wild-cat from Dakota!
Wallace Beery
John Howard
Dolores Del Rio
in
“THE MAN FROM DAKOTA”

@ STARTS MONDAY
The latest and BEST of the Dr. Kildare series!
“DR. KILDARE’S STRANGE CASE”
—with—
LEW AYRES
LIONEL BARRYMORE
And Others
IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

They’re cooler, shapelier, friendlier to feel—and they’re tailored to fit as washable summer suits have never been tailored before. Drop
in sometime and see these fine suits. $16.75

Marion Davis

Niné Defeats State; Deacs Sweep Series As Wildcats Weaken
Wildcats Beat N. C. State 6-5; Lose Twice To Wake Forest; Batsmen Weak In Two Encounters; Deacons Slug Five Homers
In Monday’s Game

After edging out the N. C. State Terriers 6-5 in Raleigh, the Wildcat Nine slumped in dropping two games to
the Wake Forest Deacons, Southern Conference leaders. Denning shut out the Cats 5-0 on his home field, while the Deacs
slugged hard on Richardson field Monday and won 19-6.

State Errs
In the State encounter on April 30, the Wildcats were outhit nine to six but capitalized on six State errors
and five walks to push across six tallies. Davidson scored three runs in the second and two more in the
fifth while State got one in the third, another in the fourth, and two in the sixth. Going into the
ninth at five-four, the game looked finished but Verner, caught off third, came home on a wild throw. A State
rally in the last half of the ninth was cut short after one run had scored. Curt Ramsey, Terrier flipper,
struck out eleven 'Cat batsmen while Lucas yielded nine. Bob Carter, first sacker, and McLean each got two of the
'Cat’s six safeties.

Wake’s Slug
In a tight pitcher's battle on May 1, Wake Forest defeated the 'Cats 5-0. Denning bested Ed Lucas, soph chunker,
by giving the Wildcats five hits, two by Hugh Verner, while his teammates pounded the hurling of Morgan and Gamewell
for sixteen hits. Wake’s heavy bats went into action in the second game, played on Monday in Davidson, pounding out
twenty hits, including five circuit clouts, and drove in nineteen runs. The 'Cats tallied six times on eleven hits.

Palm Beach

@ Thurs.-Fri., May 9th-10th.
“REBECCA”
Sat., May 11th.
Mon.-Tues., May 13th-14th.
“BUCK BENNY RIDES AGAIN”
Wed., May 15th.
“MOUNTAIN RIVER”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Groceries Hardware
M. H. Goodrum Company
Davidson, N. C.

Shorty Parrish

O. E. BASS, Representing HERFF-JONES CO. will be here Friday with your CLASS RINGS. Don’t forget to drop in.

STUDENT STORE — New Managers —

On the basis of new research, Harvard University geologists estimate that civilization on the North American continent is 25,000 years
old.
