ports lants

BOB CARTER

DIAMOND DUST

Now that the Wildcat diamonders have a few games under their belts, we can get some idea of the strength of the team. While the record of three wins against two losses is none too impressive, we find the 'Cats improving with every game. With three sophomores and a junior playing his first year, a certain amount of erratic play can be expected.

The Clemson game was hardly a fair test for the Wildcats played in a gale, the game was no contest after the first inning when three Tigers reached base by way of walks before a man was retired. The 'Cats showed some real hitting strength against Erskine. Richmond’s crack pitchers and the midnight ride were a little too much for the Wildcats. Wins over Colby and The Citadel were accomplished with little difficulty, perhaps more because of their weakness than Wildcat strength. However, the season’s still young, so don’t sell your team short. Maybe you'll get a pleasant surprise before the season’s over.

TENNIS

Our crack Wildcat netmen added further laurels to their crown by sweeping through three matches on their southern tour, taken during the spring vacation. Opening against the University of Georgia, the 'Cats had no trouble with the Bulldogs, winning 5-2. The only losses were Billy Turner in the singles and Turner and Loch Hunter in the doubles. Miller Sproull’s 6-2, 16-14 win over Brown was the feature match. Passing on to Emory, the Wildcats downed the Atlantans by the same score. Rea Tenney, playing in the No. 1 spot, downed Bridges, 6-2, 6-2; Turner and Sproull were defeated 9-7, 6-3 in their doubles match. The 'Cats closed their victory march with a 4-2 win over Georgia Tech.

Checking up on the results of the matches, we find that Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter are still undefeated. Alternating with Turner in the number one spot, Tenney has played fine tennis and has not yet lost a set.

HERE AND THERE

“Black Dog” Hunter’s four-ply swat against Colby was a real blast, carrying close to 400 feet to deep right center. ... The wind at Clemson blew boards off the bleachers. Hardly suitable for national pastime. ... Duke threatens to drop all minor sports and concentrate on football, basketball, and baseball. There’d be no stopping the Blue Devils.

Track Champs Meet

Led by Captain Kellogg, Davidson’s Track Team will meet their first opponent Saturday afternoon at two-thirty on Richardson Field when they face the strong Maryville aggregation. Defeated only by the State Champions last season, they are expected to furnish plenty of opposition. In the meet last year, Davidson managed to eke out a win by a close margin.

Sophs Shine

“All the sophomores are looking good,” reported Coach Whittle at the first of the week. Strandwitz exceeded the college high jump record when he cleared the bar at six feet, while Knoeller and Bell have been tossing the shot around forty-three feet. Yoder and Freeze have been throwing the discus over a hundred and twenty feet.

Members of the ball team are still raving over Potter Vaughn’s curve ball. Conservatives estimate that the Spider's dipsy-doodle breaks seven feet in all directions. ... Hank Greenberg’s shift to the outfield doesn’t seem to have hurt his batting eye much. The big boy has slashed out seven home runs and hit a mere .563 in spring exhibition games. ... Crash Davis returns to the Duke line-up and comes through with a homer and double, batting in four runs. Somebody ought to show those Duke boys how to play ball. ... Jim Lalanne took up where he left off last fall in the Tar Heels’ spring grid drills, scoring two T.D.s in a recent scrimmage. ... That’s all.

April Showers Bring Wet Feet

Get Your Shoes Half-Soled at BUFF’S SHOE SHOP Davidson, N. C.

Line-Up Chosen

According to Coach Whittle the probable line-up for the meet Saturday will be as follows: 100 yard dash—Taylor, White, and Spencer; 220 yard dash—White, and Williamson; 440 yard dash—McAlpine, Jonas, and Shannon; 880 yard run—Kellogg and Turnage; one mile—Kellogg and Washburn; two mile—Gammon, Coppedge, Grier, and Mann; shot put—Bell and Knoeller; [Continued on Page Six]

Cindermen

Cat Golfers Drop Three Matches, Top Bostonians

Davidson's 1940 golf team opened their season by losing a close decision to Hampden-Sydney College 9½-8½ on Tuesday, March 29. Charlie Pegram and Granville Sharpe mustered most of the Wildcats' points by grabbing six. Pegram and Sharpe were medalists for the 'Cats, shooting 77 and 78 respectively.

The next day, George Wright and Pegram led the Wildcats to a 17½-4½ victory over Boston College. Wright had a 76 and Pegram a 77. Both of these matches were played on the Carolina Country Club course in Charlotte.

Lose To Georgia

On Saturday the Wildcats traveled to Athens where they lost to the University of Georgia 15-3. Sonny Swift, Bulldog star, was low medalist in the match with a 73. Low men for Davidson were Pegram with a 76 and Wright with a 79.

After resting over in Florida on Sunday, they went over to Gainesville and lost to the University of Florida by an 11½-6½ count. Dick Mills, Gator ace, and Granny Sharpe tied for low score with a pair of 74's. They were followed closely by George Wright.

On last Friday the team traveled to Columbia, meeting the South Carolina Gamecocks on the Ridgewood Course, where they lost 10½-7½. [Continued on Page Six]

Charlotte Big Boy Drink

BIG BOY COLA

“Because It’s Better”

Try PEP - UP

“A Mighty Mixer”

Charlotte Bottlers, Inc.Over Bos- | was | matches with a par | were | who had a 76, | Frosh Hold Time Trials Lawrence | Coach Spearman's candidates ran their time trials last Saturday. The first meet will be held here Saturday with freshmen — cinder Barium Springs.

Results
The results of the time trials were:

Mile Run (first heat)—(1) Erskine | Parks (2). Time 5:36. (second heat) Rufus Nimmons (1). Time 5:07.5. Ansley

Half-Mile Run (first heat)—Langley Land (1); Jason Deaton (2); Henry Crane (3); George | Oxilvie (4); John Miller (5). Time 2:25. (Second heat)—Preston Oliver (1). Time 2:35.

440-Yard Dash—Ben Lacy (1); Ben Washburn (2); John McGee (3); Harold Murdock (4). Time: 56.

100-Yard Dash—Joe McCoy (1); Joe Martin (2); Ed Murray (3). Time: 11.

Coach Spearman stated that the team looks only fair at present, but may develop into a good team.

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
Ronald Colman as you like him best as a dashing adventurer!

RONALD COLMAN
— In —
RUDYARD KIPLING’S
“THE LIGHT THAT FAILED”

Lovely Alice Faye, the answer to a college boy’s prayer in a great show!

ALICE FAYE
RICHARD GREENE
FRED MacMURRAY
BRENDA JOYCE
— In —
“LITTLE OLD NEW YORK”

IMPERIAL THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

Sig Eps Lead Frat Tourney
Led by Casali, Hamilton, Cobb, and Hay, the SPE’s are far in the lead in the inter-fraternity volleyball tournament with five wins and no losses. At the end of the sixth round, the SPE’s are the only team with a clean slate. In second place are the Phi Gams with two wins and one loss, followed closely by the Kappa Sigs and SAE’s, with three wins and two losses each.

Volleyball Standings
Wildcats Win Over
With a total of three wins and two losses, the Davidson baseball nine completed their first week of competition above the .500 mark. The Wildcats’ losses were to conference teams, while one victory was over a foe within the circuit. Twice, Wildcat victories were over Erskine, 10-6; Colby College, 7-6; and The Citadel, 16-4. Losses were to Clemson, in the opener for both teams, and to Richmond University by 7-5.

Hitting Weak
The Clemson encounter went decidedly to the Tigers with a walkaway of 15-2. The South Carolinians hit three Davidson pitchers for fifteen base-knocks, all well grouped; while the Wildcats were able to garner only six rather scattered safeties. Holiday, Tiger moundsman, chalked up eleven strikeouts.

Davidson's bats hit harder against Erskine in winning 10-6. Thomas went the distance for the Wildcats allowing Erskine eight hits, four in the last frame which drew five runs for the Fleet. Davidson managed their ten hits from twelve base-knocks.

Returning home on March 27, the ‘Cats encountered Richmond's Spiders in their first home game. Lucas, hurling for Davidson, issued four walks and eight hits, but the ‘Cat bats were silenced by Thomas and Vaughn, Spider chunkers, who gave up three hits. Richmond pushed across seven tallies against the Wildcats' two, one a home run into the centerfield stands by Carter.

Two Straight Wins
Davidson hit the win column again Thursday by nipping Colby College 7-6. Yarbrough and Hunter were the slugging stars for Davidson with two for three and three for four hits, respectively. The Maine aggregation outhit the Wildcats eleven to six, but were unable to convert their bingles into more than six runs. Dave McLean, the home team’s starting hurler, was relieved by Thomas late in the game.

On Monday afternoon Davidson, playing on Richardson field, walloped Citadel's Bulldogs 16-4. Thomas was touched for eight hits in six innings and Lucas went the remaining distance without a bingle. The Wildcats garnered their scores from misplays. Jimmy Hogg had three hits, Yarborough, Edmundson, and Carter each got two.

Colby, The Citadel; Lose To Tigs, Spiders
Lucas, Thomas Pitch Good Ball In Wins; Hunter, Carter Blast Homers; Hogg, Yarborough Lead Hitters; Owens Fields Beautifully In Citadel Game

Netmen Keep Clean Slate
Paced by the brilliant playing of Co-Captain Rea Tenney and Loch Hunter, the Davidson Racqueteers returned from their spring trip last Wednesday undefeated in four matches. Warming up before their Southern journey, they defeated a strong Michigan State team 6-1 at the Myers Park Country Club. The summary: Turner (D) defeated Olson 6-2, 6-3; Tenney (D) defeated Perkins 6-4, 6-3; Struck (M) defeated Shore 4-6, 6-2, 6-2; Sproull (D) defeated Eschelbach 4-6, 6-2, 6-4. Doubles: Turner-Hunter (D) defeated Struck-Olson 6-2, 8-6; Shore-Tenney (D) defeated Harris-Perkins.

Rout Georgia, Emory
Invading Georgia, the Wildcat Netters’ first victim was the University of Georgia. Reynolds defeated Turner in singles and Wyatt and Reynolds took their doubles from Turner and Hunter. The summary: Reynolds (G) defeated Turner 6-2, 6-2; Tenney (D) defeated Wyatt 6-4, 6-3; Hunter (D) defeated Gleason 7-5, 6-2; Shore (D) defeated Woods 6-2, 9-7; Sproull (D) defeated Brown 6-2, 16-14; Reynolds-Wyatt (G) defeated Turner-Hunter 6-2, 6-3; Tenney-Shore (D) defeated Gleason-Brown 2-6, 6-3, 6-0.

On March 23, Emory University fell before the Cats 5-2. Ausley of Emory won over Turner in the number one match and Ausley and Hamff took the doubles match from Turner and Sproull. The summary: Tenney (D) defeated Bridges 6-2, 6-2; Ausley (E) defeated Turner 6-2, 6-1; Hunter (D) defeated Depagter 6-3, 6-3; Shore (D) defeated Winkle 6-3, 1-6, 6-1; Sproull (D) defeated Hamff 3-6, 6-3, 7-5; Tenney-Shore (D) defeated Bridges-Depagter 6-3, 6-3; Hamff-Ausley (E) defeated Turner-Sproull (D) 9-7, 6-3.

Tech Beaten
On the following day, the Racqueteers finished their trip with a 4-2 win over the Georgia Tech netters for their fourth straight victory. The results were: Bobbitt (E) defeated Turner 6-1, 6-2; Tenney (D) defeated Johnson 6-2, 6-4; Hunter (D) defeated Lindsey 2-6, 6-3, 6-3; Shore (D) defeated Graham 6-3, (Continued on Page Six)

IT’S A BIG SEASON FOR
Sports Coats $10.95 to $12.95
For smart matching and contrasting with your new Spring slacks, these new sports coats really take the spotlight. Single-breasted models in tweeds, shetlands, cheviots, and herringbone. New high colors.

Contrasting Slacks $4.95 to $5.75
Men’s Store—Street Floor

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Students, Faculty and Townspeople of Davidson, when in Charlotte Park at Moore’s Parking Lot 114 West Sixth Street S. Tryon St.

EAT AT THACKER’S THIS WEEK-END
Rooms For Private Parties
THACKERS, Inc.
“A Good Place To Eat”
Charlotte, N. C.