Thurs., May 16, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three Thirty-Eight Men Will Take Advanced R.O.T.C. Sophomores Chosen Tentatively Pending Physical Examination Thirty-eight members of the present sophomore class were named Monday to the advanced Course (R.O.T.C.). These men will compose the major non-commissioned officers for next year. Listed below are the selections: G. Tom Brown, Frank C. Caldwell, Robert E. Carter, John E. W. Clark, Richard L. Coppedge, Benny Y. Cowan, John H. Crichton, George W. Dew, W. Ed Gurley, Claude J. Hackney, Edward C. Hay, David N. Henderson, Dan M. Hodges, David Allen Huffines, James W. Kerr, Malcolm Kunz, Edward F. Lucas.

Others Named: Augustus A. McLean, A. Marvin Murray, James M. Owens, B. Jack Phillips, Fort M. Pronk, David V. Rhea, J. Pat Randolph, Hershell D. Seagle, B. Eugene Shannon, George W. Shannon, William H. Squires, Glenn Terrell, Rodman G. Turner, Charlie Watt, Joel B. Whitten, A. Ralph Williams, A. Cam Wilson, Walter Wooten, Samuel Miller Woodward, Tom S. Yarborough.

These sophomores have been selected tentatively, and will be required to take a physical examination before they are definitely included in those men taking the course. In case any should fail to enter the course for any reason, additional members of the class will be named by Lieutenant Colonel MacKenzie.

Advanced Work: These men will study advanced courses in Military Science and Tactics for two years, and will have to spend six weeks of next summer in training camp at Anniston, Alabama. Upon completion of their courses, they will receive their reserve commission.

Riker Pupils Give Recital Eight Vocalists Heard Monday in Shearer Hall Davidson students, under the direction of Franklin Riker, gave a recital of this year’s work in Shearer Hall May 13. The program consisted of six baritones and two tenors. Selections varied from the strict classical to the semi-classical.

Students taking part in the program were: Theodore Lineback, Lungi dal Caro Bene, Sacchi; Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride, O'Hara; C. B. Efird, Caro mio ben, Giordano, Uncle Rome, Homer; Charles Isley, Thy Beaming Eyes, McDowell, Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life, Herbert; Dick Kenyon, Star Eyes, Speaks; In the Silent Night, Rachmaninoff, Passing By, Purcell; Glenn Terrell, Water Boy, Robinson, The Fields of Ballyclare, Turner-Maley; Claude Hackney, Without a Song, Youmans, Invictus, Huhn.

Thane McDonald, music professor of Davidson, assisted with the program and accompanied the participants.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS — Are — ALWAYS WELCOME Private Dining Rooms Available S&W Cafeteria CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Much Service Given College By Dr. Lingle Tribute Paid to Davidson’s Retiring President By J. K. ROBINSON If and when the trustees of Davidson elect a new president, Dr. Lingle, who has been connected with the college for over thirty years, will hand over to the new official a much more prosperous and important college than the one which existed when he came. During his thirty-eight years as a Davidson official, he has occupied two of the most important positions of the college, chairman of the Board of Trustees for twenty-seven years, and president for eleven years. In this time the student body, the faculty, and the plant, including both buildings and endowment, almost trebled. While he was President, the centennial movement came about, the results of which are a new infirmary, stadium, and dormitory. Now Davidson is about to have a new library built. Her endowment has increased by several hundred thousand dollars and the entire plant is now worth nearly five million dollars.

Dr. Lingle is considered the leading expositor of church history in the Southern Presbyterian Church. In 1920 he was elected to the highest post in the Presbyterian Church, that of Moderator of the General Assembly. In the past thirty years he has not missed a single week in writing an article for the Christian Observer. And now that he has reached the age of retirement, he has vol- (Continued on Page Six)

Music School Will Present Full Program Capacity Enrollment Expected For Summer Camp, June 12-July 22 Capacity enrollment for the 1940 Davidson Music Camp will be reached by June 1, according to director James Christian Pfohl, who stated Monday. The camp, to launch its fifth season, can take a maximum of 60 boys. Dates for this year’s session will be from June 12 to July 22.

Many Campers: In past years, campers have come to the campus from high schools in several neighboring states, as well as from North Carolina institutions. This year, by special arrangement with North Carolina's Department of Public Instruction, one unit of music credit will be granted for the successful completion of the work offered. This unit of credit will be recognized by any high school in North Carolina and may be applied toward a high school diploma.

Varied Program: The camp aims to offer a well-rounded program, including outdoor sports and tutoring in scholastic subjects, in addition to a full music curriculum. Recreation will include softball, tennis, golf, gymnastics, swimming, games, movies, stunt nights, and campfires. All campers will participate in one or more of the following organizations: band, orchestra, chorus, and ensemble groups. Private instruction in any instrument will be given to all campers desiring it. One lesson a week is provided for in the camp fees. Several classes will be offered and credit given for completing courses. These include: music appreciation, theory, drum-majoring, and elementary conducting. Total cost of attending the entire session will be $100.00 per student. This fee covers food, room, one private lesson a week, and other expenses. General direction of the entire camp will be handled by James Christian Pfohl, head of Davidson's Music department. A staffof '13 will hold various executive positions and assist with the management of the camp. Staff members will be: [Continued on Page Six]

Thane
Fri.-Sat.-Mon.-Tues.
screen's perfect co-starring team in a swell show!
MERLE OBERON
GEORGE BRENT
—in—
“TIL WE MEET AGAIN”
—with—
Pat O’Brien
Geraldine Fitzgerald
Frank McHugh

Next Week - Starting Wed.
Joan Bennett, the college boy's prayer!
JOAN BENNETT
GEORGE RAFT
“THE HOUSE ACROSS THE BAY”

THEATRE
Charlotte, N. C.

By all indications, Di-
New Publication Board
Pictured above are the three journalists who have been elected to compose next year’s Publications Board. New president for the Board is Paul Bumbarger, center, editor of “Scripts 'n Pranks.” Andy Dale, left, editor of “The Davidsonian,” will act as secretary; while Winston Taylor, editor of “Quips and Cranks,” will serve as vice-president.

Aviation Club Has Induction
Officers Installed at Year’s Last Meeting

At the last meeting of the Flying Club, the recently elected officers were installed. These officers are Benn H. Colkitt, president; Richard Stevenson, vice-president; and Gordon Horton, secretary-treasurer. Members of the Flying Club are seeking the attention of the faculty toward getting the Civil Aeronautics Authorities to establish a flying course at Davidson. Colkitt stated that this course would be offered sooner or later, but that he didn’t know just how far away such a move would be. Also, he added, the members of the faculty who had been interviewed on the subject seemed to be strongly in favor of getting a course in flying at Davidson. Many of the members of the Flying Club are advancing toward solo flights. Gordon Horton (Continued on Page Six)

Head Not Named

The last issue of The Davidsonian goes to press before any news may be obtained concerning Davidson's next president. The nominating committee, which deferred its report at the last meeting, is scheduled to report to the trustees at a session here May 31. Should an election take place, the results will be announced immediately. However, there is a possibility that the committee will again be unable to report.

Students Aid In Red Cross

Spanish Frat Finishes Year
Sigma Delta Pi Gives Skits At Last Meeting

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, held its last meeting of this academic year on Monday, May 7. Featuring the program were three comic skits, presented under the direction of Prof. F. L. Blythe. K. Fleagle then talked to the organization on “Pan-American Relationships.” After the program, the members sang popular Spanish songs of the “El Rancho Grande” variety.

The amount assigned to the Davidson chapter of the National Red Cross to collect for the aid of women and children in Belgium and Holland is three hundred dollars. The Sunday night Vesper Service offering, amounting to approximately $55.00, was contributed to this fund. The American division of the National Red Cross is raising a fund [Continued on Page Six]

“Meet Me At - - - THE TAVERN---”

We want “THE TAVERN” and the “HOTEL CHARLOTTE” to be headquarters, “in Charlotte,” for Davidson College and their friends.
HOTEL CHARLOTTE
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
“The Carolina’s Largest Hotel”
J. FRANK GOUGH, Resident Manager

Charlotte Big Boy Drink
BIG BOY COLA
“Because It’s Better”
Try PEP - UP
“A Mighty Mixer”
Bottlers, Inc.

Shorty Parish
Congratulations and Best Wishes
To ‘Class of 40’
BUY YOUR EXAM PADS FROM US --- 3 for 25c ---
See our specials on Tennis Balls, Shorts and T-Shirts
STUDENT STORE -— Managers
Dick Arnold

Civic Group Is Sponsor In Big Sale
Local Club to Hold Rummage Sale to Benefit Community House

The annual rummage sale of the Davidson Civic Club will be held this year under the direction of Mrs. G. B. Watts in the old infirmary on Saturday, May 18. Although the primary purpose of this sale is to furnish inexpensive goods to the needy of the community, proceeds of the event will be used to furnish the colored community house, which is being built with the Y. M. C. A. Christmas Gift Fund.

Near Completion

This community center is now nearing completion. As soon as it is finished, a public opening and inspection will be held. A representative of the Civic Club asked The Davidsonian to urge all students to assist in the project by contributing any and all old clothes and furniture. Collection of these articles on the campus, under the direction of Sherrard Riggins, was made Monday, but donations will be accepted until the end of the week.

Lauds Co-operation

This representative also expressed the club's appreciation to the students for their co-operation in the past sales. Last year’s sale showed a profit of $70.00, which was used in the Davidson colored housing project.

Don’t Forget When In Charlotte
STOP BY TO GET THAT HAT BLOCKED
PARIS HATTERS
217 WEST TRADE ST

Seniors, come to
Congratulations and Best Wishes from
Marion Davis Co.
203 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
When you're back this way- see us!
Next Door to the P. O.

CLASS OF ’40, Congratulations, best wishes
COLLEGE PHARMACY
and ‘Just as Popular’
Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”

Printing is our Business
A COMPLETE Printing service as near as your Telephone. Dial 6300
For a representative
PLEXICO PRINTING PUBLISHING, Inc.
Formerly Standard Printing Company
Printers of The Davidsonian
CHARLOTTE, N. C.