Sideline Delights
By ANDY DALE

* Powell To Box In ‘Gloves’

Latest athlete to attract campus attention is “Whizzer” Powell, who has thrust himself into the spotlight, via publicity managers Cauble, Grantham, and McLean, by entering the annual Charlotte Golden Gloves boxing tourney to be held in February. The “Swamy,” as he has been dubbed by his manager, Foss McLean, announced Monday that “this is not a publicity stunt! I am actually going through with it,” and vowed to us that he meant it. This also means that for the first time in several years, Davidson will be represented at the fights in Charlotte. 

The “Whizzer” weighed in at 165 pounds a week ago as he began training, and plans to work down to his fighting weight. Powell boxed before coming to Davidson, winning the Columbus County championship then, but has dropped fisticuffs while here. Powell’s most urgent need at present is sparring partners, and he has issued an invitation to any members of the student body who care to do so to meet him at the old (the older, rather) gym at 3:30 any afternoon for a workout with the gloves. Thus far Hank Bahnson, Dick DeWitt, Hudson, and Frank Caldwell have served as cannon fodder in the ring. 

Manager Foss McLean backed up Powell’s claims that he was really serious about the thing by issuing the following statement: “I think my man will put up a good fight, win, lose, or draw. He has been in training for a week now, and is progressing well. The main drawback is lack of sparring partners. As you know, Powell comes from a family of fighters—his younger brother was champ last year, and I am confident that he will uphold the reputation he has made in eastern North Carolina. I hope the Davidson student body will turn out en masse when he fights to support him, and I am confident that he will give them their money’s worth while in the ring. We invite the whole student body to witness the bout, and, I hope, more bouts in Charlotte.”

Back To The Books

The Wildcats, busiest team in the Conference, are in tenth place in the standings with two wins against four losses. The Wildcats hold wins over V. M. I. and N. C. State, while going down before Richmond, Duke, North Carolina, and Citadel. The basketeers will now turn back to the books for a spell, but workouts will continue daily throughout the period of exams. January 31 sees the varsity back in action again against Guilford in a tuneup for the first post-exam conference tilt with Citadel on February 3. Then more conference games will follow, and the Wildcats will adjourn to Raleigh for the tournament. If the ‘Cats raise their average of .333 to date, they will be among those present. Workouts during exams should keep hands and shooting eyes “in,” and the added practice will help the lack of experience on Davidson’s squad. We still believe that we have a “hot-and-cold” outfit, and when they’re hot, look out. That next Carolina game on February 7 should be a honey, and we’re waiting to see how the ‘Cats will stack up in the second meeting, after a close game in the first attempt.

Support Our Wrestlers

While the crowds turn out to watch the quint in action, all but a few miss the wrestling bouts which come off at regular scheduled dates, the next home meet being on February 10. While they don’t hog the limelight, those men train diligently, and work out hard every day. The wrestling grind is one of the hardest in the athletic program, and those men have to be in real “shape” before they are even allowed to practice. We’d like to see more spectators at the mat meets in the future. This is a recognized intercollegiate sport, and is one sport in which Davidson has ranked high in the past. Of course, this year there has been but one meet win, and no forecast could be definite now. If you’ve never seen an intercollegiate wrestling bout, you probably think they are very dull, and they do lack the rampant color of the pro matches, but wrestling as done under intercollegiate rules is fast and calls for both skill and strength. Come down and support our wrestling team.

Frosh Cager Third Straight Victory

Capitalizing on a slow-moving Presbyterian team, the Davidson Frosh copped their third game of the season Monday night on their home court by 43-30. The Kittens’ second win came Friday night over the Charlotte Sphinx Club with a 43-34 score. John Belk, Johnny Fredericks, and lanky center Davidson were in a three-way tie with Warren for scoring honors in the Presbyterian encounter, each of the trio sinking baskets for totals of twelve points. Against the Sphinx, Fredericks was best by City with thirteen points, followed by Belk with eleven. At the half, the Kittens held a 26-10 lead against the Phantoms and showed a marked superiority over the visitors in the second stanza until the hometown reserves entered the game. This win gives the freshmen a clean slate of three wins and no losses. On Thursday, February 1, the frosh tackle the reputedly strong Chattanooga High five in Davidson, their first game since their tangle with the High Point Bisons on hostile territory last Tuesday.

Davidson (43) P.J.C. (30)

Barium Downs Kit Grapplers

An experienced and well-rounded wrestling team from Barium Springs defeated the freshman wrestlers 24-3 in the first match of the season for the yearlings. Ashby Dick, the 165-pounder, accounted for the freshman’s only score by gaining a decision over his Barium opponent. The first-year matmen showed lack of experience in their first match, but Coach Charly Parker plans to have his hopefuls in good shape when they meet North Carolina State Freshmen on February 4th. Barium won matches in the 121, 128, and 155-pound divisions by falls and gained decisions in the 136, 145, and 175 divisions. There was no match in the unlimited division. McGee, Sandifer, Parks, Conyers, Dick, and Carter wrestled for the Kittens.

Mrs. Ida Benfey Judd of New York City is working to have some university establish a Mark Twain Chair for the study of Humor.

Footsie Tops Brinson; Dorm Bowling

Footsie Cowan, veteran Wildcat center, is at present leading the Southern Conference scoring with a total of 81 points in six conference games. Cowan has finished high in the scoring for the past two years and is expected to be near the top when this season ends. George Glamack, towering center from North Carolina, has gained a lot of attention and is expected to be a strong contender as well.

Davidson's varsity wrestlers opened their Big Five and Southern Conference schedule last Saturday with a 16 1-2 to 14 1-2 defeat at the hands of the Blue Devils of Duke. This was the first victory of the Duke matmen over the Cats since 1934. Bolo Perdue, Blue Devil grid star making his debut on the mat, gave an impressive performance.His winning margin in the last bout was by pinning Ed Hipp in 22 seconds. Ken McIntyre of State in the 121-pound class battled to a draw in the final bout, leaving the Dukes with a team lead next to Charlie with a two-point margin.

Abels Wins Opener
In the opening bout, 128-pound class, Jack Abels of Davidson quickly pinned Imler in 1:30. Telford of Davidson followed by decisioning Wilbur in the 135-pound class. Duke pinned Latta in the 145-pound class. Capt. Graham McFadden of Davidson pinned Langston in the 155-pound class, but Sid Crane was decisioned. However, Jameson of Davidson pinned Summerville in the 175-pound class. In the match of the day, Lucas of Duke barely eked out a decision over Hank Bahnson in the 175-pound class. Then Perdue’s timely victory in the heavyweight class came from behind to give them their winning margin.

State Next Foe
The grapplers will have no matches during examinations but will continue to hold practice under the direction of Coach Chapman. They return to action against State on February 5th in Raleigh. On February 10, they play host to Carolina.

The University of Vermont has a special student ski patrol to supervise the running of ski races and to aid injured skiers.

Hold on second position by scoring a total of 40 points in two conference games. He will have a chance to add more points this week as he faces three conference teams. Banks McFadden, Clemson’s great All-American, is close behind the leaders with a total of 38 points. Due to a late start, he has been unable to score many points against conference teams but will have a chance to gain on the leaders this week.

Every Camera In Our Store Is For Sale
W. I. VAN NESS
Charlotte, N. C.

Gallaudet College (Washington, D. C.) is the only college for the deaf in the world.

Scoring subs: Davidson: Poole (2), Darracott (2), Wayman (1); Fredricks (12) F, Britt (6), Grosse (4) F, Coble (7), Belk (12) (C), Wicker, Keiffer (5) G, Siverson, Maloney (5) G, Warren (12). P. J. C.: Garritt (3), Douglass (2).

Graham McFadyen of China is beginning his third year as Davidson’s representative in the 155-pound class on the wrestling team. Last year McFadyen won a majority of his matches. He pinned his opponent in the opening match against Duke’s Blue Devils.

Duke Matmen Nose Out Cats In Opening Match

West Pinmen Lead Bowlers
West's bowling team is leading the inter-dorm league with a perfect record of four wins against no defeats. Led by the Cooper twins, they have compiled the high score of the season, 1,027 pins. Each member of the team has consistently averaged around the 100 mark. In the number two spot with three wins and two losses is East dorm, paced by Charlie Pegram. The rest of the field is spread rather evenly in the other positions.

In the Georgia-Watts match, a peculiar result was produced, stalemating in a 912-912 score. West and East met in a closely contested, high-scoring game, 1027-1024. Inter-Dormitory bowling is a fairly recent newcomer to the intramural program at Davidson. The matches are run off with five men competing at a time. Each of these men bowls two games, and the total scores compose the final score for one team.

Lafayette College is the depository of what is believed to be the best possible working collection of materials for the study of General Lafayette.

Wed.-Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
“BROTHER RAT AND A BABY”
With... Priscilla, Eddie Albert, Wayne Morris, Jane Wyman, Jane Bryan, Ronald Reagan

Late Show Sat. Night
Also Starts Monday
RAY MILLAND, ROBERT CUMMINGS, SONJA HENIE
“Everything Happens At Night”
IMPERIAL THEATRE—Charlotte, N. C.

State's scoring was led by L. with 8 points.

Wildcats Beaten By Furman’s Hurricane; Conquer N. C. State
Cowan High In State Game, Hogg Leads In Furman Tilt—Wake Forest Game Ends Pre-Exam Schedule

In two Southern Conference basketball games last week, the Wildcats won from State but lost to Furman. Coach Shepard's boys trampled the Terrors of State in a rough and tumble fray here last Tuesday night, 52-41. This was Coach Doc Sermon's first loss to a Davidson team in his six years as court mentor at State. Led by Captain Cowan, who tallied 19 points, the Cats got an early lead which they never relinquished. Playing a smooth and aggressive attack, they also used a weak defense frequently.

Furman Game Fast Ending
Playing listless ball, the Wildcats were defeated by Furman’s Purples in Greenville Saturday, 43-33. Paced by the backfield ace, little Pepper Martin, the home team stayed out front the entire game. This was Furman’s first Conference win. Hogg helped in the losing cause with a total of 11 points plus a fine floor game. Cowan bagged 10 markers. Martin with 12 and Buck Wages with 11 paced Furman. The game was marred by excessive fouls by both teams. Bad passing and inaccurate shooting proved costly to Davidson as she dropped this important conference tilt.

Davidson vs. State
Hogg (2) F Strayhorn (9)
Harrison (6) F Cromartie (15)
Cowan (19) G Crawford (3)
Thomas (6) G Davis (6)
Means (5) G Smith (8)

Scoring subs: Davidson: Yarborough (4), Lucas (4), Bell (5), Simonds (2). State Scoring subs: Watters (6).

Davidson vs. Furman
Hogg (11) F Duncan (3)
Lucas (2) F Wages (11)
Richards (6) G Hearin (3)
Means (2) G Martin (12)

Scoring subs: Davidson: Simonds (2), Bell (3). Furman Scoring subs: Jackson (1), Richardson (3), Ceccotti (5).

YOUTH’S NEEDS (Continued from Page Three)
Of the Big Ten universities, Purdue University has a higher percentage of university-owned housing accommodations than any other school.

Dr. Broyles concluded his sermon with a phrase from the Sermon on the Mount, saying “take up thy cross and follow me.” The vision of God, Christ, and the kingdom would not come as long as the people of today paid so little attention to Him. “It is necessary to surrender and have obedience to Him—then you will have a partner that is real.”

In drawing an analogy from music, Dr. Broyles told the congregation that “the notes of life are not in the right relationship. There is nothing that will give you peace except a membership to the kingdom of God. Youth likes to win and within the kingdom, the victory is assured.” He said that the basic thing that we want is peace—not the ceasing of gunfire, but peace within—peace with God.

The Final Touches
SEE US FOR BEFORE THE HOLIDAYS
Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 East Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

Thurs.-Fri., Jan. 18th-19th.
“BROTHER RAT AND THE BABY”
Saturday, January 20th.
“GERONIMO”
Mon.-Tues., Jan. 22nd-23rd.
“EARL OF CHICAGO”
Wednesday, January 24th.
“BRITISH INTELLIGENCE”
Thurs.-Fri., Jan. 25th-26th.
“GULLIVER’S TRAVELS”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.