Thurs., Oct. 31, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of The Week

There has been some discussion among the staff as to the interest aroused and value of the Question of the
Week. In order to decide whether or not to continue this feature, we have made the question of this week:
Whether we shall continue the Question of the Week, and why or why not?

Ed Shewmake, Senior:
The Question of the Week gives the students a chance to express their own unbiased opinions in concise form. It
should be a great help in changing and affirming policies and customs of the college in accordance with the wishes
of the student body. It should also be of value in expressing new ideas. It seems to me that this
column should be of more value in settling differences between the students and the college authorities, and I would like
to see expressed some opinions about water fights, dances, and so on, which are freely discussed in private but which
the faculty probably never hear. For these reasons I think the Question of the Week should be continued.

Alva Lumpkin, Sophomore:
I think it a mighty good thing to maintain the Question of the Week because it gives representative opinion on
the subjects of interest to the whole campus. I say, let’s keep it!

Red Davis, Senior:
The Question of the Week, if used correctly, could be a very adequate and democratic means of getting at the
opinions of the student body. But under the present setup and in the more recent past only a certain element
of the student body has had the privilege of expressing itself through this column. The Davidsonian should institute a more
systematic method of selecting those who participate. The same student should not be allowed to voice his opinion more than
twice in one school year, and each class should have a representative in this column each week.

John Booth, Sophomore:
Why not? It fills up space.

Newell Robinson, Senior:
To quiz or not to quiz, that seems to be the question. I’m agin it one week and for it
the next. Because some questions are quite pertinent and others, well—. If a question of the week involves something that
neither the Executive Committee nor the Federal Government can solve for themselves, why bother the students, when they could better
use their reading time reading the “Scripts 'n’ Pranks”? In short, I think that it is better to have one
good question of the year and invite various campus luminaries to editorialize upon it in subsequent issues rather than pick
out some trifle that might appear in Day’s Diary?

Russell Smith, Senior:
The Question of the Week should certainly be continued. It satisfies our human inclination to gripe about something when we're
thwarted in something else, and in this way provides a harmless release. It also puts a question of temporary importance
before the student body and forces at least those who write about it to do a minimum of thinking about
it. On the whole, I believe, the Question of the Week does more good than harm.

Frank Hall and Drury Thompson, Seniors:
It should be left in because it is an avenue of expression for the student body. If they want to
criticize or appraise they get a chance, within the limitations of censorship. They should be, however, made on subjects more
vital to the student body, thereby becoming more interesting. We, as senior members of the student body, hope this feature
will be continued and that increased interest in the student body will result in increased importance of the column.

Shaw Smith, “Y” Secretary:
Surely, the airing of varying views on essential topics is always good, both for the question at hand and the
student discussing it.

ALUMNI SPEAKER
O. Max Gardner will be the main speaker at the annual Homecoming banquet. At one time Mr. Gardner was governor
of the state of North Carolina. At the time of his office in this state his home was in Shelby
but since that time he has moved his home to Washington, D. C., where he is taking an active part
in national affairs. According to Dr. Lingle, Mr. Gardner is a very interesting and forceful speaker. He also expressed the
desire that many people would take advantage to hear one of the outstanding speakers to be heard on the campus
this year.

Culprits Find Painting Profitless Occupation
Frosh Puzzled as to Who Disclosed Secret But Suspect Traitors
By BILLY ROGERS

Painting the freshman numerals on the water tank is a pretty risky business, a certain four freshmen have found out.
In addition to the risk of falling off the 200-foot tower, there is always the slight chance of having to
stay on a certain clearly defined and restricted area for an extended period of time. Jay Bolin, judge of the
Court of Control, announced in chapel last week that Freshmen Stubbins, Tucker, Cushman, and Phillips would be on strict campus
for two weeks and on the campus until Christmas holidays because of their water tank decorations. The convicted freshmen do
not know to whom their downfall is due, but say that the next time they pull an act like this
no one will know it but themselves. There are rumors that some upperclassmen who were supposedly in their confidence let
the word leak out.

The painting was done on the night of September 16 (or, perhaps more accurately, the early morning of the next
day) a little later in the year than usual. They were delayed in their act of patriotism to the class
of '44 by another freshman who liked to paint designs on the water tank and was duly punished by the
Court of Control. Sears, Roebuck paint was used (you know—the kind that is guaranteed not to come off). A gallon
each of red and black was used. The boys had to dig into their pockets five dollars worth for their
materials. They think that since they had to undergo all the risks, the rest of the freshman (Continued on Page
Eight)

KODAK BANTAM f/‘ —one of . > 106-S. Church. Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Watson Gives Talk For Hi-Y Meeting Wed.
Local Chapter Elects Seven New Men

Ed Watson, president of the college YMCA, was the speaker of the Hi-Y’s meeting last Wednesday night held in the
Social Center. Watson spoke to the group on “The Hi-Y’s Position in the World Today,” stressing the fact that never
before was the Hi-Y in such a vital position as today when the world is clamoring for Christian leadership. At
the previous meeting, the initiationConducted for the new members. Those boys being taken into the club were Charlie Donaldson, Charlie
Kipp, Mac Gibson, Joe Knox, Calvin Stoe, Gene Knox, and Robert Cowan. Recently the club renewed their affiliation with the
national and state chapters. Plans are now going forward for the State Hi-Y Conference to be held in Charlotte this
year. The club, as in years past, will have a 100 per cent representation. Last night the annual business meeting
was held after the devotion by President Dux Pharr. The program for the coming year was (Continued on Page Eight).

NOW through Saturday
DOROTHY LAMOUR
ROBERT PRESTON
PRESTON FOSTER
—in—
“MOON OVER BURMA”

STARTS Mon. Nov. 4th.
Swing is on the way out! Now, it’s rhumbas and the La Conga, the South American way!
“DOWN ARGENTINE WAY”
In Technicolor
DON AMECHE
BETTY GRABLE
CARMEN MIRANDA
See
CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte - North Carolina

Bulletin Is Published By Authorities

The Alumni Homecoming issue of the Davidson College Bulletin made its annual appearance Friday, October 24. This journal is sent
to all Davidson alumni and students. The Homecoming program as described in the Bulletin is divided into three parts. First,
at 11:30 a.m. Friday there will be an address by the Hon. O. Max Gardner, former governor of North Carolina,
in the college Chapel. His subject will be of his own choosing. Part II will be the annual Homecoming luncheon
at 12:30 in the banquet hall. After-dinner speeches will feature the program. The third part is the Davidson-Centre game at
2:30. It is announced that the special guests of Homecoming are the football team of 1910, who will sit on
the sidelines during the game. The Davidson team that year beat such present bugaboos as Carolina, U.S.C., and Wake Forest.
A picture of Robert A. Dunn, president of the board of trustees of Davidson College, is on the cover page.
Other pictures are those of O. Max Gardner, Lee Branch, Jr., president of the Alumni Association; J. McDowell Richards, president
of Columbia Seminary and son of Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson faculty; McAlister Fe 44, who represents the
fourth generation of his family; a group picture of Davidson students in the class of 1940, new faculty members, and
the 1940 football team. The Alumni Journal is edited by Lamar Burton, alumni secretary. Dr. Foreman is consulting editor, and
Lawson Withers and Melvin Means are student assistants. Richard Vowles, class of ‘38, contributed an article entitled “As Italy Went
to War.” The regular feature, “With Davidson Alumni Everywhere,” was included in the publication.

Colored Scouts

Plans are being made for the colored Scout troops under the auspices of the college Y. The Smithfield troop is
planning to have a campfire program this Saturday night with all the trimmings. This outing will soon be followed by
a similar outing by the Caldwell troop. Up till this time about 45 boys have been the guests of the
college at the various college football games. These boys represent the membership of about three troops.

PLAN POLITICAL RALLY

Tuesday night, October 29, on the campus a big mock-political rally was held. It was sponsored by the Eumenean and
the Philanthropic Literary Societies. Mock-candidates for the nation’s highest office set forth their platforms amid blaring brass bands and torchlight
parades. A straw vote was cast Wednesday among the student body. These students shown left to right prepared for it,
Eldridge Brown, who spoke for Willkie; Henry Crane and Paul Crane, secretary and president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and
Jonnie Moore, president of the Eumenean Literary Society. These men also represented candidates of the Democratic party—Roosevelt and Wallace.

Old Arbors Campus Looks Best When Trees in Bloom; Trees Given Expert Care

People from all over the United States who have visited Davidson almost invariably remark what a beautiful campus it has.
The visitor immediately thinks of the post office magnificence of Chambers Building, or of the picturesque decay of certain of
the older buildings. But on the contrary, the admirer is nearly always referring to the beauty of Davidson’s numerous trees
on the front campus. Davidson looks its best, therefore, in the spring or fall. In springtime the trees here are
fairly bursting with glory and blooming that Nature can present. Autumn paints with vivid green magnificence only knows what happens
when thirst meets ice-cold. Coca-Cola. That thirsty feeling leaves and a refreshed feeling comes. Pure, wholesome, delicious,—ice-cold Coca-Cola satisfies completely.

THE PAUSE THAT REFRESHES
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Visitors To Hill Notice

“But only God can make a tree.” Pre-Med Students

The Association of American Medical Colleges is giving at Davidson on the afternoon of Friday, November 8th, the Pre-Medical test
required of all students planning on entering a medical college next year. This is the only time tests will be
given, and those who are planning on taking the test now furnish for trees a sadder, but in some respects
a more beautiful, picture. The trees are shedding from green through yellow and orange into a flaming scarlet splendor. The
ground is covered with a lush carpet of varicolored leaves that shame any man-made rug. All of which presents an
appropriate setting for the colorful Homecoming activities of this weekend. The business of perpetuating her has presented a continuous work
for the college. The Davidson (Continued on Page Eight).

Wit Magazine Expected To Appear Soon

Illustrations by John Northcross to Be Featured

The first edition of the “Scripts ‘n’ Pranks” is expected to appear next week, according to Editor-in-Chief Paul Bumbarger. Difficulties
incurred in engraving made it impossible for the magazine to appear on Homecoming. Special features will be by Myron Sandifer,
Jo Newell Robinson, Ed Taylor, and Gordon Horton. The cover was designed by Dan Hodges, art editor, while John Northcross,
Davidson's latest find in the way of Petty drawings, has prepared several illustrations. Al Winn, a junior editor on the
Davidsonian, has written a poem, “Vaerie Greene,” especially for this edition (Continued on Page Eight).

Smartly-Styled TAILS $29.50

Fashionable tailored dress suits in handsome midnight blue fabric with dull-finish lapels. Pleated White Vest $3.95

TUX $19.75

Single-breasted and double-breasted tuxedos in midnight blue worsted material with dull-finish satin lapels. Pleated trousers. Tux Vest $3.50

MEN’S STORE — STREET FLOOR
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
