Thurs., May 16, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

EYES RIGHT AMONG THE GREEKS

Pi Kappa Phi
Pi Kappa Phi spent the weekend in Greensboro, while Epsilon Brothers Young and Tate visited in Winston-Salem. Brother Rowe Powell
visited his home in Whiteville over the weekend. Brother Hayseed Thomas went to Touhy, and Mr. and Mrs. G. F.
Oberfield.

With the close of another school year in the near future, another group of seniors close their college careers. With
a glance backward over the past years here, “What feature (or part) of Davidson do you value most?”

Jimmie Cooper: I like the small student body of Davidson better than any of its other features. Here with a
limited number of high-class (comparatively) students and a large number of activities and organizations, every student has a golden opportunity
to come into intimate contact with his fellow students under all sorts of conditions and circumstances, to learn “to know
men for what they really are,” to take part in every part of campus life; to develop his abilities and
capabilities; and to associate with such fine teachers as Professor E. A. Beaty. Thus every student can spend four years
here that will help him to become a better man.

Jack Abernathy: To me the best feature of Davidson is the opportunities it offers in comparison with larger schools. Opportunities,
particularly in the extracurricular fields of endeavor, are open to every member of the student body, talented or not. Especially
for those not already blessed with the ability and experience in leadership so necessary in later life, there are manifest
chances to get into something, to get that soul-satisfying feeling of power, reward, and honor, which should equip him to
rise to greater heights of service. The opportunity is certainly present at Davidson, the will to use it lies with
the individual.

George Milne: A lovely day in May with warm breezes tickling the sensitive leaves, just about five o’clock—the appealing choices
of useful sleep or the futile attempt to knock a white pellet around the exhausting golf course—cool showers that wash
off the earthy smells of perspiration—the quiet of a Sunday vespers—the familiarity of the executive committee with one’s private life—the
charm of a certain English professor’s lecture on Byron—these things and ever so many more I like about Davidson—where else
would one find them?

Poss McLean: I like the boys the best. I think they are the highest type and best all-around fellows of
any school I know of. By being a small school you can come to know boys more intimately and you
have a better chance to make life-long friends than you ordinarily would. Davidson has the advantage of more intimate association
with professors and a chance for the boys to develop their athletic abilities to a great extent by individual attention
from the coaches. I think that the good name of Davidson and the goodwill associated with it will prove of
great benefit to us in later life.

J. Dan Gilliam: There is a spirit here, hardly found in other schools, where the student body seeks to maintain
a high and noble standard of living. This is a place that should be kept in the future and should
never be compromised for glory which at any passing time might seem more attractive than our high standard of honor.
Let us keep this which the past generations of Davidson students have cherished and maintained and try to instill this
devotion to the high standard, known as the Davidson Spirit, into the generations that will come after us.

Elmer Hulen: What do I like about Davidson? I like the bumming corner and the witticism swapped back and forth
between the self-assured No. 1 bummer and the despairing No. 17. I admire the confident manner in which the Davidson
“big operators” prompt a corner at the Tavern. I like the suave prep-school youth who arrives early in September and
soon discovers he is only a freshman after all. I like the backwoods high school yokel who learns the same
thing at the same time. I like our Honor System—it is not at many schools that a Student Store run
as ours is would survive many months. I like the way we get new picture shows before Charlotte does.

Gales McClintock: What I like best about Davidson? When a boy begins thinking that within three weeks he will be
an alumnus of Davidson he at once begins to think of the things he will miss next year when he
is out in the world. I suppose that many seniors will agree with me that the boys who comprise the
Davidson student body will be the one thing that he will miss most. To me the typical Davidson boy is
incomparable to the typical student.

College Pilots Enter National Competition
Thousand-Dollar Award Will Be Made as First Prize in Aeronautics

Student pilots from 382 out of the 435 colleges taking part in the Civil Aeronautics Authority’s civilian pilot training program
have already indicated their intention to participate in the national competition for the $15,000 Shell Aviation Scholarships and awards, it
was announced today by Major Lester D. Gardner, executive vice-president of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences.

Rules
The nation’s three outstanding student pilots will be selected by means of an audit of their grades and by a
nationwide flight competition on or about July 15. Seven regional elimination contests are to be held, after which the seven
winners will compete for the three national scholarship awards at Washington, D. C., at a later date.

Awards
Winner of the national competition will receive a scholarship of $1,000 to be used for the advancement of his education
along aeronautical lines. Students placing second and third will receive $750 and $500 scholarships, respectively.

Applicants
Signed cards indicating a desire to compete have been received from student pilots as far away as Alaska, Hawaii, and
Puerto Rico. Cards are still being received and to date more than 2,000 college students have expressed a desire to
enter the competition. A total of 228 non-college student pilots have also expressed a desire to enter the contest.

Paul Crane Will Head Phi Society

Library Adds Five Volumes
Books on War and Religion Arrive at Library

Several new books have been added to the collection in the Library. These books cover such varied subjects as education,
religion, New England, and war crises.

“God in Education,” by M. L. Jacks, is directed to tell us that no educational system can endure except in
so far as it is rooted and grounded in God, and that from those roots and that fertile soil it
must draw such vitality as it possesses; that God must be in education if there is to be any life
in it, and if it is not to degenerate into moribund matter of mere instruction. This is presented as one
of the most urgent needs of today.

Another book in connection with religion is “The Gospel of the Kingdom,” by Frederick C. Grant. In the book, the
author views the movement of primitive Christianity against its political, economic, and religious background. This view of the gospel tradition
is taken in the light of its earliest Jewishenvironment rather than in that of later ecclesiastical interpretation. The result reveals
a picture of Jesus as a prophet and teacher, one who lived so close to God that His religious views
were uttered with divine authority. From this picture grows the concept that Christians must live by faith—faith in the kind
of life that Jesus lived and taught. Christianity is not a system; it is a life, a conviction, and a
faith.

“A Southerner Discovers New England,” by Jonathan Daniels, who wrote “A Southerner Discovers the South,” now presents his interpretation of
New England. He rambled through New England in every phase of life and now he pictures his results. Assuming the
role of a reporter, Mr. Daniels asks the questions and lets the characters speak.

[Continued on Page Six]

NOW PLAYING ON BROADWAY Charlotte, N. C.

Plank, Crane, Whitten, Brown, and Withers Will Be Other Officers

S. Crane, president of Korea, was elected president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, at a meeting held Tuesday night, May
7, in Phi hall. Other officers elected at this meeting were: Tom Plonk, of Macon, Ga., vice-president; Henry Crane, of
Tennessee, secretary; Joel Whitten, of Knoxville, first critic; Eldridge Brown, of Atlanta, Ga., second critic; Lawson Withers, of Winston-Salem, treasurer.

Members of the society turned in eight lines or more of poems written by themselves. These poems are a part
of the requirements for the year, and unless they are turned in, the member not so doing is put on
probation. This excludes the member from voting at the meetings and holding office. A discussion on the matter of probation
was begun, but due to lack of time was postponed until a later meeting.

These new officers succeed Dave McLean, president; Lawson Withers, vice-president; Frank Hand, first critic; Tom Fry, second critic; Tom Plonk,
secretary; and Ralph Harkey, treasurer. Crane has served the society as its secretary. He has been named to the Y
Cabinet for next year and was a member of it the past year. He served as secretary of the Y
Cabinet for last year. He is an assistant in the Biology department. Tom Plonk is a member of the glee
club and has recently been named as a student in the advanced R.O.T.C. department. Henry Crane has been active in
freshman work this year. He was on the cross-country and track teams. Joel Whitten served as secretary of the society
the first semester and was named the best drilled freshman. Eldridge Brown was circulation editor of the Davidsonian this past
year. He served on the Y Cabinet this year. Lawson Withers is the rising editor of the Y handbook, a
past managing editor of the Davidsonian, and an assistant to the public relations board of the college.

NORGE Gas Ranges Refrigerators Groceries Hardware M. H. Goodrum Company Davidson, N. C.

Burks of Charlotte, Margaret Patterson of Charlotte, Julia Hobbs of Davidson, Louise Sullivan of Atlanta, Ga., Jean Jones of Hickory,
Betty Dickerson of Marianna, Fla. Dates of the brothers and pledges included: Jane Smith, Mary Lee Garth, Margaret Patterson, June
Burks, and Betty Jones of Charlotte; Betty Spainhour, Jean Jones, of Hickory; Jean Earnhardt, of Salisbury; Rosamond Durban, of Aiken,
S.C.; James, of Charlotte; Carraway, of Wadesboro; Frazier, of Washington; Clark, of Clarkton; Nancy Webb, of Raleigh; Dot Brickhouse, of
Thomson, Ga.; Julia Hobbs, of Davidson; Betty Belcher, of Bluefield, W. Va.; Ruthie Fry, of New York, N.Y.; Betty Robinson,
of Derita; and Betty Dickerson, of Marianna, Fla.

Brother Plunkett accompanied Brother Alexander McArthur to his home in Charlotte. Several brothers from the University of South Carolina and
Duke were present for the weekend. Mrs. W. Frank Hipp of Greenville, S.C., spent Sunday as the guest of her
son, Calhoun Hipp, here. Guests at supper Sunday evening were Mr. and Mrs. Clarence A. McArthur and Miss Mary Kathryn
McArthur of Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta

The past weekend was a rather quiet one for the brothers, most of them trying to get in shape for
the last round-up. However, there were a few who found it necessary to take tours to various and sundry places.
Among these were Brother Kenyon to his home in Gainesville over the weekend, and Brothers Glenn and Chapman to their
homes in Spartanburg on Thursday. Brother Howell Westall spent Saturday in Converse. Brother McLean did likewise while in Lenoir. Brother
Beall visited his home in Carthage and Lenoir.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brothers Hector McLean and George Grantham went to their homes in Lumberton and Fairmont, respectively. Brother Ficklen went to New
York. Brother Lucas spent the weekend in Charlotte.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Thurs.-Fri., May 16th-17th. “IRENE” Sat., May 18th. “1,000,000 YEARS B.C.” Mon.-Tues., May 20th-21st. “TYPHOON” Wed., May 22nd. DOUBLE FEATURE Thurs.-Fri.,
May 23rd-24th. “EDISON THE MAN” Sat., May 25th. “TWENTY MULE TEAM” DAVIDSON, N.C.

Belcher, of Bluefield, W. Va.; Ruthie Fry, of New York, N.Y.; Betty Robinson, of Derita; and Betty Dickerson, of Marianna,
Fla.

Brother Plunkett accompanied Brother Alexander McArthur to his home in Charlotte. Several brothers from the University of South Carolina and
Duke were present for the weekend. Mrs. W. Frank Hipp of Greenville, S.C., spent Sunday as the guest of her
son, Calhoun Hipp, here. Guests at supper Sunday evening were Mr. and Mrs. Clarence A. McArthur and Miss Mary Kathryn
McArthur of Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The chapter was visited by Mrs. McLauchlin, Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Watson, and Dr. J. F. Hay. Brothers Loy and
Harbin accompanied the track team to Furman. Brother Watson spent the weekend in Winston-Salem. Brothers Fulcher, Tarleton, Legerton, and Davis
went to Converse for the weekend. Brother Kunz made his usual visit to Rock Hill. Misses Helen Teller and Josephine
Jones visited the chapter over the weekend. Brothers Casali, Fitzgerald, Harbin, and Kunz were in Charlotte Saturday. Brothers Sleet and
Rummel visited in their homes. Fredericks, McLaughlin, Rainey, and Bivens visited Statesville.

Kappa Sigma

The KA-Kappa Sig dance in Raleigh claimed Brothers Kelley, Clark, Hogg, McAlpine, and Scott. Brothers Means, Sutton, Cooper, and McGee
visited Hartsville. Brothers Jonas and Black went with the track team to Furman. Neal Scott visited New York. Jimmy Cooper
was at the Southern Conference golf tournament. Gray Hunter and Wileman visited their homes in Greensboro. Brother Ashby Dick spent
the weekend at Pinehurst. Stuart Sprunt went on a deputation. Brother Bevo Bono took off and jaunted to Greensboro. On
Sunday night a feed was held at the house for the members.

Beta Theta Pi

The Betas were scattered far and wide this past weekend. Some were with their mothers, some on bumming details, and
the remainder at other points. Brothers Cheney and Howell stood on the bumming corner with no idea as to their
destination and finally ended up in Danville, Va. Three brothers finally made it to their destination.

[Continued on Page Six]

THEATRE

Delicious and Refreshing

Coca-Cola has the charm of purity. Its clean, exhilarating taste never loses the freshness of appeal that first delighted you.
And it brings a refreshed feeling that completely satisfies.

PAUSE THAT REFRESHES

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by THE CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY

White Drug Company Extends Heartiest Congratulations to the SENIOR CLASS
