Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. March 7, 1940

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

1938 Member 1939
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

TONY CASALI - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jack Abernathy - Associate Editor
Bobby W. Angus - Assistant Editor
Lyt - Movie Editor
Fred Badgett - Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Publicity Manager

THE GREEKS ARE REBELLING. Individual chapters, alumni, National Pan-Hellenic Congress, and National Interfraternity Conference are all worried about the type
of publicity which has recently been given to fraternities and sororities. The matter to which they refer, specifically, is material
presented in pictorial “mass consumption” magazines. They go back of it to explain how certain chapters have fallen victim to
photographers and therefore brought their local and national chapters and the schools at which they are located into a bad
light. Fraternities (including both boys’ and girls’ organizations with this term) must cooperate, they agree, to see that chapters and
members do not continue to be exploited by commercial photographers and by caption writers whose best sales come through sensationalism
and misrepresentation of fraternity life, morals, and ideals.

Articles or more so, captions to pictures, have left the impression that Greek life is a gay, luxurious existence of
parties and that much of the students’ time is devoted to queen contests, football spectaculars, goldfish swallowing, style show modeling,
weekends, house parties, and pipe smoking by girls, and initiation hazing. For this reason, the groups are definitely on the
defensive in many parts of the United States. They may or may not survive. If they do pass out of
the picture of college life, bad publicity may be listed as a leading factor in their downfall. An alumni of
one university called attention of students to the public which will form its opinion of fraternities. “It consists of the
parents of your present members. It includes your own alumni. It includes the parents of the boys and girls whom
you will be rushing in the future. It includes men and women to whom you will be applying for positions
in the fields for which you have prepared,” he wrote. Furthermore, it is a bad impression left with the average
man and woman who are paying taxes for the support of state schools. For these reasons, it is apparent that
members of fraternities should be interested in what these groups of the general public think of them. Conclusions, then, are
that it is a mistake to think that any kind of mention is “good advertising,” since it brings fraternities before
the public, but in the wrong light. No publicity is better than bad publicity and publicity that seeks to exploit
the Greeks, tear down respect for them, and deflate them, is plainly not good. The most effective publicity, fraternities are
warned, lies in worthwhile accomplishments of chapters and members.

Another thing members must be able to do today is to analyze and evaluate what they see and read in
magazines and newspapers concerning fraternities. College students and graduates, of a higher level than the group which grabs at sensational
material, must understand the problem, talk it down intelligently to those who question them on the matter, and in the
future be careful of the use of pictures and material on them and their sororities and fraternities for publicity purposes.

Question Of The Week

After the announcement made in chapel by Gales McClintock, one of the managers of the Student Store, on the irregularities
which have occurred in the Student Store, there have been many opinions expressed as to how to best remedy this
unfortunate incident. Accordingly, the following question has been selected as the “Question of the Week”: “In view of the present
Student Store situation, as announced in chapel by Gales McClintock, what measures, if any, do you believe should be taken?”

JACK FERGUSON, Senior: Only those who are benefitting by the methods employed at the STUD STORE are indifferent or favorable
to the irregularities. Moreover, it will take the bulk of the student body to stamp this dishonesty out. To get
the student body to express their interest and concern the question will have to be kept before them. Then I
think that the financial statements (profit and loss sheet) should be regularly published in The Davidsonian so the students can
see the loss, and actually understand conditions. I believe we would then feel a closer relation to the management because
of the trouble to examine the books although we know perfectly well we can if we wish to.

BEN COLKITT, JR., Sophomore: If a sign were put up in a conspicuous place in the Student Store, I think
that the men would remember to pay for what they have eaten before they walk out. I would think of
the matter as forgetfulness and not as petty thievery. However, if a man makes a habit of forgetting, which the
books of the Store cannot, he should be reminded in no uncertain terms to walk the chalk line in this
way or stay out. If he is approached once I think that his sense of honor will be promptly whipped
into action. This is supposed to be a College for gentlemen and not a kid’s school with nursemaids.

GEORGE DEW, Sophomore: I do not believe that any further measures should be taken. Since the entire student body is
now aware of the situation, I do not believe that there will be any recurrences. Davidson believes in the honor
system. The gentlemen, whoever they are, that brought on this incident, may have forgotten for a few minutes what the
honor system is. No doubt remains that they will see their mistake. Trust them in the future.

JOHN HAY, Junior: I cannot believe that the boys who have been guilty of this offense realized how grave their
actions have been before it was called to their attention and dwelt upon. This petty thievery is a violation of
the honor system, and I believe that they will offend no more, both because of their sense of decency and
the fear of being caught, now that the situation has been brought to light. I do not believe any further
measures will be necessary.

GORDON HORTON, Junior: Since it is an accommodation to the students, I believe that the only thing to do, if
this situation keeps up, is to close the Student Store. But I have the optimism to believe that there is
enough honor in the student body to warrant the continuance of this store. Now that the situation has been brought
to light, I believe the students’ consciences will work on them, and help to abolish this state of affairs. Since
the Store is operated for charity in various forms, I think the students should feel that it is their duty
to pay for more than they have bought and not less. It seems to me that this is much the
same proposition as giving to the collection in church.

TED PARKER, Senior: If you accuse any man that he has no sense of honesty, he will resent it. Deep
down in every man there is a sense of honor, though he may be careless of it at times out
of thoughtlessness. The present student store situation has reminded every Davidson man of his sense of honor, which he counts
as one of his most valuable personal possessions. What would you think of posting a sign in the Student Store
to remind those who unintentionally forget their honor? Show a man that you trust him, and he will live up
to that trust.

CAMPUS CAMERA

THE OLDEST COLLEGE BUILDING IN AMERICA IS AT COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY. IT WAS DESIGNED BY SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN
- 1697.

GLEANINGS
By MELVIN MEANS

This poetry—not that of the ancient and honorable bards that find their way into the literary masterpieces of the day,
but rather that of a contemporary genius that is, nevertheless, pouring out his heart to his love. His story in
the following, entitled Sonnet Number One, indicating a series of heart-rending episodes that we will be able to secure for
you through the same illicit source. Ah, the original:

Sonnet Number One

I give it to you, beloved Becky
You know I always love you so.
Where e'er I might go.
My heart feels it will break;
Ah! My charming Becky,
There ne'er was such an ache.
When sweet dreams o’ertake me,
The only things I see
Are visions, darling Becky,
Of just you and me.

- J. Trumpy Strandwitz

Keep it up, Bard. We want a copywrite on the next installments, too. And at the same time, thank you
Operator No. 5 for securing the opening installment...

Too bad about Johnny Fredericks losing his pride and joy. Just when he was getting along so well, too... While
the weather hasn't shown

At last we have a successor to Chubby King. Charlie Martin has rounded up aFew of the boys on the
campus have set out to make a—who knows, maybe another Kemp or Kyser. The organization includes Charlie and Stan, with
Philips and Morton “Artie” Ghuren doubling on alto sax and clarinet. In the trumpet section, there's Jim McDonald, who takes
care of the rides in veteran style, ably assisted by Craig Smith and John Roth. On the string bass and
drums, respectively, are Joe Barnwell and another musician. Since Swig Swasey is still a holdout on his contract, the boys
are as yet without a permanent pianist. Their few rehearsals have shown that this band’s got the regular practice and
can overcome other handicaps which now stare them in the face.

Count Basie has recently made two sensational sides for Columbia with the Benny Goodman sextet. The titles are “Gone With
What Wind?” and “Till Tom Special,” the latter a Lionel Hampton original. The set-up may stick for recordings.

Glen Gray has come through again, smoother than ever. Title? “Concentrate On You.” Vocalist? Kenny Sargent. Back side? “Last Night’s
Gardenias.” Recommended? Definitely yes.

Jimmy Dorsey moves into a tough spot April 5. He follows Glenn Miller at the Cafe Rouge room of New
York's Hotel Pennsylvania.

Murphy’s Mumblings By BOB WILLIAMS

Thursday and Friday, March 7th and 8th: “Northwest Passage” starring Spencer Tracy, Robert Young, Walter Brennan, and Ruth Hussey. Spencer
Tracy, Robert Young, Walter Brennan, and Ruth Hussey provide one of the most thrilling adventure stories of the year. Tracy
carries on as one of Hollywood's finest actors in the role of Major Rogers, leader of the hardy group who
fight their way northward to the St. Lawrence valley in search of French and Indians. Robert Young, as the University
student who is expelled and later spurned by his “one and only,” along with his lock-buddy Hank Mariner (Walter Brennan),
tarry too long in a drunken stupor (the result of too much hot-rum-and-butter), and awake to find themselves members of
the Rangers, and therewith are transformed into wild-and-woodly “injun fighters.” Throughout the entire journey, each proves himself a hero in
one way or another, and the climax comes when Young staggers fifteen miles in one day after being stabbed by
a bayonet. On the whole, this is one of the most realistic adventure stories ever filmed, and even the Hays
office didn’t cut out the punch scenes. Not much for romance for the lounge lizards, but plenty of action.

Saturday, March 9: “Trade Winds” starring Frederic March, Joan Bennett, Ralph Bellamy, Ann Sothern, and Sidney Blackmer. The first picture
in which Joan Bennett appears as a brunette comes to our local cinema and merits the attention of every moviegoer.
Frederic March, playing the part of a detective, and Joan Bennett, who is the guilty heroine, will have your attention
all the way, not only watching March make love to Joan (who is the bewitching siren), but also wondering whether
he will turn her over to the police after their romantic episode is over. Here's the spot to get your
tips on how to act with a very charming young lady in the orient, and besides this, there is a
novel plot which is well integrated to form a good two-bits worth of entertainment. We'd like to give you the
climax, but we can’t remember it, so we'll meet you there on Saturday to see it again.

Monday and Tuesday, March 11th and 12th: “Strange Cargo” starring Clark Gable, Joan Crawford, Ian Hunter, Peter Lorre, Paul Lukas,
and Albert Dekker. Clark Gable plays a tough, heroic role.

(Continued on Page Six)

In all, several hundred thousand men and women are involved in Federal organizations and rural police which guard against offenses
along the same line. Besides these, each city and county has a special force of officers. Although these officers are
extremely good at apprehending criminals, there are several great faults in the U.S. police system. Chief among these is the
fact that the police do nothing to prevent crime but rather catch the criminal after he has already broken the
law. The first step in eradicating crime is to remove the source, and here we meet once more the problem
of juvenile delinquency. Jersey City leads the nation in having a smaller number of homicides than any other city in
the country, and likewise, it also has the most efficient force and system for handling juvenile delinquents. These two facts
could hardly be correlated on any other basis than the idea of removing the source to stop the crime.

The second major fault of our police system lies in the personnel itself, although this error is being rapidly removed
by modern methods of scientific criminology. Too often, the police force is filled with men who would make splendid citizens
in other fields but who have been hampered by opportunity and turned to police work simply because there is nothing
else for them to do. This fault, of course, does not apply to the F.B.I.; it lies mainly in the
rural and city police officers. Berkeley, California, has led the nation in building up an effective police force. Every man
who applies is given a series of rigid tests, including physical examinations, psychometric tests, special ability tests, and psychiatric examinations.
By these tests and gradually raising the standards, they have built up a police force that almost rivals the nation’s
military personnel standards.

There are four major steps which are necessary: (1) train the officers better and organize them to prevent juvenile delinquency;
(2) increase the standards of personnel everywhere; (3) remove the whole system from politics; and (4) increase the appropriations to
pay the officers and to organize the various groups into one workable and cooperative system.

The average American citizen regards Japan's war with China as something that is “not his business,” little realizing that every
bullet shot by a Japanese soldier is American-made. And little did the Davidson student realize this until they heard Dr.
Walter H. Judd give his interpretation of the present Chinese-Japanese conflict. Far after the dinner bell rang Monday, they sat
spellbound by his remarkable oratorical ability and sound judgment of affairs in the Far East. It is hard to believe
that any strategy could be so diabolical as to term helpless women and children, hospitals, and private homes as “military
objectives.” And it is even harder to believe that without the aid of United States’ materials, Japan would be powerless
to continue her undeclared war. But Judd’s speech was firmly convincing, and very few students will doubt his keen analysis
of the situation. The high spot in his talk was not found in his analysis of the war, however, but
in his condemnation of the American foreign policy that is permitting Japan to conquer the United States’ best undeveloped foreign
customer. With the present conflict in Europe shutting off England...

(Continued on Page Six)
