Thurs., Nov. 21, 1940

Always in the past, and no doubt it will happen as usual, a great part of the American willingness to
poke into foreign affairs has been due to clever propaganda. Our first line of defense may be abroad, but we
should be absolutely sure of this before we begin to protect that line by an expeditionary force.

Three movies shown here reflect the national trend: On all sides we see the need for prompt U.S. action, and
hear the pleas of foreign powers. Our popular songs carry the message. Columnists demand action. National leaders deplore the necessity,
but appear to be headed directly toward war. Our resolutions of the past are forgotten. Where are those who said
they would never fight abroad? The majority have vanished. A good percentage of our youth still openly oppose foreign war,
but the number is slowly decreasing. And the propaganda is just getting under way. It is to be of a
new type this time and is naturally difficult to perfect, but it is gradually rising. We have scarcely felt the
impact of the combined radio, press, and movies yet. Gradually, we are being led on, until right or wrong we
will be in it. Gigantic forces are lining up to plunge our country into this struggle. As yet their operation
has been limited, but the thing, once started, carries itself along in ever-increasing strides, on its own momentum.

By W. C. PLUNKETT

We seem to knock Davidson on some occasion all the time. We don't have to kick about the food, we
are lucky! Every day we miss an opportunity to complain about the classes, the rules, the buildings, the equipment, the
campus, and every other phase of our life in college. Yet we have only to get away from the campus
and we pick out some words about the advantages of our school. Such intangible things as “tradition,” “small Christian college,”
“select student body,” are among our foremost arguments. When a student from another college visits us, we never hesitate to
tell him how much we all love dear old Davidson. If you survive your freshman year, you never want to
leave.

Only this past weekend, a visiting student on the campus gave a typical bird’s-eye view of Davidson. Like so many
others, he had expected to find here a replica of Hampden-Sydney. He was amazed at our good equipment here. His
compliments to our dormitories were indeed surprising. When the construction of Duke was being planned, many suggestions for its plan
would have led one to believe that we were housed in hovels. Our dormitories cannot compare with those of some
of the state universities, but they are comfortable, and with (Continued on Page Six)

If you remember, they have entertained us since we have played host to them. Incidentally, too, they've got a swell
crop of freshmen (looks, personality, versatility, etc.) in addition to three upper classes of beautiful belles. True, it’s too late
to have them over for a football game, but then there’ll be basketball coming along soon, or if necessary, we
could wait until spring for a baseball game.

Just as a matter of interest, a columnist in “The Queens Blues” in the last edition was wondering what had
happened to the custom which used to be an annual affair. She seems to think that they're no longer the
“apple of our eye.” Some will say that after this many years the animal could not exist otherwise. That may
be true. If it is, would it not be better to mercifully chloroform him? We are sure that the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has never heard of this case, for had such been the case we
would not now have the wildcat on our campus. Won't someone with some authority take it on himself to do
something about this? It is high time.

Sincerely,
$2.43

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday
November 21 and 22
“Down Argentine Way” Betty Grable, Don Ameche and Charlotte Greenwood
This is a movie that has color, music, and humor. Betty Grable returns to the screen to sing and dance
and display gorgeous clothes on an even more glamorous figure. Romance plays its part when she meets Don Ameche, the
son of a wealthy Argentine landowner, who possesses the world’s fastest racehorse but refuses to race him because of an
old track tragedy. Betty fatally persuades Don to race the horse secretly and in the end everything turns out beautifully.

Saturday, November 23
“The Gay Caballero”—Cesar Romero, Robert Sterling and Leila Ryan
This is a story of Old Mexico, where life is easily led under the sunny skies. Romance and song fill
the air as Romero leads his free and happy life. The story is based upon a book that shows how
the (Continued on Page Six)

Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Our participation may be the only answer. We doubt that, but if it is, then our people should decide it
with clear minds, realizing the effect of their decision. It is hard to evaluate news reports, columns, and movies when
we are bombarded with emotion-jerking movies.

BILL LEMMON
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by The Standard Printing Company
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter December 8, 1915, at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the act of March 3,
1879.

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

I SAW YOU barely miss a little boy on a tricycle this afternoon and heard you yell, “Get the H—
out of the way!” Don't you know any better than to ride in the street? He didn’t answer because he
hasn’t learned to talk very well yet. So I’m going to answer for him. No—the little boy doesn’t know any
better than to ride his tricycle in the street. He has been warned not to, but little boys don’t always
heed warnings. Some adults don’t either, especially traffic warnings; for example, the one limiting the speed of automobiles.

I’m going to tell you something about that little boy. He has a mother who endured considerable inconvenience, anxiety, and
suffering to bring him into the world. He has a father who has worked hard and made many sacrifices to
make him healthy and happy. The supreme purpose of their lives is to have their little boy grow up to
be a useful man. Now stop a minute and think. If you should kill a child, how would you feel
facing his parents? What excuse could you possibly offer Him whose Kingdom is mostly made up of little children? Children,
my hasty friend, were here long before you or your automobile were thought of. All the automobiles in the world
are not worth the life of one little boy.ince Rancin ire en teine Fanity) obscenity, or ae ae fee Crete
mobiles on eari!) are not worth the life of one little boy, shows Sateitewonllenotshave twit tnyel speciintian mole. tie fos
1 ituast | in the ¢ Monday " : ny a: : 1 phy WRRIEA TR ‘ ver peacroae mee
' We don’t know what that little boy may some day be. nything like @ crowd because Ter-| siners these
days Per High ight of th eweek that i ind. the : 4 : i Tim) M tt ) [
i ) eweek ar Hearne Saag Seton ‘ His ' sige ge mite (Jim) Mann was putting on a wlas
escorte he 39 W editor reserves the rigt t part or all of any Mhis Jbeings me toomy main potad
Tw But we know what you are,-and it’s unimportant. We aa ular display ef the ate Deed eve fe i
we lee oH : pe i “tl (= : ; : 1 ‘ pectacula splay ¢ re est) Converse®’-May around
over he | +3 ears ayo the Carneeké Record Corporation 3 ; ; ; ‘e can't spar pate Sena, i
[io ; contribution or communication : a ‘ 5 ; a Coll rey could get along without you, but we
cant spare a single methods of “pitching” down in the} week end, being the first to intro presenter "” tise
‘ soe ne ccord . gies aK 3 Ps f pt UND ASOD EUS AU BE little boy on the
street. “Ye reading room, Most of tlie) duce this cony-catcher tu the stu- player and approximately mine hundred rec -
| spectators were drawn from Watts) dent body. Gus Mcl.ean_ has The Warlords Beckon | ords. In this group are
all types of musi wiiere they (lembers) were shoot=|hean dubbed che sweetheart, the including several svimpfioniés, Someot these e :
ing the bull; upon the arrival of the Iream, and the lover of Queens | Hege starents | ; eee
: elters to the utor ique from the “Y" that airep 7S oF ny college student 5 CC > oad
he Heer see severar year avo ma COTE Re aa} nts icsreedras. areztou expensive for the average (7 } y
AY f} a Hyp , smimunique rom the t ae the | Colle banded together an+ several campuses to “|
BRINE TTT Rie ne tan al Now showswas of they all set off ‘inal fyi Sink pulled the light: cord
i dent to purchase ) the are made a : : if soe ° eng PS ey ef ; ;
, Sacer xy . v ; A breeze, not hesitating te catch aj; . A v3 : » Frog uphold
the cause of non-participation in any vailable for everyone to hear, them, several |(@) QUEENS DAY PROPOSED Jon, let's show
em! Let's have a aie fc ie wh ene tag ord REE TU TAGIN LSS SUSE US A i} anhalt
0. vit Near : V “OA f a res o § OMIssio Al yiitc : : ere : foreign war.
The “Veterans of Future Wars ; ; j Dene Andy Davidson-Queens Dayethis year! | ° Ve } Bell and Butch
Caldwell were lock 2 } hours each day. Some of these records miay ; i : CIOUNUN Ge esevGnal Ol
thom DOVSHitno dawn die errata Tite GhabGnrt became well known, as did other organiga-— | ie It seems tome that
“Luke” Lueas Sincerely, malt Goldeccthnu catthe chow outlianee uubaas Brees Cee BA RELL PAC Mellae eo j not appe al
to everyone but there are other und all his Beaver Boys deserve a JALAL CA for Annanymous) SA UE REE
LINE GSE Cate. Their lock really cut Butch LIC Is, « « COMe VTE vt Option Was if . unt
=a. ry rhe : . ec s | > seort y H . . te 1 x Ni s |
; } in which evervone can see some aesthetic word of thanks for their very suc-| (b) OUR CAGED WILDCAT
Lipoe arrears ATCT Re | by describing hiy appe NOU a Ve . yout ot 1 t , t :
. " ml; ¢ ( LHC eS rise oO Joe! ‘ " ye 7, F; 9 Tee Pa} Re eC
ee LED WOUL Ce OCI eirGeattl Cu values The trend of the most recent popu- | cessiul Davidson-Salem. Day. so
if; Dear Andy: Last week a feature Gord { 1 this Ne Heda # las detail, Ask ol! Frank!!! .
| 19) Ayes | cs Ty pa: fy ac yee . 5 + flock to the colors so readily as.
in 1917 eesy: Peony he ke a theme: fr you don't mind Cd like to do the fstory in “The
Davidsonian gave! OTCen Who, all this~pme, had beer Henry Melntosh zoomed down to lar music seems to be to take
a theme trom, | : ‘na very comfortable position in} ptoridg for the second time this : ‘ ; -
| i anil atk eee _ [honors the lite history of the maseot wild- ceed hivtaesret Maes ¢ o! Phat
attitude still persists to a certMA ex- | some classic and make it over into some Firstof all, Ethink Ed
should bes cat caged atthe side of our gym. | OMS Seeiuded’ spot, not visible Tormonti® to see his lock
in West Palm tent. but it is not nearly so prevalent now modern hope-to-be hit tune, Tt would be jeommended
for his tine taste.) Among other things, it stated Piet iar naa a ite ees"D BE ee nee “1 ;
‘ ; i 2 mor is tha MS was a very enligh on ¢ . ‘ sa The majority now
hold the view that we do All MCGnCSUiN eg GHINPAncONeeMMcatte Ulm \niivE wut ton tunities sot oan) the aunyigaral had
been Confined there . eis a : hee | statement forthe press but Saw if ; i ; A ;
= ening entertainment on e arts ane Suck " myrey * > via F S not want to go to
war, but that it issan abso- theme in its original setting and the mod- Jeye for the, weaker sexs Secondlyefor
15 years lmethods of love. Toe and Teemitel ish vil ee Nee ee a : 1 ; TieenTolt as randled
and | sat g he there? | 4 aed : jhe pulled his weekly raid On the lute necessity fm
some cases, -and that the ern version. : jthe project was well han Ned Ane Just what good i. he
doing ere INavacouredtacccvernGhiinninatle| Hon ees aint it ii i r tl | }went over in a big way. Vhe Bea-|
Do our ‘students and faculty think | Rete enpORni Goh dures | iraham $ ASINOrm omelet “se S t navy
> one ot se Cases Ps ‘ ; ; ; : ; * ‘ | “rs the ¢ « y
chas- | ed coe x present situation may be one of those ¢ Ifa person does not now have an
appre-— fj vers certainly live up to their name.{ that it is right to keep a wild ani- | free
caeirion iicecceantlednth | Latimer is about to do some good t mi ry: again it me be ; ; ;
: ; ; " : ae 4 ope Lt Saeed bP ae “Jafte “e years of persistent try- It may
be, and again it may not be | lation for all forms of the aesthetic, he | Se to Lanky
“huke” and all of his} mal, usually accustomed to open | fiehedowvonley on aituction oui Tile after three years of
persiste 3 | jens 4 : : | n affection, the title} 5. ; } : \ } ' |
Busy Beavers, on the part of those | spaces anda much different habitat, —. , a Ines Immediately preceding —the-tirst”
World} should-try to -create> such: a tove «for the |] Lome of which is “Lumbering Literature } 7 asia :
y ; 5 tel I sites : ; : ; > who benefited, thanks fe a big yin such cramped
quarters for such Seon teil He ordaab oan | Filthy rumor has it that the past War everyone the jroughly
recognized the beautitul Der haps by a visit to this source } time ja denethy period of time? Why is
years 4 ) i mole ai la k a [Mees cretiviticg., Wer cepmney ia! ,f : : " : i
S pears te OC O. ote ocke “ - ci supposed fact that Uy S. participation was | of potential
enjoyment, he may open to him- | Now that the bouquets have been | he kept there? There has been
NO} shat fe en esniec dat t pean a ee due to the fact that most ; 4 i '
: | the e ke s date overt ae Sne - : ae eS eer are inevitable, and that if
was our ioral re- | self a new field-of classical pleasure, Some-—| bestowed: Td like to raise a ques-| possible
use for it for several MUR I a ats jot the operators were conserving etn ; } . i '
ae | egal y yaya Terres : their resoureessand energies for the sponsibility to save England, Fratice, and | one
has wisely said that “A minute wasted [tion What has happened to ‘theand to our way of thinking there Ian
Saninlesehannatio: ecatinel I : ik a URL re ane k U" PYG : ; : 1: " ; eae Davidson-Queens
Day? It, too, was} will’ fever be any use for it. : see sag oe stebigedeal-set to Come Oo lanks
the other Upholders of Democracy by active | isa minute lost.” Why not spend the spare a Sprout mbetiution’= Alter
“Alli| Weraru eure that aio. hinkina | eubecd uma the postmasters ball civing week when tines wack ends -Pparticipation, and
by sending the Hower of | time protitably by listening to the great Quuens le OUR satan ccliewe: anil! Rereoneweuineda
cae thiie. OEE thie tus the Charlotte Hotel Sat. and pro- |ivill be pulled inside of eight days our youth
to fight abroad. That may have | masterworks of music to be found din the anybody who-happens to drop in
at|sort if he realized just what he-was| ceeded to contact through a lady |by the largest moguls, yeen true; it
may not have been true Carnegie Record Set ? DN TL. Qiteetis one Saturday of Sunday| doe. Probably the thiie
It¢| i i Cen trues at Tt Gan nt | x 3) y) N i 4 | : might will
back ‘me up when | say} passed ainnoticed for so long that Dut whatever the verdict with regard to that
itis still the most frequented,| we have become used to it, and no A our participation in the last war,
and the | if not the most popular, in the evesfone gives the matter a second Compassing need for U.S.
intervention in the present | é O of Davidson gentlemen. BeSides,} thought. But’ because it has been a : »
series. | the ¢ eopast ‘ave this crisis, we should think clearly Tor once | it l t e ta
they've got-us one-up in-the series.} the custom in the past to cage thi Campuses on BY TOM CAUBLE ON ASPIRATIONS:
Aspirations are of course as va- ried as personalities. Of the various and types of dent aims the few seem
to stand out. These may (lb social. aspirations evi- on campus, however, a be classitied scholastic, (2) as (3) facts
about the first named activity are extremely hard political, and Accurate to compile and thus this subject will be treated
but sparingly here- in Let us consider first political as- piratidns. A man aspiring .to politi- cal-importance must first wear.
a coat and tie incessantly. Popularity and ability must also be coupled with ‘a certain mechanical perfec- tion of dress
and jerson in order to aspire successfully politically. Excessively long (Greensboro) coats and excgssively short (High Point) trousers thus automatically
disqualify a man for the more im- would portant executive positions. It seems also to be the accepted fashion for
candidates to spend some little time in and around the post office and environs and there to swap intimacies with
all those who pass these crossroads-of ldcal life. It estimated that the suc- cessful campaigner must know not Is {
- - under four hundred fellow students {by their tirst names. intercollegiate Participation — in sports is also a great
.expedient, particularly ifone is extremely pro- ficient at Many the political the {past have been athletes. The any such activity.
| of immortals of | third and most widespread jambition pertains to the social. It {is perhaps most: popular because
| = A | greater freedom of conduct can be enjoyed while aspiring to social Prominence. Again it is favored
by many over political ambitions in that the long and tiresome sojourns in the post office are thereby elim- inated.
The socially observe prontinent seem to infallible — maxims. First, they have well known and es- {tablished beauties up to
all dance | sets. Secondly, they embark at least three jonce each week on an unorthodox and spur-of-the-moment (i. e,
“a deal"). Lastly, they attend all ses- sions at the stud store or on the porch of Georgia (depending, of
| course, on the season). | ° The activities of those who would attain eminence not knowledge, scholastic of |
are } | a matter common jand any ideas concerning the nec- (Continued on Page Six)
