Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Thurs., Nov. 21, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Three Page

Question of The Week

For several years there has been mention of a new sports conference consisting of some of the smaller schools in
this section. At present, there is much talk about the matter. “Would you like to see Davidson become a member
of a conference composed of smaller schools containing the number of students of Davidson, or should we continue in the
Southern Conference?”

W. Holt Barnwell, senior:

Winston Taylor, senior:

There are two sides, as always, to the question of whether Davidson is playing above its head in attempting to
compete with larger schools. Insofar as football is concerned, I am definitely in favor of catering to opponents of our
own type--as was done to some extent this year. However, I am equally definitely opposed to severing relations with larger
schools in other sports, simply because of the college’s resulting loss in prestige. From the student's viewpoint, this is an
important item and one to be seriously considered. We have always been known as a college that would play anyone,
and play them hard. Except in football, where there is so much risk of injury, I for one am heartily
in favor of maintaining this reputation.

Clarence Legerton, sophomore:

Although I do not like the idea of leaving the Southern Conference, because of its prestige, I see no reason
to play such teams as Carolina unless we are subsidizing athletes.

Southgate Jones, junior:

It seems to me that, even though Davidson is at the bottom of the pile now, we have done better
in the past and will improve in the future, especially against the smaller teams of the Southern Conference, which are
more of our caliber but are too much for the teams of the proposed conference.

Many Cadets Indicate They Want To Fire R.C.T.C. Leaders. Plan to Begin Practice on Indoor Range Next Week.

Phi Sets Date For Initiation

Eleven Students to Become Members of Society

A month ago, the Phi Literary Society...

Sam Vickers, Will White, Wilson...

Rhea...

One can really enjoy going to a game always hoping that we will win, but knowing that if we do
it will be a miracle. We often speak of moral victories, but do those other than the students see the
moral? I don't believe that playing teams about our equal will lower the Davidson spirit at all, for we will
know that we are playing teams who have a spirit just as strong as our own. Also, the many first-half
ties Davidson plays against the larger and more potent powers bring enough profit and credit to warrant their continuance. The
team never seems to be beyond a scoring threat, no matter whom they’re against. I think, by all means, that
we should stay away from any small conference projects.

R. E. Sleet, junior:

As far as I think, other than the Carolina teams, many seem to be out of place, although many an
exciting game has been played against them. If the strength in our reserve teams could be increased, it would be
all right to play such teams.

Ehly Parker, junior:

I think that Davidson should get into a conference of smaller colleges that are about the same size as Davidson,
and not play powerful teams such as Duke and Carolina. Everyone enjoys a close game, so we should play those
teams that are about equal to us in strength.

George Ogilvie, sophomore:

I think Davidson should stay in the Southern Conference because:

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.1. A harder schedule gives a better brand of football
(the kind our team played against Duke or Carolina, for instance), even though we suffer losses by having this kind
of schedule. Then we see some of the best football in the South in the teams we play.

2. Even though we do not go in for big-time football, our team gets the publicity, by playing in this
conference, that it wouldn't get in a smaller conference. When they tie Duke up into the second half, it makes
any sports writer or fan take notice.

ENJOY POOL TABLE
Deeply engrossed in their game are these Davidson students, grouped around the new pool table which was recently presented to
the YMCA by Mr. and Mrs. W. Y. Preyer of Greensboro and New York. Included in the gift were complete
accessories for the outfit. Mr. and Mrs. Preyer were the donors of the infirmary three years ago. From left to
right, the students are: Jimmy Scruggs of Rock Hill, G. T. Sherrill of Mooresville, Ralph Clontz of Wilmington, Jim Darracott
of Kings Mountain, and Watt Withers of Davidson. The table was given to the “Y” upon the suggestion of Bobby
Preyer, son of Mr. and Mrs. Preyer and a member of the freshman class. This is the second son of
the Preyers to attend Davidson. W. Y. Preyer, Jr., graduated in the class of 1940. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer—photo by Billy
Barker.)

Vereen Bell Completes Novel
Graduate in Class of '32 Writes For The Saturday Evening Post

Blondes Now Come Second
Library Adds Varied Books
Poll Indicates Bachelors Now Prefer Cooks

“For Whom the Bell Tolls” Is Among New Books

Spanish Fraternity
Sigma Delta Pi Plays Spanish Games in Meeting Friday & Saturday

THE 'Y' CORNER
Music and Romance! A few changes in the columns of The Davidsonian have taken place in the past few weeks.
The “Question of the Week” column, after running a question asking the student opinion on itself, dropped out for two
weeks and will appear in the future when some question comes up that seems to afford attention. A new column
appeared last week on the back page entitled “The ‘Y’ Corner.” Shaw Smith, “Y” secretary, will be the author of
this column, asking guest writers at various times to take over the pen.

THE ANDREWS SISTERS in “Argentine Nights”
Late Show Saturday Night

MYRNA LOY and MELVYN DOUGLAS in “Third Finger, Left Hand”
IMPERIAL

MAKE YOUR ROOM LOOK BETTER WITH SUPPLIES FROM SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
Davidson, N. C.

For Quality Groceries at Reasonable Prices
J. K. Hampton Grocery
DIAL 5041 Davidson, N. C.

THIN SOLES CAUSE WINTER COLDS
BUFF’S Shoe Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Dr. Thomas Finishes YMCA Fall Services
Night Classes Have Started
Communion Service Thursday Night
All Freshmen Who Are Failing Are Required to Attend Three Classes

Davidson students are frequently visited in their rooms by a bearer of gifts—and all free. He is only briefly aroused
from his work by the four words, “Next time try Beech-Nut.” The kindly bearer then deposits on the nearest table
mint and chewing gum. Francis Vanlandingham is the Beech-Nut Company's Davidson representative. He, at stated intervals, gives out samples of
the various products made by this company. Last year’s representative was Fred Chetwood. Vanlandingham, from Johnson City, Tenn., is a
member of Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Davidson Native Is Healer of U.S. Anthem

Special! Men's Caps $5.00
BELK-BROS MEN’S STORE — STREET FLOOR
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
