Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., April 11, 1940

Schedule Announced

Prof. Currie Speaks On Union Of Northern And Southern Churches

Jackson Made National Head of O. D. K.

Frank L. Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson College, was elected to national president of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, at the recent convention of that society.

Six Week Session To Begin June 12; Director To Be Prof. F. K. Fleagle

Courses to be offered at Davidson this summer have recently been announced by Prof. F. K. Fleagle, director of the summer school.

ROTC Promotions

A special order was issued by the Reserve Officers Training Corps of Davidson College on Sunday, April 7, in Philanthropic Hall, announcing the promotion of seven cadet officers. Lieutenant Colonel Mackenzie ordered the following advancements. To be made Cadet Lieutenant Colonel, Cadet Major James C. Cooper. Six second lieutenants were promoted to the rank of first lieutenant. They were: James G. Currie, George N. Ficklen, Elmer C. Hulen, Leonard C. Menius, William E. Perdew, and James N. Thomas.

Spring Fever Makes Sweep

By TONY DARBY

One more element has been employed in campus life—none other than our annual visitor, Mr. Spring Fever. With sunny days interrupted by frequent showers heralding the arrival of spring, thoughts begin to wander to the less serious aspects of campus life; vows made to study have been forgotten; realization that there are term papers, book reports and examinations are scarcely fazes persons stricken by spring's disease. Spring fever seems a pleasant disease. Tanning in the sun seems to be the chief accomplishment of the stricken. Some seem never to leave their beds even after classes and chapel have begun.

Cat Netters Win Five Victories On Tour in South

Davidson’s Tennis sextette returned here last Thursday from its annual Southern trip with an enviable record of five victories and only one loss, which was to the strong Georgia Tech team. Led by “Ace” Parker and Morgan Dickson, Duke defeated Davidson in two successive baseball games. Scores, 5-1 and 6-3. The faculty downed the varsity in a closely contested baseball game.

5 YEARS AGO

Davidson’s track team, led by Seth, won the Georgia Tech relay.

10 YEARS AGO

Saturday, April 5, Davidson’s Wild Kittens defeated the Furman Frosh by a 71-46 score.

Paul S. Crane Holds Service

Paul S. Crane, of the Davidson YMCA, went to Kannapolis for Sunday morning service at the chapel there. Clyde Randolf will preach there next Sunday, and after that Crane will serve regularly.

First Meeting

The first meeting of the committee was held last fall in Atlanta, Ga. Its members were composed of southern leaders from the different Presbyterian churches. The split between the northern and southern sections of the Presbyterian churches was first seen after the Civil War. It seems that the North made slander on the South, the slave problem offering a great deal of friction.

Another committee was then appointed to present the facts of the discussion to the General Assembly, and the report is being considered.

Courses scheduled are Bible 21 and 22, Dr. Schenck; Biology 31 and 32, Dr. Lyon; Chemistry 41 and 42, Prof. Knight; Economics 21 and 22, Prof. Erwin; French 21 and 22, Dr. Galdieri; Math 11 and 12, Prof. Kimbrough; Physics 21 and 22, Prof. Fulcher; Spanish 21 and 22, Prof. Fleagle. Prof. Thies will teach either Chemistry 1 and 12 or 31 and 32, depending on the demand for each course. Dr. Williamson will teach six hours of History 41, 51, and 52, also depending on the demand. Prof. Fleagle announces that any course will be given if at least six students sign up at the same time students register for the regular school session of 1940-41, to be made at about the middle of April through Mr. Saenger, registrar of the college. The Davidson Summer School Bulletin will be issued next week.

Summer school is open to both men and women. The school is also open to graduate students.especially appealing to young weureelt reached fever pitch, with Ollie’s sup- porters gaining at every turn. Students who wish to take advanced work, even though there are no special courses offered in advanced education.

Lamar Burton, alumni secretary, addressed the meeting on the alumni association. He was followed by Treasurer F. L. Jackson, who outlined the Living Endowment plan, and other faculty members, who made brief remarks. Some of the facts which were presented included the general feeling of the old Southern Confederates who remembered how the northern churches talked during the Civil War. Also, the foreign missionaries want to know why the two sections aren't together; they can’t understand why there are two divisions. Concluding, providing the two sections do unite again, the Northern churches will get all of the southern church property. In the latter case, even Davidson might cease to be immune to colored students.

Dr. Villee obtained his A. B. degree at Millsaps College, of Jackson, Miss. after which he attended the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He is a native of Atlanta. Dr. Villee has not yet announced his subject, but it will probably concern college students. He is scheduled to arrive on the campus on Saturday.

Johnny Long, whose orchestra has made several Decca records, is said to have a "smooth, danceable type of music." Some listeners have noticed a resemblance to Hal Kemp in style. The set will include four dances: a tea dance from 5 to 7 Friday afternoon; the formal from 10 to 2 Friday night; a tea dance from 4:30 to 6:30 Saturday afternoon; and the closing dance of the set from 8:30 to 12 Saturday night.

The importance of training today is to meet this increasing need for leadership. The kind of man necessary to fill this need will have to have the following qualifications: comprehension and understanding; more creative men; real thinkers; true statesmanlike men; vision, and unerring principles must be present; foresight is necessary—one must be wise in time; cooperative leadership; unselfishness; confidence; and convictions. These qualifications are the most necessary ones for the formation of that caliber of leader that is needed to meet the needs of the various and sundry reasons.

A delightful feed was enjoyed by the brothers at the lodge Sunday night. After the feed, a song session ensued at which time two new fraternity songs written by Brother Robinson were premiered.

Dear Andy:

Have you noticed the attitude which the freshman class has taken, and how it has gone from bad to worse, especially since spring holidays? First, there is the matter of speaking to people you meet on the campus. Not all are guilty, but it seems that two out of three freshmen you pass on the campus go on by as if they are in another world. Then, in chapel, they are beginning to act like a bunch of sophomores. This is not entirely their fault, since Davidson students in chapel are the most disrespectful group of so-called gentlemen we have ever seen assembled, but it seems as if they could see these faults, and be distinctive by acting like gentlemen. Of course, we realize that quite a few freshmen were “big shots” in their high schools, and that others went to prep school, but we think it’s high time that they take a turn, and if they do it, it could only be for the better, since it would hardly be possible for them to get much worse.

Hoping with all for a betterment of this situation, we are

Two of the Class of 40,

Mass Aasta Ledersen - the smiling hostess who welcomes guests at one of New York’s most famous hotels. She will tell you Chesterfield is the busiest cigarette in the place.

Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.