Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. Feb. 22, 1940 College Vesper Service Hears Queens President Rev. Hunter Blakely Speaks On Skill
Of God In Shaping One’s Life Rev. Hunter Blakely, president of Queens College, addressed the regular college vespers service last
Sunday, taking his text from the fourteenth chapter of John’s gospel, the ninth verse, which reads as follows: “Have I
been so long time with you and hast thou not known me, Philip?”

Uses Illustrations
The lesson of seeking God, our Saviour, of surrendering ourselves to him, and of his infinite power and skill in
guiding and shaping one’s life, was greatly heightened by brilliantly chosen examples. Among these examples was Sidney Lanier’s poem, used
to illustrate the flight of the soul soaring between earth and heaven in search of salvation.

Infinite Universe
Likewise, Dr. Blakely told of the infinity of the universe, with the fifteen million visible stars and planets, and man’s
insignificance beside them. But this insignificance is counterbalanced by God’s love for his children and his interest in them. In
Persia, we are told, the artist who makes rugs stands on one side of an upright frame and calls for
colors to be passed through by those on the other. The skill of the artist is measured by his ability
to take any erroneous insertions and make a pattern yet more beautiful. This was used to illustrate God’s power in
our lives, his ability to take our mistakes and failures and make the best possible pattern.

Scout Troops Hold Meeting
Dr. Gwynn Presides Over Awards Given For Tests
Last Friday night the three Boy Scout troops held a Court of Honor in Phi Hall. It was the largest
meeting in the history of the local YMCA-sponsored troops. Troop 19 of Huntersville, Troop 39 of Unity Church, and Troop
58 of Davidson High School were present with all scoutmasters and three assistants. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., presided as
chairman; James Kerr, as secretary. Numerous awards were made to scouts of Troop 58 for tests passed in January and
several more for additional tests.

In the recent drive to get money for the Finnish Relief Fund, $167 was raised, $16 of which came from
efforts by the scouts of Troop 58. For this work, the scouts were split into three groups headed by Walt
Withers, Robert Hughes, and Maurice Hamrick. Walt Withers’ group covered the Davidson Theatre; Robert Hughes’ group, the post office; and
Maurice Hamrick’s covered the Student Center.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)
Report a fine time: also “Butch” Steele among young lovelies while there. Parrish and Barker went to Blacksburg, Va., with
the wrestling team, and Bill Mitchell journeyed to Mt. Airy. Brother Winston Taylor stayed on the campus and Brother Pharr
went to the infirmary along with his roommate Jay Bolin. B. B. Plyler went home to Wilson, N. C., and
Brother Blair Miller has left for California again; Brother Jesse Wooten flew to Topeka, Kansas, via Lynchburg for the weekend.
Dick Shore is with the basketball team in South Carolina.

Phi Delta Theta
Highlighting the past week for the Phis was the initiation and induction of the following: Ned Boyce, Jim Chapman, Wellford
Hobbie, Dill Weaver, and W. L. Barker, Jr. Dr. Spencer Edmunds, a brother from Roanoke, Va., where he is pastor
of the Central Presbyterian Church of that city, delivered a post-initiation talk to the brothers at a banquet which took
place after the formal initiation on Thursday night. Mrs. Edmunds accompanied Dr. Edmunds.

Brothers Ludlam and Luther marched down to Beaufort, S. C., to attend the wedding of Brother Horlbeck. Brother Westall journeyed
to his home in Asheville for the weekend while his roommate Brother Rudolph made a pilgrimage to Sweet Briar and
Lynchburg. Brothers Chapman and Hunter spent the weekend in Spartanburg while Brother Vereen cavorted at South Carolina’s Mid-Winter Dance. Brother
Reinhardt trekked to Lincolnton and Brother Fredo to Salem. Of course, Brother Melles and Raynor made their usual (and we
mean usual) jaunt to Charlotte, accompanied by several other brothers.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brothers Pollock, McElwee, Lane, and Coltrane spent the weekend at Carolina. Jim McDonald spent the weekend in Greensboro with Brother
Brinson. Brothers Shelton and Manzer made the Charlotte delegation.

CAMERA CLUB
Anyone who would be interested in going on this trip with the club members is cordially invited by the president
of the Camera Club to see any member of the group to arrange for accompanying the group.

TERRIFIC GALE
(Continued from Page Three)
Opposite the “bumming corner.” Amateur doctors among the student body have diagnosed that the miniature cyclone was quite a healthy
wind. For an ill wind “blows nobody good.” And ROTC drill was called off through the ministrations of this beneficent
breeze.

Presides Over Beta Theta Pi’s celebration last Saturday of their Fiftieth Anniversary on the Davidson campus was Bob Ramsey. Ramsey,
president of the local chapter, is also Freshman Advisor, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa.

Aviators Visit State’s Schools
These three receive letters with the Davidson Flying Club methods and appointments for the meetings asking for club presidents of
these groups to learn of other meetings. At the last meeting, Herff-Jones Co. displayed samples of keys for the club.
Members decided to purchase a key with a large red enamel background on which is written, DAVIDSON COLLEGE. The key
is shaped as a pair of wings.

Originating this year, the Flying Club was founded in order for students desiring flying instruction to obtain special rates as
an organization. Nine members have secured pilot’s licenses and keep up their flying every week. Sixteen other members are at
present either taking instruction or planning to in the near future.

ART EXHIBIT
(Continued from Page One)
See his as soon as possible and have their names entered as exhibitors. Those exhibiting works in the past are:
Edward Jackson, Dan Hodges, Frank Atwater, Joe Newell Robinson, Ed Shewmake, Wallace Scherer, Fred Harbin, Tom McLean, Chal Vinson, Bill
Preston, Crane, Walter Wooten, Walter Plunkett, Paul Sallard, Jimmy Houston, Southgate Jones, Bob Horton. The public at large is invited
to attend the display. Last year this display was held on the first floor of the Eumenean Literary Society hall.
Some of the contributors were asked to lend their works to the Mint Museum in Charlotte. Last year’s exhibit featured
surrealism, landscapes, portraiture, sketches of buildings and torsos, still life, and many other forms.

RES ROTC. FRAT
(Continued from Page One)
Captain of the fraternity, two vacancies were formed. These were filled by the election of Bill Bolin as Company Commander
and Jimmy Cooper as First Lieutenant. Bolin is at present a First Lieutenant of the Davidson ROTC Battalion, and Jimmy
Cooper as Cadet Major Battalion Commander.

Appointments Made
At the regular drill period Monday, February 19, a number of appointments and promotions were made. Cadet Captain Walter E.
Kunz was detailed as Captain of the Davidson College ROTC Rifle Team. Second Lieutenant Herbert J.of the more modern and
interesting books is “The Modern House” by F. R. S. Yorke. In his book Mr. Yorke has outlined the requirements
to be met in the new type of home, and discusses in detail the minor plan of the home. He
also illustrates his book with houses in Europe and America. The annual book of poems by Thomas Moult is also
ready. It is entitled “Best Poems of 1939.” A set of history books entitled “Stories of Early American History” has
been put on the shelves. Each volume of the history set contains some familiar epic in our history from the
early part of the sixteenth century to the early part of the eighteenth century.

TECH MATMEN
[Continued from Page Four]
class, Bush, of Tech, pinned Busby in 8:23 minutes. Murray won by decision over Ellis, while Beach defeated Parks of
Davidson. Conyers tied the match up with a decision over Blake. The Wildkittens lost all the upper four division matches.
Kemp defeated Brinson and Krey pinned Dick in 4:31 minutes while Barnes decisioned Carter. Rucker pinned Clontz in 57 seconds.

French Group Attends Meet
Major Max Vivier Speaks To The Alliance Francaise In Charlotte
Six members of Davidson's Le Cercle Francaise, Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Ed Jackson, W. C. Plunkett, Fred Little,
and Joe Liles, attended a French lecture Monday night sponsored by the Alliance Francaise of Charlotte, at which Major Max
Vivier was the speaker of the evening. Dr. Goldiere, chairman of the program committee of the Charlotte chapter introduced Major
Vivier who is the official lecturer of the National Federation of French Societies. The topic of Major Vivier’s talk was
“The French Foreign Legion” in which he debunked the glamour and glory imported to this military organization by novels such
as “Beau Geste”, “Beau Ideal”, and “Beau Sabreur.” He stated that these books have exaggerated the French Foreign Legion and
created characters which could not actually exist. Major Vivier, who has served in this foreign outpost, gave many humorous examples
of his experiences which illustrated its characters. He also served with distinction in the regular French army and was awarded
the Croix de Guerre for heroism during the World War. Not content with these honors, Major Vivier has also served
in the armies of Poland and the United States. He is also a widely recognized musician, artist, and author. Two
of his art exhibitions in New York brought much praise, and the French Academy recognized his literary achievements and made
him a Knight in the Legion of Honor.

Phis To Hold Party
Members of the Philanthropic Society will hold their semi-annual party on Friday, March 1, at Mount Mourne, N. C. An
informal social gathering has been planned, with members of the Spectators Club of Queens College to be guests. The two
clubs have entertained together annually for several years. Highlight of the party will be amateur performances by girls of the
Spectators Club. Dave McLean, president of the Philanthropic Society, extends invitations to members of all four classes of Davidson to
join the society. Anyone wishing to do so should see him or Tom Plonk, secretary of the organization. McLean also
asks all Phi’s to turn in their exam spots, so that they can be put in files.

COLLEGE HOST
[Continued from Page Five]
Bible and philosophy department, who will read a paper. Also meeting at Davidson at that date will be the North
Carolina Academy of Sciences. This group will hold sessions Friday night, May 3, and the following Saturday morning. Bob and
Dave McLean, officers of the Davidson College Flying Club, plan to fly to Duke, State, and Carolina to visit with
these military organizations.

TRUSTEES ANNOUNCE
[Continued from Page One]
ments at Shearer Hall to make suitable the housing for the Music Department; the boundary lines of the College property
surveyed and permanent markers put at all corners; the minutes of the Trustees of the College from the beginning of
the College to recent years copied on rag paper and permanently bound; about 1700 names put on addressograph plates and
added to the mailing list for distribution of college literature; new machinery, costing $1,200.00, purchased for the laundry to improve
the quality of work done there. Approximately forty were in attendance, representing Trustees from Presbyteries in North Carolina and Florida
and from the Alumni Association. The Committee appointed last June to nominate President Lingle’s successor submitted its report, but no
information on this subject was available when The Davidsonian went to press.

MUSIC GROUP
[Continued from Page Five]
Love, James Weber, Ruth Kilgo, Franz Rummel, Robert Hill, Francis Magill, and Earle Copes. The Symphonic Band will start on
a tour on March 9, when they will present a concert at the Memorial Hall at Salem College. This concert,
which was presented before some 15,000 persons last year, will be sponsored by the Boy Scout Troop No. 9, of
the Home Moravian Church of Winston-Salem. Later the Band will present concerts in several places including Winthrop College, Morganton, and
Shelby.

HACKNEY, BUSH MEET
[Continued from Page Five]
Crooks was giving a concert at Winthrop College and again Hackney and Bush decided to meet a celebrity. They were
the only persons who were allowed to see Mr. Crooks after the concert but were permitted to talk with him
for only a few minutes.

Cadet First Lieutenant of Company “A”, Cadet Privates First Class S. O. Yoder and E. B. were appointed to be
Cadet Corporals of Company “B”. Cadet Corporals R. E. Ballard of Company “A” and M. J. Bush of Company “D”
were appointed Color Corporals. They are, however, to remain for duty with their present organizations except for ceremonies.

ALL THE LATEST RECORDS
Decca — Bluebird — Victor
COLLEGE PHARMACY
DAVIDSON’S “SERVICE DRUG STORE”

Cercle Will Present Two Plays At Coker
Watts And Goldiere Supervise Productions By French Fraternity
Le Cercle Francais, honorary French Club, will present two plays at Coker College, S. C., on Tuesday, February 27. “Partie
de Bridge,” or “The Bridge Party,” and “Quel Noel,” meaning “What a Christmas,” are the plays to be presented. George
B. Watts and Prof. Goldiere will supervise the productions, both of which were presented by the French Club last year.
“Quel Noel” is an original play written by Russell Smith, Davidson student who is a member of Le Cercle Francais.
Cast in “Partie de Bridge” are Sid Crane, W. C. Plunkett, Al Winn, Drury Thompson, Dave Colvin, and Ed Scott.
The players in “Quel Noel” are Arch Taylor, Russell Smith, Bill Preyer, Bill Burch, W. C. Plunkett and Joe Liles.
Le Cercle Francais of Coker College will entertain Davidson's club with a supper and social, after which there will be
a joint meeting of the two clubs. Dave Sprunt, president, will preside for the Davidson chapter.

HIT HEAD COLD MISERY Right Where It Hits You!
CLEAR YOUR NOSE of suffocating mucus — open up your cold-clogged head — breathe more freely! Vicks Va-tro-nol is what
you need. A few drops give swift relief from head cold discomfort. This TREATMENT is successful because Va-tro-nol is active
medication — containing several essential decongestant agents plus ephedrine — expressly designed for nose and upper throat. What’s more, when
used at first sniffle or sneeze, Va-tro-nol actually helps to prevent many colds from developing.

WAKE UP Your Nose with VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

Chesterfield presents a Combination you can count on for MILDNESS AND BETTER TASTE
CLARK GABLE AND VIVIEN LEIGH
Chesterfield The Cooler, Better Tasting, DEFINITELY MILDER Cigarette
The perfect blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos in Chesterfield gives you the two things you want and look
for in a cigarette . . . Real Mildness and Better Taste. Then, if you add that Chesterfields are far
cooler, you know you have a Cigarette that really satisfies.
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
