Thurs., April 18, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question | Rev. Villee Talks | Like Week | On Individualism | Minister Contrasts Concepts

Elections have been numerous since the Elections Board was put into being. To some, it is a debatable question as
to whether the cleaning up of politics offsets the advantage gained through the fact that only a comparative few vote
each election. After observing the results of the new elections system, do you still favor elections under the present Elections
Board set-up?

Phil Edwards, Senior: Even though there are relatively few votes cast under the new voting system, I favor this plan.
Under this system, not only have politics been cleaned up, but the voters now are those who are vitally interested
in the elections—because it does take effort to go to the polls. The Elections Board has so far proved to
be very efficient and the difficult question of politicking has practically died out.

B. B. Plyler, Jr., Senior: It does seem that one who would have enough interest in student body elections to
take time to go to the polls and express an opinion one way or the other, but this doesn’t appear
to be the case. We all have the tendency to do only things that are easiest for us to do,
and I think it is much easier to cast a vote when they are right in front of one in
chapel than to go to the trouble of going by a poll. Thus, I am in favor of having the
votes placed before the students in chapel as has been done in previous years.

C. G. Luther, Senior: It is true that the present mode of elections has made the casting of votes more
efficiently counted, but I do not think that the new system contributes any more to the “cleaning up” of politics,
for human nature still goes, one will express his opinion regardless. It has cut down the number of voters considerably
but I do not criticize the system for this, for the student body should have more interest in the election
of their leaders. Both the old and new systems seem to have their good and bad points.

Rod Turner, Sophomore: After seeing the results of the new election system, I am still very much in favor of
it. It has cut out politics to a great extent, although I am still inclined to think that the Davidson
campus will never be free of this contamination. In answer to the question concerning interest in voting, I would say
that a representative percent of the student body participates in the elections. I believe that as time goes on, more
students will become interested and will vote. Only time and trial will prove whether or not this system of election
is superior to the former one.

T. P. Johnston, Junior: I think that the present set-up is quite satisfactory. If a person is interested to vote,
there is no hindrance to casting a ballot. The old system involves “stuffing the ballot box and politicking.” The new
system eliminates these evils and deals with the elections in an efficient manner. Regardless of how votes are gained, probably
the best-qualified candidate will get the office. However, the present Elections Board produces a more clean-cut decision among the candidates.

Sam Woodward, Sophomore: Although we haven't heard much from the board about their results, there are certain questions that have
arisen. Is the set-up getting a good representative of voters from the student body? I have seen so many cases
where boys fail to vote that it is possible that only a small percent of the students are voting. Also,
have combines been eliminated by this system? I certainly hope so, but there is nothing definite. I think the set-up
will have to be given more time before we can say whether it is good or not.

MEATS and Groceries DIAL 5041 J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

Of An Individual And Of The Part Of A Whole

Using the topic of “Fearless Individualism,” Rev. Horace L. Villee, of Clarksdale, Miss., spoke to the students of Davidson on
Sunday night. Rev. Villee contrasted the individual against the whole. He used the illustration of a brass screw; as an
individual it is good for nothing, but as part of a machine it is indispensable.

“Individuals have always considered themselves as beside the mob,” he said. “Jesus of old and the followers of Him were
considered queer and disciples in days gone by are apt to be called queer today, but Jesus needs men who
are fearless, of ridicule and criticism.” Here the speaker quoted Dean Inge and an inscription on an arch in Aberdeen.
“Man is the right hand of God and is therefore almost indispensable. God suffers immeasurably when man becomes unfit to
serve Him. Man becomes unfit as an individual, but he wants to be exempted from unpleasantries. Every man agrees that
there should be law, order, and morality in the community yet each thinks that it should not apply to him
if it inconveniences him,” Rev. Villee concluded by saying that Jesus has need of individuals. Only individuals who can follow
God's plan and only fearless men can be individuals.

Science Meeting

Sigma Pi Sigma decided at their meeting April 15, to invite Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, to join them
in sponsoring a scientific “open house” to be held April 30. The chemistry and physics laboratories will be open to
everyone. Interesting experiments in new equipment acquired by these departments will be on display. This will be the second annual
exhibit held by these groups. The first, held last year, attracted a large crowd of students and many townspeople. The
public is cordially invited this year as well and there will be no admission fee charged.

Six New Men Are Initiated Into Masquers

Dramatics Group Plans To Invite Interesting Speakers To Meetings

Red and Black Masquers held their annual initiation in the Quad-room last Wednesday night. Six men were initiated into the
organization. At this meeting, the club decided to continue the regular meetings throughout this year with emphasis placed on the
quality of the programs. It was decided that an effort would be made to secure several prominent speakers for the
meetings on subjects concerning the club and its object, dramatics. Recently the club had Mr. George Brengle of the dramatic
staff of radio station WSOC as guest speaker of the evening. He spoke on make-up, on which the club hopes
to hear another lecture. Although unavoidable circumstances required that the club give up plans for a major production, they hope
to give some minor presentation. They are making plans for an intensive production program.

New men initiated into the club were: Dick Coppedge, Ed Hay, Bill Summers, Pat Rudolph, Bill Perdew, and Ed Taylor.

Local Society Will Petition Phi Mu Alpha

Elected At Recent Beta Gamma Phi Meeting

Beta Gamma Phi, local honorary musical fraternity, decided to petition Phi Mu Alpha, national music fraternity, for membership, at its
regular meeting held Monday night. The object of this petition is to secure a chapter of the national fraternity to
replace the local chapter in the near future. For some time this fraternity has been trying to secure membership in
Phi Mu Alpha but up till this time they have not had the necessary requirements. They are hoping to secure
the charter before graduation this year.

Annually the fraternity has the election of the members for the coming year. These men have to be members of
either the Junior or Senior class and they must be active in one or more of the campus musical organizations.
At this last meeting, the new members for the coming year were elected. The rising Juniors cannot become active members
till the beginning of the next school year.

New members elected into the fraternity at this meeting were: Alwin Burns, David Huffines, Norris Edwards, Bob Hill, Jack Phillips,
Tom Plonk, David Rhea, Joe Robinson, Carl Rowland, Roy Suber, Arch Taylor, and Lawson Withers.

Usually this group sponsors some form of musical entertainment each semester and for their program this spring they are planning
a concert of the Davidson-Queens symphony orchestra.

McClure Now Leads Revival Nightly And Preaching At 7:30

Reverend Albert McClure, pastor of the Lincolnton Presbyterian Church, will continue the revival services at the Unity Church that he
is now holding. These services started last Sunday night, and they will continue through the following Sunday. Beginning at 7:15
there is a song service for fifteen minutes. At 7:30 the service proper begins and Rev. McClure is in charge
assisted by the local pastor, Rod Williams, who is a former student of Davidson. This service is an annual affair
which is run by some visiting minister. It has not been the custom to secure Presbyterian ministers though the church
is of that denomination.

While a student at Davidson, Reverend McClure was active in campus activities. He was a member of the ‘Y’ cabinet,
vice-president of the Senior class, and a member of ODK. He was also in numerous honorary societies. For two years
following his graduation, he served as pastor of the Unity Church. From there he went to Lincolnton where he has
been ever since.

BE A RAZOR OF TONSORIAL STANDARDS— Go To Norton’s Barber Shop Davidson, N. C.GLENN MILLER 118 W. Trade St. All
The New Releases Shah Phonograph Records TOMMY DORSEY - KAY KISER PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORD PLAYERS PARKER GARDNER CO. Phone 8257
- ARTIE SHAW HORACE HEIGHT Charlotte, N.C.

WHEN YOU GO TO WEEK-END, RENT A CAR AND DRIVE IT YOURSELF, Inc. 110 South Church Street REASONABLE RATES

THE DANCES THIS WEEK-END

Song Services Held At 7:15

BACK FROM CONVENTION

Jung Hotel. Will Give $1,200 And Round Trip To China Will Be First Prize $750 Is Second

One thousand, two hundred dollars in cash and a round-trip to China via the “China Clipper” is first prize, and
seven hundred and fifty dollars in cash is second prize in the China Essay Contest. Over thirty other big cash
prizes are being offered to students enrolled in the colleges and universities of the United States. The purpose of the
China Essay Contest is to help awaken the students of the world to the fact that the result of the
struggle now going on in China is becoming more and more significant to the United States of America. Nobody denies
the significance of present dislocations in Europe, but the results of the undeclared war in Asia hold much more both
promise and threats for the destiny of America.

In the hope of stimulating thought and discussion on the subject, $5,000 in cash prizes is offered for an essay
on the general subject of why it is important to the interests of the United States to have a free
and independent China. The judges for the contest will be Pearl Buck, noted author; Lowell Thomas, famous author, and radio
commentator; Dr. James Rowland Angell, President Emeritus of Yale University and Educational Counselor of the National Broadcasting Company; Theodore Roosevelt,
formerly United States High Commissioner to the Philippine Islands; Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews, Director of the American Museum of Natural
History; Dr. James Shotwell, Professor of History of International Relations at Columbia University; Senator Elbert D. Thomas, member of the
United States Senate; Rear Admiral H. E. Yarnell of the U.S. Navy; Alexander Woollcott, famous author and critic.

The contest is open to all students in the colleges and universities of the United States. Contestants must write an
original essay [Continued on Page Six]

On the left is Casey Jones, the newly elected president of the rising Senior Class. He, with Winston Taylor, who
is pictured at the right, new Editor of Quips and Cranks, Davidson Annual, spent several days the latter part of
last week in New Orleans. While there, they represented Davidson College at the Southern Federation of College Students and Publications.
This meeting was held at Newcomb College of Tulane University, with headquarters at the Jung Hotel.

China Essay Contest: Athletes Will Hold Tryouts...

ECHOES OF THE PAST

3 YEARS AGO
Watson Street was elected Freshman Advisor for 1937-38 over James K. Dorsett by a margin of two votes. A. C.
Cline, Jr., of Concord and Hoxie Thompson of Houston, Texas, were killed in a wreck on April 16, 1937, between
Charlotte and Matthews. Davidson students accompanied the Thompson body to Texas. Under the direction of Theodore Viehman, several plans for
the centennial pageant of Davidson College were completed. Davidson's baseball team was whipped four times in a losing streak.

5 YEARS AGO
Dr. John A. Redhead completed the last of a series of eight Spring Services, sponsored by the Davidson YMCA. Scabbard
and Blade issued fifteen bids to members of the rising Senior Class. The Debating team closed its season with a
victory over Georgia Tech. A Negro, formerly an employee of the college, was found murdered at the local depot late
on Saturday night.

10 YEARS AGO
Zeb V. Long issued his last “Davidsonian” before he handed the reins over to J. Wilson McCutchan, the newly elected
editor. Davidson's track team, led by Captain Pete Whittle, placed in events at a meet in Atlanta. The new ‘Y’
cabinet will be installed in Chambers Auditorium next Sunday night at the Vespers hour. Dr. Walter Lingle, President of Davidson
College, will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon at the University of North Carolina, June 8, 1930.

Sigma Delta Psi Will Hold Annual Trials May First
Trials for membership into Sigma Delta Psi, National Athletic Fraternity, will be held on or around the first of May,
Pete Whittle, Director of intramural athletics, announced last Monday. This year the entrance fee has been reduced from ten to
eight dollars. It is hoped that there will be a competitive race for the championship of all the schools having
chapters of Sigma Delta Psi. When a test has been passed by an aspirant for membership, it is recorded and
never run off again. For this reason, all interested freshmen are asked to participate this year. [Continued on Page Six]

Pan American Day Celebrated
In celebration of Pan American Day, April 14, the honorary Spanish fraternity, Sigma Delta Pi, had a special program at
their meeting last Monday night. Prof. Fleagle, the faculty member of the fraternity, made a talk on the origin, growth,
and the future of the “Pan American Union.” Then Roy Suber read a paper, “Miesta Pan Americana,” as it had
been presented in Washington. A third talk was made by Hershel Seagle. R. N. Smith and Malcolm Kunz then played
some rumbas on their guitars, and the group sang some of the popular Spanish songs. His subject was “What Others
Can Do On Pan American Day.”

Glee Club Coming
Converse College’s Glee Club will appear in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, April the twenty-third. This concert is being given
as a return concert for the one presented by the Davidson Glee Club at Converse on last April sixth. The
concert will begin promptly at 8:00 p.m. The Converse group is directed by Glenn Stables, voice instructor at the college.
Tickets will soon be placed on sale and may be secured from the members of the Glee Club. Admission will
be twenty-five cents.

Negro Quartette Heard At Chapel
Representatives Of Hampton Institute Sing Several Spirituals
At the regular Chapel service on last Monday morning, the student body was entertained by a quartet of Negro singers
from Hampton Institute in Virginia. The quartet was composed of four graduates of Hampton, who are still connected with the
Institute. They were accompanied by Mr. Grinnell, who gave a thumbnail sketch of the history and growth of the Institute.
Beginning the program was a spiritual entitled “Rise and Shine” followed by “Walking in the Light.” The songs of the
quartet included many favorite spirituals of the Southern Negro. The appreciative applause of the audience necessitated many encores. First, that
most popular of all Negro spirituals, “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” was offered, followed by “Deep River.” After these, the quartet
sang “Down by the Riverside,” and concluded the program with the offering of “Listen to the Lamb.”

Camera Club Plans Exhibit
Several Members Visit Queens To Take Pictures With Girls
Last week-end the Camera Club made an excursion to Queens College where they and the Queens Camera Club made pictures
together. This joint meeting of the Camera Clubs afforded a chance for the fans of photography to discuss the work
which they had been doing and planned to do. The members who made the trip were Mac Parker, L. Le
Banket, Maxwell, Ted Parker, and Angus Lytch. A special discussion was held by the Camera Club on the exhibit which
is to be held on May 1, 1940. The exhibit is scheduled to be held in the Eumenean Hall, at
the same place in which the recent Art Exhibit was held. It is to be composed of the work of
the members of the Camera Club and anyone else who wishes to contribute. A similar exhibit to this one was
held last year at the same place. Quite a number of students, as well as several members of the faculty,
contributed to it. This year's exhibit will be open to the public for several days.

Mildred H. McAtee of Wellesley College will be the first woman ever to give a baccalaureate address at Purdue University.

Kunz Sports
Students, you are always welcome in our store—
Sweaters, $3.50
Gabardine Trousers, $7.50
Reversible Belts, $1.00
Socks, 25¢
Tennis Shorts, $2.50
A Complete Line of Spring Sportswear
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

“Meet Me At - - - THE TAVERN - - -”
We want “THE TAVERN” and the “HOTEL CHARLOTTE” to be headquarters, “in Charlotte,” for Davidson College and their friends.

TATE - BROWN’S
For The College Man
Long Sleeve Sport Shirts, $3.00
We have these in the latest shades
Trousers, $7.50
Belts, $1.00
Sweaters, $3.50
Tennis Shorts, $2.50
ONE FLOOR
126 S. Tryon St.

HOTEL CHARLOTTE
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
“The Carolina’s Largest Hotel”
J. FRANK GOUGH, Resident Manager

TRY OUR NEW SPRING DISHES
Delicious Food At All Times
“The Best In Town”
Davidson, N.C.

SUMMER WORK!
Select college men in various localities for profitable, healthy, outside employment. Free course in salesmanship. Write—FULLER BRUSH COMPANY, Greensboro, N.C.,
for particulars.
