Thurs., Oct. 24, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Kings Mountain Wins Davidson Band Contest
High School Band Will March Between Halves Of Homecoming Game

High School Band Day held on Davidson campus October 19, Kings Mountain defeated 11 bands from North and South Carolina in marching competition to win the honor of parading at the Davidson Homecoming game, Davidson versus Centre, October 31. Averaging 65 men to a band, approximately 12 bands took the field Saturday afternoon at noon, parading six minutes each before the judges and spectators. The bands were judged by the straightness of lines, excellence of formations, and quality of playing. The Kings Mountain Band, under the direction of Paul Hendrix, was judged superior in each of these fields.

Kings Mountain Waltzes
One of the striking features of the Kings Mountain performance was a parade down the field in waltz time. Davidson's drum major, Ben Garvey, said that Kings Mountain's drum major, Bridges, is the best baton twirler I have seen this year.

This is the first year that the annual band contest has been held; however, it has been an affair for the past several years. After the competition, the bands were guests of Davidson College at the football game Saturday night.

Provides Entertainment
The object of band day is not only to provide entertainment for the high school musicians and the spectators, but to also acquaint high school students with the Davidson campus. Bands represented were Kings Mountain, Gastonia, Shelby, Kannapolis, Lincolnton, Hickory, Statesville, Mills Home of Thomasville, Cherryville, and Concord of North Carolina, and Blacksburg and Lancaster of South Carolina.

Musicals Will Be Presented By Glee Club
A Cappella Program To Be Presented By Queens-Davidson Glee Club

Concerts will be given by the Davidson Glee Club, the Queens Glee Club, and the Davidson-Queens A Cappella Group in Chambers Auditorium Friday night at 8 o'clock, and at Queens College Sunday afternoon at 4 o'clock. These are the first of a series of presentations to be given this year by the musical organizations of the two colleges.

The Davidson Glee Club will sing the unusual selection entitled “Dance, My Comrades.” This will be sung in part in syncopation. Also, a typical characteristic of spirited Russian music to be sung is the weird “Death Rides High,” by Will James. The A Cappella Group will sing several numbers. The program is divided into three parts. The Davidson Glee Club will present one-third of the program, the Queens Glee Club will present one-third, and the A Cappella Group, which consists of picked members from each of the other groups, will give the other third.

Plans have been made for the Annual Fall Concert at Homecoming on November 2, at 11 o'clock. The concert will be held in the morning so it will not interfere with the football game with Centre College in the afternoon, or with the dance that night. The Glee Club is planning to make a trip in the near future.

Opening Play Will Be Cast By Masquers
At the most recent interview with Jo Newell Robinson, president of the Red and Black Masquers, several items of interest were discussed. On Wednesday night, October 23, an important meeting was held to select the play that is to be given soon. Definite plans were made for casting the main characters.

The foremost of the plays that are being considered for production is “Margin for Error,” by Claire Booth, the author of “The Women.” Others under consideration are “Our Town,” by Thornton Wilder, and “There Shall Be No Night,” by Robert Sherwood. Copies of the selected play will be on reserve at the library soon for students interested in trying out for the various parts.

COMPLETED DIRECTORY
The following room changes have been made since the student directory was published on October 3:
Black, J. H.—North Brockman, C. B.—405 West Burwell, A.—15 Georgia Campbell, W. B.—310 Watts Coleman, M. A.—3 North Dew, G. W.—27 Georgia Drake, L. R.—312 West Fountain, J. P.—403 Watts Graves, E. W.—215 Duke Hall, F. G.—112 East Miller, J. A.—2 South Northcross, J. W.—408 Watts Rankin, R. E.—30 Georgia Raynor, C. A.—27 Georgia Simmons, W. D.—303 West Smith, R. J.—20 Georgia Swink, D. W.—102 East Young, P. M. B.—19 Georgia

Frosh Admits He Has Much To Learn Yet Predicts Great Future For Class Of '44
By DUSTY BRADHAM

One day in the middle of September the halls of Davidson echoed the sounds of about 230 new men, an- nouncing their arrival. Yes, the class of '44 was here, ready to begin many and varied careers on the campus. The members of this class come from far and wide, and some from distant countries. But, each man had one thought in mind; and that was that he was now a member of the great family that constitutes the Davidson student body.

As natural, Joe College showed up with all of his finery, dignity (?) and limitless flow of language that, in his almighty opinion, would greatly impress the “rest of the twerps.” Yes, Joe knew so much more about college life than the average senior that he didn't even bother to read the regulations on the placard that he bought when he traded his next month’s allowance for several articles that he was told he would have to have in order to be a real true live freshman.

Yes, he bought a cap, a megaphone, and a placard, all for $1.75. What a wonderful swap (for the student store)! He didn’t seem to realize that he might be campused for quite a while if he didn’t learn the rules and abide by them.

Then as everybody was signing in, a very serious looking young gentleman walked up, immediately took the initiative, and extended his right hand to all of us, and introduced himself. After learning the title that he was afflicted with at birth, we began a conversation that began, as usual, with the weather. We finally got around to our courses, and it was learned that the newcomer was a candidate for the ministry. Our conversation came to an abrupt end when the lady began asking everybody for a hundred and eighty-five dollars and fifty cents. When I got my key and proceeded to “mine habitat,” I encountered many forms of chairs, tables, trunks, suitcases, and boys that I had to sidestep, dodge, and duck before I got to my room. After, however, I got settled down in my abode, it was supper time so I, with other boys, went to Chambers banquet hall for “sompin to eat.”

After this first meal on the campus, a bunch of the boys were sitting on the steps of Chambers to talk for a while when a man who seemed to be an upperclassman came out and said something about the first “bull session” of the year. There were no male bovines in the crowd, and certainly, no one was an officer of the church, so we figured that he was talking about something else.

After a month of college life, however, most everybody became used to most of these things, and really felt big and important when the judge of the Court of Control stood up in Chapel and announced to the student body that the fresh- [Continued on Page Six]

HIGH SCHOOL BAND LEADERS
The North Carolina Bandmasters’ Association met during the High School Band Festival at Davidson last Saturday, with band leaders present from all over the state. The various bands paraded at the Davidson-Sewanee game where they were applauded. The Davidson Symphonic Band, acting as judges, chose the group from Kings Mountain as the best organization. They are: Captain James Harper, of Lenoir, James Christian Pfohl of Davidson, Paul Hendrix of Kings Mountain, W. B. Lord of Mills Home, Thomasville, Vernon Allen of Cherryville, Arthur Rohr of Kannapolis, Charles Miller of Lincolnton, R. W. Cartier of Hickory, L. O. McCollum of Gastonia, and Mark Biddle of Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S. C. —(Photo by Billy Barker, Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

Among THE GREEKS
Phi Gamma Delta
Jack Clark in his recent be- reavement of Philadelphia. Alumni Jack Lee was a guest of the chapter for lunch Monday. Hot coffee Hill, Betsy Black Mountain, Gwynn Neaves of High Point, Betty Sue Goforth, May Allison, Doris Edgar, all of Charlotte, Carolyn Lassiter of Davidson. Brothers McDonald and Coltrane of Taylor journeyed up Greensboro way to see their W.C. interest. The fraternity enjoyed its usual Sunday night feed.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
This week-end found most of the brothers on the campus attending the game and participating in the various functions which were held at the house. The longest detail of the week was run by Brother Dudley, who journeyed to Atlanta. Brothers Watson and Loy spent the week-end at their homes in Charlotte and numerous others were in the Friendly City sometime during the week-end. Among the visitors during the week-end were Alumni Brothers White, Harbin, and J. Knox. Also Mary Steele Hubbard, Eloise Pichard, Margaret Pearington, Mary McDavis, Mrs. Hollar, and Mrs. Whitley. Brothers Ed Hay and Turner were in Hickory, while Brother Withers made an overnight visit to his home in Winston-Salem.

Beta Theta Pi
Betas claim an exceptionally active week-end. Saturday night after the game, an estimated 60 brothers and friends filled the house for a feed and sing. Guests at the affair were Mr. McClellan, Phi Delta Theta.The brothers and pledges remained on the campus over the weekend, and wisely, too, because of the outcome of Saturday night's encounter with the “Life”-publicized Sewanees. However, Brother Boykin returned to Atlanta, Brother McKinnon to his home in Maxton, and after the game, Pledge Fetner went to Durham with his family. Guests of the chapter over the weekend included Miss Aileen Long, Charlotte; Alumni Brother Beall and wife, of Lenoir; Alumni Brother John David McGeachey of Tryon and Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. S. R. Fetner, parents of Pledge Fetner, of Jacksonville, Fla.; Miss Mary Frances Fetner, also of Jacksonville and Duke; and Mr. Coslett, father of Pledge Coslett, of Drexel Hill, Pa., and Bob Stevens. 

Brother was served at the lodge after the game Saturday night, and numerous guests were present. A feed was held at the house Sunday night. Guests present were Miss Constance Garnett of Bat Cave, N.C.; and Miss Rhoda Knudsen of Lynchburg, Va. Brothers Howell and Robinson took the most extended trip of the week to Birmingham, Ala.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The majority of the Pikas remained on the campus the past weekend for a double occasion: the Sewanee game which was followed by the annual pledge party given for the brothers by the pledges. The following girls were present: Betsy Russell and Gene Davis of Salisbury, Mack Byers and Terry Gilman, both of Rock Hill, Mrs. Oren J. Price, and Brother Fetner Moore, Rosemary Helen O'Neill, Lib Howell, Brother Ethel Ann Sill Burch, Marguerite Jeanne Walker. Brothers Bryant, McAtee, and Mrs. Moore, Polly Hopper, Bill Smith, John Brother son and Church, and Summerville Charlotte, while was in Durham Mt.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
There was a game in Phillips Brother Rankin in ther Gilead. As was on brothers remained here, a little sleep. Centered about the football game lag Brothers Tate, Stewart and Smith journeyed to Charlotte after the game. Brothers Grantham, MacLean, Cauble and Hackney cruised to Concord both Saturday and Sunday nights, while Brother Hipp was there for only Saturday night. Perita once more claimed its fair-haired son, John Knox Robinson. Brother Parks did the unusual by taking six cuts and going back to Bristol, Va. Brother Erb participated in a wedding at his hometown of Badin, but only as a spectator. Guests of the chapter included the following: Mr. and Mrs. Hite and Sally Hite of Florence; Mr. and Mrs. Bumbarger and Bobby Bumbarger of Hickory; Mrs. Niven and Virginia Niven of Albemarle; Don Davidson from Charlotte; George Woran from P.C.; Jim Ballard, fresh out of Georgia; Jean Jones of Hickory; Jane Smith and Lillian Daugherty of Charlotte; Lib Hamrick of Davidson; Dot Wells, Ginny Ridenhour, Betty Rose Wall, Ann Morris and Martha Saye, all from Limestone College, and Ruth Brickhouse, who came all the way from Jackson Heights, New York, to see Brother Niven.

Kappa Alpha
With few exceptions, the Court of Control and the Sewanee-Davidson football game kept brothers and pledge brothers on the campus for most of the weekend. However, a few K.A.’s did wander to Charlotte and other nearby points. Brothers Lacy McLean, Campbell Ansley, Page Harris, Davis Thomas and Sandy Sandifer spent parts of the weekend in the Queen City, as did Brother John Belk.

(Continued on Page Six)

Dr. F. Hood Addresses Sabbath School Class
A Psychological Approach To The Bible Is Urged
Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of psychology at Davidson, was guest speaker at the Student Sunday School Class last Sunday at which time he discussed many problems of the average college student and pointed out that similar problems were faced by Biblical characters. As an illustration, he used the forewarning idea in the dream of Peter, where his mind was prepared for a coming message from God. Peter saw the sky open above him and a great sail like a fish net descend toward him filled with live animals. Commanded to eat, Peter refused, because of his precepts concerning the eating of certain meats. Then the voice from Heaven admonished him to never question the will of God, but obey, knowing that His commands were righteous. In this manner, Peter was prepared to accept an active command from God, following soon; namely, that he was to go out from his home to teach.

Psychological Approach
Dr. Hood denotes this dream’s occurrence as a bit of elementary psychology holding the part of our Lord. The same is true in our approach to the Bible today. We must prepare our minds to the analogies found in the idioms and gospel, and thus through preparedness come to a clearer and more useful interpretation.

Scabbard and Blade To Tap R.O.T.C. Cadets
Military Frat Plans “Scabbard And Blade” Day
Scabbard and Blade held its second regular meeting Wednesday night at 7:15 with good attendance. The regular business was taken up and plans for Tap Day, which will come sometime soon, were discussed. Also discussed were plans for observing Scabbard and Blade Day. The following are present members of Scabbard and Blade: Holt McDuffie, Captain; Jim Barnwell, 1st Lieutenant; J. Bolin, 2nd Lieutenant; Toddy Latimer, 1st Sergeant; Scott Cooper, Hill Cooper, Pat Hobson, Bob Finley, Ed Watson, Bill Hamilton, Drury Thompson, and Vernon Youngblood.

MEATS and Groceries
—DIAL 5041—
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY

PRODUCERS OF “Business Building Printing”
The Tavern Press
Hotel Supplies A Specialty
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Myrna Loy, Friday, with Wayne Morris and Virginia Dale
Thursday, October 24th. “THIRD FINGER, LEFT HAND” Melvyn Douglas
October 25th. “TOO MANY GIRLS”
Saturday, October 26th. “THE QUARTERBACK”
— ALSO METRO NEWS —
LATE SHOW AT 10:30 O’CLOCK
Mon.-Tues., Oct. 28th-29th. “KNUTE ROCKNE - ALL-AMERICAN” with Pat O’Brien and Gale Page
Wednesday, October 30th. DOUBLE FEATURE — BARGAIN DAY — 15c

DAVIDSON THEATRE —DAVIDSON, N.C.—
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

Photographic Delay
There will be a slight delay in photographic work for the '40-’41 Quips and Cranks. The special lighting effects that have been planned to add color to this year’s annual have not yet been completed, and the photographer assigned to the pictures has been held up at Eastern Carolina Teachers College. However, plans are being rushed through to finish the work of the yearbook’s layout. According to Winston Taylor, all other details and finishing touches are virtually complete and only await the photographs.

Y.M.C.A. Plans Home-Coming Arrangements
Dates For Week-End Will Be Entertained In Y.M.C.A.
In the practice of former years, the recreational rooms at the YMCA will be open and decorated for non-fraternity men and their dates before and after the Homecoming game. The “Y” will furnish refreshments to these men and their dates. The "Y" will also sponsor the renting of rooms in the Hotel Charlotte in order to provide a place for non-fraternity men to dress before and after the dances. In former years, this has been very inconvenient as they have had to either have their dates ride all the way to Charlotte in formal clothes or to bear the extra expense of staying in Charlotte. This plan would enable non-fraternity men to have their girls stay in Davidson and at the same time provide an inexpensive place for them and their dates to dress. There will be a call in Chapel at some time in the near future for all those interested to meet and discuss the plans. All those men who are intending to bring their girls to the YMCA before or after the game should see Boyd Flynn and inform him of their plans, in order that the “Y" may know how many to provide for. The rooms will also be open to men having dates at the remaining home games.