ports Lants
By BOB CARTER

NINE GETS HOT

The baseball team took off last Friday for a big jaunt to Charleston and Raleigh. With it went your sports
editor, Robert Carter. But the weekly edition of Wildcat Sports must make its appearance, so he has entrusted it to
inexperienced hands.

And speaking of the baseballers, they seem to have been making quite a good showing lately, taking advantage of the
breaks that have come their way. Rusty Edmundson came through with a triple that won the game against Wofford in
the late innings, and then the team scored 13 runs on 9 hits against The Citadel. Coach Shepard is using
a good many men just up for the varsity, and the performance they have made shows that we are going
to be well represented on the diamond in future years.

SOFTBALL CRAZE

Softball seems to have taken the campus by storm of late, and the interfraternity race has become very heated with
three fraternities having been defeated once apiece. The Kappa Sigs beat the Phi Gams 9-8 in a thriller, scoring the
winning run in the last half of the seventh inning. Then the Fijis shut out the Phi Delts 2-0 with
Jay Bolin turning in four-hit ball. In the first game of the season, the off-and-on Pika ten cut the K
Sigs, only to have them come back and win every game since.

TOUGH LUCK DEPT.

Whittle’s cindermen certainly have had the tough breaks this year. The only two meets they have lost were very close,
where one man’s placing might have turned the tide. It took Citadel's fast relay team to bring the Bulldogs from
behind to win by one point in a heartbreaker, and we certainly would have beaten State had the team been
at full strength. We have to doff our caps to Captain R. O. for coming through with 10 points, not
in one, but in every meet. Congratulations, Bob!

Let’s all hope that the baseball team doesn’t take any more extended trips.

Kits Lose To Charlotte Hi

Childs’ sizzling fastballs proved too much for the Wildkittens last Thursday afternoon as they suffered their second defeat, losing to
a strong Central High 13-4. Davidson's only rally came in the second inning when they scored two runs off hits
by Brooks and Roth. Going into the third with the score 3-2, the high school nine began to swat the
low curves of Fredericks, and aided by twelve walks, managed to push over ten runs in the remaining four innings.
Helms, third sacker, and Childs, pitcher, sparked the Central offense. Helms slapped out a double and a triple while Childs
allowed the Frosh only five scattered hits besides getting one hit himself. Fredericks took the batting honors for the Frosh
with two hits out of four trips to the plate. Strikeouts were frequent. Childs sent ten men down swinging while
Fredericks did him one better. Roth made the spectacular play of the afternoon when he went home on a wild
pitch by Poole after being trapped between third and home.

MUCH HISTORY

(Continued from Page Three)

the counties in the state. These volumes may be found in room 8 in the Library and it is hoped
that even more information on the various counties in North Carolina will be added in the near future.

Wildcat Sport

Davidson To Play Host To Junior College Track Meet

Thurs., May 2, 1940

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Four

The Citadel nosed out Davidson’s cindermen 66-65 here last Saturday in a meet that saw the lead change on almost
every event. The Cadets gained the necessary margin when Charley Brown leaped 21 feet 3½ inches to win first in
the broad jump. He had top scoring honors with 13 points while Captain Bob Kellogg led Davidson with 10 points.

The summary:

Shot Put—Bell (D), Howard (C), Connoly (C). Distance, 41 feet, 6½ inches.
Mile run—Kellogg (D), Faucette (C), Altman (C). Time, 5:43.5.
440-yard dash—C. Brown (C), Harrison (C), Humphrey (C). Time 52.7.
Javelin—Duncan (C), Drenizer (D), Cowan (D). Distance 167 feet, 2½ inches.
100-yard dash—Jones (C), Taylor (D), Jonas (D). Time 10.2.
120-yard high hurdles—Williamson (D), Harbin (D), Mann (C). Time 15.5.
Discus—Freeze (D), Rucker (C), Terrell (D). Distance 120 feet, 10 inches.
Pole vault—Shannon (D), Duncan (C), Bloom (C). Height 11 feet.
880-yard run—Kellogg (D), Harrison (C), Turnage (D). Time 2:31.
220-yard dash—Jones (C), Brown (C), Jonas (D). Time 23.1.
Two mile run—Coppedge (D), Gammon (D), Mann (C). Time 11:47.
High jump—Duncan (C), Foster (C), and Newell (C) tied for second. Height 5 feet, 8 inches.
Low hurdles—Taylor (D), Williamson (D), Mann (C). Time 25.6.
Broad jump—Brown (C), Spencer (D), Brenizer (D). Distance 21 feet, 3½ inches.
Relay—won by The Citadel.

Cats Lick W & L

Davidson's netters took all but one match last Wednesday afternoon on the Myers Park Country Club to swamp Washington and
Lee University 7-1. Dick Pinck, the Generals’ top performer, won their only match when he defeated Turner 6-1, 6-2. This
gave the Cats their ninth win in ten starts.

Pinck (W&L) defeated Turner 6-1, 6-2.
Tenney (D) defeated Washburn, 6-2, 6-4.
Hunter (D) defeated Robertson, 6-2, 0-6, 6-1.
Shore (D) defeated Mallory, 10-12, 6-4, 7-5.
Sproull (D) defeated Barne 6-3, 5-7, 6-3.
Hunter and Turner (D) defeated Washburn and Robertson 6-2, 6-4.
Tenney and Shore (D) defeated Pinck and Barne 6-0, 6-3.

Next week the Cats conclude their season with an invasion of the north where they meet Amherst, Penn State, and
Washington & Lee.

What's in a name? Paul Painter has won a watercolor art contest at the University of Cincinnati.

April Showers Bring Wet Feet

Get Your Shoes Half-Soled at BUFF’S SHOE SHOP
Davidson, N.C.

Norton, A Veteran Of Many Scalps

Norton’s Barber Shop
Davidson, N.C.

Bulldogs Take Relay To Defeat Davidson 66-65 In Close Tilt

Citadel’s Tracksters Sweep 440-Yard Dash and High Jump To Hand ’Cats Second Setback Of Season; Kellogg High Point Man For
Losers

Kappa Sigs and Fijis Tied

As the interfraternity softball league was nearing the end of its season, three fraternities are technically tied for first place.
The Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs were leading with six wins and one defeat apiece. The Phi Delts were
right behind with five wins and one setback.

Fijis Shut Out Phi Delts

On Tuesday the Phi Gams, paced by Jay Bolin’s four-hit pitching, shut out the Phi Delts 2-0. After this game,
the SAE’s lost to the Phi Delts 4-2 in a close ball game that turned into a pitching duel between
two hurlers. The SAE’s defeated the SPE’s earlier in the afternoon 18-0. The Kappa Sigs nosed out the Betas 13-11
in a slugger’s battle and the Pikas defeated the Pi Kaps 11-7 on the same day.

On Wednesday the Phi Gams defeated the Betas 11-6. The Pikas lost to the SAE’s 5-13 and the Kappa Sigs
defeated the KA’s 9-6. The Phi Delts ran roughshod over the SPE’s by defeating them 25-9.

On Thursday the Pi Kaps won over the SPE’s 12-8, and the Phi Gams shut out the SAE’s 11-0. The
Betas beat the KA’s 11-3 and lost to the Phi Delts 7-3.

Monday’s Games

On last Monday the SPE’s toppled beforeThe Betas 6-10, The Phi Delts defeated the Pikas 19-9, The SAE’s scored two
runs in the last inning to stop the Pi Kaps 10-9. The Phi Gams beat the KA’s 8-7 in a
game that ran for two extra innings. Pete Whittle hopes to have the schedule completed by Tuesday to make way
for dormitory softball.

Week’s Schedule:
Friday
Baseball Frosh vs. Baden High, here
Saturday
Track N. C. Jr. College Conference Meet, here
Monday
Tennis Varsity vs. W. & L., there
Tuesday
Baseball Fr. vs. Harding Hi, Charlotte
Tennis Varsity vs. U. of Va., there

Pete’s Ace Distance Men
Davidson will again play host Saturday on Richardson Field, to the Junior College Conference Track Meet. Belmont Abbey, last year’s
winner, is again favored to take first honors. According to Coach William H. Toole, Chairman of the North Carolina Junior
College Conference Track Committee, five colleges have thus far entered. These Junior Colleges are: Lees-McRae, Pfeiffer, Belmont Abbey, Presbyterian Junior
College, and Oak Ridge Military Academy.

Four places will be awarded in each event. First place counting five points, second place counting three points, third place
counting two points, and fourth place one point. The running events offered are 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard dash, 880-yard
run, 120-yard hurdles, 440-yard relay, and one mile run. The field events to be run off are: Shot put, discus,
high jump, broad jump, and pole vault. Belmont Abbey again boasts a strong aggregation but Lees-McRae and Pfeiffer, which placed
second and third respectively last year, will furnish plenty of competition. All of the entries will bring strong teams to
Davidson. The team winning the meet will receive a handsome trophy.

Dean C. E. Edmondson of Indiana University is national faculty billiard champion.

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat., May 2nd.-3rd.-4th.
“GONE WITH THE WIND”
Mon.-Tues., May 6th.-7th.
“FORTY LITTLE MOTHERS”
Wed., May 8th.
“MARSHALL OF MESA CITY”
“COURAGEOUS DR. CHRISTIAN”
Thurs., May 9th.
“REBECCA”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Bob Kellogg and Dick Gammon have combined to lead the Wildcats. Captain Kellogg has been a consistent first place winner
in both the mile and half-mile. Gammon, who captained the Cross-Country team last fall, has been beaten only once in
his specialty, the two mile. Both are seniors.

Conference Track Meet To Be Held At Davidson
Davidson's low shooting golf quartet met the College of Charleston team last Tuesday on Charlotte's Carolina Country Club links. Teeing
off for Davidson were Charles Pegram, Granville Sharp, George Wright, and Jack Abels. Jimmy Cooper, captain of the local aggregation,
challenged Jack Abels for his position on the team last week in a 36 hole round. He was, however, unable
to outshoot the diminutive junior. Both boys were playing the best golf they have played, with Abels shooting 74-71 and
Cooper 73-73.

Davidson's freshman linksters lost their last match of the current schedule to the Salisbury High School Friday by a score
of 15 to 3. Pete Calvert and Wilbur Carter were responsible for the local scores, while Washburn and Henry Erwin
were unable to score.

Davidson’s nine, on their recent invasion of South Carolina, emerged victorious over both of their foes, Wofford and Citadel. Score
for the Terrier encounter was 8-7, while the triumph over the Bulldogs was more complete with a 13-7 count. Ed
Lucas and Dizzy Dave McLean were the only hurlers used, with each bagging credit for one win. McLean pitched three
innings against The Citadel, and went the entire distance against the Terrier batsmen. Rookie third sacker Jim Owens and outfielder
Grey Hunter each gathered a circuit clout.

Cats Seize Breaks
The Wildcats copped the encounter with the Bulldogs by grabbing scoring opportunities laid open by Citadel misplays. The Cats got
only nine hits from the offerings of two Tar Heel moundsmen, while the Bulldogs’ bats boomed out twelve safeties. Rusty
Edmundson, Cat catcher, led the day’s slugging with a triple, single, and a double from three trips to the plate,
while Wall, Citadel receiver, slugged three for four.

Terriers Succumb
Against Wofford, the Wildcats were again outhit but bunched their blows to win 8 to 7. Dave McLean and Hayseed
Thomas combined to give up eleven hits to the Terriers, while their mates collected nine licks off the slants of
two hurlers. Davidson's guns boomed in their lucky seventh when six runs were scored and every man batted; their winning
tally being scored on Edmundson’s triple in the last of the ninth. Edmundson got two hits while Hogg had one
and Hunter slugged a four bagger.

The freshman track team took eight first places and most of the seconds and thirds to down the Presbyterian College
freshmen 84½ to 32½ here last Friday. Sprunt was high-point-man for Davidson with 13 points, followed by Martin with 10.
The next frosh meet will be Friday with Forsythe County School, who have beaten Reynolds High this year.

The summary:
100 yard dash—Sprunt (D), Martin (D), Dent (P). Time: 10.1.
220-yard dash—Sprunt (D), Timberlake (P), McCoy (D). Time: 23.7.
440-yard dash—Timberlake (P), Washburn (D), Lacy (D) tied for second. Time: 52.5.
880-yard dash—Timberlake (P), Nimmonds (D), Rivers (P). Time: 2:9.4.
Mile run—Ansley (D), Parks, E. (D), Nimmons (D). Time: 5:26.60.
120 yard High hurdles—Belk (D), Martin (D) tied for first, Bell (P). Time: 16.7.
220 yard low hurdles—Martin (D), Sprunt (D), Dent (P). Time: 27.9.
Pole vault—Bell (P), Horan (D), Dick (D). Height: 10 feet 3 inches.
High jump—Dick (D), Belk (D) tied for first. Collier (P), Fowler (P), and Lacy (D) tied for third.
Broad jump—Lumpkin (D), Dick (D), Lacy (D). Distance: 20 feet, 4 inches.
Shot put—Collier (P), Keffer (D), Fredrick (D). Distance: 43 feet 7 inches.
Discus—Collier (P), Keffer (D), Fredrick (D). Distance: 127 feet 6 inches.
Javelin—Washburn (D), Long (D), Dick (D). Distance: 145 feet 1½ inches.

Seventeen miles of shelves have been added to the University of Illinois library. They'll accommodate half a million books.

Citizenship education is the name of a new course just added to the Alma College curriculum.

Skilled craftsmen proudly achieved the rich beauty of this Portage Antique Hand Finished shoe. Its rare good looks—its quality enhanced
by husky oil-treated soles and imported leather laces will appeal to men who like fine footwear.

PORTAGE ANTIQUE Hand Finished $5 to $6
Gilmer - Moore Co.
116 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Hamilton’s reputation for time accuracy was founded on America’s Railroads—today this heritage of accuracy is continued in a wide range
of well-styled watches which meet every modern need. See the newest models (for men and women) now on display.

GARIBALDI & BRUNS
“Leading Jewelers Since 1896”
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY OUR NEW SPRING DISHES
Reasonable Rates — “We Serve The Best”
LITTLE PEP
Davidson, N. C.

SUMMER WORK!
Select college men in various localities for profitable, healthy outside employment. Free course in salesmanship. Write—
FULLER BRUSH COMPANY,
Greensboro, N. C.
for particulars.
