Thurs., Nov. 14, 1940 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Ney’s Notebook Given To Davidson Library By Mrs. C. L. Putzel

Granddaughter of Davidson Graduate Presents Original Book

Students Get CCCA Tickets At Low Rate

Mrs. C. L. Putzel, granddaughter of Charles L. Putzel of the class of 1841, has given to the Library of Davidson College an original notebook kept by Peter S. Ney. The notebook has been in the family since the death of this mysterious character. The notebook is the first book to be given to the library by Mrs. Putzel. It contains mainly poetry, clipped from current newspapers of the day or transcribed by Ney in longhand or in code. Apparently, certain poems were written by the teacher himself. Many concern Napoleon, Ney’s idol. Others are highly imaginative.

The “Davidsonian” wishes to congratulate the parents of the two new arrivals to this world and to the town of Davidson. On October 21, Coach and Mrs. C. A. Chapman had a daughter born, whom they named Carolyn Brigham. At her birth, she tipped the scales at six and one-half pounds. On the same day, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Quick had a daughter born, whom they named Eleanor Ann. She weighed seven and eighty-five hundredths pounds. Mr. Quick is a former student of Davidson, having been an outstanding athlete when he was here.

The notebook itself is mainly poetry, clipped from current newspapers of the day or transcribed by Ney in longhand or in code. Apparently, certain poems were written by the teacher himself. Many concern Napoleon, Ney’s idol. Others are highly imaginative.

The “Davidsonian” wishes to congratulate the parents of the two new arrivals to this world and to the town of Davidson. On October 21, Coach and Mrs. C. A. Chapman had a daughter born, whom they named Carolyn Brigham. At her birth, she tipped the scales at six and one-half pounds. On the same day, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Quick had a daughter born, whom they named Eleanor Ann. She weighed seven and eighty-five hundredths pounds. Mr. Quick is a former student of Davidson, having been an outstanding athlete when he was here.

Student Store Is Most Popular Center of Activities on Campus

By BILL LYMAN

The student store is the most popular center of activities on campus. It has a room especially set apart for items of historic interest. The Ney collection will form a part of this. Mr. Charles Allison of Charlotte has indicated a willingness to turn over his remarkable series of letters and documents on this fascinating subject.

Whether or not Peter S. Ney was the noted marshal of Napoleon is still of paramount interest to Davidson College. He was frequently in the old library and made notes in several of the books. He designed the great seal of the college which is still used today and wrote the motto cherished by all loyal sons of Davidson, “Alenda lux ubi orta libertas.”

Library Adds Marian Sims’ Books

“The City on the Hill” Deals With Middle Class in a Southern Town

Several books which are of special interest have been added to the library. “The City on the Hill” by Marian Sims deals with the life of the middle class in a Southern town and attempts to illustrate the conflict which exists among these people who have long lacked a spokesman.

Orders for Pictures and Enlargements Being Taken by Miss Smythe

Dr. C. L. Crane, a resident of Charlotte, N.C., and a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1907 and father of two Davidson sons, returned to the campus last week and spoke on the mission field. Dr. Crane is a missionary on the Congo River in the Belgian Congo.The student body in South America as a nation chapel on the present-day situation of the African missions. American life in all its vividness is presented. Dr. Crane has been connected with the mission in Africa for a good many years and is affected much by the changes taking place today by the conflict in Europe. The African mission is located near the Congo River in Belgian Congo. This mission was established, he informed the students, in 1891, almost fifty years ago. It is calm in the Belgian Congo today, he said, but their political status changes with the European moldings. There is very little physical danger to the missionaries in Congo, but the future is uncertain. The map of Africa has always followed the map of Europe in its changes. These mission fields will continue as long as possible. Missions, he brought out, not only have a value of spreading the Christian religion.

(Continued on Page Six)

PHI MEETING POSTPONED

The Philanthropic Literary Society omitted its regular meeting on Tuesday because of the Fall Services but will continue on regular schedule for the next meetings, announced Paul Crane, president of the society. At the next meeting a program of papers to be read and new men to be taken in is planned. Papers will be read by O. A. Dearman, Jack Moore, and John Brady. Russell Smith will read some original poems. Approximately eight men will be taken into the society. A smoker will be held after the meeting.

(Continued on Page Six)

EU MEETING POSTPONED

Due to the YMCA Fall Services which were held Tuesday through Thursday, the Eumenean Literary Society did not hold its regular weekly meeting; however, the usual schedule will be resumed next Tuesday. According to Johnnie Moore, president of the society, several papers will be read by neophytes, or students seeking admittance to the literary order. Among these will be one by Ben Washburn on the “Influences of the Latin Language on English,” also one by Alva Lumpkin on “United We Stand.” An Armistice Day program had been planned for this week’s meeting but will not be presented next week. Moore said that he was glad “that the meeting was postponed for an Armistice Day program is not exactly fitting in times such as these.”

ALWAYS ASK FOR “S & P” PRODUCTS

Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured By
SWINSON FOOD
Charlotte, N. C.

Pritchett Speaks On Confessions of Peter At Vesper Service

Uses “Thou Art the Christ, the Son of the Living God,” as Text

George Milne Now Teaches

Last-Year Graduate Writes Back of Experiences in Japan and Korea

Statistics Prove Percent of Student Body Withdraw No Books

By JOE FLOWERS

Camera Club NOW Planning To Equip Lab

Darkroom to Be Furnished for Usage

Pep Meeting

To set off the final home game of the Wildcat season, Head Cheer Leader Joe Shelton asks for a turnout typical of the true Davidson spirit at the pep meeting Friday night. The meeting will be held at 7:30 in the Gym and everyone, including the freshmen, is urged to be present and participate in the varied activities of the evening. Before the Homecoming game, the pep meeting was hindered by rain. The pep for the Hampden Sydney game should be at its best since this is our last home game.

Before and After the Games Visit Us For Your Meal.

CAFETERIA

PRIVATE DINING ROOMS AVAILABLE

PHONO - RECORD

Blue Bird 35c
Columbia 50c
Decca 35c

ALL VICTOR RECORDS REDUCED IN PRICE

Large Stock to Select From

ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

D. H. PLEXICO SPILLMAN, Secretary