ports lants

By BOB CARTER

Wildcat Sports BEAT CENTRE THE paper: Four With The ’Cats

To anyone reading in the paper that Furman had beaten Davidson, 40-7, apparently little could be said in defense of the Wildcats. To those of us who were there, there was much that could be said. Davidson left the field at the half on the long end of a 7-6 score. But the players were “shot,” as the saying goes, wilted by the summer heat. Davidson used scarcely any subs, Furman used two complete teams. While the second team played, the first team retired to the locker room and rested in the cool. Small wonder Furman piled up 34 points in the second half.

However, let’s let bygones be bygones, as the saying goes. Looking to the future, to this corner it seems that Davidson should win three of their remaining four games. The spirit of the squad is excellent at the moment and should get better after the win over Centre, which we fully expect. Providing no serious injuries are sustained in the Duke encounter, the Wildcats should come through with wins over Hampden-Sidney and The Citadel.

Sorry to learn that Granville Sharpe’s gridiron career at Davidson has come to a close. Reinjuring the knee that was hurt in the State game, Sharpe is definitely out for the rest of the year.

Midwest Superior?

Recently we had an opportunity of discussing with a fellow who should know a question which has always interested us: which section of the country plays the superior brand of football. Our friend maintained stoutly the superiority of the bruising squads of the Midwest. As a reason for his belief he showed us a roster of the Minnesota squad of this year. After taking a gander at some of the statistics, we are more or less inclined to agree with him:

The Gopher squad consists of 57 men, and only four are from out of the state. Twenty-four weigh over 200 pounds. The first string line averages 222 pounds, the backfield close to 200. The lightest man on the squad tips the beams at a mere 174 and is considered a “scat” back. Mere beef does not make a team, we contended.

Delts Lead In Tourney

With the completion of the fourth round of the intra-fraternity football tournament, the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts remain undefeated. The Kappa Sigs have five wins to their credit while the Phi Delts have accounted for four wins.

Booters Lose To Virginians

The University of Virginia's soccer team came from behind in the third period and then held the lead throughout the rest of the contest to defeat a scrappy Davidson team, 2-1, in a hard-fought game Saturday. After a scoreless first period, the ‘Cats booted a goal early in the second period to take the lead. The Cavaliers came back strong in the third period to score two goals. They maintained this slim lead throughout the fourth period for their victory. Joe Wilson scored the only goal for the ‘Cats, with Ed Maxwell and John Farrior playing a good defensive game. Hodill and Poillon scored the goals for the Cavaliers, with Hastings and Keys starring.

The K.A.’s and Betas fell from the ranks of the undefeated when the Pikas defeated the K.A.’s, 18-6, in a play-off game and the Betas fell victim to the Pikas, 24-0, to the Kappa Sigs, 12-0, and to the Phi Delts, 12-0. In last week's games, the Phi Delts, led by Williams and Terrell, defeated the Betas by 12-0, the Pi Kapps by two first downs to none, and the Phi Gams in a close battle by 6-0, to boost their standing in the race.

Kappa Sigs Romp

A tight defense and the passing of Jimmy Hoge Yarborough, [Continued on Page Five]

FOR FINE FOODS — Before and After The — Se Onumrras ig. Bas TAURANT Dial 2-2238

Davidson 40-7; Martin Stars

Wildcats Furman’s House of Magic in Greenville’s Sirrine Stadium

Lack of reserves chalked up another win over the Wildcats for Furman’s House of Magic in Greenville’s Sirrine Stadium Saturday afternoon. A Homecoming crowd of 6,000 saw a mild first half breeze change to a second-semester Hurricane blast and the crippled Cats, subdued by tricky Hurricanes, fell 40-7. The first half was fought on even terms with Davidson tallying first in the second period and a 7-6 lead at the intermission, but Jim Crutchfield, Senior end from Asheboro, has fought his way into a regular position with his hard blocking and tackling and fine pass receiving. He has been a bulwark in the Wildcat defense, as well as making a good target for the passer with his rangy build.

The Wildcat tally, set up by a pass to Claude Hackney and his sideline dash, came from another pass firing to Jim Crutchfield. Furman opened up several minutes later, used a dazzling lateral, which carried 83 yards for a score. 

Sophomore Star To Lead Praying Colonels’ Attack

Most brilliant of the sophomores on the Colonel team is Jack Haddock, captain of last year’s frosh team. Six feet tall and weighing only 168, Haddock is the greyhound type, fast and shifty. He throws a bullet pass as accurately at 50 yards as at 10. Haddock has already been mentioned for All-Conference honors. Teaming with Haddock are Stanley Czekala, Bill Yates, and “Red” Smith, all regulars last year. Czekala threw the pass in the Army game last fall which almost upset the Cadets, Centre losing out in the final minutes of play, 9-6. Yates acts as quarterback and is known as a good man on pass defense, which may spell trouble for the Wildcats. Smith, a big, rangy 182-pounder, plays safety and is chief line plunger.

Davidson Freshmen Defeat Military Institute

The freshmen crushed a weak Military Institute eleven 52 to 6 on Richardson Field last Friday afternoon. The Kittens scored at every quarter except the second in their completely outclassed opponents. The frosh took the ball on the opening kickoff and marched down the field to score in six plays, Bethea taking the ball over from the five-yard stripe. Bruce scored two more touchdowns for the frosh in the same period. The first on a line buck and the second after receiving a lateral from Taylor, which covered about 22 yards. In the second quarter, the Cadets made their only score after an intercepted pass by Kaleel. Ratteree went off left tackle for the touchdown.We fense of the line Brakefield Hale, and center. Out are Amo and Leonard Schultz at tackles, Hollis Felchner, and Jack. Forming the Captain score from the nine-yard line. The try for extra point failed.

The second half was turned into a rout with the Kittens scoring five touchdowns and three extra points against the fast weakening Cadets. The Colonels have been on the frosh defense all year and are set to give the Wildcats a thorough going over. Only time and Saturday will tell which of these big little teams is superior for this game. O'Hair, Simmons, Burke, and Hunt were looking good with Bethea, Bruce, Taylor, and Hendrix in their offensive roles.

The Blue Devils will be seeking revenge from this Southeastern Conference defeat handed to them by Tennessee, and Furman will stand in their way for an undefeated season. The Duke Blue Devils, fresh from a decisive 23-0 win over Wake Forest, will prepare for the conference. The only two loop games this week will find William and Mary at V.M.I. and Furman at N.C. State. Duke will also play an intersectional game when they meet the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets in Durham.

A friend contended that these giants were as fast as lightning, tall and rangy rather than short and dumpy. So the debate continued, but, as usual, nothing came of it. But we wonder what would happen if these little lads should meet the Duke Blue Devils or some other Southern grid power. Our dough would ride with the big lads from the Midlands.

Clemson's Tigers and Duke's Blue Devils continue to lead the Southern Conference race by virtue of their wins over South Carolina and Wake Forest last week. Coach Quisacker’s team is bright with a speedy, experienced backfield, bristling with versatility, and a line strengthened by three sophomores. The Praying Colonels boast a bright future.

Michigan’s Wolverines were picked very badly over Pennsylvania last Saturday but were afraid of jinxing Harmon and Company, so we didn’t even mention the game. Tommy Harmon really showed the Quakers a little of the old rhythm. The Wolverines are going to catch plenty of my goodness when they meet Minnesota, Northwestern, and Ohio State on successive weekends. Brack High School at Natrona, Pa., has turned out four All-Americans in the past six years: Cliff Montgomery of Columbia’s 1934 Rose Bowl team, Gus Zarnas, Ohio State guard of 1938, George Barclay of Carolina in 1934, and last year Paul Severin, also a Tar Heel.

Stanford’s surprising Indians remained in the ranks of the unbeaten by scoring 14 points in 40 seconds to win over Southern California, 21-7. Professional golfers have done more for the Red Cross than all other athletes combined. Exhibition matches have garnered more than $50,000. The pros didn’t get a cent, even paying their own caddie fees. Notre Dame is so plentifully supplied with material that the so-called regulars may have a hard time making their letters. With three games played, none of the first string had the number of quarters required to earn an award. This year’s intramural football is perhaps the roughest in many seasons, with broken bones, sprains, and stuff being common occurrences. Many schools have outlawed touch because of the extreme roughness of the supposedly mild sport.

Davidson will have the weight advantage over the Centre eleven if injuries do not keep the regulars from seeing service. The Centre forward wall averages 179 pounds, against Davidson’s 193-pound average. In the backfield, however, the two teams will be more evenly matched, with the Praying Colonels at 171 pounds, having a 2-pound advantage over the Wildcats.

Davidson's booters will journey to Rocky Mount Tuesday to seek their first win of the season.

ANNOUNCING OPENING OF THE BIBLE BOOK STORE
CHARACTER BUILDING CHRISTIAN BOOKS
124 WEST FOURTH STREET
BOX 2725
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

SWINSON FOOD CO.
COLLEGE PHARMACY DEALER
FRED H. PLEXICO, President
J. B. SPILLMAN, Secretary

ALWAYS ASK FOR S & P PRODUCTS:
Salted Peanuts, Candy
Manufactured By
Delmonico’s Grill
STUDENTS ALWAYS WELCOME
CHARLOTTE, N.C.