Page Six

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Why Christ Came Is Rev. Warner's Topic
Pastor of Tenth Avenue Church In Charlotte Speaks At Vespers.

CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN

Davidson's “clean-up-your-yard” campaign, sponsored by the local scout troop, already has twenty-five homes signed up for participation. At the end of the two-week contest, a prize will be awarded to the home keeping the cleanest yard.

Julian Warner, former Davidson student and now pastor of the Tenth Avenue Church in Charlotte, was guest speaker at the Vesper service last Sunday night. Mr. Warner used as his text the 3rd chapter of John, placing special emphasis on the seventeenth verse: “For God sent not the Son into the world to judge the world; but that the world should be saved through him.”

He started off by saying that the reason men followed Jesus was because he was different in that he preached a new doctrine. The Jews did not know what his mission was; they expected it to be salvation and the Gentiles expected it to be judgment. The Jews also expected an earthly king, not a king who was later to suffer and die for them. He said that Jesus did not come to condemn nor judge, but to save. Although most of the world remains to be saved, it is not God's will to condemn the world. God sent his son so that mankind might not perish, but be saved.

WITH THE STAFF

[Continued from Page Two]

Company “B.” In addition, he was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and Scabbard and Blade honorary fraternity. At the end of the year, he received the Honor Graduate “Appointment to the regular United States Marine Corps as a Second Lieutenant.”

Lt. Kennedy has just received his diploma from the U.S. M.C. Basic School at Philadelphia, Pa. Between the present time and June 1st, when he must go on sea duty, he has been assigned temporary duty to visit colleges in this section to obtain applications for resident commissions in the U.S.M.C. According to Col. MacKenzie, head of the local R.O.T.C. unit, sea duty is an honor assignment and is granted to the first 50 in the usual class of 150 due to proficiency at the basic school. Lt. Kennedy, in addition to this honor, won expert badges in Machine Gun Firing, Automatic Rifle Firing, Thompson Sub-machine Gun Firing, and Bayonet Action. Col. MacKenzie added, “We wish Lt. Kennedy all the success in the world.”

HATS OFF TO MELODY

NO. 1 BRASS HAT—of the radio regiments is Glenn Miller, appearing as the nation’s radio editors. Miller’s special way of serving song and swing has caught the fancy of American dancers more than any other band today, the editors agree. Nope—those aren’t trench helmets the boys are swinging, though the Miller band salutes the army with its “Chesterfield Moonlight Serenade.” It’s a C.B.S. program.

RULES OF SING

[Continued from Page One]

Each fraternity will be allotted a minimum of eight minutes and a maximum of fifteen minutes, the time to be recorded at the beginning of the first song. No quartet shall represent a fraternity in its entirety; however, each frat may enter a quartet in one selection during the contest. At least four-fifths of the fraternity must be represented in the contest.

The fraternity which wins the loving cup presented by Phi Mu Alpha three out of five times is entitled to permanent possession of the cup. The contest will be judged on the ability to sing, which will count sixty percent, and originality, which will count forty percent.

HATS OFF TO MELODY

NO. 1 BRASS HAT—of the radio regiments is Glenn Miller, appearing as the nation’s radio editors. Miller’s special way of serving song and swing has caught the fancy of American dancers more than any other band today, the editors agree. Nope—those aren’t trench helmets the boys are swinging, though the Miller band salutes the army with its “Chesterfield Moonlight Serenade.” It’s a C.B.S. program.

RULES OF SING

[Continued from Page One]

Each fraternity will be allotted a minimum of eight minutes and a maximum of fifteen minutes, the time to be recorded at the beginning of the first song. No quartet shall represent a fraternity in its entirety; however, each frat may enter a quartet in one selection during the contest. At least four-fifths of the fraternity must be represented in the contest.

The fraternity which wins the loving cup presented by Phi Mu Alpha three out of five times is entitled to permanent possession of the cup. The contest will be judged on the ability to sing, which will count sixty percent, and originality, which will count forty percent.Divided into the choice of songs, the arrangements, and the method of presentation. Last year the Inter-fraternity sing was one of the outstanding events of the spring. There was much competition with the Kappa Alphas winning out over the Betas and Phi Delts.

SENIORS ELECT (Continued from Page One)
holidays, provided they observe the usual rules; such as registering them, etc. The letter also stated that any senior desiring to keep cars must see the dean about the observances he must follow. Jones appointed Bob Lefever chairman of the committee on arrangements for the annual dormitory Open House, which will be held in April. At this time all rooms on the first floor of any of the dormitories will be open for the inspection of faculty members and friends. Lefever’s committee is yet to be appointed.

John Moore, chairman of the Cap and Gown Committee, reported that all seniors had taken measurements for their Commencement robe and cap. Moore was assisted in his work by Ted Leinbach and Harold Chapman.

Chase, chairman of the Invitation Committee, told all seniors who wished more than ten invitations to see him. In addition, Jones mentioned that the annual Senior-Faculty Day will be held in the later spring. He reminded the seniors to be thinking of any plans that might be carried out at that time. Cigars, cigarettes, and chewing gum were served at the smoker.

HOW TO OPEN NOSE THAT CLOSES UP AT NIGHT
Put 3-purpose Va-tro-nol up each nostril... (1) It shrinks swollen membranes; (2) Soothes irritation; (3) Helps flush nasal passages, clearing mucus, relieving transient congestion.

“SPRING HOUSECLEANING”
Start Your Spring Housecleaning Early

Thursday, March 13, 1941

Angus Lytch Speaks On Motion Pictures
Copes Will Be Guest Pianist For Concerto

Former President of Camera Club Makes Address to Photo Group.

The Camera Club met in the parlor of Duke last Wednesday night. The club was entertained and informed by a talk on the subject of motion pictures. The talk was given by Angus Lytch, last year’s president, whose home is now in Charlotte. Mr. Lytch’s talk covered motion pictures generally, whereas several of the technicalities of the industry were brought out. The photo group met also the previous Wednesday night, the meeting being devoted to members making photographs of the other members. Each member was required to act at one time or another either as the subject or the photographer. Photo flood lights were used in the picture making. The individual was held responsible for lighting the scene.

The Queens-Davidson Little Symphony will feature Earl Copes as guest pianist playing the F Minor Konzertstuck by Carl Maria von Weber on Sunday afternoon, March 16 at 4:15 p.m. in Shearer Hall. Also, Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl will again be guest soloist with the orchestra, playing Mozart’s Coronation Concerto at the Winston-Salem Woman's Club on Thursday, March 13. The complete program for Sunday, March 16, will include first the F Minor Konzertstuck featuring Earl Copes; then the String Symphony, directed by Merle T. Kessler of the Queens’ Music Faculty, will play Beethoven's Rondo Espressivo, and Vivian May’s suite, “From the South Downs.” The Combined Symphony will then play “Tales from the Vienna Woods” by Strauss, and “Danse Bacchanale” from Samson and Delilah by Saint-Saens.

THE ONE HUNDRED THIRTIETH SESSION OPENS SEPTEMBER 17, 1941
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Charlotte’s New HOTEL W™. R. BARRINGER
Private Banquet Rooms - Fraternity Rooms
MAKE THIS YOUR HEADQUARTERS BEFORE AND AFTER THE DANCES

Early With VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

REFURNISHINGS IN ODDS AND ENDS
Visit Us Today
SOUTHERN

The scene, save the two roommates, these two at once breathe a high remark that they are glad those fellows have left. Someone might have seen us talking then, and then what? Bed beckons and our heroes slip beneath the sheets. The last conscious thought of each perhaps is how unfortunate he is to room with the other, and what a louse the other is. “Whatta cut.”

DR. JOHNSTON TEACHES (Continued from Page Five)
in a case involving a choice between right and wrong. Hating evil is a Christian virtue.” Dr. Johnston brought his talk to an end with the thought that the Bible doesn't teach personal vengeance for a personal injury but “vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.” It is the Christian’s duty to protect his sentiments and keep them sensitive to wrong.

J. W. KENNEDY (Continued from Page Five)
A number of Davidson seniors who had freshman and sophomore R.O.T.C. made applications for the school. Lt. Kennedy left additional application blanks in the registrar's office for any seniors who might be interested. To obtain an application a senior is required to have taken the basic R.O.T.C. course. Lt. Kennedy was a Cadet Captain in the local military unit last year.

CAFETERIA STUDENTS
10-WAY OUTFIT
BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A Complete Wardrobe
With one suit you have the correct combination for any occasion — dress, school, sportswear or just play. Ideal for travel, too—ten changes. But more than useful. It’s good looking, well-made, sturdy. The fabrics are chosen for quality. Get this one new suit and have ten different changes! Sizes 33 to 38.

5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Only four pieces, the 10-way suit is Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Chesterfield
MILDER, BETTER-TASTING
Those clean white Chesterfield packages have everything a smoker likes and wants. Pull the red tab — take out a Chesterfield ...and light it. You’ll like the cool way Chesterfields smoke... you’ll like their better taste... and you'll find them definitely milder—not strong, not flat. That’s why Chesterfield is called the smoker’s cigarette—the cigarette that satisfies.

FRANCES BURKE
Miss America 1940-41
Do you smoke the cigarette that satisfies?