Thursday, May 15, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Students Read Fiction More Often Than Fact
Library’s Most Widely Read Books Include Grapes of Wrath, Escape.

Exclusive of assigned reading, world’s best-sellers attract the largest number of students and faculty members at Davidson, according to the
library statistics, and fiction is much more popular than fact. Here is a list of the most widely read books
for the year from May 1940 to May 1941, with the exclusion of required and parallel readings: Grapes of Wrath,
Steinbeck; Raleigh’s Eden, Fletcher; Escape, Vance; Gone With the Wind, Mitchell; I Married Adventure, Johnson; Kitty Foyle, Morley; Night in
Bombay, Bromfield; How Green Was My Valley, Llewelyn; The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, McCullers; and Mrs. Miniver, Struther. Sea
Island Lady by Griswold, and Mr. Skeffington, by Elizabeth, were the most popular with students and faculty members.

The books most widely read among students and faculty members, including required and parallel reading, are as follows: Apocrypha; British
Drama, Leider, et. al.; Grapes of Wrath, Steinbeck; Raleigh’s Eden, Fletcher; Poetical Works, Byron; Principles of Physical Education, Williams; History
of English Literature, Cambridge; Pauline Epistles, Shaw; Escape, Vance; and Gone With the Wind, Mitchell. Half of these are required
reading. For the second year, Grapes of Wrath is the most popular non-curricular book. Fletcher’s Raleigh’s Eden is naturally popular
in this locality since it is an historical novel concerning North Carolina. Gone With the Wind is still very popular.
It has appeared on the popularity list since 1936.

R. H. Lafferty Speaks About Cancer Cures

Stressing the need for early recognition and treatment, Dr. R. H. Lafferty, well-known Charlotte physician and X-ray expert, spoke on
“Cancer” at the chapel services of May 8. After defining cancer as “a group of cells gone haywire,” he went
on to point out that this was not only evidenced in animals but in plant life as well, and that
several types of the disease were found among young people as well as old. Though scientists have much to learn
about the causes and treatments of the disease, he pointed out that it can be cured by either surgery, X-ray,
or radium treatment. He went on to say that the disease is neither contagious nor hereditary, and that the percentage
of cures is much increased by early recognition of the disease; hence he admonished the group to see a doctor
immediately about any continued pain, lesion, or growth, the symptoms of the disease.

Dr. Lafferty is a graduate of Davidson College, 1899, and of the University of North Carolina Medical School. He has
for many years been prominent in Charlotte as a physician and Roentgenologist, and in the Sunday School work of the
Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. Two of his sons attended Davidson.

Dr. Jeter Gets New Position

Captain Douglas Jeter, an officer in the Organized Reserve Corps and the ex-head of the Geology Department of Davidson, has
received a promotion in the army, according to an announcement made recently. Captain Jeter has been made an assistant personnel
officer of the 3rd Armored Division, a division which has been temporarily stationed at Camp Beauregard in Louisiana. Captain Jeter
was Dr. Jeter at Davidson. He was a Geology professor at Athens, Ga., his native town. He came here last
September and had been with us as head of the department only a part of the year before he was
called to active duty.

GRIER TO SPEAK

Next week’s Sunday Vesper Service to be held in Chambers Auditorium will be conducted by the Rev. Grier Davis. Rev.
Davis is a graduate of Davidson, class of 1927, and is the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville,
N. C. Rev. Davis is the last scheduled speaker to appear at the Sunday Services this year.

Mr. Henry T. Ware, traveling secretary of the Southern Field Council of the Y. M. C. A., who was at
the Camp Hanes “Y” retreat last weekend, returned to the campus with Dr. Foreman and the Davidson men who attended
the retreat. Mr. Ware was entertained at a student boarding house after which he was shown the campus, attended vespers,
and led a short discussion with the old and new members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet. He made
several valuable suggestions gleaned from his visits to other campuses that would help the local “Y” program. Mr. Ware spent
Sunday night with Dr. Foreman, and left early Monday morning for the University of South Carolina to meet with their
Y. M. C. A. He plans to return to Davidson next Fall to spend a few days and learn more
about our methods and organization at Davidson, and to pass on to us ideas from the national Y. M. C.
A.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N. C.

STARTS MONDAY
JAMES Stewart
HEDY Lamarr
in “COME LIVE WITH ME.”
A Lesson in How to Woo AN UNKISSED BRIDE
IMPERIAL

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts, Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DIAL 2001

Among THE GREEKS

KAPPA ALPHA. Very uncertain are the fates of the majority of the brothers of old K. A. this past weekend,
the general tendency of the brothers being to conceal, pervert, or cover-up their various accomplishments of the weekend. But we
were able to glean information, most of which is strictly untrue, about some of them. For instance, Brother Hank King
went to his “Home” in Bristol, Va., while Pledge Brother Burke went to Charlotte. Brother Russ Beam visited his Lumberton
home, while Brother “Mish” Sandifer visited Winston-Salem. Brother Stim Jimson and Pledge Brother “Brimberry” Abbott went to Statesville Saturday night
to hear the Statesville High baccalaureate sermon, and on the way back, according to “Brimberry,” found Little and Mitchell in
the Stone Street Cafe in Mooresville. B. B. Coppedge and Turnage laid plans for their forthcoming trip to Mexico. Gins
Thomas and Cam Wilson spent the weekend in Derita, while Brother Houston visited his home in Fort Mill, S. C.
Brother Lauck spent his time in Charlotte, while Brothers Jeffries and Sinclair went to Flora McDonald with the Glee Club.
The brothers welcomed Brother “Buzz” Councill back to the chapter from an operation in Charlotte during the weekend dances. We
were also glad to see Pledge Brother George Councill back with us visiting his brother and the chapter.

PI KAPPA ALPHA. The Brothers spread themselves pretty well over three states last weekend. Brother Wine again visited his home
in Harrisonburg, Va.; Brother Neill went to Myrtle Beach; Brothers Brinson and Pollock toured Asheville. The Statesville gang consisted in
the main of Brothers Shelton, Scott, McElwee, and Sample. Brother Abels traveled with the golf team. Brother Daye Henderson spent
his time in Chapel Hill, while Sam Henderson visited in Greensboro. Others in Greensboro were Brothers Byers, Clark, and Charlie
Rosser. The following are the newly-elected officers who will serve during the '41-'42 session: President Paul Behrman and Vice-President John
Browning. Brothers attended a picnic on the Catawba. The wildest hairs of the weekend were Brothers McAfee and Thompson to
Virginia and Brother Balsly to Myrtle Beach. Guests for the weekend included Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Phillips and Mrs.
Pickard.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON. Most of the brothers were on the campus this weekend, recuperating from the last dances. Brothers Edmondson,
Daffin, and Davis toured Virginia with the “one run” baseball team. Edmondson got within range of Greensboro, and there was
a gathering at the Fireman's Hall in Charlotte and dancing to the music of Fleet Green and his orchestra. Sweet
music and a beautiful moon helped to make the evening a most successful one. Dates of the Phi Gams who
were present for the gay affair included: Mary Marshall Jones, Enez Parrish, Betty Whittikar, Sara Horn, Patty McNeely, Betsy Russel,
Ann Hull, Martha Nimmons, Ruby Brest, Ann Wiley, Margie Embodie, Betty Carr, Martha Withers, and Elinor Epson. Alumni Brothers B.
B. Plyer and David Miller were present to share the fun.Brothers Bob—no; holding him down in the enjoyment of the
Fiji entertainment. Capt. and Mrs. Wilson, Dr. and Mrs. Cumming danced and celebrated with the Fiji band. Brothers Behrman and
Knox, including Brothers MacDonald, Gwynn, and numerous others, journeyed to their homes in Sanford, Leaksville, Plymouth, and other respective places.

Several of the Sigmas, including Brothers Loy, Watson, Berryhill, Polis, and “Dappa,” were part of the baseball team squad in
Virginia. These Brothers included Jack Clark, Hill Cooper, “Duck” Yarborough, and Dick Philips. Brothers Bob Finley and Pat Williams spent
the weekend at their home in North Wilkesboro. Others who spent Mother’s Day weekend included Brothers T. P. Johnston in
Bristol, Bill Loftin in Gastonia, John Purser in Fayetteville, and Karl Jonas in Marion.

Brother Fulcher was seen among the shrubbery at Queens with his queen, while the remainder of the chapter located themselves
on the campus. The chapter enjoyed a feed on Sunday.

PHI DELTA THETA:
Several of the Phi Delts had quite a good time this weekend. The most notable of these were Brothers Ashby,
Dick Scott, Cooper, Mack Brewer who went to Raleigh, and Bill Lacy who went to Greensboro.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON:
Kerr Taylor Thanks Students For Gifts
Eumenean Literary Society held an old-fashioned spelling bee at its bi-weekly meeting Tuesday night, a week ago. In the contest,
Drury Thompson and Bill Loftin acted as captains of the opposing teams. The thirty members of the society took part
in the ancient school exercise. The student body was invited to attend the spelling bee.

Another important part of the program was the reading of the literary papers presented by candidates for membership into the
Eumenean. Those whose papers were read included Fred Morton, Deane Watson, George Buckley, Buddy Thompson, Mac Jefferies, and Leonard Pharr.
Also at the meeting, attention was drawn to the annual cup and cash awards the Eumenean and Phi Societies present
at commencement for the best essay, the best poem, and the best short story. The contest is still open to
all members of the student body. There was a discussion about plans for a new edition of the Eumenean constitution.

ECHOES OF THE PAST:
1940: First interfraternity sing takes place on steps of Chambers.
GIFT USED TO SEND GORDON WOODWARD AS A MISSIONARY TO BRAZIL:
Dr. Kerr Taylor, the Educational Secretary of Foreign Missions in the Presbyterian Church of the U.S., came from his headquarters
in Nashville last week to express thanks to the student body for the wonderful support to the cause for which
the gift fund was given. After this expression of his thanks, he told very briefly the work of foreign missions
in our church, of the reasons for his work, what has been done in the past, and what is planned
for the future. Dr. Taylor described the good work which our mission force has been doing, pointing out how the
gift fund which was contributed to send a missionary to the foreign field played a great part in enlarging the
work at a very critical time. The gift, amounting to about $1,100, is to be used to send Gordon Woodward,
a recent Davidson alumnus, to Brazil. Mr. John Snell had previously planned to go as a missionary to China, but
he has decided to wait until next year to take up this work. Instead of waiting, the committee, at the
suggestion of Dr. Snell, decided to send Mr. Woodward to Brazil at once. Mr. Snell visited the campus to explain
his desire to wait until next year because of the war. As the need is so great, he urged our
sending a missionary now. Mr. Woodward has planned practically the same type of work that Mr. Snell had planned to
do in China; namely, teaching. Dr. Taylor is also the field secretary of foreign missions. He has made several trips
around the world to observe our missionaries in their work. He came to Davidson expressly to thank the student body.

Pledges Watson, Wilson, and Robertson toured the eastern part with the Glee Club.

BETA THETA PI:
Most of the Brothers toured the state last weekend. Those who went to Burlington were Brothers Holt and Joe Spike
Mebane, White, and Garrison. The regulars to Charlotte were Brothers Efird, Bryant, Welsh, and D. D. Church. Some of the
Brothers went to Pisgah National Forest. These were Brothers Roseborough, Cushman, and Pledge Brother Millikin. Brother Wheeler was in Hickory,
Brother McCrary at Winston-Salem, and Brother Neisler went to Kings Mountain. Brother Winn went to Greenville, and Brother Hobbie went
to Raleigh. Brothers Carter, Owens, and Reinhardt toured Virginia with the baseball team. Brother Sproull was at Duke where he
participated in the tennis tournament that was held there. Brother McLean went home to Lenoir, and Brother McKinnon to his
home in Maxton. Brother Wardlaw also spent the weekend at home in Spartanburg. Brother Rudolph visited Winston-Salem last Sunday. Brothers
Stevenson and Vereen visited Charleston, S.C., which is becoming a popular destination. Brother Williams spent the weekend at his home
in Greensboro.

PHI GAMMA DELTA:
Last Saturday proved to be a gala time for the Fiji clan. The fraternity staged its big Spring Function. Brother
Coslett went up to Dale, Taylor, and Bumbarger. Brother Ripper Hunt was the guest of Brother Robert McGeachy. Also in
town were Brothers Ed Lucas, “Pop” Rogers, Bill Grosse, James Millikan, Elmer Grosse, and Robert Preyer.

SENIOR OR SOLDIER:
Jim Hoge elected president of O.D.K. 1930: Kittens pass through track season undefeated. Benny Warison elected to judge class of
'43. 1938: Dr. Harding completes his 30th year as professor at Davidson. Feeny Lafferty elected permanent president of Class of
'38. Julian Squires elected Court of Controls judge. Davidson receives “excellent” rating. Seniors beat faculty 17-11 in baseball classic. Varsity
track takes third place in state meet.
