CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat Sports Page Four

Another honor came to Dave Spencer this week. He was invited to play in the annual Blue-Gray game in Montgomery, Alabama. He’s one of the three North Carolina backs to receive an invitation, and considering our football record and the size of the school, Davey can feel more pride than some of the other participants. Others from the Carolina country are Dunkle and Dudley, both top-notch backfield performers.

In Sunday's paper was an announcement that Coach Gene McEver would assist in preparations for a new post-season game to be played in Sirrine Stadium in Greenville. It’s also a picked squad game with the rivals selected from college teams, 22 from North Carolina, and another 22 from the Palmetto country. There’s more bowl talk started up about Durham, and the most optimistic Duke rooters are whispering about the Devil's chances of getting to the Tournament of Roses; and it seems logical, as does the Sugar Bowl talk which pits Duke vs Tulane, which ought to be a natural.

Frosh Talk

The freshmen, despite a particularly objectionable class on the whole, have a pretty good ball club. Arthur Roach has looked like a big league performer at tailback, and there are others. George Peters, Roach’s sub, is probably the best frosh back not to make the first team in many a year. And Tommy Peters, Luke Riffe, and William’s passing have all been first class. Coach Bolin’s boys have proved the first Kit eleven to be more than eleven for some years. They’ve still got a pretty large squad and there’re a lot of boys who may make good Davidson ball players before they’re through. The Kits meet E. M. I. tomorrow, and there should be little doubt as to the result. Coach Bolin can probably alternate his first, second, and maybe third teams at will, and that seems to be what the spectators at the frosh games enjoy.

Greek Meets Greek

On Sprunt field, afternoon activities are running just about true to form. Pre-season indications gave the edge to any of several teams, and so far it’s still a neck and neck race. There’s a disputed game clogging the records and no one seems to know quite what to do about it. Both the teams, the SAEs and the KAs, are undefeated. If the game is played over, and if the score stands as it is, the Sigmas have the top of the league standing. As the situation stands now, there’s still five minutes to go with the SAEs one touchdown ahead. The KAs have the lead in first downs 4-2, but there is a possibility that the whole contest may be replayed because of a questionable incident. The Kappa Sigs have proved a disappointment after their 32-0 trouncing of the Pikas in their first game, and the Pi Kaps have failed to come through for the early predictions. Beta Theta Pi has been a surprise package with what is probably their best team in five years. They've won 3 and the ones which they lost have all been close decisions. The SAEs have surpassed the rating given by most impartial observers, and they can credit their rise mainly to the punting and passing of Freshman Charlie Wills. With what are probably two lines as good as any other one in school, they’ve always been considered a good defensive club, but Wills’ kicking puts them in the territory where a break often means the game, and they are winning ’em.

On Monday of next week, the KAs meet the Betas while the Pi Kaps and the SPEs lock horns on the other field. Tuesday, it’s the Phi Gams, next day it’s the Betas vs. the SPEs and the Pikas against the Phi Delts. The KAs play the Fijis on Thursday and the Pi Kaps and SAEs complete the program for that day.

Frats Show New Power As Tourney Progresses

Entering the round-robin tournament, each of the nine fraternity football teams displayed new power and determination to bring home the title. Last Tuesday, the Pi Kappa team tolled over a determined opponent to the tune of 12 to 6 while the Betas were downing the Phi Delts 6 to 0. On the same afternoon, the Fijis and the Pikas battled to a scoreless tie and an even number of first downs, and the KAs won a disputed decision. Both of these games will be replayed at later dates. The KAs defeated the SPEs 18 to 12 in a hard-fought encounter and the Betas bowed to the Pikas 6 to 0. Thursday, the SAEs snowed under the SPEs 24 to 0 while the Kappa Sigs were downing the Betas 6 to 0.

Friday, there were no games played but on Monday afternoon the Phi Delts defeated the Pi Kaps 12 to 6, and the Kappa Sigs were downing the Fijis 6 to 0. As the tournament nears the final round next week, the competition will become much tougher as the tourney progresses.

Injured ’Cats Determined To See Action

This season the Wildcats have had a pretty large injured list, but Coach McEver is looking forward to having a stronger squad on the battlefield against the Furman Hurricane in Charlotte this Saturday. The injured list includes: Mac, who has been bothered by a sore ligament in his leg; Ripper Hunt, whose knee has given him trouble; and Red Bethea, who has had complications in his shoulder. But, at present, all these players are pointing to the game with Furman and should see action Saturday.

George Marsh, stellar Cat back, who has been out because of a broken foot, is expected to be in the Davidson lineup in about two weeks. It is hoped that Ben Lacy, staunch Davidson back, may be well in time for the V. M. I. game. Also, Herb Rainey, out because of a broken foot, is expected to be in the Wildcat lineup for the Cadet encounter on November first in Lynchburg, Virginia.

Bill James Sparks Gobblers To Victory Before Homecoming Crowd

By BUCK ARCHER

Overpowered by a superior Virginia Tech eleven, Davidson suffered a 16-0 defeat by the Gobblers Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field before a homecoming crowd of 5,000. Before the game was five minutes old, a plain named Virginian, Bill James, skirted around right end from the three-yard line to reach the Cats’ cross stripes.

Attempt Field Goal

Late in the second quarter, with the Gobblers leading 7-0, Roger McClure, V. P. I. Junior, attempted an almost-out-of-sight field goal from the Cat 40-yard line. The Cats broke through and blocked the ball clean across the end zone for an EOHET safety. This set up another score. “Red” Bethea was rushed in to kick for the Cats as a result of the safety. He got off a beautiful kick from his own 20 to the Tech’s 30, but at that point, the Cats’ defense bogged down. Bob Smith, V. P. I. sophomore, took the ball on his 30 and raced 70 yards untouched for the Virginians' final score.

In the second half, the Wildcats dug in and fought bitterly to check the numerous offensive threats of the Gobblers. Time and again, the Techmen drove deep into the Cats' territory but on...Each occasion the Wildcats drove, Rose and checked Cat Offense. Now to the Cats' offense, little Dave Spencer was hot as usual and engineered the Cats to two spectacular drives, one stopping on the 35-yard line and the other fizzling out on the 25-yard line. The highlights of the Cat defense were G. Morehead, who was poison to the Techmen, both on defense and offense.

Gobblers Too Big And Fast
Tech's heavy, fast Gobblers halted the Wildcats 16-0 at Richardson Field Saturday by breaking twelve to seven first downs. James’ running helped V.P.I. gain one hundred and ninety-two yards against the Cats' one hundred and nine. Davidson showed fight by losing only twenty-four yards as the Gobblers lost forty-eight.

Cats Gain
The Cats gained forty yards by completing five forward passes out of twelve, while Tech completed four out of thirteen, gaining forty-five yards. Each team intercepted two passes, with Bethea and Miller showing superior kicking for Davidson by averaging thirty-three yards against the Gobblers' thirty. V.P.I. returned one hundred and two yards on all punts to Davidson's sixty. The Wildcats lost only fifteen yards on penalties to Tech's thirty-five.

V.P.I. Scores
James and Smith of V.P.I. each made a touchdown for the Gobblers. McClure made both points after touchdowns. Tate punted the placement in the second quarter to add two more points. The ball was placed on the Cats' 20, and when big John Miller attempted to kick on second down, Ben Tate, Gobbler guard, broke through.

Mac Bruce played some sensational ball against Sewanee two weeks ago and will be back this weekend, reminding fans of Teeney Lafferty’s spectacular dashes.

Duke And Clemson Lead In Southern Conference
Cat Booters Play H. Point Wednesday
Davidson's Soccer Eleven played host to the High Point College Team, rated as the strongest in the South this season. At the time of this printing, the results of the game were unknown.

Large Squad
With about 35 men out, the largest soccer squad in Davidson's history, Coach Tom Brown's hopes for a successful season are bright. Of course, the graduation of Ferrer and Vinson, both All-Southern performers last season, will be a great loss to the team. The starting line-up against High Point had Sleet as goal keeper, Huffines and Preston at fullback, Oliver, Turnage at halfback, Shore as right wing, Henderson as right center forward, Pierce and Brown at inside, and Kerr at left wing.

As the dust clears away from Saturday's games, Duke and Clemson still remain the undefeated and untied leaders in the Southern Conference battle.

Tie for Second
Next to them and tied for second place are William and Mary, South Carolina, and Washington and Lee; while The Citadel and Washington, who have yet to play their first conference game, are tied for third. Clemson, last year's conference champions, will risk her high standing when she bucks against her traditional enemy, South Carolina, while Duke does not play another conference foe for several weeks.

Richmond in Cellar
Richmond, having been defeated by W. and L. Saturday, is on the bottom, and not far above are Davidson's crippled Wildcats. In the conference last week, Wake Forest defeated N.C. State, Furman and Citadel tied, and V.P.I. defeated Davidson.

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Printers of ‘The Davidsonian’

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 23 and 24
“CHARLEY’S AUNT”
Jack Benny, James Ellison, Kay Francis

Saturday, October 25
“LAW OF THE TROPICS”
Constance Bennett

Monday and Tuesday, October 27 and 28
“INTERNATIONAL SQUADRON”
Ronald Reagan, James Stephenson

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Purp Meet Cats le Hurricane To Saturday
Furman Brings Power and Proctor; Hackney’s Return Bolsters Cat Hopes

Their ranks thinned and their regulars battered, but their fighting spirit blazing more brightly than ever, those never-say-die Davidson Wildcats may reach the turning point of a heretofore inglorious season when they square off against an equally battered and equally undaunted Furman eleven Saturday night in Charlotte.

McEver's warriors, plagued by injuries and crushing first-half offensive drives the entire year, are looking to the Hurricane for a much-desired victory and are ready to shoot the works with whatever talent remains from a long list of injuries. That awful first half of the Tech tilt seemed to arouse the listless Cats from their lethargy, and sparked by Spencer and Hunt, they played the mighty Gobblers to a standstill in the final two stanzas.

Furman, in pre-season dope books rated as one of the most powerful dark horses of the nation, has recovered from the 32-6 plastering Tennessee landed them in the opener and has been the number one disappointment of the Conference. After the Vol farce, the Purple seemed on the victory trail with a 42-18 clipping of little Wofford, but Wake Forest smothered them 52-13, State held them to a scoreless draw, and to add insult to injury, Citadel gained a moral win, 13-13.

But make no mistake about it, Proctor, Barnett, and Co. aren’t altogether undeserving of all the ballyhoo they've received, and Dizzy McLeod is noted for his House of Magic maneuvers. The South Carolinians have a pretty fair country ball club despite the numerous setbacks and are set to resume the much-publicized “bouncing-back” tactics.

Kittens Whip Mars Hill 19-0
A powerful Wildkitten aggregation accomplished a feat unprecedented in the annals of Davidson football history as they downed for the first time a rugged Mars Hill Junior College eleven to the tune of 19 to 0 on October 15. After a scoreless first period, Frosh aerials began to click with amazing rapidity as two passes from Peters resulted in quick scores. Turner, scrappy Frosh guard, was successful in one of his two attempted conversions.

Roach Stars
Coming back after intermission, Tom Roach engineered a drive which culminated with Williams’ plunge to complete the scoring of the afternoon. A few plays later, George Roach reversed his field off tackle and scooted to the Mars Hill 20 before being pulled down from behind. At this point, the Mars Hill forward wall braced, forcing the Kittens to relinquish the ball on downs. Peters sliced twenty yards from the Highlighting the game was the superb brand of defensive work displayed by the Davidson line, led by tackle Joe Fraley. Offensively, the stars were, in addition to Roach and the Peters twins, Williams and Durant, who broke through repeatedly for sizeable gains from their spin-back position.

Short Injured
The victory cost the services of Abie Short, stellar wingback, possibly for a week, due to a severe face injury. Despite his loss, Coach Bolin feels confident that his undefeated yearlings will maintain their unblemished record against Edwards Military Academy tomorrow afternoon.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Have fun - be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
The Flavor Lasts