Thursday, April 10, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Among THE GREEKS

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The past weekend found the Sig-Eps entertaining with their annual spring banquet and dance, held at the Charlotte Country Club,
with music furnished by Johnny Bobbitt and his Orchestra. The evening was attended by Dr. A. V. Goldiere of the
faculty. Other members of the faculty in attendance were Dr. and Mrs. Gwynn, Prof. and Mrs. Fulcher, and Mrs. Pharr,
dietician, at the banquet.

Dates for the dance were: Misses Amine Galbreath of Kinston, N. C.; Sarah Thompson of Highlands, N. C.; Edwina Elkin,
N. C.; Mary Davis Wolfe of Charlotte; Margaret Fearington of Hickory; Peggy Dorsett of Shelby; Ruth Wilkes of Charlotte; Mary
Lorene Jones of Lancaster, S. C.; Lydia Monroe of Charlotte; Eunice Watson of Charlotte; Audrey Campbell of Charlottesville, Va.; Virginia
Lawrence of Laurinburg; Caroline West of Kinston; Betty Jean Moore of Graham; Mary Dunn of Rocky Mount; Margaret Porter of
York, S. C.; Eloise Pickard of Durham; Frances Manning of Bethel; Cornelia Truesdale of Charlotte; Virginia Hubbard of Berryhill; Helen
Smitty of Reidsville; Mary Crutchfield of Reidsville; Juanice Cooper of Leaksville; Marion Burvenick of New York, N. Y.; Mimi Bradham
of Sumter, S. C.; Nancy Gaston of Charlotte; Martha Rigler of Charlotte; and Caroline Midgett of Winston-Salem.

KAPPA SIGMA

With the baseball game curtailing the activities of the brothers, the weekend operations were slightly modified. Brother Jonas went to
Sweetbriar via Durham and the Duke dance Friday night. Others attending Duke festivities were Brothers Purdie, Thompson, Kelly, and Carter.
Brothers Ben L. and Bob Finley took in the dances at Hollins. Brother Manning visited Spartanburg, and Brother McGee went
to Columbia, S. C. Brother Loftin visited his home in Loftin, and Brother Dick accompanied the track team to the
University of South Carolina. Brother Crook went to Winston-Salem. The chapter wishes to take this opportunity to extend its sympathy
to Brother Hogg upon the death of his father.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Fiji clan whipped all over the country during the spring holidays. Brother Parrish journeyed to Louisiana, while Brother O’Hair
visited his brother in Philadelphia. Bill Lyman, Rhea Dabney, Tom Hart, and Bill Campbell drove up to Washington for a
large time. Brother Bellamy went to his home in Iowa, and Brother Barker and Summers drove to Missouri on a
debate trip. Mississippi called Billy and Butch Pharr and Tom Howard. Jay Bolin, Bob Johnson, Walter Wooten, Ralph Williams, Pete
Cavert, Jesse Wooten, Buddy Thompson, and John Northcross visited their respective homes in Tennessee. Harris McReynolds traveled with the golf
team to Florida, while Capt. Dick Shore accompanied the tennis team to the said state. Bob Cooke drove up to
New Jersey. Harwell Darby visited Florence, Montevallo, Auburn, Agnes Scott, University of Georgia, and the University of South Carolina.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Only the hardiest of the brothers ventured abroad this last weekend, following as it did the late lamented spring vacation.
Brother Herbert Codington spent Saturday and Sunday in his hometown of Wilmington. Brother Milquetoast Millikan rushed over to Greensboro for
the weekend. Brothers Bouncing Billy and Buddy Carson went over to the Queen City, where they probably met Brother “Butch”
Caldwell who was visiting with Miss Mary Graham, a popular member of the younger set. Brother Ed Lucas went home
to Greensboro after the baseball game Saturday in order to practice up on his drums. For quite a different reason,
Brother Bob Smith secured passage to the metropolis of Kenalla, S. C. Brother George Grantham spent the weekend at Easley,
with Mr. and Mrs. Hagood. Brothers Horatio Alger Jones and Elmer Graves seem to have been much in evidence at
Duke.

PI KAPPA PHI

Most of the Pi Kapps spent the weekend on the campus recuperating from the holidays. However, a few managed to
slip away for a while. Bobby Gaither took in the finals of the golf tournament in Augusta, Don Williamson went
to Blowing Rock, and Erskine Parks ventured down to Columbia. Joe McGy went to Seaboard, while Porky and Karl operated
in Charlotte and Albemarle this weekend. Morris and Niven took trips to St. Petersburg, Fla. and Bluefield, W. Va., respectively.
Mobley strayed off to Hickory and Covington took in Statesville. Mish Flynn had the surprise of his life when he
arrived in Salisbury and found that his date preferred the Duke dances to him, and that he was royally flushed.
Brother Garvey visited his home in Salem over the weekend. Guests of the chapter were Mr. and Mrs. Walter Plunkett,
Philip Suttlemyer, and Dave Colvin.

KAPPA ALPHA

Just back from spring holidays, and the resulting lack of funds, the K. A.'s stayed at or in the vicinity
of home this last weekend. But there were a few who always share. Caught returning from the holidays over the
weekend were Brothers Councill and Watt. Brother Cam Wilson was in Croft, N. C. Brothers McLean and Washburn and Pledge
Brother Abbot went out to the little house on the Mooresville road Saturday. Brothers Sprunt and Paterson went up to
Winston-Salem on Sunday. Traveling with the track team, Brothers Sprunt, Coppedge, Turnage, Belk, Speas, Ansley, and Vanlandingham went to Columbia
to meet the University of South Carolina, and reportedly, to snake on Brother Dunn's time at the University. Brother Washburn
also made that trip.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Brother Hart, National Executive Secretary of the Fraternity, and Brother “Bess” Shields, Dr. Cunningham were the guests of honor at
the dedication Saturday of a plaque on the piano in the chapter room on which Brother Shields composed “The Dream
Girl of Pi Kappa Alpha” and “O, Davidson.” At the conclusion of the dedication, Brother Shields played “The Dream Girl”
and “O, Davidson.” Brothers Brinson, Neill, and McDonald spent a very pleasant weekend in High Point. Brothers Spencer, Bell, Shannon,
and Parks report that Brother Thel Shewmake also had a most enjoyable time in Columbia. Joe Shelton, Ross McElwee, Herb
Rainey, and Sid Sample went to Statesville. The three little men—Abels, Browning, and Stevenson—and Brother Latimer wild-haired in Charlotte.

PHI DELTA THETA

Most of the brothers and pledges remained on the campus this weekend to rest up after the strenuous spring holidays.
Brothers Rudolph and Westall journeyed to Asheville. Brother Fetner went to Duke for the weekend and Brother B. Goodman went
to Greensboro, and Brother Connor made an overnight trip to Statesville.

YALE TIRES PURE OIL PRODUCTS WASHING - GREASING Knox Service Station S. Main St. Davidson

COMPLETE ASSORTMENT Easter Candies C. S. Goodrum Dial 2111 Davidson, N. C. Dial 5061

Reporter Interviews Well-Known Maestro

CLASS DAY OFFICERS

Corner By Bob Preyer

In New York these days the biggest drawing card for the younger set among the name bands is neither Goodman,
Dorsey, Shaw, Krupa, nor Will Bradley. Instead, the man with the band that sends most of the college boys out
of this world is a soft-spoken, shy young man from a farm in Wisconsin—Woody Herman! Your reporter finally cornered Woody
at the Hotel New Yorker between shows. Asked how the band of the nation’s colleges, Herman replied, “Well, it is
quite a surprise. I guess the reason is that youngsters like us by that name.” Those of you who never
had the pleasure of visiting him in his office or home will be surprised! I wish it were possible to
adequately thank Dr. Lingle for all he has meant to our school. His constant desire to be of help at
all times is just what makes him the man who wants to see me. I shall always remember Dr. Lingle’s
statement, “I always want to see the other side.” True, many things seemed wrong about our school in my student
opinion that have been clarified by talking to Dr. Lingle. The other side of the question is always interesting and
worthwhile. Try talking over your questions with him sometime. You will be surprised!Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

Most of the boys were in the age group, but most veterans in the band were young. Music is not
just a business. The band was organized several years ago by four members, and at all times shall not be
forgotten. We are happy that this is not the end and will continue. We have a balanced combination, and a
well-organized piece that specializes in solid “all out” drive. The band has built up to your Christian life to be
here fifteen years. Therefore, drop in and see us any time.

We have great choruses and more. Dr. Lingle, a great president of a great Christian College, is an inspiration to
us. Thank you for the dance rhythms for a long, long time.

Favorite Tune

Lingle was asked to name his favorite tune. Woody became a little vague but finally decided that “The Woodchopper's Ball”
was one of his favorites, though the “Golden Wedding” ran a close second. “One thing I can’t stand is this
half-way jazz-classical style of music,” burst out the maestro. This remark seemed to be directed against the new Art Shaw
style.

Class Day officers elected by members of the senior class are pictured above. They are, front: Tom Cauble of Winston-Salem,
historian; back row, left to right: Paul S. Crane of Chosen, Japan, poet; Henry Bahnson of Winston-Salem, Valedictorian; Bob Finley
of North Wilkesboro, salutatorian; and Bill Loftin of Gastonia, class orator.

Class Day will be held Saturday, June 7, in Chambers auditorium. The Baccalaureate sermon will be delivered on June 8,
and the commencement exercises on June 9.

Andy Borders, Tom Howard, and Tom Brown have really been working. Woody spoke with enthusiasm of the upcoming tour of
the South. “It will be our first trip South and will mean a lot to us. Our itinerary includes dances
at North Carolina, Georgia Tech, and quite a few other big Southern institutions.”

Professor Gives Palm Sunday Talk

Dr. E. W. Lawson, a member of the business and economic department of the Davidson faculty, addressed the College Sunday
School with a Palm Sunday message on April 6, in Phi Hall. “Objective Religious Living” was the topic of the
message. Dr. Lawson pointed out that Palm Sunday is a memorial to a positive act and that Christ knew full
well what he was doing and what anger he would face when he made his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. The
purpose of Christ was to complete his mission on earth. In meditation, we should ask ourselves what our purpose is.

The chapter takes great pleasure in announcing the initiation of the following: Buck Archer, John Lusk, Bob Pierce, E. Coslett,
and Ralph Peter.

The objectives of Christianity are not material things such as setting the budget for a church. Many formalities of religion
are not worthy. Christ, by working in the hearts of men, wished to establish the Golden Rule and the First
Commandment as principles for the Christian life; therefore, we should follow these principles. There are many ways in which Christians
can put these statutes into practice. Dr. Lawson stressed the point that Christ is not interested in the formality of
religion, but he is interested in our having the proper relationship with our fellow men. Palm Sunday is a time
for all Christians to take stock of themselves.

Faculty Entertains Dr. Cunningham

Dr. Logan, president; Dr. Cunningham, and Dr. McGavock, secretary, were honored at a reception by the Quadwranglers Club. This reception
served as a formal welcome to the new president and his wife upon their arrival at Davidson. Members of the
faculty and their wives were invited to the reception, which lasted from eight to ten. Prior to their arrival, an
extensive renovation had been made to the President's Mansion. Refreshments were served by a group of faculty wives.

Most of the Betas went home, but a few intellectuals stayed on campus to take exams, namely Brothers Sharpe and
Bryant. Brothers Raney, McCrary, Yocum, and Pledge Milliken steered the station wagon to Arkansas. Brothers Winn and Thompson, under the
auspices of the Forensic Council, debated in New York for two weeks. Brother Welsh spent the holidays on the golf
course.

Have you heard the new records at the “Y”? Ask “Peck” Hill about them; he is their keeper.

Davidson, North Carolina

Thursday and Friday, April 10-11
“FOOTSTEPS IN THE DARK”
With Errol Flynn and Brenda Marshall

Saturday, April 12
“ROUND-UP”
Late Show Saturday Nite at 10:30
“KNOCKOUT”

FEATURING NOW
SPRING SPORTS WEAR AND EQUIPMENT
TENNIS BALLS, SHORTS AND SHIRTS
COMPLETE LINE OF WILSON GOLF EQUIPMENT
FOR SALE AT WHOLESALE PRICES
“WIN WITH WILSON”
“Patronize Your Own Store”
THE STUDENT STORE
DICK ARNOLD
SHORTY PARRISH

Monday-Tuesday, April 14-15
TO BE ANNOUNCED

Wednesday, April 16
“MOTHER AND THE GIRL”
DOUBLE FEATURE—15¢
DAVIDSON THEATRE
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
