Thursday, March 20, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three Delta Phi Alpha Group To Give German Movie “Der Hauptman von Koepenick” Title of Pre-Nazi Satire. Delta Phi Alpha, national German honorary fraternity, will present a motion picture, “Der Hauptman von Koepenick,” Monday night, April 14, in Chambers Auditorium. “Der Hauptman von Koepenick,” which in English means “The Captain of Koepenick,” a small suburb of Berlin, is based on the comedy of the same name. The plot is true and sincere, and since it is noted as a pro-Nazi picture, it has been banned from showing in Germany. Actually, the film is a satire on the German uniform. All of the conversation is in German and Dr. Vonles has urged all students taking German to attend. However, for those students without a knowledge of the language, Dr. Vonles has prepared a detailed summary of the story so that the events of the picture can be easily followed. The picture is not Nazi propaganda, but rather is anti-Nazi. The entire student body is invited to attend, without admission. The presentation will begin at 8 o'clock.

Ladies’ Group Will Promote Magazine Day Magazines will Go to High School, Colored School, And Church. The Davidson Civic Club, composed of the ladies of the town, is now promoting a drive to supply the Davidson Graded School, the Davidson Colored School, and Unity Church with magazines. They have designated Friday, March 21, Magazine Day, on which the Hi-Y Club will co-operate by canvassing the town for old magazines. The student body has been asked to co-operate by saving and having ready for collection all their old periodicals on this date. Letters have been written to the fraternities to save all of their magazines for this cause. Any and all magazines are wanted and needed in this drive, as those which cannot be used directly will be sold to a Charlotte paper firm.

ECHOES OF THE PAST Ten Years Ago: Vachell Lindsay will present his own poems to Davidson students and townspeople on March 27—Dr. C. F. Myers is Vesper Speaker—Davidson debaters win first decision over Birmingham Southern—Sophs hold annual class house party—Thirty-six receive letters in football, basketball, and wrestling—College Glee Club gives first program of year—Davidson is to be host for High School teams—Wildcat cindermen take opening meet... Five Years Ago: Edwards chosen student body head—Walt Dickson elected Y.M.C.A. president—Three dances are given by class of 1937—Debaters are now on tour to Sewanee, Centre, and West Point—Dr. Ellwood is speaker here—Students give program—Blackwelder and Hodgin emerge victorious in Carolina A. A. U. wrestling meet—Fraternities start track—Class of '38 win gym championship—Golfers open 1936 schedule.

EU INITIATES Two new members, Paul Welsh and Ed Taylor, were initiated at the meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society on Tuesday evening, March 11, at Eu Hall. Several business items were taken up. The first part of the program was devoted to the reading of an original psychological study in monologue by Charles Brockmann, entitled “Yaller Gal.” Preliminary debate trials by Jim McCrary and Bill Tyson took up the rest of the time. Members were called upon to give helpful criticism on the presentation, style, and content of the talks. Following a lengthy discussion the meeting adjourned.

Earle V. Copes Is Soloist At Last Concert Junior Is Featured In the Last Sunday Afternoon Concert Series. Earle Copes was the featured soloist at the concert given last Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall by the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra. James Christian Pfohl conducted and Merle T. Kesler was the assistant conductor. The concert marked the second in a series of Sunday afternoon concerts given in Shearer Hall. The program was as follows: Overture to “The Magic Flute,” Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Koncertstuck in F Minor, Op. 79, Carl Maria von Weber (Subdivided into four movements: Larghetto affectuoso, allegro passionate, Marcia, and Rondo giojoso), played by Earle Copes. Rondo Expressivo Beethoven From the South Downs— Vivian May Top of the Morning. Downside Cottage. A Downland Dance. (String Orchestra conducted by Mr. Kesler.) Valse, “Tales from the Vienna Woods” Johann Strauss Ballet Music from “Samson and Delilah” Camille Saint-Saëns

Marshal Ney (?) Designed Seal By Charles Brockman How many Davidson students actually know the meaning of the design on the College Seal and the correct translation of the motto? Probably many of us who don't know much Latin and don't have a great deal of intellectual curiosity have often been vaguely bothered by the Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas glaring at us every time we enter Chambers. The seal was designed in 1840 by a gentleman in the vicinity of Davidson noted throughout this section for his scholastic ability. He was a teacher by profession, and called himself Peter Stuart Ney, although it seems generally conceded that he was no less a personage than the celebrated Marshal Ney. In the design, as most of us have probably noticed, a man's right hand is piercing with a dagger the coiled serpent in the lower half. Rays of light flash from a star set above the dagger’s handle. Around the design are two rings, between which appears the motto. Freely translated, it means, “Light is nourished where liberty is arisen.” Across the center of the seal is a bar bearing “Ne Ultra.” The design was approved and adopted at the next meeting of the board. An expert in heraldry has suggested that the “seal intends to separate between the light of learning and religion and the baleful influences of ignorance and unbelief.”

Two home economics freshmen at Syracuse University have “commuted” from Puerto Rico to schools in the United States for four years.

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise DIAL 2001 DAVIDSON, N. C.

PHI BETA KAPPAS Army Rejuvenates Waning Reserve Corps With Elaborate Campaign. Is it the lust for battle and adventure that makes so many freshmen spend so many weary afternoons, after classes marching back and forth, left-flanking and right-flanking to the barked commands of the cadet officers? Well, it may be, but a far more enticing influence was used a few years after the first World War. Shortly after the war, the Army Moguls noticed a sharp decline in the number of R. O. T. C. units, and were worried by the loss of prestige which this branch of the army seemed to have suffered. There were frequent desertions. Military training was knocked from the pinnacle of prominence upon which it had once rested. This was a serious emergency, and the officials were at a loss as to what to do.

New Book By Schenck Draws Critics’ Praise Of New Paper Cunningham Is Main Feature Reviews of Recent Publication By Davidson Professor Laud Work. Recently the Yale University Press of New Haven published The Presbyterian Doctrine of Children in The Covenant by Professor Lewis Bevens Schenck, professor of Bible at Davidson. Since the publication of the new book, there have been numerous reviews in the religious papers like the Christian Observer, the Calvin Forum, The Chronicle, The Review and Expositor, and Christendom.

REVIEWS OF WORK. The Christian Observer says, “The book is carefully documented, drawing the material from original sources, and therefore the more valuable as a study of a too-frequently neglected doctrine.” The Chronicle: “The findings of this book should be read by all Episcopalians interested in re-union with the Presbyterians, and

Dr. Foreman, Lawson Witherspoon, and Lacy MacLachlan Bevis Dr. Cunningham will be featured in the next Alumni Journal, which will be in the mail soon. The cover will have a picture of Dr. Cunningham, and there will also be a feature article on him by J. M. Richards, president of the Board of Trustees. This forthcoming issue will also contain a lay-out of all the presidents of Davidson from Dr. Cunningham, the latest, on back to the first president. This issue will be sent to 5,100 alumni, 1800 non-alumni ministers, and 1,000 special friends of the college.

Three of those who attended the Phi Beta Kappa banquet in Chambers banquet hall on last Thursday night are shown in the top photograph. Left to right are: Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, president of Davidson;Davidson’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter, Dr. Oliver Cromwell Carmichael, chancellor of Vanderbilt University, who will con- sidered: Seal doctrines, was the principal speaker for the occasion, and Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president of Davidson. On Thursday morning Dr. Carmichael delivered a brief talk to the Student Body at the Chapel service. 

Dr. Foreman is the consulting editor, and Lawson Withers and Lacy Maclean are the student-editors. The Review and Expositor says of the book, “Here is a book that will be welcomed by everyone who is interested in a historical study of modern Presbyterianism.” 

The Philanthropic Literary Society held their regular meeting on Wednesday night. After the usual business procedure, John Farrior’s prize-winning paper on “China’s Changing Language” was read to the group. Then several poetry selections were rendered by Russell Smith and Paul S. Crane. Jack White and Paul E. Crane spoke extemporaneously on “What Has Meant Most to Me at Davidson.” Papers due from members were taken up, and the meeting was adjourned.

Last Wednesday night at 8 o'clock Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, entertained the Chemistry 82 class in an informal feed at the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity house. A very interesting picture of military medicine was given by Doctor McConnell in his talk to the members of the Fraternity and the Chemistry 82 class. He told quite a few of his personal experiences, which proved interesting to the gathering. After Doctor McConnell’s talk, refreshments were served and the party was given over to conversation.

The Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi held its bi-monthly meeting on Monday night in Professor Neisler’s home. The plays with their casts are as follows: “El Medico” with Melvin Reynolds as the Doctor and Herb Rainey as the Patient; “El Estudiante” with Tom Pinkerton as the Student and W. H. Shannon as the Playboy; and “Don Pascual and Don Crispin” with R. L. Brinson as Pascual, Bob Simpson as Don Crispin, and Sam Martin as Luisa. The attendance was very good, and an interest seems to be growing among the students of the club.

Jim Hogg, president of the “D” Club, announces that all men who have made letters in basketball and wrestling will be initiated into the “D” Club on Monday night, March 24. At the Monday night meeting, the initiation of new members will be held. Other men to be inducted include the managers who have been selected: Clyde Mac Morris, varsity basketball manager, Sam Woodward, varsity wrestling manager, and Billy Squires, freshman basketball manager.

Finally, they “cooked” up an extravagant ballyhoo campaign unheard of in Army circles, which had as its central theme women and horses. The mental picture of himself resplendent upon an Army charger lured many an undergraduate into the R.O.T.C. during those days. In 1929, Princeton put the first college polo team on the field since 1903. Its renaissance at Princeton and other colleges was due to the establishment of the mounted units. Horses, however, were not the most important lure that was used by those in charge. The appeal of the fairer sex was destined for greater things under the new order. Co-eds made honorary officers and marched with the R.O.T.C. officers in parades. The Army, man’s age-old retreat from women, actually advocated the admission of co-eds into the college R.O.T.C. units! This was unheard of. In less than eight years, the combination of winsome smiles and pounding hoofs helped a great deal in returning the R.O.T.C. to its position of prominence.

DAVIDSON’S HAVEN FOR HUNGRY STUDENTS THE LITTLE PEP Davidson, North Carolina

IT PAYS TO LOOK WELL! LET US PRESENT YOU WITH ANOTHER TONSORIAL MASTERPIECE NORTON’S BARBER SHOP DAVIDSON, N. C.

GROCERIES EVERY LINE of HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Basketball and Wrestling members were urged to attend every meeting. Sigma Delta Pi announces that officers for the coming year will be chosen at the next meeting of the fraternity, which will come during the first week in April.

Alexander Granovsky, associate professor of entomology at the University of Minnesota, is national president of the Organization of the Rebirth of the Ukraine.

Ernest Ellison, Inc. “JUST INSURANCE” 425 Fourth Street Charlotte, N. C.

Average yearly earning of a student working on the University of Minnesota campus is $100.

WATSON DEANE Printing IS OUR BUSINESS CALL For A Representative Dial 6300 STANDARD PRINTING CO. 117 SARDIS COURT CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA Printers of ‘The Davidsonian’

VACATION TRIP, ROUND-TRIP FARES Atlanta, Ga. $6.75 Greenville, S.C. 3.25 Columbia, S.C. 3.15 Augusta, Ga. 4.95 Washington, D.C. 8.75 New York 13.60 Jacksonville, Fla. 8.90 Miami, Fla. 17.10 Roanoke, Va. 5.25

WHITE DRUG CO. Phone 2111

GREYHOUND LINES