Thursday, November 13, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Question of The Week

The Davidson Campus, on Saturday night, is almost completely vacant. Probably the reason for this is that there is practically nothing for those who want to stay here to do. “In what way can we as students improve the social life here on the campus on Saturday Night?” Here are a few opinions on the matter.

Pat Rudolph, Senior: I believe that the whole student body, as well as the faculty, believe in the theory that “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” Well, Davidson students, taken collectively, aren’t dull, and this proves that we have somewhat of a social life on Saturday night. But, the only trouble is that this social life has been mostly off the campus. A new gym, a social center, or a revision of the dance situation which now exists would be a solution. If the administration has no funds to provide for social life or for the construction of a building given over to a combination of athletic events and social life, I think that an additional fee should be added to the Student Activities tax to take care of it. A round of parties, banquets, picnics, hayrides, etc., could be given with the funds provided by this allotment. Many a small dance given by any of the multitude of organizations we have here on the campus could be easily staged in the present gym, if our trustees would awake to the fact that they were young once, that social life is good for young people, that it is only a normal process, and that most civilized, genteel, and cultivated people approve of dancing as a social medium.

Charlie Robinson, Sophomore: I would like to see more indoor sports on the campus such as we now have at the Y. Also, games like badminton and shuffleboard. These would add a great deal to the average student's enjoyment of weekends and should probably cause many more boys than at present to remain on the campus for weekends.

Bill MacLauchlin, Senior: One thing that I should like to see is a free movie, or perhaps one which carries the tariff of one thin dime. I wouldn’t want it as long as the regular full-run feature, but more as relaxing and different entertainment. It might be that a half-hour of swing music would serve to rest and refresh the tired and lonely. However, this carries the difficulty of keeping Joe Barnwell and company on the campus for these Sat. night sessions. One thing that I have always dreamed about has been the possibilities that the golf course presents. It strikes me as a natural setting for a weiner roast or some campfire program. At least this would be different. The best thing that I can concoct, however, is the idea that no professor assigns any homework for Monday classes, and there would thus be no problem of social entertainment on the Davidson campus.

Jim McCrary, Junior: About the only thing that can be said about social life on this campus on Saturday night is that there seldom is any. When faced with the question of improving said condition, we are confronted with the cycle: “There can be no social life at Davidson on the typical Saturday night because no one is here, and no one wants to stay here because there is no entertainment to speak of.” If everyone would promise to stay on the campus some Saturday night, maybe Ralph Williams could get up an amateur show, or some other snazzy entertainment that he is planning, as Social Chairman of the Y. However, it would sure have to be some super-duper affair to win over the “call of the wild hair.” Or maybe we shouldn’t compete with the big dealers, but have the shows, weiner roasts, or what have you, just for those who wouldn’t stray so far anyway. A concert by Barnwell’s band with a few tricks by the magician would be another suggestion.

Pat Williams, Sophomore: If we want to improve the social conditions on the campus on Saturday night, I’d like to see several things done. I think we ought to have a big square dance out on the lawn in front of Chambers some night when it’s warmer. However, it presents the problem of getting girls on the campus, and this would be inconvenient for a good many boys who can’t get rides.

(Continued on Page Six)

100 Girls Throng Campus On Converse Day

Dr. Marshall Confers With YMCA Cabinet

Fall Services Speaker Suggests Adoption of Religious Library.

Y. M. C. A. Cabinet members met with Dr. Marshall on Wednesday, November 5, after the Peter fall service. This show will be held in Chambers Auditorium this Friday, November 14, at 8 P. M. The production will be under the direction of Ralph Williams, social chairman of the “Y.” O.DUN. will have the publicity on this occasion. It was announced that anyone who wishes to enter should give their entries to their respective boarding house managers. Plans for the coming were considered.

BIG BEAVER "GREETS BEAUTIES

These pictures show a portion of the 100 Converse College girls who arrived on the Davidson Campus last Saturday. On the left Joe McCoy, President of the Beaver Club and traditionally called “Big Beaver,” is seen with Miss Bess Owen Alexander, of Birmingham, Ala. The event is an annual classic when the Beaver Club invites students from some girl’s school to attend en masse some Davidson football game.

Embryonic 1919 SATC Expands To Present Flourishing ROTC

Beaver Club Stages Annual Fall Event

Girls Arrive On Busses Where Date Bureau Had Been Established.

By ED SUTTON

The flood of the Davidson student body was at its height at 2:00 P. M. Saturday. The event was the result of the invitation extended to Converse College by the Beaver Club. This is the second time in the past three years that Converse girls have accepted the invitation.

Arrive By Bus

The buses were met by a date bureau in front of Chambers as soon as the visitors landed. The situation well in hand, the students in the dormitory presented the girls with yellow chrysanthemums and escorted them to the stadium without delay.

Enjoy Game

During the game, both boys and girls alike were thrilled by the presence of Pat O'Brien, who stepped on the field at the half and spoke to the capacity crowd. The game was a mass of color, being attended by twenty high school bands from surrounding areas.

Return Sadly

As night came on, the visitors were cordially conducted to the boarding houses and then sadly carried back to their buses. The girls, under the supervision of Miss Lucy Tison, President of the Converse Student Body, retired from Davidson at 9:00 P. M., leaving behind a silent campus and many heavy hearts.

Dr. Marshall about the “Y” work and religious education in the other schools that he had visited. One of the main ideas that Dr. Marshall suggested was the formation of a library of religious works. Such a library will be formed in the near future.

Philantropic Literary Society

Impressive Ceremony Inaugurates Former S. A. T. C., Now R. O. T. C.

GROWS IN 22 YEARS

Col. Mackenzie Becomes CommandantFuture. Anne, all at 9 o'clock to Eighth P.M.S. & T. Colonel Rhett, Col. Frederick Kee, and M. Armstrong assumed direction on Tuesday, November 4th. 

By SAM SPENCE

The unit for a period of one year.

DUNBAR RETURNS

The meeting was called to order at 437-7. Excitement ran high on the present P.M.T. NOV. 27 by the president of the society, Tom Davidson. Julien McCall, editor of the Quips and Cranks, announces that Dunbar, photographer for the annual, will be in the parlor of Watts again on November 27th. Any students who have not had their pictures taken must do so on this day. 

Many boys ordered enlargements of their pictures that were taken. These will probably be fully developed and returned to Davidson within three weeks, said McCall.

The main talk of the evening was made by Jim Kerr on the current situation between the Japanese and the Chinese. Following these talks, the new members were initiated and were formally made members. Those initiated were John McCrea, Bob Freeman, George Quivie, John Robinson, Alex Sime, Bill Smith, Buddy Wells, Paul Kissling, Wallace Flannagan, Bob Smith, Jack Ramsey, Jimmy Morgan, and Ralph Conrad.

The first rifles had arrived for the Students’ Army Training Corps, an embryonic military unit that had been established on the hill a month before. True, the rifles were of Russian design, and as the current situation stated, “a bit unusual for that era.” 

Colonel Armstrong shares the distinction of being the highest-ranking officer to serve at Davidson. Along with Lt. Col. Ellis, Lt. Col. Wetherby, and Major Johnston, all of whom arrived in 1919, there have been Lt. Col. Julian H. George, Captain J. W. King, Captain Beckett, Lt. Col. Manton, Lt. Col. Seifert, and Lt. Spencer.

The S.A.T.C. expanded at Davidson on October 1, 1918, with an auspicious ceremony at the chapel during which Dr. C. M. Richards offered the prayer of invocation and Dr. Martin delivered the principal address. Lt. Reuben G. Dennard, U.S. Army, commanded the unit, which, on account of the Armistice, was disbanded on December 10 of the same year.

By CHARLES BROCKMANN

The following “human interest” material concerning Woodrow Wilson’s life at Davidson is gleaned from various sources in the college library: “Tommy Wilson would be a good player if he weren’t so damned lazy!” remarked Robert Glenn, then captain of Davidson's team. 

Wilson was perhaps most noted for one thing—he established and maintained the record as regards his chapel seat across the campus. In those days, chapel preceded the first period class, and fellow students of the ex-President have stated that Tommy could be fast asleep when the second bell began to ring, start to chapel with his clothes on one arm, dressing with the other, and be in place, neatly clad, when the ringing ceased.

In October 1873, Wilson was initiated into the Eumenean fold. In that society, he took part in two debates and delivered one oration. Society records bear his name in several places, with statements like “Wilson, Sharpe, Sullivan” (The society halls at that time were thus heated), and “Scriptures were read and prayer was offered by Mr. T. Wilson” (March 28, 1874). Also among these minutes are records of fines. Wilson was once assessed 20 cents for improper conduct in the hall, and again 10 cents for talking.

Played Baseball

In 1918, one of Wilson’s classmates wrote: “He did not have the reputation of being unusually brilliant in his classroom work, but he was an all-round man recognized as a leader in college life, and a specialist in politics.” His fellow students considered young Wilson “witty, genial, superior, but languid. He was more studious than athletic, but was a fair baseball player.”

Made Good Grades

During the two semesters Wilson attended Davidson, he made fairly good grades, but not superior ones. In December 1873, his average for the first semester was 90.57%. His second semester was 93.45%, as shown by the original records. His lowest grades were in mathematics, his highest in composition and English.

Davidson College always held a warm spot in Wilson's heart. His correspondence of later years shows that he never lost an opportunity to comply with the requests of students or faculty for friendly services. At his inauguration in 1913, a delegation of eighty Davidson students marched with the parade down Pennsylvania Avenue, carrying the Davidson banner.

STOP IN AT THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon Street
Opposite Johnston Building

J. T. HOUGH
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

Independence Drug Store

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly Except Sundays, During October and November.

THE RIGHT RECIPE FOR THANKSGIVING

The right place to eat Thanksgiving dinner is at home—and the right way to get home is by Greyhound! Maybe money doesn’t mean anything to you—and then again maybe it does. At any rate, you'll save a lot of it traveling at Greyhound’s low round-trip fares—and you'll have a lot more fun going with the crowd. Plan now to take this trip to “turkey” by Super-Coach at a super-saving!

G. O. PRM, Agent
Davidson, N. C.
ATLANTIC GREYHOUND CORP.
WHITE DRUG CO.

FROM DAVIDSON—
To— One Way— Round Trip—
New York $7.55 $13.60
Richmond 3.75 6.75
Atlanta 3.75 6.75
Winston-Salem 90 1.65
Raleigh 2.90 5.25
Jacksonville, Fla. 5.50 9.90
Bluefield, W. Va. 3.25 5.85
Miami, Fla. 9.50 17.10
Wilmington, N. C. 3.25 5.85
Roanoke 2.90 5.25
Charlotte 30 55
Greensboro 1.50 2.70
Durham 2.40 4.35
Columbia 1.80 3.25