24 SHOPPING DAYS ’TIL CHRISTMAS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1941 No. 10

John Whitaker Gives Opinion To Students On Foreign Situation

Correspondent Bases Remarks On Interviews With European Leaders

SPOKE LAST MONDAY

Last Tuesday in Chapel John T. Whitaker spoke to the student body on the foreign situation. Mr. Whitaker is aptly
qualified on this subject, having been a foreign correspondent for a number of years. Attempting to show why the German
totalitarian government has succeeded while that of Russia and Italy failed, he described the policies of those three countries. Mr.
Whitaker is a personal friend of Mussolini and therefore could learn the reasons for Italy's policies. Wondering why the Italian
policy has changed, he interviewed Mussolini about it.

Italians Change

Mussolini explained that the Italian policy has changed because of the rise in power of the German State. Several years
ago he had defied the Germans to extend their possessions southward, but today he encouraged them to do so. This
was because he wanted to be on the side of Hitler who he felt would conquer the world. Mr. Whitaker
showed how this weak policy had put Italy in the grip of Hitler.

Describes Purge of 1934

Before the purge of 1934, which Mr. Whitaker described, Hitler established his throne of power. Before this time he had
risen because people believed he could give them the things they wanted. Now he realized that he could not fulfill
the promises and have his power too, so he put to death four hundred important Germans who could have overthrown
him. Mr. Whitaker told how Hitler's government made war profitable. The plunder they got from other countries was more than
the cost of the armament program. This is one reason why the Nazi form of government has succeeded.

Russian Policy

Russia's policy was shown to have as a purpose the rebuilding of a “greater Russia” while Germany fought. It was
this policy that led up to the non-aggression pact between the two countries and finally war. Mr. Whitaker said that
Russia should have attacked Germany when she was fighting Poland or France and so make Germany fight a two-front war.

England

England was the next subject for discussion. Mr. Whitaker said that at first the English had been blind and had
not rearmed or even thought there was need of rearming, but now they have been awakened by the bombs. Praising
the British morale, he gave as an illustration the pilots of the R. A. F. who held off the invader
while England was rearming. The pilots themselves conceived the idea of attack which was so effective in breaking up the
German squadrons. In this way the pilots showed up the Germans as bullies who were strong enough until someone else
became stronger.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Convention

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity, held its eleventh bi-annual convention last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday in Gainesville, Georgia,
at Brenau College. Officially representing Davidson's chapter was Jim Kerr of the Senior class. Representing the Davidson Chemistry Department were
Professors Q. J. Thies and W. T. Rainey.

On Friday morning business began in earnest with the election of new national officers. Dr. J. B. Gallant, alumnus of
Davidson, was elected Worthy Grand Alchemist. Professor O. J. Thies of Davidson was re-elected to serve as Grand Chancellor and
historian for the fraternity.

Sincere Fund Sends Bibles To Battleship

211 Men In Crew On Board U.S.S. North Carolina Request Bibles

Contributions which Davidson students make toward one phase of the Annual Y. M. C. A. Gift Fund will be used
to furnish Bibles to the members of the crew of the U. S. S. North Carolina. Previously it was known
that this money would be used to buy copies of the scriptures for sailors, but only recently has the exact
name of the vessel been revealed.

Request

F. L. Albert, Chaplain of the U.S. S. North Carolina, has reported to the Department of World Evangelism of the
American Bible Society that 211 men out of 13 divisions of the ship’s crew have already requested Bibles. He urges
that Davidson, through her Christmas Gift Fund Drive, attempt to supply at least three hundred copies. He was surprised at
the unusually favorable response which has been shown by Davidson students, but he also expressed his deep gratitude for this
splendid cooperation.

Deadline

It is imperative, Chaplain Albert said, that these Bibles be aboard the ship before December 1. Money has already been
rushed to New York so that these books may be purchased and distributed before the sailing of the vessel. Those
who are in charge of the drive state that the amount of money necessary for the securing of 300 Bibles
will be raised easily. Funds that are not used for the U. S. S. North Carolina will go toward supplying
the crew of some smaller vessel.

Local Sunday School Makes Future Plans

Students Turn Regular Sunday School Class Into Discussion Group

At the meeting of Sunday School last week it was decided that the programs had heretofore been handled rather haphazardly
and some very drastic changes were to be made in the future. Several suggestions were brought before the class and
discussed in detail. Suggestions were:

1. A regular teacher who would touch their problems in a dynamic way to appeal to students.
2. Musical programs to include solos, group singing and the study of hymns.
3. Open discussions to be led by a member of the faculty, are planned.
4. Various students of the college are to take charge of the program and teach the lesson on certain occasions.
5. A vocational guidance program has been planned and arrangements are to be made so that prominent men of Charlotte
and elsewhere may be got to speak at the Sunday meetings.
6. A suggestion by Arch Tylor was made that speakers from Queens, Converse, and other colleges be invited to the
school.

These and other plans are being formulated so that an instructive, beneficial program may increase the attendance at Sunday School.

Phi Mu Alpha Presents Don Cossack Chorus

THE DON COSSACK CHORUS, conducted by Serge Jeroff, was first organized in a prison camp near Constantinople during World War
I. Fame came to this group while they were serving as the choir in the cathedral at Sofia, Bulgaria. They
are now in their twelfth season in America after a long and brilliant career in both Europe and America. This
group is not new to Davidson, since they performed here a few years ago. The Cossacks’ performance at Davidson will
be in the Chamber's Auditorium on the evening of December 1 at 8:15.

Judge Punishes 25 Most ‘Noxious’ N.C. Freshmen

French Professors Hear Lyons

Professor A. V. Goldiere Is Vice-President Of State Group

On November twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth at the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina in Greensboro will be held
the tenth semi-annual meeting of the N.C. Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French.

Goldiere Is Officer

Officers for this convention will be: Miss Katherine Tighe of Asheville, President; Professor A. V. Goldiere, professor of French at
Davidson College, Vice-President; and Miss Mary C. Hamilton, native of Davidson and now professor of French and Spanish at Flora
McDonald College, Secretary and Treasurer.

The series of meetings will begin with a dinner on Friday, November 28 at 6:30 P.M. which will be held
in the college cafeteria. Dr. W. S. Barney, head of the Romance Language Department of the Woman's College, will preside.
An address of welcome to the delegates will be given by Dr. W. C. Johnson, Dean of Administration of Woman's
College, and Mr. Herbert Hucks of Greensboro Senior High School will deliver the response. At 8:00 P. M. Friday, the
French club of the Woman’s College, under the direction of Professor Rene Haide, will present the oldest known comic opera,
“Le Jeu de Robin et Marion.”

Main Speaker

On Saturday, November 29, from 9:30 A.M. till 12:30 P.M. in Adelphian Hall the final meeting will be held. William
Edgerton of Guilford College will speak to the assembly in French. His subject will be “Je vous accuse! Confessions d'un
professeur de français.” J. C. Lyons of the University of North Carolina will speak on the subject, “French and Language
Culture in South America.”

The final event of the conference will be the explanation of the A. A. T. F. realia exhibit on display
by Miss Ruth Shaver of the Curry Demonstration School. After Miss Shaver (Continued on Page Six)

Court Of Control Opens Meeting To Public For First Time

The untiring and increasing work of the Court of Control culminated into a final conclave last evening when twenty-five innocent
Freshmen were placed on strict campus for violating the rules and regulations prescribed by the time immemorial Caldwell Hall. The
judge shrewdly and intelligently handled the cases set before them and was deeply impressed with the acclaim and applause of
the throng which attended the gala and colorful affair. This was the first time since the Court was organized many
years ago that the public has been invited to attend such a meeting and everyone was impressed with the grace
with which the Court handled the cases.

Proper Warning

The judge declared in a message to each one of the apprehended Freshmen that they were warned time and again
during their recent Campussing phase about violation of the rules, but persisted in ignoring any part of them. The judge
emphasized the fact that these freshmen, being publicly regarded as the most “noxious,” should set the example for the remainder
of the school year. He also consoled theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

Other years that they are to be here at that year men in that in three Davidson they shouldn't expect
any more disciplined and obedient group than the one final; also interrupted Bell by a few wise anecdotes thr years
associated with Files! (Incidentally all of the “eight old men” used their discretion to the utmost of their ability in
giving the Freshmen a just but lengthy sentence.)

Campus Terms
Here are the terms of the campus for the newly organized “25” club. Each one of them will be required
to wear upon their left arm a red band of not less than two inches wide outside of all clothing.
Each one will have a specific duty to perform during his two weeks strict campus and no one will be
excused positively this time while on campus except for special reasons. We don’t want the Freshmen to all go home
and lose their caps.

Watt Gives Freshmen Test
Charlie Watt, the Freshmen Adviser, announces that plans have been made for the administration of a test to the members
of the Freshman Class concerning certain provisions of the Student Body Constitution. This action will be taken as a result
of an amendment which was recently added to the Constitution. A list of questions from which the test will be
taken was given to each Freshman last Tuesday. The exact arrangements for the test were explained last Thursday during the
chapel period. They are to be given next Tuesday, and all Freshmen who fail to pass will be dealt with
by the Court of Control.

Professors Attend Ga. Convention
Vowles Elected Vice-President of Association
Dr. Guy Vowles of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association was elected Vice-President at its fourteenth annual convention. Emory University
were hosts to the Association which met November 21-22 in Atlanta, Georgia.

Three Serve
Dr. Vowles, professor of German here at Davidson, served on the Executive Committee before being elected to his present office.
Dr. W. P. Cumming, who also attended the convention from Davidson, was appointed Secretary of the English section. Professor E.
J. Erwin served as Chairman of the Nominating Committee for this year’s convention. The session, which included a banquet held
Friday night, was hosted at nearby Agnes Scott College. Next year the convention will be held in Columbia, where the
University of South Carolina will be the host.

Leader Gives Chapel Talks
Edwin Espy, Experienced Christian Leader, Speaks Today and Friday
Davidson students are having the opportunity of hearing Mr. R. Edwin Espy, world-famous Christian leader, at the chapel periods today
and Friday. “The World Mission of Christianity” is the general theme of Mr. Espy’s messages.

Varied Experience
He has had a varied and rich experience in the field of Christian leadership. As a student at the University
of Redlands, California, he was president of the Y. M. C. A., the Associated Students, the Senior Class, and the
Interfraternity Council. Mr. Espy finished his college training in 1930 and then went to the Union Theological Seminary, where he
received his degree. He has worked under the auspices of the Baptist, Congregational, and Presbyterian denominations. Through a German-American exchange
fellowship from the Institute of International Education, Mr. Espy studied for over two years in Europe at Munich, Tubingen, and
Heidelberg. During this period he acquired a thorough knowledge of conditions in Germany. He has seen the work camps, concentration
camps, and other Nazi devices firsthand.

Traveled Widely in Europe
While traveling extensively as a leader in the World Student Christian Federation and the International Student Service, he has worked
with Christian youth groups and their leaders from all parts of the world. He spent some time at Oxford and
Edinburgh engaged in leading young people's activities. A faculty dinner is planned for Mr. Espy while he is at Davidson,
although definite plans for this had not been completed when The Davidsonian went to press.

Don Cossack Chorus To Present Concert Here On December 1
Noted Church
“The biggest name organization ever to appear on the Davidson campus,” said Mr. Pfohl of the Music Department, the original
Don Cossack Chorus will present a concert in the Auditorium on the night of December 1 at 8:15. Though this
concert could not be included in the regular concert series of Phi Mu Alpha, music fraternity, this world-famous group was
procured through their efforts and presented as part of their program of bringing gifted musicians to our campus. Admission will
be 75 cents for students and $1.00 for others.

Organized twenty-one years ago and functioning as a complete unit since that time, the Don Cossack Chorus was born in
a prison camp near Constantinople during the trying days of the last World War. Diminutive Serge Jaroff, their conductor, too
small to be considered warrior material like the rest of his brothers, was allowed to study music as a boy,
and during the war was struck by the harmony and deep emotion of the Cossacks as they sang wild Muscovite
songs of their native Steppes and Don River Valley around the evening campfires. Almost unconsciously he started leading them in
their songs, finally developing them into a chorus whose fame spread far beyond their prison walls. Before long they were
selected as the official choir for the Orthodox St. Sofia Cathedral in Bulgaria's capital. Thousands flocked to hear them from
all parts of the world.

Tours
Before the present world conflict, they traveled the world with their headquarters at Paris, vacationing on the French Riviera and
practicing for their new season during July and August in Austria. Now they are based in New York and have
been becoming naturalized citizens of the United States, with twenty-one of the thirty-four singers scheduled to become citizens this year.
Half the wives of the married Cossacks are still anxiously awaiting visas to join their husbands in this country where
they have already been for twelve seasons. Their program here will be in three groups of five numbers each, the
first being religious songs including Rachmaninoff’s “We Sing to Thee.” The second group of five classical and modern Russian features
selections from the opera The Life of the Tsar by Glinka and two new Russian songs. The final group is
composed entirely of traditional Cossack and Russian gypsy songs, with the Don Cossack's own song “Burlak” closing the program.

Foreigners
The foreign countries represented in the student body this year are as follows: China comes first, with eight students; next,
with four, is Cuba. Three boys come from Africa and one each from Japan, Mexico, and Puerto Rico. These students
have spent the majority of their lives outside of this country but are all American citizens, since their parents are
American citizens. Linsley Bradley, Tom Brown, Ed (Continued on Page Six)

Chicago Men Make Survey, Drs. Works, Drumlaugh and Burns Visit Campus
Last Tuesday Dr. Works and Dean Brumbaugh of the faculty of the University of Chicago conducted a survey of Davidson
for the Southern Presbyterian Church. Dr. Works is the head of the entire survey. Dean Brumbaugh is in charge of
student personnel and religious life.

Discussion
The survey part included a free frank discussion with a group of students representing a cross-section of opinion regarding the
condition and strength of the College. When it is finished sometime early next summer it will be published in a
booklet which will be circulated throughout the Presbyterian Churches of the South. This booklet will cover the results of the
entire survey.

Other Surveys
This group has conducted several surveys for many different organizations including a survey for the Methodist Church very similar to
the one they are now conducting for the Presbyterians.

Initiate Five
Alpha Epsilon Delta, premedical fraternity, initiated five pledges on November 12 in the infirmary. Those new members are George W.
Shannon, Richard J. Coppage, A. A. McLean, Jr., S. G. Welborn, and R. N. McLeod, Jr. After the initiation, all
the members went to the Kappa Phi house where Bill Sprunt presented a paper on pre-historic medicine and Douglas Clark
gave a brief discussion on obstetrics in Colonial America. After a discussion of business, the fraternity enjoyed a feed.

There will not be a let up after the holidays warned the “judge,” as we have some new plans for
freshmen friends, however, we don’t want the Freshmen to all go home and lose their caps.
