Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, November 19, 1941

Team Members Give Viewpoints On Game

Varsity Squad Thinks Davidson Should Win Game With Citadel

Tomorrow at two-thirty o’clock our team plays its last game of the season against The Citadel. To gauge the spirit
of the team before the game, a canvas was made of several of the members of the varsity squad, and
below are statements by them on how they think the game will turn out.

Marsh—"Citadel hasn't beat us since before our freshmen year, and I don't think that this game could be an exception.”

Taylor—"The team of 1941 is certainly due a game, and I believe that this week, Davidson will show up in
the win column.”

Vosburgh—“Our boys look for a hard game with Citadel Thursday, but all of them feel confident that the team will
really roll and chalk up its first win of the season.”

Williams—"It’s about time we’re winning a game, and I’ve got a hunch it will be this one. It will be
the last game for a good many men on the squad and I think it will be a good one.”

Hunt—“Citadel has a good club, but I’ve a hunch we have a better one. It should be our day Thursday.”

Bethea—“Davidson has everything to gain and nothing to lose; so I believe that the team will come through with a
win Thursday.”

Moorehead—"We will be at our full strength Thursday for the first time this year, and I think we are pretty
sure to beat Citadel. The morale of the team is the best it has been all season.”

Bruce—"We sure are due one. If the breaks come our way, look out “Bulldogs.”

Spencer—"It’s our last chance to break into the win column, and we should be at full strength; so I personally
am looking forward to a victory for the Davidson football team. We've had our share of bad luck.”

Frederick—"I think that we have regained our confidence and should come through with a win Thursday. This has been our
main trouble this season.”

Rainey—"Our boys have had tough breaks all season and have been working hard to get in the win column. Citadel
is our last chance for a win and I think that we are ready for them.”

ROTC Course Is Diversified

Sometimes it is not clearly understood what is included in the R.O.T.C. course in the various colleges. Here at Davidson
the four years training includes quite a few different subjects.

The first year basic course (freshman) covers: Military history and policy of the U.S., the National Defense Act, Military Organization;
Map Reading, Rifle and Rifle Marksmanship, Infantry Drill Regulations, Sanitation and First Aid and Military Courtesy and Discipline. This last
subject covers manners and is taken from a booklet entitled, “The Correct Thing at West Point.”

Second Year basic R.O.T.C. includes such subjects as the following: Infantry Drill Regulations, Automatic Rifle, Characteristics of the Infantry, Weapons,
Scouting and Patrolling, Musketry, Tactics of the Rifle Squad, and Tactics of the Automatic Rifle Squad.

When the Advanced Course is reached such subjects as Aerial Photography, Defense against Chemical Warfare, Motor Vehicles, Administration, Tactics of
the Rifle, Heavy Machine Gun and Mortar Platoons, Infantry Drill Regulations, and Infantry Machine Guns and Mortars, are studied.

Seniors, taking the second year advanced course, cover the following subjects: Officers’ Reserve Corps Regulations, Military Law, Tanks, Artillery, Chemical
Warfare, Aviation and Engineers in Offense and Defense, Anti-Tank Defense, Combat Intelligence, Anti-Aircraft Defense, Property, Procurement and Funds, Military History
and Policy of the United States, Signal Communications, and Tactics of the Rifle, Heavy Weapons and Anti-Tank Companies.

At The Student Store Deluxe Ice Cream

VESPER USHERS

In accordance with Dr. Cunningham’s suggestion a number of ushers have been chosen for Sunday night vespers. The chief functions
of this group have been to distribute programs and to seat out of town guests. The following men are divided
into two alternating shifts: Monroe Bush and Fred Morton the chief ushers assisted by Scotty Paterson, Crawford Wheeler, Bill Loy,
Bob Durant, Welford Hobbie, Joe Webster, Legh Scott, Clarence McArthur, Jack Wayman, Rufus Nimmons, Dick Smith, Don Caterson and Dick
Port.

“Y” Corner By SHAW SMITH

And the Gift Fund is finally under way! For weeks, the behind-the-scenes activity (Monroe Bush and flunkies) has been terrific.
The hard workers are too numerous to name now, but since the ball is rolling, to name the hard workers
now would sound like the reading of a student body directory.

Surely the amount of money that is pledged and collected is important, but—and this warrants more than a casual thought—the
spirit of all this giving can do us all a lot of good. There's a certain thrill in giving ‘til
it hurts that some of us will never know. Another thing about this particular gift is that we're giving the
best seller of all times. That's something else mighty important—that all of us do know!

Talent galore has been signed for the amateur show this Friday night. So much criticism has been given about the
lack of social activity at Davidson that a big crowd is certain. Here’s your chance to show your interest in
light things that we can all do together; your interest may mean stunt nights, hobby shows, popular sings and the
like—or it may mean that this is the only attempt at such entertainment by and for the student body. Come
on out and enjoy yourself and if you can still perform, there is still time to sign up.

Yes, I enjoyed Dean Wicks’ visit with us. So often we forget that by being religious; we are too. In
doing so we often forget to laugh and feel that someone we know won't learn enough about him to find
that he laughs too. What about your suggestions for a Spring Service speaker? We've surely had some good ones in
the past. Dr. Wicks’ thoughts are still bull session topics which is a sure sign of the effectiveness of his
visit. Now, name your choice to follow him.

Maybe you haven't heard much of the “Gray-Y” this year, but quiet and steady working Joe McCoy is not idle.
Maybe he could use some help and maybe you are the one to help him. Huh?

Didn't Betty Kerr and the choir sound good last Sunday? Maybe you caught the radio program, too? Nice!

The Unsung-Hero-of-the-Week is a man you may not know because of the quietness of his “campus appearances.” This is commendable,
but this man is no slow and easy worker in his lessons, his outside activities, or his own clear thinking.
Quiet, sincere and with a quick, unmistakable grin, this fellow goes right into your heart as the hours go by
during your associations with him. His desire to be useful makes many of us bow our heads with shame. His
belief in God and man is simple, pure, steady, and—un- He is an inspiration for all who know him. His
name is Tinsley “Beak” Bradley.

Did you read the last issue of Queens Blues? Regardless of what “they” said about us then, the young ladies...gave
us a real treat with a hay ride, skating party, and frankfurters roast. If you're still leery about having a
good time with a blind date, ask Paul Kissling, Gene Gracey, Herb Dimnock (now has overcoats—ask him!), Tom Brown, or
a host of others—including my date. (Forgive me—I couldn't resist the temptation.) Did you ever read a little poem called
“Beauty” by Alice Booth Day? Here it is: “Who scorns The simple things Know not where beauty lies; A tiny
roadside pool may hold A star.” Remember Lt. Spencer's speech? Well, see you in Church—I hope. Brother Pritchett is still
tops. Yours, SHAW SMITH.

bounded good in you two stompin’ grounds for the brothers last week. Wildest hairs included the trips to Sweet Briar,
U.N.C., Randolph Macon, Hollins, and U. of Va. The whole gang toured the colleges and finally wound up at W.
to see the Cates make another noble against the Generals. The crew included: Stubbins, Yocum, McNair, Church, and L. stand
Thurston, Ed and Jack Phillips, Wilson, Howell, Goode—Firley Tucker, Cushman, Raney, and Schmidt. Rasborough and Tucker toured to Converse for
the weekend, while Wheeler and Kendrick took in Meredith. Smith and Lipscomb made their regular to Gastonia. Spike Mehare, Joe
Barnell, Tub Efird and Louis Nickles went to Burlington and the Duke-Carolina. Brother White joined his heart-throb in Graham and
also went to Durham. Brother Winn spent a lovely weekend in Greensboro. Duck Rankin made it to Lexington, N.C.—but no
further. The regular crew to Charlotte included: Welsh, F. Mebore, Crayton, Dan and Bob Bryant, Upchurch, Garrison, Crawford and Bosh.

S.P.E. AND FACULTY

The good of Epsilon chapter were widely separated this weekend, in pursuit of various colorful and profitable objectives. Sid Daffin
moped on the campus, since his good buddy Bevins had dashed eastward. Brother Sid, however, did manage to sneak off
to Mooresville in company of Pledges Miller, Horschel, and several local damsels. The outcome of the party is only to
be conjectured. Meanwhile, Bivens, Davidson’s gift to Raleigh, circulated between the Capital City, Chapel Hill, Durham, Greensboro and the whole
Atlantic seaboard. Brothers Knox, Horner, Brown, Myers and little Knox, loath to break their long-standing Saturday night tradition, followed the
same routine which they established some years ago. Skinner, brothers Winchester, Shore, Robinson were seen on the Saturday night hayride
at Queens. These confirmed “hares” were, as usual, in the thick of things for the longest hare of the week
goes to Brothers Whitley, Henderson, and Davis, and Pledge Brothers Whiddon, Blevins, Powell, and Isley. Leaving here Thursday on an
extended band tour through Virginia, they finally returned late Sunday. The game at Lexington was one high point of the
trip, especially since Brother Elmer saved the day so miraculously. An item of local interest was the get-together with the
faculty last Thursday. The true spirit of brotherhood prevailed as the faculty wives served an excellent steak supper. The chapter
heartily thanks them in full appreciation of their efforts.

K.A.’s STOMP

Bumming corners, frat held places of activities for the “knights” houses, and books sway over other Photographs Supplies and Kodaks.
W. I. VAN NESS 215 North Tryon Street last week, Washington and Lee proving to be the most sensational of
stomping grounds. The Virginia city, resplendent with the presence of Davidson's gridders, K.A.’s Burke and Washburn among them, was left
amazed by the of Brothers Thomas, Dunn, Sinclair, Watt, McLean and Pledge Irwin Belk, while father Buzzie took excellent care
of Cam, the “Green Hornet.” Pledge off on an “operations” Brother Bachman took an extended tour of Virginia, while Coach
Ansley and Page lone Brothers at the Carolina-Duke classic. At the same time, George Council and King were breaking all
“standing” bumming corners by holding forth on the Charlotte cold spot through the “wee sma’ hours” of Saturday night until
brought wearily home by a kind-hearted motorist at 8:30 the following morning. Harris were the records on Home bound brothers
and pledges included Abbott, Mitchell, Glasgow, Wallace, H. Belk, J. Belk, Turnage Richeson Royster, and Beam. The latter two are
reported to have embarked upon another brilliant escapade but deny all charges. Sandy, “Davey,” Ed, and Hugh kept on the
drive in preparation for Thanksgiving. To climax the woeful weekend, the S.A.E. chapter was royally entertained at a Sunday night
feed, again deliciously served under the direction of head chef Jeffries.

PHI DEAL

Brother Dew traveled south of the border to take in the Citadel dances in Charleston Saturday. Brothers Rudolph and Chapman
left Friday for Raleigh and Durham. They saw the Carolina-Duke game and attended the Fall Germans in Chapel Hill with
Maestro Al Donahue swinging out. Brothers Hobbie and Carter had another one of those famous Virginia weekends in Lexington. Pledges
Oglesby and Tate motored to W. and L. with the band and the dances with Tony Pastor playing Saturday night.
Davis and Banks were the guests of Brother Westall in the rumble seat of his Buick going over to Carolina
for the weekend. Brother Owens spent last week in Tennessee with the girl of his dreams. Brothers Pierce and MacKinnon
enjoyed the round of activities in Farmville and Maxton. Pledge McLean enjoyed what Lenoir had to offer Saturday. The rest
of the Phis and Phikeias stayed around Davidson, Charlotte and Cornelius. A good majority were seen at that famous “Honky
Tonk” in Charlotte.

ALL LATEST

Victor, Blue Bird, Columbia, Decca Records Portable Phonographs and Record Players ANDREWS MUSIC CO. 231 N. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE

Be Sure To BILL SHAW Buy Your: CLASS RINGS, PENNANTS, FRATERNITY STATIONERY, FOUNTAIN PENS, RAIN CAPS At The STUDENT STORE
DAVIS THOMAS Managers

Students Hear Espy Thursday And Friday

R. H. E. ESPY MATMEN BEGIN (Continued from page three) Other varsity men returning are Browning, Carter, Brinson, Dick, and
Turnage. Sophomores Council, Bradford, Simmons, Grimsley and O’Hair made numerals on the squad and will round out this year’s varsity
in the unlimited division.

CINEMA COMMENTS (Continued from page two) running, shooting, spying—all make up the fast tempo of this story of a British
government outpost. George Sanders, Bruce Cabot, Reginald Gardiner, and Gene Tierney do put in some fine acting. Bruce Cabot as
the Commissioner of the post steals most of the honors, and George Sanders is excellent in a dramatic death scene.
Reggie Gardiner is along for the laughs. Miss Tierney, as the supposedly half-caste girl is beautiful. Carl Esmond turns in
some good work as the gun planter. It’s quite different, and very exciting in these times.

Wednesday, November 26 SUNNY Anna Neagle, Ray Bolger, John Carroll, Edward Everett Horton. This feature is a very gay and
light musical, featured by the colorful dancing of Anna Neagle and Ray Bolger. John Carroll adds greatly to the production
with his singing. Some of the ballroom scenes are magnificent, and all of the sets are lavish. Edward Everett Horton
is just as good as ever with his clowning, and the sum total is a picture of complete charm. I
would like for Bill McLean to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.

World Famous Christian Leader To Speak To Students On Religion

Mr. Edwin Espy, world-famous Christian leader, will be the speaker on Thursday and Friday, November 26 and 27. Mr. Espy
will speak on the general topic of the World Mission of Christianity. His life has been one of brilliant and
able leadership. World-wide Christian young people’s organizations have received his greatest attention. While a student at the University of Redlands,
California, Mr. Espy received many honors. Among the large number of offices that he held there, were the presidencies of
the Y.M.C.A., the Associated Students, the Senior Class, and the Interfraternity Council. His speaking ability brought him the honor of
representing his college in many debates in the U.S. Graduated from college in 1930, he attended the Union Theological Seminary
and received his degree in 1933. During these years, he did work under the auspices of Baptists, Congregationalists, and Presbyterians.
Mr. Espy’s first contact with Europe came through a German-American exchange fellowship from the Institute of International Education. Under this
fellowship, he studied for over two years at Munich, Tubingen, and Heidelberg. These years gave him a good knowledge of
present-day conditions inside Germany. He has seen the work camps, concentration camps, and other features of the Nazi regime at
first hand. As a leader in the World’s Student Christian Federation and the International Student Service, Mr. Espy traveled throughout
Europe, working with youth groups. He has had contacts with Christian youth and youth leaders from all parts of the
world. At Oxford and Edinburgh, he was a leader in all young people’s activities.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C.

No Cramming Necessary! For swell flavor and real chewing fun—the answer is delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum.
