Thursday, December 4, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Down FRATERNITY COURT

Phis Function

PI KAPPA PHI
The Pi Kapps were comparatively quiet this weekend, due to an attempt to recuperate from big deals pulled last week. Nevertheless, they were counted on to bring about at least one stab at first place. This was the trip of Pledges Earle Yantis and Price Lineberger to the home of the former in Atlanta. Those seen in Charlotte were Ged Herring, Bumbarger, and Parham. Gastonia received Brother Armstrong and Pledge Denny. Ed Murray got as far as Winston-Salem. Pledges Williams and Wilkinson are reported as having been seen in church in Lincolnton. Brother Gaither and Pledge Dick Bradley went to their respective homes in Newton and Waynesville.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Epsilon Chapter experienced one of its few quiet weekends for some time. Little or no feminine color graced the house, and almost everybody was satisfied with a feeble attempt at Charlotte. A large group did not even bother with the Queen City and stayed here to indulge in a very limber feed and bull-session. Pledge Rogers managed to get to Durham, where he spent much time accomplishing nothing. Brothers Myers, Henderson, and Brown reached the same conclusion after a series of severe flushes. Brothers Daffin, Gwynn, and Bivens, who were usually out about three nights of the week at Queens, as usual, accomplished nothing. The item of greatest importance on the Sig-Ep horizon is the coming function next Saturday. Everybody, including Brother Morton, has been flushed at least once, but nevertheless, it promises to be a gala affair.

PHI DELTA THETA
Most of the Phis who did their bit of operating over the weekend headed South. Pledges Potter, Robertson, and Emerson got the “Peachtree Street Blues” and headed down to Atlanta. Pledge Potter brings back good reports of his one and only, “Margie.” Brother Terrell broke the long-distance record with a wild trip to Tallahassee and the Florida State College for Women. Pledges Hendee, Sutton, and Burns spent the weekend at their homes in Georgia and attended the Ga. Tech-Georgia football game in Atlanta Saturday. Brother Dew was reported on the U.S.C. campus in Columbia Saturday night. Brother Chapman spent Sunday night at his home in Spartanburg. Brothers Elliott and Starnes headed for Converse Saturday especially to see La Bord, etc. Brother Westall and Pledge Tate passed their time at their respective homes in Asheville and Morganton. Brother Rudolph is back from New York where he attended the National Interfraternity Conference. There wasn’t much in the town that Pat didn’t take in. Brother Wardlaw dated at Queens Saturday night and Pledge Davis was seen driving a pale blue convertible in Charlotte Sunday with members of the opposite sex.

KAPPA SIGMA
With the exception of a few sheep, the Kappa Sigma flock remained united and attended the annual KA-Kappa Sigma banquet and dance. Elsewhere were Dick Phillips and Eddie Fowler, who attended the high school championship games at Chapel Hill; Jim Davis, who was present at his sister’s wedding; Bob Grimsley, at Converse; and John McGee, who visited at home in Charleston, S.C. The bevy of Sigma’s beautiful dates were: Virginia Hengeveld, Clara Sherard, Georgia Keeter, Willodine Rion, Betty Chapman, Shirley Owen, Elizabeth Martin, Mary Annabelle McCall, Lura Kincaid, Alex Thompson, Bess Alexander, Thom Blanton, Betty Parsley, Jane Thomas, Mary Ann Sprunt, Julie Marsh, Frances Keel, Betty Carbough, Sherrill, Martha Corna, Caroline Eddy, Margaret Stone, Irma Siceloff, Dottie Sappenfield, Dot Arnold, and Mary Sue Briggs. Sponsors escorted by Sigmas were Edna Sprunt, Millie Brenizer, Martha Brandon, and Ann Wiley.

BETA THETA PI
The W.C. dances Saturday night beckoned Buckley, Wheeler, Pritchett, and Kendrick, who returned to Burlington for the rest of the weekend. Duck Rankin made his usual trip to Lexington, then home to Mt. Gilead. Another crew journeyed to Rock Hill for Saturday, including Brothers Efrid, Spike Mebane, Raney, and Garrison. Brother Whiskey made a trip to his home in Greenville. Cushman, Rosborough, and Rowland took in another of those mystic Statesville details. They sat it’s swell! Brother White and Welch went to Graham. Brother Robinson and Sledge Smith spent the weekend at their homes in Gastonia. Ed Taylor and Grayson Pucker tripped to Converse. John Sherrill is back with us after a recent illness.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The majority of the brothers stayed close to the old home port. Brothers Elder, Vosburgh, Lane, Browning, Farrar, Pollock, Neill, Brinson, and Morehead. Pledges Bill Turner and Graves also were in that general vicinity. Mooresville was visited by Pledges Taylor, Tolleson, Mac Turner, and Graham Turner, who seem pleased with their trip. Brother Scott partook himself to the remotest nook of the Library and drove upon hour after hour, and Brother Henderson found it necessary to go to Chapel Hill again. Brother Martin witnessed the football game between Vanderbilt and Tennessee in Knoxville and attended the Alumni dance there. A feed was given at the house Sunday night for the brothers and pledges who were on campus.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The Fijis’ long-distance operator last week was Walter (Crutches) Wooten, who came, saw, and conquered in connection with New York. He gave up some of his valuable “night clubbing” time to attend a few of the functions of the National Intercollegiate Fraternity Association (Pan-Hell stuff to you), of which he is a member.

(Continued on Page Six)

generously this weekend with only two venturing farther than Greensboro and W.C. Among those making their weekly pilgrimage to that fair institution were Brothers Powsall, Williamson, Brockman, Parsons, Maxwell, and Clark, and Pledges Stroup, Anderson, Fraley, and White. As usual, Charlotte was invaded by Brothers...

KAPPA ALPHA-KAPPA SIGMA SPONSORS With Hayride

Philanthropic Literary Society Holds Fall Picnic

A hayride, skating, wiener roast, and square dancing constituted the function honoring new members of the Philanthropic Literary Society Friday evening, November 28. The society had dates with girls from Queens. Jimmy Fulcher, chairman of the social committee, was in charge of the arrangements for the party. Shaw Smith, Miss Jane Orr, assistant dean at Queens, John Davis, and Miss Sally Pardee chaperoned the party.

Special Musicians Entertainment

A few amateur musicians included music by Ed Murray, a special guest, who had his guitar along.Bob Hood played a violin and Jim Kerr a slide whistle. All attending the party dressed in tacky clothes. To the Willamette! Through to Wilson Park! The donned ka oO leativ. The boys and girls became better acquainted by exchange-partner skating. Exercise brought on appetite.

Weiners at Sharon
The party returned to Charlotte where they had a weiner and marshmallow roast at the Sharon Golf Club. Feasting was followed by square dancing and singing with the accompaniment of an amateur string orchestra. The ride back to Queens closed the evening’s program.

Dates
Dates and their escorts were: Miss Lucille Wayland with Tom Plonk, president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Miss Lenore McCall with Jim Kerr, Miss Louise Blue with Sandy McEachern, Miss Sarah Alice Clark with Hank Crane, Miss Nancy Sanford with Jim, Miss Margaret McKenzie with Eustace Smith, Miss Brumley with David Huffines, Miss Lucy Hassell with John Brady, Miss Jane Gray with Tom Brown, Miss Ruth King with David Rhea, Miss Ruth Edmiston with Jimmy Fulcher, Miss Mary Eva Smith with Al Dimmock, Miss Jill Webb with Joe Hopper, Miss Virginia Rea with John Stimson, Miss Louise McLeod with John McMullan, Miss Gloria Sutton with Bob McCrea, Miss Lib Killough with John Turner, Miss Cora Wayland with Bob Hart, Miss Joy Fitzsimons with John McCrea, Miss Jane Singletary with Jim Moran, Miss Betty Ann Gravatt with Crawford Wheeler, Miss Gene Denton with George Ogilvie, Miss Jacqueline Hollingsworth with Ed Murray, Miss Betty Jane Phifer with Jim White, Miss Adrienne Levy with Paul Kissling, Miss Kathryn Baldwin with Buddy Wells, Miss Alice McKenzie with Jack Moore, Miss Shirley Bowman with Wallace Flanagan, and Miss Alice Aiker with Raphael Conrad.

The final meeting of the society before the Christmas holidays will be next Tuesday evening at the hall. John Turner, chairman of the program committee, is planning a debate for this meeting. The subject will pertain to the world crisis.

GOT CHRISTMAS? HAVE PORTRAIT MADE FROM YOUR ANNUAL PROOF
Distinctive Plates At Correct Prices
All unselected proofs and already ordered enlargements will be here tomorrow.
Annual Photography Done By
DUNBAR STUDIO
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Above are the sponsors for the fourth annual Kappa Alpha-Kappa Sigma dinner and dance, which was held Saturday evening, November 29, at the Charlotte Country Club. Reading from left to right the sponsors are: First row, Miss Millie Brenizer of Charlotte with Jack Clark, Kappa Sigma; Miss Ann Wiley of Charlotte with Alston Thompson, Kappa Sigma; Miss Rosa Sims of Rock Hill, S. C., with Charlie Watt, Kappa Alpha; Miss Martha Brandon of Scotland Neck with Tommy Yarbrough, Kappa Sigma; Miss Edna Sprunt of Winston-Salem with Dick Kelly, Kappa Sigma; and Miss Elizabeth Yates of Rock Hill, S. C., with Jim Houston, Kappa Alpha.

Have You Read The Gospel of The Hereafter By J. PATERSON-SMYTH
“It makes the life beyond the grave so attractive as to be something to look forward to. I have just given away twenty copies. It has already comforted many stricken souls, and taken from them the menace and fear of death.” —Bishop of London.

A SELECT LIST OF SUGGESTED CHRISTIAN READING
ROMANS, VERSE BY VERSE—By Newell
WEALTH, WALK AND WARFARE OF THE CHRISTIAN—By Ruth Paxson
PETER AND THE CHURCH—By Morgan
WHAT THE BIBLE TEACHES—By R. A. Torrey
HALF A CENTURY, THE LIFE OF GAEBELEIN
MY UTMOST FOR HIS HIGHEST

These books, as well as all standard Commentaries, Concordances and a complete line of Bibles, including Scofield, Nelson, Dickson and others may be secured at:
THE BIBLE BOOKS STORE
124 West Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

Have fun—be friendly—Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. The Flavor Lasts.

Los Angeles is unpredictable. New York is all these blended together. Its reputation is everything that one word will not say. It is a paradox, a contradiction, a blend of Shangri-La, Black Hole of Calcutta, all in one. I salute you.

Three Boys Present Missions Program Sunday Evening
Mitchell College of Statesville was visited by a Y. M. C. A. deputation of three boys on Sunday evening, November 30. Jim Kerr and Tom Brown gave talks on the missionary work in the China and Korea fields under present conditions. Jim Kerr spoke on Korea while Tom Brown spoke on China. W. Bradley was in charge of the meeting.

The speakers pointed out that, though many of the missionaries had been forced to leave, work is still going on under the leadership of local Christians. Present auditoriums are not large enough to hold the crowds that come to Sunday morning worship.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Portable Phonographs and Record Players
415 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE

Davidsonians Speak
You see sailors from all navies, soldiers from Uncle Sam’s Army, nimble-footed and armed urchins, orators, fat and lean Jewish women, enameled and rouged to the hilt, top-hatted, white-tied and tailed aristocracy. These are the ones who roam the streets in search of excitement. They don't have to search very far, for they have excitement of all kinds, shapes, and colors surrounding them. Truly, New York is unique. There is no other place like it, and never will be. Boston is “quaint,” Chicago is smelly, Philadelphia is staid.