Thursday, May 1, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

AMONG THE GREEKS

RISING SENIOR MEMBERS OF O. D. K.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Summer skies witnessed the first mass exodus to the beaches this Spring. Brothers Bill Faison, B. F. Moore, Ox Allcott, and Butch Caldwell all managed to encamp at Myrtle Beach. Most traveled brother to date is John Crichton, who traveled with the tennis team to V.M.I., Washington and Lee, and other schools. He even managed to hear Tommy Dorsey. Brother Claude Hackney rolled down to Converse as per usual. Brother Coddington attended the Junior-Senior Prom at W.C. Brother McLeod and entourage spent the weekend on the Pi Kapps' hayride. Brother Southgate Jones journeyed to Durham and Lynchburg where he witnessed a wedding. Brother Jim Clark also took part in a wedding—his sister's, with Jim’s giving the B.F.E. Ray to Brother Herc and Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hengweld of Davidson.

Catherine Powell of Whiteville; Miss Jean Mason of Asheville; Miss Grace Frank Kilby of North Wilkesboro; Miss Phyllis Crooks of Concord; Miss Carolyn Miller of Charlotte; Miss Martha Sauvain of Concord; Miss Harriet Cunningham of Elkin; Miss Starr Clark of Albany, Ga.; Miss Leah Yarborough of Albany, Ga.; Miss Betty Waldron of Charlotte; Miss Flora McDonald of Little Rock, S.C.; Miss Ellen Self of Asheville; Miss Margaret Glenn of Greensboro; Miss Jean Meredith of Lawrenceville, Va.; Miss Cecil Brewer of Lebanon, Ky.; Miss Janet Kelly of Erwin; Miss Genevieve Mills of Greenville, S.C.; Miss Rachel Trexler of Salisbury; Miss Julie Marsh of High Point; Miss Molly Bowie of Monroe; Miss Shirley Thompson of Union, S.C.; Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Schenck of Davidson, and Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hengweld of Davidson.

Tryouts Held For New Play

The Red and Black Masquers, campus drama club, under the leadership of Pat Rudolph, has selected the cast for its current and final production. In the role of Rita Stanwyck, a Solomon College coed, Betty Kerr will take the feminine lead. The comedy is aptly titled “The Girl in the Goldfish Bowl,” for it deals with the problems and the horrors of being the one lone coed in a college for men.

CHOICE CHARACTERS

Choice parts will also be taken by Bill Lyman, Henry Wilson, Bill Tyson, Ed Hipp, Jesse Wooten, and John Evans, who will portray the characters of familiar campus types. There is Ralph, an intellectual of the “student set;” Tom, a bridge fiend of the Blackwood set; Joe, a member of the moccasin and umbrella set; Mark, saccharinely inclined, as of the sugar britches and tennis set; and the night watchman, whose beat is the campus—he is of the flashlight and galoshes set. Author Hodges is receiving the plaudits of the club for turning out a vehicle with sparkling dialogue in picturesque Davidsonese jargon. This in itself should interest the student body as a whole and should prove highly entertaining to the townspeople who have not become initiated to the slang of their neighbors on the campus. Aside from the vaporific of its cryptic dialogue, the play has a bubbling plot which proves that all’s well that ends well, and this definitely does.

Davidson Grads Meet At Annual Gathering

Cunningham, Branch, And McEver Address Alumni In Charlotte

The alumni of Davidson College held their annual meeting at the Hotel Charlotte at 7:00 o'clock on April 29. Over two hundred Davidson graduates were present for this gathering. Mr. Harlee Branch, acclaimed by many as one of the most brilliant of Davidson's younger alumni, delivered the first speech of the evening. Mr. Branch is the president of the Davidson Alumni, and he is, at present, practicing law in Atlanta, Ga. He recently addressed the O.D.K. convention which was held at Baton Rouge, La. He was received by this group with enthusiasm. Mr. Branch talked to the Davidson Student Body on Wednesday morning at the chapel exercises. He accompanied the President of Davidson College, Dr. Cunningham, to New York. Mr. Branch and Dr. Cunningham attended the annual meeting of the Davidson alumni of this city on Thursday night. The president of this chapter is Joe McConnel, a native of Davidson.

After Mr. Branch’s address, Mr. Gene McEver, Davidson's football coach, talked to the assembly concerning Davidson's athletic prospects for next year. During the course of his talk, Coach McEver spoke with confidence of Davidson's football possibilities for next fall. Dr. W. L. Lingle introduced the new president of Davidson College, Dr. Cunningham, to the gathering of alumni. Dr. Cunningham, who was meeting for the first time with the alumni of this city, was received with great enthusiasm.

PHI DELTA THETA

Very few of the brothers went anywhere in view of the coming dance weekend. There were a few who journeyed to different points, however. Brother McLean visited Winston-Salem this time, and Brother Dale went to Atlanta. Brothers Wardlaw and Williams visited Greensboro, while Brother Reinhardt ran 'way up to Norfolk, Va. Brother Howell visited Mooresville, and Brother Carter shot down to Cornelius. Pledge Dean Watson had a fine time in Greensboro (get caught in the rain, Deane?). We are happy to announce that work on the house will be completed sometime this week.

BETA THETA PI

The Beta Convention at Duke last weekend beckoned a large number of brothers. They were Brothers Rainey, Caterson, Church, Woody, and Holt Barnwell, who also spent much of the time at Greensboro. The regular crew to Charlotte were Brothers Bryant, Efird, Upchurch, Howell, Rankin, D. D. Phillips, Pledge Brother Wilson and Brother McAfee who was also at the horse races in Camden, N.C. Brothers F. Mebane and Welsh were at Sullins, Brother Tucker at Mary Baldwin. Brother Robinson went to Gastonia. Brother Sharpe was in Burlington and Brother McLean at Carolina for the Golf Tourney.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

In the vicinity of Charleston, Brothers Loy, McDaniel, and Legerton made the longest detail over the past weekend. “Lighting” Loy and “Mushmouth” McDaniels accompanied the track team while Charleston's own Legerton took in everything from the Fireman’s Frolic to the Azalea Festival. “Rambling Reb” Rummell, Hamilton, and Rod Turner caught that regular Sunday night date in the Queen City, while brother ex-president Prof. Ed Watson conducted a Kindergarten Conference in Berryhill. Brothers Wendell Knox and Billy Myers visited Beverley Brown and Dick Cobb also slipped over to the Queen City as did P. G. Gwynn III who ‘tis said “went slumming.” “Lanky” Lawson Withers was up bright and early Sunday morning but reports have it that he didn’t go to Sunday school, but ended up in the Twin-city. “Flagpole” Edmonson strengthened his lock again at W.C. and claims he’s all set for the Spring Frolics now. The Chaney Twins (“Chatterbox” and “Mum”) did themselves noble at the W.C. Junior-Senior dance. Felix Bell and “Hackback” Dudley were seen grazing in the parlors of the same with Betty Jean and Ruth. Davis and Behrman attempted to light up the “old flames” at Winthrop. The Reverend Knox was operating but won't release any dope. Fulcher was still recuperating from that four-day weekend with Flora MacDonald’s own Mary. The biggest deal pulled by the Sig Eps was up at the District Meeting in Raleigh attended by brothers Daffin, Henderson, Bivens, and Ed Hay, who were literally carried away with the evening's entertainment.to the Grand Secretary, was the guest of the chapter Thursday night.

KAPPA SIGMA

The biggest event of the season for the Kappa Sigs was the dinner dance held at the Charlotte Country Club last Saturday night. Dates were as follows: Miss Gwendolyn Hubbard of North Wilkesboro; Miss Ann Wiley of Charlotte; Miss Peggy Jones of Charlotte; Miss Dorothy Jane Hodgins of Greensboro; Miss Nancy Holt of Greensboro.

GROCERIES EVERY LINE of HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY Burlington

We also found Brother White. Brother Garran made his weekly trip to Valdese. Brother Winn attended the Student Government meeting in Atlanta. Brother Chandler took Brother Welch to Sumter for the weekend. Guests at the house included Mr. and Mrs. Paul Neisler and Dr. and Mrs. Frontis Johnston. The chapter is proud to announce the initiation of Brothers Gaines Stubbins, George Rosebough, Rufus Woody, Ed Philips, and Paul Welch.

KAPPA ALPHA

The K.A.’s had an average weekend this week, with about a third of the chapter leaving the campus at one time or another. Most of them are still looking forward to the coming shindigs during the next weekend. However, Brother Jim Houston found time to run down to his home in York, S.C., and Brother Sandy Sandifer to his in Lowrys. Brothers Beam, Royster, H.P., Dunn, Horton, and Pledge Brother Bachman report mediocre to wild times in Charlotte, visiting the carnival and doing other exciting things. Brothers Mitchell and Little took a detail to Greensboro and back to Charlotte. Pledge Brother “Brimberry” Abbot was in Charlotte visiting his parents who were staying over there. Members of the track team—Brothers Belk, Turnage, Coppedge, Sprunt, and Vanlandingham were with the team at the meet with The Citadel in Charleston. Brother Stim Jimson was with the Freshman track squad in Salisbury. Brother Watt took the champion hare of the week with his jaunt up to V.M.I. to attend the dances.

[Continued on Page Six]

Charlie Watt

Members of the junior class tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, at chapel this morning include: top row, left to right, Harwell Darby, Claude Hackney, and Ed Lucas. Second row, left to right, George Albert Winn Marsh, Julien McCall, Owen. In the bottom row are Charlie Watt and Albert Winn. (Story on first page.)

Jim "Cats Wore Pink And Blue In 90's

J. W. Jackson Talks Sunday

Mr. Kelsey Reagen To Speak At Vespers May 11

Dr. James W. Jackson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S.C., will be the speaker at College Vespers next Sunday evening. Dr. Jackson is an alumnus of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. Previously he had been a teacher and athletic coach at Lynnville, Tennessee. Dr. Jackson has held pastorates in Tallahassee, Florida and Greenwood, S.C. In 1925 he acted as Chaplain of the Florida State Senate.

[Continued on Page Six]

Poker, Profanity Were Bouncing Offenses In Those Days

By ED ERWIN

According to some of the “dealers” and “operators” on the campus, Davidson College is a cross between a concentration camp and a Tuesday evening sewing circle, but if they would delve into the records and old statutes of our institution they would uncover some facts which would undoubtedly cause the wildcat to shed his last hair in shame and horror. At the point of a gun some of the old-timers will hang their heads, blush and admit that the original college colors were demure pink and blue. It was not until 1895 that Davidson's first politicians of any

[Continued on Page Six]

Thursday Dr. Barbour Ends Talks

Students Challenged ‘To Give Christ Chance’

“Give Christ a chance” was the challenge that Dr. Clifford E. Barbour gave to the student body in his final message of the Spring Services. At this vespers service Dr. Barbour and the Reverend Carl R. Pritchett conducted a communion service. “What I believe about Christ” was the topic of Dr. Barbour's last service. The speaker said, “I believe that Christ was the Son of man, that Christ is the Son of God, and that Christ is the only possible savior for the world.” Dr. Barbour pointed out that Christ takes our personalities and by his power makes them an image of his own. The communion service which was officiated by Dr. Barbour and Mr. Carl Pritchett, climaxed the Spring Services. Tuesday morning, Dr. Barbour spoke for the first time at the chapel exercise choosing as his subject “What kind of a religion do you have?”. In discussing his topic he raised the following questions: First, “Is your religion academic or activating?,” Second, “Is it occasional or continual?”, Third, “Is it private or public?”, and Fourth, “Is it comfortable or is it commanding?”. For the evening service Tuesday, Barbour spoke on “What shall I do with my life.” His advice was “To choose the things in life that last. Trade your life for something that’s worth it—Christ.” “What Christ does to those who associate with him,” continued Dr. Barbour,

[Continued on Page Six]

Professor Joe N. Erwin and Stage Manager Robinson report that the setting for the play, which is laid in the reception room of a suite in “Luke” Dormitory, will be extravagant—a fitting tribute to the efforts of the playwright. A definite date has not been set for the actual production which will be brought to completion shortly after the Spring frolics. Audiences at the tryouts have predicted that the play will be successful in the vitriolic name of Philip Barry, who penned “The Philadelphia Story.”

New Officers Are Installed

The Spanish Club had its scheduled meeting last Wednesday night, April 23, and was held at Dr. A.V. Goldiere's home on Lorimer Road. “La Broma”, the characters were portrayed in this “thrilling” melodrama by Jesse Wooten as Don Antonio, C.E. Parks as Louie Aguilar, J. Behrman as Carmen, and B.B. Walker as Adela. Following the play Miss Betty Kerr sang “La Paloma”, after which Dr. Goldiere installed the new officers of the club. Those installed were: McAfee as President, T.O. Pinkerton as Vice-President, and Dick Coppedge as Secretary.

[Continued on Page Six]

Included among the alumni who

The program got underway with

MAKE YOUR ROOM LOOK LIKE SPRING WITH FIXTURES From SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N.C.

Thursday, May 1 RAGE IN HEAVEN BOB MONTGOMERY ALICE FAYE

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY MAY 2-3 THAT NIGHT IN RIO AND DON AMECHE

Monday and Tuesday, May 5 and 6 BAD MAN —WALLACE BEERY—

Wednesday, May 7 “MURDER AMONG FRIENDS” “DANGEROUS GAMES” DOUBLE FEATURE—15c

DAVIDSON THEATRE —DAVIDSON, N.C.—

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT