Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 13, 1941

Woodland Street Will Become A Playground

Section of This Street Will Be Blocked Off Every Afternoon

Every Thursday afternoon between 2:30 and 5:00 P.M., a section of Woodland Street between Concord Street and the home of
Dr. W. P. Cumming will be blocked off as a playground. Just recently, the pavement has been extended on Woodland
Street. This section is an ideal playground for the youngsters. Here they may skate and ride their bicycles, wagons, and
with the snows of winter, their sleds, rocking chairs, and dishpans will glide down the gentle slope at the end
of the street in safety. It was decided that on Thursday there would be less use of the street. This
step to provide our children with a healthier, happier, and safer playground was done by the official action of the
town board.

Relief Committee Meets

Last Wednesday night there was a meeting of the local Relief Committee which has for several years been active in
Davidson. Mr. F. L. Jackson continues as Chairman, Mrs. F. K. Fleagle as Secretary, and Mr. J. V. Lore as
Treasurer. This committee furnishes food, clothes, medicine, and all other local charity which is not provided by Government agencies.

The Cornelius-Davidson Chapter of the Red Cross has been discontinued. There will therefore be no Red Cross drive this year.
The committee mentioned above at its recent meeting decided to have a Community Chest.

Johnston Appointed

Mr. F. W. Johnston was appointed Chairman of the Community Chest drive which will begin Monday, November the 17th and
be completed before Thanksgiving Day. All civic, fraternal, and religious organizations are expected to help in this most worthy enterprise.
As members of the community, the Davidson College students are donating next Sunday’s Vesper collection to the Community Chest. It
is hoped that each one will give generously.

GIRLS, BAND, & O’BRIEN

[Continued from Page One]

Pat O'Brien, who is well-known to every Davidson student, appeared at the contest. About ten o'clock, O'Brien's plane landed on
the Davidson athletic field and took his place at the center of the “D”. Given the microphone by our radio
announcer, he expressed his appreciation for the fine reception and praised Davidson’s spirit.

Fine Spirit

Davidson’s spirit is a fine one, and no matter how the game's going, there's a lot of cheer all being
played out there. As Knute Rockne said, “It's not who won or lost that counts, but how you played the
game.” — God bless you all.

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT

[Continued from Page Five]

Paul Welsh spent another extended weekend there with White. It seemed quite natural to see O’Brien, who played the role
of the great football coach whom he depicted, standing there on the field with the band playing and the crowd
cheering. After saying these words of praise and encouragement, he returned to the stands and took his seat.

O’Brien was in Charlotte for the purpose of appearing at the Varsity Club banquet Saturday night. It was necessary for
him to leave the game in the latter part of the fourth quarter in order to meet this engagement. Just
before the game, an investigation revealed that O’Brien and his party had tickets for the East Stadium. Of course, this
unpardonable error was corrected, and the celebrated star took his seat in the proper place, among the Davidson supporters.

In case your attention was drawn from the gridiron contest itself by the bands, the Converse girls, or the movie
actor, it might be appropriate to state that the final score was 56-0. The Wildcats' score might have been pretty
low, but the Wildcat spirit was as high as ever.

S.P.E.’s SPREE

The weekend past was a very gay one for the brothers, although the large majority spent it on the campus.
The event was the annual pledge party, which followed the disastrous Duke game. However, thoughts of defeat faded for them
as the live music of Whitley, Morgan, and Behrman carried them “out of the world.” The combination was really solidly
hep, and the gates gleefully gasped at the torrid tempo. Converse bestowed her full quota of beautiful damsels upon the
house, and they were indeed most welcome.

Some of the dates and their escorts were: Elizabeth Andrews with Hunter Dalton, Julia Campbell with Howard Baucom, Margaret Powell
with Jack Davis, Ruth King with Lacy Sellars, Jean Brown with Lawson Ivie, Peggy Bollin with Henry Shore, and Marguerite
Waldenmair with Hugh MacLauchlin. Other couples were Mary Davis Wolfe and Bob Sleet, Judy Schoul and Fred Morton, Betsy Hodges
and Tom MacLauchlin, Peggy Dorsey and Rod Turner, Jane King and Sid Daffin, Jean Jones and Clarence Legerton, Allene Broyhill
and Price Gwynn, Lib Smith and Charlie Henderson, Dora Lybrand and Walter Major, Martha Bullock and Jack Behrman, Margaret Fearington
and Ed Hay, Pete Munroe and Jimmy Fulcher.

Several of the brothers took off for a protracted stay in Charlotte, and, considering the rough weather, did very well.
In this party were Brothers Myers, Knox, and Brown. Little is known of their activities.

SIGMAS TRAVEL

The Sigma house was full of girls at G. C. and Converse, and Dick Manning attended a deb ball “way
down” in Savannah, Georgia. The highlight of their visit was the Duke-Davidson game, followed by a delicious feed. After the
buffet supper at the fraternity boarding house, an informal party was held at the fraternity house until nine o'clock, as
the visitors were forced to leave. The dates were: Virginia Hengeveld, sponsor for Shep Booth, and escorted by John McGee,
Frances Greene, Carroll Duntreath, Martha Mills, Jo Ann Miller, Margaret Brandon, Ann Wifey, Annelle McCall, Mary Jeter, Bess Owen Alexander,
Justine Deridux, Barbara Angel, Margaret Wade, and Mary Brandon.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

WORLD'S CHAMPION COLLEGIATE COMMUTER, CAPT. CARL F. LINES MAKES A DAILY ROUND TRIP OF 1500 MILES FROM OAKLAND, CALIF., TO
SEATTLE, WASH., ON HIS REGULAR FLIGHTS AND ATTENDS CLASSES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON.

GIT GOIN’, TESSIE, WE'RE LATE FOR CLASS!

ONE IN A THOUSAND! OF 1000 FRESHMEN ENTERING C.C.N.Y.'S MAIN CENTER THIS YEAR, FRANCES COTT WAS THE ONLY GIRL. SHE
IS STUDYING CHEMICAL ENGINEERING!

PLANES ZOOM

[Continued from Page One]

If the Davidson student body is attacked by air, on the land, and on the sea, all on the same
day, that’s going too far.

Stiff Necks

Our infirmary is complaining about the number of stiff necks and barked shins that they have had to treat for
the past two weeks. The medical staff requests that the students please come to a halt when watching the antics
of airmen, and give their necks a “break” by taking their noses out of the sky every five minutes. Don’t
be surprised, fellow students, some day, when one of our attackers roars low over Chambers building, to see the gentle
maids which adorn its top, deploy behind the front columns.

Controversy

There has been a great deal of controversy over just who could be interested in our institute that they would
be willing to risk a ride through one of the plate glass windows in the Chambers auditorium. The majority of
students have finally come to the conclusion that it is only some recent graduate of Davidson who hopes by some
chance to break the monotony in “Dr. Snodgrass’ Chemology 81”. (Both students in the class will testify that he succeeded).

Even these attacks can be tolerated once in a while, but the student who told one of the Lieutenants at
the army air base to “drop in on us anytime” will please go retract his statement.

TWENTY-TWO

[Continued from Page Five]

BONNET GIVES CONCERT

[Continued from Page One]

Bonnet has been engaged as a soloist with many of the world’s most celebrated symphonies. In Europe, Bonnet has given
hundreds of concerts throughout France, England, Belgium, the Netherlands, and other countries.Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Germany, Hungary, the Balkan
countries, Italy, Spain, and Portugal. Widely known, Bonnet’s reputation rapidly spread beyond the boundaries of Europe, and he was requested
to come to America, where he toured from New York to San Francisco, and from Canada to Mexico, meeting with
success. In one season alone, in 1920-21, he played ninety-six concerts in a single tour of the United States and
Canada. His first tour of America was followed by several others, each tour bringing him greater and greater acclaim. His
own country, anxious to show its appreciation for Bonnet's splendid accomplishments in behalf of French art, conferred upon him the
Knighthood of the Legion of Honor.

Today, Bonnet stands as a giant among the great organ virtuosos of all times. Besides his extraordinary achievements as a
performer, Bonnet is also known the world over as a composer of distinction, his works having been performed by thousands
of organists in Europe and America. The six volumes of his “Historical Organ Recitals” constitute a monument of great importance
in organ literature. In addition to this, Bonnet is also recognized as one of the greatest teachers, and many of
his distinguished pupils have in turn become organ celebrities in their own right.

Herald Praises Artist
“The organ under the hands of a master like the celebrated French organist, Joseph Bonnet, one of the first masters
of his instrument in the world today, becomes a means of emotional expression so potent and so varied as to
lend what Mr. Gilbert called ‘artistic verisimilitude’ to music of any stripe, shade, or complexion.” (New York Herald.)

Mr. Bonnet divided his concert into six main heads. In the first three divisions, he included composers of all nationalities.
The fourth division was composed of two selections by two nineteenth-century French masters, Cesar Franck and Alexandre Guilmant. The fifth
division was composed of two selections by American composers Shelley and Arthur Foote. The last division was made up of
two compositions by Mr. Bonnet himself.

ARMISTICE (Continued from Page One)
The strains of martial music played by the predecessor of the present band. Miss Steel Sponsor But the battalion itself
was not the only attraction; nay, it was hardly the principal attraction, for preceding each company rode its sponsor on
a gaily decorated float. Miss Orrie Steele, now secretary to the President, represented the battalion Goddess of America, while companies
A, B, C, and D claimed as their sponsors Miss Helen Gibbs, Miss Sophie Richards (Mrs. John C. Bz 1),
Miss Dorothy Finlayson (Mrs. A. M. Cunningham), and Miss Eloise Martin (Mrs. “Buck” Currie).

Company “B” Wins
Company B took off first honors of the day with a very unique series of movements ending in a large
letter “B,” but the Davidsonian assures that due to the fact that each company was very original in its movements,
the judging was close. The great day wound up in a glorious barbecue down behind the High School, an event
remembered by most of the participants as a happening of no little importance in the social annals of Davidson.

GIFT FUND TO (Continued from Page One)
The drive in the form of the gift fund to raise money for some worthy cause that the student body
can give together as a Christmas gift. Last year a missionary was sent to Brazil.

Dramatic Club Holds First Play Rehearsal
More than 20 freshmen have already been reported and are on the “black-list.” Judge Caldwell pointed out that if 25
or more freshmen were reported for the breaking of any Freshman regulation, those 25 would be punished severely by the
Court of Control. The Judge thinks that perhaps one of the minor punishments to be rendered by the Court will
be that of having these victims run the cake-race every morning before breakfast. This is apparently for their good, as
the Judge suggests, “They will be killed out” by the first 25. If freshmen are reported, Judge Caldwell thinks that
perhaps these freshmen may be the “Charter Members of the 25 Club,” which is likely to be formed in their
honor. This club, if formed, will have as members the 25 most ‘noxious’ freshmen of the freshman class each year.
It is to be understood that this club will definitely not be a social organization.

CUNNINGHAM TO HEAD CHINA RELIEF DRIVE (Continued from Page One)
Understanding the needs in China, it is believed they will respond to the call for five million dollars from this
country within the next four months. Of that amount, fifty thousand dollars is expected to come from North Carolina. On
the Campaign Committee are such persons as Mr. William C. Bullitt, Mr. John D. Rockefeller, III, Mrs. Pearl S. Buck,
and Mr. Wendell L. Willkie. The Chairman is Mr. James G. Blaine, and the Vice-Chairman is Mr. Eugene E. Barnett,
International Secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association.

Red And Black Masquers Choose Cast For Production, “Blue Ghost”
On November 10, the cast of the Red and Black Masquers’ new production, “Blue Ghost,” had their first rehearsal under
the direction of Miss Calista Hood, the daughter of Dr. Fraser Hood.

Experienced Actress
For the past four years, Miss Hood has studied dramatics in New York and has acted in many plays, produced
in Schenectady, New York, and in the Priscilla Beach Theater in Plymouth, Mass. While she was in Schenectady, she worked
with Mr. Charles Coburn. She returned to Davidson just before commencement exercises last spring.

The cast is composed of six men and one woman:
Dr. De Former - John Northcross
Gray - Doug Swink
Sper - Tom Milliken
Inspector Wise - Earnie Webster
Frank Mebane - Florence Waller
Clara Smith - The Stranger - Tony Darby

With the exception of Frank Mebane, all of these are new members. No definite date has been set for the
press, but it will be sometime preceding the Christmas recess. This play is a successful mystery in three acts. It
was well received in New York by both the critics and the public.

M. H. Goodrum & Company
“Serving Davidson With Dependable Merchandise”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK (Continued from Page Three)
Other things to do besides having a square dance. I’m sure if enough boys wanted it, the athletic association would
be glad to show football pictures in the gym. I think it would be fine if someone would get behind
the right persons and have a “student” sing in Chambers. Everyone would enjoy singing group numbers and some popular songs.
I believe it would help our college spirit if we could get together on occasions.

JOHNNY MIZE and MORTON COOPER
St. Louis Cardinals’ first baseman and pitcher. They play ball together, hunt together, and together enjoy Chesterfield—the cigarette that satisfies.
Smokers take to Chesterfield like a duck takes to water... definitely Milder Cooler-Smoking... Better-Tasting because they’re made of the right
combination of the best cigarette tobaccos that grow both here and abroad... gives a man what he wants... a cigarette
that’s definitely MILDER and that completely SATISFIES.

IT’S CHESTERFIELD FOR A MILDER COOLER SMOKE
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
