Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rev. Carl Pritchett Talks On Humiliation
Bunyan’s “Pilgrim’s Progress” Is Source Of Sunday Vesper Talk
“Polarization” Discussed

“The Valley of Humiliation” was Rev. Carl Pritchett’s subject at the Vesper Service last Sunday. The speaker drew this title from a description of a state of soul taken from Bunyan’s well-known allegory, Pilgrim’s Progress.

CHRISTIAN’S TRAVELS

The modern Christian experience parallels that of Bunyan’s story. About half of Sigma Pi on held its weekly meeting the night of Monday, April 21. The main feature was the reading of a paper by Jack White. 

Next week the fraternity plans to elect new officers. The subject of the talk was “Polarized Light and Its Applications.” As was explained, there are two particular kinds of substances which polarize light. The natural substance is named for Nicol, the man who first discovered its properties. It has crystals of calcium carbonate, which are shaped and because of their crystalline structure polarize light. Synthetic polaroids are made by arranging the crystals in some compounds so that they all point in the same direction. The crystals are as small as the wavelength of light. As light passes through, all wavelengths except in one direction are absorbed. This is why almost no light comes through two pieces which have their crystalline fibers at right angles. The light not absorbed by the first is absorbed by the second.

Until recently the uses of polaroids have not been realized. Probably the most extensive use is with sunbathers or those who like to rest their eyes with dark glasses. All of the glare and some of the light is absorbed by the lenses. Not so widely known but probably more valuable is its use in engineering. Engineers today study the strains and stresses on samples of bridges, etc., by placing a piece of polaroid on each side of the sample. Stresses produce a different arrangement in the lines seen through the disks. In this way, the engineers may tell just where most of the stress is.

As a use in automobiles, polaroids have quite a promising future. The idea is to have one screen in the headlamp with its axes at right angles to another screen in the front windshield. This will cut out the glare of approaching headlights without cutting out much of the light on the road.

A GLEE CLUB ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

CATS WORE PINK AND BLUE IN 90’s

Cheerleaders for generations have been concealing the embarrassing skeleton that our first yell was: "Rah, Rah, Rah, Run, Run, Run, Pink and Blue Davidson.” (Rousing, eh?)

One of the rules which limited the details pulled by the wilder men of 1840 stated, “No student shall leave the college grounds to visit his home, or any other place whatsoever... without obtaining express permission from a member of the faculty.” No student was allowed to play at cards, dice, or any other immoral game, while the use of profane language was considered in the same category with murder. Several students were expelled for “insulting a fellow student.” (Maybe they called him a limber.) The favorite method of getting out, by breaking the doorknobs off of classroom doors, went out with the Civil War.

SENIORS CAPTURE

Phi Delt, Burkehead Walder, Betas, Winston Taylor, Phi Gam, Bob Sleek, SPE, and Alf Taylor, Kappa Sig. Infielders who look inspiring include Ed Murray, Pi Kap, Rod Turner, SPE, Andy Dale, Phi Delt, and Cam Wilson, K. A.

COMPETITION STIFF

There is much competition in the fight for the intrafrat athletic cup this year. The softball games are most likely to be the determining factors in who will receive the trophy. The leading four for the award now are the Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, Phi Gams, and K. A’s.

LET THE WISTERIA BEAUTY PARLOR Attend to Your Beauty Needs
SHAMPOO MANICURES FINGER WAVE FACIALS PERMANENTS
Davidson Telephone 4061

Applications For the 1941-42 Session Are Now Being Received
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

WINN INSTALLED

Above is pictured the meeting of the old and new administration leaders. Hank Bahnson, retiring president of the student body, congratulates Albert Winn, his successor. (Photo Courtesy of Charlotte Observer, By Earl Johnson.)

LEADERS HONORED AT CORDON SINGS

In 1936 the Metropolitan Opera Company cast him in a secondary part for his debut but he did it so well that soon he became famous. He has been connected with the Metropolitan ever since. Not long ago he was married to Miss Deane Vanlandingham of Charlotte.

The program continued from Page One. Phi Beta Kappa member, a varsity trackman, and a Student Councilman. Paul Bumbarger, president of Pi Kappa Phi, is editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks, and comes from Hickory. John King, of Johnson City, Tenn., is a Student Councilman and president of Kappa Alpha.

WINSTON MEN

John Moore, of Winston, is a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and Phi Beta Kappa, and is student director of gymnastics. Lawson Withers, president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, was editor of the 1940 Wildcat Handbook, and is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Both Moore and Withers are seniors.From Winston-Salem, Harwell Darby, of Florence, Ala., is editor of the Davidsonian and a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Claude Hackney, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is president of the rising senior class and comes from Oak. Ed Lucas, of Greensboro, is president of the “D” Club and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. George Marsh, a member of Kappa Sigma, is from High Point. Both are third-year Student Councilmen. Julien McCall, of Florence, S.C., is rising editor of the Quips and Cranks and Pi Kappa Phi’s new Pan-Hellenic Councilman. Jim Owen, president of Phi Delta Theta, is the rising president of the Y.M.C.A. and from Palm Beach, Fla. Charlie Watt, of Thomasville, is a Freshman of '45 and a member of Alpha. Albert Winn, president of the Student Body, is from Greenville, May.

Mr. Cordon's selections after intermission will include: “Impromptu” by Wagner; “Dreams” by Marx; “Dream in the Twilight” by Strauss; “If Love Entered Thy Heart” by Wolf; and “Jardins sous la pluie” by Debussy.

J. W. JACKSON, advisor for the class of 1930, has been at Columbia University since 1930, and a large number of students are regular attendants at his services. On Sunday, May 11, Rev. Kelsey Reagen, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Durham and an alumnus of Davidson, will give the Vespers talk.

DR. BARBOUR [Continued from Page Three] to give them color. Love is what lends color to life.” Wednesday morning Dr. Barbour had as his subject “The Reproducible Experiences of Jesus on Achieving Success.” That evening he spoke on “Fighting for Your Soul,” and Thursday morning Barbour spoke for the last time at chapel on “We Have Ourselves on Our Hands.” “Character,” Dr. Barbour said, “is the capacity for self-control.”

Now Thru Saturday
The Mightiest of All Air Epics!
“WINGS”
Ray Milland-William Holden-Wayne Morris-Veronica Lake.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Home of Tonsorial Masterpieces

Starts Monday
“ZIEGFELD GIRL”
James Stewart, Lana Turner, Judy Garland

PASTEURIZED MILK
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte, North Carolina

CATS SLUE HARD TO [Continued from Page Four] scoring three runs and they held the lead for the rest of the game. Single runs were scored in the sixth and seventh, while Wofford scored their others in the fifth and sixth. Coach Shepherd seems to have finally hit on a winning combination in the infield. Duck Yarborough, who has been playing shifted to left field, and Hogg was moved to the second sack. Owens remained at short while Frank Niven held down the “hot corner.”

This foursome worked well together and made only one bobble during the entire game. Sluggers Latham Latta and John Clark made up the rest of the outfield with the converted Yarborough and proved effective in the outer regions.

AMONG THE GREEKS [Continued from Page Three] there. Wonderful time reported. Brother Washburn was in Greensboro at a dance, after which he visited Brother Harris in his home at Roxboro.

PI KAPPA PHI
The most outstanding event of the week was the hayride on the golf course Saturday night. It was stated to have been a huge success, especially for Niven and Morris! Unfortunately, Brothers Mobley and Miller missed this function by spending the weekend in Florence, S.C., while Brothers Patton and Logan also went to their respective homes in N.C. Son Hite journeyed down to Converse for Watson, and Pledge Gaither went to Greenville, S.C. Brother Parks accompanied the track team to the Citadel. Our hats are off to Brother Plunkett for the biggest deal of the week, his 24-hour jaunt to Atlanta and Agnes Scott. He really has something to talk about now!

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Fijis going to Charleston with the track team over the weekend included Brothers Srenizer, Chase, Taylor, and Rufus Nimmons. Mac Otts made an extended visit to Randolph-Macon. Brothers Darby and Hodges attended the Southern Inter-collegiate Conference in Atlanta, where they reported lots of fun. Charles Martin went home to Winston-Salem, while Dick Shore went on the tennis trip. Pete Cavert and Harris McReynolds went on the golf trip to Greensboro. Phi Gamma Delta had the pleasure of having as visitors over the weekend alumni Jack Tillotson and B.B. Plyler. We proudly announce the initiation of Hank Crane, Jim Bellamy, Adolph Larson, and Amos Ragan, and the official pledging of John Barron.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Brothers Toddy Latimer and Keyhole Browning left Davidson last Thursday on a trip to Charleston, S.C., to attend the azalea festival there. They were later joined by Brothers Shewmake, Bell, and Parsons. The Statesville contingent included Brothers Scott, Sample, Shelton, and McElwee. Brother Youngblood visited his home in Concord, while Brother Gibbs went to his home in Erwin, N.C. Brother Shannon left Thursday to visit his home in Harrisonburg, Va., spending the latter part of the weekend in High Point and in Greensboro, where he and Brother Brockmann attended the Junior-Senior Prom at W.C. Brother Casey Jones also spent some time in Greensboro. Pledge Gilman had an enjoyable (?) time at Rock Hill, while Brother Byers visited Raleigh. Brother Abels spent the weekend at his home in High Point, returning to Davidson on Tuesday. Brothers Pollock and Parks didn’t get far away from school, visiting Mooresville and Charlotte respectively. Brother Pearsall, after some minor difficulties, enjoyed quite a trip to Laurinburg, where he visited with friends.

At the conclusion of the voting Friday night, it was found that the picture in the camera club contest polling the most votes was “Twilight in the Tropics,” taken by Malcolm Parker, the president of the club. Second place was won by Earl Stutts, and third by Bob Welsh. Honorable mention went to Earl Stutts for “Defense Chatter,” “Nursemaid,” “500,000 Volts,” and “The Ducks”; to Bob Welsh for “Vigil in the Night,” “Peggy,” and “Playmates”; to Mac Parker for “Kittens Three,” “Crag,” and “Pattern”; to Jack Ramsey for “Out of the Night”; to Linus Banker for “Cornfield” and “My Pal”; to Jack Davidson for “Yesteryear’s America”; and to Boyce Rhyne for “Fannie.” There was good attendance at the exhibit in spite of the bad weather which existed during most of the time. About two hundred student visitors, besides numerous townspeople and members of the faculty, visited the exhibit.

RUDOLPH [Continued from Page One] new Pan-Hellenic treasurer, is from Charlotte. Other members of the council for next year are: Dick Cobb, Sigma Phi Epsilon from Winston-Salem; Ed Lucas, Sigma Alpha Epsilon from Greensboro; Julien McCall, of Florence, S.C., representing Pi Kappa Phi fraternity; George Marsh, Kappa Sigma from High Point; Stanley McAfee, Beta Theta Pi from Charlotte; and Walter Wooten, Phi Gamma Delta from Chattanooga, Tenn. The new council will take over their duties for the first dance next fall. The spring dances are sponsored by the 1940-41 men.

IF NOSE DRIES, CLOGS, at night
Put 3-purpose Vicks Va-Tro-Nol up each nostril... (1) It shrinks swollen membranes; (2) Soothes irritation; (3) Helps flush nasal passages, clearing mucus, relieving transient congestion.

IN THE NAVY
Chesterfield, the COOLER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING cigarette that SATISFIES. Chesterfield has so many things a smoker likes that it’s just naturally called the smoker’s cigarette. Because they’re made from the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, you'll enjoy Chesterfield’s COOLER, BETTER Taste. They’re really MILDER too. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields. EVERYWHERE YOU GO.