PORTS LANTS

Wildcat Sports
By LACY MacLEAN

With the failure of a training table plan tried three years ago due to boarding-house protests still fresh in his mind, Coach Gene McEver, after considering all the angles, has contrived a new plan to provide help for needy and deserving athletes.

THE NEW PLAN.

In a meeting of fraternity presidents and boarding-house managers held Monday night, the coach proposed a slightly changed version of his original proposition which had been for each fraternity boarding house to draw the name of an athlete from a hat and provide meals for him at their dining room. This idea found little favor among the fraternity groups, and it was thought that a system by which each fraternity might pay (not necessarily feeding him at their own house) for the board of one man. Estimates were made and a rough figure showed that 65¢ added to the board of each man during each month would provide for the nine men. This money to be paid to Coach McEver who would immediately turn over $25 to the various boarding houses where the boys happened to be eating, perhaps fraternity boarding houses, perhaps non-frat.

To this plan, there are many drawbacks, most of which seem to have no answer, but most of them seem to be concerned with individual houses and their individual problems, which might be disregarded for the good of the whole. Certainly, everyone will be put out to a certain extent, but it seems that the end deserves a little inconvenience and expense. Chief among the objections mentioned are that it is not the administration's responsibility to support the athletes, the alumni and the students should pay. This is so, but why shouldn't the students pay to see a better representation on the athletic field? Certainly, they are the class which derives the most pleasure from a winning team.

Another argument is that each fraternity has some boys whom they would like to help if they help anyone; this is another well-taken point. But after the plan begins to work, the boys whom the frats would want to help now, and are not doing it, will be the ones receiving aid. In other words, a few toes may be tromped on and a few noses broken at first, but the plan must begin sometime and the harm would be over in a year.

Others say that one fraternity may profit by pledging a larger number of the nine than others, but this situation will undoubtedly even up during a number of years, and the other frats may achieve the same results by pledging up any boarding house customer.

There is much to be said, also, in favor of the plan. Primarily, it would bring eight or nine athletes to Davidson who would otherwise not come. The competition in securing athletes which we have comes from schools which, although they are often the boy’s second choice, cost so much less to attend, that he is tempted to go to them without any inducement. The annual amount of their board bill would be enough to turn the scales toward Davidson in a number of cases. Coach McEver has a list of fifteen boys, most of them fraternity material, all of them with passable grades, who are considering Davidson seriously as a place to go to school. With eight or nine board scholarships and a little luck, the Coaches might get enough from this list to use these opportunities.

The payment of this weekly 15¢ would probably foster the rebirth of that Wildcat spirit which seems to be dying out at Davidson. Each student would have somewhat of a personal interest, not in merely an individual, but in the whole squad, for no one knows which man his 65¢ is feeding. The whole idea is that of a pool, everybody is sharing equally and receiving equal benefits.

It may be considered as a habit former for future alumni, who, if they start contributing while in college, will continue the practice after graduating. This is the case in several other schools, not endowed by the state or backed heavily by private enterprise. It might also be added, not as an argument to adopt the scheme, but as an endorsement of it, that at Carolina each fraternity is responsible for two boys, and some three.

GENERAL DOPE.

Monday night, press night for today’s paper, proved a happy one for Davidson athletics. The nine won their first victory of the year defeating Wofford 7-5, and Coach Spearman's frosh trackmen romped on Boyden High of Salisbury 79 1-2 to 37 1-2, while the varsity men gloated over a crushing victory over The Citadel. In the frosh meet, Dill Lacy went on a point grabbing spree, scoring only 7 1-2 points less than the entire Salisbury team with the amazing total of 30 points, which should be some sort of a record. Entered in six events, the speedster took top honors in each division with remarkably good times for his number of entries.

Monday’s dailies bring the news that Tennessee’s Coach Bob Neyland has received his orders to report to a military concentration point for a year’s service beginning May 26. Rumor around the sports world has it that Coach McEver may be offered the post, but these have been floating wildly with no foundation in fact, as yet.

Sones Capture Honors In Interclass Softball

The intramural softball schedule is rapidly coming to an end with the seniors winning. Having beaten the Juniors on Monday afternoon, the Seniors walked off with first place. They did not drop a game to anyone. The sophomore-freshman game was postponed on Monday afternoon. The Juniors are in second position, Sophomores in third, and the freshmen fill the cellar position. These games have been run by Don Bell and Frank Hall.

MANY PROSPECTS.

The class games are showing up some hopefuls for the interfrat games. On the mound, Davis Thomas, K. A., and Jay Bolin, Phi Gam, are looking mighty fine. Bobby Williams, Phi Delt, is going strong behind the bat. Some of the hopeful outfielders include John (Continued on Page Six)

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DIAL 2001
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bobby Carter, first baseman of the Davidson Wildcat nine, is pictured above smashing a single in the first inning of the “Slim” 

All Class Pos. is First Team
Davis Thomas (Jr.)
Bobby Williams (Sr.)
Holt Barnwell (Sr.)
Gill Summers (Jr.)
Bob Johnston (Sr.)
Andy Dale (Sr.)
Cam Wilson (Jr.)
John McKinnon (Jr.)
L. Burkhead
Walker (Soph.)
C., Joe Barnwell (Soph.)

R. Brenizer, Shannon Set New Records In Cat Win

Greensboro Hi Licks Kittens

The three-hit pitching of Greensboro High's Willard Hobbs, Davidson southpaw, proved too much for the Kitten freshmen as they dropped another game here last Saturday by a score of 6-1. Paul Niesler, the stellar moundsman, pitched the entire game for the frosh allowing only nine hits, but his eight free passes proved costly. The fielding of the Kittens is showing much improvement and if the hitting had been up to par it would have been a close game.

Right fielder Ripper Hunt pulled the star play of the game by making a one-handed catch of a line drive to short right field and held a Greensboro runner on second base.

BURKE HITS.

Red Burke, peppy second sacker, led the frosh at bat, getting two safeties. Red Bethea, the star catcher and most consistent player for the Kittens, got the other hit. Greensboro took the lead in the first inning by scoring two runs on two walks, an outfield fly, and theirthroughout the game. They scored two runs in the fourth and one in the fifth. Davidson’s only marker came in the third on a lead-off sacrifice, and the game held at 3-1. 

HARDING LAST TUESDAY. The team played a game with Harding High of Charlotte on the home field last Tuesday. The nine are pointing for their second game with Central High of the same city because of a close loss to the Central nine in their initial contest. The return game is to be played here Friday afternoon.

HAVE YOUR CAR SERVICED FOR THE WEEK-END
PURE OIL SERVICE
WASHING-GREASING
YALE TIRES
AT KNOX SERVICE STATION
S. Main St.

Davidson game on Monday, with the Woffords. Ingram and catcher Myers of the South Carolina team powered the Terriers. Included in the picture are umpire (Photo by Welsh & Carson.)

Generals Win Over Netters; "Cats Meet PC
Davidson's Softball Second Team
Jay Bolin (Sr.)
Johnny Miller
Joe Bivins (Jr.)
Jim Darracott (Soph.)
George Marsh (Jr.)
Ed Murray (Soph.)
Rod Turner (Jr.)
Winston Taylor
Bob Sleet (Jr.)
Alf Taylor (Frosh)

The varsity tennis team returned Sunday from a three-day tour through Virginia. The schedule was greatly affected by weather conditions and no match was played to completion. Having matches scheduled with Washington and Lee and Virginia Polytechnic Institute, the racket-eers journeyed first to the Gobblers’ Institute but their play was postponed due to April showers. Spending the night in Washington and attending the Tommy Dorsey dance, the team embarked on their trip once again. Four matches were played as follows: Pinck (W&L) defeated Shore (D) 7-5, 6-4. Mallory (W&L) defeated Creighton (D) 6-4, 6-3. Barrier (W&L) defeated Sproull (D) 6-2, 6-2. Chase (W&L) defeated Brenizer (D) 6-4, 6-4.

RAIN INTERVENES.
The Davidson Track team overcame The Citadel in Charleston Saturday, 90-36, before rain intervened once again. Two new South Carolina state records were set by Davidson. Chase Brenizer set a new state record in the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet, 5 1-2 inches. Gene Shannon was the other record breaker, clearing the bar at 11 feet, 9 inches in the pole vault.

TAKE FIRSTS.
The Cats won first place in the 440-yard dash, which was won by Hogan of The Citadel. Archie Taylor led the scoring for the day, winning first place in the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 120 high hurdles, and 220 low hurdles, giving him a total of 15 points for the day. Chase Brenizer was second with 12 1-4 points and John Belk third with 11 1-4 points. Hogan with 8 points led The Citadel. Brenizer won first in the broad jump and tied for first in the high jump besides his first in the broad jump.

BELL WINS FIRST.
First places were won for Davidson by Don Bell in the shot put, Rufus Nimmons in the one-mile run, John Belk in the 880-yard run, Hugh Parks in the discus, and Baxter Freeze in the two-mile run. The Davidson varsity track team will meet Furman on May 9 in their next meet.

Stonewall Cut-Rate Drugs
YOUR HEADQUARTERS
WEST TRADE
Across From Mecklenburg Hotel
H. SAPP’S DRUG STORE

CAN YOU USE $35.00 A WEEK THIS SUMMER?
500 College Men averaged $420 profit last summer. Some made $1,200.00. We have a limited number of openings in the United States and should be happy to include a few ambitious Davidson men. Write today to Fuller Brush Company, College Agency, Greensboro, North Carolina, for a personal conference.

Thursday, May 1, 1941

ADVANCES NEW PLAN
Cats Slug Hard To Defeat Terriers
Ed Lucas On Mound
Owens, Niven Lead Davidson Hitting; Woffords Make Ten Errors

The Davidson nine took their first win of the season by beating Wofford College 7-5 on Richardson Field Monday. The visitors' ten errors, together with the seven-hit pitching of Ed Lucas, were enough for their defeat. Second sacker Hilton led the visitors with two safeties for 4 trips, while both Jim Owens and Frank Niven got three hits for five trials. The Wildcats rapped out twelve hits off the two Wofford pitchers.

SCORE TWO.
The varsity nine scored two runs in the first inning and were tied by the visitors in the third. The Cats pulled away again in the fifth.

Golfers Meet Duke Today
The varsity golf team faces Duke's Blue Devils today over the Hope Valley course in Durham. The Duke team promises to offer stiff competition for the Cats, having had a successful season this spring.

RAINED OUT.
Davidson's freshman golf team was defeated last Friday by the North Carolina freshman team by the score of 7 1-2 to 10 1-2. Bumbarger and Upchurch were low men for the Kittens with 76's while Case was low for U.N.C. The scores were low considering the fact that the entire match was played in a slow rain. Rain also forced the postponement of the match with the Junior College of Charleston which had been scheduled for last Thursday. The Kittens met Central High of Charlotte in Charlotte.

THE SUMMARY:
Bumbarger (Davidson) 1-2; Case (Carolina) 2 1-2
Davis (Davidson) 0; Rankin (Carolina) 3.
Upchurch (Davidson) 3; Howard (Carolina) 0.
Gaither (Davidson) 1-2; Stein (Carolina) 2 1-2.
Bumbarger-Davis (1-2); Case-Rankin (2 1-2).
Upchurch-Gaither (3); Stein-Howard (0).

Printing IS OUR BUSINESS
For A Representative Dial 6300 or 6309
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Printers of ‘The Davidsonian’