YPORTS LANTS By Wildcat Sports = Leave For South LACY MacLEAN Page Three THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 27, 1941

In this space last week there appeared a paragraph in which the fairness and consistency of freshmen candidates for the
track team contesting in the inter-fraternity meet was questioned. The point was made that these athletes, in top condition and
necessarily men of more than average ability in track or field events, were allowed to enter, while athletes at that
time engaged in sports such as baseball, golf, tennis, and track were declared ineligible.

Intra-mural Director Heath Whittle has an answer ready for this query. First, we can clear up the ineligibility of the
candidates for other sports. The various coaches have requested that members of their teams be declared ineligible for competition in
intra-mural athletics during the course of the regular season, specified by dates in the intra-mural rules, because participation would necessarily
mean cutting practice, perhaps injuries, and other evils. The ineligibility of these men is clearly stated in Rule 2-E, which,
as most of the intra-mural code, seems justified.

FROSH ELIGIBILITY

Now for the more pertinent subject of the eligibility of the freshmen who, it seems, should be disqualified by the
above-mentioned by-law. Director Whittle’s reasons are these: (1) If freshmen track candidates were declared ineligible, it is likely that fraternity
loyalty and persuasion would result in the particularly talented frosh’s refusal to report for track practice until after the intra-mural
races were over, thus retarding the development of the freshman squad. (2) It is impossible to remedy this situation by
holding the meet earlier because of spring football practice which would hold up as many, if not more, participants as
the track practice. Also, it is imperative to begin the frosh practice early enough to have the squad in condition
for their near-future meets. (3) The performances in the intra-mural meet give coaches, particularly frosh mentors, a line on the
capabilities of both the men who have already reported for practice and the numerous freshmen having had no previous track
experience, and with no knowledge of their possibilities until they were uncovered in the fraternity competition.

ANOTHER PROBLEM

Another peculiar problem concerning eligibility arose for the first time this year. Bill Loy, Glenn Terrell, and Bernice Turnage, veterans
who have won points for Davidson, but who had not won letters were at first declared ineligible, but on investigation,
no rule was found to cover their case, and all three were allowed to compete. The rules will be amended
to cover this situation by next year.

Abels Upset By Rogers For Golf Team Position

All the favorites came through, with the exception of Jack Abels, in the varsity golf qualifying tournament conducted this past
week. As a result of the tournament, the team will be composed of Granny Sharpe, Harrison MacReynolds, Bryant, Pop Rogers,
and alternate, Jack Abels.

Kittens Begin Cinder Drills

Getting off to a late start, the freshman tracksters have been working hard for the past week. Twenty-seven men have
reported for practice, which is being coached by Coach Lawrence Spearman. Since there was no cross-country this year, the boys
are not in their best shape yet. Coach Spearman is worried chiefly over the lack of prospects in the weights.
None of the boys have had experience with the javelin and only a few with the discus and shot.

As K. Sigmas Take Sprints

By setting two new records in the inter-fraternity track meet here Thursday, March 20th, the Kappa Sigs captured the title
with a total of 33½ points. The KA’s came in second with a total of 28. Led by Raymond McDaniel
and Bill Loy, the SPEs placed third with a total of 15. Fourth, with 14, were the SAEs paced by
Bethea, Port, and Bahnson.

The Kappa Sigs’ relay team bested their previous record of 1:41 to establish a new record of 1:39.4. Bill Lacy,
Kappa Sig, ran the 220-yard dash in 23.8 seconds to beat the old record of 24.4. Bill Loy, SPE, beat
the old record of 56.6 in the 440-yard dash by .3 of a second.

Besides establishing one new record, Bill Lacy captured two more firsts, one in the 100-yard dash and one in the
hurdles. B. B. Turnage, KA, and Vanlandingham, KA, took two firsts each. Turnage won the three-quarter mile and 660-yard dashes
and Vanlandingham won the shot and the discus. “Red” Bethea, SAE, jumped highest in the high jump and Rhea Dabney,
Phi Gam, took first in the broad jump. Elliot White, Beta freshman, took second places in the three-quarter mile and
660-yard dashes. Glen Terrell captured two second places for the Phi Delts in the shot and the discus. Pat Williams
was outstanding for the Kappa Sigs with four third places and one fourth place.

Frosh Weak On Offense

The freshman baseball squad has settled down to hard work with prospects of a fair season ahead of them. Coach
McEver's charges are showing power in the batting practices but the fielding in nearly all spots has been weak. Brick
Bradford will probably hold down the third sack with Ed Cole at shortstop. Graves, Carson, and Kirkpatrick are working for
a berth at second base. Evans and White, Dick Port, Dick O'Hair, and Pat Williams, who placed in the inter-fraternity
meet, are also showing promise.

During the Spring Holidays, the team will journey southward playing the College of Charleston, the University of Georgia, Rollins, and
the University of Florida. The team returns after Spring Holidays and April 12th leaves again for Athens, Georgia, to compete
in the Southern Intercollegiate Golf tournament. The day before the tournament, April 11, the Cat golfers will play The Citadel
in Athens. After this contest, most of the matches will be held at home and all students are urged to
back the golfers.intra-frat meet, have been outstanding in the early drills. Many of them have had experience with the team.
Walter Major is alternating at the initial sack and is looking good. In the outfield, the frosh have Fuqua, Ripper
Hunt, Jimmy Bob, Buck Grier, and Hutchenson, who may round out into a capable group of gardeners. Ed Lucas, a
junior hurler, is the only letterman out for mound duties. Hailing from Greensboro, Lucas is the hope of the Wildcat
nine. In addition to twirling assignments, Luke swings a mighty bat, as the above photo demonstrates.

Nine’s Chances Brighten As Moundsmen Improve

The varsity track squad rounded out its fourth week of practice and held its first time trials last Tuesday. Prospects
are exceedingly good and the team is expected to be in fine condition by their first meet, scheduled with the
South Carolina Gamecocks. The Cats are especially strong in the field events with a number of good men trying for
each event. Freeze, Terrel, and Vanlandingham are expected to gather quite a few points during the season. Working with the
javelin are Brenizer, Long, Lefever, Turnage, and Washburn. In the discus are Brenizer and others. Chase Brenizer, the all-around man
in the field, will compete in the high and broad jumps. Teaming with him in the high jump will be
John Belk, while Lumpkin and Dick are working for the other broad jump berth. In the hurdle division, Archie Taylor
and Blanton Williamson are expected to equal or better any others in the conference. Archie has already rounded into fine
shape and will be one of the high point men in the meets to come.

Count On White

Captain Jack White and Hugh Sprunt are looking fine in the 100 and 220-yard dashes and are being counted on
for high places in each meet. Rufus Nimmons, Dick Coppedge, Erskine Parks, Red Grier, Jim Nickels, and Campbell Ansley are
out for the more distance runs, and with a little work should show up well during the season.

Taylor Stands Out In Early Practice Drills

Prospects Better After Fourth Week of Practice; Field Events and Hurdles Are Strong Parts of Cat Squad.

Schmidt, Sain, Crichton Win

Eliminations for positions on the varsity tennis team have been completed. The team will be composed of Capt. Dick Shore,
Miller Sproull, John Crichton, Craig Schmidt, and “Moose” Sain. Crichton captured the third position by defeating Ted Larkin. “Moose” Sain
will be the fourth man by virtue of wins over John Talmage and Lyman Parrigin. “Moose” Sain beat Hott Barnwell
and Dave Talmage and will be number five on the team.

Meet Col. of Charleston

The team, composed of Shore, Crichton, Schmidt, Sain, and Barnwell or Parrigin, will meet The College of Charleston there on
the 27th. After this, they will head South to meet Emory, Stetson, Rollins, and Mercer, returning to the campus to
meet The College of Charleston on April the 8th.

Frosh Play Winston

The first freshmen match will be against Reynolds High of Winston-Salem on April the 14th. A tournament will be run
off immediately after the Spring vacation to determine the team.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 S. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

A good plan... pause and refresh yourself with an ice-cold Coca-Cola. A little minute is long enough for a big
rest when you drink an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. It brings a feeling of complete refreshment...completely satisfying. So when you
pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Jack Wood Ltd.
231 S. Tryon St.
Charlotte

Showing Every Tuesday at Miss Minnie’s.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL W™. R. BARRINGER
® Private Banquet Rooms
® Fraternity Rooms
® Davidson Students Welcome
