CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat Sports

Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, November 13, 1941

LET’S GO, FROSH!

Duke has come and gone. It’s a little late for post mortems; everything that could be said has been said.
Coach McEver explained that the Wildcats were off, which undoubtedly is true, and that the Dukes were well-nigh perfect, which
is also about the truth. They looked like a big-time bowl team, and they looked like they could have beat
any football team in the country last Saturday.

The Duke retinue of spotters, sports writers, etc., all agreed that the Devils played their best game. Before it had
been Colgate (they said they were terrible against Tech) but this past week they were all there. Steve Lach, as
is the case with all footballers with a big reputation, received his share of criticism, not that he had done
anything exactly wrong; he just wasn’t an All-American, they said. But the Dukes believe that he was, and they still
beat the publicity drums; he may make it.

The Wildcats have had a hard week of drills. Today was bloody Monday and there was plenty of knocking of
heads. They carried Scotty Paterson off, but he doesn’t seem to be seriously hurt. George Marsh is back along with
Herb Rainey, and both may play Saturday. According to Coach Spearman, we'll need both of them. He predicts a W.
& L. victory by four touchdowns, but you can keep in mind that the coaches, particularly the scouts, make it
their business to be pessimistic, and they do a good job. As the story is told in other parts of
this page, the boys from Washington and Lee have had their ups and downs, but they’ve got a good football
team; they'll be hard to beat.

As somewhat of a consolation after the 56-0 afternoon, a look into the records reveals that although this may be
the worst licking the Wildcats have taken in recent years, we've at least beat somebody else worse. In 1921, after
a fairly unsuccessful season, the Cats took Wofford in tow 86-0. A glorious afternoon. They even topped Duke’s totals in
first downs with 34 to 27, and in yards gained in rushing. The Terriers yielded 812, while the Cats gave
some 600 odd to the Blue Devils.

Court Chat

It seems that there’s a tendency to rush the season, whatever the sport is, but the basketballers have begun drills
and deserve a bit of space. They’ve got eight lettermen back from a rather mediocre squad last year, and Coach
Shephard's main difficulty will be in developing one man to do the scoring or rounding two or three who may
get hot some night. Last year it was all Hogg as it had been Cowan in the past, and the
Cat offense will have to change their way of playing to suit a better-rounded attack, but one without any definite
scoring threat. This all adds up to the probability that the boys’ll have to get in shape to play a
fast-break; it’s a hard game to keep up, but from the material that appears available now, we may be able
to shoot the capable subs in there as well as anyone, and keep things popping with fresh blood. It'll certainly
look good to see a winning Davidson club and basketball may show just that.

Why?

It seems that Davidson students are forever getting editorialized about their behavior, but even if it was a week ago,
it’s a shame the way the gallery behaved toward the visiting netters. Tennis has been a gentleman’s game, but the
procedure was a little reversed here; it was more like a Brooklyn baseball game, and it certainly goes a long
way toward knocking Davidson off the top place they hold in the realm of spirit, etc., the indefinable, vague things
for which the college is famous.

STEVEDORE STEVE

Steve Lach, Duke’s candidate for All-American honors, is pictured here as he began his 45-yard jaunt for the Devil’s first
touchdown against Davidson Saturday. Tom Prothro is in the backfield atop a Wildcat after he shook the 196-pound wingback loose.

Duke Power Rolls Over ‘Cat Eleven

Red Bethea’s Punting Stands Out As Duke Machine Crushes Wildcats

By BUTCH PHARR

The highly vaunted power and deception of the Duke Blue Devils proved itself again last Saturday at Richardson Field as
the Duke machine rolled over the Davidson Wildcats 56-0. The mighty Devils mixed smashing line plays with beautifully executed reverses
and passes, to score almost at will over the plainly out-classed Wildcats. The Dukes added an ironical touch to the
game by converting after each of their eight touchdowns and making fourteen points per quarter.

Duke Commands

Duke took command immediately after the opening whistle by scoring with only four plays. The scoreboard read exactly three minutes
of play when Lach made the first marker on a weak side reverse behind brilliant blocking and scored standing up
after 45 yards of broken-field running. This set off the Duke powerhouse, and they went to work on the Cats,
scoring by driving, deception, or passing almost at will.

Davidson's greatest honors go to Red Bethea, whose almost uncanny punting prevented even a greater score and defeated the Devils
in the one statistical department. He averaged 52.5 yards per try, and one kick sailed for 74 yards before going
out in the coffin corner.

Backs Ineffective

The Cat backs were pretty well bottled up during the entire game but Spencer and Hackney made several good returns
of kickoffs and punts. Alf Taylor played fine ball in the guard slot and crashed through the heavier Duke line
several times. Snapper Butch Caldwell also played a brilliant defensive game.

Frosh Swamp Scotties 51-0

The Frosh ended their undefeated season Friday with a 51-0 win over Presbyterian Jr. College. Don Erb, midget tailback, shared
scoring honors with veteran Arthur Roach, each tallying two markers.

Tally 13

The yearlings tallied only 13 points during the first semester, but used their superior manpower in the second half to
score 33. Roach, consistently the Kitten star, returned a P. J. C. kick for 5 yards and a touchdown, crossed
the Scotties’ goal on a reverse for another, and figured in a third with his pass to Bob Kendrick. The
Scotties never drove far.enough in Kit territory for a serious visitor’s threat. Ellington recovered Pendleton’s fumble on the local’s 35,
but the yearling line held and took the ball on downs.

Hay Blocks Kick
Sam Hay blocked a Scot kick in the third period, and the ball carried out of the end zone for
a safety. Tomorrow the Kits meet what will probably be their toughest foe of the year in Blue Ridge. The
Hill Toppers licked perennially strong Spartanburg High and may be the first eleven to hold the Frosh. kicked nine times
for an average.

Davidson's frosh continued their:

TOUGH GUARDS
George Marsh and B. F. Moore, dependable and hard-fighting guards on this year’s eleven, are both expected to be in
the thick of the fight against W. & L. this week. Marsh has missed action since the State game, but
Moore has played consistently good ball all year.

Interfrat Grid Season Closes With Play-Off
Duke Leads Conference
The Duke Blue Devils and the William and Mary Indians continued to lead the Southern Conference Football Race. Each team
has a trio of victories to its credit. This past weekend Duke humbled the Davidson Wildcats 56-0 and the Indians
swept over V. M. I. 21-0.

Duke’s Undefeated
The Blue Devils are the loop’s only undefeated eleven, having seven wins against no defeats. The Indians have won seven
of eight games, the lone setback wrought by the hands of the mighty Navy team.

The Leaders
WL
Duke 7 0
Wm. and Mary 7 1
South Carolina 5 1
Clemson 5 2
Wake Forest 5 2
Furman 4 3
V. M. I. 2 2

BULLETIN
The S.A.E.’s came through with a 6-0 win over the K.A.’s to complete the inter-fraternity football series. This championship battle
was between the two undefeated teams in the running. This makes eight straight wins for the S.A.E.’s and gives the
K.A.’s their first loss. So the rating stands with the S.A.E.’s first, K.A.'s second, Kappa Sigs third, and the S.P.E.'s
fourth. Starring for the S.A.E.’s were Charlie Wills, Harry Hudson, and Bob McLeod. For the losers, Davis Thomas, Cam Wilson,
and George Council. The score was made early in the first period by a pass from Wills to Hudson.

As the inter-frat football entered its closing stages, the undefeated SAE’s and Kappa Alpha met Tuesday in the game which
determined the season’s champion. The Kappa Sigma’s, having suffered two setbacks during the current season, held down third place in
the standing, followed by the Beta’s who dropped three decisions. Highlighting last week's program was the SAE-Pi Kap tussle in
which the SAE’s eked out a 4-1 first down margin to maintain their clean slate. Three other games brought to
a successful close the 1941 fraternity football season.

English Stars Perform Here
A large gallery was present last Thursday afternoon to see three outstanding tennis greats perform on the Davidson courts. Charles
Hare defeated Schmidt of the Davidson tennis team in his singles game; and teamed with Ruth Hardwick, who was outstroked
by Dorothy Round Little in their singles set, to down Gene Sutton in one set of the doubles and Mrs.
Little in the doubles exhibition.

Festivities
Basketeers In Initial Drills
Coach Norman Shepard's varsity courtmen continued the drills begun last week with daily workouts, although handicapped by lack of manpower
due to the absence of the football men. Eight lettermen are scheduled to be ready for duty this year, and
prospects appear to give the Wildcats a prominent position in Conference circles if Coach Shepard can develop scoring talent.

Schedule Incomplete
The schedule, as yet incomplete, calls for two pre-season games with Haynes Hosiery Mills, one with the Kannapolis Y before
their tilt with Carolina in Charlotte on December 13.

Davidson To Invade Lexington For W&L Saturday
Boast Wins Over Sewanee, Richmond, Tie With V. P. I.; Marsh, Shaw May Play; Cat Line Intact
Davidson College's fighting Wildcats, with their last glimmer of hope for Big Five honors gone up in the smoke of
a 56-0 pasting by the Duke-Lacy combination, are still in there plugging away after their initial win. And they travel
way up to Lexington, Va., Saturday in an effort to spoil Washington and Lee's Homecoming plans.

Generals Up and Down
The Generals too, have had their ups and downs, having been trampled by William and Mary, but they hold victories
over Richmond and Sewanee, and a tie with the potent Gobblers of Virginia Tech. All in all, it will be
a rough afternoon for McEver’s men. From end to end, the thin Red Line is not what it should be
to out-charge the hefty Generals, but Davidson spirit is usually more plentiful than Davidson weight, so play your hunches and
don't be surprised if a Red and Black victory doesn't headline the Sunday sheets.

Tailbacks Abundant
The Cats came through the Duke game in good physical trim and Coach McEver may have four good tailbacks to
alternate against the Generals.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

A. S. BROWN
Hardware
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... many a
refreshing experience... has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of Coca-Cola.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Pause Go refreshed

THE INSURED HAT
A peppy “Lightweight” hat that smartly holds its shape. The narrow matching band and tiny welt edge give it that
style effect which will flatter your whole appearance.

J. O. JONES
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
