AT CHAT
By LACY MacLEAN

It's so late that the bedline, not to mention the deadline for this piece of nonsense, is now seven overdue, and still the blank piece of paper just sits and stares. Don't worry, I'll promise right here not to go into the oft-told tale of how hard a columnist works, but the paper’s still staring and I’m weakening. In a moment of relaxation, there's a book here that gives a little help, it’s just one column after another, and all of them are good. They're by Jake Wade of the Charlotte Observer in his Sports Parade, and they make interesting reading. He's done some of the greater bits of sports news in the Carolinas. There's the column about ‘Thorns in the Roses,’ when he described the beaten Tar Heels after Duke turned their eyes from California by a 25-0 licking; there's the whole story of Duke’s rose-bowl trip; these are the highlights, but he writes about a lot of interesting sports questions. His wife even writes one of the columns, and it’s good entertainment.

The Frosh

The frosh eleven, which looks like one of the best in Davidson's history, plays again this weekend, tomorrow in fact, but it’s at Mars Hill, and this time against a Junior College rather than a freshman crew. Without doubt, the Kittens looked good against Wofford, but the question still remains just how much was good and how much was Wofford. Mars Hill should be more of a test, and if they come through again, all four teams of them, it'll begin to look real. Undoubtedly, there are more of them than in any previous class, undoubtedly they've got a good first team; but in modern football, counting must go beyond eleven men, and it’s there that the question about the strength of the frosh eleven really lies.

Lacy and Spencer

The small man playing a big man’s game could use his head, pick Wildcat Sports of the Tech’s outstanding backs.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BILLY JAMES
Virginia Tech Halfback

The two Virginia Tech Co-captains shown above work together to give the Gobblers a very strong center.

Kittens Down
Thursday, October 16, 1941

WRECK TECH KITS PLAY TOMORROW

Zydiak was all-state last year. Billy James, center man, is one of Virginia Tech’s outstanding backs.

Crippled Cats Match Aerials With Gobblers

(Continued from Page One)

Davidson Outweighed Wofford Pups

As far as weight goes, the visitors carry a slight advantage. In the line, their tonnage is a little below that of the Cats starting average, but a 175-pound backfield more than makes up the difference. And the sturdy leather-luggers appear to pack more than brawn.

In playing a sport, advantages help you, but in no way protect you. He's the perfect Davidson scat back. With the traditional Wildcat fight, he drove, and played the game hard, but the incessant beating finally took its toll, and now he's out of football; at least for this year, possibly forever. The same thing's happening to Davey Spencer; he’s fast enough to stay in the game, and he’s tough enough to have taken the shocks and licks for three years of college, but they're accumulating now. Football's a hard game, and when you stop to think you'll wonder whether or not it’s a game for a small man. Spencer has lasted this long because he's skillful, not only in his game but in protecting himself. Coaches say that many solid tackles would hurt a man as big as Paul Severin, a 200-pounder, except occasionally. He tackled, riding with the force of the tackle, but sometimes he’s hit from the blind side, and it’s those sometimes which are telling on the mite's whole nervous system. Nevertheless, Spencer, and Lacy enjoy it.

Hot Frat Race

Inter-fraternity football swung into high gear last week with all nine frats turning out with strong teams, all determined to win the cup. Monday, the KAs defeated a slightly weaker Pika team by the score of 18 to 0, and after losing their first start, came back strong to lick the Pi Kapps 12 to 2. On Wednesday of last week, the SAEs defeated the Phi Delts 4 to 0, and the Kappa Sigs went down before the SPEs 12 to 0. Monday, the Kappa Sigs defeated the Pikas 32 to 0, the KAs defeated the Pi Kaps 12 to 0, the SAEs defeated the Betas 20 to 0, and the SPEs defeated the Phi Gams 6 to 0. The teams this year seem to be more evenly matched than they have been for several years and no team can be considered a push-over. The games so far have been so spirited that Coach Whittle had to invoke measures to prevent serious injuries.

Spencer Back Ready For VPI

Quelling local rumors that he would be on the shelf for the remaining scheduled games, L'il Davey Spencer reported for practice today and all inclinations point to his appearance in the Wildcat-Gobbler tilt Saturday. Although rather badly battered and bruised in the Sewanee fray, and consequently removed in the final period, Spencer is now back in shape. The Tiger roughing-up aggravated Spencer's previously hurt knee and head, and might have proved serious, but the elusive Cat back is fit as a fiddle and Homecoming fans can look for some spectacular Spencer ball-carrying against the V. P. I. Gobblers.

Sewanee Scores In Last Period To Down Crippled Wildcats 7-0

Davidson's Wildcats, thwarted again in their attempt to break into the win column, lost a hard-fought game at Chattanooga last Saturday, by the score of 7-0. The Tigers scored in the first few minutes of the final quarter, after setting up the marker with two straight passes from Logue to Smith which put the ball on Davidson's 16-yard line. A series of line plays advanced the ball to the one-yard line from where Roberts crashed through for theOnly Touchdown of the Game

Setting Cats Threaten

The Wildcats made a serious threat in every quarter, but either a fumble or an inspired Sewanee defense halted the Cats while still away from paying territory.

Bethea Fumbles

Davidson maneuvered the ball to the Tiger's 26 in the opening period, but Red Bethea’s fumble was recovered by a Sewanee lineman. In the second quarter, the ball was lost on a fumble by Johnny Frederick when the Cats were again within striking distance. A stone-wall defense bogged down another threat in the third period after Davidson had moved the pigskin to the Sewanee twenty-yard line.

Receive Kickoff

The Wildcats received the kickoff in the fourth period after the Sewanee touchdown and began a series of offensive threats that kept the fans on their feet but were unable to push across a touchdown to make it three out of four ties. The game ended with Davidson in possession of the ball on the Tiger’s twenty-six-yard line.

Miller Kicks Well

Highlights of the game were the stellar punting of Johnny Miller, who averaged 43 yards a kick from scrimmage. Also outstanding was the offensive and defensive sophomore, Pat Williams, and the passing and running of substitute back Ben Washburn.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon Street
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

VN cW. CAFETERIA
BILL SHAW
GREETINGS ALUMNI
DROP BY BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME

SENIORS, GET YOUR CLASS RING NOW
The Student Store Managers
DAVIS THOMAS

The Freshman football team unleashed a brilliant running and passing attack on Richardson Field and opened the season with a decisive 72-12 victory over Wofford Thursday. The Frosh pushed over a touchdown in the opening minutes of the first quarter, added another a few plays later as Roach circled end from the seven-yard line, and countered before the quarter ended as Roach again raced over with a lateral from Riffe.

Wofford Scores

During the second period, the Wofford team let go with a beautiful passing attack and tallied twice before Coach Bolin rushed the first string back into the game. However, the Kittens came back with another beautiful seventy-five-yard run by Bingham to make the score 28-12 as the half ended.

As the second half opened, Peters, receiving a forward from Roach, lateralled to Williams, who, in turn, crossed the double stripes again. The second half was sparked by George Peters and “Ox” Pendleton, who drove down to pay-dirt territory where they shared signal-calling honors in four of the Davidson Frosh last-half scoring plays. As a final climaxing play to the game, Roach tossed a long pass to Abie Short, who lateralled to Peters, who in turn scored the last touchdown, making the final count 72-12.

Lack Reserves

The most noticeable deficiency in the Wofford outfit was the fact that they lacked the reserve strength of the Wildkittens. Nevertheless, the offense shone at times as the result of the outstanding passing of Hal Leonard and the receiving of Red Lane and Bill Ham.

Probably for the first time in the history of Freshman football at Davidson, Coach Bolin resorted to whole team substitution and sent four complete units into the fray.

SCHEDULE

Monday, Oct. 20, 4:30
Pi Kaps vs. Phi Delts
Kappa Sigs vs. Phi Gams

Tuesday, Oct. 21, 3:30
Betas vs. Phi Gams
Pikas vs. SAE's
KA’s vs. Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts vs. SPE’s

Wednesday, Oct. 22, 4:30
Betas vs. KA’s
Pi Kaps vs. SPE's

Thursday, Oct. 23, 3:30
Betas vs. SPE’s
Pikas vs. Phi Delts
4:30
Phi Gams vs. KA's
Pi Kaps vs. SAE’s

MARION DAVIS CO.
THE FABRIC FAVORITE

For Fall... Westminster 100% Wool Shetlands $30 $35
Others $25 to $65

Marion Davis Co.’s fine Westminster Shetland Suits are selected by college men for their smartness and service. Westminster suits are expertly tailored of the finest 100% virgin wool fabrics.

Shop MARION DAVIS CO. For Style and Quality
Marion Davis Co.
118 S. Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.