By Bill Grosse

Yes, this is a print point of our intramural athletic contests. As a rule, it is just a few that
cause these heated arguments, yet these arguments cause bystanders to take a stand for one side or the other, and
before it is realized what has happened, everybody is in an uproar. For some unknown reason, the boys that usually
are involved in these misunderstandings are boys who are most friendly.

Back Cagers

Lovers of sports! How about showing a little loyalty to the cagers this week and support them 100 percent in
their final spurt, so that they may secure a place in the conference tournament? They play three games this week,
and if they win all three, they will probably be in the tournament.

Wildcat Sports

’Cats Meet Gamecocks On Home Court Tonight
'Cats Must Take Three To Get Bid
Phantoms, Gamecocks, Generals, Indians, And Keydets Win Berths

The 'Cats have a slim chance of securing one of the eight conference slots. They need to win the remaining
games to have a chance. North Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest, and Carolina State are likely to receive a bid. The
team is inspired and ready to fight for these victories. Nothing could be better than for the 'Cats to win
the games with Furman and South Carolina, and for about three or four hundred of us to be present at
the crucial game with North Carolina. A renewal of that old Davidson spirit on the part of the student body
might be exactly what the boys need to win, so let’s GIVE!

Diamond Dust

Because of the rain in the past few days, many have been unable to practice. Captain Ed, the catcher, is
ready for pitching duties. Bob Carter and Frank Niven will be out for first base, but one of these men
might be asked to perform on the mound. Tom Yarborough will be back at second, and Squat Owens will again
be assisted at shortstop by Son Latta, unless Latta is shifted to the outfield. After playing semi-pro ball all summer,
Hogg should be ready to play some elegant ball at third base. All of last year’s gardeners were lost through
graduation. If a couple more twirlers could be found, things would look very prosperous for the ball team this spring.

Chatter

Little to Season Ends

The hardwood campaigns end this week with three battles. Besides the Furman game tonight, the Davidson team will face the
Carolina Gamecocks, paced by Westmoreland, the second-ranking high scorer in the conference. The season ends Saturday with a Southern Conference
game against Carolina State.

AMONG THE GREEKS

(Continued from Page Three)

Brother Scotty Paterson and others were in Mooresville before they came back in the afternoon and night. A fraternity initiation
was held, and five pledges became brothers: John Belk of Charlotte, of Chattanooga, Tenn., of Oxford, N.C., of Sumter, S.C.,
and Beam of Lumberton, N.C. The chapter extends their congratulations to these new brothers.

Phi Delta Theta

When the weekend came, many were the details that needed attention. Brother Hobbie spent his time in Raleigh. The following
hearkened to the festivities at Furman: Brothers Gene Verene, Bone Reinman, Stevenson, McLean, and Pledge Swack Archer. They enjoyed the
tempos of Count Basie.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Pi Kappa Alpha takes pleasure in announcing the initiation into the fraternity of several new brothers.

ES SO SERVICE

ATLAS TIRES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BULKY CENTER

Big Don Bell, a 240-pound center for the Wildcat Basketeers, has been a consistent performer for the 'Cats this season.
His best work to date was his close guarding of Glamack.

Sophs, Frosh Shine in Pre-Season Grid Drills

Bad news came into Coach McEver’s Spring football camp early this week when Jay Bolin informed his mentors that he
was turning in his uniform. The diminutive flash, Pepper Martin, has been working very diligently.

’Cats Take Loop Tilt From Light Brigade; Meet UNC Saturday

Captain Hogg and Bob Williams Lead ’Cats On Charleston Trip. Gamecocks Play Here Tonight. Courtmen Will Try to Stop Glamack
Again.

Davidson's basketballers wind up their conference schedule against South Carolina tonight and the leading North Carolina team in Winston-Salem Saturday
night. If the 'Cats can win these games against the top two teams in the loop, they may have a
chance to get into the tournament in Raleigh for conference track honors at the Southern Conference Indoor meet to be
held in Carolina on February 22. The track men will leave Friday for the meet. All the track and field
events will be conducted with the exception of the javelin and the discus.

The Wildcats have held big George Glamack to 24 points in the last several games he has played against the
scrapping Wildcats.Despite inclement weather, Wildcats Get Revenge

Despite inclement weather by utilizing the halls of the lower floor of Chambers, the Wildcats got revenge on the Wofford
Terriers on Tuesday, but last Friday the College of Charleston got their revenge on the Wildcats, scoring 54-51. The College
put on a last-minute spurt that stopped the Wildcats.

The Summary

However, the Wildcats rang up their second win over Citadel's Light Brigaders the next night. Bob Williams, breaking into the
starting lineup, led the Cat Quint by ringing up ten points against the Bulldogs. The night before, Jim Hogg was
tops against the College with fourteen points while John Selk had ten and Williams nine. Hogg, Tommy Yarborough, and Ed
Lucas had seven marks apiece Saturday night at The Citadel.

Last Tuesday, the courtmen played the Hurricane from Furman here. The Purples were led by their star player.

Ends Season

On Monday night, the Wildcats will wind up their season against little Guilford College, who have one of the strongest
teams in the Little Six group. Two seniors, Bob Williams and Captain Jimmy Hogg, play their last scheduled game against
the Quakers. Hogg has served the Cat five for three years as a regular and is the captain and leading
scorer this year. Bob Williams hit the starting five this year and has played a scrappy court game all season.

The Freshman basketball squad was handed a 47-31 defeat by the Oak Ridge Military Institute quintet last Friday, making two
straight losses for the Frosh. They lost a close one to Belmont here last Wednesday by a score of 46-45.

The Kittens were minus the services of two first-string players, Tom Currie, who was suffering from a sprained ankle, and
George McWilliams, who was out with a bad cold. Booth and Crowell were put into the starting lineup and capably
filled the vacancies.

The Kittens were trailing by only six points at the half and made a fairly close game of it until
the latter part of the game. Pat Williams paced the attack of the Frosh with eight points, closely followed by
Mack Bruce and Shep Booth, who were consistently looping the points in.

Punting Strong

The running and passing of Bruce and Washburn at the tailback slot for next year. The punting of Bruce and
pass receiving of Moorhead also caught the coaches' eyes.

Two of the brethren, Connor and Beaty by name, made their pilgrimage to the shrine of Winthrop, while Pledge McGeachy
did play at hearts at the Queens palace. The chapter chorister, Brother Booker, gave vent to his feelings and did
lead the brethren in songs at a feast in the house ere came the Sabbath. Brothers Carter and Terrell did
pour chocolate. This continued on Page Five.

BATTERIES ACCESSORIES

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St., Charlotte, N. C.

REID’S SERVICE STATION
DAVIDSON, N. C.
"SERVICE A PLEASURE"

P. S. A. MEMBER

(Continued from Page One)

active in the Student Christian Association and other organizations. Here at Davidson, he is preaching and teaching Sunday School at
the Unity church and is a member of the glee club. He is preparing himself for a missionary career.

These twelve delegates represented Davidson at the Conference:

CALL: FORBIS INS. AGENCY
For Insurance, Real Estate, FHA Bldg. Loans or Property Management.
Phone 5391 Davidson, N. C.

Always Ask for
“S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NOW PLAYING
Through Saturday
“PHILADELPHIA STORY”
with Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, James Stewart

Starts Monday
“VIRGINIA”
In Technicolor
Fred MacMurray, Madeleine Carroll, Stirling Hayden

ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte - North Carolina
