Page Six _THE DAVIDSONIAN_

Corner I.R.C. Club Of Both Military Life Organized As Early As 1853

The International Relations Clubs of North and South Carolina have planned a meeting to take place at Chapel Hill on the weekend of May 9-10. The meeting was called for a two-fold purpose. The first is to exchange ideas on America’s part in the war through round-table conferences in which representatives from the various clubs in the two states will participate. In this way, members may not only get new ideas on America’s part in the war but also see what members in other clubs think about the war. The second purpose is to solidify the clubs in the two Carolinas. The first of these is to be accomplished through discussions, and also through social activities that have already been planned.

Davidson students have always been patriotic. As early as November of 1853, the students formed a voluntary military company and elected officers. They petitioned the faculty for permission to use arms and drill three times a week, namely, Tuesday and Thursday mornings a half hour after breakfast and on Saturday evening. This request was granted and the students entered the training with great enthusiasm.

During the week following May 1861, many students left to join the armies of the different states from which they came. The Junior Class as a unit entered the service. So fast did the students enter the army, that by July there were only eleven students in regular connection with the college, six sophomores and five freshmen. These men remained for only two weeks before enlisting. For nearly a month there was not a student in the College. Professor Lynch organized a company of volunteers during the next session. Oil cloth was taken from the college tables and village women made knapsacks from it for the company.

The rank of Davidson men in The War Between the States was as follows: one Major-General, two Brigadier-Generals, twenty Colonels, sixteen Majors, eleven Surgeons, forty-nine Captains, thirty-eight Lieutenants, and 165 men of lesser rank. Of these men, eighty-three made the supreme sacrifice.

During the World War, 732 students and alumni went into the service. At this time, military training was added to the curriculum and the barracks were built. A unit of the Student Army Training Corps was set up at Davidson and 223 students enlisted. Of the 955 men who entered the service, twenty-one Davidson students and alumni made the supreme sacrifice, and 306 were commissioned officers. A unit of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps has been maintained at Davidson since January of 1919.

Flash! That flashy musical or- ganization, the Big Show, are really a hit! Ask anyone who heard them—or the boys in the band. Comes Spring and Spring Services, comes to us Dr. Barbour with the very highest recommendations, and we are looking forward to his visit with real pleasure. This will be his first visit to our campus and there is every indication that he will be remembered not only for his personality as a man but also for his depth of spirituality and forcefulness as a preacher. Welcome to Davidson, Dr. Barbour.

Rev. Karl Fitchett is holding a fine series of services at the Unity Church this week. He's packing them in. Many students attended his Easter Service Sunday morning and think of the many boys who were away for the weekend. Don't say that isn't a good number.

It was certainly nice to have Dr. Ben Lacy Bical for our Vesper Service last Sunday and to have him on the campus for a while. His sermon was really powerful, as is the man who delivered it. Did you know that he is a sleight-of-hand artist, too? Yes, indeed!

Jimmy Fulcher, Paul S. Crain, and Charlie Parrish have done some good work with the Prayer Room. Our most grateful thanks to Mrs. Hengeveld for her donations of the curtains and to Mrs. Fulcher for her work saving them. Some of the students would be surprised to know how interested and helpful some of our townspeople are and want to be with our activities.

The Snells, for whom our Gift Fund goes to pay expenses in China, arrived Friday for a short visit. Too bad they arrived too late to say a word or two in chapel, but we surely enjoyed seeing them and getting acquainted after hearing so many fine things about them and their work.

All kinds of orchids are due the Davidsonian and its Far-Into-The-Night workers. Not only do they work hard to make up a really fine sheet but also they are understanding and thoughtful in helping struggling would-be writers. Thoughtful—yes! And the things they think about late at night!

Paul Whiteman and His Famous Orchestra and Entertainers will appear at the Carolina Theatre in Charlotte, Monday, April 21st, one day only.

The first foreign movie of the year was shown to a large audience last Monday night in Chambers Auditorium. The film “Der Hauptmann von Köpenick” was presented by Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary German fraternity. English subtitles were provided throughout the performance in addition to the useful notes which appeared on the program. Dr. W. E. Pfeiffer also delivered a short historical sketch of the plot. The story upon which the film was based has to do with an actual case. One Wilhelm Voigt is unable to secure work because of his prison record, and finally in desperation buys a second-hand uniform which used to belong to a captain. With the authority of the uniform to back him, he commandeered a squad of soldiers and proceeded to raid the city hall of Köpenick, a small town ten miles outside of Berlin. Voigt then confiscated the city treasury and sent the members of the town council to Berlin under arrest. The real object behind all this amazing horse-play was to secure a new passport not stamped by the prison authorities, enabling him to secure work more easily. Unfortunately, Köpenick was too small a town to have a passport bureau of its own, and so the defeated “captain” dismissed his soldiers and returned to civilian life.

PLANS MADE (Continued from Page Five)

Chemistry 31, 32—Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis. 8 hours. Professor Thies.
Chemistry 41, 42—Organic Chemistry. 8 hours. Professor Knight.
English 21, 22—A Survey of English Literature. 6 hours. Professor Shewmake.
French 21, 22—Reading, review of grammar, composition and conversation. 6 hours. Professor Gold.
History 51, 52—History of the United States of America. 6 hours. Professor Johnston.
Mathematics 11, 12—College Algebra and Plane Trigonometry. 6 hours. Professor Wood.
Music—Six hours of elective work as outlined in the Music Camp Bulletin. Mr. Pfohl.
Physics 21, 22—General College Physics. 8 hours. Professor Douglas.
Spanish 21, 22—Intermediate Spanish. 6 hours. Professor Bosley.

STUDENT BODY (Continued from Page 5)

30 cents. If we estimate the number of students who will attend the concert, we can see that the total amount collected will be substantial.

MUSICIANS (Continued from Page Three)

torium on Saturday night. The cantata was called “The Seven Last Words of Christ,” and had as soloists such artists as Wilson Angel and Mrs. Larra Browning of the Metropolitan Opera Company. Members of the Band and Orchestra who made the trip were Robert Hill, Reb Rummel, Charles Henderson, and N.

“DON'T BEAT ME, FREDDIE—” POLEY McCLINTOCK wept as he turned over his drums to Fred Waring on the “Chesterfield"Pleasure Time" program, but Waring got a big bang out of it. He’s no pitcher but he has a high baton average. Waring’s Pennsylvanians were born when Poley and Fred Waring played together in a Boy Scout band back in Tyrone, Pa. Now they do radio audiences a good turn five nights weekly on N.B.C. stations.

Cunningham Makes Talk

Last Wednesday afternoon Dr. participated in the laying of the cornerstone of the Bowman Gray Medical School in Winston-Salem. Those assisting in the ceremony were Dr. Furman Kitchen, president of Wake Forest College, Dean C. C. Carpenter of Wake Forest, and Dr. Van Etting, president of the American Medical Association. Last Tuesday evening at 6:30 o'clock Dr. Cunningham spoke at the launching of the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. membership campaign. The meeting was held in the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. building, and after the meeting, supper was served. Dr. Cunningham is to be the principal speaker at the graduation of all the high school students of Iredell County. The ceremony is to be held in the city auditorium in Statesville at 9:30, Saturday morning. There are expected to be over three hundred students in the combined graduating classes.

SPORTS SLANTS
[Continued from Page Four]

The Wolves appear about the same strength as the Cats after a loss to Va. Tech with approximately the same score. Last year State licked the Cats here by coming from behind in the last few events and pulling away to a ten-point win 68-48. Paul McMullen, although second placer in the feature high hurdle race with Arch Taylor, took individual scoring honors in last Saturday’s meet with 13 points; Taylor was right behind with 11, and Brenizer had 10.

The University of Wisconsin draws the largest intercollegiate boxing crowds in the country; a recent record: 15,000.

Concordia College, Moorhead, Minn., choir has a 60-voice a cappella choir.

Thursday, April 17, 1941

Echoes of The Past

April 13, 1938—Governor Hoey gives a speech at the celebration of the 101st Founder's Day. Davidson Day is held, at which Colin, the magician, is a recognized entertainer. Debaters complete an undefeated season by winning over Hampden-Sydney. Juan Zamora, Cuban professor, gives a series of lectures on Latin America.

April 16, 1931—Roger Enloe is elected president of “Y.” Doctor Rene Hadre speaks to the students on France. Doctor Lingle becomes a contributing editor to the Christian Observer. The baseball team defeats Elon but is beaten by Blue Devils. Debaters end northern trip with three victories and one defeat.

April 14, 1927—Eleven men are tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa: Military inspectors report that they are well pleased with the drill and classroom work of the R.O.T.C. unit. Davidson’s baseball team beats Furman by a score of 13-5. Charley McRae is the new president of Y.M.C.A. and new officers were installed Sunday night. Davidson debaters win over William and Mary and Rutgers.

R.O.T.C. STAGES
[Continued from Page One]

Charlotte, N.C.; and Major D.A. Herrin, Infantry, officer in charge of organized reserves of Winston-Salem, N.C. The order of events for the afternoon was: Company competition, platoon competition, and individual competition. Each captain chose two freshmen from his company to take part in the individual competition. Announcement of the winners of these events will be made later.

PREVENT

Action Helps Put Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril at the first sniffle, sneeze, or nasal irritation. Its stimulating action aids Nature's defenses against the cold—and so helps prevent colds from developing. Try VICKS VA-TRO-NOL.

FRANK McCORMICK, star first baseman Cincinnati Reds. You're a good boy! Let me repeat that many unfounded stories find their way into willing ears to cause friction between the factions. Davidson's Sense of Rumor, dear, dear! It may be easily seen from the above facts that a boarding house for fish would not be excessively profitable to the owner. The care of these fish is a science which must be mastered by the aquarium owner or he will soon find himself with a collection of very dead fish. The water must be kept at a certain temperature, usually about 75 degrees F. The amount of plant life in the aquarium must be varied according to the number and kind of fish. The fish must not be overfed. (For further information about the care of fish, consult your nearest veterinarian or the Encyclopedia Britannica.)

SHAW SMITH

A Natural for Spring and Summer

Important for its genius in simulating lightweight flannels. Seniors, you will regret having missed all of these grand improvements. Juniors, you are the light and hope of this decisive year when so many modern educational trends will be forthcoming. Sophomores, be sure your mind will open you out. The rest of you can quibble in freshmaniacal oblivion. It won’t make much difference anyway.

DR. SENTELLE

[Continued from Page One]

study at Yale, Princeton, and Harvard. In 1903, he returned to the college to teach Bible, psychology, and philosophy. He was made Dean in 1920, although he has continued to teach Bible and philosophy. Few realize the difficulties of Dr. Sentelle’s duties during the past twenty-one years. His have been the ticklish problems of discipline, which would have made many enemies for a man of less tact and diplomacy. By his unfailing justice and devotion to duty, he has made for his truest admirers those whom he has been forced to discipline. His successor in the Dean's office has not yet been appointed, for a man with the proper qualifications is not easily found. The next Dean will find his job doubly hard for not only will he have to fulfill the regular duties of the office, but he will have to strive to continue in the high ideals of justice and strict adherence to rules that have been set by Dr. M.E. Sentelle.

Look around you at the ballpark—you'll see the clean white Chesterfield pack on every side. Every smoker who enjoys a cooler smoke that’s definitely milder and better-tasting is a Chesterfield fan. The can't-be-copied blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos makes Chesterfield the leader in every league of cigarette quality that people want and like. Enjoy the game with Chesterfield.