— Spring Holidays March 27-April 4!! ALENDA ORTA LIBERTAS Che Davidsontan LUX UBI Junior Staff Announced! Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1941 Number 20 DARBY ELECTED DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR KES Kane RS SS ay Rk
xx nn Ma STUDENT BODY ELECTS JIM OWENS PRESIDENT OF Y.M.C. A. Defeats Seven Men; Paragraphics By THE EDITOR Congratulations
to the new “Y.” heads, JIM OWENS, SANDY SANDIFER and JESSE WOOTEN. The balloting for the presidency was the closest
yet—two votes difference. And headaches to the new Davidsonian editor. Congratulations also to the newly chosen members of the debating
team—FRANK BARKER, DRURY THOMPSON, BILL LOFTIN, AL WINN, BILL SUMMERS, and FRED MORTON. They compose three teams which leave soon
for extended trips. Our apologies to AL WINN for having his name under last week’s “WITH THE STAFF” column. It
was supposed to be signed by the editor, but the already prepared box head wasn’t torn down, and his name
came out as author. Here is public confession. Clean up all loose ideas and scraps of other things take place
on Page 2 in the editorial columns this week, as we prepare to turn it over to the new editor.
Likewise the junior staff says “ADIEU” in “WITH THE STAFF." After spring holidays, DR. CUNNINGHAM will really settle into his
new position as head of the college. The student body still eagerly awaits his coming. DR. CUNNINGHAM should be unusually
well-prepared to serve the college, since his extended study of modern educational methods and conditions. With the next issue, the
NEW JUNIOR EDITORS take over the paper. They have made up the pages and their usual work for the past
month, and now should be prepared for the worst. TO FROSH, NOTE: There's still time to get on the staff,
as the changeover will leave several empty chairs on Monday nights. Drop in about 7:30, and try out. SPRING just
won't come, and if it doesn't hurry there won't be any spring sports. It takes a warm sun to take
the kinks out of muscles, and no amount of warming up on a cold day will do as much good
as ol’ Sol’s burning beams. (Then, too, all winter clothes are wearing thin—it’s time for spring there, too.) BEST OF
LUCK during the holidays, and come back to school for a rest. —WAD. Sigma Upsilon Hears Hodges At the regular
meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held on Tuesday, March 10, in the Phi Delta Theta house, election of
new members was held. The men elected will be announced at a later date. Also on the program was a
short story read by Dan Hodges, after which the meeting closed with a feed. On Tuesday, March 18, the group
held its regular meeting at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house. The program was opened by Jo Newell Robinson, who read
the next chapter of the novel which the fraternity is jointly writing. Dan Hodges delivered an essay, and Albert Winn
read an original short story. Professor Lilly, of the English department, presented one of his poems to the group. The
initiation of new members was planned and the meeting adjourned with a feed. Watt Places Second Jim Owens Remains In
the Lead to Defeat Watt On Fourth Ballot. HACKNEY RUNS THIRD Five Other Men Were Eliminated Earlier. Jim Owens, of
Palm Beach, Florida, was elected President of the Y. M. C. A., 211-209, in the election held last Tuesday. The
vote cast Tuesday was the fourth ballot cast. Charlie Watt, of Thomasville, Georgia, who was runner-up to Owens, ran second
on the third ballot cast on Friday. ACTIVITIES. Owens has served the past year as vice-president of the “Y.” He
has recently been tapped into Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity. He is a member of the varsity baseball and
a member of the “D” Club. Owens is also a member of the Beaver Club. He belongs to Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity. Election of the president of the “Y.” began on March 12, after Jim Owens, Charlie Watt, Bill
MacLaughlin, Claude Hackney, Bill Summers, Ralph Williams, Stuart Rogers, and Charlie Parrish had been nominated on Tuesday. Williams was eliminated
on the second ballot on Thursday and Hackney on the fourth ballot. Judges Decide 1941 Debaters Southern Colleges. The debating
team for Davidson's 1941 will consist of the following members of the student body: Frank Barker, Drury Thompson, Bill Loftin,
Al Winn, Bill Summers, and Fred Morton. These men were selected at a contest held on Wednesday, March 12, in
Phi Hall. Doctors Johnston, Williamson, and Conyers, of the college faculty, were judges for the event. Jim McCrary, and Bill
Rogers were selected as alternates. Davidson’s teams will debate with some of the leading colleges and universities of the country
on their three trips to be held later in the month. Drury Thompson, Bill Loftin, and Al Winn will go
on the Northern trip, leaving March 22. On this trip, the team will engage Rutgers, Haverford, Hampden-Sydney, Lehigh, and other
Northern teams. On March 23, the Western trip will begin. Frank Barker, Drury Thompson, Bill Loftin, Al Winn, and Bill
Summers will represent Davidson against such teams as Centre, Westminster, University of Louisiana, and Jett. This group will also enter
the National Student Assembly at Lexington, Kentucky, to be held on the twenty-sixth through the twenty-ninth of March. On April
10, Bill Loftin, Al Winn, Bill Summers, and Fred Morton will make the Southern trip, debating such teams as Erskine,
University of Alabama, and Emory University. Members will uphold either the negative or affirmative of the question chosen for all
intercollegiate debating teams representing colleges or universities in the United States. The question is: “Resolved, That the nations of the
Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” The entire debating squad will attend the Southeastern Forensic tournament, which will be
held at Winthrop College, April 10 through April 12. Bill Loftin, a member [Continued on Page Six] Barker, Drury Thompson,
Bill Loftin, JIM OWENS. “Pat” Williams Wins Student Body Election In the final balloting for the office of Secretary-Treasurer of
the Student Body held Wednesday, March 12, Pat Williams defeated Dick O’Hair by a small majority for the freshman laurels
in the student government. Williams, resident of North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, attended McCallie Preparatory School before entering Davidson last fall,
at which time he was pledged by Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was awarded numerals in both freshman football and basketball.
The original ballot for this office contained the names of Gene Head, Francis Gilman, Buck Archer, Price Gwynn, Mack Bruce,
Dick O’Hair and Rhea Preston. Bruce, Gilman, Preston and Head were eliminated by the first balloting, held Thursday, March 6.
The following day, Archer was eliminated. Monday’s voting placed Williams in first place with Gwynn and O'Hair tied for second
place. Tuesday, the student body voted between Gwynn and O'Hair to “break” the tie; O'Hair won, but was defeated the
following day by Williams. Lingle’s Plans Include Talks Dr. Walter L. Lingle announced to The Davidsonian that the president of
Davidson College, Dr. Cunningham, is expected to move into the new president’s home during the latter part of next week.
He also revealed that the repairs which are being made on the president's home are nearing completion. This means that
when college convenes, after the Spring holidays, Dr. Cunningham will be settled in his new home and will have taken
his place in the president’s office. Concerning his own plans, Dr. Lingle stated that he will be occupied during the
next few months delivering sermons at a number of different churches. He will supply the pulpit of the First Presbyterian
Church of Raleigh, N. C., for the next two Sundays. Dr. Lingle will preach a series of sermons at the
First Presbyterian Church of Charleston, S. C., during the week preceding Easter. He announced that he will spend the first
twelve days of July in Kerrville, Texas. Here he will deliver a series of nine addresses to a meeting of
ministers and Sunday school teachers. Dr. Cunningham has recently completed an extensive tour of colleges and universities all over the
country. While on the tour, he got an insight into the machinations of the various schools. Editors Elect 1941-2 Staff
Of Paper, Erwin, Eve, Fulcher, Lyman, McIntosh, McLean Named New Junior Editors. Managing editors of The Davidsonian for next year
are Ed Erwin, Joe Eve, Jimmy Fulcher, Bill Lyman, Lacy McIntosh, and Henry McLean. Although several other sophomores qualified for
these positions, the present junior editors narrowed their choice to the six named. ACTIVITIES. Ed Erwin, member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity, lives in Da- He has served on theDavidsonian staff for two years. Joe Eve, Pi Kappa Phi, from
Augusta, Ga., has done work on the editorial staff of the Pranks for two years. Jimmy Fulcher, also from Davidson,
is a member of Sigma Phi fraternity; and this year has been advisor of the Davidson Sitexg. A member of
Phi Gamma Delta, Bill Lyman has, in addition to working on the Davidsonian for two years, worked on the editorial
staffs of The Quips and Cranks and the magazine; he was managing editor of the “Y" Handbook, is one of
the sophomore managers of basketball, and a member of Eumenean Literary Society. He is from Birmingham, Ala.

McINTOSH: Henry McIntosh of West Palm Beach, Fla., has done work on The [Continued on Page Six]

Scripts

DUO-PIANIST TEAM
EDITOR HARWELL DARBY ANNUAL ELECTION

First voting for the editor of QUIPS 'N CRANKS gave JULIEN McCALL of Florence, S. C., 24 votes, a lead
of one vote over BILL SPRUNT of Winston-Salem, who received 23 votes. Third was WALTER WOOTEN of Chattanooga, Tenn., with
18 votes and fourth was DICK KELLY of Erwin, N. C., who had 16 votes. The second ballot with these
four men still in the running was held today. Those eligible for the office were KELLY, McCALL, SPRUNT, ED TAYLOR,
CAM WILSON, and WOOTEN. The candidates are the junior editors of QUIPS 'N CRANKS. One will be elected by the
members of the rising senior class.

Music Fraternity To Present Duo-Pianists

PRE-MED. EXAM.

Members of the Junior Class who plan to enter medical school in September 1942 will be required to take an
Aptitude Test given by the Association of American Medical Colleges on May 1 of this year. Seniors who are entering
Medical School in 1941 have already been given an Aptitude Test. In the past, this test has been given during
the student's senior year in college. Another change in the new program is that practice sheets which give a description
of the test, and some simple questions have been worked out by the association and are available for the medical
class of 1942. These practice sheets may be secured from the registrar's office.

Betchel and Steinmetz, duo-pianists, will be presented in Chambers auditorium on Monday, March 24, at 8:15. The concert will mark
the fifth in the current series of concerts sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha. Dorothy Bechtel and Edith Steinmetz began their
careers as soloists and won the recognition of critics wherever they were heard. They began touring as duo-pianists and won
new acclaim from the critics. Of the pianists, the New York Journal says: “They play as one, in precision, in
interpretation, in musical harmony.” The New York Tribune says: “A praiseworthy pianist team, playing with sharp rhythmic feeling.” The New
York Sun: “Bechtel and Steinmetz play as superb artists should play.” The Pottstown Herald: “The two artists displayed not only
a brilliant technical ability and adequate command of the keyboard, but delighted the audience with [Continued on Page Six]

Sandifer And Wooten Take “Y” Election

First and Second Vice-Presidents Are Elected On Third Ballot.

Myron Sandifer and Jesse Wooten, with 232 and 205 votes, respectively, were elected First and Second Vice-Presidents of the Y.
M. C. A on the second ballot, Thursday, March 13. The two winners were listed on the ballot with Ben
Lacy and Hank Crane, whom they eliminated. Sandifer, from Lowrys, South Carolina, is a member of Kappa Alpha Fraternity. In
his freshman year, he won both the Freshman Bible Medal, awarded to the freshman with the highest grades in Bible,
and the Alumni Scholarship Medal for the highest general scholastic average in the Freshman Class. He was also a member
of the Freshman Wrestling Team. Wooten, from Memphis, Tenn., is a member of Phi Delta Gamma Fraternity. He has been
elected to the Student Council, the Spanish Club, and the Eumenean Literary Society. Also, he is a Sophomore Sports Manager
and a Hall Prayer Group Leader. Sandifer, Wooten, Lacy, and Crane were chosen on the first ballot from a field
of eleven nominees. The first ballot contained the names of Hank Crane, Jimmy Fulcher, Ben Lacy, Tommy Lane, Joe McCoy,
Jim McCrary, Henry McIntosh, John McRae, Billy Rogers, Myron Sandifer, and Jesse Wooten.

O. Carmichael Makes Speech

Phi Beta Kappa Hears Vanderbilt Chancellor.

Dr. Oliver Carmichael, chancellor of Vanderbilt University, was the principal speaker at the annual spring banquet of Davidson’s Gamma Chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa, national scholarship fraternity, held in Chambers last Thursday night. Unique in the annual event was the
inviting of eighteen freshmen and nineteen sophomores who had made excellent scholastic records during their college career. Also attending the
banquet were members of Phi Beta Kappa with their husbands and wives from Davidson and nearby towns and cities. Dr.
Archibald Currie of the faculty was toastmaster for the occasion and Bill Loftin, newly initiated student president of the fraternity,
brought greetings from his group. Dr. Frontis Johnston, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, introduced the speaker. The theme of
the Vanderbilt Chancellor’s address was that Europe is in a state of turmoil and confusion today. This is due to
the failure of her universities and colleges to send out strong and capable leaders. Those in charge of Europe's destiny
have not had the advantage of higher education; they are not men of “spiritual imagination and intellectual vision.” Students who
received their Phi Beta Kappa keys were: Chase Brenizer, Henry Bahnson, Cabey Jones, John Moore, Paul Bumbarger, Eldridge Brown, William
Loftin, David Talmadge, Edward Maxwell, William Boyle, Pat Hobson, and Joseph Liles.

Darby Defeats Garvey On Final Vote By 71

Cobb and Plunkett Dropped On First Ballot; Carter Loses On Second.

NO ASSISTANT NAMED

New Editor, With Elected Juniors, Takes Over.

Wednesday Harwell Darby of Florence, Ala., defeated Bob Garvey by a margin of seventy-one votes in the final run-off for
Davidsonian editor. The final decision came on the third ballot after Dick Cobb and W. C. Plunkett dropped out in
the first and Bob Carter on the next. On the first ballot Darby led with 159, trailed by Carter with
one hundred and Garvey with ninety-seven. The second day’s voting saw Darby move to 190, while Garvey gathered a total
of 130. Official returns were unavailable on the final ballot, but it was stated authoritatively that the margin was 71.

Activities. Darby has served as a managing editor on the paper during this past year and also was a managing
editor of the Y. M. C. A. Handbook. He is a Student Store clerk and a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity. Last week at a meeting of the staff, the new junior managing editors were elected and Darby
will assume immediate control of the Davidsonian along with these men. The business managership, however, will not change hands until
the beginning of next year.

New Staff Members. As yet no assistant editor or other staff members have been named by the new editor. Announcements
of these will come shortly but the old staff will continue to work through the end of the present school
year. One of the defeated juniors will be named assistant editor as has been customary and he will assume his
office at once, also replacing Paul Bumbarger who has held the position this year.

Girls Feature Military Ball

By Bill Lyman.

Last weekend the Davidson boys dusted off their formal wear, asked some sweet young thing over, and particularly dug deep
into their already over-used pocketbooks for the annual Military Ball. Although the decorations and set figures were good, and the
orchestra satisfactory, what made the affair successful were the women. The Davidson boys asked their dates for one, or a
combination, of three reasons: 1) she was his “one and only” and he asked her as a matter of course;
2) she was a potential “lock” and he asked her to develop or bring to a head the said agreement;
or 3) she was just somebody to have down, as a relation, friend, duty, etc. The last-mentioned type of date
is not particularly interesting, so I shall skip over a discussion of such. The potential lock type, however, has many
interesting aspects to examine. A number of them did progress to the desired “understanding,” what with the excitement of the
weekend, the receptiveness of those involved, and the beautiful moon. Most of the said locks will probably endure through the
last dance set. Some of the boys, on the other hand, received severe rebuffs from their potential lady loves. On
Sunday, when everyone was worn out, anyhow, the cutting remarks made by the girl were particularly embarrassing. One boy was
said to have been so humiliated that [Continued on Page Six]
