Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 11, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON................. BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Bobby Carter.................. Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett................. Associate Editor
Al Winn....................... Associate Editor
Ed Erwin...................... Managing Editor
Joe Eve....................... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher................ Managing Editor
Bill Lyman.................... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh................ Sports Editor
Lacy MacLean................. Movie Editor
Clarence Legerton............. Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF:
Calhoun Hipp.................. Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collections Manager

CUNNINGHAM REVEALS POLICY OF COLLEGE TOWARD WAR—
In this editorial we wish to print the speech to the student body given in chapel Monday by Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of the college:

“The world situation today is exceedingly tense, and for our nation, grows hourly more critical. War has been declared against us and before the day is done I assume we shall have returned the compliment. Actual hostilities are in process. These are times when young men are especially involved. They are unsettled times for you. I am sympathetic with your position and with your frame of mind. I was, myself, a senior in Theological Seminary in 1917, when War was declared by our nation. I know something of the inner struggles through which you must pass.

“I wish to commend the attitude you have taken in this regard previously. As I have talked with the heads of other colleges and universities I find that your attitudes have been shared by the responsible students in other parts of the country. You have shown a good poise and an ability to be philosophical about the matter.

“I wish to express a word of caution today against panic and hysteria at this time. It is possible that some few students may feel that they are called to turn aside from their preparation and hasten into the military service of the country. My prediction is that there is plenty of time yet for that service. The word which I wish to stress, particularly to you today is that you are now engaged in a fundamental defense task. You must beware that you do not throw away an opportunity which has been denied approximately 97 per cent of young men—those who do not get to college. We must look further than winning a war. Winning the peace is going to be even more important. It is going to take consecrated gray matter and Christian spirit to do that job. The man who is wisely and conscientiously preparing himself in the field of Christian Education is rendering, certainly, a far greater service to his nation and to the future than he can now know. No college man, I trust, is asking for deferment because he is a college man, rather because of the need of trained men during and after this emergency.

“The College expects to be loyal to our Government in this emergency. It will attempt also to be loyal to your best interests. I am advising that you counsel with Mr. Hengeveld, our Registrar, in regard to technicalities, and that you allow both Mr. Hengeveld and me to do what we can to see that your draft boards are acquainted with all relevant considerations. Meanwhile, we will be wise if we keep our feet on the ground, if we keep our spirits steady, and do our day’s work as best we can, and, above all, obey the injunction of Dr. Richards in the sermon last evening when he counseled us, “Keep God at the center of your lives.” If Davidson’s traditions and ideals are correct, and if they were ever called into actual testing, then it seems to me we are face to face with situations which demand their assertion. Let us conduct ourselves in these days in a way ultimately to win the approval not only of our Government, but of Him “who sittest on His throne in the heavens and whose Kingdom ruleth over all.”

The DAVIDSONIAN

Letters Editorials Features

Letter To The Editor From the Manager of Carolinas Bowl Game

Mr. Tony Darby, Editor
The Davidsonian,
Dear Tony:

Time heals all wounds but association and friendship are far better and quicker. Taking a few memories from the Carolinas’ All-Star game at Greenville and the impressive banquet one is able to see and learn many things. Here at Davidson one is apt to think in a down-trodden way of the boys from other schools. Boys from one squad have no grudge against the boys but rather the desire to win. Many hard feelings are caused between schools by a few agitators who spread the word of how one team is dirty, how they hate us and if we don’t kill a few at the next game we will be ruined. At the game we learned that Wake Forest players aren’t big and dumb, State boys aren’t farmers, Carolina boys aren’t play-boys, and the Little Six isn’t a pushover for other schools. Rather one is brought to realize that all the boys are clean-cut, straight-thinking young men who will take their stand in the world along with the next fellow, who is going to be you and I. With all of the boys playing and blocking together from the various schools, rooming with each other and close associations, it was evident that the above is true in every respect. These boys play for the honor of their respective schools and like to win as well as the next fellow, but in a fair and sportsmanlike way. Our school should realize this and the student body recognize it. In a few years all of these boys will be side by side in defense of America. A lot better feeling between schools could be brought about if the good in others could be seen instead of the imaginary bad. It is up to every Davidson man to realize this and not be critical of other schools. Every school has its black sheep and these are usually the ones who edge on hard feeling between truly great institutions. There is a great difference between this and school spirit and we should distinguish between the two in an effort to better relations between the various schools. Since the All-Star game gave the boys a chance to really know the next fellow maybe it would not be a bad idea for all-star games in every sport. Surely a fine chance to recognize men in the making. Such close companionship tends to make stronger men, better schools, greater character and a true school spirit. Greenville has done one thing above all else—It has made twenty-three N. C. football players see the good in one another and know that Carolina has some of the finest college men in the country. Just look around and you will soon agree with me and you don’t have to look far or long.

VOS.

With The Rains Especially—

Mr. Tony Darby, Editor,
The Davidsonian,
Dear Tony,

Frankly I’m not using capitals just to attract attention, and what I have to say needs to attract some attention from the proper authorities. The some four hundred students who walk behind Chambers down by the old gym use that path more than most of the paved walks and I’m advocating a little pavement slung along here to keep us from slinging mud at our friends. Since I’m a senior myself I’m too selfish to wait on our senior gift fund, yours for a better Davidson,

Selfish Senior

And If You're Reading Everything—

Although the phrase may seem a little overworked, The Davidsonian wishes the student body, faculty and other readers a very merry Christmas and a happy New Year. Duties this week are here listed:
Page 1—McIntosh.
Page 3—Erwin.
Page 4 (Sports)—MacLean.
Page 5—Lyman.
Page 6—Eve.
Assignments—Fulcher.

With The Staff By CHARLES BROCKMANN

THE NIGHT OF THE SIXTEENTH

‘Twas the night of the sixteenth, and all through the college
Not even a Phi Bete was thirsting for knowledge;
Their texts were all stacked on the tables with care,
In hopes that for Wednesday they needn't prepare;
And I, in my bed after Gangbusters’ thriller,
Had just settled down for a bit of Glenn Miller
When out in the hall there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
The unruly Frosh, in the midst of the night,
With buckets and water had started to fight.
Away to the door I flew with a howl,
Stuffed bottom and sides with Roommate’s clean towel.
Impatient and angry, I crawled back in bed
As visions of homicide danced through my head.
By a quarter of twelve the last shot had been fired,
For even the Freshmen sometimes get tired,
Ignoring the water that inward did seep,
I yanked up the covers, and was shortly asleep.
Too soon was I snatched from this subconscious state
By the clock on the desk that said quarter-past-eight.
My cuts were all taken, alack and alas—
I had just ten minutes to make it to class!
As Freshmen involved in a Shirt-tail will run,
So went I to class like the shot from a gun.
I entered the door and was settling down,
When into the room came the prof with a bound.
His tone told me soonI had nothing to lose by enjoying the usual first-period snooze. In this fashion, the time did most rapidly vanish, and, ere I could think, I was headed for Spanish. “Just Chapel and English!” I breathed with a sigh, “Then classes and textbooks and studies—goodbye!” The English professor—a jolly old elf, I laughed when I saw him in spite of myself. A wink of his eye and a twist of his head soon gave us to know we had nothing to dread. He spoke not a word, but started to work and wrote on the board; then turned with a jerk, put his hand on his desk, the rollbook to close, and, giving a nod, from his chair he arose. And I heard him exclaim as we hurried away, “Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good day!”

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Friday and Saturday
December 12 and 13
SWAMP WATER
Walter Brennan, Walter Huston, Anne Baxter, Dana Andrews, Virginia Gilmore, John Carradine, and Mary Howard.

Vereen Bell’s saga of the life and loves of the simple people living near Georgia’s great Okefenokee Swamp has finally been produced. Of particular interest to all Davidson men is the fact that the author is himself a Davidson man, having graduated about ten years ago. To quote from a review of the production appearing in Time magazine, “With a few reefs in the story slack, Twentieth Century-Fox’s ‘Swamp Water’ might have rated as one of the year’s Best Ten.” The review goes on to say that the director, Jean Renoir, has achieved a combination of overall good acting and atmospheric authenticity that should recommend it to anyone who doesn’t gauge his screen entertainment by the size of the player names which shine nightly from the marquees.

This is a story of the last, trackless, Okefenokee Swamp, and the simple existence led by the people who live on the edge of its black, mysterious waters. The plot is concerned with the happenings befalling Dana Andrews after he has gone out into the swamp in search of his dog “Trouble.” On his first night in the swamp, he meets Walter Brennan, who’d been sentenced to hang for murder, but who’d escaped from the sheriff. They become warm friends, and Dana agrees to look after Walter’s daughter, Anne Baxter. He proceeds to fall in love with her, and finding the whole “murder” was framed, locates the true murderer. The fadeout consists of a fight between Dana and Walter against the true murderer and his pal. “Trouble” appears at the right psychological moment, and the picture ends with wedding bells in the offering for the young couple.

Monday and Tuesday
December 15 and 16
RISE AND SHINE
Jack Oakie, George Murphy, Linda Darnell, Walter Brennan, and Milton Berle.

Strictly a football musical, in which funny man Oakie teaches the youngsters to carry the ball for dear old “Alma Mammy.” The picture is ablaze with bright music and Oakie’s expert clowning makes it extremely easy to take.

In case anyone is interested, here is a list of pictures showing over the Holidays.
December 17 — MARRY THE BOSS’S DAUGHTER.
December 18 and 19 — TOM, DICK, AND HARRY.
December 20 — FATHER TAKES A WIFE.
December 22 and 23 — HOLD BACK THE DAWN.
December 24 — ROAD AGENT.
December 25 — SMALL TOWN DEB.
December 26 and 27 — WHEN LADIES MEET.
December 29 and 30 — BIRTH OF THE BLUES.
December 31 — LADY SCARFACE.

I would like for Pat Williams to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this coming week. MERRY CHRISTMAS!

The Fifth Columnist
By ????

You can imagine how surprised the columnist was when that picture appeared last week. There really is a lot of resemblance and I really hope the ed. will continue the use of it. With functions of three fraternities this weekend, you’d think that picking up dope would be as easy as endorsing checks, but either the stories on the three dances were too good to print or too mild to be stories, so we'll do the best we can with a long and red face.

One story that slipped through the keyholes concerns one lovely and radiant Phi Gam date whom DICK O'HAIR insisted on carrying to Rock Hill to avoid the snaking and scheming ALF TAYLOR. RALPH WILLIAMS’ date sent him one of those last-minute (I'll let MR. GAFFNEY explain it) messages the day before the Fiji function. The Fireman’s Hall was literally ablaze with Phi Gams and dates. Sigma Alpha Epsilon entertainment centered around a game of Sniff, that sensational chummy game which has been promoted by MAC (I’ve won by a nose) BRUCE. One big-time Alabama newspaper carried a picture of WEBSTER McLEOD’S sensational BONNIE DELL BOYD, whose engagement was announced this week to some lieutenant. Nice work, WEBBIE.

LEWIS BIBB pulled a new one this weekend in the act of spending the night on one of the benches or somewhere in the bus station. RHEA DABNEY finds out something new about the same bus station. When he started in through the door that operates through the efforts of an electric eye, he found to his dismay that it wouldn’t open without a second person with him. Could this be the reason some of his “friends” call him SHADOW?

Jumping JACK WESTALL made his weekly pilgrimage to the shrine of his bride-to-be. PAT RUDOLPH looks forward to Mid-Winters with PHOEBE from BEEVY coming down. Then there’s the story concerning LONG JOHN BELK, HUGH SPRUNT, ED LUCAS, and PETER YOUNG, when they topped all with a subpoena to save a negro from charges of manslaughter in Virginia this week.

Sponsoring for the Sigma Phi Epsilon dance at the Woman's Club was PETE MONROE of Charlotte who tripped down from the sorority pledge dance at Carolina with the crew of JIMMIE FULCHER, ED ERWIN, BILL LYMAN et al., to make this a fine weekend. CORNFLOWER-MAIZE LYMAN was last seen at Carolina looking up some alleged cousin whom it turned out had transferred to U. T. three years ago.

The WILEY-THOMPSON-WOOTEN affair admits two members as Charlotte’s own glamour girl is planning to witness LONG JOHN BELK’S performance Saturday night and will be escorted by FRAG-RAISER WATT of the RY (0). PETE WHITTLE left last Thursday on a hunting trip and shot nothing but shells for three days. Not even a rabbit! And speaking of rabbits—Well, the columnist had better crawl in his hole for the night.

Down Pat
By PAT RUDOLPH

AMERICAN YOUTH VS. THE RISING SUN

The tremendous significance of the events of last Sunday and Monday cannot be completely ignored by anyone who is in his right mind. Steaming and zooming toward American islands silently and slimily even while grinning, slant-eyed Nippon envoys Nomura and Kuruso were still making diplomatic negotiations in Washington, Japanese naval vessels and aircraft displayed in true form a perfect example of yellow treachery and axis falsehoodery. Even while the two photogenic ambassadors from Hirohito were presenting an official document to Secretary Hull, the Philippines and Hawaii were being attacked by the planes and ships bearing the insignia of the Rising Sun. All this has been repeated again and again by radios and newspaper extras, and there is no need for repetition here.

Wheeler, Fish
What was significant to American youth was the “coming around” of Senator Wheeler and Representative Fish. Wheeler’s now-famous “Lick hell out of ’em,” and Fish’s dramatic, fiery talk in the House after the President's address, were incidents that served to instill in youth once more a confidence in a unified legislature and a unified nation, devoid of personal obsessions. These utterings served to make the Senate vote unanimous and the House (with the exception of one over-sentimental example of the female species) did the same. This Representative Jeanette Rankin repeated her spectacular performance of 1917.

Local Significance
Now we come to the local significance of the war situation. Davidson College students actually took the news seriously! They actually wanted to get out of classes for the purpose of listening to F. D. R.’s speech to the joint session of Congress.

Declaration Day
The scene:—Monday, September 8, 1941, 12:45 P. M., the boarding house belt of Davidson, N. C. Seen walking to lunch later than usual: many Davidson students who had been listening to their President. Around every available radio forgetting their meat and potatoes, hundreds of students huddled. Their faces weren’t sad; their collective expressions were a study of American youth as it accepted the grim reality of war in their time. Sandwiched uncomfortably between two of the worst conflicts in the annals of mankind, our generation accepted these grim facts seriously but not cowardly; coolly, but not with a blasé air about them. I don’t believe that we were stunned, because for the past two years we've “joked” about when we were going to Europe, and whether we could finish the school year. No, we took it in our stride. After all, when you've been hearing nothing but communiqués about dead and wounded, London bombing, Russian defiance, etc., for the past several months, one becomes immune to any more shocks, even though this news struck much, much closer home. Seeing Gary Cooper's portrayal of “Sergeant York” last week also had something to do with our calm and serious attitude.

Sense Of Humor
The situation is not without its humor, which can originate with facility in Davidson. Even now as I write, a voice over the radio has (Continued on Page Five)