Thursday, March 20, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN > Page Five

Among THE GREEKS

BETA THETA PI.
The new furniture, which came Friday morning, was initiated in an informal way during the past weekend. Those who helped initiate it were: Miss Mary Jo Frissell, Dot Stevens, Miss Eleanor Barn, Miss Margaret Sharpe, all from Burlington; Miss Jean Welsh, Miss Mary Lisk, Eva Johnson, Sarah Thompson, Marguerite Mason, Gladys Webster, Tony Lockman, all from Charlotte; Miss Polly Alice Withers, Miss Virginia Jones from High Point; Miss Lucille Paton from Fayetteville; Miss Becky Howell from Salem; Yvonne Stewart from Salem; Miss Ann Eden from King’s Mountain; Miss Anne Fields from Sullens; Lib Lail and Emma Lib Bell from Rock Hill. Old alumni back were: Ed Morrow, Bill Howell, and Gales McClintock. Saturday night marked our third banquet of the year, which was held in the gold room of the Hotel Barringer.

PI KAPPA ALPHA.
Dates for the dances included Misses Betsy Russell, Phyl Crook, Nancy Saunders, Doris Edgar, Elmina Shelton, Virginia Knowles, and Sue Jones. Brother Jack Abels visited his home in High Point. Pledge Franny Gilman paid a visit to Belmont, while Brother Brockmann toured to Barium. Brother Dave Henderson went home to Wallace, N. C., and Brother Vosburgh went to Roanoke, Va. Brother Ross Parks attended a dance at W. C. Brother Scott made several fleet tours in the vicinity of Davidson, while Brothers Overby and Byers visited Raleigh. Pledge Pearsall spent some time in Charlotte. Visitors during the weekend were Mr. I. N. Henderson, father of Brother Dave Henderson, and Brother Bub Coltrane.

KAPPA ALPHA.
The Scabbard and Blade military dances kept the brothers on campus and in the near vicinity for the entire weekend. Very few of the brothers came out of class and had dates, but most of the chapter was found at the dances one night or the other. Before the Saturday night dance, the chapter and dates enjoyed a delicious supper at the home of Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Belk, parents of Brother John Belk, in Charlotte. Also attending this event were Dr. and Mrs. C. A. Richards, Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood, and Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson. The chapter wishes to take this opportunity to thank Mr. and Mrs. Belk and those who helped her for their thoughtfulness in giving this wonderful party. The regular Sunday night feed came off as usual this week, under the faltering guidance of Pinkerton. Guests for the evening were Miss Nancy Akers of Charlotte with Brother Wallace, and Robert Carter and “Angel” Terrell of Phi Delt fame. Brother George McWilliams of Lawrenceville, Ky., was initiated into the chapter at the regular meeting Thursday night. Dates for the weekend were: Miss Nancy Jane King of Bristol, Va., Miss Rosa Sims of Rock Hill, S. C., Miss Mary Elizabeth Jones of Johnson City, Tenn., Miss Margaret Williams of Philadelphia, Miss Rosaly Reid of Charlotte, Miss Nancy McClung of Winston-Salem, Miss Betsy Hightower of Washington, D. C., Miss Alla Rommel of Louisville, Ky., Miss Mott Sevaine of Concord, Miss Peggy Parsley of Charlotte, Miss Arabelle Boyer of Charlotte.

S.A.E.
The N. C. Theta chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon takes pleasure in announcing the initiation of eleven new brothers. The newly initiated members are: Brother Earl Bethea, of Dillon, S. C.; Brother James McDuffie Bruce, of Greenville, S. C.; Brother James McAllister Carson, of Charlotte; Brother Loftin Perry Fuqua, of Milan, Tennessee; Brother Elmer Wesley Graves, of Greensboro; Brother James Harris of Wilmington; Brother Roy Hunt, of Greenville, S. C.; Brother Robert McGeachy, of Greensboro; Brother James Boren Millikan, of Greensboro; Brother Richard Port, of Winston-Salem; and Brother Robert Otto Preyer, of Greensboro. The chief social event of the last weekend was the Military Ball, and practically all the brothers could be found in the friendly city. Following the Friday night dance, an informal fraternity feed was held at the chapter house. The regular limber banquet, held at the S. & W., got under way at seven o'clock sharp Saturday evening. Brother McLean was ably assisted in his duties by Brothers Rogers and Crichton, who sat in the toastmaster’s seat with such able exponents of wit and humor as American. The numerous big operators and the dates they managed to secure for the weekend are as follows: Davidson, Miss Dot Hagood, of Easley, S. C.; James Grantham escorted Miss Lucile McDuffie, of Columbus, Ga.; Hector McLean brought Miss Shirley Thompson, of Dillon, S. C.; Herbert Coddington arrived with Miss Mary Mathews, of Wilmington; Bob Smith escorted Miss Sally Stag, of Pomona; Miss Mary Carson Jones, of Charlotte; Southdoor Jones brought Miss Norma Dozier of Rocky Mount; Frank Caldwell brought Miss Marcella Clark, of High Point; Clarence Anderson came with Miss Anne Hackney, of Live Oak, Fla.; Ed Lucas brought Miss Anna Tomlinson, of High Point; Claude Hackney brought Miss Betsy Armistead, of Richmond; George Tate brought Miss Spotty Coan, of Winston-Salem; John Crichton brought Miss Martha Withers of Davidson; Bill Faison came with Tena Grainger, of Charlotte; Alva Lumpkin arrived with Miss Willodene Rion, of Columbia, S. C.; Roy Hunt brought Miss Kitty Ward of Greenville, S. C.; Jim Harris escorted Miss Kitty McCoy, of Wilmington; and Buddy Carson escorted Miss Nancy O'Herring, of Charlotte. George Ficklen and Marie Pons joined the brothers in the weekend festivities.

Kappa Sigma
Guests of the chapter over the weekend were: Misses Betty and Edna Sprunt of Winston-Salem, Vi Johnson of Greensboro, Catherine Powell of Fayetteville, Jean Stafford of Greensboro, Dotty Groome of Atlanta, Jo Henry of Salem, Nancy Blackford, Spartanburg, Martin Watson, Spartanburg; Amanda Parsley, Charlotte; Betty Waldron, Gwendolyn Hubbard, Wilkesboro; Anne Wiley, Charlotte; Jean Meredith, Lawrenceville, Va.; Lib Reid, Long Island, N. Y.; Rosalind Brummit, Henderson; Helen Sutton, Kinston; Catherine McGeachy, Fayetteville; Marie Griffin, Darien; Liza Lundsford, Roanoke, Va.; and Carol McDaniel, Spartanburg. Other visitors included Brother Hector McGeachy of Fayetteville and Abie Short of High Point, and George Peters of Kingsport, Tenn. After the set, several deals were pulled by the brothers in culminating the weekend. Notable among these occurred when Brothers Finley and Williams went to North Wilkesboro via Montreat, and Wee McGee journeyed to Hartsville, S. C. in quest of solace.

Pi Kappa Phi.
Due to the dances, the Pi Kapps strayed off campus this weekend. Brothers Nive and Plunkett managed to take in Greensboro and Newt Edwards went to Rock Hill. Burwell Armstrong, Bobby Gaither, and Clarence McArthur made their weekly visit to their homes in Gastonia, Newton, and Charlotte, respectively. Pledges Horace Robinson and Carl Fisher went to their homes in Kannapolis. Brother Garvey spent the weekend (on his weak end) at his home in Winston-Salem. The dances and Charlotte claimed most of the other brothers. Guests of the chapter were Misses Caroline Gayden, Mary Catherine McArthur, Virginia Niven, and Peggy Hite. The chapter is happy to announce the pledging of Horace Robertson and Carl Fisher of Kannapolis, N. C.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

JOHNSON’S “THE BEST” BARBER SHOP

Winds Blow To Declare Spring Airs
Annual Hack of Spring Fever Already Felt By Students.

Spring is already evident on the campus. As you walk to lunch tomorrow, look closely at the flower beds in front of some of the college residents. As you go to the post office, look up at the brown buds already on the trees. Observe the green grass in front of Chambers where freshmen have not tread. Listen to the windowpanes quiver as the spring winds blow.March winds blow hard enough to blow all the red caps away. Once in a while we may have a nasty rain, but these spring showers do not last long. This is a hard time of year to study; everybody wants to be outside. It is a pity that many fellows have deferred or re-examinations. The cow-pasture pool and the tennis courts are the places where we wish to be. This is one time of the year that we wish to take it easy. We may even faint from exhaustion; but we delight in being out in the spring weather.

Looking at spring in another way, we can see the disadvantage of the season. We do not want to exert ourselves to do something which we do not desire to do and often do not feel like doing. We come in from drill in a hot uniform with all our pep gone. By lunch time each day we are so tired and hot that we do not feel capable of attending afternoon classes. Our rooms are uncomfortable for studying. We have no energetic power to cause us to do something which we do not want to do.

Now we want to put our heavy clothes in the moth balls, roll up our sleeves, and discard our coats, wearing them only when it is very necessary. A hat makes us hot-headed. We pluck a flower from somebody's yard to adorn our lapel. We want freedom from stiff society's manners. We want to be outside enjoying the lovely spring weather. Here's hoping that we have no more cold weather or spring snows—nothing but the warm sunshine of spring.

—STIM JIMSON.

Phi Gamma Delta.

During the past week-end, most of the Phi Gams remained on the campus and enjoyed the Military Set. Nearly all of the Fijis were to be found dancing to the music of Sylvester at at least one of the dances. Phi Gam dates over the weekend were: Ann Glover and Betsy Glass of Randolph-Macon, Caroline Taylor of Carolina, Sarah Taylor of W. C., Peggy Taylor of Morristown, Bea Wimbish of G. C., Joella Craig of Agnes-Scott, Dottie Hutchins of Sweet Briar, Jane Lee Lewis of Mary Baldwin, Susan Buchanan of U. T., Martha Brandon of Scotland Neck, Louise Nichols of Rock Hill, Nelle Rhodes of V. I., Mackey S. C., Margie Embody, Jane Kirkpatrick, Mona Moseley, Kathryn Langham, Frances Hull, and Miriam Hobbs of Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta enjoyed a banquet Saturday night before the dance at Thackers. Alumni present over the weekend were: B. B. Plyer, George Richmond, Dave Miller, and Ed Manning.

Phi Delta Theta.

Highlighting the weekend for Phi Delta Theta were the following [Continued on Page Six]

King of U Call FORBIS INS. AGENCY Phone 5391 — Office Drug Bldg. INSURANCE OF ALL KINDS Real Estate & F. H. A. Building Loans

SEE US FOR EASTER CARDS @EGG DYE BASKETS @CANDY EGGS @EASTER RABBITS SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N.C.

OFFICERS OF DAVIDSON STUDENT BODY

Davidson's student body officers for the 1941-42 year, chosen in last week's elections are, from left to right: Albert Winn of Greenville, S. C., president; Ashby Dick of Sumter, S. C., first vice-president; John Belk of Charlotte, N. C., second vice-president; and Pat Williams of North Wilkesboro, N. C., secretary and treasurer. The new electees will take office before the end of the school year.

Making Of Decisions

MAGAZINE READY

According to Paul Bumbarger, editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks, the magazine should be ready for circulation the latter part of this week. It was sent to the printer about a week ago. Bumbarger said that this will be the last issue to be put out by the present staff. Stories by Archie Taylor and Gordon Horton will be featured along with a satire by Myron Sandifer. Dan Hodges and John Northcross have prepared their usual cartoons.

Band Concert Presented By Davidson Men

Erb and Watkins Give Solos On Program.

Tonight at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers the Davidson Symphonic Band under the direction of James Christian will present a concert. Featured on the program as soloists will be Norris Erb, Trombone, and B. L. Watkins, Marimba. The program for the concert is as follows:

Fanfare. “The Star-Spangled Banner” — Francis Scott Key. Chorale, “If Thou Be Near” — Johann Sebastian Bach. Elsa's Procession to the Cathedral from “Lohengrin” — Richard Wagner. Solo (Selected) — Norris Erb, Trombone. Russian Sailors Dance — Gliere. National Victors Concert March — Olivadoti. Song of the Bayou — Rube Bloom. Solo (Selected) — B. L. Watkins, Marimba. Indian Love Call from “Rose Marie” — Friml. Headlines (a Modern Rhapsody) — Carleton Colby. All Hail! O Davidson! — Maxwell. Davidson, Our Alma Mater — Waring Ballard. O Davidson — Ringwald Shields.

STEINWAY PIANOS HAMMOND ORGANS LATEST VICTOR DECCA COLUMBIA BLUE BIRD RECORDS ANDREWS MUSIC CO. 231 North Tryon Street

Dr. Gwynn Stresses: Success Comes From Choosing the Right Things Today.

Dr. Price Gwynn, professor of Psychology at Davidson, delivered the address at Vespers last Sunday night. The theme of the sermon was taken from Joshua 24, the fifteenth verse: “Choose you this day whom you will serve.” Dr. Gwynn stressed the importance of the fact that there can be no neutrality in moral and spiritual realms, repeating the thoughts expressed in the farewell address of Joshua. In this farewell address, Joshua stated that he and his family would follow the Lord through all difficulties. Christ said, “He that is not for us is against us.” The responsibility of life is to choose sides and to follow the guidance of God, who sent His Son to save the world from all sin.

Borderline Christian.

There are so many Christians who exist in their religious life so much on the border that they do no good, some come so late that they also do no good. There are no material rewards to be expected from leading a Christian life. Many sacrifices must be made to become a true Christian. God must either be put first or dismissed completely as in atheism; there can be no halfway station.

Choices Important.

The choices that we make today will determine the destiny of Davidson and the country. Dr. Gwynn recalled the instance of a boy who was at Davidson a few years ago; he commanded no great respect in the eyes of the students while he was here but unknown to him, he greatly increased the heritage of the college by helping many students to find themselves. In closing, Dr. Gwynn gave three important points for choosing the right path to follow. They were: “The facts of truth must be discovered and abided by.” “Small decisions of life must be promptly and correctly decided when they are made.” “The heart must be set on some worthy objective and this aim must be followed.”

It is up to us to save the heritage of Christianity from the pagan philosophy now sweeping the world. We have to carry on the influence of Christ.

Now Playing JAMES CAGNEY Olivia DeHavilland In “STRAWBERRY BLONDE” With RITA HAYWORTH Late Show Sat. Nite “A GIRL, A GUY and A GOB” With GEORGE MURPHY and LUCILLE BALL IMPERIAL

Tate-Brown’s Young Men’s Shop Presents THE EXCLUSIVE DRAPERTOWN STYLED BY VARSITY-TOWN

FIVE BUTTON VEST CENTER VENT DEEP PLEATED TROUSERS

As individual as your signature ... with its lower pockets ... its center vent ... its full-chested body ... its correctly notched lapels. Come in today, and see your coat... “Drapertown Notch 3”... in Varsity-Town’s latest flannels, gabardines and shetlands! 27.50 to 37.50

Blending Accessories Hickok Belts and Jewelry, Arrow Shirts, Ties and Handkerchiefs, Interwoven Sox

Young Men’s Shop 3rd Floor TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.