Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 20, 1941

The Eyes Embarrass Davidson Gentleman

He Is the Master of Every Situation But the Common One of Greeting.

Is the Davidson “gentleman” the master of all situations, social or otherwise? To hear him talk, it would seem that
he has everything under control at all times and never is caught off guard, no matter how embarrassing the situation.
He is able even to wiggle out of a situation involving two dates to one dance set (it has been
done), or maintain at least a vestige of dignity when severely cut by a professor. But if he is the
master of these, there is another little situation occurring many times every day which takes the most blasé of our
students down a notch or two.

The little matter of what to do with the eyes when approaching a schoolmate on one of the many walks
on the new campus is solved only by those on the campus who give no greeting at all. Many and
various are the solutions tried to relieve the embarrassment of this little situation. In the course of your daily (or
twice or three times daily) walk down to the Post Office, you are sure to run into one of the
BMOC or prospective BMOC type (any junior about this time of the year). With a technique all his own, he
usually strides down the walk in a crowd and apparently doesn’t see you as he suddenly begins to admire the
beauty of the trees, starts a deep conversation, or starts thinking. When he suddenly sees you, he comes out with
a hearty “Hello Joe, what do you know?” It doesn’t matter whether your name is Joe or not. He then
strides off assured of one more vote in the coming elections.

Then in contrast, you meet the timid type. At the first of the year, this type included all freshmen, but
that can’t be said today. He demurely looks at the ground in front of his feet and if he happens
to catch your eye, he is so embarrassed. Then his greeting is friendly, but he seldom calls you by name
for fear that he might get it wrong.

Type 3 is the stud. While considering some weighty problem known only to himself, he stares right through you without
seeing a thing. This can be rather disconcerting, since you don't know whether to stare back or start admiring the
beautiful grass, but you come to the conclusion after he has passed you that he didn’t see you at all
but was way up in the clouds.

When on the rare occasions you see a boy walking with that rare phenomenon, a girl, the greeting is most
pleasant and hearty. One wants to impress the girl with the fact that he is a BMOC and knows everyone,
and the other is just naturally friendly to anyone accompanied by a girl.

Professors are greeted with everything from “How're you, Doc,” to “How do you do, Sir.” The particular prof has a
lot to do with this.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.
[Continued from Page Two]

ney to emit smoke in that neighborhood. A central heating plan for the eleven buildings was considered but this would
have necessitated a twelfth building with coal bins, and would have required two firemen during the winter months. These details
are given to show that the plan now in effect was not hastily adopted. If it were not for extending
this article too far, it would be interesting to the students now in College to know to what extent our
fraternity housing plan has attracted national attention, and the number of institutions that have adopted our plan or a modification
of it. Several chapter magazines, and one or more of the national fraternity journals, have described the plan and commended
the idea. Davidson was the first college to inaugurate such a plan.

Very truly yours,
F. L. JACKSON, Treasurer.

MUSIC FRATERNITY TO.
[Continued from Page One]

the beauty of their tonal quality and depth of shading.” On Monday night the program will consist of selections by
Bach, Gluck, Ravel, and the Blue Danube Waltzes. Also featured on the program will be Mozart’s “Concerto E Flat Major”
and Aren-

Library Buys Latest Books

The Davidson College Library acquired four novels last week, among them, Swamp Water, by Vereen Bell. The author of this
book graduated from Davidson a few years ago. The story concerns the experiences of a boy who is led by
fate into a great swamp.

The other novels are: Random Harvest by James Hilton, author of Lost Horizon and Good-bye Mr. Chips. Mr. Hilton’s latest
story deals with life in England before the present war. The Fields of Paradise by Ralph Bates is a story
of an honest Mexican laborer in conflict with the ruthless powers of an unscrupulous municipal government. W. J. Cash in
his The Mind of the South analyzes and interprets the philosophy, temperament, and social customs of the South.

AMONG THE GREEKS.
[Continued from Page Five]

Among the girls who were guests: Misses Ditty Smith, Madison, Fla; Peggy Gordon, Greensboro; Deenie Jefferies and Florence Hamrick of
Gaffney, S. C.; Jean Miller, Greensboro; Sara Dease, Goldsboro; Ernestine Norvell, Tracy City, Tenn.; Ann Hunt, Washington, D. C.; Libby
Jones, Charlotte; Mary Lee Phillips, Spartanburg; Flora McDonald, Dillon, S. C.; and Betty Wannamaker of Orangeburg, S. C.

A feed was held at the lodge in the early hours of Saturday morning followed by an informal sing session
around the fireside. Brothers Stevenson and Sproull slipped off to Clinton and P. C. and Brother Hobbie went to his
home in Roanoke for the weekend. Pledges Coslett and Pierce journeyed to Farmville and Greenville.

Several brothers from Duke visited the chapter over the weekend, among them Brother Tyson Betty, formerly of this chapter. The
chapter is looking forward with interest to the visit of Brother Roland Parker, President of our province, who will be
our guest Tuesday. He is an alumnus of Davidson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon.

All of the Sig Eps attended the dances this weekend, and everyone reported a fine time. The Hic Ups for
the dances were Francis Bethel; Jean Meredith, Charlotte; Betty Wannamaker, Orangeburg, S. C.; Margaret Steele Hubbard, Charlotte; Mary Lawrence Porter,
Asheville, N. C.; Rosalin Edmondson, Huntersville, N. C.; Mae McDaniels, Kinston; Vivian Peace, Andrews, S. C.; and Carol Macy, Miami,
Fla.

Brother Babe Edmondson made that weekly trip to Greensboro and Gay Dog Hollar went to Hickory. Brothers W. Knox, Richard
Bobbit, and Brown went to Charlotte Sunday. Brother Tarleton went to South Carolina. MacDaniels was in Greensboro and Cobb and
Galbreath went to Thomasville to watch chairs be made. Datis and Behrman worked in Charlotte Friday and Saturday nights. Fulcher
went to Red Springs.

HOGG, CARTER, OWENS.
[Continued from Page Four]

Leod are pushing the starting gardenmen. In the catcher’s slot, Captain Rusty Edmonson will do most of the work. Other
men out for the place behind the plate are Paul Kissling and Don Caterson, both of whom have shown up
well in practice games. Mound duties are being shared by Bill Grosse, Jack Davis, Ed Lucas, Bob Carter, and Mac
Morris.

THE BEST GROCERIES THE BEST PRICES
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY
DAVIDSON, N. C.C. sky’s Suite Opus No. 15.

Corner

This must be the real season for deputations. Hint to Freshmen: Keep working now so when you're seniors you'll be
valuable on deputations to schools like Converse, Winthrop, Queens, and W. C. U.N.C. Had lately.

A senior asked the other day if there could be any possible way to have students enter chapel quietly. He
feels that this kind of entrance would make for a more thoughtful and useful service. What do you think? And
do you have any idea what to do to bring it about?

Quiet some fine ones there as this Vaughn Brock is not quiet in his work as Hall Meeting Report Collector...
Have you seen Joe Murray hard at work lately with the Lost and Found? He is.

Last Sunday we had 16 men go to the Sanatorium to teach Sunday School. The “Pepsi-Pushit” was really loaded. Long
overdue orchids to faithful John Talmadge for running these details every Sunday. Have you ever thought how many such behind-the-scenes
jobs are done, anyway?

Mr. Safley, Scout Executive, comes over quite often these days in getting the troops around here in order. Remember the
Scout chapel service? Davis Thomas, Mac Bruce, and Miller to how Johnnie are running a mighty good Ping-Pong tournament.

Our Reverend Mr. Pritchett is really giving us something to think about on Sunday mornings. And many students are getting
up that early, too. He also led a fine discussion in a Prayer Group Session the other night. Have you
ever been over to see the hut given by you as the Christmas Gift Fund last year? You might enjoy
a trip that way, so trip on over...

Jimmie Fulcher, hard-working man heading our local Hi-Y, ran a nice banquet the other night in Mooresville. Girls and everything.
Nice...

Dr. Gwynn is a real preacher. Right? Right. If you won't come down and give the “Y” criticism, write us
a letter.

Yours,
SHAW SMITH.

JUDGES DECIDE.
(Continued from Page One)

of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is president of the Forensic Council. Drury Thompson is vice-president and a member of Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity. Al Winn is debate chairman and also a member of Theta Pi. Frank Barker is a senior
and a member of Phi Beta.

Campus Camera

INDIAN COLLEGE FROM 1654 TO 1698 BUT ONLY ONE INDIAN

TEXAS CHRISTIAN U. HAS AN EXHIBIT OF BIBLES WHICH INCLUDES SOME PRINTED AS FAR BACK AS 1380.

In order to attend the U. of Oregon, a student traveled alone 1,700 miles from Sitka, Alaska, in a 16-foot
dory.

Physics Club Studies Light

Sigma Pi Sigma Physics fraternity held a meeting Monday night with three new members being initiated: Frank Caldwell, Jack White,
and Blanton Williamson. Ben Lacy was to be initiated but could not be present. After the initiation, John McLucas read
a paper on “Black Light.” Black light is the part of the ultraviolet range which is emitted from mercury vapor
lamps. It is not visible but has the unique property of making things glow. It can be put to use
in modern warfare as well as in ordinary usage. Lines can be painted on roads which glow in the black
light from the headlight of transportation trucks. Neither the truck nor the road can be seen from the air but
the road can be seen by the driver of the truck. At the meeting were Professors Mebane and Fulcher and
Instructor William Page.

Gamma Delta fraternity, as is Bill Summers. Fred Morton, the sophomore member of the team, is a member of Sigma
Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Knox Building

Expert and Efficient Watch Repairing and Cleaning
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Spring

MARION DAVIS CO.
118 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Slacks OF FINE WOOLENS
Tailored to Fit Correctly
@ Gabardines
@ Flannels
@ Bedford Cords
$4.95 Up

Spring Sweaters Of Fine Domestic and Imported Wools. Slip-Overs, Sleeveless and Jackets. $2.20 UP

EDITORS ELECT.
(Continued from Page One)

Quips and Cranks in addition to The Davidsonian, and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Lacy McLean was chosen
as sports editor of the paper. McLean is the sports publicity agent of the college and a member of Kappa
Alpha fraternity; he is from Charlotte, N. C. These men were elected to their positions by the present editors in
a special meeting last Monday night.

REDS ROUT
(Continued from Page Four)

Washburn’s passing was true. Ben Pitt Moore gave the outstanding performance among the linemen with hard tackling and blocking. Alf
Taylor looked good on defense for the Blacks. Bethea’s kicking kept the Blacks from danger on several occasions.

Secretary of Y. M. C. A. Has As His Subject “Spiritual Development.”

Speaking to the student Sunday-school class on March 16, Shaw Smith presented a few practical hints for spiritual development. He
pointed out that when Christ came to earth, he came not only to tell but to show how to lead
the better life. That visit meant more to us, both Christians and non-Christians, than we realize. It has affected our
dating system, has established many holidays, and has changed our lives in many external ways beside the change wrought on
religion. Since this visit has influenced our lives so much, let us investigate it.

Here at Davidson we have semi-Christian and non-Christian elements. Most of us are semi-Christian, and the in-between mass which constantly
vacillates. We must stick to one side. Because we are free thinkers, we are not pushed enough in our beliefs,
and thus don’t make any definite stand.

Questions.

Shaw then asked a series of practical questions for us to ask ourselves to determine what stand we are taking.
What do we use the quiet music in church for? Do we really sing hymns or are we just saying
words? How much faith do we have in prayer? Do we really pray or are we just mumbling words? Our
attitude toward such things as church and prayer will ultimately determine whether we have a satisfying faith or not. If
we really try, we can let these few suggestions help us to develop a more satisfying faith.

Live Convictions.

After we take a definite stand, we must live our Religion. Men on the campus expect us to be as
good as we are; if we are not we are hypocrites. We can never know the satisfaction of the Christian
religion unless we live it. “It's not what you say or what you do: It's what you are!”

GIRLS FEATURE.
(Continued from Page One)

she left four hours before she was supposed to. The “one and only” boys almost without exception report that everything
was perfect. If possible their love-sickness and “drooling” increased. Several such couples are reported to have completed wedding plans, if
the draft doesn’t interfere. Whatever type date one had down, whatever the results may have been, there’s always the next
dance set to look forward to.

COLDS
FIGHT MISERY where you feel it—rub on fast-acting VICKS VAPORUB

DAVIDSON WILDCAT PENCILS—Fine Line

DAVIDSON SERVICE DRUG STORE

THE ORDER OF THE DAY IS Chesterfield

U.S. S. Signalman GRAY is host to BRENDA JOYCE Hollywood Favorite

MILDER | COOLER...BETTER-TASTING

Yes, the Fleet smokes a lot of Chesterfields...and so do millions of other smokers like yourself. You’ll find that Chesterfields
are MILD, the way you want a cigarette... not flat, not strong. They SMOKE COOLER... with a decidedly BETTER TASTE.

You can buy a better cigarette

DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES... IT'S THE SMOKER'S CIGARETTE

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
