Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 10, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Member: Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JACK COVINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Bob Garvey

Associate Editor
Bobby Carter
Dick Cobb
Wit Giehiutkettn
Al Winn
Ed Erwin
Joe Eve
Jimmy Fulcher
Bill Lythan
Henry McIntosh

Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor

Sports Editor
David Vosbittgh

Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Dick Kelly
Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Bus Seat
Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt
John Crichton
Baxter Freeze

Assistant Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Collection Manager
Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain profanity, obscenity, destructive criticism, or derogatory reference to faculty or students. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

IN SYMPATHY
The Davidsonian wishes to express deepest sympathy to James Hogg in his bereavement due to the loss of his father.

DR. LINGLE—
Davidson College has recently closed another chapter of its history and has begun a new one—a new president has been inaugurated. With the cooperation of all connections of the school, he is expected to carry the college through its next era with the continual progress that has preceded. Our hearty welcome goes to him with best wishes for a successful presidency.

He succeeds a man whose love of the college is hard to excel. Perhaps the best expression of the students’ feeling toward their retiring president has been spoken by Hank Bahnson, president of the Student Body. His address, which was delivered to Dr. Lingle and the students, is printed below:

“I am reminded in beginning what I have to say of the tale of the fellow who passed the country church in Virginia upon which a placard was posted. He read in large letters ‘Strawberry Festival’ then below in the smaller print ‘Because of depression prunes will be served.’ What I have to say is very much like that for because of my ineloquence I feel that I can’t possibly do the subject justice. However, the record and personal contact of the students with the man himself speak more eloquently than any collection of syllables I might compose.

In the years that we as students have known him, we have come to recognize and appreciate his lofty character and ideals, his dignity without haughtiness, his ability to stand solid on the principles which he and we hold dear, his deep love and appreciation of his fellow man, his joy in the simple and true pleasures of life, and above all, the identification of his life with the Risen Lord and all for which He stands. He is the epitome of diplomacy, a truly great theologian and educator, and a staunch Christian.

In the Old Testament days, the Lord Almighty at various intervals selected men whom He believed were fit to be prophets of His Word. Though I don’t know the Lord’s criterion for such a man, I believe that Dr. Walter Lee Lingle is composed of the body, mind, and spirit of which prophets and men are made. I believe I speak the sentiments of the entire Student Body when I say many thanks for what you have done for us, even greater thanks for what you are and the inspiration you have been to us.”

DON’T MISS:
The letter sent in by Dr. O. C. Carmichael which appears under the heading, Letters to the Editor, on this page. He entitles his letter, “An Impression of Davidson College.”

Or the first of the series of columns to be written by Pat Rudolph which he has chosen to call “Down Pat.”

OUR ERROR—
In the last issue of The Davidsonian, it was printed that I. G. Balfour was elected president of the O. D. K. Convention. The man elected was Stan Balfour who succeeds Dr. Wilbur Norcross.

With The Staff
BY JIMMIE FULCHER

“Humble, sincere...,” “Filled with the Holy Spirit...,” “One of the few people who understands human nature...,” “No mannerisms—he doesn’t stand in the way of God or His message, for I can only think of God when he occupies the pulpit.” Who was talking, and of whom was he speaking? A member of a church congregation about a man who is familiar to most of the student body but a man who perhaps you really don’t know, or at least, whom you would like to know better—the Reverend Carl Ruffin Pritchett.

But let’s turn the clock back ten years. Thumbing through the leaves of the “Quips and Cranks” we come to page twenty-one, to the section devoted to the students. There we see what we would like to call the true “Davidson College Student” and beneath the picture the following inscription, “C. R. Pritchett, President of the Student Body.” This climaxed a brilliant college career. Continuing to turn the pages we come to read, “Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy; O. D. K.; Student Council; vice-president of Student Body; President of the Sophomore Class; Y. M. C. A. Cabinet; Varsity Debater; Captain of Freshman and Varsity Basketball; Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer of the Athletic Association; football squad; and numerous other activities.

This did not end his work at Davidson, however, for after graduation he was asked to return and serve in the capacity of “Y” secretary for two years. At Davidson, Mr. Pritchett said that he enjoyed philosophy more than any other subject taken. From his “Y” secretary post at Davidson, he entered Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. So fine was his record at Union that at the completion of his course he was offered the Hogg Fellowship, and so remained at Union for a year of research and to receive his Bachelor of Theology degree.

In 1936 he accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church of Smithfield, N. C. and there he remained in the pastorate’s position of that church until he came to Davidson last August as pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian church.

In a recent talk with one of the members of Mr. Pritchett’s congregation who served on the committee appointed to select the new minister of the church, she told the reporter, “You know we didn’t select him. We only prayed earnestly for God to reveal his choice and he was the answer to our prayer.” She continued, “The qualities which I think best describe him are these—humility, fierceness (by this she meant he is unafraid to speak out what he knows to be true and right), and his sincerity. I look forward to Sunday for he is a great comfort and inspiration even to us older ones.”

When one drops in at the Presbyterian manse just next to the college infirmary, he receives a warm welcome from a fine Christian family. Even if the parson is out, he still receives a cordial welcome from Mrs. Pritchett or the two lovely younger hostesses—Mary Anna, age three-and-a-half years, or little Peggy Jane, just one-and-a-half years younger—their dad’s delight. Mrs. Pritchett, like her husband, is a native of Reidsville, N. C. Before her marriage, then Anna Montgomery, Mrs. Pritchett was active in the work of the Southern Presbyterian Church and for several years did home mission work in the mountains of Virginia and West Virginia. She makes an ideal minister’s wife and is every inch the woman that Mr. Pritchett is the man.

Do you know our pastor? If you don’t you should, for he is a man who is a valuable counselor, a man with whom you can talk and feel perfectly at ease, a man with whom you can joke or discuss predestination, a man who really understands God’s love, and a man who is a real inspiration to all who know him. What his coming to Davidson has meant can partly be realized by worshiping with him on Sunday morning and witnessing the spirit that prevails. An inspiration, a valuable friend, a man of God—Carl R. Pritchett.

Letters to the Editor
From Chancellor of Vanderbilt:
Editor, the Davidsonian:

A visit to Davidson College leaves the impression that it is one of the really excellent liberal arts colleges of the country. Its reputation for quality of scholarship and of men in both the faculty and the student body is fully confirmed. Under the wise leadership of President Lingle, the institution has achieved an enviable position of leadership among American colleges. With the increased facilities now being provided and with its able new President, Dr. Cunningham, a new era of progress seems assured. I want to congratulate the students of Davidson College on the opportunity for real education which is theirs.

A considerable number of your graduates enroll in the graduate or professional schools of Vanderbilt University each year. The faculties of these schools refer with enthusiasm to the quality of men who come from Davidson College.

O. C. Carmichael,
Chancellor of Vanderbilt University.

From Senior Non-Fraternity
Dear Tony:

Well, there seems to have been some discussion about a faction between the fraternity and non-fraternity groups on the campus. It appears that the frat boys see no dissension or feeling and therefore no problem at all, while the non-frats seem pretty certain that there is a problem. There must have been something real in this though, or the question would not have been so widely cussed and discussed.

It is probably true that there is no feeling among the frat groups against the non-frats, but only an unconscious looking down on those who may not be members of the exclusive clique. Naturally, then, these fraternity boys would say that they didn’t see any feeling between the groups and would see no real matter. I think that it is likewise true that the non-frats have no enmity towards the frats, only a little resentment of that unconscious attitude of the frat boys that makes him feel left out. To the non-frat, the frat man appears tied up in his fraternity secrets and undesirous of the company of the non-frat because he is not “one of the boys” or one of the “good fellows,” but called by a well-known “listing” name. When, then, on some occasions, a frat goes out of his way to be nice to a non-frat, it is surprising that the latter wonders whether it was to get a vote or something similar or really an expression of friendship.

So what does the non-frat do about it? It hurts too much for him to feel that he really isn’t as good as the frat, so he builds up a defense mechanism, and very naturally it is that he comes to the conclusion that he must have something that the frats haven’t got, but would like to have. He figures that the frats are unconsciously jealous and through a defense mechanism try to look down on the non-frats. Vicious circle, you say; a lot of hypothetical theorizing—well, maybe so, but think about it, there might be something to it.It looks like making feel the non-frat reciprocates unconsciously too. What is to be done about this? Well, I think that that kind of feeling can never be eradicated completely, here, or anywhere else. We must try ourselves to be the real Golden Rule (because it holds here too), and be friendly to those in the other group. It seems to me that both groups have somewhat of a self-righteous and self-satisfied attitude. To sum up, we must remember the old Golden Rule and be friendly to those in the other group. I wonder why some thought that it [Continued on Page Six]

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

It’s spring, you know, and Thursday and Friday, April 10 and 11, we have “Footsteps In The Dark” starring Errol Flynn, Brenda Marshall, and Alan Hale. This is definitely a very exciting and enjoyable show. It deals with the life of society people in a large town. The plot is centered around the love of all the beautiful girls for Errol Flynn, who double-crosses them all by falling in love with an unknown. The acting is very good and the plot has a most unique idea.

Saturday, April 12
“Knockout”—Although I was unable to find out who plays in this show, it is listed as a very good movie. The setting is laid in the West near the border where a young boy decides to take up fighting for his career. He goes East to fight and has very good luck until he runs into the playboys of the town. It takes the love of a woman to finally straighten him out.

Monday and Tuesday, April 14 and 15
At the time this paper went to press, there was no definite show booked for these dates.

Wednesday
“Mother and The Girl”—The scene is laid in a small town where all of the affairs of the neighbors are known and discussed by everyone. The mother of Jean seems to try and run her daughter's life. The conditions become so hard for the girl that she finally runs away and marries Paul, the boy she is in love with. The acting is at times slow and boring, but the laughs are many and often. A very good show for Bargain Day.

I would like to have Shaw Smith as the guest of the theater for next week. This is the last time that many of you will have to be bored with my writing. I have enjoyed writing and trying to give the students an idea of all the previews. At times it has been hard to get material for this column and much of it has been incorrect, but I thank all of those who have helped me with any show during the past year. Wishing the entire new staff of the paper a lot of luck and thanking all the old members for their help, I say farewell and thanks.

Song Of The Sirens
By JULIEN McCALL

It looks like we're set for the beat of Charlie Spivak, the rage of the nation these past few months, and he seems destined to climb higher in the music world. He just completed a four-month engagement at the Island Casino and has moved on to packing them in at the Strand Theatre in New York City. Charlie has a short engagement at the swanky Ritz Club in Bridgeport, Connecticut just before he starts his southern tour. Featured with the band as vocalist is Gary Stevens, but the highlight of the entire combination is the silver-toned trumpet, mastered by Charlie himself, which is considered the sweetest in the world. Charlie has just come out with a brand new recording in “Everything Happens To Me,” backed by “Don't Cry” with Gary Stevens on the vocals. Another new disc by Spivak is “Two Hearts That Pass In The Night,” reversed by “I Understand” on the slow side with Gary Stevens again doing the vocals. All of Charlie’s recording is done for Okeh.

Okeh also presents a new disc of Gene Krupa’s in “Hamtramck” with “Wire Brush Stomp,” a fast drum-featured number on the other side. Benny Goodman has a new disc in “My Sister and I,” with Helen Forrest doing the vocalizing, reversed by “I'm Not Complainin’” in true Goodman style. Jimmy Dorsey has a fine recording of “Amapola,” a new popular tune with Bob Eberle and Helen O'Connell on the vocals, backed by “Donna Maria.” Bing Crosby is featured in a new popular dream song of the day, accompanied by Bob Crosby and his orchestra with a sax solo by Eddie Miller. This is backed by “De Camptown Races” with Bing on the vocals accompanied by the King’s Men and Victor Young and his orchestra.

DAY’S DIARY
BY BILL LEMMON

Due to Little Day’s trip to Charlotte, the Diary this week consists of notes taken from a big Monday night bull fest. Just a group of Sophomores and Juniors swapping dirt in West, so roll up your pants legs and snap your garters. We're off!

Heading the list of faux pas this week, we'll have to put Buzz Councill who locked up with a well-known local Military man en route from Baltimore and almost dropped his teeth when he found out that the traveling companion could have easily dampened his high spirits. Funrow Bushes shot down Speeburg during the holidays to catch a blinder with Ghost Glenn's old flame and almost smoked her out but got his fingers burnt. College song singing is the latest approved method of keeping your date from being on the make.

Ashby Dick shot a blank in Columbia after the track meet Saturday, and we don't mean Fort Jackson. It was so bad that it forced him to go to Converse for Tuesday night's relaxation from school cares to see his little Liza Jane, the O. A. O., at this point. Heard at Hugo's: “We wonder if John Grier's that worried look.” ... “He's so thin that when he turns sideways in Chapel he gets half-cuts.” ... “How about not cutting me so much? How about not saying how about?” ... “The more I see of him, the more I believe in birth control.” ... “Noxious is looking well these days. Wonder who his embalmer is.” ... “That's a good-looking dress she’s almost got on.”

Pitchers Williams and Dale made an extended tour through the bush leagues scouting new catchers. Both returned with photographs of the new rookies, (Rook you, Wooten!) Fred hit the jackpot and persuaded Miss District of Columbia not only to keep his fraternity pin but also to stay another week in Greensboro to make contacting easier. By the way, we wonder what's happened to Gabby Sprunt’s pin. Second Floor West finally managed to outfit Whiskey Bob for his weekend at Hollins. When he was last seen, he was wearing Rudolph’s garters and my tail buttons.

When a football player from Durham (High School) has a date with his girl, Elmer Graves believes in displaying a pugilistic attitude. In short, he got fighting mad. Latest report from the debating team jaunts: Wild Indian Summers was teaching Barkerlai the facts of life, and we don’t mean magazine. (See White's for special subscription rates—plug.) Cut-Cut Vereen shot a hot flush Saturday to his Brenau babe, then on his way back to Davidson he zoned to Florida to see his new Movie Queen, who incidentally doesn't like the movies and who is just like that! We might add that she will be the main attraction at the Frolics. Vosburger, being financially embarrassed, borrowed his date’s mad money to finance their weekend party.

At the S. P. E. Monte Carlo Banquet, Hugh Knox form-fitted a two-piece Jantzen. At Caldwell Station, Mac Bruce tried to get Ripper Hunt to relieve him after one dance but the Ripper, knowing better, gently whipped off, leaving Bruce to run the relays by himself. And speaking of Marathons, Ross McElwee's four-year sprint became so monotonous that he had to resort to hiccups to see what the sensation would be. (Aw, you know what we mean.) By the way, Westall has been running along at a nice clip for about ten months, co-starring Madame Muscles. Into a bucket of red paint stepped Jimmy Houston, Page Harris, and George Sinclair over the weekend. Short Parrish and Bevo played the wall-violets at a girl-breaker. She petite drew a

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH

APPRECIATION
Your new columnist feels that all the readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN will join him in expressing appreciation to Tom Cauble for his interesting and entertaining columns during the past year. His weekly essays were perhaps the best that have ever appeared in this paper.

ADVICE TO FRESHMEN
WHEN: Snakes crawl out of hibernation for the dating season. Rains come and go within an hour. Boarding houses clatter with the stirring of iced tea at lunch. The front campus becomes a green sward ‘neath a green canopy. Polo shirts replace old, worn, winter sweaters. Loud saddle shoes replace imported wools. Jack Wood becomes the last supper. Sunbathers congregate “East of West Dormitory.” Classroom chairs are graced by sockless feet shod in new moccasins. Saddle shoes sprout mushrooms. Seniors use their shiny new ‘biles to go to the library. From Duke you have to cut lunch to get a tennis court. You can’t get a bench seat on dormitory front porches. Classes become absolutely dream sessions. Birds and insects twitter enticingly on Chambers Lawn. Daily you notice dates you've never seen before. Finally driven out of Rumple by the heaters, you retreat to dorm porches. Professors drag out their white ducks and new saddle shoes for the classroom podium. Junior Roats boys worry about Hades, Inc. The Montreat retreat starts turning. Weekends are planned. Everybody's fancy becomes more ambitious and less discreet. White jackets are worn by the elite at the Frolics’ Formal. Boarding houses resound with the noise of Interfraternity Sing practices. That lone man appears at Vespers in a white coat, trying to conceal his shivering with brave smiles. The bumming corner looks like a mass meeting after Vespers. “I've Been Working On The Railroad” emanates from Georgia's front porch. Colin takes his top down. You can't see Chambers from Hugo's. The golf bug bites hard enough to make morning rounds necessary. The smart crack of ball and bat contact replaces the dull thud of the football on the intramural fields. Freshmen wish they'd saved their Vespers cuts like the sophomores told them to. THEN it will become apparent to you that Spring has officially arrived at Davidson.

After several years of experience, upperclassmen have found that the best advice to give to freshmen who have succumbed to that mysterious malady known internationally as “Spring Fever,” is the following set of rules: To wit: (1) Never accept rides from seniors. It is best to decline even a ride from the fraternity house to the boarding house; this will develop into longer rides, possibly a Kentucky Derby weekend. (2) If you must take sunbaths, take a textbook with you. Although it's bad on the peepers, it waxes well on the report card. (3) Write your girl more often. This will serve to keep any local romances from blossoming that would detract you from your studies. (4) Stop dreaming about your plans for the summer. June comes after May, and May hasn't arrived yet. (5) Never wear a coat and tie when you can help it. Just because you're dressed up, you might think you have some place to go; and besides, it’s not cricket at Davidson. (6) Send those saccharine trousers to the laundry. 

[Continued on Page Six]