8 POINTS AHEAD Wildcat Sports LACY MacLEAN Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 17, 1941

Game With Carolina Saturday

The Wildcat nine at this writing have only a somewhat dismal record to present. On Monday night of this week (with a game scheduled with South Carolina Tuesday which may mean a victory) the diamondmen have a record which is entirely devoid of wins. Chances seem slim, also for the prospects to brighten noticeably immediately. But the Cats seem to have a remarkable facility for losing games in somewhat queer fashion. Once a lost ball and a short fly barely in the home run section of the stadium cost the Cats a game; the supposedly sound infield gave way to the extent that a revision was necessary; against Guilford, although outhitting the Quakers, the locals errored at inopportune times after 14 walks issued by most of the members of the hurling staff had put runners in scoring positions. Although the losses can in no way be blamed entirely on the breaks, fate seems to have been handing the nine an uneven dish. Mac Morris has shown much more ability than was expected, and should gain effectiveness as his experience matures. Jack Davis in his first turn on the mound was driven off after six innings, but in stretches looked capable of lasting after seeing more service.

AGAINST THE HEELS.

Coach Shepard's charges meet the high-riding Tar Heels here on Saturday and should be ready to play a close one. In their last meeting, Lefty Cheshire, big sophomore, shut out the Cats and fanned 12 while his mates tallied 10 runs off nine hits. Saturday’s contest might be a good ball game. Although no announcement has been made, Mac Morris will probably handle the mound assignment.

CINDER GLANCES.

Here in Richardson Stadium last Saturday, the visiting Tech from V. P. I. outran and outhrew the Davidson track men by 70 2-3 to 50 1-3, strange enough the same score by which the Cats won the week before. With a clean sweep in the javelin, discus, and the mile, the visitors needed only two firsts more than their opponents, 8-6, to win by a 25-point margin. A change in the scoring records may be effected, however, as a result of letters now being exchanged between Coaches Whittle of Davidson and Yonger of VPI. It seems that the Virginians threw a disc in the discus throw which weighed approximately a pound less than the Davidson plaque, and which is official only for high school competition. The nine-point difference which a Tech forfeit in the event would change the score to V. P. I. 64 2-3; Davidson 59 2-3—a very close track meet. It would not, of course, change the deciding results of the afternoon, but would give the loss a much more encouraging atmosphere. Times were, in general, faster than the preceding week, and except for the few slip-ups which cost the day, the cindermen looked impressive. Day after tomorrow, the trackmen go to Raleigh to meet State. (Continued on Page Five)

Cats To Meet Heels Here Sat. Afternoon

DIAMOND MEN OUT FOR REVENGE; CLARK TRIPLES

Netmen Drop Two Of Three

The varsity tennis team dropped two of their three matches last week to make a total of four won and five lost in their matches so far this season. The City College of Charleston was handed a 9-0 defeat by the Wildcats last Tuesday on the home courts. Not a single set was lost by the visitors in either the singles or doubles matches.

UPSET BY TRINITY.

Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut, invaded the local courts last Thursday to upset the varsity 5-4 immediately after their overwhelming defeat of Charleston. The Cats dropped the first four singles matches to start off in the hole. Parrigen and Sain stopped the losing streak by winning their singles, while Captain Dick Shore and Miller Sproull took two points by winning the number one doubles. A well-coached team from Georgia Tech provided the disaster of the week by giving the Cats a 9-0 beating last Friday. None of the matches, except the number 4 and 5 singles, were even close. The Tech team went from here to Durham to conquer the Blue Devil netmen 5 and 4.

SAIN LEADING.

Moose Sain is leading in the singles play having won six matches while dropping only three. The doubles team of Shore and Sproull has only been beaten by the number one team from Georgia Tech.

Cenwals Lick Kit Linksters

The golf team turned back on Tuesday of last week by a strong Central High team of Charlotte. The Central golfers raked up 16 to the Davidson's linkmen's 2.

FROSH SCHEDULE.

The frosh golf schedule includes matches with the Junior College of Augusta in Charlotte on April 24, Carolina frosh in Durham on April 25, Central High on April 29, High Point on May 6, and the Junior College of Augusta again on May 17.

BUMBARGER WINS TWO.

The summary: Goebel (C) 3, Bumbarger (D) 0; Bryant (C) 3, Upchurch (D) 0; Goebel-Bryant (C) 2, Bumbarger-Upchurch (D) 1; Riggin (C) 2; Gaither (D) 1; Grice (C) 3, Davis (D) 0; Riggin-Grice (C) 3, Gaither-Davis (D) 0.

Pikas Top Volley Ball As Final Round Begins

With only one more round of play, the Pikas had a strong bid for first place in the interfraternity volleyball tourney with seven wins to their credit and no losses. The Kappa Sigs were in the second position with six victories out of seven games. The SPEs, with 4 wins and 2 losses, were third and the Phi Delts fourth with three wins and two losses.

PIKAS OUTSTANDING.

The Pikas were outstanding from the first in the tourney and played consistent ball throughout. Levi Sink and Herb Rainey have looked especially good. Led by Shep Booth and George Marsh, the Kappa Sigs also showed up well. Andy Dale for the Phi Delts and Bill Hamilton for the SPEs have been outstanding.

SPEs FOLLOW.

The Phi Gams, led by Jay Bolin, followed the SPEs with three wins out of six games. The KAs were sixth with two victories and four defeats. Charlie Watt looked especially good. In the eighth position were the SAEs led by Hector McLean. The Pi Kapps occupied the cellar. Intramural Director Pete Whittle is planning to begin the interfraternity softball round robin at

IN EARLY LOSS TO HEELS.

The Wildcat baseball team plays two important Southern Conference games this week, one against the University of South Carolina Tuesday in Columbia, and with the University of North Carolina here on Saturday. Neither the Wildcats nor South Carolina has won a conference game, and Tuesday’s tilt offered a chance for one of the teams to break into the win column. Davidson met North Carolina in a previous encounter this year in Chapel Hill. Lefty John Cheshire, a 200-lb. junior, let the Cats down with four hits, and the Tar Heels won the contest by a score of 10 to 2.

WILDCATS THREATEN.

The Wildcats threatened only once when Jack Clark, who played right field, hit a mighty triple with one away, only to be put out trying to steal home. The Cat batsmen fared little better the next day at Duke, when sophomore Frank Seward held them to six hits and one run in chalking up a 7 to 1 victory for the Blue Devils. The Davidson ball club lost their fourth straight game in as many starts Friday to the Guilford Quakers on the home diamond by a score of 12 to 8. It was a heavy-hitting affair, in which the lead changed four times before Guilford finally won. The Cat pitchers were wild, walking fourteen men in the course of the game.

HOGG SHIFTED.

In this game, Jimmy Hogg was shifted from third to second base in place of Tommy Yarborough. Frank Niven came in from left field to third base, where he played a bang-up game all the way. Sid Daffin took Niven's place in left field. The Cats outhit their opponents 11 to 9, but the 14 bases on balls given by four Davidson pitchers was the margin of victory. Davidson faces Furman here Tuesday.

VPI Cindermen Defeat Frosh

Davidson's Wild Kitten cindermen were defeated by V. P. I.In the meet here on Saturday by a score of 69 to 48. High scorer for the Davidson frosh was Bill Lacy. Walking away with first place in the low hurdles, Lacy also pulled out three second places in the broad jump, high jump, and 100-yard dash. High scorer for the afternoon was Lively of the Virginians with three first places and one third. His first places were in the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, and shot.

FROSH SHOW PROMISE. Nash of V. P. I. and O’Hair and Port of Davidson were looking very promising for next year's varsities. O'Hair placed first in the pole vault and third in the javelin. He also ran in the 880. First honors in the (Continued on Page Five)

Miller Sproull, Davidson's No. 2 tennis man, is shown in an action shot here. Sproull, a

Earl Stutts). Winston High Licks Kits 4-3

The Davidson freshman team was defeated 4 to 3 by Winston-Salem High in a close match in tennis.

Ernest Ellison, Inc. “JUST INSURANCE” 115 E. Fourth St.

the competition at the end of the volleyball season. Charlotte, N.C.

EXCELLENT MEALS AT ANY HOUR OF THE DAY Suit Your Own Convenience THE LITTLE PEP Davidson, North Carolina

the victors’ home town last Monday afternoon. Buck Archer, Jim Welborn, Stan Phraner, Bob Pierce, and Bob Crowell composed the Wildkitten team. Five out of the seven matches were played to three sets. Jimmy Welborn was the lone victor for the losers in the singles matches. The Davidsons took both the doubles matches.

ARCHER LOSES. Buck Archer, number 1 Kit player, took one set from Haltiwanger by 6 to 1, but the Winston-Salem boy managed to take two out of the three 7 to 5 and 6 to 2. Welborn took his match in straight sets, 6 to 2 and 6 to 4. Phraner won his first set 6 to 2, but lost the next two to Hendrix of Winston-Salem by 6 to 3 and 6 to 2. Pierce of the Kittens snatched a love set from Brewer, but was beaten two sets by the score of 6 to 3. Crowell lost in straight sets to Cash of the victors.

WIN DOUBLES. Archer and Welborn beat Haltiwanger and Ingram 6-2, 4-6, 8-6 in a good match. Phraner and Pierce won over Brewer and Spease by 6-2, 4-6, 6-2.

my from A to make the Southern trip, has played consistent tennis at his spot in all the home matches winning two matches while losing three, and combining with Shore to form a once-defeated doubles pair.—(Photo by

Dukes Lead In Circuit With Perfect Record

seventh place, Winston, Ala., although unable

Duke University’s Blue Devils jumped to a considerable lead in the Southern Conference baseball standings this week with five wins and no defeats. Also with perfect records so far, but not threatening Duke, are Wake Forest's Demon Deacons with two victories and Clemson’s Tigers with one loop triumph.

DEVILS BEAT V. P. I. Virginia Tech loomed as a threat when the Gobblers won upset verdicts over Richmond and William and Mary, but Duke humbled them by the score of 12 to 2. If Carolina is able to throttle the Blue Devils they may have a chance to win the conference crown. Richmond, who ousted the crown from Duke last year, where it had rested for three years, are in a poor

Davidson's Wildcats, because of the loss of two conference engagements in the past week, are in the cellar with three losses and no wins.

LEADERS MEET STATE. This week Duke plays N. C. State in Durham on Wednesday and Wake Forest on Saturday. The Deacons also play N. C. State Monday and Carolina Tuesday. Furman is in the same shape as Richmond, with one won and one lost, as is N. C. State also. William and Mary has won one game and lost three so far this year and

“BITTER Thursday, April 17 With Nelson Eddy and Jeannette McDonald SWEET”

“LAND OF Friday, April 18 LIBERTY”

Saturday, April 19 “WAGON TRAIN” With Tim Holt

Late Show Saturday Night At 10:30 “DR. KILDARE’S CRISIS” With Lew Ayers

Monday, Tuesday, April 21-22 “THE LADY FROM CHEYENNE” With Loretta Young

SENIORS Pure Oil Service WASHING - GREASING YALE TIRES —AT— KNOX SERVICE STATION S. Main St. Davidson

N. A. CALES Tailor FIRST CLASS ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRING 10414 E. 4th St. Charlotte, N.C.

Wednesday, April 23 “STRANGE ALIBI” “SLEEPERS WEST” DOUBLE FEATURE—15c

DAVIDSON —DAVIDSON, N. C.— MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT THEATRE

Va. Tech Grabs Lead To Lick Wildcats

TAYLOR BESTS McMULLEN IN HURDLE DUEL; TIMES GOOD ON FAST DRY TRACK

Sharpe Hot At Tourney

The varsity golf team journeyed to Athens, Georgia, last week to compete in the Southern Intercollegiate Golf Tournament. The Wildcat linksmen did well for themselves placing fifth out of a field of twenty-three teams.

SHARPE OUTSTANDING. Captain Granny Sharpe was one of the outstanding players of the tournament, tying with Cary Middlecoff of Mississippi for runner-up for medalist honors. Sharpe defeated Ramsel of L. S. U. in the first round of the championship flight, but lost to Brownell of Duke 2 and 1 in the second round. Sharpe at one time had Brownell two down but was finally conquered by the Duke man who went on to win the individual championship. Captain Sharpe was six under par for his 72 holes of tournament play.

BEAT CITADEL. In a preliminary match the varsity golfers conquered The Citadel by a score of 15-3. Captain Sharpe was again outstanding with his four under par 69 on the par 73 course. The team played host at the Charlotte Country Club to the Apprentice School of Norfolk on Tuesday and to Hampton-Sidney Wednesday of this week.

Hardings Top Frosh By 9-8

The Davidson freshman baseball nine dropped a close game to Harding High in Charlotte on April 12. The game lasted to twelve innings when the Charlotteans grabbed a one-point lead to make the final score 9 to 8. To date the freshmen have lost two and won none.

MAJOR HERO. Ed Major, the Kit’s lone twirler for the game, was the hero for the (Continued on Page Six)

Washington and Lee has lost four with her single win. The last four teams in the Conference standings have come thus far through the season without a win. Maryland and V. M. I. have lost only one game, South Carolina has lost two, and Davidson three.

Taking an early lead and holding to it all the way, Virginia Polytechnic Institute’s track team defeated the Davidson cinder men here at Richardson field, Saturday afternoon, by the score of 75 2-3 to 50 1-3.

Paul McMullen, V. P. I. sophomore, won individual scoring honors with firsts in the 100 and 220-yard dashes and second in the high hurdles for 13 points. Archie Taylor, crack Davidson hurdler, won first in the 120-yard high hurdles, first in the 220-yard low hurdles, and third in the 100-yard dash, for a total of 11 points.

The summary:

100-yard dash—McMullen (V.P.I.) first; Sprunt (D) second; Taylor (D) third. Time 10 seconds.

220-yard dash—McMullen (V.P.I.) first; Sprunt (D) second; Montague (V.P.I.) third. Time 22.4.

440-yard sprint—Whatt (V.P.I.) first; Loy (D) second; White (D) third. Time 52.2.

880-yard run—Shipe (V.P.I.) first; Ethridge (V.P.I.) second; Belk (D) third. Time 2:03.8.

Mile run—Selby (V.P.I.) first; Chinn (V.P.I.) second; West (V.P.I.) third. Time 4:49.4.

Two mile run—Driver (V.P.I.) first; Spangler (V.P.I.) second; Parks (D) third. Time 10:50.2.

220-yard low hurdles—Taylor (D) first; Williamson (D) second; Ellis (V.P.I.) third. Time 25.4.

120-yard high hurdles—Taylor (D) first; McMullen (V.P.I.) second; Williamson (D) third.

Pole vault—Shannon (D) first; Wilson (V.P.I.) second; Spencer (D) third. Height 12 feet.

High jump—Brenizer (D) first; Belk (D), Via (V.P.I.) and Bise (V.P.I.) tied for second. Height 5 feet nine inches.

Broad jump—Brenizer (D) first; Moffett (V.P.I.) second; Spencer (D) third. Distance 22 feet 5 1-2 inches.

Javelin—Unser (V.P.I.) first; Thomas (V.P.I.) second; Montague (V.P.I.) third. Distance 170 feet 2 1-2 inches.

Discus—Montague (V.P.I.) first; Moffett (V.P.I.) second; Carter (V.P.I.) third. Distance 143 feet 9 inches.

Shot put—Bell (D) first; Todd (V.P.I.) second; Moffett (V.P.I.) third. Distance 42 feet 6 2-3 inches.

he wore at get tat anion the sport togs Marton Davis Co. 118 SOUTH TRYON STREET