ports =» lants wise - FAREWELL CAGERS— The curtain fell upon the Cagers when the final whistle sounded last Monday night. This also brought to a close the basketball careers of Captain Jimmy Hogg and Murphy Williams in the collegiate circles. Captain Hogg was the shining star in the ’Cat attack for the entire season, culminating a brilliant basketball career at Davidson College. Jim learned his first basketball at Fishburne Military Academy and it stood him well in winning a place on the freshman team his first year at Davidson. Starting lineup his sophomore year, the Cats boasted one of the best teams in the Southern Conference. He hit the hoop for a total of 138 points his first year on the varsity. The following year he overshot his old mark by racking up 197 points. As Captain of the 1941 Cats, he amassed 369 points in 23 games for the high scoring record for the Wildcats as far back as records go. 189 of these points were scored against Conference competition to clinch him a topped “pny George” in the two encounters. “Gorgeous George” outscored him by three points for his world’s high-scoring record.

Murphy Williams is the only other member of the Cage squad who will be lost by graduation. Murphy will be missed as a determined defensive player and as a consistent scorer. He made his mark the hard way. He served as a reserve his sophomore and junior years but won his spurs as a senior. Credit goes to him for his determination. Murphy’s crowning triumph came when he held Westmoreland, South Carolina’s high-scoring ace, to ten points, as he racked up six points in the biggest thriller seen in the NEW GYM in years. The Cats ended the season with 12 losses against 11 wins. The team was better than the results indicate since the Cats had sickness throughout the season and lost many games by a few points. 

Prospects for next year’s Cagers are already making Coach Shephard smile. With all the present squad, except Hogg and Williams, back and with Pat Williams, Bob Currie, Mac Bruce, and George McWilliams coming up from the freshman team, things are looking up. Let Coach Shephard develop a high-scoring threat and it’s “Look Out for the Cats.”

SPRING SPORTS— Thoughts turn to spring sports and the pitchers mound. Coach Shephard’s problem is his lack of experienced men. Lucas will be back and rumor has it that first sack will try his hand at track. The garden positions are wide open and present another problem to be solved by Coach Shephard. From this corner, it looks like Coach Whittle will have John Belk, Hugh Sprunt, Rufus Nimans, and others up from last year’s freshman team, who should account for a goodly number of points. The tennis team presents a question mark with three regulars gone from last year’s team. Dick Shore and Miller Sproull are certain to have berths. Granville Sharpe and Jack Abels will form the nucleus of this year’s golf team. Vacancies left by the graduation of Pegram, Cooper, and Wright will be contested for by Pete Cavert, Harris McReynolds, and Stuart Rogers.

CHATTER— “Kid Pollock” dropped a close decision to the “Fighting Ninth” in the Golden Gloves but reports come back that the decision should have gone his way. The “Kid” is already planning for next year. He says, “I'll moider dat bum!” The big question in the minds of the Detroit fans is whether Greenberg will be in the army this summer or be earning his reputed $36,000 salary. I’ll stick my neck out and take Duke to cop the Southern Conference Tournament. It’s becoming a habit with Steve Lach. He broke his own record set last year by putting the old shot 46 feet 11 1/4 inches, eight inches over his last year’s mark. Cut of the Week—On seeing Chase Brenizer, Davidson's elongated broad jumper, Carolina’s Track Coach asked Heath Whittle, “Where did you get that kangaroo?” The worm turned when Big Braz took third place in the event. This column joins the rest of the student body in wishing the Wrestlers the best of luck on their northern trip.

Pi Kapps Lick Phi Delts To Hold Basketball Lead—Snatching another game out of the fire on Monday, the Pi Kapps made more firm their stand at the top of the first basketball tournament. The Phi Gams defeated the Kappa Sigs and stepped into second place along with the S.A.E.'s. By losing to the Pi Kapps, the Phi Delts dropped to third place. Flynn and Niven were the high scorers of the game with 12 and 10 points, respectively. Carter paced the losers with 6 points, only ahead of Dale and Lewis. The victors grabbed an early lead and the Phi Delts could not overcome it.

With a big-time schedule arranged for 1941 competition, Davidson's Golfers have set a tentative date for completion of elimination matches at March 15. During the College spring holidays, the linksters will swing against the College of Charleston, and the Universities of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. They will enter the Southern Intercollegiate tourney on April 15 in Athens, Ga. On the Northern jaunt, the golfers will enter the Southern Conference Tournament at Hot Springs, Va., on May 9-10. Pre-season favorites for berths are Sharpe, Abels, Cavert, McReynolds, and Bryant.

Taylor Places in Low and High Hurdles; Brenizer in Broad Jump—North Carolina’s thinclads copped the mile relay at the annual indoor track meet held in Chapel Hill last Saturday to nose out Duke by two points. Maryland’s Old Liners were third, William and Mary fourth, and Davidson and V.M.I. tied for fifth. Although the Blue Devils took six of the twelve events, the Tar Heels came through with three firsts and enough seconds, thirds, and fourths to make up for Duke's early lead.

Taylor Paces ‘Cats—Archie Taylor led the Davidson contingent by taking second place in the 75-yard low hurdles and fourth in the 70-yard highs. Chase Brenizer was the only other Wildcat to place in the meet. He took third place in the broad jump with a 21-foot nine-inch leap. Blanton Williamson, Jack White, and Duck Yarborough also competed in the meet, but they were eliminated before the finals. “Little Hot” Wise piled up such a large lead for the Tar Heels on the first lap of the mile relay that Grove, Cathy, and Morrison literally coasted in ahead of Maryland, V.M.I., and Washington and Lee.

Steve Lach, Duke football star, dropped over from spring football to break the record set by him last year in the shot put event. Steve hurled the iron ball 46 feet 11 1/8 inches to shatter the old mark by eight inches. This meet was the initial showing of a portion of the ‘Cat Cindermen for this spring. All the men taken to the meet compose the cream of the crop for the Wildcats team. Coach Whittle and Coach Spearman are looking forward to a successful year, with a formidable group of Frosh for the Kit squad this spring.Trip

The varsity wrestling team left Wednesday for an eight-day trip to Virginia Military Institute, Gallaudet, and to compete in the Southern Conference matches at College Park, Maryland.

Enter Tournament.

The first match is to be with V. M. I. on Thursday. They will then journey to College Park for the Tournament which will last Friday and Saturday. The men being eliminated in the first few matches of the tournament will wrestle at Gallaudet on Saturday. The last match scheduled is with the University of Maryland on Monday.

Hipp Still Undefeated.

Ed Hipp has gone through the season without a defeat, while Captain Jack Abels and Latham Latta have suffered only one loss. The men making the trip are Browning, Abels, Knox, Latta, Brinson, Carter, Hipp, and Turnage.

INTRAMURALS

FRAT BASKETBALL

| Won | Lost |
| --- | --- |
| Phi Kappa | 4 | 0 |
| Phi Gams | 3 | 1 |
| S. P. E. | 3 | 1 |
| Blue Delta | 3 | 2 |
| Kappa Sigs | 2 | 3 |
| Pikas | 2 | 3 |
| Betas | 1 | 3 |
| A. T. O. | 1 | 3 |
| Sigma Chi | 0 | 4 |

Interclass Bowling

| Won | Lost |
| --- | --- |
| Juniors | 3 | 1 |
| Sophomores | 3 | 1 |
| Seniors | 1 | 2 |
| Freshmen | 0 | 3 |

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

THE reporting this week, Coach is planning to get his boys settled in their regular positions and to hold an interesting scrimmage this Saturday. Spencer and Smith, who have been sick, will report for the last week of practice and will help wind up this year’s spring practice by participating in a big inter-squad game, which is set for Saturday.

Bruce, Lacy Score.

The scrimmage held last Saturday indicated some improvement for the squad as a whole, and the inexperienced men played a great deal. Each side scored one touchdown, with Bruce scoring for the “Reds” and Lacy for the “Whites.” Because of the wide gaps that were made in both lines during this scrimmage, defense has been stressed so far this week. B. F. Moore has been shifted back to his old guard slot and because Jay Bolin will not be back next year, it is very likely that Don Bell will be given a try at the pivot position.

Booth Shines.

Boys who have been looking good this past week are: Shep Booth, who is carrying his 135 pounds at full speed all the time, Bruce, “Butch” Caldwell, C. C. Morehead, and Bill Faison. The end positions still cause the coaches much worry, but the rest of the linemen and the backfield aces seem to be ready to go. The single-wing formation will be used again next year with the tailback doing most of the ball carrying. The fullback will handle the ball on line bucks, and the wingback will carry the mail on reverses. For punters, the 'Cats have Miller, Spencer, Frederick, and Bethea. Spencer, Bruce, and Maloney are also available.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

McEver

Frosh Drop

YOUR MONEY
Goes the Farthest
On the Articles You Need
STOCK UP NOW
At SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSONIAN REGULARS REACH FOR REBOUND

Leaping into the air after the rebound off the backboard are Bob McLeod (26), Johnny Frederick (29), and Ed Lucas (20). Crouching with their watchful eyes on the sphere are Captain Jim Hogg (28) and Marsh. Hogg finished a brilliant court career.

Final Tilts

Losing their three final games, the Wildkitten Basketeers wound up their season with a record of six victories against seven defeats. The loss of their coach, Little, to the army in mid-season threw the Kittens off their stride and they never regained it completely.

High Point Wins.

A field goal in the last 30 seconds of play gave High Point’s Bisons a thrilling 48-46 victory over the Frosh here last Friday. The Kittens fought hard to take their last game of the season and the Bisons had only a 24-22 advantage at halftime. Bob Reid led the Bisons with 15 points, while Job Currie paced the Frosh attack with 21 points.

Pfeiffer Trounces 'Cats.

A strong Pfeiffer Junior College quint trounced a patched-up Wildkitten team made up of substitutes by a 75-25 score there last Thursday. Melvin led the winners with 19 points, while Booth paced the Kittens with 8 points. Holding a big lead throughout, the Oak Ridge Cadets defeated the Wildkittens 42-36 here last Tuesday. Nelson led the Cadet attack with 13 points, while Pat Williams paced the Frosh with 11 points. Mac Bruce also played a good game for the Frosh with 9 points.

NOW PLAYING
“VIRGINIA”
In Technicolor
with Fred MacMurray
Madeleine Carroll
Stirling Hayden

Starts Tuesday
Fannie Hurst's
“BACK STREET”
Charles Boyer
Margaret SULLIVAN

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte
North Carolina

Taylor Clears High Timber

Quint Closes Season By Licking Guilford; Lose To Heels 39-31

Loop Tourney Begins Today

Pairings for the annual Southern Conference playoff basketball tournament have been completed with the University of South Carolina's highly touted Gamecocks and the University of Richmond’s Spiders opening the tournament, to be conducted in the Memorial Auditorium in Raleigh, starting Thursday afternoon.

Phants, Devils Meet.

Possibly the most exciting engagement on opening day will be the contest between the University of North Carolina's top-seeded White Phantoms and Duke's Blue Devils. The Blue Devils are the only team that has handed the White Phantoms a defeat in conference competition. Also, another thriller the same night will be Virginia Military Institute against Washington and Lee. These two schools have not met in a formal varsity contest in half a century because of such keen rivalry in the early 1900s.

OLD RIVALS BATTLE.

Davidson, Maryland, Clemson, N. C. State, Virginia Tech, and The Citadel, which have had an active part in Southern Conference tournaments of past years, will be on the court.

Defensive performance in losing to North Carolina’s conference champions 31-39. A combination of Jimmy Hogg and Long John Belk held the vaunted Heel point maker, Glamack, to a game total of 11 points, which Hogg topped with 12.

'Cats Take Thriller.

On Thursday the 'Cats pulled away from the South Carolina Gamecocks in an extra period and won 52-48 in a thriller. Captain Hogg was again the individual star, racking up 27 points to capture scoring honors. Murphy Williams, shifty guard, turned in a brilliant defensive performance in holding the Palmetto scoring ace, Preston Westmoreland, to 10 tallies.

In a previous game, the Wildcats disposed of the Furman Hurricane with little difficulty by the score of 47-40.

Hogg High Scorer.

In the Guilford encounter on Monday night, the Presbyterians turned in a ragged performance in scoring their 47 points. Jim Hogg was the night’s top scorer, with 15 points; J. E. Parker of Guilford followed him closely with 14. At Winston-Salem Saturday, the Davidson’s offensive machinery failed to function at the proper moments and the Phantoms garnered a 19-2 lead early in the game. A defensive shift, however, halted the Blue's attack, as Hogg and Frederick began hitting the net.

FRAT BASKETBALL

Friday, 5:15—K. A.'s vs. Phi Gams.
Monday, 4:15—S. P. E.’s vs. Betas.
5:15—Pikas vs. Phi Delts.
7:30—K. A.’s vs. Phi Gams.
8:30—S. A. E.’s vs. Pi Kapps.

The five remaining games in the interclass bowling will be played as soon as basketball is over.

MARION DAVIS CO.
Fifth Anniversary Sale
Special Values
WESTMINSTER SPRING Suits
(2 Trousers) $29.50
$35 Values
100% Wool Shetlands, Tweeds and Worsted
Special Group Fine Wool Gabardines
$32.50 Values $25
Special Shirt Values
Fine Woven Broadcloth
Nationally Advertised $2 Values $1.45
USE OUR PAY PLAN
1-3 April 10—1-3 May 10—1-3 June 10
MARION DAVIS CO.
118 SOUTH TRYON ST.