Kits Play Tomorrow ORTA LIBERTAS Che Mavidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI Cats Meet Furman | Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1941 Number 5 Cunningham Leads Long Procession One Hundred Twenty-One Delegates March In Inaugural Procession DAVIDSON BAND PLAYS Dr. George Byron Watts Is Chief Marshall Davidson’s band, playing “Pomp and Circumstance,” led the long and slowly moving procession preceding the inaugural ceremony of Dr. John R. Cunningham on Saturday morning, October 18. Dr. Cunningham, Governor Joseph M. Broughton, three past presidents of Davidson, the Davidson faculty, and one hundred twenty-one delegates were in the procession. They formed along the walk between the Eumanean Literary Hall and the Philanthropic Literary Hall. Dr. George B. Watts, Chief Marshall, led the long column decorated with colors indicating many degrees.

Setting The procession proceeded to Chambers Building under the campus shaded by trees planted many years ago by students of the college. In the auditorium, the audience stood while the members of the procession took seats in the front. Representatives from the following institutions came from all over the country: M. L. Church, Esq., A.B. Alumnus, Harvard University; Prof. E. F. Shewmake, Ph.D., Alumnus, College of William and Mary; Prof. Lewis Patton, Ph.D., Alumnus, Yale University; Prof. T. M. Greene, Ph.D., Faculty, Princeton University; T. McP. Glasgow, Esq., A.B., LL.B., Alumnus, Washington and Lee University; J. R. Ashe, M.D., Alumnus, Columbia University; Prof. D. A. MacPherson, Ph.D., Alumnus, Brown University; Prof. Emeritus A. W. Blair, A.M., Faculty, Rutgers University; Prof. A. V. Goldiere, Ph.D., Alumnus, Dartmouth College; President H. E. Rondthaler, Ph.B., LL.D., Salem College; President E. G. Gammon, A.B., LL.D., Hampden-Sydney College; President Walter Patten, A.M., D.D., Louisburg College; President H. S. Hilley, LL.D., Alumnus, Transylvania College; President Frank Graham and Prof. C. B. Robson, Ph.D., Faculty, University of North Carolina; Prof. Gifford Davis, Ph.D., Alumnus, Bowdoin College; Prof. H. R. Murchison, A.B., D.D., Faculty, University of South Carolina.

Other Representatives President R. B. Lacy, A.B., Union Theological Seminary; F. K. Fleagle, A.M., Alumnus, University of Michigan; President R. L. McLeod, Jr., A.B., D.D., Centre College; Dean E. R. Hunter, Ph.D., Maryville College; Prof. W. W. Wood, A.B., C.E., Alumnus, University of Virginia; Prof. T. M. Green, Ph.D., Alumnus, Amherst College; Dean R. N. Daniel, A.M., Furman University; Prof. C. S. Johnson, Ph.D., Alumnus, Mississippi College; Prof. C. M. Richards, A.B., D.D., LL.D., Alumnus, Columbia Theological Seminary; Prof. J. A. Gates, B.D., Ph.D., Alumnus, Presbyterian Theological Seminary of Chicago; Prof. K. McD. Jackson, A.M., Faculty, Spring Hill College; W. W. Hoy, Esq., B.S., Alumnus, University of Alabama; Dean G. M. Modlin, Ph.D., University of Richmond; Prof. S. G. Lyon, D.Sc., Alumnus, Tulane University; Prof. O. T. Binkley, B.D., Ph.D., Faculty, Wake Forest College; S. H. Hitch, Esq., B.Ph., Alumnus, Emory University; Prof. H. A. Ljung, Ph.D., Faculty, Guilford College; R. Allen T. Tuggle, Esq., M.D., Alumnus, University of Louisville; Dean P. N. Garber, Ph.D., Duke University; President-Emeritus S. B. Turrentine, Greensboro College; J. M. Northington, Esq., M.D., Alumnus, Medical College of Virginia; President R. C. Grier, LL.D., Erskine College; Principal E. H. Garinger, Ph.D., Alumnus, University of Missouri; J. R. Pender, Esq., B.S., Alumnus, V.M.I.; J. C. Wright, Esq., B.S., Alumnus, The Citadel; Vice- (Continued on Page Six)

PRESIDENTS Dr. John Rood Cunningham is shown above talking to his three predecessors as President of Davidson College after his inauguration last Saturday morning in the auditorium of Chambers Building. Dr. Cunningham is the thirteenth president of Davidson College. Left to right they are, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Dr. William J. Martin, and Dr. Henry Louis Smith. Attending the inauguration were one hundred and twenty-one delegates representing colleges and universities all over the country. Dr. Cunningham led this procession of delegates, accompanied by Governor Broughton, the past presidents shown above, and the Davidson College faculty.

MILITARY DAY Next Monday, October 27, is National Scabbard and Blade day. This is Theodore Roosevelt's birthday. It will be observed by the Davidson Scabbard and Blade with a smoker and feed at which Colonel T. Mackenzie will speak. At the last meeting, candidates for this fall's tapping were considered. Tap day will be held sometime in November. Scabbard and Blade is made up of men from the senior class who exhibit excellence in R.O.T.C. training. Not more than one-half of the seniors who take R.O.T.C. may be members. The most distinguished member of the Scabbard and Blade is General Pershing.

Students Buy Book As Gift At the Inaugural Exercises, the Davidson student body presented a gift to the school’s new President. The result of voluntary contributions by the students, the gift was formally presented to Dr. Cunningham by Al Winn, student body president, during the Inauguration. The student gift to the President was a very beautiful, rare copy of Pilgrim’s Progress. It is a 1796 edition with the plate engraved by Wooley. It is of full straight grain, red Morocco, with gilt edges. Cunningham has expressed himself as highly grateful to the Student Body for this expression, and as warmly appreciative of that particular gift since it is one which he will keep always with happy associations. This book was seen by Dr. Cunningham in New York some time (Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Cunningham on October 18, the Dr. Cunningham is the thirteenth president of Davidson College. Left to right they are, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Dr. William J. Martin, and Dr. Henry Louis Smith. Attending the inauguration were one hundred and twenty-one delegates representing colleges and universities all over the country. Dr. Cunningham led this procession of delegates, accompanied by Governor Broughton, the past presidents shown above, and the Davidson College faculty.

Johnny Mackorell Coaches Course In Possum Hunting At Lees Court Gets Offenders Punishment Meted to Water Tank Painters By J. C. WALKER Judge Frank Caldwell and the Court of Control have caught and sentenced the culprits who were guilty of defacing the water tank and other parts of the campus. The offenders, Henderson Belk and Tom Glasgow, are to scrub the paint off the drive in front of Chambers Building thirty-five minutes every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for a month. They are required to wear coats and ties while serving their punishment, and their sentence will be prolonged to meet the need of cleaning service if the paintings are repeated. “The freshmen had better improve their respect toward the upper-classmen. This has been lacking in the past and drastic measures are to be taken if this is not observed. These freshmen think that they own the works on this campus and we plan to put a stop to such ideas. The Student Store still has a supply of freshmen caps and they are on sale for a minimum sum and capless rats had better take this hint.” Judge Caldwell goes further to say that if any more numerals representing the Class of '45 are put anywhere on the campus, the entire class will be put on campus for a lengthy period. He states that if any work of art is to be done, the Senior Class is to do it, not the freshmen. (Continued on Page Six)

Unusual Class Boasts Forty Boys and Girls By HANK WATT Coach John Mackorell, Davidson graduate of the class of 1935, and one of Davidson's outstanding all-around athletes,boasts the most unusual degree ever given a professor. It's the same old Ph.D. you've seen so much; but it has an entirely different meaning—Doctor of Possum-Hunting. Don't laugh, it is a fully accredited course at Lees-McRae College, so if you are flunking Math and adept at possum lore, maybe this course is for you. 

It all came about when the college had to abandon football because of traveling expenses. Coach Mackorall, being Director of Athletics, had to find another job besides his usual duties. He conducts a class three times a week (night school necessarily) in the art of running down ole Unca Billy. The total enrollment of this unusual, but overflowing class, is forty—and almost as many girls as boys. The pupils declare it the most interesting course in the school, and better still, there is no homework. John Mackorall has proved a most capable teacher in varied lore. Besides his athletic abilities, he is noted as a sportsman. He is an ardent fisherman and hunter, so he probably enjoys the course as much as the pupils. He was an honor student at Davidson, graduating in 1935, was tapped by ODK, made the Dean's list, and is an all-time Davidson quarterback.

Lees-McRae College Issued New Rating
MacKenzie Is Promoted To Full Colonel

Lieutenant Colonel Gabriel T. MacKenzie, Infantry, received the following telegram from the War Department, Washington, D.C., Saturday night, October 18th: "Colonel Gabriel T. MacKenzie, Infantry, R.O.T.C. Davidson, North Carolina. In reply cite AGEL the President on October 14th appointed you temporary Colonel Army of the United States rank from October 14th. Radio acceptance immediately and mail on new form W.D. A.G.O. 0337-T Adams Washington, D.C."

At a promotion party that evening at the quarters of Colonel and Mrs. MacKenzie, Captain Ellis E. Marsh, the Adjutant, administered the oath of office to Colonel MacKenzie in the presence of several faculty families. After the oath had been administered, Mrs. MacKenzie removed the silver maple leaves, insignia of a lieutenant colonel, from Colonel MacKenzie's uniform and replaced them with silver eagles, the insignia of a Colonel of the United States Army. Refreshments were then served.

Colonel MacKenzie came to Davidson College in September 1939 as Professor of Military Science and Tactics from Fort Douglas, Utah, where he had been stationed as commander of the 3rd Battalion.

(Continued on Page Six)

Music Group Presents Farbman Sinfonietta; First Of Six Concerts
Ambassadors Fifteen Piece Ensemble Is Directed By Henry Farbman

TICKETS ARE ON SALE
Feature Set Group Composed Of Talented Young Musicians

Vince Courtney’s Band Plays "Drummer Boy" And "Bolero" At Dance Series

By CHARLES BROCKMANN

The Homecoming Dances held in Charlotte last weekend were considered a great success. The fifteen-piece band was well received by everyone present. Among the favorites were "Drummer Boy" and their interpretation of Ravel's "Bolero." The group recently introduced a "V for Victory" theme, featuring a fifteen-piece string ensemble composed of talented young musicians. The "V" was formed by the smaller string quartets and quintets, but arranged to achieve a better effect.

The members of the fraternities carried a large bouquet of American Beauty roses. Representing the fraternities were: Miss Julia Guion with Carlton Parson, Kappa Alpha; Miss Jane Council with Dick Kell; and Miss Millie Brenizer with Jack Clark, Kappa Sigma; Miss Ernestine Norman with Jim Owens and Miss Anne Mitchell with Pat Rudolph, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Nina Goodman with Fagin, Phi Kappa Phi; Miss Jean Paxton with Darby and Miss Lillian Shutting with Wooten, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Jane Oten with John Creighton and Miss Mary Frances Smith with Ed Lucas, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Sarah Brown with Bob Bryant and Miss Edith Chabain with Bob Rankin, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Jane King with Sid Daffin and Miss Jean Jones with Rod Turner, Sigma Phi Epsilon; and Miss Julia Gresham with Charlie Watt and Miss Nancy Akins with Mason Wallace, Kappa Mu.

Decorations for the Friday night dance consisted of nine shields, fashioned after the United States coat of arms, each bearing the name of a fraternity in the blue field. A superimposed "V for Victory" was displayed below. At the Armory on Saturday night, a stripe of crepe paper alternating red, black, and white was hung above the dance floor.

Col. Mackenzie will conduct the Davidson Reserve Officers’ Training School on Thursday night, October 23rd, at the Charlotte Armory. The problem will be solved; all Reserve Officers and students are invited to attend. This announcement comes as a special news release from the R.O.T.C. headquarters in Davidson.

Magazine Has New Sections Will Issue Unusually