Page Two : THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
Los Angeles - Chicago - Boston - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ANDY DALE

BUSINESS MANAGER
JACK COVINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumberger Assistant Editor
Tom Caul Assistant Editor
Joe Liles Associate Editor
Ed Watson Associate Editor
Lawson Withers Associate Editor
Dick Cobb Managing Editor
Harwell Darby Managing Editor
Bob Garvey Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett Managing Editor
Al Wint Managing Editor
Bob Carter Sports Editor
David Vosburgh Movie Editor
Billy Barker Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt Circulation Manager
John Crichton Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, of student and faculty opinion, and is a medium for contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to any individual or group, and is not destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

CLOSING REMARKS—
And so we come to the end of the road. At least as far as this paper and work connected with it may be concerned. We have enjoyed it all the way, even when there was a lack of news (which was too often the case) and time was running short. And so in closing, before handing over the job to the new editor, we would like to clear the desk, its drawers, and the trash can beneath it, of all debris, ideas, facts, and plans, listing these for convenience in paragraphs.

(1) Many thanks to those men who have done “behind-the-scenes” work which is always so essential to any project. Paul Bumberger, assistant editor, especially deserves many thanks for his untiring and always ready service in the capacity of copy-reader, chief critic, and “brains.” Bum has worked faithfully and well, and gotten no credit at all for it. Likewise, those junior editors who now become associates and to the contributors go thanks for their well-directed efforts. To the staff of the Standard Printing Company in Charlotte, whence this sheet originates, go orchids, too, for much patience and kind help.

(2) Add ideas for editorials: the general intolerance at Davidson—among all groups, both the high and lowly, in those with authority and without. A general subject, but one which has endless possibilities. There is much room for improvement here, slow as it will have to be. And great changes must come before any improvement will be evident.

(3) Once again a new class is about to be created within the rising senior class—the non-recognized seniors, men who have worked well and done their best, and who now hold no offices or honors. Whatever the reason, this class always is with us, and it is a great pity that they may not in some way receive the recognition which they so well deserve. In most cases this recognition has not been sought, nor wanted, and that is but all the more reason why it should come to them. College honors may mean something now—who knows?—but life will tell the final story, and from them we look for great things.

(4) Phi Beta Kappa has begun a fine plan, whereby certain freshmen and sophomores who have maintained high scholastic averages through their years in college are invited to the spring banquet. This is offered as an incentive to further work, and as some slight recognition of past achievements, and should encourage underclassmen to continue their efforts in order some day to possibly be honored with the famed gold square on their watch chain.

(5) Keep the campus clean? This has been repeatedly offered as a topic for an editorial. But if this fault were the worst to be found in Davidson, then there would be no doubt as to pass the subject by lightly. A good idea, but we've heard too much about it in the past four years.

(6) We still think the idea of stapling ballots together at the bottom to prevent members of the Election Board from seeing who voted for whom is a good one. And it is practical, although it might have to be worked out more fully. However, we had our editorial head snapped off after last week's editorial, and if the students wish their representatives on the Board to continue to know exactly who did vote for whom, and to pass the word about, why that’s as it should be. If the student body wants this evil continued, by all means, let’s not hinder it. But if they do not, then the plan will put an immediate stop to the gossip of corruption, etc. We would like to see a signed statement appear opposing this idea.

(7) And lastly, best of luck to the new editor. And thanks to the student body for bearing with us through this past year. Mistakes have been many, and your patience long-suffering.

ANDY DALE, Editor.

With the Staff
BY BOB GARVEY

Once each year the time comes that we all know as spring. Spring has many features that identify it, birds, buds and soft breezes. However, there is another side to it that is not so often connected with spring, this is elections. It never fails, when we enter into the season of spring we also enter into elections. As new men are elected to the various offices there are the old office holders that must lay aside their jobs and give way to the new order. Tonight we, the staff of the Davidsonian, elected six new men to serve in our places under a new editor for the coming year. These men have worked hard for the last two years and now they get their reward. However, it is not with these new junior editors that I want to dwell; I want to “sing the swan song” for the outgoing juniors that have done their bit towards giving the student body a paper for the last three years.

When the time comes to leave an old friend there is a feeling of sadness. This is the way that we feel towards the paper because every Monday night during our stay at Davidson we have been bound to the job of putting the paper to press. This has created in each of us a feeling of responsibility for the paper. Many times there have been trying occasions that seemed to worry us a great deal, but those things have only made us feel closer to the people that we have worked with—and the sheet that we have worked on.

This column has nearly every week carried something from our hand that we have felt might be of interest to the students or might be a help to someone. We want now to say here that it has been a pleasure to write these columns and that we are giving our places to men that we think will be not only capable of writing a column that will be of interest but also of putting out a paper that will carry the news and give the students a broadside view of the happenings of the student body and the campus. They will face many hardships as have all the junior editors in the past and they will find times that they feel that they won’t be able to go on. Everyone has at some time or another heard tales of the late sessions held up in the Davidsonian office or heard of the stories that have to be written late at night. These are only some of the few things that they will face. If you ever find a man saying these things, take them with a grain of salt, because he is not really “griping” about the work; we all have to have something to talk about. Really he is immensely interested and wants to do everything that he possibly can, else he would not be serving in the capacity that he has been elected to.

May we as the outgoing juniors of the staff bid you, our readers, a sad farewell. We will still be here but only one of us will be connected vitally with the paper. We have enjoyed every minute of the time spent working on your paper and we are now sorry that the time has come that we must give our Davidsonian office key to some other man and lay aside our pencils to assume the role of ex-junior editors of the Davidsonian.

The educational clinic at New York City College is about to start a program of guidance for children of elementary and high school age who find difficulties in reading. The clinic will analyze reading difficulties and offer remedial work.

Simmons College of Boston will offer a degree program in library science in summer courses, beginning this year.

Letters to the Editor

Fraternity House Rent.
March 17, 1941.

Mr. Andy Dale,
Editor of The Davidsonian,
Davidson, North Carolina.

Dear Mr. Dale:

This attempt to comply with your request for a summary of the more important aspects of our conversation about the undercurrent of criticism of the rental charges made for the fraternity houses. To give any reasonable explanation it is necessary to give some of the background of the development of the fraternity housing situation that led up to the plan now in use.

The Trustees of the College, after years of deliberation of housing fraternities, decided at their meeting in June, 1928, the best method as the court plan as it now exists. At one time all of the fraternities on campus were housed in dormitory rooms in the Chambers Building that was burned in 1921. The rental in Chambers Building was $25.00 a year. Later, more suitable quarters were provided in Oak and Elm Rows and in Phi and Eu Halls at a rental of $50.00 a year. The move was an experiment on the part of several of the fraternities to rent residences in town to be used in general as a typical fraternity house. Within a few years most of the fraternities were thus housed, and at least one of the fraternities began feeling its way toward the erection of a chapter house such as now exist on other college and university campuses. The proposed building was to be financed on borrowed money. The faculty and trustees became concerned about the direction in which this problem was pointing and, after exhaustive study on the part of a committee composed jointly of trustees and faculty, the committee members adopted the recommendation of the trustees to erect dormitories which housed lodges, or social rooms, without rooming or boarding features.

After the policy had been adopted, three locations were considered. These were the Louisiana lot across the street from Shearer Hall; the lot where the president's home is, including the newly-developed playing field back of the dormitory, and the location finally adopted. It is possibly well to say that the housing situation in the town residences was regarded as unsatisfactory. Many of the student body officers were rooming off the campus with the result that their influence on student life and government was greatly reduced. The dormitories which had been provided for the housing of students were being left vacant and the income of the College accordingly decreased. The students living off the campus were paying more for room rent than the College had been charging and they were occupying buildings that were not fireproof, without any night watchman service being provided.

When the plan had been adopted it was decided that the houses should be approximately the same size and that the cost for each building should not exceed $5,000.00. Three options were given the students and their alumni advisors. One was that any fraternity that wanted to might...Build on a lot donated by the College with the restriction that the title to the lot would revert to the College in case the building should ever cease to be used for fraternity purposes. The College offered to lend the fraternities one-half the money needed to erect the building, at 6 per cent, with the provision that one-tenth of the amount borrowed should be repaid each year. The second option was that any one of the fraternities might deposit with the College the cost of its house and use the house rent-free so long as the deposit remained with the College. The third option was that the College would erect the buildings and, disregarding the value of the land, would charge 8 per cent on the cost of the investment. The cost of the course was to include the expense of extending to the court the steam, sewer, water, and light mains. The amount of current and water consumed was so small that no charge was made for lights and water. The buildings were not used then as now. There was a Trustee regulation that “The fraternity halls shall be closed to visitors from 12 o'clock Saturday night until 8 o'clock Monday morning,” and the rules further provided that the halls should be closed to members most of the day on Sunday. The $75.00 charged for heat is in the same proportion to the cost of heat for all buildings that the cubic feet of radiation in the fraternity building bears to the radiation in all buildings.

Let me digress from the purpose of this article to explain here that we were not aware of the fact that an insufficient amount of heat has been going to the halls to make them comfortable until a few weeks ago, and that to remedy this situation involves an engineering problem that will have attention next summer. Representatives of the fraternities have reported the lack of heat from time to time, but it has been assumed that all that was needed was to clean the valves and to see that the equipment was not mechanically defective.

The rental charge for each building now is $300.00 a year, which is 6 per cent on $5,000.00. When the buildings were first occupied, the trustees were told that the boys would have to buy new furniture and that it would be helpful if the rent for the first two years could be made on the basis of 6 per cent instead of 8 per cent. This was agreed to. At the end of the two-year period, the depression was on and the furniture had not yet been paid for. The trustees were requested to extend this 6 per cent rate for another two-year period, and this request was granted. At the termination of the second two-year period, the depression was still on and the Trustees were requested to make the 6 per cent rental charge permanent, and this likewise was agreed to.

The eleven buildings, with extended water, steam, sewer, and light mains, cost in excess of $55,000.00. For rental purposes, we regard each as costing $5,000.00. The cost would have been substantially less had not the court been connected with the central heating plant. Each house might have had its own heating unit with its own janitor and another chimney.

(Continued on Page Six)

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

* * *

Thursday, March 20—“Flight From Destiny.” Geraldine Fitzgerald, Jeffrey Lynn, and Thomas Mitchell. This movie is powerfully conceived, convincingly acted, and vividly true. It tells of a kindly professor who is given six months to live by his doctor, James Stephenson. He decides to rid the world of some evil before going and sets out upon his mission by attempting to rid the world of Mona Moris, an unscrupulous woman who has wrecked the happy marriage of Artist Jeffrey Lynn and his wife. Instead of setting a good example, he has set a horrible example for young men to follow.

* * *

Friday and Saturday, March 21 and 22—“Virginia.” Sterling Hayden, Fred MacMurray, and Carolyn Lee. I had the pleasure of seeing the world premiere of this picture, and it is really tops. The scene is laid around Charlottesville, in the heart of Virginia. The theme of the story is the love and battle to keep the old estates out of the hands of Yankees. Fred MacMurray works hard to keep his old home in the family. Madeline Carroll comes South for the first time in years to sell her old home because she needs the money so badly. She plans to sell the home to Sterling Hayden, of the North, and almost marries him until she discovers her heart really belongs in “ole Virginny.” Carolyn Lee is a scream in her lines and adds much to the movie. The setting is wonderful and the sound is very good, but it could have been made so much better.

* * *

Monday and Tuesday, March 24 and 25—As yet the name of the show for these days has not been announced.

* * *

Wednesday, March 26—“Where Did You Get That Girl?” Your guess is as good as mine. This is one of those shows that I couldn't find anything at all about. So it isn’t a world headliner, but probably a very good show, especially for Bargain Day. I would like for Rusty Edmondson to be the guest of the theater for any show next week.

* * *

Thursday, March 20, 1941

BILL LEMMON DAY’S DIARY

BY NOVAE:

The modern trend in all economic, political, and social relations with which we have any date fellow is sort of organization, and in this case, it is not the United Garment Workers or some other union of national renown, but our own contribution to this ever-dangerous obstacle in our national defense program, so denounced by many. This new association which has reared its ugly head in our very midst has been dubbed “Society for the Prevention of Week-End Wooing,” and was conceived and constituted into a very active sorority vs. fraternity this past dance set by two notable visitors, guests of the SAE chapter. These girls, Dot and Hawk-eye, were born being allergic to anything tending to wrap itself around their necks. It was by accident that these visiting girls were boarding the same house and after a very strenuous night of it Friday, they fell to the usual feminine discussion, whereupon they discovered their mutual misfortune of birth, and to it, allergy.

The thought of some sort of organization to combat the situation here (where the girls cannot holler for help) immediately occurred to the brainy Dot, she being a major in labor problems, and wishing to begin her career as early as possible. The first board in the platform of this new social hazard was to declare a strike at the “Dutch Oven,” the place where the hours have been unduly hard and the men seem to hunger for that part of the turkey carcass connecting the head with the trunk. These up-and-doing women declared complete ostracization to any member of their sex who dared to violate this sacred organization’s secret charter. Thirdly, during every dance set, pickets will be posted for one hour’s duty at a time in front of the forenamed Dutch Oven for the promotion of the association and the prevention of any violation.

This outline of the secretive society's progressive plan is a general plan. The DIARY offers the plan below as the best remedy for this grave social injustice to be prepared right and put into operation during the immediate ensuing weekends so that it will be perfected before the arrival of the much-anticipated Spring Frolics:

(1.) Any girl suspected of membership in this sorority should not have the honor of attending our dances with one of our members;
(2) the arrest and trial by the town mayor of any woman picketing any of the houses;
(3) the promotion of a counter-fraternity to combat the impending danger which threatens our very social structure;
(4) and finally, the men caught entertaining any love, howbeit small, to be rolled by the council for “conduct unbecoming a Davidson gentleman,” due to his mental treason.

By such action, we shall be able to cut the peril off at its roots and prevent its jeopardizing any of our brother students in other institutions.

The few cuts: Rosy Boykin has again donned his sugar breeches after nearly a year and is wandering around singing, “It All Comes Back To Me Now.” The rumor goes that he was on his way to S. C. to see a justice of the peace who offers curb service, but Thin Man Rogers talked him out of it. Wilber Carter got out of the groove and into the ring with his date; she went home after a big three-round novice fight Saturday. Ed Shewmake seems to have taken over Ragsdale’s post on the track field and down on frat row on Sunday afternoons; his brothers report his activity very stimulating to spectators during the date with one of the local co-eds. All dope on the big deal of Frog Bell, Bob Pollock, and Bayru Neil to the beach this past weekend has been censored. Apologies!

Compassing Campuses
BY TOM CAUBLE

ON THE FLUSH WIRE:

An integral part of college life is the institution of the telegraph, invented in 1837 by Samuel Morse. Commonly known as “flush wires,” feminine wires of refusal are by far the most interesting type of communication with which the college man is concerned, our discussion will treat mainly with them. These refusals generally concern dance weekends, but may include any party or function. The most common type of “flush” generally includes the following ideas: (1) the element of deep regret, (2) the hint or statement of an important reason for having to refuse, and (3) the idea of “ask me again.”

The element of deep regret is conveyed by various combinations of “terribly,” “dreadfully,” “awfully sorry,” and like adverbs. The important reason for having to refuse generally relates to the girl’s family or her school as that is neutral ground and will not arouse the pangs of jealousy in the invitor. She might be “forced to go home” or “have to go somewhere with her brother” or not have “any cuts left.” The “ask me again” idea is seldom forgotten. It may be stated as such, to wit: “Please ask me again.” Or in a more subtle manner, “looking forward to seeing you soon,” “thanks much for asking me,” or in some allusion to the “next time.”

This type of wire may be further subdivided into (a) eleventh hour or (b) notice in due time. Again the “eleventh hour” flush is the more common of the two. They generally roll in from breakfast through lunch on Friday of a dance weekend and in some special cases have arrived as late as the tea dance. Heartbreaking it is to draw one of these “eleventh hour” dispatches. A “notice in due time” is of course not uncommon and allows the collegian a few hours to assume again the offensive to gain a date.

Let us consider a sample of one of these “eleventh hour” refusals. It might say: “Dreadfully sorry. Find I can’t possibly come. Letter follows.” Thus, “letter follows” is the essence of this type. The young lady can later expound at length and the unwary collegian is apt to be all-understanding.

A sample of the perfunctory refusal or notice in due time might run as follows: “Terribly sorry. Can't possibly make it this time. No cuts left. Thanks so much for asking me.”

Let us draw a portrait of a circumstance in which one of these heart-rending “eleventh hour” flushes is delivered. Our hero is at lunch on Friday of a dance weekend. He is consuming his dessert with reckless abandon. Eagerly he finishes this operation and starts to push back his chair preparatory to bounding down to meet the bus. Then he spies a waiter with a yellow envelope making his way toward his table. The room becomes quiet. The waiter heedlessly hits a spoon against a glass to command quiet and makes the presentation. The envelope is carelessly torn open (with false bravado) and the yellow sheet withdrawn. Deep melancholy clouds the face of our hero and another collegian bites the dust.