Thursday, November 6, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Question of The Week

With the Homecoming set now a member of the large group of successful Davidson Dances, and showing a neat profit
in the bank, everyone has been speculating as to who will provide the music for the Mid-Winters. Therefore the question
of the week is: Who or what type of band do you want for Mid-Winters?

Charles Brockmann, Sophomore:
It would be fine if the Pan-Hellenic Council cleared enough on the Homecoming Dances to get a real “name band”
for Mid-Winters. One on the order of Charlie Spivak should appeal to those who like rhythm as well as the
devotees of the soft and sweet.

Ralph Dunn, Sophomore:
I should like to see either Sunny Dunham or Vaughn Monroe. Both of these bands are “tops” because they are
able to play both sweet and smooth with a little swing mixed in. Dunham played an engagement at the Meadowbrook
and made a big hit, and Monroe has made some “swell” records.

John McGee, Junior:
It seems to me that another band like Charlie Spivak's would suit the student body very well. That type of
orchestra has enough fast music to satisfy the jitterbugs, and enough of the sweet too for the rest of us.
My suggestion would be Vaughn Monroe.

Dick Kelly, Senior:
Due to the fact that the price of orchestras has risen this year, and it seems both impossible and impractical
for the Pan-Hellenic Council to get a band like Tommy Dorsey’s for Mid-Winters, I would like to have Charlie Spivak
back for that set. He went over in a big way at Spring Frolics last year and gave us one
of the best dances in years. He plays the type of music that we like at Davidson.

Glenn Terrell, Senior:
The widely-toured Briarhoppers, with their guitar and jews harp ensemble and their harmonica harmony, would be more than appropriate for
a Davidson dance. There is only one reason why it would be impractical to secure this group of harmonizing “hep-cats”,
namely, that the Pan-Hell. Council wouldn't clear over two thousand dollars. However, I deem it time for this Council to
make some sacrifices to the “floor-polishers” and give us a big name band.

Ned Pollick, Junior:
In my opinion, Sunny Dunham would be an excellent choice for a Mid-Winters band. One of his arrangers was formerly
connected with Jimmy Lunsford, and his style typifies this great band. He is definitely on the up-grade, and the council
could easily meet his price, as in the case of Bob Chester the year before last.

Morton Church, Junior:
Of course I would choose Tommy or Jimmy Dorsey, but since their price level is probably too high, Claude Thornhill
would be our best bet. His style is on the sweet side, which is what most Davidson boys like. He
writes wonderful arrangements of the “pop” tunes and revamped classics. For the jitterbugs he has some good swing pieces too.
He is definitely the band.

Jim Chapman, Junior:
Personally I would like to see us get Eddy Duchin with T. Dorsey as a second choice. At the 1940
Carolina Finals Duchin was liked better at the dance than was Mr. Glenn Miller. He features the sweet and slow
type dance music which has become more prevalent here. So let’s see the good Pan-Hell get the piano master for
the Winter Set.

Bill Faison, Senior:
I would like to see Davidson step out and really throw a big dance set with a band such as
Tommy Dorsey’s or Glenn Miller. We have always had swell bands, but never the biggest name bands due to lack
of funds and competition from some other big schools. I would like to have the students pledge to the Pan-Hellenic
Council their support, no matter what the cost.

(Continued on Page Six)

HAIRCUTS SHAVES SHAMPOOS FACIALS
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A committee was appointed for the purpose of obtaining location and constructing buildings for Davidson College. On October 22, 1835,
this committee submitted a report, which also is in the scrapbook.

Another of these documents is a plan that if put into use today, would attract young men from far and
wide to Davidson. It is a system of scholarship in which one hundred dollars was paid for twenty years tuition.
This could be had by any of the original student's descendants, as long as not more than two students were
in school at the same time on the same scholarship, until the twenty years had expired.

There is also, in the scrapbook, a receipt for tuition of one of Davidson's first students. This document is dated
September 5, 1837.

Some of the book plates are those used by the Philanthropic and Eu-...

Miss Martha Boyd
Miss Sara Harris
Miss Helen Cox

Phi Delta Theta fraternity will give a dinner at the Charlotte Country Club Saturday evening at seven o'clock. The sponsors,
who are pictured above, and their escorts will be: Miss Libby Jones of Charlotte with Fred Boykin of Atlanta, sponsoring
the Junior class; Miss Sara Harris of Spartanburg, S. C., with George Dew of Charleston, S. C., for the senior
class; Miss Elizabeth Rogers of Tallahassee, Fla., with Glenn Terrell of Tallahassee, for the senior class; Miss Martha Boyd of
Germantown, Pa., with Jack Laughridge of Germantown, for the pledge class; Miss Helen Cox of Goldsboro, with...Bob Pierce of Farmville,
for the sophomore class. Officers of the fraternity, which was founded in 1848 at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, are: James
M. Owens, III, of Palm Beach, Fla., president; Jack Westall of Asheville, reporter; S. Hutchins Booker of Louisville, Ky., treasurer;
Glenn Terrell, Jr., of Tallahassee, Fla., Henry McIntosh of West Palm Beach, Fla., secretary.

PHI ELECTS MEMBERS

New members were voted upon at the regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Tuesday night, October 28. Bids were
sent to the accepted members following the meeting. The received bids are required to turn in an acceptable paper to
the society before becoming eligible for formal initiation. The initiation will take place at the next meeting, November 11. The
names of the new members shall be announced after the initiation. Plans are being made for a party by the
social committee. Minor details have not been decided upon as yet, but the party will take place in the latter
part of November.

Devotionals were conducted by Ralph Clontz.

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, NOV. 6-7
“WEEK-END IN HAVANA”

SATURDAY, NOV. 8
“MOB TOWN”

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, NOV. 10-11
“YANK IN THE R.A.F.”
Tyrone Power — Betty Grable

THURSDAY, NOV. 13
“BELLE STARR”
Randolph Scott

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, S.C.

Last Sunday Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson, spoke at the weekly Vesper program, bringing
an answer to the recent speech of Dr. Will Durant. He used as a text a portion of the eighth
Psalm, “What is Man? Thou hast made him but little lower than God and crownest him with glory and honor.”

Dr. Foreman charged that Dr. Durant had given us only half-truths which were quite as harmful as non-truths. He pointed
out that thought is not a by-product of impulse and action, but rather thought creates actions and controls them. If
thought was just a by-product of impulse and action, there would be no need of education. Dr. Foreman also stated
that here at Davidson we believe that education is justified. We believe that man’s control of his future, if he
is trained to think, he is not at the mercy of the situation. He is not a slave of the
circumstances, but rather finds his freedom in his ability to control the circumstances and in his freedom in mind and
spirit. Christ sums up the difference from animals and also his salvation lies in his freedom from domination by circumstances,
to a higher plane, one which is “but little lower than God.”

Our speaker for next Sunday will be Dr. Gwynn of the Psychology Department.

Pause... go refreshed
Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality. You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again you
enjoy the charm of its delicious taste, and its cool, clean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Miss Elizabeth Rogers warden; and thought: An educated man is his own master and it’s up to him to choose
between the good and the evil. Circumstances are purely physical, and there is no connection between this materialism and the
spiritualism offered in the Bible and by Christ.

Christ’s Life And Training Is Discussed
Dr. G. R. Vowles, of the Language Department, was the guest speaker at Sunday School last Sunday. He gave for
his Scripture Luke 2:39-52. The Scripture deals with certain aspects of the life of Christ. Dr. Vowles emphasized particularly two
verses of Scripture. 1. “And the child grew and waxed strong, filled with wisdom.” 2. “And Jesus increased in wisdom
and stature, and in favor with God and man.” The first of these verses summarizes Christ's life through the age
of twelve. The second is our only knowledge of Christ's life from the age of twelve to thirty. During these
years Christ was preparing for the ministry. It is significant that Christ spent thirty years in preparation for three years
of ministry.

Several Davidson students have been attending Scout Masters Training Course in Charlotte every Monday night. Boys taking the full six
weeks course will receive a certificate for their work. Although it is too late to join this course and receive
full information, remaining classes in the course can be attended. Among those taking part in this activity are Pinky Wilson,
Jerry Piper, Tom Court, Bill McLauchin, Campbell, and Jack Ramsey.

Statesville scouts held a meeting Tuesday. Several Davidson boys assisted in the examining of the scouts. Those that were examined
were Jerry Piper, Ralph Coonrad, Bill Robinson, and Gene Linton.

Most recent addition to the scout troops organized and supervised by Davidson students is the Caldwell Troop No. 40. The
investigation of the group was held last Sunday morning in the Caldwell Presbyterian Church.

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra”
Nightly Except Sundays, During October and November.
