Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915.
Member of Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY........ Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett........ Associate Editor
Al Winn........ Associate Editor
Ed Erwin........ Managing Editor
Joe Eve........ Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher........ Managing Editor
Bill Lyman........ Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh........ Sports Editor
Lacey MacLean........ Staff Photographer
Clarence Legerton........ Staff Photographer
Billy Barker........ Business Manager
Calhoun Hope........ Advertising Manager
Peter Young........ Circulation Manager
Joe Martin........ Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely........ Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart........ Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college life and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

ARMISTICE DAY, 1941

As Armistice Day, 1941, approaches, the campus is considering the appropriate form of observing this occasion.

To the millions who in 1918 celebrated the first Armistice Day, it meant the end of a long, bitter struggle and the beginning of a new and better era.

After 21 years we are observing Armistice Day in the midst of a new and more terrible war, the result of humanity's failure to utilize the opportunities presented by the peace of Versailles. As we, the American people, now take up the grim task of mobilizing all our resources for defense, we must also make sure that we shall not lose the next peace. The character of the peace that will come out of this war will in part be determined by the degree to which statesmen are supported by a mature and informed public opinion. Colleges can take leadership in diffusing information and stimulating interest in the problems inherent in building a better world. Certainly, the student body with its associates everywhere, whether in the armed forces, on the farm, or in the factory, who will inherit the post-war world, have a right and responsibility to concern themselves with this issue.

The United States Committee of International Student Service, therefore, urges that on November 11th, classroom discussions and Armistice Day exercises be organized around the theme of peace aims and post-war reconstruction.

The foremost questions to be considered are:
1. What stake does the United States have in the peace that will follow the war? Is the Roosevelt-Churchill statement of peace aims—the Atlantic Charter—an adequate summary of the peace aims of the American people? How shall those aims be implemented and realized?

2. We could make this Armistice Day an occasion for mourning over the failure of the 1918 peace to provide a lasting peace. Or we could blindly and selfishly concern ourselves only with protection against immediate dangers. It would be far better to work positively to create a just peace and a better international order within the democratic framework and with faith in the peoples of the world to govern themselves. Even in this bleak winter of man’s hopes, we can sow the seeds that will produce the springtime of a better world.

(Information from the U. S. Committee of International Student Service.)

Letters to The Editor

Dear Tony:

One of our modern philosophers has said that laughter is the method used by society to defend itself against the unorthodox, different, or unusual man thus preserving a reasonable stability and consistency in the character of things. Permit me then to congratulate the Davidson gentlemen for their immeasurable contribution to welfare and progress by their laughter during the piano playing of John Kirkpatrick on Monday morning. Not being a musician I shall not attempt to make a statement as to the value of this music. Nor shall I introduce such out-moded things as courtesy and politeness. The important thing is that Davidson has met with a man who is too different to make for unified society and has properly ridiculed him.

—JOHNNY MacLEOD.

With The Staff
BY JIMMY FULCHER

Thursday and Friday
November 6 and 7
A WEEK-END IN HAVANA
Alice Faye, Carmen Miranda, John Payne, Cobina Wright Jr., and George Barbier. John Payne is being fitted for his wedding suit, preparatory to his marriage to Cobina Wright, when his boss brings news that one of the company’s steamers has piled up on a Florida reef. John is forced to rush to the scene (missing his wedding rehearsal) to straighten any legal difficulties with the passengers. All but one of the passengers are willing to settle for future passage, that one being Alice Faye, a Macy’s salesgirl. Her arguments are that this is her vacation, that she won't be able to get away again, and that the steamship company has ruined her one chance for glamour and romance. To pacify her, John’s boss insists he escort her to Havana and do his best to entertain her on the company’s money.

Things don’t go so good in Havana, as Alice loses fabulous sums of the company's money at the roulette wheel, and also becomes involved with Cesar Romero, Carmen Miranda's shiftless manager. To complicate things, John's bride-to-be flies to the scene to see what's going on. And believe it or not, it all finally works out.

Saturday, November 8
MOB TOWN
The Dead-End Kids.

Today, Wednesday, November 6, 1941, one of the greatest men in the Southern Presbyterian Church is upon our campus. Fall Services are underway and Dr. Peter Marshall is at the helm. You've heard him; you are going to hear him tonight because he is good. You know that he has a real message for you. When you heard him yesterday you realized that he was a real red-blooded Christian leader—a man of God, certainly the man for you and me in this time. Maybe you feel as I do; you know him—see him—know the type of man he is, know what he stands for, and yet you want to know more about him, his life, his work.

Peter Marshall was born in Edinburgh, Scotland some thirty-five or forty years ago. As a young boy he worked in a tubing factory and received a meager education through night schooling. He became restless and undecided about his future life and on the suggestion of a friend decided to come to America. He was then about twenty years old. After a year of waiting for his quota, he sailed and came to New Jersey. After applying for a good many jobs he joined the New Jersey National Guard and served in a machine gun company. His lot was to carry the tripod.

Next he turned to a steel foundry and while working there he decided that this was not his life’s work. He realized that his calling was to do God's work, so he began to work in a small church in Georgia. Soon the people of that church became interested in him, and so great and sincere was their interest that they sent him to Columbia Seminary where he was graduated in 1931 with a Bachelor of Divinity Degree.

His first pastorate was in Covington, Georgia. It was not long before large churches were calling him and he accepted the call of the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Washington, D. C. in 1937. The following year, Presbyterian College in Clinton, S. C. conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity.

While at Columbia Seminary he became engaged to Miss Katherine Wood, a student at Agnes Scott, and in 1936 they were married. They have a son, Peter, Jr. whom Dr. Marshall says has the makings of a great tackle, although he is but eighteen months old today.

Probably no minister has a greater appeal to young people than does Dr. Marshall. He is constantly among them and finds it necessary to turn down hundreds of invitations to be with them. He likes to meet young people on their own grounds and “bull” with them. In one instance when the church needed him, after turning Washington inside out, they found him at a baseball game surrounded by a crowd of boys. At his Wednesday night services in Washington, his large church is filled with young people. His young people's choir has 600 youthful voices in it.

Benny Goodman

Benny Goodman has released a foursome of new sides that every swing lover should audition. The couplings are: “The Count” with “I See 7 Million People” and “Caprice XXIV Paganini” with “I’m Here”. The first title is a Mary Lou Williams arrangement which shows off some stabbing Lou McGarity trombone and nice Cootie Williams trumpet. The only drawback of this side is Goodman's tasteless, screeching, clarinet solo. The reverse sounds like the Goodman band of old—a fine, kicking arrangement and some excellent Mel Powell piano. You can skip Peggy Lee's vocal, though.

The Paganini caprice is surprisingly adaptable to rhythm. It shows off a nice clarinet solo by Benny and good Vido Musso tenor, but the thing that steals the show is a wonderful piano solo by eighteen-year-old Mel Powell. This is one lad that bears plenty of watching, not to mention hearing. He’s really superb. “I’m Here” is the weakest of the four and lost.

In the Grooves
By JIMMIE MORGAN

have been an excellent portrayal of the kind of life on the other side of the tracks, showing the unfairness of the type of environment with which they have to contend. All fans of the Dead-End Kids will enjoy this, their latest escapade.

Monday and Tuesday
November 10 & 11
BELLE STARR
See Randolph Scott, Gene Tierney, Dana Andrews, John Shepperd, and Elizabeth Patterson. Gene Tierney finally has a real role in which to show her ability. The character of Belle Starr had to be considerably whitewashed for screen purposes. Gene is not the high-flying bandit queen you expect to find, but merely a gently-bred Southern girl who undertakes to refight the Civil War after it has already been fought. In her agony for revenge, Belle joins up with a Southern rebel, Randolph Scott, marries him, and lives through his escapades, only to discover that the cause of the old South is in reality only a front for thieving and killing. She leaves the band only to face disastrous consequences. Miss Tierney finally proves that she is not only a beauty, but that she can act. Dana Andrews is quite good as a Yankee Major, as is John Shepperd as Gene's brother. The feature is processed in Technicolor and includes some beautiful scenery.

COMING:
A YANK IN THE R.A.F. with Betty Grable, Tyrone Power, and John Sutton.
LYDIA with Merle Oberon, Edna May Oliver, and Alan Marshall.

I would like for Ed Erwin to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

Nothing much need be said concerning this production, except that it is at its best when Shaw, clarinet, and Mike Bryan, guitar, are soloing. The new Shaw combo sounds amazingly polished for its first record. The brass section is especially good, with the other sections showing great promise. Be sure to watch this outfit. (Victor)

Harry James
Here is an orchestra that rarely fails to produce a record that does not have something of real musical excitement in it. The excitement of James’ “Minka” lies in the writing for the string quartet. The man who scored this number really knew what he was doing. Also noteworthy are Dick Haymes’ singing and the leader’s trumpet. The reverse, “Misirlou,” is also a credit to the James crew. (Columbia)

Jazz Classic
Jazz classic of the week is “Someday Sweetheart” (Bluebird B-10463), by the Benny Goodman Trio, which consists of Goodman, clarinet, Teddy Wilson, piano, and Gene Krupa, drums. This record, a reissue, was made when Goodman was at the peak of his career and shows the great clarinetist at his magnificent best. Just as magnificent is Wilson’s piano work. The delicacy, the imagination, the sheer good taste with which these artists play is almost unbelievable. Krupa's backing is equally tasteful. This record should be in the collection of every lover of popular music.

Thursday, November 6, 1941
The Fifth Columnist
By BO-BO CARTER

BO-BO CARTER will present a short travel-talk at Sunday School this week on his recent accomplishment of touring five states in five days. When asked if he missed the Y retreat, BO-BO replied, “Not in the least.” Which reminds us that JIM OWENS came within an ace of missing said retreat, the lure of a trip to Tennessee and ERNIE with RALPH WILLIAMS and WALTER WOOTEN almost overpowering him. ERNIE is the one with whom JIM executed the now-famous Pause while waiting on a stoplight at Independence Square. RALPH and WOO WOO both returned with sugar-britches in the most advanced and dangerous stages. Latter is SHUTTING high. At the Lynchburg game, JOHN TURNER with a very, very streamlined chassis from Tallahassee. STINKY STOWE and KATHRYN. JIM CROOK rolling in with a beautiful brunette.

Well, back again after a week’s layoff in which to hide from the just fury that a few of our remarks in recent issues incurred. Why a man ever undertakes a job like this is beyond me. First, you never get any glory, since for safety’s sake your name is never printed; second, you sit up until dawn on Monday nights going through mental gymnastics remembering the dope you've overheard, and the tougher job of slipping it in subtly enough to get by the censor; and third, you run the risk of becoming suddenly friendless if you are ever found out. In such a case, the uncut sever their relations with you for being slighted, and the cut do the same for reasons which are quite obvious (apologies to Major Wilson).

First, apologies to CAROLINE MILLER, whom we intended to compliment in our own meager way, only to have the effort backfire in a hail of vituperatives. Sorry, SAM. MARSHALL CHAPMAN continues to push brother JIM for top billing in this column. Although not considered to be phonographic connoisseurs, then later being seen with two blondes. What does he tell all these women? And what about FLORA MAC? ED TAYLOR seems possessed of some great secret as he floats about on clouds. He and CHICK must have threshed everything out. SKEETERBOAT WILSON is on the wailing wall, as he and PEGGY TAYLOR are definitely out of step at present. Well, kids, that’s all for now. The fifth columnist was somewhat hampered this week by the fact that he, being a limber from the timber, stayed on campus all week, with the exception of Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. However, even as the Pan Hellenic Council hopes to eventually have dancing in Rumple every Saturday night, so we hope to have one super-juicy column before the year is over, and the chances of either ever happening are about the same. MARSHALL and GEORGE McCORMACK were shopping for pick-ups in Charlotte Saturday. HARRY HUDSON broke numerous hearts to and from Ashley Hall but continues to fail to even scar the one he wants. A new Casanova has sprung up in our midst! KIDNEY OLIVER, of soccer fame, proved his mettle on the M-ball trip to Charlottesville, Va. Seems he charmed some local babe named MARTHA, who turned out in full force to see PRESTON in action in the soccer game, at which time the kid flexed his Atlas legs and completely won the poor girl’s heart. Forbidden by Coach (G. T.) Brown to call on his flame that night, our intrepid hero sallied forth at 5 a.m. to see MARTHA. His progress thenceforth can only be conjectured.

By PAT RUDOLPH
SATURDAY NIGHT, NOV. 1, 1941

I heard a prominent student at Davidson say tonight: “This is the last time I'll ever stay on the campus on Saturday night.” This poor soul, like me, had probably been among the small drab group at supper and had wandered aimlessly downtown to the post office, noticed the dust in his box, surveyed Hugo's, and then started back up to his empty dormitory with the shouts of “Mooresville!” “Charlotte!” or “Troutman!” in his ears. Across the silent windswept campus he had trod, with nothing but the light-flooded facade of Chambers to brighten the scene. A dog barked somewhere in the dim distance. Even that one little den in Chambers looked unfamiliarly dark. The old gym stood gaunt and repulsive in his path and he shiveringly whisked by it. Along dormitory row only one or two room lights were on in each building. As he turned into his hall, his footsteps echoed and reverberated throughout the long cavern of silence. He fumbled for his key in the darkness (which is common to all Davidson dorms, especially when Huffy isn’t around). Finally finding that ugly electric cord which hung grotesquely from the ceiling, he switched on the glaring one hundred watt bulb. He surveyed the room: books strewn over the desk, closet overflowing with dirty clothes, shoes scattered over the floor, the ceiling a mass of complicated wiring, a half-empty laundry package nestled in the dingy, stodgy second-hand understuffed chair which was the sole reminder of the outside world. Then he moved the laundry package and a few other personal items from the chair, sat down, and meditated. Joe had gone to Lynchburg, Sam to Charlotte, Jack to Asheville, John to Greensboro, and Jim and Fred to Chapel Hill. That was the situation. What did he have to do? Well, there was that Geology parallel to be read, that book report to write, the remaining History term paper, and those letters he had been meaning to write for the last few weeks. There was much to be done. But was this the right time to do it?

With grim determination, our hero gingerly removed one of the many books from his littered desk and sat down to read. Outside, the wind was whistling and moaning; a car careened to a stop behind the dorm and a shout was heard: “Hey, Bosco! Let’s go!” Then from several doors down: “O.K., I’m coming.” Then a slamming door and hurried footsteps down the hall, and soon the noise—thrilling noise—of changing gears. The last remaining light had been extinguished in the adjacent dormitory. The silence was deafening. Another Saturday night was roaring through Davidson.

The above dark picture may be a bit exaggerated and is certainly not true of every Saturday night at this place of learning. During the fall, there are usually several football games played on Richardson Field, and besides, there are four dance sets during the year which bring droves of girls to the campus. But due to the fact that the main events of the weekend are had in Charlotte, many boys who would ordinarily go, don’t—because of the added expense and inconvenience. For six days a week, students are going to classes, exercising or studying in the afternoon, drilling, and boning away in the library. Saturday night should be given over to some sort of recreation or change of scene or action if the student seriously feels that he has no pressing academic work that just has to be completed. Yet, where can he turn for his recreation beside the surrounding countryside (which according to one illustrious Davidsonian includes all the territory between Washington and Atlanta and sometimes more)? Many have told me that they considered the social link the weakest in the Davidson chain of cultures. Brilliantly strong are the physical, mental, and spiritual links.

I can hear it now. Someone (maybe) after reading this discourse will say: “Well, why did (Continued on Page Six)