Thursday, March 13, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Question of The Week

Last year, a new set of election rules went into effect. Some of the elections were held under the new
rules at that time but since they were new, the defects, if any, were not evident. Since we have had
a year to think over the rules and now have seen them again in effect, could you name any faulty
points? If so, name them and state what you think would be an improvement on the rules as they now
stand.

Chase Brenizer, Jr., Senior
An election should be for the sole purpose of electing a candidate on his own merit and ability in the
unbiased opinion of the individual voter, rather than for showing him in or keeping him out because of petty fraternal
grievances or the solicitations and bribes of rank politicians. For this reason, I think that our present election rules regarding
combines and soliciting votes are absolutely necessary and serve as a vital factor to keep our elections free from graft.

Tommy Brown, Junior
I think the creation of the Elections Board has been a definite improvement in the regulation of the elections at
Davidson. But I don’t know whether even it will eliminate solicitors. But why wouldn’t open politics work at Davidson? The
Student Body is growing each year and it is especially hard for Freshmen to vote for the best candidate. It
would make the Student Body more interested in Student Government.

Jim Kerr, Junior
I imagine that very few of us feel that combines are exactly on the level, and any restrictions on them
would be well-directed. However, with combines barred, I see no reason for the prohibition of politics. I myself miss the
opportunity of arguing about the relative merits of the various candidates. In spite of the regulations against it, I have
been approached and my vote for a certain candidate solicited. Now, I had no objection to that, but what irked
me was that we had to argue in whispers, and did so with a somewhat furtive feeling. Why not have
election parades, demonstrations, what-not? They would add color to a rather drab routine affair. Why not let opposing candidates campaign,
let their supporters campaign a bit for them? I'd enjoy it. Open politics exist elsewhere; why not have them here?

Johnny Moore, Senior
The most apparent defect at this time, as I see it, is not in the method of voting but the
ambiguity of section 2 of the by-laws which explain the method of progressive balloting. There are apparently many loopholes in
this rule and if these could be remedied by an amendment, I think the situation would be greatly improved.

Jim Crook, Junior
A close inspection when these elections are over should be very revealing as to the way the new rules are
working. As has been shown already, the elections for Student Body Officers have been close and would have furnished the
acid test for any election system. As yet, I cannot say how well the new rules could be better carried
out. As I recall, the rules say that no votes shall be tabulated except in the Student Council room and
then by members of the Elections Board only. I have seen the votes counted in public, at the polls while
voting was going on. Naturally, the results will get out in this way and the early returns may influence later
voting very definitely. I would not criticize the present system but would like to urge the Elections Board to carry
out the existing rules more carefully, particularly when elections are as closely contested as those of the past ten days
have been.

Holt Barnwell, Senior
I think this present system is decidedly better than the previous one, but it is far from being perfect. One
point I find is the right of Freshmen to vote, because in most cases a Freshman has no idea who
he is voting for, and gets influenced very easily. Since the Freshman class is so large, I do not think
they should have this right to vote blindly. As for politics, in general, I am definitely against it, but I
see no alternative since our system requires officers and voting.

Bill Connor, Sophomore
I have no criticism to make of the election rules; I think that they are as complete and as practical
for our student government elections. I have two general considerations to make, however. The first, a criticism of the failure
of many students to vote. It is the responsibility of every individual in the student body to cast his vote
as he thinks best; one’s failure to vote is a failure to do one's duty. And the second, a general
observation which is largely responsible for the first, the lack of knowledge on the part of the voter of the
candidates and of their respective capabilities. Our elections would be much improved if some way could be found to so
acquaint the voter with the candidates.

Norman Stevenson, Senior
The election rules for the most part have worked very well, and some very evident evils have been corrected. However,
I think the fraternity representative on the Elections Board should be placed there by the individual fraternities and not by
the Student Council. Although there seems to be no evidence of any bias this year, the present rules will not
prevent them. The only solution to that problem is open politics.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON SPONSORS
Betsy Armistead
Marie Pons

By Radio Students Select Their Favorite Performers In Representative Poll.
By Jack Ewart.

When do the radios blare the loudest on the Davidson campus? They blare loudly all the time, but they blare
the loudest when Glenn Miller is on the air! In a poll which covered a representative faction of the student
body, it was definitely proved that Glenn Miller leads all the other programs on the radio by almost one hundred
votes. What a bunch of music lovers! Bob Hope, comedian, rated second, but with about forty votes, and forty others
were more interested in keeping up with world events than anything else the radio has to offer. These news-flash fiends
generally listen to very little except news-flashes, but some of them will admit that they do enjoy Glenn Miller once
in a while. Also polling forty votes was the Ford Sunday Evening Hour. The Hermit, a mysterious ghost story program,
the Metropolitan Opera Company, the Philadelphia Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra, and Bob Hawk's Quiz Program, Take It or Leave It, were
all very popular. One freshman said that he never missed the Briarhoppers, and a sophomore confided that if it were
not for the Lone Ranger, radio would be for him a complete failure.

As to the radios which receive these programs, there are sixty rooms not equipped with radios at all. However, approximately
eighty rooms have two radios, and about one hundred record players are in existence on the campus. RCA Victor radios
predominate the campus, with almost one hundred radios of this make.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
- AT THE STUDENT STORE -

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity held its annual Founders’ Day Ball last Saturday evening at the Charlotte Country Club in
honor of the initiates of that Fraternity. The sponsors for this Ball were, reading from left to right, top row:
Miss Betsy Armistead of Richmond, Va., with Claude Hackney; Miss Mackey King of Columbia, S.C., with someone; and Miss Dot
Hagood with someone.The dormitories come second, scattered Philco with over fifty, and Emerson takes third place with thirty. The prices
of these radios ranged anywhere from fifty dollars to five dollars, and the average price paid for a radio was
twenty-six dollars. One of the most unique radios observed was a dollar one which had lost its cabinet. Its resourceful
owner, not disturbed in the least, has encased it in a pasteboard box, and to make it exceptionally unusual, has
added a device by which he can operate his radio by remote control. Another radio counted in the poll was
a fifty-dollar set, for sale cheap. The boy whose radio it was stated that for a bargain in radio, call
106 East, buy his radio, and then join the ranks of the worshipers of Miller's music.

Jane Lyons Martha Withers | S.C., with Stewart Rogers; Miss Jane Lyons of Charlotte, N. C., with Bob Lefever. Bottom
row, Miss Marie Pons of Valdese, chapter sponsor, with George Ficklen; Miss Dot Hagood of Dillon, S. C., with George
Grantham, and Miss Martha Withers of Davidson with John Crichton.

FUND REACHES GOAL

According to Bill Boyle, Chairman of the Y. M. C. A. Christmas Gift Fund, the $1,000 goal has at last
been reached. However, there is a balance of approximately $50 that has not yet been collected. J. R. Snell, who
is to be sent by the local Y. M. C. A. to the Hangchow School of Engineering, temporarily located at
Shanghai, is expected to address the student body in the early spring concerning his proposed work in the Orient.

Heads Named By Local Hi-Y

At its weekly meeting Wednesday, March 5, the Hi-Y Club held its election of officers for the coming year. Dr.
K. J. Foreman spoke to the club on “Democracy, What It Is and What It Means.” New officers elected at
this meeting are: Ellis Allen, President; Bob Hughes, Vice-President; Calvin Stowe, Secretary; and Charlie Donaldson, Treasurer. These officers were installed
in an impressive candlelight ceremony Wednesday, March 12, at which Shaw Smith spoke on “The Responsibilities of Leadership.” Retiring officers
of the organization are: Dux Pharr, President; Wayne Reid Gamble, Vice-President; Johnston, Secretary; and James Wallace, Treasurer.

SAE Presents Annual Dance

Founder's Day Ball Held At Country Club. The Founder's Day Ball of Sigma Alpha Epsilon was held last Saturday night
in the Blue Room of the Charlotte Country Club. The function was in honor of the newly initiated members of
the fraternity and their respective dates. The Sponsors of the Ball were Miss Betsy Armistead of Richmond, Va., with Claude
Hackney; Miss Mackey King of Columbia, S. C., with Stewart Rogers; Miss Jane Lyons of Charlotte, N. C., with Bob
Lefever; Miss Marie Pons of Valdese, the chapter sponsor, with George Ficklen; Miss Dot Hagood of Dillon, S. C., with
George Grantham; and Miss Martha Withers of Davidson with John Crichton. The toastmaster for the affair was Hector McLean, who
introduced the various speakers and guests.

GROCERIES | EVERY LINE OF HARDWARE

M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

SERVING THE CHOICEST FOOD AT MODERATE PRICES

“Your Satisfaction Is Our Inspiration”

THE LITTLE PEP

Davidson, North Carolina

Men’s DICK ARNOLD Shaving Lotion Tooth Paste ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT Shaving Cream Talc THE STUDENT STORE Managers Stationery Note Books Pens
& Pencils Paper SHORTY PARRISH

Senior Blazer Selection Set For March 17

Representatives of Clothing Firms Will Submit Blazer Samples. The rising Senior Class will vote on the color scheme of their
Senior Blazer on March 17th or 18th. The Senior Blazer Committee, headed by Jim Owens, met the first of this
week, and narrowed down the submitted samples to a number which could more easily be chosen from by the class
as a whole. The blazers of different high schools and preparatory schools which have been attended by Davidson students are
being considered, and the cut or color scheme of one of these may be adopted. Samples have been submitted by
J. O. Jones, Marion Davis, Tate-Brown, Jack Woodall clothing stores in Charlotte, and by several students on the campus who
represent clothing concerns. To receive consideration, all samples must be submitted at once. The Junior Class will hold a meeting
at the end of this week, and at this meeting, the Committee will make a report to the class of
what has been done, and will notify the class of the specific time at which the vote will be held
the first of next week. This year, contrary to the past, the Junior Class is selecting their Senior Blazer in
the second semester of their junior year, and so, in this way, more use can be made of the Blazer
while the students are still in college, on the campus and off.

The highlight of the occasion was the presentation of the cup given to “the best all-round freshman” to Buck Fuqua
of Milan, Tennessee.

Summer School Will Start On June 18th

Six Weeks Session to Offer Full Year's Work In Eleven Subjects. June 18 is the date that has been set
for the opening of the 1940 summer school session. Professor F. K. Fleagle, dean of the summer session, made this
announcement to the Davidsonian. Professor Fleagle stated that school will last for six weeks, June 18 to July 25. The
first of these annual summer sessions was offered in 1928, and classes have been held for a six-week period every
summer since that date.

Courses Listed. The following courses will be offered to students: accounting, Bible, biology, chemistry, English, French, history, mathematics, music, physics,
and Spanish. A course in any subject not listed will be organized if as many as six students request it.
One year's work is offered during the summer, that is, six hours of academic work or eight hours of a
laboratory course. With the exception of classes in science courses, all classes will be conducted in the mornings. Two 75-minute
class periods will be held each morning.

Fees Announced. The tuition for the summer session will amount to $30. Rooms may be obtained in the dormitories for
$12.50, and the laundry fee will be $4.50. A damage deposit of $3.00 will be charged; this, of course, will
be returned at the end of the session if it is not used up. The laboratory fees are less than
those charged for the regular winter course. These fees are: for physics, $5; for biology, $6; and for chemistry, $12.
The enrollment for last summer's classes totaled about 130; Professor Fleagle expressed the belief that the number for the 1941
session will be about the same. No courses are offered for teachers. Since the enrollment of most summer schools is
made up largely of teachers taking teachers’ courses, the number of students for these sessions is not as large as
it might otherwise be. Valuable courses are, however, offered, which would prove helpful to teachers.

In Charlotte — DAVIDSON AND “THE CAROLINAS' LARGEST HOTEL” Headquarters for College and their friends. “THE TAVERN” HOTEL CHARLOTTE A.
L. BLAND, President and General Manager

Thursday, March 13 “BACK STREET” With Charles Boyer and Margaret Sullavan

Friday-Saturday, March 14-15 “Andy Hardy’s Private Secretary” With Ann Rutherford and Mickey Rooney

Monday-Tuesday, March 17-18 “NICE GIRL?” With Deanna Durbin and Franchot Tone

Wednesday, March 19 Double Feature—15c “JEANNIE”

DAVIDSON THEATRE —DAVIDSON, N. C— MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
