THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. Feb. 20, 1941 The Davidsonian By the Class of 1915 Member Founded | | ‘; 4s far overcome its disadvantages. man has many advantages that for most of us enter with good spirit into the life and affairs of the campus. I am sure that there are numbers of other Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina “do's” and “don'ts” that should find their place in such a list. Each of us would have a few special ones to add for his own personal benefit. “do's” and “don'ts” that should find their place in such a list. Each of us would have a few special ones to add for his personal benefit. This list would of course be unnecessarily long and wearisome... But if bringing some of the ideas out of bull sessions and giving them a little airing will help, then there should be no objection to their usefulness. Echoing the sentiments of the previous article, let us work together, not apart, for a better Davidson. (Signed) Non-Fraternity Senior The Fraternity Angle Perhaps being a non-fraternity man the first few months I spent in college causes me to have a slightly different outlook upon the fraternity situation here than other men—Without any thought of preparing a brief for defense of the fraternities here. I unhesitatingly submit that from my standpoint the nine Greek letter organizations on the campus perform a much greater service to Davidson than is realized, especially by non-fraternity men. I am sure that there are numbers of other fraternity men who feel the same way. Many of you, if you have taken the trouble to read this far, are undoubtedly saying that this essay is far too personal. But I believe that only by personal illustrations can the true value of fraternities be made known and better relationships between the two factions on the campus be brought about. The radical opposition to fraternities I have most often heard was expressed at a meeting of an honorary group last year, where fraternity men were referred to as nothing but “snobs” and “socialites” and the dances termed as “useless to anyone but fraternity men.” Indeed, the formulator of this opinion was also hopelessly convinced that a dance here was nothing more than nine different dances for nine different fraternities. Although, as I say, this opinion was radical to say the least, there are also many other non-fraternity men who share thoughts of the same type. This idea was probably formulated because of the custom of the lodges to dance together, simply for greater convenience. Every fraternity man will realize the fallacy of this argument, for I seriously doubt that there has ever been one who has not at some time or other during a dance made the rounds of the floor, even if for no other reason than to see which of his old girls are back doing business at another stand. The idea that dances are only for fraternity men is equally as ridiculous; the one dance that I went to as a non-fraternity man was just as enjoyable as any. And in concluding this overly emphasized phase of the question, may I bring out another idea which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The Non-Fraternity Side The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet. Where has the fraternity to which I belong failed to invite two or three non-fraternity boys to use their hotel rooms in Charlotte? I am sure that this is true of all nine fraternities. If some non-fraternity men could be persuaded to come to the dances, perhaps the idea that these occasions are for the exclusive benefit of the other group might be exploded. The main trouble with writing a comment on the “fraternity non-fraternity situation” is another part of the subject which I don't believe has been openly mentioned as yet.san better relationships be established between the two groups? My answer is, “by the combined actions of both sides.” Too often there is a tendency to think that this job is a job for the fraternities alone. The fraternities can help by associating more with non-fraternity boys than they have in the past, by inviting them to their social functions, and by showing a deeper interest in the other side of the picture. The non-fraternity boys can do their part by forgetting their prejudices, attending the social events in greater droves, and making a sincere effort to look at the question from both viewpoints. (Signed) Fraternity Man.

THIS COLLEGIATE WORLD
(By the Associated Collegiate Press)

They say as how the favorite story at Marquette these days concerns the campus Romeo who went to a fraternity convention and after a few days, wired the local girl: “Having a swell time. Wish you were here.”

Elsbeth Kennon of Houston, Texas, is wondering whether history will continue to repeat itself. Her great-grandparents, grandparents, and parents, respectively, met while they were students at Baylor University, Waco, and married after graduation. Now Elsbeth is enrolled as a freshman at Baylor.

Don’t carry your privileged individualism to extremes. It’s something to be cherished, not flaunted in the face of others. Don’t nourish any complex that may arise from not being in the social or political limelight! Remember that being a non-fraternity man is something to be proud of.

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday, Feb. 20 and 21
“Come Live With Me”: Stewart, Hedy Lamarr, James and lots of romance. The whole story centers around how to woo an unkissed bride and that is just what Stewart does in a big way. Hedy asks Jimmy to come and live with her and she also pays him $17.50 per week. Does he accept? We'll say he does and in a big way. You can’t believe it; wait till you see it.

Saturday, Feb. 22
“Romance of Rio Grande”: Cesar Romero, Lynne Roberts, and Ricardo Cortez. Romance flows at a great rate. It’s two-time romance until the Kid meets his double and then it’s just another woman whose heart is good and decent. A defiant picture that he has ever directed.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 24 and 25
“High Sierra”: Ida Lupino and Humphrey Bogart. This is one of the mightiest dramas ever presented by Warner Brothers. Ida is the taxi dancer and killer’s companion who deep down yearned for one man. Bogart plays “Mad Killer,” enemy of every law on earth except the High Sierras. The director calls this the most unusual and thrilling drama.

Wednesday, Feb. 26
“Remedy for Riches”: This is a comedy of wealth and happiness. The story is based upon the wealth of a girl and the poverty of a boy along with the slyness of a fast-talking crook. The boy wants no part of the wealth while the crook demands it all. Between the three, they are able to get rid of the money at a rapid rate but always seem to make more than they can handle. A lonely island and a beautiful love affair take care of that last problem.

DAY’S DIARY BY BILL LEMMON

It is about this time of year that preparations among the students for the spring elections become evident. This call to coats and ties is not officially sounded, but once a candidate begins to lay his political groundwork, the unseen clarions sound forth and the race is on. By “political groundwork” is meant here the devices used to place oneself before the public eye and the sounding of supporters and colleagues. This groundwork really extends from the day one enters college and embodies itself in the clubs to which he belongs, his fraternity life, his activities, and other such popularity-determining factors. However, it is only in the spring that the candidate sets up the superstructure.

Once the political open season is on, a man may announce his unofficial candidacy in a number of ways. The most common is the time-honored custom of donning a coat and tie and appearing in public only when so attired. These men are easily distinguishable from the handful of scholars who habitually wear coats and ties by the wide smile and breast pocket handkerchief characteristic of the former. Once the coat and tie are on for the season, the candidate's course of action is more or less prescribed by custom.

His most important function is to appear at the Post Office immediately after meals (often at the expense of his dessert), check his box, and if he has no mail, to open a letter which he carries around for this purpose and stand there scanning it while he calls fellow students by their first names. If he is an unseasoned campaigner, he may employ a spotter who helps him master the first names and who aids him in maintaining a casual air.

As soon as the after-meal rush at the P.O. has subsided, he will check the college pharmacy, spread a bit of cheer, get out for a few ice creams, and then check the Dean's Book to be sure he is not overcutting his afternoon classes. On the way up to the dorm, he and his spotter will turn in at the “Y” and the candidate will converse, play pool, and otherwise make himself agreeable to those who infest the “Y.” The campaigner is then released from his schedule until three o'clock at which time he hastens back to Hugo's to greet the post-picture-show throng, whose goodwill it is important he possess. He may employ this one-hour interim by sunning himself on the porch of Georgia. Promptly at four p.m., he will repair to the Student Store, seat himself on the Memorial Bench, and listen to deeds there while adroitly spreading his own propaganda. It is not necessary that he say a word here at the Stud, however, for good listeners are rare and are therefore potent vote-getters.

He will repeat the procedure in the evening after supper and will catch the 10 p.m. session at the Stud. While around Converse, he might entertain the company with jokes, witty conversation, and other such feats as the facilities of the Stud afford. We have saved until last a phase of the campaign that is often overlooked but is crucial to success: the peanut-catching trick. This involves catching peanuts in one’s mouth, a skill that, while seemingly trivial, can endear a candidate to his peers and secure those all-important votes.

(Continued on Page Six)