THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, February 27, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

the power, it would be one of the most unpopular and unsupported groups on the campus. Then is the thing practical? Yes, but not here. Theoretically it is, but it will not work out at Davidson. It may be tried, and may work for a while, but in the end—no. If not immediately, then later, the system will collapse because of unpopularity and non-support. Study conditions might be improved, but not this way. And for those who need quiet—

This week the “Student Relation” series continues with two new writers. The non-fraternity writer goes into the matter of campus elections and offices, with suggestions as to how both groups can elect the best men. It is the opinion of the fraternity writer that the student body should have the opportunity to “get together” more than is now done, with the result that group distinctions will be eliminated. Also, he holds that the fundamental differences in the student body come from the pre-college environment and training.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.80 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALE
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

JACK COVINGTON
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumbarger - Assistant Editor
Tom Cauble - Associate Editor
Watson Lawson - Associate Managing Editor
Dick Cole - Managing Editor
Maxwell Darby - Managing Editor
Bob Garvey - Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett - Managing Editor
Al Winn - Managing Editor
John Carter - Sports Editor
David Vosburgh - Movie Editor
Billy Barker - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk - Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kenny - Advertising Manager
Ed Scott - Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt - Circulation Manager
John Crichton - Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze - Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications, provided such does not contain derogatory references to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

IT WON'T WORK!

In order to combat the difficult study conditions which sometimes prevail in the dormitories, it has been suggested by some parties that a “White Flag System” (as it has been sometimes called) be put into operation by the students for their own benefit. It should be said, in all fairness, that noise in the dormitories has not increased noticeably this year over previous years, and conditions appear to be about the same as usual. Distracting sounds, the number of visiting “bull-artists,” and the other factors which tend to make concentration difficult vary with the season, the day of the week, and time of day. At times it is well nigh impossible to work in one’s room. This has been true in the past, and will continue to be so. A plan to prevent unwanted visitors would not help this situation.

Study signs would help in only one respect: a student could guarantee himself privacy in his room (provided a system could be worked out which would be practical), and this certainly would be advantageous to all. The major question facing those who advocate this plan is whether it will be practical; whether the plan will function smoothly, or whether the signs will soon be entirely worthless through disregard and misuse. If the plan is to work, there must be some way to enforce obedience. Theoretically (and idealistically) it will work through cooperation of all students. Practically it will not—because there will always be some men who will never cooperate, and none who will cooperate at all times. Therefore, there must be some sanction.

But here again arises the question, what will be the means of enforcement? Honor System? Obviously not, without bothering to go into the many reasons against this method. Student body regulations? This might be one way to deal with the thing. But who will enforce these regulations? Not the student body, for it is popular belief that that is the job of the Student Council, and the student body as a whole will not take it upon themselves to report such violations any more than they will report other violations of rules. Then, should the Council deal with it? It might try, but in the end would fail, because there would be too many violations for it to handle, along with its other more important business. And then too, why lower the tone of such a respected body by asking it to deal with such trite things? Could hall committees handle it? This, on first thought, might appear to be the best method. But on more careful judgment, it will soon be evident that one committee could hardly discipline a student from another dormitory, mainly because they would have no such power, and if such committee did have the power, it would be one of the most unpopular and unsupported groups on the campus.

FOR BETTER DRESS—

Every Sunday night, there are six or eight Davidson students who appear at Vespers minus their coats. The casual visitor in the chapel never fails to notice these few men immediately, for among such a sea of coats of all colors, a sweater or sport-shirt sticks out like a sore thumb. There are never more than a very few men who choose to arrive at Vespers in their regular weekday attire, but these men are just enough to spot the effect of a well-dressed and nicely groomed student body. Were this a question of he who has a coat and he who has not, the topic would not be worth further pursuance. No one at Davidson would intentionally rebuke a man for his lack of worldly goods, but there is room for a kindly reminder when it is so obvious that all the students of Davidson have coats to wear when they are on the bumming corner starting for one of the cities. It might be astonishing to learn what a recent lecturer here thought of the dress of the audience. The speaker was as embarrassed as was the faculty member who presented him. A good one third of the audience had not taken the effort to add a tie to their school clothes, much less had they bothered to wear a coat. Surely the faculty was embarrassed by the appearance that the students made for the visitors that evening. It is not necessary that every time there is a lecture or a vespers service each student put on all of his wedding or funeral finery, but a bit of tidying-up would not do any harm to the general effect created by six hundred and fifty Davidsonians, as a whole. Davidson has for many years occupied a position of prominence as a school for gentlemen and scholars—be they rich or poor. The reputation is already gained; a little effort on the part of every member of the student body will not only hold that reputation, but make it grow and, better still, make it an actuality that will spread giving Davidson a reputation second to none.—W. C. P.

WE WON’T STAND UP—

A man respects another who stands for his convictions. That is true, although it does not seem to be generally accepted here anymore. The point has been reached where no one has any opinions, or if he has, is afraid to state them openly. Those few of our students who do express their feelings and their opinions are at once “listed” by the many who will not do the same. And “listing” has now become so general a custom at Davidson that it governs far more actions and talk than is thought.

The Fraternity Angle.

Are there two factions in our student body—if so, are these factions constituted by the fraternity and non-fraternity men? These questions have been asked many times on the Davidson Campus and are as yet unanswered. However, there is no doubt that there is a certain undermining of the congeniality among students on the hill. There is a differentiation somewhere. It is my opinion that the roots of this question go a great deal deeper than the mere fraternity—non-fraternity discussions. It seems to me that these differences have been attributed inaccurately by a false conception of the situation. In the first place, it is not from college but from basic differences in individual make-up and background. That is, I believe the situation under discussion would exist regardless of the fraternity—non-fraternity groups. Thus, background and environment are much more potent factors in determining the fundamental differences in the student body.

When one understands the varied types of individuals that make up the Davidson Student Body, it becomes evident that these differences cannot be attributed rightly to mere superficial inequalities. The answer to this question is rather to be found in discarding the evident superficialities and in intelligent endeavor to bring the two factions together. This can be more readily accomplished by abandoning the idea that they have only scholarship and athletics in common. Actually the heritage of both is the school and her activities considered as a whole. One step forward would be the death of the idea that the dances are for fraternity men alone. They are primarily and designedly social functions for the entire student body, and although this idea is repeatedly presented, it has never been wholly accepted. It seems to me that great influences for culture and broadening are held in check by the self-imposed segregation of these two elements. Each has a great deal to offer the other. With the realization that the discrepancies go a great deal deeper than the everyday and petty things, shouldcome a sincere effort on both parts to establish common ground. As it now stands, a real get-together of these different personalities takes place only at student body meetings or in class functions such as the senior smokers. There the common bond is evident but it does not reach far enough to bridge the environmental gap. It would be folly to lay the blame for this disunion on either of the two groups. Both have failed where action was needed. Now that the cause has been listed, my remedy is a more sincere effort on the part of both to understand the personality of the other. This would come only as a result of whole-hearted cooperation on the part of each to do more than his share in bringing student body unity whether it be social, spiritual, scholastic, or athletic. Signed: SR. FRATERNITY MAN.

According to those who know, “to be listed is a fate far worse than death.” And to avoid incurring the wrath of the crowd, the present-day student at Davidson will carefully avoid anything which might disagree with the thoughts of any other man in that group. Of course, if that other man be in the minority, he also must never risk the condemnation of his fellows, and so must remain silent. When one finds a man here who says what he thinks, without hedging when he discovers there are some who disagree, and who has definite opinions of subjects of concern, one should hold on to him. For there are few like him.

Lees-McRae college students, Banner Elk, N.C., have organized the country’s farthest-south skiing club. Members make their own skis in the college wood-shop. Hollis R. Upson of Duquesne University is one of four persons in the world working to translate the liturgy of the Syrian Orthodox Church into English.

The New York Literary Club reports that arrangers form a lock with a new lyric writer to present “Broadway,” a brand-new semi-jazz selection with an intermingling of Basie's and Shaw’s styles. This piece was written especially for the opening of Disney’s new presentation, “Fantasy.” Buddy Rogers has finally come back into the limelight with “You’re the Only One In the World” written to Buddy's new wife while they were on their honeymoon, by a member of the band with words by Dick Engels. Tony Pastor has presented a new rendition in “For Whom the Bells Toll,” theme copied after Ernest Hemingway's new novel of the same name.

Al Donahue, with a new style, has come out with “The Wise Old Owl” a slow romantic piece, and “Taboo,” a semi-tropical selection on the swingy side. “Good Buddy” Hite is off to Columbia this weekend to be “King” of the Alpha Delta Pi dances. “Mackey” he'll have a good time.

At the weekly meeting of the Camera Club, held last Wednesday afternoon in the parlor of Duke, the program consisted of a roundtable discussion on the technique of photography. Various methods of taking pictures, developing them, and printing the resultant negatives were discussed, with members giving their personal opinions and systems. Members of the Club unanimously decided that the annual exhibit, to be held shortly after the Spring Holidays, should be open for any student desiring to exhibit. Details concerning this exhibit may be gotten from any member of the Club or from the officers, Mac Parker and Boyce Rhyne.

If you left the beauticians' convention on the 1:30 out of the city on Monday to get away from the reeling, dealing, and wheeling hotel you probably heard Frank Barker manipulating his own cornered card which bore his address as DC. The press statement for the state: If you left the beauticians' convention on the 1:30 out of the city on Monday to get away from the reeling, dealing, and wheeling hotel you probably heard Frank Barker manipulating his own cornered card which bore his address as DC.

DAY’S DIARY BY BILL LEMMON

Barnwell has adopted “Lips” as his theme; his handshake is bobby-holt tight. Red Wallace pulled back the top on his little new red to show the boys it works. Ralph Williams was shocked to hear of the hobo whispering sweet nothings gathering staged in Rock Hill in the car of a locked-up lass on her way from Fort Jackson; when she left the bus he kindly presented her with a “traveling salesman” card. At this time, some mention should be made of the 8 pictures he holds in his room, each of which, so he claims, is an ex-contest winner—the nature of which he did not state for the press. Also, Bogaleye says he should desire to be mentioned as the only successful operator covering the beauticians' convention. (Thanks for the mention, I was in desperate need of lineage tonight.) Room 727 in the hotel on Tuesday p.m. certainly had a flying in, a flooring, and then the flowing out of students; he was the most popular gent of the male beauticians. One of the local town ladies has recently requested a day student to get her a picture of the Roxie McLean, her reason, “he looks like a Greek god.” Rox, with the aid of Rabbit Taylor of the Sr. class, hit the joints around the city. The report goes that their efforts to corner quarry were fruitless. Such a silent wild hare as Teep Johnson emerged from the shanty that has been surrounding him lately to give the K. Z.'s a scare up in Winston after the game. However, their worry was for naught as he beat the crew back to play possum upon their arrival; he really zipped around for the first time. Seen: Dick Rankin sitting in front of Shearer catching a little hand play in the big cream can that pays the campus a visit twice weekly. Tom Galbreath headed toward Carolina, but got no farther than Graham where it is said he formed a lock in the general store. Bruce started to Con.

With the exception of Hunter College, library facilities of the city’s four colleges are inadequate. Dr. Paul F. Kerr, professor of mineralogy at Columbia University, is on a six-month lecture tour of several South American countries. Fordham University has added lecture courses on recent advances in pharmacology and practice and theory of first aid. Half the men students and one-third of the co-eds at the University of Nebraska are either entirely or partially self-supporting.

Aggressive Tom! Sho Off Shelton lived up to the summer school title by his quick jerk to Mitchell to give the girls thrills by his masculine display of cartwheels and his piano playing of a little ditty heard at carnivals. You know the one requiring three keys. Whiskey Bob Finley spent Sat. writing how sorry he was he couldn't be there but he was thinking of her just the same. Red Burke, the frosh cheerleader for the hoop game Sat. Hill Cooper caught his same jump to WC to see his wife taking business lessons from those girls who recently matriculated at the bus school in the city. Mac and got to Gastonia where he decided to give up the ghost and whip back to the Marion, where the entertainment proved much better, for the night. After returning from W. C., Ray McDaniels shot that pretty picture which had collected dust out of the trunk and slipped it in a frame. Can't blame him! Ol Overholt haze research, Joe Nelson is Bob, Balsley dreams of that fateful day in the late summer when the church bells will ring weird toll! Youngblood appears to be headed for that next institution of higher learning also; he'll never get to med. school. Hugh Knox got whipped off the seat when Flag Pole Edmundson waved the battle colors before Hugh's date at the “Rif Raf Cafe.” George Mitchell was turned actor by his daring deeds of elect hanging. Joe Crow Creighton needed a conductor to tear him away from that parting embrace at the station before leaving for the holidays. (Better late than never). Jumbo Johnson was in the very act of dropping a plumb on a local miss when several of the faculty came over the golf course ridge to witness the mid-afternoon performance. No harm done in the mid-afternoon with college pres as spectator!

GET YOUR DEGREE. NEW YORK, N. Y.—(ACP)—Want to be 90 percent sure of having a job? Get yourself a doctor of philosophy degree. That might be the conclusion from a survey just completed by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Returns from eight large graduate colleges, representing one-quarter of all the Ph.D. degrees granted last year, showed that approximately 90 percent of persons who earned the degree in 1940 have found employment. About half of the persons who were reported are employed in college teaching and about four-fifths are engaged in some kind of educational work for which their training had especially prepared them, such as educational administration and research. Three institutions reported 71 doctorates in education, with approximately the same rate of employment as the doctors of philosophy. Institutions reporting included Columbia University, which conferred 228 Ph.D. degrees last year; the University of Wisconsin with 160, California with 130, and Iowa, Johns Hopkins, Minnesota, New York University, and Yale with lesser numbers.

Regains Health. ROCHESTER, N. Y.—Seven years of doctors, crutches, and wheelchairs have finally ended for Rosemary Dengler, sophomore at the University of Rochester. As the result of continued treatments with the new wheat germ oil, Rosemary has joined the throng of healthy, self-perambulating students.

Film Report Card By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday and Friday Feb. 27 and 28

Clark Gable, Hedy Lamarr, and Eve Arden. Beginning as a satire with Gable as a newspaper man smuggling out uncensored news to America, the film grows more incredible by the minute. The story has Gable forced to flee Russia in company with his “shotgun” Hedy Lamarr—a streetcar conductor, believe it or not. A chase to end all chases with Hedy and Gable in one tank against an army of tanks, this sequence is a downright panic. While this story lacks all the finesse and subtlety of “Ninotchka” it nevertheless is riotous fun. But for Gable and Lamarr we wonder.

Saturday Feb. 29

As this paper goes to press no show has been announced for this date.

Monday and Tuesday March 2 and 3

“Strawberry Blonde” — James Cagney, Olivia de Havilland, and Rita Hayworth. This is one of those movies that happened on a Sunday afternoon, back in the days of America’s age of innocence—when the drugstore boys lined up to watch the strawberry blonde go by. In our scenes from the picture you will see Rita Hayworth in the title role, Olivia de Havilland as her sweet rival for the affections of Jimmy Cagney. It is a riotous comedy that has all of the scenes that could be expected to be found in a small town. Of course, Cagney has his frequent fights, but after all it would not be Cagney without such. The setting may be a little slow as there is too much time put on the unimportant things of life. The play has good acting and a well-rounded out cast.

Wednesday Feb. 4

“Golden Hoof”—Once in a great while comes a good show that we know nothing at all about. Well, I won't say that this is a good show because I really know nothing at all about it. This week I would like for “Frog” Bell to be the guest of the theater at any one performance.