Thursday, February 27, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of The Week

There has been some talk concerning the possibility of a system of “Busy” cards, to be placed on room doors when occupants do not wish to be disturbed. This of course would have advantages as well as disadvantages.

The idea is that when a man does not wish company he would place the card on his door, and other men would not enter. Some sanction would have to be placed on this. Have you any suggestions? Also, the plan may not be desired here. Do you think it would be an improvement, or not? Thirdly, is this sort of plan practical—would it work?

At a special Parade held on Friday, the twenty-first of February, ninety-six members of the Freshman Class in the R. O. T. C. Battalion received awards for marksmanship. The five cadets who fired the highest scores and received expert marksmanship awards are pictured. These cadets are: S. G. Stubbins of Birmingham, Ala., F. W. Chandler of Sumter, S. C., E. C. Head of Fort Meade, Fla., W. H. Barber of Atlanta, Ga., and F. M. Gilman of Asheville. Cadet Stubbins fired 187 out of a possible 200 to take the individual high score honors.

Perhaps these cards would have to be strictly observed or else they would be of no value whatsoever. Perhaps they would help here at Davidson. It seems to me that the student body would be glad to recognize the rights of those who are trying to study. Usually, against the drive to find a quiet place to study, the student flees to the library, the fraternity house, the “Y,” or the golf course. With such places for boning, there’s no real need to reserve the room with a posted card here. It’s just an advertisement that the student is trying to concentrate! And is there much consistent concentration here anyhow?

Ralph Williams—Junior:
Such a system would appeal to me. If the “common every day” courtesy which most of us have been taught in our homes were put into effect, then there would be no need for such “Don't bother me now” cards. But since so many “bullers” have such utter disregard for other people's desires to study, then I think such a system would prove practical and should be installed. If the “posted door notices” were unthoughtfully ignored then I should suggest the installation of “Ye Olde Whipping Post” for the violators.

Dick Phillips—Sophomore:
Frankly, I don't think this idea would be at all practical. After all, you can always lock the door or go to the library if you have to have absolute seclusion.

STUDENTS RECEIVE AWARDS

Two Students Perform In Opera

Davidson Library Adds Two Volumes to Shelves in Past Week

Within the week the Library has added two new books to its shelves. These are “Out of the Night,” and Saird’s “Manual American College Fraternities.”

Out of the “Night” is the much talked of book by Jan Valtin. The story is the autobiography of Valtin, who escaped to this country in order to write the book. Valtin was a colonial German by birth who went to Germany where he was a member of the underground Communist party. He was soon caught and his amazing description of the Nazi camp is one of the features of the story.

He was transferred to a political prison camp of the Gestapo in which were members of his own party, who had organized internally. He was ordered by the Moscow agents to contrive a way in which to get

Former Davidson Man Brings Message to Students At Vesper Hour

Reverend Thompson B. Southall, minister of the College Vespers on Sunday, February 23, pointed out the universal people of

Reverend Thompson Brown Southall spoke to the Davidson student body in the regular daily chapel services on Wednesday morning, February 19. The subject of his talk was “Things That Last.” He illustrated his point by

Winthrop College Seniors to Be Given Chance At Deferment

Recent letters from the War Department are published for the information of those interested. The committee plans to examine murals in neighboring cities before working out final details. The Salem College library has one of the most beautiful murals in the state. It will be among those that the committee will examine.

Reserve Officers appointed from graduates of the Reserve Officers Training Corps during 1941 will be accorded the opportunity to express a request for deferment of extended active duty in the same manner as has heretofore been accorded Reserve Officers on the eligible list. Corps Area Commanders will notify members of graduating classes who will probably be appointed in the Officers’ Reserve Corps to state

Individuals and groups will receive copies on request to Liggett and Myers Tobacco Co., 630 5th Ave, New York City.Thus, we must accept the following conclusions: Also, it seems to me that most of the trouble boys have when trying to study comes not from intrusions, but from ingenious caution. He was ordered into the Gestapo, which he finally fooled, and he succeeded in fooling the Nazi for some years. Mr. Southall has been engaged in Mission work in Brazil. In his talk, Mr. Southall distinguished between things that last and those that do not last, and showed how we should choose for ourselves. He urged the students to make their choice for their own good.

The idea of attempting to better study conditions in the dormitories is a good one, but the placing of “Busy” cards on the doors does not seem to be a very good way of insuring these conditions. Of course, such a step would be better than things as they are now, but probably after everyone has seen these signs hanging on several doors, they will be ignored as other courtesies and rules have been ignored in the past. There is no need for a disciplined system. Secondly, when one wants to concentrate, one usually either locks the door and plays deaf to all bull-seekers or goes to the library or some other convenient tomb.

Dick Arnold—Senior
I feel that there is a very great need for something along the idea of “busy” cards, but nothing can be of any value if not strictly adhered to as these must be if instituted into the dormitories.

David Vosburgh—Junior
Yes, I believe that we should do this as it would help a lot for those who wish to study and not be disturbed. It would lessen noise by boys beating on doors trying to get in the rooms. I think it is a good idea.

John Turner—Junior
Frankly, I usually just lock the door when I want to use a busy card. It is a good idea when used in certain fraternity dorms on other campuses where a definite and rather heavy penalty for disturbing a busy card is enforced.

Pat Rudolph—Junior
Frankly, I think that the introduction of such a system is quite unnecessary. In the first place, I’m for bigger and better locks, and maybe an old shoe.

For Insurance, Real Estate, FHA Bldg. Loans or Property Management, call FORBIS INS. AGENCY. Phone 5391 Davidson, N.C.

House has 9 Rooms, Water and Electricity. 50 acres in tract; 25 under cultivation. LOVELY COUNTRY HOME 10 MILES FROM DAVIDSON, NEAR CROFT, FOR SALE. If interested, write “Country Home,” Charlotte, or George Tate, 314 WEST DORMITORY, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Now Playing: Gay Music and Dancing
FRED ASTAIRE PAULETTE GODDARD in “SECOND CHORUS”
LATE SHOW Saturday Night: LEW AYRES ANN SOTHERN IN “MAISIE WAS A LADY”

IMPERIAL CAFETERIA DELUXE ICE CREAM at the STUDENT STORE. GROCERIES EVERY LINE HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Four generations have enjoyed the refreshing goodness of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its pleasing taste always leaves a cool, clean after-sense of complete refreshment. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE
Delicious and Refreshing
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by