Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 25, 1941 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION
RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers
Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. Chicago - Boston - LOS ANGELES - SAN Francisco Entered as second-class
matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879 HARWELL DARBY EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JOHN
CRICHTON BUSINESS MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF Bobby Carter Assistant Editor W. C. Plunkett Associate Editor Al Winn Associate Editor Ed Erwin
Managing Editor Joe Eve Managing Editor Jimmy Fulcher Managing Editor Billy Lyman Managing Editor Henry McIntosh Managing Editor Lacy Maclean
Sports Editor Clarence Legerton Movie Editor BUSINESS STAFF Calhoun Hipp Assistant Business Manager Peter King Advertising Manager Joe Martin Circulation
Manager Buck McNeely Circulation Manager Ivey Stowe Collections Manager This paper is the official history of college life, and is
a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications, provided such does not contain
derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by
Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part
or all of any contribution or communication. Welcome, Freshmen! To the class of 1945, the largest freshman class in Davidson's
history, the DAVIDSONIAN extends a hearty welcome. We look forward to being of service to you this year, and you,
in return, should be able to serve us, both directly and indirectly. Directly you can help us by coming out
for the paper, by working on the DAVIDSONIAN staff. To many outsiders a college is known by the paper it
puts out, and a college newspaper is no better than those men who work on it. As there is such
a large number of students in your class, many of you should be experienced in writing for school newspapers, and
it is you whom the DAVIDSONIAN especially wants. However, those who have had no such experience need not hold back,
for where there is a will, there is a way, and the duties of a freshman reporter require neither previous
experience nor much time during the week. You may not end up at the editor’s desk but we vouch that
you will learn much, and that while you are learning you will enjoy your experiences! Indirectly, you may serve the
paper by reading it, by sending it home, and by telling us what features and stories you like and what
you dislike. Talking behind the DAVIDSONIAN’S back is not a good policy. It gets you and the paper nowhere. After
all, the Staff of the DAVIDSONIAN is just a bunch of boys with some printer’s ink on their fingers, and
they are bound to make mistakes. To you, the class of ’45, the DAVIDSONIAN staff promises a better paper than
ever. We have a splendid group of feature writers, a willing and interested staff, and an earnest desire to put
out the best paper possible, that will do Davidson College credit. We ask that you read the editorials, because from
them you may gain much benefit. We do not go in for spreading advice. You get enough of that from
other sources. When, however, there is advice that the DAVIDSONIAN believes worthy of the student body's attention, you will find
it in the editorial columns. As to the news, we will furnish you with up-to-the-minute stories on campus activities, “scoops”
on coming events, and “inside dope.” You are the men who will make the news for the DAVIDSONIAN during the
next four years, and it is up to you to accept our challenge that you do as much as possible
while you are here on Davidson’s campus. Go out and excel in athletics, publication work, and other extra-curricular activities. Make
your campus life well-rounded, but do not neglect your books. You can make news for the DAVIDSONIAN only while you
are here at Davidson, and there is no doubt but that you will be here only so long as you
keep up with your studies. Class of 1945, we congratulate you on choosing Davidson for your Alma Mater. You will
never regret it, and the DAVIDSONIAN hopes to add further enjoyment to your college days. Again, welcome! And good luck!
With The Staff By Henry McIntosh Arriving in Davidson a few days ago was probably the largest class of green
Freshmen ever to enter the portals of Davidson College. Orientation period along with that of Rush Week. However, some will
not be as successful with the classes that lie ahead. Each of these men was promptly introduced to the benefits
afforded by the College Y. M. C. A.; Each was encouraged to participate in the activities of that organization and
each heard addresses concerning the type of religion promoted by that organization. It’s a religion that should appeal to active
young men... a religion that is needed by them... by Davidson... and by the world. The Y. M. C. A.
Cabinet has already planned a most active program for the coming year in which there is a place for each
and every member of the student body who is willing to sacrifice a little time and effort to help a
great cause. This program was planned in view of the critical days that will and are confronting each member of
our student body. Certainly, now if never before, we need the benefits afforded by a Christian organization such as that
directed by the genial Shaw Smith. Then too, in times such as these, when all that is right and good
is being replaced by evil, the “Y”, more than ever before, needs YOUR help! Won’t you drop by Colin’s office
today and see if you can’t help? “Y” Corner By Shaw Smith About 250 reversed carrots came in last week
— green fellows with red caps. Anyway, welcome to all of you at the beginning of four great years—four years,
we hope. THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED ABOUT ORIENTATION: Bus and train schedules for incoming “froshies” attempted smile from incoming men
who knew they knew nothing about everything... cars with new- comers... the new man was at the wheel or either
almost completely buried in the back seat... several in the family usually brought him... pretty sisters almost always asked most
questions... always received long involved answers from “Y” cabinet members so as to be detained longer... fresh- men with “freshie’s”
cards and getting handbooks... same cabinet members carrying new- comers’ bags... thinking of freshman days and not men with such
thoughts... signing cards and paying at Chamber’s Office... laundry discouraging... Dorm rooms at last! Most of them have survived the
ordeal of meals... some fellows eating... some thinking of home girl friend... speeches... counsel groups... freshmen asking questions... cabinet men
couldn’t answer... faculty reception... hand shaking “Oh, are you from Podunk?” “I knew your brother/father”... handshaking... pretty girls serving punch
(where did they go after the reception? where are they now?) HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PERIOD: The Rev. Pritchett’s sermon Sunday
morning... Dr. McSwain's Sunday night... frisky fresh- men, feeling at home Monday... not so much so Tuesday... upperclassmen came Tuesday...
First dose of real choosing fraternity question. PERSONALITIES: Hard working Dr. Gwynn directing the Cabinet and numerous helpers during the
most important period... Enoch looking over the new men laughing. HAS THE ONLY IMPORTED HINDU TEMPLE IN AMERICA. THIS HAND-
CARVED TEMPLE WEIGHS 10 TONS, AND WAS BROUGHT TO THE FLORIDA CAMPUS FROM BENARES, INDIA. EACH YEAR THE PRESIDENT OF
NORTHWESTERN UNIV. LIGHTS A HUGE PURPLE CANDLE 4 FT. HIGH AT 8:01 PM ON A WEDNESDAY IN THE MIDDLE OF
MAY, AT THE SAME MOMENT N.U. ALUMNI ALL OVER THE WORLD LIGHT CANDLES. Letters to the Editor (This letter might
be written to any member of the class of 1945 from an older brother previously graduated from Davidson. Parts are
omitted so that the remainder isn’t too personal.) Dear Hadley, You'll like Davidson, so don’t ever make up your mind
not to. There's always that something of spirit and honor that seems like a lot of bull when some people
talk about it, but it’s not bull and the sooner you find it out the better. If you've joined a
fraternity, don’t narrow your acquaintance down to the boys in your group. Make friends outside your fraternity. All fraternities on
the hill have one of the best groups of fraternity and non-fraternity boys that you'll ever see or hear of.
Some of the best boys at Davidson never become affiliated with the chapters. No matter what anybody tells you, studies
always come first in your scope of campus activity. Although there are certain distinct advantages in extra-curricular activities, none are
important enough to detract from your actual studies. If you think there'll be little trouble passing your work, I see
it’s a good idea to go out for one or more extra-curricular activities. A publication or a sports manager's staff
are examples of worthwhile activities. The more you participate in campus affairs, the more interest you'll have at Davidson, and
therefore the more reason you'll have to stay. Whatever you do, Hadley, be a freshman. I mean by that for
you to be a green freshman. It’s good for you, although you were a big frog in a little pond
in high school you're now a little frog in a big pond at college. Realize your insignificance as a freshman
and profit by it. I noticed in my four years at Davidson that some freshmen were ruined by too much
attention during rush week. There should be some way to go through such a week without all the flattery taken
along with punch and sandwiches. Until some genius thinks of another system of pledging, though, I guess the muddled minds
of two weeks freshmen will continue to pivot from I Tappa Keg to Eta Beta Pi. Of course all this
advice may seem a bit too fatherly, but I think you might profit by at least some of it. Wear
your cap, carry laundry, keep off the grass and be a freshman! Your brother, Bill Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday and Friday September 25th and 26th Valley Serenade Sonja Henie, John Payne, with Glenn Miller and his Orchestra. This
time Sonja Henie appears in a fast-stepping musical, with only. for joy... Jim Crook ably substituting for a cabinet member
unable to take part. Glenn Miller, T. Dorsey, and others on the record, but Lee Potter and Fred Betts in
person doing their stuff during the long registration period. Pittman, Yarborough, Herring, Hudson, Chapman, Ransom, and others who have “brother’s
reputations” now. “Anxious Sam” our freshman group... John Sherrill... started a fund without being asked, good results in a few
minutes devoted to her skating. I think this is the best of Sonja’s films. John Payne handles the masculine lead,
with Lynn Bari playing the part of the other girl. Milton Berle lends the comedy touch, and Glenn and the
boys furnish the lullabies, with John and Lynn on the vocal. Featured in the show are seven hit tunes by
Miller, including his renditions of “Chattanooga Choo-Choo” and “The Kiss Polka.” The plot consists of complications between Payne, a bandleader,
Berle, an agent, Bari, a singer with a national reputation, and Sonja, a foreign refugee. Johnny gets an important booking
at Sun Valley, and things begin popping from then on out. A better than usual cast renders his press Lynn.

Saturday, September 27th
“Doctor Kildare’s Wedding Day”
Lew Ayres, Lionel Barrymore, Laraine Day, Red Skelton, Samuel Hinds. Lew and Laraine are back again, with genial Lionel Barrymore
playing the part of old Dr. Gillespie. Plans for marriage are upset by an unfortunate accident which befalls Laraine. “Red”
Skelton, a newcomer to both the screen and the Dr. Kildare series, adds a comic touch with a capital “C”.
Also featured is Samuel H. Hinds. There will be a late show Saturday night, but at the time of this
writing, the title had not been announced. The time will be 10:30.

Monday and Tuesday, September 29th and 30th
“Navy Blues”
Ann Sheridan, Jack Oakie, Martha Raye, Jack Haley, and the “Navy Blues Sextet.” This production is perhaps the funniest thing
that has hit the screen in quite a few months, with Jack Oakie and Martha Raye getting off laughs for
all. As the title suggests, the U.S. Navy serves as a background for the many eventful happenings which befall Oakie.
The plot concerns a bunch of crackpots who practically sabotage the entire Navy. Sheridan furnishes the glamour and “what-have-you” to
the production, and the beautiful “Navy Blues Sextet” renders many engaging selections. All in all, it is top-flight entertainment for
everyone.

Wednesday, October 1st
There is a single feature booked for this coming Wednesday, entitled “Nine Lives Are Not Enough.” Although no information was
available on this feature, it will undoubtedly be well worth the admission price.

Coming soon:
“Moon Over Miami” with Betty Grable, Don Ameche, Carole Landis, and Robert Cummings.
“Unfinished Business” with Irene Dunne, Robert Montgomery, and Preston Foster.

I would like for Walter Wooten to be the guest of the theatre for any show this week.

The Fifth Columnist
By 222?

Happy new year! Another summer has come and gone with a rush and ye dopester (or dope, as the case
may be) is back in the same corner under a new name... I'd like to welcome the new frosh with
some sage advice. Don’t let the tales of big dealings and wild hairs which you may from time to time
chance upon in this column incite you to too much operating, as your primary purpose right now is to ensure
your future by getting on the old grind so that you may be one of the lucky ones left behind
when the January Special pulls out amid weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth... And since we're on the subject of
freshmen, what about the greenie who has been mailing his letters in one of the green trash baskets in front
of West... or the one who repeated Coppedge’s freshman trick of letting his trunk go to Barber's Junction and then
solving the sheet problem by sleeping under the mattress cover... The most lovesick frosh that we've ever seen is “blacksmith”
Bibb, who drools sadly over the log chain around his dainty neck, which is inscribed touchingly, “Nita.” Martha Brandon is
certainly versatile—she switches from the class of '41 to '42 to ’45 with the greatest of ease. Marshal Chapman squired
her to the Tavern Saturday night via the Rollins game. Hope he made all five words he got in edgewise
count. The Tavern looked like a Davidson homecoming what with Vereen, Dale, Parrish, Stinky Stowe, and Biggy Richmond zipping about.
Vosburg and Hobbie tore up to Lynchburg after the game to see their mutual girl, Lafitte. Incidentally, Voss reclaimed a
watch he had hocked there previously. Jesse Wooten, the Angel, retained his title by dating Helen Lisk, who bestowed the
grappler with his cute nickname some months ago. However, he and Alston Thompson are still nip and tuck in the
race for Ann Wiley’s affections, Tolly scoring a point in securing a date for Homecoming... Alston was so anxious to
be thought of as a varsity man by the freshmen that he answered to the name of Faison, one of
our prominent pigskinners.

First Crichton, and “Ice Cream!” Freeze. Their sentence will expire October 15 on good behavior... The K.A.’s took Charlotte en
masse Saturday night and Sunday morning. One of the fairer sex thought “Herk the Jerk” Houston so young she mistook
him to be the son of one of his Kappa brothers. Ben Washburn and McWilliams were lost in the rush,
but were finally trailed to a point over the Del Montico, where it was found that they had “just left.”
Further search was futile... Allie Withers prefers stenog work, it seems, to a Sam Browne and an army post... Our
most prominent co-ed has fallen in love, so keep your distance. The lucky man is a Beta at Carolina... Observations
made in the whirl Saturday—George Council chasing Florence Smith through the mezzanine of the Charlotte Hotel... The guy who nobly
offered to take Spike Mebane’s girl home. Duck Rankin’s Queen of hearts from Lexington... The P.C. men who got in
such a good lick with Jim Crook’s girl while Jim was eating. What's this about Queenie Bob Smith writing to
Winthrop three times each day? Don't let football interfere with your writing, Bob. Ask Pop Rogers about Mildred from New
Jersey... Who was the Beta who is reported to have bought a cow at a cattle auction this summer? The
auctioneer mistook his signals to the vendor as bids, and our ice cream hero ended up with a 400-pound heifer
on his hands. Name can be secured from Paul Welch... Al Winn still foremost among the honey-pants with visions of
matrimony dancing through his head. He was heard to sigh the other day, “Three hundred miles is a long way
from heaven,” and his favorite soliloquy is “toupee or not toupee.”

Well, children, that’s all till next week, when a guest columnist will smuggle in a little dope. The game in
Greensboro should bring a lot of news to light so watch your step, and the show will undoubtedly be worth
seeing.

On September 11, 1938, two hundred and four of the most outstanding dealers returned to school to have their activities
nipped in the bud by the exec, and are serving duty on campus for misdemeanors committed last year. These Kampus
Kids are “Pop” Rogers, “Bird Dog” Crichton, and “Ice Cream” Freeze. Their sentence will expire October 15 on good behavior...
The K.A.’s took Charlotte en masse Saturday night and Sunday morning. One of the fairer sex thought “Herk the Jerk”
Houston so young she mistook him to be the son of one of his Kappa brothers. Ben Washburn and McWilliams
were lost in the rush, but were finally trailed to a point over the Del Montico, where it was found
that they had “just left.” Further search was futile... Allie Withers prefers stenog work, it seems, to a Sam Browne
and an army post... Our most prominent co-ed has fallen in love, so keep your distance. The lucky man is
a Beta at Carolina... Observations made in the whirl Saturday—George Council chasing Florence Smith through the mezzanine of the Charlotte
Hotel... The guy who nobly offered to take Spike Mebane’s girl home. Duck Rankin’s Queen of hearts from Lexington... The
P.C. men who got in such a good lick with Jim Crook’s girl while Jim was eating. What's this about
Queenie Bob Smith writing to Winthrop three times each day? Don't let football interfere with your writing, Bob. Ask Pop
Rogers about Mildred from New Jersey... Who was the Beta who is reported to have bought a cow at a
cattle auction this summer? The auctioneer mistook his signals to the vendor as bids, and our ice cream hero ended
up with a 400-pound heifer on his hands. Name can be secured from Paul Welch... Al Winn still foremost among
the honey-pants with visions of matrimony dancing through his head. He was heard to sigh the other day, “Three hundred
miles is a long way from heaven,” and his favorite soliloquy is “toupee or not toupee.”

Well, children, that’s all till next week, when a guest columnist will smuggle in a little dope. The game in
Greensboro should bring a lot of news to light so watch your step, and the show will undoubtedly be worth
seeing.

What Changes Hath Been Wrought
Some of us must have at least a vague remembrance of these freshmen, as green as any class which has
“suffered the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune” in being hissed at, booed, told to sit down in chapel, and
entered the portals of Chambers Building for the first time in their new capacity. This was the class of ‘42.
We all remember those days, seniors, and how insignificant we all were. Few were the close and established friendships among
that day. No one had ever seen Ginsberg, Thomas, Glenn Terrell, and Bobo Carter go into one of their laughing
fits, or heard Tommy Yarborough’s imitation of “Padre” Owens’ colorful vocal tones. None of us up there in the high
heavens of Watts, East, and West, the upper right Rumple, thought that we would be classified as occupants of that
revered and dignified palace or barrel of C all as “Jawjuh.” First to be class honor held by a member
of the class of ‘42 that year was that of being the winner of the now-abolished “Freshman Cake Race.” Not
many of us remember who won that race. Bob Washburn was his name, but like several others of our original
class, he has chosen to transfer to another hall of learning. Still alive to us are the memories of the
first false alarm, when all the people came out of the theatre, only to be met by cries of “Suckers!
Suckers!” We all remember the first huge water-fight of the Fall. (Few could gaze far enough into the future to
predict that one of the most illustrious, and good-natured fire chiefs of the decade would someday graduate with the impressive
record that “Beacon” made.) Some of us must have at least a vague remembrance of these happenings and they seem
but yesterday to me. However, let us look around at the many physical changes which the community as a whole
has undergone since September, 1938. First of all, James B. Duke Dormitory was built, and many were the curious glances
as the suites began to take shape in the Fall of 1939. Now it stands amid beautifully landscaped surroundings in
memory of one of Davidson's largest benefactors. At the end of our sophomore year, plans were announced for the building
of a new library. We were certainly grateful and enthusiastic, but we couldn't help feeling like a child to whom
the wrong Christmas present had been given. Then, in the next autumn, we discovered that our duly a new science
building was to be erected facing the new library. Soon, the idea of a new gymnasium vanished from our minds,
and today we realize that although we do need a gymnasium badly, the two beautiful buildings nearing completion were also
a great need. Of course, many other changes have been made on the campus of a smaller nature: the remodeling
of Shearer Bible Hall, new lights for the football field, remodeling of the “parlor” of Watts, new offices for the
Department of Music, the beautiful new draperies and paint job in the interior of Chambers Auditorium, the swank atmosphere of
the executive offices, the attractive reading room at the Y.M.C.A., and last but not least, the new portable dormitory room.
