Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, May 8, 1941

Much Service Seen By D. C. Military Head At Three Colleges Before Davidson.

Lt. Col. Gabriel T. MacKenzie, Infantry, is Professor of Military Science and Tactics for the Davidson Reserve Officers Training Corps and is in charge of the annual Proficiency Inspection that is being made by Lieutenant Colonel Brownell of Georgia Tech, today and tomorrow. Colonel MacKenzie has traveled far and wide in connection with his work in the United States Army, and the Davidsonian here presents a brief resume thereof.

Colonel MacKenzie came to his post at Davidson from Fort Douglas, Utah, where he commanded the 8th Infantry. Davidson College is Colonel MacKenzie's fourth detail to R.O.T.C. He has been a military instructor at Delaware, and at the Military Institute. He holds a B.S. and M.S. from St. John's and the University of Maryland. He is a graduate of the Infantry School Advanced Course and the Command and General Staff School. He was ordered to the War College this past fall, but due to the present defense emergency, the school has been closed at present.

Colonel MacKenzie saw over a year's service in the first World War, receiving the following decorations: Silver Star with Oak Leaf Cluster, Purple Heart, and the French Fourragere of the Croix-de-Guerre. Colonel MacKenzie has had Mexican border service, A.E.F. service in Europe, Hawaiian, Philippine, and China Service. He was in Peiping, China, with his family when the incident at the Marco Polo Bridge outside of the Chinese capital, which the Japanese claim led to the present Sino-Japanese struggle, occurred.

Colonel MacKenzie expressed high praise for Davidson College, its faculty, and its students. He is a member of the Alpha Kappa Psi Fraternity, Southern, local chapter.

SCABBARD AND BLADE DANCE

Participants in the figure of the annual Military Ball sponsored by Scabbard and Blade on March 14 and 15th at the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte. From left to right, they are: Cadet Colonel James McDuffie, of Columbus, Ga., head of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit; Eleanor Barnwell, of Burlington; Lucille McDuffie, of Columbus; and Cadet Captain Holt Barnwell, outgoing president of Scabbard and Blade, of Burlington.

Local R.O.T.C. Was High

Lt. E. E. Marsh Comes Here After Active Summer Duty

First Lieutenant E. E. Marsh, Reserve Officer Training Corps instructor at Davidson, was born in 1908 at Marshville, North Carolina. He received his education in public schools in Marshville and has since added the job of principal to his teaching duties. During this past summer, Lieutenant Marsh made tours of duty at Fort Benning, Georgia, Fort McClellan, Alabama, and Fort McPherson, Georgia. In September of last year, he extended his active duty by commencing his present work at Davidson.

While at Davidson, Lieutenant Marsh was Salutatorian of his graduating class, as well as a member of Phi Beta Kappa, an honorary scholastic fraternity. In addition, he was a member of the Davidson Intercollegiate Debating Team and Cadet First Lieutenant in the local R.O.T.C. unit. After Lieutenant Marsh graduated from college, he immediately started teaching at his high school in Marshville.

Patriotism Is A Great Need Today

BY CHARLES BROCKMANN.

What is patriotism? This question, often considered, is nevertheless a very pertinent one in times like these. Noah Webster called it “a devotion to the welfare of one’s country,” and hit the proverbial nail pretty squarely on the head. But patriotism holds for us a much broader meaning than that. True patriotism is not an occasional quickening of the pulse that accompanies the playing of the national anthem. Neither is it a sentimentality fit only for the infant or the senile. It is more profound than that. It is, in part, an appreciation and a realization of the many benefits and blessings we enjoy under our system of government.

RIFLE INSTRUCTION GROUP

Lt. Marsh and Sgt. Burton instruct Freshmen Ed Phillips, Dick Port, and Paul McCain in rifle firing proficiency from the prone position. (Picture courtesy Charlotte Observer.)

CAFETERIA INSTRUCTION GROUP

Mother’s Day

NUNNALLY’S & WHITMAN’S CANDIES

Free Delivery

DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE

PROMPT SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD AWAIT YOU AT THE LITTLE PEP

Davidson, North Carolinaof our religion, we often lose American sacraments because of their frequent repetition. Those of us who affect reverent airs whenever the flag passes or the oath of allegiance is repeated sometimes seem either mawkish or hypocritical. The word “patriot” usually brings a visualization of Washington, the Minute-Man, or some similarly musty personage. Love of one’s country with the period of America’s formation did not cease with the end of Jefferson, long since dead and buried. Indeed, real patriotism was never needed more strongly than it is today. The probable root for our misconception of patriotism lies largely in the method in which history is taught in elementary schools. Perhaps a removal of the sugar coating in this quarter would be wise.

For the Military Dance, all members of Scabbard and Blade participated in the figure. For the story on Scabbard and Blade, see column seven. (Picture courtesy Charlotte Observer, by Jake Houston.) Seen above is the Davidson R.O.T.C. staff instructing from left to right: Lt. Col. G. T. MacKenzie, Professor of Military Science and Tactics and commander of the local post; Capt. D. G. Wilson, instructor of sophomores and juniors; and Lt. E. E. Marsh, instructor of freshmen. These officers are directing the Proficiency Inspection activities that are being held today and tomorrow. Articles on the lives of the staff are on this page. (Picture courtesy Charlotte Observer.)

Scabbard And Blade Becomes Active Club
Capt. Wilson Is D. C. Grad | Served Army Five Years Before Davidson
Military Fraternity Founded In 1904 At Wisconsin University
HAS MANY CHAPTERS
Davidson Chapter Was Organized In 1923. As Told to Morrow.

The honorary military fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, has proven itself to be one of Davidson's most outstanding organizations. Captain David G. Wilson, Infantry Reserve, instructor for sophomores and juniors, is a native of Marion, North Carolina. He is the son of the late Dr. Willis Wilson and Mrs. Isabella Allan Wilson. Capt. Wilson attended McCallie Prep School in Chattanooga, Tennessee, graduating there in 1922. Four years later he graduated from Davidson with a reserve commission. While at Davidson, Capt. Wilson was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was also President and Student Director of the Davidson Glee Club, Cadet Captain in the R.O.T.C. Battalion, and Vice-President of the Senior Class. On graduation, he was employed by the Equitable Life Insurance Society. In May 1933, Captain Wilson was ordered to Active Duty with the U.S. Army with the newly organized staff of the Davidson Reserve Officers Training Corps unit.

For it is rather disillusioning to become free and enlightened to the fact that Washington was neither the world’s greatest military strategist nor its greatest intellect, and that the Revolution was not the most important war ever waged, though perhaps one of the most significant. This disillusionment tends to make many people distrustful of the goodness of democracy and cynical toward patriotism. One of the most essential phases of patriotism is a sincere and unwavering belief in the effectiveness, fidelity, and efficiency of the government. This belief finds a very direct application in the present international mess of affairs. When things that occur might cause us doubt and loss of faith in our government and in democracy as a whole; when the future looks black and the cards seem stacked against us; when the so-called “iron hand of tyranny” seems to be triumphing over many things; when even this system itself seems riddled with flaws and Fifth Columnists—in times like these if we can stand “four-square” behind this government and its fundamental doctrines regardless of the self-sacrifice it may entail, then we know the true meaning of patriotism, and “government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth.”

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Salted Peanuts, Candy, Manufactured by Swinson Food Products, CHARLOTTE, N. C.

HERALD PRESS Incorporated
“A COMPLETE PRINTING SERVICE”
225 S. Church St. Phone 3-6608 Charlotte

MAKE YOUR ROOM LOOK LIKE SPRING WITH FIXTURES From SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.