Thursday, October 16, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Convenience Is Keynote Of Library
Card System Makes It Easy To Find All Books Quickly And Easily

Floor space in the new Library is arranged for the most convenience to the students using it. Excluding the basement, the building has two floors. The rear part of each floor is cut into two mezzanine floors each, making four floors for the stacks. The front of the building is devoted to reading rooms and seminar rooms.

Main Desk
The circulation desk is immediately in front of the main entrance. Flanking the desk are drawers for the card files. These files are at present located in two steel filing cabinets in front of the circulation desk, but will soon be placed in the drawers made for them. Prof. Davidson has his office to the left of the stacks behind the circulation desk, while Mr. Frieze has an office to the right of these stacks. Running the full height of the building in the center of the mezzanine floor is a book elevator. Reference volumes have been placed in the reading room at the northern end of the first floor. Above this room, on the second floor, are found books of light modern literature.

(Continued on Page Eight)

VINCE COURTNEY
Pictured above is Vince Courtney, suave leader of the Duke Ambassadors who will play for the Homecoming Dance Set this weekend. Courtney’s orchestra is reputed to be one of the best college bands in the country. It consists of fourteen pieces who alternate sweet and “hot” numbers. Their style is said to be a combination of those of Tommy Dorsey and Glenn Miller. The Homecoming Dance Set will take place at the Charlotte Hotel Friday night and at the Charlotte Armory Saturday night. Friday night's dance will be formal while the last of the series will be informal. The price of the set ticket is $4.75, including tax, and $2.50 for each ticket, without tax.

Student Poll To Determine Aim Of YMCA
HOME CAUSE FAVORED
Majority Want Vesper Offerings To Go For Campus Improvements

The questionnaire given out in chapel, October 2, by the Y. M. C. A., reveals that a large majority of the students favor material improvement of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. Of the 509 students voting, some 312 thought that the Vespers collection should go for material improvement of the Y. M. C. A. on the campus. Fifty-seven others thought that this collection should be used exclusively for off-campus causes. Under the exclusive off-campus causes, the Barium Springs Orphanage received 239 votes. Colored Work was second, receiving 175 votes, followed by the Unity Church Work in Charlotte. World Mission, which was suggested by a number of students, received 4 votes. Since work in Charlotte has been handled through the Charlotte Y. M. C. A., four hundred seventy-two voted for improvement of the present "Y" building or the establishment of a new "Y" building. One hundred thirty-five students thought that the Vespers collection should aid in scholarships. Another fund handles the payment for outside speakers for which 126 boys voted.

TWO PRESIDENTS
Dr. John R. Cunningham and Mr. Harlee Branch are seen above discussing plans for the Homecoming and Inauguration activities of this weekend. Dr. Cunningham is to be inaugurated as the thirteenth president of Davidson College, while Mr. Branch, as president of the Alumni Association, will welcome alumni and preside at the annual Alumni Luncheon.

Phi Gamma Delta
The Phi Gams were attracted to all of the important cities of North Carolina, and some long-distance operators even traveled beyond the state boundary. The number of FIJIs here upon the campus was devoid of Phi Gams over the weekend, but today Brother Lyman reported that he spent a miserable time here all alone.

Charlotte, as usual, was not overlooked by the Phi Gams. A number of brothers found their way to this city before the weekend was over, even if they did no more than pass through on the return from a longer jaunt. Brother Crowell reports that he visited his home at Lexington. Brothers Hart and McCormack went to Statesville and other points which they have not yet revealed. Brother Dick O’Hair was, of course, with the Wildcats on their expedition to Chattanooga where they engaged the men of Sewanee. Brothers Williams and Walter Wooten were also in Chattanooga where they witnessed the football game and did other interesting things. Brother Thompson and Pledge Brother King went to their homes in Bristol, Tenn. Brother Ragan also traveled home to Thomasville, while Brother Nimmons went way down to Seneca, S. C. Brothers were reported seen in Charlotte, Raleigh, Winston-Salem, and High Point. Brother Dan Hodges went to Raleigh. Brothers Summers and Taylor went to the dance at Salem and Pledge Brother Garnett went home to Columbia, S. C. Pledge Brother Clarence Olive went to Winston-Salem.

Beta Theta Pi
Most of the brothers took advantage of the free weekend and toured the state. Only two took in the Chattanooga game, Brothers Bill Shaw and Jim Howell. The Charlotte crew included Brothers Efrid, D. D. Philips, Upchurch, Welsh, Finley Tucker, Buckley, Cushman, Caterson, Rainy, Jack Philips, Bob Bryant, and Pledges Pritchett, Don Bryant, Skinner, Goode, Ranson, and Grayson Tucker. They were distributed from Memorial Hospital to Queens College. Brother Spike Mebane and Joe Barnwell journeyed to their homes at Burlington. Brother Taylor and Pledge Brothers Sherrill and Byrd made it to Converse. The wild hare goes to Tom Millikin who took a late but “lovely” trip to Myrtle Beach. Brother Al Winn went to Greenville and Brother Robinson and Pledges Smith and Lipscome were at their homes in Gastonia. Brothers Church and Schmidt operated at Rock Hill. Beta Theta Pi is proud to announce the initiation of Billy Rodgers, Steve Thurston, George Buckley, and Van Wilson.

Phi Delta Theta
Phi Delts were represented at the Davidson-Sewanee game in Chattanooga by Brothers Owens and Wright and Brother Archer with the team, and even in defeat was able to enjoy that for which Chattanooga is famous. Pledge Brothers Elliott, Loughridge, and Ray Wilson spent the weekend in Greensboro. Pledges Vaylor and Jack Lucas traveled to Muscle Shoals, S. C.Visits in the Queen City: Brothers Hobbie and McLean (with Brothers Ivey, Stewart, and George Tate) passed the time at Hollins College in Virginia. Brother Carter was in Virginia, while Brother Bob McLeod followed the team to Chattanooga. Brother Johnie McAllister enjoyed the comforts of home in Spartanburg. Pledge Burns was at Converse, while Pledge Banks attended the Sullins’ Dance in Bristol, Va. All the brothers and pledges except five went out of town for the weekend.

Brothers Colson and Conner started out for Greenville but ended up in Gaffney. Brother MacKinnon was at his home in Maxton, and Brothers Westall and Rudolph were at their respective homes in Asheville. Pledges McLean and Tate spent the weekend at their homes in Lenoir and Morganton.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: The lack of activity on the campus caused by the game in Chattanooga occasioned many brothers and pledges to go careening around the Carolinas in search of worthwhile things to do. Brothers Peter Young, Southgate Jones, and Hudson led the exodus with a weekend jaunt to Sweetbriar. Pledges Frank Dunn and Bob Whaling elected Winston-Salem as the base of their activities. Frank stayed over while Bob cruised up Danville way. Also in Winston were found Brothers Jim Harris and Wick Port Wilson. Brother “Bud” made a solo flight to Spartanburg and Converse. Pledge Frank Treat spent the weekend in Greensboro with Brother Elmer Graves. Also home were McCoy, Mac Brew, Jim Bill, Jim Crook, George Marsh, Bill Squires, Dick Manning, Dick Smith, and Pinky Wilson at their respective homes. Tommy Yarborough was a visitor at the home of George Marsh. Brother Sam Henderson and Frank “Switd-hare” the Pledges John McGee and Galtavent went on an expedition to Chattanooga for the Davidson-Sewanee game. Davidson was transferred from Memorial Hospital to the Infirmary in Charlotte on Saturday. On Monday, he returned to classes and was heartily received by the Brothers from his week's absence. The majority of the Pledges went home.

Kappa Alpha: Kappa Alpha brothers roamed far and wide for their entertainment the past weekend, with Chattanooga being the most spectacular destination. Brothers Ben Washburn, Tom Patterson, Burk, and Scotty represented the Cats on the gridiron and were accompanied on the Chattanooga trip by Brothers Mitchell, Harris, and Coppedge. Several others might have flown down with Dick but can’t seem to recall their holiday whereabouts. Ex-king Brother Ralph Dunn remained on campus to catch up with the reviews, as did Brothers Stimson, Royster, Glasgow, and Richardson. Pledge Brother Bachman, the mad musician, added a dirge to his repertoire by occupying the scene of Sewanee. Kappa Alpha was further represented by Pledge Brother George Council at Washington, Brother Johny, and Pledge Brother Ike Belk at Sweetbriar-Hollins and Randolph-Macon. Mooresville held many inviting rendezvous for Durham-bound Brother Jeffries and Pledge Brother Watt. Hickory was the destination for Brother Jeffries, while Brother Watt conducted a hearse.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: The chapter takes great pleasure in announcing the pledging of Herbert Morton. This weekend, although marred by another “moral-victory defeat,” Pledge Brothers Abbot and others did their best to brighten the scene.

ANNUAL PICTURES: It has been reported by Julian McCall, editor of the Quips and Pranks, that the taking of class pictures will begin on Monday, Oct. 20th. The plans were that the pictures of the Seniors would be taken on Monday, the Juniors on Tuesday, and so on down the line. The Dunbar Studio of Charlotte will take the pictures in the parlor of Watts Dormitory.

Grey Library Adds Volumes: Several books are on the European situation; Hitler among authors. Nine new books have been added to the library recently, which include: “My Own Order,” by Adolph Hitler; “You Can't Do Business with Hitler,” by Douglas Miller; “Berlin Diary,” by William L. Shirer; “Lanterns of the Levee,” by William Percy; “Darkness at Noon,” by Arthur Koestler; “Reveille at Washington,” by Margaret Leech; and “Short Stories from the New Yorker.” “Berlin Diary,” written by the correspondent of the Columbia Broadcasting System, presents an intimate account of the Second World War. “Reveille at Washington” is a historical account, while “Short Stories from the New Yorker” offers a collection of contemporary fiction. These books are available at the library. Prof. Chalmers Davidson announced that the library will be closed tomorrow due to the light reception.

If you're going to buy a covert, just say “Show me a covert.” No. 1 Covert... a Varsity Town. They’re masterpieces true enough, and we just gotta use words like “swell” and “grand” to describe this luxury weave. And they are, have added the final touch of perfection—hand-needled edges. Well, that just about solves your suit problem this Fall! $35 & $40. YOUNG MEN’S SHOP—3rd Floor. GET A REALLY FINE COVERT WHILE YOU'RE ABOUT IT... 126 South Tryon Street.