Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor - Bob Garvey
Associate Editor - Bobby Carter
Associate Editor - Dick Cobb
Associate Editor - W. C. Plunkett
Associate Editor - Al Winn
Managing Editor - Ed Erwin
Managing Editor - Joe Eve
Managing Editor - Jimmy Fulcher
Managing Editor - Bill Lyman
Managing Editor - Henry McIntosh
Managing Editor - Lacy McLean
Sports Editor - David Vosburgh
Movie Editor - David Vosburgh

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Tom Plonk
Assistant Business Manager - Dick Kelly
Circulation Manager - Ed Scott
Circulation Manager - Charlie Watt
Collection Manager - John Crichton
Subscription Manager - Baxter Freeze

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. It welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Honorary Fraternities

A page and a half of the “Y” Handbook is devoted to the regulations governing the Honorary Fraternity Council, its members and their duties. Eleven articles are written in our constitution concerning this subject, giving powers to the Honorary Fraternity Council and making regulations by which these fraternities must operate. Why hasn’t some use been made of the powers of this council and why do we have honorary fraternities that mean nothing more than another picture in the annual and another two dollars a semester dues to pay?

The power of the Honorary Fraternity Council to disband an honorary fraternity is omitted from our constitution, but this power is written with bold face letters in the constitution of other colleges and universities. Long sets of rules governing the right of existence of honoraries are enforced on other campuses. We should have some method of getting rid of the organizations here that are not worthwhile. Are all our organizations necessary? A safe wager would be that many members of certain honorary fraternities wish that they had never joined, yet feel responsible as members to keep coming to the meeting and keep paying their dues since they have already become affiliated and hate to drop out. Others seem to glory in having meetings every night so that they’ll have some excuse in their own minds not to study.

Perhaps the fraternities at which this editorial is directed can be counted on one hand, but four or five non-functioning organizations are a disgrace to the campus. Members go to the meetings half-heartedly, and the bidding of new members is left up to the discretion of two or three men. Then those men bid are initiated into the organization while old members laugh at them behind their backs for being such suckers. Such organizations as Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Delta Psi (athletic) are genuine awards for merit and the editorial is not directed toward them. But other fraternities which received their charters in order to further knowledge in their special fields should either do this or not exist.

THE DAVIDSONIAN needs more power and more use of power in the honorary fraternity council—regulations should be lived up to, and if they are not, the organization has no right to exist. Action should be taken on the non-functioning fraternities in order that progress might be gained by the organizations that are anxious to accomplish things.

The Harvard of the South

Recently LIFE magazine published a pictorial article which should be of no small consequence to the educational world; for it pointed out Harvard as civilization’s most prominent academic bulwark against the atrocities of arch paganism. From 1638 to 1941 “the history of Harvard is the cultural history of the U. S.”; John and Quincy Adams, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell, Henry Adams, Teddy and Franklin Roosevelt—these, with many hundreds more, have come from the bank of the Charles to guide America across the Mississippi on her tedious trek to the West, into the Western Hemisphere, into the world. And now today another Age is in the making. It is the fourth year of Harvard's fourth century: she “must re-examine the purposes that justify her existence, count her resources and consider how she shall serve man in his unknown future.”

Columbia, Cornell, Chicago, Yale—all are making their contributions to the wave of the future; yet in the shadow of John Harvard men are attempting to play the role of philosophic meteorologists and predict the direction, the essence, of that wave. This is the privilege of the wise and strong. With neither pilot nor navigator the course of history runs amuck; Harvard is struggling to be that pilot and fulfill her calling. They have endowment, a well-prepared student body, a cosmopolitan location, a great faculty—such notable advantages as these; but they have something more primary still, something of a more basic nature. And how could we define that? Simply by saying: Harvard University is dedicated to the pursuit of wisdom, social progress and spiritual evolution. Is there another school in America today so obviously aiming at that goal? Possibly so—she could be Davidson.

Here in Mecklenburg County we, the students, the faculty, are comfortably nestled amongst the remains of a happy past. The South is part of Davidson, and Davidson is part of the South. Our history is not one of brilliant leadership, or of brilliant scholarship; but it is one of men strong in the Faith, earnest in their purpose. If Chapel Hill, Vanderbilt and the University of Virginia have been nationally prominent, we have been stable. There is something noble and splendid in the strength of conservatism; that is, if when a crisis calls conservatism is visionary enough to rise from her bed of self-content and carry Truth into the council halls of men. All the worth which one hundred and fifty years of sweat and tears has taken to create is on the brink of shattering into a million nihilistic pieces. To preserve that progress, and advance it still further, is our holy obligation; may Davidson rise from her ease and rest and aggressively enter into the holocaustic struggle with the courage of a stable and deep-rooted people.

Let us make facts significant only in that they point to cosmic ultimates; let us establish a free and opinionated press so that we might learn how men do business in the spheres of public conviction; let us see beyond the horizons of Charlotte and Winston-Salem a bitter and despairing world—our world; let us recognize debate, open and frank, as the surest approach to understanding; in the name of everything that’s true and good and decent, let us break out of our shell and prove ourselves.

The course that an institution must take to meet victoriously her destiny is intricate and profound. But for a college or university one thing is certain, and we find it revealed in this line from LIFE, “New England’s and hence America’s greatest names... were listed on the Harvard faculty.” That takes tremendous expenditures of money; though of all things, to pack a faculty with gigantic minds is the most imperative task of an educational institution which seeks influence and prestige. We must realize that all other budget items are secondary to the faculty; and we must stand ready to sacrifice a building program, an expanding athletic program, a student loan program to the demands of high-salaried minds. Then we should sit respectfully and willingly at the feet of those intellects to absorb their wisdom and intelligence. For by this means can students attain perspective and proportion, balance and judgment—precious luxuries in a Don Quixote world.

America, and all nations and all races, look to the rising Youth of this world for succor and guidance; for we alone have not been totally ulcerated by prejudice and propaganda. It is you and I who have strength enough and courage enough to fight for freedom of person and freedom of soul. Our lot is to think new thoughts, and dream new dreams; without those thoughts and dreams the world will perish. Davidson does not have the snobbishness of Harvard, nor the personal wealth of Harvard, and that is good; but Harvard has many, many things that we lack and must get. May we give Chapel Hill and Tulane all the “progressive” liberalism they want; may those great institutions continue to thrive in their own way—America needs their contributions. But may destiny touch us with that peculiar gift that Harvard has, that gift of gifts, the power which comes from offering broad minds and rich souls to a starving world. The peoples of this earth look to us, and to those like us, and wait for our answer. May Davidson spring from her past to offer such genius to mankind, such is our rendezvous with destiny.

Letters to the Editor

FROM DR. BARBOUR:
Just where shall I start to give you my impressions of Davidson? It is rather hard. There are so many angles of approach, and so many avenues of impression. However, I suppose the thing that impressed me most and will continue to stimulate me both from the point of view of memory and from the point of view of the future of the thing to which I have given my own life, is the fine attitude of the student body. I have never found a more happy response, nor have I ever seen any more hopeful attitude. All in all, the boys seemed very normal, with a keen sense of appreciation of the value of things that are spiritual, and a hopeful acceptance of responsibility toward the furthering of such value in their own lives, and the willingness to use their capacities toward the realization of such values in our society.

One might expect to find extremists, either of one sort or another in a denominational school. No doubt there are some few at Davidson, but they were not very much in evidence during my visit. If there were a fairly large proportion they could not have remained in the background. It is very healthy to find such a large group of young men living together so intimately over a period of four years and yet maintaining a balanced point of view about themselves, and their place in life, the world into which they shall move, and toward the God they accept as the power behind the world.

The religious program of the Y.M.C.A. interested me and deserves commendation. The leadership is in the hands of men of capacity and good sense. Quite apparently there is no desire to stimulate the religious activities by fantastic programs or abnormally emotional appeals. The wisdom of suchAn attitude is evidenced by the type of boys who respond to, and participate in the program. The happy fellowship at the various fraternities and boarding houses permeates all the life of the campus. All of the things I had heard about Davidson, and all of the ideals and standards I have noted in her graduates, I found functioning in the undergraduate body. I am happy that we have in the South such a fine, normal, deeply spiritual, educational institution.

Thursday, May 15, 1941

Yehudi’s Yowls
By Yehudi

Comes the peer of all key-hole peepers again to earn a few more enemies, for the sake of attempting to entertain a scattered number of curious college men who hastily glance over Yehudi’s meditations each week in search of their own names—then, not finding them, curse softly to themselves, or, on the other hand, finding them, curse loudly to others. So you see, you can’t win! For obvious reasons, then, Yehudi has been guarding zealously his identity from the ranks of the cut and uncut alike, particularly those of the former class as Monroe Bush, Greasy Greek Long, Juicy Jesse Wooten, or long Jim Chapman.

But to get at the business at hand: We can disclose only the bare facts of the best story of the week, but a nocturnal possum hunt on the golf course the other night was rewarded with only two specimens of this rodent, namely, Frank Barker and Fred Morton, who were driven from their den by the fearful barking of the hounds. Tally Ho, the fox! For further details see any of the hunters on the front steps of Georgia...

A new love of great import has blossomed forth under our very noses unnoticed. Taciturn Ed Taylor has been bitten, and badly. The lucky girl? None other than the daughter of our new prexy. Fast work, Ed...

Gabby Sprunt is beaming over a new addition to his family, an ugly duckling known as Misshill. It seems that Gabby won this fowl back after giving it to his O. A. O. for Easter. Now he’s reading up on the care and feeding of fowls so that she may continue to spread her influence for good.

Sincerely,
CLIFFORD E. BARBOUR.

ON DR. SENTELLE:
Dear Tony:
Although your paper seems rather thorough in some fields, you seem to have omitted a tribute to our retiring dean, Dr. M. E. Sentelle. Dr. Sentelle has served the college as dean, demanding as much respect and love of the student body as any dean ever did in any college. His sense of fairness, although it has clamped down pretty severely on persons violating or wishing to violate the rules of the school, has been appreciated by the student bodies over a long period of years.

“Now Mister -er -er, we have a little rule concerning that sort of thing and I'm afraid we'll have to go by that rule,” he might be heard saying. The standing up of the student body after the introduction of Dr. Sentelle in chapel the day of O. D. K. tap day showed that he has won the admiration of the student body. This same student body (as is probably true of most students) tries in every way to buck the rules laid down by the college, yet they showed their admiration to the enforcer and interpreter of those rules. And so we say in closing, hats off to Dr. Sentelle. His administration as dean of Davidson College has ended successfully and he will forever be remembered as long as there is any memory of Davidson College.

Thank you,
Film Report Card
CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday and Friday, May 15 and 16
Ziegfeld Girl
* * * *
James Stewart, Judy Garland, Hedy Lamarr, Lana Turner, Tony Martin, Jackie Cooper, Ian Hunter, Charles Winninger, and Edward Everett Horton. Essentially, this production portrays showgirls. It is more gorgeous and spectacular even than “The Great Ziegfeld.” With the greatest collection of stars ever gathered together for one show, this musical extravaganza is the most elaborate and colorful hit of the season. I would like for Bill Tarleton to be the guest of the theatre for any show this coming week.

Saturday, May 17
Mr. Dynamite
* * *
Lloyd Nolan, Irene Hervey, J. Carrol Naish, and Ann Gillis. The plot of this picture revolves around a baseball pitcher who becomes involved with spies and murder. Lloyd Nolan plays the pitcher who becomes, unwillingly, involved in a sabotage plot that develops into a murder charge and from here on things start popping. His amateur detective work brings him in contact with Irene Hervey, a Canadian secret-service agent working for Canada. Ann Gillis plays a young girl baseball fan, and J. Carrol Naish is very good as an astrologer. The late show Saturday night is “Washington Melodrama.”

Monday and Tuesday, May 19 and 20
Meet John Doe
* * *
Gary Cooper, Barbara Stanwyck, Walter Brennan, Edward Arnold, Regis Toomey, and James Gleason. The theme of this production is humanitarian. Gary Cooper turns in his finest performance since “Mr. Deeds Goes to Town,” while Barbara Stanwyck is the perfect fit for the role of the newspaper girl who invents “John Doe.” Both Gary's and Barbara's performances are of Academy Award merit, with never a weak scene. Edward Arnold, as Cooper’s sidekick, is as great as ever in his character portrayals. This show is labeled to be an outstanding hit of the year, having been directed by that director of masterpieces, Frank Capra.

Wednesday, May 21
Play Girl
* * *
This sparkling comedy features Kay Francis as a sophisticated gold-digger who uses pretty Mildred Coles as a decoy to catch millionaires. Nigel Bruce, James Ellison, and George P. Huntley. Mildred falls in love with Ellison, however, spoils Kay's plans, and runs out on the scheme. Nigel Bruce is the outstanding comedian of the production.

Coming next week: Great American Broadcast, with Alice Faye, Jack Oakie, and John Payne, and That Hamilton Woman, with Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, and Sara Allgood.

This Academic World We Live In, or: The Call
Soon after the present semester began, a number of professors, not only in this college but in schools all over the nation, made announcements that did not seem drastic even to the most learned and astute at the time. These announcements were received by the brains of most of us and placed in cold storage until a week or two ago. No doubt, many of you are wondering just what these announcements were. Well, to make a short story long, they were notices that pertained to the writing of a term paper, research paper, or what-have-you. To most of us, “the last class before exams” seemed like an impossibly long time in which to write this thing. But today, look around you: you see faces haggard with worry; worry caused by these very term papers. We have had three months to write them and yet we have procrastinated and procrastinated until we're just about pro-...

February faded into March; March faded into Spring Recess; Spring Recess faded into Spring—“Ay, there's the rub.” We asked ourselves if those beautiful sunny afternoons were meant to be spent in drudgery. No, we replied, and turned over on our stomachs to get a little more sun. Seriously, though, there are three general types of “term paperers.” First, we have the superman. He departs for the library on the morning of the first day after the announcement is made. This admirable fellow is actually taking the matter seriously, which is just as it should be. Within two weeks, let us say, he has gone into his subject as deeply as our library permits and has turned out a huge manuscript which he later boils down to about forty typewritten pages. He now places the weighty object in the bottom of his trunk, ties a blue ribbon around it, puts in some extra mothballs, and whistles merrily off to a double feature. His work is done—done two and one-half months ahead of time. He can afford to give the arts his patronage.

A second type of paperer is the “Little-by-little,” “slow-but-sure” student. This walking bit of willpower is the answer to a professor’s dream. He spends an hour in the library every day. (This includes Saturday). In most cases, this is as much as his budget will allow, for this type usually has worked out a scientific budget of his time. Slowly but surely, he works his little creation up into a very satisfactory paper. This might also be called the “polite gentleman” method. There is no bustle, no hustle. We see our friend disappear into the bowels of the library each day, where after one hour of good, stiff concentration, his day's work is done. If you can stick to your schedule, why not try this method on your next paper? Well, why not?

Lastly, we come to Mr. Average Student. M.A.S. is our little procrastinator. From the time that the term paper is announced until one or two weeks before it is due—it never enters his mind. Then, early...

(Continued on Page Six)