Thurs., Feb. 20, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Who’s Who Honors Twelve

F. Caldwell Makes Talk At Vespers
President of Louisville Seminary Takes Parable of Talents As Text.

Dr. Frank Caldwell, President of the Louisville Theological Seminary, was the guest speaker at the Vesper Service last Sunday night. Dr. Caldwell used as his text part of the 25th chapter of Matthew: "For unto everyone that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath."

Angry At First

As an introduction, he told how angry he became when he first read the text because Jesus seems to be free with the distribution of wealth. He explained that it is necessary, in order fully to understand the paradox, to guard against the danger of mistaking the use of money in connection with the parable. Dr. Caldwell then read the parable of the men who were given five talents, two talents, and one talent respectively. He divided the parable into three scenes and proceeded to explain the parable.

The first scene, or the capital scene, shows that there are unequal men and an unequal distribution of wealth. Also, the talents were not just a sacred trust. In terms of management-labor, Dr. Caldwell showed that the men with the talents did what was necessary with the talents.

The second scene, or wages-dividend scene, was explained by Dr. Caldwell as the scene where the five-and-two talent men received their reward. The first two men received self-approval and God's blessing instead of money or a loving cup. They received the reward not because of success but because of fidelity. The one-talent man didn’t receive a reward because he was unfaithful, and he lacked imagination and courage.

The meaning of the paradox was explained as meaning that the universe is fruitful for talents well used but fatal for talents which go unused. The lesson is to use your talents and not let them go unchallenged.

Opportunity

Dr. Caldwell concluded his explanation by quoting Granville Sharp's poem about opportunity: "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide." He emphasized that opportunity must be seized.

Twelve Davidson men were recently honored by receiving mention in Who's Who in American Universities and Colleges. This publication selects annually the most outstanding students throughout the campuses and is patterned on the well-known Who's Who. From left to right, the men thus honored are: first row: Hank Bahnson, Andy Dale, Russell Edmondson, Bob Finley; second row: Jim Hogg, J. R. Jones, George Marsh, Hector McLean; third row: Granville Sharpe, Winston Taylor, Ed Watson, and Lawson Withers. George Marsh is the only junior to receive this recognition, the others all being members of the senior class. For further details, see the story on page one.

Dr. Walter L. Lingle has announced that all students who were ill during the regular examination period can take re-examinations during the Spring Holidays. The Registrar will arrange the new schedule as soon as possible, it was reported. An extension of time applies to make-up examinations.

Cohen, the Author, to Speak Here March 7

work as this one day may be added to the vacation, depending upon the number of students who will take the re-examinations.

AMONG THE GREEKS

(Continued from Page 10)

PARAGRAPHICS

104 Winthrop girls thrilled the month. “Red” Gibbs, Casanova, spent a lonesome weekend on the campus, but Brother Parsons, the chapter's other great lover, found time to date at both W. C. and Chaps Hill and made one of his famous trips to Hickory. Pledge “Teen” has been in the infirmary, which he reports, were true. Dave Henderson made an appearance.

Stroup finally got himself at Queens Saturday. Others visited their homes in Charlotte and Blacksburg, S. C.

Beta Theta Pi

The initiation dates of twelve pledges. Those initiated were Charles Upchurch, Jr. from Charlotte, Robert Welsh from Charlotte, Charles Robinson from Gastonia, Dewitt Philips, Jr. from Charlotte, David Yocum, Jr. from El Dorado, Ark., Staley Jr., from Burlington, William E. White from Graham, Robert Cushman from (Continued on Page Six)

ANDERSON’S Food Store
PHONE 4641

MOONEY’S SERVICE STATION
DAVIDSON, N. C.

HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
KNOX BLDG.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Indoor Rifle Match Will Open Saturday

Fifteen Davidson Men Will Compete in National Tournament.

Pistol Entries

Pistol entries have already been made. The team will begin their match preparations. Sam S. Wiley will talk here. Former ‘Y’ Secretary will lead Vespers. Wiley, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Asheville, N.C., will be the guest at Vespers on February 23, at 6:30. Sam Wiley, better known as the Secretary of the Davidson College YMCA, graduated in 1932. He attended Carolina and later the University of Edinburgh. During wartime, Mr. Wiley served in the YMCA.

NEW FRATERNITY STATIONERY
60 Sheets
50 Envelopes
$1.00

Friendly City.