Thursday, May 8, 1941

CADETS AT FULL PORT

As long a custom with the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Unit has been the awarding of a silver loving cup to the best drilled freshman cadet in the battalion. George Horan, second from the right, is part of the basis of the award in the proficiency of the execution of the manual of arms. Last year the award went to Cadet Private. The cadets above are pictured in the position of a soldier at “Full-Port Arms.”

Juniors To Camp At Clemson, S.C.

Dr. Jackson Leads Service Sunday Night

Vesper Minister From Columbia, S.C., Takes Text From Beatitudes.

Dr. J. W. Jackson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, South Carolina, was the speaker at Vespers last Sunday night. His sermon was preceded by the singing of “Rosary” by Mrs. Arthur Rohr. Dr. Jackson took for his text a section of the beatitudes, Matthew 5:10-16. He used the figures “Ye are the salt of the earth” and “Ye are the light of the world” and enlarged upon them.

CHRIST IS PRESERVER.

He said that salt is a preservative and also must be present in a man’s blood. Similarly, Christ is the preservation of the earth and is necessary for spiritual life. One of the dangers which confront us is the loss of flavor, zest, and taste for life. We can’t find pleasure in anything we do; our exuberance is gone, and staleness overtakes us. Christ comes into our life and presents his outlook and philosophy of life, if we will let him. Seeking and doing what is right drives out all tastelessness. He transforms the drudgery of humdrum affairs, and we go about everyday tasks with a freshness and newness of soul.

REBELLION AGAINST GOD.

Christ tells us that he is the light of the earth, and through him, we are the light. Without him, all is darkness in the world, and we grope our way confusedly through the darkness. Man today is in rebellion against God, and he can’t stand the light of God. Therefore men try to put out this light by killing those who embody it. Mr. Jackson told an anecdote of an earnest disciple of Buddha, who asked him how to find the way to a more complete life. Buddha led him out into a nearby river and, seizing him by the neck, pushed his head under the water and held him under until the man was at the point of drowning. With a sudden burst of energy, the man wrenched loose. Buddha asked him what he wanted most when he was under water. “Air,” replied the exasperated man. “If you desire salvation as much as you did air,” replied Buddha, “you will find the life you seek.”

In conclusion, Dr. Jackson told us that the great transaction which comes in the life of every Christian is his soul meeting the soul of God. There is no darkness or resentment on the face of God. He gives us complete welcome and forgiveness.

Forty-Five Juniors and Two Seniors Will Attend Summer Camp.

According to a recent announcement from Lt. Col. G. T. Mackenzie, 45 juniors and two seniors will report at the R.O.T.C. Camp at Clemson College, Clemson, S.C., on June 6 at 10 a.m. for six weeks of instruction in the latest methods of warfare. A list of seventy-three officers has been published by the War Department to attend the camp as instructors. Colonel M. Pool, Infantry, of Clemson College, has been designated as Commanding Officer and Colonel Edward C. Rose, Infantry of Mississippi State College, has been appointed Second-in-Command. Lt.-Col. G. T. Mackenzie and Captain D. G. Wilson of the local R.O.T.C. Unit have been placed on the list among the seventy-three instructors.

Courses in machine gun, automatic rifle, and rifle marksmanship will be held, with medals awarded to those qualifying. Offensive and defensive tactics, hikes, maneuvers, and sham battles will also play an important part in the training. Usually, the camp is held at Anniston, Alabama, but due to the National Emergency and selective service training of trainees, no facilities are available at Fort McClellan. Several years ago, the camp was held at Clemson College. Lt.-Col. Mackenzie stated that Davidson men have always won an excellent rating at camp and that he believed this year’s class would be no exception. Sergeant Tate of the local R.O.T.C. has been included on the list issued by the Corps Area Commander to attend the camp with the trainees.

Johnston Has Grant-In-Aid

Professor Frontis W. Johnston of the History department has been given a grant-in-aid for further research on Zebulon B. Vance, former Governor of North Carolina and United States Senator. The grant was given by the Rutherford B. Hayes Foundation of Fremont, Ohio, for research in Southern history in the Reconstruction period. This is the second grant that Professor Johnston has received from the Hayes Memorial Foundation, which is one of four granted in the whole country. Professor Johnston is now in the process of editing the Vance correspondence, which is preserved in the archives of the North Carolina Historical Commission. In its final form, this edition will appear in five or six volumes. In addition, he is preparing a biography of Governor Vance, which will appear later.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL

Wm. R. BARRINGER

- Private Banquet Rooms
- Fraternity Rooms
- Davidson Students Welcome

Frat Installs New Officers

Wooten, Phillips, and Rudolph Are Installed.

New officers of the Scabbard and Blade were formally installed Wednesday, April 30, in the Scabbard and Blade Room. New officers have already taken on their new duties. Those installed were: Walter Wooten, replacing Holt Barnwell as president; Jack Phillips, replacing Jim McDuffie as vice-president; Pat Rudolph, replacing Jay Bolin as treasurer; and Frank Caldwell, replacing Toddy Latimer as secretary. At the same meeting, the members decided to have a hayride to be held a week from Friday. The outing will be to Harris Lake.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Experiences Related Of ROTC Camp

Juniors and Seniors Receive Tactical Training At Ft. McClellan.

Some of this year’s Seniors had many interesting experiences in the R.O.T.C. camp at Fort McClellan. There was something for the entire day, a day which began at 5:00 in the morning as cold as the middle of the day was hot—and ended at 8:30 or 9:00 p.m.

PROCESSING AT FIRST.

Processing was the big thing at first. From then on forSix weeks it was fall in—every morning at 7:00 for five hours of lectures, demonstrations, CAMP HIGHLIGHTS. Of the camp other than athletics were the problems, etc. Some highlights of combat problems in which every company participated and the delaying action problem. The problem required several days of action, the men taking up each day where they left off the day before. Range practice took up one week. The lunch was rather monotonous, however. It consisted of a ham sandwich, a jelly sandwich, and a cup of lemonade. According to reports, it was never about the duty. This was an army on wheels. The hardest job was K.P. This ordeal included the washing of all the utensils for the 195 men who composed a company, peeling spuds, mopping floors, and cleaning up in general. It was a hot job in every sense of the word. A hot sink, a fan in Anniston, Alabama, last summer, experiences which will probably be repeated in the R.O.T.C. camps this year. Trainees kept themselves busy.

RIFLEMEN FIRING BY VOLLEY

“Firing by volley” is the position that the members of the rifle team assumed at the command of their instructor, First Lt. E. E. Marsh. In addition to his other duties as Professor of Military Science and Tactics, Lt. Marsh has also served during the year as coach to the rifle team. Sgt. R. B. Burton, shown above correcting the positions of the pieces, has been with the local R.O.T.C. unit for 14 years.

Plonk Elected To Lead Society

The combat problem was held for the local colored Scout Troop 75 at the Davidson Colored High School last Monday night. The troop had previously been registered for several years, but the registration was allowed to run out about a year ago. Fifteen scouts from the troop at Smithville took part in the investiture ceremony.

New Scabbard and Blade Men

Scabbard and Blade, national military fraternity, tapped 16 men at a special parade on Feb. 28. Tom Plonk, Dave Henderson, Jim Crook, Dave Spencer, John Crichton, Charlie Watt, Jack Phillips, Walter Wooten, Ed Hay, Claude Hackney, Dan Hodges, and Frank Caldwell. These men were absent from the picture: Pat Rudolph, Fred Little, Jim Owens, and Ralph Williams.

Saturday, May 10 VAQUERO
Wednesday, May 14 ISLAND
Thursday and Friday, May 8-9 “THE PENALTY” EDWARD ARNOLD—LIONEL BARRYMORE
Monday and Tuesday, May 12-13 MEN OF BOY’S TOWN MICKEY ROONEY — SPENCER TRACY
MAN MADE MONSTER DOUBLE FEATURE— —DAVIDSON, N. C.—

NEW OFFICERS

George Mitchell from Wilmington, N.C., was recently elected president of the Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra, succeeding Francis McGill of Lenoir. The other officers elected for the coming year are Jason Deyton, vice president; Harry Allen, secretary; Earle Copes, business manager; and Charles Henderson, member of the executive committee. Retiring from office are: Francis McGill, president; Charles Isley, vice-president; Reb Rummel, business manager; Earle Copes, secretary; and Jack Phillips, member of the executive committee.

N. A. CALES
Tailor
FIRST CLASS ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRING
104½ E. 4th St. Charlotte, N.C.

Paul S. Crane, George MacKinnon Win Literary Awards In Poetry, Prose

Tom Plonk was installed as president of the Philanthropic Literary Society for the first semester of next year to succeed Eldridge Brown, retiring president, at the last meeting of the society on May 6. Prize contributions in the spring literary contest were written by Paul S. Crane, poetry, and George D. MacKinnon, prose, and announced at the meeting. Crane's poem was on “Trees,” while MacKinnon wrote a satirical essay based on American life. This semi-annual contest offers two prizes, one for each of the best entries in the two fields of prose and poetry. The awards consist of keys and were presented at the meeting.

BAND OFFICERS

The Davidson College Concert Band elected officers for next year at their meeting Monday night. Jack Philips, first saxophonist, was elected president; Fred Speas, vice-president; Horace Robertson elected secretary; Charlie Henderson was elected to the new business manager’s post, and Hershel Seagle was elected to the Executive Committee. The retiring officers are Norris Erb, president; Jack Philips, vice-president; Francis McGill, business manager; and Reb Rummel, secretary.

Plans have been perfected for the final social of the year, which will honor the departing seniors of the society. This will be in the form of a hayride, wiener roast, and skating party on the evening of May 17 instead of the 10th as originally planned. Two trucks will leave Davidson at 5:00 Saturday afternoon, and the members will bring their dates to a spot near Queens in Charlotte, leaving there at 6:00 for the Willamette rink out on Wilkinson Boulevard.

After exercise, nothing is more pleasant than a refreshing pause with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its taste is delicious; and a welcome, refreshed feeling always follows. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

Drink Delicious and Refreshing

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE