Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 2, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter - Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett - Associate Editor
At Winn - Associate Editor
Joe Eve - Managing Editor
Bill Lyman - Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh - Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean - Managing Editor
Clarence Legerton - Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp - Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young - Advertising Manager
Joss Mott - Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely - Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart - Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a union of student and faculty opinion. As it
welcomes any contributions or communications to it, reference is provided such does not contain derogatory material to faculty or students,
profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All contributions must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that
it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or
communication.

Our Honor System
Before this year, some students have gone around with a muddled conception of our honor system and have felt that
violations occurred and that some phases of it were definitely neglected. After a verbal explanation by the president of the
student body, perhaps a written exposition would completely clear all questions concerned with the honor system at Davidson.

There are two sections of the constitution of the student body. One deals with offenses that come under the honor
system and the second deals with offenses not concerned with the honor system, but violations of it are punishable by
the student council. Section I includes cheating, lying under oath, and stealing. After a student has been convicted by the
student council, he has the alternative of either complying with the council’s decision or appealing to the executive committee. The
executive committee is composed of a certain number of the faculty, selected every year to represent the faculty in matters
similar to those dealt with by the student council. Section II of the student body constitution consists of student body
regulations and contains no honor codes as are found in Section I.

One of the great mistakes of thought in the student body is that every student is honor bound to report
any violation of the student body constitution. This is not so written in the laws. Violations should be reported to
the council so as to strengthen the code of laws that Davidson men have chosen to enforce for governing themselves,
but there is no violation of the honor system when a student fails to report a misdemeanor such as drinking.
Either the executive committee or the student council is allowed to try cases which come under the student body regulations,
but in cases of honor, the student council is always the first to have the case. If a case in
cheating occurs after examinations are near completion and there is no possibility of a student council meeting, the case goes
to the executive committee directly. Cases of drinking off the campus have not been handled by the student council in
recent years, unless the case occurs when a person is officially representing the school—this offense has some special ruling of
the faculty. Perhaps there are still some questions in the minds of persons trying to understand the system, and they
should be answered early in the year so that ignorance of the law will not be offered as an excuse
of the person tried.

“Bumming Etiquette”
Each year certain members of the new classes take advantage of their newness in being slow to catch on to
the rules of “bumming etiquette.” Davidson has a code of rules for hitch-hiking as well as for everything else. The
“bumming corner” has been officially defined as the intersection of the road going behind the dormitories and the highway from
Charlotte to Statesville. This, strangely enough, is the bumming corner going both ways—any discourtesy such as bumming a block ahead
of the bumming corner will be considered an insult to upper-classmen.

Upperclassman’s Hell Week
Undoubtedly, one of the most obnoxious ordeals for fraternity men to go through is rush week. Although to many freshmen
it is a delight, to upperclassmen it is dreaded far more than the former “hell week.” Following is what goes
on at a fraternity lodge during a typical rush night:

7:45. You are told by the rush chairman to go get Hadley Tate, III, on the fourth floor of Watts.
You are also told that he graduated from McCallington Prep School, that his family is the richest in Oregon, that
he’s a sure Phi Bete, that he’s a four-letter man, and that his nickname is “Beau.” With such a build-up
you are fairly enthusiastic about meeting Hadley and proceed to trek up four flights of stairs among the clouds. You
knock on the prescribed door, jerk your lips up into a hearty smile, and stroll in in your most collegiate
manner. You grab the hand of the nearest boy you see, who turns out to be Hadley’s roommate. You “ha,
ha, ha” the matter off and give Hadley a hale slap on the back, meanwhile introducing yourself. During the walk
down to fraternity court you discuss the weather, Chambers, the new buildings, and how much we need a new gym,
amidst frequent and embarrassing silences.

8:00. You gently shove Hadley into the house and introduce him to all the brothers and the rushees, none of
whose names you can remember. Meanwhile you wonder how such an outstanding boy, as Hadley is supposed to be, can
present such an unimpressive appearance. Then you plop him into the midst of some congenial group as you grab a
cigar. There ensues the inevitable series of asking where everyone is from and “do you know ?” This, if you're
lucky, will last until 8:30. Thereupon you ask the classical “How’s your schedule?” Schedules always bring up professors which in
turn brings up Prof. Diogenes and Prof. Synod’s condemning of dancing, etc.

9:00. By this time you are worn out mentally and socially and resort to the never-failing scrap book. Whereupon you
impress on some hapless fool the glorious honors of good old Alpha Sigma Sigma. Awkward sophomores then serve welcome refreshments,
coming as a few moments of rest and rejuvenation. However, you can hardly taste the food due to having smoked
a chain of cigarettes and cigars.

Time is diminishing, so in a last minute effort you droll over the rushees in your most attractive mask. You
are so thankful when the time comes for singing, indicating the end of another unbearable evening, that you feel almost
peppy. You sing with gusto, grinning playfully at the cute little twists in the songs you've sung a thousand times.

10:00. You gladly grab Hadley and usher him out into the unputrified, fresh air, humming the tune of the last
song or making some appropriate remark. At the porch of Watts Hadley insists that you not walk up with him
to which you “unwillingly” acquiesce. The final adieux are too touching and you amble back to the frat house feeling,
although uneasily, that once again you’re free.

10:15. At the house all the good brothers are lounging all over the place, shoes off, collars undone, swearing quietly.
Anon the meeting starts and an endless procession of names are “brought up.” Every boy, it seems like, is either
a football captain, a genius, a president of his high school student body, or son of the richest man in
some state. In desperation you end up by blackballing every third name, amidst shouting and curses.

Midnight. You fall in bed, very weary, ready for a good night’s sleep.

3:00 A. M. You're still awake, worrying about how rush week will come out, how you can endure it any
longer, and when in the ——- you're going to sleep.

With The Staff
By BILL LYMAN

Cinema Comments
CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, October the 2nd
No production had been booked for this date at the time this went to press. Watch for it on the
theatre’s advance board, as it will undoubtedly be a first-rate attraction.

Friday and Saturday, Oct. 3 and 4
MOON OVER MIAMI
Don Ameche, Betty Grable, Robert Cummings, Charlotte Greenwood, Jack Haley, and Carole Landis. It would be nearly impossible for any
picture like the above to be a flop, and this is no exception. The production is typical Hollywood musical, with
goodly amounts of music, rhythm, song, color, and scenery. The plot evolves around the exploits of two fortune-hunting sisters, played
by Carole Landis and Betty Grable. They inherit enough money to take them, with their maidenly aunt, to Miami, where
they set out bait for millionaires. Betty attempts to land a rich playboy with the aid of Carole and Charlotte
Greenwood, the aunt. Robert Cummings and Don Ameche are the playboys who show Betty and Carole the way to much
fun and excitement. Jack Haley coupled with Charlotte Greenwood furnish the laughs to this all-around excellent feature. Saturday's late show
is to be announced later this week.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 6 and 7
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Irene Dunne, Robert Montgomery, Preston Foster, Eugene Pallette and Dick Foran. The acting and direction of this feature are tops,
and they more than make up for a somewhat weak story. Irene Dunne plays the part of a small town
girl who meets debonair Preston Foster on her first trip to the big city. Foster sweeps her off her feet,
and when she falls madly in love with him, he drops her in a minute. She becomes spiteful and marries
his brother, played by Robert Montgomery, against her better judgment. She never forgets Preston, however, and he involves her in
a romantic moment during a party given by the newlyweds. June Clyde, a tattler, catches Preston and Irene kissing and
they are promptly betrayed by the spiteful girl. This results in Bob’s joining the army and Irene joining the chorus.Wrecking
their marriage, Bob, still thinking Irene loves Preston, returns to find Irene truly loves him. Foster is the outstanding performer
of this gay and enjoyable feature.

Wednesday, October 8
CHEERS FOR MISS BISHOP
HHT, Martha Scott, William Holden, William Gargan, and Sidney Blackmer. This feature portrays the life of Miss Bishop from her
student days at Midwestern, a small college, to her old age. Miss Bishop, being graduated, returns to teach at her
alma mater. While teaching there, her niece enrolls in the college, and they both fall in love with the same
man, William Holden. Holden has an affair with the niece which ruins their romance, and he tries to get Miss
Bishop to go to Italy with him. She refuses, however, and chooses to remain at Midwestern. After many years, the
school progresses rapidly, and Miss Bishop thinks she is too outmoded for the school. A class reunion comes along in
time to change her idea, and she is toasted by all her classmates. Many of the men who hold important
positions pay tribute to her, and she realizes that she has made the most out of her life after all.
William Gargan and Sidney Blackmer round out an excellent supporting cast and help make this one of the best dramatic
productions to appear on the screen in many months.

I would like for my son to be “Scotty” Pater for any performance this week. Coming soon: DIVE BOMBER, BURMA
CONVOY, and KISS THE BOYS GOODBYE.

Digesting the Discs
By JIMMIE MORGAN
The purpose of this dept., “cats,” as you have probably already guessed from the title, is to help you in
selecting popular records. The discs are issued in such an immense volume these days that the record buyer has a
hard time knowing exactly what to ask for at platter counters, thus he often overlooks many of the better ones
because he doesn't have time to play them all. It is my sincere wish that, through this column, I will
be able to guide students of Davidson in getting better music for their money and, perhaps, in acquiring better taste
in popular music.

The big hit this week, as far as this scrivener is concerned, is an engraving by Sonny Dunham and his
orchestra, “Memories of You.” The tune itself has been around for quite some time, but the young Dunham entourage gives
it the best arrangement it has ever received. Said arrangement is mostly a trumpet solo by Sonny, and it is
indeed a magnificent one. The flipover is a new melody, “As We Walk into the Sunset,” which features a nice
vocal by Ray Kellogg.

Larry Clinton leads one of the most underrated crews in the biz. His latest Victor release is ample proof of
the musicianship of this organization. On the “A” side, “Bach to Boogie,” Clinton uses his knowledge of counterpoint to fine
effect, progressing from a Bach-esque fugue pattern to barrelhouse eight-to-a-bar. It’s a pity that more dance arrangers don’t use strings
to the fine advantage that Clinton does. Steve Benoric’s clarinet helps plenty, too. The lovely orchestration of Ethelbert Nevin’s “Narcissus,
from “Water Scenes.”

The best recent release by Glenn Miller, whose “Sun Valley Serenade” pic was undoubtedly enjoyed by many Davidsonians last week,
is “Take the ‘A’ Train,” a composition by Ellington arranger Billy Strayhorn. On this opus, Tex Beneke’s tenor and Billy
May's trumpet kick prolifically, and Herman Alpert plays fine string bass. The reverse, “I Guess I'll Have To Dream the
Rest,” is one of the better of the current ballads. The vastly improved Ray Eberle, whose voice formerly had a
strained quality, sings the vocal easily and with much feeling.

Tommy Dorsey has engraved a twelve-incher that is really sharp. No. 1 side is a middle tempo version of “For
You” that gets a wonderful beat. Jo Stafford (vocalist), Ziggy Elman (trumpet), and Joe Bushkin (piano) assist brilliantly. No. 2
is “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” showcasing a fine arrangement and good solos. This coupling is nothing short of terrific.

The Filth Columnist
By ????
Greensboro, the Pivot of the Piedmont, was the hub of such a hubbub last weekend for at least seven-eighths of
Davidson that it’s hard to find a good starting place. However, after deliberation, we give the lead to Hugh Sprunt,
who cut half Friday classes to journey to Winston-Salem to make up in advance the time he was going to
lose Saturday night. Wilbo Carter, of course, remains the other corner of this triangle and was in his corner during
the Saturday festivities. Sprunt, not in the least daunted, took his snaking activities to Roanoke, Va., where luck flourished.

Buzz Council, rassler deluxe, is rumored to have signed with the Angel after his encounter with an Army Colonel in
his hotel room. The officer was holding his own until Buzz came through with his airplane-spin. Jimmy Howell, who forgot
again last Saturday to uncover his camera lens before shooting the game, left Durham at 4 o'clock Sunday morning to
get a package of Chesterfields, among other things. Hackney Faison seemed to be well pleased with their mutual lady-friend after
the game. They were hard to keep up with and were finally lost entirely amongst the rest of the football
team.

After looking long and hard for his long-lost cousin, Pvt. Jones of Boston, Vosburgh found that the poor guy was
a dead soldier. However, the timely arrival of a close friend from Puerto Rico saved the day. Incidentally, Vosburgh and
Hobbie have had a dispute as to who has the best girl; as a result, they are swapping dates for
Homecoming.

An outcropping of the Greensboro turmoil was a whirlwind trip to Lynchburg and Sweet Briar College led by John Belk
along with a number of others whose names appear on page 8b of the second section. While Lewis Bibb directed
traffic on Lynchburg’s main drag from a third-story hotel window, Young Lochinvar rushed out to the Angel Farm to be
told firmly by his girl, Martha, that she was not engaged and not married. After a picnic in the Dell
Sunday, Loch was heard to say, quote: “It’s so peaceful in the country”—unquote. Sutton and Southgate were along with Frances
Bradley and Lady Caroline Miller, friends of long standing with Davidson Pan-Hellenic members, while Legs Kelly and Ike Belk cast
longing eyes toward the hill of thrills. Madame Marsh nearly fell out of the window trying to get a better
look at Bill Rainey’s date in G’boro. Mason Wallace swears he knows nothing about the K. A. pin his date
had on at the game.

New cheerleader Morton Church took things into his own hands when he signed a contract with the Army for two
Davidson megaphones. Fred Morton worked fast last week: after slipping his pin to a Charlotte lass, he immediately left for
Waycross, Ga. and other affairs of the heart. Mac Morris and Hugh Knox have been signed to direct the Homecoming
Band after their successful audition with the Hotel Band Saturday.

Having refused the doubtful honor of scooping the front page on the Band selection, your Filth Columnist crawls warily back
into hiding until more doings and undoings of Davidson Gentlemen come to light, with promise of a real scoop on
Midwinters band selections.

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH
PIPE DREAMS: Pursuant to last week’s “Question of the Week” column, pray let me add a few words to the
problem of what to do with the old library. First of all, let us admit to the fact that Davidson
College needs a social center. All work and no play makes Joe College as well as Dan Draftee a dull
boy. Thus the U.S.O. Thus the Social Center. (I fear that the U.S.O. has made more rapid progress in organizing
and arranging for social centers than we have, but look at their resources). College students who have nothing to entertain
them on the campus will naturally turn to other localities on weekends.

I'm not saying that a Social Center at Davidson will have a revolutionary effect on the Student Body in that
on Saturday nights you would find ninety-five percent of the students in the Social Center shooting pool, playing ping pong,
and generally lounging in semi-sumptuous surroundings. Mistake me not, for the process of enticing men to stay here on weekends
would be a gradual process. Girls would have to be provided for organized parties, and other numerous attractions, too unmentionable
to be listed, would have to be introduced. However, as I see it, through my special pair of rose-colored, optimistic
lenses, the primary purpose of a social center would not be to keep the students on the campus on weekends.
The principal reason seems to me to be the providing of a place where the students may meet, play, relax,
and take their parents and friends. It is quite obvious that we have no such place now.

As to the specifications for such a building, I shall list those which seem most important to me: (1) A
large general lounge room furnished appropriately with sofas and comfortable chairs and ashtrays (things uncommon here). There should be a
radio-phonograph combination, newspapers and magazines, and a piano. (2) A recreation room containing several pool and ping pong tables, bridge
tables, playing cards, checkers, etc. (3) Offices of the Y.M.C.A., DAVIDSONIAN, and other campus publications. (4) Meeting rooms for honorary
fraternities and other clubs. (5) A ladies’ lounge and powder room for the convenience of parents and dates.

Of course, these are merely the most important items that should be included in the facilities. Others which have been
suggested not only by myself but by other students I shall list briefly: (1) a large dormitory room for men
on visiting athletic teams, (2) a nicely furnished room to house the almost completely disregarded Carnegie Record Set, (3) a
small “snack bar” equipped to serve coffee and soft drinks, and possibly sandwiches, and operated by the Student Store, (4)
an inter-dormitory-inter-floor telephone exchange, operated by N.Y.A. boys, and calculated to save freshmen a four-flight leap to the telephone booth
and also to make the dormitories more quiet by doing away with the violent screams that oftentimes issue from the
first to the fourth floors.

Most of these items have probably already been discussed by the proper authorities and powers that be, but I throw
them out for what they're worth, and hereby look forward to coming back to my class reunion and sinking up
to my armpits in the carpets in the general lounge room of the Student Union.

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN
Only $1.50 Per Year
Send Name and Address to THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.
