BEAT V. P. I. Che Mavbidsontan ALENDA LUX UBI Greta LIBERTAS WELCOME ALUMNI Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1941 Number 4 COLLEGE Homecoming Broughton To Address Old Grads At Luncheon Hundreds Of Alumni For
Annual Celebration | Student Body | PARADE Is TOMORROW, Accepts Plans Davidson To Welcome Hun- | Activities Begin To INSTALL
THIRTEENTH PRESIDENT With PRINCIPAL INAUGURATION SPEAKERS Elaborate Inauguration Organization Draws Many Delegates Colleges, Universities, and Graduate Schools Send 110 To
Festivities To Be Audited GREEN WILL ADDRESS Davidson-VPI Game Climaxes Week-end Events Semester Trial Dr. Lawson Appointed To, Williams, Broughton,
and Dr. Green To Receive Honorary Degrees Davidson College will extend a hearty welcome to hundreds of old grads returning
to the campus on Friday and Saturday for the 1941 Homecoming celebration. Begins With Dance The festivities officially do not
begin until Saturday at noon, for the Homecoming week-end, but in reality, the day will begin Friday night at the
ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel with the opening dance of the year, with music by Vince Courtney and his Duke
Ambassadors. Dates of the Davidson students will be arriving all day Friday, with most of the alumni coming Saturday. On
Friday Afternoon at 3:05 the ROTC department of the college will stage a full parade on the parade ground back
of Richardson Field. The parade will be the first of the year. The official program begins Saturday noon with the
alumni banquet in Chambers Basement at 12:30 P. M. The guest speaker will be the Hon. J. M. Broughton, Governor
of North Carolina. After the game, the alumni will retire to Richardson Field for the 1941 renewal of an old
rivalry between the Wildcats and the VPI Gobblers. Saturday night the last dance will be held at the Charlotte Armory,
closing the Homecoming program. To Confer Degrees At the Saturday morning exercises four men will receive the honorary degree, Doctor
of Laws, after Dr. Cunningham's Inaugural Address. These men are Mr. S. K. Williams, Class of 1906 at Davidson, and
a nationally recognized leader in industry and government; Governor J. M. Broughton; Dr. Theodore M. Greene, Head of the Philosophy
Department at Princeton University; and Dr. Daniel G. Gage, Professor of Philosophy in Westminster College, Dr. Cunningham's alma mater at
Fulton, Missouri. Davidson students, faculty and alumni are already anticipating with a great deal of pleasure the colorful day, with
its original decorations on fraternity house fronts, pretty girls, and familiar faces of by-gone years.- | Student President Writes Letter
of Welcome |
| In accordance with tradition, I am writing a letter of welcome to Davidson alumni. Yet I sometimes wonder whether
it isn’t a bit presumptuous for students to welcome alumni. After all, it’s your school, too, and you, alumni, are
just as much a part of it as we are. Every man who ever lived on this campus has contributed
in some way to the spirit of this place, the hundred and one peculiar customs and traditions around the campus
were started by you. You had a hand in developing the student government we have today. More important, it was
you who developed the Davidson traditions of honor, sportsmanship, and gentlemanliness, which were passed on to our student generation for
safekeeping. The campus, the faculty, college costume, student slang—these and many other things have changed since a good many of
you left the Hill, but the old Davidson spirit is in essence just what you made it when you were
in school. So welcome, alumni. We've already met you, although we didn’t recognize you individually, in the customs and spirit
we found when we came. When you come here this weekend, we'll probably be awkward in our conversation with you.
You won't understand all our expressions; we won't get all your viewpoints. But we'll realize down underneath that you had
your share in making Davidson what it is today. And because of that, you are sincerely and warmly welcome.

- | Farlman Sinfonietta |
The history of the Farlman Sinfonietta is indeed an interesting one. A little more than a year ago, Harry Farlman,
organizer and conductor of the Sinfonietta, invited six young players fresh from Curtis, to join his apartment for an informal
evening of music and some trash talk of the masters. From this meeting, there grew a complete 27-piece string ensemble.
(Continued on Page Eight)

- | Homecoming Dance |
The cost of the set tickets for the annual Homecoming Dance, to be held Friday and Saturday, October 17-18, has
been changed from $4.50 to $4.75 due to a new federal government tax, which just went into effect on October
1. The tax is 10% and would ordinarily raise the price for set tickets to $4.95, but the Pan-Hellenic Council
is meeting the tax approximately halfway and has lowered the price of the ticket itself to $4.32, which will make
the tax and the total cost for the set $4.75. For the individual tickets, the price has been set to
$2.90 for the tickets plus tax.

- | Profit Making |
Pat Rudolph, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced that unless a profit is made on the Homecoming dances, it will
be financially impossible to obtain the big-name bands which the council and the student body want for the remaining sets
of the year, Mid-winters and Spring Frolics. The council hopes that the student body will support the Homecoming Set this
year for this reason. Vince Courtney’s Duke Ambassadors, who are considered one of the best college bands in the country,
have been signed by the council to play for the dances. The Ambassadors, under Dutch McMillan, (Continued on Page Eight)

- | Death Claims Harvard Albert Winn |
Lewis L. Harvard Jr., of Charlotte, a member of the Senior Class of Clemson College, was injured in an automobile
accident. Daniel Campbell of Dillon, a Clemson student, was painfully injured. Harvard died in an Athens hospital several hours after
the accident. His mother and the Rev. William S. Lee, rector of the Church of the Advent, were with him
when he died. Campbell was quoted as saying that Harvard probably went to sleep while driving, allowing the car to
run out of the road and into a telephone pole. Campbell said that he was asleep at the time of
the wreck and could account for it only by supposing that Harvard also fell asleep.
