Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 6, 1941

Founded By the Class of 1915

The Davidsonian

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The
STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

ANDY DALE... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Baxter Crichton... Assistant Editor
Tom Gaudie... Associate Editor
Joe Liles... Associate Editor
Ed Watson... Associate Editor
H. R. Wofford... Associate Editor
Dick Cobb... Managing Editor
Harwell Darby... Managing Editor
Bob Garvey... Managing Editor
W. C. Plunkett... Managing Editor
Al Winn... Managing Editor
Bob Carter... Sports Editor
Davidson Student... Movie Editor
Billy Barker... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk... Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly... Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott... Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt... Circulation Manager
John Crichton... Collection Manager
Baxter Freeze... Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, it welcomes and is a medium for student and faculty opinion.
As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or
students, destructive criticism, profanity, obscenity, or libel. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the
week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any
contribution or communication.

Is Our Money Well Spent?—
Everything has a value according to some standard. Are we evaluating money which we, as students, are spending according to
the right standards? Did you read the story in the paper about the cost of the dances? Do you ever
stop to think how much we spend each year for the so-called luxuries of life? Do you ever stop and
think how much money the Y gets each year from the students? The average student gives one-half cent to the
church at vespers and in the course of a year about $10.00 to the Y. In comparison, the student spends
approximately his whole education or his amount $100 would be a very constant amount to set to luxuries of any
type. Do we gain as much self-satisfaction from the money that we spend at random as we do from that
which has a definite purpose in doing good for someone else? If so, all is well and good; but if
not, why not try to spend it where it will do more for ourselves and for others too, whether or
not it is with the Y. They have enough money to run their affairs as they now are. It is
immaterial.

The Typical Student—
Many, many times we have heard the expression, “He's a typical Davidson student.” Have you ever thought what the typical
Davidson student is like, what his chief characteristics, chief hobbies, chief faults are? What sort of an impression does he
make on the outsider? Let's consider ourselves on the outside looking in and see what we can see. He is
usually rather young, younger than the average college student. Dresses very carelessly, sometimes for effect, sometimes for fun, sometimes because
he doesn’t have anything better. Nearly always carries a book or more, and nine times out of ten he’ll be
twirling a key chain around his finger. If you break in on a “bull session,” chances are you'll find him
talking about his girl, his home, or athletics. He sprinkles in much profanity, just to show that he is now
a man. If the night is warm, the bull-session may end up in a water fight. He'll probably go to
bed thinking how hard he studied and wondering why he didn’t accomplish more. If you see him at an athletic
contest, chances are he won't make much noise, unless it’s to boo George Glamack or some other mortal enemy. If
you see him at a dance, he’ll either be giving a very sorry exhibition of jitterbug or complaining because the
music is too fast. Do you meet this description? If you don’t, we apologize and congratulate you. If you do,
what does an outsider think of you?

Real Education—
Fifty years ago students couldn't get to Charlotte in half an hour; as a matter of fact, they could hardly
get there at all. So weekend after weekend they were forced to find entertainment—and pleasure too, believe it or not—on
a campus that offered nothing in comparison to our modern facilities. Nothing, that is, but students, and their students’ problems.
A faculty intensely interested in their students. Every professor would open the doors of his home on Sunday evening to
ridiculous freshmen and austere seniors alike; and what made sense out of all this is simply that both the faculty
and student body profited immeasurably by getting to know each other better. Nothing could ever prove this point more clearly
than Good-bye, Mr. Chips. And now fifty years later there are no basic changes. Professors may have shed their “imperial”
beards and students may have acquired a Twentieth Century polish; but despite all we may like to believe, you and
I, and our professors, are not so different from our Victorian predecessors. There are still faculty homes ready to offer
a warm and cordial welcome to us all; there are still home-made chocolate cakes and ginger ale that are as
good, or better, than a midnight snack in Tenner’s.

No man, no matter how thorough his education or how capable his teaching, is able to give his class the
mature advice that comes only from experience, or the guiding friendship that the older generation longs to pass on to
us who follow behind, from the recitation platform. We need, despite all we may think, a little at least of
the wisdom which comes with well-directed and progressive ages indeed, just such a wisdom as a sincere faculty has to
offer. It is good to know what the professor knows; but it is better to know what the professor is,
and what along the way contributes to a deeper and more purposeful life. And just this knowledge is ours for
the asking, on Sunday evenings or practically any other time, if we would be smart enough to forego now and
then a “deputation” to Charlotte or Greensboro and drop in for a friendly visit with those men that apparently have
given their lives to making us better and more useful people. Mr. Chips was merely an average, possibly even a
mediocre, professor; yet he made Brookfield what it was because the students knew him for the man he was. It
made real education.

Plight of the Junior—
Consider the Junior. In the spring he is a candidate for an office. This he must conceal. If he directly
or indirectly brings attention to the fact he is ferreted out by the long arm of the election board’s Gestapo.
To avoid it, he must remain completely silent. The punishment of the board is swift and sure. Columnist Cauble has
further complicated the life and daily routine of the Junior—in his vitriolic humor he has made it impossible for the
Junior even to show his face in public. If the Junior wears a coat and tie now he is doomed
to ridicule. If he appears at the Stud store in the rush hour he must stand in a corner, face
to the wall to munch his cookies and his coke. At Hugo’s reading club he must appear only at the
fountain, get his refreshments, and proceed on his way. If a Junior speaks to everyone on the campus he is
a politician. If he does not he is a snob. If his friends and brothers vote for him he is
in a combine. If they do not he is an outcast. The tried and true methods of politicking have been
so exposed and blasted that the Junior is racking his brain to devise some new system of getting into the
public’s eye and fancy. This is seriously interfering with his scholastic work. Have mercy on the poor rising seniors. Treat
him with sympathy during this, his most trying period. Some of them are really sincere. After all, you too were
once a Junior or some day you will be. Just for a few weeks, gentlemen, please, then all will be
normal again.

Columbia University recently announced receipt of 41 gifts aggregating $40,811, principally for research in medicine, physics, chemistry and the social
sciences. Dr. Charles H. Titus, professor of political science at the University of California, has been appointed public relations officer
for the university.

THE FORUM

THE NON-FRATERNITY SIDE
The various aspects of student relations at Davidson are limitless. And especially poignant in the eyes of my fellow non-fraternity
men are the “disadvantages,” or “hardships,” which they label as campus injustice and brood over in passionate self-pity for four
long years. I often hear them bemoaning the fact that fraternity men have ganged against them, and killed their hopes
for this or that office—which may once in an aeon be the case; yet nine times out of ten they
just don’t have the necessary stuff inside. And they go on and on from one “sorrow” to another until everything
which has the faintest odor of fraternity has been thoroughly damned. Then they go to bed to rest in peace,
with a smile on their faces, completely dissatisfied in Davidson. You see, I know, because I'm one too. But all
this talk and discontent is bunk; nothing less than an effort to escape from the reality of their personal failure.
If you have the qualifications of personality you'll get the office or the friends, or whatnot. And without these qualifications
you could have founded half-a-dozen fraternities and still not be president of our Student Body. Yet what about those rare
occasions when a good man does suffer because he’s been left out of the "clubs"? Granting that such a thing
as this may sometimes happen, we should then realize that the much longed for office or friend was pretty cheap
and superficial after all. If the merit of the individual doesn’t gain the reward, then a real fellow won't have
much use for that sort of thing anyway. No, you can get a deep, broad education, have more friends than
any two or three men deserve, and have one swell time at Davidson without being in a fraternity. If we
non-frat men suffer at all by our position it is certainly not in these above mentioned spheres, but rather on
the dance weekends when you've got a date to entertain. Taking for granted that we wouldn't be interested in having
a date who wasn’t used to the best company, and the brightest surroundings, we must recognize this problem. No midnight
banquets, no favors, no breakfasts or “sings,” and above all, no forty or fifty grand fellows to entertain your date
while she’s here—this is our real problem. And in three years I haven't found an answer which even approached satisfaction.
Any suggestions?

THE FRATERNITY ANGLE
The fraternity-non-fraternity set-up here at Davidson seems to be all right as far as I'm concerned. As a matter of
fact, I have never noticed any marked contrast between the two groups. The fraternity boys seem to be a little
more social minded, but outside of that I see no marked difference. Perhaps the best thing about the whole fraternity
arrangement here is the house system. Each of the nine has only a two-room “club” and no provision is made
for the lodges to sleep together. Because of this, the fraternity boys sleep in the dormitories, where they can become
more congenial with non-fraternity boys and boys in other fraternities, which they would hardly become acquainted with if they lived
to themselves. Of course several fraternities have in the past attempted to acquire control of certain halls in certain dormitories,but
this has been both actively and passively discouraged by the college authorities, and rightly so. The boys in the fraternities
still are allowed to associate with their brothers each day, under the boarding house system, whereby all fraternities eat together.
In other schools the situation is far different. I am thinking of one North Carolina school in particular that has
an elaborate set-up, each fraternity owning spacious lodges off the school campus. At a homogenous student body, this proper lopes
for body are bound to strike a snag. At Davidson, a homogenous student body perhaps more than the majority of
colleges, this is proper. Of course, I've known Davidson boys to say let’s forget the whole thing and let it
remain as is. Perhaps you think this is getting in a rut, but if Davidson remains as is, we're in
a rut as regards to student relations. I think it’s a mighty good rut. Of course, I don't mean to
allow certain individuals, such as snobs who think non-fraternity men are beneath them. If we discourage this practice, as we
are doing now, we will always have the ideal student body. There isn’t any basic difference between fraternity and non-fraternity
men; we are all DAVIDSON GENTLEMEN. Let's all strive to continue the good name our college has by keeping it
an institution of one campus group instead of two, as some people continue to believe.

BILL LEMMON

DAY’S DIARY BY Guest Columnist: The Three Blind Mice.

In order to improve the quality, the staff of the magazine has reluctantly agreed to swap columnists at the request
of the editor of the paper. This exchange was made and now we find ourselves in the place of Davidsonian
editorial Day.

When the March rains descend upon the campus, everyone knows that spring is just around the corner. At this time
of the year, there is a peculiar species moping about the campus—namely the sugar britches boys. During the dreary, bleak
winter months, these lads manage in some manner to hide their true nature, but in the spring when the sap
begins to rise, a young man's fancy turns to fairer things of life. From our observations, we have noticed that
there are quite a few of this species around the campus and we intend to expose them before they expose
themselves.

Among the more flagrant of these are George Grantham, who is so locked down Converse way that he has thrown
away the keys; Ken Chandler who is a definite commuter; Royster has given his radio to his girl; Reinhardt, whom
Winchell reported long ago to be married; One of the Cooper twins—which we don't know nor does the girl; Dick
Shore; Beester Burwell is now conducting a test for the Cannon Mills. In an attempt to find out how long
sheets will last, he has not changed his since the first of school. Jim, the janitor, not understanding that Beester
was scientifically employed, has requested that a collection be taken up to buy him some new ones. Ed Lucas and
Beacon Bahnson went fox hunting this weekend at Pinehurst, but didn’t even see the little red fox or even little
Red Riding Hood. Harris McReynolds and Ooky Taylor on a wild jaunt to Nashville over the weekend both fell in
love with little Mae Finkelstein at Fisk University. Dreamy Cauble was overheard talking baby talk to his girl. He said:
“Do you want to smoke?” The girls at Brenau thought Commander Put was a fine gent until he took off
his mask. Then they kicked him out. Ask Rosita Fred Boykin about his latest flame at Brenau. When others wanted
to go riding, he insisted on remaining with her at the A. D. Pi. house. In mentioning the sugar-breeches species,
we forgot to include “Boxie” McLean who has taken the place of Tom Cauble in the affections of Nadine. Show-off
Joe has already received two more applications for the “Love Machine” (no more need be said); Termite Martin of Y.
M. C. A. and executive committee fame; Jim Owens, a pilgrim to Chattanooga to atone for the past weekend in
Atlanta; Holt reportedly carries love in truckloads; and last but not least Claude Hackney and Ray McDaniels, who have such
a bad case they walk around with their heads so high in the air they would drown if a big
rain came.

Poor Looie Blooie Hite, who makes his weekly trip to Columbia to check on Miss Ning, has great troubles these
days. Halimen Rogers and McReynolds have both fallen for his girl and are making so much trouble. Neither separately gives
him much trouble, but when two half-men combine there is lots of trouble in the wind for someone—Good Cud.

Song Of The Sirens By JULIAN McCALL Fourth U. S. army.

A brand-new release just out by Will Bradley—“Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four” is a Bradley “boogie-woogie” but in
a different style, this is a smooth jive number. Freddy Slack and McKinley back this in a duet of “Southpaw
Serenade” with Ray on the vocals. Ray Jimmy Lunceford has just come out with a new selection—"Flight of the Jitterbug”
which is a slight jive with Willie Smith swinging out on the sax. He carries his sax ride throughout the
number, and really presents a masterpiece. This is backed by “Okay For Baby” in Lunceford’s true style. Glen Miller presented
a new rendition last week in “Adios,” a slow, smooth, jumpy piece; and “Georgia On My Mind,” an everyday number
these days, but with something added to it in Glen’s arrangement.

New Releases: “Always Chasing Rainbows,” “Ziegfeld Girl” and “I’m from Missouri” accompanied by David Rose and his orchestra, Long swings
out on “Got Your Mother's Big Blue Eyes,” backed by “Stars Over the Campus,” with vocals by Helen Young. Another
recent release of his is “Shadows On the Sand,” and "When I Grow Too Old to Dream,” with Bob, Houston
and the Glee Club on the vocals. Erskine Hawkins has just come out with “Keep Cool Fool” in a different
arrangement—smooth with a slight jump, backed by “No Use Squawkin’.” Eddie Duchin presents a new romantic ballad in “Number Ten
Lullaby Lane.” “I’m Always Chasing Rainbows,” Helen Forrest doing the vocals, and “Somebody Stole My Gal” is a new one
by Benny Goodman.

Film Report Card By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday March 6 “San Francisco Docks”—Burgess Meredith, Irene Hervey and Barry Fitzgerald. The story is laid and centers around the
docks and the waterfront of San Francisco. Everyone fights for what they get and life is very uncertain in this
neighborhood. The boys of the neighborhood all strive to get the affections of Irene but find the competition tough, especially
when she meets up with a slick fellow from the better part of town. It takes her some time to
see that all is not wealth but what you do that really counts. The fights are terrific and the love
scenes improve with each different time.

Friday and Saturday March 7 and 8 “Western Union”—Robert Young, Randolph Scott, Dean Jagger and Virginia Gilmore. This is the
story of the laying and romance, excitement and thrills with the building of the Western Union. The struggles, fights with
the Indians across the plains of the West, thrilling adventures make this one of the best pictures of the year.
It is a tribute to the men who fought and died to give America a better communication system. The great
cast helps bring out the real story of the Old West.

(Continued on Page Six)

die in total terror. Bay Ru Neil was so scared that he became quite ill.

Compassing Campuses BY TOM CAUBLE

SOME COMMENTS ON THE GRAPEVINE (BY A FEMALE CHAPEL HILLIAN):

This column carried several weeks ago a discussion of the grapevine system of communication connecting all girls’ schools. This week
is presented some feminine ideas on the subject by a co-ed at Chapel Hill. Her discussion follows:

“I thought I might be justified in offering a few comments on the column on a few points on which
you were, in my feminine opinion, slightly confused. You said a large amount of information is passed along by girls
by means of the postal system; but, you did not mention this: the largest amount is passed along in person.
Since a test of friendship among girls is the degree of pleasure one girl gets in telling another that she
has “dope” to the effect that she is being snaked on or handed the old double cross, the more friends
a girl has the more she will learn about the diversions of those who proclaim interest in her. Anytime two
girls from different schools get together, as much information is exchanged as when Hitler and Mussolini have a chat.

One item which men for some unknown reason seem to overlook is the fact that every week in the fraternity
news, a column widely read, appear the accounts of the recreations participated in over the weekend by the “brothers.” Any
girl located in Converse, for instance, can read that her faithful Joe traveled to Sweet Briar the past weekend and
know that he was not doing Boy Scout work or having his tonsils removed. The gossip column does not afford
a large amount of information, because of its subtlety and because its lingo is practically unintelligible to the feminine reader.
If a boy dates a girl in a girls’ school, it is safe to say that 90 percent of the
girls on her dormitory floor know about it when it happens, 50 percent of the school knows when a girl
goes steady, and 80 percent knows when a girl is pinned up.

If a boy dates two or more girls in the same school, he thereby automatically becomes a topic of conversation
for the entire school as everyone is waiting to see who will be the winner. However, only a foolish few
try this as it seems to be a manly instinct to know better. Girls discuss mainly who is dating who,
is he shooting the same line to everyone, is his line good, and finally the conjecturing as to which, if
any, he is really interested in. It is only the girl in love who falls for a line and that
is because she wants to, even though she knows better. Of course, you can fool anybody for a while, but,
as you said, not for long. Naturally, there are always a few dopes who will believe any line shot at
them, but any man who will shoot such an innocent victim is either a dope himself or excessively cruel and
should be annihilated for inhumane treatment, as this kind of thing is not fair to anyone.”

(Continued on Page Six)
