WELCOME CADETS

Wildcat Sports

WIN ONE CATS

Davidson And Cadet Clash Tomorrow To End Local Grid Card

Citadel Eleven Boasts Scintillating Sophomores, Paced By Salvato, Victor And Gold; 2:30 Kickoff Finds Cat Seniors In Football Sign-off

To wind up an inglorious, heart-breaking season in a blaze of glory, the victory-starved Wildcats take the field tomorrow afternoon against Citadel’s sparkling sophomores, on what should be one of the most thrilling Turkey-day classics ever played on the sod of Charlotte’s Legion Memorial Stadium.

Desperately determined

New Vs. Old

The Thanksgiving tilt is another case of the new versus the old, for Davidson’s “Butch” Caldwell, Dave Spencer, Don Bell, Claude Hackney, George Marsh, B. F. Moore, Ed Hipp, Bob Smith, Gene Shannon, Sam Woodward, Bill Shaw, Ed Hay, Bill Faison and Johnny Miller, end their collegiate careers with Thursday’s performance, while Salvato, Victor, Gold et al of The Citadel, are high-powered neophytes to the college grid game. Whether or not experience will triumph over youth should prove to be an interesting sidelight to a spirited contest.

Davidson's Last Effort

Davidson’s last effort for their first win of the year’s disastrous record should produce a thrill-packed, neck-and-neck struggle. The Bulldogs have swamped High Point, P. C., and Wofford, battled mighty Army to a standstill before falling by 19-6, tied potent Furman 13-13, and thrown a scare into South Carolina’s fast-stepping Gamecocks in losing, 13-6. On the basis of their comparative records, Citadel ranks as favorite, but McEver’s charges have been denied too many deserved victories in the past to take losing lightly and after a few trays are set for the fray.

Charlotte fans, Davidson supporters, and Citadel cadets alike, are looking to a high-scoring engagement when the two teams lock horns, and a near capacity crowd is expected, weather permitting. The Cats are clawing at the barrier, the Bulldogs grimly waiting, and the crowd eagerly expectant.

Probable starting line-up:

Davidson - Citadel
LE - Jenkins
LT - Damon
LG - Wolf
C - Jelser
RG - Overman
RT - Thompson
RE - Campbell
QB - Dukes
LH - Salvato
RH - Victor
FB - Frederick

Page Three

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MISTAH GOLD

MARTIN GOLD, key man in Citadel’s pony backfield, will be one of the biggest thorns in Davidson's side during the two teams’ tussle Thursday. Gold is one of the Cadets’ biggest threats with his broken field running and is the visitors’ high scorer. He is a junior and tips the scales at 175.

Yank Bomber

JOHNNY FREDERICKS, Davidson back on whose shoulders rests a large portion of the Wildcats’ hopes in tomorrow's tilt with the Cadets.

Matmen Begin Fall Practice

Preparations for the 1941-42 season began last Monday out in the gym. The Varsity wrestlers began their work-around with six men from last year’s varsity returning. The team will be filled in by several good prospects from last year’s freshman squad. Ed Hipp will captain this year’s grapplers and will represent them.To Open Soccer Season

New Intra-mural basketball comes into the spotlight Friday, when the classes clash in the initial games of the 1941 season. Davidson's soccer squad, with ties in their engagements with High Point College and Duke, both powers in the booting world, swing into action with a match against the High Point team. The Cats, in their encounter with Duke, led the Devils until a fourth-period goal locked the count, which two extra periods failed to break, ending the game at 2-2. The High Point College score was 3-3.

Strength Unpredictable

The strength of the teams this year is practically unpredictable until they are tried. However, the fact that no one who made his freshman numeral last year will be eligible for participation will greatly weaken the sophomores.

Frosh Unknown

The freshmen are an unknown quantity, but many of their most promising prospects have reported for the freshman squad. This leaves the juniors and seniors with a decided edge as the season begins this Friday.

Drink Pasteurized Milk

IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Betty Grable
Frances Langford
“WHAT'S NEW?”

Your physician is continually studying the advances in medicine and surgery. He watches new investigations in both fields and is prepared, when necessary, to prescribe new products developed in famous research laboratories. We, too, keep abreast of new developments and are ready at all times to fill your physician’s prescription promptly and accurately. We use Merck Prescription Chemicals.

COLLEGE PHARMACY

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

Inter-Mural Basketball [Continued on Page Four]

Wednesday, November 19, 1941

Little Men Shine As Generals Hold ’Cats To Disappointing Tie

Spencer And Hackney Play Outstanding Football For Cats; Baugher, Flashy 150-Pound Sophomore Leads General’s Attack

Davidson Wildcats earned their third tie of the current season Saturday when they battled the Washington and Lee Generals to a 13-13 deadlock in Lexington, Va., before a crowd of some 7,000 shirt-sleeved fans. The Cat attack started early in the game when Dave Spencer plunged through the Washington and Lee 14-yard line, but two passes failed and the Generals took over the ball at that point. Brown punted out to the Cat 44, and Davidson came back strong and drove down to the W.&L. line for six yards and a touchdown, climaxing a 67-yard march from the opening kickoff. It was Spencer for Davidson and Harry Baugher for the Generals who sparked the two teams' attack.

Washington and Lee came back in the second period to score on a pass from Gallman to Conklin, culminating a drive that started on their own 11-yard line. Fredericks plunged over for the extra point and the Generals led 7 to 6. In the third period, they increased their lead when Baugher took Red Bethea’s punt and galloped 77 yards down the sideline to score.

W. H. Goodrum & Co.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Hardware and Groceries
Davidson, N. C.

Gather around the Chesterfields and it’s pleasure time for everybody... smoking pleasure that only the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos can give you. Chesterfields make good friends... they’re milder, definitely better-tasting, and cooler-smoking. Everybody who smokes them likes them.

Ad Copyright 1944, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

MARJORIE WOODWORTH
Chesterfield's Girl of the Month in the Hal Roach hit “All-American Co-ed” @ United Artists Release

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly except Sundays During November

Davidson’s “Service Drug Store”