Thursday, October 23, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three TAKES OATH “Need Have No Fear for Future” Says President Cunningham Reporter Discusses Inaugural Experience With President— Davidson Held in High Esteem By DEANE WATSON Lessons were learned from the inauguration to this effect: the value of Davidson College, Dr. Cunningham stated that the name and prestige of Davidson in the class of Colleges, Universities, and institutions which were represented at this occasion shows the esteem in which Davidson College is held throughout the country. “We sometimes get a little lonesome and feel that we are neglected because of our isolation from any big cities,” Dr. Cunningham said. “However, after the host of institutions that honored Davidson at her homecoming and inaugural ceremonies, and after the goodwill shown toward Davidson College, I think that we need have no fear for the future.” Dr. Cunningham was impressive as he related some encouraging events of the inauguration ceremonies. He said that at the inaugural banquet there seemed to be a general feeling among the delegates that the liberal arts colleges play a great part in fitting men for statesmanship. Many of the representatives of the colleges felt that if the State of Georgia had as many sturdy church and liberal arts colleges inside its borders as several states such as North Carolina, the University of Georgia would not have been removed from the accredited list, because the graduates... History Of Presidents Morrison Leads List of Davidson Presidents During the first part of the eighteenth century, about two hundred thousand Scotch Presbyterian people who had been forced to settle in Ulster, Ireland by King James, immigrated to America. There had been many reasons for this mass exodus, the main ones of which were probably due to trade restrictions, religious persecution, and exorbitant rents charged. These people were... Cunningham Accepts Presidency In Colorful Inauguration Dr. Richards, President of Trustees, Administers Oath Before College Representatives Davidson inaugurated John Rood Cunningham as twelfth President of the College with elaborate exercises in Chambers auditorium on Saturday morning, October 18th, at 10:30 A. M. Present were one hundred twenty official representatives of educational institutions and learned societies, the faculty, many members of the student body, and a large number of alumni and friends here for the homecoming celebration. Academic Procession The program began with an academic procession of the delegates, wearing their robes and colorful hoods, across the campus and into the auditorium. The Davidson College band led the procession, playing the strains of “Largo.” When the delegates had reached their places, the whole audience joined in singing the hymn, “Heralds of Christ.” Dr. Charles E. Diehl, President of Southwestern at Memphis, read Psalms 1 and 15 as the scripture. Then Dr. Daniel S. Gage, Professor of Bible and Philosophy at Westminster College and an old friend of Dr. Cunningham, led the assembly in a prayer for divine guidance for the incoming President. Dr. J. McD. Richards, President of the Trustees of Davidson College, presided and introduced Dr. Walter L. Lingle, retiring President, who in turn presented Dr. Cunningham for the inauguration ceremony. Dr. Lingle said that for a man to be President of Davidson College he must be a Christian, a gentleman, a scholar, and a good businessman and that he must possess leadership ability, be able to get along with the faculty, and be able to promote good relations between the College and the Church. He explained that Dr. Cunningham is a man possessing all these qualities. He also gave a brief summary of Dr. Cunningham’s life. Administers Vows Dr. Richards administered the vows of inauguration to Dr. Cunningham, which were concerning the maintenance of a high educational standard and something extra. After answering in the affirmative, the new President was formally declared inaugurated by Dr. Richards. Following the rendition of a special number by the Davidson College Choir, Dr. Cunningham delivered his inaugural address to the gathering. He stressed the significance of the occasion, dedicated himself to the preservation of the traditions of the College, and pointed out the benefits that the College will accrue from the goodwill of her alumni and friends. Former Presidents Next, he recognized the presence of three former Presidents of Davidson, Dr. Henry L. Smith, Dr. W. J. Martin, and Dr. W. L. Lingle. He pledged himself to try to follow their noble examples. Dr. Cunningham chose as the topic of his address “The Church College and Tomorrow.” He briefly discussed how Davidson, as well as other church schools, was founded under the definite control of the Church. He said that they are still strongly related, although the college is not sectarian. Coming around to his announced theme, President Cunningham commented on the unprecedented, unpredictable times which we are now facing and said that faith in God now, as in the past, would continue to sustain the College in its work. He then enumerated several obligations of a church school: First, to provide individual attention; second, achievement of academic excellence; third, education plus character building; fourth, to exert a Christian influence. He said that in Christianity men are sons of God, not of the State; that man has a body but man is a spirit; and that knowledge is power but America determines the direction of power. He added that the continuation of the church college is dependent upon... Dr. Cunningham then brought out... No Fear For Future INTERVENTIONIST...| Davidson College stands out in this particular context that Dr. Cunningham, in his inaugural address, emphasized it may be well to repeat today a renewed dedication to life and the traditions of the College.

Dr. Theodore M. Greene of Princeton University, world-wide traveler, religious educator, and philosopher, was the speaker at the Inaugural Dinner last Friday night, October 21, at the annual Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. His address was delivered in connection with a program on Christian Education. He used as the title of his address "When Education is Christian."

Dr. Greene is a native of Turkey. After spending his boyhood there, he moved to Ohio. He received his college education at Amherst College, Massachusetts. After his graduation, he went to Scotland and earned his doctor's degree. Dr. Greene then went to Mesopotamia and worked in the Y.M.C.A. there. Later, he taught at Forman Christian College in Lahore, Pakistan.

Dr. Greene is strongly in favor of U.S. intervention in the World War. He thinks that our country can bring the war to a much quicker end and establish a lasting peace as well. The materials for making peace are already in place, and if kindly disposed, this will make the next peace an enduring one. Russia, he thinks, should receive our aid.

IMPERIAL STARTS THURS.
Their Love Broke Every Rule in the Book!
Those Sea Wolf Outcasts
JOHN GARFIELD
IDA LUPINO
In "OUT OF THE FOG"

Dr. Frank P. Graham, President of the University of North Carolina, spoke on the importance of the church college and the freedom of worship we are offering to the democracy of tomorrow. "Her contribution," he pointed out, "is essential in spite of the efficient state universities of today." He explained how the church college renders a great service to the church in the preparation of young men.

Saturday morning, Dr. Cunningham received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. Governor Joseph Melville Broughton of North Carolina; Dr. Daniel, Professor of Bible and Philosophy, Westminster College, and Dr. Archibald Rutledge, poet laureate of South Carolina, were among those honored.

The Three Stooges
BRENDA AND COBINA
ROSEMARY LANE
CAFETERIA
Time Out for Rhythm!
Coming Soon
"LYDIA"—"Parachute Battalion"

In closing, President Cunningham stressed the need for church support at Davidson. He said that in a crisis, the doors could be closed, only the financially able admitted, or the college program curtailed; but all these courses of action would, of course, be unsatisfactory. He solicited the support of the alumni, especially for the new library and science building. With such support, Dr. Cunningham sees a brilliant future ahead for Davidson.

After the inaugural address, greetings of the occasion were extended to Dr. Cunningham and to the College by Dr. Gage, Dr. Henry H. Sweets, representing the work of Christian Education in the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and Dr. J.R. McCain, representing the educational associations.

BIBLE BOOK STORE
Your New SCRIPTS
Will Be Out
The HERALD PRESS Inc
Printers
CHARLOTTE, N.C.