Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 27, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Editorials
DAVIDSONIAN Letters
Features
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
With The Staff
Letters to the Editor

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF HARWELL DARBY
BUSINESS MANAGER JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter - Assistant Editor
W. Associate Editor
Al - Associate Editor
Gober Swiss - Managing Editor
Joe Eve - Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher - Managing Editor
Billy - Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Movie Editor
Photographer
Henry McIntosh
Lacy MacLean
Clarence Legerton
Billy Batk

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp - Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collections Manager
Ivey Stuart

DAVIDSONIAN ANSWERS ATTACK OF QUEENS

“The Queens Blues,” a publication which usually seems to praise Davidson to the stars, recently had a change of heart and printed the following survey:

Hi-Yo-Silver! The Galloping Poll
Question: Have you any ideas about how to reunite us with our “brothers to the north,” DAVIDSON?

Alice Payne: The Davidsonians didn’t return our courtesy of inviting them down for a party, a year and a half ago. Since then, relations have been rather strained. But things are looking up, now, I think.

Lib Summerville: All Queens students write sweet little notes, crying on their shoulders asking them to come and see us sometime. O yeah!

Medbery: Davidson doesn't interest me in the least. My interest is “just a little bit south of North Carolina” down Fort Jackson Way.

Jane Newsome: Who wants them.

Bryan: I’ve never heard anything about Davidson.

Betty Helen Vogel: The best approach seems to be through the union of clubs which have the same purpose. For example, let the Queens French Club have meetings and parties with the corresponding organization at Davidson. That ought to do it.

Mary Elva Smith: The girls can entertain the boys when they have an opportunity, and by not judging them by first impressions, give them a chance to show their true selves.

Adrienne Levy: “Ah hain’t never seed one. Is they real, live human bein’s an’ does they walk and tawk like ev’ybody else? Ah air heard tell ob ’em onct.”

Marjorie Imbody: (Quoting from last year’s theme): I'm all for 'em!

Mary Jane Hart: We ahvstill feudin’. An’ ah prefuhs th’ Air Base.

Ruth Hough: I love 'em!!

Pidge Hassel: Quote: The Lord hath given and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord unquote.

Mary Martha Niseai: It’s not printable.

Cora Wayland: Scottish ballads, fine lads!!! If they quote ay, but they're fine lads!!!

Does this mean that Queens wishes to break the friendly ties that have until late seemed to exist? Is this a true survey of Queens opinion? We are indeed thankful that two of the Queens girls register some recognition of their (ex?) brother college. As one Queens lass has so aptly expressed it, “There aren’t many of us girls over here at Queens, but the ones we have are good, big and strong girls.”

By BILL LYMAN

CONDITIONS AT QUEENS

A couple of weeks ago I happened to get hold of a college newspaper called the Queens Blues. I wasn’t much interested until I happened to notice that the question of the week in the “Galloping Poll” was, in effect, “How can relations be improved between Davidson and Queens?” At once interested, I eagerly perused the column to find out what others think of us. I was severely cut, for most of the comments were of a very unflattering nature.

I inquired diligently around the campus and finally was informed that Queens was but 20 miles away, in Charlotte. With such a short distance staring me in the face, I decided that it would be interesting to study conditions at the place — might even get a date. (It later turned out that this was the easiest thing to do.)

Arrival

Accordingly, I arrived at the said institute early one Saturday evening and the first person I ran into was a Miss B——. We fell into a casual conversation whereupon I discovered that she was one of the governesses at Queens.

“Would it be possible for me to get a date tonight?” I asked.

“No trouble at all!” replied Miss B——, with a peculiar gleam in her eye. She then consulted a notebook and told me that 189 girls were free that night and that I could have any one, or more, that I preferred.

Casting aside any personal desires and remembering that I was only studying conditions, I said, “Well, I’d sort of like to date a typical student. Who would you recommend?”

“What a coincidence!” ejaculated Miss B——. “Miss Typical Queens was elected only last week. Her name is Cornflower Maize. All the girls are crazy about her.”

“Fine,” I said, and shortly Cornflower was produced.

Miss Typical Queens

Although some might be prone to minimize Cornflower’s possibilities, yet all must admit that she is certainly a person. She came lumbering into the Date Mausoleum, attractively bundled in a collegiate sweater extending to the knees, sleeves half rolled up. Her chubby face, smeared with freckles, had rosy cheeks that were indeed cheeks. Her hair was fashionably straight, extending carelessly to her shoulders. Caustic people might call it stringy, but I believe it was definitely the most attractive thing about her.

“Hello, Cornflower,” I said forcibly.

“Don't be so formal, Slimey,” she said, “just call me Corny.”

Obviously, we were already close friends, and I congratulated myself on my progress.

Corny has definitely been around and was certainly not at a loss as to what to do. She immediately grabbed my hand and jerked me up to the steps of the main hall, where we sat down.

Personality

“Don't it beat all what college’ll do for you,” she began, “here I am getting culture and having an elegant time both together. I’m just crazy about Davidson dances. I bet you cut a mean stomp.”

“Go on,” I mumbled, embarrassed.

“We oughta get together sometime, me and you,” At this she moved closer, squeezed my hand, and started whispering sweet nothings in my ear. “You and me oughta get together more, me and you.” She sighed. Then softly, confidingly, intimately. “Gee it'd be elegant to go to Mid-Winters!”

A loud bell. “What's that?” I said, jumping up.

Corny scowled. “Nine o’clock. Somebody else’s turn to date you. When boys are here we switch every thirty minutes.”

Parting

Whereupon Corny looked at me coyly, saying, “Pleased t’ve metcha. I’ll be seeing you in February. Tee hee. Tee hee hee hee.”

“Tee hee,” I muttered, and scurried out the door before anyone else came.

Back at Davidson I reflected on the events of the evening, and particularly on Miss Typical Queens, the lovely Cornflower Maize. Certainly she wasn’t the most attractive girl I’d ever seen. But she had one quality that is to be highly acclaimed in anybody—thoughtfulness. She was really thoughtful. I got a letter from her almost immediately with a stamp enclosed. Very few people would have been so thoughtful.

Curious as to what sort of place Queens

To the Student Body and Faculty:

We have reached our goal of $1,500 for the Christmas Gift Fund. This is $400 more than was pledged last year; and is approximately twice as much as the average for the past six years. Here is something we can all be proud of, and rightfully so; this is the best indication I have seen of the genuine social and spiritual progress which is taking place on our campus.

The Y.M.C.A. wants to express a deep and honest thanks to the entire student body, and to the faculty, for their fine show of cooperation. We appreciate the opportunity of being allowed to select your project, and hope the manner in which we have conducted the campaign has been satisfactory to everyone. But naturally, in our eagerness to meet with success, we have made countless errors; perhaps the campaign was strung over too long a period, and possibly in a few isolated instances unwarranted pressure was brought to bear on the giver — we simply ask you to overlook these mistakes.

This is one lasting mark which Davidson College will make on many thousands of people, over vast expanses of the world — we have freely given to others, that thing which has built this school, and made it great. That is as much as we could do.

MONROE BUSH, JR.,
Dept. of World Evangelism, AGM

GAs Down Pat
By PAT RUDOLPH
GUEST COLUMNIST: ARCH TAYLOR

DAVIDSONIANS ARE SISSIES

There are those (I will not be specific) who deplore the fact that Davidson students are not examples of the best in gentlemanly behavior. These people become upset when they get a little damp as a consequence of a water fight (which, I might add, is always clean fun) or when a light snowfall provokes the breaking of a few windows incidental to a snowfall fight. They lift their hands in holy horror when the stately facades of the Literary Halls are smeared with eggs which our amateur politicians have laid, and gasp in utter amazement when school spirit is manifested by painting the water tank or the sidewalks.

And yet, these individuals (still I decline to be specific) do not view the situation with unclouded vision, whereas some of the older and wiser heads among them should be best able to do so. Some of the older and wiser heads among them should be able to look back and remember conditions as they were during the firstTwo decades of this century. The "good old days" when thirty percent of the students were studying for the ministry, thirty-four percent had never kissed a girl, only fifty-three percent danced, only forty-one percent smoked, but seventy percent chewed, and the average bedtime was 11 P.M. Perhaps those individuals of whom I have spoken allow such statistics as these to color their attitude, but they seem to overlook certain things which are more or less off the record.

Speaking of chewing tobacco, there was one outstanding young man who was reputed to be able to lie on his back in bed and spit on the ceiling. Nobody knows how he managed to practice before achieving this feat satisfactorily. Another always slept with a quid in his mouth, and from time to time would roll over in his uninterrupted sleep and expectorate into a coal scuttle placed conveniently beside his bed for the very purpose. I just tell you, gentlemen, there’s no getting around the fact that they were real men, and that’s the situation, you see.

What? No Weekends?
But these were minor occurrences. Still dear to my memory are the stories which have been handed down to me of the weekend amusements of Davidsonians of a bygone day. Bear in mind that students had to have permission from home to leave the campus, and so the fair city of Charlotte beckoned in vain on Saturday nights, and a man's imagination was called upon to provide entertainment. The great train wreck is an event which many alumni can remember. A fast freight was derailed on a near town and scattered cases of tobacco and alcoholic beverages all over the right of way. Subsequent investigation proved this was not an accident, but was caused by an invalid who was borne on a stretcher by friends to take in a breath of fresh air, and by chance, they set him down beside the tracks. All in a spirit of innocence and good fun, this invalid smeared the tracks with grease, and catastrophe was the result. It is related that many moons passed before the students recovered from their good fortune as a result of this accident.

Upon another occasion, a short-sighted road contractor on his way to Mooresville, finding himself and company in Davidson at sundown, parked his road machinery in the middle of town and sought lodgings. It did not require any encouragement for the students to seize this opportunity, and by main strength and sheer force of numbers, they moved a very heavy steam roller up the tree-shaded walkway, and even into the front hall of Old Chambers, where they proceeded to fire up the boiler and tie the whistle down. This pleasant little diversion provided subject matter for chit-chat for many a day.

Even Before Ferdinand
Unfortunately, contractors were not in the habit of stopping at Davidson, and this time they scrupulously avoided doing so, with the result that the men were forced to turn elsewhere for diversion. I know not exactly what was the incentive, but it seems that some students were taken with an undeniable desire to become bullfighters. Therefore, they repaired to the cow pasture, which has since been honored by the name of golf course, and there captured several of the fiercest cows. However, there would be no glory in fighting cows in a cow pasture, so these neophyte matadors dragged and cajoled their victims into the auditorium of Shearer Biblical Hall. To provide for the expected crowds who should attend, the bleachers were dismantled and set up again upon the stage, and when the hall was filled and the SRO sign hung out, the fight ensued. Unable to reach a decision, the judges declared the contest a draw, and the Davidsonians, wearying of the sport, left the unfortunate bovines tethered to the rostrum after they had administered a substantial dose of salts to each.

And What Next?
O, tempora! O, mores! To think how Davidsonians have declined in glory! The best that this generation can do is feed ex-lax to the hapless Glucose. Gentlemen, Davidsonians are sissies! And there are those (I decline to be specific) who fain would curl our locks and turn us into so many Little Lord Fauntleroys. But shall we submit? NO! As long as water flows and each room has a wastebasket, as long as there are paint and brushes, as long as there is Rumple, There'll Always Be A Davidson.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, November 27th
No feature had been booked for this date at the time this went to press.

Friday and Saturday, November 28 and 29
HONKY-TONK
Clark Gable, Lana Turner, Frank Morgan, Claire Trevor, Marjorie Main, and Albert Dekker.
Although “Honky-Tonk” rambles quite a bit, Clark Gable and Lana Turner inject enough life into it to make it quite a show. Clark plays an unscrupulous con man living off the Western town, making his “suckers” by devious means. He and his pal get elected the big bosses of a wide-open town. After a rebellion and taxes, the people run the two pals out of town. However, on the way out they take Lana, daughter of Frank Morgan. The romance between Clark and Lana develops from there on and provides the central theme for the picture. If you liked “Boom Town,” you are bound to enjoy this feature also.

Monday and Tuesday, December 1 and 2
LYDIA
Merle Oberon, Edna May Oliver, Alan Marshall, and Joseph Cotton.
Merle Oberon turns in her finest acting to date in Julien Duvivier’s celebrated French first Hollywood production. She has the part of an elderly spinster who reviews the romantic years of her life and lays open her true feelings and emotions before the men in her life, from a young woman of twenty to an old one of sixty. It is a story which is extremely interesting to everyone. Miss Oberon is a standout, even with such competition as Edna May Oliver and John Halliday. The men in her life who loved her but failed to win her are Joseph Cotton, the faithful and devoted young physician, George Reeves, her first love the blind musician, Alan Marshall, to whom she gave all her love, only to have him fail her. Alan Marshall turns in an excellent performance, but George Reeves is the surprise of the picture. Truly a different movie, and a very fascinating one.

Wednesday, December 3rd
Up until press time, no feature had been booked for this date.

COMING:
SERGEANT YORK, with Gary Cooper, Walter Brennan, Joan Leslie, and George Tobias.
SWAMP WATER, with Walter Brennan, Dana Andrews, Anne Baxter, and Walter Huston.
BIRTH OF THE BLUES, with Bing Crosby, Mary Martin, Brian Donlevy, and Rochester.

I would like for Jack Behrman to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

The Filth Columnist
BY etal.

Grab your hat and coat—we’re off again to tour the campus and glean all that’s not fit to be printed in the columns. Dan Dunn has guessed the name brand of the filth columnist, so a new writer comes into the field. Through the keyhole has been seen—JOHN (little joker) CRICHTON wiring, calling, and hearing his Washington flame after this last weekend. If you see him with an additional smile on his face you'll understand. HUGH SPRUNT, JOHN BELK, PETE YOUNG, and ED LUCAS talking over their trip to numerous Virginia schools including Hollins, Sweetbriar, V.M.I., and Randolph-Macon. Incidentally, there is something mixed up about ED LUCAS, FRANCES SMITH, and the sixth of December. "TEE HEE” HODGES, of humor magazine, had a date with some Statesville lass and was aided in entertaining her by three other Davidson gentlemen. JIM MITCHENER called his girl in Chicago with instructions for the operator to let him know when his three minutes were up. Hearing no indication from the operator amid the sweet nothings coming across the wires from Chicago, he let time slip by until the same operator demanded some sixteen dollars. He was last seen going down the second floor of West Dormitory trying to borrow sixty-four more quarters. Whisking up to see his maid of the mountains, JIM CHAPMAN became involved in a family ping pong tournament in the mountain villa and ended up one of the winners. Disregarding the warnings of the “Y" Cabinet (and they surely ought to know), ALF TAYLOR, “JOE Big Beaver” McCOY, ENNETT (I’m deeper than you think), and GEORGE MAC JEFFRIES sought Montreat for this new and sudden attraction. Even POLOCK and BAYRU left their Asheville house party dates at College. Of course, eight o'clock Saturday night saw the convertibles on Carolina Circle in Winston. There was some vague reference to turning out lights on account of OPM regulations. Rumor hath it—BILLY (Mocking Bird) ROSE has been offered a bit part in M.G.M.'s next Horse Opera. One of those peering talent scouts was present when BILLY played the harmonica with everything but his toe. Davidson's picture show goers are finally catching on to JOHN (I Never Miss a Show) MacKINNON, who goes on Monday afternoon to hear all the cracks made by the “I Can't Wait Till Tuesday” boys and then pulls the same cracks on Tuesday night for the benefit of the Tuesday night goers. Wait—an added note—MAC JEFFRIES was connected by more than one affair over the weekend. At Montreat, he was engaged in some kind of underhand task, when flop and whish, he was given away to two passersby by the very object that was to be used to eradicate all evidence of his offense. With this, we sign off the column and the ever-changing columnist will be another person next week. Hope you haven't lost your hat and coat.