Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
$1.50 the Collegiate year — Ten cents per copy.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITORIAL STAFF
HARWELL DARBY. Editor
Bobby Carter. Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett. Associate Editor
AL Winn. Associate Editor
Ed Ervin. Managing Editor
Joe Eve. Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher. Managing Editor
Bill Lyman. Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh. Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean. Sports Editor
Clarence Legerton. Movie Editor

If every person realized the extent to which Phi Beta Kappa’s Committee of Qualifications goes to determine whether a college
has the requirements for Phi Beta Kappa, he would at the same time realize how much Phi Beta Kappa means
to Davidson. Some colleges have been applying for membership for over one hundred years. Davidson is the oldest male college
in the South in Phi Beta Kappa. In the South, only twenty-three colleges out of the forty in the Association
of American Universities have been granted chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. This number of twenty-three includes Johns Hopkins, Goucher, etc.,
which are in a region that some do not consider Southern. The examination goes to the extent of looking into
the records of graduates to see that they have done well in their fields, examining the number of degrees the
faculty has attained, and making sure that the student body has the highest caliber. After all this selection, about fifteen
percent of the graduating classes are eligible for this award. Hats off to the men who make Phi Beta Kappa!
They are indeed a select gang!

With The Staff
By BILL LYMAN

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday and Friday
October 30 and 31
NEW YORK TOWN
Fred MacMurray, Mary Martin, Robert Preston, Akim Tamiroff, Lynne Overman, and Eric Blore. This clever little comedy gives Mary Martin
her first chance at comic drama, and she does very well. Mary has the part of a naive little New
England girl in big old New York who is shown how to live off the town by Fred MacMurray, a
side-walk photographer. After eating free, sleeping free, and even getting free raiment, Fred convinces Mary she should marry prosperous Robert
Preston. However, when he sees that she is really going through with it, he discovers that all things in life
are free—Love being one of them—and he steps in and saves her for himself.

Thursday, October 30, 1941

The Filth
By ?

The great columnist suggests that the title this week be changed to “Echoes From a Hermit’s Cave”. That is about
the essence of this issue. Another “must-see” for the fans of the Chinese detective. However, with as big a weekend
as Homecoming gone by, there are always a few loose bits that need picking up and a statement or two
straightened out. It seems that the true statement of facts concerning the “calendar” hours spent in Chapman’s parlor finds Big
Beaver Lucas and date locked within. Crichton and the rest of the guests were literally locked outside. The payoff came
when Big Luke, after a long ride back, grinned and mumbled “I've lost my cashmere sweater”. Morton Church came to
a glorious finish by taking about six of the Converse cuties back Sunday. It’s the end of the race that
pays off, isn’t it?

Monday and Tuesday
November 3 and 4
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH
Bob Hope, Paulette Goddard, Edward Arnold, Leif Erikson, Helen Vinson, and Grant Mitchell. Paramount has finally decided to go “all-out”
on Bob Hope, their knock ‘em dead comedian. After a series of solid hits, Bob is now placed in a
1916 setting as a pecunious junior partner who bets $10,000 of Paulette Goddard's money that he can go twenty-four hours
of social and professional life without telling a lie. His partners, Edward Arnold, Glen Anders, and Leif Erikson, do all
they can to sabotage Bob's truth marathon, while Paulette, who furnishes the romantic interest, does her all to illustrate and
outwit his tormentors. Between them, Bob is forced into a pop-eyed state that seems to operate with comical efficiency.

And speaking of races, what track led Judge Terrell away from the campus and down into Florida? I don’t know
but “Bad News” told me it was the result of a “mash-gram”, that in which he maintained a skirmish line
all the way from Spartanburg to Montreat. The crowning deal of this weekend found five great little jokers in a
skirmish line all the way from Spartanburg to Montreat.

By Barker... Staff Photographer

THE COLLEGE POLICY CONCERNING PROFS

There are but two fundamental requirements of a good college professor: 1) that he present his designated subject in such
a manner that his students learn it; 2) that he project his personality, character, and ideals into his students. In
saying that these are the requirements of a good college professor we necessarily exclude the graduate professor at a university,
for there, students are advanced enough mentally and in restricted interest to require of their teacher merely a brilliant mind
capable of scholarly research work. Henceforth in this article it will be understood that professors referred to are those teaching
undergraduates.

Basic Requirements
Under the first basic requirement of a good teacher, wherein the professor must teach his subject to his students, we
take for granted that the usual sub-requirements accompany it. These include such assets as a thorough knowledge of the subject
as well as general erudition; interesting lectures that create stimulation; adequate tests to ensure efficient study.

Personality
Under the second basic requirement, wherein a professor should project his personality, character, and ideas into his students, important sub-requirements
include that the instructor himself have personality, a highly respected character, and the highest ideals. This second phase is extremely
important in the most character-forming period of their lives. It is the bridge between adolescence and manhood. A freshman entering
college is almost completely receptive to new ideas, ideals, and personality traits. A professor, if respected, exerts an amazing amount
of influence in molding these open minds and accordingly should take advantage of his position. This personality phase is all
the more important in a church college, for supposedly one of the prime aims thereof is to develop character and
personality.

Many small liberal arts colleges, highly accredited, have a practice of hiring seemingly outstanding and well-qualified men to be professors
who, once they are hired, are retained regardless of excellence for the remainder of their lives. Some say that because
of the prospect of life security better men can be obtained. But its own purpose is defeated when one realizes
that sometimes the professors hired do not measure up to expectations. Even when they do not, they are almost invariably
certain of a permanent position.

Selection
In these small liberal arts colleges, some of the instructors have an imposing array of degrees from the most awe-inspiring
universities—yet, have neglected their personalities so that they are neither interesting nor personally inspiring. Of such professors many are prone
to say, “He’s a definite asset to the college. He has received scholastic recognition for such and such research work,
and is highly esteemed in the field of Egyptian philology.” But as a teacher such a man is a failure
and does not belong in a good college.

Other professors have delightful personalities, are personally inspiring, but teach little of their subject to their students. As convenient as
this is to most of us, we must admit that theoretically we are at college to learn. Accordingly, such a
professor is of little value.

Remedy
Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

As a Civil War veteran, aid MacMurray! spins his pleasant task of citifying Mary. More than its predecessor, mainly due
to a great, important because men in college are considered to be. Akim Tamiroff, as an alien who wants to
become an American, and Saturday, November 1, CHARLIE CHAN IN RIO. Sidney Toler, Mary Beth Hughes, Cobina Wright, and Ted
North. Another in the Charlie Chan series, this production has more life due to the addition of two beautiful starlets—Mary
Beth Hughes and Cobina Wright Jr. The main difference between this feature and the others in the series is a
change in setting. This time Charlie does his detecting in Rio, amidst the gambling casinos.

IN THE GROOVES
By JIMMIE MORGAN

Ellington - Duke Ellington was wise in his choice of “Just A-Settin’ and A-Rockin’” as the title for his latest
instrumental, because it really rocks, thanks to the rhythm section and Ben Webster's tenor. This side also shows off very
nice trombone and clarinet solos. The reverse is a Juan Tizol rhumba entitled “Moon over Cuba” (Victor).

Dinah Shore - Dinah Shore, one of the finer girl vocalists in the profession, never fails to set a lovely
mood. This month she continues this procedure on “Love Me or Leave Me” and “All Alone.” Both titles are rendered
in the same graciously slow, lovely manner, with Henry Levine’s orchestra furnishing polished accompaniment. Miss Shore's arrangements, incidentally, are by
Paul Wetstein (Bluebird).

Claude Thornhill - It seems that nothing can stop the swingsters from adapting the classics to rhythm. The latest victim
is Mr. P. Tchaikovsky, whose “Piano Concerto” is currently being played in almost every conceivable manner. By far the most
effective transformation of this great work is by Claude Thornhill, who treats it simply as a popular tune under the
title of “Concerto for Two.” The piece shows marked restraint and good taste. This good taste is a characteristic of
every Thornhill release, including the reverse, “Jim,” a better-than-average tune nicely done (Columbia).

Briefs - Dean Hudson's “Holly Hop” is a neat jump tune by former Freddy Johnson pianist Bob Hartsell (Okeh). Vocalist
John McAfee is the star of Tony Pastor's “Shepherd Serenade” and “Dream Dancing” (Bluebird). Yvonne King sings “Don’t Take Your
Love From Me” nicely for Alvino Rey, but she fails to come up to that standard on “Jealous” (Bluebird). Erskine
Hawkins turns in a nice version of “Hey, Doc!” (Bluebird).

Artie Shaw - Album of the week is “Four Star Favorites,” which presents in one package much of the best
work of Artie Shaw's first and second orchestras. The titles are “Star Dust,” “Begin the Beguine,” “Frenesi,” “Dancing in the
Dark,” “Moonglow,” “Serenade to a Savage,” “Traffic Jam,” and “Back Bay Shuffle.”

In concluding, let it be said that this column will welcome any constructive criticism from its readers.

PAT RUDOLPH

We propose to the small liberal arts colleges, of the type mentioned, that they use even more discretion in choosing
professors. And even more important, that when men chosen do not fulfill the two-fold fundamental requirements, they be gotten rid
of. For thus a college with an already high rating will rise considerably higher without any expenditures. Thus also the
internal excellence of the college itself will be considerably greater, and its aims and ideals will be more completely fulfilled.

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN
Only $1.50 Per Year
Send Name and Address to THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Paulette Goddard improves with each picture, and Helen Vinson, Grant Mitchell, and Rose Hobart are also seen in the cast.
It's John Belk. They were mated with an equal number of Converse Limberettes. The persistent soldier, upon uttering some unpronounceable
naughty word, found himself in a showdown. The seating arrangements had some six or more of the tourists on the
front seat and the back seat completely filled with Alf and date. In the same time belt, a freshman entertained
a Miss Fulton. Sirens moaned at Boar's Head. Keyhole Browning ate a sandwich “ala talcum powder.” Bay Rue bummed to
Kings Mountain en route to Atlanta. Bobo Carter got hoarse yelling for the Wildcats.

Passed Vosburg’s room on the way to the Stud for a coke the other night. To my surprise, he was
sleeping soundly but his trend of thought ran like the above. “Anne... Anne... I want to go to Blackstone...” The
rest was either unintelligent or unprintable. What's the whole story, Vos? And speaking of stories and honeys, Libby of St.
Mary's is pinned to Rosy Boykin. Don’t quote me, but it’s good third-hand rumor. It’s no rumor that Carrow &
Company left St. Mary’s with a special invitation. That word invitation reminds me of the date Gene Sutton is going
to have down to the K.A.-K. Sig. Ran. Sut pushed her back at arm’s length and gasped, “And who are
you?” Anyway, thanks to the proofreader. Don't forget to buy the bound version of this: “The House of Seven Filth
Columns.” In the hermit’s own words, “Nuns too good for me.”

Bargain Day and admission is only ten cents, plus Government Luxury Tax. Coming Next Week—Weekend in Havana, with Alice Faye,
Carmen Miranda, John Payne, and Cesar Romero. Belle Star, Randolph Scott, Dana Andrews, and John Shepperd. I would like for
W. C. Plunkett to be the guest of the theatre for any picture this week.

“THE THIRTY HOUR DAY”
With recent political history taken into consideration, it would not be entirely fantastic to suggest that President Roosevelt might suddenly
decide to proclaim a change in our ordinary, normal, and accepted twenty-four-hour day. Suppose F. D. R. were to decree
that “whereas the people of the United States of America have steadily sunk lower and lower in mental, physical, and
spiritual strength since the beginning of the present crisis, I do hereby decree and proclaim that the present twenty-four-hour day
be extended to one lasting for not more than thirty hours, this time to be used by individual citizens for
their own self-improvement.”

The immediate results of such a proclamation would be stupendous, gigantic, and colossal, to use the Hollywood vernacular. Not only
would there be all the immediate necessarily material changes (such as the changing of the clock face to accommodate the
additional six hours a day), but our whole population, including the isolated little hamlets like our own small community, would
have to make several changes which would either help or hinder the individual citizen. Of course, factories would be hard
put to formulate some suitable work shift schedule adapted to the additional six hours a day. What I'm driving at
boils down to this: What would the Davidson student—you—do? I can tell you right now that very probably a large
majority of us would manage to improve ourselves both physically and mentally by getting some extra sleep. A very small
minority, myself most likely excluded, would strive to improve themselves in some way with a really conscientious effort. Getting a
few more hours of sleep every night would not really be much of an effort, but would really have its
beneficial effect on those who took advantage of it. Especially would this be true of those of us who burn
the two o’clock oil on a good many nights. Burning the two o’clock oil under the new plan would mean
that the student had studied on through the old twelve midnight, and from twelve to thirteen, thirteen to fourteen, fourteen
to fifteen, and finally fifteen to one and thus to two. Burning the fourteen o’clock oil would rather be the
popular term of the day under the new system. Friday night formal dance invitations would read “10-14” instead of the
conventional “10-2.” If a dance lasted from ten until two under the new plan, that would mean that the dance
would be seven hours in length.

Can't you see a diligent and ambitious student taking a more extended workout in the old gym than he had
before under the old day, thus making himself more formidable physically? A race of supermen would very probably develop from
the few who utilized this extra time for gymnastic purposes. At least every student would have an opportunity for self-improvement
in this branch of human development. Undoubtedly many a ninety-seven-pound weakling would become a veritable human flying fortress. Then there
would be those who would strive to improve their mental ability. Think of the great amount of additional wear and
tear there would be on the new furnishings of the library. But that would be the college’s least worry. The
number of students taking Honors work would probably show a large increase, which would still be a long way from
the number that the college would like to have. In line with this, a cultural development should take place. There
would be more time for art and music appreciation. The socially minded student would have more and more time to
write more and more girls for more and more dates. Of course, if there were any Juniors in this social
improvement group, they would have more time for politics, which would come under the title of social development.

But there would be those who would say that in the long run we would really not have any extra
time because we would simply be rationing our time differently. So, for a little while anyway, possibly it would be
best if we kept the same old twenty-four-hour day. Being an optimist, I have only looked at the brighter side
of the question and have not attempted to go very far into the natural reaction of mental chaos that would
result if such a proclamation were made. Well, it’s 14:14 A. M., so I'd better go to bed.
