Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs., Feb. 13, 1941

CBS Presents Series Moderation Is Topic For Woods Address

Professor W. W. Wood stressed moderation when he spoke to the student Sunday school last Sunday. It will be a most revealing thing to the members of the student body to be at a meeting of the Y Board of Control. With Dr. Arbuckle, Dr. Lingle, Mr. Jackson, Dr. Beaty, Preacher Pritchett, and elected members from the student body we choose, have formed a Free Company, dedicated to fight against foreign propaganda.

Davidson's Alumni Office has recently received its pre-release copy of the novel “SWAMP WATER” by Vereen Bell. The story, which first appeared in the Saturday Evening Post, was written by a Davidson graduate who has become prominent as a story writer for current publications such as the “American Boy.” Its enthusiastic reception by readers and its acclaim as one of the best magazine novels of the day have contributed to its publication as a book. The story of a man in South Georgia will be released on February 9th.

Approximately 97% OF THE COLLEGE PRESIDENTS HAVE COME FROM TWO PROFESSIONS - TEACHING AND MINISTRY.

Professor J. C. Bailey attended a conference called by the State Department of Public Instruction in Raleigh on February 5th and 6th. The object of the conference was the formulation of standards under which practice teaching may be carried on in North Carolina. It was attended by representatives of various colleges in the state where practice teaching is offered.

Using as his text the last few verses of the thirteenth chapter of Numbers, he related the well-known story of Caleb and the other men sent out to spy out the promised land, stressing the difference in their reports. All of the spies except Caleb and Joshua gave exaggerated reports stressing the difficulties and came to the conclusion that the people could not take the land, for God had said if they searched out the land he would give it to them. Professor Wood stressed the fact that this was not an easy task and that the Israelites had to work hard to accomplish their goal. He explained that the only effective counter-attack to foreign propaganda is a positive statement of America’s beliefs.

Twelve American authors, free to express their opinions as they choose, have formed a Free Company, dedicated to dramatizing a positive statement of America’s beliefs. The authors, who include nine Pulitzer Prize winners, will use the facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting System for a series of radio plays. James Boyd, author of “Drums” and founder of the Free Company, explained that the only effective counter-attack to foreign propaganda is a positive statement of America’s beliefs.

BUNDLES FOR BRITAIN

If every man works in the ‘Y’ Hall at any time, and cash contributions will be solicited in the rooms of the students, or can be placed in one of the boxes placed for this purpose over the campus.

Ease and Hardship

Professor Wood pointed out that people deteriorate under ease and develop under hardship. He cited as an example the present blitzkrieg against England. The British—under strain and stress—are developing their air force in three ways, according to Sir Hubert. In the destruction of Poland and France, they used vast formations and broke enemy resistance by force of numbers. They repeated this strategy against Britain in August and September, but the valor and fighting qualities of the R.A.F. brought defeat to the great German air armada. Then they changed to hit and run attacks by single bombers, but this plan brought few results.

Playing before a large gallery in the state capital Saturday night, the State courtmen won a conference encounter to the strong Davidson team 43-51. Jack Tabscott was high scorer for the visitors with 17 points.

NOTED EXPERT

Minneapolis, Minn.—(ACP)—An American college student was 11 years old! He chewed 100 sticks of gum at once! No Virginia Poly player was ejected from any game for a personal foul!

PARAGRAPHICS

Why don't you write to friends who have left after graduation? Say “hello” and proceed._ | # i ariiirares Sap ge Mumne Tots of Americans. Boyd defines this opportunity is at hand for practical cooperation by college students in the federal government's program to promote Western Hemisphere solidarity. Now the Luftwaffe has turned to mass raids at night, using an increasingly large percentage of incendiary bombs, which is interpreted as an indication that the Germans are running short on complicated demolition bombs. 

Dr. Jeter, who is the horse part of the army, and Coach C. Little have deserted us for the olive-drab. Robert Sherwood has finished the second play, scheduled for March. Sherwood’s play will cover freedom of the press. William Saroyan, Maxwell Anderson, Orson Welles, Stephen Vincent Benet, Paul Green, Archibald MacLeish, Sherwood Anderson, George M. Cohan, and Ernest Hemingway have already finished their scripts. Other authors who have joined the Free Company include Robert Sherwood. 

The state department's communication to Associated Collegiate Press requested widespread publicity among its hundreds of member newspapers on college campuses throughout the nation. The state department's communication to Colombian Students (Colombia, S.A.) is seeking material for publication in the national student organ, "EL Estudiante."

Good reports are coming in for some prayer groups. Many of them are getting outside help from other leaders. Try it for a change. Queens College will be the scene of the P.S.A. Conference this weekend. We send 15 men. Is your name on the list? Drop by and see about it if you want to go. When you're here, we can discuss Clyde S. O. The S ratio to two-to-one, and the superior training of the R.A.F. pilots further lowered the ratio to even terms. 

By JULIAN McCALL

Frank Daly and his Meadow Brook delegation were down at Carolina to hold an audition for Pre Idy. They are considering engaging him for a stay at the Meadow Brook. We're hoping he gets it. Glenn Miller's arranger was down in a "King of Swing" contest, but Benny has been using this title for years, so nothing is thought to come from this except publicity. 

On Thursday of last week, Glenn Miller was awarded the "Make-Believe Ballroom Time" trophy for the most popular band of the year. This is the third straight time that Glenn has received this honor. Will Osborne, who was last year's winner, has sold or given away his band. We hope that his successor can make as much of a success with it as Will did. 

A Deputy Collector of the Internal Revenue will be in Davidson on February 25th to assist the taxpayers in preparing their returns. This officer will be in the banquet hall of Chambers all day, but his assistance will be limited beyond this time, so all interested are urged to be in the banquet hall on the 25th.

Chesterfields are better-tasting and mild...not flat...not strong, because of their right combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos. You can’t buy a better cigarette. 

WAR TIME UNIT ONCE

Continued from Page One

The commanding officer of the organization was placed in complete authority of the college plant and regular army discipline imposed on the students and faculty alike. However, the Armistice was soon signed and the unit was demobilized on December 7, only seven weeks of actual service. Possibly such a program would be imposed on Davidson College again should the necessity arise, but who knows? It is certain, however, that the Davidson students and alumni will be ready to do more than their part, should our democracy be endangered, even to making the supreme sacrifice.

ELLEN DREW starring in the current Paramount hit “THE MAD DOCTOR”...and from CHESTERFIELD the Milder, Cooler, Better-Tasting cigarette

WHY WRITE HOME? SPARE THE ERROR! Send THE DAVIDSONIAN for the Rest of the Year 75c Contributions to: JACK COVINGTON, Box 645, Davidson, North Carolina

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.