Page Two: Letters to The Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Dear Tony:

May I express to the student body through the columns of your newspaper the appreciation of the Pan-Hellenic Council? We appreciate not only the fine attendance at the dances, but also the traditionally Davidsonian gentlemanly conduct which was evident all through the weekend. The weekend was riddled with mistakes, for which the Council takes all blame. We would have liked to have had both dances in the armory, due to its greater size, but when the bookings were made last spring, it was found that we could reserve it only for the Saturday night dance.

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

Then there was the matter of the tax, which, as we predicted, the student body paid good-naturedly. This was not only patriotic, nationally speaking, but also from the Council's financial viewpoint.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

We wondered how many of you upperclassmen missed the crystal ball Saturday night at the Armory. We had planned to have the famous old sphere for all the no-breaks, and were just as surprised as you when it didn’t show up. The owner had promised to set it up and operate it himself, but neither he nor the mechanism appeared.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

As for the next set—Midwinters—we, the Council, will make no rash promises at this time, but promise to continue our policy of providing Davidsonians with the best in dance music. We hope to introduce several new and different features at this next gala event, and these will be announced at a later date.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter - Assistant Editor
Blunkett - Associate Editor
Managing Editor
Tommy Fulcher - Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh - Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Movie Editor
Lacy MacLean - Staff Photographer
Clarence Legerton - Staff Photographer
Billy Barker - Staff Photographer

All we ask is the continued patronage of the student body, for whom the dances are given, and in return, we promise three of the best sets ever to grace the Armory.

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Collections Manager

Thank you again for your fine spirit of cooperation. On behalf of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Sincerely,
PAT RUDOLPH

“Y” Corner
By Shaw Smith

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Homecoming! What a thought! It is different from Homegoing because first semester grades aren't out yet. Took out low-grades—and that is a reference to scholarship. Seeing Mac McClure, Sam Wiley and many others who were such hard “Y” workers a few years ago was nice. Not enough space to name all those who were back. Sam Hemphill, Luke Graham, Jay Bolin, Dick Shore, Chubby King, Carl Carlson (these last two haven’t missed a game for many moons, 'tis rumored), Archie Torrey, Bob Finley and many more smiled again in this ol’ atmosphere of Davidson. Course Grannie Sharpe was back. Well Allie is still here isn't she?

Betty Co-ed Kerr—though of the Y. W. C. A—ranks high in deportations—both of special and singing variety. She sings in Statesville Church for Dr. Raynal's bunch this Sunday, by the way. Professor Berg and Boys were a real last minute help when called on for quick change of chapel program last Friday. No need of saying how hard that whole music department works anyway ‘cause we all know it. I say, Friends, we are lucky to have Head-Man Professor Pharr and his staff. Just don't believe they can be beat. Friday's program gave us “Jew” Clark on the spur of the moment, too. It is a willing spirit like this that helps man believe in man. Thanks and “Y-ild roses-like orchids-to you all.”

Who put that plug-nickel in the collection last Sunday? No, don’t tell me, Ping-ugly. “Tish, Tish.” Strauss Waltzes, Victor Herbert pieces and other semi-classic numbers can now be enjoyed via the “Y” radio. Bill Campbell worked for a month on the machine—but it still works. You know we really thank you, Billy.

Nominations for Unsung-Hero-of-the-Week is split directly between Jack Ramsey and Joe Happer. These two men—along with other helpers from time to time—have walked three or four miles each Sunday to help with the services at Shearer Chapel. Don't tell me that doesn't take real desire to be helpful—and a right smart amount of shoe leather.

Smoky Joe McLesky was a great name about four or five years ago when General Joe was a freshman here. After some absence from class work, while he was working in the cold, cruel world, he decided to be church it all and get that diploma. He is back again with us this year to finish and homecoming this year was better for me because of his return. That goes for all of us who knew him. Besides a heavy classroom schedule and duties at his home in Charlotte, he finds time to write “funny” pep-speeches (remember the one before our game with Carolina. Yes, he wrote it—he and Joe Miller), make talks—really good ones—at young People’s Leagues, etc. as well as announce play-by-play our football games. First one he did this year was on a five minute notice and last Saturday he was without a V. P. I. spotter. Surely he deserves a Y-ild Rose—shucks a couple of them—and here they are. You'll probably find him here. He’s the “dark and serious” looking fellow in the corner—studying. He's quite a character and better still a good one. To know him just a little is impossible—no one stops there. All his many friends know he has a heart of solid gold—pure solid gold. Well, he made a good start didn't he? You should know his folks. Yes sir, the ministry can use a Joe: he'll be a real part of a great work.

Priestly-Conyers just dropped in. Still has coat and tie in use. A good habit. Says he’s on his books and wants the professors to know it. We'll find if any read this column(?) now by his grades, maybe. Several old grads say they read the Davidsonian from cover to cover—that’s gratifying to us and ensures that of the number of readers one ol’ Grad wanted us to say—for the lighter side which he insisted we needed—that ducks don’t walk softly ‘cause they can’t walk hardly. I don’t understand it. See, now come on down and get a good supply of tellable jokes. Ed Scott and Two Ton Maxwell, please note if you're still looking for some material for the banquet.

It was a swell weekend and our Dr. Cunningham is already another of Davidson’s great presidents. It’s a fine thing to work under a man like that because he is already making us feel we are working with him. That goes for every man in the student body.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday, October 23, 1941

The Fifth Homecoming has come and gone and left in its wake three hundred dazed and dreamy college men. In spite of the tough ball game, most of the fellows will admit that it was a great weekend.

By ?? 2? Columnist

Ensign Milt Flynn, having trained thoroughly in the art of naval maneuvers, zipped up to the dances for a last fling before going on very active duty. Orchids to Cam.

Thursday and Friday, October 23 and 24
CHARLEY’S AUNT
Jack Benny, James Ellison, Edmund Gwenn, Reginald Owen, Arleen Whelan, Laird Cregar, Richard Haydn, Anne Baxter, and Kay Francis.

This revival of an old, old favorite tops all its predecessors in good old-fashioned horse-laughs. Jack Benny has never been funnier. He enacts the part of an Oxford boy who masquerades as a chaperoning aunt so that his pals, Jimmy Ellison and Richard Haydn, can have Anne Baxter and Arleen Whelan to the house and propose to them. One can well imagine the inane situations which Jack gets into in feminine garb. All the actions take place in the Nineties, of course. An extra good supporting cast helps out considerably in today’s version. Tops among the male actors are Edmund Gwenn and Laird Cregar, while Kay Francis is best among the femmes. Jack himself carries the greater part of the script—and very successfully too. If you’re in the mood for comedy, don't miss this one.

Saturday, October the 25th
LAW OF THE TROPICS
Constance Bennett, Jeffrey Lynn, Regis Toomey, Mona Maris, and Hobart Bosworth.

A South American rubber plantation provides the background for this story of intrigue and romance. Jeffrey Lynn is jilted by his American fiancée practically on his wedding day. Since theNatives would lose their respect for him if they knew the truth, so he hires nightclub singer Constance Bennett to masquerade as his fiancée. She agrees to play the part and even to marry him for the sum of $500.00. Although Jeff later finds out that she is a fugitive from justice, he is in no position to be choosy. Both this main plot and the subplot finally work out, with the fade-out showing Connie going to Brooklyn to prove her innocence with Jeff standing beside her.

Monday and Tuesday
October 26 and 27
INTERNATIONAL SQUADRON
starring Ronald Reagan, Olympe Bradna, William Lundigan, Joan Perry, and Reginald Denny. In this exciting drama, Ronald Reagan is ideally cast as a former daredevil pilot who flies to England delivering a bomber and remains there to join the foreign legion of the R.A.F. His adventures in the clouds are portrayed in some of the most startling air photography ever filmed. The late James Stephenson is seen as the devoted leader of the foreign squadron. William Lundigan and Reginald Denny are buddies of Ronald’s, and Olympe Bradna lends the romantic interest. It’s exciting and timely and will be enjoyed by all.

Wednesday, October 28
By press time no production had been booked for this date, but it will be announced soon in the previews.

COMING:
A YANK IN THE R.A.F., with Tyrone Power and Betty Grable.
ALOMA OF THE SOUTH SEAS with Dorothy Lamour and Jon Hall.

I would like for Fred Morton to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.

In the Grooves
By JIMMIE MORGAN

It was a good weekend, on the whole. It is always amazing to see the hibernating rouse itself for a furious two days, then lapse back into its usual social lethargy. John Crichton lost friends and alienated others by locking himself, and we suppose, his date in the parlor at Chapman's for a period that can best be measured by a calendar. In spite of rumors to the contrary, said date was not Veronica Lake. Butch Pharr has the honor of having the best luck on blind dates, even if Virginia didn’t. Arch Taylor's being flushed in favor of a Guernsey in a county fair caused him to escort that famous belle of song and story, Diamond Lil. Tad Larkin burned off the wire late Thursday night after his sixth flush, but to no avail. Joe Bachman got flushed late Friday afternoon, by postal card. After tearful goodbyes, Ann Huntington, Jane Hilliard, and Ellen Self pulled out for Asheville Sunday in a cloud of dust only to have their car break down. They returned Sunday night for supper, to the delight of Westall and Pollback, and extended their visit until Monday. A peculiar double-deal happened Friday night when Pat Rudolph was in the ticket booth serving his half-hour duty as ticket seller. He was making good time with the hat-check girl while his date was responding to some super-snaking outside. Ask Tommy Lane how he got all the ink in his hair. That’s what you get for having that leaky pen, Tommy.

Martha Buchanan pleaded pressing studies in flushing Southgate Jones, the real reason being that she is in love with “Long John” Belk. Dick Kelly late-dated Edna Sprunt while Jim Harris blithely went to bed in ignorance. Seen after sun-up Sunday morning were Bill Tarleton, Dee Dunn, Bob Whaling, and Louis Bibb, sleepy but dreamy-eyed. Dee was softly repeating the phrase, “Mine, thine, forevermore,” which must have some significance. Bibb and Nita wired all their little friends that this time it’s real and almost planned an excursion to South Carolina. Wilson broke all records in high luck. He was flushed six times, then settled for a blind date on the seventh, only to have her get sick after the Friday night dances. She went home. Did you see Sid Daffin and his date holding hands under the table in the Vardy Grill Sunday afternoon, unconscious of all kibitzers? Or Bob Rankin with his Queen of Hearts dreaming of a full house after almost getting a royal flush? The long line of cars out Concord road early Sunday morning, Keyhole's phaeton prominent among them? Eddy Taylor had Saturday dinner with our proxy and escorted Chick in fine style. Then, to top off a perfect weekend, he took her back to Speeburg in the executive Buick, coming back with a few extra fenders he picked up along the way. Caroline Miller was at the dances again, this time with Sam Spencer. We wonder if, in the distant future, when she's too old to come, Davidson will continue to have dances. She’s as much a part of a Davidson dance scene as Sergeant Burton. Yarboro had a hard time keeping his date’s former suitor in hand, as they forsook their own corners to haunt that of the Kappa Sigs. It seems that such a momentous weekend would produce more dope than this, but the real dealers did such an excellent job of keeping their activities quiet that not much has filtered out. Bill Lyman’s date was on a moral drive, so Bill exhibited his Dr. Jekyll side all weekend, much to his own amazement and everyone else’s. And so to press. There'll no doubt be a guest columnist next week, and if you like his stuff better, for gosh sakes tell Tony so that maybe these Monday nights of frantic dope-getting and typewriter pounding may come to an end.

The contest for guessing the identity of the fifth columnist is still in full swing. Just cut out and mail the top of Chambers building (or a reasonable facsimile thereof) and mail with your answer before midnight Thursday. The first ten correct answers will receive absolutely free a fur-lined canopy for your bed. Hurry!

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH

A nice instrumental entitled, “Woodsheddin’ With Woody.” Tommy Dorsey has this month released the most unusual record in his history. The titles are “Eli, Eli,” the Jewish chant, and “None But the Lonely Heart.” Both are scored without rhythm by Stordahl. On the first side, Ziggy Elman renders a trumpet solo simply and with feeling, while Dorsey's most moving trombone solo in years is spotlighted on the latter. All music lovers should enjoy this Victor coupling. Another Dorsey disc pairs a dull “Pale Moon” with “Hallelujah,” which, although played much too fast, has good solos.

Album of the week is “Hot Pianos,” the finest Victor has issued in years. The eight piano solos are equally divided between Earl Hines, Fats Waller, Duke Ellington, and “Jelly Roll” Morton, and all are fine. Morton’s “Seattle Hunch” and “Freakish” were made in 1929 and are examples of his best work; Waller’s “Carolina Shout” and “Ring Dem Bells” are top-drawer material, as are Ellington’s “Dear Old Southland” and “Solitude”; and Hines’ “Sunny Side of the Street” and “Melancholy Baby” are also very good, although he has done better. An excellent collection of jazz pianistics.

John Kirby has issued two new waxings, “Fifi’s Rhapsody” and “It’s Only a Paper Moon.” These are not up to Kirby's standard, but nevertheless should not be overlooked. Star of both sides is pianist Billy Kyle, who plays solos of consistent excitement.

Guest Columnist
HENRY McINTOSH

On The Art of Telling One's Weekend Date Goodbye:
At first thought, one might be prone to think that there is little art in saying goodbye, even though twenty-five or more dollars have been spent to have the opportunity. But yet, after closer consideration, we discover as delicate a technique is involved as in “smooching the prof” or avoiding the common “dance weekend flush,” as much a variety as is found in the “spice of life.”

For example, there is the “elongated goodbye.” This type is generally characterized both by physical exertion and mental suffering. Several hours are usually required to elegantly perform such an ordeal and “whip” the adversary into perfect submission. Needless to say, solitude is essential for such an undertaking. To this “elongated” classification might be added three sub-heads: the “limber goodbye,” the “letter-following” type, and the familiar “operator-or-mañana farewell.” Yet they are as different from each other as the proverbial day from night, for in the “limber” type the goodbye is followed only by hastily renewing the everyday studying. On the other hand, the “letter-following elongated goodbye” is characterized by a considerable volley of airmail specials, usually reaching their destination before the date. But the most interesting “elongated goodbye” is that commonly called the “operator-or-mañana farewell.” Few are able to match the cadence required for such an undertaking, as it necessitates a hurried trip the next day to complete the unfinished “super-elongated farewell,” preferably in more encouraging surroundings than the porch or a frat house.

In contrast to the aforementioned goodbyes, there is the short and to-the-point type, frequently referred to as the “telescopic farewell.” However, this technique should be employed only in extreme cases as it is usually so short that its effect is almost negligible both on the participants and the spectators alike.

Then there is the “triangular goodbye,” characterized by the charming damsel not only bidding adieu to her weekend date, but also to the “powerhouse” who returned her to the rooming house just in time for breakfast. Feminine slyness is required for such a type. Also, there are the “rectangular,” “hexangular,” and sometimes the “octangular farewells,” all of which embody more than the essential and desired two parties. In some cases, a “circle goodbye” is found, with the feminine goodbyes completely encircling fraternity court. Needless to say, all of the geometrical types are to be avoided.

Lastly, there is the “sleeperette goodbye.” In many cases, this is extremely advisable for it usually occurs when a date is compelled to catch a bus in the early hours of the morning. It varies in intensity from not getting up at all to not even going to bed the night before. Originality, as is to be expected, plays an important part in developing the proper “sleeperette” skill.

But seldom is one able to develop a personalized type that may be successfully used to cope with any and all conditions that may arise in bidding goodbye. But in striving to do so, one...