Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 30, 1941

Hall Group Leaders Discuss Plans

Are Proposed Which Add Interest To Hall Prayer Services

SUGGEST NEW TOPICS

Leaders Hopeful Of Seeing Better Attendance

At a meeting held Monday evening at the “Y,” hall prayer group leaders discussed the problem of how the prayer services could reach a larger number of men. Presiding at the discussion were Jim McCrary and Jesse Wooten, joint leaders of the Department. Several suggestions were made by Shaw Smith, and many of the hall leaders contributed their own ideas on the subject. It was generally agreed that marked indifference to the services should not and could not be forced upon them. However, since the attendance has been far from what it should be, it was agreed that some method of improving it must be found, and that the most logical method would be to add interest to the programs.

One leader, who reported the interest on his hall very high, attributed the enthusiasm to the fact that topics to be discussed one week were stated the preceding week to give the men time to consider them seriously, and were chosen from questions of immediate interest to college students. It was decided that similar meetings should be held regularly once a month, and that a sheet giving a list of possible topics and other suggestions would be mailed to each hall leader on the first of each month. The meeting adjourned with a word of prayer.

“Y” Cabinet To Decide On Retreat

The regular Y. M. C. A. cabinet meeting was opened last Wednesday night by short prayers from both Ralph Williams and Bill Sprunt. Early in the meeting there was a report from the committee investigating suitable retreats for the Y. M. C. A. cabinet this year. It is learned that Montreat has been selected as the retreat for this annual event. The purpose of this retreat is to give the members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet time to make plans for the year and also discuss the works being carried on by the different departments of the Davidson Y. M. C. A.

A committee of Jesse Wooten, Ralph Williams, with Charlie Watt as the chairman, was appointed to select different group leaders and appoint different members of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to lead the devotional programs from time to time. The report of Arch Taylor, chairman of the Deputations Committee, was also given.

Dr. Gwynn is to meet October 29 with the cabinet and discuss Freshmen coaching classes and other things of interest.

Winthrop Conference

Bill MacLauchlin brought up the fact that a conference is to be held November 1 with Winthrop College participating and discussing inter-racial problems. There is also to be a Christian Education conference in Greensboro on November 8. It is learned that Charles Nelson, who is sponsoring the Student Aid Fund, will speak next Friday at the regular chapel program. In his discussion, he will discuss the problems that students are facing in foreign countries.

Plans are also being made by the Y. M. C. A. cabinet for an amateur student night to be held within the next two weeks. It was decided that the O. D. K. members should work with them in preparing this and as a result a committee consisting of Claude Hackney, Byron Sandifer, and Ralph Williams was appointed.

Death Claims Local Mascot

Famed Davidson Wildcat Dies After Neglect Through Many Years

By JOHN FAIRLY

Felix the Wildcat, Davidson's mascot for many years, is no more. Felix, for years Davidson's pampered and petted mascot, passed away early last summer in almost complete obscurity. In fact, no one even knows the exact date on which Felix died. Felix’s last friend, Doc White, veteran trainer, remembers only that it was about ten days after the close of school. The cause of death?—Apparently just old age.

Early Popularity

Had Felix been a man, he would have been the perfect example of the “forgotten man,” for there is no denying the fact that he was forgotten. Back in the good old days, Felix was one of the most popular figures on the campus, putting in his ferocious appearance at nearly every football game, for Davidson men held the belief that his very presence would be enough to ensure a victory. His little octagonal cage was a center of attraction, for he was a symbol of that ferocious “Wildcat” fight.

Later Oblivion

But the zenith of Felix’s popularity was reached and passed, and then for some reason, the mascot fell from public favor. Some say it was because Felix fell down on his appointed task of bringing Davidson victories, and instead proved a jinx. Maybe Davidson men became too sophisticated to put their faith in such a mascot as Felix, but more probably they just tired of the snarling little cat. In any case, the Wildcat had spent long, lonely hours just sitting in his close cage down beside the gymnasium for the last three or four years. Only rarely was anyone kind enough to pay him a visit and give him a chance to demonstrate his snarling ferocity.

Always Wild

The little animal's terrible loneliness was usually broken only by Doc White, who kept his cage supplied with water. Like all true wildcats, Felix was never tamed and would touch only raw meat, which was supplied from a local market. Felix was truly an old tradition, having been given to the athletic association in the days when Monk Younger was head football coach. Even Doc White doesn't know how long ago it was, for it was before he came here, but he estimates that it must have been fourteen or fifteen years.

CRANK POSES

[Continued from Page One]

At first his stories claimed that he was “a friend of Dr. Sentelle.” When in Greenville, Tenn., he immediately became Dr. Sentelle’s nephew. Two peculiar things about him are that he never assumes an alias, always giving the name of Carlson, and he never seems to let his amount go over ten dollars. So, beware of this enemy of Davidson!

CAMPUS ODDITIES

ENGLISH LITERATURE AND RHETORIC USED TO ANNOY EARLY DAY BROWN UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, CONSEQUENTLY EACH YEAR THEY HELD A “JUNIOR BURIAL” AT WHICH ALL TEXTBOOKS ON THESE SUBJECTS WERE INTERRED WITH SUITABLE RITES.

NoLIsEY, LITER GRETONS CARRIED OFF MASS. IN 1886

“I'd DIE For Dear Old Rutgers”

FRANK K. (POP) GRANT, NOW DECEASED, SPOKE THESE IMMORTAL WORDS AS HE WAS BEING CARRIED OFF THE FIELD WITH A BROKEN LEG DURING THE PRINCETON GAME IN 1892.

WHAT'S A DOWN FRATERNITY WAY

[Continued from Page Five]

off to Gastonia, stopping by Queens en route. Brother Karl Fisher went to his home in Kannapolis after the game, while Brother Bob Patton journeyed to Rutherfordton. The fraternity was happy to have Brother McCall's parents as visitors. Brother Lt. Frank Niven came up for the game, dressed in his winter uniform. Other visitors were “Dutch” Kirby and Jimmy Coaklis of Welch, W. Va., students at Lee's McRae.

The brothers and pledges enjoyed a smoker at the house and a feed at Hatley’s after Vespers.

PHI DELTS PLEDGE DAVIS

It is our pleasure to welcome Frank Davis of Atlanta, Ga., as a new Phi Delt pledge. Frank is a freshman transfer from the University of North Carolina. Brothers Westall and Rudolph were guests at their homes in Asheville over the weekend. Brothers Chapman and Wardlaw attended the Wofford dances in Spartanburg Saturday. Pledges Wilson, Elliott, and McLean were among many Davidson students attending Homecoming at Darlington School in Rome, Georgia. Pledge Emerson spent the weekend with friends in Charlotte. Brothers Owens and Dew, and Pledges Oglesby and Wright were guests at Converse.On Sunday, Pledge King's parents of Portsmouth, Virginia, were visitors at the house. Most of the remaining Phi Delts were present at the Davidson-Furman game in Charlotte Saturday.

SIGMAS IN TENNESSEE
Action was a bit weak in the fraternity over the weekend. Most of the brothers either went home or went to the game in Charlotte Saturday night. Pledges Tommy and George Peters, accompanied by George Ennet, journeyed to Nashville, Tennessee, for the Vanderbilt-Princeton game. They were the guests of Bobby Peters, captain of the Princeton team and brother of the older Peters. Brother Bill Simmons, with Abbie Short, Jim Millis, and Rochelle, went to their homes in High Point. Pledges Jack Pinckney and Wilson traveled home to Lowell.

Lee Scott went to his home in Goldsboro, Dick Manning to Spartanburg, Pledges Arthur Pendleton to Charlotte, and Don Holland to Gastonia. Brother John McGee chaperoned Brother Rainey to Chapel Hill to get some chemicals. Brother Phillips hopped up to W.C.N.C., while Brothers Taylor and McCoy skipped up to Montreat. Pledge Bob Miller went to Raleigh, N.C., to attend a church rally. Brother Davis spent the weekend in Charlotte. Pat Williams stayed home and studied. The only date for the weekend was Marion Smith, who was the guest of Brother Ashby Dick.

S.A.E.'s FEED
Highlighting the week for the S.A.E. chapter here was a delightful feed held Sunday night after vespers at the house in honor of the faculty brothers of S.E.A. Invitations were cordially extended to faculty brothers Archibald Currie, Dr. James M. Douglas, Prof. Edward J. Erwin, Mr. Scott G. Lyon, Dr. John W. MacConnell, and their wives. Brothers Harvey Carrow and Harry Hudson spent the weekend in Kensington, N.C., Harvey’s home. Pledge Brother Jim Fuller visited Atlanta, and Pledge Jimmy Wilcox took in the McCallie-Darlington game in Rome, Ga. Pledge brothers going home for the weekend were “Pop” Rogers of Greensboro, Bill Sprunt to Winston, and Baxter Freeze to High Point. The majority of the brothers and pledges backed the Wildcats to the limit and attended the game in the Queen City.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon Street
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte, North Carolina
* STARTING FRIDAY *
GENE TIERNEY
RANDOLPH SCOTT
AND NORTH CAROLINA'S JOHN SHEPPERD
IN
“BELLE STARR”
* Late Show Saturday Starting 11:00 P.M. *
“Unfinished Business”

LIBRARY PLANS
(Continued from Page Five)
Private study rooms are found in the southern end. The Davidsoniana Room is found in the center of the second floor. Here are found letters written by graduates after they had left school. These add to the traditions of Davidson College. “Scripts and Pranks” and the annual are kept on file here also. In the northern end is found fiction. This is composed of modern novels and literatures. Clyde Stroup is at present preparing blueprints of the library. These shall be placed in the lobby to aid the students in locating the various sections. In checking out the books, the student may begin at 8:30 A.M. until 10 P.M., Monday through Friday. Reserved books may be checked out from 9 P.M. until 11 P.M. to be returned by 9:30 the following morning. On Saturday, books are to be checked out from 8:30 A.M. until 6 P.M. Reserved books may be checked from 5 to 6 P.M. to be returned the following Monday by 9:30 A.M.

SENTELLE TELLS OF DIFFICULTIES
(Continued from Page Three)
They were playing one of the greatest teams in the south in Atlanta. Wanting to fill in their schedule and make a little more money on their trip, they invited Davidson down to play them on Friday, the day before their scheduled game. Davidson had several forward pass plays and a small team, while Auburn had a team of “Two-toms” famous for their pile-driving plays. The “plainsmen” from Auburn were baffled as the ball soared over their heads on numerous pass plays to be caught by a scurrying Wildcat end. When the game ended, the underrated Davidson team had baffled a team twice their size.

College French Circle Initiates Six
“Une Partie De Bridge” Will Be Presented
Le Cercle Francais will hold its next regular meeting at the home of Ira Goldiere on November 4, at 8:00 P.M. Six new members will be initiated, namely: Bill Lyman, Charlie Henderson, George Sinclair, Westley Scott, Jim Chapman, and Ashby Dick. Two former associate members, Dick Phillips and John Knox Miller, will become full members. A unique program has been planned for the occasion. Two of the new members will stage a one-act play entitled “Une Partie De Bridge.” Jim Chapman will close the program with a poem recital.

INTERIOR OF CHAMBERS
(Continued from Page Five)
Where credit is due, we should give credit to Mrs. Camille Gamble of Winston Salem who so ably blended the colors and designs of the new fixtures. The improvements will indeed be a great asset to the future services held in Chambers Auditorium and will be another beauty spot on the campus that every son of Davidson will be duly proud to call his own.

ANNOUNCEMENT
(Continued from Page One)
These announcements will be made each day. Only one set will be put up daily, so as to necessitate only one trip to the board each day. The bulletin board will be placed in its original place in the lobby of Chambers and will be used for weather maps and other posters of this sort. There will be only one official bulletin board for the students.

—LACY SELLARS.

Hengeveld Explains Regulations
Freshman Advisor Tells Students About Faculty Counseling System
ENCOURAGES FROSH
Says Many Students Deferred From the Draft
On Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of last week, Mr. Hengeveld met with the freshmen in groups of about eighty during chapel hour. His purpose in talking to the freshmen was to present a few of the problems which they face. During his talk, Mr. Hengeveld brought out four main points.

First—He attempted to explain the purpose of the counseling system and what he hoped it would mean to the students.

Second—He gave a thorough explanation of a few faculty regulations which each year seem to confuse freshmen. One of the regulations which was stressed was the cutting of classes.

Third—Mr. Hengeveld advised freshmen to be very careful in selecting the subjects which they take. He stressed the fact that students going into graduate schools should be especially careful.

Fourth—The last point which was brought out was about the Selective Service Act and its relation to college students.

M.H. Goodwin & Co.
“We Serve Davidson With the Best”
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
(Star of stage, screen, and radio) visits many training camps in her job as Chairman of the Entertainment Committee of the Home Legion. A carton of Chesterfields is a mighty welcome gift for the men in camp. ADRIENNE AMES. Follow the lead of Adrienne Ames and send the men in the camps the cigarette that’s Definitely MILDER and BETTER-TASTING. Everything about Chesterfield is made for your pleasure and convenience... from their fine, rightly blended tobaccos to their easy-to-open cellophane jacket that keeps Chesterfield always Fresher and Cooler-Smoking. Buy a pack and try them. You're sure to like them because the big thing that’s ahead all over the country is the approval of smokers like yourself. Pushing Chesterfield EVERYWHERE YOU GO.