Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 27, 1941

Question of The Week

In the last issue of The Student, Wake Forest’s collegiate magazine, the main article concerned reinstating and improving the former friendly rivalry that existed between Davidson and Wake Forest. The entire break in friendly relations arose from a misunderstanding about athletic policies between the schools. The Student explained the facts of the situation as opposed to the numerous erroneous rumors that were spread abroad.

Are you in favor of resuming friendly relations, athletically and otherwise, with Wake Forest, and if so how do you think it can be affected?

Frank Caldwell, Senior:
After talking with officials about the incident several years ago, I sincerely believe we could not gain any amount of prestige by playing Wake Forest. I firmly realize that Wake Forest and Davidson have been arch-rivals in intercollegiate sports for many years, but with her (W. F.) “Big Time Athletes” in the past several years and our solid stand upon “Strictly Amateur Athletic,” I don’t see why we should renew our relations. The only reason I see why Wake Forest should want to renew relations is that after such a costly subsidation program by that institution and after some very nasty lickings she has received, she wants some college which has not been involved in subsidation which she thinks “by beating” can heighten prestige in the eyes of her alumni. I'll stand “pat” on this statement until she has slackened up in her “big-time athletic” policies.

Jim Owens, Senior:
I'm definitely in favor of resuming friendly relations with Wake Forest in everything, both sports and otherwise, except in football. Davidson shouldn't try to play schools which follow the policy of subsidation in football. We are too small and in no position to compete.

PAT RUDOLPH
MASON WALLACE
ED LUCAS
JULIEN McCALL
WALTER WOOTEN

ATTEND NEW YORK CONVENTION—Five seniors from the Pan-Hellenic Council left yesterday to attend the National Interfraternity Conference in New York and also to hear and interview prospective orchestras for the Mid-Winters dance set in February. Those attending include: Pat Rudolph, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council and representative of Phi Delta Theta; Mason Wallace, Treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of Kappa Alpha; Ed Lucas, representing Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Julien McCall, a member of Pi Kappa Phi; and Walter Wooten, representing Phi Gamma Delta.

Gamma Sig Is Founded Here
Local Chemistry Fraternity Is Now National
By CHARLES BROCKMANN

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary Chemistry fraternity, was founded at Davidson College on January 19, 1920. Among its charter members were Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle of the faculty and Professor Oscar J. Thies. Since its founding here at Davidson, the fraternity has grown into a national organization! There are now fifteen active chapters, representing institutions in Florida, Alabama, New York, Tennessee, Wyoming, Kentucky, Georgia, and Mississippi.

Scholastically High
The fraternity is principally scholastic, its primary purpose being to foster a more complete and intensive study of chemistry among college students. The founders felt the need of such an organization in the smaller institutions throughout the country. They felt that scholars in these schools deserved a reward for their efforts and a stimulus in their studies of chemistry. Since 1924, Gamma Sigma Epsilon has published a quarterly magazine telling of the progress of the fraternity and of current chemical research. There are only four complete files of this magazine, The Ray, in existence. Two of these files are at Davidson; one in the library; the other in the possession of Professor Thies.

FOREIGNERS [Continued from Page One]
Currie, Ralph Conrad, Bob McMullen, George Worth, and Jim Yates are students that have come from China recently. The homes of Gene Linton, Jim Kerr, Joe Hopper, and Rhea Preston are in Korea. Those boys from Africa are Hank Crane, John Miller, and Charlie McKee.

Pan-Hellenic President Rudolph Tells How Bands Are Signed Up.
National Interfraternity Conference Meets

Five seniors left the campus Wednesday for the joint purpose of attending the National Interfraternity Conference and hearing some of the major dance orchestras with the view of procuring a band for Mid-Winters. The delegation was composed of Pat Rudolph, Ed Lucas, Julien McCall, Mason Wallace, and Walter Wooten. Pan-Hellenic President Pat Rudolph was questioned as to some difficulties to be overcome before an orchestra can be signed up.

Rudolph’s Statement
“In the first place, a band should be found which is on tour in the vicinity during the dates of the dances. Naturally, it should be one which appeals to the largest possible percentage of students, and must be one whose price range is within our budget. This friendly relationship can be resumed by scheduling events with Wake Forest in sports and other lines, exchanging ideas through conferences, and contact through other means.”

Robert Carter, Senior:
Those of us who saw the two games of one football series with Wake Forest should realize the futility of our trying to compete with them on the gridiron. Since Wake Forest has established her sound subsidation program, even to the extent of W. P. A. funds, the two schools have very little in common. The only basis we can possibly mention for a renewal of the rivalry would be a debating match. Even along this line we should be careful, for it is reported that the Baptists are seeking the services of Isador Maturowitz, famous New York barrister.

Paul Kissling, Senior:
I can think of no valid reasons why we should not resume relations with Wake Forest. The very fact that Wake Forest seems anxious to renew our rivalry should serve as a challenge that we cannot well ignore. True, the Baptists have taken some of the starch out of recent Davidson football teams, but as long as we continue to meet such teams as Duke and Carolina without asking quarter, I can find no reason why we should attempt to evade a meeting with the Deacons on the gridiron. There is no question as to our meeting them on an even basis in other sports. I am in favor of resuming this ancient rivalry.

Davis Thomas, Senior:
I believe that we should resume association with Wake Forest. They have always been traditional rivals of Davidson and the students of both schools have always looked forward to the various athletic contests between the two. Even though they seem to have a stronger football team at present, this may not be so later, and as for other sports, Davidson has as good if not better teams than Wake Forest. There have been numerous rumors as to why we broke off relations with them, but none of them have ever been verified. Each school seems to think the other is at fault. However, I think both schools are now willing to overlook what has happened in the past and once more have pleasant but spirited athletic association.

Bob Wood, Sophomore:
If there is anything that makes for a great football game it is “spirit” and the will to win. We have heard a great deal about the lack of Davidson spirit, and the ol’ pep that the alumni brag about. Those were the days when D. C. played Wake Forest, and played hard. She played that game like she played no other. Every Davidson man yelled.

Y’S CORNER (Continued from page three)
Gordan Skirrow hasn't finished Davidson yet so we can't say he has fulfilled his promise to himself. But he has made a good impression about his desire! You've had better friends; wish you good, regardless. That kind of power will keep it up. Skwee-ruece had thoughts there and there to show that our football team is all right, OK, and P.D. (plenty diligent). We are surely glad to have Mr. Espry around. Hope he will come back. M. Bush has done good work on the gift fund. John Whitaker gave us something to think about. See Stanley Jones would have done the same.his head off, every freshman, for the first time, saw “Fightn’ Wildcats” and the spirit! Here’s one way to revive the Saturday nights when there will be six hundred hoarse voices instead of half a dozen. If Wake Forest wants to play us by the rules of the game, let’s show them how it’s done with eleven of the Wildest Cats they’ve ever seen!

Claude Hackney, Senior: Davidson and Wake Forest can never satisfactorily resume athletic relations. Friendly competition between schools is fine. It generates spirit that is always essential to an athletic contest; but when friendly competition degrades into a bitter rivalry, it should not be settled through athletic games. This condition now exists between Davidson and Wake Forest. It cannot be wiped out by a layoff of two years. It’s bound to flare up again. Why should we encourage it?

1,500 Will Attend Youth Convention On World Mission, Dec. 30-Jan. 1
By JOHN FAIRLEY.

“Meet me in Memphis,” the rallying cry for the second quadrennial Youth Convention on World Missions at Memphis, Tenn., December 30, 1941-January 1, 1942, seems to have fallen on fertile ground here, for Davidson will probably be represented by a large delegation. Still, it will be only a small part of the 1,500 young people from outside of Memphis and several hundred from the city itself expected to attend the conference.

Purpose of Conclave

The stated purpose of the convention, “which has the aim of confronting Presbyterian Youth of this student generation with the world's present desperate need of Christ, and Christ's challenge to them as they face that need,” is an enterprise of the whole Southern Presbyterian Church and is sponsored by the four Executive Committees and endorsed by the General Assembly. In December 1937, the first such convention was held in Atlanta, Ga., and proved very successful in creating an interest in World Missions among young people of the college. In fact, the Atlanta gathering was regarded so favorably that early in 1940 demands began to arise from various sources for a second convention, and the result is the Memphis Convention during the coming Christmas holidays.

Director for this convention will be the Rev. W. Norman Cook, of Richmond, Va., Director of Young Peoples work in the Assembly. Most of the delegates will be of the college age group, 18-25, but any college student or member of a synod’s young peoples’ council is eligible to attend regardless of age.

Number Limited

However, as the convention is limited to 1,500, each synod has been given a quota or limit, and in addition many synods have divided their quota among their presbyteries. Many of the speakers and leaders for the convention, all of whom are outstanding religious leaders, have been on the Davidson campus. Dr. W. T. Thompson, of Richmond, Va., an outstanding alumnus of the college, will speak on “God's Will for His World,” and Mr. R. H. York, who spoke in chapel this morning, will present “The Church in the World Today.” Dr. C. Darby Fulton, the Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions, and Edwin Espy, of New York, will address the group.

Davidson Students To Attend World Conclave In Memphis

The band selection process falls within certain well-defined limits. “After the desired band has been selected, a signed contract accompanied by a deposit has to be sent to the booking agent in New York, who in turn sends it to the leader. The leader must then sign it and return it to the booking agent, who records it and returns it to the dance committee.”

The name of the orchestra to be announced for the Mid-Winters will be made public before Christmas, as soon as the contract comes back signed. “The dances will be held in the Charlotte armory; two tea dances will be given in addition to two formals.”

Interfraternity Conference

When not interviewing band leaders, the five delegates will be attending one of the sessions of the National Interfraternity Conference, whose purpose it is to discuss questions of mutual interest to the fraternities represented and to act in an advisory capacity. The headquarters of the Conference will be at the Commodore Hotel, where business sessions will be held Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

One of the highlights of the three days is a joint interfraternity dinner to be held Friday night, at which Lowell Thomas will preside as toastmaster. The invocation will be delivered by the Right Reverend St. George Tucker, Presiding Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church.

DR. HARDING REFUSES (Continued from Page Three)

house with one large hole and eight little ones.

Still Owns Locomobile

Another interesting feature in his life is his Locomobile whose pedigree began in the early part of the 20th century. Even though it is antiquated, it leads a life of dignity. Dr. Harding said, “He had no hopes of out-living his car as it runs like new, even now.”

Defense principals have become, with this humorous man of four score years, a bit of reflex-action. His father, Dr. Ephraim Harding, was an elegant minister who lived to the age of 91. His mother, Mary Dabney Richmond, lived to see her eighty-first birthday. Few professors have contributed as much to the atmosphere of Davidson as has Dr. Harding.

ROTC Awards Are Exhibited

Medals Given For Drill And Marksmanship

Medals and awards given by the Davidson Military Department each year to qualifying members of the drilled freshmen, and to the best squad and platoon, have arrived and will soon be placed on display in the Armory. Instead of the black and red bars and medals given last year to freshmen qualifying as marksman, sharpshooter, and expert, respectively, the awards this year will be a medal with the rating embossed on them in raised letters.

Freshmen Complete

Freshmen, now in the process of preparatory range training, will shoot a record course of 20 shots—5 standing, 5 sitting, 5 kneeling, and 5 prone, for a possible score of 200. In order to qualify for marksman, a man must shoot a score of at least 120; for sharpshooter, 140; and for the highest rating—expert, 170.

In addition, the usual awards will be given to members of the rifle team. The team will be selected by tryouts in the near future, and will begin firing shortly after Christmas. Each member of the team will receive a silver medal with red and black bunting, and the high man on the team will be awarded a gold medal with blue bunting.

Drill Awards

The last awards will be given next May at the competitive drill competitions. Silver cups will be awarded to the best drilled company and the best drilled platoon in the battalion. The cups will become the personal property of the company and platoon commanders, and will have the company and platoon and other data engraved on them. They will be placed on display in the upstairs hall of the Armory, in a special glass case.

N. C. FRENCH (Continued from Page One)

After the speaker’s talk there will be a discussion of Chapter business and the meeting will be brought to a close by Miss Katherine Tighe, President, of Nashville.

221 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A final message on “We Dedicate Ourselves.”

Students Attending

Among those who will unofficially represent Davidson at the convention will probably be Alf Taylor, Jr., Charlie Parrish, Dick Coppedge, Jim McCrary, Jesse Wooten, Jimmy Fulcher, and Bobby Miller. In addition, there will probably be several others whose names are not mentioned, as a complete list has not yet been made by the committee.

W. H. Goodrum & Co. GENERAL MERCHANDISE Hardware and Groceries Davidson, N. C.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING... RESTAURANT Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

World Champion Rodeo Rider EDDIE CURTIS

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Out on the range it’s “Howdy partner, have a Chesterfield.” That's true Western hospitality. For bringing smokers together, giving them exactly what they want, Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is right at the top. There is more downright pleasure in Chesterfield’s COOL MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE than in anything else you ever smoked. Make your next pack Chesterfield.