New President Assumes Duties

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Faculty Changes One-Day Rule

Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1941. No. 14

Paragraphics By THE EDITOR

Davidson's socialites unlaced their famous shin-guards last weekend and enjoyed one of the best sets in years to the music
of Will Bradley. Congratulations to the Pan-Hellenic Council for a fine set, and for a very novel feature at the
Friday night formal.

Senor Gilberto Colina, hailing from the province of Santa Clara in Cuba, showed the experts a thing or two new
on Saturday night, when he combined a real Cuban rhumba with a snaky white handkerchief before the large crowd which
immediately gathered to watch. His stuff was straight Latin Fire.

Many thanks to Billy Barker and Earl Stutts for their hard work and late hours in developing and printing the
photos to be seen on page five of this edition, especially since it is gratis.

This weekend the Music Department holds their annual festival, with such famed artists as the University of Michigan Little Symphony
Orchestra, Dupre Rhame, and Mrs. Arthur Rohr. Claude Hackney sings also for the occasion.

Spring football has now begun. If the cold weather continues, it won't do anyone any good, but Jay Bolin’s six
weeks reported return next fall will help in the backfield, besides other men now ineligible who'll be on deck.

The campus actually looked like a big university last weekend, with myriads of cars, girls, and visitors flocking to the
grounds, especially around fraternity court and boarding-houses nearby. The appearance is in great contrast to the desolate day before.

May we never have another weekend with so many unfortunate accidents in the town. A family of negro children were
burned Friday, and an entire carload of persons either killed or critically injured late Saturday night between Davidson and Charlotte.
How false rumors spread concerning such things.—W.A.D.

Judge Orders Frosh To Don Missing Caps

Bolin Promises Severe Punishment To All Offenders

Jay Bolin, Judge of the Court of Control, made an announcement in chapel last Monday morning, warning all freshmen to
wear their caps and abide by all the other regulations beginning at 12:30 of the same day. About dinner time
quite a number of caps were restored to their places after about a month's vacation. The number of caps jumped
from about ten to a hundred and fifty. The same day Bolin announced that there would be a meeting of
the court the following Wednesday. On Monday ten names were turned in to the Court. Bolin said that strict compus
would be the penalty of these men and any other who violated the rule. He mentioned that a new type
of punishment, a severe one, had been considered and might be imposed if freshmen didn’t do better. He even went
so far as to say that the whole class might be campused until June with the exception of the Spring
holidays and a few days thereafter. Bolin said that he hoped no such punishments would be necessary but they would
be harsh unless all regulations were followed.

CUNNINGHAM RECEIVES KEY

Pictured above is the chapel ceremony in which Dr. John R. Cunningham (right) received the key to the president's office
from the hands of Davidson's retiring president, Dr. Walter L. Lingle. This ceremony marks the beginning of Dr. Cunningham’s official
relation with the college.

New President Pledges Efforts To Uphold Standards Of College

Bradley Says Students Are Best Audience

Boogie-Woogie Maestro Prefers College Dances To Location Work

“Yes, the band had much rather play for college dances than regular public engagements. Students show a greater enthusiasm and
enjoyment for music than the average person.” Thus commented the famous rhythm maestro, Will Bradley, who just completed a college
engagement.

Bradley broke forth into the story of his famous Boogie-Woogie. Many years ago in Kansas City, Freddy Slack and other
band members were playing with another band and they heard the boogie beat used. This put ideas into their heads
and Slack immediately began learning the difficult beat. After the trio had left their former posts and were together with
their own band, they began to develop this idea of boogie music that they had been fostering for several years.
By this time Slack had conquered the method so he began to work with the whole band using the piano
and the drums as a basic part. The most famous of the boogie tunes produced by this band is Beat
Me Daddy Eight To A Bar. Since this tune was cut, many more have come out of their hands. Bradley’s
best cheer is that today his band is the greatest exponent of boogie music.

Several of the leading bands today use some form of this rhythm, but no one knows where it came from.
Mr. Bradley said that there were some hints of its origin in the vicinity of Kansas City, but that it
would be impossible to trace it accurately.

When asked his opinion of the new dance requests that he had been getting for this new dance step, Bradley
said that the number of fans was increasing and that he thought it would become more and more popular as
the number of fans increased.

Dr. Cunningham, visiting other colleges during the month of February in order to become acquainted with the duties he will
have as a college president and to see how the work of other colleges is carried on, said that the
public places confidence in Davidson students. This confidence, he said, is based on the high ideals of Christian life and
service found at the college in the character of its alumni. He mentioned several instances when he had met people
in various walks of life who acclaimed Davidson as the college where they would want to send their sons.

President Cunningham pledged himself to the preservation of the high ideals of Davidson and urged the help of students and
faculty. The Church College, he said, “will survive only while the same thing other than academic excellence is found in
the character of its students.”Dr. Lingle Introduces Cunningham To Student Body At Chapel Friday

Dr. John R. Cunningham dedicated efforts to the upholding of Davidson ideals and charged the student body and administration to
keep the school’s traditions, as he took over the presidency of Davidson in a ceremony in chapel last Friday morning.
Chambers auditorium was full of students, faculty, townspeople, and visitors. Dr. Walter Lingle, retiring president, presented Dr. Cunningham the key
to the president's office. Dr. Lingle said that Dr. Cunningham, in receiving the key, officially became president of Davidson. Dr.
Cunningham outlined his plans.

O.D.K. Plans

At their last meeting on February 3, the ODK discussed the choice of delegates and general plans for the National
Convention of ODK, to be held March 13, 14, 15 in Baton Rouge, La. The following committees were also announced:
Committee on the Freshman Class: Bill Loftin, Bob Finley, Casey Jones. Dancing Committee: Winston Taylor, McDuffie, McLean. New Gym and
Fraternity Walk Committee: Hank Bahnson, Hewes Parrish, Dick Arnold.

New York Job In Radio Firm Given Brengle

Former Davidson Dramatics Instructor Accepts Advertising Offer

Mr. George Brengle, formerly of the dramatic department of station WSOC in Charlotte, has accepted a position with a radio
advertising firm in New York. Last fall, Mr. Brengle conducted a series of dramatic classes at Davidson and personally supervised
the production of the Red and Black Masquers’ play “Margin for Error.” Mr. Brengle had had extensive dramatic experience before
he became connected with radio work. He is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University where he participated in college dramatics.
He then acted with and directed several stock companies, including a group of Shakespearean players. While at Davidson, Mr. Brengle
held classes every week, at which he discussed and illustrated phases of dramatics.

Faculty Suspends The Section Of Fraternity Initiation Rule Restricting Rites To One Day

Mid-Winters Has “Boogie”

By Bradley Drum And Piano Rhythm, Ring Ceremony, Snow Men Feature Dances

Davidson’s annual Mid-Winter Set was held last weekend at the Charlotte Armory, for which Will Bradley and his orchestra provided
the music. The set, sponsored by the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Council, included an informal tea-dance both Friday and Saturday afternoons, a
formal dance Friday night, and an informal Saturday night. Bradley’s orchestra featured the vocals of Phyllis Myles and Jimmy Valentine,
in addition to the well-known Ray McKinley at the piano. After leaving Davidson, Will Bradley will play for dance sets
at Georgia Tech, the University of Alabama, and the University of Tennessee.

Highlighting the Friday dance was the Pan-Hellenic figure, in which the nine members of the council and their dates from
each fraternity took part. The theme of the figure, “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar,” was taken from the
song that Bradley made famous. The figure was directed by the council and featured a small bar decorated in red
and black, in which were settings for small glasses with a favor in each one. The orchestra played a brief
rendition of “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar,” then started the figure. Each president of the council led his
date to one of the glasses, after which the two walked behind the bar to present the remaining couples with
their favors. As each couple promenaded around the ballroom and received their glasses, they formed in the middle of the
floor in a figure eight. When the “eight” was completed, the lights were dimmed, and each boy took the favor,
which was a ring, and placed it on his date’s finger. He kissed her, and the dancing continued with a
no-break. Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council and their dates included Miss Martha Bowman with Hector McLean, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss
Molly Bellamy with Winston Taylor, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Mackey Kony with Louis Hite, Pi Kappa Phi; (Continued on Page
Six)

Print Catalog

Davidson College's Catalog for 1941 has now gone to press and will be published in the latter part of February.
Of main interest to students in the new catalog are the changes in the requirements for major study. These new
requirements for a major will go into effect with the graduating class of 1943, affecting only the present sophomores and
freshmen and succeeding classes. Those now juniors and seniors will not be affected by the new regulations.

Philanthropic Elects Brown As President

Other New Officers Include McEachern, White, Smith, And Farrior

At their meeting on Tuesday, the Philanthropic Society elected Eldridge Brown as President. Other officers elected were McEachern as Vice-President,
White as Secretary, Smith as Treasurer, and Farrior as Critic. The Society also discussed the eligibility of those applying for
membership. Applicants must have a certain number of credits to be eligible. The first paper of the second semester will
be due March 11. It can be in the form of a paper, story, or play, and must be original.
A social event is planned for the near future by the Society.

Thirty University of North Dakota engineering college seniors have completed mine rescue and first aid courses given by the United
States Bureau of Mines.

SYMPHONY PLAYS HERE

Pictured above is the University of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra, which will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Saturday
afternoon, February 8th, at 4 o'clock, the fourth of a series presented by Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia. The University of
Michigan organized the Little Symphony in 1934, and since that time it has played for approximately two hundred concerts all
over the country. Claude Hackney, a Davidson student, will be featured as soloist. Tickets may be obtained from Louis Hite.

Second Section Forbidding Horse-Play Will Continue In Full Force

YEAR TRIAL

All Constructive Training Is Encouraged

The second section of the fraternity initiation rule, which forbids horse-play, will continue in full force. The faculty wishes to
encourage all constructive training and activities. The Pan-Hellenic Council has also expressed its support for this rule.
