Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, May 8, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JACK COVINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor: Bob Garvey
Associate Editor: Bobby Carter
Associate Editor: Dick Cobb
Associate Editor: W. C. Plunkett
Associate Editor: Al Winn
Associate Editor: Ed Erwin
Managing Editor: Joe Eve
Managing Editor: Jimmy Fulcher
Managing Editor: Billy Lyman
Managing Editor: Henry McIntosh
Sports Editor: Lacy McLean
Movie Editor: David Vosburgh

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: Tom Plowden
Manager: Dick Kelly
Circulation Manager: Ed Scott
Circulation Manager: Charlie Watt
Collection Manager: John Crichton
Subscription Manager: Baxter Freeze

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain defamatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

A survey of letters in the file of Scabbard and Blade, ROTC fraternity, is adequate proof of the value which
the leading educators and business men of this country place upon the service being rendered by such units as ours.
Particular emphasis was placed by these men upon the training in cooperation, responsibility, punctuality, proper address, dress, poise, and kindred
things which our curriculum, in its hurry, sometimes overlooks. College presidents throughout the land praised the effort to impress respect
for authority, organization, and the further development of right habits. On the other hand, none of them found this program
to inculcate “militarism” or an eagerness for war. From personal knowledge, you will find that the officers of our army
are among the strongest for peace. They know what kind of business war is.

The highlight of this course is the summer camp which all rising seniors attend for six weeks in the first
of the summer. It is an experience never to be forgotten. I think if you ask each man who attended
at some time what his chief benefit was, he will undoubtedly point to some fact which has done much to
broaden his general scope. To live with, eat with, work with, be tired with, go through all kinds of experiences
with other college men, all gathered for the same purpose of instruction, benefits beyond belief. For six weeks each man
is given a chance to show just what he can do. The camp is a natural stimulus for Davidson spirit
of an intercollegiate nature, and Davidson men have made a record of which anyone can be proud. The goodwill and
reputation of Davidson is spread to regions never reached through our ordinary connections. Newly made officers of our unit each
year, jittery and tense at first, soon settle themselves in the drill field into men capable of judgment, instruction, action,
thought, and poise. Most of all, they can stand on their own two feet and talk, head erect and eyes
straight, a quality that not everyone gains in college. As an instructor, he accustoms himself to an audience and devotes
his whole energy to getting across his point. Briefly, this is an idea but it may show some points which
our local ROTC unit is putting into the mill run of “getting an education.” Such a program certainly has been,
is, and will be, a valuable asset to any college curriculum.

J. H. McDUFFIE, JR.

IMPORTANCE OF THE R. O. T. C.
With National Defense being so strongly impressed upon our ears, minds, and very hearts these days, what part is the
ROTC playing in this development? What is the value of this investment which our nation has seen fit to make
since the close of the last war, and closer still, what is the value of the Advanced ROTC course to
the past, present, and future men of Davidson College?

Today, as our army is rapidly expanding, almost sixty percent of the officers on duty with the Regular Army units
in the field are from the Reserve Corps and almost ninety percent of the lieutenants are Reserve Officers. These percentages
are steadily increasing. It is a proven fact that these men are fitting smoothly into the Regular Units and this
is a tribute indeed to the fine training being offered in the ROTC units of our universities and colleges. These
men are serving not only in the United States’ continental limits but also in the garrisons of our outlying possessions.
Brig. Gen. Hester in a recent address to members of the ROTC said, “Those of you who are called or
ordered to active duty need not have any fears as to whether you can make good with Regular Army units
or any other units. I want to impress this upon you because I know what I am talking about. I
have seen them come in and I have seen them work. Your training in the Reserve Officers Training Corps will
qualify you to take over and do your job and do it well. So, have confidence in your ability when
you do report to your first duty after getting your commission.”

Still more interesting or of more concern is the thought about the merit of this training which our own Infantry
Unit offers in respect to our past, present, and future men of Davidson. I say past men because, if their
training has been or is of no value to them now, then there’s no need for the present or future.
ROTC students have a program in our curriculum which the non-participants definitely do not experience. It is a program too
varied, too extensive, too instructive to be surmised briefly in a sentence. It is an all-around course in physical, mental,
and social development. Academic work in the classroom, exercise in the field, and the comradeship which only men-of-arms possess, make
up a schedule for four years at college. Mark this carefully.

VALUE OF TRAINING
The international situation is critical. The situation of the United States is perilous. To preserve our democratic way of life
and maintain our standard of living, we must be prepared to defend our country and ourselves. To do this calls
for fiber in our people. It means that we must deprive ourselves of some luxuries and liberties that we have
been accustomed to. It means that we must have discipline and order. To adequately cope with a would-be aggressor, our
people must be strong and fearless. Have we become soft? Have we carried the idea of doing as we please
too far? Have our young people sufficient sense of discipline?

The R. O. T. C. Course at Davidson provides a source of teaching and training in which the student learns
that he must be able to sacrifice his personal desires and whims for the good of the common cause. He
learns that he must be able to obey orders. It is true that the R. O. T. C. student finds
his military work exacting and definite. But it is through such training that people will be able to adequately meet
any crisis that arises. It is only through this type of training that we can become hard enough to cope
with any force that threatens our national well-being.

DON’T MISS:
Page one from Dr. Cunningham concerning deferment.
The letter appearing under the column “Letters to the Editors” which comes from Clemson, S.C., where the summer R. O.
T. C. camp will be held.
Exam schedule on page six.

THIS issue of the Davidsonian features the letter to the student body appearing on page one from Dr. Cunningham concerning
deferment.

FROM CLEMSON:
(Supplied by the Clemson News Service, Clemson, S.C.)

Clemson, S.C. May.—To the R. O. T. C. students of the 4th Corps Area Colleges and Universities who will attend
camp this summer:

Clemson College is proud to be your host for the 1941 version of Uncle Sam's R. O. T. C. House
Party, and College officials and residents of this little community anxiously await the opportunity to give you a warm welcome.
Since you are to be with us for a period of six weeks, you probably are interested in “what it's
like at Clemson.” Your families are also wondering what kind of place you are going to and how you will
be taken care of. This brief article has been chosen as a means to inform both you and your parents
something of what to expect.

First and foremost is the comforting assurance that each night you are here will be spent in a dry and
comfortable bed, the same beds Clemson College cadets sleep in from September until June. A fellow who has a comfortable
bed to tumble into every night can stand a lot of wear and tear during the day. You will sleep
two and three to a room approximately nine by twelve feet. And if the way to a man’s heart is
through his stomach, you are going to love it around these parts. You will be fed in the spacious Clemson
College mess hall from the most spic and span kitchen you ever saw. Captain J. D. Harcombe, the genial Tigertown
mess officer who has made Clemson men grow big and healthy for upward of twenty years, will see to it
that you are well fed. Thus the two primary worries of man—his bed and his meals—need not concern you further.
You'll like them both.

You will be in a healthy climate, right at the foot of the Blue Ridge mountains. Clemson is one of
those few places where when it rains it pours and when the sun shines, it does it gloriously. The days
can be hot and your work may make them hotter, but the nights will be cool and you'll be using
a blanket in the early hours of every morning—provided Uncle Sam doesn’t rouse you out of bed about the same
time you start groping the covers.

To give you a general bird's eye view of Clemson College itself: This is an institution with an enrollment of
2,340 all—R. O. T. C. students. It was designed and is operated nine months in a year for just such
fellows as yourselves. It should be admirably adapted to take excellent care of your needs for the summer. You will
sleep in planned barracks; drill maneuvers on the spacious campus, one of the most naturally beautiful in this section of
the country; and have constant advantage of such things as the Clemson Hospital, the well-stocked Clemson Library, the Y. M.
C. A. swimming pool, Clemson’s varsity baseball diamond, a large parade ground for softball and other outdoor sports, the tennis
courts, and countless other little items that will weave together to make your stay here both comfortable and interesting.

A word of warning, however: Don’t look for too soft a bed of roses. Uncle Sam very probably has quite
a list of his own plans jotted down and there is every reason to believe that you're in for a
lot of pretty hard work. But hard work has hurt relatively few people. Clemson does not say that your days
will not be filled with challenges, but it does promise that you will have the facilities and support to meet
them head-on.be work days; Clemson only says that the folks here will do everything possible to make your work more
enjoyable. * Clemson News Service, JOE SHERMAN. Film: Report_Card CLARENCE LEGERTON Thursday and Friday May 8 and 9 The Penalty
* Arnold Marsha Hunt * * Edward more Lionel drama of a regenerated boy the solidity it needs to be
an outstanding show. Edward Arnold plays a cold cruel criminal who brings up his son, Gene Reynolds, in his law-breaking
footsteps. The son is caught, however, and after serving a period in a reform school, is released into the custody
of a young farmer and his grandfather, Lionel Barrymore. Under their influence, the boy gradually reforms himself and refuses to
be influenced by his father, who later meets his just deserts.

Saturday May 10 Ride On Vaquero Cesar Romero, Mary Beth Hughes, Lynne Roberts, and Crispin Martin. This is another of
the popular “Cisco Kid" series, in which the leading part is taken by Cesar Romero. Mary Beth Hughes lends the
feminine angle to this story of the golden west. The late show Saturday night is I would like for Joe
McCoy to be the guest of the theatre for any show this week.

Monday and Tuesday May 12 and 13 Men of Boy’s Town Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney, Bobs Watson, and Larry Nunn.
Boy’s Town having been such a box-office hit, it was quite natural to have a sequel with Spencer Tracy as
the understanding Father Flanagan and Mickey Rooney as Whitey Marsh. This time Mickey is the mayor of the City of
Little Men. The plot revolves around Father Flanagan, who takes in a little crippled boy named Ted Martley; Ted has
been convicted of killing a brutal guard at the reform school, and Father Flanagan tries to rehabilitate the embittered boy.
When Whitey goes to the reformatory to investigate one of Ted’s friends, he finds himself a prisoner alongside Miles Fenley,
the boy he tried to help. When the cruel guards beat up the two boys, Miles is so badly injured
that he dies, and Father Flanagan comes to Whitey's rescue and—But that would be telling. This production is more sentimental
than its predecessor, and may be a little thick, but the same remarkable character portrayals by Tracy and Rooney make
this a show not to be missed.

Wednesday May 14 Bargain Day Two shows are on the bill for this day, both equally worth seeing. They are
“Man Made Monster” and “Horror Island.” Coming soon: Ziegfeld Girl with Lana Turner, Jimmy Stewart, Hedy Lamarr, and Judy Garland.
Great American Broadcast with Alice Faye, John Payne and Jack Oakie.

OWENS NAMES [Continued from Page One] Retiring members of the cabinet are: Jim Owens, Vespers and Church Relations; Charles Watt,
Sunday Schools; Bill Loftin, Deputations; J. B. Flynn, Social Life; Bill Boyte, World Evangelism; Lawson Withers, Publications; J. R. Jones
and Albert Winn, Boys’ Work; Eldridge Brown, Community Service; Bob Finley, Freshman Work; Henry Bahnson, Student Government Representative; Bob Johnson
and Ralph Williams, Spiritual Development; and Paul Crane, Chapel Services. These men were led during the past year by Ed
Watson, President; Charles Watt, Vice-President; and Jim Owens, Vice-President.

GLEE CLUB TAKES TRIP The music department of Davidson has an active schedule for the next few weeks. Prof. Thane
McDonald has planned a tour for all eligible members of the Glee Club. This trip, which will be taken on
May 10 and 11 by about 35 members, will feature concerts in Sanatorium, N. C. on Saturday afternoon; Red Springs,
Saturday morning and afternoon; and Wadesboro, Sunday night. The band program will feature concerts to be given each Tuesday night
by the Davidson Band. Special programs have been planned for these events, which will be given in front of the
Chambers building.

I’ve ever heard in my whole life and how much I enjoyed the dances. Yehudi’s Yowls By Yehudi Spring Frolics,
better known as Flush Frolics, have come and gone. In all the history of Davidson dances this column has never
known so many disappointed (?) young men. The most unusual flush-of-the-week came to “Buzzie”—he got one collect. This poor soul
was not the only one to suffer, other operators being just as much on the losing end. Jumping Joe Liles
received no less than five of those sweet notes telling of his defeat. We don’t know but what he might
have finally gotten one—the law of averages is more just than that. “Ookie” tried and failed four times, and “Looie
Blooie” was caught on the phone, begging, on the eve of the dances.

While speaking of dances and flushes there is a time each year when a queen is crowned at most schools:
the May Queen. We have our own May Queen—“May come or May not”—who hails from Winston-Salem and is the undisputed
Queen of the Flush. She got here for Homecoming, flushed “Angel” Wooten for Mid-Winters, “Deadpan” for Military Set, and ended
up by turning down Ookie for the Flush Frolics. Some record. Well, keep on trying, fellows, Carolina and Duke dances
or no Carolina and Duke Dances. Murphy is going to get some new red hankies so the laundry won't know
how many dates he has each week. Hobbie flushed Vos on his late date with the date of the first
party by keeping her up most of the night. The “Jin” and barbecue at Chapel Hill, boys, very very early
Sunday morning got many many of the fellows on the run.

Incidentally, this columnist suggests that Mr. Gaffney, he of the know-all, see-all, and tell-nothing fame, establish a flush-of-the-dance club, and
award at the Friday formal of each dance set either a silver mug or a free ticket to see CASANOVA
RIDES AGAIN to the lad whose flush note was best of all. Another story this one about Greasy Greek Long,
known miles around by the fairer sex by his first name (even as far north as Lynchburg), was visiting in
Charlotte one night last week when he received a call from the student store telling him he had company that
had come all the way from Greensboro to see him. She was so obstinate she wouldn't leave the stud till
she had seen Greek. Friends, and I hope I have a few left, I give good advice when I say
that Yehudi and Cupid are the best of friends, so don’t fool with one unless you expect the other.

Down Pat BY PAT RUDOLPH TWO LETTERS RECEIVED RECENTLY BY DAVIDSON STUDENTS, OR: THE RISE AND FALL OF THE YOUTH
OF TODAY.

However, another letter was brought to our attention which merits the respect and admiration of every student:

Dear Boris: I just don’t know how to tell you how much I enjoyed the dances. Charlie Spivak is the
best orchestra I’ve ever heard in my whole life and his vocalist was so good. I’m going to listen to
Charlie from now on when he plays on the radio. Didn't you love the way he played “Intermezzo?” Dearest One:
I am sending this letter S. D. A. M. because I couldn't wait to let you know that I arrived
home safely, although the trip on that airliner was pretty rough. My mascara started to drool when we reached 10,000
feet; as a matter of fact, I could hardly write this letter because my fountain pen bled all over the
stationery. You know how altitude affects liquids. So I decided to wait until I got both feet on the ground
before I told you what a marvelous time I had at Davidson. Everything was certainly pretty rooty-tooty, all right. The
music was wonderful, but that was a minor detail in my weekend. Just seeing you for those few cherished hours
was heaven. I had dreamed and thought for weeks about seeing you. I even had a calendar to mark the
days and hours off like you boys do at school. I'm going right down to the music store and buy
some of his records. It'll be so nice to have Flower Mae and Gussie Lou in to hear the records.
I can tell them how I actually heard him play in person at the Davidson dances. Wasn't that cute of
him to introduce his whole band at the tea dance Saturday afternoon? Katy Mae said that she was going to
get some of his records, too. She has so many boyfriends, and I really don't see how she does it,
because she never gets to the dance till late and she always leaves early. It seems to me that she
would want to be there all the time so everyone can notice her and see her new dress. I'm sorry
that I had to go right to bed after each dance, but I'm in training for our hockey team here
at school. Gee, I can hardly wait until y'all have Spivak again. He was so good. As ever, Give all
the boys in the fraternity my love. They are all such wonderful fellows. Johnny is a swell boy, but don’t
worry, dear. There is only one you, and I'll never forsake you for someone else. I'm sorry that this has
to be so short, but I've got to get it off on this next plane. I'll be waiting for you
with open arms next weekend. Devotedly, YOUR SWEETHEART. (Ain't she a honey, though).
