Thurs., Feb. 6, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

MUSIC FESTIVAL TO BE HELD HERE THIS WEEKEND | HACKNEY IS FEATURED

Programs Will Be In Chambers Auditorium Saturday and Sunday.

The third annual Davidson College Music Festival will be held at Davidson and at Queens College in Charlotte for two
days, Saturday and Sunday, February 8 and 9.

Featured will be the University of Michigan Little Symphony, under the direction of Thor Johnson, which has played here for
music festivals in the past and is well-known to the students.

The two-day program will be divided into three parts, the first to be held in the auditorium of Chambers Saturday
afternoon at 4 o'clock.

Appearing on the program as featured vocalist in this afternoon performance will be Claude Hackney, baritone, with the Little Symphony
and the Davidson Glee Club under the direction of Thane McDonald.

This event is being sponsored by the local chapter of Phi Mu Alpha as part of their musical series.

As the second part of the festival, the University of Michigan Little Symphony will present its concert at Queens College,
sponsored by the Queens musical organizations, on Saturday night at 8:15 o'clock.

The climax of the weekend will be the program presented in the place of the regular Sunday night vespers at
Davidson in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30 by the combined Davidson-Queens Choral Clubs, the Davidson Festival Chorus, the University of Michigan
Little Symphony, and the Davidson-Queens Orchestra and Brass Choir, under the direction of Prof. James Christian Pfohl.

The program will consist of a presentation of the famous "Messe Solennelle" by Gounod, sung in English. Soloists will be
Mrs. Arthur Rohr, soprano, Mr. Clifford Bair, baritone, and Mr. Dupre Rhame, bass. Mrs. Rohr is director of Public School
Music in the Kannapolis schools, and is a graduate of the Shenandoah Conservatory in Virginia.

Mr. Bair has studied in Europe and America, was a member of the Chicago Opera Company for some time, and
is now head of the voice department at Salem College in Winston-Salem.

Mr. Rhame is Director of Voice at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. He has had a great deal of experience
all over the state.

BASS SOLOIST

Mr. Dupre Rhame, bass soloist, who will sing Sunday night at 7:30 in the final program of the Queens-Davidson Music
Festival. Mr. Rhame will sing “Messe Solennelle” by Gounod with Mrs. Arthur Rohr, soprano and Mr. Clifford Bair, tenor.

SOPRANO

This soprano soloist will participate in Saturday's concert. Mrs. Rohr is very well known and is director of Public School
Music in Kannapolis.

Pre-Med Frat Initiates New Members

Marion Mobley and Bill Sprunt Inducted Into Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Marion Mobley and Bill Sprunt were inducted into the Davidson chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary fraternity for students taking
pre-medical work, in a meeting held Wednesday night.

Alpha Epsilon Delta has various medical authorities to speak at its meetings from time to time. At present, the meetings
are to be held monthly.

Camera Club Plans Exhibit In March

Spring Exhibition by Camera Club Will Be Presented In March.

The Davidson Camera Club is planning a spring exhibition to be held in March. The club has been active in
promoting interest in photography among the students and faculty.

THE GREEKS

Pi Kappa Phi

Most of the brothers went to Charlotte this weekend for the Mid-Winters dances. Friday night the chapter entertained at a
formal banquet at Hotel Charlotte, which was well attended. Brother Paul Bumbarger, acting as toastmaster, told the usual jokes and
introduced the brothers’ dates. The chapter was pleased to have as guests for the banquet Dr. and Mrs. G. R.
Yowles and Mrs. E. F. Shewmake.

The dates of the brothers and pledges for the weekend were Margaret Patterson, Jane Smith, Peggy Beattie, Rose Reed, Martha
Bowman, Monte Nicholson, Dot Haygood, Jackie Burns, Buddy Gregg, Sholie Neill, Rachael Stewart, Mary Johnson, Peggy Parsley, Mary Louise Hovis,
Willowdean Rion, Mary Hollis, Marilyn Reaves, Julie Constantine, Anna Cole, Ruth Hollifield, Caroline Clements, Dot McCall, Betsy Armistead, “Peanuts” Chamblee,
Wilma Harvey, Ti McCormick, Kitty McCoy, Nitty Ward, Julia Bridger, Jane Henderson.

Among the alumni who returned were Ray McKinley, drummer, and others.

Phi Gamma Delta

A formal party was given at the fraternity house after the Saturday night dance. A banquet was held in the
Rose Room of the Hotel Charlotte. Special guests included Ray McKinley, drummer, and others.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Among the Sigma Alpha Epsilon dates were Gretchen Jayne, Jane Smith, and others.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Sigma Phi Epsilon takes pleasure in announcing the initiation into the fraternity of Dave Vosburgh, Phi Gamma Delta, and others.Polly
Hester, Jane Rose-Bennett, Winkie Taggart, Betty Gatine, Charlotte; Mr. Rhame is now Director of Caroline Garner, and Margaret. For the
occasion were George Fick, Gladys Tace, Charlotte; Caroline Webb. Starts Monday in Voice at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. All
of these soloists have had experience in oratorical work all over the state. Alumni present for the occasion were George
Fick, Betty Patterson, Agnes Scott; Virginia Woodhead of Aiken, S.C., Mackey King of Columbia, S.C., Peggy Graham; Ruth Wilkes, Charlotte;
Betty Jean Macon, Chattanooga, Tenn; Nancy O'Neal, Charlotte; Nancy Frazier of Badin, Ruth Brickhouse of New York, Buelah Hall, Charlotte;
Rocky Mount, N.C.; Myra Blount, Randolph Macon; Dot Furr, New Bern, N.C.; Virginia Hengeveld of Davidson, Sarah Spigener of Allendale,
S.C.; Virginia Garth, Hickory; Janis Wolfe, Charlotte; Eloise Durham; Mary Anne Williams, Wilmington, Del.; Peck Smith, Louisville, Ky.; Lib Mitchell,
Greenville, S.C.; Margaret Shuford, Charlotte; and Vinnie Knight of Fort Benning, Ga.

Guests of the chapter over the weekend included Billy Chapman and Jim McLeod of Florence and Jim Ballard of Fort
Benning, Fla., and Archie Snipes of Greenville, S.C. The outstanding feature of the weekend was the banquet Friday night, presided
over by Ned Pollock. Our two guests of honor were Will Bradley and Roy McKinley, who gave us a few
renditions on the drums. Brothers "Rabbit" Shewmaker and "All-American Crutchfield" took over the entertainment duties at the informal banquet Saturday
night. Dates for the dances were: Betty King, Anderson, S.C.; Elmina Shelton, Statesville; Sarah Sutherland, Greenville, S.C.; Frances Scott, Statesville;
Bunny Dick, Charlotte; Gloria Henderson, High Point; Caroline Miller, Charlotte; Ruth Hayes, Charlotte; Phyllis Crook, Concord; Martha Sauvain, Concord; Sudie
Clark, Greensboro; Sarah Grigler, Greenville, S.C.

Another mid-winters is a thing of the past, but the brothers and pledges will long remember it as a hilarious
weekend. The banquet, which was held Friday night at the S&W, coupled with the dances, have left all with a
lasting memory. The fair lassies who were visitors on the campus during the weekend were: Ann Wiley, Charlotte; Margaret Pearrington,
Charlotte; North Carolina.

Seven Davidson residents came to their deaths during the past weekend in an accident-ridden span of three days. Two automobile
wrecks accounted for two of the deaths and the remaining five occurred as a result of a fire on Friday
morning. The fire alarm sounded at approximately ten fifteen Friday morning. A negro home was completely destroyed by the flames,
and five small children were burned to death. The house was located on a street parallel to North Main Street.

Sunday night, two Davidson persons were killed in a wreck which occurred between Davidson and Charlotte on the Beatty's Ford
Road. Two others, of nearby communities, met their death in this same accident which occurred as the automobile plunged through
the rear of a store. Saturday night, Treasurer Frank L. Jackson and Mrs. Jackson of Davidson College were victims of
a crash on the Davidson-Mooresville highway. While passing a car, they were hit as the car attempted a left turn.
The Jacksons' car was badly damaged; Mr. Jackson received minor cuts and painful bruises. Mrs. Jackson escaped injury. A negro
servant, also a passenger, was slightly bruised.

One of the nation’s foremost Jesuit institutions, Fordham University, is in its 100th year and has graduated more than 20,000
students.
