Write Andy A Letter!

ALENDA ORTA

Che Davbidsontan

LUX UBI LIBERTAS

Bundles For Britain!

Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1941.

No. 15.

Senior Gift Discussed At Smoker

Paragraphies By THE EDITOR

Last week was itself rather average, the outstanding thing about it being the deserted campus on Saturday night. Probably there
were more men on the campus then than at any other Saturday night this year with the possible exception of
one during exams.

Several Suggestions Are Considered For Traditional Present

VOTE TO COME SOON

March 14 and 15 are the dates set for the Military Dance Set this year, and already the men are
busy with plans. Davidson's chapter of Scabbard and Blade, however, has asked that it be pointed out that the dances
are for the entire student body, not just those men taking ROTC.

Moore asks that all seniors who expect to graduate report by 110 West to be measured for their caps and
gowns. He says that orders are going out now and if the seniors fail to report by the end of
the week, there will be no caps and gowns for them.

Gordon Horton's Bundles for Britain campaign got off to a fine start Monday. Mrs. Cumming certainly won admiration from the
students and other audience for the manner in which she presented her subject. If the remainder of the push goes
off as well it promises to be a big success.

Louie Milam and the Phi Mu Alpha are now, in cooperation with fraternity leaders, making preparations for Davidson's second Annual
Fraternity Sing. Those interested are hoping for an even larger attendance and more interest than last year, and plans are
going forward rapidly.

Hubert Wilkins’ audience was duly impressed by the world-famous explorer’s lecture, although many were surprised to find that he was
an authority on aviation and meteorology as well as polar exploration. The tremendous crowd which attended felt the time spent
was well worthwhile.

Several of Davidson's sports followers took in the professional tennis matches held last week in Charlotte. Those present confirmed the
sports pages report that the old master, “Big Bill” Tilden is about "shot" now, after many years at the net
wars. But old or not, they saw a fine exhibition of top-flight tennis.

No statement has yet been made as to what those men who missed exams because of illness will do about
taking them later. One current rumor has it that Spring Holidays are to be extended three days in order to
allow sufficient time for study. If so, or if not, it would be a great help in making future plans.

The question of the senior gift was a much debated one. James McDuffie has announced that the vote on this
matter will be taken soon, all voting to be by ballot. An announcement about the next meeting of the council
will be made in chapel. Some suggestions that have been made so far are: flood lights for the new library;
a pool or fountain for the center of the court between the two new buildings; a monument to General Davidson
or some other notable in the school history; a memorial to the old quadrangle, including the Phi and Eu Halls,
Elm Row, and possibly the old Chambers building; bronze tablets to be placed on the literary society halls with dates
of foundation; a scholarship for the first son of a graduate of the class of ‘41 to enter Davidson; brick
veneer for one or both of the wooden ticket offices; and a walk between Georgia dormitory and Chambers building. McDuffie
says that suggestions are still being welcomed by the committee. The list given does not cover the number of suggestions,
and the committee hopes to get more from time to time.

Invitations

Chase Brenizer, head of the committee on invitations, states that there are 140 seniors who will need them. Each senior
will receive 10 of these invitations free and may buy any number that he wishes over 10 for eight cents
each. Mr. Jackson has ordered 3,000 of these, an amount which is expected to fill all the needs.

All seniors are urged to figure out how many invitations they will need so that all orders may be taken
before the smoker next month, and the number of extras may be determined.

These invitations are very attractively arranged. In addition to the regular invitation, there is a program of the Commencement exercises,
including the Baccalaureate sermon, the concert, the academic procession, the graduation exercises, the Senior Alumni luncheon, the Class Day exercises,
and the faculty reception.

Society Gets New Officers

Drury Thompson of Danville, Va., was elected president of the Eu-menean Literary Society at its regular meeting Tuesday night, February
4, in Eu Hall. Other members who were elected to various posts are: Ralph Williams, vice-president; Walter Kyle, secretary; and
Ed Maxwell, reviewer. These men were inducted into their respective offices last Tuesday night. Scotty Paterson of the sophomore class
was formally initiated into the society at the meeting of February 4. Further business consisted of the reading of a
paper by Pat Rudolph on the subject of short stories.

Retiring officers are: John Moore, president; Pat Rudolph, vice-president; Ashby Dick, secretary; and Ralph Williams, reviewer. Dan Hodges will continue
in the capacity of treasurer, an office which is held throughout the year.

More Jobs Available

The University of Iowa had more campus jobs available for second-semester students this year than at any time in the
last five years. Many students who signed for work earlier failed to fulfill job contracts, a situation which Joe Kann,
student employment bureau manager, says “probably arose from uncertainty” regarding the draft.

Raymond Ruppert, journalism freshman at Washington State, is making profitable use of several letters written in the 1870's by the
Hudson Bay company to the Canadian police.

LEADERS IN LOCAL MOVEMENT

Bundles For Britain Movement Is Begun

Mrs. W. P. Cumming Officially Opens Drive With Chapel Talk Monday

ASKS AID FOR BRITAIN

Horton To Be In Charge Of Student Donations

University Of Michigan Little Symphony Orchestra Is Main Attraction

HACKNEY SINGS

Musical Vespers are Presented In Chambers

Pictured above are members of the Davidson and Charlotte “Bundles for Britain” campaign. From left to right, back row, are
Mrs. W. George Thomas, Mrs. W. P. Cumming, Mrs. Victor; front row, Gordon Horton and Mrs. Norman Shepard. Mrs. Cumming
opened the Davidson drive with a talk Monday morning in Chapel. Students are asked to contribute cash and clothes to
relieve British suffering. Horton is president of the local chapter.—(Photo by Burton, Courtesy of Charlotte Observer)

Noted Expert

Military Ball

Faculty Sees

Queens College

Hector McLean, President of N & Railw

The concert at Queens College

. rey | A . nounce on y a he nex I y » » M 7 bis 4 \
; ite i Sta f ual liversitv-of ivan Lit ; I ong n 2 I I set of dances is
to be the annual Ow ¢ I OV i¢ ; : a f nyeled Bane S ‘ : : the
t rehe 1 1 Milittry Ball set, which will be : : : ; Wing espective t P sane °
N ; ; ; NATIT Tea en Sir Hubert Wilkins Predicts | j,.1g March 14 and 15. Research Papers Given
Before the music i BihY NI GNCED TrOnmibe CD BEIIeR ; Ae oe : oS, for. the week-end was a.
fiusical ‘ Victory For British Within The orchestra to play for the Members Of The Science \ ie 1 een
Cireur { iM ‘ : : | ; One Year dances and the price of sot tic: Department rer eae
ee sit AY Purpose kets were not announced. This peachy + HN { ! borat re 1 onium, Davidson College.
Musicia : Sin Tdi t Wilkin noted announcement is scheduled to Wanita fe thre ience. dive (participating in this were:
Mr. Phor | tere it ¢ ith ‘ >a : sey 3 i i) oft th LOU an virticipa i"
\ ( Britishesarcntiet and aviationt|“apoearsin-one of-the-next-isaues rare ; apa Mt ail Roh t ( t expert, in a lecture last
Wed of ‘The Davidsonian: On tiie AVIGSON TACUILY Sore PRC ‘i : und P nesday night in Chambers au The
Davidson chapter of Scab- at the regular meeting the Mr. dubre Rhame iss Phane ditorium, stated that knowl bard and
Blade,honorary mili- club held Monday saw the new Miedbyoraueatal a aTear} Mp me hi t ‘ edge of weather condition
tary fraternity, will present the | qoying picture, “Pov estiramonai ama iae Brat GID: t ( Was playing an MmMportant
part figure at the formal dance Fri Hind tt Nation.’ 1 Collewe ! taff ry ; Mrs , F ie
BEN Fs pee eS ; Hane ( ate \ in the British fight against the day night. if ae at
niin I ; ey e fa fyi tt German threat to our civiliza ; ; | Mt pa Aart AILS
pres|Choral ( Davi Give -( oO ( | yoy, feat | Oueensal ( i ) Sir Hubert explained that weath
ile a " Prote Prank A a fhe ; ; le r Bri sioner : \ vane aft mathemat |
f t “ Cine ersit ( er-conditions swept down from: the Dan ce Dates Mebit : ae ) Bg i
: a A a ite ; Oven: lott ee. Octoly northwest across England and partment. The group meets ever 1
; ‘ 7 . les ned ive Hts member tra Ni the { thence te. Germany o that the C
. t P | » t 7 British forees could approximate 1085 ¢ n \ runitw-tepresent ‘ C1 1 +
: ' * |search work that has been done be fG ( Ma the weather over the continent at Ms
A ha 1a ba : * national ' ‘ ] any given time from weather they Students “Dig Deep” To
Foot its members At the next meeting Unlike Fathe Hier ene | ( had previously experienced. Natur : \font 24)
Professor. William’ G nlike athers ad previously per 1 Nit Bills For Week-End Of pee ; om ae : 7
: * ally, this gives the British an im aed 4: a rah bea iAi taste hh ee 7 inense
advantage in the air war Fun Exponential Functions a tyatit, acre Calter ntimued op i 1 don ag ofl their
- Exheriance Pwo Weeks ago, the nn Wi ces : scan Gan ay By BILL LYMAN SE PTCE. idthers’ footstey
regists re T ‘ 7 7 or with climatic and “atmos r 1 W AA tO ; 1 j ,
How much does itveost to haye a ; : ; port indicate N » ( VW i] pheric conditions is
one of Sir ’ : : of the club. Professor G. KR z Haraeratan A « WwW Au ) 1
7 Mid-Winter date This” was oun Pri Of three hundred thirtyetwo sons Hubert’s main interest tying “in aneReiet : A
aA Be Selene | Ie wi Stion to sey wine f t a wat Closely. win Hieenaledeeco avila Ae innuaadaiatan
Gree ULE a ature Sing \ teat | ; | picture Power Be % tion and it was this work
that wa Meche aiTGr eR ial : : ped in the school asriculture. Onhy the purpose of his interestingex ;
fed calatatentalive ut ! : Ms FART Pry ; : feditions to-Greéniaidcandothe fart. : ‘ : i be ‘ vel
the orthe ind W 1 Rai + Inter - Fraternity Sing Now sh Ee ; ¢ OXPENse n anywhere from
$12 to } aaa ; 3 th two myerter nS ¢ ted ¢ the r 55 Ty > - Nort]
Phe lecturer not only ex >40) : Co. It sho \ KI Uk ; ; Herat SHE Awards Two Cups
¢ , ining engineering currit 1 pressed his confidence in ultimate.” railroads in/our country He Iw 1 1 t British
triumph, but predicted vic Unfortunately, almost every pre-|part devoted to the part. that ¢ Vy \ y \ , 4
2 n fell short of w tct are plaving in national de D rie i j a tory within a
year. He based hi ‘i ut after 1 t : f lof Hunter college, believes Latin and ra t 1
) . } TO al hee syst : 10s ring the present cr : ; belief on the rapidly KFOWINE
| plea aa dif “A 1 Greek philosophy and religion just | best strength of the English army, navy, |
] | tiene A few. but.only very. fev University of “Alaska, at 1 be restored to the American educi itert
and particularly the R.A.F Ube Rosi me shina anaes y ee : m i , ' AEBS ; 1 |
nN bank lai eT ! 1} tla cheme if youns ire;on the tey ( 1 buil eh ( t ha
2 experienced seniors kne wo usele inks, claim o be the n it { A h young Ne reTMmans Have
Oe tar et . : 1 layne 182¢ defend den n The Bi { [Continued on Page Sir} to make,
any kind of budget, soj| university in the worle {expected to dete nocrac | oe 7 weren't bothered with post-set
mis- FREER : HOUT SCE, aaa ate un e givings . = | B plat t c e ] ay
Sprit n ] t n ce After gathering much data and pol ter 3 ou Cc e¢ 4 V :
be warn carefully consideri the possibilt Sd ’ e e = tic it has lwen estimated that the a .
£ 2 | in rey r es a V a | S¢ ) n average student whe had—a- date a
srt =) e ] e. spent $20, Following is itemized the = : : average account’ set ticket, r E
students who wanted to serve their faa) i By PHIL BUSBY en—l-_wear And 1 n by Cleaning bill for tux,
coat, suit $1.50; 5 : ; | ie rountry. br oO various ons 1 Having littl qu is mind nd
j feet inches hair is lig COUDEE mit__lor various reasons ip snguet and meals between dances AAS oe eh ;
5 ' ; were compelled t& remain iit school! fa EF STELLA I te less-in-his pocket,-yvours-truly -brown--T_lovg a Most chem)
However, in the fall of 1918 they | eenarN ambled d to the P.O. one bright | great deal—And Tam
er \ M a ‘ > portation, cigarette cokes, ete. $4 : : had the opportunity to display their lsunny
morning to see Dame | music— especially light-cli é 4) There ore ipproximately 260 } \ patriotishh, For at the
“request” of ; i | rt had in store. | ring pe ny ; test F t \ t re
the War De four profes id’ - Winters j full hout 1 n 7 t War 1 four prof i
ji 1 x 3 by $20, it is | “ ; rs and 33 students went from Da 1 (oF
u might be ps ( vidson’ ‘to. the training camp at ve Hette | ope we Plattsb to receive instruc
Made | Ner nad Please dar $1? i tidn tk rrepare them to withdr the 5 ~ RL + tea
17 r science jsimp { ‘ 2 ma lent wer iN. ¢ er pre initv to. enlist is ofte) (
repeated Da. | Was it intended for nee: nite " dent, Army. Trai ( ot a “rich man’s school.” |}ox-mdte?
| did not stot ray C] n son being among the hen her reputation of staging |Siyly [slit en the
envelope and |ridjou ont t t > Perea quarterir uch organizati On wood: dance set is at stake suffi j
read hat Vie ‘ contained |; but Bar: Octobe nts took the t obviously, comes forth itherein BWOC (big w
ith of all ce and replaged their r | Dear Friend, us) j=l Davids book with rifles. as elasses were
In This Issue \/ “Since | make correspondence my inher 7 rated t fone rte eae held only for the
60 odd students hobby, I decided ’to try my luck at |cixteen ‘ . eve S vh piediniitiacetror ile wey
avids ’s hoping my Iu neh it te Car s. The : whd were di qualified from the mili 1.
Bundles for Britain-_._Page 1 Davic on Here ig vou ret t tary service by age or other causes. - ;
is good.,, Now this writer pleads lack of |‘ t nent p ss 1 2 ec emer |] 2. Music
Festival Page 1 ¥: sep Henares! be : : ternitv wi fart : |. Watts, Rumple and Georgia dorm. |
aries . Velloto begin with here is a de-j time toj carry on a decent corre- | fraternity wi Sade
a litories were used_as barracks for |b Edivortals ----Page 2 |) scription of myself: Age 16 MY |spondence with ”
ixteen;” so| The contest . will she : { t } ~ ¢ ; Ithe student-soldiers, with: cots dis- |
4:Spobts eet ee Page 4 |/ name: —Color of eyes are!he puts it up to student body, ability to sing,
arrangeme | [Comtinued om Poge Sis} | blue, when I wear blue, and green, [Continued om Page Sis] ,tion, and
to quality
