Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 13, 1941

~The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON.................. BUSINESS MANAGER

Bobby Carter.................... Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett.................. Associate Editor
Al Winn.......................... Associate Editor
Baxter Britt..................... Managing Editor
Joe Epley....................... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher.................. Managing Editor
Bill Lyman...................... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh................. Sports Editor
Lacy MacLean................... Movie Editor
Clarence Legerton............... Staff Photographer
Billy Barker..................... BUSINESS STAFF
G. C. Ainsworth................. Assistant Business Manager
Fred Ayer....................... Advertising Manager
Joe Martin...................... Circulation Manager
Beck McNeely................... Circulation Manager
Upshaw Lee..................... Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

BOOST OUR BOOSTERS

Men of Davidson should be grateful to the publicity managers of newspapers, radios, and sports writers all over the state
for keeping Davidson’s banner high through thick and thin. Saturday’s football offered little in the way of interest to big-time
newsmen, yet Charlotte’s papers and Charlotte’s radio stations filled the press box with typewriters and radio equipment capable of broadcasting
the world series. But the fact that these men were there is not the main reason we should be grateful
to them. Editorials such as the “David and Goliath” comparison in a recent Observer, and other similar compliments should not
go without some appreciation from Davidson’s student body. They’re all on our side. Not just because they pull for the
underdog, but because they've always seemed to like the Wildcat spirit, which reveals itself even in the darkest hours. When
Pat O’Brien noted that Davidson’s cheering continued even after Duke had shown her indubitable prowess, it showed that Davidson can
still be on top even on the day of a decisive football defeat. Sneer at “moral victories” if you wish,
but there’s something about the Davidson way of doing things that outsiders notice immediately.

LET’S PROFIT BY EXPERIENCE

Nineteen hundred forty-one and forty-two has gone this far without a single case up before the student council. The law
of averages or what have you prompts us that in all the previous years in the history of Davidson one
or more persons have been tried for crimes concerning their honor. “It happens in every school,” say some who think
Davidson is like other schools. Yet, why can’t the men of Davidson this year profit by the experience of those
men who in the past have stepped out of line with Davidson’s code of ethics? When persons are found guilty
by the student council of crimes such as stealing, cheating, or perjury, they are immediately dismissed from school. If such
offenses could in some way warn the present members against committing similar crimes, perhaps their pleas would be enough to
prevent any further offenses. When a person is caught in dishonesty at Davidson, the student body is stunned by the
truth itself---then it realizes how utterly crazy a person must be to make such a mistake here. So let’s profit
by the experience of former years. Instead of saying “It happens in every school every year,” let’s be able to
say, “It happens in every school --- but Davidson.”

DOUBLE CUTS?

Much to the chagrin of many Davidson students, cuts that are taken in classes one day before and one day
after Thanksgiving Holiday are to be counted as double cuts, unless the faculty changes the rule now in force. The
only concession we have is that Saturday cuts will be single. This works a hardship on many of the boys
who wish to take that opportunity to go home. Since the football game last year was in Wilmington, this rule
was temporarily suspended. Many of the boys who lived a long way from Davidson used this to get home. It
could well be used for such a purpose this year. For two days before and after Christmas and Spring Recesses,
cuts will be counted double, also, announced Dean Bailey early this week. This does not work such a hardship on
a majority of the boys as do the double cuts before and after Thanksgiving, because there are only a few
who would profit by an extra day or two at that time.

H. McL.

Letters to The Editor

Dear Tony:

For some reason, unaccountable to me, the sarcasm of my letter of last week seems to have been a trifle
too subtle for the average Davidson student, and I fear for other readers as well. At any rate, during the
past week I have been praised for taking a stand that I did not take and rebuked for defending that
which I intended to attack. I refer of course to my statements concerning the ungentlemanly conduct of the Davidson student
body during the first appearance here of John Kirkpatrick at chapel. If you recall I commended the audience for disregarding
“outmoded ideas of courtesy and politeness.” To my mind these ideas are not yet outmoded - at least not here.
So I had assumed that by this phrase, if no other, the true tenor of my letter would have been
understood. Such not being the case, however, may I state now that it was not my intention to criticize Mr.
Kirkpatrick nor was it my intention to praise the student body, of which I was very much ashamed. I hope
that I have made myself clear enough that “even the least” will have no further trouble understanding my position.

JOHN MacLEOD

With The Staff
By ED ERWIN

When a member of the Senior Class is quizzed as to his plans following graduation his reply may mention any
occupation from dentist to shoe polish salesman, but he will inevitably qualify his answer with the words “If the army
doesn’t get me.” Statistics drawn from sketchy bits of information on the members of the class of '40 go far
to prove this qualification. Of the thirty-seven members of last year's graduating class who completed the advanced R.O.T.C. course, twenty-one
are known to have been called to active duty, nineteen in branches of the regular army and two in the
Marine Corps. At the last report John Hay was en route for the Philippine Islands, where he will start his
military career. Six of this group were deferred to enter medical school. The remaining ten were under age upon graduation,
but expect to be called as soon as they are granted commissions. Military service is not confined to R.O.T.C. graduates,
however. At least three members of the class have started training in the Marine Reserve Corps. Two are on active
duty in the United States Navy while two more start their preparatory work at Northwestern University for the Naval Reserve
Corps on January 1. Three are known to be flying with the Naval Air Corps and several are connected with
the Army Air Force. A majority of the class registered for the draft, although exact figures were not revealed, and
some have already been selected as privates. Not only are these figures true for last year’s class but they are
representative of the classes for quite a number of years back. Records in the R.O.T.C. department and in the alumni
files indicate that Davidson graduates of the class of 1923 and beyond are serving in the armed forces of the
nation. The highest in rank being Lt. Col. David Bethea (’23). At least six majors and an unknown number of
captains and lieutenants now in uniform took their training here. Although Davidson would have a record of which to be
proud if a complete roster were published, it is not unusual among the colleges of America. Many schools would undoubtedly
show even larger numbers in the huge military machine now under construction in this country. The unusual fact is that
young men from every section and every state show such an unprecedented willingness, even eagerness, to contribute several years of
their lives, or even more, if necessary, to their country. And, with few exceptions, they insist they are having the
time of their lives. So when you tear open that official envelope and find your orders to “leave immediately, destination
unknown,” or your acceptance in the Air Corps, or even the dreaded questionnaire, remember that you will have plenty of
company and, incidentally, another tradition.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Monday and Tuesday November the 13th and 14th
HOT SPOT
Betty Grable, Victor Mature, Carole Landis, Laird Cregar, and William Gargan.

This production is so new that it has even reached Davidson ahead of its write-ups. Frankly, I was unable to
find anything on this feature except its cast. Yet with a cast like the above it is certain to be
an A-1 attraction. My guess is that it runs something like this: Victor Mature is one of a gang of
newspaper reporters who are not exactly on the up-and-up. Betty Grable is his true love, but he won't even admit
that to himself, falsely pretending he loves Carole Landis. After having been out on quite a drunk, he is accused
of murdering Miss Landis in a fit of jealous rage. He is then put on the “hot spot” and given
the third degree.

Legerton

Saturday, November the 15th
DOWN IN SAN DIEGO
Bonita Granville, Ray McDonald, Dan Bailey, and Leo Gorcey.

This is essentially another feature showing our nation making ready for defense. The scene of the story is the huge
San Diego Naval Air Station. Ray McDonald and Dan Bailey, Jr. are young ensigns in the Navy competing for the
love of Bonita Granville, the prominent and so-called “mascot” of the Base. Quite a bit like “Dive Bomber” and similar
pictures, this feature is filled with awe-inspiring air pictures, taken at the Base. Leo Gorcey is also in the cast.
All in all, it’s just another “keep ‘em flying” picture, and if you haven't gotten tired of seeing and hearing
airplanes, you are certain to enjoy this one.

Monday and Tuesday November 17 and 18
APPOINTMENT FOR LOVE
Charles Boyer, Margaret Sullivan, Rita Johnson, Eugene Pallette, Ruth Terry, and Reginald Denny.

Essentially this production is another super domestic comedy, but it is so far above average to be noteworthy. Margaret Sullivan
is a lady doctor who offends spoiled playwright Charles Boyer by going to sleep during one of his plays. He
becomes interested in her, and when she turns down his dinner invitation, he puts in an ambulance call, as that
seems to be the only wayto get her away from her work. In spite of Doc Sullivan’s busy profession, they
do find time to be married. Their honeymoon plans are interrupted by one of Boyer’s old flames, causing Miss Sullivan
to leave on an emergency call, claiming that she is too modern to feel any instinct such as jealousy. The
rest of the story is concerned with this couple's attempts at reconciliation without loss of pride. The feature closes successfully
and is one of the cleverest comedies to be filmed lately.

Wednesday, November 12th
NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN BREAK
W. C. Fields, Gloria Jean, Leon Errol, and Butch and Buddy. This feature is perhaps the best attraction ever to
be offered on Bargain Day. The story opens with Fields attempting to sell a script to a large movie company.
In spite of his vigorous pleas, the company turns him down, and the story fades into Field’s projected script. The
story concerns a trapeze artist who, after a serious fall, asks Fields to take care of her daughter, played by
Betty Jean. So Fields takes her to Mexico to sell to a Russian nutmeg colony. They leave by plane the
next day, and all goes well until Fields loses his ever-present bottle. He immediately jumps out in pursuit and lands
in a form of Utopia. After many adventures, he finally rejoins Betty Jean, and the story takes up from there.

COMING SOON, LYDIA, with Merle Oberon, Edna May Oliver, and Alan Marshall.

I would like for Jack Davis to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.

“Y” Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Columnist's Note: (Because he is in charge of the Gift Fund this year, and because he is a writer, Monroe
Bush plays with the words of this column.—Shaw Smith.)

Peter Marshall—big and brawny with that boyish, self-conscious grin—man of the world, and man of the other-world—tough as nails, and
soft as Love itself—preaching like a swamp fire—bulling with us—at the football game—at the tennis matches—“Duty is for man, Destiny
is for God!”—true Scotsman and loyal American—a great Christian—a swell guy!

Recently two upperclassmen were in conference with an “infallible power” in the Administration. He asked if they thought Davidson students
were far enough removed from adolescence to be trained in the adult art of giving. Now it’s rumored that they
said in reply that we under-grads are not only old enough to be trained; but have already, in a measure,
come to realize the responsibilities that go with money. And they went on to point out that next week, when
the Gift Fund Drive is held, the students themselves will prove their statement.

It’s an old institution around here, this Gift Project at Christmas time, as old as Enoch, or Elm Row, or
some of the jokes our professors tell. It's the one opportunity during the college year for the students, as a
unit, to prove themselves by not just giving, but sacrificing. This season the “Y” Cabinet has decided to save you
the bother and ennui of a long campaign, by concentrating their efforts (which are your efforts as well) into two
short days—next Tuesday and Wednesday. The Project, which is the best yet, will be announced Tuesday morning; that'll give you
about forty-eight hours to check on your check-book, figure how much you'll get at Christmas, meet with the collector on
your hall, and sign one of those little white pledge cards with a pledge of $5 or $10 (Yep, freshman,
a Davidson gentleman really strains to give what he knows he should). This year the “Y” Cabinet has already pledged
almost $200—fifteen fellows gave $200! But the Project is as much yours as it’s the Cabinet’s; the Project is OUR
Project. We believe that every Davidson man will pledge something. We believe that those pledges will be real money, real
sacrifices—not just chicken feed such as kids in the grades might give. And here’s a P. S. If you've got
a rich relative, or a brother who has been to Davidson, or if you know a man who has just
won the Irish Sweepstakes—get an extra pledge card and drop it in the mail to him. “Everybody has got to
help; and with everybody helping we'll prove to that “infallible power” that a Davidson student can, and WILL, produce the
goods when he’s called on.”

Incidentally, MONROE BUSH.

The Fifth Columnist
By 277?

Hickory, Dickory, Dock,
The Frat pin is out of Hock;
Converse came in by Flock,
It had just as well stayed in Hock,
Hickory, Dickory Dock.

Original

Last weekend was a great time for the beginnings of large-scale operations by the entire unit of both large and
small operators, who struck with such swiftness that all the secret dealers were overcome. The week's prize for having the
best Converse blind date will go to B——u without any argument. And here’s to Baxter Freeze—the guy would really have
a chance if it weren't for the fact of the little one at State—but keep on fighting. It looks like
we'll have the first school wedding in years if Rosie keeps up his pace at St. Mary's. The Phi Delt
party certainly deserves a big plug as it was one of the most successful flamingos in years. Bo-Bo was reminded
of the good old days when a certain Flash arrived. But things are looking up there for him. Chapman got
flushed but hit Gastonia for a last-minute score that kept him in the chapter's good graces. Story of the week
concerns Charlie Parrish, who sent one of those “I've changed my mind” letters and had to wire to some distant
city to have the post office there take it out of the mail. Expensive practice.

Frog showed Susan the sights of Charlotte over the weekend and the dawn patrol of the Phi Delt party joined
the Frog on the way home. Ashby Dick sneaked out to Greensboro after the game Saturday as he wished to
escape the scorn and wrath of the once-beloved Converse student body. Poor fellow. Phillips held down his fort as usual
and advanced in his operations at Greensboro this weekend. Belk plans to roll north this week as a rooter for
the Red and Black, but for the first time he will leave Southgate behind as he plans to waylay Virginia
in a fashion that would put Sherman to shame. Things aren’t too bright now for the once-beloved Jones. Time must
change all things. Carson had a funny feeling Saturday as two of his old timers watched the activities from the
stadium. Lucas turned up with the beautiful Carolyn from Converse who has led such a double life in the past.
Roy “Honey” Hunt and his running mate Bruce put on dark glasses and led a mysterious life in Charlotte over
the weekend. Charlie Henderson continued his role as Don Juan, dating three, proposing to two, and wooing one, over a
period of fifteen minutes. Dave Spencer, who has carried the torch for Davidson for three years, seems to be one
of the most romantic members of the senior class. Ed Erwin is now depositing all his belongings in the American
Trust for safekeeping and future gains. From the latest news flash we have just received, Hobbie finds that the flame
fold is still burning and hopes that the lovable Jeane will make it all come true. And as we so
crudely attempted to open this column with a brief poem, so shall we attempt to close it.

I'm a freshman, I'm a freshman,
I'm a freshman green as grass—
Nope, maybe we'd better not.

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH

ITEMS IN THE LOCAL NEWS

Concerning the “Y” Gift Fund:
One of Davidson’s greatest traditions which is wholly a student tradition is that of subscribing to the annual Y. M.
C. A. Christmas Gift Project. In the past, a social center in Davidson has been built and named for our
colored friends after a student, a missionary has been sent to Brazil, a village for Lepers in Korea has been
built and named after Davidson College. These are only a few of the many worthwhile projects that the Gift Fund
has paid for in recent years. Soon the Gift Fund will be announced and student workers will be around to
get your pledges. The project this year is one of unusually fine proportions, and it is certain that the Student
Body will support it as well as they have in the past. Some of us will have to sacrifice a
show or two, that new shirt and tie we've had our eyes on, but we may be sure that it
is for a worthy cause, and that we will feel much better for having given our proportionate contribution.

Notice to Pre-Med Students:
Recently I had a letter from a member of last year's graduating class who is now in one of the
nation’s leading medical schools. In it he said: “I am beginning to wish I were back in academic school. It
is certainly hard in the S. of M. In the first place your hands always stink and reek of formaldehyde
and xylol and fresh meat; your eyes go dim; you go nuts; you feign would lie down sick each day
after quiz section, which is h(eck), you just wish that all you had to do was to check by the
Dean’s office to see how many cuts you had left in chapel. I pledged Nu Sigma Nu medical fraternity and
am now quaking at the thought of reciting the posterior division of the cervical plexus.”

This reminds me that we make too much of our little campus problems here, and should wait until we get
into business or professional school before we ruin our health by brooding.

Converse Day:
The plaudits of the student body, particularly the freshman class, should go to the Beaver Club for its beautiful handling
of a beautiful situation. As a whole, the girls from Spartanburg represented one of the most attractive groups of dolls
ever to pay homage to “Alma Mater.”

About Bernice The Mongrel Pup:
I was wondering how long it was going to be before the Davidson student body would adopt another dog. In
the past we have mothered such creatures as “Gluecoe,” “Blackdog,” and “Testy.” Now we have Bernice, as engaging a little
lady as ever slept in Rumple’s left barrel. This little white bundle of playfulness and beggary can be seen on
the campus at all times of the day and night. Her favorite haunts seem to be the Stud, where she
begs for her three squares; Chambers Auditorium, where she has sat in perfect ladylike dignity, pausing only to bite a
man-sized flea; and the Drill Field, where she accompanies her military friends on their tactical walks.

Hollywood Comes To North Mecklenburg:
Many a female heart beat faster when the news had spread around that none other than Pat O’Brien had arrived
at the Duke-Davidson Scrap Saturday. No slacker he, Mr. O'Brien, despite his graying temples and aged complexion, completely won over
the feminine contingent. Cries of “Oh, look, Flower Mae, there he is. Right up there. No there, in person!” swept
over the stands as the game was completely overlooked because of the personal appearance of Ireland's gift to Hollywood. Even
the twenty-five high school bands and forty-nine high school football teams were overlooked in the excitement.
