CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat foes BEAT DUKE! Page Four

By the time this is out, at least a portion of the Davidson student body will have seen some good
tennis. It’s a long time to be writing about a thing which has already happened, so far ahead, in fact,
that it remains to be seen exactly who will play. The visitors are Charles Hare, Dorothy Little, and Mary Hardwick,
all good racqueteers, but the fourth is yet to be determined. It may be Gene Sutton, or Dr. Frontis Johnston;
they’re the most likely contenders. At any rate, we can hope that the exhibition was a success, because it’s a
privilege that should not be disregarded.

DAVIDSON VS. DUKE

To say that the Cats will have their hands full come Saturday would be putting things rather mildly. Wallace Wade
is bringing one of the powerhouses of the national football scene to Richardson field to meet the Cats and to
report a Duke-written newspaper account, they aren’t taking the game too seriously. However, without going too far beyond the realm
of probability it’s not hard to see a rather close ball game; maybe not close in the final outcome, but
close in the score which the Devils can run up against us. Against Georgia Tech last week, Tom Davis and
his mates were forced to go into the air when they needed the points, and everybody knows that The Engineers
don’t have any world beater. On the ground they held the Devils rather effectively, as have all the other teams
which the Dukes have encountered, and maybe Davidson can do it too. The injury list which once claimed so many
and so vital a section of the Cat’s first stringers, has in a sense felt the telling effects of time,
and is gradually shrinking. Every week there’s an old face back into the lineup, and every old face makes the
situation just a little better. Herb Rainey may be the face which reappears this week, and no other could be
more welcome. He would help tremendously in the Davidson center.

HACKNEY VS. DUKE

Another interesting feature of the game to the Davidson student body will be Claude Hackney’s fight against fate, or what-have-you.
Hackney’s got a record for scoring against the Devils which no other footballer in the country can touch. He’s tallied
three touchdowns in two years of play, and if the Cat offensive goes according he may be adding at least
one more to his total. Last year it was by a spectacular route that he got his 12 points. After
grabbing a pass in the Duke secondary Hackney outsprinted Duke’s famed speedster Bill Wartman to the goal line. The second
one came on a 95-yard kickoff return straight up the center of the field, and it tied the count on
the mighty Devils.

Come what may, Davidson supporters will have a chance to see a big-time football team, whether or not it’ll be
a big-time football team beaten remains to be seen.

S. A. E’s To Meet K. A’s In Championship Play-Off

Though they both had to do it with first downs rather than touchdowns, the S. A. E’s and the K.
A’s are still able to boast of perfect records in Fraternity football as the sixth and final week of competition
begins.

Two fiercely fought battles took place Wednesday when the S. P. E. team, led by Sid Daffin, defeated the Pi
Kaps 6-0, and the powerful S. A. E’s met unexpected opposition from the spirited Phi Gams. The final outcome of
the game saw the S. A. E’s winning with 4 first downs to 2 for the Phi Gams.

Thomas Stars

The K. A’s, sparked by the brilliant play of Davis Thomas, rolled to another victory, this time a 12 to
0 one over the Phi Gams in the only game scheduled Thursday afternoon. Two scores in the initial period by
Henderson and Webster sent Davidson away to a lead which they never relinquished. A tally in the third period practically
put the game on ice for the Cats, although Virginia crashed through to register a goal early in the final
period. The Cats then tightened up and put away their second victory in four starts.

Claude Hackney, 165-pound wingback, sparked the running attack of the Cats against V. M. I. last Saturday. Hackney is a
consistent threat against the Blue Devils and may add to his total of 18 points scored against the Dukes.

Keydets Eke Out 13-7 Victory Over Wildcats

Dave Spencer Accepts Post

Dave Spencer, Davidson's 135-pound back, has recently accepted an invitation to play in the Blue-Grey Cradle Game in Montgomery, Ala.,
on December 27. This game has been held in Montgomery and has invited outstanding players from the South. Spencer is
the first Davidson player to be invited to the Blue-Grey Cradle Game. Another feature of interest in Davidson’s contributions to
post-season games is the fact that David Vosburgh will be manager for the Carolina’s Bowl Contest in Greenville, S. C.
This is the first year that this bowl game has had a manager from a student body.

Booter Combine To Lick Powerhouse

Fancy ball carrying by Dave Spencer and Claude Hackney failed to power the Wildcats in their attack on the V.
M. I. Keydets last Saturday, marking up a 13-7 victory over Davidson. The Wildcats marched to the V. M. I.
10. Behind the swift running of Dave Spencer and Claude Hackney, Davidson marched to 198 yards; V. M. I. completed
only one pass for 3 yards.Year Saturday, Bosch, Pritchard, and Muha were the big guns in the Keydets' 226 yards
before the power-shelling. Joe Muha and Bosch tallied the two six-pointers. Early in the game, the Cats began to march
and went to the fourteen, but here it was the Keydets who fired. Joe Muha leaped high and took Frederick’s
flat pass intended for Spencer, who was waiting on the 29-yard line, and outdistanced the Cats in a 90-yard sprint
for the first score. Spencer averaged 5.2 yards on 20 tries, proving best for V. M. I. with an average
of 8.5 yards on 12 tries, with Pritchett far behind with 81 yards on 16 tries.

In the fourth, the Cats finally got theirs after knocking on the door all afternoon. A quick drive went deep
into Virginia territory, and on a quick opening pass play, Pat Williams grabbed Spencer's pass in the end zone for
six points, giving him the privilege of scoring half the Cats' points this season. Several times earlier in the game,
the Cats were ready for the kill, but each time the big Keydet line got tough inside the twenty.

Very few penalties were imposed on each side. Davidson lost 80 yards while the Flying Fleet lost 70. V. M.
I. intercepted three of the Cats' passes, one of which brought them a touchdown.

The interfraternity race swung into the final round of play, and the teams stood as follows:
- Team Won Tied Lost
- SA 7 0 0
- Kappa Sig 6 2 0
- SAE 4 3 0
- Betas 4 4 0
- Phi Delts 3 4 0
- Pikas 2 5 0
- Phi Gams 0 6 1
- Pi Kaps 0 7 0

Victor, Blue Bird, Deluxe Ice Cream, Columbia, Decca Records, Portable Phonographs, and Record Players are available at the Student Store.

ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

W. W. CAFETERIA

Hackney lugged the leather down to the Virginian’s one. Frederick hit a stone wall at the center, and the half
ended before the Cats could get off another play.

IMPERIAL STARTING SUNDAY
Four Men In Her Life... each throwing his heart at her feet. Which will Lydia, who thought she knew all
about love, accept? Or will she spurn them all?
"LYDIA"
STARRING MERLE OBERON

STARTING THURSDAY
All the thrills, action, and adventure of ‘Dodge City’ and ‘Santa Fe Trail’
"BAD MEN OF MISSOURI"
With Dennis Morgan, Jane Wyman, Wayne Morris, and Arthur Kennedy

Thursday, November 6, 1941

For the past four years, this P. C. Friday and Davidson's Kittens accomplished off this was recommended each who has
proven himself.

Musicians To Watch Devils Battle Wildcats; Cats Decided Underdogs
Cats Seek First Win As Underdogs; Devils Boast Power-Laden Attack On Ground And In Air; Lach, Davis in Starring Roles

Incited by the presence of thirty high school bands and those ambitious Wildcats run up against Steve Lach and his
Duke Blue Devils, the nation’s dream player and dream team, Saturday afternoon on Richardson Field. The mighty Dukes, undefeated, untied,
and bowl-bound, enter the fray as the unchallengeable favorites to continue their march toward a Rose Bowl bid for themselves
and an All-American bid for the flashy Lach.

However, the Davidson-Duke rivalry has been thrill-packed. With a week's layoff behind them for their game with P. J. C.,
the Cats battle on even terms until worn down by the weight of superior reserve strength.

Hackney in Shape
Claude Hackney, for the past two years the shining light in the Wildcat attack with his pair of touchdown dashes,
is once more back in shape and rarin’ to show Wallace Wade's charges a clean pair of heels. The remainder
of the squad, aroused by the disappointing loss to V. M. I. and the grandeur of the Duke confidence, is
determined to fight on to the end, win or lose.

Spencer vs. Lach
Jim Fraley's injured knee and Pittman’s strained side muscles are the only serious injuries, and it is likely that both
boys will see action. Spencer, Hackney, Fredericks, and Bethea rate about even with Lach, Davis, Prothro, and Long. While the
Cat forward wall should hold its own for a while against Bob Barnett and his 200-pound mates, that’s where the
comparison stops. One good team can’t compete with five good teams. The possibility of another Hackney jaunt should keep the
fans on the edge of their seats throughout the game.

CONFERENCE
Duke, continuing undefeated, and William and Mary, unbeaten in conference play, are tied for the leadership of the Southern Conference.
Very close behind them is South Carolina, which with three wins and one tie is poised to grab the loop
lead should the present leaders fall.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mellon Features McGREGOR SPORTSWEAR
Here are smart style and snug warmth... just the things to wear on Campus this winter. Have you seen our
solid crimson wool shirt?
- Loafer Jackets $8.50 to $15.00
- Sport Shirts $2.50 to $5.95
- Solid or Plaid Pipe-Scot Vest $3.95
- Sleeveless Sweaters $1.95 to $8.50
- Coat & Pullover Sweaters $2.95 to $16.50
- Solid & Argyle Wool Sox 75¢ to $2.50
- Golf-Jacs $5.00

Ed. Mellon Co.
106-108 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE
Open Thursdays ’Til 9 p.m.
