Thursday, May 8, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Davidson Aid In Emergency

In this time of national crisis, the U.S. to man its army, is in a far better position in the
matter of officers than it was at the beginning of World War in 1917. Largely responsible for this is the
Officers’ Reserve Training Corps, created by Congress in 1920 to qualify students for commissions as officers in the Army of
the United States.

At that time, Davidson received its unit of the new R.O.T.C. Since that September in 1920, seven hundred graduates of
Davidson have received commissions as Second Lieutenants in the U.S. Reserve at the average rate of 35 a year, and
thousands of others have taken the basic course in their first two years. Among the graduates with commissions—some in the
Organized Reserve, one or two in the Air Corps and Marines—are one Brigadier General, two or three Colonels, and several
Majors and Captains.

During the World War, there was organized at Davidson a unit of what was then called the Student Army Training
Corps. At the close of the war, the S.A.T.C. was dissolved, but there was some sentiment that such an organization
ought to continue, and so when the R.O.T.C. Act was passed, a unit was obtained here in spite of some
opposition on the grounds that military training was at odds with the high purpose of the college. Since then, military
training has proved its worth. Since 1928, the local unit has retained its yearly inspection rating of “excellent.”

At present, the R.O.T.C. is required of all first and second-year students with certain exceptions, while the last two years
are elective. While at first, only commissions in the infantry were granted, now a young officer at Davidson may specialize
in Infantry, Air Corps, Non-flight, and Signal Corps. The student is well-grounded in military, and at graduation is fitted to
handle men and equipment, make and read maps, direct reconnaissance, combat work, and communication. Next summer, due to the emergency,
the War Department may establish a summer camp for the further training of students.

Since its establishment in 1920, the local unit has had the following officers as P.M.S. & T.: Capt. G. H.
Weems, Capt. R. D. Daugherty, Col. W. R. Scott, Col. J. T. Rhett, Colonel Armstrong, and Col. G. T. MacKenzie.

CADETS DEMONSTRATE MILITARY EXERCISES

Shown is a picture of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Battalion during its regular afternoon drill period. The above picture shows
the battalion during a physical drill.

CUNNINGHAM SPEAKS

The new President of Davidson College, Dr. John R. Cunningham, has been selected to speak at the Commencement Address at
the Princeton Theological Seminary, it has been announced. The Commencement Exercises will be held on Tuesday, May 13th, at the
College Chapel of Princeton University.

Georgian Is At Post Here

Sergeant R. C. Tate, an assistant in the R.O.T.C. Department at Davidson, was born in Villanova, Georgia. He is the
son of Mr. Charlie Tate and Mrs. Ada White Tate. Sergeant Tate attended the public schools at Chickamauga and LaFayette,
Georgia. He was first enlisted in the U.S. Army in January 1933, in the 6th Cavalry and stationed at Fort
Oglethorpe, Georgia. The Sergeant was assigned to the Headquarters Troop and the Communication Platoon of that organization. In 1934, he
was discharged for the convenience of the Government and reenlisted for foreign service with the Artillery Battery A from June
1934 to January 1937. While with Battery A, he attended the post school clerical course, and upon completion of the
course, he was promoted to the rank of Corporal and assigned to the duties of Battery clerk. Upon return to
the States, he enlisted again for service with the Coast Artillery in Hawaii.

STAFF PREPARES FOR INSPECTION

—Photo By Earl Stutz

Members of the staff of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps are pictured above. Reading from left to right
they are: Captain Drury Thompson, Staff-Sergeant Ed Hay, Major John King, Lieutenant Colonel James McDuffie, Captain Herbert Codington, Captain Hector
McLean, Staff-Sergeant David Ray, and Captain John Purdie. The Davidson Battalion is commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel McDuffie.

Applications for the 1941-42 Session Are Now Being Received

UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

DELUXE ICE CREAM AT THE STUDENT STORE

Seven Attend

We do not think a government should take from them their right as individuals. Many nations around the world are
asking themselves today, “What of our fortune?” instinctively knowing that the line they have taken admits of no fortune; they
can only live in dread of the next desperate expedient. That question has no place with us; our fortune stands
clearly outlined in our spirit and ideals and in all the instrumentalities of public and personal liberty we have built.
In this country, we are certain to be thinking wrongly unless we think in hope and confidence. The country is
not finished yet. The vision of the founders is not yet fulfilled. It mounts higher and higher toward fulfillment. It
is our business to read the signs of the times correctly. The organized confusion of the day should not mislead
us; the noise you hear is not the crack of foundations; it is but the squeaking of mice that cannot
gnaw the granite.

On the back of the new one-dollar bill, in two circles, are the obverse and reverse of the Great Seal
of the United States. When you examine the reverse of that Seal, you will see that it presents a pyramid
unfinished. Thirteen—that number so definitely American. Thirteen courses of masonry, solidly laid, and hovering above in the glory is the
capstone, completing with the all-seeing eye symbolic of Divine oversight and blessing. This great symbol of the seal is one
of strength; that foundation and those courses.

This photograph was taken on Richardson Field during an afternoon drill period when the R.O.T.C. unit was having calisthenics and
inspection.

Wartime Experiences

Sergeant Burton Has Army Sergeant Has Been Stationed At Davidson For Sixteen Years.

Sergeant Blanton R. Burton, assistant in the R.O.T.C. at Davidson, was born in Plano, Texas, and reared in the Indian
Territory and Oklahoma. Before entering the service in 1917, the Sergeant was a steel construction worker and painter. Upon entering
the service, he was assigned to the 9th Recruiting Company and later transferred to the 20th Infantry, Fort Douglas, Utah.
The 20th Infantry formed the 42nd and 43rd Infantry Regiment. He was transferred to the new regiment of the 43rd
Infantry and was moved from Fort Douglas in Utah to Camp Pike in Little Rock, Arkansas. Sergeant Burton was then
transferred from the 22nd Infantry to the Detached Enlisted Men’s List and placed on duty at Davidson College in August
1925. At that time, Major George H. Weems was the P.M.S. and T. The following officers have been P.M.S. and
T’s at Davidson since the Sergeant was assigned to this unit: Capt. George H. Weems, Capt. R. D. Daugherty, Colonel
W. R. Scott, Colonel J. T. Rhett, Colonel Armstrong, and Colonel G. T. MacKenzie.MacKenzie has been working under three Presidents
at Davidson while the Sergeant has been here: Dr. William Martin, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, and Dr. John R. Cunningham.
His duties here have been those of Supply Sergeant and Property Custodian to Mr. F. I. Jackson. He is now
in his 16th year at Davidson College.

Y. M. C. A. Aids Negroes
It has been decided by the Y. M. C. A. to donate two offerings from the Sunday Evening Vesper services
to the Presbyterian Church of Davidson, which is planning the erection of a new church building in the near future.
The Board of Trustees of the college has also agreed to help in proportion to the amount which the offerings
will probably amount to about $45 or $50.

From Camp Pike, he went to Camp Nicholas, New Orleans, Louisiana, and from this camp to Camp Logan in Houston,
Texas. This regiment formed a part of the 15th Division, which was all regular army units. He was transferred from
the 43rd Infantry to the 3rd Infantry at Camp Eagle Pass, Texas. While assigned with the 3rd Infantry, his duty
was as follows: International Bridge Guard at the International Bridge crossing the Rio Grande River. From Eagle Pass, he went
to Piedras Negras, Old Mexico. (The 3rd Infantry is the oldest Infantry Regiment in the U.S. Army.) In 1920, he
was discharged and reenlisted for the Recruiting Service, which was called at that time “General Service Infantry” (G. S. I.).
In 1922, when the army was cut down, the Sergeant transferred back to the 22nd Infantry at Fort McPherson, Georgia.
He was with this outfit until 1926.

Samuel William Newell, Jr., Davidson 1939, has recently been awarded a $500 fellowship by Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, for graduate
study in the English Department. Sam Newell is now teaching English for the second year at Battle Ground Academy, Franklin,
Tennessee. He held many offices and was president of the senior class.

The Red and Black Masquers' current production is a collegiate comedy in three acts entitled “The Importance of Being Earnest”
by Oscar Wilde. Work on the play will be completed sometime in the latter part of May, at which time
it will be presented. A sterling cast is featured in the production, headed by Co-ed Betty Kerr as Miss Rita
Stanwyck, the college queen. The rest of the cast includes Mark Craig, BMOC Bill Loy, Tom Morgan, Stud Bill Lyman,
Frank the Wildhair, and Ralph the Serious Type Jesse Wooten. Practices on the play began last Monday night under the
direction of Dan Hodges.

LIBERTY
When the individual loses his liberty, the state becomes a despot. The domestic slave was the only person in American
history who had possessed economic security. But the people who have known bondage are the only ones who really know
what liberty means. It means the right to do these things: the right to personal honesty, to independence of thought,
to organization of one's own choosing. We believe that a government should help its people in time of distress.

Under the instruction of Captain D. G. Wilson and First Sergeant B. R. Burton, cadet machine gun practices were held.
North Carolina Academy of Science held its annual meeting at Chapel Hill, N.C., on Friday and Saturday, April 25 and
26, when Duke University acted as host. The purpose of this organization is to help the scientists throughout the state
to become better acquainted. At these meetings, papers on original research are presented. All the natural sciences and psychology are
included in the interests of this society. The men who represented Davidson College at the assembly were Professors Thies and
Knight of the chemistry department, Mebane and Porter, professor of geology and geography, and Hood, professor of the psychology department.
Dr. McGavok of the mathematics department is chairman of the section, and Professor Thies has served for the past year
as the vice-president of the state organization.

CHARACTER BUILDING CHRISTIAN BOOKS
124 WEST FOURTH STREET
BOX 2725
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
FRED H. PLEXICO, President
J. B. SPILLMAN, Secretary
BIBLE BOOK STORE

From left to right: Dave Spencer, Sgt. Burton, Capt. Wilson, Frank Caldwell, Bill Faison
—Photo by Earl Stutz

BE SURE TO GET YOUR HAIR CUT BEFORE SPRING FROLICS
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
Home of Tonsorial Masterpieces
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Late Show Sat. Nite
Humphrey Bogart - Eddie Albert
Sylvia Sidney - Joan Leslie
—In—
“THE WAGONS ROLL AT NIGHT”

Show Starts Monday
“THE PEOPLE VS. DR. KILDARE”
Starring Lew Ayres—LARAINE DAY
LIONEL BARRYMORE
IMPERIAL
