Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 4, 1941

Three Hundred Will Sing Xmas Oratorio

Pfohl Will Direct Mixed Choir In Presentation Of “The Messiah”

Program To Be Given In Charlotte Armory, December 11

In accordance with the annual custom of presenting at each Christmas time George Frederich Handel’s great “oratorio,” “The Messiah,” some 300 voices will ring forth in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium Thursday night, December 11. This year, the production will take on special significance. Three hundred years ago, this oratorio was first presented in England under the direction of the German-born English subject, Handel. So successful was it then that it was performed shortly before King George I. So swept away was the king by the stirring strains, that when the production reached its climax in the “Hallelujah Chorus,” he jumped to his feet and stood during the number, starting a custom that is still observed today.

The performance will be sponsored by the Observer Fresh Air Fund. The 300 singers will be composed of the Davidson and Queens Glee Clubs, church choirs, and talented singers from the community at large. The chorus will be backed by a symphony orchestra of 50 pieces.

Directed By Pfohl

Solo parts will be taken by some of the outstanding oratorio singers in the nation. The production will be under the direction of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, professor of music at Davidson and Queens Colleges, and L. R. Sides, Director of Music in the Charlotte city schools. “The Messiah,” through 200 years of consecutive presentation, has come to be a symbol of the Christmas holiday season. Choirs and choruses all over the world sing its beautiful harmonies at this time. By securing outstanding artists and well-trained choruses and orchestra, the musical directors and Mr. T. D. Kemp, Jr., chairman of the event for the Fresh Air Fund, are sparing no efforts to make this production a memorable one for all concerned.

ECHOES OF THE PAST

Twenty-seven Years Ago

Glee Club and Orchestra give their initial concert on the “Hill.” —Dr. J. M. McConnell invited to speak at Raleigh. —Red Cross makes appeal to college for help. —Freshmen basketball win championship.

Nine Years Ago

Phi Beta Kappa initiates eleven men. —Glee Club returns from Eastern Carolina tour. —Scabbard and Blade initiates seven men. —Gridders close season with 7-6 win over Wake Forest. —Kappa Alpha wins inter-fraternity volleyball crown.

Seven Years Ago

Wildcats conquer Deacons 13-12. —Dr. W. L. Lingle visits Atlanta. —Mackeroll and Morgan make all-state. —Nine debaters selected from tryout entries. —Basketball practice begins. —Sophs issue plans for Class Dances. —Georgia beats Watts 13-0. —Phi Beta Kappa holds formal initiation, eight men initiated into North Carolina Gamma chapter. Dr. Sikes addressed the members on “Progress and Poverty.” —Prof. E. J. Erwin is elected head of South Atlantic Modern Language group. —Davidson places 50 graduates in “Who's Who” in America.

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT

(Continued from Page Five)

Reports from the Big City indicate college-worn nerves are as fast as ever and no place to rest. Other plowers of distant fields were Butch Pharr, Bellamy, and Jim Dabney, who wandered down Knoxville way to see the Tennessee-Vandy game. No need to mention Ralph Williams’ trip to Chattanooga—they're just habit with him now. Pledge Brother Tom Findley showed good judgment by visiting his home over the weekend. Tony Darby's name can be mentioned in passing, but no use trying to tell of his activities—he always censors them personally. A dollar to snag a doughnut before press time, Tony!

KAPPA ALPHA

With the K Ball the highlight in dance entertainment for the year, the Kappa Alphas turned out en masse for the Charlotte Country Club Saturday night for the annual banquet and dinner dance. Johnny Bobbitt and his orchestra furnished the music. Senior sponsor was Miss Jane Kirkpatrick with Buzz Council, Fane Sims with Charlie Welsh, Cam Wilson with Rosa Watt, and Elizabeth Yates with Jim Houston, who headed the long list of K. A. dates in the beauty section. Other members of Davidson’s Sigma chapter and their dates included Larry Royster with Molly Briggs, Ben Turnage with Charlotte Carter, Lacy McLean with Peggy Booth, Page Harris with Frances Critcher, and Fred Little with Betsy Hightower. Also, Campbell Ansley with Louise Payne, John Belk with Barbara Angell, Scotty Paterson with Mary Coons, Myron Sandifer with Sue Robbins, and Ben Washburn with Loulie Murchison. Rosemary Vincent arrived with Ralph Dunn, Mary Fisk with Ed Whitesides, Nancy O'Herron with Irwin Belk, Nancy Jane Ansley with Henderson Belk, and Sarah Dawson with Art Spencer. Peggy Copenhaver for Tom Burke, Ann Wheeler for Bill Abbott, Carolyn Lassiter for George Council, and Mary Stentz for Jack Richeson completed the list of K. A.’s and their dates. Brother Russ Beam headed home, as did Pledge Brother Jim Darracott, while Pledge Hank Watt traveled to Atlanta for the Tech-Georgia game and Brother Mason Wallace journeyed to New York as a Pan-Hellenic delegate to the national inter-fraternity council.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The past weekend found brothers widely scattered. The feature trip of the week was made by “Senator” Ox Alcott and George Tate, who journeyed down to Atlanta. B. F. Moore, Bob Smith, Frank Caldwell, and Claude Hackney dated over at Queens. Pledge Brothers Harvey Carrow, Frank Dunn, Bob Whaling, and Johnny McAllister spent the weekend in Greensboro. Louis Bibb, who holds the record for the most continuous weekends off the campus, of course went to Chattanooga. Bruce Harrison went to Knoxville for the Tennessee-Vanderbilt game and from there went home to Milan, Tenn. Webster McLeod held the distance record this week, making it all the way to Milan.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

Drink Pasteurized Milk - IT'S SAFE

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

221 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

PIERRE WHITING - THE AVERAGE LIFE OF A FOOTBALL COACH

WORLDS SMALLEST PARK

PATTON PARK, LOCATED ON MUSKINGUM COLLEGE CAMPUS, COVERS LESS THAN 3/7 OF AN ACRE. IT IS THE HOME OF ONE TREE, THREE STONES, AND APPROXIMATELY 200,000 BLADES OF GRASS.

Guardsmen Appear Here

Hollywood's noted quartette, The Guardsmen, presented a concert in Chambers Auditorium Thursday evening, November 27. The Guardsmen quartette was organized in 1930 and since then they have appeared in many concerts, motion pictures, and radio programs. Recordings of their voices have been used in such pictures as “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,” “The Gay Nineties,” and “I Wanted Wings.” Some noted critics consider The Guardsmen to be the best quartette in Hollywood. The Guardsmen have been supported by actors such as Laurence Tibbett, Grace Moore, and Nelson Eddy. Working out a program featuring a quartette fifty years ago has occupied most of the extra time of the last few weeks. They said original costumes and makeup will be used in the act.a male time the Guardsmen for years. The organization includes Henry Iblings and Mr. Hunsaker as tenors, William Brandt as baritone, Dudley Kunzell as bass, and Frank Youkstetter as accompanist. Both classical and popular numbers were used in the program given by the quartette here at Davidson. Most of the popular songs were taken from recent productions of the Guardsmen.

On his way to his home down in Decatur, Ala., Brothers “Ripper” Hunt, Mac Bruce, Rab McGeachy, and Elmer Graves went to Greensboro. “Big Deal” Lucas spent the greater part of last week with the dance committee in New York. Bill Faison, Buddy Carson, Peter Young, and Jimmy Wilcox spent the weekend at their respective homes in Charlotte.

Photographs
In closing the student picture section of the annual, Julien McCall, editor, announced that a few pictures still haven't been taken and one more visit by Mr. Dunbar is needed to complete these student pictures. Those photographs taken last Thursday should be back in about a week and may be seen then. Students who failed to have their pictures taken should see McCall as soon as possible at 21 Georgia. Also, seniors who wish to correct or make additions to their activities cards must see him at once.

Y.M.C.A. Board Appropriates Three Funds
The Y.M.C.A. Board of Control held its regular monthly meeting last Monday evening, December 1. Appropriations were made by this group for three special pieces of “Y” work. These are regional work, the Youth Convention on World Missions in Memphis, and special speakers. Topics under discussion during the meeting were the new location of the Y.M.C.A. in the old Library building, the speaker for the Spring Services, and the representatives to the World Missions Convention in Memphis from December 30, 1941, to January 1, 1942. Those present at the meeting were Mr. Jackson, Chairman, Dr. Cunningham, Professor McGavock, Shaw Smith, Jim Owens, Myron Sandifer, and Hugh Sprunt. This Board of Control is the official body of the Y.M.C.A., a joint faculty-student group.

NEY DESIGNS (Continued from Page One)
schoolhouse at recess and Mr. Ney at the spring. It did not take him long to sketch his design on a scrap of paper. On this scrap, he drew a man’s right hand holding a dagger which pierced a serpent. Above the dagger handle, rays of light flash from an eight-pointed star. In the middle of the hand at the hilt of the dagger are the words “Ne Ultra.” Around this design, he drew two rings and wrote the words of our motto between them.

Mecklenburg Reference
It has been suggested that the motto refers to the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, the first declaration of independence from Great Britain. Dr. Henry McCook, of Philadelphia, suggested that the seal divided the light of learning and religion from ignorance and unbelief. Light and truth have pierced the serpent, evil, and have in addition set up a barrier between them by the “Ne Ultra” band.

Clerks Give Suggestions On Stud Store Customs
FACULTY COMMITTEE (Continued from Page One)
Kentucky, University of Louisville, Vanderbilt, Birmingham Southern, University of Alabama, Auburn, Emory University, Agnes Scott, and the University of Georgia. Sewanee, Northern Teams During the northern tour the following teams will probably be engaged: Hampden-Sydney, Washington and Lee, University of Virginia, John P. Hopkins, Swarthmore, Princeton, Rutgers, Bryn Mawr, New York University, and St. John’s College. In addition to these two trips, which will be taken during the period of the spring holidays, the debaters will participate in a number of other forensic events during the year. The team contemplates entering the National Student Assembly which is held in Lexington, Ky., in March. Last year Frank Barker, a member of the Davidson team, was elected president of this assembly. The Davidson debaters will also take part in the Calhoun Forensic Tournament at Clemson College which will be held in March. Participation in the Grand Eastern Forensic Tournament in May has also been planned. It was thought at first that perhaps Davidson would enter the Dixie Forensic Tournament in Winthrop, December 3-6, but because of a number of serious conflicts, these plans have been abandoned.

CLASS OF 45 (Continued from Page Three)
The purpose of the examination was to familiarize the freshmen class with the Constitution of the Student Body. It was given as the result of an amendment passed by the Student Body two weeks ago. Those freshmen failing to pass the examination will be dealt with by the Board of Control.

Frosh Catching On To Serve Yourself System
When you enter the student store at 12:05 A.M., remember, you are adding unpaid-for time on some clerk's hours. This clerk probably has worked from nine o'clock through twelve.

Green-eyed Frosh
However, this isn’t half as disheartening as to have some freshman place a quarter on the register uttering “nickel out” and look into the green-eyed clerk's face. Had he tried to close his purchase, he would have been termed one of those rarities, a freshman who catches on. Then there are the freshmen who don't yet understand the “wait on yourself” custom and enter their orders with the clerk, who is either refilling the Coca-Cola box or sweeping out the store.

Broken Cakes
By watching some buyers, it would seem that broken cakes are furnished gratis to go along with the “guzzling.” Cake insurance would have a high sales rating with the managers. Twenty-five brands of beverages are offered to students. Coca-Cola sales top the list with milk, orange juice, and Pepsi-Cola trailing. Eighteen smoking tobaccos and thirty-five kinds of candies are sold by the twenty-two clerks.

CAFETERIA
GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON
At a meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, held Wednesday night in the New Chemistry Building, plans were discussed for a banquet for the new members. Plans were also discussed for an open house. Jim Kerr made his report on the convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon held at Brenau College in Gainesville, Ga., November 21 and 22.

At The Student Store
Deluxe Ice Cream
Gary Cooper
Saturday, December 6
Carole Landis
Thursday and Friday, December 4 and 5
“SERGEANT YORK”
Joan Leslie
“FLYING CADETS”
Monday and Tuesday, December 8 and 9
“CADET GIRL”
Wednesday and Thursday, December 10 and 11
“MY LIFE WITH CAROLINE”
Walter Brennan
George Montgomery
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

... that’s why
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Milder Better-Tasting They Satisfy
DOROTHY McGUIRE, popular star of John Golden's hit play “Claudia,” says Merry Christmas to her many friends with the cigarette that Satisfies, Chesterfield ... it’s his cigarette and mine. This year they’re saying Merry Christmas with Chesterfields. For your friends in the Service and for the folks at home, what better Christmas present than these beautiful gift cartons of 10 packs, 3 packs, or 4 tins of 50. Nothing else you can buy will give more pleasure for the money. Buy Chesterfields for your family and friends, beautifully packed for Christmas.