Charlie Watt Becomes New Freshman Advisor

ORTA LIBERTAS Che Mavbidsontan ALENDA LUX UBI a

Dr. Barbour Closes Spring Services Tonight

Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1941 Number 24

Charlie Watt Wins Over Eleven Men In Advisor Election

New Advisor | New Freshman Advisor De-| | “feats George Marsh In Final Ballot

SUCCEEDS BOB FINLEY

Wins In Fifth Ballot Of Close Election

In the final vote last Thursday, for Freshman Advisor, Charlie Watt was elected over George Marsh who was his opponent
in the final race. Eleven men from the rising senior class were nominated by their classmates to run for this
office. These men were: Bob Garvey, Dick Graham, Dick Kelly, Ed Lucas, George Marsh, Houghton Pardee, Powell, Bill Summers, Ralph
Williams, and Charlie Watt. Those in the second run-off were: George Marsh, Bill Sprunt, Charlie Watt, and Ralph Williams. In
the third run-off were Marsh, Watt, and Williams.

The Freshman advisor's job is a responsible one. It is he who introduces the freshmen to the college. It is
up to the Freshman Advisor to see that the freshmen get off on the right foot. The Freshman Advisor acts
as the president of the class, makes all the announcements of singular importance to the freshmen, and is their advisor,
so to speak. All coaching classes for the lagging freshmen are under his direction. This system as used here, at
Davidson, has shown itself to be beneficial.

Sigma Upsilon Bids 12 Men

Literary Fraternity Elects Officers For Coming Year Also

The regular weekly meeting of Sigma Upsilon, Honorary Literary Fraternity, was held at the S. A. E. house Tuesday night,
April 15, at 9:00 o'clock.

OFFICERS ELECTED.

Officers for the coming year were elected. They are: President, Archie Taylor of Winston-Salem; Vice-President, and Program Chairman, Bill Sprunt,
also of Winston-Salem; and Secretary, Pat Rudolph, of Asheville. The treasurer has not been elected as yet.

NEW MEMBERS PICKED.

It was announced that the following men will be initiated soon as new members of the fraternity: Shaw Smith, Ed
Taylor, Tony Darby, Julian McCall, W. C. Plunkett, Dick Cobb, Monroe Bush, Ed Erwin, Lacy McLean, Myron Sandifer, Bill Lyman,
and John Northcross.

By Joe Eve

With the last dance of the current year just around the corner, Davidson’s dancing set is already making plans to
strengthen the “lock with the one and only”, by swinging and swaying to the music of Charlie Spivak. The band’s
style is built around Charlie’s trumpet, which is classed among the best in the business. The orchestra specializes in clear-cut,
subdued, sweet swing, but plays little of the so-called “hot” pieces. Because of its novel interpretations and excellent swing arrangements
“sweet” recordings are in great demand.

Inspired by Spivak’s trumpeting the band is reported to have played highly successful engagements at the Sign of the Drum,
Cincinnati; Million Dollar Pier, Atlantic City; Castle Farms, Cincinnati; Buckeye Lake and Yankee Lake, Ohio; Summit Beach, Akron; and Totem
Pole Ballroom, Boston. They are now playing before packed houses at the New York Strand theatre. The group will fill
a short engagement at the exclusive Ritz Club in Bridgeport, Conn., the leader’s native state, before playing for dances at
the University of Georgia and at Davidson.

SPIVAK AND HIS TRUMPET

Spivak Uses Trumpet For Feature Numbers

Four Leaders Attend Meet

FOUR LEADERS

Darby, McCall, Hackney, Winn Represent School

The 1941 Convention of the Southern Federation of College and Publication Representatives will have its 20th Annual Convention in Atlanta,
Georgia, the 24th, 25th, and 26th of this month. Davidson students who plan to attend the conference are: Tony Darby,
Julian McCall, Claude Hackney, and Al Winn. The three-day program will include, besides daily business sessions, speeches by prominent men,
a sightseeing trip around Atlanta, and the election of new officers, climaxed by a ball on the 25th. Hosts for
the convention will be Georgia Tech and Agnes Scott; headquarters will be in the Biltmore Hotel. Last Year’s convention was
in New Orleans, La. Delegates from Davidson then were officially “Casey” and Winston Taylor.

PLAY CHANGED

The Red and Black Masquers’ spring production has been changed to: THE GIRL IN THE GOLDFISH BOWL. This is the
play written by Dan Hodges of the rising Senior class. Tryouts were held early this week, but the results were
announced too late for publication in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Next week this paper will publish the results of the tryout, including
the name of the lucky coed who won the coveted role of Rita Stanwyck. Plans are being pushed to make
this the greatest of original productions. It will be written, staged, and directed, and acted by students. Manuscripts have already
gone to press, and rehearsals will begin next week.

Student Body Installs New 1941 Officers

At the regular chapel service on Monday the annual induction ceremony of some of the rising school leaders will occur,
when the old officers will turn over their positions to the new. At this event Henry B. Johnson will officially
hand over the presidency of the student body to Albert Winn; Ed Watson will turn over the presidency of the
Y to Andy Dale; Winston Taylor will present the editorship of Quips and Cranks to Julien McCall; “Casey” Darby will
give the leadership of the Davidsonian to Jim Owen; Claude Hackney will turn over the Freshman Advisor position to Charlie
Watt; Bob Finley will transfer the senior class presidency to Paul Bumgarner; and Dan Hodges will hand over the editorship
of Scripts and Pranks to Jim Owen.

Informal speeches and comments will be made by each of the fourteen men who participate in the exercises. The event
will mark the official change of student administration for the coming year.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

year | Barbour Ends Spring Series “Way Of Abundance” Subject Of Final Talk

Student Body Elects Seven Council Men
New Members Are Lucas, Marsh, Sprunt, B. And H., MacLean, Gwynn

Last week seven new members were elected to the Student Council for next year. The new members include Bill Lucas,
George Sprunt, John MacLean, Hugh Gwynn, and Marsh Yarborough. Lucas and Sprunt were elected on the first ballot by the
rising seniors, while Marsh was elected on the second and Yarborough on the third ballots.

The rising juniors finished voting on Monday, electing Lacy and Parrigin. The second ballot included Lacy and Parrigin, while Fredericks,
Ben Lyman, and Hugh Sprunt were eliminated. The rising sophomores elected Gwynn, Stubbins, and Pharr on the second ballot. By
the third ballot, Pharr had dropped out.

AUTOMATIC MEMBERS
Those already automatically elected to the Student Council for next year include Al Winn, president of the student body; Claude
Paul, president of the rising senior class; and Hackett, president of the rising junior class.

“BUNDLES FOR BRITAIN” ARTIST
“The Way of Abundance” will be the subject of Dr. Clifford E. Barbour’s last message of the spring series this
evening at 7:15 in Chambers auditorium. Dr. Barbour has delivered five sermons to the student body at chapel periods Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday, and Tuesday and Wednesday evenings. He has used the following subjects: “What Kind of Religion Have You?”
“What Shall I Do With My Life?” “The Jesus Experiences,” “On Achieving Success,” “Fighting for Your Soul,” and “The Tyranny
of the Trivial.”

Special music has been furnished by members of Davidson’s musical organizations. Students have been called upon to offer prayers. Dr.
Barbour was selected as the leader of the spring services by the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet upon the recommendation
of students who knew him and his work well. He has been an influential leader of the students at the
University of Tennessee and is a director of Maryville College.

Dr. Barbour is of English descent. He was born in Pittsburgh in 1895 and received all of his education in
American schools except for a period spent at the University of Edinburgh where he received his Ph.D. degree. Maryville College
granted him his D.D. degree in 1933. He received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary and
his A.B. degree at the University of Pittsburgh.

The Y. M. C. A. sponsors spring and fall services every year. Dr. J. N. Thomas, professor of Systematic Theology
at Union Seminary, was the visiting minister at the fall services of 1940. He has accepted the invitation to deliver
the baccalaureate sermon Sunday, June 8.

Mayes Behrman Will Perform At Benefit
Proceeds Of Concert To Bundles For Britain Fund

Mayes Behrman, Jr., is scheduled to sing in Chambers Auditorium Friday night, April 25 at 8:15. The concert is for
the benefit of Bundles for Britain and the admission is to be twenty-five and fifty cents.

Mr. Behrman, a tenor from Greensboro, N. C., began his studies in Greensboro while attending the high school there. A
year after his graduation he went to Hollywood, California, to study under Andres de Segurola, teacher of Deanna Durbin. After
having studied with him for two years, he became acquainted with Dr. Mario Marafioti, Enrico Caruso’s physician, who took an
interest in Mayes and decided to teach him something of Caruso’s voice production. At Dr. Marafioti’s completion, he came under
the direction of Mme. Holtzmann, who taught many years in France before coming here. With Mme. Holtzmann and her pupils,
he spent the last summer in the Adirondack Mountains. Thus he has spent his last three years of training.

George Mitchell Wins Student Body Vote For 1941 Cheerleader
Cheer Leader Elections Draw Near Close As Yarborough Is Elected To Council
HERRING IS RUNNER-UP

Mitchell’s Election Comes On Second Ballot

George Mitchell of Wilmington defeated Geddie Herring on the final ballot for head cheerleader for next year. Mitchell’s election came
on the third ballot after Allcott and Mac Morris had been eliminated. Charles Shelton succeeds Joe Allcott in directing the
yells next year. Shelton’s successor hails from Wilmington.

Before entering Davidson, Mitchell attended Sea Alpha fraternity. He has been a member of the gymnastic and tennis teams and
now coaches freshmen in the sport.

SCRIPTS 'N’ PRANKS
Old and newly elected editors are collaborating on the final issue of Scripts 'n’ Pranks which will appear sometime early
in May. The cover for this issue is being done by John Northcross. The Pranks will contain short stories by
Arch Taylor and John MacKinnon, a humorous play by Pat Rudolph, and an article by Ed Taylor.

JUNIOR CHEERLEADERS
Each year a number of juniors try out for the junior cheerleader position. Herring and Mitchell were elected in the
final election this week. Tommy Williams from Albany, Ga., was elected to the council from the rising senior class. Yarborough,
elected over Ralph Tenn, will be installed in office next week along with the other council members.

BUSINESS MANAGERS
A special report revealed that the three publications will decide on new business managers tomorrow. Following these appointments, elections next
week will conclude the race for business managers and editors for the three publications. Voting in this period will be
by members of the rising senior class.

Pan-Hellenic Council Men Are Elected
Nine Frats Select Representatives

Election of 1941-1942 representatives on the Pan-Hellenic Council has been completed by each fraternity on campus, it was announced this
week.

NEW COUNCIL
The new Pan-Hellenic Council, governing body of the school’s nine Greek-letter social fraternities and sponsor of the dances during the
school year, will take office at the beginning of the next term. Its members are elected by the fraternities themselves;
each fraternity choosing one of its brothers to represent it on the council.

MEN CHOSEN
The elected members, with their fraternities and home towns, are: Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Ed Lucas, of Greensboro; Beta Theta Pi,
Stanley Jones, of Charlotte; Phi Delta Theta, Pat Rudolph, of Asheville, N. C.; Phi Gamma Delta, Walter Wooten, of Chattanooga,
Tenn.; Kappa Alpha, Mason Wallace, of Charlotte; Kappa Sigma, George Marsh of High Point, N. C.; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Dick
Cobb of Henderson, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Pi Kappa Alpha, Carlton Parsons of New Bern, N. C.; Pi Kappa Phi, Julian
McCall, of Florence, S. C.

Officers of the council for next year will be elected sometime this week, but at the time of going to
press, they had not been chosen.

Phi Mu Alpha Bids Thirteen New Members
Plans Made to Invite New Members In Near Future

The local chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national music fraternity, has elected new members. The nominations for membership were taken
at the meeting of April 15.

NEW MEMBERS SELECTED
At the meeting of April 22, plans for initiation were discussed. The initiation will take place soon this spring but
as yet the date is undecided. Those to be initiated are Harry Allen, Joe Barnwell, Don Caterson, Johnnie Clarke, Charlie
Horton, George Mitchell, Ed Robinson, Bill Robinson, John Knox, Craig Schmidt, Hershel Seagle, and Fred Speas.

Plans for next year’s concert series were discussed but no information was available at this time.
