Thursday, November 6, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Down FRATERNITY COURT

S. A. E.'s PLEDGE
The chapter wishes to announce the pledging of sophomore Frank Carter of Mount Airy. This weekend found a large number of brothers and pledges of S.A.E. backing the team in Lynchburg. Included in this group were Brothers Bob McLeod, Southgate Jones, Ed Lucas, and Buddy Carson with a carload. Brother Baxter Freeze attended the game in Lynchburg then drove back to High Point for the remainder of the weekend. Brothers Elmer Rogers and Pledge Rab McGeachy went to their home in Greensboro. Brothers Elmer Graves, “Pop” Hugh Hill, Ray Taylor, and Harry Hudson paid a visit to Chatham Hall Saturday night, then back to Greensboro and Davidson. Pledge “Dee” Dunn and Brother Dick Port spent the weekend in Winston. Harvey Carrow was at home in Kensington, N.C.

PHI’S PLAN FUNCTION
Brothers Archer and Hobbie traveled with the team to Lynchburg for the V.M.I.-Davidson game. Brother Carter took in the greater parts of West Virginia, Virginia, and Pennsylvania over the weekend. Billy Servell and Bub Pierce of Atlanta, and students at the Darlington school, were visitors at the house on Saturday and Sunday. Chapel Hill and U.N.C. Homecoming Dances were the destination of Brothers Chapman and Boykin. Brother Wardlaw spent the weekend at Randolph-Macon and Sweet Briar. Pledge Brother Smith was at home in Farmville, N.C. Going over to the retreat at Montreat were Brothers Owens and McIntosh. On the eighth of November, the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Delta Theta will give a dinner-dance at the Charlotte Country Club at seven o'clock. Sponsors and their escorts include: Miss Libby Jones of Charlotte with Brother Fred Boykin, sponsoring the Junior Class. Miss Sarah Harris of Spartanburg with Brother George Dew, sponsoring the Senior Class. Miss Elizabeth Rogers of Tallahassee, Florida, with Brother Glenn Terrell, sponsoring the Senior Class. Miss Martha Boyd of Germantown, Pennsylvania, with Pledge Brother Jack Loughridge, sponsoring the Freshman Class. Miss Helen Cox of Goldsboro with Brother Bob Pierce, sponsoring the Sophomore Class.

PI KAPPA’S WILD HAIR
Not but two of the brothers were able to follow the team to Lynchburg, these being Brothers Morris and Murray. However, not many Pi Kapps stayed on campus, and several long details were pulled. One of the more noted ones was Goudy’s and Logan's wild hare to Atlanta to see the Duke-Tech game, as well as a certain Jean Aronstein. Brothers Larkin and Miller went to the former’s home in Washington, and Wayman journeyed to Miami to see a high school football game. Pledge Dick Bradley went to his home in Waynesville. Going to Gastonia were Brother Armstrong and pledges Denny, Lineberger, and Yantis. Brother Herring went home to Roseboro. Pledge Walton went to Reidsville, while Brothers Robertson and Fisher journeyed to their home in Kannapolis. Brothers Watson and Gaither went to the latter's home in Newton. Among those in the usual detail to Charlotte were Brothers Bumbarger, McArthur, and Woodward, and pledges Key, French, Campbell, Floyd, and Birmingham. Brother Raymond was operated on for appendicitis Sunday afternoon. Any visitors would be greatly appreciated.

PHI GAMS LUNCH
When the Fijis sat down to lunch Saturday, the conditions outside did not seem exactly ideal for traveling. A count revealed that many Phi Gams planned to remain on the campus for supper, but when the clouds lifted and the sun came out, the wanderlust got the better of most of them. Brothers Tony Darby and Jesse Wooten were at Lynchburg doing their part toward boosting the Wildcats in their fight against V.M.I. Brothers Walter Wooten and Ralph Williams boarded the “Chattanooga Choo Choo” again (it’s getting to be a habit) and visited that fair and famous city. Pledge Brother Finley whipped off to Chapel Hill, Brother Hank Crane took a trip to Hickory. Arch Taylor was at Montreat over the weekend; while Brother Crowell went home to Lexington. Howell Morrow finally succeeded in reaching High Point again after six hours of bumming. Buddy Thompson was found at his home in Bristol, Tenn., over the weekend. Charlotte was by no means void of Phi Gams, but a few miserable creatures remained here on campus and probably didn't get around to doing the work they meant to do. Mr. and Mrs. Crowell of Lexington were guests of the chapter on Sunday night.

SIGMAS GO HOME
As the football game was in Lynchburg, most of the brothers went home for the weekend. However, eight of the brothers and pledges found their way to Lynchburg. “Hard Man” John McGee traveled to his home in Charleston accompanied by Joe McCoy. At Lynchburg for the V.M.I.-Davidson game were Jimmy Davis, Jack Clark, Jim Crook, Legh Scott, Bill Lacy, and Pledges George Ennett, Arthur Pendleton, Bob Miller, and Jim Millis. Wilbur Carter was found wandering around Greensboro and Chapel Hill as also was Bill Simmons. Gene Sutton ended up at Columbia, S.C., and Bill Grimsley at Spartanburg. Giving the hometown girls a thrill were George Marsh, whose guest at High Point was Dick Kelly. To the same city went Bob Amos and Pledge Jim Ellis. Bill Lacy went home to Richmond after taking in the game at Lynchburg. Pinky Wilson went home to Spartanburg and Pledge Ed Fowler to Mount Airy. “You Know Who” went to Elkin, that great city of northwestern N.C. Pinky Wilson went on a big deal hayride over at Queens.

PIKAS SEARCH
This weekend brought varied experiences to the Pikas who scattered far and wide in search of adventure, etc. Pledge Leonard Whiteson started, but did not make it to N.C. Brother Pearsall visited Statesville, Belmont, and other points of interest; while Brothers Vosburgh and Neill watched the circus unload in Charlotte. Brother Brockmann visited W.C., and Brother Parsons, approaching the constancy of Brother Dave Henderson, also visited that fair institution. Brother Maxwell went to the mountains, Brother Clarke visited Greensboro, and Pledge Goldstein visited Concord along with a few thousand soldiers. Brother Hodges triangled by taking a little country girl on a hunting trip at Arapahoe, while at his home in New Bern.and then stopped over in Greensboro on the return trip for a short stay at W. C. Brothers Hill, Pollock, and attended their dance at Carolina. However, Brother Hill made the trip a success by dating a lady wrestler and indulging in a game of football at the Phi Gam house at U.N.C. All was well until he was kayoed on an end run. Brother Williamson went home, and Brother Pledge Farrar plowed a cornfield in Kenansville, Lane, and Charlotte. Brothers Elder, Martin, and Parks, Pledges Graves, Anderson, Taylor, and Mac Turner.

Hardware-Groceries
“Davidson’s Complete Store”
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Influence Of Defense Plan
LEGH SCOTT

BY W. mad all, the influence is gradually being more at Davidson. The hustle and the efforts in everyday life call one’s attention to the emergency. Military additions have been done and will be done by the R.O.T.C. department to impress upon the students the seriousness of the situation. Competitive drills for this year, automatic rifles have been added to the equipment. Lt. Spencer has emphasized the importance. However, there has been continuous training.

Not only have planes been observed humming across the blue atmosphere, which gives an inner sense of security, but there have been theoretical dive-bombing exercises by real planes. Many returning alumni are in the CAMERA CLUB. At the last meeting of the Camera Club, plans were made for the photographic exhibition to be held in December. Definite plans were made concerning the requirements and size of the prints to be put on exhibition. After a brief criticism of prints brought in by several members, new pieces of equipment were inspected by the members. One of the most notable additions was a filter for the enlarger. This new equipment has been added to an already complete modern darkroom situated in the basement of Watts. The room is supplied with a modern enlarger, printer, and other equipment for the student-camera enthusiast.

Thirteen Davidson men were recently honored by receiving mention in Who's Who in American Universities and Colleges. This publication selects annually the most outstanding students throughout the nation’s campuses and is patterned after the well-known Who's Who in America. Reading from left to right, the men thus honored are: first row: Frank Caldwell, John Crichton, Harwell Darby, Claude Hackney; second row: Dan Hodges, Ed Lucas, Julien McCall, Jim Owens; third row: Pat Taylor, Al Rudolph, Bill Sprunt, Charlie Watt, and fourth row: Al Winn. All of these men are seniors, with seven already being tapped by ODK.

Many spent their first Saturday night on the campus with resolutions to remedy that situation in the future.

K. A’s OPERATE
Football games seem to be very popular objectives for K. A. Operators last week, with Charlotte, North Carolina, Lynchburg, and all points East, West, North, and South being well covered. Gridiron games helped fill up the spacious Lynchburg stadium along with Pledge Brothers Ike Belk, Jim Lowry, Jack Richeson, and Joe Bachman.

WEEK-END IN HAVANA
The Virginia City was a center for various trips to feminine interests.

Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

“Wise” CORNER
By SHAW SMITH

(Ghost writer gives the following as his bit of news imagination. The interesting thing is that he didn't know he would get credit—Shaw Smith.)

The retreat to Montreat was real. You haven't been at Davidson very long if you haven't heard of Montreat. Mountains... magnificent... silver water... and cold as the mischief! Ever climbed ole Look-Out on a clear cold morning? Sunday morning the cabinet did. And when they came down, each knew that he had a mountain experience that would make Davidson campus a livelier, more meaningful place for him. The subject of the meeting was the one about the gift fund. Heard someone say that the cabinet was pulling a “houseparty” on the vesper collection. Friend, ain't so. The retreat was not for transportation, but for board and lodging, the individual men had to dig deep for that. Whatever it cost, though, it was worth it. That's a prediction, however, and we can’t know definitely until we see the results here at Davidson.

Personal notes: Taylor forsook his old pipe, asserting that it was more in keeping with the Sprunt tradition. Assembly Inn didn’t talk a lot, but he said a great deal. The individualists, Sandifer, Newbold, and Fulcher got lost while “short-cutting” the mountain. Owen and Parrish enrolled at Montreat College. And even then, a heap of things got done. Daisy’s department has a lost and found. Only one on the campus, in fact. Did you know it? By the way, we've got some pretty “found” articles down here.

By Vall
Services will be in full swing by the time you read this. We’re confident that Dr. Marshall will be a necessary plug. But maybe your fraternity or boarding house isn’t. (Continued on Page Six)

PAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The Flavor Lasts.