THE DAVIDSONIAN

By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat Sports

Bouquets are due the cindermen for opening the sports session with a conference win. Coach Whittle, fearful of too luxurious
a holiday among members of the cinder squad, merely deepened his frown when he saw star-hurdler Arch Taylor smoking a
new pipe on Friday before the meet Saturday. But by the next afternoon all Pete’s frowns were gone, and he
was justly proud of his boys, although still a little doubtful as to how human bodies were able to function
in such a fashion. Pipe-smoker Taylor took first scoring honors with two firsts and a second, which might well have
been another win, had he not tangled with the first hurdle in the 220 lows and fallen. Chase Brenizer’s 22’
4 1-2" were way out in the broad jump, and another first in the javelin with a second place tie
on the high jump gave him second scoring honors with 12 points. Sophomore John Belk surprised the spectators as well
as his coach by returning directly from a spring trek over Florida to pull away in the home stretch of
the 880 and cop a first just after clearing 5’7” to top the high jumpers.

NEXT SATURDAY—

Trackmen Victorious In Initial Meet With South Carolina Birds

Varsity Tracksters Score Easy Victory Over South Carolina’s Gamecocks; High Point Men, Taylor, Brenizer, and Belk Pace Team to Win.

’Cat Linksmen Go To Athens

The golf team left yesterday for Saturday’s encounter with Georgia Tech in Athens, where it will enter into the ear-markings
of a good, tight meet! Coach Whittle is confident of a perfect season once the Techs are safely passed. The
Gobblers licked a strong N. C. State squad last Saturday with remarkable times for the muddy track. Paul McMullin, an
extremely talented sophomore, was the individual star of the afternoon taking firsts in a 10 flat hundred, 22.5 two-twenty, 15.9
high hurdles, and 25.8 low hurdles. His twenty markers boosted the Virginian’s total by too large a figure to make
pleasant reading for Wildcat supporters, but will be down the primary and Taylor, by virtue of a win over McMullin
in the indoor games, is favored to cop the highs. Pop Rogers also qualified for the trip. The elimination forecaster
Whittle, with his prognostications regarding his teams, 66 points, a figure high enough to make the meet a real thriller.
A little of the Wildcat fighting spirit on the difference between a win and a loss.

Remaining on the schedule after Virginia Tech are Furman, Citadel, and State. By taking the entirely unreliable means of comparative
scores, which mean as little on the cinders as anywhere else, the Cats, if strong enough to take the Gobblers,
ought to finish the season with a win. South Carolina, already beaten by Davidson, both Duke and North Carolina took
Furman by a large margin, and Furman unloosed the rout of its House of Magic in nosing out The Citadel
by one point; all of which means nothing but hopes.

OTHER SPORTS—

On other fronts, the outlook is a little better than pre-season practices promised. The baseballers, in their first game, bowed
by a 6-3 score to Duke; but the game was close until the last. For six innings Ed Lucas clipped
the corners consistently, striking out, passing only two, and giving up seven hits. Southpaw mound rookie Mac Morris took up
in the seventh and yielded two bingles in his three-inning stretch. The Devil’s luck was with them on Pitcher Bill
McCahan’s four-bagger which, labeled for two bases, got lost in the left field hedge. Byam's homer, which drove in three
Duke runs, fell into the home-run section of the stadium, missing an easy out by not more than 10 yards.
The netmen boasted a 500 percentage on their Southern trip, with a match with the strong Rollins team canceled because
of rain. Absence of Miller Sproull down the line. Also with a .500 mark were for the Southern Intercollegiate up
into No. 2 position from the V. P. I. Frosh.

To Meet Kits

In preparation for its first meet April 12 with the Freshmen from V. P. I., which comes Saturday, the Freshmen
track team is rapidly rounding into shape. The Kittens are conceded a very good chance of downing the V. P.
I. boys, who have an exceptionally strong team. Probably the individual star of the track team will be Bill Lacy.
Lacy runs the low hurdles, 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, and high jumps. Other leading candidates are Pat Williams, who runs
the high hurdles, high jumps, and puts the shot. Dick O’Hair, who pole vaults and runs the half mile, should
be a consistent point winner. Eliott White and Dick Port have been very impressive in the 440-yard dash. The Gobblers
nosed out the Kittens last year and the Frosh are out to get revenge. McMullin, star for the Techlets last
year, has been promoted to the varsity and with him gone, the Kittens are out for victory. McMullin, who runs
the half-mile, gathered 15 points for the Gobblers last year. The schedule is as follows:

April 18 - P. C. Freshmen at Davidson.
April 25 - Salisbury High, there.

Frosh Batting Shows Power

The freshman baseball team, with only two weeks’ practice behind them, is already showing great promise ofa good season. The
kitten nine got a taste of competition Tuesday when they met Charlotte’s amazing alternate spot squad. (Continued on Page Six)

Record for will allow accurate the Davidsons Saturday may mean Fifth Last Year. Trials were held on Monday in Charlotte.
The varsity trackmen, in the first meet of the season, defeated the South Carolina Gamecocks 75 2-3 to 50 1-3
at Columbia, last Saturday. Three members of the cat squad, Belk, Taylor, and Brenizer, scored enough points to earn their
letter in the first meet, while pacing the team to their victory. Arch Taylor was high point man for the
meet, scoring two firsts and one second, for a total of 13 points. Taylor placed first in the 220-yard low
hurdles, first in the 100-yard dash, and second in the 120-yard high hurdles.

Brenizer Hot Chase
Brenizer, star field event man for the Cats, won two firsts and tied for a second, which made him second
high man for the meet. Brenizer won the javelin by a toss of 168 feet. His jump of 22 feet
4 1-2 inches easily won the broad jump by nine inches. Brenizer tied with Talmadge for second in the high
jump after all of the South Carolina men were eliminated. John Belk scored two firsts for the Wildcats, one in
the 880-yard run and the other in the high jump, after clearing 5 feet 7 inches. Other first-place winners for
the tracksters were: Erskine Parks in the two-mile run, Blanton Williamson in the 120-yard high hurdles, Gene Shannon in the
pole vault, and Glenn Terrell in the discus.

Sprunt, White Place
Hugh Sprunt placed second and third in the 100 and 220-yard dashes respectively, while Captain Jack White scored the same
in the 440 and 220. Other point winners were: Loy, White, Turnage, Nimmons, Talmadge, Dick, Bell, and Vanlandingham. The next
track meet for the Wildcats will be with V. P. I. Saturday on the home track. The next visitors are
said to have a very strong team and a close fight is expected.

Kits Continue Golf Practice
The kitten linksmen faced a strong Central High team on Tuesday. The Central strokers were headed by Don Bryant and
Pete Goebel. The frosh golf schedule includes matches with the Junior College of Augusta in Charlotte on April 24, Carolina
frosh in Durham on April 25, Central on April 29, High Point on May 6, and the Junior College of
Augusta again on May 17.

Play In Charlotte
All home matches of the golf team will be played in Charlotte at the Carolina Country Club. The qualifying rounds
for the freshman golf team were finished before spring vacation. Qualifying consisted of seventy-two holes, medal play, over the Carolina
Country Club course in Charlotte. The team, composed of Tommy Jumberger, Charlie Upchurch, Bobby Gaither, and Jim Davis, shows signs
of a fairly good season.

N. A. CALES
Tailor
FIRST CLASS ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRING
104½ E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Thursday, April 10, 1941

COURT CAPTAIN
Tracksters Win First Meet

Much of Davidson’s tennis success will rest on the sturdy shoulders of Captain Dick Shore (pictured above). Shore and Miller
Sproull are the only returning lettermen to face the bitter schedule. The Wildcats leave today for an extended tour of
Georgia, Florida, and South Carolina. They will encounter the College of Charleston, Emory, Stetson, Rollins, and Mercer before returning to
the campus. (Observer photo by Earl L. Stutts.)

Netters Win Two, Lose Two On Southern Trip
With the completion of the trip taken during Spring holidays, the Davidson tennis team broke even, winning two, losing two,
and having one match rained out.

Defeat College Of Charleston
In the first match, the team encountered the College of Charleston and defeated them 5-2. Craig Schmidt was forced to
forfeit due to a cut hand sustained while opening a can of tennis balls.

Meet Emory
Journeying further south, the racketeers met Emory and were victorious by the score of 6-1. The team hit their stride
and all the racket-wielders except Schmidt, who was forced to forfeit as a result of his injured hand, won.

CAFETERIA
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Stetson Next
Stetson was the next opponent (Continued on Page Six)

WHEN SPRING COMES YOU WANT THAT CLEAN CUT LOOK
COME TO NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Blue Devils Defeat Cat Nine By 6-3
In their first game of the season, played on Richardson Field April 5, the Wildcat baseballers were defeated by the
score of 6 to 3 by the Duke Blue Devil nine. The game was full of thrills and until the
eighth inning, the home team trailed by a single tally. Twenty-seven men died on bases.

Jim Hogg, regular third sacker for the Wildcats, was not able to be present and his absence proved to be
a considerable handicap for the losers because of his hitting ability as well as his fine field work. Bill Nelson
substituted in the "hot corner." Lucas served six innings on the mound for the Cat team and was relieved in
the seventh by Mac Morris. For Duke, Bill McCahan, a nineteen-year-old sophomore, pitched the entire game. By restricting the Wildcats
to five scattered hits and hitting a homer in the sixth inning, the Blue Devil twirler did a lot toward
winning his own ball game. Lucas gave up seven hits but came back with an equal number of strikeouts. Morris
rendered two hits to make a total of eight hits for the Devils. The Wildcat reliever struck out two Duke
batters and showed little control over the ball. Lucas also showed his ability on the mound as he struck out
Duke's (Continued on Page Five)

J.O. JONES, Inc.
You'll Find Bright New SPRING SUITS At 25.00 - 30.00 - 35.00
MADE BY
Clothcraft At 25.00 & 30.00
University Club At 30.00 to 37.50
Hart Schaffner & Marx At 35.00 to 50.00
COME IN SOON
J.O. JONES, Inc.
For A Representative Dial 6300

STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Printers of ‘The Davidsonian’
Printing IS OUR BUSINESS
Dial 6309
