R. O. T. C. ISSUE

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

R. O. T. C. ISSUE

Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1941

Number 26

LT. COL. G. S. BROWNELL INSPECTS R.O.T.C. UNIT

CALDWELL ELECTED JUDGE OF COURT

Judge Succeeds Bolin On Court Of Control

Kelly, Shannon, McCoy, Long, Bethea, and Grimsley Appointed.

BELL IS RECORDER

Four Have Had Service On Present Court: Frank Caldwell, from Spartanburg, rising senior, has been appointed to serve as Judge of the Court of Control for the year 1941-42 by the senior members of the Student Council. Don Bell, also of the rising senior class, was selected to act as recorder of the new court.

OTHER MEMBERS

Other men chosen to fill positions on the body are: Dick Kelly and Gene Shannon, rising seniors; Joe McCoy and Matt Long of the rising juniors; and Earle Grimsley of the rising sophomore class. Caldwell has already seen one year's service on the court, as have McCoy, Long, and Bell. He has also served as Vice-President of the sophomore class and Secretary and Treasurer of his junior class, and has been elected Vice-President of the rising senior class. Besides, Caldwell has made letters in football and is on the baseball team. He belongs to Le Circle Francais, Scabbard and Blade, and the “D” Club. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

OLD REGIME

Jay Bolin of Mascot, Tenn., has served as judge of this year’s court, while Dick Arnold has acted as recorder. Assisting in the work of the group were George Grantham and Bob Rhinehart, seniors; Don Bell and Frank Caldwell, juniors; and Joe McCoy and Matt Long, sophomores. The duties of the court of control at Davidson consist of acting in an advisory capacity to the freshman class, and to impose and enforce disciplinary measures for infractions of regulations placed on the freshmen by the student body.

TAYLOR SPEAKS

Dr. H. Kerr Taylor, executive secretary of the Presbyterian Committee of Foreign Missions, brought a message of thanks to the Davidson student body for their Christmas gift to Foreign Missions in a talk to the students in chapel Tuesday. It was explained that John Snell, who was to be sent to China with the money, has been unable to get to the Orient, because the State Department has refused to grant a passport. However, the money will be put to good use in mission work.

Managers Set Junior Staff

Crichton, MacKinnon, Booker Designate Assistants For Next Year.

The new business managers of the three publications have announced the names of the men who will serve on their respective staffs next year. John Crichton, who leads the business staff of the Davidsonian, revealed the names of the men who will assist him in his work. The post of Advertising Manager will be taken over by Peter Stewart of Charlotte, while the job of Collection Manager will fall upon Ivey Young of Greenville, S.C. The Circulation Managers for next year will be Buck McNeely of Mooresville, N.C., and Joe Martin of Lebanon, Tenn.

John MacKinnon announced that his Magazine staff would be composed of Jim Chapman of Spartanburg, Clarence Legerton of Charleston, S.C., Joe Flowers of Columbus, Ga., Jim Darracott of Kings Mountain, N.C., Joey Barnwell of Burlington, N.C., and Joe Eve of Augusta, Ga.

Hutch Booker, new Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, revealed that the business affairs of this publication will be conducted by Campbell Ansley of Charlotte, Fred Boykin of Atlanta, Ga., Wellford Hobbie of Roanoke, Va., Joe McCoy of North Wilkesboro, N.C., John McGee of Charleston, S.C., and George Tate of Charlotte.

'41 Year Book Is Completed

Staff Hopes to Issue Annual On May 20.

Editor-in-Chief Winston Taylor, and Business Manager Gene Vereen announced this week that the last picture for the “Quips and Cranks” of 1941 went to the engravers on Wednesday, April 30th, and all the copy has been completed and sent to press. Because of the larger advertisement section, this year’s annual will be a few days late in leaving the press. However, the editors have promised us an interesting issue. This year’s “Quips and Cranks” will consist of many new advertising features and ideas, and for the first time since the 1938 yearbook, there will be a pictorial advertisement section. More time and work have been put on the ad section than on any other part of the book, and it consists of a great number of practical ideas. In an interview with the Editor, it was learned that the new annual will contain many informal shots of campus life, and this year feature pictures will be its drawing card. Although it would not be “cricket” to tell yet of the new cover design, a rumor, more substantial than the usual Davidson one, has it that the cover will be one of unique design.

One of the most important parts of the annual, and possibly the most important part to some, is the beauty section. This year the personnel of the beauty section has been chosen by an outstanding connoisseur, who incidentally is a member of the faculty. The annual staff expects to issue this year’s Quips and Cranks on Tuesday, May 20th.

DR. CUNNINGHAM WRITES TO MEMBERS STUDENT BODY

Annual Event Occurs

I feel it appropriate in light of the stress and strain of these days to urge upon the students of Davidson College not to interrupt voluntarily your college training. I consider it highly important that you continue your courses as far as it is possible. Mighty trained men are going to be needed in the future as perhaps never before. The most difficult problems, whether in war or in peace, lie ahead for us. Men of education and Christian character are going to be the nation’s dependence in the years ahead. Now, it seems to me, is the time to take a long view and consider the days—not the weeks or months, but even years, which lie ahead. To abandon voluntarily the privileges of a sound education at this time, unless it be absolutely necessary, is tragic. Not only educational leaders throughout the country, but President Roosevelt himself, have urged students to continue their studies until they are called into the service of their country. We must not permit the tension of these times unnecessarily to disrupt normal procedure. All college students have been given deferment until July 1. They will be re-classified before that date and many may be called for duty. The College Administration is seeking to cooperate in every way possible with the Selective Service Boards. Students who have reached draft age and who are called to service are, of course, expected to respond. In this connection, I am seeking to endorse applications for deferment of those whose current training is in fields directly related to National Defense, as, for instance, medicine, dentistry, engineering, advanced work in biological, chemical, and physical sciences. Such deferment is the part of patriotism and it is on that basis as well as on the basis of your own future usefulness that we invite your cooperation. I have requested Mr. Hengeveld, our Registrar, to render any assistance and give any counsel possible to students who are presenting their cases to the Selective Service Boards. I would advise all students who are already registered to keep in touch with Mr. Hengeveld.

Cordially Yours,

R. C. CUNNINGHAM, President

Davidsonian Is Given Top Rank In Class “B” College Newspapers.

Alumni Hold Meet

Maxton, has been elected president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. At the same meeting, the Davidsonian was awarded first place in Class B competition for college newspapers in the state. Last Thursday, the New York Alumni Chapter of Davidson College met together for its annual dinner. Over seventy-five alumni attended. Jackson and Cunningham Speak to Assembly.the | ceeds—last—year's president, F. Ved in the New York area at Metropolitan Opera Company, has Clements of State College. Mac attended the banquet held at the Advertising Club on Park Avenue postponed the date of his appearance until Monday night, May 12. Mr. H. Smith Richardson, a member of the Board of Trustees, presided. Mr. Joe McConnell, nominal head of the New York chapter, could not be present, having moved his home to Camden, N. J. In his absence, Eustace Lingle was elected the new chapter head. Mr. Lingle is the son of the late Professor T. W. Lingle of this college.

The program got underway with an address by Harllee Branch, of Atlanta, Ga., President of the Davidson Alumni Association, who spoke here at Davidson in a recent Chapel Exercise. The next speaker of the evening was Mr. F. L. Jackson. After making a few remarks about the history of Davidson College, Mr. Jackson presented Dr. Cunningham who delivered his introductory address to the alumni.

Not wishing to disrupt plans already made, the Metropolitan Opera Company offered the services of John Dudley, tenor, on May 5, or Norman Cordon on May 12. It has been decided that Mr. Cordon will sing at Davidson on that date. Mr. Cordon, though born in Washington, N. C., moved to Charlotte when he was only eight. Here he got his first experience as a singer in a choir for twenty-five cents a Sunday. After prep school, he went to the University of N. C. in Chapel Hill, where he developed his bass-baritone voice. When his family moved to Winston-Salem, he studied voice at Salem College. After working in New York and Chicago, he was discovered by Dr. Shirley Munns and made his debut in Chicago.

N.C.C.P.A. OFFICERS
Above are pictured the recently elected officers of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. From left to right, seated, they are: Lalah Watts, Eastern State Teachers College, First Vice-President; Rosemary Reed, Greensboro College, Secretary; John MacKinnon, Davidson, President; Bill Leloudis, N.C. State, Treasurer. Standing is Roy Mansfield, Elon College, Second Vice-President. These officers were elected at the annual N.C.C.P.A. convention.

Today And Tomorrow Includes Class and Drill Review By Georgia Tech R.O.T.C. Officer. PUBLIC ATTENDS EVENT
For “41 YMCA
Richardson Field Drill Held This Afternoon. Fifteen Men Are Chosen to Direct The Divisions of Activity.

New members of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet for 1941-42 were selected last Monday night. The men have been interviewed and have signified their acceptance of the posts announced this week. The new cabinet, which will be headed by Jim Owens, President; Myron Sandifer, Vice-President; Jesse Wooten, Vice-President, and Shay Smith, Secretary, is as follows: Henry McIntosh, Sunday Schools; Archie Taylor, Deputations; Ralph Williams, Social Life; Claude Hackney and Monroe Bush, World Evangelism; Bill Sprunt, Publications; Jimmy Fulcher, Hi-Y Work; Bill MacLauchlin, Scout Work; Charles Watt, Freshman Work; Albert Winn, Student Government Representative; Jim McIntyre, Library; and Jesse Wooten, Spiritual Development; Charlie Parrish, Chapel Services; Jerry Newbold, Community Service; and Myron Sandifer, Vespers and Church Relations. Owens, Williams, Watt, and Winn have done previous work on the cabinet while the others will be doing their first work in this capacity.

Spivak’s Band Features Set Gala Spring Frolic Concludes Dance Season.
(Continued on Page 3)

Friday afternoon marked the beginning of Davidson Pan-Hellenic Spring Frolics. At 5:30 p.m. Charlie Spivak and his orchestra opened the set with “Night Is Ending,” the theme of the last dance of the year. The general opinion of the student body attending the gala activities at the Charlotte Armory this past weekend seemed to be that the Spring Frolics were without a doubt the best dances of this school year. Spivak and his trumpet gave out with some of the sweetest and smoothest dance material that the Davidson undergrads (and grads) have heard in quite a spell, while Ginger, Garry, and all the boys did their best to please. Their success, as measured by the applause of those attending the dance, was great.

The spell that Spivak spun with his trumpet was so complete that the Friday and Saturday afternoons were practically turned into concerts; not from a lack of attendance but because those who did attend were so completely wrapped up in Charlie’s unique arrangements that they completely forgot the business at hand. At both dances, almost an hour slipped by before Spivak broke the charm with a short rest period for his boys. The arrangements played were unequalled for dancing or listening pleasure and included “Intermezzo”—the most popular, “Night and Day,” “Stardust,” “Hey! Sit Down Bud,” “Yes My Darlin’ Daughter,” “The Last Jam Session,” and many other favorites. The Friday night formal was highlighted by the figure of the Pan-Hellenic Council members and fraternity representatives and their dates. The Saturday night informal closed the last of this year’s four sets, with a fairly large gathering at the Armory.

Tomorrow includes Class and Drill Review By Georgia Tech R.O.T.C. Officer. PUBLIC ATTENDS EVENT
Today and tomorrow Lt. Col. Brownell, of Georgia Tech, is reviewing the Davidson Reserve Officers Training Corps for the annual Proficiency Inspection. Davidson’s R.O.T.C. unit has been awarded an “excellent” rating every year since 1926, and it will be announced by this weekend whether such a rating will again be awarded. All phases of Military Science and Tactics that are taken up at Davidson will be inspected and reviewed.

TODAY'S SCHEDULE.
Scheduled for inspection activities today include: at 8:30 this morning an official call was made on the president of the college, Dr. John R. Cunningham; at 10:40, during the third period, first-year basic men were reviewed on military sanitation and first aid, military map reading, and rifle training and marksmanship; during the fourth period, second-year advanced men were inspected on anti-aircraft defense, the rifle company, the heavy weapons company, and the anti-tank company platoon.

BATTALION INSPECTION.
This afternoon at 1:15, during the first period after lunch, first-year advanced students were tested on their knowledge of aerial photography, reading and interpretation, the rifle company, and the machine gun and anti-tank company squad. From 2:15 until 4 o'clock the entire battalion formed on Richardson Field and went through calisthenics, review, inspection, close order drill company, platoon, and squad, and extended order drill of platoon and squad. During the third period tomorrow, second-year basic men will be inspected on their knowledge of the automatic rifle, musketry, scouting and patrolling, and the rifle squad. Tomorrow afternoon an administrative inspection will be made of the R.O.T.C. Building, property, and arms.

POSSIBLE CHANGE.
If weather conditions are unfavorable today, the battalion drill inspection will be held tomorrow afternoon, and the administrative inspection this afternoon. Announcements had been made by order of Lt. Col. G.T. MacKenzie, Davidson professor of Military Science and Tactics, inviting the public to attend the drill inspection. As in past years, a large number of spectators were expected.