Thursday, December 4, 1941

Y's CORNER By SHAW SMITH

JOE McCLESKY, Guest Columnist

“A Night In the Trailer” Or “Cries From The Hole Of The Mole”

It isn’t the most desirable life to wake up in the night with rabbits crawling all over you and old joke books hitting you in the head; but when you think of how the rest of the world is getting along you have to hold on to what you've got. Still, it’s a horrible thing. The first day I went around I thought the place was deserted, and making as little noise as possible which was none at all, except for pulling off the door that leads into the parlor and kicking over last month's basket of trash, I silently made my way into the squalid coffin. It had been days since I had read a paper, and with nothing else to do I picked up the one on the couch. It was The Davidsonian, and it was telling all about Roosevelt and the weather. Peacefully I was reading until I decided to look around (downstairs), and I hope I never get that cold, helpless feeling again. There it sat. I cut on the radio, because I needed company. In the west corner of the place, through the spider webs that seemed to be permanent fixtures and through the dust that a little black cat made, pitifully and hysterically going from one wall to the other in search of a way out, I saw that thing, which first I thought was something the Indians had used to drive away evil spirits, or something that the caveman had used to scare man-eating dinosaurs, and then I even feared that the d.t.’s were coming back. But no! Nothing so kind as that did fate lend me. I saw it breathing! And then I heard words come out of it. It said, “The Mole is in his counting house counting out his money.” You would have screamed too. When I did, he looked up at me and an ace of spades fell out of his hair. His smile kinda waved to me, showing first one tooth and then another (or the other). Words dripped from his smile, and he said, “I say, friend: come in.” “What did you bring me?” At first I thought “I can make it if I run,” but I was frozen. Shaking all over I put my last fifty cents on the table and he clutched it like Sapp does a nickel, and he mumbled something I didn't quite get. I thought he said “You bring the Mole a gift just for fun?” But I found out that he was speaking of a gift fund. He gave me a bowl of cold porridge and kept talking about “the rest of the boys.” No sooner had I put down his book on “How to Get the Rabbit Back,” than did they begin to file through the door. He seemed to be pleased to have me meet “the boys.” And there were lots of them. He says he wants me to go down to the “Y” with him sometime soon. “Because,” he says, “take it from The Mole, there is where the particular people congregate.” I stayed around the place and now it’s in my blood. I guess I'll stick around, but my mother wouldn't like it if she knew that I was janitor for The Mole. But the place needs a janitor. That paper I read when I first got there was about “Teddy” Roosevelt. And so went the afternoon. I got interested in Roosevelt. And if I just explain it to you, you will understand. You see, I found out that day that beauty isn't everything. Sure The Mole and “his boys” like money—but they like it for somebody else. And that is what this whole show is—I mean the show that Shakespeare called ‘an idiot's tale.’ It may be wise to think what is behind a project before you condemn it, or the person promoting it, on the grounds that it is connected with the Church, because the Church is Christ, and speaking in these terms it serves to remind us that Christmas is coming. Here is a thought in a little poem about Christmas: —A Little Boy of heavenly birth is far from home today, Came down to get his ball, the earth, which sin had cast away, O brothers, let us, one and all, Join in to get him back his ball. Drop around to the “Y," or to the trailer, but wear your old clothes. SMOKEY JOE.

COLORED CLASSES

Classes for colored people are to start soon at the Community Center under the direction of Jerry Newbold. Several Davidson students are going to teach classes in subjects desired by the Negroes. The schedule has not been set up yet, but will be fixed at the most convenient time for the pupils. Alex Simes, who will teach an adult Bible class, and Homer Spencer, another teacher, are assisting Jerry Newbold in this Y.M.C.A. project. Teachers of other courses are John Lusk in Mathematics and Beverly Bobbitt in English. The Y.M.C.A. is anxious to start work among Negroes in Smithville similar to that which is being carried on at the Community Center. Any boys interested in this work have been asked to see Jerry Newbold.

YMCA Men Lead Synod

Davidson Students Hold Important Positions in Church Work By JOHN FAIRLY

The strains of “O, Davidson" echoed through the hall. No, it was not the freshmen bellowing forth at a pep meeting in the newer gym. It was in the dining hall last August at the Montreat Leadership School for young people, where the Synod's young peoples’ councils of all the Synods of the Southern Presbyterian church were gathered. No one knows who first got up and began the song, but in a moment all the Davidson men in the hall were standing for the honor of their Alma Mater and were singing the traditional song in a lusty, if not particularly harmonious manner. The interesting thing was how many were standing, for it showed very conspicuously how active Davidson men are in the church's young peoples’ work. Those who stood in that dining hall represented six of the synod’s councils. Two were synod’s presidents, Charlie Parrish of North Carolina, and Jim McCrary of Arkansas. Naturally, North Carolina has the largest Davidson delegation, including six of their council. Besides the president, Rob Miller is chairman of the Highway Beyond the Seas, Ed Hay of the Highway into the Homeland, and Jerry Newbold of the Highway of Comradeship. In addition, Alfred McNair and George Ogilvie are two of North Carolina's Presbytery presidents, McNair of Orange Presbytery, and Ogilvie of Winston Salem Presbytery. Tank Watt, the vice-president of the Georgia Council represents Davidson in that Synod. Serving as a highway chairman is Alf Taylor, the chairman of the Highway Beyond the Seas on Tennessee’s council. There are four Presbytery presidents, who also serve as members of their respective synod’s councils, who are now at Davidson. In addition to those in North Carolina are Cory Simmons, president of Suwannee Presbytery in Florida and John Fairly, president of East Hanover in Virginia. However, these represent only a small portion of the Davidson men who take an active part in young peoples’ organizations in the church. Many are accomplishing great things on Presbytery councils, besides those who have been interested in young peoples’ activities in their home churches. Davidson seems to be carrying its load in supporting the church through its young peoples’ organization.

EXHIBIT

At the last meeting of the Camera Club, held on Thursday night in Dr. Lyon’s classroom, it was decided that the Fall Exhibit would be held on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, December 10-12. All students who have any pictures they would like to exhibit are invited to enter as many as they wish. Entrants please note the following requirements: 1. All prints must be at least 8 by 10 inches in size, not tinted and mounted on standard 16 by 20 inch mounting board. 2. All prints must be turned in on Tuesday afternoon before the day for the exhibit to start. The mounted prints should be turned in to Boyce Rhyne, Linus Banker, or Jack Ramsay. The Exhibit will be held in the exhibit rooms of Eu Hall. It is planned to convert the building.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dr. F.C. Myers Explains How To Stop Fear On “Fear Thou Not” At Sunday Vespers

Dr. Charles F. Myers, distinguished minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N. C. was the speaker at the Vesper service last Sunday evening. He was warmly welcomed by Dr. Price Gwynn, who presented him. For his Scripture lesson, Dr. Myers read from Matthew 6:24-31. He chose for his text Isaiah 41:10, “Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be thou not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.” He began his discourse with the affirmation that Man's enemies are fear, resentment, self-consciousness, and a sense of guilt. He rather playfully remarked that he intended to talk about the first of these.

Junior R.O.T.C. Men To Attempt Rigid ‘Fit To Fight’ Examination

Test To Be Given In Preparation For Competition In Summer Camp.

According to the headquarters of the local R.O.T.C. unit, all juniors in the present battalion, distinguished field of fourteen in qualifying for the “Fit to Fight” contest given at Clemson last summer, will be required to pass the examination. For this reason juniors will be given training before going.

Five Men Direct Sunday Group In Discussion

Five Students Lead Local Sunday School In New Type Of Service

Something new in the line of Sunday School services was held last Sunday in Phi Hall when a discussion group composed of Tom Brown, Jim Owens, EdPatterson, Doug Clark, and Fred Spies gave their opinions on the question, “Does one have to attend Church to be a good Christian?” At the summer training camp last summer, Davidson placed fifth in the test. It is believed that the same test will be given again next year. The unit having the largest number to qualify gets a plaque. The tests were started for Juniors Tuesday and will be given every Tuesday and Thursday until all have passed the test. Cadet Captain L. C. Way and Cadet Sergeant B. R. Lacy will be in charge of this test by arranging for cadet officers to supervise the activities. Clark took the affirmative with the point that the church has come down through the centuries as the one consistent retainer of the good in life and that attendance in Church will tend to further the influence of culture, brotherly love, and faith in Christ. He further stated that in the Church we find a medium for expressing and solving the everyday problems of life.

The test consists of the following things:
1. Climb a 30 ft. rope.
2. Standing broad jump, 7 ft.
3. Running broad jump.
4. Running high jump 4 ft. 2 in.
5. Vault by hand 5 ft. 2 in.
6. Scale a 9 ft. wall.
7. Swim the length of a swimming pool.

In his talk, Tim Owens presented the theory that it is through Church attendance that one will learn to love Christ and the things He taught. We may, however, strengthen our faith through personal prayer and Bible reading. He said that a Christian is one who has accepted Jesus as the forgiver of sins and a Christian can show his acceptance in his relations with his fellow men, both socially and economically, and not merely by Church attendance. Tom Brown stated that a Christian must be ever increasing his faith, for stagnation causes one to slack in his beliefs. The best means, he said, to move forward in faith is through Church attendance where we can enrich our Christian experiences, in prayer and scriptures, as well as by the sermon. He said it isn’t a question of having to go to church but rather it is a question of wanting to go.

Each junior is given a check sheet to be signed by the cadet officer in charge of the event. Not less than three events are to be passed on any one day. Suit shoes are to be worn by contestants.

Cossacks Will Be Americans
Russian Chorus Has Taken Citizenship Papers
By DEANE WATSON

“We have made America our home,” stated Wassilij Flustikoff, one of the few of the Don Cossack chorus who could make himself understood in his halting, broken English. “We have applied for citizenship papers and hope to be examined soon so that we may be known officially as that which we already feel in our hearts, as Americans.”

The Don Cossack chorus made its second appearance at Davidson College last Monday night in Chambers auditorium. Their first appearance here was in 1939. Already known all over the United States, they were well received and their first performance made them welcome this, their second.

The program was made up of three groups of numbers. The first group consisted of sacred music with which the chorus had become familiar in the Russian church of Sophia, Bulgaria. The numbers of this first group were characterized by beautiful, primitive harmonies which stimulate the imagination of Russian churches, with sunlight sifting through their painted windows.

The last two groups of numbers were made up of songs which the Cossacks of other days sang around their campfires in the Don Valley, and several new songs arranged by the man responsible for their organization and who is still their leader, Serge Jaroff.

The chorus is made up of men chosen from a Cossack regiment which fought in the Russian revolution in the early days of the twentieth century. After the revolution when their Tzar was defeated, they were forced to leave Russia. They left their country in 1920 and journeyed to the Island of Lemnos near Greece. Here they decided to form a concert chorus. Serge Jaroff, a former choir director, and a machine-gun corps lieutenant in the first World War, worked with these men until flawless ensemble resulted.

The Don Cossacks gave their first concert in 1923 in Vienna. After this concert which launched them on their brilliant career, they toured Europe. Having established themselves in the musical world, they came to the United States in 1930. In this country and abroad they have made a new place for Russian music, much of which has been obscured for over a hundred years. The Cossacks are returning from a tour of the deep south, having presented their last concert in Lake, Florida. They will continue their tour northward with concerts scheduled in Greenville, North Carolina, and Richmond, Virginia.

Typical questions were: “Combines and campaigning among persons, groups, organizations, clubs, or fraternities are, are not (strike out one) permitted during Davidson elections,” or “The Student Body rule concerning the use of alcoholic beverages applies to situations on the campus only, on or off the campus. (Strike out one)”

Previous to the examination, every freshman was given a list of twenty questions from which twelve, used on the test, were taken. This list did not contain the questions as they were to appear on the exam but had blanks that were to be filled out by the freshmen between the time that they (Continued on Page Six)

Plans Made For Smoker
Hackney Appoints Committees To Plan For Faculty-Senior Party

Plans for a Senior-Faculty Smoker were discussed at a brief meeting of the Senior class last Monday after chapel. Claude Hackney, president of the class, presented the plans for the function to the seniors. The party will be in the Banquet Hall of Chambers, Tuesday, December 9. David Mullins, John G. W. Clark, and Gill McLaughlin will form the food committee. Hackney said that other committees will be appointed later. The purpose of this gathering is to discuss problems of the students and to form better relations between the faculty and student body. It is customary for the seniors and faculty to have two smokers each year, one in the fall and another later in the spring.

CONVENTION
Dean Brown and Doctor Cunningham are attending the meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools in Louisville, KY. Dean Brown left Monday for the conference and Doctor Cunningham left early Tuesday morning. They will remain there until Friday. The many colleges and universities which are members of the association have sent representatives to the meeting. This is the forty-sixth annual convention of the association.

ERNEST ELLISON, “Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

These presents. This is to certify that the new Hamilton watches, as outstanding in style as they are in performance, are now offered for public inspection. There's no present like the time and no time like the present. Drop in today.

The writer feels that he voices the sentiment of all who heard Dr. Myers by concluding this article with the hope that the speaker shall be invited back to speak on the other three worst enemies of man.

Plans Formed By Architect
The college architect, Mr. Henry Hibbs of Nashville, Tenn., was in Davidson on Tuesday to discuss with college officials the remodeling of the old library. It is expected that work will begin shortly and will continue into February. Mrs. Camille Gamble, an interior decorator from Winston-Salem, was also present and is making plans for the decorations inside. She has recently designed the furnishings in the administrative offices and the college auditorium.

The remodeled building will probably contain a large sitting room, another smaller one with a record player and magazines, a game room, several large bedrooms, and several baths. The Y. W. C. A. offices will also be included in this building.

The writer feels that he voices the sentiment of all who heard Dr. Myers by concluding this article with the hope that the speaker shall be invited back to speak on the other three worst enemies of man.

The Bible is full of words of comfort and assurance for the believer. Dr. Myers told of an accident that put him in the hospital for an operation far away from home and among strangers. He was quite a young man at the time, and in the depths of despair. A friend of former days, a railroad engineer, hearing of his accident, came to see him. Standing by his bedside, the engineer pulled from his pocket a Bible. From it he read, Isaiah 41:10. “Now,” said the engineer, “I'm going to make this your text.” He read again: “Fear thou not, for I am with thee: etc.” From that day, Dr. Myers declared that this had been his text in times of fear. He concluded his sermon by saying that we should learn to put our hand in God's hand. “Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.” Not only the students and faculty, but a large number of the town people listened with rapt attention to a most timely and helpful message.