Thursday, November 13, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Down FRATERNITY COURT

PI KAPPS DEAL
The majority of the Pi Kapps stayed on campus to enjoy Converse Day. Among those brothers who wandered off were Hipp and Watson, who attended the Furman dances in Greenville. Dealers Goudy and Logan and guest dealer Horan spent the weekend in the Charlotte Tavern. Brother Plunkett went to his home in Aiken, S.C., while Brother Armstrong was making his presence known in Gastonia and Hickory. Also in Hickory was Brother Bumbarger, while Pledge Gaither spent the weekend in Newton. Brothers Miller, McCrea, and Pledge Yantis in Charlotte, while Brother Murray stayed at his home in Raleigh. Among the dates who were here over the weekend were: Misses Mary Francis Morgan, Mary Eleanor Robeson, Beverly Parker, Margaret Dixon, Cora Turner Morrak, McCarty, and Sarah Lee Gifford. The chapter was happy to have as guests Mrs. Earl Yantis of Atlanta, mother of Pledge Earl Yantis, and Brothers Horan and Timberlake from Presbyterian College. Other visiting brothers were Hunter '32 and Wilson '34.

S. A. E. LOAF
Converse Day found some of the brothers and all of the pledges anxiously awaiting the arrival of the girls from Spartanburg. All gathered down at the house after the game, and the fraternity welcomed its many guests among whom were alumnus Brother Yates Faison and Pledge Brother Jim Clark from Carolina. Among the Converse girls present were Misses Mamie Coughman, Margaret Fulton, Jean Manning, Caroll MeceDaniels, Esther Carroll, Mary Carson Jones, and Sara Dever. Mr. and Mrs. Bruce were present to see Mac help the Wildcats battle the Dukes. Mrs. Graves, Mrs. Morrison, Miss Jane Morrison, and Miss Tee McCormich of Greensboro, were other welcomed visitors.

PHIS FUNCTION
All the Phi Delt brothers and pledges stayed in the vicinity of Charlotte last weekend and participated in the dinner-dance given at the Charlotte Country Club in honor of the pledges. This affair was the highlight of the fall social calendar, and will long be remembered by all Phis. Guests assembled at the Club at eight o'clock, at which time the dinner was served. Brother Jim Chapman was toastmaster for the occasion. The sponsors and their dates, along with the officers of the fraternity were introduced. After dinner everyone adjourned into the ballroom and enjoyed dancing to Sid Todd’s Orchestra. Dates attending the dance were: Lala Nimmons, Converse; Aileen Long, Charlotte; Alexa Williams, Atlanta, Ga.; Joyce Cooper, Rome, Ga.; Inez Strother, Sullins; Marjory Caldwell, Atlanta, Ga.; Martha Boyd, Hollins; Margaret Garret, Converse; Ruth Hayes, Charlotte; Mary Louise Bealer, Atlanta, Ga.; Juliette La Bord, Converse; Nell Stevens, W.C.U.N.C.; Martha Withers, Davidson; Sarah Harris, Converse; Sybil Trexler, Concord; Ernestine Norvell, Univ. of Tennessee; Florence Hamerick, Gaffney, S.C.; Lib Rogers, Chapel Hill; Ann Huntington, Asheville, N.C.; Flora MacDonald, Queens; Libbie Jones, St. Mary’s; Flossie Withers, Gastonia, N.C.; Yvonne Reinhardt, Converse; Kitty Arnold, Sullins; Peggy Sadler, Charlotte; Hellen Cox, W.C.U.N.C.; Dot Harris, Converse; Jeter Starr, Calhoun, Ga. Mr. and Mrs. Stiles of Philadelphia and Mr. and Mrs. Potter of Atlanta were the guests of the fraternity over the weekend. Also numerous friends and Alumnae of the chapter stopped by after the Duke game Saturday.

PIKAS HOWL
The weekend was a howling success for the brothers and pledges with dates, the football game, and the party after supper. Among the dates were Mary Lib Clark, Anne Neal Pless, Mary Knowles, Mary K. Smith, Jean Garvin, Phyllis Ogsbury, Mary Fabrisinski, Lucy Morrison, Caroline Lassiter, Freck Sproles, and Grace Williams. The show, written, produced, and enacted by the pledges, starred Clementine Riffe and “Our Hero” Goldston among others. Among those who chose to pass up the festivities here on the campus were Pledge Stroup and Brother Brockmen, who went to High Point. Brother Clarke went to a formal at W.C. and Brother Lane cavorted in Raleigh. Brothers Parsons and Maxwell went to New Bern and spent an enjoyable (?) weekend with the Marines. Brother Hodges journeyed to W.C. via Salem, Brother Browning found it necessary to go home to Greenville, S.C., and Pledges Tolleson went home to Perry, Ga. Brother Sam Henderson went to Greensboro, while for once, Pledge White didn't. Brother Dave Henderson accompanied his date back to Chapel Hill Sunday.

FIJIS PLEASED
The much talked of Converse weekend has come and gone, leaving the Fijis well pleased with their dates, but still a bit down from the effects of the Duke affair. Practically en masse, Davidson was supported by the brothers. The absentees being Arch Taylor, Amos Raegan, Dan Hodges, and Pledge Ted Cashion all of whom visited their homes, and other places too numerous to mention. Furnishing that talented soprano in the rooting section were the Phi Gam dates from Converse: Chris Varnedae, Sally Joyce, Sue Lyles, Carolyn Parker, Elizabeth Allison, Jane Anderson, “Monnie” King, Carolyn Burr, and Katherine Derring. After the game a fine barbecue was held on the Fijis’ spacious terrace. Guests of the chapter on Saturday evening were: Brother and Mrs. Baker and Mr. O'Hair.

K. A.’s OPERATE
Converse replaced Duke as the headline encounter for the K. A. Operators, and the chapter as a whole was well-pleased with the luck of their draw from the many and varied forms and faces. Brothers and their respective dates included Campbell Arntsley with Helen Hayne Wiley (plus Tom Stimson’s snaking the side), John Belk with Scotty Demaret, Sandy with Helen Gellert, Mac with Mary Dyches, and Dunn with Barbara Lee. Jeanne Harby, Vernie Mizel, Emma Littlepage, and Emily Dixon were paired off with Pledge Brothers Hank Watt, Henderson Belk, Tommy Glasgow, and Jim Jackson, respectively, and were treated, along with other Sigmas, to a post-game feed Saturday afternoon. Brothers Sinclair and Little visited their respective homes in Bluefield, West Virginia, and Wilmington. Pledge Brother Abbott took off for Rock Hill supposedly for the Erskine-P.C. game, but his exploits are shrouded in mystery. The studious Sigmas included Royster, Richeson, Wilson, Harris, and the Countils, with “Buzzie” on the drive for his inspiring chapel talk. Other limbers included Jim Lowry, Whitesides, Ford, King, Durant, who remained on the campus, confining their efforts to snaking and listening to Brother Burk’s masterpiece, “Lollypop.” “Ginsberg” ended up way down in Tampa for a visit home, while Jim Houston visited York, his home town. Brothers Coppedge, Pinkerton, and Wallace sojourned in Charlotte, and at the same time was sailing up to Salem and Zorro down to Spartanburg to further investigate Converse campus life. The fraternity takes delight in welcoming Bob McMillan, the latest pledge, into the chapter.

BETAS FEED COLIN
The Converse crew turned out fine and one of the Freshmen wound up with money in his pocket. Colin Shaw was on guard at a hot-dog feed on the golf course Saturday night. The Charlotte-trippers were few in number last weekend with the Freshmen being campused. The regulars included Bob Bryant, Tub Efird, Bob Welsh, Charlie Upchurch, and Pinky Phillips. Brother Van Wilson and Pledge Allen Bash accompanied Brother President Cunningham to Asheboro where they appeared on the program last Sunday. Another Beta pin is now shining in the vicinity of Graham after (Continued on Page Six)

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Captain Marsh Talks On Army Conditions
Once Antiquated Army Being Efficiently Brought Up To Date

Captain E. B. Marsh, United States Infantry, who is completing his second year as assistant professor of Military Science and Tactics and serving as adjutant of the local R.O.T.C. unit, spoke to the Veterans of Foreign Wars and their guests at a well-attended Armistice Day banquet at the Hotel Selwyn in Charlotte. The auxiliary of the Stonewall Jackson Post of the V.F.W. also were in attendance.

Modern Army Life
Captain Marsh's speech gave glimpses into modern army life from the viewpoint of a selectee. Using selectee’s experiences, the Captain transported listeners from the day he leaves home, outraged at the injustice of selecting him, to the day he begins to take pride in his army. He told of the draftee's first meal when he sits down to a dinner of pork chops, French-fried potatoes, beans, and sliced tomatoes. Statistics were stated to show the immense task of feeding this army of a million and a half men. Every 2 seconds a ton of food is consumed; the average gain in weight per man has been twelve pounds. Captain Marsh also told of the living conditions of the army. The men are housed in well-constructed and sanitary barracks where they sleep on beds with real springs and are able to plug in their radios or electric shavers. He went on to tell how because of the lack of any government tax men are able to see a movie for 14 cents or to buy a pack of cigarettes for 10 cents.

Army's Strength
The speaker interspersed his talk with satire and humor that was well received as he continued, telling of the rapid strides our army is making in eliminating the grave shortage that has existed. He told of the four fully equipped armored divisions that have already been put to use, each outfitted with almost 400 tanks and innumerable guns. He felt that our once antiquated army is being efficiently converted.into a fast-moving, hard-hitting, modern army that will be able to withstand any opposition. He continued, giving information about the different branches of the army, and explained the new national set-up in which the country is divided among four armies with General Headquarters at the War College in Washington. Captain Marsh extolled the valor and service displayed by the members of the Stonewall Jackson Post when they had fought for their country with the 81st and 30th Divisions and the 113th Field Artillery in France. The speaker commended and highly praised the work the Veterans of Foreign Wars is doing as a unit in aiding veterans, helping under-privileged children, and fostering a wide-spread Americanism program. He called upon the veterans to continue their fine work in improving the army’s morale and told them the army looks to them as an essential supporting force, believing in the same ideals that they do, the preservation of our democracy.

DR. ROBERT R. WICKS
Sunday night, November 6, we will be privileged to have Robert Russell Wicks as guest speaker for vespers. Dr. Wicks graduated from Union Theological Seminary in 1908. Since then he has been engaged in many kinds of Christian work, including six months of service in World War I. In 1929 he was installed as dean of the University Chapel, Princeton University. Dr. Wicks will speak at Duke Sunday morning, coming to Davidson in time for the vesper service Sunday night.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CAPT. E. B. MARSH
Dr. Marshall Ends Services
By FRANK KEY
Peter Marshall, noted Washington minister, concluded a series of Fall Services Friday night at 7:15 o'clock. This series of services began Wednesday morning and were held twice daily throughout. Dr. Marshall is a native of Scotland and attended the University of Edinburgh for some time. He worked in a steel mill before coming to the United States. After being employed in the steel industry in New Jersey, he accepted a position in Birmingham, Alabama. There he became interested in church work, and he is now pastor at the New York Avenue Church in Washington, D. C., serving there since 1939. Services were held each morning and each evening. 

On Wednesday morning, Dr. Marshall discussed the acts of life that were never thought about and taken for granted; that evening, “Man's Duty and God's Destiny,” and that evening, “Who is Eccentric?” The topics were, “When Business is Business” and “Don't Put Off Until Tomorrow What You Can Do Today!” Dr. Marshall challenged us to do God's will today and not to wait until tomorrow. Dr. Marshall has a most unique style of expressing religious ideas, and much was gained by everyone in helping the students decide how to choose the better way. Dr. Cunningham expressed his desire that the Fall Services weren't over but that the students would keep them forever in their hearts.

Twenty-Two School Bands Attend Game
1250 Members Play Military Tunes Under Direction Of Professor Pfohl
By JOHN FAIRLY
Twenty-two high school bands from surrounding regions with an aggregate of more than 1250 pieces added a great deal of color to the Duke game last Saturday by their playing and brilliantly colored uniforms. Not the least attraction were the 61 drum majorettes who strutted their stuff and twirled their batons. Most of the bands exhibited at least two of the scantily-clad lassies, but the Lincolnton band took the prize with six. However, the Central High School Band of Charlotte was the largest group present, boasting 110 pieces. All these organizations were invited by the Department of Music and were the guests of Davidson College. James Christian Pfohl, director, and the bands assembled in front of Chambers before the game, forming a mass of color which ranged from the maroon, grey, and gold of the Lincolnton band to the red and black of the Thomasville group, whose uniforms were indistinguishable from those of our own Davidson band. Then the bands paraded one by one through the north gate, around the end of the field before the east stands, to the end of the stadium, where as many as possible were seated.

Phi Mu Alpha Has Birthday
Davidson's chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity, celebrated its first birthday at a meeting held on November 10 at 7:15 P.M. in the Carnegie Room of Shearer Hall. The history of Phi Mu Alpha as a national organization was the topic of a talk by Earl Copes, with a discussion of the progress music has made on the Davidson campus, especially emphasizing the past year, and hopes for future development, in which all present took part. Jack Phillips heads the organization this year as president, with Jim Crook as vice-president while Tom Plonk serves as secretary, and Alvin Burns acts as treasurer. Other officers include David Huffines as warden and Roy Soober as historian.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Thursday and Friday, Nov. 13—14
“Hot Spot”
Betty Grable
Victor Mature
Carole Landis
Charles Boyer
Saturday, Nov. 15
“Down in San Diego”
Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 17—18
“Appointment For Love”
Wednesday, Nov. 19
“Never Give a Sucker an Even Break”
W. C. Fields
Margaret Sullivan
Betty Jean
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

Last Surviving Brother, Missionary To China, Passes In Pasadena
DR. WILLIAM H. LINGLE
Dr. Walter Lingle, former president of Davidson, and his friends have recently heard of the death of Dr. William H. Lingle, Dr. Lingle’s last surviving brother, who passed away in Pasadena, Calif., where he has been residing in retirement for the last several years after many years of service as a missionary to China. Dr. Lingle died October 29 and was buried the following Friday. Surviving him are his wife and two daughters, Mrs. Dorthea Lingle Brannon and Mrs. Margaret Lingle Amos. The other Lingle brother, Dr. Thomas Lingle, a member of the faculty of the College, died in March, 1937.

Born in 1862
Dr. Lingle was born February 20, 1862, while his father was in the Confederate army, being the oldest of three boys. He was born at the old Lingle homestead near the Thyatira church between Salisbury and Mooresville. At 19, Dr. Lingle went to Illinois, where he graduated from Blackburn College, of which his brother, Dr. W. Thomas Lingle, was later president, and then from the McCormack Theological Seminary. He then served in China for more than forty years and organized the first Protestant church in the Hunan province. He had many adventures during his long service in China. During the Boxer rebellion, he and two companions barely escaped with their lives from Siangton, where they had remained during the riots. When Chinese Communists sacked the city of Changsha, capital of Hunan in July 1930, he was the last of the Americans to leave at the height of the fighting. Dr. Lingle served as professor in the Hunan Union Theological school, in addition to directing evangelistic work and acting as station treasurer and business agent for the upriver stations.

Have fun—be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
The Flavor Lasts