Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 24, 1941

STARK RATIONS—A Day's Food in Belgium

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO
CHICAGO - BOSTON

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ........ HARWELL DARBY
BUSINESS MANAGER .... JACK COVINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Garvey ........ Assistant Editor
Bobby Carter ...... Associate Editor
Dick Cobb .......... Associate Editor
W. C. Plunkett ..... Associate Editor
Al Winn ............ Associate Editor
Ed Erwin .......... Managing Editor
Joe Eve ............ Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher ..... Managing Editor
Bill Lyman ......... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh .... Managing Editor
Lacy McLean ....... Sports Editor
David Vosburgh .... Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk .......... Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly ......... Assistant Business Manager
Will Scott .......... Circulation Manager
Charles Whitener ... Circulation Manager
Bob Crichton ....... Collection Manager
R. L. Freese ........ Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life. It is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain reference to obscenity, or anything derogatory to
faculty or students, profanity, destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week
that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution
or communication.

CHAPEL SERVICES—
As evidenced by the response to the programs given the latter part of last week, the student move to improve
interest in chapel has accomplished much toward reaching its goal. Hall prayer groups seem to have done wonders in making
the movement for more interest in chapel programs the popular thing. Perhaps after a little listening to the talks, we
will realize that the programs themselves aren't the only things we were lacking in former chapel services—student attitude in chapel
is the point where the greatest improvement needs to be made.

Thursday’s, Friday’s and Saturday's chapel exercises seemed to fill the bill as far as programs are concerned. After meeting the
persons in charge halfway, students seemed surprised that chapel could be interesting and helpful. Variation adds to the chapel program
as much as anything. A talk read without much thought or preparation never has and shouldn’t be tolerated. Although the
suggestion to do away with the chapel service on Saturday might have had a dual purpose, the forwarding of the
idea should tend to do away with the feeling of restlessness and impatience during the other chapel periods. Poor attitude
this one day might have a psychological effect on the student attitude on the other days of the week.

Some persons have suggested that we do away with student announcements entirely. We think that the idea is absurd since
a great many of the announcements read are absolutely important, and, too, that activities announced as they have been in
the past have a sort of binding effect on the student body—you feel closer to the other six-hundred and forty-nine
if you know what’s going on around you on the campus. Some people are a little inconsiderate in having the
student body listen to announcements such as, “Richard Doe please meet me behind the senior section after chapel,” and elimination
of the unimportant announcements is needed.

The main point to stress toward making the chapel services more worshipful is student interest in making them so. If,
as seems to be happening right now, a majority of the students in Davidson want better chapel programs, we'll have
them! Now that the movement is rolling, less criticism toward the present system seems to be necessary. Better programs, more
student interest, and less unconstructive criticism! These three things go hand in hand, and their interdependence is the solution to
our problem.

Having often wondered how it feels to be four among six hundred and fifty, we anticipated startling results, but we
were totally unprepared for some of our findings. Here is an expurgated copy of the results. In the first place,
they were divided as to their feelings about Davidson. One of them was openly enthusiastic, two were lukewarm, and one
definitely disliked it. None of them plan to come back next year. All of them frown upon the idea of
having more coeds. Three admitted that they felt a little self-conscious at first and even now “when they whistle when
we come in late to class.” The fourth stated bluntly that having lived here all her life nothing bothered her
anymore.

As to their ideas about Davidson students, they think Davidson boys are above the average. They agreed that on the
whole Davidson boys are very neat, “although I wish some of them would shave.” One of this lovely minority considered
Davidson boys much less mature than others. They all had something to say about boys “that peroxide their hair every
spring”—they did not think that the spirit at Davidson is what it should be, and especially criticized “the sarcastic attitude
of many of them,” although all of them certainly are nice to us. As for their ideal Davidson man, one
wanted him “to be good in everything, and studying, too.” Two sighed and said dreamily, “Hank Robinson.” When asked who
they considered was the cutest man on the campus, two refused to venture an opinion, one picked Bobby Carter, and
the other nominated Prof. Frontis Johnston.

The social life at Davidson, they think, is good. They believe that Davidson dances are “the best.” The majority favored
football and baseball as their favorite sport, although one emphatically chose golf. Beginning, by this time, to feel rather embarrassed
we asked for an endorsement of the DAVIDSONIAN. The first made us happy by saying that she read every word
except the sports page. She then broke our bubble by accusing us of “seldom getting things straight.” Another thought it
should include some good jokes. (She refused to comment on the magazine).

Realizing that the laundry had sent us a size ten collar, and that our face had become a strange shade
of scarlet and purple, we stumbled out, hearing in the distance the parting shots of Davidson’s loveliest, at last allowed
to express themselves.

Corner
Dr. Barbour is ending a great series of services tonight. Watch for a lasting value from them. We'll hear more
and feel more from them later.

Mentioning the name of a man on our campus who works, and works with absolutely no credit expected or received,
we could say Bill MacLauchlin, Bill MacLauchlin, Bill McLauchlin. No kidding there is not enough space for credit. It does
us good to see men like that and they are so hard to find and so hard to be like—Bill,
yours is a room-filled-with-orchids—and so much deserved.

Sherrill Chapel received the good musical work of Fenton Miller, Bob Hutcheson, Bob Patton, and David Sadler last Sunday. That
is real mission work, and less than a mile from Davidson. Again that name Bill MacLauchlin comes to the fore.
He gave the sermon. See what I mean?

Huffines—the Utility Man—carted Joe Barnwell and Tootsters over to the colored school for their big show. All safe and sound,
too.

Chapel question again. Have you noticed the difference in the tone of the service lately? Bob Johnson, Bob Balsley, and
others interested certainly did a real job in approaching the problem from the student-in-the-seat angle. The others can be none
other than the entire student body, all of whom made a concerted consecrated effort toward a more worshipful spirit for
those few minutes in the day to be closer to God. Do you like the idea of boys offering prayer
from the floor during the service? So many have said they do.

Casey Jones, quiet Big Shot, is helping run a real conference in Greensboro this Sunday of the Student Christian Association.
Did you know he is the vice-president?

The plate contains a piece of potato, a scrap of meat, and a dab of fat. On the table we
see a hunk of bread and some tiny lumps of sugar.

New York (Special)—What you see above does not depict a meal. It shows what a Belgian gets to eat during
an entire day. He gets:—eight ounces of bread and one-third of one ounce of fat. He gets an ounce and
one-half of meat, no bigger than a third of a package of cigarettes and not even one whole potato. Then
he has an ounce and three-quarters of sugar. This photograph was taken in New York City, but is based upon
authentic information from overseas, sent to the National Committee on Food for the Small Democracies, of which Mr. Herbert Hoover
is honorary chairman. Three famine experts whom he ordered into Belgium reported on the true situation.

Theoretically, rations are larger. For instance, there should be five potatoes in the above picture, also a tiny heap of
beans, a bit of oatmeal and some “ersatz” coffee. But food to supply even these terribly restricted rations simply does
not exist. What you see in the picture is what a Belgian actually gets and must live upon—today.

What does this mean? A human needs 2400 calories daily to exist—3600 if he works. The food values on the
plate represent only 1038 calories. Slow starvation, this. But worse is to come! By February's end the bread ration will
disappear from the picture—because bread grain stocks will be exhausted and can be replaced only from overseas. By early March,
slow starvation in Belgium is certain to become outright famine. In the last war, America sent a billion dollars worth
of food into stricken Europe. Not a single pound was lost, or diverted into any hands other than those of
the people for whom it was intended. Literally!

Letters to the Editor

Dear Tony:
Perhaps this is a little out of order, but so much criticism has been given the system of elections that
I think it is only fair that someone mention that they are such a vast improvement over past years that
it’s not even funny. Although foremost critics keep saying that the Elections Board is corrupt, I think the present system
has put Davidson elections on the plane where they should be, and little further improvement is necessary.Necessary hinting. In order
to prove my observations, a look at other college politics seems to be sufficient. What other campus frowns on back-slapping
and toothpaste grins? What other college elects brain over brawn and brawn over brain with such equanimity? Are there many
other schools whose rules concerning elections make talking about the candidates’ capabilities illegal? Our critics seem to have served their
purpose in getting the Elections Board system started, and now they are stirring the pot to change it again. The
only criticism I have of the present system is against the practice of revealing a “little too much dope” from
the counting of the votes. If there could be some way to stop the slipping out of how the Zeta
Zoo's went, I think that the present system is just about as good as it can be. There was the
element last year that may have some remnant left this year that is for open politics. Imagine Davidson like one
of the big-time schools where you could do anything or say anything to cut the other man’s throat? Surely, we're
above any such “carrying’s on” as that! If there should be any question about a change in the present system,
I'd like to cast my vote against it. I don’t profess to be a writer, Tony, but I hope I've
gotten my feelings across.

Yours,
ELECTED BY BILL LEMMON

By Bill Lemmon
GUEST COLUMNIST

Gather ‘round youse guys while the new dope-getter takes a few cuts and pokes at the most noxious of the
large clan of “dealers” at old D. C. (Who said no hoax?) We're off in a cloud of whale dandruff
by setting before the public the peculiar maze into which Spike Mebane has gotten himself. It seems Spike claimed to
have lost his pin at approximately the same time that his current heart-throb, Mary Lees Davis, shot forth with a
Beta pin on her Easter frock. The pay-off is that the aforesaid pin isn’t Spike's after all! Speaking of frat
pins, it seems that Sink has joined the increasing flock of ball-and-chainers, after a whirlwind romance of one month. Sink
must have some latent Casanova qualities that we never suspected... Ray McDaniels is connected with this affair in some mysterious
way, but your guess is better than mine as to where he stands at present... The exec effectively nipped in
the bud the dealings of operators Tarleton, Lewis, and Smith, reminding them that they are big boys now and shouldn't
play “house,” especially during spring holidays. To add insult to injury, it seems that Smith and Lewis were also cradle-robbing—pass
the safety-pins... Orchids to Shelton for having the cutest girl in the Carolinas to the Spring Frolics. What happened at
Chapel Hill, Joe? Or aren't the ashes cold after all?... Off to Speeburg shot Hackney and Carson for obvious reasons—Hack
to polish up his pin a bit and Carson to use a bit of psychology by not dating. As usual,
Hackey took Bush's heart to C.C. with him. “Always a bridesmaid” Garvey is catching lots, but if any two of
his harem ever get together, great will be the fall thereof... With a blare of bugles, a strange sight presented
itself—on the golf course—very, very early Sunday morning as Joe Hopper, Dave Huffines, Jim Kerr, and G. T. Brown filed
solemnly in after an all-night bivouac on the golf course, communing with nature and, we presume, each other. Hugh Sprunt
whipped off on a very mysterious mission last weekend, returning quite fatigued and extremely satisfied—his many friends will be pleased
to learn he is recuperating slowly, but apparently surely... Chapman toured expectantly down Speeburg way to honor a certain miss
H—with his presence, only to find, much to his chagrin, that she had shot down to Atlanta with an old
grad, Jim Anderson. Old Boom and Mish Flynn scooted off to Washington Friday night, but Mish was able to circle
back in time to catch the Junior-Senior banquet at Queens on Saturday, along with such other local luminaries as Erwin,
Barkerlie, Bob Johnson, and Paul S. Crane... Ed Erwin reappeared in Mt. Holly toward morning with tales of a wild
Ferris-wheel ride which had left him quite woozy, or possibly “woo” woozy... Belated news of the activities of our golf
and tennis teams over the holidays is still trickling in... Bob Bryant received a letter, dripping with sugar, from his
noted (or should we say notorious) lock in the city. He read it several times while bathing, shaving, and wading,
but it failed to improve his game as was his expectation... the truth is that he was “five times worse.”
Moose Sain got on the phone in a Georgia town to line up a few dates. However, the fearless Moose
became dreadfully frightened when they put in an appearance and fled in disorderly haste... On a recent Sunday night, Ook
Taylor and bouncing Blub met their dates at the Avon Grill at 12:30 AM. The aforementioned babes were the small
dates of Sink and Sam Overby... Sturdie Purdie is spending most of his time and rhyme with his lady love
in the Raleigh convent these days... And so our space is filled before some of the more lucid items come
to light, but unless censored, they should crop up next week, so until next week remember that Yehudi sees nothing
and tells all...

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH

Film Report Card
CLARENCE LEGERTON
By Clarence Legerton

Thursday, April 24th
Model Wife
Joan Blondell, Dick Powell. This production throws Joan and Dick, who are husband and wife in actual life, together in
their first comedy. The plot is centered around the secret marriage of two employees. Their trials and tribulations afford good
comedy.

Friday and Saturday, April 25th and 26th
Road to Zanzibar
Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Dorothy Lamour, Una Merkel, and Eric Blore. Bob, as Fearless, and Bing as Chuck, are a
couple of carnival entertainers who encounter many wacky adventures in the wilds of Africa. Bob plays Bing’s fall guy, especially
when they run across Dorothy and her pal, Una. This sequel to “Road to Singapore” is much funnier than its
predecessor, and will probably end up as a series by popular demand. The music is even up to the comedy,
with “African Etude” being the longest song ever recorded on film. Bing sings it, with the Hall Johnson choir as
a background. Don’t miss it!

Late Show Saturday
Blond Inspiration
John Shelton, Virginia Grey, Charles Butterworth, Marion Martin, Donald Meek, and Albert Dekker. Shelton is a fiction writer for the
paper-pulp magazines. Virginia Grey is a publisher's secretary. Charlie Butterworth makes an excellent slow-thinking editor, with Marion Martin as his
girlfriend. Although the plot is somewhat weak, the many comical situations make this a picture worth seeing.

Monday and Tuesday, April 27th and 28th
The Flame of New Orleans
Marlene Dietrich, Bruce Cabot, Mischa Auer, and Roland Young, Andy Devine. Essentially this is the story of the romantic life
of an adventuress who pretends to be a fine lady. Roland Young is the New Orleans blade who wants to
wed Marlene, but her bad reputation holds him back. Bruce Cabot is a robust sailor and he falls for Marlene.
While the rich suitor tries to decide whether or not she is “good enough” for him, Cabot makes love to
Marlene.

Wednesday, April 30th
Two productions are on the bill for this Bargain Day. They are “All Aboard” and “Double Date.” Among the coming
attractions are “That Night in Rio” with Alice Faye, Don Ameche, and Carmen Miranda, and “Men of Boy's Town” with
Spencer Tracy and Mickey Rooney. I would like for Bob Elder to be the guest of the theatre for any
show this week.

THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF BASEBALL; AND ITS PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECT ON COLLEGE STUDENTS.

From September until January, radios and newspapers never worry about filling up their sports programs or pages. A leaf-fired, hoarse-throated,
blacked and blued atmosphere of football pervades. But during the long, dark hours of winter, these organs must content themselves
with a sport, national in scope, to be true, but not as fraught with sensation and headline appeal as its
predecessor. This basketball game has to be played indoors and therefore does not command as many steady devotees as football.
However, sports editors begin perking up their ears sometime in March and from then on will lead an automatic life.
They know also that before many moons have passed, America’s great game will have been in full swing. Frank will
have tossed out the first ball at Griffith Stadium in the nation’s capital. You don’t find Eleanor punting the first
football in September, or Sistie and Buzzie shooting the first baskets in December. From the very beginning then, it is
obvious that baseball is a national enterprise. The dripping, shirt-sleeved, loud-voiced chatterer is an American institution on hot spring and
summer afternoons. Fast growing into another institution is the female “vocal base stealer.” Most clubs have frequent “Ladies’ Days,” but
these are not really necessary anymore. The hecklers of the opposite sex seem to be quite well established. But we
must proceed from the idea of baseball as a national pastime and bring it down to earth at old D.
C. Let us view the situation with alarm. We are alarmed at the number of boys who are gradually being
squeezed out of boarding and fraternity house conversations. This is the fault of the person who is ignorant concerning the
subject of these conversations: Baseball. As to how this listing is done, stop! We need go no further. Two men
are breezing down to supper: “How'd the Giants come out, Bob?” “I don't know. I’m sorry, I don’t keep up
with baseball scores.” You don't keep up with baseball scores! Poor fellow. We can see what a difficult time he’s
going to have this spring. He will attempt to swing a bull-session towards spring planting or girls, but it will
be to no avail. It is the ugly truth and we must face it. Unless you know who pitched for
the Blue Stocks this afternoon, you're a social outcast. This department gets frequent letters from the outside world demanding the
easiest system of memorizing names of players, clubs, standings, batting averages, etc. I always tell them that to overcome this
lack of social grace they must climb up into someone's attic and find a copy of the “1898 Baseball Almanac”
combined with “The Feeding of Baby Chicks.” This will be a good start for the neophyte, as it will prepare
him for the 1899 and 1900 editions. This is a two-year course at most midwestern universities, but when pursued on
an independent footing, more rapid progress is possible. We understand that a grand textbook is being prepared by two (Continued
on Page Six).
