NOV. 8! CONVERSE DAY

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

Che Mavidsonian

LIBERTAS

ATTEND FALL SERVICES

Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1941

PHI BETA KAPPA

Beaver Club Extends Invitation For Nov. 8 To Converse College

Several Hundred Girls Expected to Attend and Remain For Supper.

GIRLS ADMITTED FREE

Wildcats Will Play The Duke Blue Devils.

In previous years, it has been the policy of the Beaver Club to invite the student body of some girls’ college to attend one of the Davidson football games. As a result of one of these invitations, the Davidson Student Body will be host to the girls of Converse College at the Duke game on November 8. The Converse Student Body feels that this is an important matter in the life of each of their girls, and all of them are looking forward to the occasion. This is the second time that they have been invited to Davidson in three years.

List to be Posted

As a means of obtaining dates for our student body, there will be a list of the girls who plan to attend posted on the porch of Georgia Dormitory. Those men who want dates will place their names beside that of the girl whom they wish to date. Everyone is encouraged to do this as soon as possible. The Athletic Association, cooperating with the Beaver Club, will admit the girls free to the games. The visitors will remain for supper and return to Converse shortly afterwards. The fraternity houses will be open for the entertainment of the guests.

Last year Salem College visited the campus on the Beaver Club's invitation.

BROADCAST

Beginning Sunday evening, November 2, and continuing throughout the winter, there will be a half-hour broadcast from the Chambers auditorium over station WBT. The program will consist largely of music, with a brief address by President Cunningham or some member of the faculty. The broadcast is to begin at 5:30.

Announcement Board Moved

In a few days the new bulletin board for student announcements should be completed and in use. This new board is designed to obtain the utmost efficiency. It will be placed outside the north door of Chambers Building, as nearly every student passes this spot at least once a day, and will be so placed that those reading it will not block the traffic. To make this bulletin board as convenient as possible, it will be enclosed in glass to guard the announcements against weather. There will be a light over it to enable passers-by to read it at night until eleven o'clock.

Underneath the board there will be a box in which announcements may be placed. All of these that are in the box by 9:30 A. M. will be posted on the board that day before chapel. Early this week, Pat Williams, chairman of the bulletin board committee, announced that a group of helpers for this work would be chosen in the near future. All students are urged to read (Continued on Page Six)

Crook Poses As Nephew Of Dr. Sentelle

Call Davidson, 4431, before giving money to a person claiming to be the nephew of Dr. M. E. Sentelle. This warning is to families of students and alumni sent out of Davidson. This mysterious person has been covering the South with his scheme of approaching friends of Davidson and using Davidson names to get loans and gifts to “cover the hospital bill of his sick boy” or “his dying mother.”

Excuses

For four or five years this culprit has been employing this method of raising money. Sometimes he “has had an automobile accident on the highway and would like enough money to get to the nearest city.” “I'll send you the money when I get home,” he promises. His first known experience with this art was with Dr. Sentelle himself. His truck “had been wrecked near Kannapolis and needed money to get back to Morristown.” Dr. Sentelle, feeling that truck drivers usually could thumb rides where they were going, refused him the four dollars and sent him on his way.

Description

When the second Davidson victim of an imposter related his experience to Dr. Sentelle, the two compared notes on the description and discovered that their two offenders were the same person. Their description summed up, pictured a man, stockily built, with a florid complexion, about five feet ten inches tall, and with something peculiar about one of his front teeth—perhaps a kind of bridge. From that day, tales have come in to the school that trace the career of this man. In Alabama, he took ten dollars from the mother of a student. In Texas, his successes have been numerous. In Tennessee, he has left his trail by borrowing five dollars as a “nephew of Dr. Sentelle.” The more information he picks up, the more his stories seem (Continued on Page Six)

Local Society Will Dissolve

Davidson's local chapter of the American Red Cross voted at a recent meeting to surrender their charter and join the Mecklenburg chapter of the organization. Prof. W. L. Porter, President of the Cornelius-Davidson Chapter, explained that the group was surrendering their charter in order to cooperate to a fuller extent with the present program of the national organization. The local group has been in existence for about twenty years and has been very active during its whole existence. During the present emergency, the National Red Cross has expanded its program a great deal. The members of the local group felt that they could be of more service to this new program by joining the Mecklenburg chapter with headquarters in Charlotte. Business of the local organization will end with the payment of bills received the first of November. A report will be sent to the national office in Washington. The Davidson group will then be a part of the Mecklenburg organization.

RECEIVE PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS

Annual Tests Of Freshmen Under Debate

New Amendment Proposes Yearly Quizzing of Freshmen On Constitution.

An amendment to the Student Government Constitution was proposed on Wed., Oct. 23. It reads as follows: It shall be the duty of the Freshman Advisor to prepare and give to the freshman class a written test on the provisions of the Davidson Student Government Constitution, its by-laws and the freshman relations as stated in the ‘Y’ Handbook. This test shall be given not later than October 15 of each year. Those freshmen failing the test will be disciplined by the Court of Control.

For any amendment to become a part of the Constitution it must first be passed by the Student Council and then by the students not less than nine days after it has been presented to them.

Attaining the highest scholastic achievement at Davidson, Dan Hodges, Joe Hopper, Hershell Seagle, Arch Taylor, Rod Turner and Albert Winn have been extended bids to Phi Beta Kappa. Other elections to the group include: Dr. John R. Cunningham, Marion Mobley of the class of 1941, and Mr. A. C. Winn of the class of 1900. Initiation will be held in the near future.

Rev. Peter M. Marshall Is Speaker For Fall Services

Group Named For Chapels

A committee has recently been appointed to arrange chapel programs for the days that have been set aside for student activities. Members of the committee are John Belk, Ashby Dick, Arch Taylor, and Smith. Belk and Dick are co-chairmen.

The committee has set as its object to give the honorary fraternities and other non-social organizations on the campus an opportunity to show the Student Body what they do and how they function. Other programs will be taken up with such things as Student Body meetings, outside speakers, and Joe Barnwell’s band. One of the highlights of the series is to be a program put on by the coeds. Members of this committee will appreciate any suggestions or aid from organizations on campus.

Old Building Being Razed

Dismantling of the Chemistry Building began Tuesday, October 28. The bricks and various materials from this venerable structure will be preserved until funds are available for construction of new buildings on the Davidson campus.At an early date, the maintenance crew, under the supervision of Mr. Hobart, the superintendent of college grounds, will begin construction on a brick walk which will extend from the door of the Laboratory of Chemistry to the new door of the Memorial Library and to the south wing of the new Grey building. Chambers and shrubs are to be planted along the fronts of both buildings. Grass is to be planted in the space between the two buildings.

Washington Preacher, Native of Scotland, Invited by Y. M. C. A.
EXPECT INSPIRING TALK
Initial Services To Be Held Nov. 5 Thru 7

Dr. Peter Marshall, Pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church of Washington, D. C., will speak at the Y. M. C. A. Fall Services November 5th, 6th, and 7th in Chambers Auditorium.

Native of Scotland

The scheduled speaker is a native of Scotland, having come to this country as a young man to seek fortune. He attended the University of Edinburgh in Scotland but stopped his studies before graduating and went to work in a steel mill. He planned for several years to come to the United States before being able to realize his dream. Upon his arrival in this country, Mr. Marshall found employment in a steel mill in New Jersey and also joined the New Jersey National Guard. Soon he followed the same occupation to Birmingham, Ala. It was there that he first became interested in church work. He joined the Presbyterian Church there and taught a Sunday School class. When he became interested in the ministry, the members of that church made it possible for him to go to Columbia Theological Seminary in Atlanta, Ga. After finishing his studies, Mr. Marshall became pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Atlanta. After a short pastorate there, he was called to his present location in Washington. Mr. Marshall is in great demand as an inspirational preacher all over the country. His Scotch accent and his earnest delivery make him particularly forceful. He will not be a newcomer to the Davidson campus, having preached here several years ago.

ROTC Names Sub-Corporals

Friday, Oct. 17, 1941, some thirty odd Lance Corporals were appointed in the ROTC Cadet Battalion at Davidson. This grade was discontinued in the U. S. Army a few years ago and the grade of private first class substituted therefor. Since all sophomores (second-year basic ROTC trainees) are designated as privates first class, the Military Department revived the grade of Lance Corporal at Davidson to give selected and especially qualified sophomores for whom no vacancies exist as Corporal, proper recognition. The grade of Lance Corporal carries the same privileges, responsibilities, recognition, and respect as the grade of Corporal. The Lance Corporal will rank below the Corporal and above all privates first class.

Military Frat Hears Colonel

Scabbard and Blade, honorary military organization, met Monday night, October 27, in the Scabbard and Blade room on Oak Row to celebrate the National Scabbard and Blade day. The meeting was in charge of Walter Wooten, Commander of the battalion and President of the organization. A feed was held for the members, and after that, during a smoker, a talk was made by Colonel MacKenzie, the Commandant of the Battalion. The text of Colonel MacKenzie’s talk dealt with the present crisis that America is now in. He compared the present situation of the country to that of the fall of 1939 when the war was in its younger stages.

A two-thirds majority of votes cast is necessary to pass this amendment by the Student Body. Voting is to be held the following day. Secret ballots are to be used, and the voting will be under the supervision of the Board of Elections. If the proposed amendment should pass, it is to be inserted in article 10, section 5, which deals with the duties of the Freshman Advisor. If passed, it is the understanding that the present freshman class will take the test approximately two weeks after the passing.

Gwynn Named On Committee

Dr. Price Gwynn, of Davidson College, has been appointed by Dr. Clyde A. Erwin, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, on a statewide committee to study the question of where the new twelfth year should come in the public school system. This study is being made in compliance with a law passed this year by the North Carolina General Assembly. Money for the extension of the school system has also been provided by this legislature. The appointed committee is composed of representatives of various social and economic organizations willing to contribute their time and ability to the service of the state. This expansion of the public school system, which the group is discussing, will involve many curricular revisions and adjustments and will, in some instances, require changes in administration procedures. To make these revisions and changes wisely, an exhaustive study of the public school system will have to be made in order that the current school program may be intelligently evaluated and revised to meet the educational demands of modern democratic society. Dr. Gwynn attended the first meeting of the committee at Raleigh on October 22 in the office of the State Superintendent. The preliminary discussion which took place during this meeting revealed that the leaders of the various organizations wish more time in schools for teaching the fundamentals, for physical education, for character training, and for vocational instruction, in the case of children who will not go to college.

APPA ANNOUNCES NINE NEW MEMBERS
Highest Scholarship Recognized Through Phi Beta Kappa Bids
Winn Leads Senior Class With An Average of 97.23.

CHAPEL ANNOUNCEMENT

An announcement in chapel this morning gave the names of those attaining the honor of Phi Beta Kappa: Dan Hodges, Joe Hopper, Hershel Seagle, Arch Taylor, Albert Winn, Dr. John R. Cunningham, Marion Mobley, and Mr. A. G. Winn. The first six mentioned are members of the student body who graduate this June. The other three are Dr. John R. Cunningham, Marion Mobley, who graduated three years ago, and Mr. Albert G. Winn, valedictorian of the class of 1900 and father of Albert Winn.

Averages

Leading the averages of the seniors was the 97.23 mark attained by Albert Winn. Rod Turner's 96.00 was second in his class. Arch Taylor placed third with a three-year average of 95. The other three averages are: Seagle, 94.5; Hodges, 94.4, and Hopper, 94.0.

Meeting

The elections to Phi Beta Kappa took place at a meeting for that purpose on Monday, Oct. 27. Davidson's chapter of this honorary scholastic fraternity is well-represented nationally as Mr. W. P. Cumming is chairman of the Committee of Phi Beta Kappa Laws and Practices, one of the national committees.

Photos Taken For Yearbook

Year pictures of the students for the Quips and Cranks are being taken by Dunbar Studios of Atlanta. Mr. Dunbar has been on the campus for the last week and has taken pictures from Chapel until ten o'clock every evening. During this period, he has taken the photos of all but one hundred and forty of our students. Mr. Dunbar plans to return on November 21, in order to take the pictures of the remaining students. At this time, the students who have already had their pictures taken will have an opportunity to see the prints of their photographs. Each student will have four photos to choose from. Also, at this date, Mr. Dunbar has made it possible for them to place orders for additional pictures for their own use.

McCall, editor of Quips and Cranks, wishes to express his appreciation for the ready cooperation that has up to this time been shown by all of the students. He wishes also to emphasize the importance of having the few remaining pictures taken promptly on Mr. Dunbar's return. On the 21st, he will spend only one day here, and it is imperative that the remaining pictures be taken.