Thursday, November 27, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Y’s CORNER
By SHAW SMITH

Last year there was much talk in the line of needed items for the material part of the “Y.” Among these was a pool table—remember? The Greensboro presented us one for light recreation. Thoughtlessness usually produces some kind of destruction and soon the cover was in bad need of replacement. The class of '45 to the rescue! This class quickly mustered its forces and made its first move together by pooling their quarters and half dollars for the benefit of the art of pool playing. Monday the finishing touches were put on the new cover and a host of undergraduates descended upon the defenseless four-legged flat-piece with a shout. Wouldn't it be wonderful if that enthusiasm would keep up throughout the year and prevent the destruction of this new gift? Only last year our table was with brand new trimmings; this year fellows called the cover shreds. Actually, there were footprints found on it last year! This can’t be what we lightly call Davidson spirit; anyhow, the freshmen showed real spirit in the gift and can at least be gentleman enough to show our gratefulness. Here's to the class of '45—the big class now and the smaller class after exams. Just don't allow your gift to keep you from enjoying the last semester of your first year!

The Blue Ghost

The Blue Ghost is no blue play, although one leading man, Frank Mebane, last Monday. The inevitable kissing scene came about. Miss Smith, the, ah, leading lady knew all the methods of faking the kiss for the medium of stage art. "She art not to be too smart,” painfully punned Franklin. You'll have to see the play to see who came out winner. (Subtle play advertisement!)

If you are one of those who sleep through Church Sunday morning you probably won't change on account of this sentence. Regardless of the possibilities of good, I must say you'll never know the refreshing feeling of a good Sunday morning Church service that is not compulsory unless you just try it once. Speaking of Sunday, the College Sunday School Class is trying new methods of service with more students being active, getting deputations from other colleges, etc. What are your ideas? You who say there is nothing to do on Sunday must be unusual persons. An unusual person is one who has caught up on his letter writing, good reading outside the realm of assignments, visiting homes of professors, being unhurriedly thoughtful, visiting friends on the campus—four years is a short time to know 1,300-1,400 men—sleep. You think these things are dull? If so, it's because they have never been tried. I dare you to try just one weekend with a complete schedule of things that are different from your everyday grind that you can do here on Sunday without using needed energy to leave. But don’t misunderstand; get away every now and then remembering that you must live with yourself.

Hero of the Week

Unsung hero of the week falls into the class of '44 this time. Any man who can take the mass kidding this fellow has and still come up smiling, happy, and cheerful, deserves much cheering. Further, this man has taken every duty thrust his way and without excuses done his job willingly and with all his might. From “up north” to this country was not the easiest traveling for him; and this is just another example of his will. Surely he talks different; surely he could not always understand this slow talk; but he was going to make (Continued on Page Six)

Down FRATERNITY COURT

PI KAPPAS DEAL

An extra weekend brought about by Thanksgiving, the end of the football season, the end of review week, the weather, or perhaps just the lust for adventure sent the Pi Kapps on some of the most extensive deals yet pulled this current season. The prize goes easily to Brother McCrea who hauled up anchor, headed north, and ended up way up in Brazil, Indiana and Dayton, Ohio. Besides this Northern Conquest, there were also those who headed south. Brother Eve went to his home in Augusta, Ga., Brother Watson went to Ridge Springs, S. C., and Pledge Yantis to Atlanta.

Goudy Rides Again

“Urban Odsen” Goudy, who can be counted on to pull a big deal every weekend, went with Brother Hipp to the Clemson-Furman game in Greenville. Also attending this game were Brother McCall and Pledges Sumner Williams, Birmingham, and Wilkinson. Miller, Key, and French went to Florence, S. C. Brother Gaither went hunting somewhere near Newton, while Herring and Murray journeyed as far as Raleigh. Brother Larkin and Pledge Walton went to their respective homes in Washington, N. C., and Hickory, while Denny, Lineberger, and Raymond went to Gastonia. Patton went to his home in Rutherfordton and McArthur and Bradley went to Charlotte.

SIG BETAS BRUSH

Thanksgiving turned into a wild week for some of the brothers. Bob Bryant and Don Bryant made a four-day trip to Jacksonville. Brother “B” Walker made his way to Mount Gilead. Joe Barnwell went to Florence for Thanksgiving day, and the “home-force” had guests in the form of Bob and Finley Tucker. Many of the brothers and pledges gave “thanks” in Charlotte; including Upchurch, Woody, Wilson, Efrid, Church, Crayton, Stubbins, Schmidt, Shaw, Welsh, and Pritchett. Most of them returned Thursday after seeing the Wildcats do justice to The Citadel. Brother Rankin was in Lexington, Cushman, G. Tucker, and Rosborough took in Statesville while Smith and Lipscomb journeyed to St. Mary’s. Pledge McNair was in Salisbury. Brother Ed Taylor had Jack Phillips wild hairing it with him to his home in Southport. Whizer White made another of those extended weekends spending most of his time in Graham and Sanford.

Alumnus Returns

Brother Holt Barnwell and Margaret Rass were here for supper Sunday night.

PHI GAMS ROLL

The Fijis were rolling again last weekend in their own inimitable style. One of the most energetic of the brothers was Tony Darby, that colorful exponent of “freedom of the press” who wandered out Saint Louis way to attend the National Press Convention of college editors. Ralph Williams and Walter Wooten were out prospecting again. As usual, Chattanooga was the happy hunting ground; this time for a four-day stay. Some further reason for Davidson’s unusually gloomy weekend atmosphere were these Fiji brothers gracing foreign ports: Arch Taylor in Winston-Salem, Andy Crowell in Lexington, Howell Morrow in High Point, Dan Hodges and Summers in Statesville, Kidney Oliver in Wilmington, and many more big operators in Boys’ Town (Charlotte to you). One of the stellar Phi Gam functions of the year was held Tuesday night, in the form of a smooth Thanksgiving dinner. After the impressive candlelight banquet the Fiji football blocking trophy was awarded to Bill Lyman; in acceptance of which he made a half-hour speech.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Friday evening Dr. and Mrs. D. Grant were guests of the fraternity.

SIGMA'S TRAVEL

Taking advantage of the Thanksgiving Holiday, a number of brothers and pledges left for the weekend on Thursday, while the genial celebration before, during, and after the game, as might well be supposed. Brother Henderson, eager to see Virginia defeat Carolina, journeyed to Chapel Hill where his hopes were indeed gratified.

The usual homeward crowd included: Pat Williams, to the “state of Wilkes,” Jim Ellis to High Point, N. C., Jim Davis to Salisbury, Jack Rochelle to High Point, Shep. Booth to Lawrenceville, Va., who also dated at Greensboro Sunday night; Bill Squires to Greenville; Bob and Bill Grimsley to Greensboro; Ashby Dick to Sumter; Gene Sutton to Fayetteville; Jack Clark to Clarkton; Dick Kelly to Irwin; Jim Morgan to Laurinburg, whose father was a visitor on the campus Sunday night; and Ed Hipp to Greensboro.

To the Bob Miller-sponsored girl-break-dance-in-Charlotte went four pledges: T. Peters, G. Peters, Jim Morton, and Isley. Brothers Gwynn, Daffin, and Severn were seen in the Queen City several times, as well as Brother Knox, who makes the trip as regularly as Saturday comes around. Brothers Brown and Isley went to the weekly Square Dance in Huntersville.

The Sunday night vespers were followed by the regular feed.a Millis and Sam Yarbrough. Mon- truty festive occasion. Aside from treat was the scene of eye Brother Blintrs wonehal noxits for Brother Scott, Bill Lacy, MC=ijecc everything; 7 ne: Ss, & went off in fine Coy, Taylor and their host, Pledge style. Guests were Mary Davis Ennet, To Gastonia as guests of Wolfe and Margaret Sharpe. Pledge Holland went Pledges Vhe juniors and seniors, in true Henderson and Fowler for ae form, eked out a close victory in week-end. Brothers Conyers, Man- the annual touch football game ning, and Crook attended the As- over the sophomores and freshmen sembly Ball at Spartanburg. Wil- 9-4. bur Carter dated at Salem Al- ston Thompson theft) Wednesday S. A. E.'s COVER GROUND for a visit to his home in Richmond, Most of the brothers and pledges Va. were on hand Thanksgiving after- Karl Hudson, of the class of '40, noon to witness the Wildcat triumph was a guest for the week-end. over Citadel. During the week-end, many found their way to gridiron PIKER’S WILD HARE clashes in other parts of the Caro- The double week-end caused by linas. Thanksgiving gave forth with much Brother Rab McGeachy and dealing within the Pika Lodge. Pledges Hugh Hill, Jack Lucas, Dates for the game included Esther Lee Harris, Wilma Tillet, Julia, Gu- ion, Patty Guion, and Margaret Huske. Hodges Returns Teensy Hodges finally the November 15 Monday, the 24th. It flew home to time and to get off. Parsons after dating for the game Brother returned from week-end on he seems save forgot Brother returning Sun- a went to Greensboro. Deciding this move he went back to immediately. Other home of W. C. were Hill and Brock- Tay- day. was mistake Greens- boro almost visitors to the Brothers Brimson, and Pledges Anderson, Bill mann, Fraley Pledge White and Pledge lor, and Turner. journeyed to Gas- Mac Gulfport, Turner vis- Miss Spencer tonia, ited home brothers Morehead and went to Blacksburg, S. C, had teresting experiences. Pledge Gra- ham went to Pink Hill, Brother Williamson went home Brothers Browning Gicenville, Neill his in and ac- cording to reports some in- Turner home and to Kenansville. Vosburgh went to Brothers Pollock Asheville. in Clink Pearsall and and and visited Pearsall Brother journeyed to Wilmington, and his experiences in- cluded a short matriculation in the Laurinburg clink. Clark and Pledge Stroup pulled three dif- Moores- Brother ferent operations between ville Blowing Rock. Brother Henderson to Wallace returned via Chapel and went home and of Hill course S. P. Es ATTEND GAME A football victory was the cellent this week a great deal of Sig-Ep realing and The chapter enjoyed an joyous Thanksgiving holi- day. Everybody was present for the big turkey din- Tuesday which ex- incentive for dealing. extra its on account. ner evening, was VS WW CAFETERIA success. Sleet, and Pledge Brother Shore went to High Point trip. a great Brothers Henderson, Tuesday on another soccer See Citadel Beaten the for Thanksgiving Day all in Charlotte There was much saw brothers save one the football game. McAllister, and Jimmy Wil- cox spent the week-end in Charlotte. Also in the Queen City were Broth- Stuart, and Tommy Johnny ers Ivey Suddy Carson, Pledge Powell. Brothers Bob Smith, Mac heod Alleot, the Greenville) Sree Ripper Hunt, Harry Hudson, Butch Caldwell Clemson-Furman ae-U Moore, Mc- Ox took in Bruce, Xob Pledges and in fracas Erwin-in Atlanta Rd Peter Brothers Southgate Young had to Rolling. Brother Ed Erwin Pledge Puller Atlanta. Brother Pop Rogers journeyed home to Dueas, Jones and an enjoyable excursion and Jimmy went to Red Dillon, Greensboro, and Brother Bethea went to his home in SHEE} I jaunt to lis Wilson took Talledega, distance a long Ala record of the Brother K. home in bama for the week The the campus Shuford of Thanksgiving. welcomed back to Alumni Brother Archie Wbkellqoyy, ING, (C), chapter for aay DELTS “FEED” Chapman PHI Brother the nd- passed week-end in Spartanburg attending the Assembly Ball and the of functions accompanying the Pledge the rated function the Thanksgiving Series Ball. operator, after dance me Davis, great a at Queens game, a GLEE CLUB CONCERT Presenting a varied program by the Queens Choral Club and the Davidson Glee Club, assisted Mr. Earl Berg of the Davidson Music faculty as soloist, will ap- pear in a concert on Sunday afternoon at 4:00 o'clock. The first group of songs will be religious classics and will include “Gloria” from Mozart's Twelfth Mass and Tchesnokoff’s Belongeth To Our God.” Following this group they will sing an Italian folk “The Serenaders,” “March- by J. Brahms, and a Negro Battle Of Jeri- in- “Salvation song, ing,” spiritual “The cho.” The Queens Choral Club under the direction of Mr. J. C. Pfohl will present a group of two or and Mr. three numbers Berg EE AWA, (67, 10h NEoen pice Saturday night, will sing another selection of songs. and a date with a local belle for the “feed” Sunday. Brother Wardlaw and Pledge Danks operated in both Greenville and Spartanburg, S. C. over the week-end. Pledge “Phi Bete” Tate spent Thanksgiving at his home in Mor- anton. Brothers McLedan and McIntosh headed in a general southward direction. Pledge to Atlanta date Bre especially ther Jelesby for Saturday night, Chattanooga Choo Choo Owens and the Friday Brother Wright Choo-Choo boarded Chattanooga and back fine reports from the city. Westall, and Tennessee Brothers Rudolph, and Chay climbed Pledge Starnes Biscuit Thanksgiving, on sea and Asheville for giving Brother Boykin spent his time in Charlotte with Libby over holidays. Many Phis in Charlotte were reported at both Saturday midnight Davidson and K. A's and left mood for the DRIVE the Thanks highlighted Day in Homew for ALUN ANN festivities a gay week for Davidson W s, them and many latest re- pleas and which the varied sorrows views will bring. their homes other Sandifer, Reaching via thumb and by means, were Durant, Dunn, Belk Spencer, Bachman, Little, the Washburn, Nat of one night stands with a five hour brothers, Glassow his series Wontes continued engagement in Boone. Charlotte felt effect of visits by son, Watt, all the Charlotte Brother to the library the Saturday night Ford, and Brothers, Tom Stim Sprunt, of course, while Royster took off on a wild hare. Limbering up around the In preparation for the coming dance famed the Wallace, and campus a certain Pledge brought Dr. Harding Refuses Physics Club it He Names be of Mc The ated honorary Inducts Five Sigma Pi Sigma To Discuss Radio Activity we new into the Frater professor of the k bids is confirmed Monday night Plan Discussion program a discussion of t AG dis went The side rode ae A were. Brothers Sinclair, Buzzie Connell, Thomas Witton, Mac Wit- liams, Turnage, Mitchell, Harri and McLean, and Pledge Brothers Richeson, Darracott, and Lowry. Many others claimed to be on the drive Brother Jefferies it over to Montreat. Ku A. Abbott to Statesville, while Little and Houston went to the latter’s home at York. Nt the same time Dann at Myrtle Beach, and Coppedge, Pat- erson, and Jackson Saturday guests in Charlotte, while Brother Tom Burk ton, in Washing- visited his home IBY, (C) Friday and Saturday, “HONKY Clark Gable “FLYING Lana Turner pena Nac Monday and Tuesday, December 1 and 2 “LYDIA” —_—_—» Thursday and Friday, December, 4 and 5 “SERGEANT YORK” Gary Cooper Foo i Teg BR Saturday, December 6 November 28 and 29 -TONK” Frank Morgan CADETS” A. S. BROWN General Merchandise Phone 2001 DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C. “MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT” Whitesides, SAR uel ctivity rial tivity” and cussion of pla study lized subjects subjects Informal Feed Adter tly Ineeti Wwoimembers th at Mebane’ red thus far ar Mit nity Is to new ied at th he there nsi:3 w ny and ini Sue Gamma Epsilon frac New Members ormally bers are K le Parker, J W. vas. elected at Cn Ire aternity, anima At a recent psilon ten on initiated ALR Murdock, thn WK. Miller, vvan, Richard iN Shannon, Kerr Elected Also at. this Sik Brenon After himents were orga, tia 1 Colle hon cw members are to be gma at be ven s home. members will ept secret until their wrt-center subj will or e Fraternity is cc of two or ey {thi each will is meeting rar The hes Pater Sh ge the Lyman Ross 1. Kelley, E. E Robinson and George meeting, to-attend psilon in son, in- Pi 4 the held o'clock Si next next at acceptant e meeting Fe arouned ect “Radio; also be a the coming mtemplat three spe discussion meeting “Radio Theoretical iation of be of Gamma y chemistry mbers were e new mem Harold Parrigin, tay. J Parks, To Accept Old Age Famous Campus Character Teaches Classes For Over Fifty Years By HERB MORTON NX gentleman of culture with a distinguished little goatee and a stiff bat wing collar re- fuses to grow old. He Dr. Caleb Richmond Harding of Davidson College, Who has passed the half cen- tury as professor of Greek and Study of Fine Arts. As a professor of Greek and Getting in Dr. Harding showed an enthusiasm which affected, the le class. When Dr. Harding would be replaced as Prof to ek, he began a study fin and archaeology. Teaches Fine Arts He was offered retirement several years ago, but he requested that he be allowed to teach fine arts, which he does now Jim Kerr the national Convention Gainesville meeting, al served faculty of Davidson ve recommended to the board that A.B Modern languages Once the of trustees degrees only be given were to be substituted for Greek and Latin according to the program pre- to the trustees. de- A.B. or Single- the move. till or both, Likes Cats Harding Dr. Today an Greek handed, Harding defeated degree requires Latin, Dr has a humane feeling very Wishing family cat he built a Six) towards cats to the kittens, PEON ide ee for (¢ Rta on Page MIDNIGHT BLUES A Westminster Tuxedo or Full Dress correct furnishings from Marion will make you the correctly throughout the coming formal season. arton Mavis! Co. SOUTH TRYON STREE S WESTMINSTER FORMAL WEAR For Thanksgiving Socials $25 Others to $50 with the Davis Co. dressed man