Be Sure To Vote

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Come to The Dances

Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1941

Number 19

WINN ELECTED STUDENT BODY HEAD

DICK, BELK ELECTED VICE-PRESIDENTS

Wins Over Hackney, Cunningham, Marsh, And Williams

Paragraphies By THE EDITOR

Our congratulations to the newly elected officers of the Student Body, along with best wishes for much success in office
during the coming year. The races were tight all the way, and very interesting to watch.

Read the editorial on page 2 outlining a proposed change in the method of signing ballots in order to eliminate
several bad features of the present system. It has gotten so that everyone knows almost exactly how everyone votes.

Tom Cauble should give one of the best class histories in years. We are waiting to hear that smooth and
sophisticated rendition spieled forth at Class Day. It looks to be superb.

No shinguards are to be laced for this coming weekend—and thus far no suggestions as to mode of dress have
been made, except for the usual formal wear on Friday night and suit-on Saturday. Can't we have coats off mail,
or daggers (for even cutting) at our belts? But the dances promise to be good. Small sets here usually do
turn out better than anyone thinks.

The interfraternity sing almost has enough cups this year to raffle off—three in all. At this price, all the chapters
should be making elaborate preparations which will make the “sing” the best yet (even if two years isn't long).

Congratulations to Hank (Tally-ho) Bahnson on his selection as valedictorian of the class. This honor climaxes a brilliant career at
Davidson.

In the lower right-hand corner of this page is that politician's dream—a compact schedule of election dope. The date of
each election could not be included, because each is dependent on the finish of the one previous which is uncertain
of course. However, the elections do come in the order given, Davidsonian election following the Y election which is now
in progress.

Bunches of black ribbon wrapped around sacks of ashes (for heads) to those students who must remain part of the
holidays for exams which they missed on account of sickness. The worst part is that some have to wait several
free days to take a late exam and thus miss the whole holidays—W. A. D.

Beta Theta Pi. Brothers Holt and Joe Barnwell accepted Brother Winn’s invitation to visit in Greenville, S.C. Brother Yocum ventured
up to cold, cold Sweetbriar; Brother Garrou went to Valdese, Brothers Sharpe, Mebane, and White were in and around Burlington;
Brother Thompson to High Point; Brother Rankin to Mt. Gilead. Visitors to the Sunday night feed were Polly Price and
Edith Eberlin. We are proud to announce the pledging of Steve Thurston of the Junior Class.

ANNUAL COLLECTIONS

The business staff of “Quips and Cranks,” Davidson College yearbook, will begin collection of fees for pictures of the various
campus organizations, Gene Vereen, business manager, announced this week. Members of these organizations responsible for payment of fees to the
annual are asked to take note of this and have the money ready, so that there will be as little
delay as possible in winding up this work. Vereen stated that he wanted to have collections completed by April 8
or 10.

Student Officers Elected Over Lacy, Wooten

Two Outstanding Sophomores Have Been Elected Vice-Presidents.

SEVEN CANDIDATES RUN

Seven Are Nominated For Secretary-Treasurer.

Ashby Dick was elected to the office of First Vice-President of the Student Body in Friday’s election. Dick, a rising
Junior, is a native of Sumter, South Carolina.

Activities. He is a member of Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, the varsity wrestling team and the varsity football team. Dick
made his numerals in three sports his freshman year: track, wrestling, and football.

Belk’s Activities. John Belk, of Charlotte, North Carolina, was elected Second Vice-President of the Student Body. Belk is a member
of Kappa Alpha Order Social Fraternity and the Seaver Club. He made freshman numerals in two sports last year: football
and basketball, and was on the track team for a portion of the season. Belk placed third in the Freshman
Cake Race September 30. “Long John” played on the varsity basketball team this season.

Other Candidates. Men on the first day's ballot were Ashby Dick, Jesse Wooten, John Belk, Ben Lacy, Edward Murray, Welford
Hobbie, and Fred Morton. Hobbie, Murray, and Morton were eliminated on that ballot. Ashby Dick was elected First Vice-President and
Ben Lacy left for the Vice-Presidency. John Belk was elected Second Vice-President.

Ballots cast Monday elected John Belk Second Vice-President. Nominees for Secretary-Treasurer were: Gene Head, Francis Gilman, Mack Rhea, Preston Price,
Gwynn O'Hair, Dick Bruce, and Suck Archer. Head, Gilman, and Bruce were eliminated Thursday’s voting and the student body had
not chosen between Gwynn, Archer, and Bruce as the paper went to press Friday.

Ashby Dick, left, and John Belk were elected the first and second vice presidents, respectively, of Davidson's student body in
the elections held during the past week. Dick was elected in the second race, and Belk was named after the
third voting. Welford Hobbie, Ben Lacy, Ed Murray, Fred Morton, and Jesse Wooten.

Dick comes from Sumter, South Carolina, and is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He served this year as President
of the Sophomore class. Belk is from Charlotte.

Rules Of Sing Made Monday

Three Loving Cups Are to Be Awarded This Year.

A meeting of the Inter-fraternity sing representatives was held Monday night for the purpose of formulating rules and regulations by
which the inter-fraternity sing will be judged this year. The Inter-fraternity sing will be held at 7:30 p.m. May 15,
1941, on the steps of Chambers. Three loving cups will be awarded this year by non-Davidson judges. Phi Mu Alpha,
who is sponsoring the meet, will award a loving cup to the fraternity selected by the judges as the best
singing fraternity. James Christian Pfohl, director of music, will also present a loving cup to the best student conductor. A
loving cup will also be awarded by Fred Waring to the fraternity which sings his alma mater, Davidson Our Alma
Mater, the best. Tentative rules have been drawn up as follows: Each fraternity will...

To Lead Music

Will Be Furnished By Bob Sylvester and His Orchestra.

By Phil Busby.

Holt Barnwell, president of Scabbard and Blade military fraternity, will lead the figure at the Pan-Hellenic dances which will feature
the Military Ball in the Charlotte Armory March 14 and 15. Music will be furnished by Bob Sylvester and his
orchestra. Hector McLean, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has announced that set tickets will be $4. Prices for individual tickets
will be $2.00 for the Friday evening formal from eight until twelve, $1.00 for the Saturday-afternoon tea dance from four
until six, and $2.00 for the Saturday evening informal from ten until two.

Sylvester has been heard over national hook-ups and is noted for his novel and distinctive syncopation. Before forming his own
band, he was chief arranger for Hal Kemp. Scabbard and Blade is composed of 18 Senior and 15 Junior Officers.Military
Ball Figure ~~ Davidson R.O.T.C. was established here in 1923. The battalion was a chapter of the local Scabbard &
Blade. This set of dances is the only one sponsored by Scabbard & Blade during the school year. Furthermore, it
is the only dance set which is concerned chiefly with an honorary fraternity on the campus. It will be in
honor of the juniors who were recently tapped by Scabbard & Blade. Sponsors for the dances will be: Miss Eleanor
Barnwell of Burlington with Holt Barnwell, president of Scabbard and Blade; Miss Sara McDuffie of Columbus, Georgia, with Jim McDuffie,
vice-president; Miss Susan Buchanon of Knoxville with W. J. Bolin, treasurer; Miss Nancy Sanders of Rock Hill with Toddy Latimer,
secretary. Miss Rosalind Brummitt of Henderson with Scott Cooper; Miss Helen Sulton of Kinston with Bill Hamilton; Miss Charlotte Porter
of Wilmington with Cooper; Miss Mary Matthews of Wilmington with Herbert Codington; Miss Virginia Thompson of High Point with Drury
Thompson; Miss Betsy Russell of Jones Hill with Vernon Youngblood.

Costs of individual tickets for the dances of Military Set have been announced by Hector McLean, president of the Pan-Hellenic
Council. The price of the Friday night formal will be $2.00, and the dance will last from 10 o'clock until
2. The Saturday Tea Dance from 4 till 6 will be $1.00, and the informal that night from eight o'clock
until twelve will be $2.00. Bob Sylvester and his Sophisticated Swing will play for the Set, which is sponsored by
Davidson’s chapter of Scabbard and Blade. Members of the honorary fraternity with their dates will present the figure.

Seniors Elect Men To Talk On Class Day
Finley, Cauble, Crane, Loftin, and Bahnson Chosen At Class Smoker.

Meeting in the Banquet Room of Chambers Building, the Senior Class held a smoker a week ago tonight, on March
6th, at which time Class Day participants were elected. Those elected to participate in the Class Day activities, which will
be held preceding Commencement, include: Bob Finley, who will deliver the Salutatory Address; Tom Cauble, who will read the Class
History; Paul S. Crane, who will compose and read the Class Poem; Bill Loftin, who is the Class’ Orator; and
Henry Bahnson, who will deliver the Valedictory Address. J. R. Jones, president of the senior class, read an announcement from
Dr. Setitelle concerning senior cars; the announcement said that seniors may have cars on the campus after spring.

[Continued on Page Five]

Bulletin
WEDNESDAY’S VOTING

Yesterday PAT WILLIAMS defeated DICK O'HAIR in a final run-off for secretary-treasurer of the Student Body. After one ballot for
Y.M.C.A. President, CHARLIE WATT was leading with 93 votes. Second came JIM OWENS with 85; third was RALPH WILLIAMS with
82, and CLAUDE HACKNEY stood fourth with 73. BEN LACY led the vice-presidential race with 118, followed by WOOTEN with
105, SANDIFER with 101, and CRANE with 85. All balloting continued Thursday.

Moss ‘New President Is Interviewed Upon His Return From College Tour.
By Bill Rogers.

College presidents don't have to be austere old moss-backs. Dr. Lingle has shown us that, and an interview with Davidson
College’s new President, Dr. John R. Cunningham, reveals him to be fully as genial, friendly, and charming in conversation as
his predecessor. Here for a final visit before he takes over his duties on April 1, Dr. Cunningham was most
gracious in granting 15 minutes of his time to an inquiring Davidsonian reporter. While walking from the Y.M.C.A. to the
President's office, he commented on the beauty of Chambers with the lights shining on its imposing facade and told how
he had often admired it as he passed by the road in front of the campus. Just having returned from
a visit of colleges extending from Massachusetts to Florida, as far west as Missouri, the Doctor was full of enthusiasm
for his prospective work at Davidson and made many comments on the subject of his college tour. The schools he
visited were Washington and Lee, Princeton, Amherst, Lafayette, Haverford, Wake Forest, Southwestern, Westminster, Centre, U. of Louisville, U. of Florida,
and—of all places—Agnes Scott. The problems studied particularly in the tour were compulsory chapel attendance, the relation of faculty and
students, registration and first-year orientation of freshmen into college life (at Haverford), social life on the campus, administrative problems such
as foundations and supplying the faculty with adequate resources.

Winning over Claude Hackney by a small margin, Albert Winn was elected President of the Davidson student body in the
fourth election held Tuesday, March 11. Others in the race were Ed Lucas, Ralph Williams, George Marsh, James Mann, and
J. Hackney. Narrowly Defeated In Presidential Race; Seven Compete. GEORGE MARSH THIRD Williams, Lucas, McCall, and Mann Also Run.

Albert Winn was elected President of the Student Body in the election held Tuesday by a vote of 240 to
228. Winn, a native of Greenville, South Carolina, was named on the fourth ballot. Claude Hackney of Live Oak, Florida,
was runner-up in the election, having run second to Winn in the third ballot held Monday.

Activities.
Winn is prominent in many campus activities. He has served this year as Managing Editor of the Davidsonian. He is
a member of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, Classical fraternity, Le Cercle Francais, Forensic Council, and is
a manager of the Debating Team. During his freshman year, he was awarded the Freshman Bible Award for the highest
average in Bible, and the Freshman Scholarship for the highest average in all courses. He was a member of the
Freshman debating team. He belongs to Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity.

Elections opened Thursday, March 6 with Claude Hackney, Albert Winn, Ralph Williams, George Marsh, Julian McCall, Ed Lucas, and James
Mann on the ballot. McCall, Lucas, and Mann were eliminated on the second ballot, and Marsh on the third.

ELECTION INFORMATION
Position
Davidsonian Editor
Annual Editor
Class Officers
3 officers for each class
Adviser Freshman
Magazine Editor
Student Council
Cheer Leader
Publications Board
A. Board of Control

Men Eligible
Bob Carter
Dick Cobb
Pony Darby
Bob Garvey
W. C. Plunkett
Al Winn
Dick Kelly
Julian McCall
Bill Sprunt
Ed Taylor
Cam Wilson
Walter Wooten

Members of respective classes
Members of Senior Class
Bob Garvey
Dan Hodges
W. C. Plunkett
Archie Taylor
Ed Taylor
Walter Wooten

Rising Seniors
Rising Juniors
Rising Sophomores
Newly elected Editors and Business Managers of publications
Elected by Student Body
Rising Senior Class
Members of the respective classes
Members of Senior rising Class
Student Body
Student Body
Student Body
Student Body
