% Page Eight THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 16, 1941

John G. Richards Passes After Life Of Service

Brother of Davidson Professor Was Governor of South Carolina

John G. Richards, governor of South Carolina from 1927 until 1931, and brother of a Davidson Professor, died last Thursday at his home in Liberty Hill, S. C. John G. Richards, brother of Dr. Charles M. Richards, professor at Davidson, fought unceasingly throughout his life for the high ideals that he held dear and sacred. The son of a Presbyterian minister, Mr. Richards was born September 11, 1864, at Liberty Hill.

FRATERNITY COURT

Page Three

The local Sig-Fips chapter prexy Daffin enjoyed the hospitality of Brothers Brown, Knox the elder, and Myers Saturday afternoon in S. C. on a vague and indefinite mission. The trip was quite a successful one for Brother Joe Bivens in Elkhound, N. C. On their return to the Queen City, they were met by Brother H. Halbert Knox. Knox was also present.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

GREATEST COLLEGE ATHLETE OF ALL TIME

SINCE THE TURN OF THE CENTURY, ONE MAN, AN INDIAN, STANDS HEAD AND SHOULDERS ABOVE THE REST. JIM THORPE ENTERED CARLISLE INDIAN SCHOOL IN 1906 AND SOON BECAME THE TERROR OF EASTERN GRIDIRONS. HE WAS AN ALL-AMERICAN HALFBACK IN 1911 AND 1912. FROM FOOTBALL, JIM TURNED TO TRACK AND WON THE PENTATHLON AND DECATHLON IN THE 1912 OLYMPICS. HE WAS ALSO A STAR IN BASEBALL, BREAKING INTO THE MAJOR LEAGUE WITH THE NEW YORK GIANTS.

Pledge Blevins cavorted off to G’boro, while Jack Caruso and Behrman sung in Charlotte. Pledges Miller and Horschel were seen in that city also.

LIBRARY CLOSES FRIDAY

A special announcement to the Davidsonian has come from Prof. Chalmers Davidson, school librarian, to the effect that the library will be closed tomorrow afternoon and evening, Friday, Oct. 17. This action has been taken due to the faculty inaugural reception. Students are advised to get all books needed tomorrow morning.

Lenoir’s Band To Represent Visiting Team

Alumnus of Davidson Directs Lenoir High School Band

Davidson “Y” To Help Mooresville Boy Scouts

STUDENT BODY

(Continued from Page One)

time limit, say five or six minutes, and the remainder of the Chapel period shall be reserved for the use of the students.

“5. It shall be mutually understood between the Faculty and students that an appropriate reversal of this schedule will be made when it is necessary to use the Chapel period on Tuesday or Thursday for an outside speaker who can be secured only on one of those days.”

Better Services

Al Winn explained that the new system would afford the students better religious services for spiritual development.

Smith and MacLaughlin Met To Discuss Plans With Scoutmasters

On Sunday afternoon, October 10, Shaw Smith and Bill MacLaughlin met with the scoutmasters and assistant scoutmasters at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville to discuss the possibility of several Davidson boys helping out with the scout work there. The chief purpose of the meeting was to see how many boys would be needed for the work and to work out a plan and program whereby the boys going up would have the rank of assistant scoutmaster in the troop to which they were assigned. The main problem that presented itself to the group was the matter of transportation for the Davidson boys between here and Mooresville. However, the need for some help in the work is so urgent that the scoutmasters in Mooresville agreed to furnish all transportation.

Bill MacLaughlin pointed out that this is a new field that the Y. M. C. A. is working in, and that there are plenty of opportunities to help out as there are at this time nine scout troops there. He also said, however, that to qualify for this work a boy must have reached at least the rank of Star Scout. Those who would be interested in this branch of “Y” work are asked to contact either Bill MacLaughlin or Shaw Smith.

YMCA CABINET

(Continued from Page One)

annual Y.M.C.A. retreat. This retreat is usually held at Montreat, but the committee is to investigate and will report on other places.

The Cabinet also considered several letters from Converse suggesting that deputation groups be exchanged from time to time. The report of Shaw Smith on the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control meeting Monday night was also given.

Chesterfield

COOLER BETTER TASTE

Smokers everywhere know you can travel a long way and never find another cigarette that can match it. It’s Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos that wins the approval of smokers everywhere. Let the Navy's choice be your choice... make your next pack Chesterfield.

In 1892 he was elected magistrate and rose to the House of Representatives from Kershaw county in 1898. He was chairman of the ways and means committee and a member of the board of trustees of Clemson College. He was also a member of the State Railroad Commission and later the first president of the Southern Association of Railroad Commissioners. During the World War, he was a member of the State Council of Defense. He served as chairman of the State Highway Commission and was a member of the board of trustees of the University of South Carolina.

Representing V. P. I. before Davidson's Homecoming and Inaugural Day visitors, the Lenoir High School Band under the direction of James C. Harper will share with the Davidson band the marching and playing time at the game with Virginia Tech on the afternoon of October 18. They have a sound-proofed, three-story building devoted entirely to the band and other musical activities. These rooms are connected with a control room from which Mr. Harper can communicate with any room in the building, as well as checking to see that all rooms are properly used.

Monday night the Student Council adopted a new plan for the Chapel period. It is experimental, having been adopted for the remainder of this semester to determine whether it marks improvement and warrants continuation.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Sciences he-state and was one of its writers. Lahm sate: sors may put reserve books. Bias a cil met, and plans were discussed as a questionary. Wallets: and George Hinson believed was to determine what results. To the rear of the stacks in the second and third mezzanine floors are used. At the meeting of the Student Body on Tuesday, this discussion continued from Page One. Brother Julien McCall traveled to the validity of symphonic been placed in the basement of the new building. They hold unbound periodicals, government publications, North Carolina state pamphlets, and discarded and uncatalogued books. At the south end of the building in the basement are the newspaper and smoking rooms. The most interesting room in the building is the Davidsoniana Room. At present, it is still being arranged and fixed up. Mr. Harvard, who was 21 years old, was buried Sunday at 5 o'clock in Charlotte at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church with the Rev. John Pinckney, Clemson College Chaplain, officiating. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. Gertrude Harvard, who is Director of Dormitories at Converse College in Spartanburg. 

Buried Sunday

Mr. Harvard, who was 21 years old, was buried Sunday at 5 o'clock in Charlotte at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church with the Rev. John Pinckney, Clemson College Chaplain, officiating. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. Gertrude Harvard, who is Director of Dormitories at Converse College in Spartanburg.

DEATH CLAIMS

There has been a lot of talking around Davidson about our chapel period services, and now our Student Council and Faculty have done something about them. I believe that the student services should include all forms of our college life. More musical programs and recitations would be interesting. Outside groups such as the colored quartet which sang last year always receive warm welcomes. Short skits would be interesting and amusing, written and directed by students themselves. The greatest use that I can see in student meetings at designated times is to let different students make their opinions and ideas known before the whole student body. When questions arise that concern everyone, we should be able to hear ideas from others in open discussions. Our ideas are not worth much when we tell them to only a few people and they are not given a chance to be used. We can pool ideas and come to a logical conclusion about our problems. 

My H. Goodrum chapel services will add much to our growing interest in chapel.

Brown, Sophomore: Since these two days are for the students and student body I suggest Davidson has needed such programs for a long time. There won't be much trouble finding something facing the students. There are many organizations to sponsor the movement, and this should boost Davidson spirit. It wouldn't hurt if we add this to our long list of traditions.

Joe McCoy, Junior: Under the proposed chapel system, Tuesdays and Thursdays will be turned over almost entirely to student activities. These days should be used for all announcements concerning the student body, for pep meetings at opportune times, and for those things that have made certain chapel services amusing in the past. Aside from that, we might try to institute an occasional open forum where the students may air their opinions on various subjects of special interest to the Davidson Student Body. Davidson has long needed a time and place where the students may present their ideas and express their opinions in a public manner and this seems to be the best place for it.

Gene Shannon, Senior: Definitely, what we should do is recruit a goat here in the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... many a refreshing experience... has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of Coca-Cola. 

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The EL WM. R. BARRINGER Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly Except Sundays, During October and November.

EVERYWHERE YOU

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.