Taps Sixteen Scabbard and Blade ORTA The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS Elections To Start Soon Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 1941 Number 18 Paragraphies By THE EDITOR the week-end the weather seemed to have shifted into spring the air feels that way—but the cold winter. The to be for the change. * * * Over nights promise more universal feeling here seems Y Secretary Shaw Smith's chapel Now that we know the exact functioning of Davidson's Y. M. C. A, it should receive more support from the stu- talk last week was excellent dent body. It is one of the © out- standing extracurricular activities here, and is different from some others in that there are more men orary military fraternity, held than jobs available on page butions will remedy this 2 * * * Congratulations to the new mem- Blade. This reward of hard bers of Scabbard and honor comes as work and real merit, to men out- standing in the R. O. T. C. depart- ment of the college. * * * Elections begin very shortly, and with them the usual spring change An editorial on page 2 points out the sad predica- ment of the junior, especially if he happens to the (shh-h-) spotlight. The seems to be: “To wear a coat, or on the campus. be in political question As an editorial its points out, more contri Friday, February the twenty” Sixteen Bid. By Military Fraternity Spring Tap Day Held At Drill Friday By Scabbard and Blade. BARNWELL OFFICIATES, One Senior and Fifteen Juniors Are Honored. Davidson’s chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national hon- umual Spring Tap Day on eighth, 1941, Sixteen Tapped. The following members of the R. O. T. C. Battalion were tapped by Captain Barnwell: Lieutenant F. E. Little, Walter Wooten, Sergeants Jim Owens, Ralph Wil- liams, Tom Plonk, Charlie Watt, Jack Phillips, Tom Plonk, Dan Hodges, Claude Hackney, John Crichton, Frank Caldwell, Dave Spencer, Dave Hen- derson, Ed Hay, Pat Rudolph, and Jim Crook. These men were: Group Desires Cleaner Town Two Tap Days. Blade holds annual tap days, one in the spring and one in the fall. On these days, Scabbard and Blade initiates Dave Henderson, Jim Crook, Dave Spencer, John Crichton, Charlie Watt, Jack Phillips, Walter Wooten, Ed Hay, Claude Hackney, Dan Hodges and Frank Caldwell. Men absent at the time of the picture were: Pat Rudolph, Fred Little, Jim Owens, and Ralph Williams. GIFT FUND SHORT The “Y" Gift Fund has Debaters Are To Be Chosen Elections Scheduled To Start This Week Or At First Of Next Military Set Will Feature Dress Figure Hellenic Council Present Dances. Davidson's chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national hon- orary military fraternity, will present the figure at the Mili- tary Set on March 14 and 15. Sponsors, with their escorts, are as follows: Miss Eleanor Barn- well with Holt Barnwell, Captain; Miss Lucile McDuffie with James McDuffie, 1st Lieutenant; Miss Su- san Buchanan with Jay Bolin; Miss Nancy Saunders with Toddy Latimer, 1st Sergeant; Miss Hill Cooper with Lieutenant; Miss Rosalind Brummitt with Jons Thompson; Miss Virginia Price with Bill Hamilton; Miss Mary Matthews with Herb Coding- ton; Miss Drury Porter with Sophisticated Swing 2nd Lieutenant. Rules Governing Student Elec- tions Released By Au- thorities. KING ANNOUNCES DATE “Combines” and “Soliciting Votes” Defined. Scabbard and Blade and Pan- Elections for Student Body officers will be held either the last of this week or the first of next week, John King, President of the Student Body, announced early this week. The elections for the officers of the Y. M. C. A. and other organizations will be held immediately after the bal- loting for the officers of the Student Body is done. Final Preparations Final preparations for the coming elections were made at a meeting of the Election Board Wednesday night, February 26. After discussing the matter at some length, it was decided to publish in the “Davidsonian” the definitions of the terms “combine” and “soliciting votes,” as required in Article XVII of the Constitution of Student Gov- ernment, which reads in part: "The duties of the Election Board are to enforce the specific rules including clear-cut definitions of such election terms as ‘combines’ and ‘soliciting votes’ in accordance with this authority the following definitions have been decided upon by the Board: Combine Defined: A combine shall be defined as any official or unofficial agreement between two or more fraternities, clubs, or any other organizations recognized as having political aspirations or influence to vote for the same candidate. Furthermore, no group, or any single person within the aforementioned organization shall reach an official or unofficial agreement with any group, or individual within one or more of the aforesaid organizations, to vote for the same candidate on any one bal- lot. Soliciting Votes. Soliciting of votes shall be defined as any attempt of an individ- ual or groupTo gain the vote of any on February 19, according to an announcement made this week by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President of the College, in recognition of scholarly achievements and the promise of future attainments. It is the first time in the history of the Davidson chapter that undergraduates who are not members have been invited to a Phi Beta Kappa banquet.

The three professors are Dr. William C. McGavock, who was raised from an associate professorship to full professorship in Mathematics; Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, from associate to full professorship in History; and Dr. Samuel B. Knight from assistant to associate Professorship in Chemistry.

Dr. McGavock graduated from Davidson in 1930 with an A.B. degree. He took graduate work at Duke University, receiving his M.A. and Ph.D. from that institution. He came to Davidson as a professor in 1938.

Dr. Johnston also received his A.B. from Davidson in 1930. He became a member of the faculty in 1938.

Dr. Knight is a B.S. graduate of Clemson College and took his M.S. and Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina, coming here to teach in 1938.

At the same time, Dr. Lingle announced that a Wake Forest graduate student who is making a study of Mental Hygiene Service.

DETROIT, Mich. — (ACP) — Wayne University students are being offered a mental hygiene service through the children’s center of the Children’s Fund of Michigan. Primary objective of the clinic is the development of a preventive mental hygiene program. Faculty members have been asked to report to the clinic all students who they feel might be helped by mental hygiene consultation.

The President's arrival (Continued on Page Six)

Selections. The Siberian Singers presented a varied program of folk, gypsy, and school songs as follows:

1. First Psalm (dedicated to the memory of Donald Pfohl)—A. Gretchaninoff
2. Alleluia—Rachmaninoff
3. Monastery Bells—Traditional
4. Strolling Home—Folk Song
5. Burlaki (the hauler of the barge)—Traditional
6. Barynia—Folk Song
7. Beneath the Snow—Traditional
8. Laughing Polka—Folk Song
9. Gopak (A Cossack dance)—Traditional
10. The Old Refrain (Gypsy Waltz Tune)—Gypsy Song
11. Kalinka—Gypsy Song
12. Prelude in C Minor (composition by Rachmaninoff arranged especially for the Siberian Singers)—Rachmaninoff

The Singers are made up of ten exiles from the U.S.S.R. and are at present touring the United States.

(Continued on Page Six)

The author of the popular book to appear on Chambers platform Friday.

On Friday evening Mr. David L. Cohn, the noted author and lecturer, will present a lecture in Chambers auditorium under the auspices of the Faculty committee on public lectures. The subject of his lecture is "The Good Old Days."

Mr. Cohn is currently at work on a book about women in which he elaborates his views on what is wrong with and what is right about women. Mr. Cohn's first book was "God Shakes All Creation," which was published by Harper's. His second book was "Picking America's Pocket," a non-technical discussion of the tariff question as it affects the average American. His latest work is "The Good Old Days," which records America's past as revealed in the pages of the Sears and Roebuck catalog.

Mr. Cohn was born in Greenville, Miss., and was educated at the University of Virginia and at Yale. During the war, he served in the United States Navy, after which he became connected with an importing firm. His connection with this firm led him to France, England, Central Europe, Turkey, and various other places in Europe and Asia. Later on, he worked for a branch of Sears, Roebuck and Co. in Shreveport, Louisiana. Soon after he left his job in Shreveport, he wrote his first book, "God Shakes All Creation."

In regard to "The Good Old Days," Sinclair Lewis, who wrote the introduction, says it portrays the moral and cultural zigzag of America, not by sterile analyses of "the woman movement" or the elephantiasis afflicting pedagogical departments of our universities, but by recalling just what domestic and commercial life was like in the past.

NEW YORK, N.Y. — (ACP) — Presidents of the four city colleges — Brooklyn, Hunter, City, and Queens — have requested faculty members to criticize the regulations under which they teach and to suggest changes. The request is the first step in a revision of the board of higher education's "democracy" by-laws. The by-laws, put into operation in 1938, reorganized the administration of the colleges by taking powers from the presidents and lodging in the faculties the power and responsibility for governing the schools. The by-laws affect some 2,000 teachers and provide for departmental control of the curriculum, faculty collaboration with presidents in preparation of budgets, and committees within each academic department to control recommendations for new appointments and promotions.

AMES, Iowa. — (CP) — The lush days of 1929 are here again as far as 275 senior students in engineering at Iowa State College are concerned. T. R. Agg, dean of engineering, reports that representatives of more than 100 industrial companies will have visited the campus by June to recruit engineers.

The reaction of the student body seems to have been that Davidson College's faculty has a larger percent of professors with high university degrees than any other institution of this size. Dr. Lingle believes that this should give a definite boost to the prestige of Davidson College.

Shaw pointed out that more than 1,000 jobs have been asked for by members of the student body, thus explaining why some boys, even though they had asked that they might help out in "Y" work, did not get anything to do. Shaw, however, emphasized the fact that new jobs are turning up constantly, and "We always need students to work." Shaw went on further to say that "even though a student might not have some specific job to fill, (Continued on Page Six)