— CONVERSE STUDENTS ARRIVE SATURDAY

The Davidsonian

ALENDA. LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

PETER MARSHALL SPEAKS TONIGHT

Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE; DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1941 No. 7

Who's Who Honors Thirteen Davidson Men

Dr. Peter Marshall Concludes Fall Services Tomorrow Night

Noted Washington Minister Spoke Twice Yesterday, Once This Morning. SPEAKS AGAIN TONIGHT

Many Students Have Conferences With Speaker.

Dr. Peter Marshall, who arrived yesterday morning to conduct the Fall Services, will give his second evening talk in Chambers Auditorium at 7:15 tonight.

Washington Minister

Dr. Marshall is recognized as one of the most popular and sought-after religious speakers in the country. Since 1937 he has served as pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C. Before his installation there, he served at the Presbyterian Church at Covington, Georgia, and later at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Atlanta.

Born In Scotland

A native of Scotland, Dr. Marshall attended the University of Edinburgh for a time, leaving before graduation to work in a steel mill in that country. After several years he came to the United States, where he became employed in a New Jersey steel mill. Shortly afterward, he was transferred to Birmingham, Alabama. It was there that he first became interested in church work.

Closes Tomorrow

Tomorrow will be Dr. Marshall's last day at Davidson, and those students who wish to discuss any matter with him are urged to avail themselves of this opportunity for consultation. Since his arrival at the college yesterday morning, Dr. Marshall has visited the homes of several members of the faculty, as well as several of the fraternity and boarding houses.

Amateurs To Perform On Nov. 14

A special announcement to the DAVIDSONIAN has just come out that the Amateur Show, announced in last week’s issue, will take place on Friday, November 14, at 8 P.M. Jointly sponsored by the YMCA and the ODK, this show will give all of Davidson’s amateurs their first chance to demonstrate their abilities before the student body. Any students who are able to do something that would entertain the student body have been urged to see either Ralph Williams or Shaw Smith to get a place in the show.

Prizes

Three substantial prizes are to be awarded to the three top performers. Judges for the contest have not been picked yet, but members of the committee hope that they will be able to get people not connected with the college to hold these positions. There will be no admission charge for the show. Students in charge of the performance hope that many from the student body will attend and enjoy themselves.

ANNUAL PICTURES RETURN

Julien McCall, editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that proofs for the Annual are now in the parlor of Watts. He urges that all boys whose numbers are between one and three hundred select their pictures this week. Many boys of this group have made their selections already, but quite a few have failed to do so. The proofs for numbers over three hundred may be selected next week, beginning Tuesday.

“D” Club Has Many Guests

Forty Football Teams and Coaches To See Davidson-Duke Game.

About forty football teams and their coaches have been asked to be the guests of the athletic association and the Davidson student body at the Duke-Davidson game Saturday.

Registration

All the guests will be asked to register in Chambers upon arriving. After registering, honorary tickets will be given to the players and coaches of each high school. It is anticipated that the majority of those asked will be present. These boys will represent high schools in the neighboring sections of North and South Carolina. Ed Lucas, “D” Club president, says, “Here is an excellent opportunity for the freshmen to rise and shine as well as upperclassmen in being courteous to these guests. Davidson College is known for its friendliness on the campus and it will greatly promote this feeling among the high schools if the fraternities also extend a warm welcome to our guests.”

“D” Club Sponsors

Plans for this event were made at the last meeting of the “D” Club, Wednesday night, October 29. The “D” Club and its members wish to extend a very hearty greeting to these guests this weekend.

Mid-Winters Is Feb. 5, 6

Pat Rudolph, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has sent a special notice to the Davidsonian to the effect that the Mid-Winters dance set will be on February 5th and 6th, 1942. The Mid-Winters set is the largest of the year. The set will consist of four dances, two of them at night and two tea dances, as is customary with this and the Spring Frolics set. All four dances will be given in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium.

No announcement of the orchestra which will play has been made as yet, and is not to be expected until shortly before the Christmas recess. However, the Council expects to continue the policy established several years ago of bringing some “name” band to Charlotte to play for the Davidson students and their dates. In the last few years such bands as Bunny Berigan, Hal Kemp, Bob Chester, and Will Bradley have played for this event. This year will be no exception, it is said, and the Council is now investigating the possibilities of such bands as Vaughn Monroe, Claude Thornhill, Teddy Powell, and Les Brown.

Beaver Club Holds Second Converse Day

Many Converse Girls Will See Davidson-Duke Game Saturday.

Joe McCoy, President of the Beaver Club, announces that a large portion of the Converse student body is expected to arrive here Saturday afternoon to attend the Davidson-Duke football game. These girls will come after the acceptance of an invitation extended to them by the Beavers who have received the cooperation of the Athletic Association in promoting this event.

Arrive At 1:30

This group is expected to arrive at about 1:30, at which time they will be met by their dates on the campus and escorted to the football game. The girls will remain here and eat at the various fraternity boarding houses. They are to return to Converse shortly after supper. A list of the names of the girls who plan to be here for the occasion has been posted on the front porch of Georgia Dormitory. If a man wants a date, he must place his name beside that of the girl of his choice. A large number of the names have been taken, but the students are encouraged to cooperate in this plan and sign up for the remaining dates.

Sponsor Game

Converse College girls will supposedly reign supreme upon the Davidson campus Saturday, since the sponsors for the game will all be from this school. These undertakings are considered to have proved highly successful in the past; this is the second time that Converse has been invited to the campus within the last three years. The Beaver Club through the cooperation of the Athletic Association has secured free passes for these guests to the football game. Last year the Beaver Club invited students of Salem College to see the Hampden-Sydney game.

Phi Hall Is Tryout Site

Date For Debating Team Is Changed to Nov. 18.

Bill Summers, President of the Forensic Council, has announced a correction in the date of the varsity debate tryouts. This date has been changed to the 18th of November, having been formerly announced to be held on the 11th. They will be held at Phi Hall. The debate manuals and materials for the tryout speeches have been received, and may be found in the South end of the periodical room of the library.

Those who try out for the debating team will prepare a five-minute talk on the question, “RESOLVED: That the Federal Government Should Regulate by law all labor Unions in the United States—constitutionality conceded.” Those interested in debating are warned that this will be the only opportunity for men to demonstrate their ability at public speaking and debate this year. There will be eight men and four alternates to serve as the varsity team for the year.

Noted South Carolinian’s Lectures Are Full of Own Personality.

By MAC JEFFRIES

Assigned to get and write an interview,With Dr. Archibald Rutledge, eminent poet, philosopher, essayist, and poet-laureate of South Carolina, we sat for hours and wracked our brains for an answer to what things the public would like to know from the many vivid pages of this man’s life. Finally, in despair, we jotted down a few notes, took our pencil and paper, and wended our worried way to the lecture in Chambers to the Hampton House. And as Dr. Rutledge talked about his life and environment, the whole panorama opened amazingly before us. He told us of his historical 5,000-acre plantation Hampton, of the abundance of game, of the natural treasure to the House, and of encounters with alligators. He often had to leave to come to Davidson, of famous guests he receives among them Barbara Hutton, Booth Tarkington, and Ashley and Lady Duff Cooper. And he interspersed his talk with gems of humor and philosophy. It was just what we needed; all we wanted was a few minute details to fill in, and so it was that we found ourselves on the outer edge of the circle of admirers on the stage at the end of the lecture.

Buried Box

To be perfectly frank, we had no idea, even in the face of so pleasing a stage personality, what so famous a man would be like off-stage. We should have known. On the outside of the circle, various faculty members were vainly trying to reach Dr. Rutledge; on the inside, about forty boys were intently listening to him while he told them more about the buried box.

"I don’t know," he was saying, "but I believe it contains old silver. Naturally, I can’t wait to get back." He seemed one of the gang in his eagerness. In response to a request from one of the boys, he demonstrated at close range his willow turkey call.

(Continued on Page Six)

COLLEGE RAZES MARTIN BUILDING

Pictured above is the old Martin Chemical Laboratory which is now being razed so that the former structure is scarcely recognizable. This edifice was erected in 1899 at a cost of $10,000. It was named in honor of a former professor, Col. William J. Martin, father of Dr. W. J. Martin, Jr., President Emeritus of Davidson College.

Leads Fall Services

Dr. Rutledge

Student Publication Recognizes Leaders

Those Seniors Chosen Include Caldwell, Crichton, Darby, Hackney, Hodges, Lucas, McCall, Owens, Rudolph, Sprunt, Taylor, Watt, and Winn.

A special bulletin to the Davidsonian has come from University, Va, announcing that thirteen men from Davidson have been chosen to be listed in Who’s Who Among College and University Students in America. All those chosen are members of the senior class, and include Frank Caldwell, John Crichton, Harwell Darby, Claude Hackney, Dan Hodges, Ed Lucas, Julien McCall, Jim Owens, Pat Rudolph, Bill Sprunt, Arch Taylor, Charlie Watt, and Albert Winn.

Each year the Who's Who publication purports to choose the outstanding people on college and university campuses all over the country. Last year twelve men were chosen from Davidson.

Frank Caldwell is Judge of the Court of Control while John Crichton is business manager of the Davidsonian. Both are members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Harwell Darby, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is editor of the Davidsonian. Claude Hackney, president of the senior class, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Dan Hodges, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is editor of the Scripts and Pranks. Ed Lucas, president of the "D" Club, and Julien McCall, editor of the Quips and Cranks, are members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Pi Kappa Phi, respectively. Jim Owens is president of the Y.M.C.A., while Pat Rudolph is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Both are members of Phi Delta Theta. Bill Sprunt, of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, is president of the Elections Board. Arch Taylor is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Charlie Watt is Freshman Advisor, and Albert Winn is president of the student body. They are members of Phi Gamma Delta, Kappa Alpha, and Beta Theta Pi, respectively. George Marsh, a member of Kappa Sigma, was honored in "Who's Who" in his junior year.

Old Chemistry Building Has Been Replaced By Modern Structure

Martin Chemical Laboratory, now being razed, was erected in 1899 and named in honor of Col. William J. Martin, one of the early professors and the father of Dr. William J. Martin, former president of the college. Materials for the building included two types of brick, hard burnt brick slightly thicker than average for the outside, and the red-yellow salmon brick for the inside. These salmon bricks were made from clay found in this neighborhood.

Various Rooms

On the first floor were the following rooms: lecture room, stack room, quantitative laboratory, balance library, and office. The introductory qualitative chemistry laboratory and assay rooms were on the second floor. Apparently, there was no electricity in the building when it was constructed. This was provided later, however, in the form of open style wiring. The Peck and Hammond heating and ventilation system with which the building was originally provided proved unsatisfactory, and steam heating was installed about 1914. There was considered too little space in the old building to take care of the increase in classes, faculty, and general work. However, the office and library spaces were expanded.

Faculty Members

Faculty members who have served in this building are Dr. Buckle, Dr. A. F. Clifford, Dr. David H. Patton, Jr., Dr. W. L. Lellan, and Dr. Knight. Dr. Rainey was added to the faculty this year.

By HOWELL MORROW

This building was considered a fire trap. Also, the floors were sagging and eaten by acid. These are among the reasons for the destruction now taking place.

Organist Is Next Guest Of Phi Mu Alpha

Joseph Bonnet, world-famous organist from Paris, will be the guest of Phi Mu Alpha at their second of the annual series next Wednesday night at 8:15. In Europe, Bonnet has given hundreds of concerts throughout France, England, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Belgium, Denmark, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Austria, Germany, Italy, Spain, and Portugal. Bonnet's reputation rapidly spread beyond the boundaries of Europe and he was requested to come to America where he toured from New York to San Francisco, and from Mexico to Canada, meeting with amazing success. Among his best-known and most popular works are sketches which he wrote after a morning pilgrimage to the famous sanctuary of “Notre Dame de la Garde,” in Marseille.

Replacing this laboratory is a new $150,000 Science Hall, which has been in use for over a month.

(Continued on Page Six)