Thursday, October 9, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five.

Among THE GREEKS

Pi Kappa Phi
Except for a small percentage, the Pi Kapps backed the game last weekend, merry at a party after the game,
and then made dates for the party. Dates for the party were Misses Margaret Porter, Blanche Lampke, Mary Geer Hines,
Mary Eleanor Robeson, Sara Hutchens, Winifred Pons, Sybil Long, Lib Collins, Margaret Workman, Jane Kennedy, Mary Katherine McArthur, Beverly Parker,
Patricia Goodman, Mary Gaston, Josephine Legree, Grace Williams, Dorothy Robinson, Laura Mae Shaver, Virginia Foster, Alice Dewitt. Guests for the
festivities included Dr. and Mrs. Vowles, Mr. and Mrs. Ned Morris, Mrs. Niven, Mr. and Mrs. Bumbarger, Mr. and Mrs.
Walton, Mr. and Mrs. Lineberger. Other visitors for the weekend were brothers Paul Bumbarger, Frank Niven, Louis Hite, and Sam
Hemphill. Pledge Yantis went on the longest detail going to his home in Atlanta, Brother Plunkett got second honors with
his trip home to Aiken. Sig Pledge very impressed and came back sobered with Duke's victory over Tennessee. Of course,
there was the usual number of brothers seen in Charlotte, among them being brothers Hipp, Bumbarger, McCrea, and Evans, and
pledges Denny, Campbell, Wilkinson, and Walton, while brother Armstrong and pledge Lineberger went right on through the big city and
ended up in Gastonia. Brother Tad Larkin spent the weekend at his home in Washington, N.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
A number of visitors were present at a feed at the house after the Carolina game Saturday night. Especially welcomed
were the brothers of the Carolina chapter, N.C. Xi. Among the other guests were Mr. and Mrs. Claude Freeman, and
the families of brother Mac Bruce and pledge Johnny McAllister. Numbered among the dates of brothers and pledges were Misses
Jonnie Bennett, Anne Caldwell, Frances Hull, Jane and “T” McCormick, Jean Mason, Lib Hoppe, Ann Smith, Jane Morrison, Aileen Long,
and Geoffery Jordan. Most of these attended the feed. Others of the guests were Jack Hellinger with Miss Viola Ellison
and Bob Dalton from N.C. State with Miss Peggy Beattie. Escorting sponsors on the field were Buddy Carson with Miss
Anne Caldwell, sponsor for brother “Butch” Caldwell, and Charles Allcott with Miss Frances Hull, who was sponsor for B.F. Moore.
Pledges Hugh Hill, Ray Taylor, and Hank Gwyn attended the Duke-Tennessee game after which they spent the weekend in Greensboro.
Jack Lucas, of Greensboro, was elected President of the pledge class at a recent meeting.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
This weekend found the large majority of Sig-Eps on the campus. Only one brave soul ventured forth on a weekend
“hair”: Brother Morton, locked, stocked, and barrelled over at Queens, managed to invade the wilds of South Carolina and return,
not too much the worse for wear. After the calamitous Carolina contest, some of the good brothers attempted to party
in Charlotte; brothers Myers, Horner, Knox senior, and Henderson attended a tea-party at the Country Club. “Tutti” Brown, the hostess,
poured. In spite of the hordes of soldiers, a good time was had by all. The chapter was pleased to
welcome the return of 2nd Lieutenant Rummel, who is now playing soldier in the defense of his country. He and
Pledge Brother Isley also sojourned in the metropolis. Other guests were Fred Harbin, Mr. and Mrs. Sellars of High Point,
Mr. and Mrs. Jim MacDonald, Jim Knox, Rufus Plonk (now serving as special aide to General Drum in the present
maneuvers), and several other alumni. Daifin as usual, and Lochinvar escorted two very gracious young ladies to the football game.
Tom MacLaughlin was also seen in the company of a very gracious and charming young female. Several of the neophytes
have been practising football for the past two weeks and the team is in top-notch shape, and it looks as
if a bid to the Mish Bowl is certainly assured. All-American Water Boy MacLaughlin will be on hand at every
game to ensure the comfort of his charges, for a successful season is running very high.

Pi Kappa Alpha
With the football game with Carolina being the main interest, our operators held this weekend, with even Brother Teensey Hodges
pining away on the campus. Brother Maxwell and company battled with 10,000 soldiers in the Queen City after the game,
with Ton still proclaiming that an intellectual girl ought to be able to write a letter once in a while.
Dates for the game included Mary White, who accompanied her with Miss White, one of the sponsors for the game,
escorted by Brother Brinson. Other dates were Julia Mills with Sid Sample, Marilyn Edgar with Joe Martin, Shirley Edgar with
Ross Parks, and Susan Darden with Pledge Billy Turner. Also visiting pledge Turner were his parents, Mr. and Mrs. W.A.
Turner, Miss Ethel Turner, and Miss Peggy Turner. Other visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Paul Browning and Miss Elizabeth Browning.
Brother Parsons managed to make New and East, and Brother Brinson was in High Point Sunday. Pledge Pittman, after a
hard week at the carnival, journeyed to Union, S.C. Pledge Leonard White went to Greensboro, and Brother Hill stepped out
with a school teacher, while Brothers Scott and Elder witnessed the Duke-Tennessee fracas. A feed was held at the house
Sunday night to finish off a fine weekend.

Kappa Alpha
Most of the brothers spent the past weekend on the campus, the main attraction being the Carolina game Saturday night.
A number of alumni and friends were present for the feed at the house following the game. Several of the
brothers and pledges had dates. Brothers John Belk and Ben Washburn visited their homes in Charlotte and Wilmington respectively. Pledge
Brother Bill Abbot went to Charlotte Saturday afternoon, and Pledge Brother John Ford set out for Gastonia after the game.
Other trips of the weekend were those of Brother Cam Wilson to Caldwell, Brother Fred Little to Mt. Mouren, and
Brother George Mitchell to Troutman. At a meeting of the pledges last Monday evening, the following officers were elected for
the 1945 Pledge Class: President, Pledge Brother Nat King of Johnson City, Tenn.; Vice-President, Pledge Brother Hank Watt of Thomasville,
Ga.; Treasurer, Pledge Brother Irwin Belk of Charlotte.

Phi Delta Theta
Statesville and the Queen City were the chief destinations for the Phi's last weekend. Pledges Smith and McLean were able
to take in a little more than the others, however. Besides the cities mentioned above, they took in Greensboro and
W.C. Brothers Dew and Rudolph went down to Gaffney to visit one of S.C.’s most popular young ladies. The Southern
Railway had a relapse, and it was 5:30 Sunday morning when they got in. Among those attending the fair in
Statesville were Pledges Sutton, Hendee, and Elliott. After the game Saturday night, there was a feed at the house. Among
the prominent Phi Delts there was Brother Denny Hammond of Carolina. Brother Hammond was one of the outstanding members of
the freshman swimming team at UNC last year. Brothers Colson, Beaty, and Connor had dates at the house after the
game.

Phi Gamma Delta
The Davidson-Carolina gridiron clash served to suppress the Fiji wanderlust and helped to keep a part of the Phi Gam
brotherhood here on the campus. Certain of the brothers slipped away amid the hustle and bustle of a football weekend
and sought enjoyment in other parts. After witnessing the Wildcat struggle with the might of the Carolina eleven, the Fijis
gathered at the fraternity lodge and enjoyed a feed. Attending this feed were the dates, friends, and relatives of the
brothers. Sunday night found the Phi Gams back at their old pranks and another feed was given with faculty brothers
attending. The “fraters in facultate” present to take part in the festivities included: Dr. Q.V. P. Cumming, Dr. Watts, and
Major G. Wilson. The wives of these brothers came to enjoy the gala occasion. Three alumni brothers from Winston-Salem also
came for the feed. They were John Foster, Ned Heefner, and Jenkins. The entire chapter enjoyed a delicious feed and
thrilled to the singing of Phi Gam songs. Brothers Stowe, Pyler, Shore, and Bolin were present at Saturday's football game
and joined the chapter for the feed and sing after the game. Charles McMurray, Brother B.B. Gaither, Miss Frances O'Hair,
and Miss Phyllis Summers were also guests of the chapter during the weekend.

Beta Theta Pi
The weekend was topped off with a feed after the game Saturday night. Many of the alumni and Carolina brothers
were there to join in the fun which included “Three Little Rosebuds” as sung by Brother “Smoky” Joe McLesky. Dates
for the game included Edith Ebelin, who sponsored the game with “Duck” Rankin, Mary Elise Davis, Carolyn Parker, Betty Kirk,
and Marguerite.Mason, Shirley Owens, and Bobbie Jennings. Brother Paul Welch and Pledge Suckey went to a dance at Virginia Intermont.
Holt Barnwell and Bill Summerville were here for the game. Mr. and Mrs. Rowland and Mr. and Mrs. Neisler visited
here for the weekend.

Brothers Kappa Sigma

Most of the brothers remained loyal and supported the Cats this weekend. After the game, the house was filled with
guests from various points. Many of the brothers had dates for the game. Among the guests were: Vera McIntyre, Ann
Wiley, Ruth Hayes, Martha Brandon, Mary Jeter, Mot Sauvair, Peggy Harrison, Lib Lyles, Carolyn Eddy, Frances Brownlee, Brother Louis Hipp
and date, Mr. and Mrs. Peters, parents of the Peters twins, Jack Council from N.C. State, Phil Haigh from Fayetteville,
and several brothers from U.N.C. Brother Neal Scott visited the chapter for a short time Monday afternoon. Ben Lacy is
recuperating in Memorial Hospital in Charlotte from an injury received in the Carolina game Saturday night. He is expected to
return to Davidson tomorrow.

DAVIDSON'S Watch For News of The Year

SERVICE DRUG STORE - CHARLOTTE

SAPP’S CUT RATE DRUGS Opposite Mecklenburg Hotel “You won't be a sap if you trade at Sapp’s”

BUSINESS MANAGERS

Hall Services Aid Students

A goal of seventy-five per cent. One of the more recent projects of the “Y” is a drive for the
collection of tinfoil, to be given to national defense. The drive comes under Jerry Newbold’s department and is under the
immediate supervision of Quentin and John Sherrill. Boxes for the collection of the needed material will be placed at the
Student Store, the ‘Y,’ Chambers, downtown, at the theater, and at the stadium. The drive will start officially on Monday,
the thirteenth. Tinfoil has proved vital to the defense program, and its scarcity has rendered some sort of conservation on
a national scale necessary.

N.Y.A. PAYROLL

It was announced today by Professor Fleagle that the end of the first period for N.Y.A. would be the tenth
of this month. Approximately fifty-six boys will draw on this payroll. Professor Fleagle has requested that all recipients of N.Y.A.
funds have their time cards signed before noon of the eleventh.

Booker is manager of “Quips and Cranks,” John MacKinnon of Maxton, N.C. (left); Hutch Booker of Louisville, Ky. (center); and
John Crichton of Minden, La. (right), will head the Business Staffs of the Student publication for the Session ‘41-42. MacKinnon
is Business Manager of “Scripts 'n Pranks,” the campus magazine, which is issued four times yearly. The first publication is
expected about Oct. 20. Crichton, Business Manager of the college annual and the Davidsonian.

Spanish Club Has New Head

The full Sunday School program will be completed next Sunday when Davidson Students will begin classes at all local churches.

ANDERSON’S FOOD STORE We carry a complete line of everything in the way of food. Phone 4641 N. DAVIDSON, N.C.

(Continued on Page Six)

Thursday-Friday, Oct. 9-10 “Dive Bomber” FRED MacMURRAY—ERROL FLYNN

Saturday, October 11 “Flying Cadets” EDMUND LOWE—WILLIAM GARGAN

Monday-Tuesday, Oct. 13-14 “It Started With Adam”

Thursday, Oct. 16 “Wild Geese Calling”

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N.C.

Band Shows “V” In Game For Victory

Fireworks Display Enlivens Pageantry At Half

Featuring flaming letters and bursting rockets in the sudden darkness of a blacked-out field, the Davidson College Band added its
bit to the pageantry of Saturday night’s game with Carolina.

Kings Mountain Band

The Kings Mountain High School Band, National and State Marching Champions for “B” high schools in North Carolina, and the
Davidson College Band combined at the game to form intricate maneuvers under the direction of Mr. Paul Cracks, and to
bolster the Carolina “V” for Victory. Marching on the field from goal to goal, the Davidson band formed the dot-dot-dot-dash
of the victory V, while the Kings Mountain band played the opening bars to the Symphony and the band played
“Anchors Aweigh.” In the formation, the band, having sparkling letters at the north end of the field, went into a
white U.N.C. and fireworks. Then, to the tune of “The Stars and Stripes Forever,” they formed a Liberty Bell in
flames. The band still in “D” and “Oh Davidson,” finally a crimson “D” flared opposite the Davidson stands. The fireworks
were made possible by the faculty of Cannon High School in Kannapolis.

No “Chattanooga Choo” For Band

The band will not go to Chattanooga for the Davidson-Sewanee game, but they will accompany the team to Lexington, Va.,
for the Washington and Lee game on Nov. 15. On this trip, they will give a concert in Burlington, N.C.,
on Thursday, Nov. 13, and another in Charlottesville, Va., on the 14th. The football band this year is under the
presidency of Jack Phillips, with David Hutcheson as manager, Grace Koon as secretary.

A conclusion as plans for the year were outlined in a meeting. Attendance has been set for the weekly hall-prayer
groups, and Jim McCrary and Jesse Wooten, jointly in charge of this department, are hopeful that it will soon be
reached and maintained. Sixty-six per cent of the student body was present at the first group of meetings, and attendance
last week showed an increase of one per cent. Sixty-seven per cent of the student body was present. These figures,
says Jim McCrary, are scarcely an accurate gauge of the general interest among the students; for example, men on the
fourth floor of West Hall have been meeting regularly every night, and several other halls have been holding services twice
weekly. Most of the groups have entered whole-heartedly into the discussions, and a wealth of ideas have been exchanged and
considered. The different group leaders have kept in close contact with each other, so that each is aware of the
general trend of student opinion on religious topics, particularly those bearing directly on campus life. Each Thursday morning, a list
is posted at the “Y,” showing the attendance and topics discussed on each hall, so that anyone may see just
how his hall compares with the others.

Jim McCrary requests that anyone who has any idea as to how these services might be improved or broadened may
feel free to criticize constructively at any time. Only when every member of the student body takes an active interest
in these meetings, supports them, and tries to find them of real value to himself is their real purpose realized.

For swell answers, No Cramming Necessary! Real chewing fun—the flavor and delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum.
