Thursday, April 17, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Cunningham Decorates Rifle Team
Fifteen Team Members Receive Expert Marksmanship Medals.

The fifteen men of the Davidson rifle team were awarded medals last Monday by Dr. Cunningham, assisted by Colonel Mackenzie. It was Dr. Cunningham's first official contact with the R.O.T.C. Department of Davidson, and he was honored on the occasion by a parade. Pendant from a blue ribbon, the gold medals presented contained a bullseye and crossed rifles in relief. They were awarded on the basis of expert marksmanship and participation in shoulder-to-shoulder matches, to the following men: W. J. Bolins, Captain and high scorer; J. W. Kerr, Firing manager; W. H. Zarber, J. N. Behrman, W. A. Eagan, F. M. Gilman, A. A. Gowdy, E. C. Head, R. H. Hollifield, R. P. Hutcheson, S. Jones, C. A. McArthur, S. G. Stubbins, P. B. Welch, and D. M. Yocum.

At the completion of the decoration ceremony, members of the rifle team were formed to the left of the staff to review the Battalion with Dr. Cunningham. Under the leadership of Lieutenant Marsh and assisted by Sergeant Burton, the rifle team had a fairly successful year, winning eight correspondence matches and one shoulder-to-shoulder match. Next year there will again be opportunities for those who are interested in making the team. In addition to rifle team medals, several of the team members have recently been decorated by Colonel Mackenzie as expert marksmen.

Eus And Phis Outline Rules For Contests
Entries for the annual literary society contest sponsored by Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies have to be turned in to either Drury Thompson, president of the Eu Society, or to Eldridge Brown, president of Phi Society on or before May 1. Selections will be classified in three fields: poetry, essay, and short story. There will be three prizes, one for each of the three fields, which will consist of a loving cup and five dollars in each division. Judges for the contest will be Professor Davidson and members of the English Department. Prizes will be presented at Commencement, as has been the custom in years past. This contest has been sponsored for the last three years by the literary societies. Entries chosen are being collected in the library where they are on exhibit. Winning works in poetry, essay, and short story divisions will be published after many years of collection.

Tea Given For New Residents
Mrs. J. R. Cunningham and her daughter Harriet were guests of honor at a tea given Tuesday, April 8, at the Beta Theta Pi fraternity house by Mrs. Robert Lee Allen and Miss Lucy Alexander. Receiving at the door were Mrs. W. G. McGavock and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere. Mrs. O. J. Theis and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle introduced the guests to the receiving line, which was composed of Mrs. Allen, Mrs. Cunningham, Miss Cunningham, Mrs. W. J. Martin, Mrs. W. L. Lingle, Mrs. B. R. Hunter of Charlotte, Mrs. Carl Pritchett, and Miss Alexander. The guests were served delicious ice cream, cake, and nuts, and asked to sign the register. One hundred and sixty-eight guests attended. A number of entertainments have been given for the president, his wife, and his family. The Quadwranglers’ club, composed of members of the faculty, honored them with a reception in Chambers building, Saturday night, April 5. Several other receptions have been planned for the President's family.

R. O. T. C. RIFLE TEAM HONORED.—Dr. J. R. Cunningham, newly elected president of Davidson College, honored the R. O. T. C. Rifle team by presenting them with marksmanship medals. The team has recently completed a successful season, winning eight correspondence matches and one shoulder-to-shoulder match.—(Observer Photo by Earl Der)

Among THE GREEKS
PI KAPPA PHI.
Charlotte claimed quite a few Pi Kapps over the weekend, including Brothers Williamson, Herring, Woodward, B. McArthur, T. Flynn, and D. Williamson. High Point and Greensboro also took in Brothers Bumgarner. Brother Joe Eve went to Augusta, Ga., and W. C. Plunkett traveled to Aiken, S.C. Brothers Patton, Gaither, Evans, Armstrong, Erb, and Robinson spent Easter in their respective homes in Hickory. Karl Fisher went to his home in Kannapolis while Mobley and Miller sojourned to Florence, S. C. The chapter was glad to welcome back Brother Sam Hemphill as a guest this weekend.

KAPPA SIGMAS.
Last weekend found many of the Sigmas at home. Among these were brothers Wildman Ehly, Bill Grimsly, Ed Hipp, Wilbur Carter, Mac Brewer at Greensboro, Dick Phillips at Laurinburg, Jimmy Davis at Salisbury, Pinky Wilson and Bill Loftin at Gastonia, Dick Smith at Elkin, George Marsh at High Point, and Pat Williams at North Wilkesboro. Brother Dick “Hooper” managed to make his pilgrimage to Women’s College while Ashby remained on the campus to enjoy the Easter weekend, but a few found time to journey to different localities. Brothers Henderson, Wine, and Williamson made a quick trip to Wallace. As usual, Brothers Shelton, Sample, McElwee, Scott, Brinson, and Neill spent part of the weekend traveling. Brother Williams ran all the way to New Bern to redeem himself in the eyes of his high school queen, “Teensie” Hodges—further pulled the wool over her eyes by stopping over at W. C. and in Statesville on his way back to Davidson. Rosser Clark, Horace Spencer, and Levi Sink remained on the campus.

CLUB ELECTED PRESIDENT FOR NEXT YEAR
Spencer, Hipp Elected Other Club Officers

Unity Church
The Rev. Carl R. Pritchett, Pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, opened the annual Spring Services at the Unity Church Sunday last evening. John Talmage, song service leader, opened the series of services with several old favorite hymns. Prayer meetings were held each night during the week under the direction of student Sunday teachers. These worship services were under the direction of Charlie Parrish, George Olgevie, John MacCrae, and Bill Boyle, assistant-pastor. Jack Davidson, regular pastor, is assisting during the services. Members of the student body are cordially invited to attend the services held at 7:15 each evening, Sunday through Friday.

Twenty-Seven Lettermen Initiated Into Athletic Club.
Ed Lucas, Dave Spencer, and Ed Hipp were elected new president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer respectively at the last meeting Monday night, April 14. Twenty-seven new members were also initiated. Lucas is from Greensboro and has been a varsity member of the S. A. E. social fraternity, president of the junior class, president of the Beaver Club, a member of the Student Council, and a letterman in basketball. Spencer, a Pi Kappa Phi, came to Davidson from Barium Springs. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, the Beaver Club, and a letterman in football, varsity basketball, and track. Hipp, a Kappa Sig from High Point, is captain of next year’s wrestling squad and has given many years of service to athletics.

Dr. Cunningham said the Vespers speakers for the remainder of April and the first Sunday in May are as follows: On April 20th, Reverend Charles L. King will deliver the message. Reverend King is pastor of the Unity Church. He spoke to the Sunday School on April 13 and told the story of the Resurrection. He pointed out that the word, “Resurrection,” means “to rise again.” He also gave an excellent Easter supper at the Boardinghouse.were to be seen at the Sequoia Club dance in Charlotte, Friday night. Brothers Bob and Bob Ames were reported to have been “broke but happy,” having sent flowers to their girls. Guests of the Kappa Sigs were Jimmy Ellis of High Point and Brother “Black-Dog” Hunter of Greensboro.

BETA THETA PI. The Easter weekend was celebrated by most of the fellows. The regular crew to Charlotte consisted of Brothers Summerville, Efird, McAfee, Welsh, Church, D. D. Phillips, Bryant, and Upchurch. Another group of Betas was also in evidence at the Sequoia Club Dance Friday night. Brother Mebane and McAfee took in the Spinsters dance at Gastonia Monday night. Brother Holt was at Barnwell, Brother Whizzig White went to Graham, and Brother Sharpe was with the golf team. Guests during the weekend included Brother Captain Morrison and his daughter Lucy, Miss Cunningham, and Brother Sherman.

PHI DELTA THETA. Nearly all of the brothers reported a quiet weekend in Bennettsville. The arrival of Spring and what it brings serves to make Joe College restless, and not the least among these were the K. A.’s last weekend. Wild-hairs ranged from Washington to South Carolina. Brothers Lauck and Little and Pledge Brother Burke took the trip. Although the coming of spring has made our campus more lively, the weekly exodus is just as noticeable as ever. Brothers Speas and Mitchell attended the Easter doings up at Winston-Salem, where they played in the Symphony Orchestra there, while Brother Ben Washburn went along socially. Brother Cam Wilson jogged up to W. G. at Greensboro, accompanied as far as Caldwell by Brother Amos Ragan, Dick Shore, and “Ginsburg” Thomas. Brother Jimmie Houston went home to York, S.C., while Brother Myron Sandifer accompanied his roommate to the latter's home in Elkin. Brother W. Wooten chose Statesville for his weekend jaunt this time, while Brother Long went home to Roxboro for a brief visit. Brothers Royster, who later attended a dance at the First Presbyterian Church, and “Lard” also went home to Oxford.

The Easter Festival in Winston-Salem last weekend saw the orchestra playing the accompaniment for a sterling triad consisting of Brother “Ox” Alcott, Ben Pitt Moore, and “Budweiser” Wilson. Brother Johnson stayed at Winston with Brother Tate. Brothers Lee and Anderson were also in that city. Brothers haunted the Friendly City over the weekend as well, including Brothers McGeachy, Millikan, Coddington, and Graves. Brother Grosse was in Marilyn, N.C., while Brother Page was in Lawrenceville, Va. Brother Harris was found at his Roxboro, N.C. home. Pledge Brother “Brimberry” Abbott went to Charlotte and then made a daring trip up to Salisbury. Brother Otts’ trip to Lynchburg was not lacking this weekend either. Brothers Taylor, Darby, Shore, and Parrish made Winston-Salem their destination. Pledge Brother “Zorro” Bachman attended various functions in the Queen City, not the least of which was the Beta Club of North Carolina dance at the Hotel Charlotte Friday and Saturday nights.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON. Jack Abels refused to return with the golf team Saturday as he had other plans.