CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

The gridiron season is closed for Davidson as well as for almost all the rest of the football world. A
few scattered scheduled frays remain, including Wake Forest’s with Texas Tech in Charlotte Saturday along with the flock of bowl
and post-season affairs, but in substance, the football season, fall, has gone. It was for the Wildcats a particularly disappointing
year, even more so now than when the year opened. For instance, our top team playing good ball might easily
have licked Carolina, even though we didn’t expect it in September. Optimists had predicted that we might win seven of
our games. Looking back, we can see that Furman and Carolina and State were all overrated and that with our
best ball showing, we could have won these three even if the pre-season dopesters had us down to lose. The
tough year can be put, as everyone on the campus knows, on the shoulders of Davidson’s worst injury streak in
years, to quote Coach Spearman, the worst in the last five years combined. It’s just too bad, but the Citadel
game goes a long way toward leaving a good taste in everyone’s mouth. The only bad thought connected with it
is the 15 seniors, 8 of them first-string performers, who’ll be watching Davidson play from now on. Dave Spencer, Claude
Hackney, Johnny Miller, Gene Shannon, Bob Smith, Bill Fair, Bill Shaw, Ed Hipp, Don Bell, Dave Henderson, Frank Caldwell, Ed
Hay, Sam Woodward—they’ll all be missing and they’ll be missed. Most of these were part of one of the most
athletically inclined classes which has been in the last several years. They’re a talented bunch and deserve recognition for their
four years of service.

Another Bouquet - While we’re passing out bouquets, the freshmen should come in for a nice one. The football boys
in particular. They went undefeated, and that’s all you could ask of a football team. They allowed only 12 points
to be scored against them, and that’s something else. But whether the squad is much better than the frosh outfits
of past years, or how they would come out in Big Five competition is only a matter of conjecture. It
appears that they are just about on an even caliber with the other yearling elevens which Davidson has produced except
for the fact that they were two or three instead of one deep. How much this would have helped them
against hard opposition is impossible to estimate. However inaccurate comparative scores are, they can at least be quoted as interesting.
Against Mars Hill, whom our frosh beat 19-0, Carolina frosh, previously beaten by both Wake Forest and State, scored 52
points. The Tar Babies rolled up 512 yards from rushing alone, not to mention 140 odd from passing. But then
they turned around and beat Duke. You can never tell what’s going to happen; next year about this time, we'll
really be able to see just what kind of a freshman ball club we had this year.

Cats Vs. Wake Forest - In reply to an article recently published in The Student, Wake Forest magazine entitled Davidson
vs. Wake Forest, the Wildcat athletic official had this comment to make. The reasons which Davidson had for severing football
relationships with the Deacons still stand. The move was a part of Davidson’s de-emphasis program, just as the break with
Furman of gridiron activities for next season was. No hard feeling was intended. The Davidson athletic officials were content to
continue relations with the Deacons in basketball and baseball and all the other sports in which the tendencies of the
opponents toward emphasis would not be degradatory to both the Davidson athlete’s spirit and physical condition. In football, this condition
is more pronounced, and therefore Davidson wished to substitute someone more in her own class as far as football was
concerned; the rest of the break (that in the schedules of basketball and baseball) came from the Wake Forest athletic
department. All that can be said further on the matter is that the Davidson schedules have been completed up until
a year from this time.

DAVIDSON’S ALL-OPPONENT’S TEAM CHOSEN BY MEMBERS OF THE VARSITY FOOTBALL SQUAD

Position - First Team Votes - Second Team Votes
End - Gantt, Duke (16) - Johnson, V. P. I. (5)
Tackle - Karmazin, Duke (16) - Cornwall, Furman (5)
Guard - Scott, Rollins (14) - Wolf, Citadel (8)
Center - Barnett, Duke (16) - Suntheimer, Carolina (5)
Guard - Muha, V. M. I. (19) - Faircloth, Carolina (4)
Tackle - Seel, Furman (4) - McDonough, Duke (3)
End - Maskas, V. P. I. (1) - Chisolm, Rollins (5)
Back - Farry, Furman (1) - James, V. P. I. (6)
Back - Prothro, Duke (6) - Pritchard, V. M. I. (3)
Back - Socha, W. & L. (3) - Thompson, Citadel (4)
Back - Huckabee, State (1) - Sieck, Carolina (1)

Honorable mention: Ends: Storer, Duke (2). Center: None. Backs: Dempsey, Duke; Lach, Duke; Proctor, Furman; Victor, Citadel.

BASKETBALL NOW

About thirty-five boys reported for freshmen basketball practice on the seventeenth. Monday this number was cut to about twenty-five. The
squad will see still further cutting, but there is a lot of good material. The freshmen will have a busy
season playing ten games before the Christmas holidays. The first game comes on December 2 and is with Albemarle. In
the most favorable looking material are Short, Shaw, the Peters twins, Lowry, Hudson, Laughridge, Key, and Hay. These boys will
all probably see plenty of action before the season is over.

Davey, Butch To Miss Bowl - Possible chances for Davey Spencer and Butch Caldwell to play in the Carolina’s All-stars
Bowl game held in Greenville’s Sirrine Stadium on December 6 were spiked by a faculty ruling against participation in the
affair. Dave Vosburgh, all-American manager, will also be affected by the ruling. Interference with class work was given as a
reason for the faculty action.

Kittens Begin Schedule - Opens With Practice Games Next Week; Play Carolina, December 14.Hopeful cagers are pounding the hardwood nightly
and pointing for a successful season, buckling down and conditioning for their stiff, 22-game schedule. Captain Tommy Yarbrough, Don Russell,
John Belk, McLeod, Frederick, Marsh, Dave Spencer, and Ed Lucas form the nucleus of the veterans, while George McWilliams, Pat
Williams, Mac Bruce, and Bob Currie are brilliant products of last year’s flashy frosh five.

The Schedule
The complete list of games is as follows:
December 4—Hanes Hosiery at Winston-Salem.
December 6—Kannapolis “Y” at Kannapolis.
December 9—Kannapolis “Y” at Charlotte.
January 3—McCrary at Asheboro.
January 7—Duke at Winston-Salem.
January 10—N. C. State at Charlotte.
January 13—South Carolina at Columbia.
January 27—N. C. State at Raleigh.
January 28—Guilford at Greensboro.
February 3—North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
February 4—Duke at Durham.
February 7—Furman at Greenville.
February 9—Wofford at Spartanburg.
February 10—Guilford at Davidson.
February 13—College of Charleston at Charleston.
February 14—The Citadel at Charleston.
February 17—The Citadel at Davidson.
February 19—Furman at Davidson.
February 21—Wofford at Davidson.
February 24—College of Charleston at Davidson.
February 26—South Carolina at Davidson.

You'll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola just as often and as surely as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of
genuine goodness. Ice-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment,
buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Duke Matmen To Meet ’Cats
Davidson's varsity wrestling team will open its 1941-42 season against the Duke Blue Devils on December 16. The Davidson grapplers,
after the Duke engagement, meet six more Southern Conference teams during their campaign. Led by Captain Ed Hipp, the varsity
has been holding regular workouts in preparation for their opener. Coach Buzz Council, who is in charge of the squad,
is expecting a fair team and most of the squad has already been picked.

Frosh Meet State
The North Carolina Freshmen squad will meet State on January 13. The State varsity will meet the Cats on the
same date in a twin bill. The Freshman squad is also very promising, Coach Council announced, despite the fact that
there is a shortage in heavyweight material. There are at present eighteen members of the Kitten team and all newcomers
are urged to come out. Intra-squad meets between the varsity and freshman teams will begin sometime in the near future,
Coach Council also announced.

The Schedule
The varsity schedule is as follows:
Dec. 16—Duke
Jan. 13—N.C. State
Jan. 26—V. P. I.
Jan. 31—Maryland
Feb. 14—Washington and Lee
Feb. 21—North Carolina
Jan. 28—V. M. I.

Go refreshed. You trust its quality.

Davidson’s fightin’ Wildcats closed the season and celebrated Turkey Day by downing the favored Citadel eleven 24-14 for their first
win of the year.

Spencer Stars
Little Davey Spencer ended his college career in a final blaze of glory, pitching all three of the touchdown passes
and completing more than one-half of the number thrown. His running and kicking were also outstanding as he easily outshone
the two highly vaunted stars of the Citadel, Victor and Salvato.

Cats Score
The Cats scored early in the first period starting a sustained drive from their own 35, featured mainly by Little
Dave’s passing and running. Hair caught the touchdown pass to draw first blood and Fredricks converted to put the Cats
in the lead 7-0. The Cadets countered in the same manner by taking the ball on the kickoff from the
Cat's Newell, and marching across the double stripe with Salvato and Victor sharing honors on the drive. Davidson came back
with another threat to the goal from where Fredricks kicked a field goal at a tricky angle to put the
Cats again in the lead 10-7.

Cats March
In the second period, the Wildcats took advantage of a short kick and took the ball on Citadel's 40. Mixing
passes and line plays, the Cats drove to the ten from where Spencer threw a beautiful spot pass to Claude
Hackney. The Cadets took command in the third and scored on another sustained drive. Victor was the star of this
march, reeling off a 55-yard run and then plunging across for the marker. Davidson was still in the lead at
the end of the third quarter 17-14.

Hackney Scores Again
In the last period, the Cats refused to play it safe and sewed up the game with another touchdown and
a conversion by Fredricks. On this final drive, the Wildcats passed on nearly every play, having the Cadets completely baffled
by their aerial maneuvers. Hackney was again the scorer, catching Spencer’s pass on the five and crossing standing up.

Salvato Injured
Salvato, the Cadets’ star tailback, was injured in the last of the first quarter and their offense had to be
completely reorganized. Victor was shifted from plunging back to the tailback spot and a second-stringer took over his old position.
Red Bethea’s punting was up to its fine standard and he combined with Miller for an average of 41 yards
from scrimmage. Davidson racked up 13 first downs to 11 for the Cadets. The total yardage gained was about the
same with Citadel the best on the ground and Davidson superior in the air.

15 Close Careers
Fifteen seniors ended their college careers in this game, leaving at least eight starting positions to be filled in from
next year’s squad.

How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth clean. The
Flavor Lasts.
