Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 2, 1941

Pres. Wilson’s Visit Memorable For D.C.

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE 1941

First And Third Weeks

Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday
7:00 | Sigma | Scabbard | Dr. Martin Gives Eye-Witness
8:00 | Sigma | Pi | Blade | Story of War-Time President’s Return
8:00 | Seaver | Social | Sigma | Black Fraternities To Respond To Request
9:00 | Eumenean | Hall | Sigma | Eumenean
9:00 | Delta | Pi | Gamma | Y.M.C.A.
10:00 | Alpha | Mu | Cabinet

Second And Fourth Weeks

Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday
7:00 | Phi | Philanthropic | Alpha | Epsilon
8:00 | Alpha | Societies | Delta | Societies
8:00 | Le | Eta | Social | Sigma
9:00 | Cercle | Francais | Phi | Gamma
9:00 | Delta | Pi | Gamma | Y.M.C.A.
10:00 | Alpha | Mu | Cabinet

Deputation To Peace College

By MAC JEFFRIES

Before entering Davidson, many were the tales we had heard concerning the college’s No. One alumnus—President Woodrow Wilson. We had
heard, for instance, the tale of his return to the college. From one source, he is supposed to have gone
to his old room, knocked on the door, and—in response to an inquiry from within, to have identified himself as
none other than the President of the U.S. The story usually goes on to say that the room's occupant had
replied that he was no other than the Queen of Sheba. It so happened that while visiting one Sunday evening
in the home of Dr. W. J. Martin, who was President of the college at the time of Wilson's visit,
that we heard the true version of the story from an eye-witness.

It seems that Wilson had been invited to Charlotte to speak on a Mecklenburg anniversary, May 20, 1916. Tiring of
the heavy crowds, President Wilson, after speaking before a luncheon of the Charlotte Manufacturer's Club, expressed to Dr. Martin a
desire to visit his old Alma Mater. So, slipping away, he and Mrs. Wilson, accompanied by the Presidential physician, and
two cars of Secret Service men, drove the 20 miles from Charlotte with Dr. and Mrs. Martin following.

Arriving at Davidson, Dr. Martin says he hastened to greet the President on the front steps of old Chambers, and
led him into the building to where the corridors crossed in the center. Over 100 students were present.

Deputation members returned to Davidson Sunday evening with Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who has been leading some services at the
First Presbyterian Church in Raleigh. Arch Taylor, Cabinet member in charge of deputations for the local Y.M.C.A., presided over the
meeting. Hank Crane spoke on “Christian Service,” and a talk on “Christian Joy” was delivered by Jim McCrary. Following the
service, all went to church on the campus.

Dr. Alexander Prepares Talks Sunday

Dr. W. A. Alexander, pastor of the South Highlands Presbyterian Church in Birmingham, Alabama, has been chosen as the Vespers
speaker for Sunday night, Oct. 5th. Dr. Alexander did his undergraduate work at Southwestern in Memphis, Tenn., and studied at
the Louisville Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, and was ordained into the Southern Presbyterian Church.

A native of Mississippi, Dr. Alexander has held pastorates in Mobile, Alabama, Dallas, Texas, and in Birmingham. In Birmingham, Dr.
Alexander is reported a very popular young minister, and his church is one of the largest there. He is said
to be particularly appealing to college students.

Sunday evening’s sermon will mark the first time that Dr. Alexander has spoken at Davidson since his ordination.

Distinguished Negro Scientist, Dr. Carver, Has Directed Agricultural Research At Tuskegee Institute For More Than 39 Years

Dr. George Washington Carver, distinguished Negro scientist, has directed agricultural research at Tuskegee Institute for more than 39 years. He
is one of the most useful men in the country today. Dr. Carver has developed 285 useful products from the
sweet potato, including starch, flour, vinegar, molasses, ink, a rubber substitute, and synthetic marble. He has also developed 118 products
from the peanut, including shampoo, dyes, coffee, lard, and axle grease. Recipes originated by Dr. Carver are being used in
many homes. He is an accomplished artist, musician, and concert pianist.Room COMPRISE THE STAFF OF 3, 500,000 Pees: SOME s
Lane a ae ase See ie any of the present students have the turmoil of change lose cen- the democracies
and through the 3 as Fi SONS conceived. ie philosophy, Nh een here. turies of education, but the gains democracies
by education. "May I see my old room?” Mr. Wilson asked. Not certain of the exact location, Dr. Martin asked
the President if he could point out the room. Turning to the left, Wilson led the way down the hall
to where a large American flag was draped over a door. Turning to Dr. Martin, he said with a smile,
“The boys know where I lived.”

THE MINNESOTA DAILY

WANE RECEIVED COLLEGE DEGREES! pointed out, then followed as an effort to explain the movement. The speaker gave a number
of examples to support his principal point. He brought to mind Adam Smith's work, usually thought of as preceding the
industrial revolution, but which he listed as a result rather than a cause. He mentioned the prose work of Milton,
Mill, and Dewey in the same light.

Dr. Durant applied the same idea to the present situation in Europe. Totalitarian government grew out of the situation created
by the world, he explained, and its philosophy was invented later. The lecturer traveled on to Charlotte Friday where he
addressed a group of students when visitor Durant made his scheduled appearance.

Besides his reputation as a lecturer and philosopher, Dr. Durant is widely known in the field of literature. His book
"The Story of Philosophy" has sold 2,000,000 copies and has been published in twelve languages.

School Experiences

"My dear,” he said to his wife, “On Saturday night we boys went to the campus well, drew our water,
placed our tub on the floor over there, and took our bath. We had our pile of wood at the
back door of Chambers, and if we couldn't afford a helper, we had to cut and haul our own firewood.
I did that myself.”

"Don't you feel sorry for him, Mrs. Wilson?” Dr. Martin asked the First Lady.

“No, I don’t, Dr. Martin,” she answered, “I think it did him good.”

As a last point of interest, Wilson asked to be taken to the hall of the old Eumenean Literary Society,
whose present Constitution he is supposed to have written. After being shown through the old building, still standing, he came
out on the top balcony and in response to shouts of “Speech” from boys below, said, “I was just confessing
to Dr. Martin that here is one place I cannot make a speech, for here it was I first learned
to speak in public.”

He waved, sat down, and, closely guarded by Secret Service Men, entered his car and drove back to Charlotte. So
ended one of the most memorable days of Davidson history. Wilson went on to glory in the days that followed,
but never did he forget his alma mater.

Davidson football team and coaches ... Unity Church Sunday School teachers ... reports from Reverend Boyle tell of their good
work ... Jim Owens ... presentation of the 35c SPECIAL PLATE “Quality and Service at Reasonable Prices”

Everywhere you go They Say

Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
