Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 6, 1941

Editor Of “Newsweek” Speaks At Convocation

Dr. Charles G. Vardell, class of 1888, observed his fiftieth anniversary as a Presbyterian minister by conducting the services at
the Annual Homecoming Retreat. Dr. Vardell celebrated his Golden Wedding Anniversary this year. As a student of Davidson, he dreamed
of founding a college, and when he graduated in 1888, he strove to realize this ambition. Under his guidance, Flora
MacDonald College was founded.

Dr. Cunningham, Brown, Gwynn, And Hood Attend Conference

Y. M. C. A. Cabinet members attended the North Carolina College Conference in Greensboro on Wednesday and Thursday of this
week. Dr. Cunningham and Dr. Brown represented the college, while Dr. Gwynn and Dr. Hood attended as members of important
committees. Dr. Gwynn is a member of the committee on collaboration with the State Department of Public Instruction, and Dr.
Hood is a member of the committee on College Admissions.

Noted Journalist Speaks

The conference, which was held in the O’Henry Hotel, was addressed by the noted journalist and Washington correspondent, Ernest Lindley.
Mr. Lindley, associate editor of “Newsweek,” talked on “The Present Trend in American Foreign Policy.” Many noted educators attended the
conference, which began on Wednesday, November 5, and ended the afternoon of the following day. Mr. Lindley’s address was the
climax to the numerous events held.

Gwynn Speaks

Dr. Gwynn also spoke at the Decatur Church at the invitation of the Education Committee of the Synod of North
Carolina. He included the Bryant D. I. Church in his speech.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK

David Rhea, Senior: I think the Mid-Winters should be made even more obviously the outstanding set of the year by
procuring a better band than could be afforded for the other dances. Probably our best band of last year was
not available at a reasonable price at the Mid-Winters date; at any rate, many thought Spivak was the gem of
our last year’s bands.

SCHOOL FEELS

In spite of the attempts to halt inflation, students are constantly reminded of the defense boom in the higher prices
of board this year, more expensive clothes, taxes on dance tickets and fraternity jewelry, fuel rationing (which doesn’t seem to
have curtailed the big deals very much), difficulty in obtaining materials for the new buildings, or what have you.

Yes, there is a definite consciousness of the national situation in the minds of Davidson men, but there is no
militant air. There is rather an attitude of disgust at the whole affair.The whole international mess, mixed with one of
grim determination to do a certain job if it ever has to be done. Greensboro, and Brother Davis to visit
Winthrop. Judge Frank Caldwell of the Norton court of control laid down explicit rules concerning the freshmen in an announcement
in chapel Tuesday. The class of 1945 went on one week's strict campus Wednesday—strict campus means that they remain within
the bounds of Concord Road and the Statesville Highway, and the other campus boundaries except fifteen minutes after each meal.
Violations in this campus should be reported to members of the court, Caldwell stated, and if enough are reported an
extension of time will go into effect.

Brothers B. Brown and W. Vick appeared, and were very late Sunday. They rode on the Delta hayride Saturday night
where but little was accomplished. Seen at the party were Brother Kummel, who is a second-year student. From all reports,
it seems that the Cheney fraternity stayed on the campus and left the pianist to the mercy of the host
of admiring autograph seekers. We feel that we have had a rare privilege in talking to a true artist and
a delightful man, but rumors are circulating about a big deal which they will announce in the near future. The
annual pledge party is scheduled for this coming Saturday night, and all nearby Sig-Eps are cordially invited.

THIS WEEK—PRITCHETT SPEAKS
The Rev. Carl R. Pritchard, D.D., pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, will be the speaker this Sunday night at
the weekly vesper hour. This will be the second time this year that Dr. Pritchard has spoken in vespers. He
is a former college student here, and was very outstanding. He served as president of the student body and was
a member of the O. D. K.

CAMERA CLUB
There will be no meeting of the Camera Club this week due to the Fall Rexall One Cent Sale coming
Services. “A Complete Drug Store” WHITE DRUG COMPANY “Davidson’s Oldest and Best”

SIGMA UPSILON
Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held a call meeting at the Phi Gamma Delta House Tuesday night. Featured on the
program was an essay by Prof. E. J. Erwin.

Last week, Mrs. Vardell’s fiftieth wedding anniversary reception was held in Red Springs. Dr. and Mrs. Vardell were honored at
the Union Library, the old Chambers Building, the original quadrangle, Shearer Hall, and many other interesting scenes. Some of the
more up-to-date pictures are of the library to its present location. These well represent the historic events of the day.
Although the scrapbook is not in its complete state, the students may feel free to call upon Prof. Davidson for
an inspection of it.

PRESIDENT SPEAKS
Last Thursday at 7:30 P.M., the monthly meeting of the Quadwrangler’s Club was held in the Quadwrangler’s Room. Dr. Cunningham,
the speaker for the evening, told of his interesting experiences and facts concerning his visits with several colleges and universities
throughout the country.

Lyman Leads Deputation
Eleven Boys Take Part In Service
Eleven Davidson boys participated in a deputation held in the Davidson Methodist Colored Church on Wednesday, October 29, under the
auspices of the Y. M. C. A. Bill Lyman presided over the meeting. A talk was made by Bill Smith
on “The Personal Christ,” and Charlie McKee spoke on the subject of missions. Entertainment for the evening was furnished by
four bass instruments, led by Fenton Miller, and a quartet of singers.

GLORIA AND BARBARA BREWSTER
Popular twins of stage and screen give you the cigarette that satisfies. It takes the right combination of the best
cigarette tobaccos to give Chesterfield the extra smoking pleasure that makes smokers say THEY SATISFY.
