Page Six New York

An Eventful Career
John Theis Is Disgusted With Outlook Of The Taxi Business
By Bob Preyor

John Theis has been driving a taxi for twenty years—and is disgusted about the whole affair. Of course, there were interesting moments. For instance, in 1933 two bandits commandeered John’s brand new taxi and after a fruitless chase by the police, they escaped—leaving bullet holes engraved in the rear of his car. “I made them pay for it, the bums,” remarked Mr. Theis in his usual caustic fashion.

NOT PLEASANT
The job of a “hackie” is not a happy one, according to driver number 134,872. “I work from seven A.M. till eight at night, and still make only from eight to twenty-five dollars a week. Something must be wrong with this country. I’ve seen doctors, lawyers, and slews of college graduates who are doing the same sort of work that I am. You just don’t get no satisfaction out of this.” The cab business is partly responsible for this gloomy outlook. Each year the number of cabs decreases. Perhaps the general decline is to blame. The high-water mark was twenty-seven thousand. Nowadays there are twelve thousand five hundred, and still the number steadily drops.

WORLD SITUATION
Cabbie Theis held very definite ideas about the world situation. “This is a war of Imperialism,” he confided and muttered darkly about munition makers and international bankers. The cab driver had one subject that was really close to his heart: his automobile. “I saved up for eight years to get her,” he beamed. “It’s four months old, though we’ve already got one hundred and twenty thousand miles on her.” Just then the cab screeched to a stop, and came the nasal tone of my Bronx Cab Driver, “That will be fifty-five cents, Mister.”

Riker’s Class Gives Recital
Seven Singers Will Be Featured On Program

At eight-fifteen o'clock, at Shearer Hall, the pupils of Mr. Franklin Riker are giving a vocal recital. This recital is to be the first presented by Mr. Riker this year. The first selection, presented by Miss Ramoth Nunn, Soprano, will be “Rose in The Bud” by Dorothy Forester, and “The Winds in The South” by John Prindle Scott. Following Miss Nunn’s selection, Glenn Terrell, Bass-Baritone, will sing “The Lost Chord” by Arthur Sullivan, and “Give a Man a Horse.” The Misses Betty Kerr and Maude Smyre will continue the program by singing the duet, “Aria” by Mozart. Conyers will render two tenor solos, “Serenade” by Toselli, and “Blue Are Her Eyes” by Priestly. Claude Hackney, Baritone, will sing “Mandalay” by Rudyard Kipling and another song of his own choosing. Next on the program, Miss Smyre will return to sing two contralto selections, “Slumber Song of the Madonna” by Head and “Aria from Carmen” by Bizet. Miss Betty Kerr, Soprano, will follow Miss Smyre's solos with the Pollonaise Aria “Mignon” by Thomas. Gayle, Baritone, will sing “Aviacs” by Rachmaninoff, “Largo” by Handel, and “Major” by Spross. In conclusion, Miss Kerr and Miss Smyre will sing the duet, “Spring-Wear Waltz” by Wilson. The accompanists for the recital are to be Mr. Sidney Gayle of Davidson, Mr. James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson, and Mr. Earle Copes, Davidson Student.

Freshmen
Lo, the poor freshman! Of all the persecuted humans on this topsy-screwy globe today, none is more persecuted than a lowly first-year Davidson man; of all the misunderstood, mistreated beings that we have ever heard of, none is more on this side of the fence than a member of Davidson’s humble Class of '44. And, so I say, Behold, the poor freshman!

HARD LIFE
Consider his case! He arises (in the particular case I have in mind) about 8:10, just in time to grab a first period class. He gives a last lick to his hastily combed hair, just as the last peal of the bell sounds from the dome of Chambers. He grabs a book on the run, always the wrong one, slams the door behind him, and skidding around the corner of the stairs on two heels, runs “kerplank” into a worthy member of the upper-classes. Murmuring his apologies, he once more begins his dash, but he doesn't get ten feet before he is arrested by the offended voice of a slow, upper-classman. “Freshman, where is your hat?” The awful manner in which those terrible words were pronounced tells him that as luck would have it, he has run into a sophomore; a moment of indecision, and then, gathering speed, he hurls back the words ever spoken by a freshman, “I wish to heck I knew!”

Of course, in such a case as this, when caught by a sophomore, a session with the Court of Control is a foregone conclusion.

OFF THE GRASS
Our last scene opens in Fraternity Court, while brothers are wandering back to the houses from dinner. Our freshman, feeling satisfyingly full, leaves the beaten path, and strolls on a piece of ground long void of any vegetation. Suddenly he hears for the second time in a day, the voice of a lordly sophomore, raised in utter astonishment, “FRESHMAN, OFF THE GRASS?” Our proud hero looks for ten feet around him. Just then, in the house, he hears, “Use your eyes! Clean that up!” Well, all we can say for that sophomore is that he must have had a heck of a time trying to stay off the grass when he was a freshman!

TIME MARCHES
Well, time marches on! And as long as time marches on, so will Davidson freshmen. But cheer up, Class of '44, in approximately two months, your time will come.you finish your examinations, you will be beyond all abuse, all persecution. Then you will be in condition to throw laundry, protect the grass, and in other ways make yourselves obnoxious. Until then, it’s “Lo, the poor freshman,” and believe me, brother, that’s plenty low.

MAC JEFFRIES.

GROCERIES
EVERY LINE of HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

ARE you doing on that GRASS???

I! this second to Sain having won four innocently and dropping two. In the doubles around, but the ground whereon he stood was as bald as a billiard ball. So it was only natural to ask, ‘What grass?"

“What grass” screams the sophomore, “Did you say WHAT?”

Wednesday and left today on a four-day trip. The team played Erskine here on Thursday and have a match with V. M. I, in Lexington, on Saturday.

DR. KING IS VESPERS SPEAKER
(Continued from Page Three)

aged and despondent. It was not until Hitler came along that they had a revival of national spirit. Hitler reunited them and showed them a brighter future; then their motto ‘Strength Through Joy.’

“Religion is effective only when it has a glory. Such Psalms as the third one will be remembered and loved much longer than some hymns of the church, because the writers had a glory. Jesus said: ‘My meat is to do the will of him that sent me.’ He could say on the cross ‘into thy hands I commend my spirit.’ Paul, a man who gloried in his infirmities, said ‘Lord, forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of Christ my Lord.’

“We still became in something in 1941. We need a motive born out of a relation with God. Science changes. My fathers went from Carolina to my home in covered wagons. Now I go from North Carolina to North Texas. Love has not changed; man always has his troubles and hardships; man still needs a way of salvation through Jesus Christ. Everyone must say with the South Carolina negro: ‘I's got a glory’.”

Dr. King is a graduate of Davidson and Union Theological Seminary. He won a fellowship for further study abroad. He was formerly pastor of the Grace Covenant Church in Richmond, Va., and is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston, Texas.

CATS DOWN
(Continued from Page Four)

only losing three. Miller Sproull and Schmidt are close behind with four wins and one loss. The team played Erskine here Wednesday and left today on a four-day trip. They play V. M. I, in Lexington, on Thursday and have a match with W. and L. on Saturday.

FROSH WIN TWO.
The freshmen netters have won two of their three matches and are expected to come through with straight wins in the return matches. Buck Archer holds the number one spot for the frosh and is a bright prospect for next year’s varsity. The other players are Wellborne, Pierce, Phraner, Martin, Head, and Crowell.

Now Playing
WARNER BAXTER
INGRID BERGMAN
SUSAN HAYWARD
in ‘ADAM HAD FOUR SONS’

Late Show Sat. Nite
‘MAN WHO LOST HIMSELF’

Starts Monday
EDW. G. ROBINSON
IDA LUPINO
JOHN G. GARFIELD
in ‘SEA WOLF’

IMPERIAL

Shorts and DICK ARNOLD
Golf Clubs and Shoes
Golf Balls and Tees
Shirts
Managers
Sports Equipment
EVERYTHING YOU NEED FOR SPRING SPORTS TO BE IN STYLE AND PROPERLY EQUIPPED
Tennis Balls and Shoes
Socks and Sweat Suits
Pennants and Stickers
THE STUDENT STORE
SHORTY PARRISH

THE DAVIDSONIAN AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page Five)

Brother McLean to his home in Lenoir. Brother Dale went to Greensboro.

BETA THETA PI
The Hay Ride to Egg Rock climaxed the week for the Betas. Those present to help the brothers to celebrate this function were: Nancy O’Neal, Amanda Parsley, Shirley Owens, Peggy Howard, Lucy Morrison, Bettie Brown, Edith Ebelin, Lib Hoppe, Eloise Hamrick, Harriet Cunningham, Martha Carpenter, Katherine Patterson, Dot Fowler, Frances Moseley, Mary Elise Davis, Dinkey Parker, Martha Beard, Sarah Brownlee, Isabel Linker, Harriet Millershan, Phyllis Trout, Ruth O'Neal, Betty Moore, Whatley Phillips, and Polly Price. Brothers Davidson and Johnston and their wives were along to help in the gala event.

The brothers traveling to Charlotte were Upchurch, Welsh, Summerville, F. Mebane, and Neisler. Brother McCrary was in Winston. Brother Efird and McClellan were at Washington and Lee for Spring Dances. Brother Tucker and Brother Zeke toured to Myrtle Beach for the weekend. Brother Frances Grimer visited here Sunday.

Beta Theta Pi’s officers for the next school year include: President, Al Winn; Vice-President, Paul Efird; Treasurer, Bob Schmidt; Alumni Secretary, Burkehead Walker; Pan-Hellenic Representative, Stanley McAfee; Upchurch; Historian, Paul Neisler; Recorder, Staley Garrison; Boarding House Manager, Jack Philips; Sports Manager, Burkehead Walker; Sargeant-at-Arms, Charlie Rankin.

S. A. E.
Brother George Grantham made one of his rare visits to the greensward of Converse College last weekend. Not to be outdone, Brother Carson also appeared upon the Converse College Campus along with Brother Claude Hackney. Brother McGeachy climaxed this current social season by securing his annual date with a girl whose nickname belies her real worth.

Thursday, April 24, 1941

Davidson Grads Plan Important Meeting
Mr. Pritchett Leads Service
Subject For Sunday’s Vespers Is Unannounced

Dr. Cunningham has announced that the speaker for Sunday evening’s Vesper Service will be the Rev. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the local Presbyterian church. This will make the third Vespers at which Mr. Pritchett has spoken this year. As yet he has not announced the subject of his sermon.

Mr. Pritchett graduated from Davidson in 1930, after which he did graduate work at Union Theological Seminary. While at Davidson, Mr. Pritchett was president of the student body, captain of the basketball team, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He came back to be minister of Davidson's Presbyterian Church last fall.

Speaking at Vespers on Sunday, May 4th, will be Dr. James W. Jackson, of the First Presbyterian Church, Columbia. The following evening the Rev. Kelsey Reagen, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Durham, will tentatively speak.

DOWN PAT
(Continued from Page Two)

perfectly brilliant men at Columbia. This will save the student from much research work, and will serve to organize the course into a much more compact unit.

Well, good luck to you fellows who will soon know that Texas league ain’t a cowboy.

FRENCH MEETING
On April 18 and 19 Dr. Goldiere and Dr. G. B. Watts of the Davidson faculty attended the meetings of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French held at Salem College.

Cunningham To Meet Alumni In Charlotte And New York Meetings

The last of April and the first of May will see two big Alumni meetings of Davidson men. The first of these meetings will be held in Charlotte on the 29th of April. Men from all over the Carolinas will attend this meeting, which is expected to be the largest convocation of former Wildcats ever held there.

SPEAKERS.
Dr. J. R. Cunningham, new president, will make the address of the meeting at the close of a big banquet. Harlee Branch, Jr., of Atlanta who is President of the general alumni association, Dr. Lingle, former president of Davidson, and head coach Gene McEver, will be the other speakers.

Dr. Cunningham as newly elected president of the college is expected to outline his plans for the future of the college and also to give a resume of the changes now in progress on the campus. This will be Dr. Cunningham's first formal introduction to the Davidson graduates of this area.

NEW YORK.
The second of these regional alumni meets is scheduled to be held in New York City on May 1. This gathering will give all alumni living within 150 miles of New York a chance to renew old acquaintanceships and to meet Dr. Cunningham. Plans are being made to make a phonograph recording of the Davidson Alma Mater and pictures of the campus, students, faculty and trustees will be shown.

The New York meeting will be the fourth regional assembly of grads held this year. The others, held last fall, took place in Atlanta and Jacksonville, Florida.

COLDS
FIGHT MISERY where you feel it—rub on fast-acting VICKS VAPORUB

the Golden West
Chesterfield
Everybody who smokes them likes their COOLER, MILDER, BETTER TASTE

On the movie lot or wherever you go, the Right Combination of the best tobaccos from our own Southland and from distant Turkey and Greece makes Chesterfield the one cigarette that truly Satisfies. Note how many more smokers are enjoying Chesterfield’s definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking, Better Taste.

PRISCILLA LANE, starring in Warner Bros.’ forthcoming hit “MILLION DOLLAR BABY”