Thursday, March 13, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Seabbard And Blade Sponsors Margaret Porter Sarah McDuffie

Among THE GREEKS

Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The annual Founder’s Day Ball was held at the Charlotte Country Club last Saturday night in honor of the eleven new initiates of the fraternity. Sponsors of the function were Betsey Armistead, Richmond, Va., with Claude Hackney; Miss Mackey King, Columbia, S.C., with Stuart Rogers; Miss Jane Lyons, Charlotte, with Bob Lefever; Miss Marjorie Pons, Valdese, Chapter Sponsor, with George Ficklen; Miss Dot Hagood, Dillon, S.C., with George Grantham; and Miss Martha Withers, Davidson, with John Crichton. Many from out-of-town attended the Ball. Highlight of the function was the presentation of the cup for the best freshman to Buck Fuqua of Milan, Tenn.

Pi Kappa Phi. This weekend found the majority of the Pi Kapps on the campus. However, a few of our number managed to stray away for a couple of days. Brothers Hite, McCall, and Edwards spent the weekend at Converse, Brother Paul Bumbarger took in Hickory, Charlotte, and Columbia, while Erb settled down at Catawba for the weekend. Brothers McArthur, Morris, Niven, Gaither, and Covington went to their homes in Charlotte, Kannapolis, Albemarle, Newton, and Wadesboro, respectively. Brother Armstrong went to Oak Ridge and Gastonia, and Erskine Parks went to Statesville.

Kappa Alpha. According to those who are in the know about such matters, last weekend set a new record for the number of brothers eating supper on the campus Saturday night. However, this was decidedly due not to the number of brothers who played the limber last week, but to the number (about half the chapter) who spent a wild, wild few hours in Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon. This weekend most of the SPEs paid a visit to their usual weekend habitats. There was Edmondson in Mary; Hollar muting between Hickory and Greensboro to see range from school to prep-school age. Dr. Cunningham was for six years President of Theological Seminary before taking over the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. While he considers that experience to be of great value to him, the duties of the President of the Seminary, a graduate school with a very small enrollment, are greatly different from his present office. After expressing his pleasure at being called to the Presidency and decision to come after thoughtful consideration, Dr. Cunningham concluded the interview with the statement, “Davidson College offers an unusual opportunity for a real Christian service.” This reporter left the interview with the impression that Dr. John Rood Cunningham is the man to perform that Christian service and in doing so will have the aid of some 680 Davidson Students.

President Louisville

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Loy and Mary Steele enjoying the gay night life of Berryhill; Dudley keeping that weekend date with Ruth; Felix attempting to reinstate himself with Mildred; and Daffin and Bivens having a most exciting time with a new Statesville “Find.” MacDaniel visited his home in Tarboro, “Lanky” Withers again got the urge to visit Winston. To Greensboro went Whitley. As usual, there was a large gathering of SPEs in Charlotte where everything came off as planned.

Phi Delta Theta. Most of the brothers and pledges remained on the campus over the weekend. We have a few in our brotherhood, however, who must take every occasion that presents itself in order to journey to their homes or to neighboring female campuses. The chapter has been honored twice.Recently, visits from alumni brought news and updates. Brother Charles Mashburn, now with Delta Air Lines, brought tidings from Atlanta, and Brother Roy Burton, attending the Naval School at Northwestern University in Chicago, dropped in and gave our adults the dope about him now joining the navy.

Kappa Sigma:
John Purdier and “Teepie” Johnston were the representatives of the local chapter of Kappa Sigma at the district conclave. “Sturdy” managed to spend quite a bit of the weekend at St. Mary’s.

The sponsors and their escorts for the military ball to be given at the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte Friday evening are:
- Miss Eleanor Barnwell, Captain of Scabbard and Blade
- Miss Sarah McDuffie of Columbia, S.C., with James McDuffie, 1st Lieutenant of the military fraternity
- Miss Susan Buchanan of Knoxville, Tennessee, with W.J. Bolin, 2nd Lieutenant
- Miss Nancy Toddy Latimer, 1st Sergeant, with Hill Cooper
- Miss Margaret Porter of Charlotte with Bill Hamilton
- Miss Mary Matthews of Wilmington with Herbert Codington
- Miss Virginia Jones of High Point with Scott Cooper
- Miss Betsey Russell of Salisbury with Vernon Youngblood

Music for the entire set will be rendered by Bob Sylvester and his Sophisticated Swing. Sylvester is a well-known arranger and for several years held that position with Hal Kemp. He has played over the Mutual and the National Broadcasting Systems during the past year.

NOTICE TO TOWNSPEOPLE:
A mass meeting of the qualified voters of the Town of Davidson is to be held on Friday, April 4th, at 7:00 at the Town Hall, in accordance with the law, to nominate its candidates for Mayor and the Board of Commissioners to be elected at the regular biannual election to be held on the 6th day of May, 1941.

Mr. Pfohl And Dr. McGavock To Head Camp:
About seventy boys between 8 and 18 are expected to attend Davidson College's Music-School-Camp for boys, a summer camp which combines music and recreation in its program. It will be held again this year on the Davidson campus. Dr. McGavock, of the faculty, will be involved.

J.W. Kennedy Recruits For Marine Class:
Second Lieutenant John W. Kennedy, a Davidson alumnus of '40, now of the United States Marine Corps, visited last Monday to interview students interested in the U.S.M.C. Reserve School.

Before and AFTER The DANCES:
Keep SWINGING To All Popular Records
Parker-Gardner Co.
Since 1898
118 W. Trade
Phone 8257
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The Next Issue of “Scripts ‘n Pranks” will be PRINTED BY HERALD PRESS, 225 S. CHURCH ST., CHARLOTTE, Inc.

NOW PLAYING:
“GONE WITH THE WIND” At Popular Prices! 3 Times Daily—11:30, 3:30, 7:30
Starting Monday: At Last It’s On the Screen! ... “TOBACCO ROAD” —With— A SWELL CAST
CAROLINA THEATRE, Charlotte, North Carolina

Dr. Johnston On “Moral Contrast of Attitude Between Old and New Testament” Is Text:
Dr. Frontis Johnston was the speaker at the weekly meeting of the Students’ Sunday School on March 9. His subject was “Moral Neutrality.” Dr. Johnston took two texts for his talk, one from the Old Testament and one from the New, contrasting but showing they were essentially the same. The Old Testament quotation was from a Prayer of David praying that the Lord would smite his enemies, and from the New Testament a quotation of Christ telling us to love our enemies.

Possible Conflict:
Dr. Johnston said, “Many people think there is a conflict between the ethical or moral standards of the New and Old Testaments. If you believe that there is a conflict, you can't believe that the Bible is the inspired word of God. Christ quoted from the Old Testament frequently. If the Old Testament is rejected, then Christ is rejected.”

The speaker brought out the main point that we must distinguish between resentment and moral indignation in deciding what is right and what is wrong. Resentment was defined as “personal indignation or a reaction which comes from the hurtfulness of an act.” In contrast to that, moral indignation was defined as “impersonal, not self-defensive, indignation awakened by an injustice bigger than a personal war.”

No Neutrality:
“To approve of wrong is sinful, to hate wrong is Christian. There is no such thing as moral neutrality.”

When problems get knotty...pause and refresh with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its delightful, wholesome taste has the charm of purity. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE