Thursday, April 24, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Barbour Grants Personal Interviews

Reporter Finds Spring Services Speaker Busy At “Y”

BORN IN PITTSBURG

President Awa Bahnson Chosen President; Barnwell To Act As Senior Marshal

Dr. Clifford E. Barbour was very decidedly in conference when two Davidson snoopers came snooping into Shaw Smith’s conference room at the “Y.” Shaw and his colleagues on the Y council were swarming all over him, and it was some minutes before we could get even one word with him. But he just started to talk, and he was just as Shaw had said he would be. We were able to start “shooting the works” at once.

Our first question dealt with the nature of his present work at Knoxville. Dr. Barbour is pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church there. To our great interest, he is also a professor of religion at the University of Tennessee, and every year teaches a course in Christian Faith and Modern Problems. He has held a Sunday night supper and bull-session for the students for ten years. He has earned letters in both football and track, and is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, and several honorary fraternities.

Our next question naturally was about his personal history, as much of it as he cared to give. “Well,” Dr. Barbour answered, “I was born in Pittsburg, Penn. You know,” he added, slyly, “a man can't do anything about his birthplace, but he can usually die where he wants to, and I've bought a cemetery lot in Knoxville. Where did I go to school? All over the place. I have a B.A. from Princeton, an M.A. from the University of Pittsburgh, and a Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh. I have been a minister for twenty-five years, and I have been at Knoxville for the last ten years.”

Dr. Barbour is married and has two children. His wife is a graduate of the University of Tennessee, and his son is a student at Davidson. He is a member of the American Association of University Professors, the American Historical Association, and the American Society of Church History. He has written several books and numerous articles for religious and historical journals.

Senior Class Elects Permanent Officers

In the voting for permanent officers of the senior class, last week, Hank Bahnson was chosen to act as senior president, and Holt Barnwell was chosen to act as senior marshal. Barnwell wins over outgoing junior marshals.

After Open House

Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham Praise Dormitories

Dr. and Mrs. John R. Cunningham, honor guests at the annual Open House sponsored by the senior class, last Thursday afternoon, April 17th, praised the dormitories. Numerous faculty members, townspeople, prospective students, and friends of the college came to look at the rooms of the first floor of all the dormitories, which were open for inspection. Mrs. N. T. Smith, supervisor of the dormitories, acted as hostess for the occasion, and welcomed the visitors when they came to register in the parlor of Watts. Refreshments were served there by the committee from the senior class headed by Bob Lefever.

This event served as the first time that Dr. Cunningham visited the students’ rooms while the college was in session. Lefever conducted the new president and his wife around the dormitories, although they had time to visit only West and Duke. After his tour, Dr. Cunningham said, “I like our Davidson dormitories. They are nicely kept and I’m pleased to see the neatness and coziness of the rooms. The boys have been so cordial to us. I congratulate Mrs. Smith and her boys on their work.”

INVITATIONS

Over 200 invitations were sent out by Lefever, who was head of the committee on arrangements. The senior class of Davidson College did a fine job.

Forty Points Set As Limit

In order for the student body to have a clear understanding of the point system used in determining the offices students may hold, the Davidsonian here prints a portion of the Y. M. C. A. Handbook which comes under the head of “By-laws of the Student Government of Davidson College.”

FORTY POINTS

Under this system, forty points is the maximum to be held by any one man per semester. All “ex officio” officers are to be counted as one office. Offices are divided into six classes according to the number of points that an office in the class carries.

Class 1, the 30 point class, includes the offices of President of the Student Body, President of the Y. M. C. A., Editor of the Davidsonian, and Editor of Quips and Cranks.

Class 2, the 25 point class, includes the offices of President of the Senior Class, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, Editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, Business Manager of the Davidsonian, Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, and other positions for the proper execution of said office are recognized as one office.

CY CUNNINGHAM LAUDS

Houston Minister’s Address on Sunday

“I Have A Glory” Is Theme

By Buddy Thompson

Recently, the old piano in the parlor of Watts was packed with students singing old Davidson songs. Dr. Charles King took his text from the third verse of the third Psalm: “But thou, O Jehovah, art a shield about me; my glory and the lifter up of my head.” The theme of the sermon was the expression of a South Carolina negro speaking to the poet Archibald Rutledge: “I have a glory.”

Construction of the new library and science buildings is proceeding according to schedule and it is expected that the buildings will be completed by July or August and ready for occupancy next fall, although brick work on the science building has been delayed. Equipment for the buildings has been ordered. Plans include making a beautiful court between the two buildings.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I had the pleasure of your company, at world—I started at the University Manager of the Student Store. A ceremony at Davidson Archibald Ruddgewatoon. A building was held up a few days south of Chambers, and it is Open House, Thursday. Attended by many friends of Pittsburg, where I was a member of Delta Tau Delta fraternity, Class 3, the 20-point class, includes the offices of Judge of the Court of Control and Freshman Advisor. 

A ferry boat crossing the South Carolina because of a delay in shipment of cables, a silver plaque. Brick work on the library has just been completed and within a few days the large number of masons busy on the science building will finish brick-laying on it. The old chemistry building will be torn down and removed as soon as equipment is transferred to the new laboratory. 

An anonymous gift of $150,000 will pay for the new library, which will be named for a beloved professor and his wife. The gift came as a surprise to the administration last spring. Accumulated Centennial funds, not all of which are yet due, will pay for the new science building. 

I got my M.A. in Theology at Western Theological Seminary, and polished it off at the University of Edinburgh. I served during the World War with the Y.M.C.A. in the 32nd Division and, by the way, was gassed. 

Class 4, the 15-point class, includes the offices of President of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Manager of a Major Sport, President of the Forensic Council, and President of the Wise Club. 

Dr. Freeman H. Hart, former professor of history at Hampden-Sydney College, now caretaker of the engine room, was surprised to see that the room was immaculate. The old negro replied: "I’s got a glory." 

Class 5, the 10-point class, includes the office of President of a Social Fraternity, Member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, President of the Honorary Fraternity, President of a Musical Organization, and President of the Literary Society. 

Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, made a short talk, expressing his appreciation of Mr. Bianchi's great contribution to the institution in the form of its official fight song. 

Dr. King said that this statement of the South Carolina negro was held for society as a whole as well as for the individual. 

The order for equipment for the new science building will take not more than 90 days to fabricate and install this scientific equipment. 

Class 6, the 5-point class, includes the offices of President of the Publications Board, Manager, Member of the Court of Control, Under Honorary Fraternity Officer, Under Musical Organization Officer, Member of the Executive Committee Student Volunteers, Member of the Executive Committee Ministerial Bands, and Member of the Y.M.C.A. Board. 

The plaque itself is silver with reproductions of the original manuscripts of the two songs and the following inscription engraved upon it: "Commemorating the Writing of two great songs. This replica of The Dream Girl of Pi K A commemorates the composition of the fraternity's official fight song." 

Dr. Barbour seemed to radiate enthusiasm. "I have never heard anything but good of Davidson. I have never met any Davidson graduate who wasn't fine. The first Davidson graduate I ever knew I met in the ministry. He is Dr. McLeod, President of Centre College. This is my first visit to Davidson, but its reputation precedes it." 

As we finished scribbling these last notes, Shaw Smith came in with Coca-Colas for all of us from his "Y" dispenser. Not wishing to take up any more of Dr. Barbour's time, we thanked him, and made a not-too-graceful exit with our notes in one hand and the "Pause that Refreshes" in the other.

---

I hope this helps! Let me know if you need any further assistance.