THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thurs., Jan. 30, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press
Columbia Scholastic Press Association
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina under the act of March 3rd, 1879

ANDY DALE EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul Bumgarner Assistant Editor
Joe Tates Associate Editor
Ed Watson Associate Editor
Lawson Withers Associate Editor
Dick Cobb Managing Editor
Harwell Darby Managing Editor
Rob Garvey Managing Editor
Wool Blunkett Managing Editor
Al Wynn Managing Editor
Bob Carter Sports Editor
David Vosburgh Movie Editor
Billy Barker Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kell Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt Circulation Manager
John Creighton Collection Manager
Jim Bacher Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication submitted.

Clyde Randolph
The death of Clyde Randolph was a source of grief and sorrow to many fellow members of the Davidson Student Body. Those who knew him realize that Davidson has been deprived of the presence of a noble character. A senior with a very good scholastic record, Clyde had achieved everything he had done by his own efforts. He was going to school earning his own way as he went. He was coming up the hard way, and the results of his sincere efforts and determination to make good in life showed up in his character. Those who are earning their own way can look at the brief career of Clyde Randolph as an example of what can be accomplished cheerfully while carrying a heavy burden. Clyde would have made a name for himself and done a great work in his chosen profession, the Ministry, if he had been allowed to live. When a person of his moral and religious stature dies, we can always rest assured of his state of blessedness and should perhaps be happy for him even though we are deprived of his presence. Those who plan to pursue the work for which Clyde was preparing himself should see in him an inspiration to do part of the work he would have done in addition to their own. Clyde Randolph stood for the things Davidson stands for. May we have more like him.

Pay Your ‘Y’ Pledge
Although it is now more than a month since the YMCA officially closed its Christmas Gift Fund campaign, many pledges have never been paid. At the start of the campaign it was clearly stated that the Y and its leaders did not desire to press anyone for a contribution, and in direct contrast to the policy of past cabinets, no door-to-door campaign was made. This policy seemed to be best for all concerned, since the Y had no wish to bring any pressure on any student, which might force him to contribute something which he could not or did not wish to support. The Gift Fund was an entirely freewill offering, as it should have been. But now that it is long past Christmas, the cabinet is faced with many unpaid pledges, which it still does not wish to press. But if the Fund is to become a successful undertaking, it is highly necessary that these pledges be collected as soon as possible. Some few of these will never be collected as in every campaign for gifts to a charitable cause. But it is not that which is the primary problem now. It is the pledges made by those men who are able to pay, and who fully intend to do so in the future, but have not seen fit to do so yet, which are preventing a final successful end to the campaign. The majority of those who have not paid their pledges have delayed doing so because they have felt their finances would be in better shape at some future date, which seems to be always true. But when the money is given, it will mean that much less for that particular time, and unseen expenses develop next month and the month after that, just as they have this month. Sooner or later the pledges will be paid. Why not pay yours now, and save the Y leaders a good deal of needless work and trouble in collecting them? They will be paid, so this makes sense. Among the fraternity representatives, the Y cabinet and officers will be glad to take your pledged ten cents at any time.

Someone is always turning in letters that have been found on the campus to the Davidsonian office. Although we have been highly successful in returning several of the misplaced missives to their rightful owners, there is one on hand here that no one has claimed. We print the entire epistle here with hopes that someone can identify his property.

Dearest Darling Bob,
How are things at Davidson? I know you must be busy with all the activities you were talking about. Being president of the Student Body, the Pan Hellenic Council, the senior class, and Sigma Nu, as well as editor of all three publications, must really keep you on the hop. Now about Midwinters, Bob. You know I've been looking forward to coming up and all. I mean, I really have. But, well, I'm sorry. You see, for a number of reasons I can't come. The other day I was downtown in the new Cadillac I was planning to drive up. I was fixing my lipstick a little bit, when—crash! A big truck somehow ran into me. At least the front of my car was rammed into the side of his truck. And the man kept saying the nastiest things! Well, anyhow, the wrecker and the ambulance ran into each other on the way to my wreck. The ambulance caught on fire, and the fire engine collided with the police car on the way to put it out. I had picked out a lovely dress for the dances, one I thought you'd like, you know. I was having it pressed at the dry cleaners. Well, when the fire engine didn't get there in time to put out the ambulance, the sparks lit on a big gasoline truck parked in front of the cleaners. It blew up and demolished the cleaners' shop. I sneaked back to school, but the dean heard about it and put me on campus until the faculty could pass sentence on me. I ran away and went home, to find that Aunt Sallie and her six kids were there. I caught the whooping-cough from one of the twins, and the health department man came around the next day and quarantined all of us. Then the process-server came and tried to indict Daddy for not paying his income tax. The landlord wanted to put us all out, but there was a cloud-burst last night which washed away the bridge at the end of our street. Aunt Sallie's kids are suffering from pent-up energy and are throwing plates and glasses at each other. I really hate not accepting your invitation, or rather going back on you so late. I'm afraid you'll think I didn't want to come. But I really did. Hope you'll understand.
Love and kisses,
WILHEMINA.

Open Letter to a Drunken Driver
Travelers Safety Service

SURE, you can drive home alright. Don’t let ’em feed you any of that bunk about letting somebody else take the wheel. Any time old Pete can stand on his two feet he can drive an automobile, drunk or sober. What’s a few drinks between friends, anyway. You show ’em who’s going to drive. Pile ’em into the car. That sweet little wife of yours, who’s such a swell kid even if she does nag you about driving when you’re drunk. And that funny couple with you who want to take a taxicab home. Imagine! Wanting to take a cab! Pile ’em in. Step on the gas. Whoopee! Go places....

Brother, you’re not the big shot you think you are. You're just a fuzzy-brained, liquored-up, obstinate ass with about as much right to drive an automobile on the public highway as a monkey from the zoo would have. I won’t appeal to your reason because it’s obvious that you haven't any. I won’t appeal to your emotions because they’re pickled. I only hope you'll start to drive home some night, alone, when you've one too many under your belt. Then I hope some little emergency will arise which your addled brain and fumbling hands won't enable you to meet. I hope you'll have an encounter with a tree or a telephone pole that will land you in a police cell and your car on a junk heap. As you sober up I hope the baseness of your continued offenses against society will be borne in upon you with sickening clarity. I hope the newspaper headlines will scream out to all your relatives and friends and business acquaintances: PROMINENT LOCAL MAN GETS DRUNK AND LANDS IN JAIL. Yes, I hope an All-Wise Providence will arrange this little lesson for you. And soon, before you kill somebody, as you surely will if you continue to drive when you are drunk.

Thursday and Friday Jan. 30 and 31
“Northwest Mounted Police”—Gary Cooper, Madeline Carroll and Preston Foster. This is one of the best of all the year. It is full of adventures and triumphs. She writes and acts the entire play, it is one of the year's greatest triumphs and is the story of aGreat love affair. She originally marries Cary and tries to fall in love with another man. After a very wild weekend, Cary is able to win her back to him.

“Little Nelly Kelly”—Judy Garland. Judy plays the part of a sweet little girl who has to choose between the love of her father and that of her grandfather. She comes to New York from the old country and there finds romance and happiness.

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 3 and 4
“Philadelphia Story”: Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn, and James Stewart. This is one of Hepburn's greatest songs of excitement, plus a great love story.

Wednesday, Feb. 5
“Northwest Mounted Police”—portrayed by a great Northwest Mountie. The entire story is laid in Canada.

“Doomed Caravan”—William Boyd, Russell Hayden, and Andy Clyde. This is a very good Western and is the story of a Western caravan that is saved only by the great work of Boyd. He maintains his record of not kissing a girl, for his 34th straight picture.

The manager of the theater finds it imperative to demand that no one throw cigarettes in the show, because of action handed down by the fire inspector. You are asked to step upon the ducks or not to smoke at all. Anyone caught throwing cigarettes will be thrown out of the show. Your cooperation in this matter will be appreciated!

I would like for Southgate Jones to be the guest of the theater at any show during the coming week.

The Sirens
By JULIAN McCALL

For months the largest musical war in history has been raging between the broadcasters and ASCAP (the composer's representative) over the price radio was to pay for the use of ASCAP songs. On January 1, the break finally came and we must now listen to those few songs which ASCAP does not control. The broadcasters, to remedy this, have set up Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), independent of ASCAP, in order to supply themselves with enough music to at least get by. But the government seems to be tired of all this wrangling and appears ready to step in and bring suit against both of these organizations. But for the present, we'll have to listen to a few new tunes and a few rearranged old numbers. Biggest of the BMI collection is the songs of Stephen Foster, many of whose songs, no longer copyrighted, have been given new treatments. A couple of the tunes are “I Dream of Jeanie With the Light Brown Hair” and “Beautiful Dreamer.” BMI has had to concentrate on finding new talent for composers, and from this new talent has come such hits as “So You're the One,” “High On a Windy Hill,” and “I Should Have Known You Before.”

WILL BRADLEY and his boys, who are near the top in the music world today, as evidenced by their frequent appearances in this column during the year, will be here tomorrow night to swing out on the year's largest set—Mid-Winters. “Blue September” and “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar” are a couple of Bradley's new arrangements. I imagine we'll hear plenty of “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar” as it's Bradley’s contribution to the “Classics-in-Swing,” but here's hoping that at most twice a night will suffice him.

WAGS AND DAY’S DIARY
BY BILL LEMMON

With the exams coming to an end, most of the big operators are marking time while waiting for the assault on the invading femininity of the ensuing weekend. The center of attraction, which is the decisive factor in the average girl's decision to attend our Mid-Winter dances, is Will Bradley and his famous band, featuring Kay McKinley, who by the way is a native Tar Heel. If one takes the time to investigate the other bands offered to college students in the South, he will find out that the band the Pan-Hellenic Council has secured is the most popular. His rare recordings have proved to be the most popular because of their originality, but this does not mean his slower numbers are not well-received. Ask the men who have heard him!

Among the men in the Tavern Saturday trying to forget the exam ordeal by eating and being merry were Cocky Alleatt, Senator Lee, and Sawbuck Powell, the mystery man. Young Saw hopped the bus for D.C., but when the driver cut out the lights, he went to sleep and ended the morning by coming in from Greensboro on the dawn patrol. Why was Jimmy Land, alias Karl Jonas, flinching so in the local theater the other night? Typing ribbons Langley—Land planning a tremendous deal in the Gold Room in the new hotel in the city. Louis Hite was seen down in the five and ten buying a leash with a collar to keep track of his date after the dances. Moose Sain is still serving time as a protégé to Mac Morris on the nightly raids taking in several of the nearby counties. Mac is said to have forgotten a pipe, for which it nearly cost him his shirt.

One other thing concerning the Pan-Hellenic Council, as representatives of the student body and acting in this capacity, it feels that the students should cooperate in attending the set, with or without a date, as the success of the dances depends on every man because of the handicap we work under, and this obstacle is the small number of students we have in school (Adv.).

Now for a little of the scarce dope that remains uncovered. Sogaleve Barker proved himself fully capable of wearing the title of his late “breakfast.” Among the men in the Tavern Saturday trying to forget the exam ordeal by eating and being merry were Cocky Alleatt, Senator Lee, and Sawbuck Powell, the mystery man. Young Saw hopped the bus for D.C., but when the driver cut out the lights, he went to sleep and ended the morning by coming in from Greensboro on the dawn patrol. Why was Jimmy Land, alias Karl Jonas, flinching so in the local theater the other night? Typing ribbons Langley—Land planning a tremendous deal in the Gold Room in the new hotel in the city. Louis Hite was seen down in the five and ten buying a leash with a collar to keep track of his date after the dances. Moose Sain is still serving time as a protégé to Mac Morris on the nightly raids taking in several of the nearby counties. Mac is said to have forgotten a pipe, for which it nearly cost him his shirt.

Flui & DeDai applying hair grower very vigorously on retiring to bed. Grantham entered a co-ed bush department at Dan's, a small roadhouse nearing Sburg. Cavert and H. Sprant plan to double date over the dances. All of the men on the first floor of East are waiting up these nights to meet the beautiful girl Toddy Latimer says he is dreaming of. However, at press time this mystery still remains unsolved as Tod is hard to get out of bed in the morning.

Skinny Dick Arnold, stud store manager, caught a cold and while playing the piano in the parlor this late, proceeded to have him “Sing For Your Supper.” Reynolds uncovered his own identity up in Lynch by proving to be the author and originator of "Who Cut the Cheese."

Compassing Campuses
BY TOM CAUBLE

ON NICKNAMES. (PRESENTING A ROUGH DRAFT OF THE RULES FOLLOWED IN THIS PROCEDURE BY CAMPUS SAGES).

It is generally conceded that a man will live a great deal longer in the memories of his fellows if he is possessed of a nickname. Because of the multitude of aspects from which this institution may be considered, we must narrow this dissertation to a short study of the causes and motives common to this art. It seems probable that men here on the campus are nicknamed for four reasons generally: (a) for some famous act, (b) for some infamous act, (c) for some personal characteristic, or (d) for the antithesis of some personal characteristic. It may be said of these four divisions that they narrow the scope of the art in that they do not pretend to cover the entire field. This restriction may be justified in part by the local nature of the discussion.

Let us consider first the relative power of (a), some famous act. One who is the author of such an act will oftentimes find himself a walking and semi-perpetual monument to that act! For instance, a man may instigate a mammoth Beaver Club “Salem Day” and be known thereafter as “The Big Beaver.” Again, it is the fashion to name men after national figures whom they may resemble either physically or by some characteristic of conduct, as “Floyd Gibbons” Grantham and “Shirley Temple” Rogers.

Some men have become known (and listed) for financial coups and as a rule will become “J.P.,” “Moneybags,” or a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Perhaps the above paragraph should be classified under (b) infamous acts and be listed along with certain classroom blunders and prize boners which have delivered nicknames upon their perpetrators. Notable among these has been “Nea” Lemmon.

A predominant personal characteristic is often the origin of such a caption. A gross individual will be an apt subject for “Fats” or “Bevo,” while a man who registers a facial blank will draw “Dead Pan” or “Great Stone Face.” Now, a prodigious eater is as a rule addressed as “Glut” or “Freight Cat,” and a man noted for his proximity to the sidewalk is called usually by “Duck,” “Shorty,” or “Stumpy.” “Noxious Normie the Prehistoric Man” is self-explanatory. Nicknames are often selected for their poetic or musical qualities with a leaning toward words that begin with the same letter as “Jumping Joe,” “Fluffy Duffy,” “Gorgeous George,” etc.

It may seem a bit strange that the average collegian is nicknamed not for some personal characteristic but for the lack or antithesis of the same. For instance, a man known for the scarcity of the information he imparts may be known as “Gabby.” In like manner, a man who is sparingly built is often known as “Tarzan” or “Slugger,” whereas one who is possessed of a rather meek and pacifistic demeanor will unanimously become “Cyclone,” “Killer,” or “Dynamite.” This motif seems indeed to be the prevailing trend. Other examples are found in the tags “Swifty” or “Speedy” being affixed to lazy, easy-going individuals. Again, a person known as a mental void will be “Brainy” while a stoic will be “Cheerful.” Thus it is that the local wags work to perpetuate their fellows and keep going an age-old institution.

If there’s any dance set in the year that everybody should attend, it’s Mid-Winters, ‘cause there'll be about the prettiest crop of gals, a bunch of old Grads will be back, and the “Pan-Hell” hopes to make enough cash on this venture to carry two more big-name bands for the other two sets this year. So, let's all that possibly can, BE THERE!!!