THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thurs, Feb. 6, 1941

“grudging” only because any person dis- 

The Davidsonian

Letter to a Speeder

Since the time when the new rule came into being the committee has seen fit, after hearing three student leaders discuss a petition to abolish the first part of the regulation, to suspend that part for the present semester, in order to give the old system one more chance. Therefore, this semester, as in past years, there will be no faculty limitation placed on the amount of time used by any fraternity during an initiation, or when that initiation shall come. After this semester, unless some further action is taken, the rules go into effect. By this action, the committee informed the student members of fraternities that they wished to know definitely whether scholastic deficiencies which occur annually at about this time are due to time used in “Hell Week,” or also to that used in formal initiation.

The majority of fraternity men felt that this part of the regulation was entirely unnecessary to the good of the college and a hindrance to the local organizations which wanted to conduct their initiations properly without haste at the traditional time of year. These reasons were presented in a petition and were accepted as valid for the present, but final decision was withheld to permit actual experience to decide the value of the reasons.

Now it is up to the fraternities. Whether or not the suspended rule will remain suspended next year will be decided by them, and the results judged by the committee. All the fraternities should cooperate willingly, for they have everything to gain by it and stand to be greatly inconvenienced and hindered in their future plans if they do not plan carefully to avoid scholastic deficiencies due to time taken off for initiation. With thought on the part of the actives, neither they nor their pledges will commit infractions. The fraternities themselves will give the answer to the question which was reopened only at their request.

Report Card

By DAVID VOSBURGH

I SAW YOU barely miss a little boy on a tricycle this afternoon and heard you yell, “Get the H— out of the way! Don’t you know any better than to ride in the street?” He didn’t answer because he hasn’t learned to talk very well yet. So I’m going to answer for him.

No, the little boy doesn’t know any better than to ride his tricycle in the street. He has been warned not to, but little boys don’t always heed warnings. Some adults don’t either, especially traffic warnings; for example, the one limiting the speed of automobiles.

I’m going to tell you something about that little boy. He has a mother who endured considerable inconvenience, anxiety, and suffering to bring him into the world. He has a father who has worked hard and made many sacrifices to make him healthy and happy. The supreme purpose of their lives is to have their little boy grow up to be a useful man.

Now stop a minute and think. If you should kill a child, how would you feel facing its parents? What excuse could you possibly offer Him whose Kingdom is made up of little children?

Children, my hasty friend, were here long before you or your automobile were thought of. All the automobiles on earth are not worth the life of one little boy. We don’t know what that little boy may someday be. But we know what you are, and it’s unimportant. We could get along without you, but we can’t spare a single little boy on the street.

Fraternities Under Fire

Recently there have been comments on the poor conditions for studying which prevail on nearly every dormitory hall throughout the college. This has been present for several years at least, but it seems to become worse as each examination and a dance weekend loomed large in the undergraduate mind.needs fixing. The romance is superb. Several things are directly responsible for it. It is very clever in his repressed role, and the thrills come at the rate of one per minute. The new regulations were divided into two parts, the first stating that formal fraternity initiations must be limited to the period between noon and midnight on Saturday, and the second abolished "Hell Week" in any shape or form. Both were passed as reforms to the present traditional manner in which initiations have been carried out for years. Some men have been alarmed concerning the new regulation because they have felt that it might express a change of faculty attitude to that of disapproval of the fraternities. Without offending anyone, it should be said now that the measure came about as an intended improvement rather than a future hindrance. The national offices of nearly every fraternity in the country have frowned upon "Hell Week," with its attendant hazing, and lately many have declared themselves officially against it. Because of this, local actives have found themselves without valid reason to present an argument against that part of the regulation.

"Hell Week," when thought of as a mere sadistic desire to inflict humiliation, is indeed a practice which rightly has no part in a fraternity. It has other very apparent disadvantages also, such as causing men to fall behind in their scholastic work, along with the vague possibility of physical injury. (This latter cause has been one of the prime factors in the argument against hazing, yet we continue to approve football, baseball, and other sports which are physically dangerous.)

There is one outstanding advantage of a period of intensive freshman "training." When a group undergoes the various chores, pranks, etc., together, they are bound together in a bond common to those who must undergo adversity side by side. However, most thinking men will agree that the disadvantages of "Hell Week" outweigh the advantages, and on this point, the regulation was received with grudging approval.

There are freshmen who need to study more, but there seems to be a continual water fight, scuffle, or other loud merriment in the halls at all hours, until late at night. It has been this way for years, and no doubt will continue to be. That is the main reason upperclassmen shun those halls when applying for rooms. Another practice, more prevalent in the upperclass dormitories, is the nightly "bull session." When this takes place in a room where neither of the occupants wishes to work, it is indeed harmless, but this is not often the case. Just give a man time to clear his head of other things, get fairly well started into an assignment, and bang! The door crashes open, while anywhere from one to ten boys pile in. No person wishes to be so rude as to ask a visitor to leave, even if he does have to study, and at times a visit becomes embarrassingly long, until the occupant is forced to invite his visitors to the Student Store in order to clear the room. No considerate person would want to interfere with another man's work, but generally does not think of his visit in that light. If he did, he would note whether his friend were busy, and if so, leave after whatever might be necessary. A thoughtful and short consultation.

It is because some of their "friends" have prevented daily study that many men have "flunked out." The average student can surely name several now who left after exams mainly due to this cause. And there will be others to whom the same fate will fall—especially those who have barely made the grade this semester. Faculty or student rules can do little to correct the situation. It is up to the student body, individually and collectively. We are all guilty now. But with consideration, we need not be in the future.

Friday and Saturday, Feb. 7 and 8
"Son of Monte Cristo": Joan Bennett, Louis Hayward. This is a story very much like "Mark of Zorro." It is Hayward's job to rid the small Balkan country of its wicked dictator, George Sanders. Hayward also has the pleasant job of rescuing the beautiful Duchess from the villainous George. The hokum is spread a bit too thick for credulity in places.

Wednesday, February 12th.
"She Couldn't Say No": Roger Pryor, Eve Arden, Cliff Edwards, and Vera Lewis. We don't have much dope on this movie except that it is a screwy romance that has plenty of laughs and even more headaches for Eve Arden. She is a girl that fell for one boy after another until she began to say "yes" too much. The story centers around the many love affairs of this beautiful girl.

Song Of The Sirens
By JULIAN McCALL

Even though hearing several criticisms of Bradley, we'll still have to hand it to him. Most of these critics say he played too much "Boogie Woogie." He figured when everybody crowded around and clapped when he swung out, that they liked it, and that's the reason he kept coming back with more. But if you remember, as soon as the Pan-Hell contacted him, he changed to about a three-slow to one-fast ratio coupled with a few Congas, and everything turned out fine.

On the whole, I think this was one of the best bands we could expect to have for Mid-Winters, and I want to slip in my word of congratulations to the Pan-Hell. Bradley journeys down to Atlanta this coming weekend to entertain the "Rambling Wreck," and on to "Bama for a mid-week stand, followed by a session at Tennessee the weekend of the 15th, then to the University of Virginia the following week, and on back to the Biltmore Hotel in New York City from which he left for his Southern tour.

Charlie Barnet and Benny Goodman have just completed a stand at W. & L.; Bob Chester and Abe Lyman were featured at V. P. I.; Barnet is on his own at Clemson this coming weekend; N. C. State is slated for Tommy Dorsey on March 29th; Bob Pastor of "Let's Do It" fame is at the Lincoln in N. Y. now, but is scheduled for a southern tour sometime this spring; Glen Gray is engaged out on the west coast at the present; Bobby Byrne is at the Meadowbrook; Larry Clinton is being featured out in the Windy City; Kay Kyser is in for quite a stay at the Waldorf; and Charlie Spivak, the up-and-coming band of the nation, is set at the Glen Island Casino.

I imagine a few of you are wondering what has happened to Marion Hutton on Glen Miller's Moonlight Serenade. She is expecting a "blessed event" soon and was forced to retire from the airways, but will be back with the boys shortly. A few things we'll remember from Mid-Winters are the band's rendition of "Strange Cargo" (Bradley's theme), Ray McKinley on the drums and vocals, Freddy Slack with the keyboards, and Will, himself, sliding with his old trombone.

ON THE DANGERS CONFRONTING THE COLOR-BLIND COLLEGIAN:
Let us first define the term, that make up our subject as far as we are able. "Dangers" one might call "hazards," "perils," or "pitfalls," "traps." In short, it is a broad term. We are forced to pass up an accurate definition of "collegian" beyond "one who goes to college." "Color-blindness," however, seems to be "a term applied to a condition of vision in which the number of colors that can be differentiated is markedly less than normal."* (definition courtesy of psychological KA.) We will pass over lightly the more obvious and common drawbacks of such an ocular discrepancy. Naturally, the color-blind undergrad is apt indeed to drive past red lights and wear fearsome neckties, but the dangers of such a condition are indeed more consequential than those that come immediately to mind.

For instance, persons so afflicted are commonly addicted to wearing mismatched socks. Now it is a notorious fact that collegians all attempt a studied nonchalance in both dress and demeanor, and this casual sloppiness is not a thing to be despised certainly. However, it is unanimously conceded that socks that do not match are not to be so classified, and a person habitually addicted to dressing in such a fashion is to be classed as a reactionary and thus banned from all dormitories save Rumple and third-floor Georgia.

It seems to be accepted that the red-green variety of color-blindness is the most common—that is, people cannot differentiate more between red and green than between any other such combinations. Now to mistake a red necktie for a green one or to unwittingly purloin another's overcoat is a forgivable oversight, but the activity of a weekend generally brings more serious cases to view. The popularity of red and green in young ladies' costumes makes this red-green variety of color-blindness particularly vicious. Its drawbacks and embarrassing potentialities are obvious when one thinks of the numerous times a young collegian is called on to help his date remove her coat or sweater or perform other such chivalrous deeds. To unwittingly help a young lady off with an essential garment due to an inability to distinguish between these primary colors would indeed prove fatal, costly, banal, or what have you.

Again, such a condition can tie in very closely with a student's scholastic activities. For example, in case the intellectual fires begin to burn deeply, one cannot help to satisfy these ambitions (for a B-plus) by complimenting his professor on his dress. At least his facility in this is greatly hampered by his inaccurate vision. A further blow was recently struck him when the army decided to capitalize on color-blind individuals and employ them as camouflage spotters while the B-plus boys roar along at 350 mph in pursuit ships.

The fact that the red-green variety really amounts to yellow-blue vision is not even much help. In fact, it must make the world quite an enigma at times! Thus it would be a matter of practical impossibility to be like "a red, red rose" (if the mantle of poetic inspiration should suddenly descend on one.) Let us then conclude that such a collegian is fairly seriously handicapped and that not a few dangers accrue to him and will retard him in his quest for everything from beauty to quality points.