Thursday, November 11, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

‘Messiah’ Is Giv’n Tonite
Glee Club, Symphony and 400 Voice Chorus Join In Production

Tonight the Davidson Glee Club, the Queens-Davidson Symphony, and a chorus of 400 will present the famed “Messiah.” Each year the Charlotte Observer sponsors this concert for the Fresh Air Fund. This year it will be held in the Charlotte Armory.

Large Cast
The grand chorus will be composed of church choirs, talented singers in this vicinity, and The Queens-Davidson Choral. The whole production will be under the direction of Mr. L. R. Sides, Director of music in the Charlotte city schools, and Mr. J. C. Pfohl of the Davidson music faculty. Nationally known vocalists including Joanne de Naulo, soprano; Nyra Browning, contralto; Lara von Taylor, tenor; and Raoul Nadean, baritone, will perform during the oratorio.

Sunday Group Hears Music
Christmas Program Is Featured By Trio

Special Christmas music was rendered by a trio of musicians at last Sunday morning's regular meeting of the Student Sunday School at 10:15 in Phi Hall. Betty Kerr and Glenn Terrell were the vocalists for the program on Sunday while George Mitchell played the violin. One of the numbers was a duet by the two singers. Glenn Terrell sang the piece, “The Lord's Prayer,” while Betty Kerr's number was “Oh, Holy Night,” the beautiful and familiar Christmas hymn. Violinist George Mitchell played several hymns during the program. Scripture for the devotionals was taken from the book of Luke. It was the account of the first Christmas as given by that biographer of Christ.

SPONSORS BETA DANCE
EDITH EBELEIN
JEAN WELSH
SARAH BROWNLEE

The local chapter of Beta Theta Pi will hold their annual formal banquet and Christmas dance Saturday evening, December 13, at the Charlotte Country Club. Above are shown the sponsors of the function. At top, left to right, Miss Edith Ebelein of Lexington with Bob Rankin, Miss Jean Welsh of Charlotte with Frank Mebane, and Miss Sarah Brownlee of Charlotte with Bob Bryant.

Print Exhibit
Camera Club Shows Variety Of Sports Pictures
“D” Club Presents Shorts

Davidson’s “D” Club, honorary organization for letter-winning athletes, sponsored a showing of sports shorts and variety films in Chambers Auditorium Friday night, December 5, at 7:00 P.M.

Three Prizes To Be Awarded To Best Photos

The Camera Club began its exhibit yesterday in the exhibit room of Eumenean Hall. Boyce Rhyne has asked that everyone come in some time and inspect the prints and vote for the one which they think is superior. There will be three prizes awarded and some named for honorable mention. This exhibit will close on Friday, so you must come in before then in order to vote.

Games Shown

Sports shorts included various scenes from Davidson games, including the 1940 Citadel game, and the last quarter of the Washington and Lee game of 1941. Tennis and baseball were also shown. In addition, there was a shot on Fred Waring, famous star on the popular Chesterfield programs, showing how his orchestra was organized, how preparations were made, and the actual performance of the program.

Outstanding Plays

The most popular short, possibly, was the cuts of the outstanding plays of the outstanding football games of the 1941 season. Some of the most beautiful runs and passes of the best teams of the nation were shown, making an interesting demonstration of football perfection.

Proceeds of the show will go toward allaying expenses on the forthcoming “D” Club banquet.

CHRISTMAS PROGRAM

Last night the Y. M. C. A. presented an entertainment for the patients of the Mecklenburg Sanatorium. The program was held before seventy patients who were able to be out of bed at the time. The program featured a magic show by Shaw Smith, several numbers by Joe Barnwell and his aggregation, songs by the Davidson Quartette, imitations by Spruce, hill-billy music by Arch, and was concluded by a community sing of Christmas carols and other music.

Every Sunday fourteen members of the student body journey to the tubercular sanatorium to lead the patients in religious worship. This is the first time that an essentially Christmas program has been presented.

Liberty Week
Colored Troops Hold Meet On Golf Course

Davidson men under the sponsorship of the “Y” directed a Liberty Rally for all the colored scouts in Mecklenburg county Saturday before last on the golf course. In addition to the members of the three troops sponsored by the Davidson “Y,” representatives were present from several other troops throughout the county, including several from Charlotte. In all, about 50 scouts attended the rally, at which instructional courses were held in first aid, signaling, knot tying, history of the flag, fire-building, and other skills.

Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA

To the District Conclave in Columbia, S. C., went Brothers Jim Crook, Bill Squires, Pinky Wilson, and Professor Rainey, for an enjoyable weekend. Their trip included a dance Friday night and a river party Saturday night, however, they all remained intact. The other party of “operators” included Shep Booth, Jim Davis, and Pledge Ennett, who bummed to Randolph-Macon dance Saturday night. Bob Amos, as usual, went to W. C. and later to his home. Dating at Limestone College was Ashby Dick; and doing the same at W. C. was Dick Phillips. Dick Kelly could have been found at St. Mary’s and Mack Brewer way up at Hollins. As Dick Manning’s guest in Spartanburg, S. C., was Jack Clark. Among the usual quota going home were Bob Miller and Arthur Pendleton, who went to Charlotte, and Brother Sutton accompanied by Ben Lacy to Fayetteville.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

This weekend presented something new in Davidson bumming when Brothers Williamson and Davy Henderson thumbed a ride in the caboose of a freight from Mooresville to Davidson. Brothers Scott, Williamson, Henderson, and Pledge Tolleson were somewhere in the neighborhood of Asheville, Saturday. Those who remained on the campus found relief in the Davidson Hi square dance. Misses Lucy Morrison, Sally Moore, and Louise Lassiter were dated for the function by Pledges Stroup and Van Vickle and Brother Brockman, respectively. Also seen at the shindig were Brothers Hodges and Shannon, and Pledge Taylor. An enjoyable time was had by all. Pledge Anderson visited W. C. as did Brother Pearsall.and Pledge went home to Wilmington and Greensboro respectively, and Brother Parsons made his weekly pilgrimage to W. C. Brother Parks dated in Charlotte, Brother Martin risked a blind date in the Queen City and drew a former Miss Charlotte of Atlantic City! Brother Lane accompanied the Frosh basketball quint to Pfeiffer Junior College and brought them back victorious. Brother in the performed credibly Carolina All-Stars against Palmetto State representatives. Brother Moorhead witnessed the game and visited his home in S. C. Pledges Roach and Pittman made their ‘usual trip’ to points immediately north, Saturday and the Kappa Snappas had a party Saturday night.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

After dinner at Thacker’s, the Spencer North week-end was enough to keep the local chapter well occupied. It held at the Woman's Club in Charlotte, which was appropriately decorated for the occasion. A breakfast was later held at the Minute Grill, and was likewise a complete success. Sponsors for the dance were Lib Hale with Dick Miller, Frances Manning with Clarence Legerton, Cath Walker with Mc, Anne McLauchlin, Margaret Fearrington with Ed Hay, Mary Davis Wolfe with Bob Sleet, and Eddie Lawrence with Joe Bivens. Fiji's entertained their week-end guests with dancing at the Fireman’s Hall in Charlotte. These guests included: Misses Ann Wiley and Frances Hull of Charlotte; Nancy McClung, Inez Parrish and Nancy O'Neal of Winston-Salem; Miss Wilma Wall of Thomasville; Miss Rose Ann Nichols of Rock Hill, S. C.; Misses Caroline Parker, Isabel Linker and Carolina Lassiter of Davidson; Miss Mona Moseley of Charlotte; Miss Mildred Clinker of Marion, Va.; Misses Monnie and Sis King from Corinth, Miss.; Miss Kathryn Crosby of Le Land, Miss; Miss Ronnie Pippin of Shanghai, China; Miss Helen Hayes of Hickory, N. C. Also Miss Jane Anderson of Johnson, Tenn.; Miss Eleanor New York City; Miss Harrell of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Miss Mary Jeter of Rock Hill, S. C.; Miss Chris Varnedough of Jacksonville, Fla.; Miss Peggy Nimmocks of Fayetteville, N. C.; Miss MacDonald of Chester, S. C.; Miss Edwina Daniels of Statesville; Miss Jane McDonough of Columbus, Ga., Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts, Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming and Major and Mrs. D. G. Wilson of Davidson.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The annual fall function this year was held at the Woman's Club in Charlotte. The chapter announces with pleasure the initiation of two brothers. On Wednesday, December 3, Charles Isley and Walter Major were formally inducted into the fraternity. The chapter extends its sympathies to Pledge Brother Jack Horschel, who is in the Charlotte Memorial Hospital as a result of a most unfortunate accident.

KAPPA ALPHA

Still recovering from the effects of the K. A.-Kappa Sig Ball, local Kappa Alphas settled down for the most part to a pre-vacation effort to boost lagging grades before returning home for the holidays. However, the week-end was highlighted by several hares of the wildest variety. Foremost among them was the capital trip to the nation’s home taken by Pledge Brother Spencer, and Brother Little, to mention a few. Also heading North were Brothers Washburn and Burke, who stopped off for a visit to Fayetteville. The trip to Mt. Ulla proved sufficient entertainment for Brothers Coppedge, Jeffries, Sandifer, Hank Watt, DuPaterson, and Ginsberg. Pledges Darracott and Harris, for unknown reasons, ventured to Beach, while Brothers Royster and Ginsberg renewed their acquaintance at Maryland. Brother John Belk spent the week-end in his home in Charlotte, while Pledge Ike Belk spent the night at High Point and Pledge Lowry was with the frosh cagers at Pfeiffer. Another feed on Sunday night topped off the “studious” week.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT

Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PI KAPPA PHI

Most of the dealings of the Pi Kapps were confined to Charlotte, with Brothers Armstrong, McArthur, Hipp, Goudy, Bumbarger, Raymond, Larkin, Parks, and Parrigan being seen on the streets of the Queen City during the week-end. Brother Armstrong also extended his tour to include Rock Hill and Gastonia. Brothers Watson and Gaither spent their time at Hickory, Newton, and Bakers Mountain. Brother O. D. Evans and Pledge Walton also went to Hickory. Brother Lonnie Miller and Pledge George Wilkinson went to their homes in Greenville, S. C. Also in the going situation, just a little bit south of North Carolina were Brother Herring and McCall, to the latter's home in Florence, and ended with a large campfire on the intramural field. Those who helped with the rally were Bill McLaughlin, Jack Ramsey, Tom Howard, and Tom Brown. Bill McLaughlin, who is in charge of the scout work of the “Y” stated that there were still several vacancies both in the colored and white scout work, and requested that anyone interested in scouting see him. The chapter entertained several members of the faculty at a feed on Sunday night after vespers. On Monday night the fraternity entertained the Charlotte Alumni Chapter at a buffet supper at the boarding house, after which the latter put on a founder's day program at the fraternity house.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PHI DELTA THETA

A relatively quiet week-end was observed by most of the Phis. Brother Dunlap, '39, wild (Continued on Page Six)

Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality. You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again you enjoy the charm of its delicious taste...and its cool, clean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Go refreshed

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly except Sundays During December