CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

The changing calendar brings around basketball season whether the weather is right or not, and so it’s fitting to talk a little about it. The outstanding fact about the court game here at Davidson is the loss of Jim Hogg, but that’s that, and the enticing question, as always, is in the field of conjecture.

Prognostications

Certainly, nothing can be more unreliable than pre-season prognostications, but at the same time, they hold an everlasting interest. The question this year seems to be whether or not the Wildcat, a little short on real high-caliber scoring prospects, can whip themselves into a unit with all the boys tossing a few into the netting pretty frequently. In the past, there’s always been Hogg to pass to and Hogg to shoot, but from here on out, it looks like everybody is going to get a chance to rack up the points. This is a coach’s dream—a well-balanced club, with everybody scoring, if they can just get enough scoring accomplished.

It is probable that Coach Shepard will switch his courtmen into just about as many combinations as possible during these first practice games this week and next, and he may have to keep up this switching until later. When it comes, we'll know that he’s still looking for the five that can work together best. That seemed to be the trouble at times last year; for a while, one quintet would move like clockwork, and then they’d run down, and another shift would have to be made.

The first experimental five this year was the starting bunch against Bill Quick’s J. O. Jones’ aggregation on Tuesday night. Johnny Frederick and Dave Spencer were the forwards, John Belk was at center, and Buck Yarborough and Jack Wayman started at the guards. This bunch left four lettermen out of action besides the four who were in the fighting, but there’s a chance that this might be the combination which will hit the nail on the head.

A rather large injury list for basketball put somewhat of a crimp into the early practices, but the casualties should be mended by the time the conference race starts. Bob McLeod and Ed Lucas, both lettermen, have missed most of the rough practice scrimmages, Mac Bruce is out, and Pat Williams and George Marsh have both been going at half speed at least a little of the time because of football hurts.

Whether or not the Carolina game, scheduled at such an unusually early date, will go up into the Davidson win column is another bit of speculation. The Phantoms have the reputation of being a slow team to get started, but they’ve almost two months' start on the Cats in the length of their practice sessions, and this may mean lots of difference in the two teams’ timing, passing, etc. No doubt Glamack’s departure will hit the Tar Heels just as hard as Hogg’s loss to the Cats, and so they’ll be even on that score.

The conference competition will be tough this winter, and a start on the right foot would go a long way. The boys have twelve conference games, and the usual bet for invitation to the tournament at the end of the season requires a .500 percentage or better. The twelve conference games are with North Carolina, Duke, State, South Carolina, Furman, Citadel, at the rate of two apiece. The entrance of George Washington into conference circles will make the competition for tourney berths stiffer by a long way, and an even break might not mean tournament chances. Add on top of that, the Cats are playing some of the best in the circle. Last year the Virginia teams, on the average a little weaker than the N. C. and S. C. fives, could have provided a passport to a good conference record, but this season they’re off the schedule, making things just that much tougher.

Goodbye, Football

There’s just a little space left to put in a word for the gridders whose glory is fast departing. Wednesday of next week will give them their last fling when the “D” club banquets and fetes them, but in the meantime, an occasional honor trickles in. Ed Hipp got an honorable mention on the Duke’s “opponents list,” and a poll of sports writers declared Dave Spencer the best little man, and Davidson the most upsetting team by virtue of her ties with State and W. and L. and the win over Citadel.

Councill Drills Grapplers

With the largest number of men ever to answer the call for freshmen, the yearling Wildcat Sports Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN

Matmen Look To Good Year Under Parker

Captain Ed Hipp Leads Veteran Squad; Season Opens With Duke on Dec. 16th

Confronted with one of the brightest outlooks in Davidson history, the varsity wrestling team is rapidly rounding into shape for its initial match of the season with the Duke Blue Devils. The meet will be held on December 16 and will be the first of seven Southern conference meets scheduled by Davidson authorities to date. Led by Captain Ed Hipp, star heavyweight, the Cats will present a formidable squad against all opposition. However, the competition will be stiff with Washington and Lee and Maryland leading the parade. The Cats will meet all of these teams during the year.

Carter Improves

Teaming with Hipp in the heavyweight division is Wilbur Carter, a promising junior, whose work has much improved over the 1940-41 season. While these two have the larger division just about clinched, the starting berths in the 155 and 165-pound class are still undecided. Elimination trials are being run off by Coach Charlie Parker and whatever the outcome, this division will be packed with power. Ben Turner, Ashby Dick, and Dick O'Hair are among the most promising in this class.

In the lighter divisions, the Cats will be just as potent with R. L. Paul Brinson and Browning leading the 145 and 128-pound classes respectively. Rab McGeachy is expected to turn in wins for the Cats in the 121-pound class.

Councill Out

The Cats will be without an experienced grappler in the 135-pound class until George Councill becomes eligible at the beginning of the school’s second semester. George Ehly will probably fill the spot until the first of February when Councill becomes ready for varsity competition.

Cat All-Stars Off For Bowl

Davidson's student contingent of representatives to the Shrine N. C. vs S. C. All-star game consists of Davey Spencer, Butch Caldwell, and Dave.Vosburgh left yesterday for Greenville to prep for the game Saturday. Coach Gene McEver left Sunday and has been assisting with the tutoring of the Tar Heel squad during the past week.

Arrive Late
Spencer and Caldwell, all unable to leave Davidson in time for the full week of practice because of regulations, are both expected to see plenty of action. Men wrestling and reporting to Coach Buzz Councill nightly, prospects for a successful season are bright. Inexperience is the main defect at present, but hard work may put the squad in good shape for their meet with N. C. State on January 16. Practices to date have been on fundamentals, but the yearlings are learning fast and will move on to the more complicated stages of the grappling art soon.

W. H. Goodrum & Co.
“QUALITY MERCHANDISE At Reasonable Prices”
Davidson, N. C.

COME ONE, COME ALL!
Dance to the Music of TONY PASTOR AND HIS ORCHESTRA
THE BAND OF 1941
At The Charlotte Armory
Tuesday, Dec. 9, 9:30 ’til 1:30
Advance Sale Tickets In Davidson at 18 Georgia Dormitory
$1.50 Per Couple (Tax Included)
$1.75 Per Couple At Door

MIDGET CAPTAIN
Tommy Yarborough, diminutive court captain, has continued his ball-hawking tendencies in the current basketball season and promises to speed up the action throughout the winter.

Blue Devils Bowl Bound
Duke's mighty Blue Devils, the Southern Conference's gift to big-time football, have undergone another undefeated, untied season, and the nation finds them the nonchalant opponents of the West Coast Rose Bowl choice, Oregon State. The South attempts further glorification of herself by pitting Missouri’s rugged Tigers against the highly publicized Fordham Rams in the Sugar Bowl.

Texas vs. Georgia
Texas will be the adversary of Frankie Sinkwich and his Georgia Bulldogs in Miami's Orange Bowl, while the foe of colorful Texas A. & M. in the Cotton Bowl is yet to be named.

Duke Clinches First In Conference Race
As the final round of the Southern Conference race ended Saturday, Duke University, for the fifth time in the past eight years, emerged with the honors, after N. C. State’s stunning upset over William and Mary. South Carolina ended up in second spot with only one tie to blemish its otherwise perfect season, and William and Mary and Clemson tied for third spot, each losing one game.

North Carolina Low
North Carolina, a usual strong contender for the title, placed unusually low in the standings along with the other state teams.

Davidson Climbs
Davidson managed to climb three notches in the standings after their win over Citadel, and pulled up from the bottom of the list for the first time in several weeks.

Thursday, December 4, 1941
Kannapolis Opening Foes Before Xmas For Conference Encounter
Davidson’s optimistic cagers, apparently having rounded into shape, played their initial tilt of the season on Tuesday. Climaxing two weeks of practice sessions, the Cat five met the J. O. Jones team from Charlotte in the Davidson Gym, launching unofficially the 1941-42 Davidson season. The team meets Hanes Hosiery in Winston-Salem on Thursday and faces off against the Kannapolis “Y” on the “Y” home floor Saturday night.

Squad Seasoned
The squad, captained by Tommy Yarborough, has such seasoned performers as Don Bell, John Belk, George Marsh, Davey Spencer, Frederick McLeod, Pat Williams, and Bob Currie, plus Johnny Sob and others who were standouts on last year’s Frosh quintet. The Cats were strengthened this week by the addition of Ed Lucas and Mac Bruce, who were late in reporting due to injuries. Lucas, a senior, has seen much service during the last two campaigns, having won his letter last year. Bruce was possibly the star of last year’s kitten five. Lucas is a forward, Bruce is a guard, and both figure prominently in Coach Shepherd's plans for a successful year. The three practice engagements will serve to prepare the Cat cagers for their opening Southern Conference clash with North Carolina’s powerful Tar Heels on December 14, in the Charlotte armory. The Tar Heels will be considerably weakened by the graduation of All-American George Glamack, their brilliant pivot man.

Howard Gone
Little Jimmy Howard and Paul Severin have also departed, but despite these losses, Carolina should have a fine quintet ready for the game, since the Chapel Hill boys always stack up favorably with the best that the conference has to offer. It is interesting to note that Davidson extended the Heels to the limit last year, holding Glamack amazingly well.

Pause... Go refreshed
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Basketball Looks Good
Davidson’s Frosh basketball squad, with prospects of a very successful season, are rubbing off the rough edges under the watchful eye of Coach Chapman in preparation for their opening games this week. The Kittens battled the Sphinx A. C. Wednesday night and take the court against a fast Phiefer Junior College quintet Saturday.

There is plenty of competition this year with some of the best material ever to grace our campus out for the squad. The team has been cut almost in half as the Kittens prepare for their busy schedule of 7 games before the Christmas Holidays.

No Starters Named
Coach Chapman was unable to name any starting line-up, but said the following boys were certain to see plenty of action: Abie Short, Tom and George Peters, Sammy Yarbrough, Bill Sutton, Flop Shaw, Jack Byrd, Jim Lowry, Tom Powell, Sam Hay, Harry Hudson, and Rush Winchester. The Coach named these, but said all the boys would play lots of ball before the suits were tucked away for the summer.

Add Touches
The basketeers went through passing drills and added the finishing touches in general the first of this week, and have adapted themselves to the Davidson system of play amazingly.

Scrimmage Varsity
The Kittens scrimmaged the varsity last Saturday afternoon, and though no score was kept, the frosh showed up well. The teams worked well as a unit, and the passing was excellent.

LEE WATER-BLOC* THE BEARCROFT
A flattering, pre-blocked hat, with a semi-telescope crease, slightly narrower band, and a bound edge. Wear it with the brim snapped way back.

J. O. JONES, Inc.

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra”
Nightly except Sundays During December