PORTS LANTS
Wildcat Sports
By LACY MacLEAN
Page Four

Leaving tomorrow for Charleston and its famed Azalea festival will be a busload of Davidson's trackmen set for their second win of the season and an even break for the season. As somewhat of a sidelight for the cindermen is the meet Saturday afternoon which they should win. Last Saturday, the boys lost a close one 66-60 to N.C. State in an engagement which was slated as a toss-up. The States clinched the afternoon in the final javelin toss after sweeping the discus with tosses shorter than those of Davidson's Terrell and VanLandingham in the qualifying rounds, which they were unable to repeat.

Laurels again to Arch Taylor for his 15.4 seconds on the 120 high hurdles, which cut 1 1-10 seconds off the stadium record. Payton Halloman, sophomore Wolf, shows promise in turning in a 50.3 quarter to shatter another record field. Gene Shannon cleared 12’ 6” on the pole vault, topping his previous best by half a foot, but took only a second.

DUKE VS. CAROLINA TRACK—
Another meet attracted attention last Saturday when Duke’s Blue Devils burned up the cinders to defeat North Carolina 72 7-12 to 35 5-12. Moffatt Storer, Devil gridder/trackman, sprinted the century in 9.6, one of the fastest hundreds ever run in the South and within .2 seconds of the worldwide mark, 9.4. Besides this, Storer won a fast 21.6 220 to cop 10 points and win team honors. North Carolina was the meet’s high man with two firsts and a second for 13 points. Times in all events rank the Dukes among the best in the nation. Outstanding were a 4:26.4 mile, a new Fetzer Field record in the shot-put set by Steve Lach of Duke at 49’ 4 3-4". 189’ 1” was first in the javelin; there was a 49.8 quarter, and Mengel stepped the highs in 15.1 seconds. The 880 time was 1:59 and the 220 hurdles were 24.1.

Such will be the competition which the Davidsons representing ole D.C. will face in the Southern Conference Meet to be held at Williamsburg, Va., May 17. The Dukes, by virtue of their win over Carolina Saturday, will be listed as favorites, but Coach Pete Whittle will probably send five Wildcats to Virginia for the competition. These will be: Arch Taylor, Blanton Williamson, Chase Brenizer, Gene Shannon, and Hugh Sprunt. Although definite selections have not been made, upsets occur frequently in multi-entry meets. Taylor will enter the highs, 100-yard dash, and possibly the lows. Williamson runs both the hurdles, Shannon will pole vault, Sprunt will be in the dashes, and versatile Brenizer may enter any of several events, broad jump, high jump, or javelin.

SETTLED DISPUTE—
Word comes from Blacksburg in a letter from Monk Younger, once a Davidson coach himself, that the discus which the Gobblers threw in their meet with Davidson, while not exactly regulation size, was too little under standard to call for a forfeit in that event. The Techmen's disc weighed six ounces under the regulation 4 pounds, and, on investigation, it was found that the Davidson platter was a little over the specified poundage, making it unofficial also. So, the score is settled, standing as it did before the controversy arose—75 2-3 to 50 1-3 against the Cats.

LUCK TO THE CATS AT RALEIGH, CHARLESTON, GREENSBORO, AND IN VIRGINIA.

Pikas Top Volleyball As Closing Round Ends
The interfraternity volleyball was clinched last Friday by the Pikas when they beat the SPE's for a perfect record of eight wins and no losses. The Kappa Sigs closed with a win over the SAE’s to come in second with seven victories and one loss.

PHI'S THIRD.
By virtue of their last round win over the KA’s, the Phi Delts pulled up into 3rd place with six wins and two losses. In fourth place were the Phi Gams with a record of five won and three lost. Next were the SPE’s who broke even with four wins out of eight games. The KA's and SAE’s and the Betas were in a tie for sixth place with the PI Kaps occupying the last spot.

Tech Hi Team Tops Kits 13-2
The Wildkitten was stopped on Thursday of last week by a strong Cornelius High team. The Cornelius boys racked up 14 runs to the local boys' three.

JOURNEY TO CHARLOTTE.
Saturday afternoon the Kits traveled to Charlotte to attack the Tech Hi Wolves. The frosh were limited to seven hits by Kerr, right-hander for the high-schoolers. Neisler allowed the Charlotte boys 14 hits. The final tally was 13-2. Bethea was behind the bat for the Davidson club with Neisler on the mound. Kerr pitched for Tech with Byars receiving.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, April 24, 1941

Wolfpack Noses Out Trackmen
UNC Cat Nine 9-0
Feimster Proves Too Much For Wildcats; Limits Locals To Nine Hits

Allowing only nine hits, striking out 11 men, and issuing four free passes, Carolina's big right-hander, Hank Feimster, defeated the Davidson Wildcats 9 to 0 here at Richardson Field Saturday afternoon. Until the big fourth, when the Tar Heel bats exploded, it was a pitchers' battle between two superb right-handers, Feimster for the Tar Heels, and Lucas for the Cats.

FEIMSTER SINGLES.
Carolina put the game on “ice” in the fourth with three runs on two singles, two walks, an error, and Feimster’s single. As usual, the Cat's lathered the ball about as well as another, but lacked the support of his team both at field and at bat. Morris, the portsider, relieved Lucas in the sixth but had trouble finding the plate, issuing five free passes in 2-3 of an inning. Morris was relieved by McLeod, who pitched a beautiful game for the remaining 2 1-3 innings, giving up only one hit.

Working with meticulous care, Feimster was never in serious trouble. He yielded eleven hits and issued four free passes but was stingy in the pinches.

HEELS DETERMINED.
The Heels showed good determination and ball featuring an excellent keystone combination and several terrific hitters. Browning, who plays initial sack for Carolina, led the visitors' attack with three singles in six tries.

P.C. Frosh Top Kittens
In last Friday's meet, the Presbyterian College Frosh clinched a victory over the Davidson Wildkittens by a score of 64 to 53 on Richardson Field Friday, April 18. Bill Lacy was again high scorer for Davidson with first place in the 100-yard dash and the 220-yard low hurdles, second in the 220-yard dash, and third in the high jump. Pat Williams also had a big day, capturing nine points by taking first place in the high hurdles, second in the discus, and third in the shot.

Walter, P.C. utility man, was the outstanding man of the meet, accounting for eighteen of his team’s points. Other point-winners for Davidson were: White, third in the 880 and second in the mile; Maxwell, first in the shot; Hutcheson, first in the discus; Hart, second in the 440; Amos, third in the 440; O'Hair, second in the pole vault; Robbins, third in the pole vault; Dabney, tie for second in the broad jump; Port, tie for second in the high hurdles; Pharr, second in the low hurdles; Bruner, third in the mile; Friedman, tie for third in the high jump.

SOFTBALL UNDERWAY.
With class softball well underway, the Seniors lead with three wins, one over each of the other classes. In second place are the juniors with a loss to the seniors and wins over the sophs and frosh. The sophomores have one win and two losses and the freshmen are winless so far.The freshmen have yet to break into the win column. The feature game of the first round was the Senior-Junior contest staged Monday afternoon, combining a pitching duel between Jay Bolin and Davis Thomas and featuring several exhibitions of fancy and daring base-running by Cole and Fuqua.

MEET CENTRAL. On Tuesday, the freshmen took on the mighty Central High in Charlotte. Saturday, the frosh baseballers will tackle the highly favored Greensboro High at Richardson Field. Having lost all of the games so far this year, the frosh diamonders hope to get started in the win column on Saturday.

CAN YOU USE $35.00 A WEEK THIS SUMMER? Some made $1,200.00. Davidson men, be happy to include a few ambitious Carolina students for personal conference. 500 College Men averaged $420 profit last summer. We have a limited number of openings in the United States and should write today to Fuller Brush Company, College Agency, Greensboro, North Carolina.

The freshmen travel to Salisbury to take on the strong Yellow Jacket outfit. The Yellow Jackets boast unusual strength in the distances, especially the mile, in which McKenzie set a new North Carolina High School record in the State meet last week with a 4:31 time for the trek. Despite Salisbury's impressive aggregation, the Kittens hope to score a mild upset by downing them for their first victory of the year.

Bill Blanks banged out three sharp singles, and Owens secured a two-bagger. Lucas, starting pitcher for the frosh team, showed promise.

CORRECTED SPORTS SCHEDULE
APRIL
24—Golf—Varsity vs. North Carolina at Greensboro.
25—Baseball—Varsity vs. N.C. State at Raleigh.
25—Track—Frosh vs. Salisbury High at Salisbury.
25—Tennis—Varsity vs. V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
26—Tennis—Varsity vs. Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
26—Baseball—Frosh vs. Greensboro High at Davidson.
26—Track—Varsity vs. The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
28—Baseball—Varsity vs. Wofford College at Davidson.
29—Golf—Varsity vs. College of Charleston at Charlotte.
30—Baseball—Varsity vs. Guilford at Guilford.

MAY
1—Golf—Varsity vs. Duke at Durham.
2—Tennis—Varsity vs. Presbyterian College at Davidson.
2—Baseball—Varsity vs. Wofford at Spartanburg.
2—Baseball—Frosh vs. Centre High School at Davidson.
2—Track—Frosh vs. Central High at Davidson.
3—Baseball—Varsity vs. Furman at Greenville.
6—Tennis—Varsity vs. Washington and Lee at Davidson.
6—Varsity vs. South Carolina at Davidson.
7—Baseball—Frosh vs. Troy High School at Davidson.
9—Baseball—Varsity vs. Washington and Lee at Lexington.
9—Golf—Southern Intercollegiate Tournament at Hot Springs.
10—Baseball—Varsity vs. Hampden-Sydney at Hampden-Sydney.
10—Track—Varsity vs. Furman at Davidson.
10—Baseball—Frosh vs. Greensboro High at Greensboro.
15—Baseball—Varsity vs. N.C. State at Davidson.
17—Track—Varsity at Southern Conference Meet, Williamsburg, Va.

The Duke Blue Devils held to their lead last week to stay on top of the Southern Conference baseball standings. With a record of seven wins to no losses, the Dukes are threatened only by the Carolina Tar Heels, who have won six and lost but one.

CAROLINA LOSES. Carolina lost to William and Mary in Chapel Hill. With a loss to Duke, out of four games, the V.P.I. Gobblers hold the third position. The Furman nine is in fourth place with two wins and a single defeat. By losing a close ten-inning game to the Devils on Saturday, the Wake Forest squad took fifth place with a record of three wins out of five contests. Richmond, 1940 loop champions, has an even record of one win and one loss, and Clemson is in the same shape. Maryland and South Carolina each claim one conquest out of three contests. Washington and Lee has played six games and won two to occupy eighth place. N.C. State’s Wolfpack is next with one victory in four games, and William and Mary follows with one win in five games. V.M.I. has lost two and won none. Davidson’s Wildcats lost their fifth straight game to remain in the cellar. The 'Cats were blanked 9-0 by the strong Tar Heel team on Richardson Field.

BUSY WEEK. This week will be a busy one in the Southern Conference, with possibilities of upsets which would produce a change in the standings. Duke faces N.C. State and Wake Forest this week, while Carolina plays Virginia, Maryland, and a non-conference game with Navy. Lacy can be counted on for sure points in the dashes, and enough seconds and thirds would give the Kittens a win.

Duke Retains Loop Lead With Perfect Standing

'Cats Down Boston 9-0. The varsity tennis team handed the Boston University netters a 9-0 defeat on the home courts last Thursday. Every match was won by the 'Cats in straight sets in both singles and doubles. Captain Dick Shore pulled his first set out of the fire after being down 5-3 and at set point. He took the next four games to win 7-5, and won by the same score in the second set.

SPROULL WINS. Miller Sproull, in the number two singles match, defeated Sullivan of Boston, 7-5, and 6-4. The rest of the singles were taken in a breeze by the Wildcats. Schmidt, in the number three position, dropped only one game, while Moose Sain won 6-2, 6-3. Crichton and Parrigan made easy work of their matches, winning both without dropping a single game. In the doubles matches, Shore and Sproull continued their winning ways by defeating Davis and Sullivan 6-3 and 6-4. Sain and Schmidt won their number two doubles 6-0, 6-4, while Crichton and Parrigan defeated Coveny and Aisnault 6-0, 6-2. Moose Sain is still leading in the singles, having won seven.

(Continued on Page Six)

COMPLETE LINE Of Those Little Things That Make Your Room Livable
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL W™. R. BARRINGER
e Private Banquet Rooms
e Fraternity Rooms
e Davidson Students Welcome

DURING THE DANCES — EAT AT —
THACKERS, Inc.
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Cindermen Lose 66-60 To N.C. State Pack
Taylor Sets Field Record In Highs; Brenizer, Taylor Top Scoring

The varsity track team lost a close meet to State at Raleigh last Saturday by the score of 66-60. The meet was undecided up until the last event, the javelin throw, and State clinched it when Windley hurled the javelin 168 feet, 4 inches.

RECORDS SET. Two new stadium records were set during the meet, one by Archie Taylor in the high hurdles, and the other by Payton Holloman in the 440-yard run. Taylor's time of 15.4 clipped one and one-tenth of a second off the old record of 16.5. Holloman lowered the mark seven-tenths of a second with his time of 50.3. In the 100-yard dash, Taylor and Sprunt placed second and third, respectively, in the event won by (Continued on Page Five)

Golfers Play
Davidson's varsity golfers will play Carolina's linksmen today at the Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro. The match promises to provide keen competition since it is to be played on neutral ground.

ENTER OPEN. Besides this match, the golfers will enter the Carolina Open Tournament to be held in Burlington tomorrow.

(Continued on Page Five)

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Thursday, April 24
“MODEL WIFE”
With Joan Blondell and Dick Powell

Friday-Saturday, April 25-26
“ROAD TO ZANZIBAR”
With Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour

Monday-Tuesday, April 28-29
“FLAME OF NEW ORLEANS”

Wednesday, April 30
“ALL ABOARD” — AND “DOUBLE DATE”
DOUBLE FEATURE—15c

DAVIDSON THEATRE —DAVIDSON, N.C.—
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

PALM BEACH
Broader shoulders, fuller chests, trimmer hips—they give you a taller, more athletic look, and they feel like no other suit in the world, so light and comfortable. Smart new colors and combinations. Student's size: $12.75

Ed. Mellon Co.
106-108 W. Trade St.
Charlotte