Campus Camera

KARL 'NO-PUNCH' WALDRON WON THE INTERFRATERNITY BANTAMWEIGHT BOXING CROWN AT THE UNIV. OF MINNESOTA WITHOUT A SINGLE FIGHT! HE WAS
THE ONLY ONE ENTERED IN THIS DIVISION.

USELESS INFORMATION - STUDENTS SPEND 21,000 HOURS A YEAR STANDING IN REGISTRATION LINES.

Students On Mothers Day

MRS. W. P. CUMMING Sunday School Hears Advise About Mother. Dr. Kis and the Student Sunday School on May 11.
Her topic was Mother’s Day. Mrs. Cumming used two texts—one was the commandment Honor thy father and mother, the other
was several passages from Matthew on the Words of Christ—The love of Christ is more important than the love of
parents. These two conflicting ideas were representative of loving and honoring their parents on one hand and on the other
hand pulling away from emotional dependence on the parents which comes with young manhood and womanhood to follow one’s own
conscience and to make one’s own decisions. These two conflict rather painfully and suggest that it is possible to reconcile
the two by not merely being nice to mothers on Mother's Day, but by substituting true friendship for that earlier
emotional dependence. Friendship requires generosity on both sides. An example of the way in which we can show our love
for our parents is the dilemma of the English mothers of today who have had to choose between giving up
their young children by sending them away or keeping them in dangerous England. Mrs. Cumming ended by saying that the
most important thing that young men and women can do for their mothers is not to perform their duty in
wartime but when the next peace comes to dedicate their intelligence, energy, and courage to a new attempt to build
a world which will be able to keep peace.

BE SURE TO GET YOUR HAIR CUT BEFORE SPRING FROLICS NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

DOWN PAT (Continued from Page Two)

One May morning, as he is walking down for his morning coffee, a classmate accosts him and whines: “How much
more work have you got to do on your term paper? I finished mine two weeks ago.” Then the dawn
breaks. M. A. S. thinks to himself: “Oh, yes. Term Paper? Term Paper? Say, when is that thing due?” Upon
finding out that he has two more weeks in which to work on it, his worries fly away. A week
later and he is still wondering when he will begin the grind. Two days before it is to be handed
in, M. A. S. nervously canters down Dormitory Row to the Book House and finds that all the books that
he had planned to use were out of the stacks. By this time, he has changed his topic three or
four times, so he decides that one more change won't hurt. The next day he cuts all his classes and
works on his paper, taking time out for lunch. Then back on the drive until possibly five or six the
next morning. Panting dissipatedly, he gingerly hands in a fifteen-page holographic document, at the same time swearing never to procrastinate
again.

Sermon Given By Pritchett

Addressing his remarks primarily to the Senior class, Rev. Carl Pritchett spoke last Sunday night on “The Need of Patience,”
taking his text from Heb. X:35-39; 11:1. Mr. Pritchett stated that only by faith can the just survive. During this
troublesome period of world history, the tendency is to resent the apparent triumph of evil. Rebellion in this instance is
disastrous. Patiently waiting for God's deliverance is the adult approach, as it requires stability, clairvoyance, and levelheadedness. “The just shall
live by faith.” This text is the crux of Christianity: When Habakkuk observed the triumphs of Babylon, he could not
understand why Israel, God's people, were overcome. Jehovah explained that Babylon was merely used to chastise Israel and that in
their time Babylon would be destroyed. The speaker said that patience originated in faith in God. This faith, he said,
is “the substance of things hoped for.” God's sovereignty is manifested in his guidance of human history and in his
direction of our personal lives. A well-balanced individual has faith in God and in mankind which gives him buoyancy and
helps him to keep his head up. Rev. Pritchett closed by telling of an incident occurring in the life of
Bishop Wilberforce and Thomas Carlyle. As they were walking one day, Carlyle asked Wilberforce, “My lord, do you have a
creed?” “Yes, and it grows firmer under my feet every day.” Carlyle then remarked, “What staggers me is the progress
slow in the world.” To this Wilberforce forcefully replied, “If you have a creed, you can afford to wait.” Patience,
the foundation of hope and stabilization of life, can only permanently remain where there is faith in God.

REHEARSAL OF PLAY (Continued from Page One)

Hipp as Frank, who calmly accepts his forthcoming year in military camp and decides to have a big time before
he has to go; John Evans as Paul, who is a gullible and typical college newspaper reporter; Bill Tyson as
Joe, the black sheep at Solomon from Tom’s and Mark's hometown; and Harry, who learns that one “wild hair” too
many may get you in the end.”

MAKE YOUR ROOM LOOK LIKE SPRING WITH FIXTURES From SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE DAVIDSON, N. C.

CALL — 4641 For FANCY GROCERIES FRESH MEATS CANDIES We Deliver ANDERSON’S Food Store DAVIDSON, N. C.

Home of Tonsorial Masterpieces DAVIDSON, N. C.

Ed Mellon Co. 106-108 W. Trade St. Open Thursdays ’Til 9 P. M.

Go home for Summer Vacation with your bags loaded with the right togs from Mellon’s to make it perfect... here’s
a real selection of the kind of sportswear that'll make Play Time the Best Time: Ensembles $3.95 to $16.50 Sport
Shirts $1.00 to $1.95 Slacks $1.95 to $7.95 Jackets $1.00 to $7.95 Sport Coats $10.00 to $18.50 Lightweight Sweaters $1
to $15 Sport Sox 35c to $1.00 Boating Shoes $2.50 to $3.00 Bathing Trunks $1.95 to $3.95 Sportswear Dept. Second
Floor Ed. Mellon Co, Charlotte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Foreman Is Principal Speaker At Meeting. Dr. K. J. Foreman and seven Y.M.C.A. leaders represented Davidson College at the College
Y. M. C. A.-Y. W. C. A.State Retreat attended by twelve colleges and universities within the state and held at
Camp Hanes near Winston-Salem last weekend. Composing the Davidson delegation were Shaw Smith, “Y” secretary; Jim McCrary, Jimmy Fulcher, Sandy
Sandifer, Alf Taylor, Hank Crane, and Casey Jones, “Y” workers; and Dr. Foreman, professor of Bible and Philosophy. “The Challenge
of Christianity” was the theme of the conference, and around this topic, Dr. Foreman, the principal speaker of the conference,
delivered his four addresses. Friday evening he spoke on “The Challenge of a Crisis.” Saturday he continued with “The Challenge
of Conflict,” “The Challenge of Leadership,” and ended with a church service Sunday morning on “The Challenge of Christ.” Mr.
Ed King, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. at N.C. State, presided over the conference. Mr. Henry T. Ware, National Traveling Secretary
of the Y.M.C.A., Dr. Commer, executive secretary of the Carolina Y.M.C.A., Mr. Jack Codington, secretary of the Duke Y.M.C.A., and
Shaw Smith were the discussion group leaders. Discussion subjects were “The Purpose of Christian Associations on the Modern Campus,” and
“The Essentials of the Christian Association Program.” Institutions represented at the conference included Eastern Teachers College, Atlantic Christian, Carolina, Duke,
Elon, Pfeiffer, State, Davidson, Salem, Women’s College of the University of N.C., Asheville, and St. Mary's.

SEE BILL SHAW AND DAVIS THOMAS (Continued from Page One) Profits made by the store go into what is known
as the Student Loan Fund. This money is loaned to worthy students unable to meet college expenses. The clerks receive
25 cents an hour and work approximately five hours a week. According to the managers, the books were supposed to
be closed two weeks ago. However, almost $150 are still out. Students having unpaid bills are urged to pay Partrish
or Arnold as soon as possible.

Represent Davidson At YMCA-YWCA State Retreat

Cohn discovered something about OPERA SINGER (Continued from Page One) “And now for another question, Mr. Cordon. How long have
you been with the Metropolitan Opera Association?” “Five years,” he replied. “And how many roles have you sung during this
time?” “I’ve sung sixty-seven roles, and out of this group, I believe Faust is my favorite. I also like the
Marriage of Figaro very much; I sang two arias from this opera tonight, you know.” “Mr. Cordon,” I asked, “what
are some of your hobbies?” “Well, I tell you,” he replied, “I consider myself an excellent carpenter.” Mrs. Cordon approached
from off the stage, and I asked her if it were true that her husband was talented as a carpenter.
She replied in the affirmative and said that singing was only one of her husband's accomplishments. I asked the Metropolitan
star if he had often appeared before audiences of college students. “Yes,” he replied, “I have; I always enjoy singing
for college students because they are enthusiastic and appreciative.” I left the singer to the mercy of the autograph seekers
and camera fiends. I pushed my way through the crowd knowing that I had had the opportunity of hearing a
great opera singer and meeting a delightfully friendly and interesting man.

COHN LECTURE (Continued from Page One) they did but were entertaining by picture and form of entertainment. It’s interesting to
note that Mr. shows, dances, and other life after the Civil War by looking through the catalogues. After the war,
a whole page was given to patent medicines which claimed to cure a person from taking dope. Through later research,
he found out that people did take dope in those days as would be expected.

New Honorary Frat Officers

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON: Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, met last Tuesday, May 6, in the chemistry lecture room. After
the regular business was disposed of, officers for the coming year were elected. Tad Larkin was chosen president and the
other officers elected were Doug Clark, James Kerr, and Bill Squires.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB: Alston Thompson became president of I.R.C. at the meeting last week. Other officers elected were Ralph Williams,
vice-president, and Dick Kelly, secretary-treasurer. Thompson succeeds Charlie Martin as president.

SIGMA PI SIGMA: At its recent meeting Sigma Pi Sigma chose Blanton Williamson president for next year. Ben R. Lacy
was elected secretary-treasurer. The president announces that on May 20th there will be a guest speaker here who will give
a talk on the subject, “Light.”

ETA SIGMA PHI: Bill Summers, of the rising senior class, was elected president of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical
fraternity, at its recent meeting. Joe Harper was chosen vice-president to assist Summers during the coming year. Summers succeeds Bobby
Williams in his post. Induction of new officers and initiation of new members will take place next week at the
home of Dr. C. R. Harding. New members have not as yet been officially announced.

PI GAMMA MU: Don Bell was elected the new president of Pi Gamma Mu, social science fraternity, at a meeting
held Monday night at the S.P.I. House. Ed Scott was named vice president and Alwin Burts secretary. The program, of
which Don Bell was in charge, consisted of a discussion of “A Planned Economy,” and was followed by a feed.

SIGMA UPSILON: Due to the resignation of the office by Myron Sandifer, Bill Lyman was elected treasurer of Sigma Upsilon
for the coming year.

PINAY Steele STATIONERY 200 SHEETS — 100 ENVELOPES $1.00 WITH NAME, SEAL, AND ADDRESS

HOW TO OPEN NOSE THAT CLOSES UP AT NIGHT Put 3-purpose Va-tro-nol up each nostril... (1) It shrinks swollen membranes;
(2) Soothes irritation; (3) Helps flush nasal passages, clearing mucus, relieving transient congestion. VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Now Thru Saturday SPENCER TRACY MICKEY ROONEY “MEN OF BOYS TOWN”

Starts Monday Barbara Stanwyck Henry Fonda IN “The Lady Eve” CAROLINA THEATRE Charlotte, North Carolina

Chesterfield Smokers everywhere like their COOLER, MILDER, BETTER TASTE With outdoor lovers the country over, there’s nothing like Chesterfield for
a completely satisfying cigarette... they’re always Cooler-Smoking, Definitely Milder and far Better-Tasting. Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette
tobaccos is the big reason for their ever-growing popularity. Shown above are Ronald Reagan and Jane Wyman, famous movie couple.
He is starring soon in “FLIGHT PATROL,” she in “BAD MEN OF MISSOURI,” both for Warner Bros. Copyright 1941, Liggett
& Myers Tobacco Co. EVERYWHERE YOU GO
