Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JACK COVINGTON - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Garvey - Assistant Editor
Hoddy Yates - Associate Editor
Dick Cobb - Associate Editor
W. C. Plunkett - Associate Editor
Al Winn - Associate Editor
Ed Erwin - Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher - Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh - Managing Editor
Lacy McLean - Sports Editor
David Vosburgh - Movie Editor

STAFF
Dick Kelly - Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott - Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt - Circulation Manager
John Crichton - Collection Manager
Baxter - Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

ON THE Y. M. C. A.—
For three years we have observed an element in Davidson boys which is not at all to be admired. To
be specific, we are speaking of the attitude of cynicism, of criticizing everything and everybody. The idea that there should
be no criticism is absurd, but it should be constructive. Best example of how this attitude has enrooted itself in
us is the cynical outlook that we have adopted toward the local Y. M. C. A. and its every effort
to benefit us spiritually. We have pinned the term “mish” on boys who take an active part in the “Y”
and its work. In many ways we have shown contempt for the organization. Shaw Smith and his worthy assistants have
met the student body more than halfway in an attempt to remedy this situation. While all actives and non-actives have
improved, Shaw's efforts have not met with the success they deserve.

Another field in which this shows forth is in that of athletics. We criticize Davidson's teams, complain because no scholarships
are offered, but when the coaches solicit names of prospective athletes, there is practically no response at all. What right
have we to criticize a team when we are too lazy to go out ourselves? “He's a sorry guy.” How
many times have you heard someone say that about a boy that you don’t even know and have immediately “listed”
him, as the saying goes, without making any attempt to get to know the boy and form an opinion of
your own? This is perhaps another form of criticism, passing judgment on a person without giving him a fair chance,
but it is nevertheless a fault we would do well to eliminate here at Davidson.

Of course, there have been many other measures tried for the purpose of aiding in student development. We have been
required to attend chapel services and required to attend church and required to take Bible courses. And it cannot be
denied that from these things we have received much inspiration and much spiritual enlightenment. But our point is this. Intellectual
development is not handled by haranguing the student body en masse. No, each student is treated as an individual, and
our college spends large amounts of money to provide each man with the courses he particularly needs for his own
development and to keep an accurate record of his progress in such courses. In the realm of physical development a
similar analogy can be drawn. It is the express purpose of our athletic department to provide every man the opportunity
for personal physical development in some sport. But when it comes to things spiritual, we fail to find a definite,
integrated program designed to fit each man’s spiritual needs. And we repeat that if ever such an individualized, painstaking program
were necessary, it is now. Can Davidson afford to turn men out into a world like ours today with no
more attention to their spiritual development than chapel talks and “atmosphere?” This is not designed as a criticism of our
present program of religious education, it is merely to offer this suggestion. There is one institution on this campus that
is designed to meet this real and urgent need for vital, personalized Christianity. It is the Y. M. C. A.
For the past few years the “Y” has been under a slight stigma as catering only to certain classes of
students. This year, under the influence of Shaw Smith, the student body as a whole has, we believe, for the
first time become aware of the tremendous possibilities of the Y. M. C. A. What we, the students, want to
ask each other and our faculty is this: Isn't the work of the “Y” so vital, so important that it
would be worthwhile to keep a permanent “Y” Secretary, as is done on the Davidson campus in some other schools?
Isn't that position important enough to be made a regular post, paying enough to be the real life-long work of
Shaw Smith or someone like him? Isn’t a new, non-partisan, healthily social, red-blooded, deeply-spiritual “Y” the thing to meet the
need for real spiritual development? And isn’t such a “Y” worthy of the support of anyone daring to call himself
a Davidson man?

GIVING FULL CREDIT—
Perhaps sometimes we are guilty of not being appreciative of all the efforts that are expended by certain groups at
Davidson in the interest of the student body. Sometimes we seem to look over the work done by backstage actors
who have necessary roles in campus organizations. We refer to men who are assistants to the sports managers, the sports
managers themselves even, the business staffs of our publications and others, whose jobs may not seem difficult but require their
time and effort in their completion. Let’s lend them our cooperation in their work and give them full credit for
their accomplishments!

With The Staff
BY JIM STIMSON
American children discovered bright-colored Easter Eggs last weekend as though they had found the “hot rocks” of a diamond thief;
however, over in Europe the lads and lassies of the allied nations found no such “hot rocks,” but only the
burning particles of shrapnel scattered everywhere. A thousand boxcars full of little yellow chickens and ducks, dyed rabbits, eggs, and
candy would not have been sufficient to bring them peace and joy at Easter time. It was a Happy Easter
for Americans with all our material blessings. The weather was fine, and we all had the opportunity to dress in
new spring clothes. We paraded around as though we saw a bright future ahead. We attended church and heard again
the truth concerning the Resurrection and renewed our hope in Christ. The majority of Americans had a happy day in
their individual places, but did our thoughts extend further to consider Easter over all the world? Maybe we did think
of the hated Hitler and the danger that the Nazis impose upon the whole world. Maybe we thought again of
the steps that America has taken toward further endangering herself. But did we think of the great spirit that Willkie
said he found in England? Easter was altogether an intangible commemoration and not a tangible celebration in the Christian countries
of Europe. No chickens, no ducks, no rabbits, no eggs, no candy; but a hope based on their faith in
the Risen Lord. The terrorizing Hitler does not scare them when they have this hope. The allies sacrificed material values,
but have achieved an exalted spirit which cannot be beaten. Easter was not a time for them to show what
they had, but to give what they had. From them we can draw a good lesson. Can America achieve a
sacrificial spirit right now before it may be necessary to face an aggressor? Do we have to wait until we
engage in war to establish a national spirit? Now is the time to face what may come. We must not
be desirous of self-satisfaction, but do everything possible to develop national expediency. Strikes and revolts cannot be tolerated. “Old Glory”
must continue to wave over the “land of the free and the home of the brave.”

Sarah Lawrence College has received an unrestricted grant of $35,000 from the Carnegie Corporation.

Two juniors at Princeton are operating a student radio repair service.

Letters to the Editor

FROM PRINCETON—
Dear Sir:—
I have a friend here in Princeton who has asked me to write you concerning the little book, recently published,
“Come Wind, Come Weather.” He is interested in the spirit and movement of which this book is largely an expression
(Moral Re-Armament), and wishes me to make the request that you publish in The Davidsonian the Review of the book
which you will find enclosed, and as much of the other enclosed material as you care to use. The review
was broadcast by Peter Grant over station WLW.

“Tomorrow morning the booksellers of the nation will fill their windows with a red paper-bound booklet entitled ‘Come Wind, Come
Weather.’ It is by Daphne du Maurier, author of the famous novel ‘Rebecca.’ This little book being offered America for
the first time is no novel. It is a series of stories from life, and it houses within its twenty-five-cent
covers the greatest explosion that has occurred in the British Isles in the last year. ‘Come Wind, Come Weather’ is
Miss du Maurier’s answer to unity in the world. It is being read tonight in every bomb shelter in London.
It has already sold six hundred thousand copies in England. It is not propaganda. The dockworkers and the Cabinet Ministers
who read it realize that. They realize that Miss du Maurier has hit upon a message that while it is
part of the war, at the same time it is bigger than the war. Senators and Congressmen gathered this week
in Washington to listen to a preview of this new message for the world. They went out immediately and placed
orders for ‘Come Wind, Come Weather.’ The story of a new kind of world.”

—Roger Enloe, '32.

ON BALLOTING—
Dear Tony:
Our elections are carried on under the secret ballot system. That is preferable in any election, in order to allow
a man to vote as he honestly desires, and in order that no one may know for whom he has
cast his ballot. The ballots are signed, too. That is a necessary feature of the system (as opposed to closed
politics), in order that the Elections Board may investigate any rumors or suspicions of “combines” or open politics. The Elections
Board is pledged not to reveal the contents of any man’s ballot, so that, while this body must be able
to look into any alleged “combine,” they may not tell who voted for whom, thereby causing many personal complications and
hard feelings. But somewhere along the line the system is breaking down. Because, while it is not general knowledge that
A voted for B, or that Smith did not vote for Jones, it is commonly known that groups vote for
what man, and from what quarters the candidates are drawing their support. Did this not change from election to election
it might be supposed that the rumors, if such they might be called, were based on fact.om mere guess, or
perhaps on past affiliations. However, when in one election it is understood that one of the candidate's votes came mainly
from Group A, B, or C (referring to any actual organizations, class of students, dormitory, or group) and then in
another balloting the general knowledge is that another man was supported by groups C, F, and G, there arises the
apparently well-founded suspicion that someone is able to find out the facts and pass them on from mouth to mouth.
Much distortion of fact is thus caused, with the result of ill-feeling among the groups, change as they may from
time to time. This is almost as bad as personal ill-feeling and is a situation which is not the natural
consequence of a system of closed politics. If this evil is to be remedied, the pledge must be upheld in
spirit as well as in letter. Even the slightest intimations as to balloting cause rifts between men and groups. Absolute
silence on the part of the Board, such as is maintained by the Student Council concerning their business, is the
only answer. This body is sworn in under the honor system, too, it must be remembered. Their silence is honor-bound.
—Sophomore.

Film Report Card
CLARENCE LEGERTON

In this, my first attempt at writing this column, I would like to give to the small minority of the
students an idea of my plans for the year. For the most part, they will follow the trend of the
fine column that Dave Vosburgh has written so faithfully this past year. The only change contemplated at present is to
list the important shows which are on their way to Davidson Theatre-goers. The policy of picking a student at random
from the student body to be the guest of the theatre will be continued, and the same system of grading
pictures will be followed. Four stars will indicate an extraordinary production, one which no student should miss. Three stars will
mark a fine picture, with two indicating a good money’s worth. One star will signify only a passable show, and
I hope that this mark sees much service. I will have to ask you to bear with me if I
am unable to obtain any dope on a show, but I shall do my best.

Thursday April 17
Bitter Sweet ★★★
Jeanette MacDonald, Nelson Eddy, George Sanders. This plot of a young couple madly in love attempting to make a living
by their musical talents is somewhat weak, but the beautiful singing of Miss MacDonald and Eddy make the show well
worth while to all who appreciate good music. The picture is filmed in the new technicolor, with many lavish scenes.
Vienna serves as a background for this lovely musical comedy.

Friday April 18
Land of Liberty ★★★★
This picture rated four stars because of the fact that it is unusual. It is a comprehensive review of the
inspiring and stirring history of our country, from the days of the colonists to the present. The story is told
in scenes from feature pictures, shorts, and news reels, and in it you will see the Revolution, the War of
1812, the Gold Rush of ’49, the Civil War, and many other events leading up to the present. The film
has ups and downs in interest, sometimes vitally gripping and occasionally a little slow. Many scenes afford chances to recognize
your favorite actors or actresses as they appeared years ago. The entire profits from the picture will go to the
war relief charities, and it affords an excellent opportunity to enjoy an evening and contribute to war relief at the
same time.

Saturday April 19
Wagon Train ★
Tim Holt, Ray Whitley, Emmett Lynn, and Martha O'Driscoll. This is another of the super “horse-operas” being put out by
Universal. Tim Holt, in the masculine lead, provides plenty of action and cause for whistling. Martha O'Driscoll, a coming starlet,
lends the romantic angle to this story of the west. The late show Saturday night—at 10:30 will be another in
the popular Dr. Kildare series, entitled “Dr. Kildare’s Crisis.”

Monday and Tuesday April 21 and 22
Lady From Cheyenne ★★★
Loretta Young, Robert Preston, Edward Arnold, Gladys George, Frank Craven, and Jessie Ralph. Essentially this is the story of a
school-marm who cleans up her town. Loretta Young, as Annie Morgan, the school-marm, buys a lot on the riverfront, keeping
the local town boss from getting a corner of the water supply. The boss’s young lawyer, played by Robert Preston,
attempts to buy the property for his boss. He fails, however, and is later elected to the House of Representatives
in Cheyenne, where Loretta Young goes to attempt passage of a bill for woman’s suffrage.

BILL LEMMON
DAY’S DIARY BY
Guest Columnist—David Vosburgh.

As the horses now line up we will give you odds at 3-1 that Ashby Dick switches horses before the
Kentucky Derby and that the favorite, Sweet Lil’ Lizz, will be scratched. Hobbie heard his weekly sermon from Jean over
the phone Sunday night. It only cost him eighty cents and he got to say three big words. Towering Tommy
Yarborough got bit by the spring bug in Greensboro and is now well locked—Her name—Peggy Efird. Dead Pan Lucas lost
sleep over the weekend because his invite to the dance at W. C. did not arrive until Monday morning. He
met the train in Mooresville to get the letter off. If anyone sees a Pika pin at Queens it will
probably be Levi Sink’s. Quite a few of the small operators appeared at the Beta Club dance in Charlotte Saturday
night. Queenie Bob Smith had a date with one of the little girls. He took her and the mother out
for a milkshake and got to ride all the way up the elevator alone with her. Herring, Pat Williams, Legerton,
and Tiny Alumni Clontz were among others seen there. At the dance Friday night Senator Hill and Gaither proceeded to
take the great Sammy Snead but the visitor craved excitement and left. Buddy Carson was dazzled at the junior high
girls, and Jay Bolin by being introduced as Captain Bolin drew sighs from a little high school babe. Put Vereen
craved excitement and went to sleep in his car. Shep Booth and Bevo made a call on Eastern Carolina and
took in a midnight dance in Virginia—Brinson rode a bicycle up the main street of Statesville and drew many applauds—he
later flashed his hat to the many followers. A certain miss from St. Mary’s received a flush two weeks ago
from Boykin; he “had to study and couldn't possibly leave the campus.” Buddy Carson then shot the same babe a
flush. He “would like to come but had already made plans to go to Atlanta with Boykin.” Shorty Parish, Bone,
and Little Dave shot up to Winston Monday night for the big dance—Dave proceeded to show Shorty the spots of
Winston. Ox Alcott gave an exhibition in Winston over the weekend on how to ride a horse. Hite pulled off
to Lancaster over the weekend and saw Too Hot To Handle. He took her home very early. Whisky Bob sent
his pocketbook via flowers to Hollins over the weekend. Ook Taylor is planning his annual spring pilgrimage to Lynchburg this
weekend and has already let Janice know. Red River Valley Barker is underweight and will not make the trip. Russell
Beam had the prize late date at the Beta Convention. She enjoyed the dance although she failed to dance. S.
Cooper gave the chaperones a thrill. Southgate has started once again to figure on the short cuts to Sweet Briar.
Grosse telling how he pitches and finding very few to listen. Polly Charlotte has forbidden all Davidson boys to see
her anymore... all due to a certain Joe. No Neck has broken down and with the aid of correspondence courses
has learned to speak English among the crowds. Miller Sproutl and the Beester enjoyed the weekend and had as their
visitor Mr. Rummy from Puerto Rico. Rankin has become so wrapped up over his new flame from Asheville that he
is one of the chief drolters on the campus. Tub Efird has packed his fishing tackle and will head for
the open sea this weekend. Frog Bell looking forward to his date with the woman that carries a gun—

PAT RUDOLPH
Down Pat

HOW ‘BOUT CHOOSING YOUR COURSES FOR NEXT YEAR, OR; FROM WILD HARE TO WILD HARE. WITH NO CUTS.

Within a short time, members of the three lower classes will begin one of the most important periods of the
year; that of selecting their courses for the incumbent term. You freshmen will soon find that despite the fact that
you haven't much choice in the matter of courses, you will have the privilege of choosing your favorite professors. We
shall not attempt to go into the various professorial characteristics and eccentricities in our little treatise, for by now you
must have some little inkling concerning these matters. However, let us give ear to two sophomores whom we find parked
in front of Chambers lobby bulletin board, scholastic college section.

“Who ya gonna git fer Blitzocology 71, Ernie?”

“I dunno. When does Smith’s section meet?”

We leave the two sophisticates at this time, for already we may gather several good points from their little conversation.
First, observe that the junior year generally marks the departure from such sophomoric courses as “Goldbricking 21: The Study of
How To Proceed From A To B Without Cutting C.” In short, such witch willies as “Advanced Mitosis and Chromosomal
Behavior 91” should be avoided, because this course requires frequent trips to the Campus Observatory, located on Nurse's Nob. You
should substitute for this a good second-period course such as “Simple Putting Problems and How To Dissolve Them 2” or
“Cribbage South of PaNgo-PaNgo 3,” for apple-knuckling will be stressed next year. The Putting Problems course will be extremely interesting,
since a number of stimulating field trips will be taken by the class as a whole. The itinerary of these
trips includes such stops as Sneeze Boro and Kershaw, both of these towns being a little bit south of Nawth
Calina. As you can see, this offers a wide range of operation for the entire apple-knuckling department.

Group Honors may be taken in one of eighteen fields, the best of these being Field I, the Barley Field,
or “How To Mow Your Own.” This group allows for a lot of cutting, and is valuable for that reason
only. However, the top floor of Georgia satellites have decided not to pursue this interesting set of courses next year,
so you will have to buy some textbooks, after all. One of the most amusing courses to be instigated next
September will be “Faculty Calisthenics 1234,” which is of little other interest to our discussion, except that said course will
do away with all 8:25 appointments on Mondays. A recent communique from the curricula committee of the college stated that
all members of the faculty, regardless of previous interest or aptitude, will be required to trudge up and down Buttermilk
Hill from 8:25 until 9 o’clock every Monday morning. This is one of the new National Defense measures which came
as a result of HR 1837. Since professors will be permitted to sleep late on Wednesdays, a student should save
two full periods per week. Actually, two extra periods will be inserted after lunch each Saturday. This must be done
to ensure the college’s present standing in “Amalgamated Colleges and Sundry Institutions, Inc.”

Truly, next year’s curriculum offers dramatic possibilities. Also, our commodious plant will be expanded to meet Local 303’s strict specifications.
This includes a set of the latest type advanced 1941 model “Corrugated Classroom Chairs,” curved to fit the anatomy of
the student of even the most unctuous and adipose fabric. Beside providing you with interest—
(Continued on Page Six)
