Tom Pionk........Assistant Business Manager
Dick Ketty........Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott..........Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt......Circulation Manager
John Crichton.....Collection Manager
Baxter F..........Subscription Manager

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thurs., Feb. 13, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed by the STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson,
North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

ANDY DALE..................Editor
JACK COVINGTON...........Editor
Paul Bumberger.............Associate Editor
Tom Cauble.................Associate Editor
Ed Watson..................Associate Editor
Lawson Withers.............Associate Editor
Dick Cobs...................Managing Editor
Harwell Darby...............Managing Editor
Bob Garvey.................Managing Editor
W.C. Wankert...............Managing Editor
Al Winne....................Managing Editor
Bob Carter..................Sports Editor
David Vosburgh.............Movie Editor
Billy Barker................Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory references to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Student Relations

Beginning this week a series of articles, two a week, written by a fraternity and a non-fraternity man will appear
in this paper, discussing various phases of the relations between the two groups at Davidson. Too long various groups on
the campus, such as ODK, the paper, and other interested parties spent hours discussing the situation (if such there be)
without attempting to better it (if such is needed). We believe that public statements, made by members of both groups,
will go a long way towards clearing up any misunderstanding which may be now present, since the first and primary
difficulty in any situation is to persuade all concerned to face the facts openly. Therefore this series is intended to
foster better fraternity-non-fraternity relations on Davidson's campus and among her student body in order that the college itself may be
bettered by such.

Any interested person will be considered as a possible writer in some future week if he will contact the editor,
and, as always, communications will be welcomed, provided they are not anonymous. Those persons who have written or may write
such articles are not limited in any way as to their statements, except as the stated policy of the paper
may do. Likewise their subject or subjects, scope, and length (within reason) are not restricted.

The series, it is hoped, will promote a far better attitude within each group toward the other, by a more
mutual understanding of the problems and difficulties of the other. The editors in no manner commit themselves to any view
or conviction of any writer or writers who have been or may be the author of articles printed here. Neither
shall any opinion expressed be taken as that of any fraternity, society, organization, or group, unless specifically so stated under
such writing, since the statements made are personal to the writers, whose names are withheld in order that personalities may
not become involved. —THE EDITOR.

The Non-Fraternity Side

There are several different angles from which the question of fraternities on our campus may be considered (obviously). There is
no need of diminishing their value. It is easy enough to see the need of fraternities here and to see
the valuable function they perform socially. And the question of whether the “principle of the thing” is democratic is hardly
a practical angle. In the first place we would have to prove that democracy is what we want, and then
always act as if we believed in it. In the second place whether or not the idea is democratic, we
have our fraternities. The important question is how they can make for a better Davidson.

Then there is the issue of politics, always to be mentioned in whispered tones. Frankly, I know so little of
what goes on among fraternities in a political way to be able to dismiss this. It just seems to me
that everybody has more fun at election time every spring. Even we non-fraternity men can occasionally vent our spleens when
we feel that something didn’t go as we would like it.

Now to get to some criticism of the fraternities and their members. My own principal objection is hard to express.
Perhaps there is nothing to it. But in a sentence it is this: that the fraternities set the pace for
the empty conventionality and dull normality to which we all have a tendency to conform. Stated more simply, it is
just intolerance. For instance, if a man is an innocent introvert with a good, healthy reserve about his personality, he
had better at least fake a ‘Hello, ole man. How ya gettin’ along?’ attitude if he hopes to have many
friends. (Please don't confuse this with real friendliness. I’m all for that.) My point is, in other words, that the
fraternities lay too much stress on manners. Again I’m afraid that you’ll get me wrong. It is almost painfully truistic
that the more mannerly a man can be—we might even say the more “glamour boy” tricks he can learn, the
better off he is. And carnations to the fraternities for teaching men manners. But why put manners first among the
criteria for personal judgment? It is this lack of a sense of values that produces fops, that lists many an
innocent man because he has unwittingly broken some Davidson rule of etiquette, that makes bat-brained Joe College out of a
bat-brained freshman, that (dare I suggest that this is an evil?) makes a man cautious lest any but his best
friends suspect that he has an interest in matters intellectual.

I repeat that this attitude is by no means confined to the fraternity man. We are all inclined to tame
our interests for fear of being thought “queer.” But I believe that fraternity men are more to blame for its
prevalence, for its existence, than non-fraternity men. And whatever could be done to correct these mistakes would be an effort
to make a more homogenous, more democratic student body.

(Signed)
Senior Non-Fraternity Man

The Fraternity Angle

If you as a person not associated with Davidson were to approach any Davidson student and ask him to classify
the student body into two groups, what would be his answer? He would probably say that in one group are
both gentlemen and scholars, while in the other are simply gentlemen. His most obvious answer, however, would be the fraternity
and non-fraternity groups. Immediately the outsider begins to wonder, what is so different in a group of non-fraternity men, or
vice-versa. Certainly one man is no better than another and especially is this true at Davidson, a college noted for
its democracy. These criterions could not by any means be based on a person's looks, ability, personality, or, though to
some extent, money. I venture to say that not one man in ten thousand could pick out a non-fraternity man
from a group of fraternity men at first glance. There must be a subtler difference somewhere, however, and that difference
is in organization.

The fraternity men have lived together, played together, risen and fallen together, and, when the occasion arises, work as a
unit. They are prepared. Not only are they organized here by nine distinct parts, but they are organized as a
whole. Life within a fraternity, from Alpha Beta to Psi Omega, seems to give men a similarity of outlook; they
feel basically the same on any subject. They have had an extensive opportunity to learn the value of cooperation, and
thus they are better able to work toward a common goal than the non-fraternity men.

We now see that the fraternity men are a group because they're organized, but what of the non-fraternity men? That's
easy, you say, he’s in that group because he’s not a member of a fraternity. Perhaps you say this a
little deprecatingly, but why should you? Bill Jones may in every way be one of the poorest men on the
campus, while Johnny Smith makes good grades, is a fine intramural man, and seemingly has every qualification of a good
fraternity man. Yet Bill may be a member of the best fraternity while Johnny has not even received a single
bid. There isn’t a man living who can answer this enigma—Jones’ father may have been a Delta Tau, while Smith
made the no matter how justifiable error of blacking a Delta Tau's eye the first day of school.

These examples sound a little far-fetched, and certainly they are extreme cases; but it all goes to show that there
is no individual difference in the two types. The difference is entirely a product of environment. The fraternity man is
surrounded by a congenial group of men who act and think alike, while the non-fraternity student is solely dependent upon
himself. Perhaps this makes them more independent and personally resourceful, I don’t know, yet it is certain that the main
thing they miss in college is the fellowship and friendship that a fraternity offers.

Because he lacks these things, a non-fraternity man will too often develop a needless complex. Friendship isn’t thrown into his
lap from the first day at Davidson—he has to go out of his way and work hard at the job
of making close friends. Perhaps he doesn't go to the dances for just these same reasons—feeling that the fraternity council
is in charge and he hasn't the slightest connection with them. He'd be the last man to rise and express
his opinions in an open meeting, simply because he has to stand alone without a fraternity to back him up.

All of these things are wrong and are the result of mental misconceptions by the non-fraternity man. The dances are
for all of us; all we need to be just as close friends as if fraternities never existed is a
chance; and any fraternity man will listen to non-fraternity opinions—they’re probably sounder than his own. Davidson offers the same to
all her students; and though a fraternity facilitates the social advantages, they are available to all. We're not fraternity and
non-fraternity men, we're members of Davidson College. Let’s think of it that way.

(Signed)
Fraternity Senior

Letters to the Editor

By DAVID VOSBURGH

(a) Changed “Major” Requirements

Dear Andy,

You know, Andy, that sometimes the faculty does things that we, the students, don’t particularly like or understand, and naturally
we make our dislikes known. The faculty is usually quite considerate of our views and usually tries to see things
our way. But sometimes they do things that affect only a few of the students, and thus, nothing is done
about it. I guess by now you've gathered that I, as well as several other members of my class, feel
that we've been done a slight injustice. You see, we registered and selected our courses in '39, understanding that one
of the interclass baseball teams might challenge Charlotte. The interested faculty are becoming enthusiastic over the prospects. we would be
required to have only 16 credit hours to obtain a major. We also understood that the courses we took our
freshman year would not help us obtain this major. Thus, some of us, planning to take pre-med or other similar
work, realized that we should take more science courses, for example: chemistry. That was required for a major, thus we
took an extra science course our freshman year.

But during the middle of last year, as you undoubtedly remember, the faculty changed the major requirements from 16 to
24 hours, taking effect with our class. I think by now you understand that we will have to take one
more year of science than we had really expected. Now the Editor for 1941-42 may continue to root for, and
support a “hard-luck” basketball team, but begin to brag about what the Wildcats will be doing on the gridiron next
year. Even members of the usually dignified faculty are becoming enthusiastic over the prospects.

Strangely to say, intercollegiate sports are comparatively new to the Davidson student. For the first athletic encounter with another school
was a football “tussle” in 1898 with the University of North Carolina in which the wearers of the crimson and
black were defeated 11 to 0. But for several years before that date, students had been seeking permission from the
faculty for intercollegiate competition in something more vigorous than debating. The faculty's first refusal came in 1871 when a petition
was declined.Young men,” the refusal being based on the ground that it involved a departure from the path of duty
that lies before students at a college.” The students, however, in the long run received their wishes, and in 1900
the first outside coach was provided. That year the enthusiasm ran riot when the newly organized eleven won seven of
the eight scheduled games, one of these against Georgia Tech, 38 to 6.

Two years later intercollegiate baseball was permitted, with basketball following in 1908. A new Alumni gym was provided by 1917
to take care of the growing interest in the latter sport. Thus, the college offered a well-rounded, three-fold program: spiritual,
mental, and physical. But today, how about the third “fold” of our college program? Can it be effectively offered and
pursued with the equipment we have at present? Can we expect to have a winning basketball team with such a
place for it to practice in? It seems that the present reconstruction program of the college is making the mental
side of the entire program far excel the physical. However, we must be satisfied, at present, with a new library
and science building, but can’t some of the Alumni give us a NEW GYM? They did back in 1917!

DAY’S DIARY BY BILL LEMMON

Rothschild Kelly, known as Iqes or Dicky, whipped over to St. Mary's from the hill Sat. to enter upon diplomatic
negotiations for a substantial monetary sum from his kid sister. This character did a great deal of “gooning” on all
men holding dates which he contacted. Joe Liles and Easy Eve slipped into Chapel Hill with those everlasting grins on
for the weekend. One twentieth of the D.C. student body were to be found at the greater university this past
Sat. Buddie Hite followed Mackie to the v1. Dr. H. Sprunt left Winston in bad shape Sun. The cops got
him for not giving due respect and order to the lights, signs, and speed laws. Beester Burwell appeared to have
himself in a building with no corners as he could not find a place to hang his hat in the
ATO house. Skinny Arnold and Amigo Lauch tried some of Kenneth Robert’s recipes over in the city. Frank Niven, navigator
of the heavenly blue, got the passengers lost in his hometown of Albemarle. Hoc McCall got on the ball this
Sat. but due to unexpected complications was forced to retire from the field. The Goldsboro goddess, after marrying off her
sister last weekend, flushing (George) Honey Dew, at otherwise, a time distinguishing Scott from Hill Cooper who was at W.C.
Bert Carr, Ron Rogers, and big Jim Werr got caught in the rush at the door of the dance at
W.C. Sat. and did not arrive here until the wee hours of Monday a.m. Cheerful Charlie, (the cheerleader) Allcott broke
the headlines as McDuffie’s protégé of the newest sensation, the box step. Even though Frank Niven was first on the
draw in G’boro, Rocky Shore beat him to the trigger by having Talk is that Good, the Mooresville queen, Sara
Taylor, down at the old homestead. (Keep trying Frank; take notice, Ruthie). Ansley pulled a take on Garvey by taking
the latter's weekend date to the Salem dance. The Phi Delts shot down to Atlanta on a deputation to Tech
with Lumbering Lawson Hayes at the driver’s post. Joe Flowers got on the bug and ended up the deal in
Columbus. Bone Reinhardt and G. Grantham are in contempt of the law for violation of the Lindbergh law. Shaw Smith
took up his post as magician in the SAE house at the hill. Snatz McReynolds says that his personality rating
took a decided decline at the Sat. formal when one of the better-known Pi Kapps whipped him off the chair.
Our pretty secretary in the adm. offices has pulled a Bo Arnold on us.

I’ve written only about the effect that this change in the Major requirements has had on students planning to major
in science, but I’m sure that it has also affected boys planning to major in other fields. Do you think
the faculty would consider this problem? I’d like to talk about it sometime soon and then discuss it with several
members of the faculty.

Sincerely,
A Sophomore Friend.

(b) Athletic Facilities

Dear Editor:

With excellent reports being heard from many sources as to the potential ability of our football team, how about the
third “fold” of our college program? Can it be effectively offered and pursued with the equipment we have at present?
Can we expect to have a winning basketball team with such a place for it to practice in? It seems
that the present reconstruction program of the college is making the mental side of the entire program far excel the
physical. However, we must be satisfied, at present, with a new library and science building, but can’t some of the
Alumni give us a NEW GYM? They did back in 1917!

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17 & 18
“So Ends Our Night”: Fredric March, Margaret Sullivan, Frances Dee, and Glenn Ford. Two thrilling romances in a high adventure
story. The story came from the novel “Flotsam” and proves that no power on earth can divide and rule true
love. Margaret Sullivan and Glenn Ford, armored only with their love, win their hearts' victory. The movie will rank as
one of the best for this year and is built around the love affairs of these great actors.

Wednesday, February 19th
“Laddie”: Tim Holt, Virginia Gilmore, and Joan Carroll. This is the third straight time Gene Porter’s popular story has been
brought to the screen, but even so it is so carefully and sincerely done that it is worth seeing again.
Tim Holt plays with dignity and verity, the young farmer who falls for the unhappy English girl. Joan Carroll is
a new but adorable sister and Virginia Gilmore is the girl of Laddie’s choice. I would like for Tommy Yarborough
to be my guest for any show next week.

In case you're having trouble getting responses to your petitions to Fred Waring, et al, requesting original college songs, we
offer herewith the lyrics for a little number developed in UCLA's English department and their followers. (Can be sung to
the tune of “Three Blind Mice.”)

Three rodents with defective vision.
Three rodents with defective vision.
Note the manner in which they flee.
Note the manner in which they flee.
It has been traditional at Notre Dame, says The Scholastic, to confine stories of intellectual and scholastic aberration to the
members of the English department. However, the phy-ed boys should be brought out of their gymnasiums and exposed, sweatshirts and
all, to public scrutiny.

In a recent exam, a prof asked: “Name two ancient sports.” To his astonishment, one lad, who like Gene Tunney
had a fondness for Shakespeare, answered: “Anthony and Cleopatra.”

The University of Minnesota heating plant uses 30,000 tons of coal a year.
