Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 4, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY..... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON..... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter......... Assistant Editor
W. C. Plankett........ Associate Editor
Ed Erwin............. Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher........ Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh....... Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean........ Managing Editor
Clarence Legerton.... Staff Photographer
Billy Barker.......... Sports Editor
.................... Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp......... Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young.......... Advertising Manager
Lee Martin........... Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely........ Circulation Manager
Ivey Staton........... Collections Manager

New Telephone System Definitely Needed

It has been called to our attention that nothing has been done in the way of improving the poor telephone system that exists at Davidson. In this editorial we follow up the suggestion which appeared two weeks ago in a letter to the editor.

If you don’t believe there is a reason for improving the telephone set-up on the campus, just try calling Georgia dormitory from Charlotte some afternoon. At first you hear the patient ringing of an ordinary telephone call --- later you hear louder and longer ringings with still no answer --- finally a continuous buzzing that bears an intention of either making someone answer or driving them crazy in the attempt.

“Hello,” finally comes an answer that sounds like it is an infringement on the hallowed grounds for telephones to even exist.

“Could I speak with Donald Doe?” the caller asks in a pleading, but more than polite tone.

“Sorry as I can be, but he rooms in East.”

And you're lucky if you get that much information. And the ring ceremony is repeated.

“Yes, that’s his name D-O-N-A-L-D Doe, D-O-E.”

“Oh, Donald Doe --- never heard of him.”

“Hello, Operator, were we cut off?”

“No, the receiver is still down, but I think somebody just turned over the telephone booth. I’ve never heard such a racket.”

“Hello, Hello, Hello. Were we cut off? No, just a bunch of boys came down the steps selling concert tickets. It’s all right. Here’s Donald now. He was a freshman you see, the reason I'd never heard of him. New here and everything.”

“Yes, yes --- Is that you Donald? Wait a minute; let me get an aspirin.”

Seriously, now let’s do away with all this horseplay over the telephones. A central telephone system with an N.Y.A. job paying students to operate it and telephones on all the floors of the dormitories would eliminate a lot of wasted time and effort. If a telephone rang on your Hall, you would have more reason to answer it promptly and too, there would be more chance of your knowing something of the whereabouts of persons wanted who are not in their rooms. These stock answers of, “He may be in the library studying” or “I think he went to the late show” are about as informative as Peter Rabbit. This editorial not only advocates more sensible information over the phones, but also a new system with a central outlet so persons can be immediately located for the caller and the job of finding them can be left up to a student rather than a telephone employee.

Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters Features

By HENRY McINTOSH

Tonight as we pound the typewriter at this late hour with the lights turned low and soft music filling the room from the radio, our mind wanders in an effort to discover something to write for this column. On the table over there we see a copy of The Davidsonian. It reports the campus activities of those we, the members of the student body, term “great” — the grand marchers, the campus politicians, the big shots, the B.M.O.C.’s. If a committee were at work to select the “Davidson Man” it would consider the candidates’ activities — title against title, honor society against honor society, social fraternity against social fraternity. These would be our representative Davidson students and we would honor them — but yet, would they truly be that?

No, the names of the truly great are not in The Davidsonian. They're seldom heard of in campus activities — rarely seen bulling on the steps of Georgia, for they'll be found toiling while the rest of us are playing. Our nomination would be a boy who possibly doesn’t belong to a social fraternity because of financial adversities at home. He would be one who works in one of the college buildings during the day when he doesn’t have classes. One who goes to his humble room not to rest, but to prepare to the best of his abilities his lessons for the next day. As we write here late at night he is at his desk battling between sleep and study. Occasionally he stops to wonder how critical his father’s illness is. His folks don’t see him often — he visits his girl and goes on “wild hairs” but rarely, for he can't spare the money. For the same reason he doesn’t swing out at Mid-Winters. Yet he makes top grades and once you get to know him, he’s a good fellow. He realizes that the cards are stacked against him — yet he’ll get to the top for he knows that the opportunities of education and self-discipline that are offered here at Davidson will not be found after graduation — so he’s taking advantage of them now — preparing for tomorrow.

But still, we honor as “great” the boys with political jobs — those who form the scoops for The Davidsonian. Yet, we couldn't honor this nominee of ours for obvious reasons. He wouldn’t want it. But when the years have passed, and we ask the unheralded great who lead the parade about these college years — they will only smile.

In Case You’re Interested—

A criticism in recent years to The Davidsonian has been that no one ever knows what managing editor does what. Each managing editor is responsible for the make-up and the copy-reading of a page each week, with the exception of one who acts as assignment editor. From now on we will print on the editorial page the names of the managing editors and the page for which they are responsible. Of course the editor-in-chief is responsible for the entire contents of the paper. Covering the news is the job of the assignment editor. Different from the other managing editors, the sports editor is responsible for assignments, make-up and copy-reading the sports page. Duties for this week are here listed:

Page 1—Bill Lyman.
Page 3—Ed Erwin.
Page 4—(Sports) Lacy MacLean.
Page 5—Joe Eve.
Page 6—Henry McIntosh.
Assignments—Jimmy Fulcher.

The Staff

Letters to the Editor

An Open Attack—

Dear Tony:

Faced with four classes in the morning, I can’t settle down to studying until I have given voice to my ideas on the Queens-Davidson “controversy.” Perhaps I am prejudiced, but I have met a good many students of our sister college, and I want to say that Bill Lyman’s attack on the institution was uncalled for and on the whole a gross exaggeration. Such outbursts may sometimes be justified if well done. In my opinion his attack was neither justified nor well done.

For four years I have watched what I (evidently mistakenly) thought was an improving attitude between our schools. I admit we have not done all we might to help the situation but I have seen an increasing number of D.C. boys in Queens date parlors and on her “well-adapted” campus — at night. I have watched our musical organizations work together in a fine way and all of us seem to enjoy it. We did pull a breach of etiquette a year or two ago when we failed to return Queens’ gracious invitation. We owe a real apology for said conduct. However, the mention of it in a recent issue of Queens Blues was anything but a step toward better relations. Their reference to the air base and Ft. Jackson (to say nothing of the naive or frustrated miss who hadn't heard of Davidson) were hardly efforts toward a better co-operation between D.C. and Q.C. Let's kiss and make-up! Why should Queens take Lyman’s opinion as that of the average Davidson student? I hope we can assume that the students quoted in the Blues did not voice the feeling of the average Queens student. Let's get together and wipe out this silly bickering which has gone all too far.

Optimistically yours,
JIM CROOK.

Davidson, N. C.
December 3, 1941.

Mr. Tony Darby,
Editor
The Davidsonian,
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Tony:

Perhaps you have already received many letters about the Queens article printed last week, there certainly has been much talk about it. From this side of the fence, many of us feel that Brother Bill Lyman did a good job, and certainly the Queens cuties will see the humorous side of it as we did about their kidding. Dr. Peter Marshall said the Lord had a sense of humor — look at the faces he gave some of us! Come on, fellows, where's your sense of humor? Yours for Queens and Davidson! From the looks of things, there's more getting together than the papers permit us to think. What's the worry, friends?

Yours,
SHAW SMITH.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday and Friday
December 3 and 4
SERGEANT YORK
Gary Cooper, Walter Brennan, Joan Leslie, and George Tobias.

This is the long awaited biographical film which nearly everyone is waiting to see. Warner’s have produced some outstanding biographical works but they have...All lacked the box-office appeal which “Sergeant York” has. Perhaps the reason is that Sgt. Alvin C. York is still alive, but more likely it’s because it’s honest, it’s human, and it happened here. It is a story of a simple, honest Southern farmer, a man with simple ambitions, who became, almost overnight, known to every American (and at least 132 Germans). Alvin York was hard at work bickering for a piece of bottom-land when Uncle Sam reached out, and Al was gone with the draft. His exploits in France are known to everyone, but the section of the film which deals with the Tennessee mountain folk seems to be the very best. Gary Cooper, Margaret Wycherly, and Walter Brennan are soon lost in the characterizations of Alvin York, Ma York, and Pastor Pile. Definitely one of the year’s best.

Saturday, December the 6th
FLYING CADETS
William Gargan, Edmund Lowe, Peggy Moran, and Frank Albertson. This picture has been coming for at least a month, and I, for one, am glad it has finally gotten here. As I have written it up at least twice already, I shall merely say that it is another production of the type of “Dive Bomber” and “International Squadron,” filled with planes and pilots.

Monday and Tuesday
December 8 and 9
CADET GIRL
Carole Landis, George Montgomery, John Shepperd, and William Tracy. George Montgomery and John Shepperd are brothers whom their father, once leader of an Army Band, had always wanted to be West Pointers. The youngest, George, is in the Academy, but brother John, who was barred because of faulty eyesight, is the leader of a swing band in New York. Carole Landis, his pretty vocalist, is in love with him, although he is unaware of this. On his summer furlough, George visits John and sings with the band. John asks Carole to help show George the town. Before the end of the summer, George proposes to her, but she gives him no definite answer. The two brothers argue, and George goes out to form his own band with Carole as his vocalist, all the time thinking that Carole is going to marry him. He finally discovers that she really loves John, and, coming to his senses, he goes back to the Academy, leaving Carole to brother John.

Wednesday, December 10
MY LIFE WITH CAROLINE
Ronald Colman, Anna Lee, Charles Winninger, Reginald Gardiner, and Gilbert Roland. Although this picture is a light and amusing comedy in places, its plot is rather weak. The cast is excellent, but the story is spread a little too thin. Anna Lee, in her American debut, plays the fluttery, attractive wife of Ronald Colman, who is continuously falling for various men. Patient husband, and the supporting cast, headed by Charles Winninger, is fine.

COMING: HOLD BACK THE DAWN, with Charles Boyer, Paulette Goddard, and Olivia de Havilland.

I would like for Frank Lee to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

The Filth Columnist
By
Hiya, friends, if there are any whom I can call by that title. It so happened that your dope reporter overheard a conversation about this little column this weekend. The participants were all high and mighty seniors who consider themselves the cream of the “dealing” crop. In their opinion, this column is not “holding much dope.” However, it is to be noted that among the bull sessioners were a huge majority of those who have been so fortunate, or unfortunate, depending on the viewpoint, as to be among the uncut these past few weeks. Could it be sour grapes?

Vos has been dating a Queens lassie who is said to be the spitting image of Betty Grable. Nice going, Vos, we knew you had it in you. Webster southward to Alabama with wooing as his object in the person of one McLeod zipped you—Sonne Bell Boyd, renowned throughout north Alabama, Mississippi, and southern Tennessee as a girl of rare talents. She has no enemies.

And now for the K. A.-Kappa Sig clambake—Long John Belk was tucked in blankets at four a.m.—Dickie Harding gave Jack Clark a colossal lecture on keeping dates out too late. The point is debatable; could he have meant too early?—Millie Brenizer can be classified as a full-fledged dealer after this week's activities. She entertained the Pan-Hellenic council on their pilgrimage northward, then popped up at the K. A.-K. Sig brawl, stayed with her grandfather. See how it all ties together? Shame on you Jack! Charlie Watt was so wrapped up in his date he ran into four professors. Remember that the freshmen look to you as an ideal. Charlie, unwrap a little in the future—Ashby Dick, whose date managed four late dates, had Marion Thomas from W. C.—To top off a very full weekend, Sprunt and Lacy Maclean took off for Hollins Sunday.

The two old ladies, Peter Young and Ivey Stewart, spent thirty minutes of each day guzzling medicines ranging from castor oil to nose drops trying to be healthy. Reminds us of Dr. Charles Martin of last year’s graduating class who was as chronic as an eighty-year-old woman, and twice as crotchety.

Now the slight trickle of dope which has seeped in about the Pan-Hel excursion to the metropolis. I understand that “Down Pat” contains something about this deal, but if it fails to disclose anything, watch this column next week. The collective date that Hock McCall, Moose Wallace, and Luke had Saturday snapped on the train and wore out the aisle carpet before the train to New York was well underway—Zombie Wooten and lucky Pat Rudolph were entertained immensely by an outlandish pair at the Gaiety. “Lucky” Pat acquired this name, derived from Lucky Teeter, after pleading guilty to a speeding charge in Maryland to the tune of ten bucks plus costs—Hock McCall, sighted at the New Yorker, accompanied by a Grizzly, one of Freeze’s many admirers. At least she saved him a nickel subway fare, though—The super-efficient washroom attendant at Nick's Place, in Greenwich Village, who beat one patron to death with his whisk broom—And so on far into the night—See you next week, kids.

Down Pat
By PAT RUDOLPH

The New York Story
Most of us here at Davidson have had the opportunity at some time to visit that boiling pot of America, that seething, strangely harmonious mass of humanity, steel, stone, and neon that is New York—wonder city of modern times. This New York story will not be something new to them, but to those unfortunates who have not smelled the Fulton Fish Market, gaped at the signs on Times Square, or crashed through the bowels of Manhattan on an I. R. T. express subway train, it will be just another of the multitude of pieces they have read about the wonder city and wondered if it were true.

The first indication of the machine-like nature of the metropolis is received by the motorist when he approaches the contract bridge belt of suburban New Jersey. It is here that he feels the tentacles of Manhattan reaching out to grab its worshippers. It is here that one begins to feel as if he were a cog in some great conveyor belt. Cars speeding through the dusk on great super highways soon head over the great Pulaski Skyway which spans the outskirts of Newark and Jersey City. Then you will see ramps to the right of you, ramps to the left of you; and you will feel like that Jewish rabbi in Maxwell Anderson's “Winterset,” who “knew not what the fires mean to right or left on this dark star.” But you keep on—driven by the throngs—and arrive at the Holland Tunnel, to me one of the great wonders of the world. While craft of all description plow through the Hudson River, you are unconcernedly sitting in an automobile, several fathoms below, watching the white and yellow tile walls whisk by—finally to emerge at the south end of the magic island.

The island of Manhattan, bounded on the north by the Harlem River, on the south by New York harbor (formed by the marriage of the Hudson and East rivers), on the east by the East River, and on the west by the Hudson River, may be divided somehow into five regions: the bustling financial district that is commonly known as “Downtown;” the great territory between “Downtown” and “Midtown” including Greenwich Village, and the little merchants and innkeepers; “Midtown,” which includes the “Gay White Way,” the finer hotels and stores; the Central Park region, stretching from 60th Street to 110th Street, a perfect maze of tree-framed apartment house views; and finally, Harlem, with its odors of cheap powder and hair-straightener permeating the already quite dark atmosphere. Then, of course, you have four other boroughs besides Manhattan to contend with: Brooklyn (home of “Dem Bums”), the Bronx (a rabbi’s paradise), Queens (the middle-class residential haven), and Richmond (nothing but Staten Island).

New York has probably been the subject or background of more poems, songs, movies, and fiction than any other place in the U. S., and rightly so: Where else would you find two million Jews, and innumerable other races and nationalities, all blended together to form the most cosmopolitan and concentrated mob of people in the world? Where else would you find a score or so of legitimate theatre performances playing at the same time? (Ranging from Margie Hart, the poor man’s Garbo, to Maurice Evans, the world’s greatest Shakespearean actor)? Where else would you find more money and greater poverty? It is a city of extremes. Saturday night on Times Square means “Pedestrian Night.” There

(Continued on Page Five)