At the Corner McLEAN Wildcat Sports Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 6, 1941

Pi Kapps Champions Baseball, Track Begin

Spring sports, unable to jump the season because of bad weather and other conflicts, were off, nevertheless, to a timely start in this first week of spring. Brightest prospects for the Cats in the coming months seem to be with the track outfit. Coach Whittle has nine “D” men back along with a host of sophs from last year’s better-than-average frosh squad. The cindermen open on April 5 against U.S.C. at Columbia and end the season with the Conference meet at Williamsburg on May 17, idling only one weekend of the interval. The home meets are with Virginia Tech on April 12, and Furman on May 10. The Cats are well fortified in the dashes, hurdles, and field events, but are seriously lacking in the distances.

On the diamond, the tale is different. Only one of the returning twirlers is lettered and the reserve ranks from last season are thin. Bone Reinhardt, the only port sider available, may lose part of the season because of a bad finger. This leaves the hurling chores to Ed Lucas, a starter last year, and Johnny Frederick, the mainstay of last season’s frosh. The infield returns intact, Hogg at third, Owens at short (in case a finger injury doesn’t bench him), Yarborough at second, and Niven or Carter at first. In the Gardens, no spot has been cinched. The linksmen, with lettermen Sharpe and Abels returning, should see a fairly successful season, enlivened by several road trips. The failure of Billy Turner and Gene Sutton to return to school leaves the burden of the court campaigning to Captain Dick Shore and Miller Sproull. The other four positions are wide open.

Conference Sidelights— Action on the Southern Conference front has been lively during the past week with three schools winning top honors in as many sports. Washington and Lee grabbed wrestling honors from the remaining loop members by winning four individual titles as well as the team top spot. Davidson shared fourth place with Duke, behind the Generals, V.M.I., and Carolina. Jack Abels, winner of two matches, was forced to default in the finals and lose his chance at a circuit crown because of an injured shoulder. In boxing, dark horse Citadel’s Light Brigade won only one finals match but piled up enough points along the way to take the cake Saturday night. Warren Wilson, rejected by the ROTC department of Clemson because of surplus fat, landed a haymaker on one-time Navy champion Gates Kimball, North Carolina heavy in the feature match of the night. Wilson, outpointed in two rounds, slipped in his right after thirty seconds of the third to win by a K.O. The Clemson heavyweight intends to box professionally to support his wife and is being mentioned as a possible “white hope” in the next few years. Duke’s Blue Devils, after a hard first-round encounter with Carolina, breezed through the basketball tourney in Raleigh, closing with a rout at South Carolina’s expense, placing Chuck Holley and Cy Valasek on the Associated Press All-tournament five.

Home Again— With the call for spring sports already out, basketball, with its reign challenged, is a dead game for another eight months, but the obituaries are on hand. The Wildcats had a rather mediocre season as shown by the statistics. In Southern Conference standings, the Cats were tenth, ahead of State, V.P.I., Furman, Citadel, and Maryland, with five wins and seven losses. Their conference foes scored 541 points against them while they totaled 478. Including non-circuit engagements, the felines were slightly better off. In 23 games they won 11, scoring 823 points to their opponents' 735. Jim Hogg led the Davidson individual tallying with 340 points, 182 of them in conference games. This puts the Cat captain in fourth place in loop scoring, only one point behind Westmoreland who was in 15 games to Hogg’s 12. Other high-point Davidsonians were Frederick with a season total of 131 and Belk, 118. With four weeks of hard drills over, the gridders have only one more stretch to serve. The practice will close with a Black vs. Red squad game on Saturday afternoon. Each of the three games already played has ended in ties, with neither team showing any great defensive strength. Frosh talent has come through in a pleasing manner and even the pessimistic coaching staff is looking for a riper win column in the ’41 season.

HEAD GRAPPLER Jack Abels, a senior from High Point, last week reached the finals in the Southern Conference wrestling tournament. Abels won his first two matches in the tournament and had to forfeit his finals match due to an injury. He fought in the 135-pound class and was captain of the 1941 team.

'Cats Start Ball Drills For Season Strong Infield, But Garden Vacant—Edmundson, Lucas Form Battery.

Coach Norman Shepherd issued the call for berths on the varsity baseball team last Monday. Seven lettermen from last year’s squad turned out. The Wildcats will have the same infield returning, but the outfield and pitching staff were riddled by graduation. Captain Rusty Edmundson will guide the team from behind the plate. Ed Lucas is slated to be the starting pitcher, but he will get support from southpaw Bob Reinhardt if Bob's injured finger heals.

Infield Returns. Around the infield are Bob Carter at the initial sack, Tom Yarborough at second, Jim Owens at short, and Jim Hogg at the hot corner. The race will be wide open for positions in the outfield. Lost by graduation are Blackdog Hunter, Hayseed Thomas, and Hugh Verner. Frank Niven is the only member of the squad with any experience whatsoever in patrolling the garden. However, Jack Clark, a reserve last year, and Herb Rainey, a sophomore, should see promising action this spring. Also out for the outfield positions are Mac Morris, Bill Nelson, Brad O'Leary, and Bob McLeod.

Sophs Report. Up from last year’s kit squad are Dickie Phillips and Monk Dickson. Dickie is expected to give Tom Yarborough a battle for the keystone position, and Monk is out for catcher so he will be Rusty's understudy this year. Edmundson and Hogg should be improved players this year, since they played semi-pro ball last summer. Along with Rusty and Jim, Bob Carter and Herb Rainey will form the nucleus of the Cat power at the plate. A change in the setup might find Carter or Niven in hurlers' roles this spring.

Blue Devils Take Crown Duke University’s unseeded Blue Devils vanquished the University of North Carolina, William and Mary, and the University of South Carolina to win the twentieth annual Southern Conference basketball tournament in Raleigh. In the feature game of the tournament, the Blue Devils knocked out the top-seeded Phantoms by the score of 38-37. The score see-sawed back and forth during the game with the score being tied at 17-17 at intermission. The Duke quint was able to hold Glamack to a scant ten points during the game.

Virginians Advance. Also in the first round of play, the University of South Carolina defeated the Richmond Spiders 41-32; the William and Mary Indians tromped Wake Forest 52-34; and V.M.I. licked the favored Washington and Lee Generals 39-32. On the second day of play, the South Carolina Gamecocks, led by Preston Westmoreland, eked out a 37-36 victory over the scrappy V.M.I. Cadets to gain a place in the finals. The dark-horse Blue Devils turned back the William and Mary combination 57-42 in the second semi-final game.

Gamecocks Routed. In the final game of the tournament, the Blue Devils turned on the heat in the second half to defeat the University of South Carolina Gamecocks 53-30 and to capture the Southern Conference basketball championship before a capacity crowd of 4,000. The first half was rather slow with both teams being cautious and jittery and at intermission the Dukes led by the scant margin of 15-14. Early in the second half, the Blue Devils, led by Chuck Holley, began rolling up the goals and were never again passed by the Gamecocks.

SPRING SPORTS SLATE March 24—Tennis—Varsityvs. March 25—Tennis—Varsity vs. Spring Hill—Here.
March 26—Tennis—Varsity vs. Colgate—Here.
March 28—Tennis—Varsity vs. U. of Georgia—Athens.
March 28—Golf—Varsity vs. College of Charleston—There.
March 29—Tennis—Varsity vs. 
March 29—Golf—Varsity vs. U.
March 31—Tennis—Varsity vs. Georgia Tech—Atlanta.
April 1—Tennis—Varsity vs. Stetson—Deland.
April 1—Golf—Varsity vs. South Carolina—Columbia.
April 2—Golf—Varsity vs. U. of Georgia—Athens.
April 3—Tennis—Varsity vs. Rollins College—Winter Park.
April 3—Baseball—Frosh vs. Greensboro Hi—Greensboro.
April 5—Tennis—Varsity vs. Mercer College—Macon.
April 5—Baseball—Varsity vs. Duke—Here.
April 5—Track—Varsity vs. South Carolina—Columbia.
April 8—Baseball—Varsity vs. Carolina—Chapel Hill.
April 8—Baseball—Frosh vs. Tech Hi—Here.
April 9—Baseball—Varsity vs. Duke—Durham.
April 9—Golf—Varsity vs. The Citadel—Athens.
April 9—Tennis—Varsity vs. Trinity College—Here.
April 10—Golf—Southern Intercollegiate Match—Athens.
April 11—Tennis—Varsity vs. Georgia Tech—Here.
April 11—Baseball—Varsity vs. Citadel—Here.
April 12—Baseball—Frosh vs. Harding Hi—Charlotte.
April 12—Track—Varsity vs. VPI—Here.
April 12—Track—Frosh vs. VPI—Here.
April 15—Baseball—Varsity vs. 
April 15—Tennis—Varsity vs. South Carolina—Here.
April 15—Golf—Varsity vs. Apprentice School—Charlotte.
April 15—Baseball—Frosh vs. Harding Hi—Charlotte.
April 16—Baseball—Varsity vs. 
April 16—Golf—Varsity vs. Hampden-Sydney—Charlotte.
April 17—Tennis—Varsity vs. 
April 19—Baseball—Frosh vs. Tech Hi—Charlotte.
April 19—Track—Varsity vs. N. C. State—Raleigh.
April 19—Baseball—Varsity vs. 
April 22—Baseball—Frosh vs. Charlotte Hi—Charlotte.
April 24—Tennis—Varsity vs. VPI—Blacksburg.
April 25—Tennis—Varsity vs. VMI—Lexington.
April 25—Baseball—Varsity vs. N.C. State—Raleigh.
April 25—Track—Frosh vs. Presbyterian College—Clinton.
April 26—Baseball—Frosh vs. Greensboro—Here.
April 26—Track—Varsity vs. The Citadel—Charleston.
April 26—Tennis—Varsity vs. W. & L.—Lexington.
April 28—Baseball—Varsity vs. 
April 29—Golf—Varsity vs. College of Charleston—Charlotte.
April 29—Golf—Varsity vs. Duke—Charlotte.
April 29—Baseball—Varsity vs. Wofford—Spartanburg.
May 2—Baseball—Frosh vs. Charlotte Hi—Here.
May 2—Track—Frosh vs. Charlotte Hi—Charlotte.
May 3—Baseball—Varsity vs. Furman—Greenville.
May 6—Baseball—Varsity vs. South Carolina—Columbia.
May 6—Tennis—Varsity vs. W.
May 7—Baseball—Frosh vs. Troy—Here.
May 8—Baseball—Varsity vs. V. M. I.—Lexington.
May 9—Golf—Southern Conference Tourney—Hot Springs.
May 9—Baseball—Varsity vs. W. & L.—Lexington.
May 10—Baseball—Varsity vs. 
May 11—Tennis—Varsity vs. Georgia Tech—Athens.
May 14—Tennis—Varsity vs. N. C. State—Here.
May 15—Track—Varsity vs. N. C. State—Home.
May 17—Track—Southern Conference 
May 22—Baseball—Varsity vs. Boston College—Here.
May 23—Baseball—Varsity vs. Emory—Decatur.
May 24—Baseball—Varsity vs. U. of Florida—Gainesville.

Week With 6-6 Tie In Inter-Squad Game; Lacy, Washburn Pace Whites As Bruce Leads Reds.

The varsity finished its fourth week of practice Saturday afternoon with a closely contested inter-squad game between the “reds” and the “whites.” The game ended in a tie at 6-6. The “whites” opened the first half with a quick drive to the 5-yard line only to lose the ball on downs. They threatened several more times during the half but lacked the scoring punch to drive it over. The feature of the first half was the long punts of Johnny Miller for the “reds” that pulled them out of many tight spots. Ben Lacy sparked the white squad on another downfield drive to the ten-yard marker, but they again lost the ball to the “reds” who kicked out of danger. The ball was again taken by the “whites” and this time was carried over for the first score of the game by hard-plunging Ben Lacy. The “reds” then took the ball on their thirty-five and advanced it to mid-field. Mac Bruce shook loose for a long run but was pulled down from behind on the fifteen-yard line. From here the ball was then driven over to tie the score at six all. In the remaining minutes, the “whites” opened up their passing attack and completed several, but were never in scoring position. Outstanding in the “white's” backfield was the all-around play of Ben Lacy. He was the main cog in their ground-gaining offense and was a stalwart on defense. Hunt, Enly, and Washburn rounded out the backfield and played a consistent game. At the ends, the “whites” had the services of Scotty Patterson and Dick O'Hair who held down the tackle posts with Marsh, Pryer, and Grosse at guards. Freshman Red Burke played center for the white’s squad and proved to be quite capable at the post. The “red” backfield was composed of veteran Claude Hackney, long-kicking Johnny Miller, and Freshmen Red Bethea and Mac Bruce. At the flanks were Pat Williams and C. C. Morehead and several frosh stars from last year's starting lineup. Bill Shaw at right tackle and Herb Rainey at left played a bruising defensive game. Bill Simmons, B. F. Moore, and Alf Taylor alternated at the guards. Butch Caldwell held down the center position and looks like a brilliant prospect for next year's varsity squad.

Matmen Take Fourth Place

Sending five men into the semi-finals, the Davidson varsity wrestling team tied with the Duke grapplers for fourth place in the Southern Conference tournament held at College Park, Maryland last weekend. Washington and Lee took the top honors. The Cat team was greatly handicapped when their expert captain, Jack Abels, had to forfeit his finals match because of a shoulder injury. Abels had won two tournament battles and had a good chance at the 136-pound title. Four Cats, Knox, Browning, Turnage, and Hipp, drew byes in the preliminaries. In a match with VMI before the tournament, the Virginians beat the Cats 18 to 6. Hipp and Abels were the lone victors for the Davidsons.

Results (Davidson vs. V. M. I):
121-pound class—Ellender (VMI) decisioned Knox, 21 to 6;
128-pound class—Mahone (VMI) decisioned Browning, 9 to 3;
136-pound class—Capt. Abels (DC) decisioned McCullough, 11 to 10;
145-pound class—Edwards (VMI) decisioned Latta, 10 to 9;
155-pound class—McCord (VMI) decisioned Brinson, 11 to 2;
165-pound class—Gayle (VMI) decisioned Turnage, 13 to 5;
175-pound class—Swift (VMI) decisioned Carter, 11 to 4;
Heavyweight—Hipp decisioned Dorrier, 16 to 5.

Results (Davidson in tournament preliminaries):
121-pound class—Knox drew a bye;
128-pound class—Browning drew a bye;
135-pound class—Abels decisioned Swetling (VMI);
145-pound class—Latta was thrown by Somerville (UNC);
165-pound class—Turnage drew a bye;
175-pound class—Carter was thrown by Swift (VMI);
Heavyweight—Hipp drew a bye.

Individuality Plus A Perfect Fit

That’s What You Get in Our Made-to-Measure SUITS
@ You do the Styling
@ We do the Rest
See the Fabrics
Next Tuesday At Miss Minnie’s
Jack Wood Ltd.
231 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL-FRAT TEAMS

First Team
F—Flynn—Pi Kapps
F—Shore—Phi Gams
C—Crichton—SAE.
G—Niven—Pi Kapp
G—Lewis—Phi Delts.

Second Team
F—Walker—Beta.
F—Thomas—K. A.
C—Terrel—Phi Delt.
G—Larson—Phi Gams
G—Morris—Pi Kapps.

FRAT STANDINGS
Pi Kapps 7-0
Phi Delts 5-2
Phi Gams 4-3
SAE 3-4
SPE 2-5
KA 1-6

Pi Kappa Phi has clinched first place in the inter-fraternity basketball tournament. The Pi Kapps have won 7 while losing none. Although they have one remaining game to play with the S. A. E., the result will not have any bearing upon their standing. Pre-season dope had conceded the Pi Kapps little chance of winning the tournament, but with constant practice, with the excellent [Continued on Page Six]

WEEKEND SPECIALS
Lettuce (Firm Heads)—5c Head.
Fancy California Green Peas, 10c Lb.
Carrots - Beets - Turnips, 2 bunches, 9c.
Pender’s Golden Blend Coffee, 2 Lbs. 25c.
PENDER’S STORE

To Be Well Dressed Your Shoes Must Look Nice
Bring Them to BUFF’S SHOE SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Lacy Stands Out As Inter-squad Struggle Features Long Runs

Coach Whittle Starts Outdoor Cinder Drills

Coach Pete Whittle's track men reported Monday afternoon for limbering-up exercises to begin training for their intensive schedule. The Wildcat cindermen will open their schedule with a meet with The University of South Carolina on April 5.

Lettermen Return

Following is the way the trackmen will line up with each of their positions:
Pole vault—Shannon;
Shot Put—Bell;
High Hurdles—Williamson, Taylor;
Discus—Freeze, Terrell;
Low hurdles—Taylor, Williamson;
440-yard dash—Loy.

They will be supported by several men up from the freshman team of last year.

Sophs On Hand

Probable standouts up from the freshman team are:
Frederick on the shot and Frederick and Belk on the Discus;
Pole vault—Dick;
High hurdles—Martin and Belk;
Mile run—Nimmons and Ansley;
440-yard dash—Washburn;
220-yard dash—Sprunt;
220-yard low hurdles—Martin;
Broad jump—Lacy and Belk.

From this squad of nine regulars and several frosh stars from last year, the tracksters have high hopes.