PARRIGIN HEADS JUNIOR CLASS ORTA Che Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS LIBRARY DONOR ANNOUNCED Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1941 ~ Number 3 Hugh A. And Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library Given By Son
NAME OF DONOR HELD Name Revealed In Alumni Journal Grey’s Due to the generosity of Captain James Parks Grey, class
of '85, Davidson College now has a beautiful new library ready for use by the students of the college now
and for years to come. Because of the modesty of this Bristol, Va., hosiery manufacturer, the announcement of the name
of the donor of this prominent new building has not been published until the issuing of the Alumni Journal last
Tuesday. It was Captain Grey's desire that no mention be made of his name whatsoever, but the inscription above the
building, “Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library,” left little doubt as to the identity of the donor, who
gave to fulfill a long-felt need of the college and to perpetuate the memory of his parents. Five Sons A
significant contribution of Hugh and Jane Parks Grey to Davidson is that they had five sons, all of whom graduated
here. Captain Grey and his brothers were recipients of the best that Davidson had to offer, and their attendance here
was associated with the finest endeavors of life at Davidson. Hugh Alexander Grey relinquished his position as a teacher in
the Jackson Academy in Waxhaw to enlist in the Confederate Army. After a year and a half of service, he
was injured at Fredericksburg. He was known and respected by all who knew him as an admirable Christian gentleman and
an influential exponent of higher education. Jane Parks Grey The character and affection of her sons is in itself a
lasting and revealing tribute to the character of Captain Grey's mother, Jane Parks Grey. The oldest of the five sons,
Dr. William R. Grey, class of '84, returned to his alma mater in 1893 to serve as professor of Latin
and Literature until 1935 when he was made Professor Emeritus. Grandsons In addition to the five sons of Mr. and
Mrs. Grey, three grandsons and one great-grandson have been graduated here. The new library is said to be a fitting
and lasting tribute to Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey whose sons have added so much to the institution with
which they were closely associated. Capt. James P. Grey Is Donor Of Library RADIO CLASS On Wednesday, October 8, at
7:00 P. M., Mr. Fred Hayward, Production Manager of Station WBT in Charlotte, was in Phi Hall to meet all
of the Davidson students who were interested in taking a course in radio broadcasting. The proposed course is to last
for fifteen weeks, having one class each week. A good number attended but the class is still open for new
members. Distinguished Group Appear As Speakers Rutledge, Whitaker, And Odum To Lecture To Student Body In Series Several distinguished speakers
have been procured for lectures here at Davidson during the coming months, according to Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of
the Faculty. Rutledge Dr. Archibald Rutledge, poet laureate of South Carolina, will come to the campus on October 29th and
will speak at chapel at 10:05 A. M. in Chambers Auditorium and again at 8:15 that evening. Dr. Rutledge is
author of many books, particularly on wild life and plantation life in the South. The latest and probably best-known of
his books is “Home by the River,” written about the restoration of the home of the old Hampton family of
South Carolina. He had been a teacher in a leading preparatory school in Mercersburg, Pennsylvania, for several years and returned
to South Carolina to assist in the restoration of the old home about which he has written his recent book.
He is also widely acclaimed as a lecturer, poet, and essayist. Whitaker On November 6th, L. S. Whitaker, foreign correspondent
for the Chicago Daily News since 1938, will tell Davidson students of his experiences in the war capitals of Europe.
He is a native of Chattanooga, Tennessee, and a graduate of the University of the South (Sewanee). He went into
newspaper work soon after finishing school and has been in foreign service almost ever since. He has covered the war
in Spain, in Ethiopia, and at different times has reported from Berlin, Geneva, Moscow, Paris, Belgrade, and other capitals. Since
the start of World War II, he has been stationed in London. Freshmen Represent 20 States Tar Heels Have Large
Majority In Class of ’45 By BILL ABBOTT If a certain member of the Freshman Class should suddenly decide that
he could no longer endure the judgments of Judge Caldwell and his stern assistants, or that he missed his mother’s
cooking, or that his shirt-tail was his private property, or that dormitories were places where inmates sometimes tried to fight
their way out by flood or fire and mixed him up in their sabotage, or that upperclassmen were those underworld
agents who sent him out with strange packages and made him bring back even stranger ones with such code letters
as A-I, C-294, etc., or that he was just plain homesick, he might decide to go home. But the chances
are he'd stay here. Of the 224 members of the Class of '45, 128 are citizens of the Tar Heel
State. South Carolina runs a poor second with 19 representatives. Georgia ranks third with 18 men; Tennessee is fourth with
15. Virginia and Texas each claim six freshmen, and there are eight members from Florida. West Virginia has four; Louisiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi, New York, Alabama, and Pennsylvania have two each. New Hampshire, Maryland, Washington, D. C., Delaware, New Jersey, Missouri,
and Tsingtao, China have one representative. This accounts for only 224. The writer made a mistake somewhere. If nobody makes
a correction, we'll have to let the mistake be the one who stayed on the campus. GREY MEMORIAL LIBRARY Signe
Courtney’s Band Is Among Best College Organizations In Country Vince Courtney's Duke Ambassadors have been signed by the Pan-Hellenic Council
to play for the Homecoming Dances Friday and Saturday, October 17-18, President Pat Rudolph announced last week. Charlotte Hotel The
first dance will be held Friday night, October 17, at the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel. The second and final
dance is to be held Saturday, October 18, in the Charlotte Armory, and will be informal. Dance tickets will cost
$2.50 each. Set tickets will be $4.50, and can be obtained from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Duke Ambassadors
The Duke Ambassadors are considered among the best college bands in the country today. The Ambassadors, under the present leader,
Vince Courtney, played here for a Homecoming dance two years ago, and their vocalist was Dutch McMillan. Rate High At
a recent contest, the “Battle of Music,” held at the University of North Carolina, the Ambassadors placed first against top-flight
competition from dance bands from all over this section of the country. They were also featured in a recent edition
of the critical national music magazine, Metronome. Style The style of the Ambassadors is reported to be a balanced mixture
of sweet and swing. Courtney uses Glenn Miller and Tommy Dorsey arrangements in his music. Vince Courtney began his musical
careerArranging for the band at Culver Military Academy, where he attended prep school. Reports coming in about the Ambassadors are
most favorable, to the effect that the current Ambassadors are the best in years. The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council
are asking the entire student body to support in making the Homecoming dances a success.

Inauguration Schedule Completed, 1941

Duke Ambassadors 1941 were recently commissioned as Second Lieutenants in the United States Marine Corps. They are now at Basic
School in Philadelphia, where they will remain until January when they will take their command.

John King was president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity as well as being a member of O.D.K. Ed Watson was
also president of his fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and a member of O.D.K. They will arrive at Davidson on the
return trip Sunday afternoon at 4:00 PM.

It was also announced that a member of Kappa Alpha will be a member of the Pep Meeting that will
precede the Sewanee trip. A Chattanooga Special has been chartered for those who wish to see the game. A final,
last-minute pep meeting will be held at 1:30 PM at the Railway Station Friday afternoon, head cheerleader George Mitchell announced
this week. At the same time, it was announced that, for the benefit of the Davidson student body, the Southern
Railway is sending a special coach attached to that of the team to carry any supporters that might wish to
go to Chattanooga. The round-trip fare will be $10.75. The train will leave Davidson at 1:51 PM Friday.

Alumni Commissioned

John Henry King and Edgar B. Watson, both of the class of 1941, were recently commissioned as Second Lieutenants in
the United States Marine Corps. They are now at Basic School in Philadelphia, where they will remain until January when
they will take their command.

In an election lasting from September 24-26, Campbell Ansley, Pete Cavert, Morton Shurch, and Jack Wayman were elected Junior Cheerleaders
for the 1941 season. Ansley is a member of a social fraternity and an assistant in English. Cavert is a
member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, Church belongs to Beta Theta Pi, while Wayman is a member of Pi Kappa
Phi.

BAND LEADER

Plans have been completed for the social events which will be held during the weekend of the inauguration of Dr.
John R. Cunningham, who is to be formally inducted into the office of President of Davidson College on Saturday, October
18. The first event scheduled for the inauguration weekend is the Inaugural Dinner to be held at 6:30 PM in
the banquet hall of Chambers Building. The principal speaker will be Professor Theodore Meyer Greene, a member of the department
of Philosophy at Princeton University, who will have as his subject “The Place of a Liberal Arts College in our
National Educational Program.”

Reception

At 9:15 PM in the home of Dr. Cunningham on the college campus, a reception will be given for the
one hundred and fifty delegates of the outstanding colleges and universities throughout the country with which Davidson has had contact.

On Saturday morning at 10:00 o'clock, the academic procession, including faculty members of Davidson College and delegates from other colleges,
will form in front of Eumenean Literary Hall and will march into Chambers Auditorium at which time the inauguration exercises
will begin.

Luncheon

At 12:30 PM on Saturday, the Homecoming Luncheon, given for all alumni and delegates, will be served in the banquet
hall of Chambers Building. The principal speaker will be the Honorable J. M. Broughton, Governor of North Carolina. Governor Broughton,
of Raleigh, was elected in 1940, and is a strong advocate of the importance of liberal arts colleges in training
statesmanship.

After the luncheon, the annual Homecoming football game will be played on Richardson Field, with the kickoff scheduled at 2:00
PM. Davidson will play Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

Southern Heads Class

LYMAN PARRIGIN

Magazine Has New Features

Scripts 'n Pranks To Appear This Month

The 1941 Scripts 'n Pranks will be off the press with a new and marked change. The magazine, under the
editorship of Dan Hodges, will include movie reviews, opinions on records, and other features aside from the usual jokes. The
new feature will be articles which are submitted for publication. The first issue of Scripts 'n Pranks will be an
Alumni Issue.

New Journal

The alumni will have a new journal with a circulation of 2250. The journal will feature the appointment of Dr.
J. R. Cunningham, two new deans, Dr. C. K. Brown and Mr. Fred Hengeveld as Freshman Advisor. Also included in
the issue are articles on the new buildings and the Homecoming Inauguration which will be observed on October 18. One
of the highlights of this issue is an article describing the part the Davidson R.O.T.C. has played in the current
National Defense program. The Davidson military staff has been supplemented this year by Lieutenant Sam Spence, president of the student
body in 1940.

For Junior Class Presidency

Succeeds Matt Long, Who Transferred To M.I.T. In Cambridge

SCHMIDT RUNS THIRD

Election Takes Four Ballots; Ten Men Run

In the election for the Junior Class Presidency, Johnny Preks, Ben Lac, Fred Mi, and others were nominated by the
class at 4:00 PM. Jimmy Darracott, Welford Holt, Lacy McLean, and Lyman Parrigin were also nominated.

Succeeds Long

Matt Long, president of the Junior class, transferred to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, leaving the office of
president of the Junior class open. Lyman Parrigin, who was elected president, has been prominent in campus activities. He was
chosen gym leader last year, was a member of the wrestling team last year, and in his first year at
Davidson was a member of the Freshman football team. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

Activities

Lyman Parrigin is a Pi Kappa Phi pledge. Last year he was a member of the O and Cranks staff
and is also on the staff of the college magazine. He is a member of the student council.

UNC Visitor Loses Life In Accident

Flaming Boat Claims Life of Football Spectator

A visitor at a cabin, Frank, was killed when the boat he was in suddenly caught on fire. As the
boat became enveloped in flames, Frank started swimming for shore while his companions hung on. Allen of Charlotte, who was
in another boat, heard the call for help and went to assist. Frank sank before Arnold could reach him. Frank
and Whitaker were rescued by Allen. Arnold became exhausted and Allen brought him to shore also. Frank and Whitaker were
severely burned.
