ports | 9 nts

CHAPMAN Covering the Courts

The 1 - basketeers Davidson's week after exams Wildcats have plans this week. They invade Wednesday, entertain The Citadel, and Winston to meet V.P.I Saturday night. The ’Cats started off fine, but influenza floored them. To date, they have yet to break into the conference win column, dropping games to a hot Duke team, then a close one to State, and finally losing to an improved bunch of Gamecocks from South Carolina.

Orchids to ‘Honkytonk” Shere for a while (h Shepard 1 teve) in. Give p o1 the h George Glamack and the Phantom company are leading in the conference, making a strong bid to keep the crown they captured last year. Marion Craig, Clemson’s sparkling sophomore forward, continues to lead the loop for individual scoring honors by running up a total of 98 points in eight games to date. High scorer ts tallied 110 points in \ Gre r ‘ or-exams this b urprised to see gorgeous George torge tT week.

Feuding and Drilling

Turning away from basketball to the diamond world, we find a feud going on as to who is to be the highest-paid pitcher in history. Before things clear up, Bobby Feller or Bobo Newsome will make around 40g’s straight salary. Whoever cooked that feud up must have had the welfare of the two hurlers in mind, since thirty grand is more than any pitcher has ever been paid for five months chunking. The big leaguers seen each other trying to sign their contracts for the 1 wonder if it's ve or the conscription? Even signed up without a squawk. He h ssus to shut her bloomin’ mouth.

Speaking of the conscription, Hank Greenberg of the Tigers and Morrie Arnovich of the Reds have been selected for “Selective Service.” According to their draft boards, both will trade bats for guns around June 1. Other top sport figures caught in the draft are Dan Topping, backfield ace of the Brooklyn Dodgers pro football team, and Dick Chapman, National Amateur golf champ. Ed Oliver of Wilmington is another one of the draftees, but he played in the Bing Crosby Open with a borrowed set of clubs. That's great with your own clubs but magnificent with a stranger’s. Divot diggers and came through with a par smashing 66.

Digressing ng *something about Tennessee’s really Such Can’t resist schedule for t say! ng alk teams U., Howard 16° NEN season as: tough Furman, Duke, Cincinnati, \}: Boston College, Kentucky, ‘ ima, Dayton, I. S Wonder if they will erbilt an jee: i and George Mitchell will pass on drop that rough one against Howard. .. Frank Sinkwich says" ge a ea that he is quitting football because he wants to have some fun like boys who don’t play football. The coaching staff at Ga. isn’t worrying because they have a fellow named Lecharus. The termination of the competition will be the presentation of the Key Award. We're picking Lou's to k.o. Clarence Burman tomorrow night in order to give the Red a chance. Congrats to Clayt Heafner for continuing to play out at the Crosby after he had heard of his father’s death. He came through with a 73. Should be some excellent tennis over in the armory on Feb. 7. ... Alice “Legs” Marble, Don Juan Budge, Mary Hardwick, and temperamental Tilden. Wonder who's going to wear the Davidson colors into the Golden Gloves this year? How are the big two-letter men going to stand up under spring practice and basketball? Hear Louis is slipping. I certainly hope not. I didn’t want him licked until I catch up with him. Lou Nova broadcasting: “I Paul Severin. for taking the Teague Cup. Here’s to a deserving THE BEST FOOD AT ALL TIMES THE LITTLE PEP DAVIDSON, N.C.

Announcing NEW LOW RATES On Subscriptions To THE DAVIDSONIAN For Only 90 cents The Rest of The Year. Keep your family and friends informed about Davidson life—Save the time and effort of writing home. LET US DO IT FOR YOU. See JACK COVINGTON or ED SCOTT.

Wildcat Sports Flu Rocks Courtmen; Exams Halt Intramurals

Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN

Varsity, Frosh Matmen Drop Two Matches Hipp and Abels Win By Decisions; O’Hair Pins and Wins; Frosh Defeated

Defeats by the grap Wildcat wrestlers were handed two successive losses by North Carolina State. Abels, Hipp Win Captain Jack Abels, in the 1. class, and Ed Hipp, in the 1, stood out for the ‘Cats, winning both of their matches by decisions. Latham Latta was the other Davidson man to win a match at either college, pinning his man in the first few minutes of the bout. The others making the trip, Purnave, and Brinson, suffered defeats in both.of their matches. O'Hair Outstanding made an excellent showing. Freshmen also lost both matches but considering their handicap, only five were able to go on the trip; the others were forced out because of sickness. Dick O'Hair was outstanding for the Frosh, pinning in one match and winning an easy decision in the other. Bill Grimsley and Bill Simmons won their bouts at Carolina but lost at State by decision.

Conn Trials
Little Tommy Yarborough, who hails from Albany, Ga., is with the cagers for his second year and playing steady ball again. “Duck” is seldom a high scorer but always a “ball-hawk.” His best performance was against the McCrary Eagles when he rung up 12 points and held the Eagle's star, Earl Ruth, to 10.

To Be Held
The beginning of the annual gym competition was announced by instructor Johnny Moore last Monday. Any member of the student body is eligible for entrance, and the award which will be presented to the winner is a gymnastic key.

Point System
Entrants will be graded on movements on the parallel and horizontal bars, the mats, and the horses. Ten points will be awarded for the hardest moves with the scale descending to a single point credit for easier exercises.

Johnny Moore, Cats Drop
After a two-week lay-off for exams, the Cat Cagers take to the hardwood tonight against The Citadel. Saturday night the quintet journeys to Winston-Salem to meet V.P.I. in a game that promises to be a real fight since both teams will be after their first conference win.

Northern Trip
On the trip north before Christmas, Davidson bumped off Lynchburg College 45-30 and dropped two to George Washington 55-35 and Seton Hall 52-28. Returning to the hardwood on January 4, the hoopsters met the McCrary Eagles and fell before the powerful semi-pro five 56-49. Two nights later the Cats suffered defeat again when the Blue Devils tripped the Presbyterians 44-28. Duke stole an early lead and the Cats never managed to muster up a serious threat.

Flu Strikes
Playing without the service of four regulars, the Cats tasted defeat again when N.C. State [Continued on Page Six]

WANTED:
Complete information furnished on request. Part-time service of energetic young man. Address

FRAT BOWLING
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

CLASS BASKETBALL
Seniors 4-1
Juniors 4-1
Sophomores 1-4
Freshmen 1-4

PRESTON L. WRIGHT, Myrtle Beach, S.C.
In Charlotte — Headquarters for DAVIDSON COLLEGE and their friends.

Other plans of the Physical Education department include the organization of a team for possible gym competition.

SURPRISE YOUR MID-WINTERS DATE
With a BOX OF CANDY from WHITE DRUG Co.
Davidson’s Oldest and Best

GROCERIES
EVERY LINE of HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

HOTEL CHARLOTTE
LOOK YOUR BEST FOR MID-WINTERS
visit JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

Columbia - Okeh - Decca RECORDS
WILL BRADLEY And All Popular Orchestras
Parker-Gardner Co.
Since 1898
118 W. Trade
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Phone 8257

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DIAL 2001
DAVIDSON, N.C.

STUDENT-STORE
DELUXE ICE CREAM

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Jack Wood, Ltd.
Solicits Your Patronage For Formal Evening Wear Before, During, and After the DAVIDSON MID-WINTER DANCES
JAN. 31 - FEB. 1
Jack Wood, Ltd.
At Miss Minnie’s
CHARLOTTE
DAVIDSON