Thursday, October 30, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

“Y” Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Thought: Isn't it nice to have so many of the parents visit with us these days. After thought: Wonder if they will have to be back after six-weeks reports are sent?

News item: Heard about the Ham Hour about to come off? Heavy rumors about that the amateurs show is about to come about all of which calls for mental activity of a sort. Things I'd love to see here. Wooten's version of a scene would be good. Have you seen it? A scream—well in some circles anyway. Jim Kerr plays a monologued pantomime. Nothing hot; just Jim McCrary telling “How the Hogs Ate Me.” A three-minute speech; “Sweet Potatoe.” Could be sweet music. If we allow him half an hour—maybe he could finish it by then. “James” Owens is the natural for a semi-serious, Dorothy Dix invitation. You could make it, Jim, and get by as an amateur. Ahem. All kidding aside, there is plenty of talent in our ranks. Just hope modesty doesn't prevent the public from benefiting from it. Joe McLesky would make a wonderful Emou. It is hoped that faculty members will avail themselves of this opportunity too. It should be an evening of fun and gaiety. Now if you can do some stunt, say a funny speech, play a musical instrument, sing, do chalk talks, etc. etc. Let's make this attempt a good one. You don’t have to excel in your number—after all, it is for amateurs.

Thoughts Worth Thinking: The quotations on the bottom of vespers program sheets. “The greatest obstacles to faith are not intellectual but moral”? Could you want any more truth?

Necessity: Learning to study is primary in college—even at Davidson. Booklets on “how to study” are available down at the “Y” and the reading room is open at all hours. If some of you frosh haven't read these few pages of smart advice, better drop by and gain in knowledge. You're welcome to read ‘em, just be sure to leave 'em. And, say, you upperclassmen could find it helpful—or maybe you don’t want better grades. Now, that can’t be true.

How About: Chapel? Carpets are a big help... Drapes and attitude of worship and respect are bigger. Since chapel change,—believe—some perennial talkers have gained silence... it’s a great help fellows—more than you know—taking a Y-ild rose, Pat Rudolph because of your column—one to Darby too—Your helpful publicity is needed, necessary, and not neglected—Suggesting some good books for a small reading shelf of sound religious reading to be put in the reading room of the College Infirmary... Recalling to mind Dr. N. John Fall Services speaker Thomas, last year—heard him at Second church in Charlotte Sunday—sends greetings to his many friends on the campus—made a great impression here last year—remember his down-to-earth sermon on “how to deal with doubt”?—Suggesting suggestions to your Hall meeting leader—pow-wow with them Monday night showed how much good thinking has been done on some halls—how much good thinking can do for us all—Relaxing a little during these busy days—you’re not a machine, you know—Remembering what we're here for—you know?—Stop saying “How about.”

Yours,
SHAW SMITH

VESPER’S SPEAKER

Vespers Sunday night will be conducted by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, of the Davidson faculty. Dr. Foreman’s subject will be “The Freedom of Man,” which he plans to discuss from a slightly different viewpoint than the topics considered by Mr. Will Durant in his recent address here.

Leads Fall Services
DR. PETER MARSHALL

Cough Drops Help Cheers

Preyers and Richardsons Donate Cough Drops for Football Games.
By HOWELL MORROW

Davidson football games have many added attractions aside from the thrill and enjoyment that the contest itself may afford. The half rushes by, and almost before we realize it, we find our attention focused upon the shows which the respective college bands put on. After the Davidson trumpeters, drummers, buglers, and all their other musical brethren have favored us with their tuneful extravaganza, which is usually augmented by fireworks and the singing of “Oh Davidson”, the lights return and there is a mad scramble for little blue packages which fall in a shower upon the Davidson students present.

Be Nonchalant

If you will just act nonchalant and assume an indifferent attitude, sitting complacently in your seat, one of the welcomed little missiles is very apt to fall neatly into your coat pocket. But, of course, this is not human nature; so we stand up, wave our hands frantically, shout at the cheerleaders, who are the dispensers of the much-needed delicacies. This standing up and scrambling for cough drops is a refreshing interlude and corresponds to the seventh inning of a baseball game. Davidson students appreciate these drops because they are usually badly needed at this stage of the game, and the cheerleaders seem to get the greatest satisfaction out of bombarding us with them.

Preyer and Richardson

Mr. and Mrs. William Y. Preyer, and Messrs. H. S. and L. Richardson are the donors of the Vick’s Cough Drops which add so much to our athletic contests. Mr. Preyer is the President of the Vicks Chemical Company, while the Richardson brothers both went to Davidson; Mr. L. Richardson was graduated in 1914, while his brother, H. S. Richardson, was a member of the class of ‘06. Every Friday, a bundle containing 750 sample packages of Vick's Cough Drops is mailed from Greensboro to George Mitchell, our cheerleader. This is not an advertisement for the Vicks Chemical Company, but yells do sound better after the half.

RUTLEDGE SPEAKS

Dr. Archibald Rutledge, noted poet and scholar from South Carolina, was the speaker at the meeting of Sigma Upsilon Tuesday night at the home of Dr. W. P. Cumming. The subject of Mr. Rutledge’s talk was “Writing for Publication”. After the brief speech the members of the literary fraternity joined in an informal discussion during which Mr. Rutledge answered numerous questions. On Wednesday morning the author addressed the entire student body at the regular chapel service.

A. S. BROWN
TOWN TOPIC SHIRTS
KED’S TENNIS SHOES
Davidson, N. C.

Sentelle Tells Of Difficulties Faced By Early Football Teams

Prof. Essor Recalls Many Incidents About Squad Organized In 1898.
By DEANE WATSON

Pause... refreshed

You trust its quality

Gives Concert College Given Rare Volumes.
[Continued on Page Six]

You'll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola as surely as thirst comes. You taste its quality; the quality of genuine goodness. Ice-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment, buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

Kirkpatrick Plays Piano At Concert

Second Number in Phi Mu Alpha Series Offers Noted American Pianist

Fourfold Life

Phi Mu Alpha will present John Kirkpatrick, noted American pianist and exponent of contemporary American music, in the second concert of the season on the evening of November 3 at 8:15. Kirkpatrick was educated in France, yet remained entirely American in point of view. He has been tireless in searching out the best in American music, and has become

Dr. J. W. MacConnell Presents Three Old Medical Books To Library

Sunday morning, October 20, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, College physician, taught the Sunday school class. For his theme he used, “Are we busy or just plain dizzy?” Smith said that the average college student is just too busy to

[Continued on Page Six]Second, it has been noted in his interpretation of con us are just too busy with other things to give our bodies the proper care. We should get plenty of exercise and, especially, sleep, eat the right amount of the proper foods, and keep clean always.

Secondly, many of us are studying on a lower level than our other activities. Our purpose in college is to get an education. Shaw Smith said here that we should by no means work only for grades but for the knowledge that we get from studying.

Our social life is also a very important part of our college life. To get the best out of college, friends are needed—friends that we can rely on in times of trouble and to whom we can open our hearts. A student who neglects his social life is lost when he gets out in the world by himself. He has not learned the art of making friends when he could.

In summing up his talk, he urged all to be careful and give an equal chance to building up bodies, training minds, carrying on social life, and improving spiritually. If we don't, our college education is woefully incomplete.

LACY SELLARS

The Junior Class of the R.O.T.C. Corps, numbering this year well over forty, received its regular uniforms Monday morning. W. E. Feathers, representing Jacob Reed's Sons of Philadelphia, who tailored the uniforms this year, spent the entire day fitting and adjusting them to fit.

The rich beauty of fine leathers, hand-finished by skilled craftsmen, makes a shoe a true classic. Husky oil-treated in smart styling and imported leather laces bespeak quality and value supreme.

ANTIQUE HAND FINISHED
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MARY MARTIN | FRED MacMURRAY | ROBERT PRESTON
Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly Except Sundays During October and November.