CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Fight Night

Now this column comes out of New York and if part of it is a hodge-podge, you can blame the radio which is right in front of this machine. Here’s the bell... They're stalling through the first half of the round. Now they're mixing it up, both of them in there, and both of them punching and moving... The bell for the end of the round and no startling action. But by reading time on this, the fight’s history, so let's go to football.

The weekend was a very pleasant one in almost all respects for Davidson football. Besides their own performance against State, the Cats can look to nearly all their future opponents and find consolation. Carolina went down before S. C.’s Gamecocks, V.M.I. took a terrible beating from Clemson, Kentucky walloped V.P.I. (it's the end of the second round) and Nova, although missing his hard ones, took Sewanee and nosed Washington and Lee 20-19. Citadel beat Wofford over three scores reputedly, and Furman... Only Duke racked up a decisive win, and no one here would regret the Demon Deacons taking a bad beating.

To get back to State, the Wildcats offered a light. Davidson's forward offensive line, which has been one of the Davidson strong points, appeared noteworthy against the passing game. Leo LeBlanc, billed as one of the best, and Pecora, are dangerous on short deliveries, and the left ends are two more capable glue-buckets. A punting duel which may rank with the best may be on tap. Harry Dunkle, the nation’s best kicker his sophomore year, is a senior, and he’s still booting 'em. His average for 68 kicks last fall was over 40 yards, and that makes him good. Most Davidsonians know of Herman Hickman’s tabbing of Red Bethea as the best kicker he’s ever seen, and former All-American Herman has covered a lot of football territory.

Noble Experiment

On Monday at practice, Coach McEver experimented a little and put Dave Spencer at the wingback position left vacant by Claude Hackney’s broken hand. The shift undoubtedly strengthens the offensive strength by molding Lacy, Spencer, and Frederick into the same backfield, but whether Spencer's full-force effectiveness can be secured from the wingback is debatable. Also, he's a mighty small man to do the heavy defensive work required of a wing. The attack will be slowed somewhat with Frederick at tail, and the big blonde’s blocking ability will be largely lost, but the shift may be for the good.

Get Carolina

Juniors, Seniors Head Interclass Standings

The Seniors and the Juniors have each scored victories over the scrappy Sophomore and Freshman classes. The Seniors, with fast-stepping Tommy Yarborough doing the carrying, are the only team to have refused a running attack to any advantage. Thomas’ passes have been clicking too, which makes the Seniors the logical choice for the crown. The Seniors, sparked by Thomas and Yarborough, downed the Freshmen 6-0 last Thursday, and repeated with the same score over the Sophomores on Monday. The Juniors, with the passes from Maloney to Belk causing their opponents no little trouble, defeated the Sophs 6-0 in another of Thursday’s tilts, and downed the Frosh on Monday to the tune of 12-0.

With such headline encounters as matches with Duke and the University (in Charlottesville, no less) on schedule, Davidson's soccer aggregation is rounding into shape in a burst of unsurpassed vigor. Tom Brown is adding glory to his school days by serving as captain.

BRUNSWICK $5000 DUCK PIN BOWLING CARNIVAL
Mooresville Billiards and Bowling
1/2 Mile Out on Salisbury Road
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Wildcat Sports

CATS TIE STATE; CAROLINA SATURDAY

Page Four

With Hard Cats Held Favored Wolfpack To 6-6 Tie; Threaten State Goal In Every Period; Claim Statistics Edge.

Davidson met a favored Wolfpack and outplayed them in almost every department. After a give and take policy that lasted for three quarters, State finally broke through with big Dobie Nelson, plunging fullback, carrying the pigskin over from his three-yard line. The fans had hardly settled down before the Cats, engineered by Ben, began moving down the field from their own twenty-six. The passing show started. In a series of twelve plays, the red and black-shirted boys drove down to State’s twelve-yard line. Here little Dave Spencer dropped back and flipped a beautiful pass to scrappy Pat Williams, who stepped over the cross stripes for Davidson's tally.

Davidson displayed a firm line which looked capable from end to end. The Wolfpack’s 175 yards gained in rushing testifies partly to its defensive ability. One long State run provided the biggest chunk of their yardage. Hipp and Game Captain Caldwell both saw 60-minute service and were in the thick of the action. Davey Spencer played his usual good game, winning praise from stands and visiting coaches.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Like a wild bull in a china shop, that’s the manner in which the Davidson College Football team held the North Carolina State to a 6-6 tie, under the Greensboro September 73. Davidson displayed some of the best football ever exhibited by a team.

Bill Shaw, a 205-pound senior from Fayetteville, played 55 minutes of good football against N. C. State last Saturday and filled the hole left by Herb Rainey’s broken leg nicely. Shaw is a sure starter against Carolina.

Cats Dazzle Wolfpack, Earned Tie

Gites O fon With Wofford

Coach Bill Bolin has been putting a large frosh squad of sixty men through heavier drills the past week, with the result that one of the finest Wildkitten elevens ever to play for Davidson is expected. Since the first game is scheduled for a week from tomorrow, the starting lineup is not yet known, but the following boys’ play has had them running on the first string in scrimmages, practice, and games.

On the flanks are Bill Dunn and Tom Peters, both of whom can really snag those passes. Also battling for the end position are Bob Kendrick and Sam Hay.

Battle For Tackle

The battle for tackle is a hard fight between Carr, Simmons, and Dunn, with the first two leading, and the latter giving them plenty of competition. Bill Turner and Bibbs are holding down the guard position, both big boys with plenty of fight. The center will probably be Bingham, but Harrison’s good work is giving him plenty of competition. In the backfield, Buck Williams’ fine passing and running has given him theFullback duties, while Riffe, a 180-pounder, is looking impressive at blocking back.

Roach At Tailback
The tailback duties are being held down by Roach, a fast man from Barium, with George Peters probably alternating. The battle for wingback is still a wide-open affair between Short and Pittman. The initial encounter is with the Wofford College frosh here on October 10.

DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON'S BigO SERVICE DRUG
Watch The Davidsonian For Sapp’s NEW AND MODERN DRUGSTORE THROUGHOUT STORE

Thursday, October 2, 1941

Prime Attack For Carolina As Tar Heels Look For Hard Battle
By HARRY HOLLINGFIELD
Sports Editor

The Daily Tar Heel football team hasn't forgotten last year when Davidson battled the Tar Heels to a 7-7 tie for the first half before falling to superior manpower in the second half. And for that reason, the Tar Heels pull into Davidson Saturday, not looking for a breather with the Presbyterians but for a real hustle.

With a veteran and experienced line running before a pint-sized backfield composed mostly of juniors and sophomores, the Tar Heels offer a balanced attack this year more than they have in the past two years. Frank O'Hare, senior tailback, has good replacements in Hugh Cox, the sophomore running star in the Lenoir-Rhyne game, and Leo LeBlanc, billed as Carolina’s passing ace. Although both Cox and LeBlanc have shown definite potentialities, O'Hare, because of his more consistent play, rates the No. 1 spot in the Tar Heel backfield. It was O'Hare who ignited the second-quarter drive which enabled the Tar Heels to tie the score last year.

Other backfield starters are pretty well settled. It'll be Harry Dunkle, co-captain and punter, in the blocking back post; Clay Croom at fullback; and either Johnny Pecora or Joe Austin at wingback.

The line is fairly well set with seasoned men, although recurring injuries to sophomore and junior linemen cause changes from week to week. Stu Elliot and Dick Sieck are starting at the tackle posts, Pinky Elliott and Richardson at the flanks, and Dick White and Gwynn Nowell at the guard posts. Co-captain Carl Suntheimer, the best center in the Southern Conference as long as a bad knee holds intact, will be in the middle of the line.

Expect Trouble
Carolina expects much trouble from Davidson's Johnny Spencer and Frederick, both of whom caused much worry last season. Not only will Spencer's open-field twisting be watched, but also his dangerous passing arm. Carolina safety men will move back a few yards when Red Bethea goes into punt formation. To Carolina supporters, the game stacks up as being a clash between a good little team and a big, average team. Under most conditions, the good, big, average team would be expected to win, but no one in Chapel Hill is believing anything until the score is posted at the end of the encounter.

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte, North Carolina
Today Thru Sunday
CHARLES BOYER
Olivia DeHavilland
Paulette Goddard
-in-
“HOLD BACK THE DAWN”

Late Show Sat. Night
BOB HOPE
Paulette Goddard
-in-
“NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH”

Starts Monday
JACK BENNY
-in-
“CHARLEY’S AUNT”
-With-
JAMES ELLISON
KAY FRANCIS

Chapel Hill, North Carolina—The inspired and brilliantly-played Davidson Wildcats are ready to shoot everything they have against the North Carolina Tar Heels Saturday in an effort to give the dope bucket another good kick. The showing of the Cats last Saturday at Greensboro against State swelled the hopes of even the most conservative of Davidson's followers, and if they keep the fight and spirit displayed in last week's game, anything can happen. The Tar Heel’s surprising defeat by South Carolina’s Gamecocks 13-7 last Saturday gives the Cat backers even more aspirations, proving that Carolina is sadly missing the brilliant passing of last year's Sweet Jim Lalanne, and the stellar play of “All-American” end, Paul Severin.

The pre-season statistics show that, though short on stars, the Tar Heels are long on smooth-clicking teamwork. There are 22 returning lettermen and 25 other reserves. The starting line will average around 195 pounds, and the backfield will be only 10 pounds lighter.

Davidson's first-string line will closely match that of the University’s in weight, but the backfield will have a twenty-pound deficit which they are hoping to make up easily in speed and all-around ability. Alf Taylor rates as a probable starter due to George Marsh’s leg injury in the State game. This will be the only likely change from last week's starting line. In the backfield, Coach McEver may shift Dave Spencer from tailback to the wingback spot, with big Johnny Fredericks returning to the lineup to take over the tailback duties. Sophomore Red Bethea will perform in the blocking back position with Ben Lacy in as plunging back to fill out a foursome of backs that will be hard to stop.

Groceries
EVERY LINE OF HARDWARE
M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GENUINE HAND LOOMED HARRIS TWEED
Suits Tailored By ROCKINGHAM
Suits that hold their own among the style-minded crew, gentlemen! Suits that hold their own in quality, too. Suits that carry the genuine Harris Tweed label. You'll enjoy wearing them... you'll “go” for the easy-fitting 3-button models, the smart herringbone or plain weaves. All told, you can’t miss with Harris Tweed! Rich shades: Brown—Tan—Blue—Grey—Heather Mixtures.

BELK BROS. MEN’S STORE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN
Only $1.50 Per Year
Send Name and Address to THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.