sTepmonscare_| Che MDavidsonian ¢ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

(1) Boosting Our Boosters
(2) Profit by Experience
(3) Double Cuts?

EDITORIALS:

Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1941

Omicron Delta Kappa

Old Library Changed To Student Building

President Announces that Old Library Will be Converted Into Student Lounge, “Y” Center, and Guest Quarters. Work to Be Completed by February.

President Cunningham has announced that the old library will be converted into a Student Activity Building. The building, when worked over and re-arranged, will be used for a Student Lounge, Y. M.C. A. offices and rooms, and Guest Quarters.

The President has indicated that careful consideration has been given throughout the spring and summer to the converting of the building into a Student Social Center. That seemed, at first, the desirable use to make of the building. It was found upon thorough investigation, both from those who have had extensive experience in the field, as well as from persons who are connected with Davidson College in the past and present, that the space and facilities of the building are inadequate for that purpose.

Combines Features

It has been decided that a combination arrangement which combines three features needed on the campus would be effected. The plan calls for the first floor being turned into a large attractive Lounge on the right as one enters. This room is about 50x20 feet in size. The room at the left, as one enters, will be used for a smaller sitting room, and for Radio and Victrola. The Y. M. C. A. offices and Cabinet rooms together with ping pong tables, etc., will be to the rear of that floor.

Guest Rooms

The upper floor of the building will permit, including a half dozen spacious and attractive guest rooms, where parents, young lady visitors, and alumni and other College guests can be entertained. A hostess will be in charge of this part of the building, together with the kitchen and dining rooms in which individuals and small groups may be served with meals. It is believed that this arrangement will lend to the building which will permit of many uses by Faculty and Student Groups, and in which the social life of the campus will center. It also permits of the entertainment of ladies on the campus for which facilities have not heretofore been available. It is hoped that the completion of the work of remodeling and furnishing may be completed by February.

Plans Made For Amateur Show Friday

“Y” and ODK To Sponsor Program. Prizes to Be Awarded

Plans have been made for amateur night which is to be held Friday, November 14, at 8 P. M. in Chambers Auditorium. Anyone in the student body who wishes to demonstrate his abilities is invited to enter.

Sponsored by “Y” and O.D.K.

This undertaking will be sponsored jointly by the YMCA and ODK in order to discover what talents we have here on the campus and to afford a good time for everyone. No admission will be charged, and everyone is urged to attend and witness this show which will bring out Davidson's amateur talent. Capable judges will be secured for the event, and prizes will be awarded. The first prize will be five dollars; the second and third prizes will be three and two dollars respectively. There is still an opening for anyone desiring a place in the show, and persons wishing to take part have only to see Ralph Williams who is in charge of the program.

McClesky Presides

Joe McClesky will act as master of ceremonies at the show which will include hill billy music, quartette singing, classical music, imitations, and other acts.

Planes Zoom Over Campus

Campus Sees National Defense in Action Over Campus.

By DEANE WATSON

The hum of a far off motor sounds in the blue. A sudden crescendo of drums, then with a mighty roar a silver shape flashes in and out of sight and is gone before searching eyes can see potential death. No readers, this is not a scene from “A Yank in the W. P. A.” or the recounting of an adventure on the chalk cliffs of Dover, but only an afternoon occurrence on the campus of Davidson College.

Bad Effects

This sort of thing is all right the first few times but like many other things it has its bad effects. When some well-meaning worldly wise sophomore drops in for a “short” visit which culminates into a lengthy bull session, that’s excusable. When the freshman hurls some venturesome insult from West dormitory to Georgia, thus bringing about an expeditionary force of indignant seniors and juniors with full wastebaskets, that’s not so bad, but when (Continued on Page Six)

TAPPED BY O. D. K.

DAVE SPENCER
PAT RUDOLPH
BILL SPRUNT
ARCH TAYLOR
FRANK CALDWELL

TAPPED IN CHAPEL THIS MORNING by members of Omicron Delta Kappa were Frank Caldwell of Spartanburg, S. C.; Dan Hodges of Raleigh, N. C.; Pat Rudolph of Asheville, N. C.; Dave Spencer of Barium Springs, N. C.; Bill Sprunt of Winston-Salem, N. C.; Arch Taylor, also of Winston-Salem; and Walter Wooten of Chattanooga, Tenn. All these men were chosen.

Cannonar To Head Chin

BULLETIN FROM DEAN

In a special announcement from the dean, Dr. Bailey states that hereafter all cut cards will be sent out from the dean's office on Tuesday rather than on Saturday. Dean Bailey announced that all cuts must be cleared up on or before Saturday, and that hereafter, all errors must be reported immediately to the office if correction is desired. It was also announced that cuts will be doubled on Wednesday and Friday, before and after Thanksgiving.

Girls, Band, And O’Brien Provide Gala Weekend

PAT O'BRIEN

Pat O’Brien gave his screen followers a real treat at last Saturday’s game when he appeared in person among the spectators in the grandstand and during the half when he praised Davidson's fine spirit from the field.

By HOWELL MORROW, JR.

Davidson spirit reached an all-time high last Saturday as the college staged one of the most brilliant and thrilling spectacles in its history. The campus can be described as consisting of fifty acres of intense activity, vivid color, noise, music, shouting, pretty girls, football fans, automobiles, soldiers, and Davidson students.

Girls Visit

One of the most attractive features of the day was the presence here and there of a shower of Converse College girls who came at the invitation of the Beaver Club. About twenty-five high school bands, flashing every color of the rainbow in the bright autumn sunlight, were here to make music during the half, while a large number of high school football teams witnessed the game in acceptance of an invitation extended to them by the “D” Club. Over ten thousand spectators made the town of Davidson a beehive of activity during the entire weekend.afternoon. middle of this colorful (Continued on Page Six)

Davidson President Becomes State Chairman. Dr. Cunningham has recently accepted the invitation of the National Committee on United China Relief to assume the Chairmanship for the State of North Carolina.

Representative Committee
This Committee represents the coordinated effort of eight participating agencies, having as their objectives various types of assistance to the Chinese people. These agencies are the American Bureau for Medical Aid to China, The American Committee for Chinese War Orphans, The American Friends Service Committee, The Associated Boards of Christian Colleges in China, the Church Committee for China Relief, and other such agencies.

Grave Situation
The gravity of the situation in China is only beginning to be thoroughly understood in this country. As the people better under- (Continued on Page Six)

Gift Fund To Be Announced
"Y" to Start Drive For Christmas Gift Fund Tuesday.

Tuesday morning in chapel, the YMCA will present the Christmas Gift Fund to the Student Body and the goal they have set for this Fund.

Begins Tuesday
This drive will be launched in chapel Tuesday morning and will close Wednesday night. On each dormitory hall, there will be one student appointed to solicit pledges. Last year the students and friends of the college contributed $1,200 to the gift fund, the YMCA alone giving $200.

Done Annually
Every year the YMCA, through the department of Evangelism, puts (Continued on Page Six)

Relief Drive
Tapping Ceremony Recognizes Leaders
Caldwell, Hodges, Rudolph, Spencer, Sprunt, Taylor, and Wooten Are Tapped.

ALL ARE SENIORS
Brings Total Student Membership Up To Fifteen

Frank Caldwell, Dan Hodges, Pat Rudolph, Dave Spencer, Arch Sprunt, Taylor, and Walter Wooten

BAND TOURS VIRGINIA
On their first tour this season, the Davidson Symphonic Band is making the trip to the Washington and Lee game in Lexington, Virginia, on November 15 to play as well as give concerts at Burlington and Charlottesville, Va. They leave today and will return Sunday afternoon. The Band will play at the Davidson-W. and L. game in Lexington. This is W. and L.'s Homecoming game. The Band will be entertained Saturday night by VMI and will return Sunday.

Speeches and Parade Featured
Spencer Celebration
Spencer is possibly Davidson's best-known football player since Tafferty and is a member of the "D" Club and Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity. He is from Barium Springs, N.C., and is an officer in Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

McConnell Speaks
Both editor of the "Y Handbook" and chairman of the Elections Board, Sprunt, from Winston-Salem, is also an officer in Sigma Upsilon.

Taylor
A member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Taylor, from Winston-Salem, is president of the Fraternity Council.

Evening
Joseph Bonnet, world-famous organist and composer, gave a concert in Chambers Auditorium. This concert was part of the current Phi Mu Alpha concert series. Bonnet is considered one of the greatest organists in the world. He was born in Bordeaux, France, where at the age of fourteen he was appointed organist of the Church of St. Michel. He later became one of the star pupils of the Paris Conservatory, where he won first prize in organ.

Organist At St. Eustache
Shortly afterward, he came to the historic Church of St. Eustache in Paris and was unanimously chosen among a large number of applicants. Bonnet still presides at the organ in that church, where he has given scores of recitals and has had the honor of counting among his auditors celebrities from the world of Arts and Letters. Such world-known personalities as Gabriel d'Annunzio and Rodin have been among his admirers. In 1914, at the death of Guilmant, Bonnet succeeded him in the much-envied post as organist of the Concerts du Conservatoire. Since then, Bonnet’s career has progressed amazingly. (Continued on Page Six)

Bonnet Gives Concert In Chambers Auditorium
The Davidson Battalion to 221 Armistice Made Holiday
Pat Rudolph, Dave Spencer, Walter Wooten signified their Omicron Delta Kappa bids this morning. At the sound of each gavel’s rap on the rostrum, a member walked out and tapped a new member for recognition of his leadership.

Caldwell
Caldwell, from Spartanburg, S.C., is Judge of the Court of Control, has acted as Captain of the football team, is a member of the "D" Club and Phi Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He is also a captain in the ROTC.

Hodges
Hodges, a member of Delta Sigma Phi social fraternity, is a member of Red and Black Masquers, and ranks in the top ten of his class.

Rudolph
Rudolph, from Raleigh, is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and an officer of Sigma Upsilon. He is also a member of Delta Phi Alpha, Red and Black Masquers, and Scabbard and Blade.

Wooten
Wooten, from Chattanooga, Tenn., is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, captain of the Scabbard and Blade, and has also been a class officer for three years. He represents the Pan-Hellenic Council.

These seven additions bring the student membership of O.D.K. to fifteen. Those who are already members are Claude Hackney, Ed Lucas, Julien McCall, Jim Owens, George Marsh, Charlie Watt, Albert Winn, and Harwell Darby.

Judge Warns All Freshmen
Offenders Will Receive Stricter Discipline.

At a called meeting of the Court of Control on October 5, it was decided that the entire Freshman class should be placed on campus for one week due to their "noxious" attitude toward Davidson upperclassmen.

Court To Be Active
This lenient restriction has been in force for only one week, but since it seems that numerous freshmen have seen fit to continue breaking regulations, Judge Caldwell is (Continued on Page Six)