Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 9, 1941

CAMPUS ODDITIES

Dr. Wharton has been elected president of the American Medical Association. Dr. Rankin, born in 1886, came to Davidson at
the age of 19 and received his A.B. degree in 1901. Eight years later, he graduated from both the University
of Maryland and St. John's College, receiving his M.D. degree. Since then, he has been associated with numerous hospitals, including
the Mayo Clinic, where he worked until 1923 when he married Edith Mayo. He later returned to this clinic as
a surgeon. He also served as a surgeon at St. Joseph and Good Samaritan Hospitals in Lexington, Ky. Before being
elected president of the American Medical Association, Dr. Rankin was best known for his work in surgery of the colon.
He has written three books and is recognized for his outstanding work in this field.

DISTINGUISHED FAMILY IN GREEK-LETTER HISTORY

Sunday Night Vespers

Pastor Chooses “Sanctification of Christ” As Subject

(Continued from Page One)

At this meeting, Bobby Miller, Ed Hay, Jerry Newman, Bill Summers, and Jimmy Fulcher were elected.

Sunday School

The College Sunday School met last Sunday, October 5, at its regular meeting in Phi Hall. The Sunday School opened
at 10:15 A.M. with devotionals led by Bill Tyson, which included scripture reading, hymns, a prayer, and an offering. Attendance
was higher than the previous Sunday. After the devotionals, Dr. Foreman gave an address on “The Fatherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of Man.” He interpreted Christ’s feelings on this topic as expressed in the parable of “The Prodigal Son,”
showing that the whole relationship of God to man is depicted in this parable. The father in the story represents
God, and the two sons represent different types of men on earth. The father’s treatment of the sons is a
figurative representation of how God treats men. Dr. Foreman also raised the point that many people do not know the
meaning of the word "prodigal," and thus miss its significance in the parable.

Phi Mu Alpha Starts Drive

The Phi Mu Alpha Rushing Committee, headed by Craig White, has started a drive to increase the number of new
members. At the meeting, candidates from the Junior and Senior classes were considered for admission. Charles Isley and Harry Allen
of the Junior class, and David Rhea of the Senior class, have been appointed chairmen of the Rushing Committee. At
the meeting, plans for the semester were discussed by the society president, Tom Plonk.

Next on the schedule of lectures is Dr. Howard W. Odum, Professor of Sociology at the University of North Carolina,
who will speak on February 11th and 12th. He is the head of the Institute for Research in Social Science,
a nationally prominent organization. Dr. Odum, a Georgian by birth, is chiefly interested in the study of cultural problems of
the South and has made a name for himself as one of the leading sociologists in this section of the
country. He has served as president of the Southern Regional Sociological Society. This will be his first visit to Davidson.

UL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting GoodsAppointed at the annual banquet of the local committee composed of the chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, John Turner,
chairman, Sandy McKay, and George Shannon. He may speak to the whole student body while he is here. Other plans
will be announced as they develop.

The social committee, composed of Fulcher, chairman, Hank Crane, and Jim Kerr. Due to the large amount of business, no
program was had.

The officers for this semester are Tom Plonk, president; Jimmy Fulcher, vice-president; Rhea Preston, secretary; Jim White, treasurer; Bill Summers,
first critic; Bill MacLauchlin, second critic; and Hank Crane, sergeant at arms.

The listening room in Shearer Hall is furnished with lounge chairs, rugs, and other restful features. The room is open
daily, several hours each day, for students, faculty, townspeople, and friends.

Theatre: Carolina Theatre, Charlotte, North Carolina. Now through Saturday: Jack Benny in "Charley's Aunt" with James Ellison and Kay Francis.
Late Show Sat. Night: Tyrone Power and Betty Grable in "Yank in the R.A.F." Starts Sunday: Bob Hope and Paulette
Goddard in "Nothing But the Truth."

New: Raincaps (Prepare for Davidson’s rainy season now). Pennants, stickers, athletic supplies, Davidson stationery, class rings. The Student Store, Bill
Shaw, Manager.

Charlie Parrish and Earle Copes participated in the program of the R.B. W. Rankin Presbytery Rally in Mooresville Sunday. Charlie
Parrish, President of the Young People’s Synod of North Carolina, led the worship service, and Earle Copes directed the singing
at this District One Rally staged at the First Presbyterian Church. Ten Davidson students attended the rally. Dr. J. M.
Gettys, Professor of Bible at Queens College, led a discussion group on the subject, “The Place of The Bible in
a Young Person's Life.” Reports from the young people's leagues were heard, and Miss Louise Maxwell addressed the gathering on
the subject of “Home Missions.” Mrs. Skinner Kellersberger, Missionary from the Belgium Congo, climaxed the rally with an inspiring talk
on her work there. Mitchell Mack, Fred Betts, Jimmy Houston, and “Buck” McNeeley represented Davidson.

Echoes of the Past:
One Year Ago: Ed Watson given command of new R.O.T.C. unit. A private art exhibit held under the sponsorship of
John Northcross and Gordon Horton. Davidson defeated by Carolina 27-7.
Five Years Ago: Davidson defeated V.M.I. 38-13. Sixteen girls on the campus were sponsors for the game. Carl Sandburg lectures
on “Hyacinths and Biscuits.” R.O.T.C. unit will be inspected by Col. H. R. Richmond. Bob Kellogg wins Freshman Cake Race.
Seniors and Juniors tied for the lead in the Intramural Football.
Ten Years Ago: Davidson defeated W. & L. 7-0. Davidson painted on the roof of Chambers for the benefit of
airplane traffic. Senior Class victorious in Inter-Class Football. Portraits for Quips and Cranks finished.

Shaw Smith wishes to remind the boys not to become discouraged if they are not called on immediately. “If some
of you could find time to drop by, maybe I could find something for you to do. Most of the
jobs are held by those who stay around the office here. In these questionnaires, some boys have filled them out
every year for three or four years without being asked to do anything. I would like to take this opportunity
to thank them, and all the boys who have filled these out, for the interest they have shown, and to
impress upon them the fact that they are wanted and there is a place for them. If they are not
doing what they wanted to do, they can always help in Hall Prayer Groups, in church, in Sunday School, and
most of all, by giving their sincere, helpful criticism of the work being done and by giving constructive suggestions.”

Delta Phi Alpha will hold its first meeting at the home of Dr. Vowles later this month. At this meeting,
new members will be elected to the Phi Delta Alpha and Deutscher Verein. The officers of the Delta Phi Alpha
are: Dan Hodges, President; Ben Lacy, Secretary and Treasurer. The aim of the Delta Phi Alpha is to encourage the
study of German literature in the student body. At each meeting, a summary of a German book is read by
one of the members, along with other interesting papers. Several members of the faculty are members of the Phi Delta
Alpha.

Patricia Compton of Dallas, Texas, one of America’s prettiest college girls, is on the campus this year. They’re cheering Chesterfields
because they’re MILDER, COOLER, and BETTER-TASTING. You'd enjoy reading “Tobaccoland, U.S.A.,” or hearing a lecture on Chesterfield’s can't-be-copied blend of
the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. But the best way to learn about Chesterfields is to try them. You’ll find more
cigarette pleasure than you ever had before. You’ll join the millions who say WITH ME IT’S CHESTERFIELD... THEY SATISFY.
