Page Two

Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter... Assistant Editor
W. C. Munkett... Associate Editor
Al Wine... Associate Editor
Ed Kewin... Managing Editor
Joe Evel... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher... Managing Editor
Bill Lyman... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh... Managing Editor
Sports Editor... Clarence Legerton
Movie Editor... Billy Barker
Staff Photographer... Billy Barker

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager... Calhoun Hipp
Advertising Manager... Peter Young
Circulation Manager... Joe Martin
Circulation Manager... Buck McNeely
Collections Manager... Lyle Stuart

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

HOMECOMING
Davidson College marks another era in her history as Homecoming brings alumni back to the new Davidson, the new buildings which rise loftily over books and test-tubes. Why come back to Davidson? The class of twenty-nine has long left the campus—new faces could never replace the old jolly crowd that was in that class of twenty-nine. Even new buildings have overshadowed the old. Martin Chemical Laboratory is set off by the new brick of Grey Memorial Library. There’s nothing of the Davidson that I knew left there at all.

But wait a minute! That face looks familiar. “I say there, son, you're not by any chance a Howard? Why I knew your brother better than I did myself when he was throwing water on freshmen from the top floor of Georgia. How is he now? What's he doing for himself? I never will forget the time that your brother was rooting trees or lifting cars.

Since ye olde filth columnist was one of those limbers who stayed on the campus over the weekend, most of this week's dope is hearsay, and there are a few items whose authenticity is doubtful. However, a few rare tidbits have filtered in. The juiciest bit is one which is rather delicate. Two of our most recent old-grads are the principal characters, having zipped over to Charlotte the other P.M. to date two “Misses,” as was thought, only to find that neither of the aforesaid lasses had any claim to the title. It seems that when Johnny old grads are called back in official capacities they have the opportunity to do all of those things they wanted to do when here. Cars, etc. Must be wonderful.

Rush notes are rolling in like the tides; among the victims are Morton Church, Arch Taylor, and Butch Pharr. We pity the senior whose date was purloined by some sleek Deke from Carolina. And speaking of flushes, let us remind you to buy your set ticket now, if you haven't done so, for the dances tomorrow and Saturday. Remember that your support now will determine the caliber of the dance band for Midwinters, so do your part (paid adv.)

Two frosh, Bill and Dee Dunn, were seen at the depot barefooted. Tom Burke was handicapped by feeling very badly. Bill Mitchell was wildly placing nickel bets on Davidson in the Chattanooga Choo-Choo.

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 16, 17
WILD GEESE CALLING
Henry Fonda, Joan Bennett, Warren William, Ona Munson, and Barton MacLane.

Although this picture cannot be very highly recommended for its story, the cast pulls it far out of the mediocre ranks. Henry Fonda, as a boy with an overdose of wanderlust, does his best to make this rather slow-moving story a hit. He is very ably assisted by glamorous Joan Bennett and suave Warren William. Henry plays a likeable but naive lumberjack with a desire to be on the move. This desire is encouraged by the eternal flight of the wild geese. In Seattle, he meets Blackie, a disreputable character played by Warren William. Here he also meets and marries Sally, a waterfront chorus girl played by Joan Bennett. However, the sight of the wild geese overhead bids him to follow Blackie to Alaska, where he becomes disillusioned and discontent. Ona Munson, as usual, has the part of a “toughie.” Joan Bennett, in spite of being somewhat miscast in her role of waterfront chorus girl, turns in an excellent performance. Henry Fonda is just as good as ever.

Saturday, October 18
KISS THE BOYS GOODBYE
Mary Martin, Don Ameche, Jerome Cowan, and Oscar Levant.

A very gay, light, and entertaining musical, with Don Ameche and Mary Martin rating cheers. Don plays the part of a director, who with stage producer Jerome Cowan and musical composer Oscar Levant, goes on an extensive search for a naive Southern girl to play the lead in a Broadway production. Instead, they discover ex-chorus girl Mary Martin for the role. There will be a late show Saturday night at 10:15. The name of the attraction will be announced later.

Monday and Tuesday, October 20, 21
INTERNATIONAL LADY
George Brent, Ilona Massey, Basil Rathbone, and Gene Lockhart.

This production is essentially an espionage thriller with an international adventure backdrop. Ilona Massey has the role of a woman with a past, present, and very much of a future. Her exciting adventures in many countries gain her two pursuers—Basil Rathbone and George Brent, both of whom are torn between two desires. Basil’s head tells him to...

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday, October 16, 1941

The Fifth-Columnist
By ????

The Chattanooga Choo-Choo brought back wild tales of a super weekend. Davidson was well represented in the Dynamo of Dixie, not with the football team, the taggers, Geo. Mitchell, Jim Howell, Vine Morris, Waller Wooten, Ralph Williams, Jim “as am I” Owens, and countless others carrying the scarlet and black into the Tennessee hills, only to return black and blue after a slow, disappointing game. Things popped that night, however, as Vosburg discovered a diamond in the rough in the person of a blond bombshell on 9th street, the center of the city's aristocracy. Baxter Freeze fell head over heels for a Hedy Lamarr’ish creature, considering her for a dance date soon. He was observed frantically putting a call through to Chattanooga Monday night. Dick O’Hair skipped the dance to roam Lookout Mountain with his date, hoping to get lost, but the damsel was a native and guided him successfully to the station in time for the train—worse luck. Buck Archer was scalped for scalping and was last seen loitering the depot barefooted.

In the Grooves
By JIMMIE MORGAN

Charlie Barnet has issued several noteworthy discs, of which the most noteworthy is “Harlem Speaks.” One of Barnet's most characteristic habits is that of imitating negro organizations. It is usually Ellington or Basie that is imitated, but on this vale, it is Lunceford, even though the piece was composed by Ellington. Fine solos by Barnet (tenor) and Bobby Burnet (trumpet) highlight this side. Another good Barnet number is “Lois,” scored in the Ellington idiom and tastefully played. Other recent pressings by this band are “Spanish Kick,” “Swingin’ on Nothin’ (appropriately named), “Murder at Peyton Hall,” and “The Heart You Stole.”Sewanee stands... kilt-her, while his heart tells him to set a new record for prolonged operating when, after a big weekend in Winston, he returned for Monday's classes, only to pull out for the tobacco town again Monday night. The irresistible temptation was one of Davidson's perennials, Jonnie Benel, whose allure is not to be denied. The court of Control had best take notice... Davidson, where they spent a dreamy Sunday together. Tony Darby has established a one-man date bureau, and all lonely frosh are cordially invited to confer with old Darb, who will fix them up, or at least give them a list of “Pen Pals.” We would like to tell you more this week, but the majority of the dope is unprintable. We'd like to tell you how Chuck Garnett's car stopped and his date pushed, but we haven't room, so until next week, if anything turns up, skip it...

George Brent is outstanding, as usual, and Hona is intriguing and charming. She sings beautifully when the occasion requires, and looks beautiful throughout the feature. Wednesday's attraction had not been announced by press time, but watch for it in the previews.

Coming soon: CHARLEY’S AUNT, with Jack Benny, Jimmy Ellison, Richard Hayn, Anne Baxter, and Artene Whelan. INTERNATIONAL SQUADRON, with Ronald Reagan and James Stephenson.

Bob Bryant, who just wanders about, peeping out of the clouds only occasionally. Bob spends more time in Charlotte than any other three men, and can only be found during class hours... Tom Bell, the weight-lifter, is in a similar state, the cause being one of our faculty daughters. Go by and try his barbells sometime after a long, hard weekend. Wonderfully refreshing, even more so than the unsurpassed excitement of the East-West water fights.

No donor, however, needs to make Davidson a gift of such a monument. This average man lives on from year to year in the student body. His characteristics are written into every wall of Chambers, Rumple, and the old gym. He has been at Davidson, under one name or another, for about a century. He will be at Davidson until there is no more of that cherished species—the Davidson gentleman.

“Y” Corner — By Shaw Smith

Davidson really does things now. The “good ole days” are happening right now and you don’t have to go back ten years to see them. Names and faces reappear on the campus like planets in the sky. The buildings change but the tradition doesn’t. The present student body welcomes former student bodies and the more that come the merrier. Feel free to say, “Hello, gentlemen” and “freshman, keep off the grass.” We want you to feel just as much at home as you ever did.

DO YOU KNOW: How nice librarian Chal- mers and wife are to visit—try it some Sunday night... That the Book Exchange checks are ready... better come get ‘em now, cause you know how badly we need ‘em... How much Mrs. Mebane and Mrs. Erwin mean to the Y... they and their lady cohorts are yet to fail in coming through with any request to aid in our work... How much we hope Mrs. Arbuckle is better... mother to our Y, you know, and half of the hard-working Arbuckle team... Congratulations, incidentally, to Dr. Arbuckle on another birthday. That Billy Rose—must be the maestro himself—plays the harmonica... he ought to work well with the amateur show... there’s talk of one, you know... People won’t always tell about themselves, so if you know of any amateur talent worthy of appearing, let us know, will you?

The probable line-up for the game Saturday. The Homecoming and Inaugural stories with the schedule for the weekend included.

“La Cinquantaine” is a well-arranged title, one which features good ensemble work. Other Savitt waxworks are “As We Walk into the Sunset” and “Why Don't We Do This More Often.” Although a comparatively small number of people realize it, the Cab Calloway band is one of the finest anywhere. Cab, too, turns in an engraving of “I See a Million People,” the best point of which is a tenor solo by the great Chu Berry. The novelty, “Hey Doc” is deftly presented, as is “Conchita,” a rhumba. The latter is well-scored by Buster Harding, and Cozy Cole's drums and Milton Hinton's bass supply superb rhythms.

FLUSHES: ROYAL AND OTHERWISE

We see that venerable bearer of evil tidings, the local representative of the Western Union Telegraph Company, approaching the door. He has one of those yellow, nauseating, livid envelopes in his hand. He knocks on the door, slides under after greasing himself, and asks for Mr. Billy Ball. Billy, being a poor freshman, unused to the excitement of receiving a wire, grabs it excitedly, almost tears it asunder in his frenzy, and finds the following epitaph: “CAN’T COME BECAUSE OF THINGS AND STUFF. SO SORRY. LETTER FOLLOWS. LOVE PEE-WEE.” He reads it over again and again. He is in a perfectly bewildered state, and is amazed to find that his own little Peewee can't come because of “things and stuff.” He doesn’t know what to do. Then he crawls under the covers, lets out a blood-curdling yelp and weeps convulsively. He is a broken soul. He makes no effort to make another stab at trying to get a date for Homecoming, but takes his defeat meekly with no action other than his pitiful crying scene.

Our scene shifts; lights, camera, action, etc. Time: the same. Scene: 54 Georgia. Mr. Gaffney enters the room of “Hi-Fellers” McGarity, one of the big-deal seniors. (Know. Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN! Only $1.50 Per Year. Send Name and Address to THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.)

On every southern campus of any consequence, Hi-Fellers is always seen at the biggest deals in Charlotte, always manages to make the Deb Ball, Sweet Briar May Day, Hollins’ Spring Trot, W. C. Fall Formal, or the St. Mary’s Lawn Party and Bazaar. This man is seen everywhere. Whenever he alights on a nearby female campus, gales of laughter emanate from the female faces, screams of “Oh, there's Hi-Fellers again!” clutter up the landscape. McGarity knows what that yellow envelope contains. No hesitating on the threshold for him. He opens the envelope while on his way to the nearest telephone booth. In five minutes Hi-Fellers has settled down in his most comfortable telephonic stance and is talking to “Boots” at Randy-Make. “Yeah, Boots, kid, we're having two BIG dances this weekend, a banquet, football game, feed, and you'll get a nice compact or bracelet for a favor. We'll have a BIG time. What train do you arrive on? ... OK, I'll meet cha. Bye.” That's all there is to it, Freshmen. Take note. Hi-Fellers took his defeat with a counter-attack, as they say down armory way, and instead of pulling up the covers and weeping, he made a dash for the booth and got a girl. Did he lay down on the job?

Lastly, we come to the bachelor faculty member who receives a down-the-drain-o-gram. What does he do? Pull a dramatic crying scene? Make a dash for the nearest booth? No, he rationalizes and analyzes the situation, carefully weighing each suggestion that is developed in the darkroom of his photographic mind. After receiving the wire, he bumps into another “bach fak” in the post office after lunch, and says: “I say, old boy, what action should I take? I received a negative respondez-vous this morning concerning the prom engagement I had made for the approaching weekend.” “Well, why don’t you go to the library this afternoon and pen a note to that agronomy professor friend of yours up at Female Tech?” “That I shall do” was the quick and world-shaking reply.

These are only simple fractures, gentle reader; it would take acres of paper to explain some of the compound fractures that some students of this institution have received. You've all heard about the boy that received five flushes in one day to the tune of a terrific telephonic...