Thursday, February 27, 1941

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Mu Alpha Presents the Siberian Singers in a concert next Tuesday evening at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Student tickets will sell for 75¢ and all others will cost one dollar. This will be the fourth concert in the Sinfonia series.

Rifle Team Defeats First Three Schools
U. of Pittsburgh, U. of Detroit and L. S. U. Lose to Davidson Team.

Davidson's Rifle team has made an excellent record so far this year. They have defeated the University of Pittsburgh, University of Detroit, and L. S. U. in a postal match two weeks ago. Sixteen postal matches have been planned for the current school year. In these postal matches, the teams fire at their own respective schools and the scores are exchanged by mail. This Saturday, the rifle team is going to Raleigh for a shoulder-to-shoulder match with N. C. State. Bolin has consistently been the high score man with Malcolm Kunz second in all the matches so far. Kunz has been the only man to fire a perfect score of one hundred in the sitting position, and Bolin, Gilman, and Kerr all fired a perfect score in the prone position. At the present time, Barber and Hollifield hold the third and fourth positions.

Among the following men who have come out for the team, the sixteen men who make up the rifle team will be chosen in a short while: W. J. Bolin, S. G. Stubbins, J. W. Kerr, S. Jones, Eugene Head, R. A. Gowdy, D. M. Yocum, Malcolm Kunz, C. A. McArthur, W. R. Eagan, R. D. Wilson, F. W. Chandler, F. M. Gilman, W. Barber, J. W. Behrman, Pat Hollifield, R. P. Hutcheson, D. A. Huffine, and Paul Welch. Of the twenty-one men out, ten are freshmen.

IRC Debates "Nationalism"
Article by Gauss Is Basis For Discussion.

Davidson's International Relations Club met at the Phi house on Wednesday night, February 19th, at 10 o'clock. The program was concerned with a discussion of “The End of Nationalism,” led by Casey Jones. The basic idea for “The End of Nationalism” was taken from an article by Christian Gauss. This idea was that four great nations, the United States, England, Germany, and France, had united culturally, technologically, and economically. All enjoy the same kinds of music, art, and books. Also, these nations have joined in the development of medicine and the physical sciences. Thus, we have been brought together by such inventions as the radio, telephone, telegraph, and other means of communication. All geographical barriers have been destroyed. The one remaining need for union was a political one. It was supposed that these nations were trying to “buck the floor of history” in both the past and present World wars by fighting on Old World principles. The principal closing point was that the time will come inevitably when these nations, already so closely united, will form a permanent and firm union that is based on cooperation.

SIGMA UPSILON
Sigma Upsilon, the National Honorary Literary Society, held its regular meeting on last Tuesday night at the S. A. E. house. Tom Cauble, President, presided over the meeting. Pat Rudolph opened the meeting with a short story entitled “The Silver Tray,” after which Paul Bumbarger read a one-act play, “Ride Please,” which pictured three students bumming from Davidson to Winston-Salem and their experiences on the way. The next chapter in the novel was read by Bill Sprunt. Dr. Frazer Hood was unable to be present to read his paper because of the illness of his brother in Mississippi. A committee was then appointed to consider prospective new members for the fraternity. After the business session, a feed was held at the house.

French Group Initiates Men
SIBERIAN SINGERS

These Siberian Singers will bring the enchanting music of Old Russia to Davidson students next Tuesday evening. As exiles from their homeland, they have presented concerts which have met with the enthusiasm of audiences in the United States.

PHI SOCIETY
Jim Stimson and Clayton Love were initiated into the Philanthropic Literary Society last Tuesday night. Reading of the first outstanding papers of the semester followed the initiation. The members of the society were urged to begin work on the papers which are to be entered in the award competition. Making plans for the party with the Queens Spectators Club was the main item of business. This party will be held on the night of Friday, February 28, at Phi Hall. The program for the party was discussed. This program will consist of the presentation of a play, a quiz program, and contributions from members of the Spectators Club. Following the program, refreshments will be served and a social hour will ensue.

Among THE GREEKS
Pi Kappa Alpha
Pi Kappa Alpha had a number of brothers who made up the nomadic population of Davidson College return and enjoy a feed at the fraternity house. Brother Ball Simmons of High Point, parents of David Hodgson, attended the event. Brother Ball Simmons' son, campus Brother Ball Simmons, was also present. A number of Pi Kappa Alpha brothers who make up the nomadic population of Davidson College returned and enjoyed a feed at the fraternity house.

Pi Kappa Phi
The Pi Kappa Phi brothers didn't wander to far-off places during the past week. Joe Eve and Watson pulled the largest number of the few miserable and conscientious souls who felt duty-bound to remain on campus. Charlie Dyers and Raleigh accompanied them. Brother Browning spent the weekend trying to catch up with Foddy Lame.

Kappa Sigma
Kappa Sigma had the largest migration of brothers over the past weekend to Winston-Salem. After the game with Carolina, brothers Faison, Hackney, and Freeze attended the game and then journeyed over to High Point. Also on hand at the game were brothers Bahnson and Grosse. Brother Jones ended up in Greensboro, and Ben Pitt Moore also visited the fair city. Brothers Grantham and Cauble admitted to being attracted by the dance at Winston-Salem.

S.A.E.
All of the brothers were guests at a feed Sunday night given by the chapter. The chapter is proud to announce the initiation of Burwell Armstrong, of Gastonia; Tommy Bumbarger, of Hickory; O. D. Evans, of Hickory; Joe Eve, of Augusta, Ga.; Joe Johnston, of Davidson; Tommy Raymond, of Lakeland, Fla.; and Maynard Watson, of Ridge Spring. Brothers who have been in the infirmary for the various recent epidemics include Lonnie Milky, Dick Williamson, and Bob Gowdy.The Senior Prom at Lime was totally entertaining. Brother Alva Lumpkin spent much of the weekend at Converse College, while Mary Git was lured away by Pledge Buddy Carson. Pledges Graves and Millikan attended the game at Winston. Bill Lacy went with the track team to Chapel Hill. Pledge High McGeachy Hunt and Preyer Dick Smith visited in Lowry, S.C. Pledge Ten High Doug spent his valuable time at Greensboro after the game. Although bids were well scattered throughout North Carolina, Phi Gamma Delta did not meet.

The meeting, held at Dr. Watt's, included members Bill Connor, John W.K. Miller, John K. Robinson, Dick Phillips, W.C. Robinson, and Frank Sanford. The program consisted of a skit by three new associate members and a dialogue by two more. John Knox Robinson read an anecdote. Following the program, a series of games and French songs were enjoyed by the members of the Cercle. Refreshments were served by Mr. and Mrs. Goldiere. Business transacted included a discussion of trips to be made by the Cercle to Winthrop, Salem, and Agnes Scott. The Cercle visited Converse College.

O.D.K. CONVENTION

Jim Hogg, president of the Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, was elected at the meeting held Monday night, February 17, to represent the chapter at the national convention this year. The convention is held every two years and will be in Baton Rouge, La., on March 14-16. Other Davidson O.D.K. members attending the convention are Bob Hank, Parrish, Bahnson, and Casey Jones. Finley and Hewes also attended. Aside from making plans for the convention, there was a discussion on how the fraternity might help improve the physical appearance of the campus.

A.S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DIAL 2001
DAVIDSON, N.C.

THE BEST GROCERIES
THE BEST PRICES
DIAL 8041
J.K. HAMPTON GROCERY
DAVIDSON, N.C.

FRIENDLY SERVICE AWAITS YOU AT MOONEY’S SERVICE STATION
“PURE OIL PRODUCTS”
Davidson, N.C.

Davidsonian Reporter Quizzes Mayor Beaty

At the meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last Tuesday night, original papers were read by Bill Lyman and Pat Rudolph. After these papers were presented, they were discussed by the reviewers. Following the presentation and criticism of the papers, plans for the rest of the year were discussed in detail. The Varsity Debate tryout finals will be featured at the next regular meeting. The names of prospective faculty members were presented, and new members were elected. The names will not be made public until the men have been notified of their election.

For the first time during the interview, the “mayor-professor” was chosen. While a student at Davidson, he was known for his ability to handle almost any language. “Quips and Cranks” mentioned his splendid personality and willingness to help his friends. The Mayor left Davidson in ’21 and taught at the University of Tennessee. Five years later, his lifelong ambition was fulfilled: he became a member of the Davidson College faculty.

CLIP BOARDS—80c
DICK ARNOLD
Managers
SHORTY PARRISH

Death Claims V.S. Wilson
Retired Minister Dies Suddenly In Davidson

Salem Choral Group Gives Concert Here

Salem Glee Club Presents Varied Program In Chambers Building

Dr. Wilson, a retired Presbyterian minister and father of Captain David G. Wilson, R.O.T.C. instructor at Davidson, died at his home on February 23. Formerly a pastor in Atlanta, Mooresville, Lincolnton, and other churches throughout the South, Dr. Wilson had been living here for a number of years following his retirement.

The Salem Glee Club presented a concert on Monday evening, February 24, at 8:15 in the Chambers Building auditorium. The chorus was directed by Mr. Phe. The program featured a harp accompanist in addition to the usual piano. Several beautiful numbers were sung, including a Kaig-Klert selection with organ accompaniment and an excerpt from an opera.

Reception

The members were entertained after the concert at a reception held at the Delta Theta and Sigma Epsilon fraternity houses. They were met on arrival by their dates and taken to supper at the College Boarding House. The Davidson concert was the last stop on a tour that covered the entire weekend. The group left on Saturday morning for Asheville and Bryson City before singing in Atlanta on Sunday. They returned to Salem on Monday after the concert here.

The program presented here included:
1. Follow On—Clement Janequin
2. Come (El May Fly)—Luca Marenzio
3. Echo Song—Orlando di Lasso
4. Selected Period Songs—Mozart
5. Selected Songs—Grainger

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AND ENJOY GOOD FOOD AT THE LITTLE PEP
Davidson, North Carolina

Thurs.-Fri., Feb. 27th-28th
“COMRADE X” with CLARK GABLE and HEDY LAMARR

Sat., March 1st
“SHADOWS ON THE STAIRS” with FRIEDA INESCORT and PAUL CAVANAGH

Mon.-Tues., March 3rd-4th
“STRAWBERRY BLONDE” with OLIVIA DeHAVILLAND and JAMES CAGNEY
Also “MARCH OF TIME”

Wed., March 5th
“GOLDEN HOOF” with RUTH BRICKHOUSE

DOUBLE FEATURE—BARGAIN DAY—15c
DAVIDSON THEATRE—DAVIDSON, N.C.
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT