COURTNEY FOR HOMECOMING!  
The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS  
BEAT CAROLINA!  
Volume XXIX. X-528  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1941  
Number 2  

Duke Ambassadors Booked For Home-Coming  
Inaugural Exercises Set For October 18  
Dr. John R. Cunningham To Be Formally Installed On Homecoming  
BANQUET FRIDAY NIGHT  
Many Schools To Be Represented At Exercises  

Dr. John R. Cunningham will be formally inaugurated as president of Davidson College in special exercises to be held in Chambers Auditorium at 10:00 A.M., Saturday, October 18. Invitations have been extended to about 275 schools, including colleges in this section and outstanding universities with which Davidson has had contact throughout the country, to send a delegate to the inauguration exercises.  

Inaugural Dinner  
The program will begin Friday afternoon with the registration of delegates in Dean Bailey’s office. At 6:30 P.M. an inaugural dinner will be served in the banquet hall of Chambers. Wives of the faculty, the administrative staff, and all the official guests are invited to attend as guests of the college at the inaugural dinner and all of the other exercises connected with the inauguration. Several students will officially represent the Davidson student body at the dinner.  

Greene To Speak  
Dr. Theodore Meyer Greene of the department of philosophy, Princeton University, is to speak at the banquet. Dr. Greene is a graduate of Amherst College and obtained his Ph.D. from Edinburgh University in Scotland in 1924. He has delivered lectures in the South on numerous occasions and has always made an excellent impression wherever he spoke.  

At 10 o'clock Saturday morning, the official visiting delegates, members of the faculty, and several of the trustees of the college will participate in the academic procession. The actual inauguration ceremony will take place at 10:30 A.M., when Dr. J. McD. Richards, president of the board of trustees of Davidson, and also president of Columbia Theological Seminary of Decatur, Georgia, will administer the oath of office to Dr. Cunningham. After taking the oath, Dr. Cunningham will deliver his inaugural address.  

All students of the college are invited to attend the ceremony Saturday morning, and it is hoped a large number will be present. At 12:30 the delegates, as well as alumni of the college, will be invited to attend the annual homecoming banquet in the Chambers, at which the Honorable J. M. Broughton, governor of North Carolina, will speak.  

Col. Richmond To Visit Here  
Colonel Henry R. Richmond, inspecting officer for the Fourth Corps Area, will make an informal visit to Davidson on Monday afternoon, October 6th. Colonel Richmond is in charge of all R.O.T.C. corps throughout the South. He attended the University of Tennessee for a few years and was graduated from the Commanding General Staff School, where he received his foundation in military training. He received further military training from the Mounted Service School and the Advanced Course Cavalry School.  

From 1:15 to 4:15, Colonel Richmond will make an informal inspection of the military department, including the cadet corps. It is not expected that the corps will take any part in the inspection other than the time given to the regular drill period. Col. G. T. Mackenzie, P.M.S. & T., desires “that the cadet corps look and do its best on this date.”  

Sprunt Heads ‘41-42 Board Of Elections  
Student Chooses Fifteen To Supervise Elections This Year  

A new election board, destined to supervise all Davidson elections during the '41-'42 school year, was chosen by the Student Council at their meeting on September 23. Members are as follows: Bill Sprunt, Chairman; Arch Taylor, Don Bell, Bob Rankin, Cam Wilson, Bill Faison, Alston Thompson, Julien McCall, Hutch Booker, Ed Hay, Bill McLauchlin, Doug Clark, Chester Pearce, Paul Kissling, George Marsh.  

As in the past, the board has as its objective the constant advancement of fair and democratic elections of all Davidson leaders. To further this end, the following recommendations were adopted at the board’s first meeting, Wednesday, September 24:  

“(1) That the ballot boxes be set up in the banquet hall of Chambers, and sufficient members of the Board be present to keep voters in line.  
“(2) That upon issuing a ballot to a voter, the Board member in charge shall write that voter’s name on the ballot, fold the ballot, and staple the fold in such a way as to conceal the name. At the same time he shall check off the voter's name on a list.  
“(3) That the ballot boxes shall be located on another table from the table at which the ballots are issued, and that a Board member shall check off the voter’s name a second time on a second list as the ballot is cast.  
“(4) That these changes shall be tried during the election of the Junior Class president, and continued in the elections next spring if found satisfactory.”  

If these methods prove satisfactory at the election of junior class president, they will be used in the elections next spring; if not, further changes will be made to ensure the secret ballot, and to forestall any possible election disputes.  

Phi Mu Alpha Opens Series  
Tickets go on sale today for the Phi Mu Alpha Concert Series which opens this year with the presentation of The Farbman Sinfonietta on Thursday, October 23. The Sinfonietta is composed of fifteen members of the string section of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.  

Other musicians scheduled are Joseph Bonnet, who is considered the world’s best organist by modern critics, and the Guardsmen, a quartette from Hollywood who have supplied music for Walt Disney’s production of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, etc. Also with the Quartette there is a minstrel show which should add humor to that particular presentation.  

In February, Wilson Angel, a Metropolitan star from Richmond, Va., is booked to sing on the fourth Phi Mu Alpha concert. He is a baritone and has a repertoire of numerous selections. The Madrigalists also will be presented in February. This group of singers has a wide variety of spiritual and light classical songs.  

In March, Carroll Glenn, South Carolina violinist, will stop on her way home to present her violin selections. Carroll Glenn has been guest soloist with many nationally known philharmonic orchestras and [Continued on Page Six]  

DUKE AMBASSADORS  
Vince Courtney will wield the baton for the Duke Ambassadors, who have been signed to play for the Homecoming Dances on the 17th and 18th of this month. The set will include two night dances, one Friday night at the Charlotte Hotel and the other Saturday night at the Charlotte Oratory.  

Student Body Employs New Methods For Library Move  
In a historic occasion yesterday morning, students and faculty members assisted in moving the Davidson College library from the old building to the new structure south of Chambers. At the suggestion of the librarian, Mr. Chalmers Davidson, the student body voted unanimously last Saturday to participate in the transition, and the faculty granted a half holiday yesterday for the occasion.  

After gathering in front of Chambers at 8:25 A.M., according to the plan, the students heard a short talk by Dr. Cunningham before actually starting to move the volumes. Then the president of the college carried the first books, two historic volumes, into the new building and placed them on the shelves. The library committee followed with other valuable works, the band meantime played “O, Davidson.” Finally, the students, forming two lines of about 300 persons each, under the supervision of the O.D.K. men, began to pass the books along from person to person from the old building to the new. A group of students in the old library removed the volumes from the shelves and started them down the line, while at the other end another crew placed the incoming books in their permanent place in the stacks of the new library.  

At 10:15 a rest period was granted and soft drinks were served to everyone “on the college.” It was estimated that approximately all the volumes in the Davidson library should have made the journey during the four hours allotted.  

The first two volumes carried by the president into the new building have an important historic interest to Davidson College. One of these, Pruckner’s “Commentaries on The Bible,” a handsome folio volume bound in calf skin, was the first book ever owned by Davidson College. It was presented by a friend in Philadelphia a year before the college opened and is still one of the oldest volumes at Davidson, having been published (all in Latin) at Frankfurt Am Main in 1663. The second historic volume was a French New Testament which belonged to Peter Stuart Ney, believed by many to have been Marshal Ney of France. Ney designed the seal and wrote the motto of Davidson College.  

Unlucky Freshmen Are Apprehended  
By LEGH SCOTT  
Sixty-five hapless freshmen, unlucky enough to be apprehended in their violation of the freshmen regulations, were found guilty at the first meeting of the Court of Control on Wednesday night in Phi Hall. Ordered to appear before that high judicial body through the mail, the yearlings were administered severe sentences by Judge “Butch” Caldwell and his stern cohorts. They were arraigned one at a time, with knees knocking, before the bright lights of the chamber of justice.  

The freshmen were found guilty of numerous violations of every rule in the books. The chief misdemeanor was failure of freshmen to wear the prescribed red hats. According to Judge Caldwell, general “noxiousness” also caused many to be called up. Others were found guilty of failureWear name-plates, getting up in chapel, carrying laundry for upperclassmen.

Numeral Club To Be Revived

There were of to not Club Plans Varied Activities For The Year

An item of particular interest to the freshman class occurred at the first meeting of the “D” Club Monday night. It seems that the re-establishment of the Numeral Club, under the direction of Claude Hackney and Ben Lacy, is but a matter of time. The Numeral Club, inactive for the past year, when again organized will be composed of those freshmen who have earned their “1945” numerals in athletic events. The Numeral Club was started four years ago with Claude Hackney as its first president. This club is the only freshman organization on the campus.

The “D” Club plans to sponsor a School Day on November ninth. All high school seniors, athletes especially, will be invited to an exercise at the college to be given for them. Afterward, the Duke-Davidson game will be played in our stadium. This is only one of the many progressive ideas that the “D” Club will carry out during the course of the year.

In the near future, plans for furnishing and decorating a new meeting place are to be put into action by a committee led by Ed Hipp. President Ed Lucas appointed the following active committees and chairmen: Entertainment, Julien McCall; Scholarship, Jim Owens; Complaint, Mac Morris; Vigilance, Bill Shaw. Coaches Spearman and Bolin concluded the meeting by showing movies of past football games.

By Gaon

On “ethic grass,” and, believe it or not, failure to attend pep meetings. The Judge was astounded by the prevalence of some freshmen who had failed to speak to upperclassmen. Sentences imposed on the unfortunates were for ten days ‘strict campus,’ which means that those serving time are not permitted to leave the campus except for fifteen minutes after meals to visit the P.O. and Hugo's reading room. Freshmen on campus will be required to wear red bands on their arms in order that they may be easily recognized. Upperclassmen are asked to co-operate to the fullest degree in reporting campus violations. In spite of third-degree questioning and cross-examination, the culprits who painted the water tank have not as yet been apprehended. However, important clues have been uncovered by Recorder Don Bell and his intelligence department, and Judge Caldwell promises that the guilty party will be brought to justice in the near future.

The court reported that the attitude and conduct of the freshmen as a whole has been fairly good, but that there is room for decided improvement.

Beavers Tap Two Juniors

Ben Lean and Beaver Washburn have been elected to the Beaver Club, an honorary organization composed of upperclassmen, to fill the vacancies brought about by the failure of two juniors, Bill Grosse and Alva Lumpkin, to return to the campus this fall. The club is planning to have six girls as sponsors for the home football games this season. As another part of their program for the year, the Beavers hope to have the student body of one of the nearby girls’ schools as guests on the Davidson campus for one day this fall.

IN THIS ISSUE

Homecoming Band - page 1
Inauguration - page 1
Colinton Control - page 1
The Fifth Columnist - page 2
POUs - page 2
Wilson and Marsh Promoted - page 3
Carolina Game Saturday - page 4
Cat-Chat - page 4
Among the Greeks - page 5
Honorary Fraternity Schedules - page 6

[Continued on Page Six]

Pan-Hellenic Council Announces Schedule of New Buildings To Receive Final Adjustments

Vince Courtney And The Ambassadors Return To Davidson Friday Night

Dances To Be At Hotel Charlotte

Library And Science Building Will Soon Be Occupied By Students

Davidson's new Library and Science Building are nearing completion and will soon be in use. The basement and first floor of the new Science Building have just recently been occupied by the Chemistry Department. Chemical apparatus and materials are now in the storeroom. The Biology Department will not move into the new building until later in the year. All the Library furniture, except the chairs for the Periodical room, Reserve Book room, and the Reference room, has been delivered and is now in place. The shipment of the chairs for the three main rooms has been promised not later than October 28. This spacious Library in its furnishings and architecture is very similar to the $600,000 library at the University of South Carolina and the $2,000,000 library in Nashville, Tenn., given by the General Board of Education for the use of Peabody College. Hugh C. Hibbs, who was the architect for these two libraries, was also the architect for Chambers Building and for the two new buildings. Davidson was thus able to buy specially designed lamps, tables, etc., along with these other two libraries.

Carter Takes Editor's Post

Bobby Carter of Alexandria, Va., has been chosen as Assistant Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN to take the place of Bob Garvey, who didn't return to school this fall. Carter has worked for three years on the newspaper and his junior year he served as Sports Editor. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, is captain of the baseball team for this year, and a member of the D Club.

The DAVIDSONIAN is pyramided so that freshman participation on the staffs is purely voluntary. Fifteen are chosen for the sophomore staff and six of these fifteen are chosen by the juniors on the staff as managing editors. The editor-in-chief is elected by the student body from these six managing editors. The assistant editor is also selected from the six managing editors.

ODK Selects New Members

In the class elections, Lyman Parrigin still led over Ben Lacy and Craig Schmidt for president. In the tabulation of junior voting after Tuesday's election, Parrigin polled eighteen votes, while Lacy had sixteen to his credit and Schmidt was third with fourteen. This election came about due to Matt Long’s dropping out of school. Long, who transferred to Mass. Institute of Technology this year, had been elected president of his class last spring. Those nominated for the office included twelve juniors and eight were left in after the first ballot was cast. The three mentioned above who will be in the run-off are Johnny Fredrikski, Lacy MacLean, Wellford Hobbie, and Peter Young.

A committee on projects for the year was appointed by the group composed of Charlie Watt, chairman, Tony Darby, F. W. Hengeveld, Julien McCall, and Mr. Geveld. Members present at the meeting were: Ed Lucas, Jim Owens, Charlie Watt, Al Winn, Julien McCall, Tony Darby, Claude Hackney. Faculty members were Frontis Johnston, Treasurer, F. W. Hengeveld, C. K. Brown.