Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 13, 1941

willing to make a complaint to the entire

The Davidsonian

With the Staff

If this suggestion is used, we believe that it will clear up matters considerably. Of course, it is only applicable if the present system of closed politics is still desirable. Which we shall believe to be the case, until the consensus of student opinion is that Bill Jones is certainly a mish and unfit to associate with the rest of humanity. Also, it is soon pointed out that he spoke to a professor on the campus, spoke to a man he didn't know, and actually

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

THE ELEVENTH HOUR—

At that time men said they would war no more. Free Americans utilized their constitutional rights—the orators hammered away, the editors backed them up, the people believed—America would never fight on foreign soil. The sun broke through the clouds, to beam on a warm friendly earth. The strokes of the clock were few. Came the War. Germany and Belgium, France, England. The Central Powers vs. the Allies. War “over there.” In for a while. America, peace. The leaders declared America would remain neutral. That was right, thought the people. A wide approbation of the policy held sway. Let them keep their own fight. The sound of ten, Time rolled along. Ideas changed. Opinions shifted. “Save the world for Democracy.” America might be forced into the War. The people want no war, but if it is inevitable, well—such is fate. Now was the time. It would soon become too late. Our beloved system of government was threatened. It must be upheld at all costs. Perhaps war is the only way. Many think so. Eleven o'clock. America must act, and immediately, if democracy is to be saved. The future of the race is threatened. We hate Germany. (Their leaders are evil). War is the only way out. America must assert herself. The people are unitedly in favor of action to aid the allies, even to the extent of sending American youth abroad. Fat senators vote to ship their young constituents to the field of death. WAR DECLARED! cry the streamers to a thoroughly enraged nation. It is high noon. Then—months of fighting. Death to the tune of screaming shells and whispering clouds of gas. Men torn and shattered, lying in Flanders field—dying and dead mingled closely. Civilization tottering. But the Allies prove too strong. Like the one horse shay collapse the Central Powers. Peace. The “twenties” roar in. Booms are everyday affairs. Prosperity follows a period of orientation to the new world-situation. Fortunes are made. New leaders appear to condemn war in all its evil. Again the people approve. War? Never again. But the thought of war is drowned in the mad rush for wealth and such happiness as may go with it. Post-war madness. Prices rocket. The Crash. Suicides. Towns wiped clean of capital. Men hungry and men unemployed. Another world-wide depression. Business stagnates. Most see little hope for the future. Is there a future? The thirties arrive to find a serious and somber world. As the years pass hopes revive. Conditions improve. New men control the wheels of government. Hope. The end of the decade approaches. As order is restored to a world of chaos, men again dream of power. As the world reaches a new equilibrium, European leaders fall. “Isms” become the rage. Revolts flare in foreign lands, but America continues her policy of non-aggression. No war at any price is the watch-word. Then—Hitler demands more lands, desires unlimited power. Diplomatic wars result. Then actual bloodshed. World War II. England and France stack their might against the onrush of Nazism. Italy crawls in as France falls. In America the non-interventionists are still powerful. The people are still determined there shall be no war for the United States. Public opinion shifts. National Defense! Aid to England. Help all we can—but keep our soldiers at home. They shall not tread on foreign soil. But deep in the minds of many rises the question of whether America may not have to actively participate, in order to save the world. If not immediately, then in the near future. The leaders carefully avoid this feeling, but to many it is evident that they think of the possibility—as they must. Perhaps war is the only way? Perhaps it will always be the only way. Many become resigned to the hopelessness of it all. Youth prepares for the draft. Those who once swore they would never go to war, now accept the onrushing avalanche of preparedness as an absolute necessity. England has become our first line of defense. We must protect her at all cost. The bell tolls eleven. Will midnight come?

A course in Latin-American history has been added to the curriculum at Lafayette.

Scene: Dormitory Row; Time: Most any night, except Saturday or Sunday. As the curtain rises several upperclassmen are engaged in the usual collegiate pastime of bulling, their bodies reclined in varying positions of ease and studied boredom about the room, which lies in wild havoc, as if a recent tornado had wrecked its motley contents. The current topic of conversation seems to be a very unusual one—an assignment for the next day. Joe continues:—“and undoubtedly this is the most noxious course offered. We actually are required to read a page a day. Have I studied? What do you think I am—a mish? You did not see me studying! Listen, I know you slipped off to the library last night; and then you come tellin’ me you zeroed the writ today. What a limber!” To which Sam might reply, after recovering from the momentary confusion caused by so blunt a remark concerning his mistake of the past evening, “but did you see Bill Jones this morning in “Roman Band Instruments 42?" Dr. Smith shot him a question and he answered it. What's more he asked him a question back. What a—but I think that's the lowest I ever heard. And that's the way he is in all my classes. Always studies, and

After a violent lingual attack from Beester Burwell and a per- have just purchased controlling in- Casey Jones lat Ralph Williams

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JACK COVINGTON BUSINESS MANAGER BILL LEMMON

EDITORIAL STAFF Paul BumBarger Assistant Editor Tom Cauble Associate Editor John McRae Associate Editor Ed Watson Associate Editor Lawson Withers Associate Editor Dick Cobb Managing Editor Harwell Darby Managing Editor Bob Garvey Managing Editor W. C. Plunkett Managing Editor Al Winn Managing Editor Bob Carter Sports Editor David Vosburgh Movie Editor Billy Barker Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager Dick Reavis Assistant Business Manager Bob Scott Circulation Manager Charlie Watt Circulation Manager Don Green Collection Manager Baxter Freeze Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

ELECTION PROPOSAL—

At very little added expense and hardly any extra trouble our balloting system might be changed a great deal for the better. Our proposal is that “on the polls desk be placed a small stapling machine with which voters may clamp their ballot together so as to make secret the name signed to the ballot.” In other words, the ballots could be printed with a little extra space at the bottom, between the last nominee’s name and the line where the voter signs his name. Then, after marking and signing a ballot, it would be dropped into the box, and when counted would not reveal “who voted for whom.” Signing names originated when ballots were cast in chapel. At that time it was necessary to sign ballots to enable the tellers to distinguish between genuine and faked ballots, and to eliminate the possibility of a man “stuffing the box.” Since balloting is no longer done in chapel, it is no longer necessary that names be signed for that purpose. The signing of names was continued when the Elections Board system came in, in order to enable the Board to check or investigate any possible combines, or illegal tactics in regard to the elections.

Nowhere in the Elections Board set-up is it stated specifically or by implication that the members of that group are to use their office to make known “who voted for whom.” In fact it is plain that they are honor-bound to refrain from such statements. However, this year it has already become common knowledge after each ballot what groups supported what candidates. This is not directly traceable to any one man; rather, it is the result of the action of the entire group through hints, vague statements, etc. And this is bringing politics back. If the student body desires politics in elections—let’s have them. But why continue to support one system in theory and another in practice? And that is exactly what is happening so far this year. If the present happenings continue the system will become a mere farce. Therefore we strongly advocate sealing a man’s name by means of one clip placed on each side of the folded bottom of each ballot. Thereby, the ballot will actually be secret. Since names are checked as each man votes, there can be no stuffing or absentee balloting. And if there is to be an investigation, it would be a simple matter to tear open the names. Furthermore, if this feature is to be placed in the by-laws, it should be firmly and emphatically stated that no member of the Board or Council shall attempt to learn any name on a ballot, unless authorized to do so by the proper action of the council—not just because two or three men suspect foul play, but are not willing to make a complaint to the entire council.Page Six

Song Of The Sirens
By JULIAN McCALL

Bob Sylvester and his boys will be here Friday to serenade for our Military Ball. Bob has been featured over N.B.C., M.B.S., and C.B.S., and has done some recording for “Brunswick.” Sylvester has had engagements at the Trianon, The Roseroom Ballroom, The Cavalier Hotel and Cavalier Beach Club at Virginia Beach; and was also featured over the Lance “Toastchee” program last year playing out of Charlotte. Featured with Bob and his boys is Eloise on the vocals.

Bob Chester has come out with a recent release in “Till The Lights of London Shine Again”—vocal refrain by Bill Darnell, backed by “Chilly and Cold” with Betty Bradley on the vocals. He also swings out in a new arrangement of “Somebody Stole My Gal,” backed by “I'm Always Chasing Rainbows.”

“You Forgot About Me,” reversed by “Moonlight and Tears,” is a new one by Larry Clinton. Larry also has a fine arrangement of “There'll Be Some Changes Made.”

Glen Gray and his Casa Loma Boys present two new renditions in “I Do, Do You?” and “You Say the Sweetest Things Baby.”

Glen Miller presents us with a new one—"The Spirit Is With Me,” a new type of slow jazz on the jumpy side featured with a trumpet ride by Johnny Best, former Davidson luminary. Charlie Spivak has just come out with his second record to date—“Hey, Sit-Down Bud.” This corner recommends Charlie for our final Spring dances in May—he's sounding mighty fine these days, playing at 6:00 every day at around 130.

Let’s all be out for the Military Ball Friday and Saturday—a large crowd at these dances will mean a big name band for our final set.

Film Report Card
By DAVID VOSBURGH

Thursday March 13
“Back Street”—Charles Boyer and Margaret Sullavan. This is one of the greatest love stories ever written and takes place in the late nineteenth century. Its characters add greatly to the original story and make it one of the best. The love affair originates in one of the poorer sections of town and gradually works its way across town by means of hard work and plenty of breaks.

Friday and Saturday March 14 and 15
“Andy Hardy's Private Secretary”—Mickey Rooney, Lewis Stone and Pat Holden. This is probably Mickey's best picture as it has everything with just a little more. The story is centered around the local high school where Andy is president and chairman of every campus activity. He doesn't care for anyone except Polly Benedict and his new car. After a short time he makes friends with two of the poorer children of town and appoints the sweet girl as his private secretary, much to the disgust of Polly. All goes well until Andy flunks his final exam and faces the problem of leaving home or not graduating. His private secretary comes to his rescue and everything turns out fine. It is a very humorous movie and has plenty of action.

Monday and Tuesday March 17 and 18
“Nice Girl”—Deanna Durbin, Franchot Tone and Walter Brennan. Here we find Deanna in her most important role to date and with a great supporting cast. Her last picture before marriage and perhaps her greatest as her voice goes to new heights. With her voice she overcomes the early scenes of poverty and rises to a place in the world. Her acting is superb and her songs really roll along. It is a show well worth seeing.

Wednesday March 19
“Jennie”—Minus a name cast, this is a thoroughly human, sincere picture of a family dominated by a father who is a German immigrant. He starts his life here as a merchant in a small town and rules his six children with an iron hand. One by one they marry and refuse to live under his rule any longer. A high level of interest is maintained throughout the entire picture.

Not until this week did I know that Professors actually read this column and when I heard it was discussed in a certain class I was very surprised. To that certain professor may I say that this column has been written as late as dawn, on fast-moving trains, in a car and once in a beer factory. Thus you may see it lacks poise because of the deadline which must be kept. And as to criticism, well that is not our aim. We attempt to tell in a few words what the show is about and all writings are original. If an “unknown” comes along, the facts are made up and run without many ever knowing the difference. If that certain professor would kindly write this column next week I will give him the facts, a typewriter, typing paper and a free pass to the show. What about it Doctor—My box is 13 and I shall be waiting to hear from you in regards to your writing the column for next week. Deadline is 2 a.m. Tuesday morning.

I would like for C. C. Morehead to be the guest of the theater for any show this week.

Upon personal check of his sheets, it has been found that the statement published in this column last week stating that Burres had not changed them for a semester to be erroneous; he has just put on a pair that belongs to Thin Man Rogers for the first fresh ones since Sept. This famous (or infamous) mate of the ex-football star buzzed around the SAE dance in the city with “S. C.’s most photographed girl," Mackey, who is to share the egotistic personality of Harry Hi's god, Snatz McReynolds, during the weekend which brings us our Military Dance Set. This should cut Hite!

Since the return of big operators Greek McLean and Floyd G. Grantham, who shot up Roanoke, there has been no dope seeping out from any source. However, it is understood that these men went up to see the sights from the city's Thrill Hill... Sturdie John Purdie jerked down to Wake but only to be disillusioned when he arrived on the K. Z. conclave scene to find only six girls and cokes. He left Teep Johnson on the spot to look after the girls and slipped on to St. Mary's to see his novia... Nelson and Archie Farrar were reported to have been locked in the Tavern with two sleek musicians... Geddy Herring and Bob Garvey were on the same site doing their dealing...

It appears that Jim Hogg has completely annihilated our senior of last year, Bub Coltrane, at W. C. Russel Beam wandered out to the Mecklenburg after making a fine stand at Queens Grill... Several of the other K. A.’s were out at this night spot under the gallant leadership of Indian Joe Lauch carrying on to conquer greater fields. Red Burke would have whipped Mule Sproull off the seat if it had not been for Aileen the sewing machine...

Interest in The Green, according to Peck Parrish, who acted as agent in the gigantic transaction... Sam Woodward and Jack Peters are busily vying for the hand of a beauteous damsel living on Church street in the city. Incidentally, she has two good-looking mates, says Sam, who needs more running partners for this deal...

Tony Darby’s heart throbbed him all the way to Bristol but not back so readily as he checked in fate for the first on Monday... John Kennedy, the marine recruiting officer here on Mon., says that his branch of the service is the place and that the pretty uniform he wears has gotten him many a date. Butch Caldwell is slicing Ox Allcott for his date this ensuing weekend... Fluff McDuffie was sitting behind Duke dorm during the wee hours of Sun. a.m.... Lonnie Miller was the eavesdropper...

The reason for the new nickname given to Mac Morris is his nightly stand in the city—they call him “Whistler”...

Even though Frank Niven did not see his early date in N. Y. due to his taking up his stand on the tracks while she waited in the room set aside for such purposes, he did receive one true love letter. Meanwhile, Jack Covington, the Wadesboro mogul, snaked on the above by pinning Ruthie up... Joe Liles pulled a one-night stand in the parlor of Con.

(At the request of our illustrious economics professor, the word “whipped” has been used less frequently in this column than in the past. Until someone supplies an adequate verb for description to be used in the future, the pertinent petition shall be pigeonholed. With all respect, it is necessary to take such a course as a result of the impoverished English dictionary.)

Compassing Campuses
BY TOM CAUBLE

ON THE HONEY-PANTS: There are a great many collegians who are wearing what campus slang terms the “honey-pants.” It is a purely American enigma that the “honey-pants” are not pants at all but rather refer to a blissful state within the individual the spark of which is fired by a young lady.

A man wearing the “honeys” is characterized by a peculiar facial expression akin to the one worn by the lamb before the slaughter—in short, he may be said to fawn. One so afflicted is not considered responsible for his acts and his fraternity brothers should post a freshman to accompany him at all times to keep him from stepping in open manholes, prevent his being run over in crossing streets, and generally to ensure his personal safety. It is further accepted that his roommate should be granted a power-of-attorney to prevent the total conversion of his checking account into orchids, gardenias, candy, special delivery stamps, and various and sundry other tokens.

It is a certain mark of such a condition when a suspect announces his intention of going to the library to study, borrows a book (he has probably lost all his), and rushes from the room wearing a pseudo-scholarly frown. These men have repeatedly been observed to angle into the parlor of Watts in transit where they entertain the operator with long-distance sugary language. When a man is in such a state, his scholarship is in imminent danger, and in case he “wears the pants” long enough to run up against a review period, he should either retain a tutor or cut all his reviews. To be so afflicted during an examination period is no less than disastrous and the subject should withdraw from college to avoid the stigma of flunking out.

In spite of these drawbacks, this blissful state has what are considered an overwhelming number of good points. In the first place, a man is completely immune to the commonplaces of the workaday world as he floats about in the ether. He feels neither pain nor distress and never worries about what to do on a weekend. He is never bored by the tedious for he neither sees nor hears. His reputation for generosity is greatly enhanced thereby as he will commonly nod his head at any request. (Beest Burwell could purloin his hat, alarm clock, and overcoat with never a dissenting remark).

His energy and driving power are so bolstered by this condition that he can even go to a girl-break dance with his lady-love and beam and smile all evening with never a thought of collapsing into the confetti. A last-minute telegraphic campaign to secure a date for the dances is never an expense that he has to bear because he generally extends his young lady a blanket bid to all functions and thus can sit back and moon while his cohorts haunt the Western Union Emporium.

Such is the institution known as the “honeys.”

New Course On Civilization.
BERKELEY, Calif—(ACP)—An overflow enrollment in a new University of California course on American civilization is reported by President Robert Gordon Sproul. More than 1,500 students enrolled, making it necessary for the university to install a public address system in a classroom adjoining the institution’s largest hall.

“The large enrollment is evidence of the keen interest of our students in American life and the American contribution to civilization,” President Sproul said.