Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 10, 1941

Question of The Week

Goodman Gives Talk On Creed For Living

In an editorial written by Andy Dale, former editor of the Davidsonian, there was proposed a plan in which a
stapling machine would be used at the voting tables to seal down the name signed on the ballot. This plan
was promoted for the purpose of keeping secret the way groups voted, thus avoiding swaps of votes through proven favorings.
Another angle suggested that several of the stapled ballots be broken into to see that a representative number of votes
were genuine. From this proposal comes the question of the week, “What do you think of the proposed plan of
stapling ballots?”

Jo Newell Robinson, Senior: Point-blankly, the present method of voting violates a fundamental right—that of privacy. I'll grant that it
is perfectly necessary and advisable to guard the rights of the group at large by instigating an elections board, organized
to protect the rights of the representative fraternity and non-fraternity groups. This board should end with the conduct of a
fair and unpolitical election. Let that, though it violates no existent rule, it is neither fair nor unpolitical when each
member of the board, representing his group on the campus, knows how the individual members of the other groups have
voted. The mere mentioning of how the majority of a particular group voted exerts political influence. Then elections can be
safely swayed by that rumor that Bumble Puppy voted for such and such a candidate. Unfortunately, B. P. cannot even
be subtle about this rumor because the board has his signed confession on a ballot kept in the Quadwrangler’s Room,
and every member has his eyes open. It is not fair to deprive a man of his privacy. Remember, he
is innocent, in this country, until proven guilty. If he is innocent, no group on the campus has the right
to deprive him of this privacy. If he is guilty, it is the duty of each citizen who knows of
his guilt to incriminate him on evidence. Staple the ballots, members of the board will check off the name of
each man as he votes. The rest is simple; the votes can be counted and the name lies securely protected
for reference if, and when an investigation arises.

Davis Thomas, Junior: Some reform is needed in the present system of voting if we must continue with this hypocritical
setup. We shouldn't swing in the balance between the two extremes. Since privacy is one of the essentials of a
secret vote, that right should be protected. Stapling the ballots would help to guarantee that right but would increase rather
than decrease the possibilities of combines. If two fraternities knew that their members could vote without the names being examined,
they would be more likely to vote together. True, if another fraternity suspected a combine, they could demand an investigation,
but if the investigation proved anything, which it very probably could not, the accusing fraternity would create hard feelings with
the others. Under these conditions one fraternity is not apt to accuse another. However, since sentimental combines are present whether
actual oral ones are or not, the biggest reform at present seems to be that of secrecy. This is the
best suggestion that I have heard along that line so far. However, I think that we should pull aside our
cloak of “clean politics” and legalize what is actually going on underneath with the system of open politics. Friendships between
fraternities are going to cause them to vote one way anyhow so why not let them organize to vote that
way? The only objection which I have heard is that the best men wouldn’t be elected but I don’t believe
that. Since the non-fraternity vote would decide the issue in such elections, the best men would have to be held
out to get their votes. With such a system we could face things as they really are outside of school
and have a little fun at the same time. Since this is supposed to be a discussion on stapling of
ballots, I can only say this: staple the ballots if we are going on with our present machinery but why
not change to open politics?

W. C. Plunkett, Junior: I think Andy's suggestion is an excellent one. Recently, a student mentioned to me how I
had voted in an election, and finally admitted that he had seen my name at the bottom of a ballot.
After all, our system is called “Secret Ballot” but it has departed a long way from its name. Any system
that would eliminate the present evils that may come from idle curiosity would be welcome to me. The reforms that
have taken place in Davidson's political set-up have been excellent these past two years, and there can be no reason
why we continue this clean-up campaign. This habit of checking up on one’s friends’ voting seems one of a very
few remaining faults in our system, so here’s a vote for its correction.

Al Burns, Junior: I am heartily in favor of the idea of using staples at elections; that is, if the
votes are checked off by a member of the board as the vote is being cast into the box, and
remain stapled. If, after such a vote is cast, a report should get out that a certain man has voted
a certain way, that man would have no one to blame but himself.

John King, Senior: As is the case in every question, there is much to be said on both sides of
this one. However, I think this suggestion is rather impractical. It is illegal for the election board to count any
unsigned ballots in the boxes, and from ten to thirty votes have been cast out on every election so far
for that reason. It is necessary for the election board men to check each ballot to see that it is
signed. Would not a more fitting question be, “Does the importance of this question justify the disturbance that has been
raised over it?”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
(Continued from Page Four)

attitude; this is certainly unwarranted though, because there is a lot of good on either side which would be profitable
to the other. Therefore, here is my suggestion: let’s try to forget what we think we don’t like in the
other group and try to be real friends with the members; we will probably be surprised to find out what
fine fellows they really are and realize what we had been missing before by not associating with them. Two places
pop into my mind when I think of where I feel most “out of place”: the front porch of Georgia
and at the dances. Please take note of these, frats, and let us know of particular times and places that
we aren't too friendly towards you. Yours for a more friendly Davidson, Non-frat Senior.

COLLEGE EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
(Continued from Page One)

lege’s call to become president. For the past twelve years Dr. Lingle has served in this, the most difficult of
jobs, both faithfully and well. In his moving response to Bahnson and Dr. Richards, Dr. Lingle pledged that although his
active duties might end his loyalty to Davidson should never terminate.

DOWN PAT
(Continued from Page Two)

more often. (7) Don’t be a Bumblepuppy. (If you don’t know what this means, it’s too bad, because “The Lady
Eve” showed locally last week.) (8) When it gets hot, don’t appear in the classroom too scantily dressed. Mum's the
word.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL
W™. R. BARRINGER
Private Banquet Rooms
Fraternity Rooms
Davidson Students Welcome

Dr. Kenneth Goodman, a Methodist minister from Greensboro, North Carolina, was the speaker at Vespers last Sunday night. He was
introduced by Dr. Cunningham, president of the college. The text of the sermon was taken from the Sermon on the
Mount. Dr. Goodman told the story of a man who visited the little church in Paris where Napoleon is buried.
As he looked at the granite monument and the carved bronze tablet that commemorate the life and deeds of the
great general, he thought of the genius of this man, who at one time ruled almost all of continental Europe.
As the sun set, the shadow of a crucifix hanging on the wall fell across the emperor's tomb. The sightseer
was struck with the contrast between the empires of the man lying in the tomb and the man who had
been nailed to a cross on the hill of public execution nearly two thousand years ago. To him, it seemed
that Napoleon, the man who dealt with practical matters, was the greatest and Christ, the man of the cross, only
a vague idealist.

The dire need of the youth of this turbulent age of hate and strife is a creed of living. At
some time in his life, every man must form a creed for himself. Every great contribution that has been made
to our civilization was made by a man who had chosen a philosophy of life and rigidly adhered to it.
When he wrestled with Satan in the wilderness for forty days and nights, Christ formed his creed of life, and
said it would never change. On too many occasions we give our word only to break it, and too often
we haven't the manliness to do what we promise. He is trying to believe that the player who cheats, lies,
and plays a dirty way, is being put out of the game of life. He told the story of a
marine who had been shot to shreds in the first World War, and was lying in a hospital, who would
never be able to go home. He had expressed his creed in a poem, which said that hewanted to fight
the world’s battles to the end. Dr. Goodson closed with this conjecture. Perhaps God intends for our generation to take
up the cross of Christ, and put the rightful emperor on his throne.

NEW PRESIDENT
(Continued from Page One)

have finished moving in, and the home has a comfortable and home-like air. Dr. Cunningham’s study is particularly attractive. It
is very comfortable, with a large open fireplace “for cozy winter evenings.” A large library includes books of all kinds
and classifications, while a number of different magazines and newspapers may be seen on various tables. Both Dr. and Mrs.
Cunningham are interested in gardening, and have already begun planting flowers around their home. After a very enjoyable evening, I
found that my time had passed all too quickly. Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham were very gracious in asking me to
return, and expressed the pleasure they receive in having students visit them. Dr. Cunningham, along with his delightful wife, should
certainly have no difficulty in getting close to the hearts of the students.

Always Ask for “S & P” Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Four Books Are Bought For Library
Includes Recent Books By Rutledge, Miller, Adamic, and Douglas.

The Davidson College Library recently bought four books. One of the most interesting of these is “Home by the River,”
by Archibald Rutledge. Mr. Rutledge tells about the restoration of his old family home, Hampton Plantation, in South Carolina, with
the aid of seven loyal negroes. “He tells of the treasures he unearthed in the silt-covered cellars, of the task
of replacing one of the columns, the work of repainting and refinishing the ballroom, and the other steps of this
labor of love. Poet and naturalist, he gives us too his fascinating observations of the wild life about Hampton.”

“The White Cliffs,” by Alice Miller, is a poem which expresses the curious nature of the English, their traditional stodginess,
and their unbending courage and endurance. The story is about a young American girl who marries an Englishman, bears his
son, sees him killed in the first World War, and now staunchly confronts the new peril with her courageous mother-in-law.
William Lyon Phelps says, “not only a very beautiful poem but a wonderful study of the English people.”

“From Many Lands,” by Louis Adamic, is a collection of word-portraits of men and women, many of whom might be
met in our everyday life. This book holds a challenge to make our lives more like the characters it describes.

“I Rode With Stonewall,” by Henry (Kid) Douglas, the youngest member of Stonewall Jackson's staff, is an intimate history of
the great General and his staff, written in a “resonant prose almost unique among soldiers, and rare among all men.”

Y CORNER
(Continued from Page Three)

Anybody want to buy it? Things are coming along fine with the Spring Services. Dr. Barbour is a wonderful fellow
and a great preacher. Hit a good number—108 students for the morning church service last Sunday. Have you thought much
more about Mr. Goodson's three points in his sermon last Sunday night? I believe: In God; in man; in manliness.
Worth thinking about.

Johnny Miller is about to take the number one place for pool shooting these days. Maybe he thinks he can
see Van Landingham for that free stick of B. Nut more frequently at the pool table. Try it.

Had a good talk with a couple of students and Dr. Cunningham about Chapel Monday. Where are your suggestions? Also,
what about your recommendations for the cabinet for next year? Come on and tell us about your roommate, Services, or
some other good fellow. Really, we do want suggestions.

I surely wish it were possible to thank everybody for the help given in the “Y” this year. You need
not have been a constant worker to have been useful. Suggestions and hints and help from W. Taylor, Bill Sprunt,
J. Bolin, Bill Lyman, Ed Patterson, Jerry Newbold, J. Kimmit, G. Sharpe, Dave Coblentz, D. Bell, Abtes and Browning, S.
Sample, P. Bumbarger, H. Chapman, A. Dale, Joe Robinson, N. Stevenson, B. Garvey, P. Kissling, John Turner, and many many
more. You see, interest and a word here and there has meant and will mean more than one thinks at
the time to what we call the “Work of the ‘Y’”. Keep it up, Will Ya’?

Yours,
Shaw Smith

DR. BARBOUR
(Continued from Page One)

In 1933, he was honored by Maryville College with the D. D. Degree. While in Scotland, Dr. Barbour was the
Stated Supply of the Barrington Parish Church in Pittsburgh. For two years he was associated with Dr. Thompson Kerr as
Student’s assistant at the Shadyside Presbyterian Church. He has been pastor of the Herron Avenue Presbyterian Church for three years,
and for the past thirteen years Dr. Barbour has served as pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Knoxville.

Some years ago, Dr. Barbour wrote a number of articles which were published in various religious papers. He is the
author of one book, “Sin and the New Psychology,” which was published and sold in America by the Abingdon Press.
It was also sold by publishers George Allen and Unwin in London, England.

The public connections of Dr. Barbour have been varied. For six years, he served as a member of the Board
of Christian Education and at present, he is a member of the Southern Division Committee of the American Bible Society.
At the University of Tennessee, he is Dean of the School of Religion and in that city is a member
of various committees with regard to civil welfare. For two years he served as President of the Community Chest and
at present is a director of Maryville College.

Last fall, the annual services were held by Dr. Jack Thomas of the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. These services
are carried on by the Davidson Y. M. C. A., coming twice yearly, in the fall and in the spring.

PAN HELLENIC COUNCIL
(Continued from Page One)

The night affairs will be from 10:00 to 2:00 and 8:30 to 12:00 respectively. Individual dance prices are unannounced.

FROSH BATTING
(Continued from Page Four)

Tech High on the Davidson diamond. In early drills, Coach McEver's charges have shown considerable power offensively, and the fielding
is shaping up nicely.

Bethea Catches
“Red” Bethea has been working behind the plate in practice. Ed Major and Armand Tew have been alternating on the
mound. The infield slots in early drills have been held down by Walter Major at first, Elmer Graves at second,
Ed Cole at shortstop, and “Brick” Bradford at third. In the outfield, “Ripper” Hunt in right field, Buck Fuqua in
center, and “Red” Burke in left have been looking good. O. D. Evans at first, Alf Taylor and Buddy Carson
at second, Tom Kirkpatrick at short, and Jim Grier, Nisler, Wheeler, and Wyatt in the outfield, should provide plenty of
competition for regular berths. The Kits meet Harding High in Charlotte Saturday.

NETTERS WIN TWO
(Continued from Page Four)

Davidson succumbed to the powerful attack displayed by two Hatters by the score of 5-2. Rain interrupted the match with
Rollins and the team began their journey back to Davidson, stopping off to play the Georgia Evening School, an extension
of the University of Georgia. The School displayed too much power for the Cats and the team fell by the
tune of 6-1. On the trip South, the netters missed the services of the dependable number two man, Miller Sproull.
Sproull was unable to make the trip due to postponed examinations. Schmidt's injured hand also necessitated a revamped line-up. Dick
Shore, net captain who won two matches in the No. 1 position, is shown in the above photo.

Seniors Plan Spring Affair
(Continued from Page One)

Lefever has been appointed chairman; Gordon Horton, Duke; Holt Barnwell, East; Lawson Withers and John Moore, West; John King, Georgia;
Jack Abels, Watts; and Paul E. and Paul S. Crane, Rumple. Lefever expressed the wish that the affair be a
big success this year, and that students give their full co-operation by having their rooms neat and greeting the visitors.

Helps Prevent Colds from developing at start
Put a few drops of Vicks Va-tro-nol up each nostril at the very first sniffle or sneeze. Its stimulating action
aids Nature's defenses against colds.

VICKS VA-TRO-NOL

QUALITY GROCERIES AND FRESH MEATS AT REASONABLE PRICES
J.K. HAMPTON GROCERY
DIAL 5041
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

For your FREE copy write to—
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

FOR THIS FREE BOOK
Reading his copy is RAY MILLAND, now starring in Paramount's picture, “I WANTED WINGS.” CHESTERFIELD, P.O. Box 21, New York
City.

A short while ago we published TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A., the only complete picture story of the growing, curing and processing of
fine tobaccos, from seed-bed to cigarette. So great was the demand for this book from smokers everywhere that another million
copies are now coming off the press. TOBACCOLAND gives real information and is yours for the asking. The more you
know about how cigarettes are made the more you'll enjoy Chesterfield ... the cigarette that Satisfies.

MORE SMOKERS ASK FOR CHESTERFIELDS EVERY DAY
