CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat Sports - Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, October 30, 1941

LICK V.M.I. TENNIS EXHIBITION HERE

It looks like a little rough work is just what the Cats needed, for after a pretty hard week’s session,
including two particularly strenuous afternoons with the freshmen, the boys were no doubt improved. On the other hand, there’s no
doubt, too, that hard practices sometimes cost more than they’re worth. Last week, Ben Frank Moore was the only practice
casualty, but there may be more if the heavy work keeps up. Still, from the looks of the team as
a whole Saturday night, it looks like the chance is a good one to take. There seemed to be the
feeling that everyone knew what he was to do and that he could do it, particularly on offense, and the
rather weakened squad went on to score twice as many points as any other Davidson combinations had rolled up all
year.

Orchids

There are plenty of places to hand out bouquets after the Furman game, and there’s no doubt that he deserved
them, but he wasn’t by himself. The headlines went to Little Davey Spencer. Our kicking, manipulated in the main by
Johnny Miller, but with three nice kicks from Reb Bethea to help, was ahead of Furman’s and was one of
our best departments. The reserves in the line held up very well considering their handicaps in weight and experience. On
defense, the beefier Purples moved them consistently, but on passes the backfield had plenty of time, and if they didn’t
pass, there were holes.

The Hurricane

Going over to the other side of the field, there’s no doubt anywhere that Dewey Proctor is a GOOD back.
He had the holes and the downfield blocking, but he kept going after he was hit, and after his blockers
had left him in the manner of a big-league ball player, and the disappointingly small crowd of 7,000 could see
why he took the All-state fullback honor away from Clemson’s Charley Timmons. Jim Barnett and Strings Sizemore also did their
part, but it was that husky, powerhouse line, headed up by Charlie Edens, Hazel Gilstrap, and Chum Cornwall that really
turned the trick. It looked at first as if the Cat’s five-man line had them fooled, but when the second
period got underway, they’d solved the problem and got things moving.

S.A.E.’s And K.A.’s Lead In Intermural Football

The fraternities intramurals football teams fought through their fourth week of play this past week, and when the dust had
cleared from the Thursday games the S.A.E. and K.A. teams still lead the standings as neither have been defeated. On
Monday, the Phi Delts rolled over the Pi Kaps in a hard-fought game to the tune of 12 to 6,
and the Kappa Sigs defeated the Phi Gams in a close game 6 to 0.

Phi Delts Win

Tuesday, the Phi Delts again led off with another win, defeating this time the Phi Gams 18 to 6, and
the powerful S.A.E.’s coasted to an easy 24 to 0 win over the hapless Pikers. The Pi Kaps, led by
Julian McCall, came through with a win over the Pikers Wednesday, and the Betas managed to push over one touchdown
to down the Phi Gams 6 to 0.

K.A. and K.E.

Thursday, the most important game of the week was played between the Kappa Sigs and the K.A.’s, and the K.A.’s
managed to keep their record clean by scoring six points first in the half on a pass. The Phi Delts
again for the third time during the week won by getting three first downs to two in a scoreless tie
with the S.P.E.’s.

CAFETERIA

Kittens Beat Edwards 39-0

The Wildkittens extended their string of victories to three by rolling over Edwards Military Institute to the tune of 39-0
Friday afternoon. During the first half, the Cadets put up a scrapping stiff battle holding the more powerful Kittens to
two touchdowns. Their irregular defense held the Kits’ land attack practically at a standstill, but in the second half, the
Kittens’ reserves and superior talent proved too much and they soon had the game on ice.

Roach Hot

The game throughout was highlighted by the superb running and passing of Arthur Roach and George Peters, who scored two
touchdowns each, together with the almost uncanny pass-snagging of Tommy Peters, who scored one touchdown and lateraled to Buck Williams
who went over for another one.

Line Ragged

The Kittens’ line play was ragged, but this might be explained by the unfamiliar defensive setup of E.M.I. Bill Turner
and Bill McLean were probably the most outstanding linemen.

’Cats Counter VMI Squadron As Underdogs

Hackney, Lacy May Return To Line-up; Squadron Boasts Powerful Backs

After making one of its best showings of the season against Furman last week, the Wildcat team journeys to Lynchburg
Saturday to face V.M.I., one of the strongest teams on its current schedule. The injury jinx which has pursued the
Wildcats this year seems to be letting up, and the Cats are searching for their first win of the season.
With the possibility of having Davidson players Rainey and Hackney back in the lineup, and several others recovered, the Cadets
of V.M.I. may expect a harder-fighting Davidson eleven than has been seen on a Virginia field in many a year.
The Wildcats, however, will by no means be the only strong team on the gridiron Saturday, for the Flying Squadron
boasts one of the flashiest backfield combinations in the nation. The Cadets’ All-American candidate Bosh Pritchard, a tailback who can
run the 100-yard dash in about ten seconds, is big Joe Muha, a big 210-pounder who made Davidson's all-opponent team
last year, is another back who willbe hard to hold. The eye, however, is big, averaging 206 pounds, and will
considerably outweigh the crippled Cat line. The services of Bill Shaw, who received an eye injury in the Furman game,
will be sorely missed, though there is a chance that the line will be bolstered by the return of veteran
Ben Marsh or Rainey. Lacy, another injured player, is expected to return to the lineup by Saturday. The same support
given by the students in the Furman game makes the team feel that it may upset the favored Flying Squadron.

Aerials Click For Wildcats

Continuing his previous performances as the sparkplug of the Wildcat offense in the Furman game, dependable Dave Spencer once again
proved poison to opposing linemen, gaining a total of 87 yards from scrimmage in 11 tries for an average of
7.9 yards per try. He also displayed his natural ability for spotting pass receivers, completing 8 out of 11 pass
attempts for a total of 194 yards. Sophomore Bruce Mac also flipped for an average better than .500, completing several
passes.

CAGE PRACTICE

Coach Norman Shepard announced today that basketball season for the Wildcat Cagers would begin Monday. For the first three weeks,
drills will be held for only three nights a week with a skeleton squad, but when the grid season ends
on November 20, regular practice will begin. Prospects for a successful season are favorable with seven lettermen and several hot
sophomores back.

Parker Gardner Co.
Since 1898
R.C.A. Victor — Philco
General Electric — Admiral
Radio — Phonographs
WURLITZER, CHICKERING PIANOS
RECORDS, SHEET MUSIC

A tennis clinic and exhibition match. Mary Hardwick, internationally famous court campaigner, will come to Davidson next Thursday with Dorothy
Little and Charles Hare to stage an exhibition match.

Defeats Wildcats 31-13
By RALPH DUNN

Sparked by the power displayed by Dewey Proctor and Jim Barnett, the Furman Purple Hurricane opened the door of their
House of Magic against Davidson’s Wildcats in Charlotte, defeating McEver's tutored boys 31-18. Davey Spencer’s passing and running kept the
fighting Cats in the game. Davidson, determined to rack up their first win by upsetting the favored Purples, drove to
a smashing touchdown early in the first period. Davey Spencer, engineering the march, mixed plunges and passes to perfection. The
payoff came on a pass which Shannon took on the two and stepped across the line. Frederick converted and the
Cats led 7-0.

Offense Clicks

Although Davidson’s offense clicked beautifully for the remainder of the fray and they never quit fighting, McLeod’s proteges packed just
a little too much brawn and deception. The Purple’s line, virtually ineffective on defense, ripped the Cat wall wide open
and Proctor, Barnett, and Sizemore opened the throttle as they went through.

Furman Scores

Furman drove for a pair of touchdowns in the second stanza, featuring hard running, then Jim Elvington connected with a
30-yard field goal and the visitors grabbed a 16-7 lead and stayed ahead the remainder of the night.

Clothing and Furnishings
BELK BROS. OF CHARLOTTE
Will Feature A Showing of
THURSDAY, NOV. 6TH
IN THE LASSITER BLDG.
See The Correct Clothes For The Smart Man’s Wardrobe
Co-ordinated With College Budgets
* HARRIS TWEED SUITS
* ARROW and MANHATTAN SHIRTS
* FLANNEL and COVERT SLACKS
AND OTHER FASHIONABLE APPAREL
MEN’S STORE AND STUDENTS’ SHOP

This famous professional trio is on an extended tour of American colleges, and Davidson is fortunate in being able to
book them for one day of coaching and exhibition matches. Though plans are incomplete at present, they are expected to
hold a tennis clinic open to all students wishing expert coaching points of the game.

Singles Planned

It is planned to have several exhibition singles matches among this famous threesome, all of whom have won several major
tournaments in their amateur days. The highlight of the matches, as far as student interest is concerned, will be the
doubles match in which a member of Davidson's tennis team will be selected to play with one of the professionals
against the other two. All three of the visiting champions have an enviable record, having won singles and doubles tournaments
in all parts of the world.

Ruth Hardwick made her professional debut at Madison Square Garden last January and played in over sixty cities in a
tour of five months, recently playing for the British War Relief.

Has Good Record

Mrs. Dorothy Little has one of the most outstanding records for women players of all time in both singles and
doubles. Although Charles Hare is an outstanding singles player, his forte has always been in doubles where his great southpaw
service and severe net game have been potent weapons for the offense.

Court Pros Schedule Match For Davidson; Plans Include Clinic

Hardwick, Little, And Hare To Play Exhibition Here Next Thursday; Fourth Partner to Come From Student Body

Three of England’s greatest tennis stars, Ruth Mary Hardwick, Dorothy Round Little, and Charles E. Hare, have been scheduled for
an exhibition match on Davidson’s own courts.

Booters Lose One, Win One

Davidson's soccer team came back this weekend with a 6-4 win over the Cavaliers of Virginia. Last week the “Booters”
were toppled by the strong High Point college team.

Cavaliers Lead

The Cavaliers sprang to a 2-0 lead in the first quarter, but the Wildcats, showing their teeth, came out at
the end of the first half with a 3-2 lead. Both teams scored in the third period to tie the
score, but the Davidsons, showing power and determination, pushed over two goals to win 6-4.

Squad Leaves

The squad leaves Wednesday with sixteen boys for games with Duke at Durham, and the University of Virginia at Charlottesville.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

No Cramming Necessary!
For swell flavor and real chewing fun—the answer is delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
