Thursday, March 6, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Bankers Hear Irwin At Annual Meetings
Says Restricted Production of Goods Dangerous to Free Enterprise.

“Recognition should be paid to the ability of manufacturers of the United States to produce goods at a cheap price,”
said Dr. W. A. Irwin who was the speaker at the annual dinner meeting of Group 9 of the North
Carolina Bankers’ Association held on last Saturday evening in Chambers. J. P. Robinson was elected chairman of the group for
the coming year and also was elected to the executive committee of the State Association. Other officers elected were J.
V. Lore, cashier of the Bank of Davidson, vice-chairman; J. S. Osborne, vice president and cashier of the First National
Bank of Morganton, secretary and treasurer.

Tendencies.
Dr. Irwin stated that the tendency toward restricted production of economic goods and the tendency to maintain rigid prices were
dangerous to free enterprise. As a remedy for the situation Dr. Irwin suggested that a full play of free enterprise
would permit the production of goods at the price so cheap that present incomes would go farther than they go
under the practice of restricted production and the maintenance of rigid prices. He then discussed the problem of the tendency
towards class strife in our own country. He also commented on the part labor plays in the problems of the
internal strife of our country.

Nearly 325 attended the banquet from eight counties—Mecklenburg, Lincoln, Catawba, Gaston, Burke, Rutherfordton, and Cleveland—which make up Group 9.

Attendance.
North Carolina banking leaders who attended the meeting included B. R. Roberts, vice president of the Durham Bank and Trust
Company and president of the North Carolina Bankers’ Association; E. A. Wayne of Raleigh, secretary of the State Association; J.
C. Harris of Troy, cashier of the Bank of Montgomery and treasurer of the State Association; and Mrs. Elizabeth Rawls
of the Durham Bank and Trust Company, chairman of the Woman’s division of the State Association.

Mr. McDonald And Glee Club Give Program
Mr. James C. Pfohl and Two Guest Artists Take Part In Musical.

Davidson’s glee club under the direction of Prof. Thane McDonald presented a program of sacred music at the regular vesper
hour last Sunday evening in Chambers Auditorium. The Rev. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian church, led the service.
Prof. James C. Pfohl was organist, and Miss Frances Riddle, contralto from Queens College, sang two solos, while Merle T.
Kesler, a member of the Queen's faculty, played the offertory violin solo. The program consisted of anthems by the glee
club, hymns by the congregation, solos, and prayers and scripture passages. The organ prelude was “Prayer” by Boellman. Miss Riddle
sang “Hold Thou My Hand” by Briggs and “The Prayer Perfect” by Stenson. Mr. Kesler’s violin solo was “Air” by
Bach. Anthems sung by the glee club were “Salvation Belongeth to Our God" by Tschesnokoff, Forsythe and Kraft's “The Lord's
Prayer,” “Abide With Me” by Monk, and “The Creation” by Richter. The congregation sang the following hymns: “Glorious Things of
Thee Are Spoken” by Haydn and “Rise Up, O Men of God” by Walter. Rev. Pritchett read Psalm 103 as
the call to worship. Other passages read during the service were Psalm 51 and Romans 1:1-17. Mr. Pritchett pronounced the
benediction, which was followed by the choral Amen, “The Lord Shall Preserve Thy Going Out,” by McDonald.

SCIENCE PLANS
The Board of Trustees at their last meeting two weeks ago decided to let the Chemistry Department use the first
two floors of the new science building and the Biology Department the third. If plans to function on schedule, the
building which was begun last fall will be completed sometime during the latter part of June or the first of
July.

Negro Youths Discuss Value Of Learning
“Juvenile Delinquency” Will Be Discussed By Group Next Week.

The Colored Young People’s group met at their hut last Sunday night, March 2, at 6:30 for their weekly meeting.
The subject of discussion is to make the boys and girls think and reason for themselves. Next week the subject
discussed will be “Juvenile Delinquency.” These programs are led by Bill MacLaughlin and according to Bill the young people are
taking part in them very enthusiastically and show much interest. At the request of the colored choral group the music
department and Phi Mu Alpha allowed the

PHIS HAVE PARTY
This gathering of Philanthropic Literary Society members and Queens Spectator Club members in the S. P. E. House followed a
joint meeting February 28 in Phi Hall. The formal part of the joint program included a quiz, an original play,
“The Lone Stranger,” poetry reading and a humorous book review. The remainder of the evening was spent in singing, square
dancing and “feasting” in the S. P. E. House. Philanthropic officers and dates were Mimi Bradham with Eldridge Brown, Louise
Blue with Sandy McEachern, Mary Webster with Bill Summers, Alice Young with Jim White, Gloria Coppala with Russell Smith and
Dot Ballard with John Farrior.

ALPHA EPSILON DELTA
At the last meeting of the Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-med fraternity, Dr. Mathews gave a very interesting lecture on
basal metabolism. During the talk he demonstrated this test on Tad Larkin. Afterwards, he interpreted it, telling the symptoms that
such a test will show.

Founder’s Day Banquet Held By D.C. Pikas
Dr. Robert H. Lafferty On the History of the Fraternity.

Last Saturday, March 1, the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity held its annual Founder's Day Banquet in Charlotte. Vernon Youngblood was
toastmaster and introduced the three principal speakers. Dr. Robert H. Lafferty was the first speaker. Mr. Harold Arbuckle, Jr., who
had been scheduled to speak, could not come. Dr. Lafferty was the model initiate. Several alumni from Charlotte and members
of the faculty were present. After the initiation all adjourned to the house and enjoyed a feed.

Societies Hold Joint Meeting
Philanthropic and Spectator Clubs Enjoy Quiz, Drama and Poetry.

The Philanthropic Literary Society and the Spectator Club of Queens College held a joint meeting Friday evening, February 28, in
Phi Hall. Members of both societies took part in the program. Approximately twenty-five Queens girls were present. The program consisted
of, first, a quiz, conducted by Paul S. Crane. Participants in the contest were Louise Springer, Ida Mae Walkup, Lawson
Withers and Sandy McEachern. Next on the program was an old-fashioned melodrama entitled “The Lone Stranger,” which was authored by
Russell Smith and Chal Vinson. The title role was taken by Jim Werr, and female leads were played by O.
A. Dearman and John Turner. Sid Sample produced the sound effects, and Russell Smith was the narrator. The Spectator Club's
contribution to the program was presented by Lib Issacs and Lucy Hassell. Several Phi members read poems which were written
by members of the Spectator Club.

Book Review.
The formal program was a pseudo book review, by Lib Issacs. This was a humorous mock review. After this, the
two societies adjourned to the S. P. E. House. The remainder of the evening was spent in singing, square dancing,
and “feasting” in the S. P. E. House. Eldridge Brown, the president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, was in charge
of the program.

“Y” Announces Contest Date
The ping-pong contest is tentatively set to begin Monday, March 10, at the “Y” recreation room. This contest is open
to the student body and there is no entrance fee. According to Davis Thomas, chairman of the contest committee, the
winners are to receive a silver cup. He stated that Loch Hunter won the cup last year, but since Loch
has graduated, an entrant won't be up against a one-time winner. Thomas said that all those wishing to enter should
sign up down at the “Y” at their earliest convenience. For further information regarding the contest see Davis Thomas, Mac
Bruce, or Dave Vosburgh.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
STUDENT STORE

A touch of that good old spring fever struck the chapter this weekend. Brother Holt Barnwell was operating, per usual,
between Burlington and Greensboro while his little brother Joe flew by plane to Washington where he attended a convention. The
bravest trip was made by Brothers Wheeler, Cushman and Pledge Milliken to Blowing Rock with their dates. Brothers Holt, Barnwell,
Burkett, and Robinson spent the weekend in Aiken and Ridge Springs, S.C. Brother Mobley is still at his home in
Florence, S.C., recuperating from the measles. Guests of the chapter this weekend were Misses Maude and Elva Shuford of Hickory,
N.C. The chapter is proud to announce the pledging of Lyman Parrigan of the

Kappa Sigma
Top news of the week from Kappa Sigma Lodge is that King Karl Jo.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

skates on! Sophomore class; LenneahibeCenniad in theochemistry fit Davidson chapter was the second group to hear the concert by the
Siberian Singers at Chambers Auditorium Tuesday night, March 4. Saturday night found the Brothers McAfee, Schmidt, and Spike Mebane operating
in and around Winston-Salem. Brother Garrou went to his home in Valdese. Brother Neisler spent his week-end in the MULES.
Brothers Raney and Jack Philips tied their apron strings together and double dated in Charlotte Saturday night. Judging from the
lonely boarding house last Saturday night, the Phi Gams must have considered it the best policy to get away from
the Davidson campus and enjoy themselves in more interesting places. The house was equally deserted Sunday night, indicating that they
thought it best to stay away as long as possible. The Fijis who remained here at Davidson carried on in
fine style, however, in spite of the absence of their wandering brothers.

Several pictures of the colored hut and some of the activities led by Davidson students were made last week by
the publicity department of the college. They are to appear in papers throughout the state along with a story of
their activities. Brother Walker went to Mt. Gilead. Brother Thompson dated in High Point. Brothers Kelly and Yarborough took in
the Friday night game at the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament at Raleigh. Also, Casey Jones was the final speaker. He
told of the fraternity as it is today and its relation to the student body of Davidson and other student
bodies all over the country. Casey brought up the war situation in reference to the fraternity. Not only did he
speak about the fraternity, but he also mentioned the war situation. Bill Loftin finally wound up in Gastonia after a
series of extensive operations.

NOTICE, SENIORS! The senior class announces that all campus clothing firm representatives will meet in the basement of Chambers for
a smoker. The purpose is to elect the officers for the coming class day exercises. Officers and honors to be
elected and bestowed will be: valedictorian, salutatorian, historian, poet, and orator. Owens says that only a few of the representatives
have submitted their samples, and that in order to get the voting underway, the committee has had to set a
deadline. Samples may be turned in to either George Grantham, Dick Kelly, or John Crichton, the three juniors who compose
the committee.

In addition, Owens expressed the wish that the blazer could be decided on in time for wearing them this spring.
In the past, seniors have been able to wear them only in the spring of their senior year, due to
delay in deciding. Owens said that the blazers for the class of '42 might not be in the form of
regular tailored sport coats as has been the custom in the past. The present committee is considering the possibility of
recommending that the rising junior class adopt sport jackets. He added that jackets would be more practical for campus wear
and would probably be more popular.

P.D. Kaperonis

Last Saturday afternoon, Paul D. Kaperonis passed away in a Charlotte hospital after an illness of two months. Mr. Kaperonis
was the owner and operator of the Little Pep Sandwich Shop which is located here at Davidson. He originally came
from Greece in 1909 where he was born June 1, 1891. He lived in Charlotte for a few years after
which he moved to Davidson in 1932. He is survived by his wife, two sons, four daughters, four brothers, and
one sister.

(Continued on Page Six)

Pi Kappa Alpha

All the chapter stayed here this week for the annual Founder's Day Banquet Saturday night at Thacker's in Charlotte. Most
of the Charlotte alumni and many alumni from Concord, Albemarle, Gastonia, and other nearby towns were present for the celebration.
Because of the illness Saturday of our guest speaker, Howard Bell Arbuckle, Jr., National Alumni Secretary of Pi Kappa Alpha,
several informal talks were given. Dr. R. H. Lafferty of Charlotte spoke about the founders of the fraternity and also
about the chartering of Beta chapter. Then Mr. Jack Beall of Charlotte told us about the beginnings of the Pika
Ball at State. Finally, Casey Jones talked about some of the problems of the future. Brother Vernon Youngblood presided as
toastmaster.

Brothers Ables, Brinson, and Browning took part in the South (Continued on Page Six)

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
