Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, May 1, 1941

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JACK COVINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bob Garvey Assistant Editor
Bobby Carter Associate Editor
Dick Cobb Editor
W. C. Plunkett Associate Editor
Al Winn Associate Editor
Ed Erwin Managing Editor
Ike Eve Managing Editor
Jim Fulcher Managing Editor
Nan Managing Editor
McIntosh Managing Editor
McLean Sports Editor
Vosburgh Movie Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Tom Plonk Assistant Business Manager
Dick Kelly Assistant Business Manager
Ed Scott Circulation Manager
Charlie Watt Circulation Manager
John Crichton Collection Manager
Banter Freeze Subscription Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and a medium of student and faculty opinion. As it welcomes
communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All
material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and
the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

HEAR CORDON:
For the past few years, students have given the excuse for not attending musicals and other presentations that the artists
weren't famous enough—that we never have great musicians perform here. In answer to this complaint, Phi Mu Alpha and the
Music Department have coordinated to bring to the campus one of the more famous opera singers in the nation—Norman Cordon
of Metropolitan fame. If students turn out for this performance, it will gain for the sponsors the foothold with which
they might cling in order that they might continue their high level of musical entertainments. Norman Cordon is perhaps the
greatest singer we've had at Davidson for the past five years. Here are a few excerpts from the critical columns
of American newspapers:

New York Times: “Mr. Cordon, a North Carolina basso, brought considerable dramatic emphasis to his interpretation, both vocally and histrionically.”
New York Herald Tribune: “Norman Cordon's towering height and stilt-like legs were to the manner born for the part of
Springer, (Bartered Bride) the circus proprietor.”
New York Evening Journal: “Mr. Cordon was an excellent Raimondo, increasing with every appearance one’s respect for his musicianship and
intelligence.”
St. Louis Globe-Democrat: “As King Marke, Norman Cordon had an opportunity to use his deep, resounding bass, which is of
fine quality and texture.”
Philadelphia Public Ledger: “Cordon as Zuniga, an unusually authoritative delineation.”
Cincinnati Times: “Hearing Norman Cordon’s unusually beautiful voice is always worth the price of admission, no matter how short a
phrase he may sing.”

Although the above criticism is a bit one-sided, we are assured that Phi Mu Alpha and the Music Department have
given us an opportunity that should be accepted wholeheartedly and with readiness.

As the time draws nearer for voices to get in harmony, the different groups on the campus should be thinking
of the presentation to be given on Chambers steps—the inter-fraternity sing. As a suggestion to the person in charge of
chapel services, the winner of the competition might be presented in a chapel exercise. Should this idea prove successful we
see no reason for not making the presentation in chapel another Davidson custom.

With The Staff
By Henry McIntosh

And Hitler being tempted by Satan was a long time in a state of confusion. The devil taking him up
to a high mountain showed to him the kingdoms of the world... Czechoslovakia, Poland, Norway, Denmark, France, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Greece,
and many others. Then he said unto him, ‘All these nations will I give you as far as your eye
can see. Maybe even the British Isles lying across the channel. Then in the misty distance you can see that
great continent of America. The glory and power will be yours if you will only worship and obey me.’ Hitler
answered Satan, “I will worship thee to gain this power and to become ruler of the kingdoms of the world.”
And Hitler came down from the mountain in the power of Satan to become a despot... a ruler of a
mighty empire. At present he is so greatly favored by his master that he is on the verge of conquering
even the British Isles.

Over the weekend our more or less secluded Davidson Campus was invaded by the United States Army Air Corps Recruiting
Service. What concrete benefits Uncle Sam received from this visit have, as yet, not been disclosed, but in the minds
of most of the student body, there has germinated a great deal of thought as to what the future holds
for American Youth. We wonder if, not tomorrow possibly next month or the next, we will not be required to
exchange our books for rifles... our between class smokes for anxious “drags” a few moments before the zero hour. Yes,
the recruiting officers have come and gone and relatively few joined the service. But is that a sign that we
won’t rally to the Colors if and when the need arises? Is that a premonition that American Youth is afraid
to die that others may enjoy “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness?” I think not. For the youth of
our land is made of the same stuff that the youth of former generations was made. We, the American Youth,
realize that the “War to end Wars” was a flop... a comedy... a play on words. Whether or not we
ourselves must fight is not certain, but sooner or later our great nation, if it desires to remain democratic, must
again pass through the fires of Hell. When that day comes the youth of the land will spring into action,
to the supreme sacrifice, if that be necessary. For life that is shackled by totalitarianism is not worth living, and
we believe that under God, “government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from
the earth,” even.

Corner
By Shaw Smith

For a long time we shall be talking about Dr. Barbour—a Spring Service speaker that made a profound impression on
the entire student body. His “talks” were understandable and practical—and were heard! Did you notice how he played with his
knife while he spoke? No preaching—he was talking to us; and much of what he said will be long remembered.
Remember: “Now, look—what kind of religion do you have?” and “Sure, I have plenty of fun. The question is this:
Do you want to have fun for five or fifty years?” and “I believe Christ is my personal Savior”; we
shall remember Dr. Barbour’s talks—magnificent in their simplicity—and his own, radiating, Christian personality. “Let’s make Dr. Barbour our permanent Spring
speaker”, said many, and they meant it. We are bound to see more of Dr. Barbour—come back any time, Sir,
and remember you are always welcome!

About the new cabinet: Have you made your suggestions yet? Bob Finley hasn’t been around lately. Must have had some
good men to take over his good work with the freshmen, ’cause he, assisted by steady Harold Chapman and other
good workers, have really been helpful with the youngsters of ’44. But where has B. Finley been? (It has to
be North Wilkesboro or Roanoke—See what I mean?)

The father of John Farrior was on the campus Monday. He is in Decatur, Ga., until things in China are
more settled. When? Carl Pritchett’s sermon Sunday night shows what we’ve kept saying is true about his ability as a
preacher.

Yours,
Shaw Smith

Campus Camera

WHITEHEAD, STAR INFIELDER OF THE AGES WAY BACK WHEN, IT WAS CUSTOMARY FOR COLLEGES TO FURNISH PROFESSORS WITH PASTURES FOR
THEIR COWS!

Letters to the Editor

Dear Tony;

Driving down a highway nowadays, you see all types of advertisements with little meaning whatsoever. The level of advertisement seems
lower than it's been in a long time. Yet, some movements have insisted on erecting neon lights reminding people of
religious subjects and read something like this: “Prepare to meet God" etc. It seems to me that they strike just
a little off the scale of religious movement today. Though the persons who created these signs are probably quite sincere
in their work, they seem to have done something that isn’t for the best of society's advantage. Perhaps no one
else has given it a thought, but to me, this cheapens the serious thoughts that flicker on and off with
their mechanical precision. These neon lights are put in the places where other advertisements are put, so therefore, the act
places religious phrases on the level of advertisement. Is this quite the thing to do?

Another thing that the moderns are doing has an interest to me. That is the plan used to make all
tombstones the same size so that no ostentation is awarded the rich man who has allotted five thousand in his
will for burial expenses. This idea seems to have arisen from a democratic people and seems to me to be
a good one. I have worked these two ideas in my letter, one of which I approve and the other
of which I disapprove. Let's think about these things! Does anybody else feel like I do? Time will tell.

—D. C. SPIVAK—

Dear Tony:

I appreciate being asked to write this letter for you and it’s been so much fun being at the conference,
hasn't it? You wanted to know about Spivak? Well, the one word that describes his band is velveted.You'll like the
arrangements, I'll assure you; his muted trumpet is backgrounded with shades of soft that's classic. Schools like will appreciate intermezzo
style. I say like Davidson since you have more dignity about you than other schools around you. Yes, you'll like
Spivak. —Lun Meadows dances Film Rep CLARENCE ort Card LEGERTON

Thursday, May 1st
Rage in Heaven
Robert Montgomery, Ingrid Bergman, George Sanders, and Lucile Watson. In this production, Robert Montgomery plays the part of Philip Monrell,
a charming paranoiac, very realistically. Philip's wife, Stella, is played by Miss Bergman and his best friend Ward Andrews by
George Sanders. The supporting roles are excellent in this stirring psychological drama.

Friday and Saturday, May 2 and 3
That Night in Rio
Alice Faye, Don Ameche, Carmen Miranda, S. K. Sakall, and J. Carrol Naish. Essentially this picture is based on double-dealing
in South America. Don Ameche plays a double role, both of a night-club entertainer and a South American baron. Carmen
Miranda is the sweetheart of the former and Alice Faye is the wife of the latter. Ameche, the entertainer, is
hired to impersonate Ameche, the baron for business reasons, and all of this gives us the plot. This successor to
“Down Argentine Way” has everything and more than its predecessor had. The outstanding song, a la Miranda, is “Chica Chica
Boom Chic.” The late show Saturday night will be “Power Dive.”

Monday and Tuesday, May 5 and 6
The Bad Man
Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore, Laraine Day, and Ronald Reagan. Wallace Beery plays a Mexican bandit who attempts to run other
people’s lives but is not at his best. His failure to put humor and polish in his role slows the
picture down considerably, but Lionel Barrymore, Laraine Day, and Ronald Reagan come through to pull the way. Reagan takes the
part of a slick city slicker.

Wednesday, May 7
Bargain Day
Murder Among Friends
John Hubbard and Marjorie Weaver. This super “whodunnit” has more murders on hand than they can solve, and not until
nineteen of the twenty men who hold a multiple insurance policy are murdered does light dawn. Miss Weaver turns in
a good portrayal of a dumb bunny and John Hubbard is at his best. The other feature billed for this
day is “Dangerous Games.” Coming soon are “The Great Lie,” “Men of Boy’s Town,” and “That Hamilton Woman.” I would
like for Jay Bolin to be the guest of the theatre for any show this week.

Yehudi’s Yowls
By Yehudi
Ye mystic dirt gleaner has reaped tons of criticism on his old gray head for a few harmless remarks innocently
dropped in last week's column. So, before shooting forth with this week’s, it behooves to rectify one or two of
last week’s errors. First of all—Claude Hackney did not take Bush's heart to Converse with him; it seems that Monroe’s
ticker is in permanent residence there. Next, whether the report of Levi Sink’s fraternity pin was originally true or not,
said Pika pin no longer enhances the beauty of the little Queens lassie who only held a short-term lease on
it. Tryouts for the next will be held at an approaching date. For obvious reasons, the offer of orchids to
Shelton is also withdrawn. By special request, the remark about Ed “woo-wooziness” is denied, probably for the benefit of a
certain “Teepee,” who considers chasing Ed as her favorite indoor and outdoor sport. An appearance of Ethelene at the roadhouse
Sunday night brought boys scurrying from Georgia like the rats that they are. After a hurried gathering of necessities, a
detail led by “Snatz” shot forth like hounds on the scent. It seems that the turkey chase turned into a
wild goose chase as the tired soldiers returned shortly waving a red flag of defeat.

Alston Thompson chalked up another score for himself this weekend in his feud with Juicy Jesse Wooten for the affections
of Ann Wiley by entertaining Ann at the big Kappa brawl. Ann is following her usual policy of sitting back
and watching the fun while the hot rivalry continues. Maybe those two boys never heard of the pure feud law.
(Editor's note: joke—all readers will immediately oblige by becoming hysterical). Lock of the week: Bob Lefevre and Gordon Horton, our
own Bundle for Britain. It seems that these two know much more of their recent Sig escapades than either will
divulge. Speaking of wrecks, the tennis team boys are still so jittery that the chatter of teeth in Georgia at
night sounds like the castanets in a Henry King rhumba. Mule denies the story that a passing blonde so diverted
his attention that it was all over before he had recovered from the first shock of seeing such an excellent
subject for his C. B. A. appraisal. Moose got a brand new scar to match his old one, Honky-Tonk Shore
got thrown out on the first flip, scooped up on the second, and finally emerged as weak as Little Pep
coffee, while Craig Schmidt scrambled about like the proverbial egg looking for his scattered cigarettes.

No-Neck Stevenson, Ox Alcott, the man who likes to putt, Ben Pitt-Moore, and Butch Caldwell roared over to Myrtle Beach,
taking along some hired help to do the driving and partook long and heartily of the healthful mineral waters there,
pausing only long enough to shoot a few turkeys to add to their already long list of similar hunting trophies.
Rat Hole Lyman has been observed painfully pursuing the Lost and Found columns of the Lynchburg (Va.) papers between many
furtive trips to the infirmary. Alf Taylor and Mac Bruce popped into Vespers last Sunday night escorting two local babes
in arms, after a quiet Sunday afternoon picnic with them. Mac’s date discomfited him by her constant references to Bolin,
referring to Jay’s brother Bill, who spent his declining days at Davidson dashing the courtship of this little miss. Now,
once again we come to the end of our allotted space, and, with our head bowed in the fervent hope
that this week’s gleanings do not arouse the storm of vituperatives that were occasioned by our feeble effort of last
week, we remind you again that Yehudi awaits behind every tree to shout your sins to the world.

Down Pat
BY PAT RUDOLPH
THE DANCE WEEKEND, OR: HOW TO KEEP YOUR SHEEP WITHIN THE FOLD. The problem of how to divide your time
between your date, your friends, and your professor on a dance weekend is indeed perplexing to the ordinary freshman, and
sometimes, even to the sophomore. A freshman usually begins by preparing an extravagant program for the benefit of his date,
worked out weeks ahead of time. A typical one was found in a fourth-floor garbage can recently. For Saturday, the
poor fish had laboriously worked out to the split second an elaborate schedule as follows: 8:00: get up; 8:05: put
talcum powder under eyes; 8:25: go to class; 8:26: worry about how Flower Mae will wake up; 9:30: coffee at
Pep; 9:45: go to wake up Flower Mae; 10:15: take Flower to chapel; 10:45: take Flower Mae to class, so
that she can see that “darling professor you're always talking about;” 12:30: take Flower Mae to lunch; 1:00: take Flower
Mae to that “darling little fraternity house;” 3:30: leave for tea dance; 4:00: get to tea dance; 4:30: tea begins;
6:30: leave tea dance; 7:30: go to banquet; 8:15: take Flower Mae home; 12:50: go to bed. Little Freddy Frosh
is undoubtedly going to have a busy day, but will find that if his meticulous schedule materializes, it will be
a miracle.

As for sophomores, the general consensus of opinion is that they do not bind themselves to their schedules quite as
rigidly as do the freshmen. A rubber of bridge will probably be substituted for the blank space which appeared in
the freshman’s program of events for the afternoon. We must realize that by this time a student has learned that
you can’t make time with a woman if you don’t have your eyes on her all the time. Besides, a
few pointers from Blackwood and Culbertson will impress her with your sophistication and mature intellect. Then, again, the sophomore generally
borrows enough lettuce to put the feedbag on his date after the dance, and this makes for a more glamorous,
showy weekend.

Juniors are lucky fellows. We say this because they don't have Fort Jackson or the problem of job-hunting facing them
right away. In these strenuous times, another year spent in the collegiate whirl is not a bad thought, after all.
These fellows, well-experienced in the arts of repartee and Epicureanism, take life very nonchalantly. Being an hour late to the
dances means nothing in their carefree, disordered lives. As for sleeping—late to bed and early to rise is their middle
moniker. They are so lucky that they don’t even have to plan for a rubber of bridge on Saturday afternoon.
Something exciting or unusual always turns up at the last moment. They never know what will happen next and therefore,
never make any definite plans for the otherwise dull spots on the daily reminder. Sometimes, they do slip into the
armory in the afternoons to see how the band sounds.

Steeped in mystery and intrigue is the senior’s weekend. Tales of big deals and high society life continually are whispered
around the campus about this dignified group. To begin with, these luminaries think nothing of a short drive down to
Confab College on Saturday afternoon to see Gussie Lou Monette crowned queen of the May. “Where were you last night?”
seems to be the favorite topic of conversation among these guys. In conclusion, we must observe that the most unscarred
and uninitiated of these four groups has the most sensible attitude: Keep up the good work, freshmen, and don’t be
influenced by any big deal upperclassmen.
