Thursday, December 11, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Freshmen Re-Cover ‘Y’ Pool Table
Sherrill Organizes First Project Of '45 Class
By BEALL RODGERS

In their first project unit, the Freshmen class has donated a brand new pool-table top for the Y. M. C. A. Under the industrious and able directorship of John Sherrill of Louisville, Ky., class of '45, the Freshman Class has contributed to the amount of $35, which money has gone into reconditioning the badly treated table.

Sherrill Organizes
At the first of the year those who visited the “Y” game room remarked on the condition of the table; it remained for Sherrill to take the initiative in this worthwhile project. Backed by a large number of the class, Sherrill solicited his classmates who responded such that aims were soon realized. This was undertaken with enthusiasm by their organized class of '45 voluntarily. The table was given last year as the gift of Mr. and Mrs. W. Y. Preyer of Greensboro, and was at that time completely reconditioned. Misuse during the last year had made the table practically unusable.

German Frat Hears Papers
Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, met last Monday night, December 8. The members of the society gathered at the home of Dr. Vowles where they discussed two papers presented by Tad Larkin and Douglas Clark. Larkin read an essay concerning the German philosophers, Goethe, Kant, and Schiller. A review of a book by Stephen Madigan, Vuilleumier, was given by Douglas Clark after which the members of the fraternity joined in the singing of a number of German Christmas carols.

SPONSOR SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON BANQUET—BALL
Sponsoring eight seniors, the ladies pictured above were present at the annual Sigma Alpha Epsilon Banquet-Ball last Saturday night at the Charlotte Country Club. Top row, left to right: Misses Elsie Brooks, Durham; Elizabeth Lyles, Spartanburg; Mary Louise Rousseau, Winston; Margie Wilson, Greenville.

GREY LIBRARY TO BE OPEN DURING HOLIDAYS
A special announcement has come to The Davidsonian from Prof. Chalmers Davidson, head librarian of the Grey Memorial Library, to the effect that the library will be open from ten to twelve every morning except December 25-27 during the Christmas holidays. Professor Davidson said that the plan will cause the librarians to work overtime but will benefit faculty and students who are here at the time.

Court Of Control Declares Recess
Court Plans To Make “25 Club” Active After Christmas Holidays
By FRANK CALDWELL

Due to several unforeseen circumstances which have occurred this week, the Court has taken a much-deserved recess. Many “extra-curricular” activities have come up which interfere with the meeting. And, too, Christmas Holidays are not far off and a sentence of any kind would be entirely too short to conform with the Court's usual sentences. However, after the holidays and exams, the Court will reconvene with new talent for the Student Body's pleasure.

“25 Club”
The "25" Club is not definitely organized as yet and any present member may be ousted and his place taken by any other Freshman who has the capabilities and has met the requirements for entrance into the club. When organized in the near future, a program will be formed for their participation. It will be for their profound embarrassment and upper-classmen’s pleasure.

Judges To Vacation
As for the members of the esteemed Court, all the Judges will take their vacations this Yuletide in the favorite resort towns of the nation. Chief Justice Caldwell has plans to rest up in his home in Spartanburg and peruse some of the ancient Judicial Documents found there in the County Court House.

LATIN’S FATE (Continued from Page One)
The letter goes on to say that the situation may be remedied by the co-operation of organizations such as Parent-Teacher, Rotary, Civitan, Lions, and Kiwanis. These organizations ought to promote Latin to the utmost for the pupils.

SPONSOR S.P.E. BALL
Pictured above are the young ladies who sponsored Sigma Phi Epsilon last Saturday at the Charlotte Woman's Club. They include, reading left to right and down: Misses Mary Davis Wolfe, Charlotte; Catherine Anne Walker, Raeford; Frances Manning, Greensboro; Eddy Lawrence, Elkin; Lib Lale, Glen Alpine; Marguerite Fearrington, Hickory; and Pete Monroe, of Charlotte. (Courtesy Charlotte Observer)

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon Street
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

RUDOLPH DISCUSSES (Continued from page one)
Whom we are trying to connect with. They are as follows: Benny Goodman, Vaughn Munroe, Claude Thornhill, Charlie Spivak, Glen Gray, and Harry Jones. These are bands which are announced as possibly available! As of yet we have received no definite confirmation that any of them will be available. “If we are to sign up a band of this kind we'll need your support.” The meeting closed with suggestions from a number of those present.All who spoke showed a desire to back up the plans of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

VAN ANDERSON
Virginia Tech Guard

The HERALD
225 S. Church St
CHARLOTTE, PRINTERS

If Paul Revere Had Visited Davidson

Paul Revere was galloping down the road toward Davidson repeating drowsily to himself, “One if by land and two by sea.” It was between 3 and 4 in the morning and he was practically dozing in the saddle. Suddenly he was awakened by lights at a distance. Not one, not two, but seven lights shone forth brightly in the gloom. Paul began to wonder whether it meant three times by sea and one by land, or whether it meant five times by land and one by sea, or whether the apple cider he had bought at Mooresville was strictly fresh.

The Watchman

In the midst of his perplexity, he saw a Watchman standing by the road, so he reined in his trusty horse, Silver, and inquired, “Watchman, ho, what callest thou thyself?”

“In sooth, sir,” replied the other, “men call me Coppe Lincolne. And prithee, brave sir, what is it that perplexeth thy brow at this unseemly hour in the morn?”

“I marvel greatly, my good man,” declared Paul—still wondering about the cider, “as to what may be the meaning of all these lights.”

No Black-outs Yet

“Ah, if that be your difficulty, sir, ‘tis easily remedied. Mark you yon lamp that shineth in the Bible barracks, where a poor Freshman attempteth to explain why they have but a poor mark. 

“Dye see the light a bit farther on? ‘Tis Dook, where some stude laboreth on a paper. Have you ne'er heard of a term paper? One forgets it for two months, puts it off another month, and writes it in one night. Term paper is a wondrous thing.

“Next to that there shines a light in East. Methinks there is a bull session going on over there. A bull session, sir, is where one discusses everything under the sun by moonlight.

“And next is a light in Georgia. Alas, ‘tis the poor editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, who still wondereth why nobody reads his magazine. By King George, this is a sad plight.

“Further up is a light in Watts. If I guess not falsely, ‘tis a few studes discussing the last-minute dope for a sophomore English review. Or perchance they work on an accounting problem.

“The next light is in ye olde Rumple. ‘Tis, methinketh, a poor fellow who searcheth for the rat that hath disturbed his slumbers.”

“But what,” broke in Paul, “is yon light which was just lit?”

“That,” explained Coppe, “is in Georgia. One of the lads hath just returned from a wild hare.”

“Well,” said Paul, “whether by land or by sea, the British are coming.”

“And warn them,” cautioned the Watchman, “to be sure to register their horses with Dean Bailey.”

“Ods bodkins, zounds, quotha, foo,” cried Paul Revere. “‘Tis a pack of madmen!” And he galloped away down the road, still wondering about the cider.

DOWN PAT
(Continued from page two)

It was just announced that in San Francisco an air raid warning had been sounded. (Proved later to be a test.) What with this, a cynical but humorous student drily remarked that Lana Turner had been assaulted by some of those “Yellow —s” in the course of a parachute troop raid on M.G.M.’s Culver City studios. So you see that although we are taking the situation as seriously as our young minds will permit, still we have indomitable American humor left in us, which came out finally even in the World War.

All manner of rumors have been floating over the campus during the past few days.

Present Problem

Our present problem now will not give us much trouble. I am referring to the problem of war hysteria getting the best of our right minds. Some of us have a tendency to become highly emotional at times like these, and fly off the handle, lose our heads, and read only the headlines. By use of judgment and common sense, we can go on living our normal lives for a little while yet. Therefore, let us bind ourselves together, and as Dr. Cunningham said, find out where our duty most lies, and carry it out to the best of our ability.

FELLAS: You'll enjoy the big Christmas Issue of Scripts ’n Pranks.

Twenty-five Cent Christmas Cards
With or Without Scripture
With or Without Name
Ranging in Price from 50 for $1.00 to 25 Cents Each
Reproductions of famous paintings.
Also Christian Books FOR GIFTS

Greek and English Interlinear Testaments.
How to Work for Christ, by R.A. Torrey.
The Christian Worker’s Manual.
What the Bible Teaches.
Christ on Trial, by Schilder.
Great Chapters of the Bible, by Morgan.
The Prayer Perfect, by Harry Rimmer.
Christ and the Fine Arts.
Peloubet’s and Tarbell’s Notes for 1942.

And A Christmas Special
The Bible in Pictures with the Celebrated Dore Pictures
For Only $1.95

BIBLE BOOKS STORE
124 West Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.