Thursday, April 17, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Schools Extend Help To Davidson Seniors
Many Alumni Represent College in Universities All Over the Nation.

Four Davidson College seniors have been awarded scholarships to graduate universities throughout the South, according to information received this week. The seniors were: Chase Brenizer, who received a Service Fellowship in Chemistry at the University of North Carolina; J. W. Moore, who will go to the University of Virginia on a scholarship in Physics; John McLucas, who also obtained a Physics Scholarship at Vanderbilt; and Dave Talmadge, who received a Medical Scholarship to the University of Louisville, in Louisville, Ky.

At the same time, it was announced that several Davidson graduates now in graduate schools have had similar scholarships renewed by the schools in which they are now studying. Those receiving renewals are John Reisner at the University of Virginia in physics, Bill Johnson and R. Allison at the University of Virginia on a Service Fellowship in chemistry, Reid Patterson, who has a Service Fellowship at Duke, W. H. Douglas, at North Carolina with a Service Fellowship in physics, and W. C. Gilmore, who has a Service Fellowship in chemistry and physics at Vanderbilt University.

It was also announced that fifteen seniors have been accepted into Medical Schools all over the East and South. In the East, Henry Bahnson and Winston Taylor will go to Harvard Medical School, and Herbert Coddington has been accepted at Jefferson in Pennsylvania. Paul S. Crane and Harold Chapman will attend the Johns Hopkins Medical School in Baltimore. Ed Maxwell, Joe Wilson, Ray Menzies, and Norris Erb have been accepted into the Medical School of Virginia in Richmond, and Bob Balsely will go to the University of Virginia Medical School at Charlottesville. Karl Jones has been accepted at Duke, as has Bill Hamilton at the College of Charleston. Mac Otts will attend Tulane University, Vernon Youngblood will go to Emory in Atlanta, and Dave Talmadge has been awarded a scholarship to the University of Louisville.

Pat Hobson has been accepted as a graduate student in chemistry at the University of North Carolina. An outstanding achievement was the acceptance of William Henry Boyce, Marion Mobley, and William Andrew Dale into the Medical School at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn. They were admitted to this school among fifty-three students accepted out of 800 applicants.

Literary Club Plans Hayride
At a school business meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society last Tuesday night, it was decided that the planned social function would be held in the near future. This function will be in the form of a hayride and picnic. Following the business session, the regular program was followed. The program committee presented three papers, one by Jack White, a reading by Alwin Burns, and a third paper by George MacKinnon.

Plans for the next meeting include a debate between certain members of the organization. The subject for debate has not yet been announced. Also, the election of officers for the first semester of next year will be held sometime in the near future. It was urged that entries for the Philanthropic Eumenean contest be made as soon as possible.

Hodges’ Play To Be Staged
Masquers Will Present “My Chance Is Better.”

Dan Hodges has recently completed a play to be produced by the Red and Black Masquers during the first of May. It will be a three-act collegiate comedy entitled, “My Chance Is Better.” The play deals with the various problems of students in a small college and their campus problems. Such problems as how to avoid being flushed for the big dance, how to keep that high school competition from captivating the interests of the “gal” back home, or how to get by without blitzkrieging your pocketbook to buy her an Easter bouquet.

The characters depicted in this true-to-life comedy are: the typical B.M.O.C., college stud, ROTC cadet, newspaper reporter, and the famed mish. A leading role in the production will be played by one of Davidson's myriad co-eds. Tryouts will be held for this position of honor. (See Dan Hodges for any information desired as to time and place.)

An innovation to the usual Davidson play will be the serving of cold drinks and other refreshments at reasonable prices during intermission. The Red and Black Masquers are in hopes that some sort of entertainment can be offered at intermission to quiet the nerves of the audience after the gales of laughter which the first two acts of the play will have provoked and to complete a “gala” evening.

Plans Made For Session
Fleagle Issues Summer School Pamphlets.

Professor Fleagle announces that all students who plan to attend summer school should make their registrations when they register for fall. Summer school pamphlets may be procured in his office by any men desiring them. June 18 is the date which has been set for commencing the summer session. The session will continue for six weeks; it will close July 25.

All of the courses offered are selected from those which are given during the regular college session. With the courses selected in such a manner, a student will have the opportunity of advancing at any stage of his college course. Six hours is the maximum credit allowed to be earned by a student during the summer session. This does not apply to a science course.

Seventy-five minute recitation periods will be held each day in all three-hour courses. Six-hour courses will necessitate two periods such as this each day. Those who elect a science course will, of course, be required to account for a certain amount of laboratory time. The standards of work done during the summer session will be similar to that of regular college courses. The same standards of work will be required and the same system of grading will be used.

Dormitory rooms will be available for summer students on the opening day of the session, Wednesday, June 18. These rooms can be obtained for the entire summer. On Wednesday, June 18, at 8:00 a.m., the actual registration for summer work will begin. On the same day at 10:30 a.m., classes will meet for the first recitation. Women students cannot obtain rooms, but a list of...

Knox Building
Expert and Efficient Watch Repairing and Cleaning
HENDERSON JEWELRY SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Officers of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. for the next year were recently selected in a Student Body election. They are, left to right, Jim Owens, of West Palm Beach, Fla., President; Myron Sandifer of Lowrys, S.C., Second Vice-President; and Jesse Wooten, of Memphis, Tenn., First Vice-President. Owens succeeds Ed Watson as President, while Sandifer and Wooten succeed Charlie Watt and Jim Owens as Vice-Presidents of the Religious organization. The new officers will take over their duties next month.—(Photo by Welsh and Carson. Courtesy Charlotte Observer).

Gordon Horton To Open Art Exhibit
Local Camera Club To Show Prized Prints
Over Fifty Photographers Exhibit Work Featuring College Life.

The Camera Club will hold its annual photographic exhibit in Eumenean Hall on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 25th through the 27th. In this year's salon will be fifty photographs submitted by the students of the college. Among the exhibitors will be L. L. Banker, Jack Ramsay, Jack Davidson, Jim Stutts, Ewart Boyce, Earl Rhyne, and Mac Parker.

The pictures will be upon many subjects. There will be photography and darkroom work done in Watts and made available to club members. The remodeling of the darkroom as well as the new equipment plans include those who wish to use the darkroom should see the officers of the club for details and regulations. The club plans a social in the near future to be held in Davidson commemorating the exhibition.

Gordon Horton is planning to open the annual student art exhibit in the Eumenean Literary Hall on Tuesday, April 29. It will run through May 1. Work in charcoal, oil, watercolors, pencil, and pastel will be on exhibit. This will include ten pictures which are to be hung permanently since they were chosen at the last three annual exhibits.

TWENTY EXHIBITORS.
There are about twenty exhibitors from the student body. Among them are Ed Jackson, Charles Vinson, Dan Hodges, Jo Robinson, Jack Campbell, John Northcross, Gordon Horton, Walter Wooten, Walter Plunkett, Paul Crane, and Southgate Jones.

The best pictures are to be chosen and sent to the Mint Museum at Charlotte.Private homes where comfortable rooms may be gotten will be submitted by the Director of the summer session upon request. For the convenience of those who plan to take advantage of this summer session, the following information regarding expenses is given:

Always Ask for ES & Pp” Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL W™. R. BARRINGER
- Private Banquet Rooms
- Fraternity Rooms
- Davidson Students Welcome

Various activities of the life at college will be covered. Monetary prizes will be awarded. The judges will be Professors Davidson, Lilly, Foreman, Harding, and Beaty. Students will vote on the most popular picture, and the exhibit will be open from nine in the morning until nine in the evening.

Tuition, $30.00; room, $12.00; laundry, $4.50; damage deposit, $3.00; laboratory (science courses), $5.00-$12.00. A discount of ten dollars on the tuition fee is allowed to teachers in the public school system of the State. The Board is not provided by the college, but about $25 will secure board in one of a number of boarding houses in the town during the summer.

The following courses will be offered:
- Accounting 31, 32: Principles of Accounting. Professor Lawson.
- Bible 21, 22: Old and New Testament History. 6 hours. Professor Richards.
- Physiology 31, 32: Invertebrate and Vertebrate Zoology. 8 hours. Professor Lyon.
- Chemistry 11, 12: General Inorganic Chemistry. (Continued on Page Six)

SUPERIOR WORK At LOWER PRICES NORTON’S BARBER SHOP Home of Tonsorial Masterpieces DAVIDSON, N. C.

GROCERIES EVERY LINE of HARDWARE M. H. GOODRUM & COMPANY

Seminary President Takes Personal Words of Christ As Text.

Dr. B. R. Lacy, president of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Virginia, spoke to the Davidson student body last Sunday at vespers. He was introduced by Dr. Cunningham, who also issued a welcome to him.

Dr. Lacy’s text was “Follow Thou Me,” which is taken from the last chapter of the book of John. Dr. Lacy read from the scripture John 16-25. The Seminary President brought out that these three words were the most personal words given by Christ in his last commands to his disciples. All of Christ’s commands were given to the group, whereas this designated Peter to play a lone hand.

Dr. Lacy related the story of how Peter denied Christ three times before a fire of coals during Christ's trial, and how he was again tested after the resurrection of the Savior. At his test, Christ also gave Peter three chances, and this time Simon successfully passed his test. Christ’s question was “Lovest thou me?” and “Will you feed my lambs?” From this, Dr. Lacy drew his next statements. Christ had beforetime commissioned Peter to fish for men, which was a group command. Now he commissioned him to feed his sheep, which was a solitary job, for a shepherd's life was a lonely one. Christ also set a rendezvous of death for Peter, and Peter looked down the road of loneliness to his rendezvous with death. He was distressed and asked about John’s welfare. Christ explained that he was not to concern himself with anyone else, but only to follow him. Dr. Lacy closed his talk with comparing this to college life. He explained that when a man graduated from college, his life of necessity would be lonely. He must have the courage to stand up under this strain and the method by which he might culminate this courage through following Christ.

STUDENTS INVITED.

Dr. Cunningham invited any students who would be interested in speaking with Dr. Lacy either about the ministry or the seminary to call on him at the president's home. This is the second sermon that Dr. Lacy has given this year; he spoke here in November. Dr. Lacy is a graduate of Davidson. While here at school, he was a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa. The minister is a native of Georgia.

KING TO PREACH.

On April 20, Dr. Charles L. King will deliver the vesper service. Dr. King is now serving as pastor of the First Church of Houston, Texas, one of the larger Presbyterian churches of the South.

TRADE WHERE YOUR MONEY GOES FARTHER FOR QUALITY GROCERIES AND FRESH MEATS J.K. HAMPTON GROCERY DIAL 5041 DAVIDSON, N. C.

Library Adds Varied Books To Collection

This week the library added six new books to its shelves. Two of the books are biographies, two are about the American Indian, one is about England and the war, and one is about psychiatry.

Sam Adams, Pioneer in Propaganda, written by John C. Miller, is a book giving not only the biography but also telling of the achievements of Sam Adams and his method of achievement. The other biography is Jonathan Edwards, 1703-1758, by Miss Ola Elizabeth Winslow, one of the few biographies on one of our greatest eighteenth-century Americans.

Of the books on Indians, one is about Indians that lived here in the Carolinas or near here. These books are The American Indian by Clark Wissler and Red Carolinians by Chapman J. Milling.

In Psychiatry for the Curious, George Preston gives a detached view of the mind as if it were like that of the Cheshire Cat that had a head but no body.

Probably the most interesting book to us today is that written by Verna Brittain. England’s Hour gives an unusual account of the British during the war and how their spirit has even been strengthened by the war.

JOHNSON’S “THE BEST” BARBER SHOP

Now Thru Saturday The three stars of “Road To Singapore” are back again! ... BING CROSBY BOB HOPE Dorothy Lamour —In— “ROAD TO ZANZIBAR”

Monday—Only ON OUR STAGE IN PERSON Paul WHITEMAN & His Orchestra and Entertainers

Delicious and Refreshing ITS QUALITY YOU TASTE

CAROLINA THEATRE Charlotte North Carolina

When you lift an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola to your lips, you can taste its quality and feel its refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more. So when you pause throughout the day, make it a pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE