1941 THANKSGIVING ORTA The Davidsonian WALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS THANKSGIVING 1941 Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1941 No. 9

Bibles To Be Bought With “Y” Gift Fund

Student Body Makes Possible The Gifts Of Bibles To Various Classes; GIFTS ARE GENEROUS

Tuesday Sees Campaign Off To Glorious Start

“Why Bible In War-Time” was the subject of Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman’s address in chapel this morning concerning the annual Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund. “The gifts this year will be used to place Bibles in the hands of people who greatly need comfort of the scriptures in time of war.”

Students Respond

Bill Lyman, the head of the committee of solicitors, announces that large returns in subscriptions had been received Tuesday, the first day of the campaign. “We cannot state the result until the end of the campaign,” Bill Lyman said, “but the solicitors are delighted over the response given so far.” Monroe Bush, chairman of the committee on World Evangelism, encourages all connected with Davidson College to give sacrificially and with a Christian spirit. The cabinet has pledged $200, and other subscriptions have increased this amount during the first day of the campaign.

Co-operation

“With the full cooperation of the administration, the student government, the Davidsonian, the citizens of the community, and above all the students,” said Monroe Bush, “the campaign must inevitably end with the total contribution the highest in the history of Davidson charities. The Project is our Project. We believe that every Davidson man will pledge something. We believe that those pledges will be real sacrifices.”

Plans Explained

The plan, as previously stated, is to give Bibles to three causes connected with the present war. (1) Bibles will be furnished to the natives in free China where they are anxious to have the Bibles. (2) Bibles will go to Geneva for prisoners in German concentration camps. (3) Testaments will be given to sailors in the United States Navy. Among these groups there are many who cannot find a Bible available. Davidson’s Y. M. C. A. is carrying out this project through the American Bible Society. Sample copies of Bibles and Testaments have been sent to the “Y.” The Society has informed the “Y” about the three phases of the Gift Project. Students are urged to contact their friends and relatives about the Gift Fund. The “Y” will appreciate the donations of alumni and friends of the college.

Old Tradition

The Gift Fund is one of Davidson's oldest traditions. In past years the donations have been used to build a social center for our colored friends in Davidson, to support a missionary in Brazil, to build a village for lepers in Korea, and many other projects. The two-day subscription drive will close tonight. Students are urged to fill out the cards and give them to the solicitor on their respective halls or fraternities.

THANKSGIVING SERVICE

Davidson College Thanksgiving Service will be held at ten o’clock on Thursday. The Reverend Carl Pritchard will deliver the sermon. The text will be First Thessalonians, fifth chapter, eighteenth verse: “In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.” Every student is most cordially invited to attend.

ODK And ‘Y’ Plan Show

Prizes Will Be Offered To Winning Amateurs

One of the unusual events of the year is planned for this Friday at eight o'clock, when the O. D. K. and Y. M. C. A. are jointly sponsoring an amateur show. Those in charge hope that this will bring out some of the potential talents of the student body. First prize is five dollars, second prize is three dollars, and third prize is two dollars.

Judges Not Known

The judging of the contest will be in the hands of men whose identities have not been made public. This is due to the fact, it is reported, that if the judges are known there will be some bribing and that will not be tolerated. Master of ceremonies will be “Joltin’ Joe” McLesky, who has announced Davidson's home football games this year.

Students Participating

Among those already entered are: Glenn Terrell, singing; Jim Kerr and his jug band, Lee Potter and his “boogie woogie” music, Billy Rose and his harmonica, Alfred McNair at the piano, Bill Lyman and his impersonations, a quartet composed of Dean Watson, Mill Summers, Charles Upchurch, Van Wilson. Dean Watson will also sing a solo. Ed Sutton with his accordion, Wilford Whitley, “Boogie woogie” pianist, George Mitchell and his violin, and others including Joe Barnwell and his Band.

Court Puts Trial Off One Week

Students Invited To Meeting Of “25” Club

Prosecution of the first 25 Freshmen to break the class campus is to be delayed, announced Judge Caldwell. The regular court meeting is being postponed because of the Thanksgiving holiday, but a definite meeting will be held November 25. A conference of the members of the Court of Control was held recently and specific assignments were decided upon for the 25 Freshmen apprehended. Although a mode of punishment has already been determined for these non-conformers, any and all suggestions for punishment of Freshmen in the future will be welcomed, said Caldwell.

The meeting of the 25 is to be open to the public with no admission charge. A gala affair is promised by the Court for everyone. The highlight of this meeting will be the installation of the “25” Club which will be composed of the 25 most “noxious” Freshmen. It is the hope of Judge Caldwell that this club will become a tradition on the Davidson campus. This meeting will probably be the last meeting of the Court before Christmas as the Court has to sojourn to Florida to catch up on things after a long season on the bench. Judge Caldwell wants to remind all Freshmen that the Court will be back in full force after the holidays.

MASQUERS PRESENT PERFORM PLAY

The title role of the Red and Black Masquers new play, “The Blue Ghost,” will be played by Shaw Smith, Davidson “Y” Secretary, according to an announcement made this week by Miss Kalista Hood, Director of the play. At the same time it was revealed that the extensive stage properties of the play will be handled by Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the Davidson English Department. The fine work being done by Prof. Erwin is expected to be a major factor toward the success of the production. The only feminine part in the play will be played by Miss Clara Smith, who will take the part of Florence Waller. Miss Smith is a well-known local portrait artist, having had several of her works exhibited in the Mint Museum in Charlotte.

J. T. Whitaker Talks Monday

Reporter Works In Europe For Ten Years

John T. Whitaker, veteran foreign correspondent of the Chicago Daily News Foreign Service, who recently returned to America after ten years abroad, most of it spent in the totalitarian countries, will lecture in Chambers Auditorium next Monday morning at 10:05 o'clock.

Native of Tennessee

Whitaker was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and was educated at the University of the South. He went to Europe twice before his graduation from college in 1927 and then worked for a time on the Chattanooga News. From Chattanooga he went to New York City in 1928 and found a job with the New York Herald Tribune. That newspaper ordered him to Washington where he observed the Federal Government. With the outbreak of World War II, Whitaker was in Paris and for a time covered the war on the Western Front. From Paris he went to Rome in the spring of 1940 and made his headquarters in the Italian capital until the spring of 1941.

TUESDAY LINGUISTS CONVENE

Davidson will be among the colleges represented when the South Atlantic Modern Language Association meets in Atlanta for the annual convention Friday and Saturday. The convention is being held at Agnes Scott College and Emory University with headquarters at the Biltmore Hotel. Representing Davidson’s language department are Dr. W. P. Cumming, Professor E. J. Erwin, and Dr. Guy R. Vowles. Dr. Cumming will speak to the delegates Thursday. The title of his address is “The Origin of Early Carolina Place Names.” Dr. Vowles, also speaking on Thursday, will talk on “Unreal Conditions in Erlebte Rede in German.” William A. McKnight, former professor of Davidson, and who now is Professor of Spanish at the University of North Carolina, is Acting Secretary of the Spanish Section during this year’s convention. The meeting will be attended by representatives from men’s and women’s colleges throughout the South Atlantic States.

The Guardsman Quartette will give a concert in the Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, November 25, sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha. A portion of their program next Tuesday will be devoted to “Gay Ninety” selections, sung in true “Barber Shop” style.

Don Cossacks To Sing Here

Famous Singers Serge Jaroff Will Direct

Once again, on the first of December, theOriginal: Don Cossacks Chorus will sing here in Davidson. The concert, which is under the sponsorship of Phi Mu Alpha (Hon- orary Musical Fraternity), will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 of that night. Jaroff Conducts The original Don Cossack Chorus, in its twenty-first year, will be conducted by Serge Jaroff in some of the more popular of its repertory consisting of nearly two hundred songs and dances of Old Russia. Popularize Songs Reported the most popular of all the songs made famous by this Chorus is the “Volga Boat Song” which they have sung more than four thousand times in the last twenty years and have popularized from Singapore to Sioux City. During the year, twenty-three of the original thirty-four Don Cossack Singers will become full American citizens.

John T. Whitaker when the Italians asked him to leave because of the anti-Fascist tone of his dispatches. Travels Abroad Mr. Whitaker sees Spain, Portugal, and part of Latin America joining the Axis. He has long predicted the full collaboration of Vichy, including the French fleet, with the Nazis. That will leave us, he points out, “all alone” with Britain. Predicted Invasion Among his colleagues and students of international affairs generally, Mr. Whitaker is celebrated for his acumen and accuracy in foreseeing and predicting international developments. Recent “scoops” include predicting to the day three weeks in advance the Italian invasion of Greece and calling the Nazi march on Russia by ten days—both developments that came as distinct shocks to many political observers.

To Develop Quadrangle Floodlights And Shrubbery To Be Features of New Buildings Site Also in the plans are floodlights for each of the three buildings, suitable shrubbery and plantings. Library Chairs Arrive New chairs for the Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library came a few days ago. A number of fluorescent lamps for reading tables in the periodical and reference rooms are also a part of the new equipment. These lamps, soon to be installed, will provide better illumination than the overhead lighting and will consume less current for the same amount of illumination. New Walks In the development of the court south of Chambers Building, the Administration plans to make a number of brick walks. One of these will be an extension of the walk across the front of the Concord. There will be a similar walk on the other side, this one extending down across the front of the science building. Brick walks will also be laid from the south end of Chambers to the entrance of each of the new buildings, from one new building to the other, and from the center of each of the buildings to each of the proposed entrance gates. Entrance Gates These entrance gates will be an iron fence on a low brick wall.

Set Precedent In Thanksgiving Cold, Hunger, And Disease Bring Death To Many A Hardy Settler By JIM STIMSON Three hundred twenty years ago the Pilgrims celebrated the first Thanksgiving in America. However, this was not the first time that a day was set aside for giving thanks to God; for Moses established a Thanksgiving for the Jews, and the Greeks and other nations have held similar festivals. Our Thanksgiving was inaugurated by the Pilgrims at Plymouth in 1621. Their Thanksgiving was given to God for carrying them through a crisis; although they continued to have hardships. Early Hardships In the cold winter of 1620 the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth, seeking to find a freedom which they did not have in their homeland. The New England winter brought many hardships, which hindered the progress of the new colony. Cold, hunger, and disease brought death to many, leaving only fifty-five settlers out of one hundred one. The colonists planted seeds in the spring of 1621 and watched their crops with great anxiety during the summer. In the fall they gathered the harvest and had a great store of food. Holiday Declared Work did not cause these people to forget God, for they had come to America seeking a place where they could worship Him freely in their own way. Hence labor stopped for a day. While the men killed deer and turkeys, the women prepared potatoes, corn, beans, peas, carrots, pies, and cakes for a big feast. They thanked God for the great harvest and that they had survived the preceding cold winter. To the great feast they called the Indians who were their friends. Praise God Our Pilgrim fathers had hardships just as we have them today. Theirs have been greater; yet they knew that God was with them. In order to properly celebrate their Thanksgiving we must remember that God was with them. We must have the same spirit of the Pilgrims as we face today's crisis. A cartoon last year at Thanksgiving in a paper showed a little refugee girl on her knees praying for her family in England and then closed with words similar to these: “Thank you, God, for You. Please take care of Yourself, because we would be in a big mess without you.”

German Club Inducts Five Monday evening, October 27th, Delta Phi Alpha held its meeting at the home of Dr. Vowles. Delta Phi Alpha is composed of advanced German students of outstanding ability. At the meeting the following were initiated into Delta Phi Alpha: Charlie Henderson, Jr., W. B. Kerr, H. R. Lacy, H. A. Murdoch, and Avo Patterson. The following were initiated into Deutscher Verein, which is a subordinate branch of Delta Phi Alpha which is composed of students who have shown ability in the first two years of German study: R. L. Coppedge, T. H. Dimmock, J. L. Fairly, D. P. Hill, D. D. Phillips, H. S. Preston, H. B. Robinson, and G. E. Wilson. Dr. Vowles read a brief history of each organization to the initiates.

Guardsmen Quartet Chambers Performances Of Group Include Many Pictures And Radio Shows PROGRAM IS TUESDAY Quartet Records Music In Over 800 Movies Phi Mu Alpha will present the fourth concert in the current series in Chambers Auditorium next Tuesday at 8 p.m. The Guardsmen Quartette will appear in a concert composed of both classical and currently popular numbers. Since “The Guardsmen Quartette” was organized in 1930, they have appeared in many motion pictures, radio programs, and concerts. Their voices have been recorded in over 800 pictures including “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” in which they had the speaking and singing parts of four of the dwarfs. Other Movies In addition to this picture, “The Guardsmen” have appeared in such movies as “I Wanted Wings,” “The Gay Nineties,” and “The Parson of Panamint.” Some of the radio shows that they have appeared in are “Show Boat,” “Good News,” “Chase and Sanborn Hour,” “Shell Chateau,” and “Vick's Open House.” They have supported Laurence Tibbett, Grace Moore, Gladys Swarthout, Richard Crooks, and Nelson Eddy, and have worked with Leopold Stokowski and Andre Kostelanetz. Specialty Renditions For the past several years, The Guardsmen have devoted their time, aside from regular concerts, to working out an original routine portraying a male quartette of fifty years ago during the Gay Nineties. During this part of the program in which they call themselves “The Lady Killers,” they wear authentic costumes and sing the songs that were popular at that time. When they appeared in “The Strawberry Blonde,” they used much of the same routine. Names Of Singers The organization includes Henry Billings and Irl Hunsaker as tenors, William Brandt as baritone, Dudley Kunzell as bass, and Frank Youkstetter as accompanist. A few of the numbers to be presented by “The Guardsmen Quartette” besides “The Lady Killers” will be “Silver on the Sage” and “Git Along Little Dogies” from two of their western pictures, and “Gwine to Hebb'n,” a Negro spiritual. These are just a few of the many classical and popular songs to be presented.

Dr. J. A. Jones To Talk Here Charlotte Pastor To Preach For Vespers Davidson will have Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, as guest speaker for vespers on Sunday, November 23. Dr. Jones is a native of Laurinburg, North Carolina, and graduated from Davidson College in 1931. Outstanding On Campus As a student here, he was outstanding in campus life. He was the manager of the Freshmen football team, and was later a member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet. During his last year at school, his leadership was recognized by Omicron Delta Kappa. Awarded Honor After completing his course here, Dr. Jones attended the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. On his graduation, he was awarded the highest honor given by this institution. The young minister then spent a year in study at the University of Edinburgh, in Scotland, and another year in travel and study in the Holy Land. Dr. Jones later served at the First Presbyterian Church of Henderson, N. C.; and is now at the Myers Park Church of Charlotte.