Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 23, 1941

Radical Changes Made For Best Schedule Saturday

Chapel: Made Voluntary And Students Are Allotted More Time

Open forums and discussions will be held. As usual, the Freshman changes made in the chapel program at the suggestion
of the student council, and approved by both the faculty and students, have altered the entire order of services.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

“Y” GIFTS

On his birthday last week, the “Y” Cabinet gave to Dr. Arbuckle, the father of the “Y” at Davidson, a
leather bill-fold as a small token of their esteem. He has been very influential in all the work of the
“Y” and a constant mainstay to every campus activity. For her help with the Freshman-Faculty Reception, the Cabinet gave Mrs.
Hengeveld a box of candy. This was her thirteenth year of assistance. She has always proved essential in making the
reception a success.

HISTORY OF [Continued from Page Three]

Rev. George Wilson McPhail, D.D., LL.D (1866-1871); Prof. John Rennie Blake, A.M., Faculty (1871-1877); Rev. Andrew D.D., LL.D (1877-1885); Rev.
John Bunyan Shearer, D.D., LL.D (1888-1901); Prof. Henry Louis Smith, Ph.D., LL.D. (1901-1912); Prof. William Joseph Martin, Ph.D., M.D., LL.D
(1912-1929); Rev. Walter Lingle, D.D., LL.D. (1929-1941); Rev. John Rood Cunningham, D.D., LL.D., (1941—).

“All friends of this institution rejoice in its continued good fortune by the succession to the presidency of Dr. John
Rood Cunningham, D.D., LL.D. Dr. Cunningham is a native of Missouri and was graduated from Westminster in Fulton, Mo. He
was president of Louisville Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., for several years. His ministerial service extends over several pastorates, the
last of which was the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. He was called from that church to become Davidson’s thirteenth
president. Since he assumed office last February, Dr. Cunningham has made many new friends for Davidson and has been widely
praised for his progressive spirit and Christian leadership.

COLONEL ISSUED [Continued from Page One]

and then Regimental Commander of the 38th U.S. Infantry. This is Colonel Mackenzie’s fourth detail on R.O.T.C. duty and he
says that he has never been more favorably impressed at any other school by the high grade of character and
integrity displayed by the students than at Davidson. Colonel Mackenzie served in the first World War and received the following
awards: the Silver Star, Oak-leaf Cluster, the Purple Heart, and the French Fourragère of the Croix de Guerre. He has
service medals for the World War and Mexican Border.

The Army and Navy Register of October 18, 1941, shows Colonel Mackenzie in a list of about 100 Lieutenant Colonels
who were promoted. The selection of these officers for temporary promotion was based upon demonstrated performance of duty both before
and during the existing emergency and as part of the War Department’s plan to equalize grade and responsibility. These promotions
are one phase of the War Department’s effort to give selected and especially qualified Regular Army lieutenant colonels their mobilization
rank. Since the beginning of the present emergency in the fall of 1939, his strength has increased more than 10
times. There are still approximately 300 lieutenant colonels of the line performing the duties of colonel, such as regimental commanders,
and it is contemplated that these remaining temporary promotions to the grade of colonel will be made in succeeding months.
Outstanding officers of the rank of lieutenant colonel whose past records, plus a superior performance of duty during the current
emergency, indicate their fitness for advancement, will be promoted by increment in the future. No pay increases are involved in
these promotions for temporary Regular Army Officers. Temporary promotion, by selection, is now applicable to all grades in the army.

DEAN L. J. SHERILL [Continued from Page Five]

From here Colonel Steel will go to his new post in the Philippines. His family, however, will remain here in
Davidson.

DR. J. M. GREENE SPEAKS [Continued from Page One]

achieved along separate channels like the United States and the Soviet Union—natural allies. These are the ideas Dr.Greene ex Phest
night of Saturday. The dates for homecoming were L. W. Widdres. The banquet was held in the main room of
the hotel. Special guests at the occasion were Brother and Mrs. Pete McKnight of Charlotte and Brother Kenneth Jackson of
Mobile, Alabama. Dates attending the dance and the banquet were: Mary Dana, University of S. C.; Alice Page Jones, Limestone
College; Ernestine Norvell, University of Tennessee; Anne Mitchell, Sweetbriar; Ann Huntington, Asheville; Lila Lee Jones, St. Mary's; Dot Harris, Converse;
Nancy Kin, Sullin's; Eaddy Williams, Randolph-Macon; Eloise Owens, W. C. T. C.; Barbara Baker, Virginia Intermont; Peggy Brown, Phil Beta
Kappa; Florence Hamrick, Gaffney; Martha Lewis, Dallas; and Ann Seek, Queens.

After the dance, Elliott and Lough Hol stayed for the remainder of the weekend. Other visitors up for the weekend
were Brothers Flynn, Hemphill, Masters, Gaffney, Hutchins, Horan, Niven, Hunter, Swasey, Willis, and Wyche.

The fraternity held open house after the football game, and many alumni and visitors attended. Visitors included: Dean Raymond Jenkins,
Ph.D., Catawba College; Dean A. F. Saunders, B.S., The Hill School; Prof. W. P. Chase, Ph.D., Alumnus, University of Minnesota;
Prof. M. DuPre, A.M., LL.D., Wofford College; Supt. T. O. Lawton, LL.D., Agnes Scott College; President E. M. Gwathmey, Ph.D.,
Converse College; The Reverend G. Allen, A.B., B.D., Alumnus, Lincoln Memorial University; Prof. G. R. Vowles, Ph.D., Alumnus, University of
Chicago; Prof. J. S. Purcell, Jr., A.M., Faculty, The College of the Ozarks; President P. E. Lauer, Ph.D., Lenoir Rhyne
College; Prof. K. L. Bartlett, Ph.D., Faculty, Roanoke College; President Carlyle Campbell, A.M., D.D., Flora Macdonald College; President H. B.
Blakely, A.M., Th.D., D.D., Presbyterian College; President H. H. Tufts, B.S., Lees-McRae College; Prof. P. H. Edwards, Ph.D., Faculty, Sweet
Briar College; President H. E. Valley, LL.D., Atlantic Christian College; President R. P. L. Liston, Ph.D., Davis and Elkins College;
Miss Ethel B. Gaston, A.B., Alumna, East Carolina Teachers College; Dean D. C. Agnew, Ph.D., Faculty, King College; Prof. Glen
Haydon, Ph.D., Alumnus, University of California; W. J. Edwards, Esq., D.D., Alumnus, Loyola University of the South; President R. G.
Anderson, D.D., Montreat College; L. C. LaMotte, A.M., D.D., President E. J. Stringfield, Ph.D., LL.D., Brevard College; Treasurer B. L.
Jackson, B.S., Alumnus, University of Pennsylvania; Prof. Minnie A. Graham, Ph.D., American Association for the Advancement of Science; Chalmers McIlwaine,
Esq., Alumnus, McCallie School; and Dean T. M. Simpson, Alumnus, University of Wisconsin.

The alumni gave a fine but quiet Saturday night which started things rolling and the night ended off right with
Bob Nelson. Other dates for the weekend included Louise Wells, Grace Walker, Polly Sherrill, Ruth Edminston, Marjorie Troutman, Shirley Owens,
Catherine Batten, Penny Durham, Helen Hemphill, Marcelle Gain, Chick Cunningham, Agnes Wilson, Jean Welsh, Julie Harper, Edith Ebelein, Leacy Tucker,
Carolyn Parker, Louise Nichols, Eleanor Barnwell, Rosemary Holland, Betty Kirk, Stuart Maurice, Phyllis Trout, Bonnie Samonds, Sarah Brownlee, Nancy Jane
Rush, Caroline Ross, and Margaret Ross.

Lovely Ginny Simms, vocalist with Kay Kyser’s orchestra, now networks weekdays at 9:55 PM, EST. A favorite of the nation’s
collegians, Ginny herself attended Fresno State Teacher’s College. After graduation, she found that she did not want to teach so
she secured a job singing on her local radio station. Kyser heard her and she has been singing with his
band ever since.
