Thursday, March 6, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of The Week

Recently a news analyst stated over the radio that he thought the United States was facing the biggest question that it had in its history, in the Lend-Lease Bill. Everyone does not hold the same opinion, but we know there is some feeling among the students on this subject, especially since we in the past have been supporting a movement to give aid to the British. So we offer this question to the students: Do you think that this would be a wise move on the part of the United States to give aid to Britain in the form of this new bill? Have you any opinion as to how it would affect us as students?

Lawson Withers—Senior. To protect ourselves is the selfish motive behind all our idealistic efforts to aid Britain. Britain is stopping Hitler for a time. Accepting this interpretation, I am for all aid possible to Britain short of men. However, it would be chaotic to convoy supply ships with our navy. After all, we want to protect ourselves from war, and under modern interpretations of international law, Hitler would have the right to sink any American ship attempting to bring supplies through the U-boat blockade. Public opinion would force us to declare war against Germany if any of our naval units were attacked. Remember the Maine and the days of March, 1917.

Ed Scott—Junior. With the world in its present stage of turmoil and war, it seems to me that upon the passage of the Lease-Lend bill stands the single life thread of Democracy. England and America are the only major democracies surviving today and without immediate aid from America, which the Lend-Lease Bill will provide, there appears an exceedingly dark future for England. If we do not come to the aid of our sister democracy there is certainly little, if any, reason for smaller European democracies to attempt to cope with the situation. There is much truth in the doctrines of those non-interventionists who concede that the best method of escaping war is to have nothing to do with the countries involved, but, to a people whose very country was founded upon the solid rock of democracy, I do not see how these arguments can stand. We must, if we wish to remain a democratic nation, send immediate aid to England or be left to fight alone for that great principle of democracy upon which America was founded.

Jo. Newell Robinson—Senior. I feel that the significance of the Lend-Lease Bill is much more important than we are willing to admit. Assuming that the Lend-Lease bill will merely postpone our becoming involved in war, I feel that additional provisions should be made by Congress to insure our safety. This does not mean that we must revolutionize our present methods, but we must revise and revitalize our present plans by, for instance, making Britain responsible for the transport of material we might let them have. However, I am afraid that aid in materials is not enough. The cause of democracy will extend its call for manpower, and again as a free nation, we should be willing and ready to supply the demand.

Hector MacLean—Senior. Though the question of whether or not the United States is going to war cannot be answered, the Lease-Lend Bill is favorable in either event. To defeat Germany, Britain needs the help which we could give her through the bill. The fall of Germany would make certain that our entrance in the war will not take place. If Britain is defeated, it will be much easier for us to cope with a weakened Germany which will inevitably result if we give aid to Great Britain. It is true that this bill provides what might be termed dictatorial powers to the President but at the same time it does not stand to reason that these powers will be unwisely used since we have granted these powers in the past and they have been re- (Continued on Page Six)

ODK Men To Emphasize Honor System

Special Student Council Relations Committee Is Recently Appointed. Casey Jones, Jim Hoge, Hewes Parrish, Bill Loftin, and James McDuffie were appointed to serve on a Student Council relations committee at the ODK meeting last Monday evening in Chambers Building. The chief objective of this committee is to study means by which the Student Council can bring the student body into a better understanding of what the honor system means. The campus leaders believe that the honor system needs to be brought before the students more than it is.

The ODK members also discussed the possibility of installing loudspeakers on each floor of all the dormitories. These would be for the purpose of calling boys to the telephone instead of having to go to the trouble of running upstairs to get in touch with them. More plans were made for the national convention to be held at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, March 13, 14, and 15.

Music Department

Many Groups Within State Bid Dr. Lingle

Acting President Speaks At Raleigh, Rocky Mount, Flora McDonald. Dr. W. L. Lingle was guest minister at the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh Sunday, March 2, where he preached at both the morning and evening services. He was also guest speaker at the Young People’s meeting. Thursday, March 6, he is to lead an open forum in the auditorium of Flora McDonald College on “The Application of the Teaching of Jesus to Modern Problems.” This forum is sponsored by Dr. Ralph McDonald, of the University of North Carolina, who is presenting similar discussions all over the state. March 7, 8, 9, Dr. Lingle will be speaking at numerous engagements in Rocky Mount. Friday he is speaking at the Good Fellowship Club, Saturday at the High School, and Sunday he will be guest minister at the Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Lingle is filling other engagements throughout the spring in addition to his other duties.

“Bible” Here Since 1860's

Old Catalogs Reveal Unusual Bible Courses. By Charles Brockmann. As early as 1835, two years before the founding of the actual College, Concord Presbytery “earnestly recommended the introduction of the Holy Scriptures into the college curriculum.” Such efforts, however, were spasmodic until Dr. J. B. Shearer, at the Commencement of 1886, made a stirring address on the proper place of the Bible in a college course. The catalog for 1887-88 states that instruction in the Old and New Testament History is “given every Sunday afternoon and attendance is required.” A later catalog states that one hour a week is given to religious instruction so arranged as to impart in four years a systematic and tolerably complete course in Biblical History and Christian Ethics.

Davidson Bell Dates Back to 1850

Chambers Bell Has Unusual Past. By Phil Busby. Several interesting incidents have occurred during the history of Davidson College in connection with the bell which awakens the students of our institution each morning. For the first happening of significance, we are indebted to an unknown member of the class of 1850 who recorded as follows: “The belfry where the bell was hung was just north of the college chapel. It was set on fire one night and burned down. The bell was taken in the woods and one night it would ring in the north, the next night in the south, being changed every night. Finally it was broken into small pieces and brought back to its old location.”

Another student, William A. Smith, entered in 1859 and recorded for posterity the following incident: “One night a student climbed to the comb of the South wing of Chambers, tied a wire to the bell, passed it out over the roof and fastened it to the limb of a tree. The wire could not be seen and that bell rang all night. It was uncanny.” Probably the nearest the bell ever came to making history of a significant nature was during the year 1860. It seems a certain student had been excused from church one Sunday, and having nothing better to do, he climbed into the belfry and loosened the wires which attached the clapper to the bell, so that he could take it out more easily that night in the dark. In the afternoon, the regular bell-ringer, with the first jerk on the cord, loosened the clapper and the bell fell between the floors because it was so heavy and the impact was so great. No mention is made in the college records as to what was done to the prankster who nearly caused an unfortunate tragedy.

One more fact of interest should be pointed out in connection with the bell of Davidson College. Before the War Between the States it used to ring at fifteen minutes before sunrise. By the time the sun came up, every student was expected to be in his chapel seat. Taking that into consideration, twenty minutes of eight isn’t such a bad time to get up after all.

Intramurals Will Sponsor Gym Exploits

Moore and Mitchell Assist Whittle With Gymnastic Competition. Intramural Athletics under the direction of Mr. Whittle and his two assistants, Moore and Mitchell, will sponsor a gymnastic competition.

Guest Soloist Is Mrs. Pfohl

Shearer Hall Concert to Include Queens-Davidson Little Symphony. The Davidson College Glee Club and twenty-three members of the Symphonic Band will take part in the Southern Conference for Music Education to be held in Charlotte March 6-8. Professors Pfohl and McDonald will be among the conductors and directors to take part in the various programs. Friday evening, March 7, the North Carolina Big Five College Band composed of members from U.N.C., N.C. State, Duke, Wake Forest, and Davidson will play a program for band directors who have assembled from all over the state.the | main objective they try to achieve. Later, the Glee Club will mention that the Bible is studied in each of the four classes. The junior class will sing several numbers. Members of the band will also participate in woodwind and brass clinics to show the band directors problems, limitations, and advantages of various instruments.

The Southern Conference for Music Education was organized in 1922 in Nashville, Tenn. and is held every two years in some southern city. This year it has been held in Charlotte. It was stressed that the same standard of excellence and the same classroom drill is expected in Bible study as in other departments.

Scripts 'N Pranks To Appear Soon
By Bob Garvey, Editor

Paul Bumbarger announced that the Magazine, Scripts and Pranks, will go to press in the near future and that it will come to the students sometime in the next two weeks. To be featured in this issue will be stories by Arch Taylor, Gordon Horton, Bill Sprunt, and Ed Taylor. All of these men have done stories in past issues that have won them places as accomplished writers. Along with these stories will be a satire by Myron Sandifer, the regular columns about music, The Poet's Corner, and that mysterious column, Who Cut the Cheese. As in the past, there will be the usual amount of humor and cartoons. Dan Hodges is again doing the cover and John Northcross, assisting Hodges, will make original illustrations for the short stories.

Another in the series of Sunday afternoon musical programs will be presented March 30 by the Otteens-Davidson Little Symphony and will feature Mrs. Nelson Pfohl, guest pianist. In addition to Mrs. Pfohl, the Concerto, a woodwind quintet composed of members of the orchestra, will be featured. Members of the quartet are Horace Hill on flute, Charlie Henderson on oboe, Bob Robertson on clarinet, Frances Magill on bassoon, and Reb Rummel on horn. The quintet will play “Minuet” by Mozart and “Prelude” by Rameau. Also, Reb Rummel will play “Coronation” by Clerambault.

FREE—25¢ Size PEPSODENT TOOTH PASTE or POWDER with Purchase of Each PEPSODENT 50 TUFT TOOTH BRUSH
DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE

LOVELY COUNTRY HOME 10 MILES FROM DAVIDSON, NEAR CROFT, FOR SALE
House has 9 Rooms, Water and Electricity. 50 acres in tract; 25 under cultivation. Place has cost $6,500. If interested, write “Country Home,” Charlotte, or George Tate, 314 WEST DORMITORY, DAVIDSON, N.C.

STEINWAY PIANOS
LATEST VICTOR, DECCA, COLUMBIA, BLUE BIRD RECORDS
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 North Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

The ringer went up to ring the bell. The paper by Welsh was entitled “An Imaginative Creation in Defense of a Dreamer,” which showed the philosophies and imaginations of a metaphysic thinker. Taylor's paper was in the form of a short story, which dealt with an old carpenter who was obsessed with the desire to build a magnificent coffin for his death. The story had an element of mystery prevailing throughout and had a surprise ending. It will be published in the next issue of Scripts 'N Pranks. Two other papers were read, both by members of the society, Pat Rudolph and Paul Lyman. Rudolph’s paper was a modern short story dealing with an unhappy young married couple who lived in Atlanta. The plot of the story centered around a beautiful silver platter that had been in the husband's family since before the Civil War. Like Taylor's, Rudolph’s short story had a surprise ending. Lyman’s paper was a formal essay entitled “Woodrow Wilson's Year at Davidson,” which related all known facts about Wilson's year at Davidson. The meeting ended with a discussion on requirements for membership in the society and was dismissed by Drury Thompson, president.

NOW PLAYING
Fannie Hurst’s “BACK STREET”
Charles Boyer, Margaret SULLIVAN
Starting Monday
“GONE WITH THE WIND”
At Popular Prices!
—3 Times Daily—
11:30 - 3:30 - 7:30
CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte, North Carolina

SCOUTS CAMPAIGN
Five Books Are Bought By Library
Josephus Daniels, Tar Heel Editor, Writes Memoirs of Journalistic Life.

Among the new books which have been added to the library recently are Editor in Politics, by Josephus Daniels, What's Funny and Why, by Milton Wright, The Good Old Days, by David L. Cohn, Oliver Wiswell, by Kenneth Roberts, and Out of the Night, by Jan Valtin. Editor in Politics, the memoirs of Josephus Daniels, a fiery North Carolina editor, tells of the experiences in his newspaper work of a man who has become known as “the Tar Heel Editor.” This second volume of memoirs presents the Tar Heel Editor in mid-career.

Critic’s Opinion.
William Allen White, in The New York Times Book Review, said “The style and technique of the book are as distinctly American as its background—a picture of a people struggling from one age and one civilization in three decades into another time and place in the history of our country.” It is “of interest to students in journalism, to students of politics, to students of the South, and to everyone who likes real stories of the real people,” The Montgomery Advertiser stated.

What's Funny—And Why is by Milton Wright, the author of The Art of Conversation. In this book, Mr. Wright takes humor apart to reveal its psychological sources. Then he puts it together again to show how jokes are made and remade. And he tells how anecdotes are put across. Stephen Leacock said that the book is “excellent—just the thing for these depressed days.” The writer stated that the book “excels in the author's ability to put his finger on the real point of any joke.”

Unusual History.
The Good Old Days is by David Cohn. The book is a history of American morals and manners as seen through the Sears, Roebuck catalogs from 1905 to the present. Sinclair Lewis, in his introduction to the book, stated that “Though he is also a historian of American racial stocks and of the metaphysics of finance, he has stolen the novelist’s complete method for this book of story and pictures, to such a remembrance of things past.”

The Camera Club
Boyce Rhyne, a Davidson senior, was elected secretary-treasurer of the Camera Club at the last meeting on Wednesday evening, February 26, in the parlor of Duke. The members of the club criticized the pictures taken by them recently. Mac Parker, president, gave an illustrated talk on composition and led a study on the nine laws of good composition. These laws were applied to the photographs brought to the meeting by the cameramen. New officers will be elected later in the spring, announced Mac Parker. Boyce Rhyne will hold the office until the next election. Sometime this spring, the club will hold its annual Photographic Exhibit in the Eumenean Hall as last year.

It's part of the game ... to pause and refresh.
Here’s a drink that is unique. It never loses the freshness of appeal that first charmed you. You drink it and enjoy an after-sense of complete refreshment. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE