Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

PORTS Wildcat Sports Spring LANTS BOB CARTER Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 13, 1941 Winter Practice Ends; Sports Take Over

INTRAMURAL DOPE— With the completion of football, basketball, and bowling, we find the Phi Delts in the lead in the interfrat race with a total of 402 points. 158 of these were acquired in football, 132 in basketball, and 112 in bowling. In second place are the Kappa Sigmas, who hold two ties for first place, in football and bowling, with a total of 362 points. Grouped close behind are the SPE’s and Phi Gams, with 338 points apiece. Some fifty points back are the Pi Kapps, KA’s, and S.A.E.’s; the former two with 277 points, the latter with 274. The Pi Kapps were awarded 100 points for taking undisputed first place in the basketball race. The Pikas are in last place with a total of 237.2.

AROUND THE MAJORS In the spring a young man’s fancy turns to thoughts of love and, if he’s a typical American, to baseball. The national pastime as played by the big boys attracts our attention at this particular time and so let’s take a gander at the American and National League races and see how things shape up. As a special concession to some of our uneducated friends from the mid-west, we'll take the National League first, if for no other reason than to get it off our minds. It looks like another Red year, because what can a man do about Bucky Walters and Paul Derringer? Without them the Redlegs are just a fair country ball team; with them, World Champions. But they are not without them, so why waste time? Opposition, if any, should come from the Department of Daftness, alias the Brooklyn Dodgers, and, of all people, the Boston Bees. The Dodgers are a screwball lot but at the same time are a very dangerous club at the bat, with power aplenty personified by “Muscles” Medwick, who is due for a great year. The Bees are a young ball club and may crack under the pressure the experts are putting on them by ordaining them to such lofty perches. Chet Ross and Max West supply punch so rare in the older circuit teams. If these kids don’t get the jitters and fall apart at the seams, watch out. The Pirates, Cubs, and Cardinals appear so loaded with ‘ifs,’ that it would be a bold heart indeed that selected them for a spot any higher than fourth. The Corsairs have a truly fine ball club, but are faced with a shortage of pitchers. Jimmy Wilson must handle his prima donna rookie, Lou Novikoff, with kid gloves, or he’s liable to split the club wide open. Out in St. Louis, rookie pitchers are being herded around like cattle so plentiful are they, but can’t more than one of them pitch at a time. As for the New York Giants, we wish there were a spot below the cellar we could reserve for them, but we believe they will edge out the woeful Phillies. The Phils are, as usual, the most powerful team in the National League; they hold up the other seven.

Over in the junior circuit, to get back to more pleasant things, it appears the Yanks are on the loose again. Addition of Gerry Priddy and Phil Rizzuto, the sensational kid second base combination, should lend punch which Frankie Crosetti could do little toward supplying. A few good rookie pitchers also make the scene appear more rosy in the Bronx. The Cleveland Indians, undoubtedly the best team in baseball, lack that little part of the anatomy known as intestinal fortitude. Teams that don’t possess this valuable treasure don’t win pennants, Fellers or no Fellers. The boys from up Beantown way, the Red Sox, still have the devastating power at the plate, but their pitchers (?) just can’t get the other side out. We don’t know exactly why, but we think the St. Louis Browns are going to crash the first division. No particular reason, we just think so. Jimmy Dykes’ White Sox may surprise and raise plenty of hail Columbia, because Jimmy has a way with his chattel that makes them win ball games. Strange to pick a pennant winner for sixth place, but we can see no better fate for the Detroit Tigers and their “Four Old Men” in the infield. The prospect of Hank Greenberg wielding a rifle instead of a mighty bludgeon doesn’t help matters any. The Athletics and Senators should have a jolly time of it trying to stay out of the cellar. Would that there were two cellars, so that Washington could finish in both of them.

Interfraternity Track Meet To Start Monday The annual interfraternity track meet will be held Monday and Tuesday of next week when the Greeks will invade Richardson stadium for the honor of their respective brotherhoods. Eleven events will be on the card and the track team, under the direction of Coach Whittle, will officiate during the meet. Last year the K.A.’s copped the crown closely followed by the K.S.’s in second place, and the Phi Gams in third. Coach Whittle’s staff will be watching the activities closely for

Tracksters Drilling For First Meet Bad Weather Throws Cats Behind Schedule; Meet Gamecocks April 5. Handicapped thus far by bad weather and candidates failing to report due to extended spring football drills, Coach Whittle plans to throw his track team into high gear next Monday when the ‘Cats gridders will report. With only about three weeks until the first meet with the University of South Carolina on April 5, the squad is quickly rounding into shape and the ‘Cat mentor is looking forward to a successful season. The bright spot in the team is in the dashing department where Captain White, Williams, and Sprunt are fighting it out for first string slots. Material Plentiful. In the 440-yard run, White, Lacy, Shannon, and Loy will vie for honors. Brown, Turnage, and Washburn are out for the 880-yard run. In the hurdling division, Taylor and Williamson will top the high timbers while these two and Sprunt are contending for berths in the low hurdles. Whittle’s chief worry is in the distances where only one letterman, Coppedge, remains. He is the lone contestant for the two mile run. Nimmons, Ansley, and Grier are running the mile. In the field events will be Bell, Vanlandingham, Lefever, and Freeze in the shot put; Freeze, Terrell and Vanlandingham in the discus; Spencer, Brinson, Lefever, and Long in the javelin; Shannon and Brenizer in the pole vault; Talmage, Martin, and Belk in the broad jump; and Spencer, Brenizer, and Dick in the high jump.

‘Cat Netmen Begin Work With a nucleus of only two lettermen, Capt. Dick Shore and Miller Sproull, the prospects for a winning varsity tennis team at Davidson do not look as good as they have in the past few years. Weather Interferes. Due to the weather and the condition of the courts, the team has had little outdoor practice. Indoor drills have been in process for about two weeks with members of the squad practicing in the gym. An effort is being made to get the courts in shape as soon as possible so that the tournament to decide the members of the team may be run off before the Spring vacation. Meet Boston First. Capt. Shore says that all the squad members are working hard to win a berth on the team that starts against Boston University here on March the 25th in the first match of the season. With the two lettermen sure starters, the remaining four players will come from the following: “Moose” Sain, Holt Barnwell, Ted Larkin, Paul Bumbarger, L.A.E. Brown, Liles Byman, Parrigin, Fred Morton, and Winston Taylor.

New York City College has set up a student aid fund in memory of the late Prof. Howard C. Green, for 23 years director of the business school evening session.

---new talent for the varsity. Pikas

Events to be staged are the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard dash, 660-yard dash, low and high hurdles, 3-4 mile run, broad jump, high jump, discus, 12-lb. shot put, and 440 relay.

Standing Records
Previous records established during the three years of competition are:
100-yard dash—Green (P. K. P.) and Tayler (P. G.), 10.4 seconds;
220-yard dash—Jonas (K. S.), 24.4 seconds;
660-yard run—Cowan (P. D.), one minute, 32 seconds;
low hurdles—Tayler (P. G.) 13.1;
3-4 mile run—Schlitz (B.), 3 minutes, 40.7 seconds;
broad jump—Strandwitz (S. P. E.), 5 feet, 10 inches;
discus—Vanlandingham (K. S.), 121 feet;
shot put—Bell (P. K. P.), 43 feet, 3 inches.

Inter-Class Standings
Seniors ----------------- 388.7
Juniors ----------------- 347
Sophomores ------------- 269.3
Freshmen ---------------- 170

IMPERIAL
Now Playing
W. C. Fields
“BANK DICK”
Starting Monday
JAMES CAGNEY
OLIVIA DeHAVILLAND
In ‘Strawberry Blonde’
With RITA HAYWORTH

Always Ask for
Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DIAMOND LEADER
Captain Rusty Edmondson, receiver for the Wildcat varsity nine, is entering his third year of capable playing for Coach Shepard. Edmondson hails from Tarboro, N. C., and his timely hitting will be greatly counted on this year.

Football Drills Enter Fifth And Final Week
Winter football drills progressed into the fifth week on Monday with the squad rounding into good shape under the able direction of Head Coach Gene McEver. Coach Chet Chapman has been coaching the linemen and several men have shown promise. Letterman Caldwell, last year’s regular center, is being pushed by Burke. “Red” Marsh and Moore are looking good but getting plenty of competition from Taylor, Grosse, and Simmons.

Tackles Big
The tackle position is well taken care of by Shaw, Rainey, and Arnold. Also to reinforce these big boys are Payne, Hill, and Preyer. Coach Smith has several dependable ends in Hipp, Faison, and Lawrence. These boys are fast and rugged and should bolster the Wildcat attack considerably.

Backs Plentiful
Coach McEver has 17 backfield men out, the largest number of backfield men he has had since he has been here. At the tailback position are Bruce and Washburn. Bruce and Washburn have proven that they can streak down the field with the best of them. Frederick seems to have the fullback position filled with Lacy and Bethea as his understudies. At the wing back, Hackney has the inside track with Shannon and Ehley giving him plenty of competition. Johnny Miller will share blocking back with Ripper Hunt.

Hipp Captains 42 Grapplers
Ed Hipp was recently elected to be captain of the 1942 matmen in a meeting of the wrestling team. At the same meeting, Sam Woodward was chosen to be manager of next year’s team.

Hipp's Record
Hipp's third year as a wrestler in the unlimited division, starting when he was a freshman. He won his letter as a sophomore by winning a majority of his matches. This third-year Hipp won seven matches while losing but three. He remained undefeated until the last scheduled bout with the University of Maryland which he lost by a close decision.

Morehead Loses Twice
In the Southern Conference Tournament at College Park, Maryland, he lost to Aller of Washington and Lee and Torrey of Carolina. Prospects are bright for a winning team next year with a host of good wrestlers coming up from the freshman squad. Hipp succeeds Jack Abels as Captain of the Cat matmen and Woodward succeeds Barker as manager.

The University of Buffalo school of medicine is in its ninetieth year.

Wellesley College has a war relief workroom.

DURING THE DANCES
EAT AT
THACKERS, Inc.
DAVIDSON STUDENTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME
South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS
When you think of Sickness, think of your Doctor. When you think of his Prescription, think of your Druggist. When you think of your Druggist, think of White Drug Company. Our Prescription Department is managed by a Graduate, Licensed, and Registered Druggist.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.
Dial 5961

Shepard Pessimistic Over Pitching Staff And Starting Lineup
Lucas, Letter Hurler, to Bear Burden of Mound Duties; 1940 Infield Back Intact; Owens, Reinhardt Out With Injuries; First Game April 5.

With the biggest worry still the unfilled holes left by graduation in the mound staff, Coach Norman Shepard remained pessimistic over the chances for his Wildcat nine after two weeks of practice. The only experienced hurlers available for service are Ed Lucas, letterman from last spring, and Soph Johnny Frederick, who is expected to report at the close of football drills. John Reinhardt, reserve southpaw in 1940, is nursing an injured finger on his pitching hand and has not reported for practice.

Many Try Hand
Other mound prospects are taking turns at batting practice in an effort to develop control. Bob Carter, Bob McLeod, Mac Morris, and Jack Davis have all handled a share of the hurling assignments. Bill Grosse, now engaged in gridiron practice, also may taste action. Practice so far has been confined to hitting and fielding drills with no practice or inter-squad games. The curveball offerings of Lucas and Jules Kimmett, ineligible last season, have baffled the Cat batsmen and swatting power has not come up to pre-season expectations.

No Line-Up Set
With the first game scheduled for after spring holidays, Coach Shepard has kept the entire squad well under wraps. No definite positions have been assigned and shifts in both infield and outfield were frequent. The usual line-up found Carter, Niven, and Davis alternating at the initial sack, Yarborough at second, Hogg at short, and Nelson at third. Edmondson and Kissling, along with Caterson, are handling the receiving duties. In the gardens, Morris, Niven, Clark, McLeod, Horner, and O'Leary are seeing equal service. Jim Owens, regular shortstop on last season's nine, is still nursing an injured finger, but should report by the last of this week. Conclusion of football practice will release Rainey and Patterson, outfielders, and Phillips, infielder.

Golfers Begin First Tryouts
The varsity and freshman golfers are in the middle of their qualifying rounds at the Carolina Club in Charlotte and as yet no definite selections have been made. The varsity’s prospect for a brilliant season has taken a decided drop due to the injured shoulder of Jack Abels and the playing slump of Pete Cavert. Abels injured his shoulder again in the recent wrestling matches in Washington and it is indefinite when he will be back in shape again. Cavert has yet to get back in his old form that he showed playing number one for the freshman team last year. It is hoped that he can regain his old form soon, for he was heavily counted on as a mainstay of the team.

Sharpe Shoots Well
One bright spot on the local links is the still brilliant play of Captain Granny Sharpe who will lead the golfing Cats in the number one spot. Bob Bryant, Pop Rogers, Frank Mebane, and Harris McReynolds are fighting it out for the other positions, but only a few qualifying rounds have been turned in.

The freshman golfers, as the varsity, have played only a few rounds of their required seventy-two holes for qualification which must be played by March twentieth.

Bumbarger Leads Frosh
Playing fine golf so far are Tommy Bumbarger, Charlie Upchurch, and Jimmy Davis who will probably hold down three of the four freshman berths. The steady playing of Tommy Bumbarger is expected to win the lead-off spot for him followed by either Upchurch or Davis. Bobby Gaither, Ralph McGeachy, Elmer Graves, and R. C. Brown are giving them a fight for the first four positions and there may be an upset after the seventy-two holes are played.

Ernest Ellison, Inc.
“JUST INSURANCE”
115 E. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Spring Slacks
OF FINE WOOLENS
Tailored to Fit Correctly
@ Gabardines
@ Flannels
@ Bedford Cords
$4.95 Up

Spring Sweaters
Of Fine Domestic and Imported Wools.
Slip-Overs, Sleeveless and Jackets.
$2.25 Up

Filling your Prescription is the most important thing we do.
MARION DAVIS CO.