Thursday, May 1, 1941
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

SPRING FROLICS SPONSORS

Nine Davidson Men Attend Conference In Greensboro
Men Also Conduct Vesper Service At Salem

About a hundred people attended the Student's Christian Movement meeting in Greensboro last Saturday, nine of whom were representatives from
Davidson. Registration began at 9:30. The morning service was led by Dr. K. J. Foreman, of the Davidson faculty. The
subject of this address was the part that religion plays in everyday life. Mr. E. S. King of N. C.
State led the afternoon services. This S. C. M. is composed of all the Y. M. C. A. and Y.
W. C. A. organizations in the state. Representing the Davidson “Y” at this meeting were Shaw Smith, Bob Johnson, Joe
Hopper, Jason Deyton, Jim Owens, Jesse Wooten, Buddy Wells, Dick O’Hair, and Casey Jones, who is vice-president of the organization.

Several Davidson boys gave the program at the Salem Vespers Service last Sunday night. Dick O’Hair was in charge of
the program and gave the scripture. Buddy Wells, accompanied by Joe Hopper, sang a hymn. Following this, Jason Deyton gave
a selection on his trumpet. Shaw Smith and Bob Johnson made the evening talks. The theme of both talks was
“Christian Service.” Johnson spoke of Christian Service in the ideal sense, and Smith made practical suggestions for service applicable to
campus life.

PROMPT SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD AWAIT YOU AT THE LITTLE PEP
Davidson, North Carolina

Sponsors for the Pan-Hellenic Council’s Spring Frolics set of dances to be given at the Charlotte Armory Friday and Saturday
are, top row, reading from left to right: Miss Vernon Fountain of Tarboro, with Raymond Butt of Mobile, Ala., who
is the sponsor of Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Shirley Thompson of Spartanburg, with Hector MacLean, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Fay
McDaniel, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Caroline Gayden of Columbia, with Louis Hite, Pi Kappa Phi. Second row, left to right:
Miss Alice Bryan of Auburndale, Fla., with Joe Liles, president of Le Circle Francais, announced that the last meeting Tuesday
night, April 21, the French students of Queens College were entertained at the Beta house.

The program consisted of two short French plays presented by members of Le Circle Francais. The first play was entitled
Knock, and the members of the cast were Hank Crane, Drury Thompson, Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed
Scott, and Liles. The cast of the second play, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle, consisted of Al Winn, Drury Thompson,
Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed Scott, and Liles.

After the plays, ice cream, cake, and punch were served, and French songs were sung by the group. Mr. Arch
Taylor entertained by singing a few French hillbilly songs. This is the first time a joint meeting has been held
by the French Circle and the Queens Club.

Glee Club Elects New Officers

Joe Liles, president of Le Circle Francais, announced that the last meeting Tuesday night, April 21, the French students of
Queens College were entertained at the Beta house.

The program consisted of two short French plays presented by members of Le Circle Francais. The first play was entitled
Knock, and the members of the cast were Hank Crane, Drury Thompson, Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed
Scott, and Liles. The cast of the second play, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle, consisted of Al Winn, Drury Thompson,
Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed Scott, and Liles.

After the plays, ice cream, cake, and punch were served, and French songs were sung by the group. Mr. Arch
Taylor entertained by singing a few French hillbilly songs. This is the first time a joint meeting has been held
by the French Circle and the Queens Club.

French Circle Gives Dramas
Queens Club Entertained At Recent Meeting

Joe Liles, president of Le Circle Francais, announced that the last meeting Tuesday night, April 21, the French students of
Queens College were entertained at the Beta house.

The program consisted of two short French plays presented by members of Le Circle Francais. The first play was entitled
Knock, and the members of the cast were Hank Crane, Drury Thompson, Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed
Scott, and Liles. The cast of the second play, L’Anglais Tel Qu’on Le Parle, consisted of Al Winn, Drury Thompson,
Arch Taylor, Chase Brenizer, W. C. Plunkett, Ed Scott, and Liles.

After the plays, ice cream, cake, and punch were served, and French songs were sung by the group. Mr. Arch
Taylor entertained by singing a few French hillbilly songs. This is the first time a joint meeting has been held
by the French Circle and the Queens Club.these two groups: Always Ask for OSS & Pp?’ Peanut Butter Sandwiches Salted
Peanuts Candy Manufactured by Swinson Food Products CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Charlotte’s New HOTEL W. R. BARRINGER
- Private Banquet Rooms
- Fraternity Rooms

Summers, C., has recently been elected president of the college Glee Club. Other officers include: John Robinson, vice-president; Wells, secretary;
and Jim Crook.

Robinson, Wells, Crook Elected; New Concerts Announced

Library Gets Latest Books
Novels Depict Man’s Struggle With Nature

Two “Books-of-the-Month,” Kabloona and The Good Shepherd, feature the latest volumes acquired. Bill Summers, of Statesville, Knox Harold of Fla.,
with Gene Vereen, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Doris Edgar of Statesville, with Ross McElwee, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Alice Withers
of Davidson, with Granville Sharpe, Beta Theta Pi; and Miss Ellen Self of Asheville, with Scott Cooper, Kappa Sigma. At
the bottom is Miss Alice Moore of Sumter, with Bill Lemmon, Kappa Alpha. (Charlotte Observer.)

SUNDAY SCHOOL
Dr. S. B. Knight spoke on “Christ as a Man” at the college Sunday School in Phi Hall on April
27. Dr. Knight is Associate Professor of Chemistry here. Quoting from Einstein, Benjamin Franklin, and other great men who also
favored atheism as examples of this group’s point of view, he showed that even these men admitted Christ is the
greatest man who has ever lived. Special violin music was provided by George Mitchell, playing “Dear Lord and Father of
Mankind.”

CALL — 4641 For FANCY GROCERIES FRESH MEATS CANDIES We Deliver ANDERSON’S Food Store DAVIDSON, N.C.

Ernest Ellison, Inc. “JUST INSURANCE” 115 E. Fourth St. Charlotte, N.C.

This committee governs the organization. Painting of the life of men of the Glee Club gave a combined concert with
the Davidson High School Girls’ Club under the direction of Thane MacDonald. This concert was sponsored by the Parent-Teachers Association.
Next Sunday night the organization will give a sacred concert at the evening service of the First Presbyterian Church of
Charlotte. Immediately after this five-o’clock service, the twenty-seventh will perform.

Now Playing
EDW. G. ROBINSON
IDA LUPINO
JOHN G. GARFIELD
in “THE SEA WOLF”

LATE SHOW STARTS MONDAY
Jean Arthur in “The Devil and Miss Jones” with Robert Cummings and Charles Coburn

STOP AT McCONNELL SERVICE STATION FOR THAT GOOD GULF GASOLINE and OIL WILLARD BATTERIES Phone 4951 — Davidson

This is a unique book, rich in perception, and full of remarkable anecdotes. The other book is The Good Shepherd,
by Gunnar Gunnarsson. It is a simple, gripping, and moving tale of an Iceland shepherd, making his annual journey into
the bleak and stormy wastes of the mountains to rescue the sheep that have been missed in the yearly ingathering.
With his two companions, Leo the dog, and his horse, he performs feats of endurance, patience, and persistence that are
nobly heroic. Yet he does it without heroics—just as a matter-of-fact duty to the dumb animals. Appearing when the world
is weary, The Good Shepherd brings a message peculiarly inspiring.

Davidson Students Welcome
There’s something about Coca-Cola,—ice-cold,—that stops thirst in its tracks. Its delightful taste brings you the experience of complete thirst satisfaction.
So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. You’re keeping delicious and
refreshing. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY. Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE.
