Thursday, October 9, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

In a recent survey of the opinion of college students over the country regarding the war question, the following question was asked: “Do you think a peace plan such as Woodrow Wilson envisioned after the First World War would be possible at the end of the present conflict?” This has been chosen as the Question of the Week. Here are the opinions:

Mac Jeffries, Sophomore: The peace plan of Woodrow Wilson was a noble undertaking, based on noble ideals. It might have worked had all the nations of the world co-operated. As it was, his own country, the United States, run by an isolationist bloc in the Senate, failed him in its support. One thing seems certain—the new peace, if and when it comes, must be so severe that Germany will never be able to lift a single finger again, or else it must place her on an absolute parity with her erstwhile enemies, with a provision enforced for preserving such a parity. The fault of 1919 was not in the plan, but in its enforcement. I think it can work again; evidently, Churchill and Roosevelt think so from the similarity of their “Eight Points” to Wilson’s “Fourteen Points.”

Monroe Bush, Jr., Senior: Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points were a noble gesture toward that “Federation of the World” which Tennyson spoke of; however, Mr. Wilson was playing the old game of walking the fence—this compromise was his undoing. Let me explain: These Points, idealistic as they may have seemed to the “typical” American, were not true idealism in a spiritual sense. Some failed to strike that all-important note of metaphysical genius which is necessary if large areas of the earth's hectic population are to be inspired. And on the other hand, they were not realistic enough to satisfy the historical politician who deals in terms of which he can see and write down in figures. In the faint hope, ever growing dimmer, that our present statesmen will sincerely attempt to remedy these two gross mistakes, my thought takes this course: Let the governments of man devise a treaty which embodies power in every profound sense of that word. In particular, I speak of an economic system in the light of that system's international efficiency. The Allies must, at all costs, draw up a treaty which will establish not a balance of power, in the historic sense, but rather a balance of interdependency on an economic plane. This could be perfectly done, though if it were, the cause of war would be removed.

Tom Bach, Sophomore: At the end of the last World War, my present recollections of it are a bit hazy; as I can recall, I had the idea of promoting peace by means of arbitration through a World Court. If representatives could be obtained from each of the major powers here on earth, and at the same time refrain from being brought out by the “black sheep” nations, I believe it would do more to alleviate trouble on earth than any other single idea. Not only do I think it could be done, but I hereby take this opportunity to pledge my services to the country in the furthering of this step towards permanent peace.

Jack Behrman, Junior: A peace plan with some of Woodrow Wilson's ideas must, I think, be necessary in order to minimize the harsh feelings that are bound to be present. His plan for a League of Nations might easily work if it had the whole-hearted co-operation of all the World Powers. His idea of protected freedom of the seas has already been agreed upon in the Roosevelt and Churchill Conference. If such a plan as Wilson's was to be put into effect, as Roosevelt and Churchill's eight points seem to point toward, it must be done with all good-will and whole-hearted support of the people in the countries to which it applies. I do think such a plan can work, but it must be done carefully and devoid of all feeling of animosity.

John E. W. Lane, Junior: No. I don’t think so because when and if this present conflict is over, we shall probably see such harsh peace terms imposed on the vanquished that all the great ideals of Woodrow Wilson will be just a fairy tale legend for future idealists to ponder.

John Clark, Senior: The “League of Nations” is undoubtedly one of the most brilliant masterpieces ever conceived on paper, but in practicality, there is some doubt. It embodies a democratic principle beyond a shadow of a doubt. Before deciding whether such a plan would be advisable, it is necessary to point out why the first plan failed and to remedy the flaws. In the first place, the League of Nations failed because of a lack of operation of all the World Powers.

Faculty and students joined together in the task of passing the library books. Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek for 53 years; George Lloyd, member of the faculty; and Dr. Cunningham, president of Davidson.

Freshmen To Work In Many Varied Fields
Medicine, Business, and Law Are Favorite Vocations

Today, Davidson men are found in important positions in all walks of life. The list of vocations in which our college graduates have won distinction would be large indeed. Each freshman enters school with certain aspirations as to what his life work will be, and, if he works hard and does not change his mind, the years to come will probably find him filling that position in the community of which he has long dreamed.

Members of the class of '45 plan to enter twenty-four different fields when they complete their college work. Although sixty-one men are undecided as to just what they will do, the remainder of the group have all formed definite opinions concerning their prospective vocations. Business and medicine lead all other vocations. Business aspirations will be followed by thirty-eight of the new men, while medicine will be studied by thirty-nine. Seventeen men propose to try their talent in the field of law. These first three professions have always been near the top of the list with college students. After finishing Davidson, fourteen of the class of ‘45 will study for the ministry. The fifth-ranking vocation, which claims twelve men, was found to be that of engineering.followed by seven men, while vocations pursued by members of the class of 45 are: Navy, physics, radio, teaching, textiles, welfare work, accounting, architecture, insurance, journalism, and laboratory technician. Aviation, music, and chemistry are also popular, with five planning to become dentists.

To begin with, the Congress of the United States failed to ratify the action of President Wilson. The Democratic party supported his action while the Republicans opposed America's adhesion to it. The treaty and covenant failed in the Senate, and this issue went to the people. The result was a Republican victory and a consequent relegation of the League issue to the background. Other nations only offered half-hearted support and rarely abided by its decisions. They thought if it had been a good thing, the United States would have supported it.

In the second place, such a peace plan must be based on Christian unity. Never, as long as man lives, will a League of Nations survive unless it functions under Christian ideals. In the estimation of leaders, such as Nazi Germany, it is essential that Christianity be in that league.

Completion Of Library

DAVIDSON’S “BOOK BRIGADE”

The occasion afforded a holiday and a lot of handing the books down the line to the new building. The new library was opened sooner than expected. 

Heralded As Success

Scabbard and Blade, military fraternity, opened its first meeting of the year by making plans for its fall tapping. Seniors who have shown themselves to be outstanding in the military department will be tapped at this time. Membership in Scabbard and Blade cannot exceed one-half the Cadet Corps. Major Wooten said, “Members to be tapped will be the cream of the crop.” They are picked on a basis of their record in the field, in the classroom, and on the campus. Careful consideration is also given to each prospective member in regard to his character and leadership qualities.

In addition to the planning of tap day, committees were named to serve for the year, and the program of meetings was arranged with Colonel Mackenzie. The next meeting will deal with the international situation.

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER Featuring a Meyer Davis Band—“Cy Dilman and His Orchestra” Nightly Except Sundays, During October and November.

Students and Faculty Co-operate To Move Books

Davidson's new Gray Memorial Library was formally opened Monday morning after more than a year of preparation. Under the guidance of Professor Chalmers Davidson, head of the library department, the books from the old library were moved to the new building and opened for use by students and faculty. 

Ceremonies for the opening began with the carrying of some of the most valuable books by the Library Committee, led by President Cunningham and Professor Davidson. The students who helped in the moving of the books assembled before Chambers and there received instructions from Professor Davidson and were led in prayer by President Cunningham. The method of moving the books from the old library to the new was borrowed from Yale University, which had successfully employed this systematic way. The process of moving 22,000 books by hand took more than six hours with two rest periods and time out for dinner. One rest period was taken in the morning and one in the afternoon. Cold drinks were served to the workers by the college at these times. Two lines of students and faculty were formed between the two buildings, and books were passed from hand to hand. The 25,000 books left in the old library took more than five days to move. Employed students and workers helped use the truck, music truck, and two other trucks borrowed from Mr. Hobart to complete the work. Professor Davidson stated that it would probably take another week to finish placing the books properly. He also disclosed that the Davidson Room, which will contain Davidson publications through the years and other interesting articles of the college, was not completed yet. The capacity of the new library building is 100,000 books, which leaves room for expansion.

With the help of nearly 700 Davidson students, the 50,000 books of the Carnegie library on the north side of the campus were moved to the new $150,000 library on the south side. It was hard work for the boys, who performed the job of moving the books.

Classes Will Soon Begin In New Building

The new science building, one of the latest additions to the campus, is nearing completion. The first floor and basement have already been finished and are being used by the Chemistry Department. Basement stock rooms have been fitted with new chemicals and apparatus for the department’s use. The second floor is soon to be completed, and the third floor is also nearly ready for use. The Chemistry Department has at its disposal the very newest of equipment, which is expected to aid very much in the efficiency of the unit. The latest in work benches have already been installed. Lack of equipment for the Biology Department has hindered that section from occupying on schedule. However, these are expected to arrive soon, and classes will be held in the new quarters within a few weeks.

A COMPLETE LINE OF THE BEST Everything For School Southern 5 & 10c Store DAVIDSON, N. C.

All New Patterns. PANTS 4.95 to 8.50 All Smart New Patterns for the Style Conscious College Man. SWEATERS 3.00 to 6.95 New Fall Sweaters in Visit Our New Students’ Center J. O. Jones, Inc.