Page Two The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915

Letter to The Editor

Tony Darby
Editor of The DAVIDSONIAN,
Davidson, N.C.

Dear Tony:

This is a “thank-you letter” to the student body which I hope you can find a corner for in the
DAVIDSONIAN. I will admit that the idea of a “book brigade” entailed its terrors as the books were obviously liable
to a beating when passing through three hundred energetic palms. There was also danger that a large percentage of the
students would fail to show up, or at least this danger would have been considerable anywhere but at Davidson. Without
almost the entire enrollment of the college, we could not have formed two lines from building to building and the
whole plan would have failed. Fortunately, all our fears were groundless. There was surprisingly little damage done to the books
and as I said in chapel, I do not believe any student body in the country would have shown a
larger percentage out for the job or a better spirit of co-operation. Even after the lines had been dismissed, over
twenty men volunteered for more work the same day.

It is encouraging to all of us who work in the library to know that the student body was sufficiently
interested to put the moving over in good order. It will be our highest professional ambition to convince those who
helped that they have a library that is worth the trouble it took to get into it.

Gratefully yours,
CHAEMER DAVIDSON,
Director of the Library.

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

STAFF
Associate Editor
Wobby Carter

Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher

Assistant Editor
Ball Lytmans

Sports Editor
Henry McIntosh

Movie Editor
Lacy Machean

Assistant Business Manager
Clarence Legerton

Advertising Manager
Calhoun Tipp

Circulation Manager
Hettr Yang

Collections Manager
Martin Buck

This paper is the official history of college life, and a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it
welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity,
or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is
to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

With The Staff
ARCH TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

The program of the Davidson College YMCA is one which is very broad in its scope, and since this is
so, there are certain departments included within the organization which might possibly call for some explanation further than that which
is afforded by the Wildcat Handbook.

IN SYMPATHY
The DAVIDSONIAN wishes to express deepest sympathy to Ed Murray in his bereavement due to the loss of his father.

HOW WILL WE SETTLE IT?
The work of the department of Deputations, it seems, has been and is generally misunderstood by a substantial portion of
the student body. Some have no conception whatsoever concerning the nature of this work while others have at best only
a hazy idea that those who are lucky enough to go on deputations travel to such glamorous places as Converse
or Winthrop, have a date, and incidentally make a short talk on some religious subject. The former class of students
show no interest at all in this department, and the latter class put in requests to be sent on the
next deputation to Greensboro or Winthrop, only to retire in disappointment when told that such “deals” are few and far
between.

The real work of the Deputations Department is done by those unsung heroes who sacrifice weekends of idle pleasure to
take part in programs at Mt. Mourne, or Shearer’s Chapel, or some other comparable place in the hinterland. These men
provide special music, or prepare and deliver talks on subjects ranging from “Keeping in the Groove” to “Missions in the
Belgian Congo.” The audience may be composed of beautiful young ladies in the bloom of youth or the Women’s Auxiliary.
Transportation may be provided and expenses paid, or the students may have to exercise the old thumb and dig into
their pockets. Nonetheless, it is a great and important opportunity for real Christian service.

Statistics are often dull, but always very revealing. Reports were not kept for the whole year's activity last year, but
from the partial records which we have on file we see that Davidson's “deputaters” traveled thirteen hundred miles to take
part in programs of one sort or another, and that doesn’t include returning to school, nor does it take into
account the numerous unreported trips. Sixty-nine individuals are reported to have taken part in this work; and twenty-two visits were
made to places from the close vicinity of the school. Charlotte churches were most frequently visited, with Belmont, Queens, and
Rock Hill tying for second place honors. The farthest any deputation traveled at one time was to Atlanta. The diversity
of subjects upon which students spoke, the opportunity for ministering in music, the variety of places visited, and the number
of available deputations indicates quite clearly that any student on the campus of Davidson College could very easily find some
sort of deputation work which would appeal to him and in which he could be of real active service. Drop
around the “Y” some time and look over the prospects.

Will we profit by the experience of the past twenty-five years? Can we see our mistakes in policy of signing
pacts without proper backing of enforcement? Will we have an alliance as was proposed by Wilson in 1918? Time will
tell.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Cinema

Thursday and Friday, Oct. 9, 10
DIVE BOMBER
Errol Flynn, Fred MacMurray, Ralph Bellamy, Alexis Smith, Robert Armstrong, Regis Toomey, and Allen Jenkins.

Although this is essentially another picture of America “getting ready,” Warners have added a new twist that makes this perennial
aviation story a very interesting and colorful saga of our air forces at work. Errol Flynn has the part of
a Flight Surgeon and Fred MacMurray plays the Flight Commander. A feud between them comprises the greater part of the
action, including perhaps the most beautiful aviation shots ever filmed, made more beautiful by Technicolor. Alexis Smith is a comer,
although her part is small. Ralph Bellamy and Regis Toomey round out an excellent supporting cast. Action for this production
is filmed at the San Diego Naval Base, under the permission of Uncle Sam. The feature is very timely and
informative and is one which will be enjoyed by all.

Saturday, October 11
FLYING CADETS
William Gargan, Edmund Lowe, Peggy Moran, Frank Albertson, and Frankie Thomas.

Basically this picture is very similar to “Dive Bomber,” in that it is mainly concerned with National Defense. However, this
production presents more of the story of the average man in our air forces, while “Dive Bomber” deals with the
feud between a Flight Surgeon and a Flight Commander. William Gargan turns in an outstanding performance, while Edmund Lowe has
the other male lead. Starlet Peggy Moran furnishes the romantic interests, with Frankie Thomas tending the comedy touch. This feature
will be presented Monday, and perhaps Tuesday.

The Fifth Columnist
By ???

With numerous guys and gals on the campus for the pigskin parade, dope was rather plentiful and on the tasty
side. And as usual, frequent rumors have been astir after such a fine weekend. However, some little details of the
early part of last week require specific attention so we'll let fly with a little of both news and history.

Seen dashing from the portals of old Georgia with coat, shirt, and tie streaming behind was Bob Carter, Phi Delta
Theta’s new Blond Blizzard who has the local Cadets.On Tuesday, Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in their latest picture, GREAT
GUNS, will be shown. No feature had been booked for Wednesday at press time. However, it will be a 3-star
attraction. Watch for it on the advance boards.

On Wednesday, October 15, Don Ameche, Oscar Levant, Jerome Cowan, and Mary Martin will star in GOODBYE, AUNT, with Jack
Benny, Edmund Gwenn, Laird Cregar, and Way Francis. Also, A YANK IN THE R.A.F., with Tyrone Power and Betty Grable,
John Sutton, and Reginald Gardiner.

In the Grooves
By JIMMIE MORGAN

To those who are expecting a mediocre program of music at the Homecoming Dances, the following is dedicated: Vince Courtney
and his Duke Ambassadors won the band contest sponsored by the University of North Carolina in another of its series
of swing contests. Three orchestras entered the contest, which was judged by John Hammond, an internationally known jazz critic and
an executive officer of Columbia Records. In an article in Metronome, a prominent music magazine, Mr. Hammond said of the
Courtney organization: “Vince Courtney’s band, which was the only completely undergraduate band of the day, was tops in every commercial
aspect, for the band had just enough showmanship, and Courtney was an excellent front man, with a good ballad voice.
It contained by far the best rhythm section of any of the three bands, the best brass, and reeds second
only to Johnson. The drummer, Harold Fletcher, was certainly the most solid collegian I have yet heard. He has already
received an offer from Bob Chester, I understand, but wisely has chosen to continue his college career. Because of the
band’s precision and obviously superior ensemble qualities, it had to receive first prize.” Draw your own conclusions.

One of the most exciting pressings to appear upon the jazz scene in quite a while is Gene Krupa’s version
of Hoagy Carmichael’s “Rockin’ Chair.” The excitement is provided by the sensational negro trumpeter, Roy Eldridge, who plays a solo
of unrestricted power and feeling. The reverse, “Tunin’ Up,” is just another jump tune. Billie Holiday, accompanied by Teddy Wilson's
fine small group, does an excellent job on two ballads, “Jim” and “Love Me or Leave Me.” Billie doesn’t get
any pretty flowers from Jim, but she gets orchids from this reviewer for effortless, relaxed vocals. Harry James’ orchestra shows
great versatility on four new sides: “A Sinner Kissed an Angel,” “You Made Me Love You,” “Don’t Take Your Love
from Me,” and “Duke’s Mixture.” The first three titles are highlighted by Dick Haymes’ vocal, Mr. James’ trumpet, and the
string quartet, respectively, while the last, of more jazz content, shows off good soloists. The best of Benny Goodman’s new
releases is “Anything,” a good tune arranged well by Eddie Sauter and played well by the Goodman. Benny’s clarinet and
Mel Powell's piano steal the show on this side. The reverse is another fine Sauter arrangement, “From One Love to
Another.” The tune itself, however, is weak. Also recommended this week are Glenn Miller's “I’m Thrilled,” Bob Chester’s “A New
Shade of Blue,” Count Basie’s “Diggin’ for Dex,” Charlie Spivak’s “To Your Heart’s Content,” and Claude Thornhill’s “Paradise.”

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Only $1.50 Per Year.

Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 13-14, IT STARTED WITH ADAM will be shown especially for the School Children. It may be
that Davidson students will be admitted also, but no official announcement had been made by press time.

Coming soon—KISS THE BOYS GOODBYE, with Jack Benny, Edmund Gwenn, Laird Cregar, and Mary Martin.

In the meantime, the local lassies are agog over the flight formations and maneuvers performed by the Flying “X,” the
latter meeting the Blizzard often at the Esso station. Oddity of the weekend was Mott Sauvain sitting on the porch
of the KA boarding house with Wilbo absent and Snake Sprunt likewise. However, Sprunt seems to have been dazzled by
something: He now has excused cuts due to a temporary impediment in vision. Glenn Terrell with his attractive UNC miss
seems well on the road. She was one of the most fervent Davidson supporters in the stands. Carleton Parsons and
his WC heartthrob are enjoying much the use of her car in their jaunts to and from the hub of
their deals, New Bern. Question of the week: Where’s your Phi Mu pin? Leave it to an alumnus to uncover
something new in the woo world. Paul Baumbarger is back after a hectic weekend with lipstick not on but under
his collar, front to rear. “It’s the latest in army maneuvers,” was Boom’s statement which came from heretofore reliable sources.
Dances coming up soon so the natural result is a stream of flusho-grams. First and the most unique excuse in
history belongs to Archie Taylor. His date, Nancy O’Neal, finds it impossible to attend because she has been chosen to
lead the Guernsey parade at a milk festival or cow convention, to be held in Booneville. Jim Mann, Rumple's right
barrel romeo of termite fame who wooed his way in and around the “Y” last year, has now begun extensive
operations in Charlotte. Watch out for Sawbuck, Jimmy! Telephone conversation heard recently: “Georgia.” “George? I don't know any George. Gimme
Ox.” We wonder why Miss Ann Wiley is so concerned over the new excise tax on fraternity jewelry. The mad
mauler from Maryland, “Buzzard” Council, has become the object of observation by our Psychology department.

In case you're wondering how Davidson rates at WC, the answer is tops. At the informal campus sing held last
Sunday night, there were more requests for “O Davidson” than any other song. Who is the guy that offered an
attractive WC coed the lead in his new Follies of College Coeds to begin on Broadway soon?

Ginzberg Thomas, the man of many women but not for long, made many locks during and after the Carolina game
only to have them picked at the appropriate time. Tom Bell seems serious about the whole thing. He's been seen
carrying records and other articles down Mebane way. Mack Brewer is having tough sledding in trying to sidetrack All-American Paul
Severin from his position in Vi Johnson's affection. Reeling dealing Jungle Jim Crook went to Richmond for another hand-holding session
with his one and only. He stopped by Spartanburg on the way and adopted a pooch in High Point. In
on the Dawn Patrol after a tour to Gaffney were Honey Dew and Pat Rudolph. Among other things, they report
a train breakdown in Gastonia. Jack “Jew” Clark is ruining convention by making a four-sided thing out of the Sprunt-LaMot-Wilbo
triangle. Any similarity to persons living or dead is purely coincidental. S'long 'til the same time next week.

Fraternities are probably burning their collective sawdust at this moment in an attempt to solve one of their major autumnal
problems: “What are we going to slap on the front of our lodge for Homecoming?” To those freshmen who are
not familiar with the traditions of the Davidson Homecoming celebration, let me say a few words concerning this first major
social occasion. At this time, the national defense or military theme, which is used quite often these days, made the
Kappa Sigma house look like an arsenal. The Phi Delts punned on their name and erected a “Phi Delta Theater.”
All in all, feminine voices summed up the entire affair in their inimitable “It’s the cutest thing I’ve ever saw!”
All morning, when the decorations are usually still intact, hundreds of alumni are urged to come back and meet their
old classmates, go to a luncheon, listen to a concert, see a football game, and maybe (this usually applies to
the younger set) go to a couple of dances. Davidson’s nine social fraternities, to do their bit, spend a maximum
of ten dollars for crepe paper, wooden frame, and paint plus several thousand dollars worth of thought and effort, and
attempt, in their small way, to emphasize their welcome to returning alumni and their vengeance to the visiting football team.

The decorations themselves usually center around a principal theme or idea which is couched in some smoke-filled, joke-filled, dormitory room
after several hours of concentrated bulling, or possibly in a crowded tavern on some sloppy, limber Saturday night. Maybe it
was suggested by a helpful waitress or busboy, or by an advertising man in Charlotte. Some of the themes of
last year’s decorations which will give you an idea of the scope were: the prize-winning Beta Theta Pi exhibit which
centered around “My Old Kentucky Home.” Davidson played Centre College of Danville, Kentucky that day. Replete with mint juleps on
the veranda and cotton fields, the Betas did themselves proud. Sigma Alpha Epsilon had a large replica of the famous
Davidson water tank mounted on their roof with an optimistic football score painted thereon. There were several Monte Carlo gambling
devices which tended to show that Davidson would win by large odds.

This year, thanks to the inaugural program, the judging by the smiling members of the faculty will be delayed until
after lunch. Previously, the judging has begun at ten o'clock in the morning and has caused the decorations committee or,
in some cases, the entire chapter, to arise at some ungodly hour on a morning when they could have slept,
to throw up their fragile brainchildren. Who knows what this year’s Homecoming Decorations will hold for the interested student body
and faculty? What bright ideas are couched in the aesthetic minds of the new crop of committee chairmen? All we
can do is to wait patiently until about Friday afternoon, October 17th, when we will witness the opening stages of
construction. Sunday morning, October 19th, the Fraternity Court will be a maze of dirty, littered crepe, undecorated wooden frames, and
tired faces.
