PORTS LANTS Wildcat Sports

LUCAS and EDMUNDSON, Cat Battery, Who Open Fire Against N. C. State This Afternoon

LACY MacLEAN

Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tennis team elections for the 1942 season which were run Monday afternoon gave the position of net captain to Long
John Crichton, a rising senior from Minden, La. Gus McLean was awarded the position of varsity manager.

SEASON STATISTICS

With the season over and the netmen’s final statistics tabulated, Moose Sain occupies the post of highest honor with a
.600 percentage of wins for the season. Sain, playing in the number five position, won nine matches and lost six.
Second highest average belonged to Captain Dick Shore, who, including the Conference tournament results, won 10 and lost 8 for
a .533 percentage. Parrigin broke even with six and six, Sproull had .453, Crichton .400, and Schmidt .385. In the
doubles standings, Shore and Sproull were way ahead with 10 wins for thirteen matches, while Sain and Schmidt had 7
wins and 2 losses.

Shore won 25 sets and lost 19 during the season. Sproull broke even, winning 19 and losing 19. Sain, winning
13 and dropping 16, and Sproull were worse while the other three were all in the red. In doubles, Shore
and his partner won 26 while losing 16, and Sproull was instrumental in winning 20 and losing 11. The sum
total of the season—the wins and losses found the Cats on the short end of a 9-9 count in the
Southern Conference.

Shore won his first tournament match from Levin of State in love sets, took the second match from Robinson of
North Carolina in three sets, and missed the quarter-finals by one round, losing to Burham of Maryland after taking the
first set of the match. Sproull won one two-set match before going down before Wadden of Carolina, 6-1, 6-0. In
doubles, they teamed well to win their quarter-finals match 6-3, 2-6, 6-2, after defeating a Citadel couple in the first
round. In the semi-finals, they bowed to Everet and Anthony, No. 1 team at Carolina, and ended their tournament career.

CINDER NEWS

Chase Brenizer had a smile on his face after his last jump against Furman in the broad jump pit, and
well he might, for when Official Spearman read the tape, he called for a check, but everything was right—the leap
was 23’ 6½”. It was a new Davidson record by 6” and it broke one set ten years back. Brenizer
leaves today for the Conference track meet in Williamsburg, but chances for a record-breaking jump there seem unlikely. The loop
record, set in 1925 before the present Southern Conference was formed, is held by Georgia Tech at something over 25
feet. However, chances for a first in the event seem possible. Luck to you, Chase.

Along with Brenizer will be Arch Taylor, Gene Shannon, and Hugh Sprunt. In the little space which is left, we
can extend congratulations to the recent electees of the track squad for the 1942 season. Williamson, a letterman for two
years, is slated to captain the team, and Ed Scott and Carlton Parsons will manage what should be a successful
cinder season.

Generals Lick New Cat Net Team 6-3

Varsity netmen were handed a 6-3 defeat by a fine team from Washington and Lee here last week. The Generals
are coached by the world-famous Fred Perry, who accompanied his team to the Davidson campus and saw them perform expertly.

SHORE WINS

Dick Shore was the only Wildcat who was able to capture his singles match. He beat Pinck 1-6, 12-10, 6-0.
Miller Sproull and Craig Schmidt carried their matches to three sets each. “Moose” Sain and Lyman Parrigin lost in straight
sets to W. and L. netmen while John Crichton got one set out of three.

SPLIT DOUBLES

In the doubles, Shore and Sproull of the Wildcat team won over Mallory and Spindale of the Generals. Sain and
Schmidt defeated Pinck and Taggart to account for the third Wildcat tally. Harrelson and Barrier of W and L licked
Parrigin and Crichton.

BLANTON WILLIAMSON

Williamson To Captain Cindermen

On Monday afternoon at a meeting of the track squad, Blanton Williamson barely nosed out Arch Taylor in the election
of Varsity track Captain for next year. At the same meeting, Ed Scott was elected Varsity Manager and Carlton Parsons
Freshman Manager.

SUCCEEDS WHITE

Williamson will take over the position of Jack White, who has successfully led the Wildcats this season. Ed Scott and
Carlton Parsons will succeed Ed Shewmake and T. P. Johnston. Five men will make the trip to Williamsburg, Va., this
week to take part in the Southern Conference Meet. These men, who will carry the colors for Davidson, are Sprunt,
Williamson, Brenizer, G. Shannon, and Taylor.

LETTERMEN

Lettermen for this year’s Varsity team include the following: Don Bell, Chase Brenizer, Glenn Terrell, Gene Shannon, John Belk, Rufus
Nimmons, Jack White, Bill Loy, Erskine Parks, Dick Coppedge, John Grier, and Ed Shewmake, Manager.

Varsity, Kits Win Matches

The varsity golf team won out in a hard-fought match with Catawba College in Salisbury on Monday of last week.

SHARPE LOW

Granville Sharpe was low for the ‘Cats with a 74, but lost two points to Rendleman of Catawba, who had
a par 72. Winning points for Davidson were Sharpe (1), Abels (1), Sharpe-Abels (1), MacReynolds (1½), Rogers (3), and MacReynolds-Rogers
(2%).

The Davidson golfers journeyed to Hot Springs, Virginia, Saturday, where they placed fourth in the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament, with a
team score of 678. Sharpe again paced the Cats with a 36-hole score of 167.

FROSH WIN ONE

The freshman golf team won one match and lost one in the last week. The Kittens beat High Point High
School, 11½ to 6½, on Tuesday, but lost to Augusta.

Wildkits Beat Troy Batters

The Frosh nine defeated the Troy Hi team here on Wednesday of last week by a score of 7 to
3. Neisler and Tew were on the mound for theWildkittens. Red Burke and Mack

SENIORS—CONGRATULATIONS! AND BEST WISHES

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

J.O. JONES, INC.

If You Like Light Weight Clothes—Don’t Fail to See Our Botany Cloth Airmore Suit $22.50

J.O. JONES, INC.

Bruce led the Kit hitting with two safeties apiece. Up until the ninth inning the score was tied at 3-to-3.
Jeffcoat, right-hander for the high-schoolers, filled the bases and Bruce slammed a long homer bringing in the last four runs
to finish up the game. Kearns starred for Troy. Jeffcoat stayed on the mound and Lawn was behind the bat.
Bethea caught for the Freshmen. The Kits closed the season against Greensboro Tuesday.

Thursday, May 15, 1941

Sets New Record

Pictured above is Chase Brenizer showing to Ann Rutledge and Betty Whitaker of Camden, S.C., the 23 foot, 6¼ inch
broad jump, which established a new school record.

Pikas, Fijis, Continue In Their Victory March

As fraternity softball is nearing an end, the Pikas and Phi Gams are sharing the lead with six wins and
one loss. The K. A.'s come next with three wins and four losses. Tied for seventh and eighth places are
the K. Sigs and Betas. In the ninth position are the Pi Kapps with one win and five losses.

In the games played thus far this week, the Pikas trounced the Phi Delts 16 to 6, and the Fijis
stomped the K. A.'s to the tune of 26-4.

Varsity Track Team Overwhelms Furman; Brenizer Sets Mark

’Cats Blanked On Va. Jaunt

Wednesday afternoon, May 7, the varsity baseball squad left to play a three-game schedule in Virginia. The first game was
with Virginia Military Institute, the next against Washington and Lee, and the last with the Tigers of Hampden-Sydney. Rutherford Spessard,
starting his first game of the season for the Virginia Cadets, limited the Davidson College baseball team to three little
singles and the Cadets went on to blank the Cats 11-0. Carter, lanky first baseman for the Cats, obtained two
of their three hits. Cartlett was the leading hitter for the Cadets, getting a sharp single, a smashing double, and
a home run.

After the team had spent the night at V.M.I., they journeyed over to the Washington and Lee park to encounter
the supposedly strong General attack. John Ligon, finding the Cats to his liking, struck out sixteen men and yielded only
two hits, while his teammates were pounding Morris and McLeod for a total of five hits and six runs. Morris,
starting off a bit shaky, was relieved by McLeod at the beginning of the fourth. The imperturbable McLeod gave up
only one hit for his five innings of twirling.

Being very much discouraged over their journey thus far, Coach Shephard pitted his lanky ace pitcher, Lucas, to face the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers. Lucas and Wood, Tiger pitcher, playing before an estimated crowd of a thousand people, hooked up in a
neat pitcher’s duel with Wood finally emerging the victor. Lucas pitched good ball but lacked the support of his teammates
and the Cats were defeated 4-1. Shelton, keystone sacker for the Tigers, led the batting attack with three singles for
four trips.

Davidson’s baseball team will meet the Red Raiders from North Carolina State today and tomorrow afternoons at the Richardson Field.
The time is 3:30.

PHI DELTS NEXT.

Following these two leaders are the Phi Delts. They have won four and lost two. By virtue of their win
over the Pi Kapps, the S.A.E.'s are in fourth place with four wins and three losses. Maintaining a .500 average
are the S.P.E.'s with three wins and three losses. They gained this average by defeating the Betas 13 to 4
this week.

For Fraternity DATE BOOKS See HERALD PRESS Incorporated 225 S. Church St. Charlotte, N.C.

Drink Coca-Cola Delicious and Refreshing YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY

When it's ‘Intermission’ You feel refreshed after an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. It’s the complete answer to thirst and Coca-Cola
has the taste that always charms. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with
ice-cold Coca-Cola.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE

BROAD JUMP RECORD SET BY BRENIZER AS CATS DEFEAT VISITORS 92-39.

Davidson’s varsity track team closed out their season by overwhelming the visiting Furman team last Saturday on Richardson Field. The
Wildcats scored ten first places and swept four of the events to sink the Furman tracksters 92-39.

BRENIZER SETS RECORD.

Chase Brenizer, senior field event star for the Cats, broke the Davidson track record in the broad jump with a
leap of 23 feet, 6¼ inches. Brenizer was also high point man of the event gathering 14 points in his
four events. He placed first in the high and broad jumps, second in the discus, and third in the javelin
throw. Sprunt, Williamson, White, and Shannon scored eight points apiece to make a four-way tie for second high man. Sprunt
placed first and second in the 220 and 100 yard dashes, respectively. Williamson took first in the high hurdles and
second in the lows. Shannon got his eight points by taking first in the pole vault and second in the
broad jump. Captain White won the 440 yard run and came second in the 220-yard dash.

OTHER POINTS.

Other point winners for the Wildcats were Taylor 5, Terrell 5, Belk 3, Nimmons 3, Talmadge 3, Dick 3, Parks,
Nickels and Coppedge 3 1-3, Loy 3, McDaniels 1, Grier 1, Vanlandingham 1, and Bell 1. The relay event was
won by Davidson on a forfeit.

STYLE.

VARSITY-TOWN SETS IT

DRAPES IN SUMMER CLOTHES

Until Varsity-Town created “Thin Trims” no one, except with wishful thinking, hoped for “drape” styling in hot weather clothes. But
here it is!... “Thin Trim Drapes”... the ways and means to summer ease and casualness, to summer smartness, to summer
comfort. Keep your style... and keep cool in VARSITY-TOWN “THIN TRIMS.” $27.50

Young Men’s Shop 3rd Floor
