R.O.T.C. Awards Monday

ORTA Che Mabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

Inter-Fraternity Sing Tonight

Number 27 Volume XXVIII. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1941

Awards To Be Given Battalion On Monday

Company C and First Platoon of Company A to Be Honored.

FOUR TO GET MEDALS

Two New Awards to Be Given Best Cadets In Battalion.

Final parade of the year for the cadet battalion at Davidson will be held at 3:05 p.m. on Monday, May
19. At this time the presentation of cups will be made to the winning company and platoon, which were decided
in the competition held recently.

YOUNGBLOOD AND BOLIN.

Winner of the company competition, Company C, commanded by Cadet Captain V. H. Youngblood, will receive the cup awarded for
that event. The platoon competition was won by the platoon in Company A, commanded by Cadet First Lieutenant W. J.
Bolin, who will receive the cup.

Medals given by the Charlotte Chapter of the Reserve Officers Association will be presented to the outstanding Senior and Junior
cadet. Two new medals will be presented by the Davidson R.O.T.C. Department to the most efficient Sophomore and Freshman cadet.
The winners of the four medals mentioned above have not been announced and will be made public for the first
time Monday afternoon.

MILLIKEN.

The medal for the best drilled Freshman, given each year by the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, will be
presented to Cadet T. T. Milliken.

Following the awarding of the cups and medals mentioned above, the Seniors will receive their commissions and certificates and will
review the Battalion as it passes in review before them in their honor. The public and members of the student
body are cordially invited to attend the review.

Rehearsal Of Play Is Begun

Daily rehearsals have now begun for the spring production of the Red and Black Masquers, “The Girl in the Goldfish
Bowl.” The play will be presented in Chambers auditorium in about two weeks, although the definite date has not been
chosen. To be produced entirely by the students, “The Girl in the Goldfish Bowl” was written by Dan Hodges of
the rising senior class.

According to Hodges, love is bad enough as it is, but when two roommates fall in love with the same
girl, there’s bound to be trouble. Then when both boys invite this girl down for the same dance set, there’s
bound to be more trouble. One of the fellows is right much of a stud, the other a gadabout. The
question is, which boy will the girl choose for the dances? Will brains or brawn win out? But this complication
is only the first of a series which tangles everything up in “The Girl in the Goldfish Bowl.” To complicate
matters even more, another girl enters the picture, a co-ed—blond, beautiful, and out for what she can get. She is
the only co-ed in Solomon college, and when she gets on the scene, it’s like throwing firecrackers in a gasoline
tank. Somebody’s going to blow up!

Betty Kerr will play the role of the bewitching co-ed who realizes that if a girl is ever going to
get any place, she has to work fast. Bill Lyman will take the part of Tom, wise-cracking potential Phi Bete,
who wishes he had never fallen in love with the other girl in the first place, while Bill Loy will
have the role of Mark, fun-loving, girl-loving, roommate of Tom’s, who is going to have down the hometown girl, or
else. To add even more zest to the situation, there is Jesse Wooten as Ralph who finds out that a
friend by correspondence can sometimes turn out to be an awful heel; Ed (Continued on Page Six)

Opera Singer Interviewed By Reporter

Norman Cordon Has An Engaging Personality.

BY HOWELL MORROW.

We took our post back stage in Chambers Auditorium and, with certain feelings of timidity and apprehension at the thought
of meeting such a famous person, awaited the arrival of the great opera singer, Norman Cordon. Mr. Cordon arrived at
Davidson rather late, and our interview was postponed until after the concert.

The singer presented a program of beautiful selections ably rendered, and was received with enthusiasm by a large crowd of
admirers. At the risk of being trampled by the army of autograph seekers, we made our perilous way back stage
where Mr. Cordon greeted us with a hearty handshake and a winning smile.

“I’m rather unaccustomed to the task of interviewing great opera singers,” I began hesitatingly.

“You still have not had the opportunity of meeting a great singer,” was the modest reply.

Amid the noise of the pressing crowd and the glare of flashing cameras, we continued our interview.

“What is your impression of Davidson?” we inquired.

“I’ve always loved Davidson,” he said, “but in spite of this, we have to roll you in the mud on
the football field sometimes.”

“And on whose football team were you the fullback?” we asked. We thought of a football player when we first
looked at Mr. Cordon’s towering height and broad shoulders.

“Oh, you don’t understand; I’ve acquired this football player’s build only in recent years. Why, they wouldn’t even let me
carry the water bucket at Chapel Hill.”

“So you attended the University,” I remarked.

“Yes, and later went to Winston-Salem where I studied voice at Salem College,” he said. (Continued on Page Six)

Faculty Joins In “Field Day”

Each spring when the sun has chased the winter chill from the air, members of the senior class meet their
professors in an all-day gathering when both sets forsake the classes and spend the afternoon in many different sorts of
sports. This year they have agreed upon May 22 as the day for this event.

The afternoon will be devoted to competitive sports arranged by Pete Whittle and Holt Barnwell. They are making arrangements for
games in golf, badminton, bowling, horseshoes, table tennis, and softball. Each year the students look forward to the softball game.
Ed Maxwell has arranged for a barbecue on the golf course for seniors and faculty after the sports program.

Cohn Lecture Surveys Past

David L. Cohn gave a lecture in Chambers Auditorium Wednesday, May 7, at 3:15 p.m. Mr. Cohn chose as his
topic, “The Good Old Days.” The lecture was a resume of his book with the same title. In the book
Mr. Cohn tried to show how the changing attitudes and desires of the country could be determined by looking through
Sears and Roebuck catalogues. These catalogues contain only what people want to buy and therefore are a good indication of
what people thought about in those days. He used to be connected with Sears and Roebuck and therefore is familiar
with the catalogue.

Sing Leaders

Pictured above are the men in charge of Davidson’s second annual fraternity sing to be held tonight on the steps
of Chambers building. Reading from left to right, they are: Jack Phillips, Student organizer of the program; Shaw Smith, master
of ceremonies for the occasion; and Mr. James C. Pfohl, director of music at Davidson. (Picture courtesy of The Charlotte
Observer by Earle Stutts).

Art Exhibition Opens Monday

Davidson's annual Spring Art Exhibition will be held for one week beginning next Monday, May 19th, on the lower floor
of the Eumenean Literary Hall, according to Gordon Horton, director for the event.

This spring the art exhibit will feature the work of several new campus artists, as well as some established Davidson
men who have formerly won awards. Judges selected from the faculty include Profs. Davidson, Foreman, Harding, and Lilly, as well
as Mrs. J. R. Cunningham, wife of the president. The voting by popular majority will determine the student’s award, a
prize offered besides the judges’ choice. Work presented will be by Crane, Vinson, Horton, Northcross, Hodges, Robinson, and Jackson. Hope
was expressed that the interest shown up to this time will continue to further art projects at Davidson, and lead
the way to exhibits even more successful and noteworthy in the future.

Sigma Upsilon Plans Dinner

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, initiated twelve new members at a meeting at the home of Dr. Frazer Hood
on Tuesday night, May 13.

Bill Lyman read an initiatory paper on Woodrow Wilson’s days at Davidson. The new members are: Shaw Smith, Ed Taylor,
Tony Darby, Julien McCall, W. C. Plunkett, Dick Cobb, Monroe Bush, Ed Erwin, Lacy McLean, Myron Sandifer, Bill Lyman, and
John Northcross.

At their meeting on Tuesday, May 6, Myron Sandifer was elected treasurer, and Ed Taylor was named steward of the
fraternity. The program for the evening included reading of short stories by Casey Jones, Arch Taylor, and Joe Liles. One
more meeting is planned for this year, which will be in the form of a formal dinner with a guest
speaker. The committee in charge has planned to invite Marian Sims of Charlotte to be the speaker for this occasion.

R.O.T.C. INSPECTION

Thursday and Friday of last week marked the annual inspection of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit. The inspecting officer was Lieutenant
Colonel Gilbert S. Brownell of the Georgia Tech Military Department. Colonel Brownell met the first-year basic course students and second-year
advanced course students Thursday afternoon. Friday morning, Colonel Brownell met the second-year basic course students and the first-year advanced course
students. At 2:15 p.m. Thursday the battalion marched on Richardson field. First in the order of inspection was physical drill
by the different companies. This was followed by a review of the unit, and a demonstration of close order and
extended order drills by the whole battalion. Company A demonstrated a practical military problem. The rating has not yet been
announced. Colonel G. T. Mackenzie, P.M.S. and T. of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Department inspected the unit.T. C. unit at Wafford,
S.C., on Monday and Tuesday, May 12th and 13th.

Sprunt Edits Bill

Sprunt of Winston-Salem, N.C., has recently been chosen to edit the “Y” Handbook for next year. Sprunt, a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has had two years of experience working on the Davidsonian, contributing editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks
and junior editor of the Annual. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. A business manager of
the Handbook has yet to be chosen. Working with the editor, he will mail copies of the handbook to men
registering as freshmen for next year. Business and editorial staffs will be selected by the editor and business manager soon.
Sprunt succeeds Lawson Whithers as Editor-in-Chief of this “pocket book” publication. Work on sections entitled The College, The Freshmen, Y.M.C.A.,
Student Government Activities, Fraternities, and Songs and Yells will be started immediately.

Bill Shaw And Davis Thomas Elected Stud Store Managers

Davis Thomas

One of the illustrations Mr. Cohn gave was in regard to musical instruments. Fifty years ago there were about fifty
pages devoted to the advertisement of musical instruments. In those days everyone felt to some extent responsible for entertaining the
crowd when it gathered together. This accounts for the great interest in musical instruments. Ten years later there were only
four pages devoted to instruments. People no longer felt that they must entertain by what in-

[Continued on Page Six]

dent places Dick Arnold in the purchasing store

Present Managers Urge That All Bills Be Paid As Soon As Possible.

On May 7, the Student Store Control Board elected Davis Thomas and Bill Shaw to be Student Store managers for
1941-42. Thomas succeeds Parrish as finance manager, and Shaw replaces Dick Arnold in the purchasing post. Thomas and Shaw worked
through their junior year as student clerks, when the managers for the following year are elected. Candidates for the two
managerships this year were: Gene Shannon, Paul Kisling, Davis Bell, Ed Faison, Dave Spencer, Bill Thomas, Bill Shaw, and Jim
Owens. Owens and Darby were elected to other campus offices and thus were made ineligible for the posts.

Davis Thomas, who hails from Tampa, Florida, is a member of Pi Gamma Mu and the International Relations Council. During
his freshman year he was on the honor roll and a member of the tennis team. During the past year
he was Sports Manager of his fraternity, Kappa Alpha. In addition to his other extracurricular activities, Thomas holds an assistantship
in Economics.

Bill Shaw has been active in athletics, winning his numerals in football and track his freshman year. This year he
held down the tackle slot on the varsity eleven. He is also a member of the “D” Club, a member
of Beta Theta Pi Social fraternity, and comes from Fayetteville, N.C.

Five men compose the Student Store Board of Control, including one representative of the student council, Hank Bahnson; one representative
of the Athletic Association, Jim Hogg; a Student Store representative, Hewes Parrish; Mr. McGill, school auditor; and Mr. Jackson, school
treasurer.

[Continued on Page Six]

Second Sing Will Be Held By Fraternities

Frats Choose Officers From Rising Seniors

For the past several weeks the fraternities on Davidson campus have been holding elections of next year’s presidents. The Kappa
Sigma Fraternity has not held its election but they are planning on doing so sometime soon.

The Phi Delta Theta Fraternity elected Jim Owens of Palm Beach to be president for next year. In the recent
Student Body elections, he was made president of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. He will succeed Andy Dale. Ralph Williams of Chattanooga,
Tenn., will assume the office of president of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity from Jay Bolin. Al Winn, new president
of the Student Body, was elected to the head of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. He will replace Holt Barnwell.
Elected to the presidency of Pi Kappa Alpha was Ed Scott, who will receive the office from Jack Abels. Sidney
Daffin will replace Ed Watson as the president of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity. Charlie Watt of Thomasville, Ga., will
succeed John King as president of Kappa Alpha. Charlie Watt was also elected by the Student Body to the office
of Freshman Advisor for the forthcoming year. The Pi Kappa Phi's elected Geddy Herring of Roseboro, N.C., president, who will
succeed Paul Bumbarger and Louis Hite. John Crichton of Minden, La., will head Sigma Alpha Epsilon for the forthcoming year.
He was also elected business manager of The Davidsonian.

Roy A. Palmer Talks May 20

Roy A. Palmer, internationally recognized illuminating engineer and merchandising manager of the Duke Power Company of Charlotte, will present a
lecture entitled “Light” in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, May 20th, at eight o'clock. Mr. Palmer is brought to Davidson
under the auspices of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics society, of which the Alpha Chapter is at Davidson. The
lecture will deal with general illumination principles and specifically with the more recent developments in the field of illumination. A
large part of the lecture will be devoted to actual demonstration of various types of lighting equipment. Mr. Palmer will
demonstrate a colorscope of his own invention which is used to throw a constantly changing decorative color pattern upon the
interior walls of public buildings. Also, a newly developed synthetic fabric will be displayed, which under light presents constantly changing
patterns in ladies’ dresses and in men’s socks and ties into which it is woven. A glimpse will be had
into the lighting we may expect to see in the future. The lecture will be non-technical in content and of
great interest to the average student. A similar lecture presented by Mr. Palmer several years ago at Davidson was enthusiastically
received by a large audience. Students, faculty, and friends of the College are cordially invited to attend.

NOTICE

This week’s Davidsonian is the final issue for the year, due to a fallacy in the contract with the printers.
The contract required twenty-seven issues to be printed and a check-up revealed that this week’s issue IS the twenty-seventh. The
news comes as a special announcement from Jack Covington, business manager. The managing editors will meet this week to decide
on the sophomores to be on the Davidsonian staff for next year. These will be announced soon.

Because of the enthusiasm with which it was received last year, Davidson’s second annual Inter-Fraternity Sing will be held tonight
at eight o'clock on the steps of Chambers Building.

SHAW SMITH

The Master of Ceremonies for this program, which is becoming traditional, will be Shaw Smith, Davidson’s Y.M.C.A. Secretary. Mr. James
C. Pfohl, Director of Music, will have charge of the program, and Jack Phillips of the junior class is Student
Organizer. The entire program will consist of songs from the nine social fraternities of Davidson. These fraternities will draw lots
for positions on the program, and will be judged on originality, ability to sing, arrangement of songs, direction, and tone.

RULES ANNOUNCED

To enter the competition, the contestants must adhere to these rules: (1) Ten minutes will be allowed each fraternity from
the beginning of the first song. (2) Each may enter a quartet but no contesting group may be represented entirely
by four men. (3) Three-fourths of the fraternity must be in one number at least. There will be three trophies
presented by the judges. One silver loving cup goes to the director who best fulfills his task. The group which
performs best on all its numbers will receive a cup, and to the fraternity which gives the best rendition of
“Davidson, our Alma Mater,” will go the new trophy donated by Fred Waring, the composer of this college song.

The directors of the song groups are as follows: Pi Kappa Phi, John Knox Robinson; Phi Delta Theta, Gus McKean;
Beta Theta Pi, Joe Barnwell; Phi Gamma Delta, Charlie Martin; Kappa Sigma, Jim Crook; Pi Kappa Alpha, Jim McDonald; Kappa
Alpha, Fred Speas; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Claude Hackney; Sigma Phi Epsilon, Doug Homer. The judges will be Mr. Srock of
Charlotte, Mrs. Rohr of Kannapolis, and Mr. Franklin Riker of Statesville. At the close of the program, one of these
three will present the trophies. In case of rain, the Inter-Fraternity Sing will be held inside Chambers Building.

H. B. Arbuckle Resigns Y Post

Dr. Howard Bell Arbuckle, retired professor at Davidson, resigned Monday as Chairman of the Y. Board of Control. He was
immediately elected Chairman Emeritus of the board. Since Dr. Arbuckle came here in 1913, he has been especially active in
the work of the Y. During his first year, he was chosen by the students as an advisor of the
Y. Soon after this, the students elected him Chairman of the Board of Control, an office he has held ever
since. During the World War, Dr. Moore came to Davidson to guide the students’ spiritual life. At this time, Dr.
Arbuckle saw that what the Y needed was a man like Dr. Moore to act as secretary. Acting on his
own initiative, he brought Rev. R. W. Miles to Davidson in 1918 to become the first secretary. This organization has
continued until the present day. Since the first secretary was installed at Davidson, Dr. Arbuckle has been the guiding light
in their selection. It is through his influence that such worthy secretaries as Carl Pritchett and Shaw Smith have been
chosen. As we look over his past work, it is with regret that we see Dr. Arbuckle resign his post.
