Thursday, September 25, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Question of The Week

Since the new library has been under construction, much question has been raised as to what will be done with
the old library building. Now that the new building is nearly ready for occupancy, this question becomes particularly timely. So
the rambling reporter for the Question of the Week asked representative members of the student body the following question: What
do you think should be done with the old library building? Below are their answers.

Myron Sandifer, Junior: The Y. M. C. A. has hopes of an energetic expansion into new fields this year. I
believe that it could profitably use the extra space provided by a move into the old library.

Julien McCall, Senior: I think that the old library building should be used as a combination “Y” game and recreation
room, and a social center—mainly for the use of non-fraternity men on dance weekends—and on other occasions. The non-fraternity men
have been at a great disadvantage as far as social life has been concerned, and I hope that the old
library can be used to their best advantage.

Ren Lacy, Junior: It seems to me the only thing to do with the old library is to turn it
over to the Y. M. C. A. If they do this, I hope they do a little planning and spending
so they can redecorate the building entirely and make it a credit to the school. The present location of the
student store seems logical, and I would not like to see it moved. Whatever they do, I hope they go
the whole way and don't do a half-hearted job.

Jim Chapman, Junior: Since the school does not have adequate space for its present enrollment, why not convert the old
library into a dormitory? This would enable Mrs. Smith to bring the boys in from town.

Bill Harrill, Sophomore: As everyone has probably noticed, the present Y. M. C. A. building is not large enough to
accommodate the needs of our student body. I think it would be a splendid idea to make the “old” library
the “new” Y. M. C. A. room for the recreational facilities of the “Y” and there would be a fine
place to take visitors and guests of the college. There would be ample space provided by the old library.

Dick Port, Sophomore: Probably the school’s most glaring present need (aside from a gym) is increased Y. M. C. A.
facilities. With larger and more complete accommodation would come a subsequent rise in interest in the program being carried by
the “Y.” The added space would permit more recreational equipment, thus bringing a larger number of boys in actual contact
with the work of the “Y.” This would tend to develop an active rather than a passive interest on the
part of many who perhaps have not had an opportunity to see the “Y” at close hand.

Dan Hodges, Senior: To me, the old library should be turned into a large and attractive social center. Davidson needs
a recreation hall where students can entertain guests, and where they have ample facilities for indoor recreation. Some of the
upstairs rooms might be converted into offices for the Davidsonian, Scripts and Pranks, and Quips and Cranks. These publications are
in dire need of adequate editorial and managerial staff facilities.

Joe Sevier Eve, Junior: In my mind, the best thing that could be done to the present library is to
have it razed completely. The Davidson campus has too many old buildings of an unattractive architecture already. This architecture is
Victorian and grotesque, and can never attain a permanent beauty. Chambers will always be beautiful because of the eternity of
its style of architecture.

Deane Watson, Sophomore: I believe that the old library would make an excellent place in which to study. Its rooms
could be converted to large and small study rooms and one could be assured of peace and quiet there at
all times. This is a vital need to Davidson College students. One would have none of the ordinary disturbances such
as water fights, yelling between buildings, loud radios, bull sessions, etc.

Subscribe to The DAVIDSONIAN—$1.50 per year. Send a copy home—Send a copy to your best girl. Address Subscription to JOHN
CRICHTON, Davidson, N. C.

Four Comely Co-eds Grace Local Campus

Misses Linker, Lassiter, Kerr, Morrison Give Interview To Reporter

By JOHN FAIRLEY

If you should meet a girl walking across the Davidson campus, don't silently pass her, wondering who she is and
what in the world she is doing on a man's grounds; for it is one of Davidson's four co-eds, and
that’s exactly what they don't want you to do. As one of the girls put it, “The Davidson custom is
to speak to everyone you pass on the campus, but a lot of boys walk by us without even nodding.”
Unbelievable, but true.

Who are these coeds? Upperclassmen recognize Isabel Linker, Carolyn Lassiter, and Betty Kerr gracing the walks and classrooms again, while
Lucy Morrison is an important part of the class of ‘45.

Masculine Preferences

What do they think about the Davidson boys? Their smiles and glances at each other indicated that this was a
question at which they would like to keep the lads guessing. While neatly dodging the issue with “The campus is
really beautiful,” they seemed anxious to get across the idea that they all thought “different things” about the men on
the hill. However, they finally admitted that the town was much more interesting in the winter than in the summer,
but they don't consider Davidsonians superior to men from other schools as a whole.

Blondes and brunettes find equal favor in the eyes of Davidson's fairer 1-170th, but the man who has curly hair
and dark eyes seems to get the nod. They all prefer a tall man, at least six feet, with broad
shoulders which taper down, while “ears that poke out” seem to be a definite handicap. Anyone who wants to impress
two of the coeds should rush down to the “Stud” (free plug) and buy a pipe, but another stated a
preference for the cigarette scuttlers. Glenn Miller is “tops” with two of the girls, but the usual dissenting voice expressed
a preference for Charlie Spivak. Although they like football, the coeds claimed they had no special admiration for the gridiron
warriors.

Professors

All of them like their professors, but to hear them tell it, the faculty shows no favoritism to their female
students. They admitted, however, that there might be exceptions, but strongly refused to mention any names in this connection. The
three sophomores want to study at some girls’ school next year. One prefers Greensboro College, but the other two are
undecided, while the lone “coed of '45” intends to stay at Davidson next year. One wants to sing professionally when
she finishes her musical studies, but all admit they have no pretty good idea what their eventual occupation will be.
Many grumblers who object to having to study or sleep through chapel every day might take note of the fact
that the coeds “usually” go to chapel, even though they are not required to—just because they like it.

ECHOES OF THE PAST

One Year Ago
Fraternities pledge 132 new men in rushing ceremonies... McDuffie becomes new cadet major... Jack Covington becomes business manager of the
DAVIDSONIAN... Davidson chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary musical fraternity... Wildcats prepare for Tar Heel tilt after hard loss to
State.

Five Years Ago
Sept. 25, 1936
College begins formal orientation week, with Prof. Gwynn in charge, to accustom freshmen to college... Major J. L. Ballard begins
duties as ROTC instructor... Poet Carl Sandburg accepts invitation to speak at Davidson... Centennial program begins... Davidson loses to Duke
13-0 as Lafferty shines.

Ten Years Ago
Sept. 23, 1931
Wildcats prepare for clash with State... Cats defeat Elon College, 13-2 in ragged opener... Rev. Marshall Woodson delivers inspiring talk
at vespers.

CLASS OF 1945 WELCOMED

Davidson College’s Treasurer, Mr. F. L. Jackson, is seen above shaking hands with Jack Moore, of Charlotte, as he and
Al Winn, President of the Student Body, greet several incoming freshmen on their arrival at Davidson. Other freshmen pictured include
Eugene Linton, of Nashville, Tenn., and Hank Watt, of Thomasville, Ga. The freshmen were arriving early to participate in orientation
activities.

New Buildings Are Nearing Completion

Defense Priorities Delay Construction of Library, Science Hall

Laboratory desks and tables for the Chemistry Department arrived Monday, completing the furnishings for the Science Hall, except for the
library chairs which are made to order. The desks are now being installed and Chemistry students will soon be able
to use them.

Thomas, Shaw Select Store Clerks

New Student Store Clerks Are Chosen At Annual Election

Davidson’s two new buildings, the Library and the Science Hall, will be ready for occupancy in the near future. Delayed
by defense priorities on necessary materials, the buildings are now nearing completion.

In the annual meeting for the election of student clerks, Davis and Shaw, the experienced managers for this year, appointed
clerks from the Junior and Sophomore classes. Davis stated in an interview that the duties of the store clerks are
to watch the upkeep and appearance of the store, keep the supply of goods from running out, and make change
for customers.In four days of orientation, it's an hour and have a chance led by Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr.,
Professor of Psychology and Education. —(Photo by C. F. Smith, The Charlotte Observer.)

lager, which pays 35 dollars a month.

Two Other Stores Greet Returning Men
By JIM STIMSON

As upperclassmen returned to campus this fall, their heads were diverted in many directions in order to catch sight of
renovations on the campus and in town. New freshmen topped with red caps dotted the beautiful green campus. New buildings
showed nearness of completion. Yet there were several marked differences to add to these expected ones.

During this summer, Baxter Davidson of Charlotte presented the college library with a handsome set of Archibald Henderson’s five-volume “History
of North Carolina, The Old North State and the New.” Colonel E. Davidson, an alumnus of the Class of 1881
and a member of the family for whom the college was originally named, is a trustee of Davidson and, like
his son after him, made many generous gifts to the college. The faculty meeting room in Chambers building is a
memorial to this branch of the Davidson family.

The “History of North Carolina” by Archibald Henderson raises many controversial points concerning the state’s history. Aside from the soda
fountain and booths in the front, Mrs. Hatley has a private dining room in the rear for sixteen customers. The
restaurant is doing good business, especially on family night (Thursday), when plates are served at half price. Mrs. S.J. Drake,
cashier, is in charge of the front and fountain. She came to Davidson from New York City and has had
a six-week course in drink-mixing. Kenneth Chandler, C. H. Daniels, and Haywood Brigner, Davidson students, are helping in the cafe.
A feature of the restaurant is recorded music, both classics and jazz. The cafe offers a meal ticket and convenient
Sunday hours.

Another attraction is a new restaurant in place of the Little Pep. Mr. F. L. Lassiter, manager, to attract college
students, has named his place the Varsity Grill. Added decorations will give the place the college atmosphere. The Varsity Grill
also has high claims on its food and service. The restaurant is convenient for boys to treat their dates and
friends. Aside from three cooks, there are eight assistants at the counter and in the booths. Frank Walker, a Davidson
graduate, is head of the counter and has “Jeep” Whitley, Bill Linton, and John Turner as assistants. At one time,
sixty-three boys were served in sixty minutes. On Sunday evening, approximately 180 boys were served in forty-five minutes. The restaurant
force claims fast and efficient service. They also offer a money-saving meal ticket.

Sapp’s “Hugo” Sapp is in the process of remodeling his drug store and is making plans for the formal opening.
He will offer more “dope” on his business in the near future. The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates these additions to the town
and wishes them the best of luck in their business.

COLLEGE TELEPHONE DIRECTORY

Do you remember the sore necks we had after we had been in Brothers Theater? Now, with a sloping floor,
we can even sit through one of the Bargain Day programs in comfort. We look with pride at our three
years at Davidson. It seems that more changes have been wrought in those years than in any similar period in
Davidson's history, and we look forward to the time when we will come back on crutches to our fiftieth reunion
and see escalators in the dormitories to use during Rush Week.

Like several recent historians, Dr. Henderson is a firm believer in the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence of May 20th, 1775.
Time was when the students of Davidson took a holiday on this date instead of July 4th, and Charlotte was
ablaze with fireworks and orations. If Dr. Henderson's evidence is accepted, it may be that the date will again become
a conspicuous one in local interest. It is believed by some that the motto of Davidson College Alenda Lux Ubi
Orta Libertas (light will shine where liberty has arisen) refers to the fact that the Mecklenburg patriots were the first
to declare themselves independent of the British crown.

Paul S. Crane, a member of the class of 1941, was recently chosen by the Readers Digest to write an
article on the life and works of Dr. James McLean Rogers, of the class of ‘13. Dr. McLean has for
24 years been a missionary to the Koreans. He has been the itinerant physician at the station of Sodnchun, Korea.
Recently he was honored by the Imperial Government of Japan for distinguished medical service to Korea, the highest honor the
Japanese government can give to a foreigner. Paul S. Crane is particularly suited for such work as he is himself
from Korea and is familiar with practically all the oriental languages. While here, he distinguished himself in student activities, especially
in “Y” work and Music. Paul is now continuing his studies in medicine at Johns Hopkins University.

Earnest K. Emurian has recently completed a much-talked-of work “Dramatized Stories of Hymns and Hymn Writers.”

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Thursday and Friday, September 25-26
“SUN VALLEY SERENADE”
SONJA HENIE

Saturday, September 27
“Dr. Kildaire’s Wedding Day”
LEW AYRES AND LIONEL BARRYMORE

Monday and Tuesday, September 29-30
“NAVY BLUES”
ANN SHERIDAN AND JACK OAKIE

Wednesday, October 1
“Nine Lives Are Not Enough”
RONALD REGAN AND JOAN PERRY

Thursday, October 2
“MOON OVER MIAMI”
