EDITORIALS: (1) New Telephone System (2) Unsung Heroes

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

“D” CLUB SPONSORS MOVIES TOMORROW

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1941 No. 11

Faculty Committee Chooses Eight Men As 1941-2 Debaters

Summers, Morton, Bell, Wooten, Hipp, Rogers, McCrary, Crook Are Chosen

TWO FROM LAST YEAR

Eight men have been chosen to comprise the Davidson Debating Team as a result of the try-outs which were held Tuesday night, November 25. The debaters who will represent Davidson during the current year are Gill Summers, Fred Morton, Don Bell, Jesse Wooten, Ed Hipp, Bill Rogers, Jim McCrary, and Crook. Professors Cumming, Beaty, and Williamson served as judges for the trials.

No Alternates

Davidson's forensic engagements will be conducted this year by eight men, with no alternates having been chosen. Previously, a team made up of six regulars has been selected, and three alternates have been designated. Bill Summers, President of the Forensic Council, and Fred Morton are the only members of the team who served last year; Bill Rogers and Jim McCrary held positions as alternates.

Make Two Trips

Summers revealed that there will be only two trips made by the debaters next spring. Last year three teams, consisting of two men each, went upon three debating tours. For the current year, however, plans have been made for two trips. Four men will comprise each team. One of these trips will take the debaters as far north as New York; the other tour will take in a number of southern colleges, and will extend as far south as Georgia and Alabama. Dates for all the engagements have not yet been arranged, but Davidson will probably meet teams from the following colleges: Centre, University of Kentucky, (Continued on Page Six)

USSNC Gets 350 Bibles

300 Men Request Bibles Aboard America’s Largest Battleship

Word has been received that Bibles bought through the Davidson Gift Fund have already been delivered to the men of the Navy. Three hundred men aboard the USS North Carolina, the newest and largest battleship afloat today, requested Bibles. The presentation was made last Friday under the muzzles of her big guns. Rev. Gilbert Darlington, Treasurer of the American Bible Society, presented the books to Captain O. C. Badger, who accepted them on behalf of the ship and distributed them among three hundred of those who had previously requested them.

300 Request Bibles

Since over three hundred men had requested Bibles, an additional fifty had to be ordered. Each book before delivery was inscribed with the date, the man’s name, and the name of Davidson as the giver. The Ship’s Chaplain signed each copy.

Letter Received

In a letter of thanks received from the ship, Monroe Bush, as Chairman of the Gift Fund, was asked to “convey to the generous young men of Davidson, who made this timely gift possible, our cordial thanks for their spirit and Christian comradeship.”

Makes Statement

With the letter was sent a copy of the Tarheel, a weekly publication on board ship, which had an account of the presentation. “As a statement of our hope as well as theirs,” they said, “In the weeks and months to come, a great number of our shipmates, who have had good Christian home training, will find these Bibles a source of comfort and strength.”

Most Noxious Freshmen Go Before Court

“25 Club” Is Formed At Public Meeting; Kimrey Heads List

Twenty-five freshmen were inducted as charter members of the Twenty-five Club at the meeting of the Court of Control Wednesday evening, November 26, at Philanthropic Hall. Jane Caldwell announces the unanimous selection of Sam Kimrey as president of the club. “In other words,” said Caldwell, “Kimrey is the most noxious freshman on the Davidson campus. He has shown no desire to conform with freshman rules.”

Receives Message

Kimrey received a message last week in his room. He was told to come to Caldwell's room the following morning in order to study for a review. The meeting of the court, open to the student body for the first time, was graced by a jury of five students. Most of the freshmen were sentenced to obey campus rules strictly until Christmas holidays. Any violations by a freshman will make him subject to wear a yellow cap after Christmas. Those deficient in studies were confined to their rooms at certain hours to study. Joe McLesky was chairman and Ben Lacy acted as co-chairman. Other members were Skirrow, C. C. Moorhead, R. E. Brinson, Ed Scott, Gordon Clark, and “Ripper” Hunt.

Members Of Club

Charter members of the Twenty-five Club are: “Whiffle Bird” Campbell, Webster McLeod, Gibbon, Sam Kimrey, Art Bruce, Billy Bill Eliot, J. C. Walker, Smith, John Campbell, Chester King, “Jew” Jimmy Roach, Harrison, Goldston, Emerson George Worth, Eugene Linton, Jack Laughridge, Paul Savi, Horace Boarman, Ted Don Ennet, Ogilvie, Belk, Grant, Ike Juddy Cashion, Dick Henderson, and Tom Glasgow.

WIN DEBATE TEAM TRYOUTS

Above are the men chosen for the Davidson College Debating Team for 1941-1942. Top row, reading from left to right: Summers, Morton, Bell, Wooten, Hipp, Rogers, McCrary, and Crook.

Y.M.C.A. Club Gives Sport Movies Sponsors Show Tomorrow Night In Chambers

A series of sports films will be shown by the Y.M.C.A. Club in Chambers auditorium Friday night, December 5, at 7 P.M. Included among these films will be shots of several of the Wildcats’ past games, as well as pictures of baseball, golf, and tennis.

Running Commentary

The show will be an hour in length with forty-five minutes devoted to the Davidson games and a running commentary by one of the Davidson coaches. The Athletic Association's new projector with sound facilities will be used.

Admission to the movie will be twenty cents and funds will go toward covering the cost of the “D” Club banquet, which is given each year in honor of the football squad, the coaches, and the managers. Tickets may be purchased from any “D” Club member.

Phi Beta Kappa Has Initiation For 8 Men

Cunningham, Two Winns, Turner, Taylor, Seagle, Hodges, Hopper Included

Initiation of newly-elected members of N. C. Gamma of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, will be held in the Faculty Room of Chambers Building on Monday night, December 8 at 7:30 P.M. Dr. George B. Watts, chapter secretary, announced this week.

Outstanding initiates at the ceremony will be Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson, and Mr. James A. Winn of the Class of 1900, and father of Albert Winn. Other initiates will be Albert C. Winn, R. G. Turner, A. C. Taylor, H. D. Seagle, D. M. Hodges, and J. B. Hopper.

Mobley At Vanderbilt

Marion R. Mobley, also elected to the fraternity, finished school in three years, and is now attending Vanderbilt University Medical School in Nashville, Tennessee. Sometime during March, these initiates and those who shall have been elected from the Senior Class elections, will be the guests at the annual Phi Beta Kappa banquet. The speaker for that occasion will be Dr. J. R. McCain, President of Agnes Scott and nationally known educator.

Last year members of the freshman and sophomore classes who stand in the upper bracket of their class in scholarship were invited, including:

Freshmen: W. W. Lacy, C. L. Woodbridge, L. R. Scott, P. H. Gwynn, R. S. Preston, J. L. Smith, W. T. Grimstey, M. S. Brewer, W. H. Morrow, R. B. Port, J. L. Fairly, L. F. Patterson, C. M. Robinson, M. H. Jeffries, T. V. Bumbarger, J. M. Johnston, H. R. Robinson, and T. H. Dimmock.

Sophomores: W. W. Abbott, J. N. Behrman, R. L. Brinson, W. S. Conner, A. E. Dimmock, E. J. Erwin, J. B. McCoy, B. R. Lacy, C. Henderson, K. Miller, F. S. Morton, R. K. Nimmons, C. E. Parks, R. L. Parks, J. D. Phillips, W. C. Robinson, M. G. Sandifer, F. W. Speas, and W. W. Wood.

Davidsonian Gift Fund Reaches $1,600

A special announcement has come to the Davidsonian to the effect that the 1941 Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund has reached $1,600, as announced by the Collecting Committee. The Y originally had set a goal of $1,100 for the purpose of sending Bibles to (1) Chinese in unoccupied China; (2) prisoners of war in German concentration camps; and (3) naval and sailors aboard United States vessels. The goal was later raised to $1,500 by the Gift Fund Committee, when it became evident that such an amount could be reached.

538 Students Pledge

Donations were received from 550 people, of whom 538 were members of the Student Body. A new all-time high was reached this year in both the number of students giving and the amount pledged. Donations ranged from twenty cents to thirty dollars, the average donation being $2.84. The average student donation was $2.78. Six of the donations pledged were less than twenty cents.s than a dollar, while 62 were $5 or more.

Fraternity Pledges
Soliciting pledges for the Gift Fund were effected by fraternities and halls in dormitories. The totals for the fraternities ranged from $5 to $141. Five of the fraternities pledged more than $125, the other less than $100.

Bush Makes Statement
Monroe Bush, Chairman of the Gift Fund, says, “Needless to say all pledges will be kept in the strictest secrecy possible, as we consider it a very personal matter. We are more than delighted with the results of this year’s drive, and hope that all has been given earnestly, with a spirit of love and cheerfulness. I particularly wish to commend the individual solicitors for their hard work in the campaign.”

The $375 will be divided between the first two, $412 to China, $560 to sailors, and the remainder will go to undesignated uses.

Chapel Schedule
Monday, Dec. 1 Mr. A. W. Gottschall
Tuesday, Dec. 2 Ed Taylor
Wed., Dec. 3 Mr. Jackson
Thursday, Dec. 4 Prof. H. T. Lilly (Glee Club)
Friday, Dec. 5 Ralph Williams
Mon., Dec. 8 Mr. N. W. Shepard
Tuesday, Dec. 9 Y. M. C. A.
Wed., Dec. 10 Dr. Cunningham
Thursday, Dec. 11 Prof. F. L. Blythe
Friday, Dec. 12 Y. M. C. A.
Mon., Dec. 15 Y. M. C. A.
Tuesday, Dec. 16 Music Dept. Christmas Music
Wed., Dec. 17 Dr. Cunningham
Christmas Recess Begins at Noon

ODK Initiates
Bottom row: Bill Summers, Don Bell, Ed Hipp, Jim Crook, Jim McCrary, Fred Morton, Jesse Wooten, and Billy Rogers.

Gift Fund Reaches $1,600
Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, held its Fall initiation ceremony last Monday night at seven o'clock in the S. A. E. house. Principal speaker for the occasion was Rev. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church and former president of the student body. Those men initiated into the fraternity were Pat Rudolph, Walter Wooten, Dave Spencer, Frank Caldwell, Bill Sprunt, Dan Hodges, and Arch Taylor, all of the Senior Class. The initiation of these seven men brings the student membership of the Davidson chapter to fifteen. Present at the ceremony, besides the student members, were the four active faculty members for this year: Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. Frontis Johnston, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, and Mr. Heath Whittle. A brief business meeting followed the initiation, during which plans were made for contacting high school students with regard to possible entrance into Davidson College next year.

“D” Club Honors Team With Annual Banquet
Mr. Joe Johnson To Speak; Managers Will Be Announced

Members of the 1941 football squad of Davidson will be guests of honor at the annual "D" Club banquet to be held in the Chambers banquet hall at 6:30 P.M. on Wednesday, December 10. Chief attraction of the program will be an address by Mr. Joe Johnson of Barium Springs, “a loyal supporter of athletic teams for many years.” Mr. Johnson is well known throughout southern football circles. He often sits on the bench with one of the teams at the games he attends.

Intensely interested in all sports, Mr. Johnson is especially interested in football as a builder of bodies and character, and more especially in the Davidson Wildcats. The banquet is given each year under the joint sponsorship of the “D” Club and the Davidson Athletic Association. Approximately 30 guests, including alumni, sports writers, and faculty members, will be present.

Fred Smith Presides
Fred Smith, director of publicity for Davidson College, will be master of ceremonies. Dr. Orren Moore, another Davidson backer, will also appear on the program. As part of the program, certificates will be awarded to those earning their letters in football this season. Those winning this honor for the first time and Seniors will receive monogrammed sweaters as well as certificates.

Announce Managers
Managers for the 1942 season, who were chosen by members of the team in an election about two weeks ago, will also be announced at the banquet. It is expected that Professor Pfohl will provide some sort of musical entertainment for the evening. As is customary, members of this year’s freshman football team will assist in serving the meal.

Masquers Set Dec. 16 “Blue Ghost” Date
Kalista Hood, Experienced Actress, Directs Former Broadway Production

“The Blue Ghost,” a three-act mystery “thriller,” will be presented by the Red and Black Masquers at Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, December 16. In this play by Messrs. McOwen and Rice, the element of fear has been turned into a source of great laughter and amusement, it is said. Miss Kalista Hood, who has had much experience in such work, is acting as director of the production. Professor Erwin, of the Davidson English Department, is planning the very elaborate stage properties upon which the play will depend. Paul Welch and John F. Robertson, the assistant directors, are helping Professor Erwin in this work.

Cast of Characters
The role of Dr. DeFormer, a nervous, middle-aged man who speaks at all times with an intense tone, will be played by John Northcross. Douglas Swink will take a “rather horrible role” in which he appears as a half maniac dope addict. Jasper, the negro servant upon whom much of the comedy of the show centers, will be played by Tommy Milikin. Ernie Webster will take the role of a heavy-set, hard-boiled policeman, Inspector Wise. This “enterprising cop is very intense at all times and is extremely aggressive.” Miss Clara Smith, of Davidson, will represent a woman newspaper reporter. Frank Mebane will take the role of an ex-convict, while the title part of the “Blue Ghost” will be played by Davidson Smith.

Plot Setting
The characters are found in a “hair-raising situation” in the castle of Doctor DeFormer where a murder has been committed. The periodical appearance of the Blue Ghost does not calm the shattered nerves of those present. Inspector Wise goes out to investigate the case, and his discoveries reveal the comic fear of the negro servant, Jasper.

The press notes of some of the nation’s leading newspapers praised the Blue Ghost highly.

Scabbard And Blade Taps Eight Seniors In Special Ceremony
Wilson, Cowan, Dew, Jones, Faison, Lucas, Shannon, Squires Receive Bids

At a special ceremony Scabbard and Blade tapped eight seniors into its military fraternity yesterday afternoon. Those tapped were Bill Cowan, Southgate Dew, Bill Faison, Bill Lucas, Shannon, Bill Wilson, and C. A. Squires. Wooten and Rudolph, 2nd Lieutenants of the military fraternity, marched around the battalion and formally tapped those men selected with his saber and pinned the Scabbard and Blade insignia on each man immediately thereafter.

Scabbard and Blade holds its formal tap ceremony twice a year, once in the fall and once in the spring. Juniors receive formal invitations while seniors are tapped on tap day. Cowan is a 2nd Lieutenant in the 1st battalion, while Dew is a Lieutenant, as is Jones. Jones and Dew are members of Theta Alpha and Sigma Chi, respectively. Lucas, Faison, and Squires are also 2nd Lieutenants, as are Shannon and Wilson. The latter two are members of Pi Kappa Alpha and Kappa Sigma, respectively. Wilson is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Other officers of Scabbard and Blade beside Wooten and Rudolph include Jack Phillips, 1st Lieutenant, Frank Caldwell, 1st Sergeant, and Ney Black, Sergeant-at-Arms.

Designs School Seal
Often Considered Napoleon’s Famous Aide, Ney Makes Up Davidson Seal
By BILL ABBOTT

“Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas—Let light be cherished where liberty has arisen.” How often outsiders have praised Davidson College for this, its noble motto! For these words and for the seal upon which they are inscribed we are indebted to Peter Stuart Ney, brilliant schoolmaster for 37 years in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia. This same schoolmaster, according to the belief of many, was Michel Ney, Marshall of France and Napoleon's gallant lieutenant at Waterloo. When the Bourbons wrested France from Napoleon, the king sent Ney to capture him. Ney did not comply and joined Napoleon. After Waterloo, Ney was captured and tried for treason. According to French history, he was shot by a firing squad. But was this man really Marshal Ney? Six weeks later, on January 1st, a stately man was seen in Charleston, S. C. When someone stopped him and addressed him as Marshal Ney, he replied, “I am he.” This man was Marshal Ney or Mr. Peter Stuart Ney, as he called himself, remains a mystery. For the next three years, Mr. Ney made an intensive study of Latin, Greek, and Mathematics. Then in 1819, he began a thirty-seven-year teaching period. Fortunately for our college, he settled in Unity, North Carolina, eight miles from Davidson.

Designs Seal
The three members of the committee for making the seal, being unable to choose a design that would suit all of them, decided to call on that eminent scholar, Mr. Ney. They arrived at the Unity schoolhouse and asked Mr. Ney to design the seal. He agreed and produced the design that is still in use today.