Five Honored For Scholarship

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

"Who's Who" Honors Davidson Men

Volume XXVIII. 528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1941. Number 16.

PHI BETA KAPPA EXTENDS FIVE

COLLEGIATE WHO'S WHO GIVES DAVIDSON 12 PLACES

Publication Chooses Twelve Davidson Men

University of Alabama Publication Makes Annual Student Selection

Paragraphies

(Continued on page six)

PHI BETA KAPPA

(Continued on Page Six)

Johnston Announces Election Of Seniors

Debaters Will Have Tryouts

INITIATION

Vanderbilt Chapter To Speak At Initiation

Owens Heads Blazer Group

Few Street Markers Are Placed In Davidson

By Ed Erwin

Two Inducted Into Beavers

Most Outstanding Students From Entire Country

Davidson recently received word from the University of Alabama announcing its annual selection of the most outstanding students in American
universities and colleges. Davidson men have been chosen for this honor.

Davidson's chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, famed national honorary scholastic organization, extended bids to five seniors last week. Standing is
Joe Liles of Wadesboro; seated (left to right) are Ed Maxwell of Davidson, Pat Hobson of Clover, S.C., and Dave
Talmadge whose home is Kwangju, Korea. Seated at the bottom is Bill Beyle from Steele's Tavern, Va. All men have
maintained a high average during their previous years, leading the senior class.

Debate trials start soon, and the silver-tongued are hard at work already (or had better be). Those interested may contact
Bill Loftin and join the ranks of the "tryouts."

At a recent meeting of the Y Cabinet, a new member was appointed. The new member was Claude Hackney, who
was named as co-head of the Social Relations committee along with Boyd Flynn. Hackney, a member of the junior class,
did similar work under Dr. Montgomery at a Summer Camp at Camp Osecola in Florida. Last year he led the
singing in the Men’s Bible Class in Cornelius and went on several deputations. Hackney has played football for three years
and has been Secretary and Vice-President of the student body. At present, he is in charge of the prayer meetings
on his hall.

Sigma Upsilon, Honorary Literary Society, met Tuesday night, February 18, at 9 in the S.A.E. house. Tom Cauble, President, presided.
Charlie Parrish, junior, was taken into the fraternity. New members were elected for the rest of the year. Pat Rudolph
read a short story, after which the Society heard a paper by Dr. Frazer Hood. Bill Sprunt then read the
next chapter of his novel. The meeting closed with a feed. New members elected will be announced at a later
date.

New street markers adorn several corners about downtown Davidson and the suburbs. Finally locating Main Street by the marker after
a vain search is now possible.

Charley Parrish, our congratulations and best wishes for the year to come during his presidency.; We cordially invite you to
join us for the Davidson Glee Club's program, sponsored by the Presbyterian Student Association. Charley follows a successful year and
the campaign begins with a talk by Mrs. W. P. Cumming. Welcome to the Salem Glee Club, who will be
here next week. The Davidsonian promises more details in regard to the story. [Continued on Page Five]

R.O.T.C. Awards Ceremony

A parade and special ceremony will be held Friday, February 21, 1941, on the Freshman Football field to present Rifle
Marksmanship Awards to the cadets who qualified as Experts, Sharpshooters, and Marksmen. R.O.T.C. Cadet Stubbins, who fired the highest score,
will be awarded a Special Bronze Medal with a large star overlaid with crossed rifles and surmounted by an eagle,
fastened to a red and black ribbon denoting the Davidson colors. Cadets Head, Gilman, Chandler, F. W., and Barber, having
made expert, will receive Special Bronze Medals pendent on red and black ribbons. Some thirty-seven cadets made sharpshooter and will
be presented Red Ribbon Bars. Fifty-one cadets made marksman and will be presented Black Ribbon Bars. Dr. W. L. Lingle,
President of Davidson College, Major Francis J. Beaty, Inf., and Capt. Paul L. Snyder, Inf., both of Charlotte, have been
invited to make the presentations. The Military Department of Davidson College invites all of its friends to attend this ceremony.

Valentine's Lost

By Mac Jeffries

Men are broke—definitely broke. No longer does the cheerful, encouraging jingle of coins or the comforting crumple of fresh bills
come from the depths of their pockets. Gone are the bright cheerful smiles that used to greet their comrades John,
George, Bill, and Jim. A pall of gloom hangs over the campus. What is the cause of this melancholy? Why,
none other than Valentine's Day has just passed, and that’s a lot to be sad about. It used to be
that one could approach the 14th of February with calm, if not anticipation, knowing that as long as he had
become Joe College, he could be light-hearted and carefree. Valentines in those days could be bought for a penny a
piece. You can get that kind now, but not the girl you send it to. Oh, what he wouldn't do
to get off half that easily now.

Colored Youth Start Sunday Evening Class

Colored youth will start their first meeting Sunday night at 7:30 in McLean Community Center. The meetings will be used
to discuss problems that they face in their everyday life. The subject for next Sunday night is True Friendship, and
the meeting will be held in the community center. All townspeople who have "bundles for Britain" are asked to contact
Gordon Horton, as their contributions will be very gratefully accepted.

The staff of the Ensemble is composed of the following students: Johnson, Winston-Salem, and others.
