Re-Examination Schedule Announced

Sylvester Plays For Military Set

Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1941. Number 17

Paragraphics By THE EDITOR

Thanks to the powers that be for Holidays, occasioned by the number of students making up work missed because of
flu this winter. One day is much better than before, even if it does spike rumors about “ten days,” “two
weeks,” etc. We see that “Boom” is getting out another copy of The Pulp. The grapevine (made famous by Cauble)
has it that the “Who Cut the Cheese” rats will cut numerous hitherto uncut men.

Just mention politics to a junior and watch him exit, blush, or fade into the ground. Quite a touchy subject
(and they'll know this paragraph on it we like!).

According to an editorial in the Mississippi State paper, “Miss State is the only decent college in the South without
a decent gym.” Isn't Davidson decent? We know the gym isn’t.

Don't fail to hear the Siberian Singers on Tuesday night. Even those who can't really enjoy the heavy classics will
like them if they are anything like the Russians who sang here last year. It’s another Phi Mu Alpha project.

And speaking of Phi Mu Alpha, it is one of the very few honoraries which functions at all. Most of
them cost money, take time, and accomplish nothing.

Our basketball team really finished the season well by beating South Carolina and giving U. N. C. a great fight
after being way behind in the opening minutes. Glamack must be glad he doesn't have to play against the Cats
again. He'd never break any records if everyone held him down like our boys did, and have done for two
years.

Seniors had better check the diploma list in Chambers chapel, unless one or two don’t mind having the only diploma
they'll ever get with their name misspelled. There are always some mistakes.

After September or October, reviews are most peculiar. Once they start early in the year, they never seem to stop.
Upperclassmen especially are continually reviewing almost by periods. Exams really are welcomed by some men after review rot time to
go over a great deal of material.

There will be some discussion soon as to what will be the subject of the mural to be given by
the class of ‘41 to the new library as a Class Gift. While many suggestions have been made, the most
striking seems to be a scene depicting a typical Saturday night in the Friendly City.

R. O. T. C. men and their friends will profit by reading excerpts from recent letters received here by the
R. O. T. C. department from Washington, regarding their status after graduation in June. The story is on page 5,
column 5.

Don't forget the Military Set!

Spring Issue Of Magazine Shows Season

Copy for the spring issue of Davidson’s humor magazine, “Scripts ‘n’ Pranks,” which will appear in about two weeks, goes
to the printer this Saturday. The date of publication has not been definitely settled, but the magazine will probably come
out the weekend of the military dance set.

Editor Paul Bumbarger said that all the regular features will be included, with proper emphasis on the season of the
year. The cover will again be designed by Dan Hodges.

Phi Mu Alpha Will Present Russian Choir

Siberian Singers to Be Next Feature of the Sinfonia

MAESTRO SYLVESTER

Bob Sylvester Will Furnish Music At Military Ball Set March 14, 15

Phi Mu Alpha’s honorary musical fraternity will present its fourth concert in the Sinfonia series when the Siberian Singers perform
next Tuesday evening.

Ten exiles from the U.S.S.R., the Siberian Singers are unable to return to their native country and are touring the
United States. The singers are similar to the Don Cossack Singers, who were presented at Davidson last year. Many critics
who have heard both groups consider the Siberian Singers the better. Beginning with an appearance at Town Hall in New
York City, the Siberian Singers have been hailed by critics wherever they appeared. One critic has said that the force
of spirit and intensity of emotion which characterizes the Siberian Singers enable them to explore into the very heart of
song.

Phi Mu Alpha’s presentation of the singers will be March 4th, at 8:15, in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets will cost students
75 cents, and will cost all others one dollar.

Bob Sylvester and his Sophisticated Swing will play for the Davidson Pan-Hellenic Military Ball Series. Sylvester is known throughout the
music world as one of the outstanding arrangers of the day. Before forming his own band he was the chief
arranger for Hal Kemp. Sylvester and his Sophisticated Swing have been heard over the Mutual Broadcasting System and at many
college dances including those at Georgia Tech, William and Mary, Vanderbilt, and N.Y.U. His orchestra has been amazing audiences with
a brand of syncopation that is decidedly original and distinctive.

Faculty Decides to Allow Extra Day For Exams Beginning March 27th

Hank Bumgardner, President of the Student Body, announced that student elections will get under way during the first part of
March. The order of the elections is as follows: student government, YMCA, Davidsonian, “Quips and Cranks,” class officers.Fresh: "Don't be
a chicken, come on up to Whitley, Fly ri I vivester and his orchestra man. Advisor, Scripts and Most of
us consider the slang problem with me." Lmouth; C. S. Stroup, Wilmington; led the Pranks, Student Council, Cheer words and
expressions that we use on the Davidson campus to be quite local. B. Port, Winston-Salem; D. M. Yo th; YMCA
Board of Control. new and ultra-something. A perusal of the slang glossary in the old edition of Quips and Cranks
shows that much of our slang is almost thirty years old, at least. For instance, we use all of these
expressions universally used last year but only countless times in a single day. It can be estimated that Davidson students
could dispense entirely with properly defined words and still be very popular.

Other expressions used before the first World War that we still use include "not crack a book," "catch a dope
at the drug," "fire," "grind for a review," "shoot a prof, or be shot by the same," "spot a writ,"
etc. One word, "cut," originated decades ago when one would say, "I cut eco yesterday." Several years ago the meaning
was extended to "cut a coke," until now it is used to mean practically anything. Some of the various ways
it can be used include: "Let's cut an orange," "Let's cut the stud," "he cut into the tavern," "how about
not cutting me loose," and so on into the night.

One word, "chicken," has changed its meaning through the years. It formerly meant a nice-looking girl, as when a Davidson
undergrad said, "That was some chicken I had up last weekend." Today it means a poor sport or limber, as
in "Don't be a chicken, come on up."

Bundles for Britain, an organization to help England’s homeless, is still very popular. Gordon Horton, a senior from Chattanooga, Tennessee,
who organized and is leading the Davidson chapter, said, "I have received letters of utter amazement from New York." The
organization is most grateful to the students and to the townspeople for the splendid way in which they have co-operated,
but Horton said that he felt that the campaign has just begun.

Pictures from the art exhibit were sold, and the proceeds were equally divided between the Y.M.C.A. and Bundles for Britain.
Pictures were contributed by John Nocilicrocs and Garland Chioctonn. Plans are being made for other ways to raise money for
this fund. Mrs. Norman Shephard will give a luncheon tomorrow for twenty-five people, and the proceeds of this luncheon will
go to the campaign. Mrs. Price Gwynn will give a musical tea, and Mrs. Cumming, who is the speaker for
this chapter, will make a broadcast over the radio in Charlotte on some Sunday afternoon in the near future. More
cigarette holders, pins, etc., are now in the Student Store, the first supply having been sold out, and over $75
taken in from this part of the campaign.

Horton said that he is planning to work the Annual Spring Art Exhibit in the same way in which this
one was worked, thereby helping Bundles for Britain even more.

SENIORS NOT TO BE EXAMINED

The Registrar has posted a list of the names of all candidates for spring graduation in the lobby of Chambers.
Each senior should check this list to see if his name has been spelled correctly (for it will be written
on his diploma), and to see if his name has been left off. In case there is any adjustment to
be made, Mr. Hengeveld should be consulted.

EXAMINATION AND DEFERRED EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

Friday, March 28
7 P.M. - Free period
8 P.M. - Examinations with Profs. Sentelle, Richards, Foreman

Saturday, March 29
9 A.M. - 12 Noon - Examinations with Profs. Shewmake, Erwin, Lilly
2 P.M. - 5 P.M. - Examinations with Profs. Knight, Thies, Lagan, Shepard, McGeachy, Johnston

Monday, March 31
9 A.M. - 12 Noon - Free period
2 P.M. - 5 P.M. - Examinations with Profs. Wood, McGavock, Brown

Tuesday, April 1
9 A.M. - 12 Noon - Examinations with Profs. Watts, Goldiere, Fleagle, Vowell, Bailey, Beaty, Harding, Hood, Blythe
2 P.M. - 5 P.M. - All ROTC examinations

Wednesday, April 2
9 A.M. - 12 Noon - Examinations with Profs. Douglas, Fulcher, Porter
2 P.M. - 5 P.M. - Examinations with Profs. Currie, Pfohl, McDonald, Williamson

Thursday, April 3
9 A.M. - 12 Noon - Examinations with Profs. Lyon, Sandifer
2 P.M. - 5 P.M. - Examinations with Profs. Currie, Pfohl, McDonald, Williamson

The leaders of the colored Scout troops announce that plans are being made for a Scout assembly to be held
at the Colored Community Center during the first week of April. Three colored troops will take part in the events.
These three troops are from Davidson, Smithville, and Caldwell. Among the events will be knot tying, first aid, fire building,
races, and signaling. The troops will compete in various activities, and a trophy will be awarded to the winning troop.
