Thursday, April 24, 1941. THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Fellowship Awarded To Former Student
Will Pursue Work Under Dr. W. D. Chamberlain, Louisville Seminary

Arnold Rhodes, a Davidson graduate, has recently been awarded the Walter Kennedy Patterson Fellowship in New Testament at Louisville Presbyterian
Theological Seminary. Mr. Rhodes was born at Rocky Point, N. C., and was valedictorian of his class in the Burgaw
High School. He entered Davidson in 1931 and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Eta Sigma Phi, honorary
fraternities. Mr. Rhodes graduated in 1933 with the A. B. degree Summa Cum Laude and was also Assistant in Greek
and Education. He was active in deputation work of the Y.M.C.A. and the Ministerial Association.

Following his graduation from Davidson, Mr. Rhodes taught Latin and public speaking in Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, Port Gibson, Mississippi, 1935-1938. During
this time he served as pulpit supply in the First Presbyterian Church, Vicksburg, Mississippi, and the First Presbyterian Church, Port
Gibson, Mississippi. He entered Louisville Presbyterian Seminary as a Patterson scholar in September of 1938. While in the Seminary he
has engaged in the following extra-curricular activities: student worker in Second Presbyterian Church, Louisville; Sunday School teacher in Presbyterian Colored
Mission; student pastor of Boston Presbyterian Church, Boston, Ky.; treasurer of Seminary student body 1939-40; instructor in New Testament Greek,
1939-41; student pastor of Lawrenceburg Presbyterian Church, Lawrenceburg, Ky., 1940-41; and during the summers of 1939 and 1940 he served
as a worker in the Missions of First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C. Mr. Rhodes will do his Fellowship
work at Louisville Seminary under the direction of Dr. William Douglas Chamberlain, Professor of New Testament Exegesis.

Other Davidson men at Louisville Seminary have been elected to the following positions in the student body: Warren B. Gaw,
class of '39, President; T. Watson Street, class of '38, Vice-President; and William R. Laws, Jr., class of '38, Chairman
of Vespers Committee.

Janitor Tells Story Of Life
By Jim Stimson

“All my life I’ve spent in Davidson,” says Enoch Donaldson, the old negro janitor who works in Chambers. “I've had
no other home but Davidson, and I'm aiming to stay here.” This briefly summarizes Enoch’s love for the town of
Davidson and the college. Enoch says that his earliest jobs were in connection with the college. Many years ago when
Davidson had no steam-heated dormitories, Enoch says he went around with Hotzclow (a janitor) and learned to make the fires
in the rooms of the students. At that time boys were rooming in Oak and Elm Rows. The father of
this writer says that all the boys remember Enoch well. “He would come around, and my roommate and I would
sling shoes at him as he came in to build our fire.” If any of the present Davidson students had
a father here, go see Enoch and see if he does not remember him.

Looking further back into the past, Enoch says that he remembers when Dr. Sentelle was a student at the college.
“At that time I was a little boy and visited the campus often.” “When Dr. Shearer was president (1888-1901), I
waited in the president’s home. Then came Dr. Henry Louis Smith (1901-1912) while I was working for the college. Again
I waited in the president’s home when Dr. Martin (1912-1929) was president.” Now Enoch, still able to carry on, continues
working for Davidson. He is the pleasant old negro who is a janitor in Chambers. He has been here a
long time and does not want to leave. Enoch says he has not checked up his age recently, but Dr.
Sentelle keeps a record of it.

K. J. Foreman Gives Sunday School Talk
Foreman Says Unity, Truth, And Love Are Marks of Holy Spirit

Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman addressed the Student Sunday School on April 20. His topic was The Holy Spirit. Dr. Foreman
first indicated the erroneous name of the Book of Acts. It, through numerous early manuscripts, lost its rightful title. Since
in the New Testament the Holy Spirit is the most important thing, it should be called The Acts of the
Holy Spirit. Although the Holy Spirit is mentioned throughout the Bible, it is nowhere defined. Dr. Foreman defines it thus:
The Holy Spirit is God at work in History and the Life and Experiences of Mankind. Everywhere the Holy Spirit
is named, God can be substituted.

Dr. Foreman next asked the question: What are the marks of the Holy Spirit? He used this illustration. Life and
Electricity are undefinable and unseen. We, however, see their effects. And so it is with the Holy Spirit. There are
three main marks of the Holy Spirit: Unity—shown through Christians united; Truth—three times in Jesus’ last message to his disciples
Jesus calls the Spirit, the Spirit of Truth—whatever is not of the Spirit; Love—in it you see something of God.
Dr. Foreman also pointed out that the Holy Spirit inspires true Christian gifts. The final thought expressed by Dr. Foreman
was that God does to only those who wish to have it done. God's spirit comes where it is invited.

Alumni To Be Guests At Banquet

Davidson alumni from all over this section of the country will be guests at a banquet sponsored by the Charlotte
Alumni Chapter to be held at Hotel Charlotte Tuesday evening, April 29th, at seven o'clock. This meeting will constitute the
largest gathering of Davidson alumni held in years, according to Dr. Cunningham, president of the college. Several hundred people are
expected to attend. Mr. Harlee Branch, of Atlanta, president of the Davidson Alumni Association, will be the main speaker for
the event. Dr. Cunningham will talk on “Davidson in a Day Like This,” while Mr. Eugene McEver, head football coach,
will discuss the Wildcat football team for next year. A week from today another regional meeting of Davidson alumni will
be held in New York City, at which Dr. Cunningham will also speak. Regional meetings have already been held in
Jacksonville and are being planned for other cities this year.

Eus Plan For “Spelling Bee”

The Eumenian Literary Society held a special meeting last Tuesday in conjunction with the members of The Georgia Tech Debating
Team. Practically the entire program was given over to a non-decision debate. The query was, “Resolved: that the nations of
the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” Paul Crane and Frank Barker represented the Eumenian Literary Society in the
debate. Following the formal presentation of the arguments for both sides, all members joined in a lively up-to-the-minute discussion. Next
week the feature attraction of the program will be a regular old-fashioned spelling bee. Drury Thompson, president of the society,
announced that all students, faculty, and friends are cordially invited to attend and match wits against the grammatical authorities of
the society—Nathaniel Webster.

T. C. Battalion
COMPANY C RATED BEST

Annual company and platoon competitive drill was held Wednesday, April 16, by the Davidson R.O.T.C. Pictured below as they checked
their ratings are, left to right: Lieut. Col. G. T. McKenzie; Major D. L. Hardee of Oak Ridge Military Institute;
Major F. J. Beatty, officer in charge of the organized reserve of Charlotte; Major D. A. Herrin, officer in charge
of the organized reserve of Winston-Salem. (Photo by Earl L. Stutts.)

Among THE GREEKS

Most of the Sigmas journeyed north this weekend to W. C. and Raleigh. Duck Yarborough, Dick Phillips, Jim Hogg, Bob
Amos, Jim Davis, Bill Simmons, and the Coopers spent an enjoyable weekend at W. C. Alf Taylor, Shep Booth, Ben
Lacy, Legh Scott, Joe Nelson, and Dick Kelly took in the dance at St. Mary's. They returned via W. C.
to their homes in North Wilkesboro. Jim Crook and Priestly Conyers spent a quiet weekend at their homes in Spartanburg.
Wilbur Carter spent a most successful time at Winston-Salem. Brother Jonas spent an unusual weekend at home.

S. P. E.

This past weekend gave many of the brothers a time never to be forgotten. Zipping up to the St. Mary's
Junior-Senior were Cam Dudley, Dick Cobb, and Tom Galbreath. Tom Kirkpatrick went to his home in Leaksville. Jimmy Fulcher went
to the Flora McDonald dance and Fred Morton went on the debating trip. Raymond MacDaniels went on the track trip
to Raleigh and then home to Tarboro. “Totem Pole” Edmondson made his weekly trip to Greensboro. Brother Loy trotted up
to Raleigh on the track team. Davis and Behrman zoomed down to Rock Hill to have a little session. Flying
down to Coker College and Myrtle Beach for a little session with the ocean breezes and the Coker girls were
Hugo Knox, Beverly Brown, Billy Myers, and Pledge Peters. Visitors of the Sig Eps this weekend were Miss Louisa Hay,
Moffat Boughris, Mary Hall, Dot Pickard, and Mr. R. G. Turner. Lawson Withers went to the Tulip Festival, and little
Wendell Knox went to the Clemson dance.

PI KAPPA PHI

In the spring, a Pi Kapp’s fancy turns to thoughts of getting off the campus. So it was this weekend.
Brothers Flynn, Erb, Larkin, and Paul Bumbarger went on a spree down to Washington, N. C., to the tulip festival,
and Miller, Watson, Edwards, and Mobley danced to Paul Whiteman’s music at Clemson. Erskine Parks, Joe Eve, and Ed Murray
spent the weekend in Raleigh, D. Williamson in High Point, Covington in Wadesboro, H. Robinson in Kannapolis, and McArthur and
Herring in Charlotte. J. Robinson, Raymond, and Flynn attended the Queens Junior-Senior Banquet Saturday night. Brother Armstrong went to Marion,
N. C., and Brother Plunkett has returned from his home after a recent illness.

KAPPA ALPHA

Because the K. A.’s had so much wild hospitality extended to them this past weekend, not many of them ventured...Forth
into the wild world. We expect, too, that the approaching dances and trimmings are awing the brothers into a sense
of guardianship over their respective ill-treated pocketbooks. However, the wild-hare taking the biggest number of brothers off the campus was
the college. Brothers Sprunt, Coppedge, Belk, Turnage, and Vanlandingham went with the track team, right on to Raleigh. Brother Turnage
went on to his home in Farmville, N.C., and Brother Sprunt had a set of dates in Winston-Salem afterward. Brother
Washburn went along with them to Raleigh. Brothers Ansley and Tom Stimson went to spend the weekend with the former
in Charlotte, and Brother Wallace also went to his home in the “Queen City.” Brothers “Buzz” Councill and Dick Arnold
went to “Skinny’s” home in Greenville. Brother Bachman went to Charlotte, while Brother Jeffries went down to Winthrop. The chapter
wishes to express its appreciation to Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood for their kindness in opening their home to the
brothers and for the delightful refreshments served to us there. Many thanks, Brother Hood.

Sunday night the K.A.’s were the guests of the S.A.E.’s at the latter’s house for a feed. Mighty fine, thanks.

PHI GAMS

Phi Gams wandered far and wide as usual. The biggest detachment was headed for Lynchburg; this city was fairly cluttered
with Phi Gams, who were inspired to leave the Davidson campus for more interesting haunts. Included in this Lynchburg trip
were the following brothers: Pharr, W. Taylor, Jesse Wooten, Otts, and Cooke. Of course, a number of Fijis were found
in Charlotte this weekend, including Hart, Howard, Morrow, Northcross, Ragan, Thompson, Darby, Hodges, and McCormack. Frank Barker’s operations during the
weekend included his whipping up to Statesville. Three Fijis were among those who represented Davidson in the track meet with
N.C. State. These brothers were: Brenizer, Taylor, and Nimmons. Brother Oliver traveled home to Wilmington for a brief visit. Brother
Bolin went to Knoxville, Tenn.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The entire chapter enjoyed their annual spring function at the Red Fez Club Friday night. Dr. Knight was the special
guest, and although all happenings are censored, the party dance was a big success. Rabbit Shewmake lived up to his
name and Vosburgh became the official Beachcomber. Brothers Bell, Spencer, and Shannon accompanied the track team to Raleigh, as did
Manager Shewmake. Brothers Youngblood and Vosburgh were at Converse during the later hours of the weekend. Brother Pearsall went to
W.C., while Latimer headed for South Carolina. The chapter is happy to announce the initiation Thursday night of Horace Pearsall,
Mogges, and Rosser Clark.

PHI DELTA THETA

Once again the time has rolled around for the escapades of the different brothers to be transformed into print. Brothers
Chapman and Williams shot down to Spartanburg, S.C., where they spent a quiet (?) weekend playing bridge. Brother Coslett whipped
up to Greensboro for the big dance. Vereen, Pierce, and Archer journeyed to Furman for a tennis match. After the
matches, Brothers Vereen and Pierce attended a dance at Clemson, and Brother Archer operated from Greenville, S.C. to Greensboro, N.C.
(mainly the latter). Brother Connor visited his home in Rock Hill, and Brother Lewis visited Lexington, Va. Brother Rudolph went
to Charlotte, and Brother...

GOLFERS PLAY

[Continued from Page Four]

...day, tomorrow, and Saturday. This tournament is a 72-hole contest, and the team will be playing against such notables as
Clayton Heafner and Johnny Bulla, nationally famous professionals. The Wildcats stroked their way to a 14-7 victory over a strong
team from Apprentice School on Tuesday of last week in Charlotte over the Carolina Country Club course. Sharpe’s brilliant 72
led the 'Cats to victory, with Jack Sharpe taking 3 points with his performance, and Abels’ 76 took 3 more
points. Their great best-ball score of 67 was good for 2 points. Also scoring points for the team were Pete
Cavert with 3 and Stuart with 3. Cavert had a 79 and Rogers an 83. Davidson defeated Hampden-Sydney by the
same score, 14 to 7, last week on Wednesday in Charlotte. In this match, the golfers were led by Jack
Abels, whose 75 was the low score for the day. Sharpe and McReynolds were next with 77's. Reynolds and Cavert
also had good rounds with 79's. Davidson's points were scored by Abels with 1 1-2, Sharpe-Abels 1-2, McReynolds 3, McReynolds-Rogers
3, Rogers 3, and Cavert 3. The varsity team will meet the College of Charleston at the Carolina Country Club
in Charlotte next Tuesday. The Wildcats have previously beaten their opponents in Charleston by the close score of 9 1-2
to 8 1-2. The 'Cats finish their week with a match with Duke in Durham on Thursday. The freshman golf
team will seek to win their first match in Charlotte today against the Junior College of Augusta. Tomorrow they journey
to Durham where they will play the Carolina frosh on the Hillandale Course. Their next match is with Central High
School in Charlotte Tuesday.

Company A Selected As Best Drilled War Strength Platoon

Winning the silver cup presented by the military department, Company “A”, under Cadet Captain Vernon H. Youngblood, took first place
in the annual competitive drill in the Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, April 16. W.J. Bolin's platoon from Company “A” was
chosen as the smoothest-working platoon and was presented a silver cup, while Tom T. Milliken won a medal offered annually
by the Scabbard and Blade Fraternity as the best-drilled freshman. Judging the entire event were: Major D.L. Hardee, Infantry, P.M.S.
and T. at Oak Ridge Military Institute; Major F.J. Beaty, Infantry, executive of the Charlotte Military District of the Organized
Reserves; and Major D.J. Herrin, Infantry, executive of the Winston-Salem Military District of the R.O.T.C. The competitions, which are an
annual event of the Davidson Military Department, were conducted in three phases as follows: company drill, platoon drill, and individual
competition in the manual of arms for the best-drilled freshman. The drill began with the entrance of the entire battalion
in a special formation, each company maneuvered separately before the judges in this manner, then the platoon drill followed a
similar manner, and individual competition ensued. Two freshman representatives were chosen from each of the five companies and the Band.
These were eliminated as they made mistakes in the manual, leaving the three highest-ranking cadets: S.D. Gibbons, F. Sadler, and
T.T. Milliken. Following this drill, the entire battalion returned in parade formation, and after the announcement of winners and their
acknowledgment, passed before the reviewing stand. The next big event in the Military Department's calendar is the annual government inspection,
which will be on Thursday and Friday, May 9 and 10. At this time, the battalion will be anxious to
give the best impression possible to the government inspector in order to continue the “excellent” rating the department has had
in Washington for the past ten years. All who are interested are invited to this event.

A.S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DIAL 2001
DAVIDSON, N.C.

After “lab... pause and Drink
Coca-Cola
TRADE MARK
Delicious and Refreshing

...the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. You taste its quality. Coca-Cola has a delightful taste
that always pleases. Pure, wholesome, delicious, — ice-cold Coca-Cola satisfies completely. So, when you pause throughout the day, pause and
drink ice-cold Coca-Cola. Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE
