McCall Elected Editor ALENDA ORTA Che Dabidsonian LUX UBI LIBERTAS Hackney Heads Seniors Volume XXVIII. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1941 Number 22 PIVAK TO PLAY FOR SPRING FROLICS McCALL NAMED EDITOR QUIPS AND CRANKS Julien
McCall Elected New Editor Of Annual Clean Record Bill Sprunt Loses By Only Six Votes In The Final Ballot TO
SUCCEED TAYLOR The New Staff Will Be Appointed Soon In the final balloting for the editor of QUIPS AND CRANKS,
McCall defeated Bill Sprunt by a margin of six votes. The winner of this election was not decided until the
fourth ballot, after Cam Wilson and Ed Taylor were dropped on the first ballot, Dick Kelly on the second, and
Walter Wooten on the third. The newly-elected editor has been active on the Annual staff for three years, outstanding in
both football and social activities. He served as Football Manager this year and is a member of the D club.
His fraternity is Pi Kappa Phi, of which he is the Pan Hellenic representative for the next year. McCall also
has membership in Phi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity. New Staff Members As yet no assistant editor or other
staff members have been named by the new editor. Announcements of these will come shortly. One of the defeated juniors
will be named assistant editor as has been customary and he will assume his office at once. After the first
ballot, the votes were as follows: McCall, 25; Sprunt, 23; Wooten, 18; and Kelly, 16. After the second ballot Kelly
dropped out, and Sprunt led with McCall and Wooten second and third, respectively. In the third ballot Wooten dropped out
and Sprunt led with 42 votes while McCall had 35. In the final vote McCall won by a margin of
six votes. This ballot was run the day before spring holidays. McCall succeeds Winston Taylor, of Mooresville, in the editorship
of the Quips and Cranks, after the ‘41 issue comes out. R.O.T.C. Rifle Team Shoots With Wofford Davidson’s R.O.T.C. rifle
team closed its 1941 season with a shoulder-to-shoulder match against Wofford in the local rifle range Tuesday afternoon. In sixteen
correspondence matches Davidson's team won eight and lost eight during the season. The team defeated: L.S.U., North Georgia College, University
of Pittsburgh, University of Maine, U.C.L.A., University of Hawaii, New Mexico University, and University of Dayton. In its shoulder-to-shoulder matches
Davidson was outscored by N.C. State and Wofford, while it defeated the Charlotte Gun and Pistol Club. Jay Bolin, captain
of the team, has been consistently the high scorer for the third year. Lt. Marsh has been head coach for
the riflemen, and “has done a wonderful job,” said Bolin. He added, “Burton has also been an invaluable help in
assisting the team.” Debate Team Returns With Victory Davidson debate team composed of Al Winn and Thompson returned from their
invasion of the North last Thursday boasting victory in the only decision debate over Moravian College. This team left Monday
before Spring Holidays and motored to Ashland, Va. where they met Randolph-Macon College the following day. Here Winn and Thompson
let their hosts pick the side of the question for debate, and consequently the Davidson pair upheld the affirmative as
they did at the other institutions debated. Query for debate was, “Resolved: that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should
form a permanent Union.” The next match was with Haverford College in Pennsylvania. This was the second of the non-decision
debates. However, information that the judges favored the visitors in the oratorical battle was offered. Moravian College at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
dropped the next match to the Davidson Debaters. Here the judges actually gave the nod to Winn and Thompson in
the only decision match of the trip. With the debate Wednesday against Hampden-Sydney the trip ended. Like the other matches,
Davidson was favored by the judges’ criticism over the small Virginian Presbyterian team. Although only four institutions were met in
debate, Thompson and Winn visited other colleges where they looked into the life of these institutions and compared notes with
members of their debating teams. Universities visited included Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.; the University of Maryland at College Park,
Maryland; Lehigh University at Bethlehem; and the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Virginia. College Expresses Appreciation To Dr. W. L.
Lingle For His Loyal Service Richards and Bahnson Talk In Behalf of Faculty and Student Body At the regular chapel
service Friday morning, April 4, Dr. Cunningham led a program of appreciation for the loyalty and faithfulness which Dr. W.
L. Lingle has shown during his thirty-nine years of service with Davidson College. Hank Bahnson, President of the Student body,
expressed the feelings of the students toward the resignation of active duties of the retiring president. Dr. C. M. Richards,
long associated with Dr. Lingle as classmate, as fellow minister, and here as faculty member, was asked to speak for
the faculty. He pointed out the success of Dr. Lingle’s administration during the trying years of the depression from the
financial, constructive, and literary viewpoints. He stressed the rise of Davidson in the eyes of the church and the public
at large. He spoke of the emphasis on the ideals of the church during Lingle’s years of presidency. Throughout most
of his life the name of W. L. Lingle has been connected with Davidson. He graduated in the class of
1892. He then studied at the University of Chicago and Union Theological Seminary. He later filled pulpits in Dalton, Ga.,
Rock Hill, S.C., and Atlanta, Ga. He has also held such high posts in the Presbyterian Church as Moderator of
the General Assembly, President of the Assembly’s Training School, and Professor of Church History at Union Theological Seminary. He was
elected to the Board of Trustees in 1902, of which body he was president for a number of years. In
1929 he answered his call to Davidson. (Continued on Page Six) Town Vote Selects Beaty Last Friday the qualified voters
of the Town of Davidson held a meeting for the purpose of nominating a new mayor and Board of Commissioners.
At this meeting Mayor Beaty and the present Board of Commissioners were renominated. There were no other nominations which means
that the officers will be automatically re-elected. Mayor Beaty has held office since last October when he was elected to
serve the unexpired term of Thomas Griffith. Thomas Griffith died last August after holding office for six years. In 1921
Beaty was graduated from Davidson. After this he took four years of graduate study attending the University of South Carolina
and traveling abroad to Italy and Germany. At the University of South Carolina he received his A.B., B.D. and M.A.
degrees. After teaching one year at the University of Tennessee, he returned to Davidson to teach Latin and German. Since
being at Davidson, Beaty has been active in civic work. Cordial And Gracious By Bill Lyman Feeling a little shy,
I rang the bell of the President's Mansion Sunday night to visit Dr. Cunningham and his wife. The door was
opened by a lovely lady who said, “How do you do. Please come in.” The genuine warmth and graciousness of
her immediately dismissed any shyness that I may have felt. The lovely lady was Mrs. Cunningham, and my comfort was
complete when Dr. Cunningham came in and cordially asked me to have a seat. The conversation was very informal and
pleasant. Despite the differences inages and interests, his wife. manner ease were not to be found. The discus- sense alert
and searching mind. a lot of poise.

CLASS ELECTIONS

Results of Tuesday's voting gave Claude a substantial lead over Ed Lucas for president of the rising class—the figures being
42 and 28. The race for vice-president left Frank Caldwell ahead of Dick Kelly with a vote of 37 to
25. Also in this class’s elections, Walter Wooten led Tommy Yarborough with a vote of 35 to 32 for secretary-treasurer.
Hackney, a senior, led the junior class election with a vote of 28 to Johnny Frederick’s 25 and Matt Long's
23. For the senior class, Scotty Paterson led with 37 votes, Ed Murray had 26, and Wellford Hobbie had twenty.
McCoy was in the lead over Jack Wayman and Rufus Nimmons by votes of 32, 25, and 23, respectively. In
the elections of the rising sophomore class, Dick O’Hair led Price Gwynn by a vote of 56 to 41. Alf
Taylor led Tommy Bumbarger and Rhea Dabney with votes of 42, 39, and 28 respectively. Four were left in the
race for secretary-treasurer: Bob Amos and Thomas Burke tied for first place with thirty votes each, with Paul Neisler and
Leonard Pharr trailing with 27 votes each. Those leading on the first ballot for their respective offices were: Hackney, Caldwell,
Yarborough, Long, Patterson, McCoy, Gwynn, Taylor, and Neisler.

CHARLIE SPIVAK

New President Found Interesting

Discussions flowed to various topics with ease, and always proved both interesting and entertaining, thanks to my hosts. Dr. Cunningham
impressed me as a man with a great deal of common sense and intellect, possessing an alert and searching mind.
He has a lot of poise and a magnetic personality that is irresistible. Mrs. Cunningham is charming and gracious. She
has a beautiful way of speaking, with a quick, disarming smile that seems part of her. Dr. Lingle To Address
Many Organizations

President Will Take Extensive Tour Through South and East.

Dr. Walter Lingle’s retirement from the presidency of Davidson College acted as a stimulus to his many outside activities. Among
the many engagements for the coming months are sermons, commencement addresses, and several conferences. Dr. Lingle’s itinerary is as follows:
April sixth till the eleventh, at the First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, S. C.; on Easter, a sermon at the
Raleigh Church; April 15, a Conference of Young People at Hickory, N. C.; on the 20th, a sermon at the
Banner Elk Presbyterian Church; April 27, First Presbyterian Church at Winston-Salem, and on April 28, a lecture to the Woman's
Auxiliary at Greensboro. During May, another round of engagements commences at Ebenezer Presbyterian Church at Rock Hill, S.C., with the
High School Commencement address. On the eleventh of May, he speaks at the First Church of Raleigh, and the next
Sunday leads the Presbyterian Church at Pulaski, Va. On the twenty-fifth and twenty-seventh, he will speak at the dedication services
at Cornelius Presbyterian Church, followed by commencement exercises at the School for the Deaf and Junior College respectively. On June
first, another series of sermons will be delivered at the First Presbyterian Church at Raleigh, and on June fourth, the
commencement address at Elkins, West Virginia. Starting on June eighth, a series of three sermons will be delivered at the
Davis College, West Virginia. On July twelfth, the President Emeritus will attend the Presbyterian Conference to be held at Kerrville,
Texas.

Seniors Plan Annual Affair

Davidson's annual Open House, which will be sponsored again this year by the Senior Class, will be on Thursday afternoon,
April 17th, when a large number of faculty members and friends of the college will visit the first floors of
all the dormitories. Bob Lefever has been appointed chairman of the committee on arrangements for the event and reports that
plans are about completed. Over 200 invitations will be sent to faculty members and their wives, townspeople, trustees, some prospective
freshmen, and other persons interested in Davidson. Mrs. N. T. Smith will act as hostess for the official occasion, and
visitors will register at Watts. Refreshments will be served in Mrs. Smith's parlor under her supervision. Dr. John Cunningham, new
president of Davidson, will be the honor guest of the affair. Lefever said that the event will serve to show
Dr. Cunningham how the students live. All of the first floors of the dormitories will be open for visiting, while
the second and third floors of Duke Dormitory will be inspected in addition. Chairmen for each dormitory have been appointed,
and the visitors will be welcomed and shown around by students.

Pan-Hellenic Council Signs Charlie Spivak

Well-Known Orchestra Will Play At Spring Dance Set On May 2-3

TICKETS ARE $6.00

Orchestra Features Trumpet. Seventeen-Piece

Hector McLean, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced the signing of Charlie Spivak and his orchestra to play for the
Spring Dance Set to be held at the Charlotte Armory on May 2 and 3. The set will consist of
four dances and is to be priced at six dollars. There will be tea dances both Friday and Saturday, the
formal dance Friday night, and the informal dance Saturday night.

Seventeen Pieces

Spivak's seventeen artists travel south fresh from a recently completed four-month engagement at the Glen Island Casino in New Rochelle,
N. Y., where he was heard twice daily over an N.B.C. network. They are now playing before packed houses at
the New York Strand Theatre. The group will fill a short engagement at the exclusive Ritz Club in Bridgeport, Conn.,
before playing for dances at the University of Georgia, the band leader's native state, and then at Davidson. The Charlie
Spivak band's style is built around the trumpet, which is classed among the best in the business. The orchestra specializes
in sweet swing but plays a little of the so-called "hot" pieces. Because of its clear-cut, novel interpretations and excellent
swing arrangements, Spivak's recordings are in great demand. The band is reported to have inspired by the highly successful engagements
at the Sign of the Million Dollar Drum, Cincinnati; Castle Farms, Cincinnati; Buckeye Lake and Yankee Lake, Ohio; Beach Pier,
Atlantic City; Summit Beach, Akron; Totem Pole Ballroom, Boston. The Friday tea dance will be from 5:30 to 7:30 and
the Saturday afternoon dance from 4:00 to 6:00.

Dr. Clifford E. Barbour Selected To Speak At Annual Spring Services

The Services Will Be Held Twice Daily On April 22, 23, and 24.

For the annual Davidson spring services to be held April 22-23, the Y cabinet, under the auspices of Shaw Smith,
has elected Dr. Clifford E. Barbour of the Second Presbyterian Church of Knoxville. These services afford the students opportunities for
extended chapel talks and services nightly during a three-day period. Dr. Barbour is of English descent, both parents having been
born in that country. His mother, Jennie Rigg, was born in Manchester and came to America at a very early
age. His father, Alfred Barbour, was born in St. Helens, England, and came to the United States at about twenty
years of age. Dr. Barbour was born on January 26, 1895, in Pittsburgh. He attended the public schools in that
city and received his B.A. at the University of Pittsburgh. After finishing at Western Theological Seminary, he attended the University
of Edinburgh, Scotland, where he obtained his Ph.D. Degree.
