THE DAVIDSONIAN Thurs. Feb. 6, 1941

The old abdicated his column just this once to let a lesser light contribute a bit to the “Y” column. He returns again next week, however, with “ducktail” maestro his will and all other accouterments! Thanks to the cooperative efforts of the student body, the work of the “Y” has shown more interest each month since school opened. Thanks are due to the good representation Davidson had at several rallies over the State this year. The “Y-Gift Fund” is slowly but surely progressing. Better watch out, Big Don Bell is operating without his service committee appointed by Coach Shaw. Smith and Pool require four new books in the Library since the last Davidsonian. They are of the reference type; namely, Farmers in a Changing World by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, The Phi Beta Kappa Directory, 1941 edition, American Air Almanac, and Story of Super-Finish by Arthur M. Wigert.

Spring Services
The speakers for the Spring Services will be announced later. By the way, would you suggest somebody you would like to hear in the Spring Services? Speakers are selected approximately two or three months in advance, and they don’t expect completeness of this nature today. Handsome Bob LeFever is under capable guidance there. It’s nice to see the boys dropping in for a manly game of checkers. Magazines are used frequently—as long as they stay in one piece. Take a peek at them sometime. Greetings! Friends greet the boys in general via a letter from Greensboro where they both attended the Orange Synod conference last weekend. Those boys from foreign mission fields should be given a hand for all the work which they have done in the way of speaking to various congregations in the vicinity of Davidson. They have enlightened many congregations.

See you at the “Y”!

ED WATSON

Vesper Service Led By Dr. Louis Schenck
Plan Of Living Christian Life Is Theme Of Sermon

Sunday’s vesper service was led by Dr. Louis Schenck. The text was taken from the thirty-sixth verse of the thirty-sixth Psalm: “With Thee is the fountain of life.”

Library News
A loan exhibit of first editions and hand-tooled leather bindings is on display in the exhibition case of the Davidson College Library. The books have been lent to the Library by Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming. First collected editions of Drayton, the Elizabethan poet, and Thomson, author of The Seasons which is usually considered to have heralded the Romantic movement, and the first American edition of Jane Austen’s Persuasion are in the exhibit. Inscribed copies of works by Henry Van Dyke, Mary Ellen Chase, William Lyon Phelps, and hand-tooled bindings of English, French, and American craftsmanship are shown.

COLLEGE HOLDS THE INTERCOLLEGIATE RECORD FOR CONSECUTIVE BASKETBALL WINS. THEY PILED UP 55 VICTORIES IN A ROW.

The Phi Beta Kappa Directory contains the names, addresses at the time of graduation, alma mater, and year of graduation of Phi Beta Kappa members graduated from American universities and colleges. The American Air Almanac, issued by the U.S. Naval Observatory, is a set of astronomical tables useful to aviators. The last book, called The Story of Super-Finish, was written by Arthur M. Wigert, Director of Production Research in the Chrysler Corporation. It is an excellent study of the importance of the final touches in the mechanical end of modern industry and takes the reader through various stages from crudeness in early production to the perfection of today. For men interested in mechanics, this would be an excellent book to read.

ACTION! FLASH! CAMERA!
No, it’s not the familiar cry of the newsreel movie director. Rather, it’s the call to every camera bug on the campus to dig out his best pictures of the year and enter them in Collegiate Digest’s fourth annual Salon Edition competition. This photo contest, conducted each year, invites amateur photographers to submit their prize-winning photos to be featured in the Salon Edition, a special annual edition that is a showing of the best work done by collegiate photographers.

THEY GET OUT OF MY SIGHT
AUTOMOBILE FATALITIES AT NIGHT

During what part of the 24-hour day are most persons being killed on our highways? Statistics show that although most of the automobile traffic is in the daytime, most of the fatalities occur at night. Six out of every ten deaths occur while three out of every four cars are safely garaged for the night. These highly pertinent facts are revealed in “Lest We Regret,” the ninth in an annual series of booklets published by The Travelers Insurance Company in the interests of highway safety. During the period from 1930 through 1937, deaths due to automobile accidents during the hours of darkness increased 54.5%, while fatalities during daylight actually decreased 5.4%. Drivers! When the Sun Goes Down, Slow Down.

SIGMA DELTA PI
The regular bi-monthly meeting of Sigma Delta Pi, the Spanish club, was held last Monday night. It was the first meeting of the club which has been held since the examinations. After the usual business was taken up, there was a discussion of new members. Vice-President William Summerville took charge with a short program about the life and works of the Argentine author, Ricardo Guiraldes. The meeting was then closed by President Barnwell.

Watercolor paintings by Iowa State college women were recently accepted by the Joslyn Memorial in Omaha, Nebraska. The University of Texas students earn nearly all or part of their way through school. University of Minnesota students and faculty members are planning their first joint hobby show. Cadets at The Citadel, South Carolina military college, daily consume 1,730 quarts of milk. Cincinnati University has students from every continent except Africa.with photographers during the rewarded year. Winners receive a cash prize, publication of their pictures, and participation in a traveling photo exhibit that is displayed at leading college art centers throughout the country. A special $25 cash award will go to the person submitting the outstanding print of the salon contest. This is the largest and most widely known of all college camera contests and is open to both students and faculty members. Although the experienced amateur is aided by the use of special equipment, ordinary cameras often take winning pictures, as previous Salon contests have proved. It’s the picture that counts, not the equipment. Don’t think your 98-cent camera can’t produce a winner!

All material must be sent no later than April 1 to: Salon Editor, Collegiate Digest Section, 323 Fawkes Building, Minneapolis, Minn. Send technical data about each photo submitted. Give college year and faculty standing of the photographer. Information about the subject of the photo will be helpful. Pictures should be no larger than 3 x 5 inches.

These facts, the booklet points out, are a challenge to traffic experts to devise physical safeguards which will eliminate some of this nighttime slaughter. They are a challenge to public officials to put into force whatever legal restrictions may be necessary to curb these crashes. Most of all, they are a challenge to drivers and pedestrians to double their caution in driving and walking at night. Highway safety, in the final analysis, will never be achieved through the efforts of a few engineers, public officials, and lawmakers. Only the combined efforts of 40,000,000 drivers and 100,000,000 pedestrians will accomplish it.

First place winners in each division will receive cash awards of $25, second and third place winners, $5 and $3 respectively. There is no entry fee, and each individual may submit as many photos as he desires. Photos will be returned if adequate postage accompanies entries.

SELECT YOUR VALENTINES FROM OUR WIDE VARIETY. YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE, DAVIDSON, N.C.

IT PAYS TO LOOK WELL! LET US PRESENT YOU WITH ANOTHER TONSORIAL MASTERPIECE. NORTON’S BARBER SHOP, DAVIDSON, N.C.

DO YOU WANT THE BEST IN GROCERIES AND FRESH MEATS AT REASONABLE PRICES? VISIT J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY. Dial 5041, Davidson, N.C.

CAROL BRUCE of “LOUISIANA PURCHASE” says a smoker likes a cigarette that’s milder and better-tasting. Chesterfield has so many things smokers like. You always enjoy Chesterfield’s cooler, better taste, and they’re really milder—not strong or harsh. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields. You can’t buy a better cigarette.