SEE “THE BLUE GHOST”

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1941 No. 12

Masquers To Offer “The Blue Ghost”
Thriller, Presented by Students, Is Directed By Miss Hood
SHAW SMITH TO STAR
Play To Be Presented In Chambers On Tuesday Night

Red and Black Masquers are hustling with their preparations for curtain time of that spine-tingling mystery drama, “The Blue Ghost,” which they will present in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, December 10, at 8:00 P.M.

Elaborate Lights
It is revealed that elaborate lighting effects are being prepared, which will add to the eerie atmosphere of the setting. Professor Erwin of the English department has been hard at work planning and constructing the scenery. Assisting him and especially interested in the new lighting experiments are Paul Welch and John Fite Robertson. These improved background effects are expected to add much to the attractiveness of the play.

Miss Hood Is Directing
Miss Kalista Hood, daughter of Professor Hood of the faculty, is director of the play. Her dramatic experience has been wide, including appearances in “You Can't Take It With You” and with a Shakespeare company for six months.

The Cast
Shaw Smith in the title role of “The Blue Ghost” will be supported by an able cast. John Northcross will appear as Dr. DeFormer, a nervous, middle-aged man, who speaks in a sort of off tone. Doug Swink takes the part of a half-maniac dope addict. Jasper, the negro servant upon whom much of the comedy of the show depends, will be played by Tom Milliken. Miss Clara Smith of Davidson will be a woman newspaper reporter. Ernie Webster will play the part of a heavy-set, hard-boiled policeman, Inspector Wise. Frank Mebane will pose as an ex-convict, Frank Holt, and Tony Darby will be a stranger.

The plot of the play is developed from a situation in which the characters find themselves together in a castle owned by Dr. DeFormer in which a murder has been committed and which is supposedly haunted. There are several contacts with the Blue Ghost, who threatens them over a radio hookup, not to mention the fact that the castle is mined with a charge of TNT. Inspector Wise sets out to solve the mystery with very comic results.

Latin’s Fate Is Extinction
Dr. C. R. Harding, of the ancient language department at Davidson College, is asking the social organizations of North Carolina to aid in helping promote Latin in the public schools of the state. In a recent letter to the editor of one of the state’s largest newspapers, Dr. Harding tells of the way in which the Latin language is rapidly losing ground in the curricula of the schools. He stated that the modern languages, French, Spanish, and German, are competing with Latin and more students are choosing these instead of Latin. The Latin professor puts the blame jointly on the parents of the students who are ignorant of the value of Latin, and on the neglect or indifference of the state school officials. He says that these officials should know what is best (Continued on page five).

Military Frat May Have To Be Disbanded
Constitution Provides For Its Inactivity In Time Of Conflict.

Since the outbreak of the present struggle between the United States and Japan, rumors have been circulating around the campus concerning the disbandment of the Scabbard and Blade. In the constitution of the honorary military fraternity, there is a section providing for the organization’s inactivity in time of national conflict. It is not certain whether this will apply to the present situation.

World War I
In the last World War, the Scabbard and Blade was disbanded because all the cadet officers who composed the organization were immediately inducted into active service. The war in which we are now involved is of such a nature that our navy and air force will be the main participants. This being true, the army will probably not be called on to any large extent unless the situation becomes more complicated.

Walter Wooten
Walter Wooten, lieutenant-colonel of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Battalion, said that “now is the time that this organization should be active. Not only does it create an interest in the military, but it is an incentive for the men in R.O.T.C. to strive to be better officers. In these ways, it is thought that the Scabbard and Blade will be a help instead of a hindrance to our government. In view of these facts, it is hoped that the national headquarters might revoke this section of the constitution and allow the Scabbard and Blade to remain an active organization.” At present, the local chapter has already tapped new members and will continue as usual until further orders have been received from headquarters.

Freshman Is Badly Burned
Jack Horschel was seriously burned Thursday afternoon, December 4, by the explosion of potassium nitrate, red phosphorus, and sulfur while mixing them in his room. Seated at his desk, Horschel began to slowly stir the chemicals with his fingers. The friction of this action caused the highly combustible phosphorus to explode. The sudden explosion and flaring up of the chemicals burned Horschel’s chest and face badly, blowing off the front of his shirt and sweater. Realizing his body was on fire, he grabbed a coat and extinguished the sulfur bubbles which were all over him. After putting out the flame on his bed, he went to the infirmary where he received medical attention. An anedote was applied to his face to prevent, if possible, scar tissues. An ambulance was called from Mooresville which carried him to the Charlotte Memorial Hospital, where an eye specialist as well as other doctors were consulted to determine his condition. His eyes are all right, the doctors think. Horschel said, “I didn’t sleep at all the first night. Seeing the grayness of dawn, I thought I had lost my eyesight. After waiting a couple of hours I saw the sunlight and was greatly relieved.”

Members of the cast of “The Blue Ghost,” Red and Black Masquers, are pictured with Miss Kalista Hood, director of the play, and Professor E. J. Erwin, faculty advisor for the dramatic organization. Shaw Smith playing the title role is supported by John Northcross, Doug Swink, Tom Milliken, Ernie Webster, Frank Holt, Tony Darby, and Mrs. Clara Smith.

Prices Of All Orchestras Have Skyrocketed
“Well, who'd you sign up?” was the question the student body asked the Pan-Hellenic council when they returned two weeks ago. This question was discussed at a called meeting of the student body Thursday evening, December 4, in Chambers Auditorium. Pat Rudolph, president of the council, led the discussion with a brief talk followed by a general discussion. Pat encouraged the students to give full support if they desired to have a name band for Mid-Winters.

The purpose of the trip to New York was to get a line on bands in which the council is interested for Mid-Winters. Some of these are the bands of Benny Goodman, Vaughn Monroe, Claude Thornhill, Charlie Spivak, Glen Gray, and Harry Jones. “Prices in the line as in everything else seem to have skyrocketed,” said Rudolph. “Last year we could pay for Charlie Spivak with an ordinary attendance, but with only past attendance Spivak's price is now over our head. Two hundred fifty set tickets at past prices would not pay for Spivak.

Rudolph Discusses Bands With Students
“Outside of the orchestra, other expenses include payment for rent of the armory, decorations, attendants, publicity, printing, flowers, etc. The question is: Do we want a ‘name band’ — because if we do, we'll have to have better attendance this year than we've had in the past.

“There are approximately 670 students in the college, and there are four dance sets a year. By all laws of averages, there ought to be at least half the student body attending the dances. But there aren't. Fraternity men, especially, should support the dances. You're the ones who would get any profit if there ever would be one.”

Rudolph mentioned several schools who have had bands with a big name. He compared the size and type of these institutions to Davidson. He said Davidson can afford to secure big orchestras if similar schools can. “If we would all pitch in and attend the four social affairs of the year, the price of our set tickets would be reduced. The only basis that we can rely on for thePrice of a set ticket is past attendance. Then there is that miserable U.S. government tax. (Now Continued on Page Five) as to some of the bands.

Davidson To Hold Annual Christmas Vesper Service In Chambers Sunday Night

Davidson NYA Allotment Is Greatly Cut

It was learned recently that because of the increasing cost of our national defense program, all funds allotted for N.Y.A. work must suffer a nation-wide cut of about 20 percent. Davidson College, as well as all other colleges and universities in the country, must come under this ruling. Davidson received an allotment of $7,290 for the school year 1941-1942, and will be dedicated accordingly.

Fifteen To Be Dismissed

Professor Fleagle, chairman of the N.Y.A. board, stated that it will be necessary to drop at least fifteen boys from the present working list. This large cut must take place because of the large amount used in the payrolls of the first three months, based on the original money grant. It is the desire of the board to keep the most needy and worthy boys on the payroll. It is their plan to communicate with all concerned before the coming vacation in order that some of the boys may settle their finances with their families in such a way that they will enable them to drop off the N.Y.A. rolls voluntarily.

Cut of $2,000,000

Professor Fleagle said that “this cut may seem quite drastic in the eyes of some who need financial aid to continue their education. It should be stated, however, that the cut will exceed $2,000,000 and must be shared equally throughout the country.”

U.S.S. NORTH CAROLINA RECEIVES BIBLES

The following letter was received this morning from Captain O.C. Badger, Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. North Carolina, expressing his appreciation to the student body for the Bibles given to his ship as a part of the Christian Gift Fund.

The Davidson Student Body:

Through the courtesy of Rev. Gilbert Darlington, Treasurer of the American Bible Society, we have now received a total of 350 copies of the King James translation of the Bible, which were the gift of the young men of Davidson College to the men of the U.S.S. North Carolina. Such evidence of Christian fellowship on the part of civilian friends is greatly appreciated by service men; and, in the North Carolina, we particularly appreciate this generous and timely action by the student body of Davidson College. There is no measuring the good these Bibles may do, nor the comfort and encouragement they may bring to our men in the months to come.

With personal thanks, I am,

Sincerely yours,

O.C. BADGER, Captain U.S. Navy, Commanding Officer, U.S.S. North Carolina.

DR. VOWLES TO SPEAK

Dr. G.R. Vowles, professor of German at Davidson, has been asked to read a paper Friday at Guilford College at their regular chapel program. This paper is the same which he read at the meeting of the North Carolina Educational Association last March in Asheville. The title of the paper is “Why Study German in 1941?” The paper is soon to be published in a modern language journal.

Davidsonian’s Story Proves Aid To Police

Marcus Keel Is Arrested In West Palm Beach

Scoring a new triumph recently, The Davidsonian aided in the capture of Marcus Keel who had been posing as the nephew of Dr. M.E. Sentelle. Appearing in the October 23 issue of The Davidsonian was a story warning relatives of Davidson students to beware of a man who was traveling through the South trying to borrow funds from relatives of students and faculty members. It is believed from reliable sources that this man was placed under arrest in West Palm Beach, Florida, on December 1.

Friend Of Owens

Marcus Keel, the arrested man, visited the office of Mr. James M. Owens in that city and tried to borrow $25. Mr. Owens, however, was out of town so Keel talked with Mrs. Owens over the telephone telling her of his close friendship with young Jim, a student here at Davidson. Mrs. Owens, realizing that the man was contradicting himself, told him that she could not help him, but if he contacted Mr. T.I. McIntosh, the father of Henry McIntosh, he could possibly secure the needed money. Mrs. Owens then phoned Mr. McIntosh to tell him of her opinion on the sincerity of Keel's story. Soon afterwards the latter telephoned Mr. McIntosh and made an appointment with him. Remembering the article which had appeared in The Davidsonian, Mr. McIntosh promptly laid a trap for the criminal.

Stetson Student

In the meantime, Keel, however, had made an appointment with Mr. Paul Twitty, a West Palm Beach lawyer, who has a daughter at Stetson College. Learning that Dr. Ris Ward of West Palm Beach had given $5 to a young man who falsely pretended to know Dr. Ward’s daughter at Stetson, Mr. Twitty notified the police. A detective arrived ahead of Keel and stood outside Mr. Twitty’s office so the latter, questioning him, learned that he had no acquaintance at Stetson.

Makes Dash

Realizing that he would get no money, Keel made a dash for the door when Mr. Twitty answered a long-distance telephone call and was stopped by the detective, who slipped handcuffs on him and escorted him to the county jail. The October 23 issue of The Davidsonian was turned over to the police department and aided in charging Keel, age 27, with a large number of crimes of false pretenses that has been carried on in a number of Southern States. At press time The Davidsonian was unable to learn the nature of the sentence passed on the criminal.

Davidson College Musical Organizations To Collaborate With Organizations Of Queens College

“Hallelujah Chorus,” From The “Messiah,” to Climax Program

Davidson College’s annual Christmas Vesper Service will be presented in Chambers Auditorium Sunday, December 14, at 7:30 P.M.

Handel's “Messiah”

All the selections, as in the past, will be given by the Musical Departments of Davidson and Queens Colleges. Chambers Building will be blacked out to provide a contrast for the shining Moravian Christmas star which will hang in front of the building. The organ prelude will consist of the overture to Handel's “Messiah,” followed by the choir’s rendition of Leinbach’s “Hosanna.” The college Y.M.C.A., represented by Jim Owens, will offer the invocation. This will be followed by the entire congregation in singing “O Come All Ye Faithful.”

Morton To Read

Selected passages of the scripture concerning the prophecy, The Birth, and The Adoration, being next on the program will also be read by Fred Morton. After that, the whole congregation will join in singing familiar Christmas Carols. This year’s service will be closed by the choir’s rendition of “The Hallelujah Chorus,” from the “Messiah,” and the pronouncing of the benediction by Dr. Cunningham.

Soloists

Soloists for the service will be Mrs. John R. Boyd, soprano; Earl Berg, baritone; and Frank Nummers, tenor. Mr. Berg and Mr. James C. Pfohl will conduct the college musical organizations, while Kenneth Osborne will act as organist. The organizations participating are: the choir of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, the Queens Choral Club, the Davidson Glee Club, the Queens-Davidson Symphony, and the Davidson Symphonic Band. Following the service all members of the Queens organizations will be entertained by the students of the Glee Club and Orchestra.

Magazine Will Appear Soon

The December issue of “Scripts 'n Pranks” is expected to be released the latter part of this week, according to an announcement made by Dan Hodges, editor of the humor magazine. According to Hodges, “the cover is decidedly different from that of former issues, using an entirely new color process.” It was designed by John Northcross, who also drew a number of illustrations for the inner pages.

“Another new feature of this issue is the three-column layout which will replace the usual two-column page.”

Short stories in this issue are: “Incident at Noon” by Bill Sprunt; “Christmas, 1941: London,” by Gordon Horton; also, “And Silence Speaks,” by Tony Darby. Hodges also said that “there is a football feature listing the best players of our team during the past season along with information concerning the best players faced by the local boys.” Another sports story is an article on “Davidson-Wake Forest Athletic Relations.” “Something of special interest to all is an article on Davidson Stu- [Continued on Page Six]