Thurs., Feb. 13, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question of The Week

A pertinent question to the mind of young collegiates has proved of late to be: “Shall we abolish Hell Week?” This period has often been considered a time of hardship on the fraternity pledges. Let's hear what a cross-section of the fraternity men think.

Russell Edmondson, Senior: Doing away with Hell Week has its advantages. It is a little hard on the Freshmen and might render them some temporary physical disabilities. It also takes up some valuable time which could be spent on the books—but having gone through “Hell Week,” I think of it as something that I’m glad I didn’t miss. It’s something to look back on as a vivid memory of college life. So I think some form of Hell Week should remain on the Davidson Campus. Initiation into a fraternity should have some type of discipline.

Jim Owens, Junior: The abolishment of Hell Week in a fraternity takes definitely a great deal out of the life of such a group both from the standpoint of the fraternity and of the pledge class. A well-planned and well-conducted Hell Week with constructive aims in view means much to a pledge class. The freshmen expect such an initiation and I'm not in favor of disappointing them.

Ashby Dick, Sophomore: I think that Hell Week should definitely remain a part of the fraternity initiation on our campus. Aside from the fact that a great deal of wholesome enjoyment is derived from this practice of informal initiation, by both initiates and initiators, the true value and appreciation for the fraternity is more deeply instilled into the pledge.

Tommy Bumbarger, Freshman: In my opinion, students come to college to get something besides what they get in class. The fraternity helps to give us this extra something and Hell Week is a vital part of fraternity life. Although I do think outright hazing should be objectionable, I see no reason why Hell Week should be abolished.

Bob Finley, Senior: Being now upon the sublime heights of senior hill, I survey the subject of the “Week of Torment” with a much altered opinion. One “informal” abolishment of Hell Week removes from the life of the student memories that he would hold dear in later years. I think that Hell Week should be somewhat “limited” but not abolished.

Julien McCall, Junior: I think every boy that pledges a fraternity expects a little horse-play. I can say for myself that I expected and enjoyed “Hell Week.” My idea of the regular initiation period is to bind the boys together and give them something in common. The best way to accomplish this is to have a mutual danger called Hell Week. As to the idea of someone getting hurt, I would like to have someone cite a case of a “Hell Week” injury, beyond a few scratches and bruises. I would like to see “Hell Week” return to Davidson, and really think we would be better off with it.

Delayed Exams

Mr. Hengeveld announces that post-examinations will be given during the spring holidays for those students who were absent during the regular exam period. This plan was approved last week by the faculty. A schedule will be made out before the holidays, and no exams will be given before March twenty-seventh.

Gamma Sigma Hears Papers, Initiates Two

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the national chemical fraternity, initiated two new members, Jim Kerr and Ed Maxwell, at its meeting some time ago. These men were issued invitations before but were not taken into the fraternity due to the absence of one. Also at a recent meeting several papers were presented to the group. Sam Welborn gave a paper on chemical catalysts, and Tad Larkin presented another paper on the determination of crystal structure and quantitative chemical analysis by means of X-rays. Plans are now being made by the fraternity to have a man from a nearby town to speak on the value of chemistry as a career. Motion pictures on the subject of the chemical industry will be shown in the near future. These will be open to the entire student body.

Library Adds Debate Books to Collection

By TONY DARBY

“Music hath charms to still the savage breast.” This quotation, probably from the pen of some former Davidsonian editor, seems to be quite a watchword on the campus, to judge from various certain noises to be heard issuing from the showers at various times. There is a class which might be termed start-the-day-righters. These gentlemen arise in the wee small hours and bathe before breakfast. They are wont to give vent to various peppy tunes full of cheer and smacking of cold water and chattering teeth.

ROTC Rinsers

A second group, known as the after-drill-dragoons, invades the showers about four o'clock and in consequence a virtual avalanche of hillbilly music issues forth. “Maple on the Hill” sung in high country tenor is their specialty. Almost as soon as the last ROTC rinser has left and the odor of Lifebuoy starts drifting in, the underclassmen start drifting in. Billy is quite prominent in this group, but operatic baritone solos are also in order. The effect of “Old Man River” and “Sentimental Side” sung simultaneously is truly wonderful.

Dating Dousers

Next come the pre-date-dandies who get all spruced up for a courting jaunt. No Romeo. No soft sentimental tunes from the shower room. Sung with feeling and only two tones flat. Last of all come the balmy bed-bathers. Such tunes as “Show Me the Way to Go Home” and “Sweet Adeline” heard, issue punctuated by frequent yawns.

Thoughtful students have recommended the installation of showers in the auditorium in order to inspire better living singing at chapel.

Notes

Three books new to the Davidson Library pertain to current affairs. “The Dynamics of War and Revolution” by Lawrence Dennis is radical and anti-British, but its facts are probably truer than anyone else might admit. Dennis is also the author of “Is Capitalism Doomed?” and “The Coming American Fascism.” The following is a part of his introduction: “Let it be said that in undertaking to explain rather than advocate (1) the current decline and fall of capitalism and democracy; and (2) the new revolution which is worldwide and just beginning in this country. I do not seek to show what can or should be done to save democracy and capitalism to stop the revolution. I am concerned over what can and should be done for the best interests of the American people, not of a system during developments which are inevitable and already in progress.”

“Western Hemisphere Defense” is along the lines of the current intercollegiate debate, “Resolved: The nations of the Western Hemisphere should enter into a permanent Union.” Robert Ray Nichols, compiler of the material, said that the scope of the book has limited the number of articles. The book deals with the following subjects: Military Situation, Economic Situation, and The Political-Imperialism of Hemisphere Defense.

“Compulsory Military Training,” a discussion of the outstanding memories of my pledge group, is compiled by John S. Johnson. This book gives the ideas of famous men in the world today concerning compulsory military training. These books are good for general reading as well as for aids in the current debate.

Pi Gamma Mu

Pi Gamma Mu held a meeting Monday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.m. at the home of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles. A program planned for the evening consisted of a study of the life, works, and letters of the Swiss biographer, Dr. J. E. Vuilleumier. Dr. Vuilleumier is an author who has written several books and articles which have been widely read.thing. Gaines Stubbins, Freshman: I think that abolishing “Hell Week” will make it harder for the pledges of any one fraternity to gain the close bond of brotherhood that they should ordinarily have.

DELICIOUS SIZZLING STEAKS
THE LIT
Davidson, North Carolina
APPRECIATES YOUR PATRONAGE

has corresponded with Dr. Hears Gwynn D. Vowles has reviewed a number of his books. Professor Discusses Value Of publications. After the review of Dr. Vuilleumier’s first book, Dr. Vowles received a letter of thanks from the author and thus their acquaintance and correspondence began. Vuilleumier’s works deal with the psychological problems of modern Europe. With the tension and censure in Europe, Switzerland is the only European country in which books may be sold. The principles written seem to be from a sincere and open-minded thinker of a war-torn continent.

Religious Education
“The Education of the Christian” was a paper read by Prof. Gwynn of the Davidson Faculty at a meeting of Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science fraternity, February 1st at the BLE house. In discussing what must be done to keep religion alive, Dr. Gwynn emphasized the importance of Christian education in school and home as well as Sunday school. The discussion which followed the reading of the paper centered around religious life at Davidson. It was decided that new members would be elected a month from now. Plans were discussed to sponsor a speaker in the near future.

BELIEVE IT OR NOT!!
“THE DAVIDSONIAN”
Rest of Year—75 cents
JACK COVINGTON
Box 645
Davidson, N. C.

TRY JOHNSON’S
“THE BEST” BARBER SHOP
Have All Your Small Needs
DELUXE ICE CREAM
AT THE
SOUTHERN 5 & 10c STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

STUDENT STORE
Melodies have begun to fade just before exams. Jiminy Fulcher, who as the mountain melodies for these rising or the countless payanicr German Frat Dr. Vowles Leads Vuilleumier, whose writings consist of pages in both French and German. Bill and Cases Jones reviewed a trio of foreign authors and their works.

Shower Songs Soothe Students
Dr. McGavock Gives Speech To Local Hi-Y
Vocational Guidance Included In Planning
Professor William G. McGavock of the Davidson faculty was the speaker last night at the meeting of the Hi-Y Club of Davidson High School.

Club Campaigns
At this meeting, the club voted to devote its efforts to the promotion of the Bundles for Britain campaign recently begun in Davidson. The boys of the club will make a house-to-house canvass of the entire town to collect warm clothing to be sent to the stricken British.

Military Frat
Scabbard and Blade held a regular bi-monthly meeting on Wednesday night, February 5th, at the Beta house. The business taken up included arrangements for entering the Scabbard and Blade Rifle Match, tentative plans for the Military Ball, and the appointments of several committees. The meeting was then adjourned by Captain Holt Barnwell.

'Y' Assisted Scouts
Lay Camp-O-Ree, “Clean-up-Yard” Campaign, and Court Of Honor To Be Held
LY sponsored and assisted scout troops at Davidson, Cornelius, Caldwell, and Smithville have been very active the past few weeks and have several plans for future work. Scout Troop 38 of Davidson recognized National Boy Scout Week by inviting the membership of the scouts to attend a meeting held Thursday night, February 13, in which they participated in several competitive events. The colored troops of the three communities celebrated this week by attending the churches in their respective communities in a body. Charles Saffer, newly elected executive of the Mecklenburg Council, paid a visit to Davidson last week and contacted various scout leaders. It is hoped that by the end of the year there will be six troops in the county. At present there are two. Representing Troop 38 of Davidson, Claude Goodrum went to Charlotte Wednesday afternoon to look over the city. Davidson's colored troop will launch next week a “clean-up-your-yard” campaign. The scouts will canvass the city and inform homeowners to join the campaign. Then for two weeks the scouts will personally inspect the yards daily. At the end of this time, they will award a prize to the owner of the cleanest yard during the campaign. The 'Y' has decided to send boys once a week in addition to the routine scout meeting to the various white and colored troops in order to assist the scouts in passing off their various tests. It is hoped that in the near future a court of honor will be held, so that the achievements of the boys can be recognized. The three communities are planning an inter-troop meet to be held about May. Rev. Carl Pritchard has given a trophy to be awarded to the winning troop.

Two Societies Offer Awards
On Literature
Entries In Annual Contest Due On May 1; Loving Cups To Be Given
Several plans for future work were discussed. The annual literary contest sponsored by the American and Philanthropic Societies will be held this year. Selections will be classified in three fields: poetry, essay, and short story. There will be three prizes, one will constitute a loving cup and five dollars in each division. Judges for the contest will be Professor Davidson and members of the English Department. Prizes will be presented at Commencement as has been the custom in years past. For the last three years, the winning works have been collected in the library where they are exhibited, and works of poetry, essay, and short story divisions will be published.

Two Writings Heard By Phis
Papers Read by Ken Chandler, John McLeod
Papers by Kenneth Chandler and John McLeod received honorable mention among those recently submitted to the Philanthropic Society, and which received honorable mention formed the program last Tuesday night, February 11. In addition to the program, a short business meeting was held. Because of other conflicts, the Senior Class, Stimson of the Freshman Class, and Clayton Love of the Junior Class were elected members. Officers for the present semester were elected at the meeting last week: Eldridge Brown, president; Swidly McEachern, vice-president; Jim Summers, secretary; and Daily Irensurer.

More than 600 men and women students at the University of Kentucky are earning part of their college expenses. George Grant Mason, Jr., member of the civil aeronautics board, received his A.B. degree from Yale in 1926. Members of the speech correction at Duquesne University are presenting a series of radio programs.

NOW PLAYING
Gay Music and Dancing
FRED ASTAIRE, PAULETTE GODDARD, in “SECOND CHORUS”
LATE SHOW
Saturday Night
LEW AYRES, ANN SOTHERN in "MAISIE WAS A LADY"
IMPERIAL

Delta Phi Alpha, German fraternity, has been collected in the library where works of poetry, essay, and short story divisions will be published after many years of collection.

Annual Plans
Canvass For Favorite Pictures
Winston Tiator, editor in chief of the Quips and Cranks, Davidson’s annual, has announced plans for the beauty section of the annual. Plans now are to have canvassers make the rounds of the dormitories in search of preferred pictures. Ernest Hopkins feels higher education has been overemphasized. During a student workshop this semester, plans have been approved for the 10,000 OKC armory at the College of New York City.

BEFORE LEAVING DAVIDSON HAVE YOUR CAR SERVICED AT REID'S SERVICE STATION

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
Fri.-Sat., Mon.-Tues.
Thurs. Feb. 13th. - 14th. - 15th.
“BUCK PRIVATE” with ABBOTT and COSTELLO
LATE SHOW
Saturday Night
“SIX LESSONS FROM MADAME LA ZONGA” with CESAR ROMERO
“SO ENDS OUR NIGHT”
Wed, Feb. 19th.
“LADDIE”

Always Ask for
S & P Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products

QUALITY GROCERIES
REASONABLE PRICES
DIAL 5041
J. K. HAMPTON GROCERY
DAVIDSON, N. C.

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST Entertainment