CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

By the minute Senior By ve th and got, des] He can rut man Quoting it which TTECRE 0 W n H \ Nort i the } 4 ly } once or Jron-Men R t We've e they'll t m look ux 1 ' v \\ ' Ti M { rs Plun ge Upperclassmen For Win k of injuries id delight s coacl ver Vhey ve got slots In city, One “He's tl e pearman has rage 182 cores specarman again, pounds, sseeans, you ’ ! t ) 4 i! i } | \ I \ t 1 to 0 1 re 1 t { le Citadel ther r-soph k t t their rool irk Arn 19 700 S$ Car ( | dake y { them 1 han sof the Vols; 1 l for Claude Hackney ! I 1 ng re d of scoring Back Home Il ‘ t t ( \\ ( S Ben Le th Perhaps Mrederick . ie 1 j acktiel n Ben Saturd 1 3 Mal rs) 1 ( Hire c 2 (1B) S then our ' } \ regular lettermen Earl of the best backs in the signals, and to top it all he’s a 60 a could ive a football to key men in the Cat eleven 1 nto the rese ing career had and appeared worried Sewanee. vn considerably. in Beg best seen a big team mean anything, . and last week the Generals Through starters rey rve's And nine arden back 1 good anc To note yuta \ the way with an un S | ; 2 APP » Toc Soccer Men lating § Start Work 1 Seniors pro Cc LN it count in tou! sets ath-anid cl { ( ued a_call 45 rt! er on Septem- : eu 29 ppr tely forty ; ‘ rtin The squad—is-the . Freshmer s more ; : history with prospect ; Gahraal . : break sxcepuionally well, it L ir men topped the ; } P : ‘ I ent the team has games ] tere 1their itire 184 5-3 1 ’ : rent High Point, Duke. ads Wu cit u ! niversity of Virginia or 1 all-star it the res it rienced teams have their STANDINGS elde bility. Bob MecLeod-at-end, WL T Squatty Squires at guartl, and Davis Clemson -_..--.-._- 2 0 0 Choma id Tommy Yarborough in || Duke ae 1 0 0 the backfield, camp the Senior || South Carolina” 1 0 0 selections on the all-<¢ ers, whose ||. Wake Forest -----: 1 1 0 remaining berths are held by Juni-| Carolina __ --.-- 1 1 0 ors John Belk, 1 tainey, Pete || State -;-- - t 1 L CatoreoandaDive and a|| Davidson - f 0 1 1 lone fr Sammy | Further intra-mural activiti un. | QUESTION OF THE WEEK der the direction of—Ceach Pete | ; ee Whittle got under way Tuesday,as} (Continued. from page three) Davidson's cup- ting fraterni- BAH CH Se SOVETCIS Ne BOWSE ties entered into another session « Ik of Nations in order touch footl Competition this year |‘ ction properly; so, I Rerteerett Urea Perea ' s sas keen as ever, brothers and Tk i plan and” a step | j 4 ; sete pledges alike, being cager to add : rd world peace it such a league further laurels to their tives ul We the necessary organizations. ist be.-t in order to} + Make it secure mode ool The Phi Delts and Kappa? Sigs a : nod crn tovt IgE MCA REGS Wii oes i ot nations. It must have power to st years : rs, are eport- | : | entor ts decisions a E ed to have equally strong squads | ioe tae af EBeeeE tell Hig seniester | which 1s now dormant may be the f j Very answer to world peace. | | ¢ | GROCERIES | SEL Rae az i ss ! HARDWARE e i) RS c®Wy +e M. H. Goodrum | CAFETERIA } & Company a i = — | | Wildcat Sports Page Four DAVIDSONIAN Tar Heels Top Wildeats 20-0 In Last Period Seven Pass Interceptions Prove Give Tar Heels Win; First Downs Even By TOMMY BUMBARGER Before a record crowd Saturday. ht, Davidson's scrapping Wild- ats were defeated, 20 to 0, by Caro- na’s favored Tar Heels in a game until the 116 as undecided last minutes of play. The Tar Heels got a break on the from when scrimmage on the Cats’ pushed a first down} hey intercepted a pass scored a few plays | 12 yard pass into’ the| After that the Davidson eleven} t them on even terms until 1 of the fourth quarter 1 two m intercepted passes et the stage for two more Carolina Interceptions Costly he three Carolina touchdowns were all scored) on. fourth-down Asse after the hard charging Davidson line jhad bottled up the Tar Heel running attack for three lays. N. C. Threatens Carolina threatened again just be- fore 3en Washburn Dunkle’s punt on the Cat but a again put the ball in Davidson's possession. Another fumble gave Carolina the and they marched the ten yard line before “Ripper” Hunt snate the ended. the half ended, 1 1 Ned fuml 20; pass interception ball, down to ed one of “Cox's passts on one yard: line_as the half The whole Davidson team played 1 bang-up game throughout the thrilling contest. ERNEST ELLISON, INC. “Just Insurance” R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal || 115 East Fourth Street | CHARLOTTE, N. C. | Thursday, October 9, 1941 Cats Leave Tomorrow Frosh Play Today z oe —— eee CAT BACKS Ben Lacy and “Red” Bethea are two standouts in the Davidson back- field. Bethea has been proclaimed as one of the state’s finest kickers, whereas Lacy, who quarterbacks the team, has been a sensation with his consistent line plunging. e Pa cptions.awcrecostlynas l Matches roas the Cats were concerned. In te rsectto ha Seven interceptions set up all three Carolind touchdowns, put an end Ment t Davidson scoring threats, Head Conference L eneral ecke t Cats’ pues rei ot | ri Soutl Ae Cont en play-| 3 he Southern onference, play} l Wildcats’ first chance 10-155 play and point for point the | ALL CLASS ca in these or period! Wottest pigskin. league in the’ na-| This year’sAll class football is about to enter deeper into another upset-producing and star-producing season with intersectional play featuring the weekend menu.

Seniors on the first two teams and five juniors. The sophomores placed on the second team. The frosh placed on the third quarter when the Wildcats tackled a powerful Fordham eleven in Chapel Hill. V. M. I’s Flying Squadron has high hopes of vanquishing the Army, and Chattanooga fans are looking for a colorful and high-scoring affair from Davidson and Sewanee, rivals of long standing.

First Team:
End—John Belk, Junior
End—Bob McLeod, Senior
Guard—Bob Rainey, Junior
Guard—Squatty Squires, Senior
Center—Pete Cavert, Junior
Back—Dave Malaney, Junior
Back—T. Yarborough, Senior
Back—Davis Thomas, Senior
Back—S. Yarborough, Frosh

Second Team:
End—Bob Carter, Frosh
Tackle—Pete Willing, Soph
Guard—H. Morrow, Soph
Center—Joe Bevins, Senior
Back—Ed Lucas, Senior
Back—Rudy Larson, Soph

Duke vs. Maryland:
Bowl-bound Duke, sporting victories over Wake Forest and the Tennessee Vols, shouldn't have too much trouble with an outclassed Maryland aggregation, while the South Carolina-Wake Forest clash in Columbia should be thrill-packed.

Richmond-Virginia:
Saturday's grid slate is completed with the Richmond-Virginia fray at Charlottesville, while Friday nocturnal encounters find N. C. State at Furman, W. and L. at George Washington, and the Citadel and P. C. at neutral Sumter.

Cross Country Team Dropped:
Coach Pete Whittle announced today that the cross-country team would not be started this year. Because of the discontinuance of this sport, there will not be any cake race. All students desiring to go out for cross-country may do so, but because of the lateness of the season, there will not be any nuts.

COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CHARLOTTE:
Pause... Go refreshed. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Wildcats Seek First Win As Team Leaves For Sewanee Battle.

Cats Meet Heavy, Experienced Sewanee Eleven Saturday; Rainey, Hackney, Marsh, Win Over Strong W. & L. Generals:
The Davidson Wildcats invade the lair of the Sewanee Wildcats Saturday in an attempt to chalk up their first win of the season after two ties and one defeat at the hands of the powerful Carolina Tar Heels. For the first time since the year's opener, Rollins, going with the Cats, will be favored although the Tigers are tougher this season than in many past years.

Still hampered with injuries, the Cats will be in better shape than was anticipated, though, with Davey Spencer and Don Bell able to go again against the Tigers. Spencer was injured in the first half of the Carolina game and was out for the larger part of the second half. Bell received a leg injury and was taken out of the same game, but both these starters will be ready for the opening whistle Saturday in Chattanooga.

Tigers Strong:
The Tigers will put a strong team on the field against the Cats, and their 20-19 defeat of Washington and Lee shows that. After their win in the season's opener, the Tigers had a week off to prepare for the Cats, and they will be in perfect shape for the game. Although they are shy in reserves, the Tigers can boast of a starting lineup composed of nine lettermen with the center and tailback positions being filled by sophomores. This team of veterans won three while losing five against some of the outstanding teams of the south in 1940.

The Cats, on the other hand, are still hampered by injuries to key men. Claude Hackney and George Marsh are still out of practice, and some of the other starters are not in the best of shape. However, the Cats will have an edge in morale since they defeated the Tigers last season and recently turned in excellent performances against State and Carolina.

Lacy Out:
The services of Ben Lacy as first-string halfback and signal caller will be seriously missed at Chattanooga Saturday. The No. 1 plunger received painful internal injuries in the Carolina game last week and will not be able to make the trip. Johnny Miller was hurt in the same game but will go with the team and may be able to play.

Kits Battle Pups Today:
Davidson's Wildkittens, with hopes of sweet revenge in their hearts, open their 1941 schedule against the powerful Wofford College Pups this afternoon at 3:30. The probable starting lineup for Davidson has Dunn and Peters at the flanks, Fraley and Simmons at tackle, Turner and Bibb at guard, Bingham at the pivot spot, and Williams, Riffe, Short, and Roach in the backfield.

The prospects for a successful season become even brighter when we learn that Coach Bolin has another Frosh eleven which plays almost on a par with the one listed above. Both of these aggregations will see plenty of action this afternoon. Coach Bolin's only comment on the game was, "Our timing is not what it should be, but this will come with more playing experience, and we will certainly fight every inch of the way this afternoon."

SNAPPER:
E. S. Caldwell
A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Printing IS OUR BUSINESS:
For A Representative Dial 6300
STANDARD PRINTING CO.
117 GARLAND COURT
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Printers of 'The Davidsonian'