Thursday, October 2, 1941 Page Three

Question of The Week

What's wrong with our pep meetings? Why don’t we have more pepper in our pep-ups? Freshman! Freshman! That's the cover—all accusations: but can that be all that’s wrong? Is there something the upper classmen lack, or is it the place the meetings are held? Should there be more shirt tails? Here’s what some of the representative students think about it.

Here's David Huffines, Senior:
Pep meetings have meant a great deal in keeping the Davidson Spirit alive. The game on Saturday night was a fine example of what a fine team and a lot of pep from the stands can do. Our enthusiasm must be kept to a peak, and it shouldn't be left solely to the freshmen to do all the yelling. Much encouragement can be given to the freshmen by the presence of upper classmen at pep meetings. How many of us really know all the organized yells?

Dick O’Hair, Sophomore:
As a whole, the pep meetings seem very good and the Wildcat spirit is surely being developed. Yet we still need 100 per cent contribution to the yells, etc., and a few dead pans can make pep meetings a lot less successful. Also, we need more upper classmen there to show the freshmen how to give their all for the Wildcats.

Joe Martin, Junior:
The main thing I see wrong with our pep meetings is the absence of upper classmen. We all should attend, thus helping to support our team and not try to put the entire load of producing pep on the freshmen. Besides, more upper classmen make better shirt tails.

Tom Brown, Senior:
Personally, I think that the pep meetings have been much more of a success this year than last. I think that the Freshman Class has, as a whole, shown good peppy spirit. Perhaps this is because of the cheerleaders. Suggestions for improving this spirit would include more bonfire pep meetings, more meetings in front of Chambers, and in chapel.

C. T. Daniel, Freshman:
The pep meetings would be more of a success if there was something to stimulate them. The “shirt-tail” is a good idea because it is a harmless game (unless some more freshmen fall in holes) and a lot of fun. This gives that needed pep because it arouses the spirits of the boys. There is much more fun in having these meetings out of doors as the students feel freer. We have excellent cheerleaders so the meetings should be successes.

C. C. Morehead, Junior:
I think the pep meetings are helpful for the football boys; they give the boys a feeling that the student body is behind them. The only mistake I can see is that when the football team is winning there is plenty of yelling, but when they have a little tough luck there is less cheering. This is the time they need more pep—when they are not doing as well as you would like.

Ed. Currie, Sophomore:
Pep meetings are great, especially for the Freshmen, because it is important that they get school spirit in the beginning of their first year. A peppy Freshman class is a great asset to college life in every way; however, I believe the pep meetings could be improved upon if more upper classmen attended them and joined in the yells. Pep meetings don’t take very much time and if the whole student body could get together and yell and sing “Oh Davidson” once in a while it would be fine, for not only the Freshmen but for everybody.

Ross Parks, Junior:
The freshmen as yet don’t seem to have learned what the true “Davidson Spirit” means. There are entirely too many who are indifferent at the pep meetings. The most glaring offense is the failure to remove caps when “Oh Davidson” is played. There should be more and livelier pep meetings with a few shirt tails thrown in.

Hank Crane, Junior:
It's an old Davidson tradition that each upper class gripe about the poor spirit shown by the freshmen every year at pep meetings and football games. If what we say is true, then freshmen from year to year have become progressively worse. But, why should the burden of keeping “the ole’ Wildcat spirit” at fever-pitch from Saturday to Saturday rest solely upon the freshmen? It’s our Davidson too, and it should seem that we owe it to the team and to the school to participate in these pep meetings en masse. I'm all for bigger and better “shirt-tails” and the more upper-classmen there to make these [Continued on Page Six]

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wilson Made Major; Marsh Now Captain
Both Men Former Leaders On Davidson Campus

Effective Sept. 24, Captain Wilson of the R.O.T.C. department was promoted to the rank of major. Major Wilson is an alumnus of Davidson, class of ’26. As a student here he was President of the Glee Club, a member of Scabbard and Blade and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. Major Wilson graduated with a commission as second lieutenant. In 1933 he became captain. Last year the Major came back to Davidson as Assistant P.M.S. and T. and instructor. This year he is teaching first-year advanced R.O.T.C.

Lieutenant Marsh has also been promoted. Effective May 31 of this year he achieved the rank of captain. Captain Marsh graduated from Davidson in 1930 and he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After teaching for a number of years, Captain Marsh came back to Davidson as freshman instructor. This year he will teach the sophomores.

Second Lieutenant Sam R. Spencer, class of '39 at Davidson, is a new addition to the staff this year. He replaces Captain Marsh as freshman instructor. Spencer was President of the Student Body, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Kappa Alpha Order.

Sophomore members of the R.O.T.C. have been formed as a sophomore company this year. This company will function for the first six drills. Different members of the class will be selected for each drill to act as cadet officers and non-commissioned officers. This action has been taken in order to give all members of the class a chance to demonstrate their ability to command and instruct units. At the end of this period of drills, selection of corporals for the various companies of the battalion will be based on the performance indicated together with other work previously done.

Marae, To Appear Soon
This year sometime between the middle and the latter part of October, the first issue of Davidson's quarterly magazine, Scripts ’N Pranks, will be released by the publishers. To the upperclassmen this should be of exceptional note, because in the past years the magazine has never come out before November.

The staff headed this year by Dan Hodges, editor; John Northcross, art editor; and John Mackinnon, business manager; plan to give to the students a better magazine with several new departments. The cover will be drawn by Art Editor Northcross, and in addition to the regular features there will also be new sections on records, clothes, movies, books, and possibly several others. Editor Hodges declared that the cartoons and stories will be better than ever, and that he already has in hand a long list of choice new jokes. The junior editorial staff is composed of Calhoun Hipp, Harry Allen, Bill Lyman, Jim Chapman, Lacy MacLean, and Jim White; and Hodges predicts that these, coupled with the rest of the staff, should give Davidson a magazine equal to any publication of the other Southern Colleges.

Each Class of Davidson Adds Its Gift Toward Beauti-
By HOWELL MORROW

Davidson men realize, as little they thrust their sleepy heads out of the dormitory windows and glance at the dial of the huge clock on the north end of Chambers Building, that the time is being brought to them through the courtesy of the class of 1936. As the early morning sunlight plays upon the immense hands, and the news, that the first class will soon begin is slowly grasped by the drowsy senses of the unhappy student, he returns to the bed for a few more moments of slumber. He never gives a thought to the fact that the pennies saved by the Seniors of 1936 have bought this clock which will continue to serve Davidson men as time goes on.

As this same student walks across the campus that night, he speaks to his companion of the beautiful sight which Chambers Building affords as the brilliant flood lights gleam upon it. Yet, he fails to mention the class of '31 to whom we are indebted for these lights.

Throughout the day we use and admire many things here on our campus which are gifts to us from Davidson men who have long since left us. Occasionally we see a little inscription which reads “Presented by the class of 19-——.”

The custom of donating a class gift was started in 1906 when the Seniors of that year decided to build Wiley Dam. This was to provide a place where the students could enjoy aquatic sports. The site of this lake was the present fairway of the fifth hole on the college golf course. The graduates made a real sacrifice that year, because they gave up the publishing of their annual in order to provide money for this project. The class of '07 followed this example and built the front doors of Old Chambers Building. The light standards on the south side of the Library were provided in 1915, and the Seniors of the following year built the Drinking Fountain or College Well. Our flag pole was made possible by the class of '17, and if you will notice carefully, you will find the inscription “Presented by the class of 1918” upon the steps of the Gymnasium. Thisclass also gave the light standard by means of which you are enabled to read the inscription. The light standard on the west of the Old Library is a gift of the class of '19. The men of '20 followed by donating the sun dial which appears south of the same building. In 1922, a fund was collected for the purpose of providing a clock for the Chambers Building. Cash was raised in 1923 for erecting a memorial room dedicated to Dr. J. M. McConnell, Professor of History. The plan was changed, however, and the money went toward a prize for excellence in Greek.

The gates at the northwest corner of the campus (better known as the location of the official bumming corner) were a gift of the class of '24. The men of 1925 covered the campus with concrete benches which are found upon our campus, while the year 1927 brought forth the ticket booth located near the stadium entrance. The Chambers Auditorium stage curtains reflect the efforts of the Seniors of '28. The class of '30 followed by giving the cyclorama curtain and the red valance for the auditorium curtains. The contribution of the class of '31 has been mentioned as consisting of the floodlights for Chambers Auditorium.

A Student Loan Fund was made possible in 1932, and in 1933 the Seniors gave the public address system which adds much to our athletic contests. The chair upon which Dr. Cunningham sits in his office was a presentation of the class of '34; other furnishings for this office were also provided. The drinking fountain in the stadium is the present for the year 1935. The clock given by the graduates of '36 has been named Hard- ing's portrait was provided for the alumni office in 1938. The men of '39 matched their predecessors of '36 by decorating the south end of Chambers with a clock also.

A man who served the college [Continued on Page Six]

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

Dance With Your Date In The Connestee Room at The HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER Featuring a Meyer Davis Band and "Cy Dilman and His Orchestra" Nightly Except Sundays, During October and November.

FRATERNITY COUNCIL
The first meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council was held in the parlor of Watts on Monday night. At the meeting, a vote was taken to drop Alpha Psi Omega and the Journalism club from the Council because of inactivity. Each president of the Honorary Fraternities is to turn in a report of the meeting of his fraternity stating how many were present and how the program was enjoyed by the members. It is the hope of the council to get more activity among the Fraternities. There has been some complaint in past years about inactivity but the council will try to stay behind the Fraternities this year and give no cause for complaint.

Letter Stirs New Reporter
By WEBSTER McLEOD

It is generally conceded that Freshman Grayson Tucker has recently received one of the most extraordinary letters ever written by a father to his son. It is rather rare that one reads a letter from his father which first extends congratulations on his son's choice of fraternity, is interrupted, and resumes with a narration of the kidnapping of the writer which took place during the intermission. In case you're confused, Dr. Grayson Le Puckery, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Laurel, Mississippi, was kidnapped Tuesday night, September 23 by a duo of prison-breakers and general felons in Tucker's car, and Grayson, Jr. heard about it first hand from the kidnapped pastor himself.

It seems that Dr. Tucker was writing a letter to Grayson in his church study and had just enough time to interrupt his writing to take his little daughter home. As he stepped out of his car to return to his study, a young bandit stuck a forty-five in his ribs, asked him to hold up his hands, and move over. The accosted pastor complied with this rather unusual request immediately. At this point, a second bandit hopped into the car and directed Dr. Tucker to show them the Mobile highway. The car pulled out, pastor and all, and headed toward Mobile. Dr. Tucker informed the felons that they had kidnapped a minister. "This would happen to us," remarked one of his captors.

Then the fast-thinking preacher made a deal. He convinced them that just by his capture they would add to their troubles, but if they took him back to his study, he would give his oath as a minister not to notify the authorities. After a moment's deliberation, they agreed. Dr. Tucker returned to his study, and on Wednesday, he finished his letter to Grayson. The following Thursday, the front page of the Laurel Leader-Call carried a front-page headline: "Reign of Terror Started Here With Dr. Tucker."

[Continued on Page Six]

Now Playing
Crowds Sing The Praises of
SONJA HENIE
John Payne-Milton Berle
In "SUN VALLEY SERENADE"
SEE THE BREATH-TAKING BLACK ICE BALLET
HEAR Glen Miller and Orchestra PLAY "IN THE MOOD" "CHATANOOGA CHOO CHOO" "I KNOW WHY"
Other Hits Soon
"WILD GEESE CALLING"
"TIME OUT FOR RHYTHM"
IMPERIAL

Students Fill Y. M. C. A. Questionnaire This Week

Scout Leader Reveals Aims
Under the leadership of Bill McLaughlin and his assistants, work with the Boy Scouts in the town of Davidson is getting started early this year. Five of the six local troops in Davidson and Cornelius, consisting of three white and two colored troops, have officially opened their scout year. Troop 39, the remaining colored troop, is scheduled to officially start operating Friday. To assist the troop work, Davidson has acquired the services of Mr. Atterly, Charlotte Negro executive, and it is hoped that he will be able to solve some of the problems now before these colored troops.

Among the aims of McLaughlin and his associates is the hope that the troops will be fully equipped with uniforms before the year is over. He also hopes to fulfill the requests from Mooresville which are that assistant scoutmasters might be sent from Davidson College.

Talks Made By YMCA Officers
"Serve Your Christ With Gladness" has been announced by the Y. M. C. A. cabinet as the official theme for the year 1941-42. Talks will be made throughout the year with this central topic as the theme. Previous to this issue, Jim McCrary, Charlie Parrish, Albert Winn, and Charlie Watt have made talks in chapel concerning their departments. Special emphasis this year will be placed upon student prayer meetings in the dormitories. These meetings are held every Wednesday night at 10:15.

Included in the "Y" officer's group are Jim Owens, president; Myron Sandifer, first vice-president; Jesse Wooten, second vice-president; and Shaw Smith, general secretary. The "Y" cabinet is composed of Myron Sandifer, vespers and church relations; Jerry Newbold, Sunday Schools; Arch Taylor, Deputations; Ralph Williams, Social Life; Monroe Bush, World Evangelism; Bill Sprunt, Publications; Bill MacLauchlin, Boy's Work; Jimmie Fulcher, Boy's Work; Bill MacLauchlin, Community Service; Charlie Watt, Freshman Work; Al Winn, Student Government; Jim McCrary, Spiritual Development; Jesse Wooten, Spiritual Development; and Charlie Parrish, Chapel Services.

In order to get the students into the "Y" work for which they are best suited, the Y. M. C. A. is next week sending out its annual questionnaire. This year the questionnaire, made up by Jerry Newbold, will attempt to prove the thoughts of the students as well as gather information useful to the "Y." In past years, the questionnaire has formed a basis for appointing positions. It is important to know for what posts a man is fitted and this questionnaire offers the most practical means.

After the questionnaires are collected, they are tabulated on a master sheet in the "Y" with each man's interests listed opposite his name. When someone is needed to fill a vacant post, the "Y" secretary has all the information at his fingertips. Newbold expects to have these questionnaires ready to give out by the last part of next week. It will be advisable for every student to be thinking about his attitude toward the "Y" and its work so that he can answer these questions intelligently. The greatest benefit of the questionnaire will be in making the individual student feel that he is a part of the "Y" and that the success of the "Y" depends wholly upon him.

ECHOES OF THE PAST
One Year Ago
Freddy Johnson to play at Homecoming... S. P. E. wins Scholarship Cup for 1939-40... Vowles returns home after scientific study... V. M. I. to throw heavy eleven against Cats in Conference game.

Five Years Ago
Wildcats hand Wolfpack 6-2 trimming... Literary group will hear Sandburg talk... Library will display works of Sandburg... Brown writes text for his Economic Class.

Ten Years Ago
Davidson team introduces pass to southern football... Annual cake race to be held tomorrow... Literary Societies hold first meeting of the year.

Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley's Spearmint Gum. The Flavor Lasts.