O. D. K. Holds Annual Tap Day
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA
The Davidsonian
LIBERTAS

Spring Frolics Start Friday
Volume XXVIII. x -528
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1941
Number 25

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS SIXTEEN MEN

David Cohn To Lecture Wednesday
Distinguished Author Will Use As Subject, “The Good Old Days”

Wednesday evening at 8:15 o'clock Mr. David L. Cohn, well-known author and lecturer, will speak in Chambers auditorium under the
auspices of the Faculty Committee On Public Lectures. As previously announced, the subject of the lecture will be “The Good
Old Days”. Mr. Cohn was originally scheduled to lecture in the early part of April, but because of illness was
forced to cancel the engagement.

“The Good Old Days” is also the name of Mr. Cohn’s latest book. It is a record of the manners
and morals of Americans during the last half century as revealed in the pages of the numerous Sears and Roebuck
catalogues. Sinclair Lewis, in the introduction to this book, reported that “Mr. Cohn has portrayed the moral and cultural zigzag
of America, not by sterile analyses of the woman’s movement, or the elephantiasis afflicting pedagogical departments of universities, but by
recalling just what domestic and commercial gadgets we have used in the past fifty years; how they have changed or
vanished—and what we paid for them”.

David Cohn was born in Greenville, Miss., and attended The University of Virginia and Yale University. During the World War
he served in the U. S. Navy, and afterwards went into business. His business connections led him to France, England,
Central Europe, Turkey, and various other localities in Asia and Europe. Later on he took a position with Sears, Roebuck
and Company in Shreveport, Louisiana. Shortly after leaving this job, Mr. Cohn wrote his first novel “God Shakes All Creation”,
published by Harpers. Following this book came "Picking America’s Pocket”, a non-technical exposition of the tariff problem and its effect
upon the man in the street. Besides his books, he has often contributed to prominent periodicals such as “Esquire”, “The
Atlantic Monthly”, and “The Readers’ Digest”.

At present, Mr. Cohn is at work on a book about women, his favorite topic. In it he will doubtless
enunciate his peculiar theories concerning the failures and shortcomings of the feminine half of America’s 120,000,000 inhabitants.

INSPECTION

Annual Government Inspection of the Davidson unit of the R. O. T. C. will be held on Richardson Field Thursday
afternoon May 8, at 2:15 P. M. Col. G. S. Brownell, of Georgia Tech, will be the inspector this year.
The performance will consist of a demonstration of Calisthenics, Parade, Review, Inspection, Close and Extended Order Drill. The Public is
cordially invited to attend.

Norman Cordon Sings Next Monday

Norman Cordon, well-known bass-baritone of the Metropolitan Opera Association, will sing at Davidson on Monday, May 5. This will be
the last in the series of musicals presented by Phi Mu Alpha fraternity. The program will start at 8:15. Charles
Kritz will accompany Mr. Cordon at the piano.

Mr. Cordon was born in Washington, North Carolina but moved to Charlotte with the family when he was eight. He
got his first experience there singing in a choir for twenty-five cents a Sunday. He went to prep school and
later entered the University at Chapel Hill. It was here that he developed his bass-baritone voice. Soon after this his
family moved to Winston-Salem where he studied voice at Salem College. After later study Norman secured a job in New
York. Later he moved to Chicago when he went in with Paul Whiteman.

BECAME PROMINENT

He got his big chance at opera when he was discovered by Dr. Shirley Munns and made his debut in
Chicago. Since then he has made fast steps, appearing in numerous operas.

FACULTY AND SENIOR O.D. K.’s

SHAW SMITH
HOLT BARNWELL
JOHN KING
JOHN MOORE

Shaw Smith, Holt Barnwell, and Chase Brenizer. Bottom row, left to right, Paul Bumbarger, John King, John Moore, and Lawson
Withers.

Spring Set Features Spivak And Trumpet

Highlighting the activities for Davidson students this weekend will be the Pan-Hellenic’s annual Spring Frolics at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium,
featuring the music of Charlie Spivak and his orchestra.

FOUR DANCES

Included in the dance schedule will be a tea dance Friday afternoon from 5:30 until 7:30, and the same evening
a formal dance from 10 P. M. until 2 A. M. Saturday afternoon the tea dance will be from 4
o'clock until 6 o'clock, and an informal night dance from 8 o'clock until midnight. The price for the entire set
is $6.00, while the night dances are $3.00 apiece. The Friday afternoon tea dance will cost $1.00, while the Saturday
afternoon tea dance will be $1.50.

Tickets for the Spring Frolics can be obtained from Scott Cooper, Kappa Sigma representative and president of the Pan-Hellenic Council,
or from any of the other councilmen. Others include Garay Louis Hite, Pi Kappa Phi; Bill Lemmon, Kappa Alpha; Raymond
McDaniel, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Ross Beville Sharpe, Beta Theta Pi; Winston Taylor, Phi Delta; and Gene Vereen, Phi Delta Theta.

TRAVELING IN SOUTH

Spivak’s seventeen-piece orchestra is now traveling in the South after completing engagements at the Glen Island Casino, the Strand Theater
in New York, and the Ritz Club in Bridgeport, Conn. His orchestra has been playing for some months over the
National Broadcasting Company’s wavelengths. Spivak recently played at a dance set.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

of the University of Georgia, in Athens, where he was a tremendous success, according to MacLean. MacLean added that he
played to capacity crowds there. Spivak’s trumpet playing is said to be among the best in the field, and the
style of his band is accordingly built around it. It is reported that the orchestra specializes in clear-cut, subdued, sweet
playing, but plays little of the so-called “hot” pieces. McElwee, Pi Kappa Alpha; Gran- may be obtained from Hector Mac-

CHASE BRENIZER LAWSON WITHERS

In addition, eight juniors were tapped, whose pictures are on page three.

NEW LEADERS TAKE OVER

Recently-elected Davidson College Student Body Officers were officially installed at the morning chapel exercises last Monday, April 28. Paul Bumbarger,
outgoing Editor of the “Scripts and Pranks”, turned his office over to Dan Hodges, new Editor. Bob Finley, Old Freshman
Advisor, then turned his office, together with its symbol, the Freshman cap, over to his successor, Charlie Watt. Casey Jones
relinquished the office of President of the Senior Class to Claude Hackney. Winston Taylor, outgoing editor of the “Quips and
Cranks”, handed Julien McCall, incoming editor, a copy of the annual as a symbol of the office, to which McCall
succeeds. Ed Watson then turned over the Presidency of the Y.M.C.A. to his successor, Jim Owens, who stated briefly his
hopes for the program. The program, climaxed with Al Winn accepting from Hank Bahnson the Presidency of the Student Body
for the coming year. In the absence of Andy Dale, Assistant Editor Paul Bumbarger turned over the Davidsonian to Tony
Darby.

Leaders Honored At Chapel This Morning

Seniors Are Barnwell, Brenizer, Bumbarger, King, Moore, And Withers

EIGHT JUNIORS TAPPED; PICTURES ON PAGE 3

EDITORS COLLABORATE

Old and newly elected editors of the Scripts ‘n’ Cranks have collaborated in publishing the last issue of the magazine
for the current year, which will be released in the next few days. According to Paul Bumbarger, it will be
the best that has been published in several years. The cover was designed by John Northcross. Other illustrations were prepared
by Northcross and Dan Hodges, who was elected during 1941-42. Short stories by John MacKinnon and Archie Taylor will be
featured, as well as a play by Pat Rudolph and an article by Paul Ed Taylor. The regular columns, including
“Who Cut the Cheese” by the “Three Blind Mice,” will be included.

TO ADDRESS PI KAPPAS

Omicron Delta Kappa tap days are held semi-annually, once in the fall and once in the spring. Dr. John R.
Cunningham, president of Davidson College and a graduate of Westminster College, will address the Pi Kappa Phis at the Hotel
Charlotte on May 17. William J. Berry of New York, national president of Pi Kappa Phi, and approximately 300 alumni
and undergraduates are expected to be present for the meeting. The plans are being made by the committees of the
Charlotte alumni and chapter of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Chase Brenizer, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is Crichton, Booker, And MacKinnon Are New Business Managers From the Publications

An announcement has been made by the Davidsonian to the effect that John Crichton, Hut Booker, and MacKinnon will be
the new business managers of the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Scripts 'N Pranks. John Crichton, assistant business manager of
the Davidsonian, will succeed Pat Rudolph, of Asheville, North Carolina. Sales charts show that his recordings are in great demand.
They can be bought at music stores in Davidson and Charlotte.

JOHN CRICHTON

“Pat” Rudolph, of Asheville, N.C., became president of the Pan Hellenic Council for next year after a special meeting for
election of officers Monday night. Other officers elected were: Carleton Parsons of New Bern, N.C., secretary; and Mason Wallace of
Charlotte, treasurer. Parsons represents Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity while Wallace is a member of Kappa Alpha. Rudolph, from Asheville,
N.C., represents Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He has recently been elected president of the Masquers, drama club. He succeeds
Hector Mac-

In addition to Crichton, those eligible to become business manager of the Davidsonian included Dick Baxter, Freeze, Tom Plonk, Scott,
and Charlie Watt. Booker, Mason Wallace, and Jack were eligible for business manager of the Quips and Cranks, while those
up for the Scripts 'N Pranks included Frank Caldwell, Stanley McAtee, MacKinnon, and Mason Wallace. The newly elected council, from
the board.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
