Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 11, 1941

Y’s CORNER By SHAW SMITH

There is certainly enough to occupy one’s mind these days. Besides the unfortunate JAPS to corner our minds, we find reviews, a Christmas program next Sunday, Red and Black Masques production next Tuesday, the regular scheduled athletic events along with the inevitable numerous extra-curricular activities of a campus, and maybe a bit of studying squeezed in—if we can afford to cut the radio down. The nearing Christmas vacation creates activity like this. Yes, Christmas and all the fuss and brother—yet satisfaction of gift giving. And incidentally, we celebrate Christ's Birthday with it. But this will be a different Christmas for all. No one needs to be reminded that war is death—and we are at war. The real significance of Christmas will be inescapable for us who are at all thoughtful. Can it be that it will take a world war to bring out serious inner thinking? Maybe, maybe.

Sitting backstage on the set of “The Blue Ghost” is lots of fun—but not good for writing. Paul Welsh, the switchlight man, takes too much delight in putting us in the dark. The whole idea is to frighten the audience. Really all the players are scared—scared they’ll miss their lines. Lover Frank Mebane and the loved one, Miss Smith, care nothing for speeches—their acting is enough. It should really be a good show and hope you can come. John with his drawn manner of speaking and Dough Swink with a lovable laugh give a bit worth the small admission. Tom Milliken will so you needn't worry about him, and Ernie Webster sulks around enough to convince you he is a good and drunk detective. John F. Robinson makes enough noise to prove his effectiveness as a sound man (sound effects man of course). Modesty forbids ye ed’s talking about himself. Modesty and real knowledge of the part! Just the same, Miss Hood, Prof. Erwin, and all the students have been working some time on giving a finished production. You really will miss a good show if you don't go.

Have You Heard: About Scotty Poole who is making such a good coach for the girl basketball team?—No kidding, doing a job—About the Ping Pong tournament?—(Know who's ahead—Seen the trophy, Nice!)—About Alex Simes' good start with the work at the Colored Community Center?—About Freshman Tom Powell's Department down really working effectively, now holding a couple of fountain pens, wraps, etc.—About the good effect of Dr. Richard's sermon last Sunday?—Theme is so needed and so true—About the importance of radios at a time like this?—Come down and listen at the “Y” when you have a little time—(by the by—can sell you a radio if you need one or sell one for you if it is portable—Say what is this—a business house?)—About Missions at Memphis?—Should be mighty good—We have quite a number going—About a woman's mind being cleaner than a man’s—Should be—She changes it so often—About ye ed borrowing a dollar from two fellows?—$2 total—Now has forgotten the boys’ names—Please make yourselves known—About the large crowds that will be down at the “Y” this week?—Account for the above announcement—About Smoky Joe McLesky?—He wrote the column last week hoping for a reply this week—Tisk, Tish—No reply—Cut—Tish, again—Smoky Joe, Smoke!

Yours for more gift funds like this year’s—

Cosmetic Sets By DuBarry, Coty Evening in Paris, Max Factor, Gemey, Houbigant.
Pen and Pencil Sets By Sheaffer
Lighters and Cigarette Cases By Ronson and Evans
Gifts for Her
Radios Combinations and Portables By RCA—Philco
Fitted Bags
Candies By Nunnally and Whitman
Albums By Victor, Columbia
Comb, Brush and Mirror Sets

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

JANITOR, M.A. ONLY PUBLIC SCHOOL JANITOR IN THE U.S. TO EARN A GRADUATE DEGREE IS ADAM DENHARDT. NO ORDINARY JANITOR, MR. DENHARDT, 67, WAS A GERMAN TEACHER FOR 33 YEARS. HE WROTE HIS THESIS IN FRENCH AND RECEIVED HIS DEGREE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF DETROIT.

BUCKSHOT

Students Prepare To Trade Books For Yuletide Celebrations By DEANE WATSON

One question, struggling with our studies for the foremost position in our mind is “How will I spend the Christmas holidays?” This question will shove algebra out of the muddled brain of many a freshman for weeks before that festal day, December seventeenth. Somehow when the holidays roll around, starting the week that leads up to Christmas, we clear the cobwebs of care from our toil-worn minds and throw worry to the winds. Gone are those “nightmarish” first period classes. Forgotten is the “E” which came as a result of getting thoroughly “shot” on Shewtelles’ last review, for we are free. Some of us will, no doubt, be content to spend quiet evenings at home telling the folks about the vast quantity of studying which we are putting out, and how we can’t understand that last algebra grade. Some Freshmen will spend most of the holidays engulfed by a cloud of gloom. We can well imagine why, for we can remember the holidays of our freshman year.Freshman year we arrived home with chest expanded and chin dragging. Many of us remember when clouds to impress our girl of last September, only to be deflated by the realization that we were no longer of importance in her life. That is a bitter pill to swallow. Then there's the individual, usually a sophomore, who is determined to outdo Santa Claus. Upon his arrival home, he will feel the Christmas spirit only when he hears that jingle in the forgotten pockets of his man. With his spark of generosity thus touched off, he will head for the nearest shopping center. Then by the natural course of events, he is struck by the problem of who to buy presents for. Of course, there are the folks; he can't leave them out. Then there’s Marge; he'll have to present her with a bottle of her favorite perfume on their date Christmas Eve. “Got to make an impression on her.” His group of names lengthens until he finds himself confronted with a strangely similar resolve to send them all Christmas cards and spend the “roll” on Marge. When Christmas and its accompanying festivities are over, the Davidson student sadly boards the bus on New Year’s afternoon, returning feeling truly sad that Christmas comes but once a year.

W. H. Goodrum & Co.
A MERRY CHRISTMAS and a HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL
Davidson, N. C.

CUNNINGHAM SPEAKS
This year the Student Sunday School will have as speaker for the annual Christmas service Dr. J. R. Cunningham. Dr. Cunningham will undoubtedly bring a message needful to us students who now live in a world where at present there is more “Peace on Earth, Goodwill towards Men.” Everyone is cordially invited and urged to attend this last service before the Christmas holidays. This service will take place in Phi Hall on Sunday morning, December 15, at 10:15 o'clock.

MAGAZINE TO (Continued from Page One)
Cleverly written by Betty Kerr, in which she picks the ten best looking and ten best dressed boys on our campus. Also, there is a farcical play “Christmas Eve in the White House,” and a humorous poem by Sandy McEachern, as well as a questionnaire addressed to the Davidson “dealers” entitled “Are You a Dance Weekend Casanova?”

ECHOES OF THE PAST
25 YEARS AGO
War was declared against Germany—Dr. Martin pledged the support of the college to the war effort and received the full cooperation of the students. The Davidsonian’s editorial on the war explained that now the rifle team had a real chance to show their ability—all Seniors drafted before commencement and examinations would be given diplomas.

12 YEARS AGO
Y. M. C. A. starts a vocational guidance program—Dr. Lingle becomes College President—Organ dedicated—Converse Glee Club sings at Davidson—German Fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha opens chapter here—Chambers Building dedicated at commencement.

10 YEARS AGO
Dr. Hood tours Europe—Davidson defeats strong W. & L. team, 7-0—Homecoming against Duke was a 0-0 tie and Davidsonian headline on the game said “Davidson Held To 0-0 Score By Duke.”

“SWAMP WATER”
Walter Brennan, Anne Baxter, Walter Houston
Friday and Saturday, December 12 and 13

“TOM, DICK AND HARRY”
Ginger Rogers, George Murphy
Monday and Tuesday, December 15 and 16

“RISE AND SHINE”
Linda Darnell, George Murphy
Wednesday, December 17

“MARRY THE BOSS’ DAUGHTER”
Thursday and Friday, December 18 and 19

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT (Continued from page three)
Brother McLean and Pledge Loughridge went to Hollins for the Fall dance set. Brother and Pledge Chapman; Brothers Westall and Rudolph spent the weekend at their respective homes in Spartanburg and Asheville. Brother Boykin rated the dances at St. Mary’s in Raleigh with a girl from Charlotte. Brother Owens was at Crystal Springs Sunday and Brother Carter had a rendezvous with Yvonne in Lincolnton. Little dated at Queens Saturday, while other pledges were at high school square dance, and at Louis’ in Mooresville. Pledge Tate remains sick at his home in Morganton. Here’s to a rapid recovery.

Jack Emerson and Thomas McIlwain of Clemson, and Miss Alice Banks and Mrs. G. H. Snead of Grantville, Ga. were guests of the chapter Sunday.

BETA THETA PI
Brother Rankin toured home to Mt. Gilead Saturday. Pledge and Brother Burkhead also spent the weekend at their home in Mt. Gilead. Pledge Brother Craton was in High Point. “Stinky” Church finally got to see “Cathy” at Salem last Saturday night. Pledge Lipscomb went to Gastonia, his home. “Flush” Raney spent the weekend up at Hollins. Whizer White made his usual trip to Graham Saturday and brought his gal back to Church Sunday night and then took her back to Graham where he caught the “dawn patrol” back to school. “Big Operator” Spike Mebane went to Burlington for the weekend and made a quick trip to Rock Hill Sunday night. Mr. and Mrs. Winn were guests at the house for the weekend.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Saturday night, December 6, found the brothers and pledges of Sigma Alpha Epsilon feting many young ladies from all over this part of the country and a large number of visitors at a dinner-dance at the Charlotte Country Club comprising the annual pre-Christmas fraternity function. After a delightful banquet in the main dining room of the club, which was excellently toastmastered by Brother Stuart Rogers of Greensboro, the company moved into the ballroom for an enjoyable evening of dancing to the music of the club orchestra. Sponsors for the fraternity for the occasion were Miss Evelyn Frye of Hartwell, Georgia, Miss Mary Carson Jones of Charlotte, Miss Jean Otey of Orlando, Florida, Miss Mary Louise Rousseau of Winston-Salem, Miss Lib Liles of Concord, Miss Sarah Harris of Spartanburg, Miss Elsie Brooks of Durham, and Miss Marjorie Wilson of Greenville, S. C. Numbered among the large bevy of beautiful misses entertained by the chapter were Misses Tee McCormick of Greensboro; Betsy Long of Winston-Salem, Frances Swing of Winston-Salem, Johnnie Bennett of Winston-Salem, Julia Bridger of Bladenboro, N. C., Mary Davis of Winston, Monte Nicholson of Spartanburg, Peggy Taylor of Morristown, Tennessee, Betsy Hill of Winston-Salem, Lib Hoppe of Charlotte, Rosalyn Reed of Charlotte, Millie Brenizer of Charlotte, Dot Eiler of Tampa, Florida, Betty Kerr of Davidson, Cora Lucas of Greensboro, Ernestine Setton of Easley, S.C., Frances Payne of Darlington, S. C., Marylan Reeves of Greensboro, Ann Caldwell of Spartanburg, Caroline Cooper of Charlotte, Grace Council of Charlotte, Ann Bagwell of Charlotte, Jane Kennedy of Charlotte, Eugenia Jones of Greenville, S. C., Myrtilla Harvey of Kinston, N. C., Jane Isenhour of Charlotte, and Nancy Lewis of Mt. Airy, N. C. Faculty brothers attending the function were Professor and Mrs. W. W. Wood, Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie, Dr. and Mrs. Scott Lyons, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, and Mr. Kenneth Osborne. Among the visitors and affiliates were Pledge Brother Bob Douglas of Chester S. C., and Wofford College, Brothers Alva Lumpkin, Jimmy Millikan, Pledge Albert Myrick, and Brother Tubby McClendon.

For the money.
Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Men Christmas Gift Duty...
This is your old friend Gus. This time I’m coming to you with a timely shopping tip... Drop in at your tobacco store. Take a look at the handsome way your Christmas Chesterfields are packed. You never saw the like of these swell gifts... Big ten package cartons, cartons holding four tins of 50, and brand new this year, special greeting cartons holding just three packs. This year it’s Chesterfield for more pleasure than anything else you can buy. Enjoy the Milder, Better-Tasting Chesterfield... that’s why Chesterfield is the one you want. Tune in the Christmas Spirit. It’s Chesterfield Pleasure Time music that everybody likes on N.B.C. Stations.