Volume XXVIII. X-528

Debaters Leave Monday

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1941

Number 21

Fred Waring To Give Cup To Best Singers Of Own Alma Mater

Waring Cup Is New Feature of Annual Inter-Fraternity Sing Contest.

TROPHY IS ENGRAVED

Over 25 Colleges Holding Similar Competition.

A beautiful, gold-finished, engraved trophy has been offered by Fred Waring, well-known band leader, to the fraternity which is judged
to sing best “Davidson Our Alma Mater” in the second annual Fraternity sing which is to be held on May
17. Waring introduced “Davidson Our Alma Mater,” which he composed, over the air on his Friday night “College Smokers,” along
with over fifty other Alma Maters and fight songs. This feature of his programs has been temporarily discontinued due to
the ASCAP negotiations.

25 Schools.

Over twenty-five various schools have made applications to enter the contest, to date. Each school makes its own rules concerning
the sing, appoints its own judges, and in most cases the school music director is placed in charge of the
competition. Many fraternities and sororities have formed singing groups, many of them inspired by Waring's Pleasure Time Glee Club, and
are setting dates for the contest to coincide with annual campus functions.

Plans Made.

Plans are underway now for the fraternity competition which is to be held here. Each fraternity is striving to hit
upon a plan by which they may sing the alma mater in the most original form. So far a good
bit of practice has been given to the song by each of the participating units. Waring will present trophies to
the winning group in each college, and so far, the idea has met with very real enthusiasm among faculty members
and various student groups.

Car Privilege Given Seniors After Spring Vacation.

Seniors are permitted to have cars on the campus after the spring holidays in accordance with the rules laid down
last year. Please note the following rules:
(1) The cars must be registered in the dean’s office.
(2) Stickers, obtained from Bob Finley, must be placed on the windshield.
(3) All cars must be parked behind dormitories or some other suitable place aside from the drives around Chambers.
(4) Seniors shall not lend cars to under-classmen. This is a protective measure to the senior and to his parents.

All seniors who are planning to have a car on campus after the holidays are requested to see Bob Finley
by Thursday, March 27, so that an alphabetical list can be made.

ANNUAL RETURNS

Tuesday’s voting for the EDITOR OF THE ANNUAL left BILL SPRUNT of Winston-Salem and JULIEN McCALL of Florence, S. C.
in the run-off. Sprunt led with a vote of 42, while McCall was second with a total of 35 votes.
Today’s results were not available at press time. Those eligible for the office were SPRUNT, McCALL, DICK KELLY, ED TAYLOR,
CAM WILSON, and WALTER WOOTEN. Voting were the members of the rising Senior class.

Fred Waring and one of the trophies which he will present to the winners of the inter-fraternity singing contests, soon
to be held in over 25 major colleges. Various collegiate groups will compete, all singing the official school song which
Waring composed in response to their petitions. The songs were first presented on Waring’s NBC Pleasure Time Broadcasts, heard Monday
through Friday.

ROTC Gives Authorized Deferment

Colonel MacKenzie Issues War Department Bulletin About Draft Act.

Colonel MacKenzie wishes to announce the following War Department information for those concerned:

“The War Department issued the following instructions on deferment of active duty of reserve officers to pursue medical, law, or
post-graduate courses. Deferment will be granted only if the reserve officer would not be deferred from active duty for reasons
which would not permit his exemption from training under the Selective Training and Service Act were he not a reserve
officer.

“Accordingly, a reserve officer who plans to enter medical school with the opening of the fall term has no more
claim to deferment for that reason than has a reserve officer who desires to enter law school or one who
desires to pursue post-graduate work in any particular specialty.

“The obligation to serve is inherent in the reserve commission. Exemption from selective service has been granted to reserve officers
in order that they may serve under their reserve commissions. Decisions on deferment of active duty of reserve officers in
such cases should be based largely upon whether or not the particular applicant would be exempted were he eligible for
training under the Selective Service and Training Act.”

Thomas Gives Baccalaureate

Reverend John M. Thomas, Professor of Theology at Union Theological Seminary, has accepted an invitation to preach the Baccalaureate sermon
to the senior class on Sunday morning, June 8. He is better remembered at Davidson as Dr. Jack Thomas who
spoke here at the Fall Service Series in the fall of 1940. Dr. Thomas is a graduate of Washington and
Lee University and of Union Theological Seminary. While at the seminary he won a fellowship which entitled him to study
in Edinburgh, Scotland, and in Germany. After completing his studies he served as Professor of Bible at Hollins College in
Virginia for several years. He then filled pulpits in Charleston and the Grace Covenant Church in Richmond until he accepted
his present position at the seminary.

Forensic Men Start Annual Debate Tours

Barker, Summers, Thompson, Winn Leave Monday For West and East.

Two Davidson debate teams, one composed of Frank Barker and Bill Summers and the other of Drury Thompson and Al
Winn, left Monday to make extended debating tours into the West and East, respectively. Barker and Summers motored first to
Danville, Ky., where they debated at Centre College. Today they arrived at Lexington, Ky., to enter the National Student Assembly,
which will last until Saturday. Then they will motor west and contend against Westminster College and the University of Missouri.
Barker was business manager of the Wildcat Handbook, and is varsity wrestling manager. Summers has been very active in Y
work and in the Red and Black Masquers. Both are members of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and of the
Forensic Council.

Thompson and Winn motored first to Hampden-Sydney College. After debating there they will debate at Haverford College, Lehigh University, Rutgers
University, and Virginia University, on a two-week trip. Thompson is president of the Literary Society and is a captain in
the R. O. T. C. Winn is a member of the Y. M. C. A. and was recently elected president
of the student body for next year. Both are members of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and of the Forensic
Council.

On April 11th the third team of the debating squad, Bill Loftin and Fred Morton, will leave for the southern
tour.

CAMERA EXHIBIT

At its meeting last Wednesday night the Davidson Camera Club made plans for their annual photographic exhibit. The exhibit will
be held on April 24, 25, and 26 in Eu Hall. It is to cover all phases of photography with
forty or fifty prints. All members of the Club are expected to contribute, but anyone else who desires to contribute
is urged to see some member of the Club for details about what kind of pictures are to be exhibited.
Any contributions will be welcomed, according to Malcolm Parker, president.

Horton Opens Local Gallery

Permanent Art Center Located In Eumenean.

A new student art gallery is being donated to Davidson College by Gordon Horton. He is redecorating completely the bottom
floor of Eu Hall for the purpose of the art gallery. The ten best paintings of the last three Student
Exhibits are being framed and will be placed permanently in the new art gallery. In the future, this art exhibit
will be enlarged as it will become the custom for the two best paintings to be donated to the gallery.
Gordon Horton stated that he hopes that in this way, the art collection will grow continually and be on constant
display, preserving the best works of the student artists for future generations.

The first public showing of paintings in the newly decorated rooms will be early in April. At this time the
private exhibits of Gordon Horton and John Northcross will be on display. Mr. Northcross will display some of his portraits
while Mr. Horton will show abstractions. Those in charge of the exhibits hope that, as in the past, these exhibits
will be well attended by the Davidson students as well as the townfolk of Davidson.

Dr. John R. Cunningham has now taken up his duties as acting president of Davidson. He and his family moved
into the president's home on North Main Street yesterday. They moved from Winston-Salem, where Dr. Cunningham has been serving as
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church. For the past two months Dr. Cunningham has been visiting colleges and universities all
over America in preparation for the commencement of his work here. Extensive repairs have been made on the presidential mansion,
which caused a delay in the Cunninghams’ plans for an earlier arrival in Davidson.

Misses Edith Steinmetz and Dorothy Bechtel Gracious to Writer.

By Mac Jeffries.

Miss Edith Steinmetz and Miss Dorothy Bechtel, who were gathered here after their concert in Chambers Auditorium Monday night, were
gracious to the writer. It took ten minutes of standing in line before the reporter finally reached the duo-pianists.Bechtel asked.
“We’d like the mind,” we said hesitatingly, “can we do an interview with you for the Davidsonian if you don’t
mind?”

“Is this a criticism?” she asked.

“With our knowledge of music?” we replied, or words to that effect.

“Well, all right,” she laughed. “First, where is your home?”

Home Towns.

“We both came from small towns,” Miss Bechtel answered. “I live in Bally, Pa., and Miss Steinmetz lives in Ramsay,
N. J.”

“Do you have any particular hobbies?”

“Noooooo,” Miss Steinmetz replied, thoughtfully. “Except tennis—and oh, yes, we both like gardening. Last year, though, the rabbits ate up
all of my dahlias.” She sounded so pitiful that we had to sympathize with her, although our knowledge of gardening
is absolutely nil.

“Next question,” we continued after recovering our composure, “Could you tell us something about your training and your present tour?”

Touring South.

“Well, we both studied under the same teacher, Mr. Frank Kusschau, in New Jersey,” Miss Steinmetz answered. “That's how we
started playing together. As for this tour, we've played in Virginia and North Carolina so far, and are going to
South Carolina and Tennessee. Tomorrow night we play in Orangeburg, S. C.”

“Thanks,” we said, writing furiously. “Now just one more thing. What do you think of Davidson?”

Miss Bechtel was most fluent in her reply. “We certainly think Davidson boys are swell!”

[Continued on Page Four]

Reporter Interviews Duo-Pianists

MID-TERM GRADES

Mr. Hengeveld has announced that the mid-semester grades will be sent to the students’ homes sometime during the Spring holidays.
No grades will be sent out before that time. All students who are taking deferred exams and re-exams may get
their grades any time after Friday, March 28th. Freshmen may see their faculty advisors about grades, and upper-classmen may get
them from Mr. Hengeveld’s office.

ODK Men Attend National Convention At Baton Rouge, La.

Hewes Parrish and J. R. Jones Represent Davidson Chapter

L. S. U. ACTS AS HOST

Hewes “Shorty” Parrish and J. R. “Red” Jones represented the Davidson chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at their national convention
at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge on March 12, 13, 14, and 15. L. S. U. played host to
the convention.

The members of the convention attended lectures and talks for three days. The program boasted several well-known and influential speakers.
Among them were Dr. J. D. Manley, President of the Davidson College Alumni; Dr. George Land, professor of philosophy at
the University of Alabama and past president of the convention; and Dr. Alfred B. Butts, Chancellor of law at the
University of Mississippi.

The convention was woven around how O. D. K. could help to initiate a new era of better colleges and
better college life.

Balfour President.

The new Editor, Tony Darby, and his staff will take over their duties immediately. Garvey succeeds Paul Bumbarger as assistant
editor of the paper. Garvey is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and has served as exchange editor of
The Davidsonian for the past year.

The trip to the convention was enjoyed by the representatives.

Travel Far

Leaders Leave Early

Nearby Churches.

By Jimmy Fulcher.

When “old faithful” peels out 9:45 from its high perch on top of Chambers, most Davidson gentlemen turn over for
the second lap of their Sunday morning slumbering, but not all—no, many men are as faithful as “old faithful” itself
and rise, wipe the sleep from their eyes, and wind their way across the peaceful campus to start the Sabbath
off by teaching Sunday school or preaching.

Their destinations lead them in many directions; no point of the campus is shunned. The largest number board the “Pepsi-pushit,”
a fifteen-passenger bus gaily decorated with Pepsi-Cola signs, and travel south to the Mecklenburg County Sanitorium to minister to the
tuberculosis patients. Regular teachers making this trip are John Talmadge, Al Dimmock, Freddie Speas, Thurston Matheny, Bill Lyman, Phil Busby,
T. P. Bradlee, Ed Currie, Jim Stimson, and Jack Ramsey.

The Davidson Unity church attracts Bill Boyle, assistant pastor; Parrish, who teaches Sunday school and occasionally preaches, and the following
Sunday school teachers, Isabell Linker, George Ogelvie, John McCrea, Hank Crane, Charlie Hardie, and Jimmy Fulcher.

Long-legged “Jumping-Joe” Hopper, Bill Linton, and Herbert Dimmock usually beat the bell to the draw, rise early, and walk several
miles east of Davidson to help with the services at Shearer church.

Charlie Watt, “Y” cabinet member in charge of Sunday school work, Myson Sandifer, and Wallace Gamble teach at the Presbyterian
church.

[Continued on Page Four]
