PORTS Wildcat Sports | Tennis Tourney Opens

BOB CARTER

Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, March 20, 1941

We hate to depart from the Sport page on a sour note, but we would like to make a last
complaint against one of the intramural eligibility rules. In general, Coach Heath Whittle’s rules and regulations seem entirely reasonable, but
one we cannot understand. This rule has to do with the participation of freshmen in the intrafrat track meet. This
meet had not begun when this was written and perhaps no frosh will even enter it, but this complaint is
for the benefit of future generations.

The rule, as we understand it, states that all freshmen out for spring sports are ineligible, EXCEPT those out for
track. To our way of thinking, this seems a little queer. Those men who are in training, in the best
physical condition, and have been running daily, are eligible, yet those who are out for tennis, golf, or baseball—sports not
requiring perfect condition—are not. Maybe there is some good reason for this regulation, if so, we would like to hear
it. If not, does it not seem reasonable to change it for future meets?

FOOTBALL FACTS

The Wildcat long, drawn-out football drills finally came to a close last Saturday with an intersquad scrimmage. The practice had
extended six weeks, the maximum time allotted under Southern Conference rules. Such a scrimmage reveals very little as far as
the strength of the team is concerned, but they do show up to a certain extent the bright features of
some individual performers, both in the line and backfield.

The fair-haired lad so far has been Ben Lacy, 160-pound sophomore back from Richmond. Lacy called signals and generally sparked
the Red team to their 18-6 win over the Blacks. Outstanding in the line have been B. F. Moore and
“Butch” Caldwell, junior guard and center. Both have shown an aggressive spirit and savage tackling which bode ill for next
year’s Davidson opponents. Surprise of the drills has been the play of C. C. Morehead. Filling Coach McEver’s requirements as
a smashing type of end, C. C. has improved steadily in the pass-catching department and assures the Wildcats of one
well-protected flank.

GENERAL DOPE

Congrats to “Duck” Yarborough on his election to the captaincy of next year’s Wildcat cage team. Also to Mac Morris
and “Squatty” Squires for their managership elections... Ah, the fickleness of fate. Take the case of Lou Gehrig, only a
few years ago the idol of American baseball fans. The former Yankee strong man has been on his back now
for months and the paralysis that took him out of baseball has so overtaken him that he can hardly hold
a cigarette with his stiffened fingers... Apologies to the Betas for omitting them from the intramural standings. They are in
eighth place with a total of 259.3 points... Sensation of the spring training exhibition games has been Sam Chapman, former
All-American gridder from California. Sammy has an average of .454 from two homers, a triple, three doubles, and five singles,
besides batting in 14 runs... Watch this Grodzicki, of the Cards. Quite a twirler, we believe.

Teamwork Gives Seniors Early Lead In Volleyball

Showing fine teamwork, the Seniors took their third straight volleyball game by winning over the Juniors in a game played
Monday. Jay Bolin has been the outstanding player for the Seniors, while Bob Sleet and Davis Thomas have been starring
for the Juniors.

FROSH LOSE

In the other game played Monday, the Sophomores took over the luckless frosh. Jesse Wooten and Jim Chapman stood out
for the Sophs, while Bobby Crowell led the Freshmen.

FRAT TOURNEY STARTS

Next week the interfrat volleyball tournament will get under way with two rounds to be played next week and the
remaining rounds to be run off after spring holidays. The interclass and interfrat softball tournaments will get under way after
spring holidays.

CLASS VOLLEYBALL STANDINGS
W. L.
Seniors 3 0
Juniors 2 1
Sophomores 1 2
Freshmen 0 3

SCHEDULES

CLASS VOLLEYBALL
Friday—Seniors vs. Juniors
Sophomores vs. Freshmen

FRAT VOLLEYBALL
Monday—Betas vs. SAE
Pikas vs. KS
KA vs. Pi Kappa Phi
Phi Gams vs. SPE
Tuesday—SAE vs. Phi Delts
KS vs. SPE
KA vs. Pikes
Betas vs. Pi Kappa Phi

Newcomers Strengthen Tracksters

Bell, Spencer, Washburn Report for Drills; Dashes, Hurdles Strong.

Bright prospects for a successful cinder season continued as Coach Whittle’s track men concluded their third week of conditioning drills.
The arrival of Don Bell, weight man, Dave Spencer, speedster in the dash division, and Ben Washburn, middle distance runner,
brought the squad up to top strength.

DISTANCES WEAK

Weakness in the distances continues to be the major failing of the cinder squad. Graduation of Captain Bob Kellog and
veteran Dick Gammon leaves only Letterman Coppedge, Jim Mann, and Sophs Erskine Parks and Jim Nickels in the two-mile division,
and Rufus Nimmons, Campbell Ansley, and Red Grier in the mile event.

HURDLES STRONG

The hurdlers, Arch Taylor and Blanton Williamson, will be among the best in the State and with the dashes promise
to be the strongest division.

April 5, Saturday after Spring Holidays end on Friday, the cindermen journey to Columbia to meet South Carolina’s Gamecocks in
a Southern Conference encounter. Little is known of the 1941 edition of the usually strong Bird aggregation.

Golf Trials

Due to windy and rainy weather, the varsity golf qualifying rounds have been slow in coming in. Because of this
delay, no one has completed his qualifying.

HAMILTON HOT

On the day of the snow, seven men completed nine holes, but had to stop, due to the weather. Jack
Hamilton, transfer from Randolph-Macon, has shot the best golf so far, but, unfortunately, he is ineligible. Hamilton has had rounds
of 36 and 37.

QUALIFYING ROUNDS

The following qualifying rounds have been turned in so far: Captain Granny Sharpe has a 79, 81; Hattis McReynolds a
79, 40; Frank Mebane an 86, 43; Bob Bryant an 83, 43; Pete Cavert an 85, 85, 40; Pop Rogers
an 86, and Jack Abels an 83. Cavert and Rogers are going to play in the Greater Greensboro Open this
weekend. Plans have been completed for the Florida trip during the holidays.

Rain Delays

LACY STOPPED

Ben Lacy, seen above on an end run, was the spearhead of the offensive that gave the Reds an 18-6
victory over the Blacks in an inter-squad game last Saturday. On the ground blocking for Lacy (26) is Frank Caldwell
(40) taking out Ripper Hunt (31) of the Reds. Almond Tew (23) came in to make the tackle.Tackle. First Round
Play-Offs Of Tourney Completed

The annual spring tennis tournament to select the players to compose the varsity tennis team got under way last Monday,
at which time top-seeded Holt Barnwell defeated Ben Colkitt, 6-0, 6-1.

PLAY CONTINUES.

The first round of play was completed last Tuesday and the final play-offs are expected to be completed tomorrow. The
tournament this year is run off by a process of eliminations instead of having the usual two brackets. This is
done in order to save time. Eliminations will continue until only nine players remain in the tournament. Three of these
will be chosen in play-offs to team with Dick Shore and Miller Sproull to form the tennis team. Shore and
Sproull are the only members of last year’s team to return. A series of matches between the semi-finalists will be
played to determine the players’ position on the team.

BARNWELL SEEDED.

In the tournament, Holt Barnwell was seeded first; Bill Wood, second; Ted Larkin, third; Joe Parrigin, fourth; Paul Bumbarger, fifth;
and Moose Sain, sixth. The team will play a practice match with Charlotte High on Monday, the 24th, and will
open the season on the 25th against Boston University at Davidson. All home matches will be played on the Davidson
courts this year, instead of in Charlotte.

Sugar, 10 Lb. Bag
Lettuce or Celery
Shortening, 8 Lb. Carton
Carrots, Turnips, Beets
PENDERS STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Frosh Open Ball Drill

Freshman baseball practice officially began last Monday with seventeen “hopefuls” answering the first call. Due to the drafting of the
former frosh mentor, Crowell Little, Coach McEver will tutor the first-year men.

BETHEA LONE CATCHER.

In the opening practice, Coach McEver had the boys taking turns practicing hitting, with the head coach and Ed Major
doing the mound work. Earl Bethea was the lone performer behind the plate, and will be a strong contender for
that position.

16 REPORT.

Others included in the first day's practice were: Ed Cole, Walter “Red” Burke, Armand Tew, “Buck” Fuqua, Elmer Graves, Gene
Kirkpatrick, Gene Head, Bradford, O. D. Evans, Dimmock, Jimmie Grier, Major, Tom Ebrick, Herbert Owens, Elvin Myatt, and Bob Hutcheson.

A plan for students to raise money for the needy by economizing on one meal a week is under consideration
at Oberlin College.

Friday-Saturday, March 21-22
“VIRGINIA”
With Madeleine Carroll and Fred MacMurray

Monday-Tuesday, March 24-25
NOT ANNOUNCED

Wednesday, March 26—Double Feature, 15¢
“MURDER OVER NEW YORK”
“WHERE DID YOU GET THAT GIRL”

March 27-28
“RAMPARTS WE WATCH”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
—DAVIDSON, N. C.—

WE HAVE IT
Dial 4641
@ GROCERIES
@ MEATS
@ CANDIES
ANDERSON’S Food Store
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Always Ask for
Peanut Butter Sandwiches
Salted Peanuts
Candy
Manufactured by Swinson Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Charlotte’s New
MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
HOTEL W. R. BARRINGER
We Cordially Invite You to Make This YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME

IF MOTORS COULD TALK WE WOULD NOT HAVE TO ADVERTISE
MARKLEY’S Service Station
“WASHING AND GREASING”
South Main Street
DAVIDSON, N. C.

NOW PLAYING
At Last It’s On the Screen! ...
“TOBACCO ROAD”
—With—
A SWELL CAST

Starting Monday
Carole LOMBARD
Robt. Montgomery
in
“MR. AND MRS. SMITH”

CAROLINA THEATRE
Charlotte - North Carolina

Owens, Carter, Hogg And Yarborough Get Posts In Cat Infield

Lucas, Grosse, Davis, Morris, Carter, Handle Mound Duties, Clark, Horner, Niven, Latto Fighting For Garden Positions; Hogg, Owens Shifted.

By Jimmy Fulcher.

A few of the wrinkles left Coach Shepherd's brow Monday afternoon when his baseball worries brightened a little with the
addition of five new candidates for the diamond nine. Seen on the diamond Monday for the first time, due to
spring football drills, were Bill Grosse, Bob Smith, Frank Caldwell, and Dicky Phillips. Jim Owens, out for the first few
days of practice because of an infected finger, was holding down the hot corner.

INFIELD SLOTS SETTLED.

Infield positions are just about sewed up by the veterans from last year's team. On the No. 1 sack, Bob
Carter seems certain to get the call, but may get some assistance from Frank Niven in case Bob is summoned
to the mound. At the keystone position, Tommy Yarborough will again hold the inside track. Jimmy Hogg has been shifted
to shortstop from his old hot-box corner, which will go to either Owens, Nelson, or Niven. The outfield worries are
still unsettled, but in practice games early in the week, Jack Clark, up from last year’s nine, Doug Horner, who
has impressed the ‘Cat mentor in spite of lack of experience, Frank Niven, and Lantham Latta have been chasing most
of the outfield knocks.

NUMEROUS RESERVES.

Reserves are plentiful in the infield with Caldwell, Latta, Nelson, Niven, and Phillips furnishing most of the competition. Bob Smith,
Scotty Poole, and Bob Mc- (Continued on Page Six)

Reds Rout Blacks, 18-6

Spring football drills ended Saturday with an inter-squad game in which a veteran Red eleven defeated the Blacks, 18-6. Veterans
Herb Rainey, Bill Shaw, Johnny Frederick and George Marsh watched from the sidelines, because of injuries, and Mac Bruce, Frosh
satellite, and Johnny Miller saw only limited action.

REDS SCORE FIRST.

The heavier Red machine drew first blood in the first period, when Ben Washburn went over tackle for five yards
and the score. A pass, Washburn to Hackney, good for forty yards, accounted for the second tally, and the Reds
led, 12-0. With the leaders backed up on their own goal, Burke broke through and blocked Lacy's kick, Gwynn recovered
for the Blacks and two plays later Earl Bethea bucked over for six points. Later in the third period, Ben
Lacy, work-horse for the winners, culminated a downfield drive with the last touchdown of the day.

BOOTH SHINES.

Individual stars for the rough and tumble contest were hard to select from the mass of men participating. Shep Booth’s
passing was up to his usual standards and the little tailback displayed a talent for leather lugging heretofore concealed. In
the Red backfield Lacy’s line-bucks were consistent gainers and [Continued on Page Six]

The One Hundred Thirtieth Session Opens SEPTEMBER 17, 1941
UNION THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Open Thursdays ‘til 9 p. m.

“Sportrio”

Gentlemen, here’s a complete outfit for your Spring Vacation—the tweed coat with matching 3-piece and contrasting slacks—wear it a dozen
ways.

Other Spring suits of Covert, Gabardine, Tweed and Worsted

$18.50 to $35.00

Odd Sport Coats $12.50 to $18.50
Odd Slacks $3.95 to $7.95
McGregor Sweaters $1.95 to $15.00
Sweater Vests $1.95 to $3.95

Ed. Mellon Co.
2nd Floor
106-108 W. Trade St.
Charlotte
