Thurs. Feb. 13, 1941 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Professor Davidson Locates Interesting Record At Carolina
Discovers Old Newspaper Article About Davidson Temperance Society

Mayor Beaty SOCIETY FOUNDED IN 1837
Elected Head Society's Ideas Similar To Local PTA Present Spirit

By W. B. ABBOT

“Among THE GREEKS Kappa Alpha long jaunts and extended wild hare abouts were the order of the day for half Alpha week end Raleigh Mary’s Brothers of Kappa this past Ot to ind its St and Caro ling Wash burn, Wallace and Pledge Brother John Belk. Pledge Brothers Burke and be found Duke Sprunt to went Councill Charlotte George were to while Brothers “Buzz” up to Statesville, and then North Carolina Vanlandingham and Councill flung through most of lower Brother Henderson When the true facts revealed his re- warning for cent marriage Frank Hill as only a rumor the week-end on Cc went to “Thel” Brother spent house party near Tatum, S Gene Shannon and Ed Cole Brother oprogs untied by ve accor and Maxwell at. Pledge a wrestling match in Charlotte the Pikas were guests at an enviable feed at the SAE house Sunday night her auburn haired son, Mac Morris. Brothers Hipp and Plunkett spent the week-end with Brother Florence lured and Miller whom Carolina called were brothers McCrea and Pledge Wat in Derita Brothers Mobley South Robinson mn, who went to Winthrop and Clemson, respectively. The fraternity is proud to announce the pledging of Joe Eve of Augusta, Ga.

Kappa Sigma
While many of the brothers were convalescing over the week-end from an overdose of Mid-winter frolicking, others failed to be daunted by the “week-end after gloom” Sigma Phi Epsilon from all reports Brother Page Harris went to his Oxford home, and over to Raleigh, while Brother “Da” Lemmon visit ates, and other out-of-town guests at an open house. Among those present were Dr. and Mrs. Gwynn, Mr. Fulcher, Profs. Kimbrough and Goldiere and Mrs. Hazel Pharr, Mary McDown, Betty Kerr, Mary Davis, Ann Midy, Margaret McCachren, and Elizabeth Graham. Brother Coppedge spent the whole week-end in Charlotte, Brother Cooper made his weekly excursion to Greensboro, and he will make another next week. Brother Davis Thomas went all the way to his home in Tampa, Fla, via thumb (we hope) Brother Cam Wilson returned to his Bardstown, Ky., home to visit his family, and Brother Joe Flowers hopped down to Georgia on business. Brother Hank King, while his trip was not as extended as some of his brothers, went a little way to be at home in Johnson City, Tenn, Sandy Sandifer also went back to Lowrys, S.C. to see his family.

Phi Delta Theta
The brotherhood was scattered far and wide over the week-end. Pledge brothers who have not been previously mentioned limited their operations to Charlotte and other nearby points. The dances at Chapel Hill were the center of the attraction and the following brothers attended: Scott Cooper, Beester Burwell, John Purdie, Jack Clark, and Dick Kelly. Brothers Jimmy Hogg, Tommy Yarbrough, and George Marsh were with the basketball team in Raleigh. Pledge Lee Scott, after taking in the Davidson-N.C. State game Saturday night, spent Sunday at his home in Goldsboro. Karl Jonas went to the dances at Sweetbriar College, Va., and Ed Hipp spent Sunday in Greensboro. Pledge Bob Amos disappointed his too numerous to mention admirers by not attending the dances at Chapel Hill. The fraternity is glad to welcome Brother Tarleton back to the campus.

Alpha Epsilon Delta
Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-medical fraternity, met last Wednesday in Dr. Matthews' office for a lecture and a number of basal metabolism demonstrations. The members also took some tests.

Caldwell Will Hold Services Sunday Night
President Of Seminary Will Address Students At Vesper Service

At the vesper service on Sunday, the 16th, Dr. Caldwell is a graduate of Centre College, in Kentucky, and is at present a member of the Board of Trustees of that institution. He later studied at Louisville Seminary, and received his Ph.D. at Edinburgh. He then returned to his alma mater as Professor of Bible. Entering the ministry, Dr. Caldwell held pastorates in Bradfordsville, Ky. and McComb, Miss. In 1936, he took over duties as president of Louisville Seminary, the office that he holds today.

Le Cercle Francais Initiates New Members In Recent Club Meeting
Several amusing anecdotes presented by associate members, and an essay in French composed the program of Le Cercle Francais Thursday night. John Knox Robinson gave a long monologue in French, followed by a dialogue between two elderly French women, played by Bill Conner and John K. Miller. A short one-act play consisting of a family scene involving disciplinary troubles was given by Dick Phillips, Bill Robinson, and Frank Sanford. There were contributions given by the associates before they were formally initiated as associate members. John Farrior's essay in French concluded the actual program. Then members played French games and sang French songs before the meeting closed with refreshments.

Sophomores to Gather in Queens City Saturday night for annual feast. Much gaiety planned for festive occasion by Sophs.

Professor Chalmers G. Davidson recently found an article in one of the newspapers on file in the library at Chapel Hill which may be of interest to Davidson students. It concerns a Temperance Society that was founded here in 1837. One of our student body regulations states that no student shall be found guilty of drinking intoxicating liquors—or having the same in their possession. Evidently these early students had the same idea when they founded this society.

The article is as follows:
“Temperance Society at Davidson College”—It will no doubt be interesting to the friends of literature as well as to the friends of humanity and religion, to know that the noble cause of Temperance is gradually and rapidly advancing at this place. Few Temperance Societies in this part of our country have commenced under such favorable auspices, or made such rapid progress. The Temperance Society at Davidson College was formed in November, 1837, and consisted principally of the students of this institution. Every college session since its formation it has had from one to three meetings, and at every meeting its friends have been cheered by seeing some new member added to the list. Under the direction of Joe Mc, the Society assembled in the chapel, and was affectionately addressed by Lockridge. His address was followed by truly interesting, solemn, and appropriate remarks from Dr. Robinson, Dr. Morrison, and Professor Sparrow. The pledge of the Society was read, and twelve additional members were received, making the whole number eligible for membership. The purpose of the club is to make for better understanding between the parents and teachers and further the education of the children.

The officers of the local association are: Mayor E. A. Beaty, president; Mrs. F. W. Hartness, vice-president; Miss Grace James, secretary; and Mr. Oscar Gant, treasurer.

Y.M.C.A. Members Organize Boys’ Club At Grammar School
On Monday evening, the 29th inst., after a day of very interesting examination, the Society assembled in the chapel, and was affectionately addressed by Lockridge. His address was followed by truly interesting, solemn, and appropriate remarks from Dr. Robinson, Dr. Morrison, and Professor Sparrow. The pledge of the Society was read, and twelve additional members were received, making the whole number eligible for membership. The purpose of the club is to make for better understanding between the parents and teachers and further the education of the children.

Twenty members enrolled at the first meeting. This club is a subdivision of the Davidson YMCA and is intended to provide wholesome recreation and guidance for the boys of the community.That of Hi-Y men, the present number being 110. Every person seemed to be interested, delighted, and encouraged. There was evidently a oneness of feeling—a gathering of hearts around the good cause as we have rarely witnessed. It was peculiarly touching and cheering to see, on the one hand, the aged father, whose silvery locks and broken voice betoken his near approach to the grave, portraying the horrors of intemperance and struggling to preserve the rising generation from its deleterious influences; and, on the other hand, to behold the youths themselves pressing forward to enlist under the banner of total abstinence.

The prevalence of temperance in our country is the cause to which we are indebted, in a good degree, for the great health, peace, morality, and good order for which this institution is so peculiarly distinguished. Most of the students here are members of the Temperance Society. Intemperance is regarded as the sure precursor of suspension from college privileges, and subsequent degradation and ruin. Already the usefulness of this Society has been seen and felt, not in the college alone, but also in the surrounding country. No spirituous liquor of any kind is brought here for sale, none is kept, none is received of the fell destroyer—intoxicating liquors.

The article is signed by W. H. Moore and R. E. Sherrill of the committee.

Coy and Jimmy Fulcher, a Gra-Y group, consist of an election of officers for the coming year. After the regular meeting, a recreational hour of basketball in the school gymnasium will take place. Last Saturday, a recreational event was enjoyed. Other recreational activities of this nature are being planned for the future.

Pins for the club will be ordered in the next few weeks. Joe McCoy is the club adviser and is assisted by Jimmy Fulcher.

Brothers Hobbie and Vereen whipped up to Roanoke and Hollis, Va., respectively. Brothers Chapman, Boykin, Raynor, and Pledge Hayes followed Will Bradley's trail by whipping down to Atlanta to the Georgia Tech Mid Terms, while Brother McLean spent the weekend at his home in Lenoir and at the dance in Salem. Brothers Westall and Rudolph whizzed up to the mountains and spent the weekend at their home in Asheville. Brothers Sproull and Braz Bones had a “fine” time at the Chapel Hill Mid-Winters, and Brother Williams went with the basketball team to Raleigh.

Greensboro and its many attractions proved a drawing card to Brothers Dew, McIver, and Pledge Archer. Brother McKinnon included both McDonald College and Maxton, his domicile, in his weekend itinerary, and Pledge McGeachy retired to the swank atmosphere of his hometown, Tryon. Brother Wardlaw journeyed to his home in Spartanburg, and Charlotte drew Brothers Howell and Pledges Coslett and Fetner.

The chapter was honored Friday with a visit from Brother Jim Dunlap, formerly of this chapter but now enrolled in the law school of the University of Georgia.

Pi Kappa Phi

Many of the brothers and pledges recuperated sufficiently from Mid-Winters to venture off the campus this weekend. Brothers Paul Bumbarger, Garvey, Herring, and McArthur went to the dance at Salem, while Niven journeyed over to Chapel Hill. Greensboro claimed Brother Covington. Brother Howard Cheney paused and anteed. You'll enjoy the relaxation of a pause more if you add the refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its taste never fails to please, and it brings a refreshed feeling you will like. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE CHARLOTTE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY.