Spring Services Begin Tuesday

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA
The Mabidgonian
LIBERTAS

Hodges Elected Magazine Editor

Volume XXVIII. X-528
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1941
Number 23

HACKNEY HEADS RISING SENIOR CLASS

INCOMING CLASS PRESIDENTS

Long, O’Hair to Head Rising Junior, Sophomore Classes Of 1943, ’44 After Three Ballots

Rising Juniors Elect Ed Murray and Joe McCoy to Other Offices. Caldwell and Wooten Elected Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer.

LONG WINS OVER LACY

Rising Sophs Also Elect Bumbarger and Amos.

Kelly, Yarbroigh Are On Other Final Ballots.

During class elections last Saturday, Matt Long was elected president of the rising junior class and Dick O’Hair was voted into the presidency of the rising sophomore class. Ed Murray was elected vice-president of the rising junior class, while Joe McCoy won in the race for secretary-treasurer. The rising sophomores elected Tom Bumbarger their vice-president, and Bob Amos, secretary-treasurer.

Hackney is from Live Oak, Fla, and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. During his sophomore year he was secretary-treasurer, and this year, first vice-president of the student body.

Long is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and during the past year has served as a sophomore member of the Student Council, the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, and holds a backfield position on the varsity football squad. Hackney is a junior member of Scabbard and Blade honorary fraternity and is a member of the varsity track team. Long is a wonderful institution, and a fine place at which to live. This past year works with the state students and faculty members has brought forth a spiritual uplift in me personally.

O’Hair is a numeralman in both freshman football and wrestling, and is now on the freshman track team. He participates in various intramural athletics, and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and Scabbard and Blade honorary fraternity. O’Hair’s home is in Rock Hill, S. C.

In the rising junior class student council race, John R. Caldwell was elected with nineteen votes and was followed by Johnny Fredericks with fifteen, Ben Lacy and Lacy Maloney with fourteen each.

In the race for Freshman Advisor, Charlie Watt led Tuesday with 32 votes; G. Marsh with 23 and Ralph Shore with nine.

Davidson’s Alumni Chapter of Winston-Salem is holding its annual dinner meeting on the evening of Thursday, April 24. The meeting will be led by Arch B. Taylor, of the class of ‘11, who is president of the chapter and father of Arch Taylor, Jr, one of the members of Davidson's junior class. Davidson's new president, Dr. John R. Cunningham will give the main address of the evening. His subject will be “The Urgency of a Christian College,” Mr. F. L. Barbour will also conduct the services on April 22 and 23 during extended chapel periods and on these respective evenings; the 22nd and 23rd, he will be the speaker at night services.

Shaw Smith, Davidson Y” Secretary, will entertain the gathering by returning to his past role of “Colin” the Magician, and throughout the program the Davidson Symphonic Band, under the direction of James C. Pfohl will present a varied musical program.

Henry Bahnson, retiring president of the Davidson R. O. T. C. Battalion, will speak at a special chapel service on the morning and evening of April 21. Dr. Clifford E. Barbour, who was selected by the “Y” as speaker for the “Davidson Fourth Year” services, will arrive on April 21.

The six Wesley R. O. T. C. Summer Camp for the first year advanced students will be held at Clemson College, Clemson, S. C., from June 6, at 10 a.m., until July 17, 1941.

Dr. Barbour is of English descent. He was born in Pittsburgh in 1905, and received all of his education at the University of Pittsburgh. He spent a year at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, and later received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. He has been a professor of history at Davidson College since 1935.

The students are to be congratulated on their choice of Jim Owen as their next ‘Y’ president. With the help of the faculty and the cooperation of the students, the ‘Y’ will continue to grow and serve the Davidson community.of the department. Seabrook has followed Berea, Centre, Duane, and Sewanee; well, Carter, Kelley, and Woodward were the speakers. Second, with the student body behind us, we department in which he wishes to go... Scotland where he obtained his Ph.D. degree. He was honored with a D.D. degree by the company in the college stadium on Richardson Field at 3:00 yesterday afternoon. Dr. Cunningham is widely known. Salem is one of the largest in the State. votes for Caldwell and 25 for Kelly for president; Scotty Patterson for vice-president; Atlee Solis for secretary-treasurer. Smith’s home is in Mount Olive. After transferring from Oak Ridge, he graduated from Davidson in 1939. Last year he taught English at Oak Ridge. In the absence of Professor Jeter, the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. 

By Legh Scott. Dan Hodges was elected last fall, newly-elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that his junior staff for the year 1941-42 will be made up of: Ed Wayman, Henry McIntosh, Joe Shook, Murray, Erskine Parks, Ben Washburn, and Jesse Wooten. These six men will replace Dick Lyerly, Julien McCall, Bill Sprunt, Ted Taylor, Cam Wilson, and Walter Wooten. The said gentlemen shoved off on Monday before spring holidays and weren't seen in the immediate vicinity until the Wednesday after. A brand new 1939 Ford coupe served as the means of conveyance. Orthodox destinations were Centre College in Danville, Ky., Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn. These were the scenes of three debates. At Centre, the boys lost a close decision, and both the others were non-decision arguments. Chief accomplishment of the whole trip was electing Barker President of the Senate of the National Students’ Assembly at a meeting in the Phoenix Hotel of Lexington, Ky., an outstanding honor.

Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Ed Erwin. Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Legh Scott. Dan Hodges was elected last fall, newly-elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that his junior staff for the year 1941-42 will be made up of: Ed Wayman, Henry McIntosh, Joe Shook, Murray, Erskine Parks, Ben Washburn, and Jesse Wooten. These six men will replace Dick Lyerly, Julien McCall, Bill Sprunt, Ted Taylor, Cam Wilson, and Walter Wooten. The said gentlemen shoved off on Monday before spring holidays and weren't seen in the immediate vicinity until the Wednesday after. A brand new 1939 Ford coupe served as the means of conveyance. Orthodox destinations were Centre College in Danville, Ky., Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn. These were the scenes of three debates. At Centre, the boys lost a close decision, and both the others were non-decision arguments. Chief accomplishment of the whole trip was electing Barker President of the Senate of the National Students’ Assembly at a meeting in the Phoenix Hotel of Lexington, Ky., an outstanding honor.

Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Ed Erwin. Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Legh Scott. Dan Hodges was elected last fall, newly-elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that his junior staff for the year 1941-42 will be made up of: Ed Wayman, Henry McIntosh, Joe Shook, Murray, Erskine Parks, Ben Washburn, and Jesse Wooten. These six men will replace Dick Lyerly, Julien McCall, Bill Sprunt, Ted Taylor, Cam Wilson, and Walter Wooten. The said gentlemen shoved off on Monday before spring holidays and weren't seen in the immediate vicinity until the Wednesday after. A brand new 1939 Ford coupe served as the means of conveyance. Orthodox destinations were Centre College in Danville, Ky., Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn. These were the scenes of three debates. At Centre, the boys lost a close decision, and both the others were non-decision arguments. Chief accomplishment of the whole trip was electing Barker President of the Senate of the National Students’ Assembly at a meeting in the Phoenix Hotel of Lexington, Ky., an outstanding honor.

Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Ed Erwin. Professor C. K. Brown, chairman of the department of English, announced Monday that the courses in Geography and Geology will be taught by Professor Porter during the 1941-42 session. These will not be offered as laboratory courses but as six-hour ones. Dr. Cunningham received his degree of Master of Theology at Western Theological Seminary. The three judges of the competition were Major D. L. Hardee, Infantry P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge Military Institute, Oak Ridge, N.C.; Major F. J. Beatty, Infantry, Officer in Organized Reserves of P.M.S. & T., Oak Ridge; and Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there prior to his moving to Davidson. He was pastor of that church for six years, and in addition to his ministerial duties did much civic work in the city. From all reported indications, the students in the college are being presented with a great opportunity for further religious training. Services such as these are sponsored annually by the Y.M.C.A. Two series of services are held each year. The first meetings take place in the fall; these are followed in the spring by a similar group. Last fall’s spring services were conducted by Dr. “Jack” Thomas, a professor at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

By Legh Scott. Dan Hodges was elected last fall, newly-elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that his junior staff for the year 1941-42 will be made up of: Ed Wayman, Henry McIntosh, Joe Shook, Murray, Erskine Parks, Ben Washburn, and Jesse Wooten. These six men will replace Dick Lyerly, Julien McCall, Bill Sprunt, Ted Taylor, Cam Wilson, and Walter Wooten. The said gentlemen shoved off on Monday before spring holidays and weren't seen in the immediate vicinity until the Wednesday after. A brand new 1939 Ford coupe served as the means of conveyance. Orthodox destinations were Centre College in Danville, Ky., Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and Sewanee at Sewanee, Tenn. These were the scenes of three debates. At Centre, the boys lost a close decision, and both the others were non-decision arguments. Chief accomplishment of the whole trip was electing Barker President of the Senate of the National Students’ Assembly at a meeting in the Phoenix Hotel of Lexington, Ky., an outstanding honor.