Wednesday, November 19, 1941

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3rd, 1879

HARWELL DARBY................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON................. BUSINESS MANAGER
Webby Carter.................. Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett................. Associate Editor
Managing Editor
NGG mY Chattatrsssiocsccteeeses cones cacbssceteesase Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher................. Managing Editor
Bill Lyman.................... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh................ Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean................. Sports Editor
Movie Editor
Clarencey..................... Staff Photographer
Billy Barker.................. BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp.................. Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young................... Advertising Manager
Martin....................... Circulation Manager
Buck McN...................... Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart................... Collections Manager

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Thanksgiving

Letters to The Editor

Dear Tony:

With the announcement of the remodeling of the old Library into a Guest House and “Y” Office, other ways in
which this “College Lounge” can be used to fulfill campus needs present themselves. Chief of these needs which haven't yet
been incorporated into the new building is the problem of the telephone arrangements in the college dormitories. Some of the
disadvantages of the present system should be noted first, to show the improvements that a new plan would make.

These decentralized telephone exchanges that inhabit the main entrance of each dormitory in the form of booths have been bothering
first floor roomers and other conscientious students with their ringing demands for years. These years of evidence give all this
time in proof that the present system is unsatisfactory and outmoded. Many times, boys are disturbed needlessly by calls for
boys who live in a distant dormitory, or for a boy who lives four floors up and ten rooms down
the hall, or by local persons who merely “wonder” if a certain fellow is in his room. Then, at numerous
times, calls aren't answered or the boy isn’t even notified of an important call. A notice may be tacked on
a bulletin board, which may be noticed later.

On weekends, this lack of answers is particularly true. There is always a delay in getting the telephone answered, which
must be quite irksome to the caller. Even aside from this lack of responsibility for telephone calls, there is the
frequent urgent ringing of the telephone bell, which distracts the attention of half the students in the dormitory, and which
particularly annoys those who room nearby. Answering the telephone involves time and trouble in trying to locate the fortunate one,
while everyone else wonders if it was for him. This altruistic answering, and the jangling noise to all other persons
greatly hinders studying in a college where it is demanded.

Thus far, the dormitory telephones have been criticized; so it is time for a constructive plan. This problem could not
be solved very well until the “College Lounge” or the “Y-W” Building idea was introduced. But this building now offers
space for a central telephone exchange. Many other schools have it, so it seems to have proved successful elsewhere. This
telephone exchange will be connected to small phones on each floor of the dormitories, preferably near the middle rooms on
each hall, where they will be reached more easily by more students. The ringing noises of the telephones can be
lowered greatly in proportion to the radius it serves. The central exchange can handle all calls and connect the person
to the proper hall; then, if the person is not there, and no information can be gathered as to his
whereabouts, the message can be recorded at the exchange. When the wanderer returns, he can learn easily from the exchange
where the call came from or the message left. It can be arranged so that outgoing calls can be made
from each hall telephone if pay-stations are set up, or from the “Social Center” Building, where privacy can be obtained.
Students can attend to the exchange switchboard such as those working in the College Library, being on duty for most
of the day and some of the night, possibly on N. Y. A. time. For the rest of the time
(a minority), the proposed hostess for the Guest Building will always be available to attend to the urgent calls.

For all the reasons herein given, and from the proposed plan, I ask for an investigation in this matter, as
to the expense of installation. A faculty committee or some student body or O. D. K. representatives are recommended for
this work. This committee should ever remember its advantages and permanence, which are in step with the other needed and
great improvements being made by the present college and student body administrations.

Yours for an ever-better Davidson,
ED TAYLOR.

This week's letter to the editor expresses a method in which Davidson's present telephone system may be improved. The author’s
opinion is sound and the need for such improvement is obvious. As evidenced by the Extra Edition Tuesday, the Davidsonian
backs the Gift Fund Project one hundred per cent.

Will someone please inform sports writers that Davidson tied Rollins this season instead of Hollins? There's some difference!

BY PAT RUDOLPH

Into the Abstract With Rod and Reel.

To my mind, and to Charles Lamb's also, all humans may be divided into two races. Charlie has confined his
essay to a discussion of the men who borrow and the men who lend. I shall confine mine to an
entirely different subject; the men who do and the men who don’t. Before embarking on this sea of dispute, I
must say first that, naturally, I am prejudiced against those barbaric creatures who don't, of those happier people who do.
I shall endeavor to set forth the arguments which both races offer, despite the fact that the “doers” (as I
shall refer to them from now on) are usually right, and the “don’ters” (as I shall refer to them hereafter)
are usually wrong. But I should restrain myself. I am forced to admit that there are few men at all
who are so unfortunate as to be without a lot of “dooage” and a little “dontage,” or a lot of
“dontage” and a little “dooage.” Even the most “dontey” of all minds finds time to relax and enjoy some forms
of “dooey.” But alas! this must be confined to a very low category, literally speaking, between elementary theories enumerated in
Sapp’s “History of Dooage,” and some of those in “How Green Was My Sally,” by One Who Knows. These volumes
contain some of the most primary and simple theories of dooage, but cannot be accepted as assets to the early
twentieth century doing school in this country.

Superiority of the Dooers

Let us consider first the men who do. This race of men is undoubtedly superior to the other. The dooers
are outstanding in every way, showing both a knowledge of advanced principles and also a finesse in doing, which baffles
even the most advanced Donter. A prominent student of Dooey once asked me if I thought that was here to
stay. At (being new) I thought that talking~-about Manila, but, catching fast, I replied in the affirmative, saying, “I Do.”
This is one of the most thrilling moments in a young dooer's life—when he can say “I Do” of Dooey
the Dooey. To first, he was on in The Two Races of Men: Or Delv-H be the first time since
receiving his degree in Dooey. Donter can attempt to rebuke him. Many conversions of donters in my tor Not even
a confirmed so much as I have seen life. Any physicist can tell you what the “Dew Point” is... Well
I am to tell you what the “Do” is. This is “the climax of a slowly-diminishing, rapidly-increasing reflex action of
a dontish character which sometimes results in a dooey-decimal personality (which is bad), but more often results in a dooey-infinitesimal
personality (which is good).

In All Fairness, Etc...
We seem to be leaving the donters in the cold. However, we should just go ahead and let them freeze,
since all dooers (and I am one) have some sportsmanlike qualities. I shall devote a few words to explain the
complex functions of the inferior race, the donters. A dooer of the stairstep-like personality of the men wouldn't have any
idea of how to explain to a casual fence-hanger-oner why a real down-to-earth donter should not be a donter. I
firmly believe that most donters would like to be dooers, and a great many have achieved this feat. But poor
left doting in their dontage fall into a class of people laughed at by the Greek poet Kaperonis. This venerable
poet, in a book of verse entitled: “The Alpha and Omega of Us Griks,” had a poem which ran like
this:

“The Kings of Peru were the Incas
They were widely renounced as drinkas,
They worshipped the sun,
And had lots of fun,
But the peasants all thought they were stinkas.”

This poet undoubtedly shows genius in panning the Kings of the Incas, whom we must classify as a most vicious
breed of donters. By this time, some of you must be puzzled as to which race you belong. The only
practical experiment to solve this problem is a very painful one. If you are in doubt, simply cut off your
head and send it to the State Laboratory at Raleigh (prepaid) and they will make a free examination, write an
opinion, and return the head C.O.D.

In the Grooves
By JIMMIE MORGAN

Larry Clinton
The shining light of Larry Clinton's “You'll Never Know” and “Your Words and My Music” is vocalist Peggy Mann, one
of the best to come along in quite a while. She puts much expression into both pieces, while the Clinton
aggregation furnishes good accompaniment.

Les Brown
Les Brown has this month released his versions of “I Got It Bad and That Ain’t Good” and “Nothin’,” two
tunes from Duke Ellington’s musical, “Jump for Joy.” Both show off the Brown band’s precision of attack to fine advantage,
while Betty Bonney sings good vocal choruses.

Teddy Powell
One of the finest bands to make its debut in some time is that of Teddy Powell. This month the
Powell entourage produces two ballads of distinction, "Honey” and “I Used to Love You.” The former, with full-sounding saxophone passages
and a nice Ruth Gaylor vocal, is the better of the two. A news item of interest to Teddy Powell
fans is the fact that the band’s complete equipment, including all instruments, was destroyed last month in a fire at
the Rustic Cabin, Mountainview, N. J., where the band was on location. The organization expects to be soon hitting its
former stride, however.

Charlie Spivak
Charlie Spivak plays a wonderful muted trumpet, but when he plays open he is much more effective. On his recording
of “Minka” he renders an open solo of great purity and beauty; this solo and Gary Stevens' vocal go together
to make this a highly desirable disc. “A Weekend in Havana,” is not recommended.

Bob Chester
Chester has released four sides this month, all of which have their good points. They are the novel “Joltin’ Joe
DiMaggio,” “This Love of Mine,” “The Wind Blows Free,” and “From Maine to California.” Dave Rose’s arrangements for Chester are
always interesting.

Jazz Classic
Jazz Classic of the week is “Roll 'Em,” by the old Benny Goodman band. Called by some the greatest jump
tune recording of all time, “Roll 'Em” has a beat that will knock you clear off your feet. It was
composed and arranged by Mary Lou Williams, and shows off wonderful solos by Jess Stacy, piano, Goodman, clarinet, and Harry
James, trumpet. These solos, Gene Krupa’s drumming, and the general all-round drive of the band make this record more than
worthy of the title, “Jazz Classic.”

The Filth Columnist
By ???.?

Ah, what an ideal week-end it has been for gleanings of private lives of those strange and unpredictable creatures known
as Davidsonians! There were opportunities no end for dealings, such as the W. & L. game, the dance, the Carolina-Duke
affray, also accompanied by a dance, not to speak of the various lures of the fairer sex hither and yon.

ASHBY DICK received a telephone call Saturday afternoon with this message, “If you still want to make that deal call
the Nurses Home in Charlotte.” Evidently he did as he was subsequently sighted on the humming corner with R. CLONTZ
of the rising junior class. We were unable to discover if they pulled this gigantic deal together, but presume they
did, as both have quite a reputation as charmers at the aforesaid N. H.

KIDNEY OLIVER kept his irons in the fire by returning to the scene of his triumph a fortnight ago at
Mary Baldwin, where it seems that HARRIET kept the KID. THE KID has reached the stage where he yearns for
the patter of little feet. Maybe you should buy a penguin, PRESTON.

MONROSE BUSHES whips to Charlotte three times a week for a tryst. It's doubtful if anything can be done about
his elbow, which has developed a permanent crook, until after Christmas holidays.

ED ERWIN is still regularly calling on his O. A. O. “SQUEAKY.” Perhaps this had something to do with the
remark from last week which deposits in some bank. Maybe he’s making post-grad plans.

IKE BELK hogged the driver's seat on his trip this week whenever a girls’ school was in the offing, but
when the driving was tough, or after dark, IKE refused to put a foot on the accelerator. Exhibitionist!

WHISKEY WINN of soccer and student government fame is using threats to keep his name out of this guest columnist's
Hall of Infamy. But fearlessly we continue to publish “all the news that’s fit to squint,” for which reason, and
none other, is Monsieur Le President's escapade of the past week-end omitted.

LOUIS BIBB and NITA were occupied this week-end by giving a frigid shoulder to one of NITA’S old flames.

DAVID (“Lights Out”) HUFFINES was the life of the band trip party, interviewing all the girls he’d see for the
Davidsonian.

POP (“A-hall I. Caught You”) ROGERS of Davidson College Campus, finally was taken off his books Saturday night for a
coke at the stud.

Our congratulations to BOBBY MILLER who has recently broken into society by being a sponsor at a girls’ club dance.

DAVE (Triple Threat) VOSBURGH sees fun and prosperity ahead with the promise of his post-season managerships.

And in closing, thanks for reading, until more news comes through the filth column. We won't attempt to end with
a poem this week, but Happy Thanksgiving and don't get too much turkey.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

A YANK IN THE R.A.F.
Thursday and Friday
November 20 and 21

Betty Grable, Tyrone Power, John Sutton, Reginald Denny, and Donald Stuart.

Tyrone Power, as a girl-chasing pilot, ferries a bomber from Canada to England for a sizeable sum of cash, decides
to join the R.A.F. not only to please his old girlfriend from the States, Betty Grable—who is very ardently pro-British—but
also because two Messerschmitts attack him while he is testing an unarmed American plane, raising his dander quite a bit.
He also wages a love battle for Miss Grable, who dances in an elegant London pub. However, he encounters quite
a bit of trouble from Wing Commander John Sutton. Power goes through Dunkirk, pamphlet-dropping flights over Berlin, a fight with
Commander Sutton, and a few other misunderstandings, before ultimately grabbing Grable. The non-combatant part of the picture is filmed in
London, with Grable very much in evidence. This feature is perhaps the best of the recent crop of air-adventures.

Saturday, November 22
SWING IT, SOLDIER
Ken Murray, Frances Langford, Don Wilson, Brenda and Cobina, and Skinnay Ennis and his Band.

Another “draft” story, but one more on the musical side. Frances Langford is very good on the vocals, and the
background music is furnished by Skinnay Ennis and his band. Ken Murray is also good on the vocal end. Radio’s
popular comediennes, Brenda and Cobina, are there for the laughs, and Don Wilson is also fine in his part.

Monday and Tuesday
November 24 and 25
SUNDOWN
Gene Tierney, Bruce Cabot, George Sanders, Harry Carey, and Joseph Calleia.

This feature treats of a very unusual subject—war in Africa.
