Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, January 29, 1942

Davidson Alumni Serve Country, In Emergency
Former Students In All Branches Of Service
By John Sherrill

Davidson has contributed her share of men to our country’s armed forces. Strangely enough, about eighty per cent of our boys are either in the Air Corps of the Army or Navy. The rest of them are in the Army or Navy proper.

Hay In Philippines
John Hay, who graduated last June with Cum Laude honors, is now in the Philippines on Army duty. John held numerous positions on campus, among which were: Vice-President of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, member of the editorial staff of the Magazine and Annual. He was a first lieutenant in the R.O.T.C. when he graduated and received his Army commission a month later.

Some of us were fortunate enough to see Ralph Harkey of Charlotte when he visited us while on a short leave of absence. When Ralph graduated last year he was Business Manager of the Scripts and Pranks, Treasurer of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and Boarding House Manager. Ralph is now in the Army Air Corps and has been “assigned to duty with a long-range bombardment group.”

Another Davidson man in the Air Corps is Tom Corbin, who was awarded the Jacob's Blocking Trophy when he was here. He went to West Point before joining the flying force. Among our other boys in the Air Corps are Fay W. Alexander, Jr., of Huntersville, N.C.; William Graley, Jr., of High Point; and Kent Stratford of Haw River.

The Marines are represented by Ed Watson and Rusty Edmonston. Ed was President of the “Y” last year, President of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, O.D.K., in Who's Who, Captain in the R.O.T.C., and member of the Scabbard and Blade. Last week Ed sailed for “destination unknown.” Here's luck, Ed. Rusty Edmonston was Captain of the baseball team, in Who's Who, member of the “D” Club, and an officer in the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

On Sunken Ship
Stanley McAfee of Charlotte was to be on the Pan Hellenic Council this year, but last summer he went to Northwestern and shortly afterwards received his commission as an ensign. Stan has been on two ships that have been sunk and now is reported to be in command of a smaller ship somewhere in the northern Pacific. Stan is a Beta Theta Pi.

John King, former president of K.A., O.D.K., Major last year, and President of the Election Board is another of our representatives in the service. Jim Ballard and Mr. Jackson's son, Ed, are two more worthy contributors to Davidson's roll-call of old grads now serving in the armed forces. Mr. Ballard was a Captain in the R.O.T.C., Pi Kappa Phi, and a member of the Scabbard and Blade. Ed Jackson was Football Manager his senior year and also a member of the “D” Club.

Yes, I think that Davidson has done a good job in contributing her share of men to our nation’s fighting forces.

Juniors Given Service Keys
Booker And Crichton Make Presentations

Each year, Juniors on the Editorial and Business Staffs of The Davidsonian and the Quips and Cranks are given keys for their work on these publications, and this year they were presented in the early part of December. John Crichton, business manager of The Davidsonian, and Hutch Booker, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, made the presentations.

Men on the Editorial Staff of The Davidsonian receiving keys included Ed Irwin, Eve Legerton, Jimmy McIn- tyre, Joe Fulcher, Bill Lyman, McLean Rudolph, Henry Clarence, Lacy Pat Calhoun, Joe Martin, Stewart Hipp, Peter Young, Buck McNeely, and Ivey Filth. Columnist keys were awarded to these men for their work on the newspaper's staff.

Quips And Cranks
To the following men on the Editorial Staff of the Quips and Cranks, Hutch Booker gave keys: Ed Murray, Jesse Wooten, Erskine Parks, Henry McIntosh, Bill Lyman, Campbell Ansley, Fred Boykin, Welford Hobbie, Joe McCoy, John McGee, and George Tate. Emblems were awarded for their work on the Business Staff of the Quips and Cranks.

R.O.T.C. Men Are Advanced
Caldwell Is Promoted To Battalion Adjutant

Cadet Captain Frank Caldwell has been promoted to Battalion Adjutant. With this promotion, he holds the rank of Captain. A number of promotions of cadets in the R.O.T.C. battalion have been announced recently by the military department. The main point of interest in these promotions is the fact that several sophomores have been made sergeants to meet the need for more officers.

Terrell New Captain
Cadet Lieutenant Glenn Terrell has been promoted to Cadet Captain. Cadet Second Lieutenants who have been promoted to Cadet First Lieutenants are: George W. Shannon, Milton S. Thurston, and John B. Clark.

Corporals Made Sergeants
Corporals who have been promoted to Cadet Sergeants are: William H. Morrow, Tom T. Milliken, Richard B. Port, Edmond C. Phillips, Rhea S. Preston, McAlister Carson, Price H. Gwynn, Jamie D. Stimson, Staley F. Garrison, and Thomas V. Burke.

Other promotions are: Cadet Private First Class Robert W. Bradley, Cadet Lance Corporal Le Conte Cathey, and Cadet Private Paul B. Welch to be Cadet Corporals; Cadet Corporals Edward S. Barnwell and Patrick M. Williams to be Cadet Color Corporals; Cadet Private William P. Conyers, III, to be Cadet Sergeant.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

GEORGE WASHINGTON
IN 1796 GEORGE WASHINGTON DONATED TO WHAT IS NOW WASHINGTON AND LEE COLLEGE $50,000 WORTH OF JAMES RIVER CANAL STOCK, AS AN EXPRESSION OF HIS INTEREST IN THE IDEALS AND ENDEAVOR REPRESENTED BY THE INSTITUTION. THE GIFT STILL YIELDS AN INCOME, AND EVERY STUDENT AT W.&L. MAY BE SAID TO RECEIVE FROM GEORGE WASHINGTON A SUM TOWARD HIS EDUCATION.

THE CITADEL
CADETS AT THE CITADEL SHINE THEIR SHOES FOUR TIMES A DAY!

HISTORIC OLD FIRST BAPTIST HOUSE SINCE 1775

Music Features Song Artist Peggy Mann
Teddy Powell, who with his “Surprise Band of the Year” will appear in Chambers Auditorium Friday afternoon, February 6, has come from comparative obscurity to a position where he rates among the top musical attractions in the country. An all-round musician comparable with the greatest of them all, he has...Discovered the secret of superior rhythms, colors, and background generally played by the nation's top musical organizations.

Makes Debut At Donahue’s
His debut at Donahue’s as a bandleader was in New Jersey and was an instant success. His next step was the Famous Door on 52nd Street in New York, from which the Powell crew jumped into the Paramount Theatre on Broadway, was heard on the air from the Southland Cafe in Boston, and at the Rustic Cabin, which burned to the ground costing him $40,000 in equipment. Other engagements for Powell have included six weeks at the Strand Theatre in New York, six months at the Rustic Cabin, a month at Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook, Cedar Grove, N.J., and others at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York, Steel Pier, Atlantic City, N.J., and the Arcadia Ballroom in New York.

Features Peggy Mann
Featured with the band is Peggy Mann, a dynamic song stylist, who has been featured with such outstanding bands as Larry Clinton, Ben Pollack, and Enoch Light. Twenty-one, medium height, pretty, dark, and vivacious with sparkling eyes, Peggy Mann has earned enthusiastic applause in every engagement. Dick Judge, a romantic baritone, is the featured male vocalist and has sung with such bands as Richard Himber. Powell himself has had an interesting musical career, having been the composer of such hit tunes as “Love of My Life,” “Bewildered,” “Boots and Saddles,” “Heaven Help This Heart of Mine,” and many others.

BILL SHAW
NEWEST MODEL CLUBS
GOLF BALLS
BAGS
TEES
SHOES
LEATHER COVERS FOR CLUBS
Reduced Prices On All Golf Equipment At THE STUDENT STORE
Managers DAVIS THOMAS

Powell’s “Surprise Band” To Play For Mid-Winters

Successful Students Are Asked To Co-operate In This Defense Work
According to Dr. George B. Watts, Chairman of the local Citizens Committee on the Conservation of National Resources, the waste paper campaign has met with great success, $36 having been received and given to the Red Cross for the first batch of paper sold to a licensed paper mill to be turned into cardboard boxes absolutely necessary for the national defense effort.

Dormitory Chairmen
A campaign is now under way to save tin and aluminum foil and other metal necessary for defense. A chairman has been appointed for the collection in each dormitory, each chairman using whatever plan he sees fit. Chairmen for the various dormitories are: Charlie Watt, Georgia; Jimmy Fulcher, Rumple; Ralph Williams, Watts; Ashby Dick, West; Freddie Betts, East; Gordon Horton, Duke; Jim Kerr, Barracks. These men are to provide boxes in which students are requested to place their foil, and then to fold the foil flat, and turn it in to Dr. Watts. Like the paper, it is to be sold and the proceeds turned over to the Red Cross. Students are requested to co-operate by dropping cigarette and candy wrappers, and toothpaste and shaving cream containers with metal in them into the containers.

Aid Janitors
All students are also asked to help in the paper campaign by keeping all orange peels, bottles, razor blades, etc., out of their trash baskets and putting only paper into them. This is to aid the janitors who collect the paper which is sold to the paper mills, and the pure product without foreign matter brings a higher price. In order to remove the danger of old razor blades, Tom Milliken has been appointed to provide safe means for their disposal and some nail kegs will soon appear with slots in which it is requested that everyone will get rid of their blades.

Cunningham Hears High Officials Stress Need Of Higher Education
Attends Presidents’ Conference In Baltimore
Dr. John R. Cunningham has returned from Baltimore, Md., where he attended the annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges and the national conference of College Presidents.

Eight Hundred Attend
Over eight hundred of the nation's leading educators were on hand for this important meeting, the principal topic of which was the defense program and its effect on American higher education. Government spokesmen, including Paul V. McNutt and Brig. Gen. Louis B. Hershey, outlined to the gathering the attitude of the government concerning the problems of institutions of higher learning which have arisen from the present national crisis.

Present Units To Continue
Many schools which do not have R.O.T.C. units already installed are anxious to establish them, but government officials stated with finality that the present units would remain and no new ones would be established. Dr. Cunningham stated that as Davidson is one of the privileged schools to have this military training program active on its campus, the need for accelerating the scholastic program will not be as necessary as it will be for schools without it. He also stated that although college programs will be accelerated wherever possible and feasible, caution must be exercised so that this speeding-up process will not injure the academic standing of the various institutions involved.

STATEMENT
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corp—Member Federal Reserve System
DECEMBER 31, 1941

Cash in Vault on Deposit in Federal Reserve Bank and in Other Banks $59,777,669.28
U.S. Government Obligations, Direct or Fully Guaranteed $35,172,102.08
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank Collateral Trust Debentures and Federal National Mortgage Association Notes $837,192.84
State of North Carolina and State of South Carolina Bonds $2,573,083.88
Municipal Bonds and Notes $942,350.60
Accrued Interest on Bonds $231,012.18
$99,533,410.86

Loans $28,057,212.64
Cash Surrender Value Life Insurance Policies Carried on Officers of the Bank $94,430.84
Stock Federal Reserve Bank and Other Stocks and Bonds $108,003.00
Customers’ Liability on Letters of Credit and Acceptances $1,120,550.00
Banking House, Fourth Street Property and Furniture and Fixtures $561,424.81
Reserve for Depreciation $131,409.11
$430,015.70
Other Real Estate (The Appraised Value of Which is $121,715.00 and the Assessed Value of Which is $93,951.66) $105.00
$129,343,728.04

LIABILITIES
Capital Stock $1,200,000.00
Surplus $2,400,000.00
Undivided Profits $531,108.42
Reserves Unallotted $500,000.00
$3,431,108.42
Interest Collected But Not Earned $43,498.31
Reserves $915,398.06
Reserve for Accrued Expenses $28,739.89
$987,636.26
Letters of Credit and Acceptances $1,120,550.00
DEPOSITS $122,604,433.36
$129,343,728.04