Thursday, November 5, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

PI KAPPA PHI

The chapter is very happy to announce the pledging of Dr. Gallent of the Chemistry Department. Dr. Gallent was pledged
Sunday night after vespers. All of the faculty brothers and their wives were present. The brothers and pledges that found
that home was still sweet last weekend were Brothers Herring, who whipped to Rosehill, Robinson to Derita, Williams to Greenville,
McArthur and Pledges Reid and Hunter to Charlotte. Pledges Hill, Cline, and Fowler went home to Hickory and Brother Denny
to Raleigh by way of Winston-Salem. Pledges Ragsdale and Barringer attended the dance at Winthrop, while Brother Fisher and Pledge
Whittier made it to Rosehill and Durham respectively. The remainder of the Brothers and Pledges joined in the Halloween Festival
of the Friendly City, except Brother Murray, who got no further south than the cinema.

KAPPA ALPHA

Several K.A. brothers were on hand to see the Wildcats through with the “upset” we all expected at V.M.I. These
brothers included Sprunt, MacLean, and the brothers on the team, with Pledge Brothers Watt and Hill. A wild and woolly
time was reported by all concerned, especially by Brother Sprunt, who failed to return until the wee, wee hours, Monday
morning. Brothers Abbot, Dunn, Jeffries, Daniel; Pledges Brown, and Collins, were in Charlotte, while Brother Stim visited in Statesville, and
Lard took in the Tech track meet. Brother Bachman went home, and Pledge Wickles to Winston. No feed Sunday night,
as Brother Jackson was in the infirmary. Hungry brothers are wishing him a speedy recovery.

PHI DELTA THETA

Brothers Archer, Hobbie, and McLean represented the fraternity on the highly gratifying football trip of the past weekend. The majority
of the brothers and pledges passed through Charlotte at one time or another, among them Hendee and McIver and Pledge
Waddell. Brother Wright made his usual weekend Charlotte trip and took in a feed at the Phi Mu house at
Queens Sunday night. Pledge Brother Hemby visited at his home in Charlotte, while Pledges Styron and Spangler enjoyed feminine companionship
at Queens with Brother Smith. Pledge Brother Barber pulled a very interesting detail Sunday night of unknown nature, but evidently
successful, and Pledge Brother Bernhardt spent a hectic weekend commuting between Queens and Davidson. Brother Chapman enjoyed a weekend at
W.C., while Pledge Brother Cutchen spent a sleepless night at Salem. Brother Sutton tops the list of dealers without even
leaving the campus. Four beauties from out of the blue dropped in to visit him Sunday afternoon. Brother Connor dated
at Furman, and Brother Beaty journeyed to his home in Rock Hill. Brother Pierce took a weekend from Wednesday to
Monday. (He was at Salem Wednesday night.) Brothers Davis, Emerson, Oglesby, and Tate wild-haired the Davidson High School for Shaw's
magic show and square dance, which developed into something more interesting before midnight.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Brothers Hart and Crowell led the pack on a wild, wild hare this weekend, which consisted of a tour of
North Carolina schools and colleges, ending up in Raleigh at the State-Carolina game. The year's bumming record was broken by
the good brothers as a sideline of the trip. They got a ride all the way from Raleigh to fraternity
court! Brother Thompson took off for his home in Bristol, Tenn., while Brother McCormack traveled to Lexington. Brother King has
left for his home in Bristol to stay for some time. Members of the journeying soccer team included Brother Preston
Oliver, captain, and Brothers McMullen, Preston, and Pledge Brothers Coonrad and Murdock McKeithan. Pledge Brothers Patton and Patton bummed as
far as Mooresville on their trip to Waynesboro, Va.

BETA THETA PI

Brothers Raney and Calterson made it two in a row as they journeyed up to W.C. again this weekend. Others
on the W.C. campus were Brothers Cushman (in his third attempt to get a date for Homecoming), Brother Stubbins, Pledges
Newell, Garrison, and Newlin. Newlin and Garrison went to their homes in Burlington for the remainder of the weekend. Brothers
Witherington and Knowles took in Salem College. Brother Phillips spent the weekend in Durham with Jack and witnessed the Duke-VPI
game. Brother McCrar divided his weekend between Duke and Chapel Hill, taking in both the Duke-Tech and State-Carolina games. Brother
Whizzer White picked up Shirley, went to the Duke game, and back to Graham for the remainder of the weekend.
Brother Skinner visited in Gastonia, Brother Pritchett in Charlotte, and Brother Lipscomb in Rock Hill. Brothers Spike Mebane and Garrison
crossed into the sandhill country as Brother Garrison went to Winthrop and Brother Mebane to Converse.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

In view of the fact that Homecoming is next weekend, the pledges and brothers had quite a quiet weekend. Brother
Carrow and Pledges Hood and Paylor left Thursday night for Kinston (it’s in North Carolina). Brother Taylor could have been
seen down at Wilmington. Quite a few of the brothers were up at the Duke-Tech game. Among these were Brothers
Young, Bruce, Graves, D. Dunn, Wilcox, and Hill. Everyone was for Duke except for one “lone wolf”. The only good
thing Brother Stewart found in Charlotte, however, was a weekend’s sleep. Brothers Powell, Gwynn, Alexander, Lee, Harrison, and Pledges Grimball,
and Richardson thought and acted otherwise. Brothers Lucas, Anderson, Douglas, Harris, Port, and Whaling were up at Winston-Salem, while Brothers
Huyt, Moore, Dunn, and Bethea were at Lexington with the team.

KAPPA SIGMA

A desolate spot indeed was the Kappa Sig house this weekend with practically the whole fraternity scattering across the State
and surrounding territory. Brother Wilson and Pledges Ashby and Powell report their visit to the Queen's square dance a howling
success. As a matter of fact, Queens is still howling. Brother Henderson and Capps hoofed it to Durham a la
thumb and made it back to the campus in time for the first period Monday. Broad-minded Pledge Wilkinson found a
trip to Lincolnton most enjoyable, while Pledge McArn spent a quiet weekend at home in Laurinburg. Brother Jimmy Millis’ car,
loaded with Brothers Amos, Carter, and Simmons, and Pledges Amos and Garrett, hugged the road all the way to High
Point but later deserted the road for greener pastures. Of course, Brothers Ben Lacy, Tom Peters, George Peters, Alf Taylor,
and Pat Williams dealt potent deals to V.M.I. up Lexington way. Brother Taylor's activities, ‘tis said, as usual were carried
on under cover of darkness.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Most events for the chapter were suspended during the week on account of the Fall Services. The chapter was proud
to have as a guest for Thursday night dinner Dr. Jas. A. Jones who conducted the services. After dinner, the
brothers attended services in a body. Among the bigger “deals” of the week was the one pulled by Ross Parks
who left on Friday for Charlottesville, Va. Just what his business was there none of the brothers have been able
to find out. Still restless, he found his way down to Atlanta, Ga. where he acted as Best Man in
the wedding of Brother Joe Martin who is in training. Brother Shelton did Parks one better and left on Thursday
for an extended tour of Washington, D.C. The week-long vacation of Brothers Maxwell and Jo Anderson was spent in happy
relationships with their respective families. The nice part of the affair is that they returned in time to enjoy a
heavy weekend in the Queen City. Among the minor escapades can be mentioned Brother Henderson's trip to the Duke-Ga. Tech
game in Durham, and the journey of Brother Goldston and Pledge Siske to the State-Carolina game in Raleigh; or can
we call that one of the minor “deals”. Of course, there was the usual (Continued on Page Six)

HOME-COMING LEADERS

DR. RICHARDS DR. CUNNINGHAM

In the Davidson Homecoming Celebrations this week are Dr. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees; Dr. James A.
Jones, President of the Alumni Association; Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the college; and Alumni Secretary John L. Payne.

Held By Dr. Alexander

Books Include Many Varied Topics

Subjects Vary From Wild Life To Liquor

There have recently been entered at the College Library twelve new and very interesting books. They form a wide variety
of reading, and that type of reading of which a college student is especially expected to enjoy. Included in the
selection of books are two novels, a book on wild life, a book of the newest plays, two commentaries, a
biography, a book of stunts to be used at social gatherings, a discussion on liquor and its results, a book
on Family Economics, rules and methods of playing Chess, and a book dealing with the Civil War issue, “Day Must
Dawn”. These books are The Day Must Dawn by Agnes Sligh Turnbull, The Hour Before Dawn by W. Somerset Maugham,
Thus Speaks Germany, edited by W. W. Coole and M. J. Potter, Hoaxes by Curtis D. MacDougald, Fading Trails by
a com-Committee composed of representatives United States Dept the Interior National Park Service, and Fish and Wildlife Service, The Best
Plays by Burns Mantle, The Cokesbury Book of Stunts by Abingdon of Sunday Night. Dr. William W. Alexander, pastor, was
involved in free-for-all tactics by the Society Elects New Members.

At the meeting on Sunday night, November 1, four literary papers were read. Mentioning some of the differences between football
then and now, the Colonel said a man had to be knocked out before a substitute was common. In addition,
new members were elected to the honorary literary fraternity, the names of whom will be announced later.

The first paper was an essay on the problem of peace and some of its problems. Laughingly, he mentioned some
of the plays used by this team at Arkansas. Having only one referee and umpire, they had to get them
into a convenient and exact position before this particular “play” was possible. The line dropped back, and the ball was
punted through the goal posts. Thinking that the ball was dropped and kicked, since his sight was obscured by the
rest of the team, the referee would score it as a goal. MacAndrew said that this play was the most
effective he had ever seen, but for some reason, the crowd didn’t appreciate the true value of it.

Next, a poem written and read by Dr. Chalmers Davidson. A research paper on “Dave the Georgia Rat” was read.
Dr. Alexander said that continuous story reading fills life with joy and peace. The program was concluded with the first
version of the chapter's continuous literary form, written by Prof. Henry Tracy Lilly. It was a musical portion consisting of
a solo, “Lo, Everyone.”

After leaving West Point and his football career behind, Col. MacAndrew served in almost every country where U.S. soldiers were
stationed. He entered World War I as a captain and before the war was promoted to a colonel. During his
stay in China, he acquired a great respect for the Chinese. He said that they took great pride in being
soldiers, but the lack of essentials of war hindered their abilities.

The final phases in the enlistment of Davidson men in the various branches of the reserve corps took place on
Tuesday. Physical examinations determining applicants' eligibility were given. Final enrollments took place at the Armory for the Army Reserve Corps
and at the Infirmary for the Naval and Marine Air Corps. The recruiting board followed by two weeks the special
joint board which presented the plans to the students.

Dr. Jones and Mr. Payne, shown above, are the four men who will figure most outstandingly. They are Dr. Jones,
a gifted Charlotte minister, and Mr. Payne. Years of Public Service by Daniel C. Roper, The Northern Teacher in the
South by Henry Lee Swint. It is hoped that the students will take advantage of these splendid opportunities and will
seek the benefits to be derived from them.

Expert Barber Service at Norton’s Barber Shop, Davidson, N.C. Don’t wait—subscribe now to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Only $1.50 per year. Send
name and address to: THE DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson, N.C.

Colonel MacAndrew recalls experiences at West Point and in China. By Herb Morton. As Col. Joseph MacAndrew was discussing over
years past, he recalled some of the exciting and interesting incidents which he had experienced. During his years at West
Point, he was under General MacArthur most of the time in the student cadet battalion. General MacArthur was first sergeant
during Col. MacAndrew's first year. Both men were not shy about football. He said that MacArthur was one of the
finest men he had ever known.

Col. MacAndrew looks back over the years and has decided upon the courses he will have in his dream college.
Only two courses would be taught for four years—psychology and Bible. Psychology would give one power over others and Bible
would teach you how to refrain from using your powers wrongly. Football, which is Col. MacAndrew’s favorite sport, was quite
a rugged game in the Nineties. Having starred at the University of Arkansas and at West Point, he was well
known.

An old-time amateur show will be held on November 13, featuring college talent. Judges have been selected for the event.
All contestants must be Davidson students, free, white, and not over 27 nor under 13 years of age. All entries
must be in Shaw Smith's hands by midnight, November 1. Those talented in piano, novel performances, readings, or any other
mode of entertainment are urged to fill out the following blank or facsimile and turn it in at the Y.M.C.A.

AMATEUR SHOW
Name: ___________
Room: ___________
Classification of talent: ___________

Sigma Upsilon hears papers. The meeting ended with refreshments and informal discussion.

Thursday and Friday, November 5th and 6th: SONJA HENIE — JOHN PAYNE
Saturday, November 7th: LLOYD NOLAND “APACHE TRAIL”
Monday and Tuesday, November 9th and 10th: “INVISIBLE AGENT”
Wednesday, November 11th: “KING KONG”

DAVIDSON THEATRE, DAVIDSON, N.C.

WEAR Varsity-Town with CAVALIER CREST COVERTS INDIA TWILLS. They’re for good looks! They’re for long, stylish service! They’re consistently accepted
for smart wearing! They’re always “in”... never “out” of fashion! COVERT SUITS $42.50, COVERT TOP COATS $35.40. Give to the
RED CROSS. Young Men’s Shop, Third Floor, Tate-Brown Co., Charlotte, N.C.
