FALL SERVICES END TONIGHT

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1942 No. 6

Elaborate Dad’s Day Ceremonies Planned

Three-Day Program To Be Held In November For Dads of Students

An elaborate program has been planned for the weekend of Nov. 20-22 for the celebration of a Dad's Day at Davidson College. Special invitations are being sent to all fathers of students now at Davidson to spend the weekend on the campus with their sons. The program will begin with a special musical concert on Friday night, Nov. 20 by the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. The soloist for the occasion will be Elsie Stokes Mosley at the piano.

Saturday Events

An all-round entertaining program of events has been planned for Saturday, which will culminate in a Father and Sons Banquet to be held Saturday night in the Chambers ban hall. Fathers will be invited to accompany their sons to Sunday School and Church on Sunday. They will be urged to remain over for the Sunday afternoon musical and vesper service that night.

Transportation Problems

Mr. J. L. Payne, Director of Public Relations and Alumni Secretary, announcing this program, commented that the administration feels encouraged to proceed even in the face of current transportation problems. “The outstanding success of a similar program held last spring at Mother's Day indicates a keen interest and enthusiastic response on the part of fathers and sons alike,” he stated.

Weekend Entertainment

The administration feels that since students are unable to get away for the weekend as often as formerly, such a Dad's Day will be even more important now than in normal times. The response to Mother's Day last year gives promise of a successful weekend.

S. C. Launches Gym Campaign

Successful Meetings Are Held Throughout State

On last Monday, October 18, Prof. Ernest Beaty was the principal speaker at the “Davidson Night” program held in Spartanburg, South Carolina. All the alumni were invited and an informal dinner and movies of Davidson were the highlights of the program. General Chairman for the program, which opened the drive for $250,000 for a new gymnasium, was Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte, North Carolina. The “Davidson Night” committee was composed of James McCutchen, chairman, Alex Jones, Rev. William S. Lea, E. R. McConnell, Harold O. Moss, Major James C. Pennington, and Robert B. Richardson.

Cunningham Speaks

Another alumni meeting at which Dr. Cunningham was the principal speaker was held in Greenville on Thursday night, October 22. Mr. John Smith, who graduated from Davidson in 1924, was the local chairman for the gymnasium drive. Dr. Cunningham made it clear that the project was a legitimate need of Davidson and that the alumni should respond to the worthy cause to provide this adequate physical facility.

At Rock Hill

Plans for the new Gym campaign were furthered last Monday evening, Oct. 26, in Rock Hill, S. C., when the Alumni Association of that town responded to the idea. Mr. John Roddy served as toastmaster for the occasion and introduced Dr. John Cunningham, main speaker of the evening. Representing the Davidson campus besides Dr. Cunningham were Messrs. Jackson, Beaty, Payne, and Myron Sandifer.

Glee Clubs To Present Songs Here

Davidson and Queens Musical Groups Featured

Davidson College's Musical Organization Series will present a concert this Friday night, Oct. 30, featuring the glee clubs of both Davidson and Queens Colleges. This concert will be directed by Austin Lovelace, tenor, a new member of the Queens College faculty. Mr. Karl Bero will lead the Davidson Glee Club and the Queens Glee Club will be under the joint direction of Dr. James Christian Pfohl of Davidson College and Miss Grace Robinson.

Program

The program for the concert, which will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m., is as follows:

The Heavens Are Telling - Beethoven
Adoramus Te - Palestrina
Laudamus - Owen
Davidson College Glee Club

Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee - Bach
Jesu, Holy, Spirit - Mozart
Queens College Choral Club

English Traditional Night - Rachmaninoff
Prokofiev - Grant-Schaefer
MacGimsey - When Love is Kind
In the Silence of Halon - The Wind Speaks
Shadrach - Mr. Lovelace

The Bonny Fisher Lad - English
The Silver Swan - Gibbons
The Cuckoo - English
The Tambourine Player - Schumann
Queens College Choral Club

Gute Nacht - German Folk Song
Full Fathom Five Thy Father Lies - Robert Johnson
Swing Low, Sweet Chariot - Arr. Ringwald
Davidson College Glee Club

All Hail, O Davidson - Maxwell
The Star Spangled Banner - Key

The second concert of this series will be held on Friday, November 20, featuring the Queens-Davidson Symphony with Elsie Stokes as solo pianist.

McCoy Makes PSA Council

At the annual conference of the Presbyterian Student Association, which was held last week at Peace College in Raleigh, N. C., Bob McCoy of Davidson College was elected Member-at-large. Other Davidson student representatives at this conference were Dick Port, John Stuart, Rufus Long, Jim Robinson, Priestly Conyers, Jerry Newbold, and Jimmy Fulcher.

Gwynn Leads Group

Price Gwynn, guest of the group at the conference, led a discussion Saturday afternoon on courtship and marriage. Shaw Smith, “Y” secretary, was also present at the conference where he led another discussion group on subjects important to students of today.

Other Members

Newly elected members of the executive committee, representatives of different colleges and universities in North Carolina, were David Alexander of State College, Treasurer; Alice Willis of the University of North Carolina, First Vice-President; Toto Thies of the Woman's College, Second Vice-President.

“We appreciate greatly the help he has given us and since tonight is our last opportunity to hear Dr. Jones, please don’t forget that ‘Now is the Time’.”

ALUMNI HEAD AND SPEAKER

Dr. James A. Jones, (right) is shown talking with Mr. J. L. Payne, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, closes the series of Fall Services tonight at 7:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Jones graduated from Davidson in 1931, and was outstanding on the campus. Dr. James A. Jones was recently elected Alumni Secretary. The Alumni Association chose Dr. Jones as their president.

Ends Fall Services Tonight

Religious Series Will Close In Chambers At 7:15 With Communion Service

Davidson College annual Fall Services close when this year's speaker, Dr. James A. Jones of Charlotte, delivers the last of the three-day series of addresses in Chambers Auditorium at 7:15 P.M.

Y.M.C.A. Sponsors

The services, part of a custom begun several years ago, were sponsored by the college Y.M.C.A., under the direction of Shaw Smith and his cabinet. Entirely a student body affair, the college itself cooperated to the extent of 7 to 1 in the effort.

Morning and Evening

The morning services were held before the entire student body at the chapel hour, the time having been extended a few minutes to allow ample time to deliver the message. The evening meetings have been entirely voluntary, but attendance at this time has rewarded the speakers in their effort to bring a valuable experience to the student body.

Conferences

Dr. Jones devoted the last three days, while conducting the series, to conferences with members of the student body who wished to seek his private advice concerning pertinent matters. The special communion service to be held tonight is for the entire student body, and everyone is urged to attend to hear Dr. Jones and to take part in the service.

Davidson Graduate

Dr. Jones is a graduate of Davidson, Class of 1931. He is a native of Laurinburg, and attended seminary at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and later at Edinburgh, Scotland. Since that time, he has held several ministries, the latest being pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. As a Davidson man, he has served in several capacities in relation to the school, the most outstanding as current President of the Alumni Association.The Alumni Association “Y” President States

Jim McCrary, President of the Y, made the following statement to the Davidsonian: “Everyone who has had the privilege of hearing Dr. Jones realizes that his being on our campus has done much to help us feel in a new way the sufficiency of Christ as our help in meeting personal and world problems today. Their ‘Y’ organization should not forget the purpose of all the ‘Y’ work. He said that the third letter in the name Y.M.C.A. is the most important and that the body should always keep this before them.”

RESERVE BOARD

The Enlisted Reserve examining board, composed of a representative of the United States Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, and medical examiners of the Navy and Marine Corps, is scheduled to reach Davidson at a date approximately one week from today. All students, it was announced by Lieutenant Sam Spencer, who plan to enlist in any branch of the service must report to the armory in order to fill out necessary papers so that they may be ready for the arrival of the board. No students who are now 18 (Continued on Page Four)

Ross And Satterfield Replace JUNGLEERS FOR HOMECOMING

Clemson Band For Dance Set

Alumni Plan Homecoming Celebration

Mr. J. L. Payne Announces Program For Dinner, Game In Charlotte

Mr. J. L. Payne, director of WNC relations and alumni secretary at Davidson, has announced elaborate plans for the annual alumni homecoming celebration to be held in the Hotel Charlotte on Saturday, November 7. James A. Jones, president of the Davidson Alumni Association, will preside at the annual luncheon which will begin promptly at 12 o'clock. The glee club and the orchestra, under the direction of Mr. Pfohl, will furnish music for the event.

Smith Entertains

Shaw Smith, alias “Cotwaheoti the Magician,” will entertain the gathering with an assortment of his “amazing and spellbinding” magical art. A color film, showing the various phases of life on the campus, will also be shown at the occasion. After the program, the group will attend the football game in the North Carolina Memorial Stadium at 2 o'clock.

Davidson To Charlotte

In making this announcement, Mr. Payne expressed his regrets that the present rationing of gasoline and tires necessitated the moving of the homecoming celebration from Davidson to Charlotte. “Since Charlotte has always been considered home by students and alumni alike,” he explained, “this alteration in plans for this year should not cause too much disappointment and will be accepted in true patriotic spirit by all our constituents.”

No Speeches

According to Mr. Payne, the entire program will consist of fellowship and fun, with no long speeches scheduled for the gathering. All students, alumni, as well as fathers of students in the college, are urged to attend and bring their wives or dates. Invitations are being sent to many of the parents of the students. Also, there will be representatives of the student body in attendance at the luncheon.

P. T. A. CARNIVAL

Davidson's Hallowe'en Carnival will be held in the High School Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, Oct. 30. It is to be a benefit for the Parent-Teachers Association of the school. A variety of shows will make up the carnival program. Special features of this Hallowe'en party will be Shaw Smith, who will give a demonstration of his ability as a magician. Several side shows are planned. One of these is to be a fortune teller, while another will be a crazy house.

Other Attractions

Besides Shaw Smith, there are other numbers scheduled for the program. These numbers include a beauty show, after which the lights will go off for a movie. This movie will be a comedy and will be followed by a shadow show. When this is finished, the audience will join in the fun by attending a square dance in the high school gymnasium. Mr. A. Heath Whittle will direct the entertainment program. All the college students and townspeople have been invited to attend.

HEADS NEW CLASS

DR. FRAZER HOOD

Psychological Course Given ROTC Seniors

Course Under Dr. Hood, Required By Col. McAndrew, To Meet Weekly

As an additional step in the adaptation of the college program to war preparation, Davidson College authorities announced the inauguration under Dr. Frazer Hood of a special course in practical psychology for all ROTC Senior students. Agreeing that the future Second Lieutenants will benefit materially from such instruction, ROTC Commandant Col. J. A. McAndrew, in conference with Dr. Hood, head of the Department of Psychology, decided on the move to “aid the prospective officers to understand why men behave as they do” and to enable them “to influence their men's behavior, control their actions, and direct their efforts toward attainment of the desired end.”

Required of Seniors

As contemplated at present, all second-year advanced cadets will be required to register for the new course, to be held weekly beginning November 4. Tentative plans call for the inclusion of such subjects as motivation, principles of learning, and interpretation, all contributing to the central theme of the psychology of the individual in the sphere of military activity.

After Three Years

Having completed three years of ROTC training, senior students are engaged in studying, along with other subjects, combat training of infantry units. Upon graduation from college in June of next year, they will attend a special service school, at the completion of which they will join the armed forces as Second Lieutenants of infantry.

College Group To Hold Meet

President Cunningham will attend the special meeting of the Association of American Colleges at Philadelphia on Thursday, October 29. The chief topic of this meeting will be the proposal to reduce the limit for Selective Service. The subject of the lengthening of the Christmas holidays, which holds wide interest to all colleges throughout the nation, will also be discussed.

No Speakers Invited

Due to the fact that the meeting will be devoted entirely to the business of the Association, no guest speakers have been invited. The Association will decide whether or not this special meeting will take the place of their annual meeting usually held January 14-15.

Two-Dance Weekend Will Feature Pair of South’s Leading Dance Bands

In an interview with John Belk, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, it was reported that plans concerning Davidson's Homecoming Dance Set have necessarily been changed. The College Jungleers contract with the Clemson band has been held up because of government regulations governing dances held in Charlotte. Clemson's music makers were not members of the music union and are therefore ineligible to play.

Each Plays One Night

Two bands have been signed to replace the Jungleers, one to play on Friday night, the other to give forth for the Saturday dance. Ted Ross and his orchestra will open the set Friday night, and Johnny Satterfield, who was featured at last year’s Spring Set, will be on hand on Saturday. Satterfield is from the University of North Carolina.

As was announced before in the Davidsonian, the set this year will consist of only two dances because of the football game on Saturday afternoon, and the war transportation situation. Ross has been playing in Norfolk this summer and is now filling an engagement in Florida. After Davidson, Satterfield is slated to go to the University of Virginia. Ross's band is made up of nine pieces and a vocalist, and Johnny Satterfield is equipped with fourteen players and a vocalist.

Time

On Friday night, music will start at ten o'clock p.m. and will last until two o'clock a.m. The Saturday night dance is to begin at eight p.m. and will end at twelve midnight. A few of the dancers may travel by bus, but two trains will pass through at 6:15 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. which should provide adequate transportation.

Both dances are to be held at the Hotel Charlotte, with the football game to be played at Charlotte Memorial Stadium. Most of the festivities will take place in Charlotte this year, and therefore the usual homecoming decoration among the various fraternities has been abandoned.

Figure

The regular Pan-Hellenic figure will be held on Friday night, and decorations for the set are under the supervision of Jayru Neal. Classes will be suspended on Saturday due to the festivities.

Nichols Plans To Visit Unit

Colonel To Make Informal Inspection of Regiment

Colonel Leroy W. Nichols, Officer in Charge of R.O.T.C. affairs for the Fourth Service Command, will visit Davidson College on Wednesday, November 4, according to an official notice received by the R.O.T.C. department here. The purpose of Colonel Nichols's inspection will be an informal inspection of the regiment. Arriving early in the afternoon, he will meet President Cunningham, and observe the afternoon's drill.

Inspects Other Units

On an official inspection tour, Colonel Nichols is traveling from Oak Ridge, N.C. to Spartanburg, S.C. where he will inspect the unit at Wofford College. He has taken charge of R.O.T.C. affairs in the Fourth Service Command as successor to Colonel H. R. Richmond. It is understood that the inspection by Colonel Nichols will not have any bearing on the official rating of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit. This standing is determined by the annual official inspection held the first part of May.