PORTS | SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

Ind. Note: The sports column this week was written by Jim Chapman, in the absence of the regular sports editor, Legh Scott.

By JIM CHAPMAN

Another Win!

Fresh from their second victory of the year, the ‘Cats are shouting: “Look out, Charleston, here we come!” This spirit is well and good, but the varsity will have to show us more than it did against W&L if it hopes to take the Citadel bull. I feel that Davidson looked off even in winning last Saturday. This may be attributed to the loss of Ben Lacy in practice on the day before the skirmish. But even with practice time out, the team should have shown more zest. Don’t get the idea, however, that we didn’t have our bright stars. The Peters twins came through in fine form. George showed a marked improvement on the ground with his efforts measuring up to the high caliber of his past performances. Tommy made his usual impossible catches. The one that sticks in our mind was down the alley, a one-handed stab that brought shrieks from the stands. You could see arms shooting out in all sectors. We liked the drive shown by George, then John Frederick has regained his sophomore power and it really looks good to see the big man busting into that line from the three-back position. Dave Maloney played most of the game in Lacy’s position, wing back, and, while he lacks the finesse of Ben, he really carried the mail on those inside reverses. To have only been out two weeks we think Dave “done good.” Naturally, Big Red kicked the ball just as far as was necessary—sometimes further. His average was knocked down by several over-the-goal boots. The whole line was in there scrapping so it would be hard to pick any individual stars. There were seven of them.

Watch Citadel

Turning to next week, we shouldn't forget that The Citadel is no team to be taken lightly. That they are gunning for us was demonstrated by their cancellation of the Wofford game last Saturday. They have some men that really go: Gold, Salvato, and Victor. These boys compose the nucleus of a good hard-running backfield. By game time the Wildcat backfield made up of Peters, Frederick, Bethea, and Maloney should have had time to be working in the fashion that our new series of deceptive plays require. Len Lacy’s absence was felt Saturday when timing was necessary.

Within The Loop

This column wishes to congratulate Ray Howe of the News for calling the Carolina-Duke game on the nose. He came out in his paper with an early prediction of a tie. These teams are so closely matched that even now after the game we wouldn’t dare say that one is any better than the other. Taking a quick look at the conference race it seems that William & Mary is a sure bet to win the crown. They have won three and their only remaining league game is against the Richmond Spiders who don’t have much of a chance to do anything with the undefeated Indians. State is in second place, but they have two ties and have to play the Devils this week—nuff said. The title will move out of the Carolinas for the first time since 1934.

Miscellany

In the twilight of the Interfrat scrap we find the S.A.E.’s still undefeated, but their game with the Beta’s this week will decide the crown. The Betas dropped one game to the Kappa Sigs which was a pippin’. Sammy Yarborough dropped back and threw one as far as he could, “Speed” Lacy shot past the safety man to take it in and score for the Sigmas. Glancing at the paper Monday we noted that the Chicago Bears rolled over Green Bay, 38-7, to win their 21st game in a row. Don Hutson, Packer end, snared his 14th TD pass of the season and kicked the point to bring his point total to 110 in eight games. At this time we would like to put into print an appreciation of Ben Lacy, six times game captain, who snapped his leg Friday. Ben played the type of ball that all of us love to watch—hard and clean all the way. Never say die even if the score is 40-0 against you, that was the way his playing looked to us.

Things To Come

Out on the proverbial limb we go as we can’t resist trying our luck with reference to predicting Saturday’s games. Hold on to your hats, for here goes: Alabama in an easy win over Vandy, Duke by a touchdown with State, Georgia and Georgia Tech will win handily over Auburn and Florida. Now a couple of upsets—Furman’s nineteen men will beat Clemson, Kentucky will take the Vols from Tennessee, and North Carolina’s Pre-Flighters may take William & Mary. Two toughies—Notre Dame over Northwestern by a hair, then Ohio State and Michigan will be very close but we’ll butter the State side. Lastly, Davidson will win in a mild upset over Citadel.

PETERS SCORES FOR ’CATS

Twins Star In Victory

Bethea’s Kicking Outstanding; Ace Maloney Replaces Injured Lacy

The twin brothers, George and Tommy Peters, accounted for all three Davidson touchdowns in the Wildcats’ 21 to 13 victory over the Washington and Lee Generals in Charlotte last Saturday. Johnny Frederick kicked all three placements to make his record eight straight for the season. Red Bethea’s punting was an outstanding feature of the game. He kept the Generals back on their heels all afternoon, in fact, it was Red’s kicking which helped set up the first Davidson score. He kicked deep into Washington and Lee territory, and a 15-yard penalty for holding put them in the shadows of their goal posts. The Generals tried a bit of daring football when Harry Harner passed from punt formation, but Tommy Peters intercepted and ran it back to the seven. Brother George ran over the left side of the line for a touchdown on the first Wildcat play.

Fumble

Early in the third quarter, Lighthorse Harry Harner fumbled Bethea’s punt from behind the goal line and Tommy Peters recovered on the 14-yard line. George Peters added six around his own end. On the next play, George threw a pass to Brother Tommy which was good for 33 yards and the second Davidson score. Washington and Lee took the ball on their own 31 and drove for their first score late in the third quarter. The scoring play originated on the Davidson 46-yard line when Worthing lateraled to Harner on a spread formation, and the latter tossed a pass to a receiver who dashed 28 yards for the score.

Final Score

The third and final Wildcat score came early in the fourth quarter when Dave Maloney, substituting for the injured Ben Lacy, recovered Baugh’s fumble on the 12. Fredricks drove off tackle to the 7. Peters faded back to pass, but was unable to spot a receiver, so he elected to run. He went over standing for the third Wildcat score. Washington and Lee really opened up their bag of tricks in the last few minutes of play and scored another touchdown. Working from a spread formation, Worthing threw a 45-yard pass to Norman on the Davidson twenty, and just as he was about to be tackled he lateraled to Russell who went 15 yards for the score. Russell's try for the extra point was wide.

Many Passes

Davidson threw 19 passes and completed nine for a net gain of 176 yards. Washington and Lee threw 12 and made good four for a total of 62 yards. George Peters was Davidson’s most effective runner, averaging 7 yards per try. Art Roach netted 56 yards in his 14 tries. Ace Maloney, who has been out for football less than two weeks, got 23 yards in nine attempts. Fredrick ran seven times for a total of 32 yards.

Meet Citadel

Davidson winds up the current season this week against a strong Citadel in Charleston. The Citadel boasts of its best team in years, and the Wildcats are expecting a real battle Saturday.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.other one. It managed to score a total of 19 points to V.P.I’s 7. Outstanding spectators at this game were General George C. Marshall and Sir John Dill. The unusual fact was that the Generals attempted more passes than the Wildcats. The Generals attempted many passes in the game. 

LET’S TAKE THE CITADEL | Page Three

HARNER VERSUS TAYLOR

“Lighthorse Harry” Harner, stellar Washington and Lee back, is shown as he stepped off a short gain against Davidson in Charlotte last Saturday. Alf Taylor, 45, of the Wildcats, is coming up fast to make the tackle. The ‘Cats went on to take their second game from the Generals, 21-14.—Photo courtesy of The Charlotte Observer.

Old Rivals Tie In Hard-Fought Game; State Goes Down To Georgetown

The big game in the Carolinas as far as interest is concerned, was the Duke-Carolina event to which sports fans from all over the nearby states flock each year. This year was the first time in recent seasons that the game was not a complete sell-out; however, an estimated 33,000 fans were on hand to see the Blue Devils and the Tar Heels lock in a 13-13 deadlock. The Tar Heels, overpowered and outmanned, rallied twice to even the score.

Georgia Clubs

The two ball clubs down in Georgia that have come into national prominence because of their undefeated, untied records upheld their reputations by defeating their adversaries admirably. Clint Castleberry, stellar freshman Yellow Jacket, led his team to a brilliant 7-0 victory over the mighty men of Alabama. Castleberry pushed the ball down the field for about 35 yards to set up the touchdown. The other Georgia club doing so well is Sinkwich’s company from Georgia; before 5,504 enthusiastic onlookers at the University of Chattanooga, the Georgia boys downed the University of Chattanooga by the score of 40-0. Reports state that this was not a run-over as the score might indicate; Chattanooga fought every inch of the way.

Georgetown Over State

Of interest, too, was Georgetown’s win over N. C. State, which took place at Washington, D. C., by the score of 28-20. The West Pointers, playing on their own home ground, 

This Week

Some of those contests taking place this week in this section of the country are our own game with the Citadel in Charleston, S. C., State’s match with Duke, Carolina’s tangle with Virginia, Georgia’s tussle with Auburn, and Georgia Tech's meet with Florida.

There are 2,994 ties in a mile of railroad track.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS

S. A. E.
K. Sigs
Betas
K. A.
Pi Kaps
Phi Gams
Independents
Phi Delts
Pikas

Scores

K. Sigs 6-7; K. A. 6-4.
K. A. 18; Pikas 0.
Independents 18; Phi Delts 6.
K. A. 12; Pi Kaps 6.
S. P. E. 12; Phi Gams 18.
K. Sigs 24; Pikas 0.

Cagers Begin Fall Practice

Davidson's 1942-43 basketballers started practice this week, entertaining hopes of a fine season to come. Coach Norman Shepard's team will be built around a nucleus of veteran lettermen, John Belk and Jack Wayman, captains Pat Williams, and Johnny Frederick. This year's aggregation will be greatly bolstered by fast members of last year’s undefeated frosh quint, namely Tommy and George Peters, Jim Bill Sutton, and Jack Byrd. Leading reserves are Ray Shaw, Dick Cowry, Bob Currie, Mitchdner, Flop Taylor, Jim Miller, and John Voorhees. The squad is not nearly at top strength, as four members are still practicing football: Pat Williams, Johnny Frederick, Tommy Bruce, and George Peters. Mac is out with an injury earlier in the football season.

India turns out eight million pieces of army clothing a month and other military equipment.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Whittle Lays Sports Plans
Dad’s Day Program For The Weekend Announced

Mr. A. H. Whittle, assistant director of athletics at Davidson College, who has full charge of the outdoor program for Dad's Day at Davidson on Nov. 21, has announced a varied program of sports for the entertainment of the fathers. At three o'clock in the afternoon there will be an intramural game between the S.A.L’s and the Setas. The contest will be followed by another session of touch football between members of the faculty and the S.P.E. fraternity.

Murder Ball

The final event of the athletic evening will be a contest of what is known on the campus as Commando Football, or as it is sometimes called, Murder Ball. In this exciting game no holds are barred. Contestants can kick, pass, or run the ball at will. Every moment is packed with excitement, and anything can happen. Visiting Dads are expected to enjoy to the fullest these realistic reminders of by-gone days, and perhaps there will be an occasional sigh of relief and thanksgiving “that we don't have to take such punishment now.”

Colorado has more than 8,000 miles of fishing streams.

Frosh Lose Last Game To Staters

Dropping a listless struggle to the mediocre State frosh, 12-0, here last Friday afternoon, the Davidson freshmen ended their current season none too impressively, but established several stars as top-notch prospects for varsity berths next year. Faced by fullback Frank McManus, the Cubs drove to hard-driving touchdowns in the second and third periods. Coach Shepherd's Kittens just couldn't get started and turned in their worst performance of the campaign.

Interception

After Ray Sedberry intercepted Fletcher's aerial on his 40 and ran it back to the Davidson 38, the Techlets started on their first touchdown march. McManus plunged for 15, then 10 yards, and Watson flipped a pass to Schell for the tally. The conversion attempt was low and wide. An inspired Kitten eleven took the field in the second half, but fumbles and poor timing nullified their every threat. Fletcher and White shone in the backfield, while Johnny Walker turned in his usual stellar performance at guard.

Score Again

In the third period Watson took Fletcher's slow-bounding kick on the Wildcat 37 and ploughed to the 15. The State tailback then made a first down in two plays to the 5 and handed the ball to Price on a reverse for the score. Hugh McArn, Walker's running mate at guard, broke through to block the placement, and the game ended at 12-0.

State Pos. Davidson
Gabriel LE Stafford
Deere LT Richardson
Barrens LG Walker
Fondren C Parrish
Solliff RG McArn
Wyman RT Romerelt
Schell RE Ingram
Dalton QB Patton
Sedberry LH Fletcher
Gwynn RH White
McManus FB Taylor

Score by periods:
State 6 0 6 0—12
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

State scoring: Touchdowns: Sedberry (sub for Gabriel), Price (sub for Gabriel).

Students in Eastern and Midwestern colleges are not going to have as warm rooms as in the piping times of peace, but they need not freeze. Reason: The East normally consumes 1,500,000 barrels of oil a day. Submarines and the need for tankers in our overseas supply service has cut the supply by water to almost nothing.

Monday and Tuesday, November 18 and 19
MICKEY ROONEY
“A YANK AT EATON”

Saturday, November 20
RAY MILLAND — GINGER ROGERS
“BIG STREET”

LATE SHOW
“SECRET ENEMIES”

Monday and Tuesday, November 23 and 24
“THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR”

Wednesday, November 25
“THE FALCON’S BROTHER”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON, N. C.