‘CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Top sports news for Carolina fans is the annual tourney in Raleigh which will settle in the minds of some what team is best in the Southern Conference. To others who are partial, the tournament will just confuse the issue, but a good time will be had by a lot of sports fans. Raleigh annually goes all out for celebrating the festivities and Jim Reid, Sports Director of WPTF, is covering the games on a major scale. The capital station is doing things up right, and has sent a schedule of their sportscasts to Davidson, a Southern Conference school. The following broadcasts concerning the Southern Conference tournament will be aired:

Today
Southern Conference: First round, 4:45-5. Summary.
Southern Conference: First round, 5:45-6:15. Play-by-play.
Sports review, 6:20-6:25.
First Round—Last half, 11:05-12. Evening game.

Friday
Coaches Luncheon, 1:30-2.
Sports Review, 6:20-6:25.
Conference Preview, 6:30-6:45.
Second round.
Second Round Last Half, 11:05-12. Game.

Saturday
Weakened Wrestlers Take Sixth
Cats Unable To Place Champ In Conference Tournament

The injury-ridden Wildcat wrestlers, whose plight in life has shown no signs of improvement since their loss of the State Championship to the Carolina Matman, were unable to place a single Conference Champion in this year’s Mat Tournament held in Greensboro last weekend. Coach Charlie Parker had hoped to enter a full team, but Dick Copp strained his shoulder, and Rait Brinson, whose ailing stomach caused him to see the matches from the stands, prevented this.

Take Three Thirds
The Cats took three third places and one fourth for a total of seven points. Hipp, who dropped a close decision to Woody Jones of State in the opening round, defeated Mards of V.M.I. and Trainer of V.P.I. to gain a third place. Turnage, still hampered by his assortment of ailments which kept him out of the Carolina Meet, and Wilbo Carter also took third places. George Council placed fourth in the 135 division.

Break Monopoly
The Carolina Tar Heels broke the All-Virginia monopoly on the Conference wrestling championship by taking first place in the tournament. It was Carolina’s first conference championship and was a well-earned trophy for the boys from Chapel Hill. Carolina scored 30 points to Virginia Military Institute’s 28, defeating the reigning champion Washington and Lee’s 22. The Generals had taken the crown for the past two years.

Team Scores
Final scores for the tournament were as follows: University of North Carolina 30; Virginia Military Institute 28; Washington and Lee 22; Virginia Tech 16; Duke 11; Davidson 7; N.C. State 7; University of Maryland 4.

Shepherd On Committee
Although their basketball team will not be represented in the annual Southern Conference cage tourney, Davidson was well accounted for when Coach Norman Shepherd represented the Cats at the recent tournament committee meeting. Along with three other outstanding executives of the conference, Coach Shepherd and the committee made all administrative arrangements for the meeting in Raleigh this weekend. Besides drawing the pairings and selecting the officials, this committee had to make all the arrangements for the sale of tickets, the acquisition of the auditorium, and the hotel accommodations for the eight teams. All these details were handled when the committee met last Sunday. Serving with Coach Shepherd on the committee were Eddie Cameron of Duke University, Bob Warren of North Carolina State, and “Monk” Younger of V.P.I.

FOOTBALL OFF
With the continuance of bad weather last Monday, Head Coach Gene McEver announced that a meeting of the football team would be held Tuesday, and the equipment would be turned in at that time and practice discontinued until next fall. “The team has not had a full six weeks of training as is allowed by the Southern Conference rules, but with spring sports coming in soon and with the heavy snowfalls of the past two weeks it seemed impossible to do otherwise,” said Coach McEver. The standing between the two teams, the Reds and the Whites, stands at two wins for the Reds, and one win in the last game for the Whites.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY

Page Four

Marksmen Meet State In Raleigh
Raleigh will seek revenge Saturday at Davidson's riflemen on the powerful State team in a shoulder-to-shoulder match. Last year the Wolves outshot the Cats to win the match, but this year the Cats are out for blood.

Lose to Clemson
In a recent shoulder-to-shoulder match, Clemson defeated Davidson with a score of 1242 to 1211. The high scores were as follows: J. E. Hudson (Clemson) 187, M. B. Tiller (Clemson) 187, and Dave Yocum (Davidson) 183. Tentative plans and arrangements for a return match at Clemson have been made for March 1st.

Lick Tech
Davidson came out with a win in a postal match with Georgia Tech, 1823 to 1811.Tech's 1819, B. Tech. Cats Eliot a score of Tech had high man, Stub- John Symms—373 bins and Yocum of Davidson tied 370° each. March 11th This Wofford hav- for second place with Again on Wednesday, the ‘Cats meet Wofford again. is the second match, ing won the first by 11 points. Team Improves The team is showing marked im- almost with practice The provement every day. top men at, pres- ent seem to be composed of fresh- men. They are Yocum, Stubbins, Barber, and Nat King. Commanda h THE FIRST AND THIRD the 70 yard low hurdles and a third i Arch Taylor did a great job in the Indoor Track Meet held at Chapel Hill the week-end of February 28, taking a first place for Davidson in in the 70 yard highs. Norfolk Naval team camp 37-35 count Da- wound up another session on the hardwood, they managed victories out Taking a strong Training Station into Saturday night by Davidson’s varsity basketeers a session in which to garner twelve of twenty-six tough tilts. The first five-of Bob McLeod, man Cats; George John Belk, Jack Way- and Davey Spencer paced the the steady shining sophomore Ed duties. while Lucas added The way but were sunk subs, and capable relief sailors led most of the by a last period scoring flurry, un- able to cope with the traditional Wildcat scrap. Break Even Saturday's tilt was the final fray series in which the of a four game Cats broke even. They split with the Furman Hurricane, winning rather easily here but dropping a 43-29 battle in Greenville. Then, of course, they trounced the train- ing station tads—but dropped a close to South Carolina. List Wins Davidson one listed Cita- Charles- among big Altogether del, Wofford, ton, Guilford, of College and Furman their victims while throwing scares unto such Carolina and State. After losing Capt. Yarbor- ough and Johnny Frederick, the lo- cals couldn't quite live up to pre- season ratings and hope. Tommy Four Seniors Four seniors, Marsh, McLeod, Spencer and Lucas have netted their last pivots for the Cat quint, and their sparkling play will be sorely missed next season. McLeod along with Belk Wayman was one of the team’s three high scorers, while the other three dropped them in consistently. up from the frosh next and However, Pat Williams, a S played a lot of basketball for the who Wildcats this year, should have a great year in 1943 as a possible three-letterman. Bob McLeod rang down the cur- tain on a successful season, his last for Davidson, by leading the Wild- cat’s scoring against the Norfolk Naval Base Saturday night. Groceries Hardware Clothing Davidson, N. C. A. S. BROWN General Merchandise Phone 2001 Davidson, N. C. Marsh, Varsity Closes Season With Win Over Norfolk Luke The loss of Ed Lucas, one of the Wildcats most dependable reserves during the basketball season, will be a great set back to next year’s basketball team. The season will be such material as Tommy and George. Peters, Harry Jackie Byrd, Abie Short, Jim Lowry and Bill Sutton to men- tion a few. So with Belk, Way- man, Bruce, et al still here prospects for 43 look good. Hudson, Meet Faculty In an added attraction to the nas FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C. J. K. HAMPTON Groceries Meats DAVIDSON, N. C. THACKER’S RESTAURANT 221 S. Tryon St. Opposite Johnston Building For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490 Wildcat Sports DAVIDSONIAN cisive triumph, Davidson’s Arch dler, by the Cat's fine hur- took 7 of Davidson's 8 points Taylor, virtue of a convincing perform- ance of 8.1 seconds in the 70 yard low hurdles and a fourth in the highs. Diminutive Gene Shannon hung up the eighth point by soaring over 12 feet 2 inches in the pole vault. Heels Get 54 Tar Heels amassed a stagger- ing total of 54 points, more than Duke who lagged behind in second place. Maryland's Terrapins trailed the Blue with 16 points as the remaining entries were grouped in the rear. Devils closely records were and Lach tablished new marks in the quarter Two conference smashed as Brown es- mile run and shot put respectively. Brown Sails Warner Brown sailed around the 440 distance 50.9 seconds, sur- passing the old time of 51 seconds Miller of Maryland in 1939, Lach Tosses Duke’s great wing- back, tossed the shot 47 feet 6½ inches to his record, which he has held for the past two in set by Steve Lach, better own seasons. One scholastic record fell when Julian McKenzie of Salisbury High clipped three-tenths of a second off of the 1,000 yard run. Cavaliers Cop The Virginia Cavaliers won the Non-conference title, followed by versity, in that order. The Blue Imps of Duke clinched the Fresh- men Division, edging out the Caro- lina Frosh, while Jefferson High led the Scholastic Division. regular year’s season the varsity will encounter an all-star aggregation from the faculty next Tuesday night in what should be one of the local court's most thrilling struggles years. ERNEST ELLISON, INC. “Just Insurance” R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal 115 East Fourth Street CHARLOTTE, N. C. CAFETERIA CHARLOTTE'S LEADING RESTAURANT Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices 221 W. Trade St. tracksters the annual Southern Conference Indoor games held in the SPRING SPORTS START FOOTBALL OVER Thursday, March 5, 1942 Tar Heels Capture Track Crown; Taylor Shines For Wildcats Taylor And Shannon Capture Wildcat Points Although Carolina’s defending champions swept to a de- racked up 8 points in Heels’ spacious Woolen Gymnasium on February 28th. Navy, Tennessee, and Catholic Uni- RUTHEALME STYLES SANDSTONE SHADE SHETLAND mistake gotta have a Sandstone Shade Make fellows, no you sho’ Shetland ... for they’re the whole show for Spring. It’s a combination of three tan tones with a blending of covert color. Undergrads have fal- len on these Sandstone Shade Shetlands in a body which reminds us... they’re modeled in “Cor- nell,” University Club’s new jacket with softly constructed body longer length, ticket pocket and center vent. $22.50 $25.00 $30.00 Coat and Trouser CHARLOTTE, N.C. WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BANOS BO HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER Contrasting slax $7.50 J. O. JONES, Inc. “Students’ Center”