PORTS SURVEY - By BUTCH PHARR

The leading Kappa Alphas placed three men on the All Fraternity Softball Team as the result of a poll of the sports managers of each of the nine fraternities and three of the referees. Davis Thomas, who lost only one game during the entire season, closed the series by shutting out the Phi Delts 10-0 and was nearly a unanimous choice for the first team position. Lacy MacLean, catcher, and Jack Richeson, second base, also represented the K.A.’s on the All Star team. John McKinnon led in the number of votes polled for outfielders, in spite of the fact that he sustained a leg injury in the early part of the season and only played in a few games. The Phi Gams and Kappa Sigs each placed two men, while the Pi Kapps, Phi Delts, and Spees placed one.

Tommy Bumbarger shone for Davidson in the recent Southern Conference Tournament at Winston-Salem on the Old Town course. Bumbarger was tied with DeWitt of Duke and Patton of Wake Forest for the lead after the first round, each holding a 74, which was then better than the tourney winner Poole of Duke, who was back one stroke. Bumbarger fell off to an 81 in the afternoon round and lost all chances of keeping the lead. The golfers had a warm-up match with the team from Washington and Lee and were defeated 16 to 2.

Apologies and corrections for a misstatement in last week’s column concerning our illustrious track team. The error that passed in the night was that N.C. State had won the recent A.A.U. meet; however, I have been correctly informed that they merely placed second. Though this might detract slightly from the pleasure of trouncing them in the meet Saturday a week ago, it was still a good thought.

The K.A.’s have finished their season with seven wins and one loss and are nervously sitting back to see if the S.A.E.’s can get through their two remaining games with the SPE’s and Pi Kapps with the pressure on. The S.A.E.’s have only lost to the leading K.A.’s and will tie them if they can win over these two teams. The Pi Kapps should and can give them a good battle because they have one of the best teams in the league when they’re on. The Phi Gams, who were in second place last week, have lost three while winning one to finish their season with four won and the same lost. The Fijis gave the K.A.’s quite a scare in their game last Friday in which the latter came from behind in the last inning to score three runs and tie the score and finally win it in the extra inning on Jim Jackson’s home run.

K.A.s Retain Number One Spot With S.A.E.s Running Close Race

Monday night’s tabulations on the interfraternity softball race found the K.A.’s at the head of the pack, sporting a season record of seven victories against a lone loss to the Betas. The S.A.E.’s loom as probable sharers of first place honors, being the only team with a mathematical possibility of tying the Knights and with only the Spees and the Pi Kaps in their path.

Betas Win

By virtue of an 11-0 decision over the hapless and winless Phi Delts, the Kappa Alphas wound up their schedule Monday, only a loss to the Betas and Al Winn’s tantalizing twirling marring an otherwise spotless slate. The Betas, however, have dropped two games and can finish no better than second. The Phi Gams, surprisingly strong, slipped from their threatening position just back of the K.A.’s when they came out on the short end of an eight-inning struggle against the leaders. General Wood’s army of S.A.E.’s knocked off the Kappa Sigs, 3-2, and are ready to spring into a first-place tie.

Pi Kaps Trail

The Pi Kaps, led by Jack Wayman and Jim Thomas, trail closely with three victories and an equal number of losses, while the Pikas topped the Sig Eps and stay just behind.

---

ROBERT CUMMINGS LATE RITA HAYWORTH Thursday and GINGER ROGERS Thursday and Friday, May 14 and 15 “KING’S ROW” Saturday, May 16 “WILD BILL HICKOCK” “DANGER IN THE PACIFIC” Monday and Tuesday, May 18th and 19th “MY GAL SAL” VICTOR MATURE Wednesday, May 20 “WHO IS HOPE SYLER” “TOUGH AS THEY COME” Friday, May 21 and 22 “ROXIE HART” ANN SHERIDAN SHOW CAROL LANDIS ADOLPH MENJOUbehind. As yet the Spees and Phi Delts have been unable to break into the win column, although both have come dangerously close to upsetting the pace-setters.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
JERRY NEWBOLD ~ Manager

© Latest Type Golf Equipment.
© Tennis Balls.
© Parker Pens and Pencils.
© Fresh Fruit and Candy.
© Exam Pads.

THE STUDENT STORE
BOB RAINEY

ALL FRATERNITY SOFTBALL TEAM

Second Team | First Team
-----------------|-----------------
Pitcher | Holmes, FGA | Pitcher | Wayman, Grant, and Winn
Short Stop | McCoy, Kappa Sig | Short Stop | Barnwell, Key, and Watt
Third Base | Thomas, Pi Kap | Third Base | O’Hair, Taylor, and Patterson
Short Field | Larson, Phi Gam | Short Field | Hill, SAE
Left Field | McKinnon, Phi Delt | Left Field | Hay, SPE
Center Field | Miller, SPE | Center Field | Jones, SAE
Right Field | Ehly, Kappa Sig | Right Field | Welch, Beta

HONORABLE MENTION:
Pitcher: Wayman, Grant, and Winn; Catcher: Robertson, Lee, and Squires; First Base: Bosh, Evens, and Bivens; Second Base: Williams, McCall, and Faison; Short Stop: Barnwell, Key, and Watt; Third Base: O’Hair, Taylor, and Patterson; Fielders: Graves, Wilson, Martin, Murray, Sandifer, Bellamy, Powell, Wooten, Washburn, and Oliver.

Baseball Team Closes Season Against State

The Wildcat Baseball Team closes its current season tomorrow afternoon when they meet the strong N. C. State team, which defeated them in an extra inning affair in Lumberton earlier in the season, on Richardson Field here. This game tomorrow will be the third game the Wildcats have played this week, having met the Fliers from Morris Field Monday, and then journeying up to Hickory for a game with Lenoir Rhyne on Tuesday. Lucas kept 13 hits well scattered, never yielding over two in any one inning, to hand the Fliers of Morris Field in Charlotte a 7 to 6 setback in a well-played game Monday afternoon.

An unusual feature of the game against Morris Field was the fact that Davidson was able to score seven runs on eight hits.

We Need Every College Man In Officers’ Training To Man the Mightiest Air Army in the World

Make Your Choice This Week For Present or Future Officers’ Training

THREE ENLISTMENT PLANS FOR COLLEGE MEN

1. Aviation Cadet at $75 a month, with expenses paid. If you have majored in science or engineering you can try for a commission in the ground crew—in Armament, Communications, Engineering, Meteorology, Photography. As a Second Lieutenant on active duty, your pay ranges from $183 to $245 a month.

2. All college students may enlist as privates in the Army Air Forces (unassigned) and serve there until their turns come for Aviation Cadet training.

3. All college students may enlist in the Air Force Enlisted Reserve and continue their schooling, provided they maintain satisfactory scholastic standing. Upon graduation or withdrawal from college, men will be assigned to active duty at any time by the Secretary of War. The new Army Air Force Enlisted Reserve Corps program will be announced shortly. This program will provide opportunities for college men to enlist in other branches of the Army on a deferred basis and to continue their education.

80% Have Won Commissions

Due to thorough training—about four out of every five Aviation Cadets this past year received Second Lieutenants’ commissions—of which 67% are now flying officers. The tremendous expansion of the Air Forces should assure rapid advancement in all branches. And after the war—you'll be ready for the ever-growing opportunities in aviation.

Settle Your Service Now

The years ahead are war years—and every college man should make his plans accordingly. To make America supreme in the air we need every college man who can qualify for active or deferred service. So take advantage now of this option. You may never again have such opportunities.

Join the thousands of America’s college men who are enlisting this week!

NOTE: If you are under 21, you will need your parents’ or guardian’s consent. Birth certificates and three letters of recommendation will be required of all applicants. Obtain the forms and send them home today.

SEE YOUR FACULTY AIR FORCE ADVISOR FOR FULL INFORMATION (Or Apply to Your Local Recruiting and Induction Station)

Army Recruiting and Induction Stations Are In the Following Cities:
Charlotte, Asheville, Durham, Fayetteville, Raleigh, Winston-Salem

Aviation Cadet Examining Boards Located in the Following Cities:
Charlotte, Fayetteville, Wilmington