Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN, Thursday, November 26, 1942

—The Davidsonian—
Founded by the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO—BOSTON—LOS ANGELES—SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean...... Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh... Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher... Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries..... Managing Editor
Howell Morrow... Managing Editor
John Fairley...... Managing Editor
Jim Sumner...... Managing Editor
Deane Whitson... Managing Editor
Legh Scott........ Sports Editor
Bob Welsh........ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager... Dick Port
Advertising Manager... Dun McIver
Jim Harris
Teensy Hodges
George Roseborough
Buddy Carson
Circulation Manager... Circulation Manager... Subscription Manager... Collection Managers

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Thanksgiving at Davidson was different. It showed few of the features which have come to be associated with the day.
But it brought a sense of something intangible yet more real, something less filling yet more satisfying. Could we have
learned a lesson from the change?

Father’s Day Success...
We were astounded by the number of fathers who, when the final count was taken, put in a welcome appearance
at the festivities celebrating the Dad’s Day weekend at Davidson. That the fathers enjoyed the occasion, a suggestion needing further
testimony, was definitely settled by their unanimous vote for a repetition of the affair next year. Its sponsors rather expected
the parents to pick a weekend featured by a football game and were amazed when they voted the idea down
in favor of a quieter weekend. A typical comment pointed out that the fathers never had a chance to see
how their sons lived when they were hurried from game to boarding house to home amid the bustle of a
football crowd. They seemed really to appreciate the opportunity of joining their sons in dormitory rooms and more than one
unhurried meal, and of experiencing normal campus life according to an informal schedule which imposed no requirements on either Dad
or son.

GOPHERS THAT 63-0!
It was unfortunate that the illness of leading man Shaw Smith, who with a splendid cast made “The Man Who
Came To Dinner” one of the best student productions we remember, interfered with the repeat performance of the play. This,
however, did not seriously mar the spirit of the occasion, for which we wish great success on future occasions.

New Impetus...
Those who did not read the announcement which comes from Mr. Hengeveld printed on the first page of this issue
might profit greatly by taking serious note of it. Although Mr. Hengeveld refused to comment at all on the interpretation
of the communication, because he had received no information or hint of information as to such an interpretation, it would
seem that there is but one logical conclusion that farsighted students can draw from the document. Perhaps it comes under
the head of repetition of last week's editorial comment to point it out, but we think the point important enough
to bear repeating. It is our last wish to be branded as rumor spreaders, which class we have often attacked
here, but when the reserve boards speak in terms of “not in good standing” should a student's average fall below
the mark which renders him eligible for a degree, the emphasis appears to be obvious. In words of one syllable,
those who do not have a “C” average at the end of the semester had better watch their step if
they wish to remain in school and be considered for officer training. The drop in the student scholastic standings generally
as evidenced by the fraternity average assumes even greater proportions, perhaps, than we had anticipated. In any event, a word
to the wise should be more than sufficient in this case.

Davidson College seems to be going through the throes of a drastic revolution. The old order of things is on
the way out, and a New Order, capable in its magnitude and significance of being compared only with the Roosevelt
New Deal and Schicklegruber New Order (note particularly the latter), is on its way in, riding the wave of irresistible
public opinion. Nothing can stop it; its onward march will sweep all obstacles from in front of it. It is
unconquerable. So might think a member of the Class of '46, that class almighty, that class be-with gifts divine—in plain
language, the low-down freshmen. This would seem the case to anyone not acquainted with the real temper of the Davidson
student body and the capable Court of Control, who might have seen the upstart announcements left around by the mystical
and doomed “Freshman Court of Control” this past week. Calling the freshmen to revolt, to leave off wearing red caps,
to walk on the grass until the fertilizer screams, to break campus whenever and however they please, and to do
a million other things that would harass and worry the institutions, would-be Byrons clutter the campus with their nonsense, little
realizing what the consequences will be. What the decision of the Court of Control will be, we cannot presume to
say. We rather imagine its decision will be sudden and drastic. It certainly should be—very, very drastic. But that must
come in due time and with due process of law, none of which at the present is any of our
concern. What we will try to do is to impress upon the freshmen, seriously, and from a reasonable point of
view, exactly what they are undertaking to do, in trying to buck tradition. The freshman “court” is attempting a very
radical thing. It’s nothing to be proud of. Rather, it’s something any real Davidsonian would be ashamed of. We hope
the freshman class will have the good sense to reject it.

In the first place, members of the notorious “council” probably think they are burning their names for immortality into the
hearts of their fellow classmen. They might see themselves already as the future leaders of the Class of ‘46, Heaven
and the draft board permitting. They probably feel that they are establishing their leadership by taking over in the face
of the “unbearable persecution” of the freshmen now. Soon, we hope, they will awake to the reality that such noble
sentiments do not go over so well at Davidson. With very few exceptions, the real trouble-makers of the freshman class
(we don’t mean those men who only desire a little fun once in a while) will see that leadership of
a class most frequently comes from that group who, though they may have their fun at times, will realize their
position and try to abide by it. Upperclassmen appreciate this, and though the frosh may not be able to see
it now, they are influenced to a large extent by the opinions of those men who have been here longer
and know what it’s all about. Again, when the present freshman class gets to be upperclassmen, they will appreciate their
position now to a large extent. They will want the distinction, exactly as we do now, of being the only
ones privileged to walk on the grass; they will demand someone to make their trips to the laundry every week,
just as we do now. Incidentally, one is getting a bargain when he carries the stuff one year and rests
three. He probably does not appreciate this now, but it’s nonetheless true, and if he refuses to do his part
now, you can’t, in fairness, demand the Class of ‘47 to do theirs.

The third point is one of the most powerful arguments of all, though the freshmen may not appreciate it. Believe
it or not, the Freshmen regulations and the Court of Control were not established for punishment but, in the long
run at least, for the freshman’s benefit. Nothing welds a class together so effectively as a feeling of brotherhood in
the face of overwhelming opposition. This the freshmen system here tries to give you to a very mild extent, when
compared to other schools. I grant you—it seems a little far-fetched to say this, but too many fine classes have
arisen in comradeship traceable entirely to their freshman year. It’s an argument that simply can’t be overlooked.

And lastly, Freshmen should stop and think well before they try to shatter a tradition almost as old as the
college itself. Not only at Davidson, but everywhere, the subjugation of freshmen has been part and parcel of educational systems.
But particularly here, where tradition is fundamental, it is better to fall in line with freshman classes of a hundred
years and “take it with a smile,” whatever may come. We would hate to be a member of the class
that breaks such a tradition. We repeat, freshmen will probably think of this as the biggest bunch of “bull” they
ever read. Take it for what it’s worth; but think twice before going any further. Don’t get the wrong ideas—have
your fun, and make yourself respected by the upperclassmen with a certain amount of “noxiousness.” But draw the line between
fun and the serious business you’re bordering on now. It CAN go too far.

Thankfulness for a spirit of patriotism and our opportunities in dwelling in an environment which fosters such an emotion suffused
minds long bent toward criticism of its leaders and principles.

SAVE AMERICA BUY WAR STAMPS

“Buddy” Carson contracted neuralgia at the game and toured the dance floor searching for a “late” considerably stub of himself
at the dance. Crowell and Grimsley looked with two babes in the Queen City after broadcasting the fact that they
would remain on campus to save money. Also deserting previous campus plans were “Alonzo” McIntosh and “Jew-Boy” Raney—who yielded to
temptation in the form of two lassies from Charlotte. Going northward was Chapa the Thinman, who wound up at a
Formal at W.-C.

Cinema Comments By LACY MacLEAN

At publicatibn date no show had been scheduled for Wednesday. An old advertised feature is at last definitely billed for
Saturday, and it’s a hit that rates high for its star-filled cast. Lacy MacLean

Wednesday GIRL TROUBLE

At publicatibn date no show had been scheduled for Wednesday. An old advertised feature is at last definitely billed for
Saturday, and it’s a hit that rates high for its star-filled cast. Lacy MacLean

Saturday

I would like for BUCK McNEELY to be my guest at the Davidson theatre for any performance next week.

By-Lines By BILL LYMAN

LITTLE SISTER'S DAY

A few days ago I made a visit to a men’s school not so far away, and was talking with
one of the students on the comparative merits of our two schools. Among other things, I casually commented on the
Dad’s Day we had here.

“It was tremendously successful.” I said. “Despite rationing and war conditions in general, there were over 100 fathers present for
the activities. Last spring we had at Davidson a Mother’s Day that was equally successful.”

“Pooh-pooh,” pooh-poohed the student from the rival school, “That’s nothing! A few weeks ago we had a Little Sister’s Day!”

“Little Sister’s Day!” I exclaimed.

“Yes. Would you like to hear about it?” Ignoring my reply he elucidated. It seems that the ingenious idea was
dreamed up at one of the regular Tuesday night meetings of the Sunday School Committee, one of the most active
organizations on their campus. The Committee was jubilant over their originality. The captain of the football team was put in
charge of the affair. For weeks there was a tremendous campaign for Little Sister’s Day. Posters were to be seen
everywhere, reading:

Be Sure and Ask Your Little Sister To LITTLE SISTER'S DAY She Will Love It

Pamphlets were distributed all over the campus. Talks were made at Morning Assembly. The dean wrote personal letters to all
little sisters. It was announced that a prize of $5.00 in genuine war stamps would be awarded to the lucky
student who had the most little sisters. For those unfortunate men who had no little sisters, it was decided that
an honorary little sister be selected. The Sunday School Committee had a special meeting and after three hours of haggling
chose “Sistie,” granddaughter of President Roosevelt. Immediately the president of the school, the treasurer, the captain of the football team,
and the chairman of the Sunday School Committee wrote polite but appealing letters to “Sistie.” “Sistie” wrote back that it
was impossible for her to get away at the time, but (Continued on Page 3)
