Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 24

The Davidsonian

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Founded By the Class of 1915
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
$1.80 the Collegiate year
Ten cents per copy.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ER ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries Managing Editor
Thomas Howell Managing Editor
Legh Scott Managing Editor
Jim Stimson Managing Editor
Deane Whitson Managing Editor
Leonard Pharr Sports Editor
Bill Barker Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager Dick Port
Advertising Manager Don McIver
Circulation Manager Jim Harris
Circulation Manager Teensy Hodges
Subscription Manager John Robinson
Collection Manager Buddy Carson

To The Freshmen

We of the DAVIDSONIAN staff would like to follow everyone else with a belated greeting to the class of 1946.
You have been processed by orientation, thoroughly lubricated by the soothing oils of Rush Week, and now you consider yourselves
ready to embark on your career at Davidson. If you concur with the pattern laid out by the classes of
105 other years, however, you will find the rosy schedule of the past two weeks to be a dangerous illusion.
Many social-minded youngsters attempt to stretch these weeks into a four-year party, but few of them remain to see the
warm spring sunlight streaming through the April leaves. In short, it’s been fun, but it is certainly not the routine.
Taking its place, though, are many items which, along with those interruptions designated in the catalogue as classes, are aggregated
under the term “college life.” These activities furnish a valuable part of the type of education for which Davidson College
has become famous. This provided, as we have hinted, the all-important books are not neglected. There are always the two
extremes in activities - men, whose senior annual picture bears no inscription but “B.S. in Business,” and there are those
who go activity mad. Both of these miss the purpose of the extra-curricular program at Davidson. Let us make a
few suggestions as to the selection of your channels of collegiate expression.

First, examine your interests. You should know whether you would like to concentrate on publications, YMCA work, or on athletics.
Keep your schedule well-rounded, but don’t scatter your interests indiscriminately. Remember that although publications take time all four years, and
that if you plan to try out for them you should apply immediately, such organizations as the various honorary fraternities
are open principally to the Junior and Senior Classes. All of these groups offer valuable training in almost every field.
A second general suggestion is to talk to the person in charge of the activity in which you feel particularly
interested and determine whether you can really find time for it and if it offers the kind of outlet you
expected. Do not by all means be “high pressured” into spending a lot of valuable time doing someone else’s job.
Third, if you find yourself involved too deeply in too many activities don’t hesitate to drop the least valuable. The
adage that whatever is worth doing is worth doing right is as true here as anywhere. Last year’s annual is
an invaluable source of information on college life in general and on activities particularly. However, use it wisely and supplement
its sketch by interview.

The purpose of this editorial is to start you thinking about trying out for some form of campus activity. There
is no student, we suspect, who is absolutely unable to participate in something, but we are certain that the end
of the year will find some who, either through lack of confidence or through pure laziness have neglected to let
their talents expand into the channels furnished by the college and their fellow students. War and its influences should not
cause us to give up the program that we have built up in this institution. No one knows what will
happen to educational standards or the length of the average college career, but the worth of activities as an application
of academic knowledge will increase as the time element decreases. We would like to see the student body reach an
ideal of every one of its members participating in some form of activity.

To The Upper Classes

We of the present student generation of Davidson College, of the upper classes, that is, are faced with a responsibility,
the scope of which, we fear, few suspect. It has become our lot to set the example and in large
measure to furnish the training of Davidson’s largest Freshman Class. In the past years this has been left largely to
orientation, to the Court of Control, and to the written and unwritten traditions of the college. This, however, can no
longer be. The present first-year group enjoys little prospect of four full years of Davidson’s quiet but engulfing influence. The
presence of gas rationing and shortage of tires, as well as the crowded condition of the regular instruments of transportation
will without doubt curtail the week-end traveling which has characterized Davidson since the “T” model Ford first appeared. Consequently, we
will see a lot more of each other. There will necessarily be one of two results. We will like each
other better than we suspected, or there will crop up in the student body petty dissensions and bad feelings which
could wreck that Davidson spirit of which we are proud.

Actually, we have no real fear of the latter taking place. However, we should like to charge every student at
Davidson to make it his personal responsibility to see that the crisis outside, instead of tearing our relations among ourselves
down in any respect, will draw us more closely together in the bonds of a better Davidson. We would like
to suggest as a project for the Sophomore class that they take it upon themselves to act as leaders in
just such a movement. There is no reason that, instead of the uncertain, mangled school year that many predict, Davidson's
106th year should not be her best.

Davidsonian, ever re

HAL'S REALLY CRAZY ABOUT ME... HE SAYS I'M WORTH MY WEIGHT IN SAVINGS STAMPS

Campus Forum

Dear Ed,

Much has been said of the Wildcat Spirit, yet I’m wondering if lately this hasn't become an undernourished tradition, accepted
eagerly as freshmen, but carried on listlessly as an upperclassman. In the past few years, it has been the freshmen
who have carried the brunt of the display of the Wildcat spirit which is down inside of every single one
of us. It has been they who have heard announcements in chapel followed by hungry cries of “Shirtail” by the
savage sophs, only to find themselves the sole inhabitants of the gym that night, except for a few upperclassmen who
have dropped in to see if the freshmen still have the spirit they had when they were sporting those red
dinks. It has been the freshmen who have cheered for ten minutes, and then lined up for five minutes to
be sure their names were on the cheerleader’s lists of those who yelled, else they be dealt with severely by
those of the “Upper 3” who wear scattered from Duke to the Burning Corner. It's the freshmen who have gone
to their first football game with spirits high, and a fresh knowledge of the last page in the handbook—Sportsmanship at
Davidson—only to have these axioms altered by contingents of cat-calls from up near the press box, or a lot of
boos from the first row at the offside penalty. It’s been the freshmen again who have scattered out of the
gym like herds from a stockade at the crack of the cheerleaders’ voices to face a line of frenzied upperclassmen,
one hand holding up new pants while their other hand swings belts ready to brand that Wildcat spirit into flinching
flanks.

Each of us upperclassmen has been in those Freshman’s shoes just a few months or a very few years ago,
and perhaps we've wondered as we saw Davidson teams win the acclaim of the crowd against overwhelming opposition whether we
in the stands really possess the spark that was behind those boys on the field. A tradition such as the
Wildcat spirit is not something to display as a freshman and then stay away for the duration of your college
career. This year I advocate a rejuvenation of this Spirit for every student, regardless of class. Pep meetings, parades, and
bonfires for the entire student body—pep meetings without belts or signups, con- athletic. These are not lofty ideals. They are
just the true manner in which the Wildcat spirit was meant. It's not the task of a group of cheerleaders
toCarry on this spirit, nor is it of a group of freshmen who make up the student body. Conducts above
reproach at contests to be displayed. Tomorrow night will be the first mammoth pep-meeting of the year. Duke at Winston
Saturday is our challenge for a better Davidson—Let’s show a better Davidson spirit. Three words take in a lot: BACK
THE CATS.

Jack Wayman, Slyme
By Bill Lyman

Once again, rushing is the main topic of conversation. Horrible thought! And this column is obnoxious enough to bring the
subject up again—striving about the topic of the day. Last year we gave a minute-by-minute description of what went on
during a typical rush evening—i.e., a purely superficial account of what happens on the surface. Always variegating, we now give,
to the uninitiated, what goes on behind the scenes: the ugly, the bitter, yea, the squalid truth. Heretofore no one
has dared expose the sordid facts of the case, but the fearless of censure now gives them to you. And
in dramatic form, too.

No Alpha Sig He, or *&%*$$*

ACT I
Scene: The chapter room of the Alpha Sigma Sigma House. About thirty students, with collars unbuttoned, shoes off, are draped
at various places about the room. These men look as though they had just been through Custer’s Last Stand, all
groaning quietly. Time: about 10:15 in the evening, after official rushing has ended for the day.

(There is no action seen nor audible comment heard for ten minutes.)

(Enter the chapter president.)

Prexy: *RUA*FEORM*G,
1st Stud: *&%*$9*&%°$,
2nd Stud: *&%*$§t &Oo*S.
Prexy: Cut out all this *&%%*$§ cussing.
3rd Stud: (Waking up) I call for the box.
Stooge: (Also waking up) I’m gonna ball Hadley.
3rd Stud: What's his last name?
Stooge: Whose?
3rd Stud: Hadley Murgatroyd’s.
Stooge: I don’t know.
3rd Stud: Don’t mention it.
Prexy: Now, listen, fellers, we've got to get something done. It’s getting late, and we've all got to get a
good night's sleep.
1st Stud: *&%"$$*&%*$,

(And at this point one dear brother, feeling a bit warm, starts taking off his shirt. Immediately two men begin
playing “Take It Off” on the victrola. This record is full of vim, vigor, and vitality, and its catchy tune
waxes more vigorous and more vital. The haunting strains seep cunningly into the blood of the Alpha Sig brothers, so
that to remain unmoved is impossible. Finally, the music whirls into such an overwhelming climax that all the men are
in a frenzy of excitement. There is a sudden hush as the piece ends, and Brother Le-Lovey steps forward, tap
dancing and singing.)

Oh Alpha Sig, we can get them,
Get them every one;
As through their names we run:
Else we will never get
This ———stuff done!

Prexy: (Beating mallet) Order, order!
2nd Stud: Swiss on rye and a cup of coffee.
Prexy: The first name tonight is Hadley Murgatroyd.
1st Stud: *&%*$3*&4$,
Rush Chm.: He’s a Good Boy! He's sure Phi-Beta material, was president of his high school student body, captain of
the football team, and besides, his family is the best in his hometown.
2nd Stud: Where's he from?
Rush Chm.: Cornelius.
3rd Stud: Is he that fellow who sat over in that chair (pointing)?
Rush Chm.: Why, yes!
3rd Stud: (Dramatically) I'm gonna ball that man.
Rush Chm.: (Becoming annoyed) Now listen, you don’t even know him well. He's really a good boy when you get
to know him. Why don’t you like him?
3rd Stud: (Stubbornly) He smokes Paul Maul’s.
Stooge: On land, da da da da, da da; in the air.
Prexy: (Interrupting) We're getting nowhere fast. We'll go on to the next man, Sneezy Jones.
4th Stud: Well, he’s a pretty good boy, but I don’t think he’s Alpha Sig material.
5th Stud: Who about now?
All: FRU SSR NG,
Prexy: We're still getting nowhere, and it’s getting later'n f! Do I hear a motion?
Stooge: I make a motion that the rushing chairman ball every man on the list and that we adjourn.
Prexy: All in favor say “Aye.”
All: Aye.
Prexy: All opposed say “No.”
All: No.
Prexy: We stand adjourned until tomorrow night.

Curtain

ACT TWO
Time: same night, just after the meeting.
Scene: a campus pathway leading to the dormitories. It is a dark, dark, dark night. Ominous trees are seen in
the background. Everything is sort of Stygian. Two students are seen stumbling along the path.
1st Stud: (Cursing quietly)
2nd Stud: (Cursing quietly)

Curtain

ACT THREE
Time: Same day, a little later.
Scene: A dormitory room. One of the Alpha Sigs is dramatically holding a glass of poison in his hand—evidently in
profound thought. There is a look of deep misery on his face.
Alpha Sig: Rush week is more than I can stand. (He gulps poison and crumples in a heap on the
floor. Very dramatic.)

Curtain

FINIS

The Operating Table

Saturday night marked the welcome end of “Rush Week,” and it came not a minute too soon for a great
number of upperclassmen. Judge “Silver Tongue” McCoy was one of the primary casualties of the week—he was confined to bed
all day Sunday with an acute attack of laryngitis. Charlotte was a hotbed of excitement on Saturday night as it
always is the last night of rush week. The new dealers were introduced to the old dealers, and all of
them apparently had a dealing good time. Little Face Lee, Elmo Graves, Russ Beam, and R. L. Brinson served on
the entertainment committee for the newcomers. Among those ushered around by this very select committee were Charlie Capps, of summer
school fame, Bill Nickels, Thorton “The Wolf Man” Hood, and last but by no means least Ed Ashby.

Very few students were able to attend the football game in Wilmington this past weekend, but wild tales come back
about those glorious few that did. Eugene Sutton, supposedly one of the most liked men in school, and Ben Lacy,
the roving romeo, dated two Wilmington belles with diamonds on their third finger left hand. Bonnie Ben Washburn was sent
on a special mission after the game by Hugh Sprunt to secure a date for the Davidson-Tech game coming up
in Atlanta three weeks hence. Ben, in all confusion, made the date for himself thereby leaving Hugh out in the
cold, as usual. Goms Horris and all served as the cheering section at the game. Accompanying him to the game
was the latest junior high discovery. He stepped down quite a bit since last year when matrimony halted his advances
toward another Wilmington girl. Lacy McLean and Jimmy Day also suffered a definite jolt when they found it necessary to
date 16-year-olds for the usual Saturday night fracas at the Plantation in Wilmington.

Salem-Davidson day—scheduled for next Saturday—will be the highlight of the coming weekend, not to speak of the game with Duke.
This day will bring some of the old-timers back into print in the daily week. You will remember the names
of Mot Sany, Cootie Carter, and many others. The columnist this week is obviously working at a disadvantage, and the
only way that this can be remedied is for the student body to get busy and furnish him with some
tasty bits like those that were very prevalent last year. If you know something and are afraid that it went
unnoticed, just go to you-know-who and I am sure that he can fix you up with the right publicity. Keep
all these things in mind over the next weekend and above all—BEAT DUKE.

Cinema Comments

Thursday and Friday
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astor try to out-spy each other in this gripping motion picture.

Saturday
A HUNTING WE WILL GO
The standbys of Laurel and Hardy, together with the world-famous magician Dante, appear in a merry bit of nonsense on
a plot of magic and mystery.

Saturday Late Show
CAREFUL, SOFT SHOULDER
Virginia Bruce and James Ellison. Another love story direct from Hollywood. This picture is rather thin in plot but promises
plenty of action.

Monday and Tuesday
ORCHESTRA WIVES
Anne Rutherford, George Montgomery, and Glenn Miller. This musical promises to be the number one show of the week. It
features a multistar cast together with a musical background set by A-1 Maestro Glenn Miller. The hit tunes in this
show should provide tops in entertainment for you hepcats.

Wednesday
LITTLE TOKYO—U.S.A.
Preston Foster as a detective in the Japanese Quarter of Los Angeles uncovers a Japanese espionage plot, but not before
he and his friend Brenda Joyce become involved in embarrassing situations. Although a propaganda show, this picture should provide “Grade
A” entertainment.

Thursday
BERLIN CORRESPONDENT
Dan Andrews, V. Gilmore, Mona Maris. The story of a U.S. correspondent in Berlin who gets involved with the Gestapo
and love at the same time.
