CAT CHAT
By Lacy McLean

What had promise of turning into one of Davidson's few undefeated varsity teams, lost claim to fame in that division Monday night when the wrestlers, crippled by the loss of Browning to the army and Coppedge with an injury, lost to Virginia Tech 21-9. The setback, which came in the form of a mild upset, will not, however, affect the status which the groaners enjoy in North Carolina circles—that of a dual contender for the State championship. The deciding match will be a set-to held in Davidson on February 21, with both the varsity and fresh teams meeting Carolina.

OLE SOUTHERN CUSTOM

A note commending Davidson on her hospitality and friendship extended to the visiting Albemarle High School basketball team came to Coach Chet Chapman last week, and the credit should in part be passed on to the student body. In Coach DeLettos' own words, “treatment of this kind can do more for you than all the publicity money can buy,” and he’s certainly right. This is one way in which the student body as a whole can do its part in getting athletes to North Mecklenburg—show them a good time when they come visiting.

THE GRIDIRON AGAIN

Monday began an arduous six weeks for not only Davidson, but most of the other Big Five griders—spring practice. A rather large crop of frosh up from the bumper crop of last fall are on hand in enough volume to keep things moving at top speed all the time. The loss of fourteen seniors, many of them veterans who have been holding down key positions for three years, will undoubtedly hurt, but next fall the Cats may be ready to move. Army registration may treat us favorably and it hardly seems possible that any football team could run into the same luck two years in a row which the Cats suffered last fall. There is, as yet, no definite confirmation of the team, Ga. Tech, or otherwise, who will fill the date left vacant by Sewanee’s cancellation of her schedule.

Last minute news: V. P. I. Frosh 24; Davidson Frosh 10. V. P. I. 21; Davidson 9
121—McCarthy (V) pinned Stroupe.
128—Moreland (V) forfeit.
136—Morrison (V) dec. Councill.
145—Brinson (D) dec. Barlow,
155—Gray (V) dec. Dick.
165—Turnage (D) dec. Alexander.
175—Hill (V) pinned Carter.
Unl.—Hipp (D) dec. Painter.

Davidson Indoor Games Attract Cats

Six Davidson cinder path artists are buckling down to a month of arduous conditioning in preparation for the annual Southern Conference Indoor meet to be held at Chapel Hill on February 28. Carolina's spacious Woolen Gymnasium will entertain a galaxy of track stars in one of the season’s outstanding indoor attractions, for this indoor meet always draws a star-studded field.

Led By Taylor

Led by Captain Blanton Williamson and Archie Taylor, high point man in past years, the Wildcat entry will include Hugh Sprunt and Gene Shannon, seasoned veterans, and Bill Lacy and Dick Port, frosh stars last spring.

Three In Hurdles

Williamson, Taylor, and Port will perform in the high and low hurdles, while Sprunt will run the 60-yard dash, in addition to the low hurdles. Lacy, who was brilliant in taking six firsts in a dual meet while a freshman, will enter the low hurdles. Diminutive Gene Shannon, who placed in the outdoor meet last spring, will participate in the pole vault to round out a fine Davidson squad.

Whittle Hopeful

Track Coach Pete Whittle, despite the failure of the Cats to cop any important points in the event last year, is hopeful. Taylor, for two years one of the best hurdlers in the Conference, may be right for the event this year and has turned off times good enough to win the event.

Tommy Yarborough, Davidson’s senior basketball captain, was lost to the Wildcats for the rest of the season when he recently enlisted in the United States Navy.

Courtmen Resume Daily Drills

Coach Shepherd Stresses Passing As Squad Resumes Compulsory Workouts; Team In Top Shape

Davidson's varsity basketball squad emerged from the school’s exam period with flying colors and, with two games already gone this week, is beginning to point for the two big games with Duke and Carolina on the fifth and sixth of February.

Physically Fit

The squad, although they dispensed with compulsory practice during the exam period, is in fine shape physically and is expected to round into better condition as the workouts continue.

Drill On Passing

Special emphasis has been placed on the team's passing for the past few days and Coach Norman Shepherd was outwardly pleased with the results. “The passing and ball handling has been much better lately,” Coach Shepherd commented after Monday afternoon’s drill, “And the boys are in much better shape than at any other time of the season.”

None Flunk Out

None of the players were ruled ineligible because of scholastic difficulties which leaves the squad, with the exception of Captain Tommy Yarborough who entered the United States armed forces at the beginning of this semester, at full fighting strength.

Have Three Games

After their three games this week, the Cats will have almost a full seven days in which to prepare for the conference big boys, Duke and Carolina.

Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, January 29, 1942

Grapplers Meet Ter

Practice started for the Wildcats Monday afternoon with forty-five men reporting for the first workout of the spring session. Already the senior stars of last season are noticeably missing. Such stalwarts as Spencer, Caldwell, Smith, Shaw, Shannon, and Faison are going to be hard to replace. Though the season's record didn’t show it, these seniors are leaving big shoes to be filled in the backfield and especially in the line.

Sophs Numerous

Twenty-eight of last year's highly praised freshman team turned out to make up the majority of the squad. Such standouts of the frosh as Riffe, Roach, Short, Dunn, Simmons, and the Peters brothers are expected to see plenty of action next season, and several of them may grab a first-string berth. Dave Maloney, on the bench since his freshman year because of ineligibility, is out and working for a head spot. Morehead, letter end last year, has been shifted to center in an effort to fill the big gap in the middle of the line left by graduating Captain Butch Caldwell. Luke Riffe, big freshman blocking back, has been moved to the line and will try for a tackle position.

Head Coach McEver started the six weeks spring session with a long session of limbering up exercises to get the team in shape.of calisthenics squad in shape as soon as possible. After a few weeks of practice, the Cats will be divided into two teams and have inter-squad games on Saturday afternoons. Jack Wayman, Junior guard, is expected to be one of the Wildcats’ big guns when Coach Norman Shepherd takes his varsity basketball squad up against Duke and Carolina next week.

Wildcats Begin Spring Football Session Early
Coaches Work For New Plan

Coach Gene McEver and the coaching staff have presented a plan for the aid of Davidson athletes which has already been approved by President Cunningham and the Board of Trustees. This financial aid to be given to players in all major sports is to be included in the “Living Endowment” plan of the college, which also assists outstanding students in other activities of the college.

Cunningham Approves

President Cunningham, in approving the plan, said that while athletics was not to be given prominence over other college activities, there is no desire to limit the contributions to worthy students and good athletes. This endowment plan is a means whereby any person may donate a small annual contribution that is equal to adding a large single sum.

No Competition

Coach McEver is glad of the college’s approval of this plan, which will offer an open and fair means whereby worthy boys can be aided. Though not trying to compete with the large universities that have many more resources, Davidson is attempting to get a fair share of good athletes. A large number of people already subscribing to this plan have designated their gifts to worthy students of athletic ability, those who are naturally Davidson material.

Frosh Invade V.P.I. Roost

After their somewhat surprising victory over the more experienced State Freshmen Squad in their match two weeks ago, our Frosh matmen journeyed up to V.P.I. for their second match of the season last Monday night. Ford won by a fall over his opponent in the 121 division, and Williamson followed with another fall in the 128 class. Oglesby lost by a fall to Chandler, who took all-campus honors at State this fall, in the 135 limit. Grimsley took a tough decision in the 145 class, but Rochelle was unable to take his match in the 155 division. Conrad took a fall in the 165, and Durant came through with a decision in the 175 weight. Hall lost by a fall in the unlimited class, but Davidson had already taken enough points. Ford at 121, Grimsley at 145, and Conrad at 165 have shown special aptitude at wrestling and should prove a serious threat to any opponent. The loss of Hugh Hill, caused by his ailing shoulder, was a serious blow to the team.

At the Student Store
Deluxe Ice Cream
“A Complete Line of Hardware and Groceries”
W. H. Goodrum & Company
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

Saturday

Maryland Invaders Favored Over ‘Cats
Tech Matmen Prove Too Strong; Hipp, Turnage, and Brinson Continue Undefeated

Center Tommy Peters, with George, led what is probably Davidson's best frosh basketball five in a decade to an undefeated season. Tommy’s 188 points led the yearling scorers.

Peters Tally Kit Markers

Undefeated in 13 starts, the Wildkitten basketball squad, led by Captain Tom Peters, compiled one of the most impressive records ever to be made by a yearling five. In defeating such teams as Mars Hill and Central High of Charlotte, the team amassed a total of 621 points to their opponents’ 412.

Peters Leads

Leading the scoring parade was Captain Tom Peters with a total of 188 points for an average of over 15 points a game. His nearest competitors were Brother George with an average of 8 points per game and Harry Hudson and Abie Short with averages of 7.5 and 7.3 respectively. Jack Byrd, a speedy guard, did not get started until the latter part of the season but came through with 5.8 points for each game. Receiving numerals for their services were Tom Peters, George Peters, Short, Hudson, Byrd, Powell, Taylor, Sutton, Brenniger, Riffe, Shaw, Lowry, Shaw, Hay, Ike, and Henderson Belk, Keys, Voorhees, Winchester, and Yarborough.

Unbeaten in State competition, although losers by 21-9 to Virginia Tech’s powerful grapplers, the Davidson wrestling team continues its victory-laden season against Maryland's smooth-working aggregation here Saturday.

Against the Gobblers Monday, Coaches Parker and Councill threw a rugged array of matmen, strengthened through wins over Duke and State, but weakened by the loss of the injured Dick Coppedge. Captain Ed Hipp, Ben Turnage, and R. L. Brinson contributed the only Wildcat victories, each by three-point decisions.

Stroupe Falls

Clyde Stroupe fell before the savage and more experienced onslaughts of V.P.I.'s McCarthy in the 121-pound class and was pinned in 2:25 of the first period. This defeat, coupled with a forfeit to Tech's Moreland in the next division, gave the Gobblers a lead which they never relinquished. George Councill dropped a very close decision to the ace 135-pound Virginian. However, R. L. Brinson put Davidson back in the running and added another scalp to his string by decisioning Barlow in the 145 class.

Morrison. Cary Tough

Dick Cary of V.P.I. proved a little too tough for Morrison at 155 and gained a close decision. However, Ben Turnage came through with his usual victory to trim Alexander, V.P.I.'s 165-pounder, and give the Cats three points. Although Wilbur Carter couldn't quite cope with the Tech 175-pound wrestler and was pinned in forty-two seconds of the third period, Captain Hipp came back to decision Painter neatly and give the Cats their total of 9 points.

The Maryland Terps come to Davidson Saturday as slight favorites over the Cat wrestlers. With their customarily strong, experienced squad, the visitors will have a Southern Conference champion in the 128 or 135-pound class. Notwithstanding the decision against them at Blacksburg, the Cats remain unbeaten in North State competition and will meet Carolina in Davidson on February 21 for the State title.

VS WW CAFETERIA

Rosalind Russell
Myrna Loy
Lana Turner

Thursday, January 29
“DESIGN FOR SCANDAL”

Friday and Saturday, January 30-31
“SHADOW OF THE THIN MAN”

Monday and Tuesday, February 2-3
“DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE”

Friday, February 6
“FEMININE TOUCH”

Walter Pidgeon
William Powell
Spencer Tracy

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”