PORTS By LEGH SCOTT

SPOTLIGHT

A Week of Upsets

Wildcat sports dope is slim this week due to the lull between the gridiron and court seasons, but action was plentiful in other sections of the country as three stunning upsets brought the topsy-turvy football season to a close. Georgia’s crushing defeat of Tech vied with Holy Cross’ trouncing of Bowl-bound Boston College for the upset of the week. Of less national import but equally surprising was Navy's decisive win over the Army Cadets.

We had expected Sinkwich and company to come across in a close game with the Engineers, but the convincing manner in which the Bulldogs exerted their superiority must have been a spectacle to see. Backing up a little, we must admit that we thought it would be Georgia’s running attack that would be the deciding factor in the game, while it turned out that the Athens boys beat the fleet-footed Tech backs at their own game—passing, and at the same time bottled up the Engineers’ chief running threat, Clint Castleberry. Frankie was red hot again, and skeptics came away from Sanford Field thoroughly convinced of his prowess. Charlie Trippi, working in the mighty Sinkwich’s shadow all season, was another big gun in the Georgia attack, while Bill Godwin was a standout at his line-backing position. Jim Todd, known to many Davidsonians in past years at Montreat, got in some good licks for the Bulldogs. Everyone seems well-pleased over the selection of Georgia to represent the East in the Rose Bowl. The invitation, pending the outcome of Saturday’s game, was immediately accepted by the Bulldogs after their victory over Tech. The Engineers found some consolation in being chosen for the Cotton Bowl. Speaking of bowls, congratulations are in order for the Tennessee Vols, who will oppose Tulsa in the Sugar Bowl.

Basketball Gets Underway

A tentative schedule for the basketball season appears elsewhere on this page. It appears that in spite of uncertainties with respect to transportation, a full season of play is in prospect. Changes may be necessary in this schedule, but it is as complete as possible at present. Tomorrow’s season opener for the ‘Cats will give students a preview of what may well be Davidson’s best cage team of recent years. It could be that supporters are merely looking through pre-season rose-colored glasses as they often do, but barring unforeseen complications, the Wildcats should have a high-scoring quintet that will be a factor to be seriously dealt with in the conference race. Soph Jim Lowry has caught the eye of coaches and has earned a starting berth in tomorrow's game. Several of his classmates will add to the reserve strength of the courtmen and may be expected to see plenty of action in the near future.

The controversy over freshman participation in varsity conference games is to be decided next week. Davidson has now joined the ranks of the supporters of the move, for, though they have little to gain through a positive decision with respect to the basketball season, such participation will be almost imperative if Davidson is to continue football next year.

All-Frat Team

A word is included here on the method of selection of the all-fraternity team appearing in this issue. Managers of each team chose a man for each position. Those getting the most votes appear on the first team with the runners-up making the second nine. Honorable mention includes all those nominated for their respective positions. It was a highly successful season for the tag teams, with the winner not decided until the final week. Standings given are believed to be correct in spite of some mistakes in past issues.

Freshman Award

Members of the Beaver Club feel that they have taken a significant step in stimulating interest in athletics at Davidson by inaugurating the presentation of a medal to the outstanding Freshman athlete. The idea has the whole-hearted support of the Athletic Association, headed by Mr. Norman Shepard. A number of awards are offered each spring to Freshmen for excellence in various types of scholarship, but this is believed to be the first athletic award of its kind. It is hoped that this award will attain significance comparable with those for scholarship. Officers stressed the importance of sportsmanship and team spirit as well as ability in the selection of the receiver of the award.

Miscellany

Hope Davidsonians have taken advantage of the opportunity to pick their choices for the Charlotte Observer All-State team. We can think of several ‘Cats worthy of this recognition.

TENTATIVE VARSITY BASKETBALL SCHEDULE:

BEFORE CHRISTMAS:
Friday, December 4—Kannapolis “Y” at Davidson.
Tuesday, December 8—Morris Field at Davidson.
Thursday, December 10—McCrary Eagles at Davidson.
Thursday, December 17—Charlotte “Y” at Davidson.

AFTER CHRISTMAS:
Wednesday, January 6—Duke at Winston-Salem.
Saturday, January 9—N. C. State at Charlotte.
Tuesday, January 12—Guilford at Davidson.
Thursday, January 14—Catawba at Salisbury.
Saturday, January 15—South Carolina at Davidson.
Tuesday, January 19—Wofford at Davidson.
Saturday, February 6—Furman at Davidson.
Tuesday, February 9—Catawba at Davidson.
Thursday, February 11—Guilford at Guilford.
Friday, February 12—U. N. C. at Chapel Hill.
Saturday, February 13—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Tuesday, February 16—Clemson at Davidson.
Friday, February 19—Citadel at Charleston.
Tuesday, February 23—Citadel at Davidson.
Thursday, February 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Friday, February 26—Furman at Greenville.
Saturday, February 27—Clemson at Clemson.

FROSH BASKETBALL SCHEDULE (1942):
Saturday, December 5—Pfeiffer, there.
Saturday, December 12—Belmont Abbey at Davidson.
Thursday, December 17—Belmont Abbey, there.

Wildcat Sports
Thursday, December 3, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALL-FRAT TEAM

Beaver Club Plans To Give Annual Award

Will Give Medal Each Year To Outstanding Freshman Athlete

An annual award each spring to the outstanding freshman athlete will be inaugurated this year, it was announced by Frank Carter, president of the Beaver Club, after a meeting of that organization Monday night. The award, probably a medal, will go to the freshman who is adjudged most distinguished from his activities in intramural as well as regular frosh sports. Selection will be based on five main qualifications: Sportsmanship, School Spirit, Team Spirit, Participation, and Ability.

Chairman Coach Shepard, director of athletics, endorsed the idea and pledged full cooperation from the athletic association. Pat Williams has been named chairman of the '42-'43 award committee, and will be in charge of further plans. While the method of selection is undetermined as yet, nominations will probably come from coaches and from the freshman class. Final choice will be made by the Beaver Club, honorary undergraduate leadership organization, in all instances.

As an incentive to clean athletic participation, the current idea is undoubtedly one of the salient contributions to Davidson sports and the freshman classes. Judging by the hopes and interest of those involved in introducing the plan, this award should be one of lasting appeal and popularity.

Georgia Wins, Goes To Bowl

Boston College Upset; W & M Takes Southern Title

In a series of dazzling upsets, the grid world ended its last full weekend of games Saturday, and the Southern Conference wound up one of the hottest races in years. By virtue of their smashing 34-0 victory over a potent but overpowered Georgia Tech eleven, the University of Georgia gained, for the first time in history, a claim to the mythical national championship and a bid to the Rose Bowl game in Pasadena on New Year's Day. Holy Cross knocked off the highly-touted B.C. Eagles 55-12 and underdog Navy upset Army 14-0 in other major topplings. With a record of six wins and no setbacks, a star-studded William and Mary team holds the top rung in this season’s Southern Conference standings. Although...They failed to meet other top-flight conference clubs such as Duke, Wake Forest, and North Carolina. The Indians proved their superiority over V.M.I., Virginia Tech, and others.

Other Games
Duke dropped a 13-0 decision to Jacksonville Navy, even though they outgained the Flyers by a 2-1 majority. Clemson bowed to Auburn 41-13, and Wake Forest rolled over South Carolina, 33-14, in a Turkey Day tilt. In New York, the N.C. Naval Pre-Flight squad was losing to inspired Fordham, 6-0.

Not only were the Indians on top in the league standings, but three of their backs, Korezowski, Johnson, and Longacre, rated among the five high scorers of the league. Korezowski led with 56 points, Johnson was second with 55, and Longacre fifth with 48, behind Tom Davis of Duke and Citadel's Andy Victor.

In outshining Clint Castleberry and receiving the plaudits of Eastern sports writers and the Heisman trophy for the year, Frankie Sinkwich established himself as the South's number one player in years and an All-American certainty. Other outstanding contributions from the Southeastern and Southern include Auburn’s Monk Gafford, Tech’s Hardy and Castleberry, Georgia's Poschner and Trippi, William and Mary’s Johnson, V.M.I.’s Muha, and Duke’s Bob Gantt.

UNSUNG HEROES
Junior managers Jim Davis, Frank Carter, and Equipment manager Burwell Armstrong (above) are the unsung heroes of the Wildcat football team. From this trio, members of the team will elect the manager of next year’s squad. The runners-up will be Freshman manager and Wellford Hobbie was varsity manager this year.

ALL FRAT TEAM
1st Team Position 2nd Team
Lowry, K. A. A. End Currie, K. Sig
Hobbie, Phi Delts End Belk, K. A.
Raney, Betas Guard Gwyn, S. A. E.
Whitehurst, K. A. Guard McCoy, K. Sig.
Young, S. A. E. Center Mebane, Betas
Walker, Betas Back Manget, K. A.
Wills, S. A. E. Back Crowell, Phi Gam.
Murray, Pi Kapps Back Schmidt, Betas
Ellis, K. Sig. Back Yarborough, K. Sig.

MOST VALUABLE PLAYER: Burkhead Walker
HONORABLE MENTION:
ENDS: Hodgin, S.A.E.; Ranson, Betas; Nickels, Independents; McBride, S.P.E.; Dabney, Phi Gams.
GUARDS: Richeson, K.A.; Morrow, Phi Gams; Hall, Phi Gams.
CENTERS: Bumbarger, Pi Kapps; Alexander, Independents; Phillips, K. Sig.
BACKS: French, Phi Gams; Mitchner, Independents.

S. A. E’s Defeat K. A.’s 12-0 For Football Championship
Team Won Lost Tie
In the last week of interfraternity football, the S.A.E.’s clinched the pennant for the second straight year by scoring a 12-0 win over the K.A.’s. It was the 19th successive victory for the Purple and Gold. In the other games of the week, the Independents defeated the S.P.E.'s, 6-0, and the Phi Delts lost to the Betas by a score of 12-6. With all of the games played off with the exception of a tie, this year’s interfraternity football season came to a successful end. The tie, which was the result of a mid-season game between the K.A.’s and the Phi Gams, will be played off in the near future. The result of this game will determine the final standing of the two fraternities but will not alter the position of the other teams. The following statistics are final with the above exception.

S. A. E. K. S. Betas K. A. Phi Gams Pi Kapps Independents Phi Delts Pikas

A definite date has not been set for the beginning of the interfraternity basketball tournament, but Coach Whittle plans to play off all interclass basketball before getting the fraternity season under way. The Freshmen have had some practice and are looking good. They hope to follow the team, which went through the season undefeated last year. On the squad now are G. Turnbull, J. Burke, R. Richardson, E. Manget, T. Hemby, W. Hill, S. Waddill, J. Pat Montgomery, B. Robertson, Spangler, R. Wilcox.

BY-LINES from Page 2
Of the worthy brothers Beta Oops and the Rho D's, we noticed idols on both Hiram and Johnny were Rho Pabst and Charlie Beta Oop's lineup. Also on the field was the presence of but one of the referees. Timan basket twenty men, or their first with Pfeiffer game, and this year. In prospect, we prospect of last year’s between the positions in we couldn't help.

Page Three
Davidson Five Opens Season Friday Night
Meet Kannapolis “Y” In First Test, Three Sophs In Starting Lineup
Opening their ‘42-'43 season against the Kannapolis Y.M.C.A team here tomorrow night, the most promising Wildcat court aggregation in years swings into action, hot after a conference tournament bid and with well-founded hope of championship honors. For the first time in modern history, a Davidson athletic squad is replete with reserve strength and a real battle is being fought for starting positions. Co-captains Jack Wayman and John Belk, Jim Lowry, and Tommy and George Peters were given the nod in practices to date and seem likely to man the first team against the Cannon Basketeers.

Lowry Stars
With the recent end of the football season, the Peters twins, Johnny Frederick, and Pat Williams swelled the ranks of the Wildcats and have flashed veteran form in scrimmages. Perhaps the most improved player on the varsity is sophomore center, Jim Lowry. Jungle Jim has risen from second string on last year’s phenomenal frosh five to first line center on this year’s varsity. Hardest blow to Davidson's hopes so far has been the loss of Mac Bruce. “Puffy” injured his knee in an early practice and will probably be out until after the holidays. However, Junior Bob Currie has shown promise of developing into one of the foremost performers and has a season of varsity experience behind him. Closely pressing the first-stringers, whose jobs are by no means clinched, are Frederick, Williams, Currie, Top Shaw, Bill Sutton, and Jackie Byrd. Friday night's contest starts in the gym at 8:15.

Matmen Work For Tourney
Scheduled Matches Pending Interest Shown In Sport
Interest shown in the intramural wrestling tournament will determine the future of the varsity wrestling team. Equipment was issued last week to all who were planning to try out for the team; many took advantage of the opportunity to get a head start on practice. From December 7 to December 18, the tourney will be conducted for all four classes; it is expected that freshmen will be eligible for the varsity squad. There will be competition in about seven classes from 118 pounds to unlimited. The winners in each of these groups will probably start in that position on the team. All those interested at all in wrestling are urged to sign up for the tournament. Five matches have been scheduled for the grapplers, the first of which will be held in January. The team’s future looks good; however, there must be enough candidates out to warrant a team. It is hoped that wrestling will not die out at Davidson just because of lack of interest.

ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA, and DECCA RECORDS
Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER