Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, October 8, 1942

More Current Books On Library Shelves

Books of Current Interest Are Additions To Library

In keeping with a roster of current interest, Shearer Hall shelves, in addition to their monthly selections, the library is
constantly entertaining students with a collection of classical records played daily for student listening.

Problem of Peace

Among the new books recently placed on the shelves of the library is Herbert Hoover's and Hugh Gibson's "The Problems
of Lasting Peace," in which they present the problem of achieving and maintaining lasting peace in a new way, considering
the entire situation from a historical analysis and concrete experience.

Hours For Listening

Students may listen to the records from the student body collection. The listening hours are on Monday from 4:00 to
5:00 p.m., Wednesday from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m., and Friday from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. Many symphonies and other classical
pieces are included in the collection.

Other Popular Selections

Other popular selections are Ben Robertson's "Red Hills and Cotton" and Virginius Dabney’s "Below the Potomac," both offering keen observations
of the Carolinas by native authors. Written by the famous author Rachel Field, "And Now Tomorrow" is another recent addition.
Many think it will rank with her more famous novels. It tells the story of Emily Blair and her struggle
to overcome deafness that befell her just prior to her marriage, and how she came to be one of the
most respected people in her group through her sincerity.

Biographies and Historical Works

A biography of General Douglas MacArthur, "Past Imperfect" by Trevelyan Miller, is also a new addition to the library. The
American Artist and His Times by Homer Saint-Gaudens, director of the department of fine arts at Carnegie Institute, is another
book of quality and taste. The book provides an analysis of American art and its place in the world today.

Sound Off: A Recipe For Life

Music lovers will enjoy the recently collected group of soldier songs from the Revolution to World War II, "Sound Off."
Each song is accompanied by short and amusing sketches of the origins and histories of the various tunes.

Vespers

Former Student Returns To Davidson As Principal Speaker at Vespers

Reverend George Mauze, pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem, was the principal speaker at the Sunday night Vesper services
on October 4th. Reverend Mauze's subject concerned various interpretations people, past and present, had given to life; how shallow and
futile most of them seemed and how many had failed to come even near the true purpose.

Conyers Sings

Preceding the evening prayer, given by Dr. Pritchett, Priestly-Conyers sang Liddle's "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings." The Glee Club led
the congregation in the hymns "God of Our Fathers" and "Rise Up, O Men of God." The service was under
the direction of Mr. Osborne, who was the organist for the program and played Bach's "Adagio and Fugue on the
Kyrie" for the prelude and postlude.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

M. H. GOODRUM and Company
The Dependable Store for Your Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

OVER THE OBSTACLES

Jack Bagley is over the back! The physical education coaching staff returned to school right after the game with Jo-Jo
Shewmake.

Letters From The Kappa Alpha

The K. A. Pledge brethren began their pledge manual with a pending examination on the background of Kappa Alpha. The
pledge meeting, formerly held on Monday night, has been moved to Friday night. This is expected to definitely cramp the
style of some few Romeo brothers, but they will probably pull through.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

This past weekend most of the brothers and pledges attended Davidson’s gridiron conflict with Rollins College. Brother Tommy Powell journeyed
to New York with his father to enjoy the World's Fair and other festivities surrounding this event. Henry K. Wilson
spent the weekend on the campus with the brothers. He is to report to Mississippi soon. Brother Stuart Rogers, a
member of last year’s senior class, also was on the campus with the brothers. He is to report to the
Coast Guard next month. The fraternity entertained at a picnic Sunday night at which time the pledges were introduced to
the faculty brothers, and Mrs. Allen, Shaw Smith, and Bob Wood were also present.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The Sig Ep house was a lonely place last Saturday night, as every single brother and pledge brother took advantage
of either the nearby football game or some other form of recreation.A touch of tragedy tainted the festivities of Jimmy
Fulcher and gang, which included brothers Herb Morton, Shaw, Sellars, Robinson, and Dalton, and Pledge Brother Gregg. The game in
Charlotte drew the entire chapter to the Friendly City. However, just a few miles out of Charlotte, Fulcher's old faithful
had a blowout! Naturally, he had to spare, so the remainder of the trip home was made on three tires.

Five of the brothers played and returned to Davidson after the contest. Charlotte's attraction for Dalton and Winchester was so
great that Brother Hodges got two hours of sleep after the R-D game and whipped off to Salem College. Brothers
Maxwell and Anderson returned for the greater part of Sunday. Brother Gwynn found visiting Sig Eps in Greensboro Sunday night.
The Sig Eps held a feed at which Professors Gwynn, Fulcher, Reid, Morrison, Kimbrough, and Goldiere were entertained. Also present
was Alumni Brother Avery Patton.

Phi Gamma Delta weekend saw Pledge Brothers Oliver, Morrow, and Disque all traveling to distant places. Slyme Lyman, Preston Oliver,
and Bill Disque got together on a bumming trip to Lynchburg, Staunton, and Charlottesville, Va.; Howell Morrow journeyed to High
Point. All the other brothers attended the game in Charlotte. On Sunday night, the Phi Gams threw a feed at
the house after vespers. Dr. Mauze (’23), speaker at vespers, and John Foster (’28), both of Winston-Salem, attended, as well
as their wives.

Pi Kappa Phi practically had every brother and pledge in for the weekend for the Rollins game! However, there were
some side deals, which included: Wilkinson and Ragsdale went to the Clemson dance at the Fireman's Hall. Brothers Walton and
Fowler went to Hickory, and Pledge Hickory went home. Pledge Jimmie Owen went to Lincolnton after “drum majoring” at the
game. Brothers Fisher and Pledges Robertson, Robbins, and Fesperman went to Kannapolis as usual. Pledges Hunter and Reid went home
in Charlotte, and Brother Wayman stayed until Sunday, operating at the telephone company. The biggest deal of the weekend was
pulled by Brother Gaither, who took in Asheville, Hendersonville, and Spartanburg after the game.

Beta Theta Pi brothers deserted the campus Saturday for the game in Charlotte, with quite a few taking in the
State-Clemson game in the afternoon. Most of the brothers were guests in the homes of the Charlotte brothers over the
weekend. Brothers Schmidt, Stubbins, and Upchurch spent the weekend in Charlotte. Brother Garrison managed to work in the weekly trip
to Rock Hill somehow. Brothers Howland and Neisler went to Neisler's home in King’s Mountain, Friday and Saturday, returning for
the game in Charlotte Saturday evening. Brother Smith went to his home in Gastonia after the game.

Phi Delta Theta remained on the campus for the weekend, en masse to the game Saturday night. Among those at
this little get-together were Brothers John McKinnon and Gus McLean, both class of ‘42. Brother McLean is in Medical school
at Richmond, Virginia, and Brother McKinnon is stationed at Camp Shelby, Mississippi. Brother Clyde Raynor of the class of ‘41
had Sunday dinner with the chapter. Brother Raynor is now stationed at Brunswick, Ga., as an ensign in the Coast
Guard. Brother Litthe is up and around again after being bed-ridden with a broken arm sustained in intramural football. The
chapter was pleased to have as its guest for the weekend, Dudley Pennington of Atlanta, who was visiting Brother Bill
Emerson.

EUMENEAN MEETING
The Eumenean Literary Society will meet on Tuesday, October 13 at 7:15, according to an announcement by Fred Morton, president
of the society. At that time, plans for the future will be disclosed, papers will be read by the members,
and possible bids to new members will be discussed.

Fulcher to Preside At P.S.A. Conference
Davidson Sends Six Delegates To Meeting At Peace Junior College
The fifth annual conference of the Presbyterian Student Association of North Carolina is to be held October 23 through the
25th. This conference, which was held at Davidson College last February, will be held in Raleigh with most of the
meetings and activities being held at Peace Junior College. Jimmy Fulcher of Davidson, president of the P.S.A., will preside over
the conference.

Delegates
Sixteen colleges and universities of North Carolina will participate by sending delegates. Davidson College will send six delegates. Several Davidson
men will appear on the three-day program. Besides Jimmy Fulcher, presiding, there will be Jerry Newbold as master of ceremonies
at the banquet, Shaw Smith leading a discussion group, and Priestly Conyers as student chairman of a discussion group. Dr.
P. H. Gwynn of the Davidson faculty will be co-leader in a discussion on boy-girl relationships.

Registration will begin on Friday afternoon, October 23, and the first session will be held after supper with the welcome
and worship service. After this, Dr. Clifford E. Barbour will address the delegates and hold an open forum.

Speaker
Dr. Barbour was the Spring speaker here at Davidson two years ago. He studied at the University of Pittsburgh, Western
Seminary, and the University of Edinburgh. Dr. Barbour is the main speaker of the conference. Saturday morning meetings include an
address by Dr. Barbour and discussion groups, one of which will be led by Shaw Smith. After lunch and a
business meeting, Dr. Gwynn and Dr. Brinkley of Wake Forest will lead a discussion on boy-girl relations. A discussion on
campus problems will then be held by Dr. J. H. Grey.

Banquet
The banquet, with Jerry Newbold as master of ceremonies, will take up most of the evening. Miss Katherine Smith, of
the World Student Volunteer Movement and a speaker here last year, will lead the fellowship period. After breakfast on Sunday
morning, Rev. Joseph Garrison, chairman of the Student Committee of Religious Education of the General Assembly, and Dr. John Grey
will lead discussion groups. Dr. Barbour will preach the sermon at the church service. A communion service will be held
at the close of the conference, early Sunday afternoon.

---

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER

---

If you are going in the ARMY or NAVY some time in the future as an officer REMEMBER J. O.
Jones, Inc. has one of the largest Uniform Departments in the Southeast

J. O. JONES, INC.
CHARLOTTE
