Wednesday, April 1, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Foreman Preaches On God’s Finding Men
Vespers Speaker Cites Examples Of Three Men And Three Places

“God Unawares” was the subject of the sermon delivered by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman of the college faculty at vespers
Sunday evening, March 29. His text was from Genesis 28:16; “Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew
it not.”

Finding God

In the beginning, Dr. Foreman said that, although men speak of finding God, no man has ever found God without
God's first finding him. He explained that God can be found and that he often is found in the most
unexpected times and places. In illustration of this, Dr. Foreman gave three examples from the Scriptures.

Abraham, a righteous man, told a dishonorable lie about his wife at Gerar in order to save himself, thinking that
there was no religion there. However, he was ashamed to find there a man who had a higher sense of
God than he had.

Christian Soldiers

Davidson men will experience “Gerars,” according to Dr. Foreman. He used the army as an example, explaining that it is
no “saintly” organization and that there are many opportunities therein for dropping religion completely. A man must not yield to
this temptation. Some of the finest Christians who have lived have been men in uniform.

The second example was Jacob’s experience at Bethel, where he saw the vision of the angels and the ladder to
heaven and uttered the words given in the text. Jacob thought he had left his God and religion behind. “Bethel”
stands for the time when an individual must find God alone, separated from family, friends, and other personal ties.

Elijah

In his last illustration, Dr. Foreman told how Elijah, after his day of triumph over the Baal prophets, was threatened
by Jezebel and fled to Mt. Horeb for comfort from God. He looked for God and power in the wind,
earthquake, and fire, but failed to find Him. Finally, when he was discouraged and ready to die, God came to
him from within in a quiet voice. Dr. Foreman cited death as a perfectly natural event which all must experience
and compared it to a gate in a garden wall, where the ground looks desolate and bare beyond.

Two Questions

In closing, Dr. Foreman asked two questions: Would those men in the Bible have recognized God when they met Him
if they had not already known Him? It is not likely that they would have. The second question was: Will
we recognize God? One is not likely to recognize Him unless he practices His presence every day.

EU SOCIETY

Ensign Towill Missing With USS Asheville
Former Davidson Student Believed Lost On U. S. War Ship

Richard Towill, 39, was on board the USS Asheville when that ship was last heard from. This gunboat is long-overdue
and has been considered lost by the navy, so Towill’s parents have been notified.

From Batesburg, South Carolina, Richard Towill attended Davidson College for three years. He entered in the fall of 1935 and
stayed here until he finished his junior year. He transferred to the University of South Carolina for his senior year,
where he took a course resulting in his obtaining a commission in the Naval Reserve in 1941. While at Davidson,
he was a member of Pi Kappa Phi Social Fraternity and was elected to the position of Senior Football Manager.

He is survived by several close relatives. His mother is a member of the administrative department of Winthrop College in
Rock Hill, South Carolina. He has two sisters, both married, and one brother, John Towill, who is a prominent lawyer
in South Carolina.

The USS Asheville was an old ship dating back to World War I. It was last heard from during the
Battle of the Java Sea. Since it has not reported to any allied port for some time, the Navy Department
has assumed that it is lost and has notified the parents of the men aboard that they must be considered
lost.

DICK TOWILL

The EU Literary Society had its regular meeting Tuesday night, March 24, with Ed Taylor presiding. For the program, short
stories were read by Pat Rudolph and Finley Tucker. Sam Henderson and Al King read two articles, and Tom Powell
read one of his essays. Grayson Tucker and Beall Rodgers were initiated into the society at the meeting.

PI KAPPA ALPHA SPONSORS

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity sponsored a club on Saturday, March 28, in Charlotte with Bob Elder; Wallace with Dave
Henderson.

Two New Biographies Describe The Loves Of The Leaders Of Europe

Of the many books recently added to the library, seven are of particular interest to Davidson students.

European Scenes

Two of these books deal with current affairs: “These Men Rule France” by Andre and Simone, and “Men of Europe”
by Stanton Leeds. The former book gives the public a better knowledge of the obscure French government, its politicians, financiers,
publicists, and fighters. “Men of Europe” gives the reader the behind-the-scenes details of the leading figures in Europe that its
author has personally witnessed. These details give some explanation of what is going on in the world today.

Columbus

Another biography is “Admiral of the Ocean Sea” by Samuel Eliot Morison. This book gives a detailed account of the
life of Christopher Columbus.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The story of the voyages of Columbus. "The Ocean," by Christopher Columbus, day-by-day, and all of the time sailing conditions
in that broadening novel. A book that is a novel and at the same time broadens the reader's mind toward
conditions in our sister continent is "Broad and Alien is the World" by John Dos Passos. The story is of
a small Peruvian village that a rich ranch owner tries to take away from the people. The village retaliates but
in their own honest way, which gets them nowhere. The main object of "A Subtreasury of American Humor" is to
collect into one big volume the funniest things that have been written in this country. "Head Hunter" by Lewis Cummings
tells of experiences with a tribe of headhunters in South America. To learn how to hunt heads, preserve them, and
all the humor not intentionally written, one should read "I Was a Head Hunter."

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation
Phone 5490

ERNEST ELLISON, "Just Insurance"
R. E. Ellison L. R. T
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BILL SHAW
"T" Shirts and Tennis Shorts. Athletic Socks. Latest and Best Golf Equipment. Parker Pens and Pencils. Fresh Fruit.
THE STUDENT STORE
DAVIS THOMAS

Managers of Chris- College Library Gets

CAFETERIA
CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Pictured are the sponsors for the Pi Kappa Alpha banquet held at the Charlotte Hotel. They are, reading from left
to right, top row: Miss Martha Bowan of Montgomery with Dave Vosburg; Miss Mary Knowles of Charlotte with Carlton Parsons;
Miss Julia Guion of New Bern with Dave Spencer; and Miss Aileen Seville of Statesville with Ed Scott.

Dr. P. Gwynn Talks To The Sunday Class
Subject Of Gwynn’s Lesson Is “The Darkness Before The Dawn”

Dr. P. Gwynn spoke to the Sunday School class last Sunday. He pointed out that during the trying times of
Christ's crucifixion, the disciples were feeling gloom as their leader had been crucified. Evil was apparently triumphant. He correlated his
talk with everyday life, emphasizing that just as the darkness of the days after the crucifixion of Christ was followed
by light, so too will our dark times be followed by better days.

Claude Nelson Speaks To Student Assembly
Y. M. C. A. Director Of Service Fund Speaks In Chapel On World Events

Mr. Claude Nelson, Y. M. C. A. Director of the World Student Service Fund, spoke in chapel on March 5.
Mr. Nelson spoke to the students about the present world situation and its effect on students. He mentioned several instances
where students in war areas are continuing their studies under great difficulties. Some of these students are now in refugee
camps in Southern France and the concentration camps of Germany. Mr. Nelson, a Rhodes Scholar from 1934 to 1938, has
also been a Y. M. C. A. Secretary in Italy and Germany. He is well known for his leadership in
conferences on Christian education.

DO YOU DIG IT?
*ENGLISH TRANSLATION
This hammerhead is arranging a blind date, and he’s merely telling another meatball that his “date” won't be any problem
because she says Pepsi-Cola is the rage at her school. Send us some of your hot slang. If we use
it, you'll be ten bucks richer. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y.

Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT, BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
