Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 29, 1942

Noted Pianist Plays At Davidson

accepted by the graduate school which they will attend. These students will also be able to apply for Enlisted Reserve
positions.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone: 5490

SATURDAY LATE SHOW
“THE WILDCAT”

Monday and Tuesday, November 3rd and 4th
CLARK GABLE — LANA TURNER
“SOMEWHERE I’LL FIND YOU”

Wednesday, November 5th
ANDREW SISTERS
“GIVE OUT SISTERS”

Thursday Friday, October 29th and 30th, Saturday, November 1
GREER GARSON — WALTER PIDGEON
“MRS. MINIVER”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Hugh Hodgson To Appear In Eighth Program of Musicale Series

Hugh Hodgson, nationally known pianist from the University of Georgia, will be presented to the audience on the eighth program
of the Sunday afternoon Musicale Series this Sunday, November 1.

Mr. Hodgson was born in Athens, Georgia, into a musical family. He was the fifth of six children, all of
whom were trained musically. At the early age of four, he began the study of piano and at fourteen, he
began a four years’ course in Berlin. He returned to this country and entered the University of Georgia where he
was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, baseball manager, and of the Southern Championship tennis team. After doing graduate work
at Columbia University, he attended the Guilmant Organ School in New York City.

Atlanta Symphony

His debut as a concert pianist was made in New York in 1915, and he soon joined the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra to become its soloist for each year. Since then, he has been in great demand all over the country
for major activities. After being director of the Music Department of the Lucy Cobb Institute for four years, Mr. Hodgson
founded the Music Department of the University of Georgia and has been its director ever since. He also took over
the duties as head of the Fine Arts Department of the University of Georgia and has held that job to
date. Since he has been at this institution, he has inaugurated many musical activities around the university and has received
many and varied honors for his work in music.

In addition to his regular duties at the university, he has been guest professor at Emory University, presented two operas
at the University of Georgia Summer session, has directed the Atlanta Conservatory and is organist and choir director of St.
Luke's Church in Atlanta.

Hodgson’s program will include:

Sarabande — Bach
Allemande — Bach
Gavotte and Musette — Bach
Chorales:
“Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring” — Bach-Bauer
“Come Sweet Death” — Bach-Bridge
Ballet of the Blessed Spirits — Gluck-Hodgson
Sonata in B Flat — Schytte

Fred Waring music will be the feature of the Y.M.C.A. social program this coming weekend. Recordings of Fred Waring will
be played at the guest house after the vesper service on Sunday evening, Nov. 1. This was originally scheduled for
Nov. 8, but it has been moved up one week.

Hymn Sing

Last weekend, there was no hymn sing at the Y.M.C.A. after the evening service. The program of folk music scheduled
for last Saturday night was also canceled. Those who came to the meeting may have felt inadequate.

Pictured above is the Enlisted Reserve Corps board which arrived at Davidson last Wednesday to explain the corps systems. From
left to right: Colonel McAndrew, head of Davidson’s R.O.T.C Department; Lt. Colonel Lippett of the Army; Lieut. Williamson of the
Navy; Lieut. Tway of the Army Air Corps; Ensign Russell of the Navy Air Corps; Lieut. Kelly of the Marines;
and Mr. Hengeveld, the Registrar.

S. P. E. Pass

Over half the Sig Eps took off for Greensboro and nearby localities this last weekend. Listed as missing in action
were Brothers Dalton, Winchester, Miller, Fulcher, Sellars, Blevins, and Pledge Brothers Marant, Yarborough, and Pledge Brother Wilkinson. Brother Henderson went
to High Point, while Brother Brockmann went to Newton and Hickory. Prexy Moron Sandifer hit the road and visited his
parents at Lowrys, South Carolina. Pledge Brothers Speas and Whitehurst carried on operations in Winston-Salem over the weekend. They report
a very successful excursion.

The usual crowd of Sophomores headed for Charlotte: Brothers Henderson, Millis, Fowler, Peters, Wilson, and Pledge Brother Dick Smith (who
spread his cheer to the patients at Presbyterian Hospital).

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Highlight of this week for the Pikas was the unpretentious homecoming of Ned (the Mole) Pollock. He came sporting 2nd
Lieut.'s bars. There was a feed at the house Sunday night at which Jim French's parents were the guests. The
charming couple was accompanied back to Asheville by dealers Brinson and Neill.

Brother McArthur and Pledges Smith, Robbins, Hill, Hunter, and Taylor spent the weekend in Charlotte. Brother Everett reached Queens by
himself, while Brothers Wooten visited Spartanburg to see Sam Tate. Brother Farrar and Pledges Siske and Pracht braved the elements
and went on a deer chase. “We had wonderful luck,” said McGhee, on their return, “the party bagged two whole
deer. Of course, there were not but 75 men along, but that's a mere detail.”

PHI DELTA THETA

A comparatively quiet weekend was spent here on the campus, and then Winston-Salem and High Point. Brother Holland and Pledges
Blackburn, Bahnson, and Faw all visited their respective homes.

BETA THETA PI

Brothers Caterson and Raney pulled out for W. C. last Friday and spent the weekend with their current heart-throbs. Others
on the W. C. list included Brother Clarence S. Oliver who traveled to his home in Fayetteville. Brother McKeithan and
McKeithan (Murd and Leighton, of course) went home to Cameron, N.C., over the holiday, accompanied, so rumor has it, by
at least four of the fairer sex from Queen's. Brother Blank Watt was operated on for appendicitis in Charlotte and
is expected back at school sometime this week. Returning to school, Brothers Williams and Booth, accompanied by Coach Laurence Spearman,
visited Sweetbriar and scouted M. I.Murray and Armstrong took off to a weekend hunting expedition. The campers last weekend were
Brothers Allegro, who visited his home in Shelby, and Greensboro chapter is glad to report that all Stubbins, Pritchett, and
Pledge traveled to Rac. Among the brothers reaching Hill for the same purpose were Bradt, Sear, and others. McIntosh and
Watson traveled to Waynesville, despite the presence of Bring-’em-back-alive Brother Witherington. Pledge Newell returned safely.

Brothers Knowles spent Friday, Saturday, and Sunday at home in Mt. Olive while Brother Burkey Walker went to his home
in Mt. Gilead. Brothers Pritchett and Garrison spent the weekend in Burlington and Brother White right across the line in
Graham. Last Sunday, October 25, Mr. Austin Lovelace of the faculty of Queens College, Charlotte, gave an organ recital on
the Sunday Afternoon Musicale Series.

Brothers Bill McLean and O. E. Starnes dated town girls in Charlotte Saturday night. Pledge Brothers Bernhardt traveled to his
home in Lenoir to visit the old high school. After a long weekend, most of the pledges sallied forth to
try their luck at blind dates. Brothers Lucas, Whaling, Hill, Dunn A, Dunn B, Taylor, and McAllister trekked to Greensboro
this weekend.

Brothers Wilcox, Erwin, Stewart, and Brown journeyed to Concord. Brothers Moore, Hunt, Bruce, and Jethea took advantage of the fact
that there was no game this weekend. Pledges Tompkins, Smith, and Ramseur visited South Carolina. Brothers Lee and Wills could
have been seen dealing them down at the house.

Deputation work by the Y.M.C.A. will get formally underway tomorrow night with a panel discussion on “Christian Youths’ Peace.” This
first of a series to be sponsored by this department is headed by Hank Crane. Selected students and professors will
conduct this forum, a new idea, and the purpose of which is to raise the quality of deputation work this
year.

After the discussion has been completed, the group will be divided into teams. These teams will present the topic to
all organizations requesting deputations from Davidson. These teams will go to Duke, Greensboro College, UNC, and Queens. Other engagements have
been arranged, including Young Peoples’ groups.

The student list follows, for the seniors: Conyers, Wooten, McCrary, McArthur, McCrea, McIntosh, Morton, and Johnman. The juniors attending are
Brockman and Port. Miller and Brinegar are the sophomores that will be present. Selections for the inexperienced students will be
given later in the year. Several forums will be held on topics of interest during Mission Week.

Tentative plans have been made to hold material for panel discussions in the library. Hank Crane hopes that these meetings
will arouse interest in the topics under discussion and improve the quality of the deputation work done this year.

ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA, and DECCA RECORDS. Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES. ANDREW’S MUSIC CO. 231 N.
Tryon St. Charlotte.

Argyle Sweaters, Loafer Jackets, Corduroy Fingertips, Sport Coats, Covert Trousers, Gabardine Shirts. Here’s smart style! Put sparkle and life into
your appearance with one of our new suits. Spending is saving now with priorities around. 118 SOUTH TRYON STREET.
