MAKE THE GIFT FUND A SUCCESS

‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS’

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 10, 1942 No. 12

Davidson YMCA Will Sponsor First Christmas Party Including A Quiz Program, Square Dance, and Sing

Students From Queens To Be Special Guests At Week-End Party

A quiz program, square dance, carol singing, and a large number of the Queens College student body are only a
few of the elaborate and attractive plans being scheduled for the “Y” Christmas party to be held in the basement
of Chambers Building at 8:00 p.m. on December 12th. The entire student body of Queens College has been invited to
participate in the festivities and has recently accepted the invitation. It is hoped that Davidson students will arrange early for
dates by phone, mail, etc. Dates can also be arranged by applying at the Y.M.C.A.

Square Dance

The party, which is being given jointly by the Davidson Social Committee and the Pan-Hellenic Council, will include a square
dance in the gymnasium at 9:30 o'clock. Music for the occasion will be furnished by a jug band.

Carol Sing

Jessie Wooten, general chairman of the party, further stated that carol singing, under the direction of Mr. Pfohl, would be
another feature of the function. Along the entertainment line, Lee Potter has arranged a novel and interesting program, which, among
other things, includes a program with Lyman Juke as Master of Ceremonies, and Professor “Slyme” Alexander to read a poem
entitled “The Cremation of Sam McGee.” A large Christmas tree, placed in the center of the room and appropriate decorations
around the side of the room, will make up the setting. The decorations are under the management of Dave Yokum.
The refreshments, always an important part of any function, will be under the able direction of Mrs. Wilson.

Frat Hears Prof.

Erwin, Spencer, Jeffries Read Papers To Sigma Upsilon

Prof. E. J. Erwin, Sr., read the first of three papers presented at Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, at its
last meeting, Tuesday night, Dec. 1st, at the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

Erwin’s Story

Prof. Erwin’s paper was a short story entitled, “Deputy Sheriff,” and concerned a young Southern aristocrat who was saved from
the clutches of an escaped convict by a faithful old negro servant. The old servant was killed during the process,
but died happily in the knowledge that his former mistress and favorite “massah” were to get married.

Continued Story

The second paper of the evening was read by McChesney Jeffries, and was the third installment of “Fugue in E-Minor,”
the Blue-Pencil’s continuous literary form for this semester. Jeffries treated the basic plot from the point of view of Janet
Collins, who met a fate worse than death one night and eloped with a degenerate piano player the next.

They Also Serve

The concluding paper of the evening was an essay by Lt. Sam Spencer, entitled “They Also Serve.” In this essay,
Lt. Spencer recounted some of the experiences, humorous and otherwise, that he had had while serving with negro troops at
Ft. Jenning.

Critics

Critics for the meeting were Dr. Wm. P. Cumming, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Howell Morrow, and Charles Brockmann. After the program,
a feed was served by Steward Dick Port, followed by an informal discussion among the members.

HEADS “Y” PARTY

JESSE WOOTEN

Brinegar Fills Vacant Place On Court

Court of Control Extends Campus Sentence of Many Freshmen

Haywood Brinegar has been announced as the man to fill the vacancy made by Gene Bingham on the Court of
Control. The vacancy was made when Bingham recently joined the Air Corps. The position which both Bingham and Brinegar had
on the Court was that of being the football team center on the second string. When Gene left for the
Air Corps, Haywood took his place and thus filled the vacancy on the Court. This addition to the Court brings
the number of members back up to the regular number of eight. Brinegar has recently been elected to the Beaver
Club, and last week was also selected as a member of the Davidson debating team. He is a member of
the sophomore class and hails from Winston-Salem.

The Court announces that those freshmen who went on campus two weeks ago will be off campus next Friday with
the following exceptions, which comprise the majority of the freshman class. The freshmen members of the S.P.E., Phi Delt, Kappa
Sigs, K.A., S.A.E., Phi Gam, and Beta fraternities will be on campus for an additional week. Also, there are some
twenty freshmen who are not fraternity members who have been added to this list. The reason for this additional sentence
is that these freshmen were allowed to go to their functions which were all held in Charlotte, and of course,
this took a large number of freshmen who were all on a two-week campus restriction off the restricted area. The
few other freshmen who are not included in the above classifications will be allowed to go off campus.

DEBATE TEAM

The Brinegar-Tucker team placed fourth in the debating tournament held last week in Charlotte, with the Crane-Pickard team running near
the top, but not officially placed. The subject for debate this year is “Resolved, that the United Nations Should Establish
a Permanent Federal Union with Power to Tax and Regulate International Commerce, Maintain a Police Force, Settle Disputes Among Nations,
and Enforce such Settlements, and Provide for Admission of Other Nations Which Accept the Principles of the Union.”

Lyman Plays Holiday Issue Of Magazine

Special Cover Is Designed; Gregg’s Christmas Theme Dominates

The Holiday Issue of the Scripts ’N Pranks, Davidson’s humorous and literary magazine, will be mailed to students on Wednesday,
Dec. 16, Bill Lyman, editor-in-chief, announced.

Holiday Theme

This issue, which will have a holidays theme predominating, will feature a cover drawn by Tost Gregg. Cartoons and illustrations
scattered throughout were drawn by Don Holland, Leonard White, and Jim Elliott. The main short story will be “Cup of
Night,” written by Bob Hamilton, which concerns the helplessness of the Japanese in conquering the spirits of the natives in
occupied China. Henry Crane's “Four Years of Davidson and the War” will be the main essay, wherein the author, as
a senior, looks in retrospect over his almost four years at Davidson, which coincides within a few days with the
length of the current world war. A humorous essay “Rumors, Inc.,” by Howell Morrow, will also be included. “Rumors, Inc.”
exposes a notorious undercover ring at Davidson who deliberately try to throw the school into either a riot or a
panic.

A special feature of the Holiday Issue will be a parody on hair tonic advertisements. Those serving as models for
the feature were Joe Eve, Burkhead Walker, Bill Wood, Dave Harris, and Wallace Hood.

Blackout Queen

Another feature article, with accompanying photographs, will be one announcing the results of the student favorites poll taken in Chapel
several weeks ago. Students’ choices for blackout queen, best actress, best actor, favorite movie of the year, and favorite radio
program will be revealed.

The poems for the December issue will all be humorous. They include “To Eleanor,” by Theo Twaddle, and “Nicotine” by
Bill Styron, “Terrible Case of Hiccups,” by King Pierce, and John Fairly’s “Book of the Month,” the criticism this time
being on Look to the Mountain, by LeGrand Cannon. Doug Swink will have a special criticism on the cinema, which
will include the Scripts ’N Pranks nomination for the ten best movies of the year.

Lawson Takes New Position

Dr. Eric Lawson, Associate Professor of Economics and Business in the Davidson Faculty, is resigning his position to undertake duties
as Economist on the Adjustment Section in the Regional Office of Price Administration in Atlanta, Georgia, according to an announcement
made by the President of the College this week. Dr. Lawson will terminate his active connection with the College at
the beginning of the Christmas holidays, December 18. So far, no one has been selected to take his place.

Lawson Missed

Dr. Cunningham indicated that the College feels regret in the loss of Dr. Lawson from the Faculty where he has
served for the past two and a half years. The Administration has concurred with him in his plans in this
regard because of the relationship of this work to the defense effort of the nation. A drastic need for economists
has developed, threatening the whole Price Administration, unless men of training in this field can be had in the service
at this time.

PRESENTS CONCERT

ERNEST HUTCHESON

Stars Concert At Davidson on Thursday, Dec. 10

On Thursday, December 10, Ernest Hutcheson will present the final attraction of the Artist Series for the first semester.

Dean At Julliard

Mr. Hutcheson, an eminent pianist and composer, is Dean of the Julliard School of Music Graduate Department in New York.
He will offer the following selections:

Fantasy and Fugue in G Minor - Bach
Scherzo from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” - Mendelssohn
Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue - Bach
Sonata in F Minor “Appassionata” - Beethoven
By the Sea - Schumann
Sonata in B Minor - Liszt
Ballade in G Minor, Nocturne in D Flat Major, Valse in C Sharp Minor, Etude in E Major, Etude in
C Minor “Revolutionary” - all by Chopin

Fire Catches In Pika House

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house was the scene of a fire Saturday morning, December 5, which caused damage to
one couch in the house.Inflicted considerable damage on the interior of the lodge and to the furniture.

Cause Unknown
The cause of the fire is as yet unknown. It was discovered between 11:30 A.M. and 12:00 o'clock by several
of the brothers, who immediately called the Fire Department and began fighting the blaze. It completely burned a large hole
in the floor under the couch, two chairs and a rug partially burned. The timbers above the fireplace were charred
and several cups and books on a nearby shelf were ruined. Phonograph records were melted by the heat and smoke
damaged the whole front room.

Nias Offers Gift Problem For Reporter
Answer Is Sought To The Problem of Buying A Suitable Present

Christmas! That sweet time of year when boys “locked Devil and the deep blue sea” are stuck between choosing a
decent present for the woman that doesn’t shoot the bank account into the red too deep and thinking something up
to say about her little gift. Gad, what a foul state to get into, a hundred miles from home and
three days to pick out what she wants. But to be valiantly fighting through a crowd, you reach the last
department. None left! No wool sweaters, no pearls; no gloves worth $20.97 in the candy department. “Sorry, sir, shortage, you
know.” No use. What’s left? A nice nightgown and shoes, but maybe the girl is too—big. Let Sis get that,
shouldn’t she? After all, you can always count on Santa Claus anyway. Santa only runs around with a bag and
not tucked the Het about. But really, it’s sickening to step into Christmas thinking about her. Try to chrome hits
when you’re on the front door, trying to think of something to say about the gorgeous mustache she gave you.
There’s no mustache yet, of course, but there’s Mt and purple or the self. Mortimer Hut. Sure, sure. Aunt Minnie
Tic from Great Uncle is worse. A recent poll at the student body and faculty revealed the following tips:

Professor Lilly: “Just a moment, I’ll illustrate exactly what I have in mind,” he said, erasing the blackboard.
Jesse Wooten: “Just gimme a kiss, babe; just gimme a kiss. Gosh!”
Ben Lacy: “A pearl-studded fly swatter would be a practical gift.”
Ross Parks: “A box of matches would be timely and appropriate.”

Well, girls? As an anti-climax, directly concerned, the overwhelming majority come. Christian education. Nation and our section. Doubly strong. Begs
in one asking.

GIFT FUND POST SCRIPT
The extra which Henry McIntosh edited and issued Monday covered the gift fund quite thoroughly, efficiently, and interestingly, making anything
that we might add come. However, we would like to offer any support of which we are capable to see
such a significant and worthy project attain the success it deserves. As we witnessed money gathered in similar drives in
the past pass into projects, doubtless as deserving as this one, yet foreign to our interests, we have felt in
our hearts that we were giving to a cause with which we were not most Davidson graduates settle close by,
or at least within the limits of the Southland from which the overwhelming majority come. This should equip each of
us with a realization of the importance of the education of the negro, particularly his Christian education. Any help that
we give the negro in these or any other times is a telling blow at a fundamental problem of our
nation and our section. Yet if we were to give only because we were especially interested in the problem at
hand, we would defeat the purpose of this Christmas Gift Fund. Never has the emphasis been on the receiver so
much as on us, the givers, and rightly so. As we approach this Christmas with its many connotations, the emphasis
is. Let us keep in mind that the student body through its Y.M.C.A. does not assess itself but once a
year, and then only for an especially good end. As one editor of an Atlantic Newspaper once aptly put it,
“they put all their

WELFORD HOBBIE
Above is pictured Wellford Hobbie, who has been appointed head of the collectors for the Y.M.C.A. men on each hall
of the dormitories and a representative from each social fraternity. Alf Taylor is the head of the Gift Fund Committee
of the “Y” Cabinet.

College Holds Yule Program Sunday
Davidson Music Department And Y.M.C.A. Direct Annual Service

Davidson College Music Department and the college Y.M.C.A. will present its annual Christmas Vesper Service in Chambers Auditorium Sunday night,
December 13. The service will be under the direction of the Davidson Music Department and the college Y.M.C.A. All the
musical talent available in Queens and Davidson will be used in the service, which has become widely known throughout the
area and is annually attended by a large number of persons from the town and city even further. The Queens
Choral Club, the Davidson Glee Club, and the Davidson-Queens Symphony Orchestra will provide music for the occasion. For a half
an hour before the service, the Symphonic Band will give a concert from the roof of Chambers, which can be
heard all over the campus.

Cabinet Ushers
The Y.M.C.A. will provide a scripture reader for the service, and the Y Cabinet will serve as ushers and will
be responsible for the setting for the service, and will furnish the auditorium with evergreens and other features which, in
past years, have been noticed for their appropriateness and beauty. During the program, the Davidson Glee Club will be on
the stage of Chambers Auditorium, the Queens Choral Club will be in the balcony, and the orchestra in the orchestra
pit. In past years, this service has been the peak performance of the Davidson music department.

Musical Service
Outline of the musical part of the vespers service will be:
Prelude—Overture to “The Messiah”, Handel.
O Come, O Come, Emmanuel
O Come All Ye Faithful
The Pastoral Symphony from “The Messiah”
Christmas Carols:
Joy To The World
It Came Upon a Midnight Clear
Silent Night
O Little Town of Bethlehem
Hallelujah Chorus from “The Messiah.”

As a large crowd is anticipated, those who plan to attend are warned to come early to get a seat.

Gift-Fund for 1942
Religious Education For Southern Negro Is YMCA Gift Fund Cause
Campaign Closes Tomorrow Night
Williams Announces Project; Campaign For $1750 Is Opened Monday

Christian Education for Southern Negroes is to be the object of the 1942 Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund. This project was
announced in Chapel last Monday by Pat Williams, Vice-President of the Student Body. The campaign for the Gift Fund was
begun on Tuesday and will be concluded tomorrow night. Williams announced that this year's goal is to be $1750. He
reported that in order to reach this goal, the project will have to have the wholehearted support of every member
of the student body. Alf Taylor, chairman of the Gift Fund, followed up Williams by pointing out the merits of
this cause and urging that the students back the campaign sacrificially. A large part of the fund will be used
through the Southern Presbyterian Church to ordain Negro ministers. Rev. Tyler spoke to the student body last Wednesday at Chapel
and explained his work and the needs of his people. He organizes young people’s leagues in various Negro churches throughout
the South and encourages ministerial students. At the moment, Tyler is working in Birmingham, Ala., and brings him in contact
with many of the Negroes there. In an interview, Alf Taylor was quoted as saying, “The Y Cabinet feels that
the significance and purpose of this project should and will be much more far-reaching than the raising of $1750 for
Negro Christian education. This cause is important to Davidson as it is taking a step toward fulfilling a too long
neglected Christian duty. We are pointing a way which we hope will be followed by other Christians in the South.”

Welford Hobbie, campaign director, has outlined plans for the drive. Representatives of the fund will be placed on each hall,
while each fraternity will also have its solicitor. Art Pendleton, Bob Dick, McMullen, O'Hair, Voorhees, MacLean, Bill Robinson, William Miller,
WOT Hay, Jim Campbell, Bob Campbell, Frank Watts, Bruce Anstey, Bob Currie, Jack Byrd, McBride, Roy Carter, and Sidney Patrick
will be solicitors. Other representatives are Alex Sime, Bill Keys, John Long, Smith, North, Gym, Gurley, Grimsley, Town, Nisbet, Jimmy
Croned, Bill Lyman, Burkhead, Walker, R. La Brinson, Scotty Patterson, Bob Amos, Welford Hobbie, and others. Dr. W.G. McGavock is
responsible for the faculty members and townspeople.

R.O.T.C.
The R.O.T.C. Department here at Davidson received the following telegram from the Fourth Service Command Headquarters in Atlanta, Ga.: Quote,
all applicants for pre-induction training program through December 15, who have one of the following dated on or before December
5th: institutional letter of authority, request for parent's consent, partially completed form one sixty-five, request to draft board for release.
This, of course, implies that any enlistments applied for after December 5 will not be accepted.

TAKES LAWSON
An effort is now being made to fill the position made vacant by Lawson’s resignation by the 1st of January.
