dents and faculty.

Thursday, February 26, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Professor’s Express Faculty’s View

Student-Faculty Relationship Was Discussed In First Open Forum

Students attending the first faculty-student forum of the year heard the viewpoint of the professors concerning the students’ relationship with the faculty. This meeting was in Phi Hall on Wednesday night, February 18. Dr. Kenneth Foreman, Dr. Frontis Johnston, Dr. W. G. McGavock, and Prof. F. K. Fleagle discussed various points on the faculty's side of the question. Bill Sprunt, member of the Y Cabinet, introduced the speakers and led the discussion following the talks.

25 Attend

About twenty-five students attended the first forum of the year. Plans are in progress for another forum in the spring. The Y urges all students to attend in order to hear other views and express their own. Professors are also invited.

Half-Way Jobs

Dr. Foreman spoke on the intellectual relationships between students and faculty. His main point was that students do a half-way job in their work and expect to receive a good grade. “Boys come to class unprepared and expect to get a ninety, and the professor has become accustomed to giving out nineties for work not deserving that mark.”

Activities

Dr. Johnston dwelt on the subject of extra-curricular activities. His main point was that these activities are not spread out among the students enough. He said a report had been made that in a senior class several years ago there was one boy taking part in eleven large activities while a large percent of the class took part in only one or no extra-curricular activities. He said that the faculty could not associate with the students in most of their activities. “There are a few,” he said, “in which the faculty and students have worked together such as Sigma Upsilon. The senior-faculty day is a benefit; but why should only seniors take part in such a day, since they have a short time left before they leave the school?”

Smooching

Dr. McGavock continued where Dr. Johnston left off. He said professors wanted to give students the “low brow” and have a more congenial relationship with them but students will not release their ideas of “smooching.” The “smooch” sound is still prevalent. “It embarrasses both students and faculty.” Dr. McGavock cited personal experience showing good faculty-student relations are feasible and helpful.

First Names

Professor Fleagle led in the discussion, filling in extra ideas on the subject. His main points were concerning calling students by their first names and having special small informal classes for students with particular interests. The discussion at the close of the faculty speeches turned out to be a worth-while “bull session.”

Masquers Bid New Students

John Northcross, Paul Welch, and Ernest Webster, all of the Sophomore Class were selected to be given bids for membership in the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s dramatic club, at its last meeting on Wednesday night, February 18.

Merit Bids

These men were selected on the basis of their work on the last production, “The Blue Ghost,” a play which was presented in Chambers before the Christmas holidays. Paul Welch was stage manager and Northcross and Webster were members of the cast. Northcross acted the part of Dr. DeFormer, and Webster was cast as Inspector Wise.

Chose Committee

The Masquers also chose a committee of three members to bring play selections to the next meeting for a vote on the next play to be presented by the group. Monroe Bush, Dan Hodges, and Pat Rudolph were chosen. According to present plans, the Masquers will render the selection before the Spring Holidays. If they succeed, they will also give another play before the close of the session.

Professors Edit Books

Numerous Articles And Pamphlets Published

There are numerous books, learned journals, and a few articles in pamphlets and articles on professional subjects published by members of the Davidson Faculty during 1941. Also, other offices and chairmanships in learned and professional societies held by members of our faculty show scholarly productivity and its recognition.

Kimbrough has written a trigonometry text which is now used at Davidson. Professor Vowles collaborated in the German examinations used by the College Entrance Examination Board for Spring, 1941.

Foreman Addresses

As its President, Prof. K. J. Foreman made an address before the North Carolina Philosophical Society entitled “The War on the Mind: Current Anti-Intellectualism.” Then too, Professor R. V. Williamson was appointed an editor of the Journal of Politics. The “Introduction to Economics,” by Dr. C. K. Brown has been published, and Dr. Watts has written several reviews for the Modern Language Journal. Dr. Cunningham’s book, “Tomorrow and the Church College,” appeared in the Association of American Colleges Bulletin.

Others

Other prominent Davidson professors who received recognition in the past year are Cumming, Gwynn, Harding, Hood, Thies, and Vowles.

ANNUAL PICTURES

Julien McCall, editor of Quips ‘n’ Cranks, announced last Monday that all group pictures for the 1942 edition of the annual would be taken today. A canvass of the dormitories will probably be made during the week for pictures of girls for the “Beauties” section, McCall added. Students are urged to submit pictures of the sponsors as soon as possible. McCall stated that the staff of the informal annual will welcome any snapshots taken by members of the student body that may be appropriate for use in the annual.

Riflemen Win First Match

Davidson's R.O.T.C. Rifle Team defeated the team from Presbyterian College, 876-834, in a match played last Thursday in Clinton, S.C.

King High Man

High man for the match was Nat King with a score of 184, with Gaines Stubbins’ 180 taking second place. D. H. Martin, of Presbyterian, was third with a 176.

Box Score

King, N.J.D. - 48 48 46 42—184
Stubbins, S.G. - 46 48 45 41—180
Yocum, D.M. - 47 49 45 36—177
Barber, W.H. - 46 46 31 39—172
Kerr, J.W. - 49 44 38 32—163

Presbyterian

Martin, D.H. - 49 46 38 43—176
McMurray, C.M. - 48 48 37 37—170
Rite, A.L. - 48 44 29—167
Burch, H.S. - 48 46 40 30—164
Niken, H.W. - 39 45 40 33—157

Other Davidson men were Welch, P., Wilson, G.B., Gray, W., Dunn, W.R., and Grant, E.D.

CRAIG SCHMIDT

Friday, February 27, featured on the Marimba, to the campus next Wednesday.

(Continued from Page Two)

Monday and Tuesday March 2 and 3

SUSPICION

Cary Grant, Joan Fontaine, Sir Cedric Hardwick, and Nigel Bruce. This is the gripping story ofa charming wastrel intent on riches at any cost... wed to a girl shut off from everything but his love—whose dreams were haunted by the terror of her husband’s secret life! Another powerfully emotional picture made by Alfred Hitchcock, director of “Foreign Correspondent” and “Rebecca.”

ANDERSON’S FOOD STORE
GROCERIES MEATS
Phone 4641
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Schmidt, first cornetist of the organization. The band, under the direction of Professor James Christian Pfohl, will play in Washington, Ga.; Agnes Scott College and the First Presbyterian Church, Decatur, Ga.; Greenville, S. C.; Marion, N. C.; Rutherfordton and Forest City, N. C. They will return.

CINEMA COMMENTS
Davidson’s Symphonic Band will leave on its annual spring tour. Among the special features of the band is Craig B. L. Watkins. 

WOMAN OF THE YEAR with Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn, Fay Bainter, and Reginald Owen; and THE CORSICAN BROTHERS with Douglas Fairbanks, Ruth Warwick, and Akim Tamiroff. Coming: I would like for “Butch” Caldwell to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

ALL LATEST—Victor—Blue Bird—Columbia—Decca—Records
Portable Phonographs and Record Players
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

GALES McCLINTOCK
McClintock, along with three other former Davidson students, recently graduated from their basic training at the Army’s Randolph Field in Texas. Completing the first phase of their extensive training course with McClintock were Angus Lytch, also of the class of 1940, Edwin F. Glynn, and Jack McClure. The four will continue their training at another field.

Dr. Benjamin R. Lacy
Vespers Library Gets New Additions
Among the volumes which have just been added to Davidson’s library are two novels of the historical type. The first of these is the latest of Pearl Buck’s works which is entitled “Dragon Seed,” and is her first novel on China in three years. This book does not deal with Free China, as many in the past have, but with the occupied region of the country. The second is “Mission To Moscow” by Joseph E. Davies, who is the former United States ambassador to Russia.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
“Merchandise of Quality at A Reasonable Price”
Davidson, N. C.

asked the student body, “What can you say about God?”

Larkin, Clark Attend Clinic
Tad Larkin and Doug Clark attended the Symposium on Pre-Medical Problems at Duke University held on February 20. Presented by Duke, the program was under the auspices of the Pre-Medical Society. Three events were on the program. At two o'clock, there was a clinic held for the delegates to the meeting in the amphitheatre of the Duke Hospital. Following this, the Hospital and Medical School were opened for inspection. Dr. F. H. Swett was chairman of a round-table discussion on “Pre-Medical Problems.” This event took place at eight o'clock in the hospital amphitheatre.

SEN CAFETERIA
A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

PAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Don’t Wait! Subscribe Now to The Davidsonian
Only $2.50 Per Year
Send Name and Address to
THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.

McClintock, Lytch, End Basic Aviation Training
Two Alumnae Complete Course At Randolph Field In Record Time
News has just been received by Davidson that two of her recent graduates have been graduated from the U.S. Army’s basic flying school at Randolph Field, Texas. They will be sent immediately to one of a half-dozen advanced bases for their last phase of training.

Graduate Early
The men were Gales McClintock, ’40, and Angus F. Lytch, ’40, and were members of the field’s Class 42-D, the second wartime class. By a combination of doubled flying time, more instructors, and an aggressive attitude, the class completed the course in record time. Also members of this class were two other former Davidson men, Edwin F. Glynn, and Jack McClure.

At Davidson
McClintock, from Charlotte, while here was a member of Beta Theta Pi, football team, President of the Junior Class, President of O. D. K., and Manager of the Student Store. Lytch, from Laurinburg, was President of the Photographic Club and Staff photographer for The Davidsonian.

WE HAVEN’T TAKEN A POLL ON AMERICA’S MOST POPULAR DRAPE.
DRAPERTOWN will certainly get your vote after you’ve slipped it on. Styled by Varsity-Town, admiration engulfs us every time we look at Drapertown’s authentic style features: the full-chested body, soft construction, notch lapels (a Varsity-Town trademark), the low-set, corded pockets, center vent, and longer length. There are shades for all comers, but we think you'll like Drapertown best in the “O. D.” and Putty Shade “College Cords.” Varsity-Town’s “Red Back,” “Surf Club,” and Whipcord Gabs.

We have styled our Young Men’s furnishings especially for you and your Varsity-Town Clothes.
* Arrow Shirts, Ties and Handkerchiefs
* Interwoven Socks
* Hickok Jewelry, Belts and Suspenders
* McGregor Sportswear

YOUNG MEN’S SHOP
Third Floor
Charlotte, N. C.