Thursday, March 19, 1942 - THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Speaker At Church Sun.
Seminary Professor Speaks On “Good Soldier of Christ Jesus”

Dr. William C. Robinson of Columbia Theological Seminary delivered the sermon last Sunday night at the Vesper Service. The theme of Dr. Robinson's sermon was “Good Soldiers of Christ Jesus,” with the text taken from Ephesians 6:10-11: “Put on the whole armour of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.”

In any job that we do, whether it be the largest defense job or an insignificant job, we should follow the will of God so that we might do the job better. Examples were given of how successfully Moses and Joshua led the Israelites through the help of God.

“Too Little Too Late”

Dr. Robinson mentioned that in the present war we usually meet the enemy too late with too little equipment. It is the same way in the battle of life. “We should take God and Jesus Christ into our hearts right away and take Them in wholeheartedly. We should take up the whole armour of God right away. This armour consists of the breastplate of righteousness, the shield of faith, and the helmet of salvation.”

Fulton To Speak

Next Sunday night Dr. C. Darby Fulton, Executive Secretary of the Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will conduct the Vesper Service.

MODEL A AIDS
(Continued from Page One)

Jim McCrary is credited with naming her “religion,” because, as he expresses it, “She runs on faith and will shake the devil out of you.” We don’t want to tell tales on “religion” that shouldn’t be repeated, but once she expressed in loud and emphatic terms her disapproval at being used for other than legitimate “Y” work. Someone took “religion” out upon a trip at a very late hour, the purpose of which is not known, but “religion” backfired and sputtered until the president of the college and several other prominent citizens were awakened from their slumbers, and the Police Department was forced to investigate the cause of the uproar. Shaw Smith claims that Mr. Prichett, upon hearing of this incident, requested that “religion” should be driven by the church each Sunday morning at eleven o'clock.

Original Luxury

“Religion” is truly an aristocrat: eleven years ago, she sold for $1,100. She was proud of her leather furnishings, ash trays, heater, two tail lights, luggage carrier, and the two side wheels; she was the envy of every car in the community when she flashed down the street showing her beautiful green color and her fashionable trimmings. After traveling a distance equivalent to over three trips around the world (speedometer reading: 87,526.4 miles), “religion” still operates with her own power, and she is able to serve the college in a useful capacity.

SUMMER SCHOOL PLANS
(Continued from Page One)

Fuller details will be found in a bulletin which will be published by the college.

Robinson Presents Recital Tonight

Miss Carroll Glenn will appear in a violin recital in Chambers Auditorium tonight at 8:15, sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha. Miss Glenn, young, vivacious, and talented, has had one outstanding success after another and is now considered one of the most promising artists in the country.

Talented Musician To Perform In Chambers

Davidson's chapter of Phi Mu Alpha fraternity will present Miss Carroll Glenn, an outstanding American violinist, in concert in Chambers Auditorium, Thursday evening, March 19, at 8:15. Admission will be $0.85 for students and $1.10 for others, tax included. Miss Glenn is of particular interest to Davidson students because she is a native South Carolinian. Young, vivacious, and capable, she has already made her mark as one of America’s most promising musicians. At an early age, she showed musical talent, and by the time she was eleven, she had progressed so far that her family decided to move to New York to give her the advantages to be found there. She was admitted to the Institute of Musical Art, and later on to the Juilliard School of Music. She was awarded a fellowship to this last school because of the unusual ability demonstrated by Miss Glenn in previous studies.

On Town Hall

She first came into the public eye when she became the sole winner of the Walter W. Naumburg Foundation Award in 1938. This entitled her to appear on the Town Hall program, which she took in stride, winning the award for that year. Miss Glenn then asked for an audition with Mr. Frederick Stock, conductor of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. Dr. Stock granted this. She made such an impression that Dr. Stock called together the whole orchestra to give Miss Glenn the proper sympathetic background. From this success, Miss Glenn has gone on to new heights. Success followed success, until she is now one of the outstanding artists of the nation.

Scripts It’s Tops.

‘Y’ To Give Program On Boy Scouting

Will Present Charter To Scout Troop 58

Monday morning in a special chapel exercise, the Boy's Department of the Y. M. C. A. will present a program on the Y's Boy Scout work. The purpose of the program is to give the Student Body an insight into the work of this department, and to give recognition to those boys who are taking part in this work.

Gwynn In Charge

The program will be in charge of Jack Philips, president of Phi Mu Alpha, who said this week, “Without hesitation, I can say that this concert will be one of the finest, if not the finest, performance sponsored by this organization this year.”

Bill McLean Selected

Sponsored By College YMCA Committees In Each Dormitory

At this time, Mr. Halliburton, chairman of Troop 58 of Davidson, will present Dr. Gwynn with the official charter of this troop. Others on the program are Charles Safley, Scout Executive, George Houston, Scout Commissioner, Heath Whittle, Scoutmaster, and Assistant Scout Masters Jerry Piper, Jim Kerr, and Bill Barber.

MICKEY’S DRY CLEANING
Cash and Carry 34c
Students Welcome
DAVIDSON, N.C.

ALTON BLAND, President

Of Course... Spring Is In The Air

Look for your March issue of Pranks next week.

HOTEL CHARLOTTEHotel While In Charlotte
CARL DANIELS, Resident Manager

ER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

Say Fellas: See Us About Your Fraternity Rush Cards.
The 225
CHARLOTTE, NO. CAROLINA
Printed By Herald Press, Inc.
S. Church Street

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison — L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

New Secretary
Secretary - Treasurer Elected On Fourth Ballot; Will Serve On Student Presbyterian Council For ’42-'43

McLean became secretary-treasurer of the student body last Monday when he defeated George Peters in the final ballot for this position. McLean, a member of Phi Delta, won his numeral in freshman football last fall. He is a reporter for the school paper, The Davidsonian.

Others in the race for secretary-treasurer were: Don Bryant, John Campbell, Raphael Coonrad, Bob Knox, Harry Hudson, Nat King, Jack Lucas, Abie Short, Bill Ratter, Ed Whitesides, and Jim Wilcox.

The committees in charge of stunts in the various dormitories are: From Rumple, W. L. Whitaker, chairman, Buddy Wells; Georgia, Tony Darby, chairman, Bud Wilson, Dave Henderson, and Glenn Ferrell; Watts, Ed Taylor, chairman, Walt Wooten, Howell Morrow, and Jim Thomas; West, Lyman, chairman, Doug Swink, Pat Rudolph, and Bennett Cowan; East, Joe Barnewell, chairman, Fred Betts, John North, and Sandy McEachern; South, Sandy McEachern, chairman, John McDowell, and C. C. Morehead; Duke, Frank Mebane, chairman, Tommy Trowell, and Sortie Cantante.

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. will present a stunt night on March 27th in which members of both the faculty and the student body will take part. This program is unique in that the stunts will be put on by the various dormitories. Each dormitory will write and direct its own stunt, and one skit is to be put on by the faculty.

In order to give Davidson students a chance to share in giving towards the Foreign Missionary objective for this year of $8,000, there will be a vespers service on Sunday. The people of the church must raise $3,800 by March 31 to meet their Foreign Missionary obligation for this year.

Mr. Roy D. Young of Lakeside, a school photographer, was on the campus last Tuesday taking a picture of the student body. Mr. Young has been making photography his business for several years. He has had this contract with the college for some time, making it while arranging a tour of the campuses of the Nation. He carries a fully equipped laboratory with him, making his negatives and prints on the spot.

This week, the campus also had as its guests the members of the Hampton Institute quartet of Hampton, Virginia, and their manager, Mr. Lorenzo White. The quartet appeared in chapel Monday morning and rendered several well-done spirituals.

Davidson students should have a special interest in this objective since it was through their Christmas gift fund of 1940 that two of the eight missionaries supported by the young people were sent out. These two are Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Woodward, who are in Brazil. Other foreign missionaries supported by the young people are Mr. and Mrs. Ira M. Moore and Rev. and Mrs. Day Harpers, who are in the Belgian Congo, and Mr. and Mrs. Jack Vinson, who plan to work in China and were until recently studying in the Philippine Islands.

The Red and Black Masquers are presenting "You Can't Take It With You" shortly after the holidays. The cast was chosen by Miss Kalista Hood and Ed Taylor, who are the directors of the play. The cast is as follows: Miss Kalista Hood, Penelope Sycamore; Isabel Linker, Essie; Louise Lassiter, Rheba; Ernest Webster, Paul Sycamore; Bill Tyson, Mr. De Pinna; George Buckley, Ed; Don Holland, Mr. Kirby; George Sinclair, Boris Kolenkhov; Howell Morrow, Mr. Kirby; Caroline Lassiter, Mrs. Kirby; Ed Hay, Jimmy Nisbet; and Webster McLeod as Three Men of Gideon. The stage manager will be Prof. I. L. Erwin, who will be assisted by Paul Welch.

DO YOU DIG IT?
*ENGLISH TRANSLATION
This joy-boy is inviting his roommate over to the dance where the girls are serving refreshments — and informing him that Pepsi-Cola is getting the big rush ...as usual. Must be that grand taste... and big size.

WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it you'll be ten bucks richer. If we don’t, we’ll shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to—College Dept., 221 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.

SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT.