Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, May 7, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Member
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PETER YOUNG ........ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLea .......... Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh ...... Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher ...... Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries ........ Managing Editor
Howell Morrow ...... Managing Editor
Legh Scott .......... Managing Editor
Jim Stimson ........ Managing Editor
Deane Watson ....... Managing Editor
Leonard Pharr ...... Sports Editor
Bill Kirk ............ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager .................. Dick Port
Advertising Manager .................. Don Melver
Circulation Manager .................. Jim Harris
Teensy Hodges ....... Subscription Manager
John Robinson ...... Collections Manager
Buddy Carson ....... Circulation Manager

On Smith’s Return

We were glad to note last week that the government has seen fit to designate Shaw Smith indispensable to Davidson
College and to allow him to continue in his post as Y.M.C.A. Secretary here. Although many know Shaw’s duties, few
students realize the extent of his activities performed informally throughout the community. He has become one of the school’s most
valuable advertising agents through his relations with guests visiting the campus. Few speakers have left without commenting on the attention
accorded them.

His cheerful personality can be found accompanying his energetic person on his nightly rounds through the dormitories long after midnight,
helping all he can and rejuvenating those he cannot. According to his cabinet, he has proven one of the best
organizers ever to hold the secretaryship. He not only keeps up with the campus scene but he is completely informed
on all phases of worldwide Y.M.C.A. work. Jim Owens, retiring Y.M.C.A. President, sums up Smith’s influence on the campus by
describing him as “a living example of a practical Christian.”

On Spencer’s Talk

Lt. Spencer’s talk in chapel Monday rates with the best of the year. In our opinion, it rates with the
best of a number of years. Few people could have handled such a subject with the tact and finesse evidenced
by that speaker. For those who missed the service mentioned, the Lieutenant called the attention of the students to the
reputation which Davidson men had acquired in every part of the country. He emphasized the fact, however, that it was
away from Davidson that this reputation has been upheld and he advised that students show some of the discretion at
school that they evidently exhibit away from the campus. The most encouraging note in the talk was the report dated
1892 proving that 642 windows were smashed during a snow siege that year. We hope that will not constitute a
record at which to shoot next winter, however.

SYMPATHY

The Davidsonian wishes to extend the sympathies of the entire student body to Dan Hodges in the recent loss in
his family.

The Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters Features

Letter to The Editor

Down Fraternity Court

Dear Ed.:

American people for the past generation have been content to be complacent ... to be satisfied, for the most part,
with what they have no matter if it is wrong and dangerous. Unfortunately, Davidson men have not escaped this evil.
We have been content to do what the crowd does and to throw safety to the winds. This is true
not only of the student body, but also of the faculty and even the board of trustees. I’m referring particularly
to the athletic equipment of the college.

Our gym, as we all realize, is inadequate and even dangerous for basketball games. The players are constantly in danger
of injuring themselves permanently by running into the walls under the baskets or the bleachers on the sidelines. The left
field of the varsity baseball diamond is a constant menace to the safety of those playing that position on our
own or some visiting nine due to the east stadium. The track team is always in danger of being hit
by a fly ball. Truly these are major dangers—costly to correct but yet, is not safety worthwhile, no matter what
the cost?

But the purpose of this letter is not to criticize the equipment used by varsity teams, but rather that used
by our intramural teams. We boast of our intramural program at Davidson, but yet we do not have a single
field here that is safe for those who participate. We don’t have a single softball field, except one, that the
players don’t have to worry about falling off a six-foot bank in order to make an outfield catch; and the
ground of the one field without these banks is so uneven that all the players are in constant danger of
turning an ankle. Not only are these banks of danger in softball, but also in touch football. Until this year
we have had only minor injuries in the student body because of this poor equipment. But about a week ago
one of the finest softball players in the league prematurely ended this year’s season, and possibly all future athletic participation.
He fell down one of the mentioned banks while making an unusual catch. In falling, his kneecap was broken very
badly and only time will tell how serious such injury is. I believe an unnecessary injury but I'm afraid it
is not the last unless some type of protection is provided for intramural activities. Will it be necessary for other
legs to be broken, for other boys to be flat on their backs for the last three weeks of their
senior year; or will the proper authorities realize their duty to the student body and endeavor to protect them in
their athletic pursuits?

Sincerely yours,
H. D. McI.

P.S.—I suggest high white-washed fences around these banks with a slight rise in the ground about ten feet in front
of them so that the players would know that they were approaching the fences.

MY DAZE
By BILL LYMAN
Guest Columnist: CHARLIE BROCKMANN

SOME MODEST PROPOSALS:

The Davidson student body, for all its advantages over most other student bodies, has many, many problems, most of which
have been hashed and re-hashed to the point of triteness. Greatest among these, as well we all know, is the
problem of dances on campus. Perhaps Fate has solved this snare of delusion or at least set it aside for
the duration. Be that as it may, a new monster has recently reared its ugly head among us—the problem of
what to do with the sunny Sunday afternoons that May is so busily lavishing upon our fair campus these days.
Of course, there are boys who seldom see this fair campus on Sunday afternoons. Let's dismiss them with our blessings
and an envious sigh and try to find some profitable avocation for those unfortunates who, for one reason or another,
find themselves at headquarters on a sultry Sabbath.

For obvious reasons, we must dispense with all forms of activity involving either noise or competition, or both. That is
to say, we must not show any outward signs of enjoying whatever we do. Studying, except for those few rare
geniuses who still possess an abundance of ambition, is definitely out. Who wants to sit indoors over a book when
all outdoors is literally saturated with indispensable vitamin D? Sunbathing, in the areas prescribed for such activity, is popular, but
it has its disadvantages. Many of us who lack the sufficient stimulus to make us study are still too restless
to find satisfaction in lying motionless under Old Sol by the hour, and a combination of trying to study and
sun at the same time can have disastrous effects on the peepers.

Chasing butterflies could hardly offend anybody except perhaps the butterflies. Some folks, however, might consider such activity a bit beneath
their dignity.

Beta Theta Pi

This weekend saw the Phi Alpha Chapter scattered throughout Virginia, Kentucky, North and South Carolina, and Charlotte. Brother Sherrill attended
the ninetieth anniversary of the Eta Chapter at Chapel Hill. Brothers Cushman, Tucker, Robinson, and Phillips spent Saturday night on
a bench “somewhere near Asheville.” Brother Pete Crayton took a round-about trip to Washington, stopping at every girl's college along
the way. Bob Kendrick went to Danville, Va. while Al Winn attended the dance at Salem. Craig Schmidt went to
the Derby, and brothers Pritchett and Rowland dashed off to Sumter, S.C., at the last minute. Brother Caterson is now
back on the beam in Salisbury. Jack Phillips and Bob Rainey held up the local standards with campus dates—guess who?
Elliott White spent a restful weekend at home, along with Rush Smith and Joe Barnwell. Garrison Hill went to W.C.;
Frank Mebane, to W.C.; and B. Walker to Greensboro. Brother Howell breezed over to Greensboro while Brothers Bryant, Ranson, Goode,
and Welsh went over to the Queen City.

Kappa Sigma

Brothers Marsh, Kelly, and Sutton pulled the prize operation this weekend by attending the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs, Ky.
Another fine time was had by Brothers McCoy, Brewer, Davis, Scott, Simmons, Wilson, Peters, T. Gault, and Short who went
to Wrightsville Beach and Lake Waccamaw. They made some good acquaintances with a group of Junior High School misses. A
good number of brothers represented Kappa Sigma at various girls’ schools. Thompson visited Converse College; Clark, never idle, went to
Sweetbriar; Phillips, as usual, was with Piggie; Ellis also went to W.C.; and Holland and Booth went to Randolph-Macon to
see the Virginia lasses. Cam Henderson kept up his usual visits to Charlotte, as did Bob Miller and Arthur Pendleton.Rochelle
and Richardson went to their High Point and Greensboro homes in Pi Kappa Alpha. Fair weather and pretty girls had
the operators on their toes, the campus being almost entirely vacated by the brothers. Those leaving the campus for the
weekend in the Queen City were Brothers Elder, Brockmann, Neill, Turner, and Pledges Farrar, Stroup, White, and Graves. Brothers Parson
and Pledge Anderson felt the need of a trip home. Brothers Maxwell, Bell, and Hodges spent the entire weekend on
the campus. Returning to the campus Sunday, Brother Brinson explained his sleepy appearance saying that he had been a-Maying at
Salem College.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Entertainment for the S.A.E. boys was quite varied last weekend. Places visited ranged from the mountains to old G'boro. Leading
the parade were Brothers Crichton and Freeze, taking in the Derby, ably supported by Brother Bruce who took it in
on his tennis trip. Brothers Ed Lucas, Bethea, Graves, and B. McLeod accompanied the baseball team to Guilford with Brothers
Lucas and Graves remaining there. Brothers McAllister, McGeachy, Hill, Taylor, and Jack Lucas visited G'boro. Brothers Sprunt, Dee, Dunn, and
Whaling spent the weekend as usual, in Winston at May Day. Added attractions were Brothers Carter and Harris. In Charlotte
for the weekend were Brothers Tate, Faison, Hackney, Carson, Smith, Smith, Young, and Stewart. Brother Moore spent the weekend in
McCall, S.C.

Pi Kappa Phi
While the deals were scarce for the past week, those that were pulled were the rarest ones in history. Among
the mild deals were Brother Robinson’s trip to Derita. Pledges Herring and Yantis operated as best they could in the
thriving metropolis of Rose Hill, N.C. Brother Walton journeyed homeward to Hickory, N.C., while Brother Wilkinson strayed to Asheville, N.C.
Also among the homeward bound was Brother Murray to Raleigh. The longest and most eventful “hare” of the weekend was
pulled by Brothers Parragin and McCall at the Kentucky Derby. Another eventful trip was one to Carolina Beach where Brother
Larkin met the future Mrs. and Brother Herring spent his time admiring the scenery. Brother McCrea whipped down to Atlanta
while Brothers Bumbarger and T.P. Gaither visited Duke and Carolina on the golf trip.

Phi Delta Theta
Brothers Burns, Little, Tate, Oglesby, and Emerson went to Statesville for Saturday night. Burns and Tate attended the late show,
but the rest are unaccounted for. Brothers Rudolph and Westall spent the weekend in Asheville. Brother Banks attended the May
Day dances at Sweetbriar and Brother Wardlaw attended the proms at Arlington Hall. Brothers Owens, Carter, and Maloney were away
with the baseball team while Brother Archer and G. McLean helped the tennis team to victory. Brother Pierce went to
his home in Farmville and Brother Smith to Raleigh. Brother Dew made a call at Columbia, S.C., and Brother Beaty
went to Rock Hill. Brother Wright made an extended visit to Chattanooga.

Phi Gamma Delta
Quite a few Fijis succumbed to the “wanderlust” last weekend. Brothers Darby and Hall journeyed to Randolph-Macon. Duke and Carolina
were visited by Brother Cavert, while Brothers Taylor and Morrow passed the Winston-Salem weekend. Brother Crowell went to Carolina and
St. Mary’s, and Brothers Thompson and King went homeward to Bristol, Tenn. Long distance honors for the weekend go to
Brother McMullen, who operated in and about Atlanta.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Off on another deal was Fred Morton, who went, as usual, to Atlanta, by way of Waycross. Bivins held his
usual in Elkin, while Loy did the same at Berryhill. Daffin and Davis participated in the defeat at Guilford, and
Henderson and Ivie spent the night in a haystack between Charlotte and Davidson. These were the highlights of the week.
Lowlights included Miller’s and Behrman’s trip to Winthrop, the Hay brethren’s trek to Hickory (where Hay the elder rejoined the
Fearrington Brigade), P.G. III’s jaunt to the Queen City, Wendell Knox’s May Day visit to Winthrop, Lamon Whiddon’s date in
Charlotte, and Fred Powell’s usual to Chester. Of special note was the fact that the Cheney twins stayed on the
campus this weekend!

Kappa Alpha
A number of the Knights made a tour to the North over the weekend. Penn Hall in Pennsylvania was the
most distant destination. Jimmy Jackson took in this long trip stopping at Washington on his way up. So far he
has not returned. Others who went to Washington were Mac Jeffries, Charlie and Hank Watt, and George Council. Brother Council
and Charlie Watt also went to Baltimore. Pledge Glasgow went home with Pledge Durant in Southern Pines. Brothers Washburn and
Speas went to their respective homes in Wilmington and Winston-Salem.

The Filth Column
To insure filthier filth and more of it, three illustrious embryonic seniors will this week serve as the newer and
younger talent spoken of previously by an ex-ghost doper. After hair tearing and cerebrum clashing, we have finally decided that
these few tasty bits of table tripe will keep you chewing for at least a week. BOB AMOS has been
elected dupe of the week, and from all indications, he will probably have to serve a year or so in
Alcatraz for neglecting his post during the recent blackout—the cause being ISABELLE LINKER. And he is supposed to be one
of Davidson's few “married” men. SOUTHGATE JONES has decided what he will do after the duration; he wants to continue
his brief but lasting acquaintance with a certain young art student up NYC way. One of the rare Twiddling Twotter
Trotters of the Davidson campus, FRED MORTON, journeyed down to Atlanta to see SEXY PREXY SANDIFER'S old fire. A dozen
or so limber Sigmas went to Wrightsville to show THE HEAD BREWER the briny deep. Now he has run the
total of existing Kentuckians ever to see the ocean to ten. Pretty awful, wasn't it—it just shows you what little
material we have to work with. Salem always provides something worthy of citation. DICK PORT’S date had a real case
of ants in the pants at a recent moonlight golf course intermission, necessitating a quick change so the dance could
go on. Sidelights gathered from nonetheless tales about the Kentucky Derby: One blow-out the hero—CROW CRICHTON. One night spent in
an alfalfa field—they said there was no room in Louisville! Of this crew, LEGS KELLY, CRICHTON, BUBBLES MARSH, BAXTER FREEZE,
and JIM WHITE, little was gained and little was lost—after all, who went for the Derby anyway? Boner of the
week: MACK BRUCE'S sudden decision to join the Naval Reserve at Chapel Hill. He was awakened at 5:30 one morning
by the sounding of reveille, and hearing the command to “hit the deck.” Until he could gather his wits, he
thought he had been drafted and began to follow all the commands. It seems that earlier that morning after a
strenuous all-night affair of gin rummy, he had gone in the wrong side of the field house to sleep. His
tennis wasn’t the same for several matches after such a scare. Things weren’t so dull on the campus, either. LACY
MacLEAN and ARCHIE FARROR found new talent next door to the cemetery. Little can be said at present about how
much fun they did have; this will be obvious though when and if they go back. Time will tell. Why
does BEN LACY treat all the women so horribly? Saturday he deprived a certain Salemite (PEGGY NIMOCKS) of his gracious
presence at a dance, using his excuse a track meet that was over for him at 3 o'clock that afternoon.
Someday he will learn?—69, 70, 71—72—lines—thank gawd—that’s all.

Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday and Friday, May 7 and 8
SONG OF THE ISLANDS
Betty Grable, Victor Mature, Jack Oakie, and Thomas Mitchell. Another stereotyped story of feuds and love on a tropical South
Sea island. However, with Betty Grable in a grass skirt, Mature in a sarong, Billy Gilbert, Jack Oakie’s absurd clowning,
and the beautiful scenery enhanced by Technicolor, the result is quite good. Harry Owen’s Hawaiian music furnishes an excellent background.

Saturday, May 9
TORPEDO BOAT
Richard Arlen, Jean Parker, Mary Carlisle, and Phil Terry. This story of a secret military invention has Richard Arlen and
Phil Terry as two young inventors who conceive a device for projecting both planes into the air and torpedo boats
into the sea from the same carrier. Mary Carlisle and Jean Parker are very good in this timely production.

Monday and Tuesday, May 10 and 11
RINGS ON HER FINGERS
Henry Fonda, Gene Tierney, Laird Cregar, and John Shepperd. Henry Fonda scores again in this, his first picture since “The
Male Animal.” Gene Tierney is excellent in her portrayal of an average American girl, discarding her “foreign” roles. First-class supporting
roles are turned in by Laird Cregar and John Shepperd.

COMING: KING’S ROW, with Ann Sheridan. ROXIE HART, with Ginger Rogers. I would like for HARRY ALLEN to be the
guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

CAMPUS CAMERA
REV. CHAS. COLLINS GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE IN 1837 AND WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT OF EMORY HENRY COLLEGE THE SAME YEAR!

Lightning struck the spire of the Duke U. Chapel twice within three days!
