Thursday, April 16, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Davidson Experiences First Trial Blackout
Student Air Raid Officials Have Charge Of All Campus Buildings

Air Raid Wardens, Fire Watchers, and other student officials took their respective posts Sunday from 10 to 10:30 P.M., as Davidson experienced the first blackout in her history. The blackout was held throughout Mecklenburg County. The campus was organized so that each building was controlled by a senior air raid warden with a group of students under him. These students filled the capacities of Fire Watchers, Floor Walkers, Roof Watchers, and men in charge of first aid. Students holding these positions did not function in the dormitories, except for this drill.

Shelters Provided
Air raid shelters were provided in the basements of Chambers, the library, the science building, and the dormitories. The students were divided into groups to fill the various shelters. Rumple and Georgia reported to the basement of the library; Watts, West, North, and South reported to the south basement of Chambers; and East and Duke went to the science building.

Darkness Prevails
The practice blackout was declared successful, and darkness prevailed during the thirty minutes with one or two minor exceptions. Mr. Tom Johnson was in charge of the whole campus, and, along with Dr. Watts and Dr. Lawson, deserves the credit for the success of the drill. Various student officials are expected to receive more training along these lines soon, and another blackout will be held before school is dismissed for the summer recess.

Witt Hancock Lost In East
Davidson Man Unreported Since Loss of Java

Mr. Witt Hancock, journalist and author, and Davidson alumnus, has not been contacted since the Japanese invasion of Java, where he was serving as a foreign correspondent. Several years ago the newspaperman was employed by the Associated Press in Charlotte. He was sent abroad soon after as a correspondent for both the Associated Press and Wide World in Russia, Turkey, India, and Java.

Marriage
While stopping over in London on a brief return to America in 1939, he met Miss Trudi McCullock, whom he married after a mid-Atlantic courtship. No sooner had they arrived than they were dispatched to Moscow where the couple remained almost a year. From Russia, the Hancocks went to Turkey where they scored a six-hour beat on the bombing of Ankara. They then went to India, and Witt proceeded to Java to cover the new front. After the invasion, he was reported to have escaped to Australia, but he has not been heard from since.

Correspondent
WITT HANCOCK.

Dr. L. Baralt Will Lecture To Students
Speaks To Spanish Club Tonight; Lectures To Public Tomorrow

Tonight at 7:30 Dr. Luis A. Baralt of the University of Havana will give an address in Spanish to the Spanish Club. Friday night he will give a lecture in English in Chambers Auditorium to the public. Dr. Baralt was born in New York City in the latter part of the nineteenth century, of a Cuban father and an American mother. Since the turn of the century, he has resided in Havana, Cuba, which is his present home.

Education
After he was graduated from the Havana Institute in 1909, he won a traveling scholarship which allowed him to study at Harvard University for two years. For the remainder of the time left by his scholarship, he attended lectures at Columbia University. Since his graduation, he has received the degree of Doctor of Laws, and has taught in many colleges, including his alma mater and the University of Miami.

Experience
Dr. Baralt took an active part in politics during the latter period of the Machado regime. He occupied, successively, the position of under-secretary of Education and the first portfolio of President Mendieta’s cabinet. He lectured in colleges in both North and South America. He is well known as a dramatic director and playwright, having founded a theater in Havana. In 1936 he was awarded the Department of Education Prize for his play “La Luna en el Pantano,” which was produced with considerable success. At present, he is a member of the Committee on Intellectual Co-operation. He is a professor of Philosophy at the University of Havana and Secretary of the University summer school.

The lecture is sponsored at Davidson by the Spanish Club and the Faculty Committee on Lectures.

President To Give Sermon
Cunningham Preaches At State Commencement

Dr. John R. Cunningham will deliver N.C. State College’s commencement sermon on May 8. He is also participating in several other commencement exercises in the state. Col. J. W. Harrelson, dean of administration at State, announced that Dr. Cunningham was to speak during the commencement program that concluded on May 9.

Daniels Speaks
Another speaker in State’s accelerated commencement exercises is Josephus Daniels of Raleigh, who will deliver the baccalaureate address. Dr. Cunningham will give his sermon on Friday, and the program will end on Saturday with the presentation of the degrees.

On April 26, Dr. Cunningham will preach the commencement sermon for the Berryhill School. He is also to give the graduation address for the Davidson High School at the commencement exercises on April 29.

GREY MEMORIAL LIBRARY
The new Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library will be formally dedicated on the afternoon of May 1. This addition to the campus buildings was begun in September 1940, and was ready for occupation in October 1941. The donor of this gift to the college is Capt. James Parks Grey of Bristol, Tenn.

Cunningham And Payne Visit Alumni Meetings

PICK CAPTAIN
Bob Gowdy was elected captain of next year’s rifle team at a meeting of the marksmen last Monday. He will be the first captain that the rifle team has ever had. Previously, one member has served as manager, the position Jim Werr held this year. Gowdy is the only junior on the team. He is a sergeant in the battalion and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity.

Riflemen Are Given Medals
Members of the rifle team were awarded medals for efficiency in marksmanship in a special parade last Monday on Richardson Field. Dr. Greer, Dean of the Faculty, pinned the medals on those receiving special honors. Gaines Stubbins received a gold medal for the highest average of the year. He had a 181.625 average in shoulder-to-shoulder firing and a 369 average in postal matches. Bill Yocum and David Barbour received silver medals for second and third places respectively. All three of these marksmen are in the sophomore class.

Other members of the team who received silver medals were Nat King, Bob Gowdy, Bob Dunn, Billy Keys, John Kerr, and Paul Welch. All fired in at least one shoulder-to-shoulder match, half of the postal matches, and placed in the high five in at least one collegiate match. Bob Dunn also received a special medal for high score in the freshman class. His average was 176. Bob Allen, Ray Taylor, and Bob Dunn were awarded expert bars.

DR. POTEAT TO (Continued from Page One)
Social Ethics at Crozer Theological Seminary at Chester, Pennsylvania. Dr. Poteat is a member of a very brilliant Southern family. Many of his close relatives have been prominent in educational and religious circles. At one time, his father was President of Furman University.

CAFETERIA
Co-operation

Go To Philadelphia And New York; Meeting HeldIn Winston-Salem, Mr. Payne left last Monday night for alumni meetings held in Philadelphia on Tuesday and New York on Wednesday. Mr. Payne, alumni secretary, left Cunningham and others which were in truths. Immediately preceding these truths which we need to capture, Dr. Cunningham was the speaker at a meeting of the Winston-Salem alumni. His subject was “Christian Education and Defense of Democracy.” Presiding over the forty-eight members present at the meeting was Mr. Richard S. Heetner of the class of '30. Dr. Wingate Johnston of Winston was the special guest, while the oldest alumnus present was H. E. Fries of the class of '78.

Other speakers of the evening were Dr. F. W. Johnston, who spoke on the athletic situation and the need for better physical condition due to increasing emphasis. Mr. Beaty spoke on “What’s New at College.” Mr. J. L. Payne spoke on “The Potentiality of Alumni in Time of War.” Mr. Pfohl furnished the music, with solos by Earl Berg and B. L. Watkins. Officers for the new year are: Dr. George Mauze, president; Mr. Milroy Davis, vice-president; and Mr. Gaither Jenkins, secretary and treasurer.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Gibson Gives Vespers Talk On “Victory”
Graduate Of Davidson Addressed Students At Vespers Last Sunday

Rev. Arthur Vann Gibson preached the sermon at Vespers on Sunday, April 12. He chose as the subject of his message “The Victory of the Christian Faith.” Dr. Cunningham presided at the service and introduced the speaker. Early in the program, he offered a prayer that peace might come to the world soon and that a truly Christian society might be established after the war.

Spiritual Truths
Rev. A. V. Gibson is the Pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Sanford, North Carolina. He is a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1923. Mr. Gibson's text was, “This is the victory that overcomes the earth, even our faith.” It was pointed out in his sermon that formerly, it was all right for men to have doubts; but now, in these uncertain times, it is necessary for men to know, believe without a doubt, and trust in certain spiritual truths.

Men Seek Knowledge
Since men are seeking to learn these truths, it is profitable to view the ways in which man gains knowledge. Gibson said that knowledge comes to men through intellect and through intuition. Different kinds of truths come to us in different ways. The ones that come by way of the intellect are based on nature and her laws and are variable and unreliable. On the other hand, the ones that come by way of intuition are unvarying, reliable, and eternal truths.

Rev. Joseph Garrison of Louisville, Kentucky, will be the speaker at the Vesper Service next Sunday evening, April 19.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GARY COOPER
NANCY KELLY
Thursday and Friday, April 16 and 17
“BALL OF FIRE”

Saturday, April 18
“FLY BY NIGHT”

Monday and Tuesday, April 20 and 21
“PLAYMATES”
KAY KYSER

Wednesday, April 22
“MAD DOCTOR”

Thursday and Friday, April 23 and 24
“THE REMARKABLE ANDREW”
WILLIAM HOLDEN
ELLEN DREW

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
The Dependable Store for Your Hardware and Groceries
Davidson, N. C.
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

HOW ABOUT SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR SPRING? ... LIKE THESE SHETLANDS AND CHEVIOTS

For Spring ... not the same old shades and patterns. You want something different ... sure, then take a gander at these Shetlands and Cheviots with center vents, ticket pockets, and pen and pencil pockets. Shetlands and Cheviots in covert shades, “O. D.” shades, and “Sandstone” shades. Almost too many to take them all in! Bet you'll say, “I want them all!” $25-$30 ... with deep-fold pleated slacks.

J. O. JONES, INC.
CHARLOTTE