Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, November 12, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor - Ed Erwin
Assistant Editor - Peter Young
Associate Editor - Salhse Sodescsntasesas
Managing Editor - pooping
Managing Editor - Dick abort
Managing Editor - Don Melver
Managing Editor - Jim Harris
Managing Editor - Teensy Hodges
Managing Editor - John Robinson
Managing Editor - Buddy Carson

BUSINESS STAFF
Business Manager - Peter Young
Advertising Manager - Dick abort
Circulation Manager - Don Melver
Circulation Manager - Jim Harris
Circulation Manager - Teensy Hodges
Circulation Manager - John Robinson
Circulation Manager - Buddy Carson

Suggestion...
The Davidson student body as a whole, we think, should be commended on the type of dances that it is
able to hold. Its conduct on these occasions makes up a lot for its questionable action under other circumstances, which
is so often flung in its face. The conduct at these affairs is entirely student controlled, as you know, under
the supervision of the “21 Club” made up of the Pan-Hellenic Council, fraternity presidents, and independent representatives. The only faculty
members present are in the position of chaperones and spectators, but actual responsibility rests with the students. Yet this committee
would be completely powerless without the conscious and continued support of the entire group in attendance. With the affairs held
in an environment foreign to the campus and away from the accompanying atmosphere of authority, it might be expected that
there would be a corresponding let down in self-control by the students, but last week's set, we feel, is excellent
proof that such is not the case. Perhaps there is a valuable lesson in this fact that both student body
and administration leaders would do well to consider. The student body has always been left free to govern itself in
practically everything having to do with purely student affairs. Their success in these affairs has justified this policy. Some phases
of student activity have naturally been kept under the jurisdiction of the Dean and the Executive Committee because these matters
could not be included in the honor system or because a faculty group is in a position to handle them
more efficiently. There is a third classification which neither the students nor the faculty has been able to control completely.
Consequently, there has never been a just system with a fully qualified agency invested with sufficient powers to take an
adequate hand. It would not be unjust to include the question of damage to college property under this head. This
year, for example, there are at least three decided efforts to control this question, one which has long merited consideration.
The President of the Student Body has announced his intentions in this drive. His aims were included, to an extent,
in a movement by ODK. The administration has given notice that it will combat the question with a more stringent
executive policy. Yet we sincerely believe that none will succeed until they actually put the matter before the whole of
the group that it affects. Perhaps the administrative policy has the best chance at success, but only after actual harm
to a number of boys’ lives and no telling how much ill-feeling and other repercussions. In the long run, we
think, even this plan is doomed to failure, for in a society as democratic as is Davidson’s, any deviation that
does not arise from the group will not be enforced without a struggle. In any case, a better plan should
be devised. Why hasn't the matter been brought up before the offending group, which is certainly the one which should
be most concerned, for actual open discussion? Why can’t the entire student body, meeting jointly with the faculty, perhaps, intelligently
discuss and devise a plan with which to meet the situation? Such a plan should certainly have more of the
approval of the students as a group than a program decided upon by their faculty or officers. When one thinks
about it, it is really amazing how few open discussions in student body meetings have been within the memory of
present student generations. Are we not taught in every classroom that this is the way intelligent persons settle their difficulties?
Why should a practical application of this idea fail? Perhaps too much has been said about the problem in this
paper this year, but we would like to see an intelligent and practical settlement before someone gets hurt, and not
afterward. If we can handle a complicated problem like that of the conduct at dances away from the campus, then
we should by all means be able to handle problems in our own front yard. A little above-the-board discussion of
all concerned could not possibly do any harm.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
SPRINGTIME IN THE ROCKIES
A top-flight musical and comedy show hits Davidson on Thursday and Friday when Betty Grable and John Payne get together
to Harry James’ music in “Springtime in the Rockies.” There's a top-flight supporting cast including Carmen Miranda and Edward Everett
Horton in addition to the soloists and specialties in the James band. The show packs some of the best in
music with a fair plot.

Saturday
GIRL TROUBLE
The one and only Ameche teams with Joan Bennett in another Ameche vehicle. It's good entertainment if you care for
Don and his way with women. The clever lines are enough for a good laugh. Better than the general run
of Saturday shows.

Monday and Tuesday
BETWEEN US GIRLS
Dianna Barrymore and Robert Cummings are the stars in one of the season's best shows. They're supported by, among other
good actors and actresses, John Boles. The story gives Diana room to prove that she’s a real Barrymore, and most
of the critics applaud her performance.

Wednesday
THAT OTHER WOMAN
The top half of the usual Wednesday bargain bill is “That Other Woman,” starring James Ellison, a former horse opera
star who is rapidly making good in civilian movies. The other section of the double-header will be announced later.

SHAVE HITLER SAVE AMERICA WAR STAMPS

CAMPUS ODDITIES
PULLED AN OAR
CONIBEAR, FIRST U. OF WASHINGTON CREW COACH AND DEVELOPER OF THE CONIBEAR STROKE, MADE OUTSTANDING OARSMEN BUT NEVER, SENIOR PRIVILEGES
UNTIL THEY FIND THE CROOK CROP FOR 48 YEARS
OKLAHOMA A AND M COLLEGE HAS AN EXPERIMENTAL WHEAT FIELD THAT HAS BEEN PLANTED CONTINUOUSLY TO THAT ALEX FIDLER COE
COLLEGE TRAINE HAS REFEREED 6000 BOXING MATCHES

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Things to Wonder About:
If the cast of “The Man Who Came to Dinner” will know their lines by opening night, Tuesday, November 17...
Whether anyone will miss this really delightful attraction— Honestly it’s good... Director McBane deserves much credit for his patience and
genuine interest. Professor Erwin is quite talented with scenery fixing, directing, acting, etc., but you won't find men of his
caliber every day—friendly, human, understanding—no kidding, fellows, and it’s fine to have men around here like him—his other half is
equally fine— She’s a great worker in civic and church affairs—and now—the library! ... A swell hostess (Remember this summer
and the girls at her home, fellows?) ... Little Ed’s bound to be a good Ed of Davidsonian with such
heritage. Remember at late “Davidsonian” office Monday night and Tuesday mornings—Unsung heroes, no stuff... How so many really attractive—and he
is!—More wonder workers at even beautiful girls can get together at a Davidson dance—with us! ... How nice it is
George McCormick's folks are back again for a stay with us—They're real Davidson supporters and meeting and knowing loyal folks
like they are renews interest, faith, and hope in the job we're all trying to do at Davidson ... Mr.
Piohl’s energy and his whole department—Look at the growth of music on the campus in the last 10 years—amazing and
gratifying ... Dean Hodgson was certainly doing his great part in this advancement ... How Mr. Jackson can be such
a real friend to so many people and so many times—I remember even as a student he went out of
his way without my asking—But who doesn't remember him that way?—Surely, he’s the treasurer, but many a fellow slips into
his office for a little while to chat for reasons besides money—He's genuine ... The Football team—Congratulations to you!—Bill Shaw
and Ben Lacy each had proud papas in the stands watching that game—worth watching, too ... The “Y” Bookshelf ...
Elsewhere in this sheet is news about book donations to make this reading shelf possible—drop in and look it over—some
good stuff here ... Still hearing verbal expressions of gratefulness to Dr. Jones for such a lastingly fine set of
Fall Services ... Tim Pharr—good boy, quiet and human. Ross Parks—efficient and thoughtful... Bill Barber—knows more about cars than Ford—(well,
I didn’t say which Ford!)—anyway, is a great help to your “Y” when it comes to transportation difficulties—and is a
good boy on top of that!... Ashby Dick—everyone’s jealous of the routine of living he has developed and sticks to.
Loves to talk and yet never fails a friend—Right! ... Lacy McLean—quiet, efficient, gentlemanly—gives advice to the lovelorn now and
then (though it doesn't always work!)Must have advised Sprunt, too—(ahh)... Edgar Patterson, solid boy—elected treasurer of “Y" Board of Control
tonight replacing Sprunt who finishes this mid-year. How will I know what you want your “Y” to be without some
direct expression from you?—I'm waiting, friends... Yours, SHAW SMITH.

By-Lines By BILL LYMAN

On Various Coquetries Employed By Young Ladies in The Ballroom To Insure Prompt Breaking:
(From an article by Tom Cauble in The Davidsonian, Oct. 31, 1940).

Perhaps the most common stag-bait employed by modern beauties is the tried and true phrase: “Come back—I’ve something to tell
you.” When the young gallant rushes back to receive this important communication, he is never quite able to get out
of the young lady what she meant, but he receives further meaningful and sly glances, and thus taps scores of
her partners on the shoulder throughout the evening. Again, the coquette is quick to establish a bond in common with
the innocent collegian and is sure thereby to know at least a dozen people that he knows. She can thus
employ stock remarks in conversing about them and make the average undergrad feel that he has indeed won friends and
influenced people. Again, many a lively evening is insured by flattering the dancing of the powerless college man. His reaction
to this is immediate, and he promptly vows to impress his mastery of the dance on her throughout the course
of the evening.

The young ladies new to the wiles of ballroom coquetry have used to great advantage the most fundamental of all
stag-stoppers—namely, the wink. The success of this artifice is practically assured and, as it is relatively simple to execute, it
is indeed one of the most popular ways and means. A few of the more farsighted in the sisterhood are
well-informed enough to blow up visiting Pan-Hellenic men with an eye to future cotillions and figures. This choice bait is
generally reserved for the more veteran of the trotters, however.

There are certain mechanical devices which are in general usage also. The pat on the back is said to be
generally effective, while the hand-squeeze is very pertinent to any situation also. Every competent trotter has seen the collegian somewhere
before. That is, she creates for him the illusion that he has been around and as this is much satisfying
to the vanity, it is a very effective means. The young ladies work on the principle also that everyone is
a senior. Freshmen have been known to break time and again on trotters employing this simple artifice. Again, the trotter’s
creed recognizes every fraternity as the best. There is nothing quite so able to raise the collegian to the heights
as to realize that his is the best fraternity.

The Operating Table By? ? ?

Last weekend marked the biggest social event of the season with the Pan-Hell presenting Home-Coming Set at the Hotel Charlotte—as
if you didn’t know. These dances were the best in many a year and the girls were the loveliest ever.
However, there were two drawbacks to the whole set—one, the huge crowd in the small hall—give us the Armory; and
two, the 14-16 year old high school “jits.” We don't think that there were any students guilty of this, but
there certainly must have been quite a few children at the dances. Suggestions to the Pan-Hellenic Council: Outlawing alcohol was
easy, now let's get rid of those cannibalistic gyrators.

Red Burke's hair got redder and redder under the influence of one Margie. In other words, Davidson's little center took
his weekend in a torrid fashion. Speaking of torrid, how many noticed the strangle-hold Yvonne had on one Bayruski at
the end of the P.-H. figure? Woo is fine, but there is a time and place for everything.

Spike Mebane greatly embarrassed all at the P.-H. banquet Friday night by emptying his pockets which included such articles as:
a lipstick-besmeared hankie, a ladies silk stocking, nine Flushgrams, and Martha’s confirmation. Hobbie is still yelling the name is Maxwell,
not Fulton.

A number of Davidson students succumbed to the deadly prowess of Dan Cupid's bow 'n’ arrow. At present, we are
thinking of A. Dick whose date pulled the cord at the last minute and left A. snaking for a girl
to do the figure with him. Nothing else need be said about the poor Mayor of Boys’ Town. He deserves
an “E” for effort, and we wish him success on his next venture. Maybe Santa Claus will bring him a
gun to hunt storks with.

This corner is wondering why Anne Wiley was trying so hard to avoid Juicy Jesse while looking all over for
Jesse’s mother. Something tells us that Sonnie Boy has shot his wad in this theater of the war. Speaking of
their prexy, it is interesting to take note of the late dates that the Fijis had. Howell Morrow with a
frosh’s lass, Prexy late-dated on his roommate—the skunk. It seems that the P.-H. President would be immune to the wiles
of women by this time, but Bubbles made him right addle-brained. After all, she has attended dances throughout the South.
She’s known, too.

Classification of dates: Frigid—Peggy, Ruth, Julia, Jean, Anne, and Millie. Fair and warmer were: Dottie Sue, Thelma, Martha, Isabelle, Margaret,
Whaley, Lib, and Frances. Of course, there are many more groups as well as many more women that should be
classified, but if yours truly had known any that were more than a “little warmer” he would have dated them
himself.

Watson is still wandering around with orange blossoms floating in front of his eyes. Poor boy does not know what
hit him, but reliable sources tell us that it was Dottie Sue. Take graduate student Wayman for a perfect example
of what too many of Cupid’s arrows in the form of Thelma will do. Another member of this finishing school
is none other than No-Neck Loughridge, who certainly does not live up to his physical nickname. Martha was fine, wasn't
she, Jock?

Needless to say, some of the students were not so fortunate. At present, we are saving it for the very
last. Of course, it should be given top billing, but the grammatarians taught us that the last is always remembered
best. C. C. “Buck” McNeely did the really impossible over the weekend. He asked and TOOK two! (2) women to
the dances. That is one for the books, or else for Bob Ripley. How he did it we will never
know, but for the “Ways and Means of Taking Two Girls to a Set of Dances” Buck only charges a
fin for a half an hour's lesson. Lab work will be continued at the next set. Good night!

With The Staff By DEANE WATSON

As the hours dragged on and the time grew late, the bustling crowd of would-be journalists began to grow small.
Now and then a freshman would conquer a long-fought headline, bring it triumphantly to an editor’s desk, and muttering incoherently
something about studying six reviews on the following day, would slip quietly into the late evening chill.

This is a picture of the Davidsonian office on any Monday at midnight, when the junior editors are left re-writing
stories and attempting improvements on headlines written in the rush of assembling various pages. To write particularly difficult headlines for
special events they find themselves thumbing through faded pages of old bound volumes of Davidsonians. On these expeditions through the
news of bygone days, we have come upon many great names of men unforgettable for their feats on the football
field, for their outstanding scholarship, for their campus leadership, and for their all-round ability in the classroom and on the
athletic field. These names and pictures of alumni “greats” in the annals of Davidson College make us envy the wonderful
times that these students must have had here. “Just think of the host of friends he must have had,” we
say to ourselves; or, “think of the hundreds of students that must have felt a tingle of pride as he
passed them on the campus with a smile and a kind word. “That fellow,” we exclaim, “must truly have gotten
a great deal from his life on the campus: how lucky he was!”

Then as we continue to dream over the fading pages of dead news in the old bound volumes of Davidsonians,
a phrase comes to us that once was so familiar and now seems so strangely appropriate as an answer to
the wonder of successes of these old students: “A person reaps from any worthy undertaking only what he is willing
to put into it.” Then from this proverb, we decide that the word “luck” in describing the success of men
like these is far from appropriate. On the contrary, if we call their successes “luck,” then we must consider as
our definition of luck, long nights of utter concentration over volumes of ancient history, works of Shakespeare, and multi-paged parallel
books. We must also include afternoons of forcing tired aching muscles to carry exhausted bodies around one more lap of
cinders, or across five more yards of green turf. We must include the missing of picture shows and of pleasant
evenings discussing pro and con the popular questions of the day, for these were the bits of “luck” that students
such as these had in leaving something beside a permanent record card for Davidson College and Davidson students of later
years to remember them by.

It was men like these who built the pedestal upon which our college now rests. True, they reaped harvests of
many great friends, and the admiration of multitudes, yet, their efforts, their successes gave us the Davidson College of which
we have a right to be proud.
