Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 3, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor - Henry McIntosh
Associate Editor - Jimmy Fulcher
Associate Editor - Mac Jeffries
Managing Editor - Howell Morrow
Managing Editor - John Fairley
Managing Editor - Deane Witson
Editor - Legh Scott
Editor - Bob Welsh
Staff Photographer - Bob Welsh

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager - Dickie Hont
Advertising Manager - Don Melver
Collection Manager - Jim Harris
Circulation Manager - Teensy Hodges
Circulation Manager - George Rosborough
Circulation Manager - Buddy Carson

Narrow Minds...

Students are careless. Not just Davidson students, perhaps, but all students. Not just about material things, either, but often about things which can cause much more serious irreparable damage.

We refer to the way in which we often laugh and joke about a boy who in some way we may consider queer, possibly because he is physically different from us or more often because he holds some difference in ideas from our mean, narrow-minded average. Did it ever occur to any of us as we snickered behind our cynical hands that perhaps it is not the individual with whom we make such sport that is a little peculiar? When we accuse someone of being different would we not do well to consider whether it might not be better if all of us would deviate from the crowd a little ourselves?

We live in a limited, well-ordered society, associating with the same elite group of friends constantly until we talk, act, dress, and even look like the entire group. Then we glance at the outsiders and laugh at them because they do not use the same slang, the same mannerisms, the same sloppy habits that the “fellers” have acquired. If a boy is different, that is all the more reason that as Davidson or any other kind of gentlemen we should do all in our power to help him, not to make him miserable. For this reason more good boys than we would care to admit have been driven away from this campus on whose democracy and friendship we like to brag. But we are not as cruel to these boys as we are to some of the more unfair cases who we “cut” largely from hearsay. These are the ones whom we never bother to get to know because one of our clique once made a careless remark about some chance word or action the person in question might or might not have said or done.

Editorials

It all boils down to the fact that a large part of the student body is narrow-minded, not perhaps in the usual connotation of the term, but then there is more than one way of being narrow. Probably the most common form of narrowness which we are likely to encounter among students is intolerance of intolerance. A belief that another student does not approve of what we approve of, a condition for which a number of names have been devised, will cause immediate placement on the “list” to which there is so much reference.

The most common criticism of Davidson as an institution by its students deals vaguely with its “prep-schoolishness”, whatever that means. We can think of no more juvenile attitude than that under discussion. The point, it seems, is obvious. Who are we to judge? Have we the right to make the lives of class and college mates unhappy because of some real or fancied queerness in their lives? The answer is equally obvious.

A Way To Serve...

The following editorial is taken directly from a letter sent to college newspapers from the Association of American Colleges, with headquarters in New York. Its facts should make us more understanding about our travel discomforts and its suggestion should help us alleviate them.

As everyone knows, the railroads are doing a tremendous job of moving masses of men and materials for the war effort. But the strain on the nation’s rail facilities is becoming increasingly acute, particularly in the passenger service. The Pullman Company, for instance, will transport some 7,000,000 troops in organized movements this year alone, and on certain days half of the company’s entire fleet of sleeping cars is “in the service.” Take this mounting military traffic, add the hundreds of thousands of civilian travelers engaged in essential war work and then throw in haphazardly one hundred thousand or more college students homeward bound for the holidays and it may easily be seen what an epic traffic jam could result. Fortunately, most schools, Dr. Guy E. Snavely of the Association of American Colleges reports, are aware of the danger and are staggering closing dates so that no more than one college in a single area closes or re-opens on the same day. But there must be individual cooperation by the students, too, if troop movements are to be made on schedule, if vital war materials are to reach factories and docks on time.

College students can help most to keep the tracks clear for vital wartime use by not traveling during the peak period from December 15 to January 15. If they must go home there are some simple rules to follow which will help to keep rail travel running smoothly. They are:
1. Make Pullman reservations early. It helps railway men gauge the traffic and provide adequate facilities.
2. Cancel Pullman tickets promptly when plans are changed. Someone else can use your accommodations and, besides, if you cancel after train departure time you can no longer get a refund.
3. Take as little luggage as possible. There isn’t room in crowded cars for peacetime paraphernalia.
4. Accept available accommodations. You cannot always get just the accommodations you prefer or find space available on the train you usually take.

Few restrictions have thus far been placed upon civilian travel. Willing public cooperation in the observance of such simple voluntary rules as the foregoing has been a big factor in this excellent railroad performance. College students, as members of the public, can do their part by also observing these rules, particularly during the critical holiday period that lies ahead.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH.

Yeah, if you were at Church Sunday morning, you would have seen a real mass joining. Fourteen of our boys made that profession of faith which means so much more than mere church membership. The list includes Parrigin, Gowdy, Waynick, Waddill, Bailey, Carter, Hoheb, Robbins, Sloan, Wilkinson, Whiddon, Starling, Snodgrass, and Wheeler. Real congratulations!

Alf Taylor and boys making big plans for this Christmas Gift Fund. W. Hobbie is heading collections and has a particularly difficult job. Remember B. Lyman’s all-night activities in this line last year, and the excellent results? The project this time is unbeatable. You'll know of it this time next week, and I hope you'll be giving.

Kind remarks from many sources on “The Man Who Came To Dinner” brought much joy to the cast. Tears almost apparent because no suitable date available for repeat performance... this from the cast also! ‘Twas more fun than you know to rehearse. You'd better try out for the next play... (for no pay—just play, see?)

Wells and Caterson get most interesting reports from Hall Prayer Groups. Some are most encouraging. If records are correct, Rumple third, Watts first, Watts third, Watts fourth, West fourth, East third, North first, and South fourth, have not missed meeting each week yet. This is showing of the chart—correct me if figures are wrong. Regardless, these are good records and show much steady plugging by you.

Hard working Jero Piper notes Bill Barber, Bill Sengle, and (I started to say Bill) Heywood Brinegar as consistent Scout workers. I note Jero in like category. You are really—

Our good fortune at having Dr. McKay is singular. Otts Lectures come once every four years—I’m glad to have caught these in particular. This man is a mental and spiritual giant and many fellows got some of the best meat this week that they will ever get in lecture form.

Our infirmary gets my grateful thanks.

The Operating Table

Highest honors for the biggest deal of the week, judged from the standpoint of classes missed, miles of itinerary covered, and we hope go to Wildman Ehly for his extended visit in OldPhilly. Statements from that it was purely a business adventure. They say that the SAE function was the affair of the season. After the Charlotte failed to arrive, the fourteen-piece jug band Fort Mill tacted and brought in the country club, the “amount of good done” corner would have us believe. Local band trom quickly took to the scene. Seen at the Georgia-Georgia Tech game were Page-Pango Harris, Bonnie Ben Washburn, Flip Phillips, and Perpetual Sut. Jumping Joe Eve gained national fame by taking pictures of the goal posts to the amusement of the NBC announcer. Big Chap played host over the weekend for HoBBo, trying to forget women. Spike, who was right at home at Ole Spe-burg, and Little Chap accompanied them to keep the folks company. While Judge Silver Tongue was getting his personal affairs straight in and around North Wilkesboro, the freshmen had a weekend's grace. Also attending to similar affairs was Burkhead Walker. The most mysterious hare was pulled by Post-Grad Spencer and his Military Shadow Wooten. They departed under sealed orders, but Commanding Officer Wooten hinted that the final objective was Sweet Briar. Monk gained five more pounds while spending Thanksgiving with his W.C. miss in the usual place, eating Salisbury. He reported it was fine, the food, of course. 

The strangest bit of information to come to the attention of the roving reporter has to do with none other than Campus Kid Scotty, who was confronted with the difficult task of spending one last weekend of freedom. Finally, he decided to cut his throat in Charlotte, for the ancient city of Winston. Most frequented place in Charlotte was the stage show, but alas, the bald-headed row was filled long before the Davidsonians could get over from the Holy City. Queens was flooded with the Majors and their cohorts, none of whom did any good. Ace and Sweet reported the biggest blow-off of their career. The Ace, to hear him tell it, really has a dream-girl even though she is a little bit Yankee. Big Floyd continued to give the lassies a thrill. Before long he'll have a monopoly on the Towel Queens, but Moose is promising to give him Mooresville competition. A. Dick and his missus seem to be quite interested in country churches. They plan to settle in after the war and raise tombstones. 

This department wishes to extend the best wishes to the five frats having functions this weekend. May the brothers wet the good none of the dates flushed, or none of the dates disappointed.

Cinema Comments By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
THUNDERBIRD
* * * 
A story of the soldiers of the air. Plenty of shots, plenty of flying, and thanks for their fine efforts, with a small staff. I saw some amazingly efficient and sometimes rather thankless work on a recent visit there. Mrs. Johnson and Miss Caldwell couldn't have nursed me better. Dr. McConnell and Dr. Woods attended me faithfully, and Ol’ Hugh John did a capable job in his several capacities. No kidding, I'm about to return just for a visit... nice! Professor Siegle gave his students a real treat by having Mr. George Zabriskie, the poet, for a lecture. He'll return—and bring his charming wife, an artist herself, again. We needed more time for discussion. W.C. U.N.C. entertained royally a deputation group of us this Sunday. A mix-up in schedules caused a delay of forty-five minutes before Davidson arrived, and the girls were still there. (Rumor has it someone locked the doors!) But Sandifer and Brinegar gave outstanding talks and D. Watson and L. Potter furnished really fine music. It is hoped that W.C. will send a deputation soon. Watch the date—(now the last word in the sentence, please!) for friends, another sense of hope. Oh well, so much to say, so little time to say it in and so little time to sleep—"Good night"—yours, Shaw Smith.

With The Staff By HOWELL MORROW

We recently spent several days in the college infirmary due to the discomforts of a severe cold. While reclining on the divan in the waiting room and grieving over the sad state of affairs, we observed the following incidents. The door slowly opened and a sad-looking individual stumbled awkwardly into the room. His mode of locomotion is still somewhat of a puzzle. He seemed to be limping on one leg and dragging the other, and during his progress, he uttered the most heart-rending moans and sighs. Some kind student, taking pity on the poor soul, asked him what accident had occurred. Two dreadful words came from the cripple's lips. “Murder ball,” he muttered and collapsed into the nearest chair. This was very alarming, but the doctor and nurse did not seem disturbed and acted as if such unfortunate individuals were too numerous to cause any undue concern. Our poor maimed and gasping student remained a crumpled heap in his chair and the sick call procedure moved on in its usual way. Presently, a strange and awe-inspiring spectacle appeared at the door. A huge nose swollen to several times its normal size entered followed by a small and timid student who had to be led because he was unable to see around his oversized proboscis. The nurse came to the door, looked casually at the doctor, and said, “A broken nose; that makes five today.” The trembling (Continued on Page 4)

shots of Gene Tierney. Preston Foster, John Sutton, Reginald Denny, and Jack Holt are also present. A Lacy MacLean good picture to get your patriotic blood a-tingling.

Saturday
THE GLASS KEY
* * * 
The form of a Saturday show with Veronica Lake the point of interest. She has little trouble handling Brian Donlevy and Alan Ladd. The story is the underworld side of big town politics, a plot which gives plenty of room for action and shooting, an angle which the producers don't neglect. Bonita Granville and William Bendix share stardom.

Monday and Tuesday
ROAD TO MOROCCO
* * * 
Dorothy Lamour, Bing Crosby, and Bob Hope carry the leads in exactly the type of picture you'd expect from those three. Full of laughs and without a serious moment, it’s good entertainment with lots of Lamour, like most of her admirers like her. Dona Drake, a beautiful sub-satellite, has a prominent role as does Anthony Quinn.

Wednesday
OMAHA TRAIL
* * 
James Ellison, one of the better Western actors who shifts frequently into civies, shares the leading role with Dean Jagger in a picture classed as a good one for Wednesday. I would like for SHEP BOOTH to be my guest for any performance next week.

By-Lines By BILL LYMAN (Jim Chapman)

“On first and final impressions of politicians or ‘What fools these mortals be’.” After observing and participating in the different activities sponsored by Pete Whittle’s office, most of us cannot help but reach many conclusions about that select number of our student body known as the politicians. When first we stepped on the hallowed campus, Davidsoniana was indeed Utopiana. All the Mister Upperclassmen couldn't do enough for us. Then being orientated, we were meal-fed, feed-fed, and cigar-fed for a solid, senseless, dizzy week. After this, there was an abrupt change in most of the good-freshers’ attitudes with respect to us poor rats, but there was that “select” few of great fellows (politicians) who still spoke when we met on the walks as if we were some long-lost friend. In the recurring bull-sessions during those first few weeks, the names of these BMOC Juniors were clothed in the epitome of kind words and phrases... Such men as “Big Bill” Haig, Charlie Carstairs, “Bud” Weiser, Pat Pabst, and those brothers, Hiram and Johnny Walker. These held the places reserved only for the best.

It was not long, however, before the touch football started with Pete’s noble “Inter-dorm” experiment. Out on the fields of contest, we noted at that time a league and tinge of the real self coming out from under that shining front put up by Bud, Pat, and many of our other “friends.” When this season was completed, we settled back into that oblivious state typical of the frosh, which is so. The next week was spent in a furious rush by the Alpha Sigs, Beta Ups, Rho Ds, along with the remainder of the “Court groups” to patch their respective teams together in preparation for the inter-frat race that lurked in the immediate future. Much of meal time was spent by one of the brothers who, at the slightest provocation, rose from his seat, tapping his glass for order, and then when most of us had calmed down to a loud shout, delivered an oration on the necessity of football practice, the importance that each and every one of us turn out and ad captandum into the night. The next day the entire Alpha Sig pledge class would turn out in a body accompanied by (Continued on Page 3)