Thursday, April 23, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Old Library To Open For Student Use Soon
Floors, Walls, Ceilings Painted In Remodeling Of Building

Davidson's renovated Union Library Building will be open to use at the end of this week, but the official house warming will not be held for a short while. Much of the work on the interior of the building has already been completed. Several coats of paint have been applied to the floors, walls, and ceilings. The halls have been papered and the floors of the rooms are carpeted. Work is still proceeding on a few of the details of the remodeling plan.

Partitions
Structurally, the building has few changes. A few partitions were put in some of the upstairs rooms to turn them into comfortable living quarters. Reading rooms and sitting rooms are on the main floor. Professor Davidson's office has been converted into an office for Shaw Smith. The two other rooms on the main floor will be devoted to Y. M. C. A. recreations. One of these rooms will have a ping pong table and the other will have a pool table.

Second Floor
The upper floor will have five bedrooms for visitors and a suite for the hostess of the building. These rooms will be available to the parents and friends of the students. The basement has been converted to several dining rooms. A kitchen and pantry have also been provided for these rooms. This arrangement will provide meals for those living in the building and for small banquets.

J.M. Garrison Gives Sermon
Speaks On Opportunities Of Today’s Youth

Rev. Joseph M. Garrison of Louisville, Ky., was the guest preacher at the vespers service on Sunday evening, April 19. Mr. Garrison is the head of student guidance of the Department of Religious Education of the Presbyterian Church.

Text
Mr. Garrison spoke on “I must be about my Father’s business.” He said that college men of today have “chosen” a critical and exciting time in which to live. He said, however, that times like these cannot last forever. Young men must take advantage of opportunities to serve now, that they may be able to do so under more favorable conditions.

Alumnus
Mr. Garrison is an alumnus of Davidson of the class of 1926. Before taking up his present work in Louisville, he had been pastor for a number of years of a Presbyterian church in Columbia, Mo. The speaker for next Sunday will be Rev. John A. Redhead of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

POTEAT GIVES (Continued from Page One)
not return.” After the address, Dr. Poteat agreed to answer any question that he could, either about the situation in the world today or about the specific situation in China.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
Haircut, Shave, Shampoo
DAVIDSON, N. C.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
“Serving Davidson with Quality Merchandise”
Davidson, N. C.

At the Student Store
Deluxe Ice Cream

Baralt Talks On Relation Of Colleges
Cuban Professor Addresses Students On Pan-American Relations

Last Thursday at a joint meeting of the Spanish Club and Sigma Pi honorary fraternity, Dr. Luis A. Baralt of the University of Havana gave an address on the differences between that university and the American universities.

Founded 1721
The University of Havana was founded in 1721, 85 years after the founding of Harvard. The school was first held in a convent, and later was moved to government property. The first building was an old powder mill.

Now the University is composed of twelve different schools, and has a student body of 15,000. It is co-educational.

Two Groups
The students are divided into two groups. Those who attend classes, like the American students, and those who study by themselves. The only connection between these students and the course that they are taking is that to get credit they must stand the exams. Special summer school courses are held. Many Americans who want to study advanced Spanish go there in the summer. Last year 88 American students studied there, and more than 200 are expected this summer.

Other Talks
Dr. Baralt also spoke in chapel last Friday on Pan-American relationships. He attended and talked with two of the Freshman class in Spanish. Part of his lectures were given in Spanish. Friday night he lectured on the subject, “Is there an American Culture?”

Having spoken at Duke University and the University of Tennessee, Dr. Baralt went from Davidson to the Woman's College of Alabama. At the completion of his tour, he will speak at the University of Miami and then will fly back to Havana. He has for some time been a professor of Philosophy in this Cuban University, and also this year will preside as director of the BROWN DECORATES RIFLEMEN of the Rifle team, at a special ceremony recently. P. B. Welch, Stubbins, James Kerr, Bob Gowdy, Billy Keys, John Rose, and Bob Dunn were decorated.

Deputation
A delegation from Queens College conducted the program at the Student Sunday School class on April 19. Anne Hatcher was the leader of the delegation.

Ed Murray
Ip Wooten Is President Of Military Frat
Ashby Dick, Ed Erwin, And Joe McCoy Are Other New Officers

New officers

Announces New Staff For Annual
Morrow, McIver, Stubbins, Stimson, Jeffries, Bumbarger, Carson, Named

Ed Murray, newly elected editor of Quips and Cranks, has announced that his Junior staff for next year will be composed ofHowell Morrow, Don Melver, Gaines Stubbins, Jim Stimson, Mac Jeffries, Tommy Bumbarger, and Buddy Carson were elected at a meeting of Scabbard and Blade. These men are replacing Lyman, Wooten, Washburn, Parks, Murray, and McIntosh. Jessie Wooten was elected Captain (president) of the honorary military fraternity. At the same time, Ashby Dick was elected 1st Lieutenant (vice-president); Ed Erwin, 2nd Lieutenant (treasurer); and Joe McCoy, 1st Sergeant (secretary).

Take Office
The new officers will take over their offices towards the latter part of this year and will fill these positions until replaced late next year.

Howell Morrow is a Junior Editor of The Davidsonian, a member of the Eumenean Society, and is a Phi Gamma Delta. Don Melver is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Gaines Stubbins was high scorer on the rifle team and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Jim Stimson is a Junior Editor of The Davidsonian, a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. Mac Jeffries is a Junior Editor of The Davidsonian, a member of the Eumenean Society, and a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. Tommy Bumbarger is a member-elect of the Student Council, a member of the golf team, vice-president of the sophomore class, a member of the Beaver Club, and of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Buddy Carson is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and a basketball manager.

CULPRITS HANG
(Continued from Page One)
The sign was made fast by a rope running through openings in the armpits of the statuary. Here the maids encountered the only mishap of the undertaking. The sign was almost around when a gust of wind caught its surface like a sail and barely missed sweeping one off his insecure footing on the ledge. But to make a long story short, the poster was hung.

McCall talks, Annelle and Wayland rendered a duet, and Jane King and Annelle McCall gave the closing prayer. Plans are being made for a deputation of eight girls from Salem College to visit the class soon. This new type of program is part of an effort by the Y.M.C.A. to stimulate more interest in the class among the students.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
IT’S BELK’S FOR SMARTLY TAILORED SUMMER SLACKS

Keep cool and look smart in carefully tailored sharkskin and Rivercool slacks. These are offered in attractive shades of tan, brown, or blue. Sizes 28 to 50. $8.95 TO $10.95

Better quality slacks for Spring and Summer... tailored of all wool gabardine and flannel materials. Neatly pleated. Colors are tan, brown, and blue. Sizes 28 to 50.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
BROS. 221 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Pepsi-Cola sure tastes nice. WHAT DO YOU SAY? Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it you'll be ten bucks richer. If we don’t, we’ll shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y.

ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Our hero here is trying to get his gal to give this stag line the brush off and sit one out with him, sipping a Pepsi-Cola or two. Don’t blame him, either.

"WHEN THESE WOLVES CROW, AND YOU SIT WITH A PEPSI-COLA, YOU'RE ALLOWED."

Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER