Thursday, March 26, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Dr. Fulton Speaks To Students On Missions
Stresses Increased Importance of Future Foreign Mission Activity

Dr. C. Darby Fulton spoke to the student body last Sunday evening at the vespers hour. He brought a message
concerning the increased importance of foreign mission work during the present world crisis. Dr. Fulton, the Executive Secretary of Foreign
Missions in the Presbyterian Church of the United States, told of the necessity of an acceleration of the missionary activity
in all the fields which still remain open. The text upon which his sermon was based was taken from the
first chapter of Acts in which the charge was given to the disciples to go out as witnesses of Christ
unto all the parts of the earth.

World Turmoil
The condition of turmoil in which the world is found today was discussed. Will Christianity be overcome by the forces
of destruction, or will God find some miraculous way in which to manifest his power? This knowledge is denied to
men; they must continue prayer and must persevere in the work for Jesus no matter what turn the affairs of
the world may take. Men are not to know the time nor the place in which God will make his
holy will prevail. Men must be content to strive always to do the work of Christ, and they must be
ready for any fate. Dr. Fulton referred to the life of hardship which the disciples were forced to live in
order to further the word of God.

Prayer
An appeal was made that Christians today should resort to prayer for the accomplishment of the great task that the
mission fields present. Modern man laughs at prayer as impractical, and he depends upon plans, money, and other devices of
men. Men have utilized every power in the universe except the power which will overcome all obstacles, the power of
prayer. The disciples used prayer as their chief weapon, but we emphasize everything in our mission work except God. God
was the helping hand and the steadying influence which guided the great mission workers of the past, such as Livingston,
and others, in their efforts. Why don’t men look toward this ever-present help today when the work of Christ is
suffering difficulties in the warring nations of the earth?

Hardships
Difficulties will have to be overcome if any worthy task is accomplished, but the field is too large to be
closed because certain nations are engulfed in war. New doors are opened and new workers are needed. Dr. Fulton related
a number of stories which illustrate the suffering which the workers are subjected to in the foreign mission fields. If
these men are willing to undergo these hardships to advance the work of Christ, surely we can help with the
liberal offering of our goods and the incessant supplication through our prayers.

Arnold Earns Wings In Air Corps School
Alumnus Finishes Advanced Army Flying Course At Luke Field

Dick Arnold, of '41, and graduate of class received his silver wings and second lieutenant's commission in the Air Corps
Reserve graduation exercise March 16. Arnold completed his course in aeronautics at Luke Field, Phoenix, where he was a student
in the Air Corps Flying School. “The successful completion of this course is envied by the cadets,” say the commanding
officers.

Davidson Record
Arnold was considered one of the outstanding members of his class. He was manager of the Student Store and a
member of the Court of Control. He also was a member of ODK, honorary leadership fraternity. Dick had a varied
career in sports. He was captain of his freshmen football team. He played basketball and also went out for weight
events on the track team. Arnold was a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. He was Vice-President and also considered
a leader in fraternity activities by his fraternity brothers.

WINS WINGS
DICK ARNOLD

CONCERT
Davidson’s chapter of Phi Mu Alpha presented Miss Carroll Glenn, talented young musician, in concert last Thursday night. This attractive
violinist was supported by the Davidson-Queens Symphonic Orchestra for the first portion of her program. The orchestra assisted her in
the following numbers: Allegro Aperto, Adagio, Rondo-Tempo di Minuetto Concerto in D Major (Tchaikovsky), and Allegro Moderato. She then played
several numbers accompanied only by the piano: Ave Maria (Schubert-Wilhelmj), Minstrels (Debussy), After A Dream (Faure), March from “Love for
Three Oranges” (Prokofiev-Heifetz), and Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso (Saint-Saens).

Thursday, March 26
Lionel Barrymore
Mickey Rooney
“DR. KILDAIRE’S VICTORY”

Friday and Saturday, March 27 and 28
Judy Garland
“BABES ON BROADWAY”

Monday and Tuesday, March 30 and 31
“PLAYMATES”

Wednesday, April 1
“MISS POLLY”

Thursday, April 2
“VANISHING VIRGINIAN”

Friday and Saturday, April 3 and 4
“CAPTAIN OF THE CLOUDS”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

DAVIDSON MARKSMEN
Riflemen End Successful Season

Charlotte Alumni Club
The student-body Charter for Davidson was received at chapel Wednesday by Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Davidson faculty member and chairman
of the troop. The Scout Executive of the Mecklenburg County, Charles Safney, made the presentation. This is the fifth charter
to be received by the local Scouts. Seated on the stage were Prof. R. Mebane, Mr. Pritchett, and Mr. Nelson.
Mr. Nelson, religious leader, made a brief talk and led the prayer. Mr. Claude Nelson, son of Colonel Rey Pritchett,
spoke on world conditions and the defense of the Philippines. The Scouts of Troop 58 were represented by Jimmy Steele,
Hobart, Heath Whittle, and Assistant Scoutmaster Jerry Piper. The student-body was dismissed for a brief period in honor of the
presentation.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 2001Match Barber was Team Scores Victories Over Charlotte Club And U. of Florida

Davidson’s rifle team defeated the Charlotte Rifle and Pistol Club in a shoulder-to-shoulder match, 701 to 677, on Wednesday night,
March 18. For Davidson, Stubbin was the top man, shooting a total of 190. Close behind was Yocum Barber with
179, and King with 174. J. B. Rogers was the leading scorer for the visitors with a count of 184.

On March 11, the team traveled to Clemson where the Cadets scored an overwhelming 1029-901 victory.

Postal Matches

The results of two postal matches have been received by the Military Department. A 1804-1843 victory was scored over the
University of Florida, which in past years, has had an excellent record. In this match, the high scorer tallied 380
points. In the other postal match, with M.I.T., the Davidson sharpshooters received a 1396-1377 defeat.

Full Line of Hardware and Groceries
M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

Easter Gabardines (Imported Fabrics) Tailored by Rockingham

Want to know how to achieve that spic-and-span look? Gabardine, that’s the ticket. Beautifully fitting 3-button model suits in the
ever-popular natural shade. Also blue, brown, and tan. Rockingham suits exclusively at Belk’s.

MEN'S STORE
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
STREET FLOOR

Holds Annual Banquet

Crouch Succeeds Wilson As President Of Mecklenburg Chapter And Young To Be Secretary

On March 20, the Mecklenburg Chapter of the Davidson Alumni Association held its annual banquet. After the banquet, the college
quartet entertained the alumni with two songs and Earl Berg gave a solo. These were accompanied by Kenneth Osborne at
the piano. Several Davidson songs were then sung by the entire group.

Speakers

George E. Wilson, Jr., president of the chapter, acted as toastmaster and introduced the visitors and speakers. The first speaker
was Fred Morton, who spoke on the effect of the war on football this fall. He was followed by F.
L. Jackson, who spoke to the group on Davidson's living endowment. After this, J. L. Payne, Davidson's secretary, discussed the
next meeting.

Next Meeting

The next meeting of the club will be held after the Easter holidays. For that time, the program committee is
trying to secure a guest speaker from Charlotte.

Above is pictured Davidson's crack rifle team which has just completed a successful season. Left to right are, kneeling, Dave
Yocum, Van Wilson, Bill Barber, and Paul Rees; standing, Lieut. R. R. Spencer of the R.O.T.C. staff, Robert Dunn, Gaines
Stubbins, Bob Gowdy, Nat King, Jim Kerr, and Sergeant B. R. Burton of the R.O.T.C. staff.

Davidson Deputation Holds Service at Queens College

Sunday night, the Davidson Deputation led the service at Queens College. The program was "Serve Your Christ with Gladness." Ed
Hipp, Bob Wood, Hank Crane, and Buddy Adams carried on the program. Ed Hipp led the group in prayer, after
which Bob Wood gave a talk on service. Hank Crane spoke on spiritual things, pointing out that military weapons alone
can never win a war.

Actors Work on Next Play

The one-act play "You Can't Take It With You" is being prepared by the Davidson Players for presentation during the
third week of April. This play, popular in its movie version, concerns the quirky Vanderhof family of New York City.
The cast includes Carolyn Parker as Gay Wellington, Miss Lahlsta Hood as Grandpa Vanderhof, Hank Watt, Webster McCloud, and Jimmy
Nisbet as three G-Men. Dr. Frazer Hood of the psychology department is directing the production.

DO YOU DIG IT?

*ENGLISH TRANSLATION

This glamour doll is telling her pals to close their books because the boys are slicing a birthday cake (with
candles on it) and Pepsi-Cola’s being served with it. What could be better!

WHAT DO YOU SAY?

*Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it you'll be ten bucks richer. If we don't, we'll
shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island
City, N. Y.

Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.
