= Wildcat Sports =

DAVIDSON, Wednesday, April 1, 1942

K.A.'s Leading Cat-Catawba Fracas

By BUTCH PHARR

Page Four

THE SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE

Davidson's varsity golf team is preparing to leave on an extended tour of the south this week to take on several colleges during the spring holidays. In preparation for the tilt, the golfing Cats met the University of Florida under regular game conditions. Coach Shepard used four of his varsity hurlers during the fray while none of the freshmen pitchers were used. Ed Major started for the varsity against Lefty Paul and was relieved. Bob McLeod finished for the freshmen while Mac Morris wound up the game for the varsity.

With the regular season underway, the Cat lineup is practically settled. Red Bethea and Paul Kissling will handle the catching duties while Captain Bob Carter and Bob McReynolds, and Jack Abels, who were all consistent players, will be hard to replace. Missing from the golfing squad will be Granny Sharpe, last season's captain who showed up well in the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament.

Davidson Wildcats inaugurated their 1942 baseball season Tuesday when the Cats met the Catawba Indians on Richardson field. Ed Lucas was the starting hurler for the Cats in their initial encounter of the year.

Opening Track Meet

The track season opens today against the South Carolina Gamecocks, allowing Coach Whittle one glimpse of his team under fire before they leave for the holidays. An interesting side light during the meet will be the dual between the two Lacy brothers who will represent Davidson in both the 100 and 220 yard dashes. They stand about even in the time trials though Bill has had a 10.2 second 100 so far which is better than any of Brother Ben's times. Arch Taylor has been switched from the 100 to the 400 besides his hurdling duties, and will perform with Bill Loy in this event.

Golf Tournament

Attention was centered last week around the Annual North and South Golf Tournament held in three of the large cities of North Carolina. The tournament isn’t played on the same course, as is usually the case, but alternates between the links in Pinehurst, Greensboro, and Charlotte, with prizes for the winners at each one. Though the master-stroker Ben Hogan was there in full force, the gallery gathered mainly around the local favorites.

Tennis

The tennis and golf teams are leaving tomorrow on their annual spring holiday trips and are hoping to return with good records. Both teams suffered severely by graduation losses and are depending mainly on new material to round out the squads. Dick Shore and Miller Sproul, last year’s number one and two men from last year’s varsity squad, teamed up for a hot doubles combination which will be hard to replace.

Interfraternity Volleyball

With about half of the tournament already played, the hot Kappa Alpha’s nine is leading the Interfraternity Volleyball Tournament with five games won and none lost. Running a close second are the Kappa Sigs who have only lost one game out of the six played and that to the leading K.A.’s in the crucial match of the tourney. Behind the two leaders are the S.A.E’s with three won and two lost in their five games. The Phi Gams and the S.-P. E.’s are in a tie for fourth place each having won two while dropping two.

Tie For Fifth

There's another tie for the fifth position between the Betas and the Phi Delts with two wins and three losses each. The A.T.O.’s and the Pi Kapps are battling with each other to get out of the cellar, but the Pi Kapps are ahead, having won one game over the luckless A.T.O.’s.

SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE

Apr. 1—Track, Varsity vs. South Carolina, Home, 2:30 P.M.
Apr. 3—Tennis, Varsity vs. Emory, away.
Apr. 3—Golf, Varsity vs. The Citadel, away.
Apr. 4—Tennis, Varsity vs. Georgia, away.
Apr. 6—Tennis, Varsity vs. Florida, away.
Apr. 7—Golf, Varsity vs. Florida, away.
Apr. 8—Golf, Varsity vs. Georgia, away.
Apr. 9—Tennis, Varsity vs. C. of Charleston, away.
Apr. 9—Baseball, Varsity vs. Lenoir Rhyne, Home.
Apr. 10—Tennis, Varsity vs. Boston College, Home.
Apr. 10—Baseball, Varsity vs. North Carolina, Home.
Apr. 11—Golf, Varsity vs. The Citadel, Home.
Apr. 11—Track, Varsity vs. V.P.I., away.
Apr. 11—Track, Frosh vs. V.P.I., away.
Apr. 14—Baseball, Frosh vs. Concord, Home.
Apr. 15—Golf, Varsity vs. Vanderbilt, away.
Apr. 15—Baseball, Varsity vs. Duke, Home.
Apr. 17—Track, Frosh vs. Reynolds High, Home, 4:15 P.M.
Apr. 17—Golf, Varsity at Southern Intercollegiate Tournament.
Apr. 18—Baseball, Frosh vs. Oak Ridge, Home.
Apr. 19—Golf, Varsity at Southern Intercollegiate Tournament.
Apr. 21—Baseball, Varsity vs. N.C. State, away.
Apr. 22—Baseball, Frosh vs. Concord High, away.
Apr. 24—Baseball, Varsity vs. Wofford, away.
Apr. 25—Baseball, Varsity vs. Morris Field, away.
Apr. 25—Baseball, Frosh vs. Albemarle American Legion, Home.
Apr. 25—Track, Belmont Abbey vs. Frosh, Home.
Apr. 28—Golf, Varsity vs. North Carolina, away.
Apr. 28—Baseball, Varsity vs. North Carolina, away.
Apr. 28—Baseball, Frosh vs. Albemarle American Legion, Home.
Apr. 28—Track, Varsity vs. Presbyterian, away.
Apr. 28—Track, Frosh vs. Presbyterian Frosh, away.
Apr. 29—Baseball, Varsity vs. Duke, away.
Apr. 30—Golf, Varsity vs. Army (away) tentative.
Apr. 30—Baseball, Frosh vs. Oak Ridge, Home.
Apr. 30—Golf, Varsity vs. North Carolina, away.Nine holes which should stand up. Smith will be on first. The loss of such pros as Nelson, Wood, Heafner, and Red Burke, who quit the squad recently, will put Dickie Phillips on second while Owens and Mebane, Upchurch, and Tieing for the number three and four positions behind Cavert and Bumbarger are Frank Mebane and Sid Daffin and Jack Clark, both back this season, will be in the outer gardens again while Butch Caldwell has the other outfield spot.

The freshmen will have their opener several days after the Spring holidays. While the pitchers have not been tested as yet, the rest of the squad has rounded into shape.

Missing from this year’s squad are all four of last year’s varsity team with Cavert being the only returning letterman.

The tennis team will leave Friday, April 3, on its annual Southern Tennis Tour through Georgia and Florida. The first team to be met will be Georgia Tech in Atlanta on the third. Following this on the fourth, the team is matched against Georgia Evening College, also of Atlanta. Over the weekend, they will journey on down into Florida to meet two universities there. First on the schedule is The University of Florida on the sixth. Members of the team making the trip are: John Crichton, Captain; Gene Sutton; Craig Schmidt; Buck Archer; and Lyman Parrigan.

Faced by a revengeful South Carolina squad in their first dual meet today, Davidson's trackmen buckle down to the task of repeating last year's smashing 76-50 victory and sending the Gamecocks back to Columbia a beaten team.

Led by Captain Williamson and Arch Taylor in the hurdles, the Wildcats present a smooth and balanced aggregation and should prove tough competition throughout the season. The strength of the invaders, on the other hand, is untried. They look most powerful in the dashes and weights, where speedsters Mac Riley and “Scooter” Rucks, and powerful Joe Krivonak, with his three-foot shoulders, hold sway.

Bill Lacy, Ben Lacy, and Hugh Sprunt stack up favorably against the Cocks in the hundred, where Maclver Riley and Tommy Attaway look strongest. At 220 yards, the two Lacys and Sprunt again represent the Cats, while the visitors will offer Riley, Rucks, and Attaway. Bill Loy and Arch Taylor look strongest in the 440 while Orr, Rucks, and Attaway offer competition.

John Belk, Nimmons, and Coppedge face a trio of Carolinians along the half-mile course, and the latter two, along with White, carry the Red and Black in the mile. Nichols, Parks, Long, and Kerr are entered for the grueling two-mile: with Glenn Terrell and Davey Spencer showing the way, Davidson should rack up more than a few points via discus, shot, javelin, and high jump. Their most serious rivalry will, in all probability, come from Krivonak and Chamis.

CAROLYN CASSIDY, Miss American Aviation. From coast to coast, our country's airlines are playing a major part in National Defense. From coast to coast, Chesterfield gives smokers more pleasure.

WE WILL WIN. We did it before and we'll do it again. Once a smoker has enjoyed Chesterfield's cooler, better taste, he smokes them again and again.

WHEREVER YOU FIND A BLUEJACKET, YOU'LL FIND CHESTERFIELD. On PT boats, in submarines, on aircraft carriers, and in battleships, they give smokers what they want.

Although the scheduled meet with Central High of Charlotte has been canceled, the Wildkittens are rounding into shape for an April 11 match with the V. P. I. frosh. Coach Spearman has been working hard with his charges, and the leading candidates appear to be as follows: 100-yard dash, Pendleton, Yarborough, and Wills; 220-yard dash, Yarborough, George Peters, and Bill Dunn; 440, McAlister, Bingham; 880, Potter and Ennett; mile, Byrd, H. Belk, and Grimsley; broad jump, Pendleton, and Peters; high jump, Peters; and in the field events, Pendleton, Roach, Riffe, and Kerr.

Thursday, April 2
S. P. E.’s vs. Guilford away.

Friday, April 3
Tennis, Varsity vs. George Washington (tentative), away.

Saturday, April 4
Baseball, Varsity vs. Catawba, away.

Monday, April 6
Baseball, Varsity vs. Guilford, Home.

Tuesday, April 7
Golf, Varsity vs. Washington and Lee away.

Thursday, April 9
Golf, Southern Conference Tournament.

Friday, April 10
Baseball, Varsity vs. Field, Home.

Monday, April 12
Baseball, Lenoir Rhyne vs. Home.

Tuesday, April 14 and Wednesday, April 15
Track, Southern Conference Meet.

Thursday, April 15
Baseball, Varsity vs. State, Home.

(All baseball games 3:30 P.M.)

"MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT"

Thursday, April 2
"VANISHING VIRGINIAN"

Friday and Saturday, April 3 and 4
"CAPTAIN OF THE CLOUDS" JAMES CAGNEY

Monday and Tuesday, April 6 and 7
"TWO-FACED WOMAN" GRETA GARBO

Wednesday, April 8
"FRISCO LILL"

Thursday, April 9
"KATHLEEN"

Friday and Saturday, April 10 and 11
"FLEET SIN"