ES PORTS | patie i S TAR HEELS SPOTLIGHT | By LEGH SCOTT Thursday, November 5, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN aaa 2 e Victory Is Sweet

Davidson's victory over the V.M.I. Keydets was heralded with unprecedented rejoicing at home and abroad. Those returning to the campus after the weekend could feel the new spirit almost immediately: Smiles on the coaches’ faces (Coach and managers), and the hallelujah-amen spirit among the students.

POSH Face RED GETS ONE KICKOFF __||Passes Pave Way

To the recognition and pride of a job well done. Stars in the game were numerous. Probably the deciding factor was the superiority of the Wildcat line over the Keydets' play. The first string linemen literally pushed their opponents all over the field, and the reserves finished up the job, with every man who made the trip except two seeing action. After that first touchdown, the Wildcat fireworks, suppressed so far all season, broke loose with all their fury.

Davidson's surprising Wildkittens turned in outstanding performances in the backfield. Freddy really found himself Saturday, tossing a pass for the first touchdown, kicking three extra points, and playing a general bang-up game. Buck, who turned out to be very much eligible in spite of statements made in this column last week, was outstanding for his pass defense (one of his weaknesses in the past), intercepting three Keydet aerials, and for his passing, which is a newly assumed duty. He heaved a beauty to Pat Williams (not his brother, incidentally) for a score and completed several others. George Peters turned in some pretty running from the tailback position.

We Can Do It Again

It has been shown that the Tar Heels are beatable, and it has also been proved that Davidson can win one. The feeling is spreading on the campus that the Wildcats, if they play like they did last week, have an excellent chance to take the Tar Heels. Speed and deception are being stressed in the drills this week, with razzle-dazzle galore embodied in the new plays, some of them suggested by Ga. Tech. Carolina will get a warm reception in Charlotte Saturday.

Odds and Ends

State and Carolina furnished one of the most thrilling games seen in this section in recent years. Faircloth’s sneak through Carolina’s line for a touchdown with the ball behind his back was one for the books. Both teams put on a dazzling passing show just before the half. With two minutes to go, the Wolves connected with one for a score; and immediately following the kickoff, Austin took a long one for a T.D. Red Bethea continues to kick for the Wildcats with amazing consistency as evidenced above. He will turn this skill on the Tar Heels Saturday in an effort to keep their backs against the wall. With his injury practically well, he should see plenty of heavy duty this week.

Mac Bruce’s leg injury has failed to heal properly, and he will be lost to the team for the rest of the season. Gene Bingham has given up school in favor of the Naval Air Corps. The loss of both these men will be felt.

Game Tomorrow Afternoon | Squad Begins Homecoming Festivities

Davidson's surprising Wildkittens, fresh from their initial victory of the season as they downed a V.M.I. team 24-0 in Lexington, will meet the Biddle Gable veterans on the home field Friday afternoon in their fourth encounter of the season. The Wildcats, arriving in Chapel Hill early Saturday morning, were consequently handicapped by the loss of sleep. However, the 'Cats made a fine showing before bowing to the Cadets, who boasted a two-goal lead at halftime. The Preps chalked up a score in the opening moments of the fray and tallied their other marker midway through the second period. In a scrap near the Davidson goal, a Wildcat intercepted a pass to prevent further scoring.

Despite the fact that the 'Cats lost, they nevertheless turned in creditable performances in all their games. They were trounced twice by High Point College and once by the South Carolina Frosh. The Wildcats, led by three outstanding backs: Bettis Herlong, Billy Rutland, and Jack Crouch, all of whom have seen service with the varsity this year, will show a dazzling attack with their Notre Dame shifts, spreaders, and flankers. As do the Kittens, they will probably throw the ball around considerably.

Leading the Kittens in every game to date have been Gwynn Fletcher and Roland Paylor, two fine backs. The Wildcats, arriving in Chapel Hill early Saturday morning, were consequently handicapped by the loss of sleep. However, the 'Cats made a fine showing before bowing to the Cadets, who boasted a two-goal lead at halftime. The Preps chalked up a score in the opening moments of the fray and tallied their other marker midway through the second period. In a scrap near the Davidson goal, a Wildcat intercepted a pass to prevent further scoring.

Despite the fact that the 'Cats lost, they nevertheless turned in creditable performances in all their games. They were trounced twice by High Point College and once by the South Carolina Frosh. The Wildcats, led by three outstanding backs: Bettis Herlong, Billy Rutland, and Jack Crouch, all of whom have seen service with the varsity this year, will show a dazzling attack with their Notre Dame shifts, spreaders, and flankers. As do the Kittens, they will probably throw the ball around considerably.

Leading the Kittens in every game to date have been Gwynn Fletcher and Roland Paylor, two fine backs.Hugh McArn, Johnny Walker, and Cecil Craig will be sorely felt in the remaining games. However, “Ace” Lowrey, Stafford, and Grover Maloney have reported for practice and will be available for action, his chief talent being his passing ability.

Attention is here called to the Davidson broadcast originating from WBT Thursday night at 6:15, details of which appear elsewhere on this page.

Orchids to the Charlotte papers for their generous write-ups on Saturday's game.

(This is the second in a series of briefs on the coaches of Wildcat teams for the benefit of newcomers to the campus).

LAURENCE SPEARMAN
Native of Newberry, S.C., and was graduated from Newberry College. Was a three-sport man there, making several All-State selections in football. He coached football and other sports at Chester High School in Chester, S.C., for nine years. During this time his football eleven tasted defeat only four times and won the State championship several times. He acts as end coach, but this year is assuming most of the line coaching duties due to Coach Chapman’s absence. He is also freshman track coach.

The K.A.’s moved into undisputed possession of fourth place by winning from the S.P.E.’s while the Phi Gams fell into the sixth spot after losing two games to the K. Sigs and the S.P.E.’s. By virtue of wins over the Phi Delts and the S.P.E.’s, the Pi Kaps are in fifth place. The Phi Delts, the Independents, and the S.P.E.’s are in a deadlock for sixth place. The Pikas still hold tightly to the cellar.

RADIO BROADCAST
A pep meeting extraordinary is scheduled to come off tonight at 6:15 p.m., when a contingent from the college will broadcast over station WBT 1110 on your dial. This group will include Coaches McEver, Shepard, and Spearman, and several members of the football squad, all of whom will make talks. A part of the band will go along to add “oomph” to this super of all pep-inspiring agencies.

On Monday night, Coaches McEver and Shepard of Davidson, and backfield coach, Grady Pritchard, of Carolina, participated in the program of the Charlotte Quarterback Club, along with a representative of the Carolina Pre-Flight School.

Mac Bruce, above, is expected to be out of action for the remainder of the season due to a leg injury. The sensational scat-back has had a hard time of it recently, having been in several wrecks.