DEBATE TEAM IS CHOSEN ‘ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS’ SCABBARD AND BLADE INITIATES

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1942 No. 11

Debate Team Holds Tryouts In Phi Hall To Choose Orators

Six “Regular” Members, Two Alternates Picked By Faculty Judges

Tryouts were held in Phi Hall at three o'clock last Thursday. The following men were chosen: Jim McCrary, Priestley Conyers, Grayson Tucker, Howell Morrow, Allen Bosch, and Ed Pickard; with alternates, Hank Crane and Haywood Brinegar. Some fifteen men tried out for the team, each making a five-minute speech. The judges were Dr. Johnson, Dr. Cumming, Dr. Williamson, and Professor Beaty.

Tournament

The first tournament started last Wednesday in Charlotte and will last till Saturday. Those attending the tournament are Jesse Wooten, Joe Morton, Ed Pickard, Howell Morrow, Grayson Tucker, and Haywood Brinegar. Morton and Wooten are not on the team, but they were allowed to go on the trip when two of the regular members of the team found that they could not attend the tournament. Wooten and Morton were on the team before, Morton being on in his sophomore and junior years; Wooten in his junior year, and also on the freshman team. Each of the debaters will have to prepare both the negative and the affirmative sides of the question and will be told which stand they will take at the tournament.

Question

The question to be debated at the Charlotte tournament this week is that the United Nations should establish a permanent federal union with powers to tax, regulate international commerce, settle international disputes, and maintain a police force to uphold its decisions, and allowing for the admission of other nations which accept the principles of the union.

McKay Begins Otts Lecture

First Two Lectures Given On Sunday And Monday

Dr. John M. McKay, noted author and speaker, began his series of lectures in Chambers Auditorium last Monday, November 30th. His subject was “Heritage and Destiny of the Individual.” The first point brought out by Dr. McKay was the fact that man is merely a part of nature and he is most truly himself when he lives in a perfect adjustment to things around him. Many times the environment isn’t worth fitting into and it is seen that scientists, philosophers, and prophets hardly ever fit into their surroundings.

Subconscious Desires

Dr. McKay went on to say that man is what he is because of what takes place in his subconscious desires. The chief desire being free expression without repression. The Marxist view is that man is what he is when all his material wants are satisfied. Such a philosophy of values enables those who are well off to predominate over those who have nothing, but man does not live by bread alone. Another view is that of humanism or idealism, which seeks the highest harmony. Another view is that of man expressing the will to power with all his strength.

Weakness

The weakness of all these views lies in their seeking self-satisfaction. According to the German and Japanese theory, man is man in his own heritage, race, and nation. This offsets the democratic idea of the individual by relatedness to a race. The answer, Dr. McKay went on to say, is that such a relatedness is a heritage which is too limited. The true version is a relatedness to God and his fellowman. God made man in His own image, and man was made in love and for love. Christianity is a relatedness for heroes because so few have such a love.

Love

Man is not man until he becomes one with his fellowman in a community of love, until he responds (Continued on Page 4) harmoniously.

Yearling Is Pledged By Alpha Sigs

Freshman Joins ‘Secret Society’; Proves Self True Member of Club

By ED SUTTON

Freshman classes come and go, but the average freshman mentality varies. I am referring to the case of one of our most noxious freshmen who fell headlong into a trap which had been set for just such a knowing young gent. Walking into the room of an upper-classman last week, he immediately began to give forth with his usual low-grade chatter. The trap had been baited and the occupants of the room were ready. The trend of conversation drifted to and fro and the subject was led up to with a grace and beauty that only an upper-classman can use on a freshman of this caliber.

Mystic Order

One of the “ribbers” became the chief subject of talk and as things progressed, he posed as a B.M.O.C. The victim was then confidentially asked if he had ever heard of the Mystic Order of the Alpha Sigma Sigma. The yearling, not wishing to display his ignorance along any line, agreed that it was the organization of organizations and every man should be one. “Why,” said the plotters, “Joe Blow, here, is president of said frat, which is the top honor of the campus.”

Eminent Archon

The unsuspecting frosh, a bit breathless from standing in the presence of the Eminent Archon, was well along the way to ruin now, and his tormentors strained to conceal their merriment. A last year’s issue of the Scripts n Pranks was then taken from the shelf in which was found a burlesque on the Davidsonian. On the front page was a write-up of the dealings of the Alpha Sigs. The victim was filled with a burning desire to join this famous band, but after falling for a line of this type, it is easy to see that he was already a member.

Didn’t Understand

The bewildered frosh picked up the magazine again and read the article again. He finally admitted that he did not quite understand one of the terms used in describing the organization, but one of the men on hand put him straight with a line of sixteen-syllable words that a professor would have found difficult to decipher. The time for the climax had arrived and leading the victim into another room, he was extended a bid. He was quick to take advantage of this opportunity and accepted. There was a great shout of joy and someone went down the hall to find an appropriate pledge button. Here my tale ends, however, for some traitor tipped the freshman off and the grand plans for the pledging ceremonies and initiation were put aside. The farce had served its purpose, though, and it is my opinion that there will be one less noxious freshman around from now on. What do you think?

BROWN AT MEETING

Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of Faculty, is attending the meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, which is being held in Memphis, Tenn., this week. He is the only representative that Davidson College will have at this important session of the organization.

SCABBARD AND BLADE INITIATES

Above are pictured eight of the nine men honored by Scabbard and Blade, honorary military organization at Davidson, at its annual fall tapping ceremony held at a regimental parade Monday, Nov. 30. The cadets selected were, left to right: Lt. Marvin Mebane, Lt. Lacy Mackean, Lt. Burkehead Walker, Lt. Clarence Legerton, Capt. Ross Parks, Capt. John McGee, Lt. J. D. Phillips, and Lt. Gene Sutton. Absent from the picture was Lt. B. R. Lacy, who was absent from the ceremony due to a leg injury.

Dean of Julliard School Presents Third Concert

On Thursday, December 10, Ernest Hutcheson, noted pianist, will appear here in Chambers Auditorium in the third of the current concert series. Born in Melbourne, Australia, Mr. Hutcheson toured extensively in his own country at the age of five as a child prodigy. At fourteen, he was sent to Leipzig, Germany, to study under the masters Reinecke, Zwintscher, and Jadassohn. After appearing in England and Russia, he came to the Peabody Conservatory of Baltimore, and finally settled in New York City. Mr. Hutcheson has thoroughly identified himself with the musical development of this country. He has played with every symphonic organization of note, while his New York recitals form an integral part of each musical season.

Ernest Hutcheson is a composer as well as a pianist, his works including a violin concerto, a concerto for two pianos, and many smaller piano compositions. As Dean of the Julliard Graduate School of Music, an endowed institution unique in its nature and province, Ernest Hutcheson holds a position of extraordinary influence in the musical life of this country, an influence which extends far beyond the boundaries of our country.

The popular notion that musicians are freaks and know nothing but music does not apply to great artists. An omnivorous reader, even as a lad, Hutcheson had mapped out a systematic course ofserious study—philosophy, history, art, science, and at twenty-two, had acquired such learning that George Ainslee Hight, the English philosopher and authority on Nietzsche, pronounced him “one of the best-read men” he had ever met. As a pianist, Mr. Hutcheson discloses a singularly gifted and arresting personality. The listener senses the comprehending mind, the imagining spirit, the humor, and the pathos that illumine his playing. He is eminently the translator of the measureless vistas of the imaginative realm. Contrary to many other famous pianists who find the strain of extensive tours alleviated by repeating the same program, Hutcheson finds that he plays best when continually playing new compositions, using no less than eleven concertos and twenty different recital programs.

RIFLE TEAM

On Friday, December 11, there will be a practice match between the Freshman rifle team and the regular rifle team. This match will be in preparation for the Fourth Corps Area matches, which are scheduled to begin early in the second semester. Each team will be composed of ten members, but only the five highest scores fired by each team will be counted. Among those sure to represent the upperclassmen are: Bill Barber, J. M. Rose, and D. M. Yocum. The Freshmen who will probably be among the ten chosen to represent the Freshman rifle team are: T. B. Snodgrass, W. F. Rainey, H. M. McArn, and R. M. Worth.

Ernest Hutcheson, Famous Musician To Render Concert In Chambers December 10

GRADES OUT

Beginning next Friday, December 4th, mid-semester reports will be available for all students. This announcement was released by Mr. Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar. The grades published at mid-semester this year will include all the grades which the student has received from the beginning of school, on September 13th, until Saturday, November 28th. Mr. Hengeveld also announced that all grades will be available for Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors in the office of the Registrar any time after tomorrow. This is a change in the usual procedure which has been followed by the administration for a number of years. Usually, the grades have been issued to all the students through letters. However, it was decided to adopt this new plan in order to make the procedure less complicated. Any Freshman will be given all his grades upon request. These grades, which are not kept as permanent records, will be sent to parents by the college administration.

ERC Deadline December Tenth Is Named As Last Day For Students To Enlist

Last Monday, the R.O.T.C. department announced that the last date on which Davidson students will be able to enlist in the Enlisted Reserve Corps will be December 10. By that date, all students who wish to enlist must have had their physical examinations and must have their papers completely filled out. Anyone desiring to enlist should not delay beyond that time, as he will not be able to enlist at the R.O.T.C. building, since the enlisting facilities will be closed. And since no student can enlist in the Enlisted Reserve Corps except at his own college, any Davidson student who has not enlisted by December 10 will have his only avenue of enlistment closed. Colonel McAndrew made the following statement: “The decision is a simple one; you have to decide whether to remain under the jurisdiction of the draft or to remove yourself from the control of the draft. You must make this decision now, because if you are not ready for enlistment until after December 10, all the R.O.T.C. department can do is to offer you its sympathies.”

MR. HUTCHESON

Mr. Ernest Hutcheson, above, noted pianist, will present the third in the Davidson College Concert Series next Thursday, December 10. Mr. Hutcheson is known not only as a musician himself but as a composer and Dean of the Juilliard Graduate School of Music in New York. His concert will be the last of those to be presented during the first semester, Helen Jepson and the Opera in Miniature having already been presented in the series.

Special Frosh That Failed Test Disciplined

Court of Control Calls 18 Who Failed Test On Regulations

The Freshman Court of Control held a meeting last Monday night, November 30, in Eu Hall. Eighteen freshmen were brought up before the court at that meeting. They were all faced with charges connected with a test given to the Freshman class on October 15. This test was given by Jim Fulcher, freshman adviser, on the Student Government Constitution. Thirteen of the eighteen guilty men failed to pass the test. The five remaining men before the court had failed to take the test. Judge Joe McCoy sentenced the guilty men to write a 1,500-word paper. The topic of the paper is to be the Davidson College Student Government Constitution, with special emphasis placed by the authors on the Honor Section of the Constitution. Last year, the student body passed an amendment to the Constitution, requiring the freshman class to give the adviser a test on the Constitution. The purpose of the amendment is to familiarize the student body with the provisions of the Constitution. Freshmen must study the Honor System, and they will better understand it. Students will also become more intelligent voters when choosing members of the student body government.

Yule Program Will Be Given

Davidson-Queens Group To Present “The Messiah”

The Band, the Glee Club, and the Queens Choral Club, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, will present their annual Christmas program in the Auditorium of Chambers on Sunday afternoon, December 6, at 4:30 o'clock. They are presenting this year “The Messiah” by Handel. Also with these three famed organizations will be presented the following soloists: Mrs. C. M. Hassell of Charlotte, soprano; Mrs. E. P. Davis of Charlotte, contralto; A. C. Lovelace of the Queens faculty, tenor; Earl Berg of the Davidson faculty, baritone; and Kenneth Osborne, also of the Davidson faculty, organist.

Band Concert

On Friday, November 27, the Davidson College Symphonic Band under the direction of Mr. Pfohl presented the third in a musical Organization Concerts series. The fanfare consisted of the National Anthem, Chorale: If Thou Be Near by Bach, Overture: The Secret Marriage by Cimarosa, Goldman, Nading, American Echo Waltz by Schmidt, Bernhardt, the 2nd Cornet Trio by Messrs. Pavanne from Symphonette by Gould, Clarinet Quartette: Bach Goes To Town by Templeton, Messrs. Whisnant, Sipe, Spratt, Allen, Porgy and Bess Selections by Gershwin, Pictures at an Exhibition by Mussorgsky, Finale from Symphony in F Minor No. 4 by Tchaikovsky, Davidson by Shields, and the National Anthem.

Scabbard and Blade Taps Nine Members

National Honorary Military Society Holds Semi-Annual Tap Day

At the regimental parade on Monday, November 30, Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military society, held its semi-annual tap day and tapped nine new members. In the course of the parade and after orders had been published, Jesse Wooten and Ed Dick tapped the following as they knelt in their positions: Ben Lacy, Clarence Legerton, Marvin Mebane, Dick Philips, Gene Sutton, John McGee, Burkhead Walker, Sidney Ross Parks, and Lacy MacLean. These men will go through a period of pledging and then be given the final ritual.

Officers

The local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, known as Company I of the Fifth Regiment, has as its officers the following: Captain, Jesse Wooten; First Lieutenant, Ed Dick; Second Lieutenant, Sergeant (Recording Secretary), Joe McCoy; and Liaison Officer, Bob Raney. Tap Day is held once each Spring and Fall to select outstanding members of the R.O.T.C. to become Cadets of the Scabbard and Blade.

Old Members

Besides the above-named officers, there are also the following members who were tapped last Spring: Bob Raney, John Frederick, Myron Sandifer, Joe McCoy, Jack Wayman, Don Caterson, Fred Morton, and John Bett. The chapter now has a total membership of twenty-one.

Literary Club Holds Special Meeting Here

Eumenean Society Reorganizes For Coming Year

The Eumenean Literary Society held a special called meeting on Tuesday, November 24 to reorganize for the coming semester. New Plans Besides reorganizing, the officials of the Eumenean Society elected officers for the first semester. This was the first time the society had met this year. The new officers are: President, John McGee; Vice President, Irwin; Secretary, Treasurer, and Sergeant-at-Arms. The Eumenean Society this year plans to get started with concrete plans for reviving cooperation. Plans for initiation and names of new members were also brought up at this meeting, and trial bids will be sent out in the very near future to any prospects for membership. The meeting was closed by a feed served in the Eumenean hall.