HELEN JEPSON GIVES CONCERT TOMORROW

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

JOHNSON SIGNED FOR HOME COMING

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1942 No. 4

Clemson Helen Jepson Sings Concert Here Friday

Leading Metropolitan Soprano And Popular Concert Star To Open Musical Series

Tomorrow night at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, Helen Jepson, glamorous Metropolitan Opera star, will present the first of Davidson College's
1942 concert series with a well-balanced program of music. Having performed all over the world, Miss Jepson is considered one
of the leading sopranos of the age and is generally recognized as the foremost prima donna of the Metropolitan Opera
Co. Tickets are on sale by the members of the Panhellenic Council and affiliated committees. Following is Miss Jepson’s program
for tomorrow:

Program by Helen Jepson
Stevenson Barrett at the Piano

I. Aria: Song, from Faust .......... Gounod
II. Die Mainacht .......... Brahms
Auftrage .......... Schumann
King of Thule and Jewel .......... Schubert
Wiegenlied .......... Strauss
Standchen .......... Strauss
III. L'Isle joyeuse .......... Debussy
Mr. Barrett
IV. Arias from “Manon” .......... Massenet
Adieu, notre petite table (Act I) .......... Massenet
Gavotte, from Ballroom Scene .......... Massenet
Intermission
V. Mandoline .......... Debussy
Le Crepuscule .......... Massenet
Vocalise .......... Ravel
Aria: Mirror Song, from “Thais” .......... Massenet
VI. Beneath a Weeping Willow .......... Francis Hopkinson
Serenade .......... Paul Nordoff
The Soldier’s Bride .......... Rachmaninoff
Alleluia .......... O'Connor-Morris

“Y” To Hold Discussions

The Y.M.C.A. recently announced plans for a series of open forums to be held on the topic of “Obligations of
Organizations and Individuals in the Present Crisis.” The first of these open forums is to be held on Tuesday evening,
October 20, at 7:30 o'clock. The subject of this first open forum will be: “Function of The College in The
Present World Crisis.”

The program will be opened with short talks by members of the faculty. It will then be thrown open for
discussion and everyone will be given a chance to express his viewpoints.

First Speakers

Speakers for the first meeting will be: Dr. Cunningham, presenting the views of the administration on the present world crisis;
Dean Brown, presenting the views of the faculty on the subject; Mr. Sheppard, presenting the question of Physical Education in
connection with the present crisis; and a member of the Military Department, presenting the views of the R.O.T.C. department on
the present crisis. These talks will not be over five minutes each in length. The Y.M.C.A. is expecting to have
these open forums each month as long as public sentiment demands. The November meeting will have as its subject “Function
of the Church in the Present World Crisis,” and the December meeting will be on “Function of the Student in
the Present World Crisis.”

Prof. ODK Launches Drive Against Harmful Loss

Local Chapter Elects Beaty To Active Ranks; Plan Tap Day Soon

The Davidson Chapter of ODK, in its first meeting of the year, has launched a campaign on the campus against
the destruction of college property, President Hugh Sprunt announced this week. Sprunt declared that the wanton destruction of property had
reached such proportions that it was decided that no worthier project could be undertaken by the organization. Plans for the
campaign have been submitted to a committee. Dr. Heath Whittle was elected to succeed him as secretary-treasurer. At the meeting,
also, Frontis Johnson submitted his resignation as secretary-treasurer of the local chapter, and was elected to succeed him. In accordance
with the custom of taking and dropping one faculty member of ODK into the active chapter, Prof. Ernest Beaty was
elected at the meeting to join the active group for 1942-'43, bringing the total membership in the chapter to ten.

In addition, plans for the annual fall tap day were made and discussed. The ten members are: Hugh Sprunt, Ed
Erwin, Jim McCrary, Myron Sandifer, Lyman Parrigan, Ed Murray, Dr. Johnson, Heath Whittle, Prof. Beaty, and Dr. C. K. Brown.

Jungleers To Mrs. Mecklenburg County. Cretan Labyrinth Devours

CHAPEL SPEAKERS

Bill Wood of the Senior Class will have charge of chapel devotions tomorrow, and next Tuesday, October 20, the program
will be in charge of Al Dimmock, also a senior, according to an announcement by Priestly Conyers, chairman of the
Chapel Services Committee of the Y.M.C.A. Students are leading services in chapel every Tuesday and Friday morning. The chapel speakers
during the coming week are as follows: Monday, Professor F. K. Fleagle; Wednesday, Dr. Cunningham; and Thursday, Dr. G. R.
Vowles.

Alumni Office Staffs Occupy New Quarters

Location of Attractive Rooms In Chambers Will Be Convenient To All

Much interest has been attached to the moving of the General Alumni and Public Relations Office from 110 to 104-105
Chambers. The new offices are located on the corner of the halls in the south wing of Chambers at a
very convenient and central point where alumni, students, and members of the faculty and administration have easy access to the
heart of college activity as well as alumni affairs.

Furnishings

These quarters, formerly occupied by the Book Store and Dr. A. Currie’s office, have been completely done over. Mrs. Camile
Gamble has been employed for the interior decoration. Linoleum has been laid on the floors and Mrs. Gamble is expected
to return to Davidson to direct the hanging of new draperies and alumni oil paintings and photographs. The outer office
contains a convenient lounge where comfortable chairs and settees offer welcome to all students and members of the college family,
and the community as well as visiting alumni and friends. The faculty mailboxes have been moved to this lobby.

Alumni Secretary

Mr. John L. Payne, alumni secretary and director of public relations, who came to Davidson at the beginning of the
Spring term last year, has expressed his desire to become personally acquainted with all the students and to establish better
student-alumni relationships. Miss Kalista Hood, daughter of Frazier Hood, is acting as Mr. Payne's secretary and furnishes frequent information and
help to (Continued on Page Four)

ALUMNI SECRETARY

SUNDAY MUSICALS

Sunday Afternoon Musicals will be held in Chambers Auditorium beginning Sunday afternoon, October 18, when Dean Charles G. Vardell, Director
of Music at Salem College in Winston-Salem, will present a recital. One of the few national figures in the field
of music in the State of North Carolina, Dean Vardell is known as a music educator, organist, pianist, and composer.
He holds degrees from Princeton University Institute of Music in New York, and his doctor’s degree from Eastman School of
Music in Rochester. His compositions have been performed extensively, his first symphony having received a number of performances by the
Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. Weekly programs have been arranged for the remainder of the year.

M. A. Cathey, of Davidson, is shown receiving a four-star award, on behalf of her daughter-in-law, from the Honor Society
of New York, in recognition of her four sons in the service. Carl H. Cathey is shown pinning on the
medal, as Dr. Cunningham and Mayor Beaty look on. Mayor Beaty was chairman of the program of the meetings, which
inaugurated the scrap metal drive in North Mecklenburg County.

Home - Coming Two Night Dances

Region Opens a Scrap Search With Meeting

Cunningham, Galvin, Morrison Speakers at Mammoth Salvage Campaign

Davidson inaugurated the scrap metal drive in north Mecklenburg County last Friday night, November 1, with a street parade and
a meeting in the stadium. Mayor Beaty acted as host at the ceremonies and the Honorable Morrison was the honor
speaker.

Begins With Parade

Many units took part in the parade, which was in honor of the men from Davidson in the services and
their families. Heading the parade was a group of distinguished Davidson men: Mayor Beaty, Chief Marshal Watts, and ex-Governor Morrison;
Salvage Coordinator G. K. U. S. Galvin; and the mayors of North Mecklenburg County, including the mayors of Charlotte, Hunterville,
and Cornelius. Following them were the Color Guard and other units. The American Legion, the American Legion Auxiliary, and these
men led the parade. Other participants in the parade were families of men in the service, Boy Scouts, school children,
the Fire Department, and civilian defense units. Chief Hobart Lawson led the defense units, while Mr. S. L. Stough, commander
of the American Legion, headed that unit. Mrs. Benjamin Brown, president of the American Legion Auxiliary, led the Auxiliary unit.
Principal Davis was in charge of the school children, and he was assisted by Ralph Johnson, the head of the
colored division. The Boy Scouts were led by Jerry Viper of the Senior Class. Plans for the parade were made
by the Chief Marshal, Prof. G. B. Watts. He was assisted in these duties by Col. J. A. McAndrew. The
parade was directed by Prof. Watts and Col. McAndrew with the assistance of members of the R.O.T.C. unit and officers
from the Regiment.

It used to be that when we read that tragic tale of the twelve young Greeks who were sent into
the gaping, hungry mouth...of the Cretan labyrinth each year to be devoured by some sort of a two-headed bull. Helen
Jepson will be honored as we were quite touched and full of pity for the poor stooges. That, however, was
in those happy, carefree days before we learned about Physical Education. Now we somewhat envy them, for we have discovered
that the Davidson student too has a labyrinth fully equipped even to the Bull. It goes under the name of
“The Obstacle Course.”

Getting In Shape
The kind-hearted instructor usually gets us in shape (as we sometimes laughingly call it) for the Officers course with about
twenty minutes of emaciating exercise. Of course, these gymnastics are interspersed with several “rest” periods, which altogether total about twenty
seconds. But we only get these if the coach is a generous soul.

When the bodies are lined up and we are ready for an experience akin to going over Niagara Falls in
a barrel—minus the barrel. Somehow you’re able to pull your carcass over the first two obstacles, only to be faced
by a third, more terrifying contraption. It consists of climbing up four logs and jumping to the ground from the
fourth. We make it to the ground with a bang, but jump up, foot loose (and how, it’s probably broken!)
and fancy free (ah democracy). Your problem now is to lug your taller self over a ten-foot wall. Up and
down the pyramid of logs we stumble through a maze of timber and are now absolutely out of this world.
The rest is more or less a blur, but we aren’t in heaven! The sound of breaking bones, wails, and
more tortures accompany the poor participants. As we hear a voice in the dark below, “Ten minutes flat,” we crawl
across the finish line and hop into our room, hoping to die before the next Physical Education class meets.

But don’t misunderstand us, of course Physical Education has its good points. Why, as a matter of fact, since the
addition of this course to the college curriculum, the undertaking business in the vicinity has (Continued on Page Four).

Charles Walker Sample, Davidson graduate of the Class of 1939, now serving overseas with the armed forces of the U.S.,
has been promoted to the rank of major in the army at the age of 24, making him one of
the youngest majors in the service.

Beaty Presides
Beaty presided at the meeting in the stadium following the parade. At that ceremony, special honors were given to the
families of service men. The Honorable Cameron Morrison addressed the crowd on the subject, “Democracy.” He called to defend the
country and honor the country whose hands are not stained with the blood of any foreign nation. John Cunningham opened
the meeting with a prayer followed by the singing of the National Anthem led by the R.O.T.C. Band. Mayor Beaty
then paid tribute to the Gold Star parents of Davidson and the families of the service men. Mrs. A. M.
Cathey was presented the Gold Star award on behalf of the Society of New York. The Mayor then read a
list of names of families from this locality who have more than one son in the armed services.

Davidson's Band put on a patriotic display complete with fireworks, flags, Uncle Sam, and the “Star-Spangled Banner.”

Gant Speaks
Mr. Oscar Gant spoke on the Davidson defense. He said that it had functioned satisfactorily as an auxiliary organization last
year in the air raid test. Mr. Gant made a call for volunteers for this department.

Director and Co-ordinator of the Scrap Drive for Mecklenburg County (Continued on Page Four).

Tickets To Go On Sale Next Week; Price Is Not Yet Announced
John Belk, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced last night the tentative signing of the Clemson College Jungleers to play
the annual Home-Coming Dance set for November 6th and 7th. The set is to consist of two night dances, the
formal Friday night from nine until two, and the informal Saturday night which ends at midnight. No tea dances will
be held because of the game Saturday and the transportation problem.

Price Unannounced
The price of the set tickets and individual dances have not been announced, but the council stressed that the set
will be as inexpensive as possible. This is the first known appearance of the Jungleers at Davidson. They are well
known on the South Carolina campuses, having played at South Carolina, Furman, Converse, and others. Both dances will take place
at the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom. The game will be played in the Memorial Stadium.

Pan-Hellenic Figure
The Friday night formal will be featured by the Pan-Hellenic Figure directed by B. Neill, decorations chairman. The plans for
the decorations have not been announced yet.

“D” Club To Give Movie
Arrangements for a football movie, to preserve and uplift morale and prestige, were discussed Monday night at the first meeting
of the 1942-43 “D” Club. The first project will be on Wednesday, October 21, in Chambers Auditorium when the club
will sponsor a movie of some out-of-town football games. The N.C. State, V.P.I., and Duke games will probably be shown.
Admission will be a small fee of ten cents to cover the cost of presenting the films and to help
pay for the coach in the studio. Members of the club will be needed to make them eligible for the
games.

“It used to be that the ‘D’ Club meant a lot to Davidson, and it was an honor to belong
to it,” stated Ben Lacy, President of the organization. He deplored, however, the fact that in the past few years
the club has lost some of this influence. “This has, perhaps, been due both to the students and to the
‘D’ Club members themselves.” Lacy urged that all men entitled to membership in the “D” Club be present at the
meeting Monday night, as the initiation ceremonies will be held at that time.

Function
Plans for a similar function for the entire school will be announced later by the club. Dr. Cunningham has been
contacted in reference to providing a definite meeting place for the club. The “D” Club, along with the entire student
body, is looking hopefully into the future when the new gym is built and a room set aside for the
club. At present, the only room available is on the first floor of Eu Hall.
