STUDENT BODY NOMINATES THIS MORNING

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Che Mabidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1942 No. 17

YMCA Radio Forum Plan Is Realized
State-wide Interest Is Created; To Be At 5:35 Sunday Over WBT

Sunday night from 5:35 to 6:00 P.M., over station WBT, the Department of World Evangelism of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A.
will present an Intercollegiate Radio Forum on the “Essential Elements of A Just and Durable Peace.” This forum will be
of state-wide interest because of the delegates attending. The University of North Carolina will be represented on the program by
L. P. McClendon. From Wake Forest College will come Bedford Black, and Hans Frei will be the delegate from North
Carolina State College. Edward Hughes will represent Centre College. The local Student body president, Albert Winn, will represent Davidson.

Discuss World Ideas
This forum is another step taken by the collegiate youth of America to show their interest and knowledge concerning the
relation of the United States to the social and religious state of the world as a whole. “It is hoped,”
says Shaw Smith, “that the support, which we have received from these delegates will make possible a stimulating series of
forums.” Priestley Conyers, program director, reflects the Spirit of the Forum when he says, “We Americans must come to realize
that the winning of the war is not an end in itself. It is a means to an end: the
establishment of a more just and durable world order. So long as we regard the winning of the war as
an end in itself there is little hope for the peace.”

Arrangements
This program has been arranged through the close co-operation of the Y.M.C.A., the officials of station WBT, and the college
administration. From Monroe Bush, Y.M.C.A. member and head of the program, the following statement is given. “This effort arises from
both the Memphis Convention and the C.P.U.-I.S.S. Conference which was held at Chapel Hill last month.

“At the time, Eleanor Roosevelt stressed the importance that we see clearly enough and think deeply today so that tomorrow
we may take our place as the leaders of a rebuilding civilization.”

Court Makes Future Plans
By JOHN SHERRILL

Because of the inclement weather which would prevent the freshmen listed in The Davidsonian last week from leaving the campus,
the postponement of the date set for campusing the aforesaid freshmen is hereby announced.

“The freshmen are improving slowly. Stricter regulations are to be imposed in a very short time pursuant to a decision
reached at a recent meeting of fraternity prexies and non-fraternity luminaries.

Ask Co-operation
“A closer co-operation with the court will definitely result. But to make it a successful year, there must be an
absolute co-operation between the three upper classes and the aforesaid group.

“As was said previously, those men who were mentioned in last week's issue of The Davidsonian will be placed on
campus as soon as snow is evaporated along with a corps of others and it will be advisable for all
first-year men to strictly adhere to the regulations if embarrassment is not desired.

“Arrangements have been made with the program committee of chapel to permit the culprits to do their best in shining
for the Student Body.”

1942 CATALOGUE BEING PRINTED
“The Davidson College Catalogue” for 1942 will appear in a few days. The book is now in the hands of
the printer and will be in the registrar's hands about March 10. Any students who wish to get a copy
of the catalogue may secure them by calling by Mr. Hengeveld’s office after March 10.

Davidson Men Take In Visit To Limestone
Davidson Students Invade Limestone Campus
By DEANE WATSON

Last Saturday night for the first time in the history of the two colleges, Davidson invaded the campus of Limestone
College. Not en masse, it is true, but still enough of the visiting group to call it Davidson day.

Invitation
A few weeks ago, a representative of the sophomore class of Limestone got in touch with Dick O'Hair and, naming
him spokesman for the Davidson group, invited the entire Sophomore class to what was termed a buffet supper, but in
reality, as Dick expressed it, was “dancing for those who wanted to dance, food for those who wished to eat,
and entertainment for those who wanted to be entertained.”

Because of the conflicting dances at other colleges and previous plans, many of the favored sophomore class could not take
advantage of the generous offer afforded them by the Limestone Sophomores. To swell the group that planned to go, Dick
O'Hair very emphatically, if not plainly, announced in chapel that all the students were welcome to join in on the
Limestone detail.

Preparations
The Limestone lassies announced that they had spent the entire day in preparing for the visitors from Davidson. Evidence of
the fact was shown by the beautified gym, resplendent in streamers of green and white and even more resplendent in
the pile of 140 sandwiches and plates of salad and ice cream that satisfied the appetites of students made ravenous
by the effort of wagging their thumbs at passing autos, most of which kept right on passing.

Decorations
The gym, decorated in green and white in honor of St. Patrick’s day, was the scene of all the entertainment
including the buffet supper, the dancing, and the several skits presented by the Limestone Sophomores.

Jitterbugs
Rippa Hunt, one of Davidson's (Continued on Page Three)

Rudolph Announces Completion Of Plans For Next Dance Set
Leads D Club

ED LUCAS

Banker Has Best Photo
Linus Banker's “Afterglow” won first place in the Winter Photography Exhibit sponsored by the Davidson Camera Club. The exhibit in
Eu Hall was open from February 26-28. “Snowbanks,” by Billy Barker, was voted second place, while Bob Welsh was awarded
third place for his “Jergens.” Pictures which rated honorable mention included “Dunamus” by Billy Barker, “Sunlight on the Campus” by
Jack Ramsey, and “Direct—Hite” by Linus Banker.

Twenty-four pictures in all were presented at the exhibit, and exhibitors included Jack Ramsey, Billy Barker, Jack Jones, Bob Welsh,
Joyce Rhyne, and Linus Banker. Sometime this spring, the Camera Club plans to put on a much larger exhibit, including
winners from previous exhibits by the club. Judges for the show were students, each person voting for his favorite. The
meeting date of the club has been changed from Thursday to Wednesday night.

BEAUTIES SELECTED
Quips ‘n’ Cranks has completed the canvass for pictures of girls for the “Beauties” section, according to Julien McCall, editor
of the annual. He requested all those not canvassed and who have pictures to bring them to him. Group pictures
for the annual will be taken as soon as the weather permits.

Seabbard And Blade Plans Tap
Military Group Will Pick Members Tomorrow If Weather Permits

Walter Wooten, captain of the local Scabbard and Blade Fraternity, has announced that the fraternity will hold its spring tap
day as soon as the weather permits the battalion to have another drill. Wooten said that he hopes that the
weather will make it possible to have the tap day before the Scabbard and Blade dance Friday night, March 13.

Military Ball
The new members will perform in a special drill as a part of the entertainment for the Friday night formal.
It has been customary for the new members to do this each year at the military formal dance, whereas the
old members and dates form the figure. New members will be taken from the junior and senior classes. They are
chosen according to their ability in R.O.T.C. and their standing in the Davidson student body.

Walter Wooten is captain of the Scabbard and Blade Fraternity and is also lieutenant-colonel of the battalion. Pat Rudolph, Captain
of Company A, is first lieutenant of Scabbard and Blade. Other members of the fraternity who were tapped at the
spring ceremony a year ago include: Jack Phillips, Ed. Hay, Claude Hackney, Dan Hodges, Frank Caldwell, Tom Plonk, Dave Henderson,
Jim Crook, John Crichton, Charlie Watt, Jim Owens, and Ralph Williams. Those who were tapped at the fall ceremony of
this year, which was on December 3rd, were: Cam Wilson, Benny Cowan, George Dew, Southgate Jones, Bill Faison, Ed Lucas,
Gene Shannon, and Billy Squires.

Wooten Leads Friday Military Ball; Lucas Leads Saturday D Club Dance
Plans have been completed for the 1942 edition of the Military Ball, to be held Friday and Saturday nights, March
13 and 14, in the Charlotte Armory-Auditorium, Pan-Hellenic Council President Pat Rudolph announced this week.

The music will be provided by Freddie Johnson and his Orchestra. Johnson has played here several times before, and has
proved one of the most popular of the dance orchestras. Set prices will be $3.75 plus tax. The dance this
year will be sponsored jointly by Scabbard and Blade and “D” Club.

Decorations
The decorations for the Friday night dance, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, will be in the form of the great
seal of the fraternity, and red, white, and blue crepe. The new tappees of the fraternity will form an arch
for the sponsors and their dates to walk through.Members chosen to have sponsors were Pat Rudolph, Jack Philips, Frank Caldwell,
Jim Crook, Bennett Cowan, Tom Plonk, George Dew, and Walter Wooten. After passing through the arch, the dates will proceed
to the favor table for the remainder of the old figure. The Saturday night dance will be decorated by a
large gold “D” and black streamers. The “D,” formed by the captains of the varsity athletic teams and their dates,
plus some others chosen from the members, will be a giant red figure.

Team Captains
The varsity captains are Frank Caldwell, Captain of Football; Jim Kerr, Captain of Soccer; Hipp, Captain of Wrestling and Secretary-Treasurer
of the “D” Club; Spencer, Captain of Basketball and Vice-President of the “D” Club; Blanton Williamson, Captain of Track; John
Crichton, Acting Captain of Golf; Bob Carter, Captain of Baseball; and Ed Cavert, Captain of Tennis; Lucas, President of the
“D” Club. Others in the figure will be Archy Taylor, Shaw, Bob Smith, Shannon, Bell McCall, Freeze, Watt Owens, and
Marsh.

Art Exhibit To Be Held
Visiting Artist Will Judge Entries While Here
George Rickey, the well-known American artist, will arrive at Davidson on Sunday, March 8, in order to supervise an art
exhibit and contest among the Davidson students. The contest is to last from March 8 to 14 with the various
pictures being exhibited in Eu Hall until six o’clock each night. Prizes will be awarded for the best work of
each type and the one work voted best by the student body will receive a special award. The judging committee
will be composed of Dr. Foreman, Dr. Davidson, Dr. Beaty, and Professor Lilly. Twenty dollars in prizes will be awarded
by the college to the winning contestants. On Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Rickey will give a demonstration of various types of
painting from four until six o’clock in Eu Hall.

The students participating in this year’s contest are: Horace Pearce, Dan Hodges, and Douglas Swink with portraits; Beall Rogers with
a mural in miniature; Robert Smith with studies in wildlife; John Northcross with figures in fiction; and Bill Campbell with
a set of oil paintings.

Military Leader
WALTER WOOTEN

Summer Plan Attracts 130
Many Students Plan For 12-Week Session
Approximately 130 Davidson students are planning to attend the first twelve weeks’ summer session in the history of the college,
according to the tentative registration cards which were filled out recently. As previously announced, a student will be allowed to
take a maximum of twelve semester hours, consisting of two six-hour courses, or an eight-hour course and a four-hour course.
A bulletin containing announcements for the summer session will appear on March 15. This announcement will include the courses which
will be offered this year.

Plans Still Indefinite
According to Professor Meagle, the director of the summer school, the definite plans have been hindered somewhat by lack of
definite news from Washington as to what the Junior students will do this summer. There has been no further information
on this topic.

Date For Election
Board Sets Monday As Opening For Elections
Frosh Chosen For Davidson Debate Squad
Brinegar, King, Tucker, Rodgers Make Team
Four Davidson Freshmen have been chosen to represent the freshman debate team, the forensic council announced this week. The four
men were Heyward Brinegar, Albert King, Grayson Tucker, and Beall Rodgers. The tryouts were held Friday night, February 27, in
the Phi Gamma Delta house. Judges were Dr. Williamson, Fred Morton, and Jim McCrary. There will be no alternates chosen
on the freshman debate team this year. This newly elected team will participate in the district forensic tournament to be
held at Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory on March 5-7. The team will debate against the varsity colleges on the question,
“Resolved: That democracies should establish a federation to maintain the eight Churchill-Roosevelt principles.” Davidson’s varsity team will not debate in
this tournament because of a difference in debate questions.

ORGANISTS PERFORM
Three organ pupils of Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Osborne will be presented on the Sunday afternoon musical next week. Roy
Suber and Alvin Burns, both Davidson students, along with Miss Margaret Porter of Queens College, will be in charge of
the program. Last Sunday afternoon, Frances Mosley and Melvin Skye gave a violin recital. Both of these are violin students
of Mr. Kesler of Queens College. The program will start at 4 o’clock and will last a half hour, as
in the past.

Constitutional Requirements For Board Met At Recent Meeting
Monday, March 9 was set as the date for the beginning of student body elections by the board of elections
at a meeting Tuesday, March 3, in the parlor of Watts. Elections will be held in the following order as
set forth in Section 7 of the By-Laws of the Constitution: Student Government, Y.M.C.A., Davidsonian, Annual, Class Officers, Freshman Adviser,
Magazine, Student Council, Cheer Leader, Publications Board, Y.M.C.A. Board of Control.

Discuss Combines
The first item of business at the meeting of the board, which was presided over by President Bill Sprunt, was
the formulation of definitions of various terms connected with the voting, such as “combines,” etc. These definitions will be printed
in the Davidsonian. The second item concerned the actual plan of the procedure of voting. The recommendation of the Student
Council, sent to the board last fall, was considered. This recommendation has been followed in the elections held previously this
year: the student writes the names on the ballot and staples them; the student checks the name he wishes to
vote for, and when he casts the ballot his name is checked off the list by another board member. This
procedure for the coming elections will also be presented in next week’s Davidsonian.

Nominate This Morning
On Thursday, March 5, a student body meeting will be held in chapel in order to have nominations from the
floor for the four Student Government offices. All students who have completed one semester’s work will be eligible to vote.

Faculty-Artist Visitor To Stay At Davidson For Two Days
Mr. George Rickey, who is head of the Art Department of Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pennsylvania, will arrive at Davidson College
on Monday morning, March 9, and will remain on the campus for two and a half days. During his visit,
Mr. Rickey will discuss his own creative work, demonstrate some of the techniques which he uses, and talk about art
and its influence on a multitude of things in daily life which have in turn affected various art forms.

Varied Experience
As Artist-in-Residence at Olivet College in Michigan (1937-39) and at Knox College in Illinois (1940-41), Mr. Rickey, with the assistance
of interested students, executed murals of appropriate subject at each institution. He was brought to Muhlenberg College this fall to
develop an art department and to encourage an interest in fine arts generally. He has been granted leave of absence
to visit five colleges this spring as a Faculty-Artist Visitor under the auspices of the Arts Program of the Association
of American Colleges.

Some examples of Mr. Rickey’s work, including eleven paintings and seven drawings and a section of a mural cartoon, have
been on exhibition in the Banquet Room of Chambers Building. Although the exhibitions will not be available when Mr. Rickey
is on the campus, he will have with him slides of all the pictures which he will use if students
or faculty members wish to see them.

Members of the Board of Elections are: Don Bell, Bob Rankin, Cam Wilson, Bill Faison, Alston Thompson, Julian McCall, Archy
Taylor, Hutch Booker, Ed Hay, Bill McLauchlin, Doug Clark, Chester Pearce, Paul Kissling, George Marsh, and Bill Sprunt.

Guest Honors Sigma Upsilon
Mr. George Rickey will be a guest of Sigma Upsilon at its next meeting, Tuesday evening, March 10, at the
Beta house. A short program will include poems by Sandy McEachern and a play by Al Winn. These papers will
be discussed by the group with helpful aesthetic suggestions as to their worth given by Mr. Rickey. A feed will
follow the program, and the members of the literary fraternity will have an opportunity to hear Mr. Rickey in a
general “bull-session.”

The last meeting of Sigma Upsilon was held Tuesday evening, March 3, at the Phi Delt House. Dr. Chalmers was
a special faculty guest at this meeting. Tony Darby read a short story, and Ed Erwin read the next chapter
in “J. Lysander Mallory,” the epic which the fraternity is writing (a new chapter is read at each meeting). Monroe
Bush read an essay. Dr. Davidson closed the program with quotations from poetry. He chose lines from several notable Southern
poets and discussed these with the group.
