Waynesboro, ORTA LIBERITAS The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. SEPTEMBER 24, 1942 No. 1

Fraternities Pledge 162 Men After Six Days Of Rushing

Rush Week Period Ends With Pledging Ceremonies At 7:00 P.M. Saturday

Davidson’s nine social fraternities, during the past week, pledged a record class of 162 men. This year’s rush week began on Monday, September 14 at noon and formally ended at 7 P.M. on Saturday, September 19. The nine fraternities and the men they pledged are as follows:

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Melvin Sipe, Lincolnton, N. C.; Ewald Jack, New Rochelle, N. Y.; Perry West, Williamsport, Penn.; Zeb Norman, Plymouth, N. C.; Charles Maxwell, Wilmington, N. C.; Jim Bisanar, Hickory, N. C.; John Mayor, Chicago, Ill.; Bill McBride, Centerville, Miss.; Ed Lilly, Charleston, S. C.; John Sharpe, High Springs, Fla.; John Hardin, Winnsboro, S. C.; Jerry Newbold, Wilmington, N. C.; Paul Behrman, Atlanta, Ga.; Andy White, Rock Hill, S. C.; Bob Bradford, Davidson, N. C.; Jack Jenkins, Huntington, W. Va.; Tom Gregg, Wilmington, N. C. Dr. Reid, one of the new faculty members of Davidson, was pledged to the fraternity.

Beta Theta Pi
William Joyner, Kernersville, N. C.; Charlie Gunn, Bluefield, W. Va.; Ken Caterson, Montrose, Pa.; Nat Garrison, Burlington, N. C.; Joe Knowles, Mt. Olive, N. C.; George Cushwa, Roxboro, N. C.; Bill Newell, Roxboro, N. C.; Garland Newlin, Burlington, N. C.; Bill Lemon, Marion, W. Va.; Erskin Gallent, Anderson, S. C.; Bob Powell, Goldsboro, N. C.; Cargill McCormick, Princeton, W. Va.; Frank Rawley, Reidsville, N. C.; Ed Weyland, Mauldin, W. Va.; Bill Smith, Princeton, W. Va.; Bryant Skinner, Jacksonville, Fla.; Alfred McNair, Sanford, N. C.; Lamar Daughtery, Jacksonville, Fla.; Bill Sengle, Fort Smith, Ark.

Phi Gamma Delta
Ralph Coonrad; John Barron, Rock Hill, S. C.; Bill Disque, Charlottesville, Va.; Ed Wood, Charlottesville, Va.; Tom McGehee, Jacksonville, Fla.; Harry Cox, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Harry Ormand, Thomaston, Ga.; Walt Romefelt, Glen Rock, N. J.; Ed Pickard, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Jim Patton, Va.; Sam Patton, Waynesboro, Va.; Otto Schneck, Greensboro, N. C.; Bill Ross, Richmond, Va.; Ray Miller, Camp Gordon; Leighton McKeithan, Cameron, N. C.; Murdock McKeithan, Cameron, N. C.; Dave Richardson, Richmond, Va.; Tom Snodgrass, Charlotte, N. C.; Jack Mowles, Lebanon, Va.; Lee Wolfe, Monroe, N. C.; Bruce Black, Maiden, N. C.

Phi Kappa Phi
Buddy Abernathy, Charlotte, N. C.; Jack Barringer, Florence, S. C.; Steve Boyce, Albemarle, N. C.; Robert Cline, Hickory, N. C.; John Fesperman, Jr., Kannapolis, N. C.; Grover Fowler, Hickory, N. C.; Alfred Hill, Hickory, N. C.; Ernest Hunter, Jr., Charlotte, N. C.; Dan McEachin, Florence, S. C.; Jimmie Owen, Lincolnton, N. C.; Billy Ragsdale, Hemingway, S. C.; Charles Reid, Charlotte, N. C.; Ed Robbins, Kannapolis, N. C.; Claiborne Smith, Florence, S. C.; Bill Robertson, Kannapolis, N. C.; Van Taylor, (Continued on Page Six)

CUNNINGHAM IS GUEST
Dr. Cunningham will speak at Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia, on Oct. 3. The occasion of his address is the dedication of a new gymnasium at the college, which will celebrate this anniversary. The gymnasium is named in honor of the college’s one hundredth anniversary. During the past year, several functions have been held to celebrate this milestone.

Beavers Plan Second Salem Davidson Day
Duke-Davidson Game, Picnic, and Dance Will be Features of the Day

The Davidson College Beaver Club, an honorary undergraduate organization, will sponsor a second Salem Day, similar to that held on the Davidson campus two years ago, in Winston-Salem on Saturday, September 26. The idea originated and has been pushed from the Salem end by Lib Johnson of Winston-Salem, a student at Salem and sister of Dr. Frontis Johnson, professor of History at Davidson.

Davidson-Duke Game
Present plans call for the Davidson boys to take their Salem dates to the Duke-Davidson football game being held in Winston-Salem that day. After the game, Salem College will host the Davidson boys at a picnic and an informal dance to be given on the college grounds. As far as was known at the time the Davidsonian went to press, admission prices to the game will be fifty cents each for boys and their dates.

Transportation, the most perplexing problem for the Beaver Club, has been provided for in the form of extra sections on the 10:49 A.M. bus leaving Davidson for Winston-Salem. The bus company practically guarantees passage for all students buying round-trip tickets to the event, and tickets will be good either for return on the midnight bus leaving Winston-Salem Saturday night, or students may stay over and return the next day. Carter urged, however, that all students who plan to go catch the 10:49 bus from Davidson, as later buses put them in Winston-Salem too late to see the game. He also urged that all Davidson students who can, sign up for dates at Salem, or if they already have them, to report them to him so that arrangements can be made.

New Men Fill Vacancies In School Staff
Three Davidson Men Return As Members of the Faculty of College

Five new professors, three of whom are graduates of Davidson, have been added to the faculty in the past four months. They are Doctors J. B. Gallent and J. W. Reid, Professor B. D. Thompson, Mr. Siegle, and Mr. H. M. Morrison.

Dr. Gallent, who is a graduate of Davidson, comes as Associate Professor of Chemistry. For eleven years he headed the Chemistry department of Brenau College in Gainesville, Ga., and also was in charge of the summer school there. Dr. Gallent taught here for the first six weeks of our summer school and spent the rest of the summer at the University of Chicago, doing graduate work there. Dr. Gallent fills the vacancy made by the resignation of Dr. Knight.

Dr. Reid, who also is a graduate of Davidson, comes in the department of Geography and Geology. Dr. Reid received his M.A. at Columbia and his Ph.D. at Peabody. Since that time he has been teaching in Texas. Dr. Reid has filled the place of Professor Porter.

Before coming to Davidson as Professor of History, Professor Thompson received his A.B. at Williams and his M.A. at Harvard. Professor Thompson has taught in Conn., at the State College for Women.

Mr. Morrison, the third (Continued on Page Six)

CLASS OF ’46 GREETED
As invading hordes of freshmen crowd Davidson campus, new men are greeted by faculty and old students alike. Typical of the first-day reception of the frosh is the scene above. At left, Freshman Clifford Hardy of Dillon, S. C., is greeted by Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the registrar, while another new student, T. P. Speas of Winston-Salem, chats with Myron Sandifer, president of the student body.

Freshmen Experience Orientation
Masquers Will Hold Tryout
Shaw Smith Will Take Lead In “The Man Who Came to Dinner”

On Tuesday night, September 29, the Red and Black Masquers will hold the tryouts and auditions for roles in their fall production of “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” Shaw Smith will have the lead in the role of Sheridan Whiteside, the Man. Kalista Hood will direct the play and also be cast as Whiteside’s secretary, Maggie. Professor Erwin has been tentatively given the role of the Doctor whose job it is to get the man away from dinner.

Student Body Invited
All the freshmen and upperclassmen who are interested in being part of the production are urged to come out and try for the casting. The tryouts will begin at 2:00 o'clock Tuesday and will be held in the auditorium of Chambers. Previous experience is not necessary. Members of the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s Dramatic Club, are Frank Mebane, President, Doug Swink, Hank Watt, Paul Welch, Howell Morrow, and George McCormick. Dr. Erwin, Miss Kalista Hood, and Shaw Smith are the members from the faculty.

Army Boards Aid Students
During the second week in October, a board of representatives of all the reserve branches of the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps will visit the campus to explain briefly to the entire student body the various plans that their specific branch has worked out for students to finish or partially finish their college courses.

Enlisted Reserve
According to the latest information received by the ROTC Headquarters here, selected students 18 years or older may be enlisted prior to the arrival of this board. However, at the same time, it is re-emphasized that deferments from military service granted to students in the Enlisted Reserve Corps are contingent upon the demand of the military service and that any member of the Enlisted Reserve Corps may be called to active duty with the armed forces by the War Department at any time.

After speaking to the student body in the morning chapel periods, the government representatives will be available for private conferences with students that desire them.

On Friday, September 11, the class of 1946 took their first glimpse of college life when orientation period began. First in line on the program, which lasted five days, was the opening address by President J. R. Cunningham. Myron Sandifer followed Dr. Cunningham with a talk explaining the honor system and student government. An address by Dr. Davidson on the use of the library, a psychological test, and a conference with the various student counselors rounded out the morning.

Mathematics Test
After eating lunch in the college dining hall, the new arrivals went to the classrooms and took the regular mathematics test which is required each year upon entrance. The rest of the afternoon was devoted to getting acquainted with faculty advisors and resting.Up before supper. The day was ended by a talk from Dr. Lingle and a pep meeting led by Jack Wayman, the head cheerleader. Davidson’s Dean led off Saturday by addressing the Freshmen on the war effort and on student regulations. A talk by Shaw Smith and a study of the library in small groups finished up the scheduled program for Saturday morning. Professor Fleagle was first in line for the afternoon with a speech on budgeting time and money. Physical education was also discussed by Dr. MacConnell followed by a conference with the members of the physical education department. Saturday was ended with the annual faculty reception of the new men.

Sunday Program

Sunday was devoted to worship and the lighter things of college life. Sunday School was headed by Dr. Frontis W. Johnson with the morning services led by Dr. Carl Pritchett. An organ recital headed the afternoon session with most of the afternoon spent in letter writing and visits to the homes of the Davidson faculty. Sunday ended with bull sessions.

A. McCrary, president of the Y. M. C. A., opened Monday morning with an address and was followed by Mr. F. L. Jackson, who spoke on money and property. Dr. McGavock, speaking on fraternities, was also heard. Dormitories and dormitory life were explained by Mrs. Smith and an explanation of registration filled the morning. The orientation period closed on Tuesday with physical examinations and various personal affairs. Dr. Gwynn was in charge of the affairs of the period.

Physical Ed Is Required

Latest Addition to School Program Features An Obstacle Course

By JIM STIMSON

Last week in the midst of registration, re-examinations, rush-week, and the beginning of classes Davidson inaugurated a physical educational program for all students enrolled for the year 1942-43. In spite of a good summer for healthful exercise, many joints were stiff and began to crack as “Pete” Whittle and others counted 1, 2—1, 2 in leading the calisthenics. After a few minutes of light workout many found that they were sweating like horses. The unusually hot weather and the luxuries of rush week made it hard, physiologically speaking.

Obstacle Course

The athletic department introduced a new set of equipment to the students. This was the obstacle course which is located just beyond the intramural field at the beginning of the cake race course—and, speaking of this, the obstacles might be a good addition to the cake course. The college authorities began this program in an endeavor to prepare Davidson for physical strain through which many of them shall need to go in future months and years on account of the war situation. Last winter a similar voluntary program began. The attendance was very good, but the coaches found that more organization was needed. The program last year consisted of calisthenics and football or soccer.

Graded

This year practical education has become a regular part of the curriculum. Every student is required to sign up for a class, which meets three times a week, and will receive absences and tardies and a grade of “satisfactory” or “unsatisfactory.” Only students engaged in intercollegiate sports are excused from the physical exercise during the time in which their particular sport is in season. Mr. Whittle announced that sixteen sections are now taking physical education. When the weather changes more time will be spent in the old gymnasium for handball and volleyball. Coaches Whittle, McEver, Spearman, Shepherd, and Hoover, the new freshmen coach, are leading this new part of the Davidson curriculum. Jack Behrman and George Mitchell, students who are proficient in gymnastics, are helping in the larger afternoon classes.

Davidson Campaign For New Gym Gains Gratifying Results

Public Mourn Over Passing Of S. C. Lyon

Dr. Scott Lyon passed away peacefully at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte on July 23, 1942, after several weeks of sickness. Dr. Lyon had served as Professor of Biology at Davidson College for the past 16 years.

After a number of years teaching experience in Mathematics, History, Chemistry, and Biology, Dr. Lyon came to Davidson as Professor of Biology in 1926. He held that position until the time of his death. He received his A.B. degree from Southwestern in 1904. Later he received the degrees of M.A. and D.Sc. from the same institution. Tulane University also gave Dr. Lyon an M.A. degree. His teaching positions carried him from Southwestern to Tulane and then to Alabama Presbyterian College. From there he returned to Southwestern again where he soon became Professor of Chemistry and Biology and Dean of the college. From Southwestern he came to his post at Davidson. At one time he was the President of the Tennessee Academy of Science and he was a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a member of the United States Academy of Science, a member of the American Association of Economic Entomologists, and an Elder in the Presbyterian Church.

Dr. Lyon is survived by his wife, Malline Bradford of Cedartown, Ga.; his son, William Adair Lyon; and his daughter, Malline Bradford Lyon, who is now Mrs. Philip Slaughter. At the time of his death, Dr. Lyon was 57 years old. He was born in Washington, Pa., on Oct. 20, 1884. His father was James Adair Lyons.

Cheerleaders Are Elected

Head cheerleader Jack Wayman announced that Davidson will hold its first full-fledged pep meeting at 7:30, Thursday night, and urged that freshmen and upperclassmen attend the rally in force. The affair is scheduled to meet first in front of Chambers building and will include a giant bonfire on the freshman field.

Junior Cheerleaders

Four junior cheerleaders were elected Wednesday to assist Wayman for the year, and they will be introduced to the student body at this meeting. Final results of the election were not available, but those eligible included Doug Swink, Pinky Wilson, Bob Gaither, Paul Welch, Teensy Hodges, and Jack Richeson. The cheerleaders also announced the outlawing of “shirt-tail” parades and required signing for freshmen, although every freshman as well as each upperclassman is expected to come out.

“Victory Parade”

Replacing the “shirt-tail”, formerly restricted to freshmen, will be an all-out everyone-will-participate, and it is hoped, will add greatly to the victory parade in which the enthusiasm of the gathering.

$100,000 Has Been Raised Toward Building New Gymnasium for College

Davidson's campaign for a new gymnasium is moving forward very encouragingly, it was stated by President John R. Cunningham, in the opening chapel service of the semester. $100,000 has been raised toward $250,000 required to complete the campaign. This amount was subscribed to by the alumni of the Charlotte and Gastonia areas only. The campaign in these districts will close shortly, while Rock Hill, Spartanburg, and Greenville, S. C. are next on the list for campaigning. Atlanta will be reached by the middle of October. All subscriptions for the gymnasium are taken on a thirty-month basis.

96 Districts

The gymnasium campaign, launched last commencement, divides the Eastern states into 96 small districts so that every alumnus of the college is in the same district as some large town. When one of these cities is reached by the program, a banquet is held to which all the alumni in the district are invited. All money subscribed at this time will be invested in U. S. war bonds in order to help the war effort. These bonds will be cashed in at the first opportunity, and the proceeds used in the gym fund.

Goal of $500,000

The aim of the campaign as a whole is to raise $500,000 which will be used, besides building the gym, to erect a new college church, remodel Shearer Hall, and landscape the 51 acres which make up the campus. The gymnasium is the first step in the program. After the $125,000 needed to build it has been raised, the college church fund will be started.

R.O.T.C. Staffs Are Selected

Majors Wooten and Morton Will Head Two Battalions

Functioning under new wartime regulations the Davidson R. O. T. C. Department inaugurated this fall an entirely new system of training for the school Cadet Corps. The new system is especially designed to give to the student officers the practical experience of command that they would face as officers in the United States Army.

Two Battalions

Instead of one battalion of cadets as has been the practice in former years, this year’s Corps will have two. Headed by Cadet Majors Fredrick S. Morton, III and Jesse A. Wooten each group will function as an entirely separate unit and will be made a part of a cadet regiment the second semester. The Adjutant of the first battalion will be Ross L. Parks while Myron G. Sandifer, Jr. will occupy the same post in the second battalion. Company commanders will be: Robert Raney, Co. “A”; Jack Wayman, Co. “B”; John McGee, Co. “C”; Joe McCoy, Jr., Co. “E”; Ashby Dick, Co. “F”; Ed Erwin, Co. “G”; and Donald Caterson, Band.

Arranged by Size

Each company will be made up of three platoons which are in turn made up of three squads of eight men each. The companies have been arranged according to height with the tallest being on the flanks of the regiment in Companies “A” and “G” and the smaller ones being in the center of the regiment. The new set up is receiving the praise of both cadets and officers because of the many more opportunities it offers for practical experience and for the better conditions under which drill is being carried out. Gone are the complaints of small and tall men alike about long-legged or short-legged men in front of them and hampering their movements. (Continued on Page Six)