Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 15, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN .... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PETER YOUNG - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McBean ........ Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh ...... Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher ...... Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries ........ Managing Editor
Howell Morrow ...... Managing Editor
John Fairley ........ Managing Editor
Jim Stimson ........ Managing Editor
Deane Whitson ...... Managing Editor
Leigh Scott ......... Sports Editor
Hub Welsh .......... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager .... Don McIver
Advertising Managers .... Jim Harris, Teeny Hodges
Circulation Manager ...... John Robinson
Circulation Manager ...... Buddy Carson
Subscription Manager .... Dick Ports
Collection Manager .......

Editorials

President Roosevelt announced Monday night that the army is ready to consider boys of our age manly enough to be eligible for the Selective Service. Suppose we cooperate with ODK in Y’s CORNER: By SHAW SMITH Just look around you. Ever tried to squeeze in some program or project and help to prove that our country’s, as well as our college’s faith in us has not been misplaced.

Christmas Holidays ... a form letter to colleges of the South requesting that they extend their Christmas holidays to a period of at least a month from December 15 to January 15. Several of these institutions have announced their plans to comply with the request. Davidson has as yet taken no action on the matter although it was to be submitted to the executive committee this week.

On the surface this plan has several outstanding merits. First, it would relieve the congestion always present on trains and buses around Christmas which will be accentuated this year by soldiers granted Christmas furloughs. Second, it would eliminate the necessity of transporting students home twice, since spring holidays would naturally be eliminated, should the idea be adopted. From the point of view of the students, it would give those who have to travel long distances more time at home during their favorite season of the year. These students would not miss the spring recess because of slower travel or they would not think it worthwhile to spend the entire week on a train or bus for only a few hours with their parents. For the seniors who plan to graduate in February, the added week to their last vacation would doubtless be appreciated, as it would be by those who view their college careers with a day-to-day attitude. Student opinion generally favors the plan apparently, provided the necessary adjustments in the academic schedule could be made. With traveling conditions as unpleasant as they must be, any suggestion for their relief meets with hearty approval on the campus.

ODK Drive ... ODK announced this week its intention of sponsoring a movement to cut down on the damage to college property caused annually by both thoughtless and calculating offenders, should there be any. The evident necessity of such a drive, as pointed out in periodic chapel talks, is embarrassing to any student thoughtful of his own rights and those of his college mates and school. The perennially hackneyed argument that we should be adult enough to respect the sanctity of the possessions of others by the time we enter college is apparently inadequate, regardless of its truth. Equally hackneyed and equally inadequate are the appeals to the “Davidson gentlemen”, and the annually increasing punishments and deductions from the entirely adequate damage fee. In the present emergency, however, the age-old excuses of the culprits have become even more inadequate. Too long, as we have contended before, have the costly pranks of campus jesters been catalogued “thoughtlessness" and laughed off by all but the administrative department and the college repair force. Anyone who can drop a paper filled with news of shortage in transportation material of all kinds, and particularly labor, and who can then summon the nerve to deliberately toss a rock through a dormitory window, is ... well, the kind of man ODK would like to convert. To bring this point closer home, one of the already over-taxed college staff resigned to take a war labor job this week. The others simply do not have the time to chase around replacing smashed panes and damaged doors. Perhaps you are getting tired of having everything put on a patriotic basis, but until this war is definitely won we are duty-bound to do everything in our power to hasten victory, even to the annoying extent of refraining from our peaceful destruction of valuable property.

Scrap ... We have said very little in an editorial way about the current drive for scrap metal not because we do not approve heartily of everything it hopes to accomplish, but because we do not see that the students are in a position to aid very materially in the effort. There have been several suggestions that we advocate the donation of the pipes and chains which bound the grass in certain areas of the campus, also the fire escape from the Martin Chemical Laboratory. We suspect that plans have already been made for the latter, but the pipe and chain idea might bear investigation. The paths across the campus everyone knows have, we suspect, lost even their nuisance value. Another interesting bit of scrap which would be well worth resurrecting is the old World War I cannon which used to guard Chambers and which was last seen in the underbrush behind the freshman field.

First, it would relieve the congestion always present on trains and buses around Christmas which will be accentuated this year by soldiers granted Christmas furloughs. Second, it would eliminate the necessity of transporting students home twice, since spring holidays would naturally be eliminated, should the idea be adopted. From the point of view of the students, it would give those who have to travel long distances more time at home during their favorite season of the year. These students would not miss the spring recess because of slower travel or they would not think it worthwhile to spend the entire week on a train or bus for only a few hours with their parents. For the seniors who plan to graduate in February, the added week to their last vacation would doubtless be appreciated, as it would be by those who view their college careers with a day-to-day attitude. Student opinion generally favors the plan apparently, provided the necessary adjustments in the academic schedule could be made. With traveling conditions as unpleasant as they must be, any suggestion for their relief meets with hearty approval on the campus.

Y’s CORNER: By SHAW SMITH
Just look around you. Ever tried to squeeze in some program or project without something already on the docket being in the way? A look at outside activities discourages more planning. Yet, have a thought or two on the coming concert series. With Miss Jepson’s coming Oct. 16, we begin a real steal in music. Congratulations, Music Department—your usual good job now sets a real record. This sort of thing may even develop into respect from unthinking students who continue to talk during organ prelude in chapel. Dear, dear! That would be nice! Understand Miss Jepson is staying at the Y on her visit. Mmm. Better work late that night. And here’s a proposition for students financially under the price of concert series ticket. Come by the Y—Work is being provided for some to make enough to have one. First come, first served. It's up to you!

Who borrowed my golf clubs—driver and putter? Had to use golf balls on pool table lately—need those clubs, please? Dr. Foreman never misses. Hear him sing? He just never misses. Of M&M and The Campus: Frances Fowler, working in Charlotte “Y” in afternoons and studying between times... Johnnie Fredricks—showing his teeth in a Pepsi-Smile—Jimmy Fulcher, the Freshman’s Friend—still living and with numerous activities—doing a mighty good job with Red Caps—helping keep them from actually becoming pesters. Know what I mean?—MacLean—besides Ramsey and Charlie McKee—partying so late, car ran out of gas—Mankind still good because tires still on rims after abandoned on roadside for the night!—Well dressed Clarence McArthur (no kin to the dummy) in news as brother of charming one in eyes of G. P. of the Junior Class—Joe McCoy—Big Judge with kind eyes, soft voice, hard heart—say the freshmen—John McCrea—doer of untold number of responsible duties at Unity Church—record of four years, including this one—as quiet worker asking no thanks—there’s a lesson there, friends—Good going, John. Ol McIntosh, man who's sick at rally (football) games (no crowd, no football program sale, no mon, no mon, no mon), one of the hardest workers on campus deserves much credit many departments, even from Dept. of Love—but suppose Adair L. should find out about Jean L.—(maybe it would help me!)—Lacy having good, friendly folks has many thanks coming to him for good earnest work on summer paper this past warm season—incidentally doing excellent job on sports publicity which includes “talking between halves” via radio much to joy of listening millions, and “But” Spike Mebane (a “cute little dickens” according to numerous women friends) did fine business work on Y. Handbook edited by already-thanked McIntosh—Fenton Miller—most useful helper at any mentioned odd job—typifies behind-the-scenes worker who is major part of spirit I like to think is part of Davidson—Finally, Bill Lyman, efficient no end, author most readable column, ed humor mag, Sig Up Big Shot, sincere helper many ways at “Y”—especially as record-keeper of Gift Fund last year—sayer of many witty things and many helpful and true ones named as Hero-of-the-week—long overdue—and say, fellows, don't sleep through church in the mornings just ‘cause your mother isn’t here to wake you up—she arises same as usual and bet she hopes you do, too—

Cinema Comments — By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday
TISH * * *
A strong cast including Marjorie Main, Lee Bowman, Zasu Pitts, and Guy Kibbee added life to an old favorite, Mary Roberts Rinehart’s Tish. A homespun story, full of boisterous good humor and fun.

Friday and Saturday
PARDON MY SARONG * * *
Laugh riot of the season, featuring two of the stage and screen’s best in the humor line, Bud Abbott and Lou Costello. Virginia Bruce and Nan Wynn add to the scenic value of the jungle sequences. Called by many critics the best of the two comedians' performances to date.

Monday and Tuesday
DESPERATE JOURNEY * * *
Another top flight show, noted particularly for its dramatic qualities.Errol Flynn and Ronald Reagan carry the lead roles. A good bet for an afternoon's entertainment of top rank.

Wednesday — GUNGA DIN
Bargain day brings a return engagement of the best action thriller of them all, Gunga Din. Noted since its release as one of the best of the India pictures, it’s a show that everybody should see. The plot is an elaboration of Rudyard Kipling's famous poem.

With The Staff
Government officials are frequently proposing new plans to help the United Nations to win the war. Traveling is no longer convenient, since tires and gasoline are limited and thus space on trains and buses. This raises a problem which has been mentioned before—what will college students do about their weekend trips? Some of us acquire quite a lot of energy that makes us go wild after too long a time in one place. We have been accustomed to burn out this energy on weekends when off the campus, where our play will not interfere with our work. Often too much of this wild-life energy has been stored in us and caused the campus to turn into a habitation of vandals within only a few minutes. This vandalism is the reason for splintered doors in the dormitories. Particularly since certain building materials are now hard to obtain, Davidson students are looking down upon such deeds this year. This war may make us break this tradition that for some poor reason has been at Davidson for too many years.

Of course, what we need is some legitimate way to use this energy of which we are speaking. The trustees have looked down upon dancing on the campus, although students have been allowed to sponsor this activity in Charlotte, a place which is supposed to give a better atmosphere for Davidson dances. Dancing then is a part of the problem and not a solution—not yet, at least. The college is doing much to face this problem along with the students. This year we have innovations such as a musical series of higher standard, physical education, shuffleboard alleys, and a new Y.M.C.A. with broader activities. Last year the “Y” sponsored dormitory stunt night and amateur night, which would be very worthwhile to continue this year. The Red and Black Masquers are going to work in a big way. And last, but not least, the college has provided more worshipful vesper services with a series of good speakers during the fall and winter. But coming to the main point, would not this be a good time for the four classes at Davidson to develop better class spirit? When we hear the old timers speak of college days, they mainly mention the great things that members of their class did—not their fraternity or club. Today we have...

By JIM STIMSON

The urge “to go” bit two of our fellow students early this weekend. Major “Hufines” Wooten and Captain “Ross” McGee commandeered a car and departed in full military uniform Thursday night. Full details of the trip have not been released by the War Department, but it was learned that these two officers-to-be were to reconnoitre the Mississippi River territory. Wooten was to stop off at Memphis to investigate the situation on the home front, but McGee planned to cross the river and open an offensive in Arkansas. It is too early to say what ground was gained, but we'll know by Homecoming.

Upchurch, Carter (the one who's frequently associated with Mott), Phillips, the longest Belk, and Sut the “you know what” left Friday afternoon to pass an evening at Salem. They liked it so they didn't get back for classes Saturday. Dick, John, and Gene went to Durham to witness Duke's second humiliation in as many weeks. Exactly what was done after the game isn't known, but each one brings back wild tales about the other two. All showed up with bleary eyes for Monday classes.

“Myron the Moron” the Military Mish has a new title—“Mayor of Boys’ Town”—thanks to one of the boys who avoids him regularly. His Honor was in Greensboro last weekend with the regular Romeos who haunt that township on weekends acting accordingly. “Andy Gump” Farrar and Brinson were among the many at the club in G'boro waiting to celebrate the appearance of Clark Gable, the ex-matinee idol. Gable didn’t arrive, but they celebrated anyway.

Spike and “Legs” Legerton conversed in S'burg accompanied by Slim Jim and “Jo-Jo, the freshman’s friend”. Jim lives there; the others would like to. Judging by their reports, you don’t have to be in the service to get along with the girls. Wonder how “The Man Who Came to Dinner” (without shaving) is operating these days with that bristle bush on his lower face. They're camouflaging lots of things these days.

Gorgeous George McCormick seems to be a Link-er two closer to Isabel these days. Freddie Speas, who was just released from a campus sentence for subversive activities last spring, took off for home Friday to start catching up on extra-curricular activities. Monk Caterson and Bob “Hugo Jr.” Raney tripped off to Salisbury Saturday afternoon to visit Monk's girl who had asked Bob's girl to spend the weekend with her. You will remember that Monk stopped off to visit her on his way home last June and was mysteriously taken sick for ten days. He came back this time with a slight fever but thought it best not to get sick again.

The football team seems to have greater power in social circles than on the gridiron. O’Hair seems to have been the matchmaker for his teammates. Pat Williams’ date tagged him affectionately Bunny Rabbit. It must be because he sprang forward so quickly to pick the prissiest little miss when O’Hair was matching them up. The players report that MacLean got a better looking damsel than any of them. “Some got it; some ain't.” George Peters had a lovely lassie to come down from Richmond and Hobby Lobby, our candidate for All-American manager, had one of the top-notchers. The latter couple didn't get out on the dance floor much. I guess they were just tired.

Teensy Hodges threw a ringer on the third finger of a certain left hand last week at Salem. Congratulations and best of luck. Due to lack of transportation, Mooresville seems to be attracting more one-night-standers than Charlotte. Guess we'll have to place a spotter over there, too. In closing let me put in a plug for the Pan-Hell. Let’s start getting dates right away for November 6th and 7th so when we get flushed we'll have time to recoup.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN
(Guest columnist for the week is Junior Buddy Thompson who emerges from war-weary Watts to enlighten the public on his views of campus activities in the world at large, accent on the more unusual side. Mr. Thompson.)

THE COLLEGE HERO
(Or What Every Professor Should Know)

The buzzer for class at Norfolk College hits a low E flat. In stream myriads of students—this is Dr. Imacripp’s General Information course. It is the day before the big game with P.U., the stinkers. We've got an oral test today and our star, Puccini Paderewski—he was the pianist of his family—must pass or the stinkers from P.U. will win.

Paddy (his friends call him Paddy) is quite the thing around school. He plays sixty minutes of football, he carries water out to the team to keep from bogging down between quarters, plays solo trumpet in the band during the half, leads the snake-dance after the game, directs the glee club at vespers, and coaches the freshmen on Monday. But he’s really dumb, no kiddin’. He thinks the Saturday Evening Post is—well, he's awfully dumb.

Paddy sits in the place pre-arranged by fellow students—our money is bet at odds on the game so Paddy just has to play. Screening him from the professor is Leapin’ Leo, the terpsichorean genius with the grace of a water buffalo—all three-hundred pounds of him. My, what an obstacle! On Paddy’s left and right sit Casper Stonebridge, Al and Herb Hammock—braintrusts and Charles Atlas hopefuls. We've been shooting the dope to Paddy but he still hasn't received the Einstein touch.

The professor clears his throat with a blinding roar. When the haze clears, our football great is seen cribbing with Herb Hammock. “Tut, tut, Mr. er, er-a, Paderewski,” says Dr. Imacripp meanwhile giving him that “you can’t fail” look (“you play football, and are a member of I Tappa Keg fraternity, and are from Bull's Gap.”) “Oh, fudge,” says Paddy.

Outside voices are heard from frosh gathering scrap for “scrap the Jap" day. There is a pause; then, their noise is concentrated into our school yell: “Rooty-toot-toot; rooty-toot-toot, We are the boys from Norfolk. We don't smoke and we don’t drink—” and the rest of the cheer dies away in the distance.

But back to the class and the professor. “As you all know,” croaks the Professor, “this is a stiff course.” Giggles and hee-hee's crawl from the back row. But poor old Paddy squirms and squirms. “I ask you two questions and both must be right in order to pass.”

The professor fixes his Phi Bete key more conspicuously on his lapel, tools with his wing-tipped collar, and gets up to sit on his desk. “Now, Mr. Paderewski,” he shoots Paddy that smile, “I'll start with you.” All edge forward on their seats while Paddy is heard muttering, “Oh, fudge.”

“Can you,” beams the doctor, “very accurately define an instinct?” “No, sir,” says Paddy. “Correct, correct,” bellows the professor. “Well, that is one down and one to go, Mr. Paderewski.” We ace! Back of Paddy and his terry all heave a sigh of relief.

“Now, sir, what do you think of the General Information Department at Wake Forest?” Johnny-on-the-Spot Hammock lets a Bible dictionary fall on Paddy’s foot, “&**@&**," shrieks Paddy. “That's right, that's quite right,” shouts Dr. Imacripp. “You pass, Mr. Paderewski.” Tumults of cheers arise as Paddy is carried out on shoulders confident of tomorrow's victory.

Ipana-Sal-Hepatica—