Page Two Thursday, May 14, 1942 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 Member of Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879. ED ERWIN PETER YOUNG....._....-EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF Lacy McLean........... Assistant Editor Henry McIntosh........ Editor JIMMY CUNNINGHAM.... Associate Editor Mac Jeffries........... Managing Editor Howell Morrow......... Managing Editor Legh Scott............. Managing Editor Deane Watson.......... Managing Editor Bill Barker............. Staff Photographer BUSINESS STAFF Advertising Manager... Dick Port Advertising Manager... Don McIver Circulation Manager... Jim Harris Circulation Manager... Eddy Carson Credit, Where Due... Due credit should be accorded Ralph Clontz and his assistants in their part on the drive for the sale of war bonds which they conducted on the campus last week. Of course there was no compunction about making pledges to this cause, but it seems a shame that 100 per cent of the student body could not find it possible to pledge something, however small. It always rankles to have surrounding institutions (one in particular) show better results than ours in anything, but especially in the matter of patriotism. Sometimes we find ourselves urged to laugh at different phases of work or campus life because of the nature of the work itself or because of some individual with it. We often tend to make fun of boys because they are ready to expend energy in activities that are really more worthwhile than the more “socially approved” channels. This, it seems, is another evidence of the Davidson sense of humor, which, although it is embarrassing at times, we hope will continue in spirit as long as the college itself. Usually when the results are tabulated it is found that as a whole the students come through pretty well on every project put before them, which is certainly often enough, in our opinion. Success... We have voiced our approval of the idea of the celebration of Mother's Day before, but the actual event deserves even more praise. Plans were tastefully arranged so that the mothers were able to take in everything without rushing, and so that they were still able to find time to visit informally with their sons and the other mothers. We were impressed by the pulchritude of the group of mothers in attendance. Perhaps plans for the next occasion should include a Mothers’ beauty contest. When asked if he looked forward to a better celebration next year, Mr. Payne, Alumni Secretary, evidenced his satisfaction in this year’s program by replying, “There may be more mothers here to enjoy the next one, but I don’t see how it could be any better.” Editorials THE DAVIDSONIAN Glee DAVIDSONIAN Letters A N : SP wo sbnts Features MY DAZE By BILL LYMAN On the Grave Seriousness of the Do You Know Problem, or, Raney Spoils His Weekend: What is more delightful than a dance weekend? I can think of nothing. However, dance weekends would certainly be far more delightful if it were not for the “Do You Know” blight, which has, in extreme cases, ruined an entire dance for someone. This custom evidently originated at least as far back as necessary to have the momentum it has today, else it would not have become such a universal disease in the present day. Let us suppose that a Davidson student, such as Bob Raney, has a date for the Mid-Winters dance set. Her name is, say, Chrysanthemum Devonshire, from Chattanooga, hypothetically a student at Hollins. Bob has met her on a visit there, and, snared, invited her to the dances here, her first trip to Davidson. Bob is looking forward to a tremendous time, rendered all the more exciting since he does not know Chrysanthemum well and the prospect of conquest always adds zest. Bob is introducing Chrysanthemum to his brothers at the Alpha Sig house. He gets to Burk Walker, and for the seventh time the conversation runs something like this: “Chrysanthemum, this is Burkhead Walker.” “Hello-o-o Burk I'm so-o-o glad to know you.” (She is enchanting—her head cocked slightly to the right, teeth flashing, and eyes gazing on him in ecstasy.) “How do you do. Won't you sit down?” (She sits.) “Oh-h-h, this is so cozy. Where are you from, Burk?” “Mount Gilead.” “No! I visited at Mount Gilead last summer.” (She squeals with delight.) “Bob, isn't this wonderful?” “Unh-hunh.” Says Burk, “Not really! Who did you visit?” “Pearl Stud. Do you know her?” “Do I know her? I was only raised with her. She's fine. Do you know Jack Nife?” “Oh-h-h, this is wonderful. I should say I do know Jack Knife. Isn't he cute? Do you know Tom Catt?” “He's only one of my best friends. He’s fine.” “Do you know Joy Supreme?” “She's only my roommate. Isn't she cute?” “Then you go to Hollins. Do you know Arid Nose?” “Extremely well. Isn't she cute?” “She's fine.” “Oh, she's so cute.” “I think she’s fine.” “She's one of the cutest people I know.” “Where's your home?” “Chattanooga.” “Chattanooga! I know hundreds of people in Chattanooga!” “Oo-o0-00! Isn't this a small world?” “It certainly is a small world.” “Bob, isn't this wonderful?” (Silence.) “Bob! Where are you going, Bob?” (Pause.) “Bob, what are you doing with that knife? BOB!!!" And so you see why I have such an aversion for this “Do You Know" foolishness. Having to kill his date is bound to have put a damper on Bob's weekend. Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON Thursday and Friday, May 14 and 15 KINGS ROW *_* * & Ann Sheridan, Robert Cummings, Ronald Reagan, and Betty Field. This is a superb drama, telling the story of five children from their schooldays to adulthood. Ronald Reagan is the town sport who loves Nancy Coleman, daughter of Charles Coburn. Ann Sheridan is the girl who loves Reagan and Robert Cummings is the psychiatrist who is Reagan’s friend. All of the cast turn in excellent dramatic performances to make this one of the truly top pictures of the year. Saturday, May 16 WILD BILL HICKOK RIDES Constance Bennett, Bruce Cabot, Warren William, and Betty Brewer. Monday and Tuesday, May 18 and 19 MY GAL SAL Rita Hayworth, Victor Mature, John Sutton, and Carole Landis COMING: TO BE OR NOT TO BE, with Carole Lombard. THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER, with Bette Davis. I would like for HENRY McINTOSH to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week. Mosaic Lines Down Fraternity Court Phi Delta Theta The annual Spring Dinner-Dance at the Charlotte Country Club was the highlight of the Spring social season for the Phis. Those local and out of town girls attending were: Libba Rogers, Ernestine Norvell, Ann Huntington, Mary Lowry, Eloise Ainsworth, Nell Erkes, Elizabeth Johnson, Betty Owens, Judy Long, Aileen Efird, Eloise Hamrick, Alexa Williams, Betty Smith, Lucy Morrison, Virginia Ford, Anne Buckner, Juliette La Bord, Julia Simpson, Gloria Deal, Jane Ruth Hayes, Mary List. Kappa Alpha The Knights of Kappa Alpha performed brilliantly in a double feature weekend. Many of the Brothers had their mothers as guests for the Mothers’ Day festivities, a great many worked out their pitchin’ arms at a Fresh Air Camp function, and several gave a good account of themselves at both. Here as visitors were the mothers of Brothers Buzzie Councill, Jim George Mitchell, Davis Campbell, Ansley, John Irwin, and Henderson Belk, Ralph Dunn, Mace Jeffries and Hank Watt. The return of Joe Bachman from Bristol, the presence of Pete Crayton, Houston Thomas, and several other features en- the Pi Kappa Alpha Mothers’ Day, 1942, was a huge success. The Pikas who represented on the hose Mothers present wereMes- Brockman, Clark, Fredricks, Goldston, Lane, Morehead, Parks, Pollock, Scott, Shelton, Walker, White; and Williamson, Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle, faithful as always, were on hand. Brothers Maxwell, Shelton, Scott, and Pledge Brother An- were there also. Brother Hodges hasn't returned to the campus yet. The count-off in the Queen City revealed Brothers Elder and Pearsall, Pledge Brothers Stroup and Graves. There are no Brothers Clark. The out- deal was, however, had Martin. The tent this week was pitched at Atlanta—tell us about it, Joe!

Pi Kappa Phi

The past weekend was an eventful one for the Pi Kapps. The frat held its spring dance in Charlotte Saturday night, and a fine time was had by all. The dance was a success with well-attended proceedings. Seen in Greensboro were Brothers Bingham, Davidson, Parson afoot, and Henderson, along with details as to the deals of Hill, Neill, and Turner, which must have been secret. Standing by was Joe, whose dates for the dance were: Isabel Linker, Shirley Hartzell, Louise Robinson, Margaret Farrington, Jean Jones, Gladys Jetty, Eleanor Welling, Martha Green, Mary Eleanor Robinson, Mary Kathryn McArthur, Jane Jackman, and Mary Nell Whitehead. Professor and Mrs. Kingsolver, Mr. and Mrs. Harris, Mrs. Mebane, and Mrs. McGill attended the dance. Grover Fowler, James Bisanor, and Jimmie Lee Rhyne, all of Hickory, were guests of the fraternity.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Especially welcomed to the campus this weekend were the following mothers who visited here for the Mother’s Day celebration: Mrs. McAlister Carson, Mrs. E. F. Lucas, Mrs. Richard Port, Mrs. Roy Hunt, Mrs. Mac Bruce, Mrs. James Wilcox, Mrs. W. H. Sprunt, Mrs. James McDonald, Mrs. E. W. McLeod, Mrs. W. W. Wood, and Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Other recent visitors include E. W. McLeod of Decatur, Ala., and Dr. J. L. Bibb of Chattanooga, Tennessee. Spending the weekend away from the campus were Brothers Smith, Tate, Young, and Stewart in Charlotte; Moore, Lee, Caldwell, Alcott, Hackney, and Faison at Myrtle Beach; McGeachy, Hill, McAlister, and Graves in Greensboro. Brothers Frank Dunn and Whaling went home to Winston-Salem, Brother Crichton visited Brother Freeze in High Point. Attending the May Day festivities at Chatham Hall in Virginia were Taylor, Hudson, and Treat. Brother Kyser visited Converse in Spartanburg.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Of course, the event of the week for the chapter was Mother’s Day. The following parents were guests of the fraternity and college over the weekend: Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Legerton, Mr. and Mrs. Mayes Behrman, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Powell, Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Whitley, Mrs. R. B. Winchester, Mrs. W. D. Loy, Mrs. C. L. Isley, Mrs. Cheney, and Mrs. Fulcher. Notable were the following brothers: Bivins, who made a weekend of it at Myrtle Beach with Eddie; Ed Hay, who visited his home in Hickory; Charlie Henderson, who again trekked to State; Jim Fulcher, who attended the P.S.A. Conference at Duke; Dave Blevins, seen at W.C.; Tom and Hugh McLauchlin and John Maness, visiting in Greensboro; Hunter Dalton, at home in High Point; and Sellars, who spent Mother’s Day at home in Greensboro. Joe Lacy was content to stay on campus.

Freshmen, Sophomores, 17 through 19. Enlist now!

The Fifth Columnist

By 27???

With mothers to the right and left of us and the gas shortage in front of us, it was somewhat difficult to uncover anything of merit to be included in the dope catalogue this week. Man-of-the-week honors fall to ED SUTTON, who after interesting experiences with the local constabulary borrowed a Professor's car at nine o'clock Saturday night to make an eight o'clock function in Charlotte. Details are guarded closer than the Phi ritual. JOHN BELK and READY RIGHT made their usual jaunt to Sweet Briar. His mother is still looking for him. "B. B. EYES" RAY reports that things stayed with him after this last weekend. TOM PLONK confirmed the rumor by reporting (and we misquote), "Of course it's true!" HOLY HENRY MacINTOSH contends that the only regret attached to a successful weekend was that his fraternity pin broke down. New alibi, what? At the beach last weekend, BUTCH CALDWELL was seen shortly after dark looking for the Shores of Tripoli. Since he is soon to be in the Marine Corps, he was noticed brushing up on his manual. BILL FAISON, the old master, had to go all the way to the seaside to discover local talent from Charlotte. JIM KERR and HUFFINES were seen in Mooresville the other night in full uniform, with dates. Shades of BILL PRESTON. KERR seems to like the hamburgers at the roadhouse these days. Soon after his arrival at the K. A. river party, JIM "HONEY-CHILE" JACKSON began to commune with nature. He was last heard to remark, quote, "It’s so peaceful in the country." BUZZIE CAM WILSON were seen in the company of a certain MR. JONES of Boston. IKE BELK and his date left old D.C. at twelve Saturday to attend the function, but arrived at 9:30 with no adequate explanations. Your guess is as good as mine! TOM FINDLEY seems to have priorities over all comers in regard to "his Jitter." MOOSE HART has found his fraternity pin at long last, but seems to have no little difficulty in retrieving it. What's the matter, Moose? Also—how close "SIP" TAYLOR’S date was gathered in by "fraternity fellowship"—by everyone but "SIP."

Stay in college! You may qualify for a Naval Commission on the sea or in the air. Freshmen, Sophomores. Here's a challenge—and an opportunity! Your Navy needs trained men. Trained men to become Naval Officers! And your college is ready to give you that training now.

Here’s the New Navy Plan

If you’re 17 and not yet 20, you enlist now as an Apprentice Seaman in the Naval Reserve. You then continue in college, including in your studies courses stressing physical training, mathematics, and physics. After you successfully complete 1½ calendar years of college work, you will be given a classification test.

Aviation Officers

If you qualify by this test, you may volunteer to become a Naval Aviation Officer. In this case, you will be permitted to finish the second calendar year of college work before you start your training to become a Flying Officer. However, at any time during this two-year period after you have reached your 18th birthday, you may, if you so desire, take the prescribed examination for Aviation Officer, and, if successful, be assigned for Aviation training. Students who fail in their college courses, or who withdraw from college, will also have the privilege of taking the Aviation examination.

Deck or Engineering Officers

If you qualify in the classification test and do not volunteer for Aviation, you will be selected for training as a Deck or Engineering Officer. In that case, you will continue your college program until you receive your bachelor’s degree, provided you maintain the established university standards.

Other Opportunities

If you do not qualify as either a potential Aviation Officer or as a potential Deck or Engineering Officer, you will be permitted to finish your second calendar year of college and will then be ordered to active duty as Apprentice Seamen. But, even in this event, because of your college training, you will have a better chance for advancement. Pay starts with active duty. It’s a real challenge! It’s a real opportunity! Make every minute count by doing something about this new Navy plan today.

DON’T WAIT...ACT TODAY

1. Take this announcement to the Dean of your college.
2. Or go to the nearest Navy Recruiting Station.
3. Or mail the coupon below for a FREE BOOK giving full details.

---

U.S. Navy Recruiting Bureau, Div. V-1
30th Street and 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.

Please send me your free book on the Navy Officer Training plan for college freshmen and sophomores. I am a student [ ], a parent of a student [ ] who is ____ years old attending ____ College at ____. 

Name: ____
Street: ____
City & State: ____