Page Two

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter.................Editor
W. C. S........Associate Editor
Al Winn........Associate Editor
Ed Erwin........Managing Editor
Joe Eve........Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher........Managing Editor
Bill Lyman........Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh........Sports Editor
Lacy MacLean........Movie Editor
Clarence Legerton........Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Joe Martin........Assistant Business Manager
Buck McNeely........Advertising Manager
Ivey Stuart........Circulation Manager
Billy Barker........Circulation Manager
........Collections Manager

GET “FIT TO FIGHT”

With Charles Atlas-like promises of physical fitness in an amazingly short period of time, the student body heard the proposal
for a new athletic program to be offered this semester. Some persons in this student body, regretfully we feel, have
an inherent disgust for any new policy that originates on the campus. The thoughts of deeper thinkers will ultimately overshadow
these “progress hinderers,” and the program will be adopted with enthusiasm.

At the Association of American Colleges and Universities in America this year was forwarded a plan for the government's enforcing
a nationwide collegiate program to require so many hours of exercise for every American college student. This plan has not
as yet been adopted of course, and one main argument against it is that colleges will automatically adopt physical development
programs without direction from the government. Davidson College is reacting favorably to this proposal.

The plan of the Physical Education Department is to make the program universal and interesting to all ranks of athletes
by segregating the more advanced in one particular sport from the beginners. “We don't care whether a fellow has been
in a gymnasium before in his life,” declared Coach Shepard in regard to the qualifications of a person before entering
into the plan. “We won't embarrass anybody and we'll have something for everybody to do and excel in.” In other
words, the program is not only for the persons who are already experts in certain sports, nor does it attempt
to interfere with the present set-up of inter-class and inter-fraternity competition. This new phase of athletic participation is designed to
include those persons who are not taking part in year-round sports activity. In a way, the plan is definitely a
break for the men who have always wanted to go out for sports, but who have been afraid of the
embarrassment of not being any too skilled in it. And yet the exercises to be given are to be vigorous
enough to actually develop neglected muscles. A progressive program promises to condition men so all will be able to do
the most strenuous exercises. As a matter of fact, a glance in the catalog shows that a four-year physical education
course for students not taking R.O.T.C. is written in the curricular requirements.

What better thing can college students do in preparation for war than becoming physically fit to fight? Is an hour
a day too much to ask you to volunteer toward your own self-improvement?

Editorials

Just A Minute, Your Honor

After the threat of the Court of Control as delivered in chapel Tuesday by Judge Frank Caldwell, the freshman class
as a whole ought to take on a little self-respect and come out of their state of general “noxiousness” by
re-adopting a few of the sadly neglected freshman regulations. First of all, a great many freshmen never speak to anybody.
Then, too, freshman caps are as much a rarity at this time as the proverbial strawberries in January. Walking out
of chapel before everybody else is out, disregarding front campus “off the grass” regulations and other offenses have been committed
without regard for convention. There has been little laxness on the part of the Court of Control until recently—the laxness
has been on the part of the student body. Seven men can't do everything. Let's get behind them and see
some red on the tops of those freshmen!

Y’s Corner

By SHAW SMITH

GUEST COLUMNIST: CHARLIE PARRISH

Let's Talk About Chapel Services. I believe I see a side of this phase of our college life that most
of you never see and you might be interested in getting a little inside dope. First, I'd like to express
a personal opinion. This new schedule that was installed back in the earlier part of the Fall has proved to
be most successful and a solution, for the time being anyway, of our Chapel problem. I don't know whether it
is because it is something different or that the new idea is a real solution, but it is apparently an
accomplishment for all concerned: students, faculty, etc.

Can't help but be delighted sometimes with the willingness and the joy most of you boys show when I approach
them with the question, “How about taking a Chapel service?” No kidding, there has been splendid co-operation from almost everyone
I've asked. And you have come up there with some good messages—fellows some real food for thought and our spirits.
Yes, sir, and you would like to see the seriousness with which many of the boys take this business of
making preparations like it’s their trial sermon at seminary or something. But it’s good for us to be prodded down
once in a while and see if we really have anything in our religious experience to share with others -
we might see how lacking we are. Nevertheless, we have all gotten a lot out of it. By the way,
if you think a boy has brought you a good thought, don't hesitate to tell him and thank him. Thank
him for his effort, too.

There is one part of the Chapel service that many of us miss if we are there when it is
going on we fail to notice its nature. I wonder how many of us have ever thought about the effort
our organists, Alec Osborne and Mr. Pfohl, have put forth to contribute their part; it's an important part, too. Most
of the time there is too much noise and commotion for us to even recognize any of the music that
is being played. This part of the chapel can be the most helpful part of all, sometimes if we would
make less noise when we enter. I know myself that many mornings when I've come into the auditorium, taken my
seat and given my attention to the prelude the organist was playing, it does something to me to make me
ready for the rest of the service and many times “takes the ouch out of the grouch.” What do you
say? Let's make a little less noise when you go to Chapel and enjoy it from the beginning—from the prelude
to the dismissal.

We have more time now under the new set-up for many of those things that make Chapel a part of
our college life that we will never forget, something we will like to think about in years to come. After
the Devotional on Tuesdays and Thursdays, it's ours to do as we please. It’s then that we can put our
humor in some announcements that AT smiles over when he reads them, make our “boos” and “hisses” at the freshmen
and one another, throw airplanes, etc. This kind of a get-together helps us a lot, fellows—it’s part of Chapel on
those days. But it isn’t all. The final curve before the home stretch is in years past there has been
a great deal of disagreement and discussion about the Chapel services—especially on the compulsion of it. It seems that now
we have been met at least halfway and I hope we all feel better about it—I believe we do. And
one day is free for our use as we please altogether. Since these changes, there has been a decided change
in the attitude of the students toward chapel. I hope you will all continue the good co-operation with the “Y”
in these services.

Letters

Most Pedestrians Invite Disaster, Analysis Shows 28.1% CROSSING

That pure carelessness is to be blamed for most of the appalling number of pedestrian deaths in 1938 is the
conclusion to be drawn from an analysis released in “Lest We Regret,” the ninth annual highway safety booklet published by
The Travelers Insurance Company. Of the total of 13,340 pedestrians killed in 1938, 28.1% or 3,720 met death while thoughtlessly
crossing in the middle of the block. In contrast to the 5.8% or 770 persons killed while crossing at intersections
against the signal, and the 15.7% or 2,090 killed while crossing at intersections lacking a signal, only 150 persons, 1.1%
of the total, were killed while crossing diagonally at intersections, getting on and off other vehicles, and hitching rides. Other
leading causes of pedestrian fatalities, according to the analysis, in the order of their importance were: walking on rural highways,
coming from behind parked cars, children playing in the street, men at work in the roadway, “jaywalking” or crossing.

Down Pat

By PAT RUDOLPH

Exams over! The straight and narrow path of a new semester, blanketed with a clean sheet, is now lying ahead
of each and every Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning.
Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you
give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of
learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t
you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway
of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues.
Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling
highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board
blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this
grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft
board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over
this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that
draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf
over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel
that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new
leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you
dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a
new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help
you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn
a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to
help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to
turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able
to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned
to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than
able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being
beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more
than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each
being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and
more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman,
each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC.,
and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson
gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES,
INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely,
Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE
JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE?
Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed),
AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a
CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones
(signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us
a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available
Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give
us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning.
Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you
give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of
learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t
you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway
of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues.
Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling
highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board
blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this
grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft
board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over
this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that
draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf
over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel
that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new
leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you
dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a
new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help
you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn
a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to
help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to
turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able
to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned
to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than
able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being
beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more
than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each
being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and
more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson gentleman,
each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES, INC.,
and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely, Davidson
gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE JONES,
INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE? Sincerely,
Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed), AVAILABLE
JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a CHANCE?
Sincerely, Davidson gentleman, each being beckoned to turn a new leaf over this grilling highway of learning. Available Jones (signed),
AVAILABLE JONES, INC., and more than able to help you dispel that draft board blues. Won’t you give us a
CHANCEThey can be made a vital part of our college lives—our lives.
———
Yours,
CHARLIE PARRISH.

Two days are now shortened a great deal
W.C. UN. C., Box 446, Greensboro, N. C.

No, don’t get me wrong. Our illustrious Pan-Hellenic president has a date who possesses all the qualifications for representing her
important position. But he and his date alone can't possess all the glamour necessary for a successful Midwinters. Far from
it. It takes boys and dates, plenty of them, to make a dance set what it ought to be. I've
stated before that we have a clean scholastic sheet ahead, but I hope that we don’t have a clean social
sheet ahead. We need one covered with “Cs” and “Ls” (Connections and Locks). However, if you are one of the
numerous unlucky Romeos who suffered the cruel, harsh breaks that can often result from “who went with who to the
various Christmas parties,” and from expensive presents which were not received with the expected animation, then you are now the
one who holds a social report card covered with “Fs” (Flushes to be distinguished from the Sentelle type).

The included letter, offering such wonderful opportunities from one of our sister university-colleges where Li'l Abner seems to have come
to life, is one way out of your dateless problem. The thing to do, seems to me, is to contact
Available Jones and show him or her what a social life can be. This fairly well sums up the scholastic
side of college life, but what of the more important side? This important side is what necessitated my being guest
columnist for my roommate. All his worries over the best dance set for years, which is looming in the near
future, were topped off today by the following letter which brought a realization into his overworked mind:

“AVAILABLE JONES, INC.
Dear Mr. Rudolph:
Are you lonely? Are your friends lonely? Don't sit calmly by and let life flow past you! We are prepared
to introduce you to cultured, congenial members of the opposite sex who are ready, willing, and able to resolve to
put away the old adage: ‘Never do today what can be put off for weeks yet,’ and to do today
what should be done today.”

The Seniors’ outlook is scented with an air of finality. Only one more semester and these four years with all
their toil and pleasure will end with an anti-climax of a few Rudolph Thursday, January 29, 1942.

Features
The Filth
By ? ? Columnist ? ?

Since the last bit of dirt was published, Dirty Dan Cupid, armed with his bow, has taken a heavy toll
on the first floor of Georgia, having bagged Bob Bryant and mortally wounded Duck Rankin. Bryant married Miss Sarah Brown.
The Duck is to get hitched early in the summer. Two other droolers off that floor are wanting to follow
them down that center aisle. Trips were made to all points Saturday to get away from all the work of
the past ten days, this Converse got its share as usual with such big dealers as High Pocket Belk, Ed
Lucas, Monroe Bush, Mac Bruce, Priestly Conyers, Red Wallace, Legs Kelly, and many others being present. Ashby Dick got off
at Limestone, so Belk took over at Converse for him. Legs got a date with The Jew's date for the
dances. Then Myron, the meron the military Mish, Bush, Miss Gee, and six others went out for an evening of
it. They say they all rode at once in one car so as to save the tires. A weak excuse
we think.

One of our young freshmen, Mr. Findley, set a new style at the Carolina dances this weekend by dancing in
a top coat. It seems he had a little zipper trouble. Gosh! Rev. Owens, you must have it bad. Two
trips to Tennessee in two days is quite a record. Do you help her teach the kids? Orchids to Alf
Taylor for swearing off necking. It does get dull, doesn't it? By the way, what about the twelve girls you
dated in one night at church? Red Wallace got a unique flush two weeks ago from Elon, or was it
just some more of Elder’s line? She shot him a call at the last minute saying her dorm had just
burned to the ground. That's a new one to add to the ever-growing list of flushes.

Pat Rudolph got a large Christmas goose when both his Homecoming and Midwinters dates announced to the public and poor
Pat that they had lost all fear of becoming old maids since they are going to hear wedding bells before
long. However, he didn't give up but got another. His only worry now is to keep her from following the
others. By the way, he wants you all to keep on trying until you get a date with a right
babe to hear Teddy Powell and his band. It may be our big band until we beat the Japs, so
let's make it a big weekend.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday, January 29th
DESIGN FOR SCANDAL

Rosalind Russell, Walter Pidgeon, Edward Arnold, Lee Bowman, and Jean Rogers. This production might be termed a “bitters chaser,” for
it's one of the most entertaining to come out of Hollywood in quite a while. Roz Russell has the role
of a female judge, while Walter Pidgeon portrays a nervy news photographer who attempts to double-cross Madame Judge at the
instigation of his boss, Edward Arnold, who wants his alimony reduced. The scheme cooked up by Pidgeon and Arnold is
to embroil Miss Russell in a little underhanded scandal, thereby forcing her to listen to reason. Pidgeon, therefore, is sent
out to provide the scandal. The hitch comes when Roz discovers the plot and Mr. Pidgeon completely loses his heart.

The whole mess ends up with an unusually funny court scene, with Guy Kibbee as an extremely comical judge.

Friday and Saturday, January 30 and 31
SHADOW OF THE THIN MAN

William Powell, Myrna Loy, Barry Nelson, Donna Reed, Sam Levene, and Alan Baxter. William Powell is back in another of
his portrayals of that suave detective, Nick Charles. This time he unravels a race-track murder mystery and has a wonderful
time in the process. Myrna Loy is back as the playful helpmate of our charming sleuth, who this time intervenes
in the murders of a jockey and later, a reporter. Much melodrama and laughter are interwoven into the unraveling of
the murders. The police, as usual, are portrayed as dumb ignoramuses who couldn't even catch a cold if exposed to
it. Glamour girl Stella Adler and numerous gangster types round out the cast. Young Dickie Hall is the Charles's offspring,
and he truly is a chip off the old block.

Monday and Tuesday, February 1 and 2
DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE

Spencer Tracy, Lana Turner, Ingrid Bergman, Donald Crisp, and Ian Hunter. Director Victor Fleming took a decidedly risky step in
casting Spencer Tracy against type, as he did with Lana Turner and Ingrid Bergman, but the result wasn't at all
bad. In this latest revival of Robert Louis Stevenson’s famous story, Tracy plays London's pampered young society doctor, who has
suppressed desires to come to life in that bestial murderer, Mr. Hyde. Lana Turner plays his charming young fiancée, who
discovers to her horror in one dramatic scene that the one she has loved so dearly is a monster. Ingrid
Bergman is very good in her role of the young barmaid. Donald Crisp plays Lana’s pompous father, and Ian Hunter
is Spencer's medico friend. The picture is decidedly gruesome.

COMING:
TARZAN’S SECRET TREASURE, with Johnny Weissmuller, Maureen O'Sullivan, John Sheffield, and Reginald Owen.
KATHLEEN, with Shirley Temple, Herbert Marshall, Laraine Day, Gail Patrick, and Felix Bressart.

I would like for George Brunson Dew to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.
