Thursday, February 5, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Mr. J. Paine Interviewed
Former Davidson Student Makes Address

The Davidsonian assignment card published every week by ye assignment editor, Slyme Lyman, this week really messed us up. Went down Friday to get the sad news at the usual time, and there was nothing there; went down Saturday to double-check, and still nothing there. Thinking for once we were numbered among the lucky few, we set off on a weekend of good cheer with a light heart. But the gods willed otherwise; on checking the P. O. drill I. M., we found the following message by after Monday: “Check by the alumni office and get an interview with Mr. Paine. Must be in by 6 P.M.” Looking at the post office clock, we found the time to be exactly 4:15. One hour and forty-five minutes to bring home the bacon in.

Bursting into Mr. Paine’s office, I had already begun talking when I noticed that I wasn't the only one present. Greatly flustered, I began apologies, at the same time edging for the door. “What can I do for you?” came Mr. Paine’s cheerful voice. “Thank you, sir,” I replied. "I'll just run down the hall a minute, and come back.” Five minutes later, I again burst into the office, and began the interview. Again I became vaguely aware of the presence of a third party. Now it was someone else. I had waited too long. For the first time, I became conscious of the importance of the job this man was holding. This time, I sat down respectfully to wait. In a few minutes, the visitor left, and Mr. Paine turned to me, pleasantly with a “What's this about an interview?”

“If you don’t mind, sir.” This from me, timidly.

“Well, shoot.”

“First, your birth and education.”

“Well, I was born in Washington, the northeast corner of the state. By the way, it might be of interest to know that this is the original Washington of the United States. It was founded during the war even before the national capital. As for my education, I went from Washington to Davidson, graduating in 1916.”

“Do you have any hobbies, sir,” I asked.

“Yes, fishing.”

A brilliant idea struck me. “Do you have any good fish stories that you like to tell?” I asked, chuckling.

Quick as a flash, he came back. “No, I can't compete with Dr. McConnell.” We hurriedly moved to other grounds.

Mid-Winters Dance Sponsors

The Pan-Hellenic Council presents its sponsors for the annual Midwinter Dance Set, which will open at the Armory tomorrow night with a formal dance. The sponsors are (top, left to right) Miss Julia Guion of New Bern, N. C., whose escort will be Carlton Parsons, secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council and representing Phi Kappa Alpha Fraternity; Miss Eloise Ainsworth of Biltmore, N. C., who will lead the figure with Pat Rudolph, Phi Delta Theta and president of the Pan-Hellenic Council; Miss Frances Fleming of Laurens, S. C., will represent Kappa Alpha Fraternity with Mason Wallace, treasurer of the council; (second row) Miss Millie Brenizer of Charlotte with Ed Lucas, representing Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Miss Jane Willis of Thomasville, Ga. with Jack Phillips, member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity; Miss Martha Brandon of Scotland Neck, N. C., with Walter Wooten, representing Phi Gamma Delta; (third row) Miss Mandy Morgan of Hyman, S. C., with Julien McCall, member of Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity. Miss Marilyn Reaves of Greensboro with George Marsh, representing Kappa Sigma Fraternity; and Miss Betty Barrentine of Charlotte with Rod Turner, Sigma Phi Epsilon representative on the council.

“Tell me something about your business before you came here. And are you married?”

“Oh, yes, I'm married. Got a daughter Louise, now going to Carolina Business School in Charlotte, and a 13-year-old boy, Jack, who goes to Alexander Graham Junior High.”

I glanced at my watch; it was 5:47. Thirteen minutes to meet the deadline.

“Anything else I can tell you?” Mr. Paine was asking.

“Courtesy of The Charlotte Observer.”

“I think I'd better move,” I said, grabbing my notes. “Tempus fidgets. Thanks.” The door slammed behind me. As for the story, well—it's in on time. True or false.

Dr. Love Speaks At Vesper Service

Professor Julian Price Love, Ph.D. from Louisville Presbyterian Seminary delivered the vesper sermon to the Student Body on Sunday evening, February 1.

Introduction

Dr. Love was introduced by Dr. Cunningham, and many references were made to the friendship of the two men when they worked together at Louisville Presbyterian Seminary. Dr. Cunningham introduced Dr. Love to the students of Davidson as a splendid student of the Bible and an excellent teacher.

Dr. Love spoke first of the relationships between Davidson College and the Seminary. He referred to the fact that Dr. Cunningham was president of the Seminary for a number of years and told of the faculty members and students who had formerly attended Davidson. The text which was chosen as the theme for the evening’s address was taken from the last words of the twelfth chapter of Corinthians. Dr. Love suggested that the words which the apostle Paul spoke to the people of Corinth should be taken as a motto for daily living. “A more excellent way show I unto thee.” Men, in the course of their lives, are constantly seeking better ways of doing things. People follow good ways and bad ways in the pursuits of the things which life holds for them. The middle course often leads to ruin.Avoid the bad way, but we meet disaster because we deny ourselves of “the more excellent way.” Dr. Love describes the fruits from suffering, which inevitably result from an attitude of complacency. Nations and individuals are guilty of the sin of delaying the performance of duty as it presents itself. This complacent attitude is the reason for the horrible condition in which the world finds itself today. The first step toward achieving “the more excellent way” is self-criticism; we must be severe judges of our own actions; we must look at life with reality. People seem only to be striving after money; they give no thought to the real values of life. A careful check-up is needed so that men can see themselves as they really are and can apply the proper remedies for their faults. In order to achieve the more excellent way, we must train ourselves “to do all of the duties of life with equal high enthusiasm and good spirit.”

In speaking of the present world crisis, Dr. Love told of the necessity of an aggressive attitude on our part which will ensure the establishment of a peace that will be lasting and true. We must take aggressive action in order to accomplish anything of value. The “more excellent way” which the scriptures refer to can be described as a positive attitude based upon a foundation of love which will issue in the giving of oneself wholeheartedly to the business of living with men.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fix up with a Haircut and Massage Before the Dances
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

DR. BRENIZER
Dr. Addison Brenizer, prominent Charlotte surgeon, spoke to members of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, last night on the subject of “Two of My More Interesting Operations.” Members of the fraternity and others interested in the subject were present.

Deferment Re-Defined
From the War Department has come a message concerning the academic requirements for appointment of graduates of R.O.T.C. units and certain deferments of active duty in connection therewith. The bulletin is sent to each Corps Area and Department Commander and to each chief of arms and services. It states that (1) the requirement of receipt of a college degree prior to appointment in the Officers Reserve Corps may be waived in those cases wherein: (a) the student has met all other requirements for such appointment, has completed all prescribed training, has been recommended for appointment by his Professor of Military Science and Tactics, and the chief of the branch in which the commission is to be issued recommends that such waiver be granted in individual cases; (2) Effective immediately, and revoking all previous instructions on the subject, deferments of active duty will not be granted for any reason to Reserve Officers newly appointed from R.O.T.C. units, except for appropriate periods to medical officers who are required to serve as interns in medical institutions for qualification to practice medicine, and to other students who require additional time to complete normal academic courses for a degree as anticipated at appointment. A delay of not more than 10 days before reporting to duty may be granted at the direction of the ordering authorities.

Telephone and Mail Orders Filled
You Can Always Order By Mail or Telephone From Efird’s. Orders Filled Promptly.
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Preliminary Rifle Scores Announced
Wednesday, Jan. 4—Special to The Davidsonian:
Lt. Samuel Spencer has announced the results of the preliminary rifle fire for selection of entries for the Fourth Corps Area Rifle Match which will take place today. Those men who qualified for entrance today and their scores are listed here. Possible 200:
1—Barber, W. H. 189
2—Stubbins, S. G. 186
3—Gowthrop, J. 186
4—Kerr, J. N. 184
5—Dunlap, W. R. 187
6—Wilson, I. 187
7—Coonrad, R. W. 172
8—Kaing, N. D. 175
9—Grey, W. H. 173
10—Keys, W. 172
11—Howard, T. 172
12—Rose, J. 171
13—Allen, R. 171

LIL’ ABNER by AL CAPP
New for Spring!
KEN CALVERT GABARDINE SUITS at no advance in price
These smart suits have just newly arrived. The newest suits for smart spring wear. They are tailored of all wool gabardine and come in solid shades of Brown, Tan, Teal, and Navy. Single-breasted styles with 3-button coat. We believe that there is no need for us to elaborate on the expert tailoring, exacting fit, and smart appearance of these Ken Calvert Suits, because every well-dressed man already knows these facts and in all probability is already wearing a Ken Calvert Suit from Efird’s.

EFIRD'S MEN’S SHOP—STREET FLOOR
EFIRD’S INVITES YOU TO OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT
Consult Our Credit Manager on the Mezzanine Floor. If You Cannot Call, Write Him.