WELCOME, MOTHERS! | The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
O. D. K. TAPS NEW MEMBERS
Volume XXIX. X-528
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1942 No. 25

John Belk Is Chosen As President Of New Pan-Hellenic Council
Legerton And Mebane Are Other Officers For Next Year

At a recent meeting of the coming Pan-Hellenic Council, John Belk of Charlotte, N. C., was elected President of the
Council for the coming year. At the same time, Clarence Legerton of Charleston, S. C., was elected Secretary and Marvin
Mebane of Burlington, N. C., Treasurer of the Council.

Other members of the council are Ed Erwin, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Wellford Hobbie, Phi Delta Theta; Dick Phillips, Kappa Sigma;
Calhoun Hipp, Pi Kappa Phi; R. L. Brinsom, Pi Kappa Alpha; and Jesse Wooten, Phi Gamma Delta.

Belk is representative of Kappa Alpha Order and a member of the Student Council. He is Co-Captain of the basketball
team, was Vice-President of the Student Body and of the Sophomore Class.

Legerton is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity, a member of The Davidsonian staff, and the magazine business staff.
Mebane is a member of Beta Theta Pi, and of the Student Store Staff.

Members of the retiring Council are Pat Rudolph, President; Carlton Parson, Secretary; Mason Wallace, Treasurer; George Marsh, Julian McCall, Jack
Phillips, Rod Turner, Watter Wooten, and Ed Lucas.

“Y” Building Is Open For Use
Guests Inspected New Quarters Tuesday

Formal opening for the new Y M C A Building was held last Tuesday afternoon from 4:30 to 6:30. Students,
faculty and wives, and friends of the college had the opportunity to inspect the entire building. Jim McCrary, president of
the “Y,” and members of the cabinet assisted in showing guests through the building. Mrs. B. H. Williamson, the new
hostess, was in charge of refreshments.

Remodeling

Decorating and planning of furnishings for the remodeling of the old library building was directed by Mrs. Camille Campbell of
Winston-Salem. Mrs. Campbell is a daughter of a Davidson alumnus, Mr. J. N. Campbell of Salisbury. Facilities include a large
attractively furnished lounge 50 by 20 feet in size and a smaller parlor with victrola and radio. The “Y” secretary’s
office and two game rooms are on the first floor with these other two rooms. Spacious halls on each floor
give added room for coming and going of visitors.

Guest Rooms

The top floor has been converted into guest rooms to accommodate comfortably twenty persons. The hostess’ apartment is also on
the second floor. Three dining rooms large enough for fifteen to twenty people have been furnished on the ground floor.
Adequate kitchen, pantry, and serving space is included on the same floor. A special announcement will be made concerning the
serving of meals.

Military Unit Is Inspected By Cummings
Davidson R. O. T. C. Battalion Again Tries For “Excellent” Rating

The annual government inspection of the Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit is being conducted by Lieutenant Colonel A. H.
Cummings, Professor of Military Science and Tactics at Presbyterian College, Clinton, S. C., on Thursday and Friday, May 7 and
8. Col. Cummings arrived at Davidson on Thursday morning, and at 9 o'clock, he called on Dr. Cunningham, President of
the College.

Inspects Classes

Freshman R. O. T. C. students met the inspector at 10:40 A. M., Thursday, at which time they were questioned
upon the subjects of Rifle Marksmanship, First Aid, and Map Reading. The inspector met the members of the Junior Class
at 1:15 P. M., and at 2:15 the entire unit marched on the drill field for the demonstration before the
annual government inspector.

Parade

The first event of the afternoon was a performance in calisthenics by the entire Battalion under the command of Cadet
Col. Wooten. Following this demonstration, there was a parade, a review, and an inspection. Col. Cummings will inspect the Senior
R. O. T. C. students at 8:25 A. M. Friday, and at 9:20 he will meet the Sophomore Class.

Administration

An administrative inspection of the unit will be conducted from 10:40 until 12:30. This will include the investigation of the
records and other material. In case the outdoor activities which have been scheduled for Thursday are rendered impossible because of
rainy weather, the battalion will drill for the inspector on Friday afternoon. The R. O. T. C. Unit has received
a rating of “excellent” each year since 1928. This is the highest rating which the government awards. Colonel Brownell, from
Georgia Tech, inspected the Davidson Unit last Spring.

Beavers Pick New Officers
Frank Carter Is Elected President Of Club

At a meeting of the Beaver Club last Monday night, officers for next year were elected. Members of this honorary
fraternity for underclassmen leaders selected Frank Carter of Mount Airy for their president. Filling the other offices for next year
will be Pat Williams, vice-president, and Alf Taylor, secretary-treasurer.

Other Activities

Frank Carter is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is a football manager. Pat Williams, member
of Kappa Sigma fraternity, played varsity football, basketball, and track this year. He is now vice-president of the student body
and served as secretary-treasurer of that body this past year. Alf Taylor, member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, also played varsity
football. He was recently elected vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. One more meeting of the Beaver Club will
be held before the end of the school year. This meeting will be for the purpose of selecting new members.
Ten members of the rising Sophomore class will be selected, but their names will not be released until next fall.

O. D. K. TAPS NINE MEN
JIM McCRARY
JOHN CRICHTON
ED MURRAY
DAVIS THOMAS
BILL MacLAUCHLIN
HUGH SPRUNT
ED ERWIN
LYMAN PARRIGIN

New Managers Are Appointed
Men Respond To Blood Call

Sixty-five students contributed a pint of their blood to the Red Cross Blood Bank at the college infirmary Monday in
response to an urgent plea by Dr. McConnell in chapel. Speaking before the student body, Dr. McConnell said that, when
asked by the local Red Cross for an estimate of the number of boys who would contribute, he responded that
the entire student body would respond, but only 200 would be needed.

Jerry Newbold And Bob Raney Are Selected By Revised Board

In the student store election held on Monday, May 4th, Jerry Newbold and Bob Raney of the rising senior class
were chosen to serve as co-managers of the student store for the coming year. Newbold is to be Purchasing Manager
and Raney Finance Manager. These men will replace and Davis Thomas of the Senior class, who have been co-managers for
the present school year.

Activities

Newbold’s home is in Wilmington, N. C. He is at present a member of the cabinet and has recently been
initiated into the Philanthropic Literary Society. Bob Raney is from Little Rock, Arkansas and a member of the Beta Theta
Pi fraternity. He also is a member of Scabbard and Blade.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

and Blade Honorary Military fraternity. Student store managers are selected by an association of the faculty and students known as
the student store board of control. This board is composed of: Two faculty members, the student body president, a representative
chosen from the student council, and one of the store student managers.

Sigma Upsilon Initiates Men
New members were initiated and new officers were in charge at the meeting of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, on
Tuesday evening, May 5. The meeting was held at a supper in Dr. Hood's sunken gardens. After the supper and
the initiation of the new brothers, a literary program was presented by several of the members.

Ten Men
Ten men were added to the group at this meeting. A representative of the student council being chosen to serve
on the store board of control, a representative of the athletic association, which no longer exists, occupied this place. This
change has been made as a result of an amendment to the student constitution passed last week.

JERRY NEWBOLD
BOB RANEY

Students Will Be Hosts For Mothers’ Day
Impressive Program Is Planned For Week End’s Entertainment

Mother's Day celebration at Davidson will be the main feature on the campus this week-end. Invitations have been extended to
all mothers of Davidson students to spend Saturday and Sunday on the campus. Mrs. W. H. Belk of Charlotte, who
has three sons in the student body, is chairman of the sponsoring committee of twelve mothers.

Program
The following program has been planned for the week-end:

Saturday, May 9:
8:25-1:30—Arrival and registration at new “Y.”
9:25-12:30—Open house in all classrooms and administration offices.
12:30-1:30—Lunch (Available at “Y” if reservations are made.)
1:00-3:00—Special displays and demonstrations in physics, chemistry, and biology labs. Inspection of library, science building, and museum.
1:00-2:00—Open house at all dormitories, fraternity houses, “Y,” and gymnasium.
2:00-4:00—Intramural and baseball games at stadium.
5:00-5:30—Band concert on campus front of Chambers.
6:30-8:00—Banquet in Chambers.
8:00-11:00—Entertainment of mothers at fraternity houses, administration, and faculty homes.

Sunday, May 10:
9:45—Students’ Chapel.
10:00—Sunday School. Dr. W. P. Cumming will teach the lesson.
11:00—Assembly of mothers and sons in front of Chambers.
11:05—Procession of mothers and sons to college church.
11:15—Special Mother's Day service.
1:00—Dinner (Available at “Y” if reservations are made.)

Meals
Students can reserve meals for themselves and their mothers at the “Y” two or three days in advance. The only
meal served in Chambers will be the banquet Saturday evening. Mr. J. L. Payne has received a number of return
cards from mothers. He said that the college is looking forward to fifty to seventy-five mothers visiting the campus.

Lawn Concert
Concerts by the Symphonic Band will be presented in front of Chambers Building every Tuesday evening until the Examination Period.
Thirty-minute programs of music will start at 8:00 PM under the direction of Mr. Pfohl. Three concerts have already been
given, and two more will be added to the series if weather permits.

Popular Music
Music played by the band will be of several different types. Popular music and marches will be featured. There will
also be a few light classical works included in the programs. Several students will be given the opportunity of playing
solos during the remaining concerts, although none have been presented on the former occasions.

Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Nine Students
Three Seniors And Six Juniors Honored By Organization

Davidson's circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national fraternity honoring leadership, invited into its membership three Seniors and six Juniors in
its regular spring tapping ceremony Tuesday morning, May 5. Seniors tapped were John Crichton of Minden, La., Davis Thomas of
Tampa, Fla., and Bill MacLauchlin of Columbia, S. C. Juniors honored by the organization were Myron Sandifer of Lowrys, S.
C., Jim McCrary of Lonoke, Ark., Ed Erwin of Davidson, N. C., Ed Murray of Raleigh, N. C., Hugh Sprunt
of Wilmington, N. C., and Lyman Parrigin of Paintsville, Ky.

Major D. G. Wilson, of the R. O. T. C. faculty, made the address for the occasion. He spoke to
the assembled students on “Military Leadership.” Ed Lucas, President of O. D. K., presided over the ceremony, and Arch Taylor
led the devotional. All members of the organization, faculty, and undergraduate, were seated on the stage throughout the program.

The present membership of Omicron Delta Kappa includes fifteen seniors. They are: Harwell Darby, Al Winn, Julian McCall, Charlie Watt,
Hackney, George Marsh, Ed Lucas, Jim Owens, Frank Caldwell, Dave Spencer, Pat Rudolph, Arch Taylor, Bill Sprunt, Dan Hodges, and
Walter Wooten.

Besides honors acquired, the Seniors tapped Tuesday have shown themselves leaders in some particular field over the past four years.
John Crichton was Business Manager of The Davidsonian, Davis Thomas was a Manager of the Student Store, and Bill MacLauchlin
has been active in all phases of “Y” work. The Juniors elected to positions of leadership for next year. Sandifer
and McCrary will be President of the student body and Y. M. C. A. respectively, Erwin and Murray will serve
as Editors of The Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks, and Parrigin will hold the Presidency of the Senior Class.

Sinfonia Has Final Concert
Wilson Angel Presents Program Of Favorites

Wilson Angel, Metropolitan Opera Company baritone on a concert tour of the South, was sponsored by the Phi Mu Alpha
fraternity in the last of its concert series for the present year last Monday evening, May 4th, at 8:15 o'clock.

Varied Program
Mr. Angel presented a varied and interesting program consisting of famous arias from operas, popular songs by American composers, and
well-known negro spirituals of the old South. Among the selections on the program and several encores were: “I Love Life,”
“Evening Star” from Tannhäuser by Wagner, “The Lord’s Prayer” by Malotte, “Der Kuss” by Beethoven, and the two negro spirituals,
“Lord I Want to Be Like Jesus,” and “Water Boy.”

Students attending the concert Monday evening said that Mr. Angel’s program was one of the most enjoyable of the whole
Phi Mu Alpha series. This they attributed to the variety of his selections and the spontaneity with which they were
presented. Mr. Kenneth Osborne, of the Davidson College Music Department, was accompanist for Mr. Angel in his Monday evening concert.

Future Concerts
Phi Mu Alpha is already making plans for an impressive concert series next year. This concert series will be scheduled
as usual in spite of the present world situation which does not make it necessary to cease instructive entertainment.
