PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

As the grid year ends, eight seniors play their last game for the Wildcats against the week. These seniors, who
have donned the Red and Black for the last time, are Scotty Paterson, end from Madison, N.J.; Gill Shaw, tackle
from Fayetteville, N.C.; Herb Rainey, tackle from Mt. View, N.J.; B. F. Moore, guard from McCall, S.C.; John Frederick, back
from Packanack Lake, N.J.; Ben Lacy, back from Richmond, Va.; Ben Washburn, back from Wilmington, N.C.; and Wileman Ehly, back
from Greensboro, N.C.

Fifth-year men Bill Shaw and B. F. Moore were mainstays in the line all year, as was veteran Herb Rainey.
These experienced men take with them the bulk of the weight in the line, which has placed the 'Cats on
more nearly even terms with their hefty opponents during the past few years. Johnny Frederick was back in his old
form in the last few games after a sluggish start this year, while Scotty Paterson and Wileman Ehly showed up
well in spite of lack of avoirdupois. Washburn was in there pitching and running all season. Ben Lacy, probably the
hardest driving back on the team, missed the Citadel game because of a broken ankle bone, which he suffered in
practice last week.

Season Finale

Martin Gold's injury and decision pretty much spoiled Davidson's hopes of a 500 season this year. It was Citadel's first
win over the Wildcats in 18 times the two teams have met. Davidson's passing game functioned effectively in the second
half, but it was a lost cause from the start as the Bulldogs piled up 250 plus yards rushing to
only 20 for the 'Cats, who incurred several long-distance losses to pull down the average. Davidson completed 10 aerials for
a total of 125 yards. They were almost perfect in percent of completions until the waning moments of the game
when they began to toss the oval around with desperation. In spite of the large gains scored by the Cadets,
the touchdown which clinched the victory was set up by a blocked kick. The 'Cats held several times in the
shadow of their goal posts. Disappointing as the results were, the Citadel had ruled as slight favorites as they closed
one of their best seasons in recent years. Davidson had its moments, but the running attack never got going with
Roach and Lacy out of the picture. Frederick missed his first conversion of the season but made up for it
by kicking a field goal from a crazy angle on the 14-yard line. Red Bethea's kicking was again outstanding, one
traveling 75 yards to the Cadet 4-yard line.

Georgia-Georgia Tech

The grid attraction between Georgia Bulldogs, which held more interest locally than the Duke-Carolina game this year, had some of
its color dulled by Auburn's amazing defeat of Georgia last week. Bulldog supporters are still reeling from the blow, and
there is no explanation except that possibly Georgia was pointing too much to this week and had underrated the Alabama
Engineers. The mighty Sinkwich was smeared time after time. This game, rated as the number one upset of the current
season, dropped the Georgia team from the number one spot in the nation, leaving their foe of this weekend in
possession of the lead. Followers of the Wildcats who saw Tech in action against them in Atlanta were impressed by
the speed and deception of the Ramblin' Wrecks, but they also saw vulnerable spots in the line. We expect that
Frankie will be quick to find those holes with the aid of the Georgia forwards and that the Bulldogs will
bounce back to victory Saturday. It's bound to be close, though.

Odds and Ends

Duke's smashing triumph over State was of less national significance, but it was no less surprising to local fans. The
game was rated a toss-up, and several experts had even picked State to win. But the situation handed the Wolfpack
their worst licking of the season. The Dukes were much nearer to their form of recent years and were a
far cry from their mediocre showings against Davidson and Wake Forest. Tom Davis and Buddy Luper shared the running honors
for Duke, while Art Faircloth's kicking was the one redeeming feature of an otherwise off day for the Wolves. The
win assured the Devils of a tie with North Carolina for the Big Five Championship. Davidson's Peters twins received conference
recognition for their passing combination by being named "sophs of the week" after leading the way to the Wildcat victory
over Washington and Lee.

Basketball

The Wildcat basketeers are looking to their best in some time. They have been engaged in drills for a fortnight
and were joined this week by those who had been busy with football. A well-rounded team is in prospect with
Long John Belk and Tall Tommy Peters being counted on to rack up the points. The schedule has not been
released as yet, but the usual Big Five games are planned as well as the encounters with the conference teams
in South Carolina. It had been hoped that games with some of the Virginia teams could be worked out, but
a northern trip is not being planned for this year. Transportation will be a big problem, and this may necessitate
the cancellation of some games. The first game is tentatively scheduled with Hanes' Hosiery in Charlotte, December 5. Formation of
a freshman basketball team is pending the decision as to whether or not frosh will be allowed to participate in
varsity conference games.

More Odds and Ends

It appears that at least an attempt is to be made to have a wrestling team, although a coach has
not been secured. The grapplers began workouts on Monday, but no schedule has been announced. A student coach will probably
handle the team unless some other arrangements can be made. Wake Forest and South Carolina will have settled their Thanksgiving
Day feud by the time this appears, but it should be a rousing good game. The Deacons have had an
unusually good season but have received little recognition for their accomplishments. They should take this one but not without a
fight.

Thursday, November 26, 1942

Davis, Sigler Star as Duke, Carolina Win

W. & M. Defeated, Clemson, Maryland Win

Tom Davis and Company from Duke University spoiled N.C. State's hopes for a Big Five Crown by completely outclassing the
Big Red in their 47 to 0 victory, which brought down the curtain for the current season for both teams.
Davis played by far his best game of the season Saturday as he gained a total of 131 yards during
the afternoon. He averaged a little better than six yards per try and accounted for four of Duke's touchdowns. The
game was only seven minutes old when Davis broke through left guard for 18 yards and the first Duke score.
The Blue Devils added two more touchdowns in the second quarter, three in the third, and one in the fourth.
Adie Amentas converted five of the extra points, missing twice. Duke's entire line played outstanding ball, opening big holes for
the backs in the State line throughout the entire game. They completely smothered State's running game, and the Wolfpack wound
up with minus one in the net yards rushing department. The Raleigh team failed to get across the midfield stripe
until well in the fourth quarter.

Feature Contest

Featuring Davidson's inaugural "Dad's Day" on Saturday, November 21, was a varied sport program, which included horseshoe and shuffleboard, a
touch football encounter, and a "commando ball" fracas. Opening the day's activities were the horseshoe and shuffleboard finals, which pitted
several faculty-student combinations against one another. Competition was keen throughout the afternoon, and the event was enjoyed by all who
participated. Highlighting the "Dad's Day" schedule was the...All-important Beta extra point was good. K. Sig 12; Pi Kaps 0

S.A.E. tussle

The undefeated S.A.E. defending touch champs took a narrow 6-0 decision from the Carolina touch team after a bitter struggle
in a game which should play a long way in determining the loop champ. Rob Heymann covered a fumbled punt
in the end zone for the second Carolina touchdown. Johnny Pecora circled end for 13 yards and a touchdown late
in the third quarter, and sophomore Billy Myers finished the Carolina scoring with his 12-yard run in the fourth period.
After Schmidt’s poor kick spun out of bounds on his own forty, the S.A.E. launched a sustained drive which was
culminated when fleet Charley Wills’ aerial to Hodgins on the twenty and a bullet toss to Graves on the eleven
set up the score.

K. Sig 18; S.P.E. 0

As the intramural season neared its end last week, the Kappa Sigs guaranteed at least a second-place berth by knocking
over the S.P.E. 18-0 and taking the Pi Kaps in town, 12-0. Though William and Mary, ranked as the nation’s
No. 1 club on defense, held for three quarters, the Cloudbusters’ offensive attack proved too powerful for them in the
final stanza. The first score came midway in the final period when a deceptive double reverse was good for 40
yards and a touchdown. A power burst over center from the ten accounted for the final score.

In other games, Clemson again defeated Furman 12 to 7, Miami overpowered South Carolina 13 to 6, and the University
of Maryland squeezed out a 32 to 28 victory over the Fighting Generals of Washington and Lee. This was the
last big Saturday, but there will be many big games to celebrate Thanksgiving, and finally the numerous Bowl games.

BY-LINES (Continued from Page 2)

She sent an original poem for the occasion. The poem ran: “I wish that I could be with you on
Little Sister's Day.” This was read to the entire student body at the following Morning Assembly. Finally, the actual day
arrived, and amidst shouts and cheers, it was announced that 230 little sisters were attending. In the morning, they went
to classes with their big brothers. The early part of the afternoon was occupied in watching a soccer game. Later
in the afternoon, an elaborate Easter Egg hunt was scheduled, where brothers and sisters vied to see who could get
more eggs. A brilliant banquet followed, at which a strolling jew's harpist played between courses. After dinner, a recent football
movie was shown. The whole affair was considered a brilliant success. The next in the series was to be Acquaintance’s
Day, for which preparations were being made for over 2,000 guests.

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BASKETBALL NEXT

‘CATS CLOSE SEASON

S.A.E.'s Defeat Betas

In Frosh Cagers May Not Play

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY

Nothing definite has been decided to date about the Freshman basketball team for this year. The uncertainty is caused by
the pending Southern Conference committee meeting on December 11 to determine the eligibility of freshmen for varsity competition. In the
event that freshmen are allowed to play on the varsity team, there will be no freshman schedule; consequently, no schedule
has been arranged as yet. Outstanding freshmen prospects Ed Manget, Jimmy Hill, and Bill Hodgin are slated for the frosh
team if it materializes. Coach Spearman is the tutor.

Expert Barber Service

A Complete Line of General Merchandise

Southern 5 & 10c Store

Davidson, N.C.

Norton’s Barber Shop

DAVIDSON, N.C.

Page Three

Citadel Takes 21-9 Decision In Final Game

Victor, Gold Pace Attack; ’Cat Passes Click

Above is the Wildcat team which started the season. Reading left to right in the line are: O’Hair, Shaw, Taylor,
Burke, Moore, Rainey, and Williams; and in the backfield: Bruce, Lacy, DuRant, and Roach. Due to injuries throughout the season,
this team was able to start in only the first two games. In the Citadel game, DuRant was subbing for
the injured Bethea and did an outstanding job throughout the season.

“Dad's Day” Highlighted With Sports Program

Now that the football season is over, several former court stars have been able to return to practice. Lettermen Johnny
Fredericks and Pat Williams reported for practice Monday, while letterman Mac Bruce will be out until after Christmas with a
football injury that he suffered during the season. Last year’s freshmen stars Johnny Fredericks and George Peters are ready to
start practice. Other players who will be pushing the leather around the court will be Co-Captains Jack Russell and Jack
Wayman. Also, Bob Currie, Buck Byrd, Jim Lowery, Bill Sutton, Fred Powell, Bill Key, Bob Shaw, and Walker will be
keeping the floor hot. As yet, the schedule for the coming games is not definite and cannot be released at
this point.

DAVIDSON COACHES

Briefs on the coaches of Wildcat teams for the benefit of newcomers to the campus:

HEATH WHITTLE

A native of Miami, Florida. Attended Davidson and was graduated in 1930. Was a crack track man and held the
college hurdle record until this year when one of his pupils bested his time. Is varsity cross country and track
coach and Director of Intramural Sports. Also teaches classes in Physical Education during the spring. During the fall, he is
in charge of football tickets. Height: five feet ten and weight: 155 pounds.

A. S. BROWN

General Merchandise

DAVIDSON, N.C.

Thursday and Friday, November 26th and 27th

“TALES OF MANHATTAN”

Saturday, November 28th

“GIRL TROUBLE”

Monday and Tuesday, November 30th, December 1st

“ARE HUSBANDS NECESSARY?”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

DAVIDSON THEATRE

DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BRANS ROE HOTEL

WM. R. BARRINGER
