DAVIDSONIAN SPONSORS BLOOD BANK PLEA

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

WEEK-END FEATURES SPRING FROLICS

Volume XXIX. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1942

No. 23

Wayman Will Serve As New Cheerleader

Campbell Ansley Loses To Jack Wayman In Cheerleader Election

Jack Wayman of the rising Senior Class was elected to serve as Varsity Cheerleader for 1942-43. He won the election on the second ballot in the voting on last Tuesday. The student body voted between the Junior Cheerleaders: Pete Cavert, Jack Wayman, and Campbell Ansley. Morton Church, who also served as a Junior Cheerleader, has left school in order to join the Air Corps. Wayman defeated the runner-up, Campbell Ansley, in the final ballot.

Activities

Jack Wayman is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and he was recently elected as a member of the student council. At the last Scabbard and Blade tap day, Wayman became a member of this honorary military fraternity, and he has been outstanding as a basketball player on the varsity and the Freshmen teams. He will serve as a co-captain of the basketball team for next year, and is a member of the “D” Club.

Ansley

Campbell Ansley is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He is on the Junior business staff of the college annual, Quips and Cranks, and he holds an assistantship in English under Professor Lilly. He is a sergeant in the R.O.T.C.

Continues

Jack Wayman is from Miami, Florida, while Campbell Ansley’s home is in Charlotte, N. C. Junior Cheerleaders will be chosen next fall.

Several Men Attend Meet At N. C. State

Undergraduate Interfraternity Conference Is Held In Raleigh

Six Davidson students attended the Undergraduate Interfraternity Conference for Region Two in Raleigh on April 16, 17, and 18. Tad Larkin, Burkehead Walker, Bill Lyman, Bob Pierce, Henry McIntosh, Charlie Henderson, and Jimmy Fulcher represented Davidson at the meeting. All sessions were held in the Y.M.C.A. building at North Carolina State College.

Discussion Groups

Three discussion groups were formed on the second day of the conference. Each group discussed the following topics: “Interfraternity Relations,” “Rushing and Pledging,” and “Fraternity Finances.” Dr. Owens Rea, Kappa Sigma and member of the faculty of Wake Forest; Mr. Rowland B. Parker, Phi Delta Theta at Davidson and Assistant Dean of Students at the University of North Carolina; and Dr. Robert C. de Rosset, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Vice-President Seaboard Citizens Bank of Norfolk, Va., led these respective groups.

Welcome

Col. J. W. Harrelson, Dean of Administration, N. C. State College, welcomed the delegates in the opening session Thursday afternoon. Dr. Hubert McNeill Poteat, Kappa Alpha, made the opening address Thursday evening, speaking on “Why Fraternities: Now?” Dean Robert B. House of the University of North Carolina spoke at the conference banquet at the Sir Walter Hotel. Dean E. L. Cloyd of North Carolina State College gave the summary and findings of the Conference at the final session on Saturday morning. Fraternities on the N. C. State campus held open house for the delegates on Thursday evening and Saturday morning.

Board Picks Publication’s Business Men

Young And Eve Will Fill Paper And Magazine Positions

In a called meeting of the Publications Board Tuesday, Peter Young of Charlotte was elected as Business Manager of The Davidsonian and Joe Eve of Augusta, Ga., was chosen Business Manager of Scripts 'n Pranks for next year. Because work on the 1942 yearbook has not been completed, the selection of the Business Manager of Quips and Cranks was postponed until a later date.

Young was chosen from the Juniors on the Business Staff of the paper. Others eligible for the post were Calhoun Hipp, Buck McNeely, and Joe Martin. Juniors eligible for the magazine position were Joe Barnwell and Clarence Legerton. The staff from which the Business Manager of the annual will be chosen is composed of Campbell Ansley, Wellford Hobbie, Joe McCoy, John McGee, and Fred Boykin.

College Sets Date Of Next Registration

All rising Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will register for next year’s work during the four days of May 4-7. This statement was released by the registrar, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, the first part of the week. He also made several statements which will be of particular interest to Davidson students.

Major Work

All members of the rising Junior class, who will begin their major work next year, must see the professor in the department in which he plans to major and plan his course with him. After the student's course is planned, the professor will approve the course and the student may then complete the registration. When class registration is held, students will sign up for the rooms they want the next year. This latter registration, accompanied by a ten dollar deposit, will be made with the Treasurer Mr. Jackson.

Summer School

A tentative schedule of next year's work will be posted the last of this week. The registration for summer school work will be held on the same dates.

Honors

Along with the announcement of this registration, Dr. C. K. Brown wishes to call attention to the honors work offered here at Davidson. A few days ago Dr. Brown made this statement concerning this matter. “Davidson offers great opportunities to Juniors and Seniors who wish to study fields of learning under the guidance of professors instead of taking single courses. These honors are open to any Junior or Senior who has a B average and who has been approved by the professor in whose department he wishes to take honor work. It is seldom realized by students that honor students are relieved of six hours of regular class study per week. This is done in order that these students may have the time to devote to their honors work.”

LETTER TO STUDENTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN, in co-operation with the American Red Cross, is sponsoring on the campus a plea for donation to what has been designated a “blood bank,” or store of plasma to be used in military hospitals. Drs. MacConnell and Woods, College physicians who are actively in charge of this work, request the aid of faculty and students in this effort for national defense. Following is a letter from them concerning the first steps in this program:

A call for volunteers to aid in the blood bank for the American Red Cross has come to the students and faculty of the college. This blood is being collected by the laboratory technicians of the Memorial Hospital of Charlotte and will be collected either at the College infirmary or in Charlotte as arrangements are completed. All students and faculty members, coaches, etc., are requested to register at the Infirmary any evening at 7 P.M. where Mr. Johnston will keep the list and make preliminary tests. This is a worthy and patriotic measure, although, of course, all students will not be suitable for blood donations. However, if they report promptly, it will be greatly appreciated.

DRS. MacCONNELL & WOODS,
Dept. Student Health Service.

Three Lower Class Members Of Student Council

Student Cast Present Play Next Tuesday

Dramatic Organization To Produce “You Can’t Take It With You”

Due to a change in the schedule, the annual competitive drill between companies and platoons was held last Friday, but will be on Monday, April 27 on Richardson Field at 3:10. At the present time, outside officers are not available to the history of the event.

Judges

Judging the drill will be A. MacAndrew, P.M.S. Major D. G. Wilson, Capt. Marsh, and 2nd Lieut. S. R. Cer. The public is urged to attend the competition. The officers of the military faculty of Davidson will be the judges for the first time this year. The drill is considered the most colorful of all the year. Two beautiful cups await the winners of the company and freshman competitions. The best freshman will receive a medal.

Freshmen entering the competition for the Freshman medal from the respective Companies are: Wills and N. P. Everette, Company A; Hugh Hill and W. H. Dunn, Company B; J. Millis and J. P. Wright, Company C; Robertson and Bill Kerr, Company D; and Jerrold Robinson and R. A. C. Pendleton, Company E.

Two Orchestras Will Play At Final Set Of The Year

Spring Frolics Will Consist Of Three Dances At Armory-Auditorium

Davidson's final dance set of the year will take place this week-end at the Armory-Auditorium, when the Panhellenic Council presents the annual Spring Frolics.

Music

The orchestras of Johnny Satterfield and Hurst Hatch will furnish the music. Satterfield's band will play for all of the dances.while Hatel’s will alternate with him Saturday evening. Tickets for the set are priced at $5.75. Individual dance prices are Friday evening tickets, $2.75; Saturday afternoon, $1.10; and Saturday evening, $3.25.

Sponsors
Sponsors for the dances and their escorts include Miss Eloise Ainsworth of Biltmore Forest, N.C. with Pat Rudolph, president of the Panhellenic Council, representing Phi Delta Theta fraternity; Miss Frances Fleming of Laurens, S.C. with J. Mason Wallace, treasurer of the Panhellenic Council, representing Kappa Alpha Order; Miss Julia Guion of New Bern, with J. Carlton Parson, secretary of the Panhellenic Council, representing Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity; Miss Millic Brenizer of Charlotte with Ed Lucas, representing Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity; Miss Betsy Lake of Florence, S.C., with Julien McCall, representing Pi Kappa Phi fraternity; Miss Margaret Little Blount of Bethel, with George M. Marsh, representing Kappa Sigma fraternity; Miss Judy West of Chattanooga, Tenn., with Walter Wooten, representing Phi Gamma Delta fraternity; Miss Carolyn Parker of Lenoir, with B. Jackson Philips, representing Beta Theta Pi fraternity; and Miss Peggy Dorsey of Shelby with Rod Turner representing Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.

School children, been produced both in Holly Capra to handle the motion picture Webster) in which Sycamore Calista is writing her eleventh play, world influences (Bill Tyson), a firecracker experimenter who also plays with fire, and Mrs. Kirby are played by Howell Morrow and Ed Taylor. Professor E. J. Erwin and CAST OF MASQUER’S PLAY Nisbet play T-Men. The Red and Black Masquers are presenting “You Can’t Take it With You,” Tuesday evening. Members of the cast are pictured above from left to right as follows: Louise Lassiter as Reba, Don Holland as Donald, George Buckley as Ed, Isabel Linker as Essie, Ernie Webster as Paul, George Sinclair as Mr. Kalenkhov, Carolyn Lassiter as Mrs. Kirby, Bill Loy as Tony, Elouise Hamrick as Alice, Miss Kalista Hood as Penny, and Bill Tyson as Mr. De Pinna. The cast members not in the picture are the following: Howell Morrow as Mr. Kirby, Ed Hay as Grandpa Vanderhof, and Mrs. Berg as Grand Duchess Olga Katrina. Hank Watt, Webster McLeod, and Jim Portunity, wrangled Miss Carolyn Parker as Gay Wellington.

INSTALLATIONS
Davidson’s student body officers were installed this morning in an informal induction ceremony during the chapel exercises. The student council was installed in the same ceremony. Each retiring and incoming officer made a short talk and the outgoing men presented the incoming ones with emblems of their new offices. Those installed were: Myron Sandifer, President of the Student Body; Jim McCrary, President of the Y.M.C.A.; Jimmy Fulcher, Freshman Adviser; Ed Erwin, Ed Murray, and Bill Lyman, Editors of The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Scripts 'n Pranks respectively.

Culprits Hang Shocking Sign On Chambers
“Mystery” Quartette Reveals Thrilling Episode To Davidsonian
By MAC JEFFRIES

This is a confession. A confession by four culprits of a campus-shaking event. This is the true, authentic, play-by-play description, by the criminals themselves, of the most dastardly and daring crime in recent Davidson history—the hanging of a beer sign literally under the very noses of the shocked chambermaids.

Names
Naturally, names must be omitted. Suffice it to say they were Davidson boys, whom we shall call One, Two, Three, and Four. Snooping around, your reporter discovered their identity, and wrangled the following details from them. It seems that One and Two were up the Mooresville road about a mile Friday night a few weeks ago when their sharp eyes noticed a sign leaning temptingly free against a fence post. The sign read, as most of Mecklenburg knows by now, “Hornung’s Beer and Ale.” The same idea hit both. With one movement they swept up the sign and made tracks for home, with the idea of redecorating Watts. But scarcely had they entered the door, when higher ambitions seized them. Why not carry their insignia to the heights of Chambers itself?

Daring Enterprise
The next afternoon they drafted Three and Four for their project, and set out to reconnoiter. Climbing to the dome, they saw that the front door to the room back of the dome was open, but the rear one locked. Undaunted, they daringly removed the pins from the hinges, laid the door face-down and found themselves in the room over the auditorium, containing a window overlooking a ledge. Smugly satisfied, they returned to await darkness.

Nightfall found the four adventurers sneaking guardedly around the rear of Chambers, bearing a box sign about as insignificant as a billboard. Struggling forward, they heard a footstep, and around the corner came Mr. Linker. Hastily, the sign was deposited in a convenient bush, and the “innocent” four cordially bid Mr. Linker a fond goodnight.

Up The Stairs
Scarcely had the latter passed out of sight when two of the culprits were on his trail, watching as he emerged at last from Chambers leaving the front door unlocked. Quickly they resurrected their sign, and taking advantage of every opportunity, wrangled it through the door, up three flights of steps, and into the room containing the window. Then One and Two climbed onto the ledge while Three and Four angled the board through to them. It was ticklish work carrying a billboard on a ledge two feet wide, but they managed to bring it (Continued on Page Three)

Choose Bumbarger, Scott, and Hill
Selected For Other Council Positions

Election of the seven student council members for next year was completed Friday afternoon, April 18. Members of the student body chose four men from the rising senior class, two from the rising junior, and one member from the rising sophomore class to serve with the student body and class officers already elected on the Davidson College governing body for 1942-43.

Seven Members
John Belk and Hugh Sprunt were chosen on the first ballot by the rising seniors to represent them. On the second ballot, Tommy Bumbarger and Ashby Dick were elected from the rising juniors and seniors respectively. Jack Wayman of the rising seniors, Legh Scott of the juniors, and Hugh Hill of the rising sophomores were elected on the final ballot Friday.

Belk is a member of Kappa Alpha Order, was Vice-President of the Student Body this year, and a member of the Beaver Club. He was recently elected Co-Captain of the Varsity basketball squad. Sprunt is also a Kappa Alpha. He was in the Beaver Club, a member of the Student Council, the track team, and the Y Board of Control.

Other Activities
Dick is a Kappa Sigma. In addition, he was a member of the football and wrestling teams, Vice-President of the Student Body, and President of the Sophomore Class. Bumbarger is a member of the golf team, vice-president of the Sophomore Class, a member of the Beaver Club, and of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Wayman is a member of Pi Kappa Phi, Co-Captain of the Basketball team, and a junior cheerleader. Scott is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, is a Junior Editor of The Davidsonian, and was a member of the freshman football squad. Hill is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity, and is on the staff of The Davidsonian.

The duty of conducting the affairs of the Student Body will rest in the power of this body.

Poteat Gives Lecture Here
Last Monday night the Faculty Committee on Lectures presented Dr. Gordon Poteat as its last speaker of the season.

Life
Dr. Poteat is a son of Dr. McNeill Poteat, former president of Furman University, and a nephew of Dr. William Louis Poteat, former president of Wake Forest College. He was, for twenty years, a professor in the University of Shanghai, returning to this country in 1937 to accept a professorship at Crozier Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, Pa. He is a philosopher, theologian, and authority on world affairs.

In the words of Dr. Poteat, to be informed on the present world struggle, we should be acquainted with its background and with values involved. Taking as his theme “World Revolution and World Order,” the speaker said that we should not simply “Remember Pearl Harbor,” but “Why Pearl Harbor?” The morale purpose is inadequate.

History
Japan's 1931 attack on Manchuria, the weakness of the League of Nations, Italy’s attack on Ethiopia followed by Germany’s ruthless purge of the Ruhr, Austria and Czechoslovakia were the immediate antecedents of the present conflict. “The white man’s rule in the Orient was ended before the war started.” He predicted “his dominance of Orientals not his relations, however, is over. It will (Continued on Page Three)