Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 19, 1942

Dr. Goldiere Heads Group of Teachers
Davidson Professor Presides Over Meeting of French Association

On Friday and Saturday, November 13th and 14th, the fall meeting of the American Association of French Teachers was held
in Greensboro, N.C. Dr. A.V. Goldiere, who is president of the association, presided over the meetings. Other officers in the
organization are Miss Mary Hamilton of Flora McDonald, vice-president, and Miss Estelle Mitchell of Greensboro High School, secretary and treasurer.
Miss Mitchell was elected to fill a vacancy left by Miss Ruth Shaver of the Woman's College of the University
of North Carolina, who is on leave to serve with the WAACS.

Goldiere Leads Discussion

At the Saturday morning meeting, the program was begun by a business discussion led by Dr. Goldiere of Davidson. The
program consisted of lectures by several members of the association. Professor Neal Dow of Duke University talked first on "Student
Demands and the Reading Approach"; Professor George B. Watts of Davidson chose as his subject "The French Scene from the
Inside"; Miss Barney of the Woman's College spoke on "Law Standards for French Teaching"; and Miss Virginia Allen of Charlotte
High School concluded the program with a talk on "Current Literature in France."

Physics Club Initiates Five
Sigma Pi Sigma Holds Banquet and Adopts Study Of Atomic Theory

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics society, held its regular bi-monthly meeting Monday, November 10, at 8:15 p.m. Casper Woodbridge presided
over the meeting. After the reading of the minutes, M.K. Mann, vice-president of the society, read a paper on telephony.
After this, plans for the coming semester were discussed. Nothing very definite was decided on, but it was suggested that
the society center its study of the semester around the latest developments in the field of atomic physics.

The first meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma this year was held on Monday, November 9, in the Y.M.C.A. The new
members initiated after the banquet in the dining hall were Barnwell, LeConte, Herb Dimmock, Bill Robertson, and Lacy Sellars. After
the initiation, Casper Woodbridge read a paper on "Cyclotrons."

French Group Extends Club Bids

The French Club held a meeting last Tuesday, November 10th, at Professor Goldiere’s home. An interesting and very informative talk
was given by Doctor Williams. The subject of his speech was the vital importance of Africa to the United Nations'
grand strategy in regards to the war, and the French government in Africa and conquered France. After the lecture, Dr.
Williams answered the students’ questions on his topic. A round table discussion in general was held while Mrs. Goldiere served
the most delightful refreshments.

The following men were extended bids by the club: J.E. Black, C.L. Darling, P.H. Gwynn, R.B. Bethea, J.R. Scott, K.
Piper, and R.B. Raney. Plans for a big Christmas meeting were discussed and several decisions were reached. It will be
held on December 8th.

SHAVE HITLER WAR STAMPS

DAVIDSON’S FUTURE GYMNASIUM

The proposed Alumni Gymnasium for Davidson College, as pictured above, will appear as the leaders of the campaign have set
a $250,000 goal. Dr. Oren Moore (upper right) is the general chairman of the campaign for all the areas and
will consolidate the activities of all the workers in the fund drive. Hon. Cameron Morrison (upper left) is serving in
the capacity of Honorary Chairman of the campaign, for which fund-raising drives have been launched throughout the nation. "Davidson Nite
Dinners" have been held in various areas and progress has been made toward achieving the goal.

Letters From The Lodges

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phis were active again this week, but a few of the brothers were unable to participate because of the
power of the previous weekend. Brothers Emerson and Oglesby were operating up at the University of Virginia where they visited
Brother Don, a member of the Davidson chapter last year. Brother Sam Pate visited his home in Morganton, and Brother
McLean was on hand for the "Y" Retreat to Montreat after the game. Most of the brothers and pledges attended
the Alpha Delta Pi hayride at Queens on Saturday night. Brother McLean and Pledge Brothers Thurston, Hemby, and Wadill were
the leaders of the hayride. Brothers Loughridge, Chapman, and Britton spent a limber weekend partaking in a movie and supper
in "Oteen City" after the game. Brother Potter spent a quiet weekend on the campus for a change. The chapter
was happy to have had Mr. and Mrs. Starnes, the parents of Brother O.E. Starnes, visit here. They were accompanied
by Brother Lee Potter on Friday.

BETA THETA PI

The Betas divided themselves equally last weekend with about half attending the W. & L. game and the other half
taking off for various places. Brothers McCrary and Caterson spent the weekend in Montreat. Brothers Pritchett, Mebane, and Barnwell, and
Pledges Mewlin and Garri spent the weekend at home in Lexington. Brothers Ranson and White, along with Pledge Knowl, took
in the Duke-Carolina game at Chapel Hill. Brother Ranson visited Converse while Pledge Rawley went to W. & L. Brothers
Schmidt, Garrison, and Upchurch divided their time between Charlotte and Rock Hill. Brothers Smith and Lipscombe spent the weekend at
home in Gastonia, Neisler at Kings Mountain, and Pledge Joyner at his home in Kernersville.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The interest of the Fijis spread far and wide this weekend. Besides those who took in the game, the following
took advantage of the holiday in the following manner: Brothers Wooten, Howard, and Crane went to the "Y" retreat in
Montreat; Brother Thompson went home to Bristol; Brothers Grant and Ragan went to the latter's home in Greenville; Brother Preston
and Brother Coonrad went on a jaunt to Limestone; Brother O'Hair went to Queens as usual after the game; Pledge
Brother Barron went on the Rock Hill-Winthrop detail; Pledge Brother Richardson spent an extended weekend at home in Richmond, returning
Tuesday. Pledge Brothers McKeithen and McKeithen, Murdoch, and Leighton journeyed to Cameron and home again; Pledge Brother Wolfe toured the
countryside between Charlotte and Monroe on a home-game-home detail; Pledge Brother Shank went on what would most probably be termed
a wild hare to W.C., while Brother McMullen operated in the same vicinity; Brother Crowell took in the Duke-Carolina affair
at the Hill; Pledge Brother McGehee went all the way home to Jacksonville, Fla. on what was probably the longest
single voyage by the Fijis; Pledge Brother Ormand visited relatives in Union, S.C. The chapter also wishes to express pleasure
upon Al King's return to school after an illness of some three weeks. The Phi Gams have had as their
guests for the past several days Mr. and Mrs. McCormack, parents of Brother McCormack. They have been visiting on campus
and have been to the House for several meals. We also had the pleasure of having Dr. Patton and his
son Claude of Waynesboro, Va., as our guests on Friday and Saturday of last week. They are the father and
brother respectively of Pledge Brothers Sam and Jim Patton and were on hand to see them perform for the Wildcats
against State.

KAPPA ALPHA

The weekend was filled with the football game in Charlotte. Representing the red and black machine on the field were
Brothers Burke, Patterson, Washburn, and Durant. A good number of brothers and pledges were present at the game. Up to
Montreat with the Y.M.C.A. went our Brothers Maclean and Sandifer. As usual, Brother Ingram took off for home in Winston.
Pledges Young and Ingram also went home. Brother Russell Beam went to Lumberton, Brother Harris to Roxboro, Brother Sprunt to
Wilmington, Pledge Lawson to Oxford, and Pledges Dunn and Watt to Sumter, S.C. Those who traveled to Chapel Hill to
see the Duke game were Brothers Royster, Belk, and Pledge Brother T. Belk. Reporting very interesting times were Brother Hewitt
who traveled to Greensboro and took in a dance at Converse. Hibernating on the campus over the weekend were Pledges
Jackson and Scofield.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The Davidson game with W. & L. attracted most of the Pikas this weekend. The game being so close to
home naturally kept the boys from wandering far and wide. A few of the brothers got the wanderlust, however, and
wound up in more remote places. Brothers Brockmann and Pearsall dashed off Friday afternoon to take in the Duke-Carolina game
at Chapel Hill, afterward attending the Fall Germans. They report that a good time was had.by “all. pel Ger- Maxwell
and Siske started the Brother Pledge for the same game at Chapel Hill, but somehow got sidetracked and stayed in
Charlotte for the Davidson game instead. Brother did get and could be counted among many Brinson not sidetracked, who attended
the Chapel Hill game from Davidson. Taking the others in a group, we find Brother C. Stroup attending the festivities
at Converse, Pledge M. W. Wester going home to Henderson, Brothers Shelton and Farrar in Charlotte, Pledges Raynal, Warlick, Bost,
and Johnston on campus. Stroup was in Statesville, and Brother Visiting on the W. C. though it was not reported,
imagine that Pledge Gwynn Fletcher was in Statesville over the weekend also as his attentions have been turned in that
direction quite a bit lately. Brother White went home to Greensboro and is still detained there by a case of
“flu.” Brothers Henderson, Gibbs, and Pledges Rhudy and Rogers felt the scorn of the rest of the chapter for spending
a “long” weekend on the campus. They report that they were “more to be pitied than scorned.” Brother Hodges has
been missing from several meals and cannot be reported on this week. The chapter was pleased to have as its
guest for several meals during the week Mrs. Campbell, mother of Pledge Tommy Campbell.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The Sig Eps were represented in many and sundry parts of the state this past weekend. Greensboro seemed most popular,
as Brothers Gwynn, Miller, Maness, Sellars, and Pledges Bradford and Mayor visited it. Jimmy Fulcher, Perry West, Tom and Hugh
McLauchlin journeyed to the latter’s hometown where they consummated a lot of fancy deer hunting. Hugh was quoted as saying
that they caught one such animal with a left uppercut to the chin. Sam Hay, Melvin Sipe, John Harden, Tom
Gregg, and Andy White went to their respective homes in Hickory, Lincolnton, Winnsboro, Wilmington, Rock Hill. Winchester is said to
have had another glorious weekend. The campus and Cheney brothers stayed on for a change.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Brothers Ed Erwin, Bill Wood, and Lewis went down to Rome, Ga., to be in the wedding of Brother Bob
Wood, ‘40. Pledge Brother Patterson successfully passed the V-5 naval exam in Atlanta. The chapter now has two men in
naval aviation, Pledges Patterson and Allen, with more to come. Brother Ed Lucas, '42, of the U.S. Army Air Corps,
was here at school Monday. Among the pledges at Chapel Hill this weekend were Hood and Little. Brothers Lucas, Powel,
Hill, Whaling, and McAlister were up at U.N.C., also. Brothers Young, Carter, Gwynn, and Harris were in Charlotte. Brothers Dunn,
Moore, Hunt, and Pledge Taylor were up at Salem, where “Ebo” fared quite well. Pledge Brother Wills, and brothers Hobbs,
Tompkins, and Lee were in Washington, Ga. Pledges Kamseur, Smith, and Douglas were in various sections of the state during
the weekend, while Pledge Brother Richardson spent a quiet weekend on the campus.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kapp representation on the campus was extremely low this weekend, partly due to the game in Charlotte and
partly because of the women in Florence, Lumberton, Hickory, Kannapolis, and Charlotte. As usual, the “Queen City” was the greatest
attraction. Those who attended the game and found things to do afterward were Brothers Wilkinson, Lineberger, Parrigin, McArthur, McCrae, Wayman,
Everett, Bumbarger, Hipp, and Pledges Cline, Hunter, Whittier, Williams, Taylor, Reid, and Boyce. Brother Fisher and Pledges Fesperman, Robertson, and
Robbins all had a double feature for the holiday, going home to Kannapolis Friday and then whipping over for the
game Saturday. Several of the brothers and pledges who found a diversion other than the game were Pledges Abernathy to
Lincolnton, Hill and Fowler to Hickory, Brother Campbell to Lumberton, and Pledge McKachin to Florence. Brother Evans witnessed the Duke-Carolina
tie and Brother Armstrong made his weekly trip to Greensboro. Brother Gaither and several other Pi Kapps attended the Central
football game Friday night, and Brother Gaither is the only man alive who knows why Gastonia won. Just ask him.
Our heartiest congratulations go to Brother Erskine Parks, who has recently been elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

Davidson Nite Dinners Inaugurate Summers and Winn Honored At Seminary

Davidson Graduates Elected To Offices In Junior Class At Seminary

Eight Davidson graduates are now members of the Junior Class of the Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Virginia. Two of
last year’s graduating class have been chosen by their classmates as officers in the recent Junior Class election of the
Seminary. Albert Winn, the president of last year’s student body, was chosen president of the new seminary class. Winn was
also president of Beta Theta Pi and a member of Phi Zeta Kappa and O.D.K. He was managing editor of
the Davidsonian and active in Y.M.C.A. work and other church activities on the campus. Winn is from Greenville, S.C.

Bill Summers of Statesville, N.C., was elected secretary-treasurer of the class. Summers was a member of Phi Gamma Delta and
Eta Sigma Phi. He was the president of the Forensic Council and active in debating and dramatics. He was a
member of the college quartette and served as president of the Davidson Glee Club. Other Davidson men in the Junior
class of the seminary are John McLeod, Jr., George Matheny, Joe Hopper, Monroe Bush, Jr., and Burke Kerr.

Music Series Stars Kesler

James C. Pfohl Directs College Musicians In Sunday Concert Series

On last Sunday afternoon, November 15, the Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra gave a very successful concert in Chambers Auditorium.
The orchestra, under the direction of James C. Pfohl, head of the Music Department at Davidson, had Merle T. Kesler
as its guest soloist, violinist.

Program

The program was as follows:
Overture to “Cosi fan tutti” - Mozart
Concerto for violin and string orchestra - Vivaldi
March from “Drama per Musica” - Bach
Patrol of the Tin Soldiers - Pierne
Pavanne - Ravel

This was the tenth of the series of fall concerts given by the Music Department. All of the concerts have
been well attended.

Next Sunday

On next Sunday afternoon, November 22, the Davidson College Little Symphony Orchestra under the direction of James C. Pfohl, will
give a concert in Chambers Auditorium. The program will be as follows:
Overture to “Der Freischutz” - Von Weber
Konzertstuck for piano and orchestra - Von Weber
Intermission
Wedding March and Nocturne from “Midsummer Night’s Dream” - Mendelssohn
Symphony No. 5—The Reformation - Mendelssohn

It is hoped that the usual fine attendance will prevail for this interesting concert.

Material in four “zoot” suits will make five victory suits.

ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA and DECCA RECORDS Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES

ANDREW’S MUSIC CO. 231 N. Tryon St. Charlotte

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER

Gym Drive Will Be Opened In High Point and New York Areas Next Week

Two “Davidson Dinners” will be held during the coming week to inaugurate the campaign for funds to build the new
gymnasium in two areas, High Point and New York. The High Point meeting will have its alumni dinner tomorrow evening,
Nov. 20. The chairman of the committee in charge of the dinner is Cameron C. Deans. He is assisted in
his duties by Mr. J.W. Chandler. Other members of the committee are Mr. R. D. Dickson, Dr. J. I. Groome,
Mr. M. V. Kester, Dr. W. K. McCain, and Mr. Osborne Bethea.

New York Area

Mr. Osborne Bethea is the chairman of the committee for the dinner in New York. This gathering is scheduled for
Monday evening, Nov. 23. Mr. Bethea is assisted by Mr. B. W. Romefelt. Dr. Cunningham will be the principal speaker
at both events. The motion picture of Davidson will also be shown.

The coat with the double-dense fabric: $35.00

You get twice as much for your money in an Alpagora, for the simple reason that this coat is unusually
soft and luxurious to the touch—and yet—unusually rugged and long-wearing! For on the face of every square inch of Alpagora
fabric, you find twice the usual number of hair fibers. That's what textile scientists call a Double-Dense fabric... a fabric
which feels a lot softer, and gives a lot more mileage, too! No wonder then, we can promise you double
value!

As Advertised in the Sat. Eve. Post

EXCLUSIVE WITH EFIRD'S EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP Street Floor

SANITARY MEN’S STORE CHARLOTTE, N.C.
