Pare Throgs Wildert ae ahorss Myer se

FAVORITES ADVANCE ALL TEAMS ED
ie TEN ‘a S FOURNEVAETE R WEEK'S 2

The action moved along at a fast clip in the first week's play. Sound at the doubles tournament last week and this in the softball circuit. This week's play will determine the winners and gave promise of a tight contest. The semi-final round is scheduled for play the first part of the week, and the final round will be played off on Thursday or Friday. The matches thus far have been very interesting, and the last rounds should provide some exciting tennis.

Favorites advanced into the semi-finals with Sutton and McLean scoring a win over the team of Martin and Itchoner and will meet the dark horse combination of Henderson and Vapos in the upper bracket. The latter team went into the semi-finals with a victory over Spencer and Sandifer. In the lower bracket, the Simms-Layton team advanced to the semi-finals by clinching a win over Conner and Dick; they will meet Henderson, winners over the team of Smith and Belk. This was the potential winner's line-up; they keep right on pounding the nugget as the season continues.

HORSESHOE ACTION SCHEDULED TO BEGIN

In the horseshoe doubles, the courts have only just been drawn up and posted, and play is scheduled to begin this week. Pitching and chess have increased quite a lot over the past two weeks. The tournament promises to be close all the way and will produce some mean pitching before the final round is over.

The team of Sandifer and Whittle moved into the second round by ousting the combination of Wells and Stroune in the first tournament match. It has been requested that all matches be played on schedule, so the action will not lag.

SPEAKMAN WINS GOLF

Coach Speakman won the Davidson Inter-Golf Tourney last week with a great 4 and 3 victory over Jefferson. The championship flight final in consolation play saw Coach Speakman secure a victory over Dr. Lawson in 36 holes of play.

Coach White took the crown with a 4 and 3 triumph over McQueen; the second flight consolation final will be decided this week. Logan stays in the semi-final round in the second flight.