THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Descents IELLET Ss -.+ = += features Down Fraternity Court CINEMA their dates, and a number of girls, COMMENTS were
welcomed by the fraternity. A few brothers found their way to other destinations for weekend engagements.

By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Page Two Thursday, April 23, 1942

The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Editorials

Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

The Fifth Columnist and the beast ... RALPH WILLIAMS, the Kampus Kid of the season, accompanied COLIN SHAW SMITH to
Warm Springs, Georgia, where our “Yseman” put on a magic show. As usual, SHAW

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Phi Gamma Delta

The Phi Gam house was buzzing with excitement this weekend. The terrace which was built last fall, was initiated this
weekend with a supper and party, Sunday evening. The Darby memorial ping pong table was a great attraction. Also, the
dates joined in a soft Swan song! This is the last time that your rascally, rough and ready, reporter rides
rough-shod over the ruined reputations of the riff-raff. We are to be succeeded by newer and younger talent. After a
year

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

Thursday, April 23

THE REMARKABLE ANDREW

Brian Donlevy, William Holden, Ellen Drew, and Montagu Love. This story of a lad who is sustained through the ghost
of Andrew Jackson is a rare bit of novelty. William Holden is the small-town boy who fights every politician in
town for the sake of honesty, but when things become too involved the ghost of his hero, Andrew Jackson, comes
to his rescue. Ellen Drew as the girl who stands by Holden through thick and thin, and Brian Donlevy as
Jackson are both very fine.

Legerton

Friday and Saturday April 24 and 25

RIDE 'EM COWBOY

Abbott and Costello, Dick Foran, Anne Gwynne, and Johnny Mack Brown. This is another second-rate comedy with a pair of
first-rate comedians. Nevertheless, Abbott and Costello manage to score again as a pair of peanut vendors at a New York
rodeo who go out West to a Dude Ranch, where they meet Dick Foran, and consequently Anne Gwynne. Their escapades
with the Indians furnish most of the humor, what little there is. The Merry Macs seem to have been added
as an afterthought.

Monday and Tuesday April 27 and 28

THE MALE ANIMAL

Henry Fonda, Olivia deHavilland, and Joan Leslie. Hank Fonda turns in a top-notch performance to make this feature one of
the outstanding comedies of the year, ably supported by beautiful Olivia deHavilland and capable Joan Leslie. Hank is tops as
a young college professor who marries the campus co-ed.

Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY

National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles
- San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN ......-.......-..............EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JOHN CRICHTON..........-.---_. BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Lacy McLean........Assistant Editor Henry McIntosh... --.-Associate Editor Jimmy Fulcher......Associate Editor Mac Jeffries. Managing Editor Howell Morrow...Managing Editor Legh Scott...Managing Editor
Jim Stimson...Managing Editor Deane Watson...Managing Editor Leonard Pharr...Sports Editor Bill Barker...Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Galhotin Hipp...Assistant Business Manager Peter Young...Advertising Manager Joe Martin...Circulation Manager Buck McNeely...Circulation Manager Ivey Stewart...Collections Manager

Save A Life

As we glance through the headlines or listen spellbound to radio war news and heroic stories of our armed forces;
we of Davidson are almost daily overwhelmed with feelings of inadequacy, perhaps of shame, that while boys our own age
give their lives for their and our beliefs, we are able, for the present at least, to give nothing in
any practical sense. Many of us would like to feel that we are doing something real, something practical, to help
in this, the greatest crisis in our nation’s history. For this reason, The Davidsonian, in conjunction with the college Department
of Student Health Service, is sponsoring a blood drive.

The dates were Johnnie Terrell, Nancy Gaston, Gladys Hartsell, Carolyn Lassiter, Caroline Parker, Helen Wilson, Sally Moore, Dora Lilliband, Isabel
Linker, and Frugess Petrovich Moscow. No one knows who was or who she was with. Brother Williams went to Warm
Springs, Ga., while Al King went to V. M. I. and visited the Fijis at Washington and Lee. Brother Northcross
spent a pleasant weekend in Chatham, Va., where Chatham Hall is located. Tony Darby and Bill Summers went to a
Junior dance in Winston-Salem. On athletic trips were Brothers Taylor and Nimmons on the track team and Brother Cavert on
the Golf team. Monday night James Allen French was formally pledged by the fraternity.

Pi Kappa Phi

The past weekend found almost the entire chapter “dealing” in various parts of the country. Brother McCrea had the honor
of “dealing” by traveling to Atlanta, Ga. Although his deal wasn't the longest, Brother Gaither “hared” in more places than
anyone else. He visited Newton, Hickory, Concord, Queens, and Converse. Brothers Robertson and Fisher traveled to Kannapolis while Brother Robinson
spent the weekend in Derita, N. C. Brothers Evans and Bumbarger spent a zippy week at Athens, Ga. and Brothers
Lineberger and Wilkinson and Pledge Birmingham hit the high spots of Greenville and Asheville. Brother Larkin took interests in Raleigh
and Washington, N. C. Pledge Floyd spent the weekend in that town of supermen, Woodruff, S. C.; while Pledge Bradley
tried out a new technique in Greensboro and Bobby Herring dated at E. C. T. C. “Shorty” Campbell operated in
Winston-Salem. Brother Armstrong traveled to Gastonia while Brothers Morris Nivan and Hipp basked in the sun at Catawba Beach, Cornelius.

Kappa Sigma

The usual group of brothers went to various places. Brothers Fuller, Harrison Wilson, and Carrow. John Crichton and Mac Bruce
attended the tennis matches at Pinehurst, and Bob Whaling and Frank Treat spent the weekend in Winston-Salem.

Kappa Alpha

With Brothers Wilson and King “showing” the way in typical fashion, Kappa Alpha activities continued to blaze. Brother McLean took
off for a weekend of varied entertainment, Brother Ike Belk tripped down to Chattanooga, and Hank Watt tried Charlotte again.
Washburn journeyed to Wilmington for a visit home while Brothers Sprunt and John Belk were in S. C. with the
track team and Henderson buzzed around in the Green Hornet. The rest of the members worked out the effects of
previous weekends in preparation for the Spring Frolics.

Delta Theta Pi

In the spring, young men quickly head for institutions of learning for the other sex. Brother “Spike” Mebane went to
Sullins this weekend and reports every girl there is beautiful. Bob Cushman journeyed to Randolph-Macon and David Yocum visited Sweetbriar.
Brothers Frank Mebane and Charlie Upchurch were in Athens with the golf team and Elliot White was with the track
team. Brother Al Winn visited in Spartanburg and Brother Prichett spent the weekend in Gastonia with Brother Rush Smith. Brother
Jack Philips traveled to his home in Jacksonville, Florida. Brother Crawford Wheeler spent the weekend in Hickory and Brother Jim
Howell was in Atlanta. Brother Steve Thurston, who reports to the Army soon, visited here this weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The campus was almost entirely vacated by the chapter last weekend, the usual round of getting back to keyhole-peeping and
rumor-listening. We are about to hang up our typewriter and retire to a farm in New England, to wait until
those who have been cut most severely, and possibly unjustly, have forgotten and forgiven all. But to get to the
business at hand. The past weekend for some reason was unusually quiet. Possibly the lull before the storm, the storm
being Spring Frolics this coming weekend. Saturday at noon a battered “A” was seen roaring off northward. Its occupants were
BILL CAMPBELL, JOHN NORTHCROSS, JOHN WRIGHT, DON BANKS, and ALBERT KING. These hearties had as their goal Lynchburg, with all
its enticing wonders. Their plans were nipped in the bud at Danville, however, when the “A” showed signs of giving
up the ghost and with the death-rattle in its tin throat, had a breakdown. Here the doughty BANKS continued on
his way via the thumb route, no fool he. After repairs, the tin horse again showed signs of life and
the remaining four continued for another nine miles, whereupon the “A” balked for good. Again the call of the open
road lured and KING and WRIGHT sped away, leaving two, who spent a rousing and hilarious weekend in some remote
Virginia village, wistfully thinking of Randolph-Macon thrill-hill, and Sweetbriar.

LONG-JOHN BELK was celebrating in Spartanburg when he learned of the forthcoming engagement of his O. A. O. After a
nip and tuck struggle, LEGS KELLY bested JEW CLARK for priority rights on one JULIA BRIDGES. Legs leads by a
nose, but there may be further developments. MOOSE WALLACE gave an exhibition of the globe-trotting type of dealing by zipping
to G-boro Friday night, thence to reappear at the Converse dances on Saturday. MASON is squiring FRANCES FLEMING to the
Spring Frolics. They wowed ’em, even to the extent of dating up one of the Warm Springs’ nurses. Obviously, the
big Georgia moon chased all thoughts of PRISCILLA from his curly little head. And, speaking of faculty members, SAM WEBB
was also a member of this expedition as far as Atlanta presumably on business. However, we know that SAM, like
SHAW, is in the market for a steady, so maybe he combined pleasure with business. The S. A. E.’s had
a golfing party Saturday night, at whichtime HACK did some super-snaking on SOUTHGATE JONES. SOUTHGATE held his own, and CLAUDE
slithered away, hissing... BUDDY CARSON escorted a 19-year-old divorcee who “headached” home early, only to be seen some two hours
later at the Tavern in different company... ED LUCAS motored to the roadhouse, only to run into difficulty with a
state patrolman, who, lacking an arrest all day, made up for lost time by slapping approximately three on ED. It
seems that LUKE had borrowed a license for the excursion, but the patrolman, no ignoramus he, had spotted the fact
that the rolling wreck had only one. This, of course, led to complications concerning registration cards, etc. Looks like LUKE
will finish Davidson by Correspondence. SPIKE MEBANE, RED BURKE, BUDDY THOMPSON, and JACK RICHESON were among those to hit the
Sullins campus for the weekend, partly to scout about for potential dates for the forthcoming “battle of bands.” RED complained
that the first three to get dates staked claim on the three dating parlors, leaving the rest to freeze their
little dates off on the lawn. And so ends the last Monday night labor. To the many whom your conscienceless
reporter has overheard say, “The dope-column ain't holding much dope,” we have only to apologize, and say that if you
can find a way to have a good filth column as well as a censor, let us know. It’s an
impossible combination.

Sponsoring what we hope will be an all-out answer to the call of the Red Cross for blood to be
prepared as plasma for the wounded. High Point homes. These included Brothers Amos, Millis, Short, Simmons, Marsh, and Rochell. Wilbo
Carter, Bob Grimsley, Jim Davis, and Wileman Ehly went to Greensboro and vicinity. Brother Sutton journeyed east to Pinehurst and
Fayetteville. Spring Set, this being the second time he has thus scored. Beauty “spank it... SLY ME spends most of
his time from then on trying to keep up with her. The picture reaches a hilarious peak when Hank’s old
classmates return for a reunion. Wednesday's program consists of a double feature, with the same bargain price. COMING: SONG OF
THE ISLANDS, with Betty Grable. ROXIE HART, with Ginger Rogers.

By BILL LYMAN

On the Return to Rugged Simplicity in Respect to Modern Dress, or, Tricky Dick Goes to the Ball: Present-day alarmists
occasionally deplore the lack of clothes with which modern young ladies in... I would like for Sam Hays to be
the guest of the theatre for any feature—this week. Brothers Miller, Pendleton, G. Peters Yarborough, Wilson, and Holland were in
Charlotte. Brother Hodges went to Greensboro, accompanied by Brother Henderson who altered his course for Phi Delta Theta once, thus
being the second to make Ripley’s Column. Most of the brothers rested up over the weekend. Attention is called to
the letter from the medical staff on the front page in regards to this plea. Details of the actual collection
of the blood are incomplete, but will be released as soon as arrangements have been made with technicians in Charlotte.
Registration and preliminary tests for all volunteers are being instigated as of tonight at the infirmary, and all students and
faculty members interested are urged to report there as soon as possible so that the doctors may start as soon
as possible. We would like to make it understood that this is definitely a volunteer drive. Only those who are
physically able will participate, and students under twenty-one years of age will be advised to secure their parents’ permission.

A very vivid and emotional picture of a soldier lying pale and weak in a cheerless field hospital, dying for
want of a pint of your blood that could save him, could easily be painted. However, we do not wish
to “high pressure” anyone into a movement in which they have no interest. Nevertheless, we cannot overlook the opportunity for
service that this call presents. We want to urge every able-bodied student to join in this plea for plasma, this
campaign for corpuscles, this drive to save a life.

The greatest difficulty that will confront future clothes strategists will arise when all pockets are eliminated in men’s clothing. Of
course, there is the possibility of man carrying a pocketbook as woman now does, but such an idea is somehow
distasteful. Let us look in on a Davidson dance in 1944 with, say, Tricky Dick O'Hair, who will then be
a senior (if he is not drafted in the interim). Tricky’s date, Gladioli Queen, will be charming in the latest
style in evening wear. If one were to read a society column write-up of the event it would run something
like this, “Dancing with super Dick O’Hair we spotted one of the dresses of the evening on Gladioli Queen. Her
gown was of black gingham, the skirt extending to three inches above the knees with a tattered effect at the
hem, and matching anklets. Her accessory was a flowing white handkerchief, of cottonese material. Gladioli wore a corsage of orchids.”
In place of a belt she has a strip of skin showing. No pleats or excess material of any sort
exists, causing a decollete rage. Tricky Dick is immaculately garbed in the latest full dress evening suit. No longer, however,
is the suit referred to as “tails.” Instead of the former extravagant custom of having two posterior elongations, there is
in 1944 but one, which is three inches wide. Of course, there is no vest; neither are there any lapels
nor more than three inches of sleeves. For some inexplicable reason, the government has allowed man more material for formal
wear than woman, since Dick’s form-fitting pants extend two inches below his knees. For a shirt, he wears a formal
white turtleneck sweater.

Today the alarmist, in attending a dance, says, “Tsk. Tsk. Tsk. I can remember 35 years ago when it was
daring for a girl to show her ankles.” In two years, however, the same person will say, “What is the
world coming to? I can remember back in 1942 when clothes covered most of the body!”

Sigma Phi Epsilon

With Spring Frolics just around the corner, many of the brothers contented themselves with minor deals. However, Charlie Henderson managed
to leave Wednesday on an extended weekend. He was joined in Raleigh on Friday by Jim Fulcher and Jerk Behrman
and the trio attended the Interfraternity Conference held at N. C. State. Fred traveled to Winthrop for a Saturday night
escapade. Price Gwynn and Rush Winchester went to the same old place (see last week’s column) and did the same
old things. The highlight for the weekend was a lawn party staged by the newly-initiated brothers for the seniors on
the golf course Saturday evening. Mrs. Baird furnished a delightful feed for brothers and their dates. Morton attended the Junior-Senior
at Converse, while Joe Bivins entertained Miss Eddy Lawrence over the weekend. Bill Loy won himself laurels by taking two
firsts at Furman and P. C., while on the track trip. Clarence Legerton, Dick Miller, and Jack Davis... One of
the most ingenious solutions that has come to our attention is the Handkerchief Pouch Plan. By this plan, bills, change,
identification cards, cigarettes, etc., are placed in one’s handkerchief, which is folded up at the ends to form a pouch
effect. The four corners are then tied around the belt, a strip of rawhide. Simplicity is the keynote of wartime
modernity. No longer need the old guard disdain the extravagances of youth. We only wonder what will be the vogue
in bathing suits!
