PORTS SCENE: Thursday, October 1, 1942 By LEGH SCOTT

BEAT ROLLINS! THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

ROACH IN ACTION Saturday In Charlotte

Football fans of this section have the opportunity of seeing two first-class ball games in the Queen City this Saturday.
Of prime interest to Davidsonians will be the scrap between their Wildcats and the Rollins Varsity at 8:00 o'clock in
the evening at American Legion Stadium. The ‘Cats will be out for their first win (and first score) of the
season, while Rollins, fresh from a thorough trouncing of the strong P. C. team, will be gunning hard to take
their first victory over Davidson in the third game in as many seasons with the 'Cats.

Entering the season opener with Rollins last year a little over-confident, Davidson could do no better than fight it out
to a scoreless tie. Many are prone to under-rate the boys from Winter Park again this year, but word comes
from the Floridians’ camp that they are loaded, two fast, 170-pound ends (as heavy as ours), one terrific tackle, tipping
the beam at 216, and the other no baby at 196. Both guards weigh over 190 in the raw and
are plenty rough. In the backfield, Billy Justice, 165-pound scooter, will be the man to watch. He is claimed to
be “as good as Sinkwich” and will vie with Davidson’s Artful Art Roach for running honors. Coach Jack McDowell wants
this game and will spare no punches to do just that.

All this is intended to point out that Rollins will be no pushover. The ‘Cats WILL have to fight all
the way to win. We expect them to do just that. They will be at almost top strength. Dick O’Hair
may not get in on account of a bad ankle sprain last weekend, but everyone else should be ready. Big
Red Bethea should see his first action of the year to keep the Parson on their heels with his kicking.
After plowing and taking the Devil out of Duke’s big Blue, the cry this week is “BEAT THE TAR OUT
OF ROLLINS.”

Almost overlooked the other attraction of the day. State meets Clemson on the same field in the afternoon in what
appears as anybody’s ball game. Davidson will be interested to see how the team stacks up with a Conference power.
Both teams will be after much-needed prestige, since State was not too impressive in defeating Richmond, and the mighty Bengals
were tied last Saturday by V.M.I. Incidentally, Davidson should take note of this tie in sizing up the Keydets, in
spite of the fact that Clemson is somewhat below par this year.

Artful Art Roach is shown picking up five yards in the game in Winston-Salem last Saturday. Roach made several nice
gains against the Devils before he was forced to leave the game because of injuries. He has been a regular
starter so far this season, alternating between tailback and wingback.

Cats Battle Rollins Under Arcs Saturday

O’Hair Probably Out; Bethea May See First Action

For the first time this season, the Davidson Wildcats will enter the game as favorites when they meet the Rollins
College Tars in their non-conference encounter at the American Legion Stadium in Charlotte Saturday night. The Wildcats will be boosted
no little by the return of Big Red Bethea, undoubtedly one of the best kickers in the nation. Dick O’Hair’s
sprained ankle has kept him out of practice with the felines this week, and it is extremely doubtful that he
will be ready for action against the Tars. Rainey donned heavy equipment Wednesday and is expected to play deep in
Davidson territory during the ball game Saturday night.

Davidson’s ‘42 Wildkittens are rapidly rounding into shape, scrimmaging in preparation for their opening game October 9th with P.J.C. The
team is built around an ace back, Fletcher Gwyn of Barium Springs. Fletcher provides the Kittens with a triple-threater. Although
running is his forte, he is an equally good passer, who can heave a long pass or fire one in
the flat with consistent accuracy. Teaming with Fletcher in the backfield is Jack Burke, a tough, stocky natural at the
blocking post, and either Johnny Elkins or Roland Paylor at the spinback. At present, Elkins holds the edge, but he
is being pushed by the hard-driving Paylor.

The Rollins eleven ushered in the 1942 season last week with an unimpressive scoreless tie against the stubborn Florida Southern
eleven. Davidson took a clear-cut victory over Rollins in 1940, with Little Patton as an excellent pass receiver. Patton is
an effective blocker, converted from guard. The guards are “Goon” McCall and Johnnie Walker, two hard-charging linemen. Hugh McArn is
waging a tough, spirited battle at center. Supporters of the Davidson team think that the ‘Cats will have a chance
Saturday night to show just how good they are.

Frosh Tennis

This year, as usual, a freshman tennis tournament is being held to determine which freshmen are eligible for the frosh
team. Play starts immediately, with eighteen men entered. The winners are the best two out of three sets. Contestants are
to have priority on the courts. Dates of the matches are as follows: first round by October 3; second round
by October 8; third round by October 13; and finals by October 17. Games not played by the set dates
will be forfeited.

Dukes Just Blue

The coaches told the team last week to look at Duke as just another football team and not a Rose
Bowl juggernaut to shy away from. By the time the rain had stopped (as it did just after the sloppy
game), the ‘Cats had pretty well proved that point. The Dukes were good, and they won a clear-cut victory over
the stubborn Davidsons, but they failed to show the power and finesse of Duke teams of the past few years.
It can be argued that the mud slowed them up, but that same wetness reduced Davidson's passing attack to practically
nil. It was not a case of ‘too little and too light again for the ‘Cats, for the line continued
to hold up remarkably. Duke’s FAST, SHIFTY backs, supported by the line pulling out around the flanks, turned the trick.CE
Farell and offensive attack they; the only excuse for postponement Forest, and the score! VMI per, drove to the Davidson
eight, these sweeping plays accounting for a large part of the CIN Raa TIE SAUTITT Gnteat gnc DNR emn Os
teeH he hall on vere and may get a starting berth, have. The Wildcats played superbly and South Carolina yard
line, on the Duke’s overwhelming number of yards gains. Those with Carolina’s ball on feeeectay Nae cogs ago Tennessee draws
highlighted tire downs when the determined ‘Cat Haly UCTENSIVe ul u A statistics do not show the rugged line play
of the Davidson stalwarts. Fumbles (nine in all) were costly to both teams, setting up two of Duke’s touchdowns. Games
Start Ball flushed by the honor of the respective aggregations of North and South Carolina square deep into Davidson territory.
Everyone is praying for it, although it is the hope that the “Cats will stop two Duke drives. Speedster Moffat
Storer, who was slowed up by a leg injury last season, was tops for the Dukes, setting up one score
with a 48-yard sprint. Davis Luper and Rute shared the other backfield honors. Burke, Taylor, Rainey, Moore, Shaw were the
sparks of the Cats' defense. Roach and Lacy did some fancy stepping through the Duke line, while G. Peters’ two
passes in the closing seconds of the game thrilled the fans.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

Other Games
Upsets were prevalent in many opening games Saturday. Carolina’s Tar Heels showed unexpected power in polishing off Davidson, the favored
Deacons of Wake Forest to the tune of 6-0. “Shot” Cox appears headed for a good year after failing to
live up to expectations last season. William and Mary, expected to vie with Duke for Conference honors this year, booted
their way to a 3-0 victory over the Navy. Speaking of the Navy, its several Pre-Flight teams are doing all
right (emphatically); all four won on Saturday. South Carolina did a fine job of tying up with the vaunted Volunteers
from Tennessee as did VMI in doing the same to Clemson. Furman’s mediocre team played fine ball in losing to
V.P.I. by the close score of 7-6. Another interesting score was (more Wildcat trouble) Ga. Tech’s 15-0 conquest of Auburn.

Odds and Ends
The big pep rally for the Duke game was one of the best seen here in recent years. Davidson moved
to Winston en masse for the game, and much of that Wildcat spirit was evident. The Cats made their only
bid for a score in the second period when Tommy pitched a beautiful aerial to twin Tommy on the Duke
25, and on the next play he tossed to Bill Dunn on the 10.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WILDCAT FORWARD WALL
Here is the starting line that played great defensive ball against both State and Duke and is being counted on
to outcharge the Rollins Tars on Saturday. Left to right: Williams, Herb Rainey, B. F. Moore, Red Burke, Alf Taylor,
Bill Shaw, and Dick O’Hair. Tom Peters will probably replace the injured O’Hair in this week’s lineup. Burke and Rainey
were both injured slightly in last week’s fracas, but they are expected to be ready by Saturday.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT
BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM
HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
