ATTEND THE DANCES!!

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

EDITORIALS—
Warning.
On Honorary Fraternities.

Volume XXIX. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1942 No. 14

Davidson Representatives Form Largest Single Delegation For Carolina Conference On Youth

Mrs. Roosevelt Urges Young People To Have Spiritual Strength

GRAHAM PRESIDES
Youth In War And Peace Is Theme Of Meet

Nine Davidson men representing the Davidson Y. M. C. A. comprised the largest single delegation at the Conference on “Youth’s Stake in War Aims and Peace Plans” held at the University of North Carolina last Friday and Saturday. Davidson's representatives were Priestly Conyers, Myron Sandifer, Fred Morton, Jim Crook, Jesse Wooten, Jack Behrman, John McGee, Hank Crane, and Monroe Bush. There were 150 delegates present in all, representing 42 colleges and universities in the southeastern states. The conference was jointly sponsored by the University of North Carolina, headed by Ridley Whitaker of the Senior Class at Carolina, and the International Student Service, represented by Miss Louise Morley, New York. Dr. Frank Graham, of Carolina, served as host for the University after returning from Washington, where he is serving on the War Planning Board.

Four discussions formed the basis for the conference: “Social Objectives,” “Economic Objectives,” “Political Objectives,” and “Post War Planning and Campus Defense.” Many outstanding leaders in all aspects of the problems considered spoke to the group.

Mrs. F. D. Roosevelt
Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt flew down from Washington, and in her closing address Saturday night on “The Stake of Young People in the Crisis” urged young people to toughen themselves mentally, physically, and spiritually for the ordeal to come. Other outstanding speakers were Mr. Stuart Cramer of the executive board of the American Association of Manufacturers; Mrs. R. Carey, of Washington, the General Secretary of the C. I. O.; Mr. M. J. Mann, of the Co-operative Exchange, Raleigh, who represented American agriculture; and Mr. Jonathan Daniels, Editor of the Raleigh News and Observer.

Mr. Arthur Sweetser, who just returned from Geneva by clipper, also spoke as a representative of the now inactive League of Nations. Another message was brought by Miss Harriet Elliott, of Greensboro, Dean of the Women's College of the University of North Carolina. Other outstanding personages present in the capacity of advisers were Dr. John Millett, of the National Resources Planning Board; Dr. Allen Bonnell, who aided in the Quaker Relief work in Free France; Dr. Frederick Bunting, member of the Committee on Cultural Relations with Latin America; Mr. Donald Blaisdell, representing the State Department; Josephus Daniels, retired ambassador to Mexico; and Governor and Mrs. Broughton of North Carolina.

DAY-LIGHT TIME
The town of Davidson, at the request of the Federal government, will go on Daylight Saving Time at 2 A. M. on the morning of Monday, February 9, Mayor E. A. Beaty announced this week. Monday the town and college, along with the rest of the country, will set their clocks up an hour probably for the duration of the war. President Roosevelt requested Daylight Saving Time two months ago in order to conserve electrical energy, working hours, etc., thus increasing the industrial capacity of the nation in the present emergency. To avoid confusion, the entire nation was asked to co-operate with the government in this matter.

WARNING!
Here's a warning from Pan-Hellenic Council concerning the safest way to leave your car at the armory during the dances. Since the danger of having things stolen out of cars has been so great, it is advised that every person having charge of a car remove all valuables from the car and keep them inside the building. It is further suggested that car doors be left unlocked to prevent window-crashing—some of this goes on every year—take precautions.

Conyers Wins With Speech
Bill Rogers’ Departure From School Leaves Vacancy

Priestley Conyers, by a special try-out, has been chosen to replace Bill Rogers, who has left school, as a member of the Debating Team. Conyers, a member of the Junior Class, was late to the regular try-outs, held last fall, and this week was allowed by the Forensic Council to give his speech at a special try-out. Subsequently, he was chosen by a faculty committee, with the Forensic Council, as a member of the team. Plans at present are being made for two trips, one to the East and one to the South, in debate. Four debaters will go on each trip. Originally the question of debate was, “Resolved: That the Federal Government Should Regulate All Labor Unions.” Recently another question was added by the Forensic Council, “Resolved: That the Atlantic Charter Should Be Adopted After the War,” referring to the Roosevelt-Churchill 8-point program. Bill Summers, president of the Forensic Council, said, “War is causing us to change the general plan of our debates. For instance, labor unions are not giving much trouble now, and events in general are so rapidly changing.” Summers announced that a freshman tournament will be held in the next few weeks, to choose members for the freshman Debate Team.

Drive Result Is 300 Books
Around three hundred books had been turned in by Saturday for the Victory Book Campaign. Dr. Chalmers Davidson thinks that there is another hundred coming. The Book Campaign is sponsored by the Red Cross, American Library Association, and the United Service Organization for national defense. This is a nationwide undertaking in which books are being collected to give soldiers, marines, and sailors reading matter. As to the variety of literature turned in by the students and faculty, Dr. Davidson says that it ranges from text-books to mystery stories. “Text books will provide calisthenics for the grey matter and the mysteries will stimulate the nervous system of future readers of this material.” “The co-operation of library workers and students are responsible for the success of the campaign,” said Dr. Davidson. Dr. Davidson made an announcement in Chapel last Friday, February 30th, to the effect that the Victory Book Campaign would begin on that evening. Library workers canvassed the various dormitories on Friday and Saturday.

New Military Head Has Led Colorful Life
Colonel Joseph McAndrew, recently appointed Professor of Military Science and Tactics for Davidson’s R. O. T. C. battalion and successor to Colonel G. T. Mackenzie, has enjoyed a long and notable career of service in the U. S. Army.

West Point Man
Born in Bentonville, Arkansas, in 1879, Colonel McAndrew entered the United States Military Academy at West Point from that state and was graduated in 1904. His first thirteen years of service were spent with troops. At the beginning of World War I he went to France with the First Division as captain in command of a machine gun company in the 28th Infantry. Later he was assigned to General Pershing’s staff and served under General H. B. Fiske in the Training Section of the A. E. F. During this time he was promoted successively to Major, Lieutenant Colonel, and Colonel.

In Active Duty
While in the Training Section, Colonel McAndrew took part in four major battles of the war—the American offensives at St. Mihiel, on the Marne and the Aisne, and in the Argonne. For this brilliant and hazardous service he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal. The government of France made him a member of the French Legion of Honor. The King of Italy decorated him with the Order of the Crown of Italy. After the first World War Colonel McAndrew served as an in...

WILSON ANGEL
Wilson Angel, who was to have been featured on the fifth program of the current Phi Mu Alpha “Sinfonia,” will not appear in early February, as announced. Those who had planned to hear Mr. Angel, will be able to hear him at a later date in Chambers Auditorium. The exact date of the newly scheduled concert will soon be announced by Jack Phillips, president of Phi Mu Alpha.

Free-Thinkers To Meet Fate States Judge
Entire Freshman Class Put On Campus As Judge Metes Out Justice

By Judge Caldwell
At a recent meeting of the Court of Control it was decided that, due to the lack of appearance of freshmen and violations of the rules set forth in the Constitution, in regard to caps, the class of ‘45 would go on strict campus ending Thursday, February 5, at noon.

Freshmen At Fault
It was agreed that there were some freshmen, who through no fault of their own, have unfortunately discarded or have been deprived of these caps. However, it was unanimously agreed that no leniency would be shown to those who fail to produce caps due to their gross negligence to preserve those cherished head pieces. The body took up a proposal to crack down, OF COURSE WITH THE CO-OPERATION OF THE THREE UPPER CLASSES, upon...The frosh for their behavior as a whole, such as failure to carry laundry, walking upon any grass on the campus, failure to respect upper-classmen at all times, and breaking the campus rules which were recently imposed upon them. It was agreed that with the undivided co-operation of upper-classmen the (Continued on Page Six)

Body Building Class Proves Very Popular
By Deane Watson

A good many of the Davidson students are thanking their lucky stars and stripes that our good uncle in Washington hasn't seen fit to place a ban on the most potent liniments sold in our drug stores.

Inclement Weather

Being one of a group of sixty or more which dons its oldest togs and sallies forth into the icy winds of early February to whip itself into the shape that our enemies overseas claim to be, your reporter will try to describe some of the discomforts (to put it mildly) that a body, well softened by months of “earnest studying” endures during its period of rehabilitation.

The athletic staff of Davidson College has consented to conduct classes of athletic training and body building to make the student body a better group of physical specimens and to supply better and stronger men for our armed forces if the need arises.

Coaches Direct

These classes, two a day, are held at two-thirty and four-thirty each afternoon on the intramural field. The two-thirty classes are handled in turns by Coaches McIver, Spearman, Chapman, and Shepard. The four-thirty classes are conducted by Heath Whittle, intramural coach. The later afternoon classes have a much larger attendance because all scheduled classes are over and even the most confirmed bookworm can find time to crawl out of his well-worn habitat and clear some of the rust from his creaky bones. Each session begins with a period (Continued on Page Six)

Madrigalists To Perform Tuesday

The Madrigalists will be featured by Phi Mu Alpha on February 10, as another program of the current “Sinfonia.” The concert will be presented in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 PM.

The Madrigalists were organized in 1934, and were the first performing group of singers in America to devote themselves entirely to the pre-instrumental music of the church and to the plain songs of the people. Since their organization, the Madrigalists have appeared before numerous colleges, musicological, and student groups, in addition to singing before concert audiences and in recitals. They have also sung for the International Musicological Congress, the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the Bethlehem Association.

The Madrigalists have made regular appearances over the air, having been scheduled for a regular series over New York's music station, and have made guest appearances on Columbia’s “Pursuit of Happiness” program. Although Margaret Dodd, soprano, organized the Madrigalists, she declines to discuss the group in terms of its individual members. “Every person in the group,” she says, “is just as important as every other, and through the years we have become so well attuned to each other that our singing flows as harmoniously as if we were creating it on the spot.”

All members of the Madrigalists had extensive experience before they joined. Taken collectively, they represent a National Musical League. Philip Miller, bass, is responsible for most of the group's research and is of German descent. Sonja and Electa Havel, altos, are of Norwegian descent respectively; Wendell Robinson, tenor, is of Scotch and Swiss parentage; Earl Berg, baritone, is of Swedish descent; and Helen Snow and Margaret Dodd, sopranos, are both of English descent.

Davidson Students And “Surprise Band Of The Year” TEDDY POWELL

Students See Photo Exhibit

The Camera Club recently sponsored the first photography contest of the year. The participants entered their pictures in an exhibit in Eu Hall which lasted for three days. Thirty-five prints of various types appeared in the exhibit in which all phases of photography were represented. All who were interested in this kind of work were urged to participate. Students and visitors were allowed to examine these pictures, and they then voted for the prints of their choice. Three prize winners were chosen, and six entries were awarded honorable mention.

First prize was won by Bob Welch for his work “My Azalea.” Second prize went to Dill Barker for his picture “Humoresque,” a view of the old chemistry building. Third place was taken by Lenus Banker for his picture “Destruction,” a wrecking scene. Other pictures receiving honorable mention were “Incomplete” by Bob Welch, “Midnight Visitor” by Jack Ramsay, “Dock” by Jack Barker, “Candlelight” by Lenus Banker, and “Oh Miami” by Bill Jones.

The Camera Club announces the second contest of the year which will take place in February. Prints for this exhibition must be completed by February 10. All phases of photography will be represented. The club urges the entrance of all those pictures which will be of interest. New prints can be entered, however, pictures which appeared in the last contest cannot be entered again. Participants may enter as many pictures as they desire. There are certain specifications to which the entries must conform. Pictures must be 8x10 inches or 11x14 inches in size and mounted on regular mounting boards. These prints must not be tinted. All who plan to enter photographs in the contest are warned to make certain that (Continued on Page Six)

Annual Mid-Winter Festivities Begin With Concert Friday; Powell’s Band To Furnish Music

Dates To Dance To The “Surprise Band Of The Year” Amid Colorful And Patriotic Decorations, Peggy Mann And Dick Judge Featured Vocalists

Highlighting this weekend’s activities are the Midwinters which will include a concert, a tea dance, and two night dances. Teddy Powell, his orchestra, and two vocalists will perform for the four scheduled events.

Decorations

Decorations are to be in a patriotic motif. Red, white, and blue streamers of crepe paper will be the main feature of the color scheme at the Armory. Pat Rudolph, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, said, “These are to be the best decorations in years.” Blue spotlights will play on the cyclorama curtain. In its center, there will be a large red heart with a superimposed Pan-Hellenic Council key. This curtain is to be studded with silver stars.

Posters

Humorous posters will adorn the entrance to the Armory. Other important features will be a panorama view of silver-green trees in front of the stage and a crystal ball for the no-break dances. Set tickets are priced at $8.50. These tickets cover all four events. Separate tickets for the individual events cost $1.10 for the concert and $2.25 for the tea dance. Separate tickets for each night dance are priced at $3.75 apiece.

Schedule

A Davidson schedule of two tea dances and two night dances has been abandoned this year. Instead, a concert will be held at 4:30 PM on Friday afternoon in the Armory. This concert will save students from the necessity of transportation to Charlotte. Teddy Powell's band will feature the two vocalists, Peggy Mann and Dick Judge. WSOC may broadcast sometime during the concert that afternoon. All profits will be turned over to the American Red Cross to help in their drive for an emergency War Fund.

Dr. H.W. Odum Gives Lecture

Dr. Howard W. Odum, noted sociologist of Chapel Hill, will speak here under the sponsorship of the Davidson Lecture Course next Wednesday and Thursday, February 11 and 12. Dr. Odum will continue the current series of lectures which included other noted speakers such as Dr. Will Durant, Dr. Archibald Rutledge, and Dr. Whittaker.

The subject that Dr. Odum has chosen for his lecture Wednesday night at 8:30 is “The South at Its Best: Attainable Standards of Cultural Economy by 1950.” For his Thursday lecture, he will speak on “Crisis in Cultural Standards.”

Dr. Will Durant discussed Philosophy and the great movements of the world on September 20. He stated that the great movements of the world have been caused by the situation at the time rather than by any philosophy which was previously conceived.

Around the first of November, Dr. Archibald Rutledge spoke twice in Chapel. He told of his home in South Carolina and the slave situation which was prevalent during his early life. That night, Dr. Rutledge told more of his plantation home and of a buried treasure that he had found with the aid of a hidden map.

Sigma Upsilon Meets This Evening

Tonight at 9:00 PM, in the Phi Delta Theta Chapter House, Sigma Upsilon National Literary Fraternity will hold its bi-monthly meeting. Arch Taylor, the president, will preside over the meeting with Bill Sprunt serving as Program Chairman.

The program will consist of a series of readings by the members. Myron Sandifer will present an original short story followed by N.C. Plunkett’s reading of the seventh chapter of J. Lysander Mallory, the group's progressive epic poem. The reading of several short poems will constitute Shaw Smith’s contribution followed by a humorous essay by Julien McCall.