ODK TAPS TEN MEN
The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

HOMECOMING ISSUE

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1942

ODK HONORS TEN MEN IN FALL CEREMONY

Home-Coming Celebration Begins Tomorrow
Gala Event Opens With Frosh Game
Kittens Play S. C. Frosh; Dances To Be Held In Hotel Charlotte

Home-Coming at Davidson College this year will be filled with many various activities in the realm of entertainment.

Freshmen Play
The program will begin Friday afternoon, November 6, at 3:00 when the Wildkittens of Davidson College will meet the Freshmen of the University of South Carolina in Richardson Stadium. A large attendance is expected at this game as classes will be suspended at 3:00 P.M. Friday and many alumni and dates will be on the campus.

Friday night, there will be a formal dance in the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom at ten o'clock. Ted Ross and his orchestra will furnish the music.

At noon Saturday, the Annual Home-Coming luncheon will be held at the Charlotte Hotel. The program, purely one of entertainment, will feature the Davidson Glee Club and Shaw Smith with his colored movie of the student body life.

Football Game
Saturday afternoon the Home-Coming football game will be played with the University of North Carolina. This game will be held in the Legion Memorial Stadium at 2:30 P.M.

The festivities will be completed Saturday night with an informal dance in the Charlotte Hotel. Johnny Satterfield and his orchestra will be featured at the dance which will begin at 8:00 P.M.

According to information from the Office of Alumni and Public Relations, large numbers of reservations are being received daily for the annual Home-Coming luncheon scheduled for 12 o’clock Saturday, November 7, at the Charlotte Hotel.

Home-Coming Luncheon
With Dr. James A. Jones of Charlotte, President of the Davidson College Alumni Association, acting as toastmaster, many entertainment features are scheduled. Music for the occasion is to be furnished by the college Glee Club and Orchestra. Parents of students now at Davidson will be invited, as well as all alumni, prominent friends of the college, and all members of the board of trustees. The response to the invitations indicates that a large number of ladies will be in attendance. Of unusual interest to these special groups will be the showing of a 1200-foot colored film portraying the life of the Davidson students.

College Plans Get-Together
Dr. Cunningham will speak on “The Next Step Forward” in the Davidson College program at a “Davidson Night” dinner which is to be held at 7 P.M. next Tuesday in the Banquet Hall of Chambers building. Indications at present are that of a capacity crowd, announced the chairman of the committee in charge of the plan, Professor E. A. Beaty. The technicolor moving picture of life on the campus which was filmed last spring will also be a part of the entertainment. This dinner will be in the form of an informal get-together to begin the gift fund campaign in the local territory.

The public of Davidson and the surrounding territory is invited to attend the dinner. “However,” announced Professor Beaty, “there will be no solicitations at the dinner.” Assisting Professor Beaty in the planning of the dinner are: Mr. S. T. Stough, co-chairman, Mr. M. W. McGill, and Professor F. L. Blythe.

TAPPED BY OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
MacGAVOCK
LACY
McGILL
MacLEAN
BELK
FULCHER
HOBBIE

ABSENCE RULES
Dean Bailey announced this week that the regular rules regarding absences before and after holidays will be in effect this weekend. On the day preceding and the day following a single holiday, there will be double cuts assessed to students who are absent on those days. In effect, all absences on Friday and Sunday will be doubled. Mr. Bailey explained that absences made on Monday will not fall under this rule. Anyone wishing to be excused for absences while on campus should make arrangements.

Frosh Called Before Court
Fourteen freshmen reported to Judge McCoy and his Court of Control last Monday evening to be penalized for infractions of the freshman rules. Bob Thurston, Clayton Scofield, Arthur Demarest, David Lawn, Leighton McKeithan, and Jim Montgomery were called before the court for not wearing their freshmen caps and for general “noxiousness” to upper-classmen.

Required Theme
McCoy said that these are required to write a 1500-word theme and to report to one assigned member of the court every morning at 7:30. The subject of the theme is “Why Freshmen Should Obey Freshmen Rules.” Carey Wells, Tom Campbell, Osborne Young, Bill Styron, Ed Abby, Ernest Spangler, Meddleton Raynal, and Roy Williams were also penalized for not wearing their freshmen caps. They will also have to write the theme mentioned above.

Yellow Cap
McCoy announced that yellow caps have been ordered to be worn by freshmen who continue to break the rules. He says that no campus penalties could be inflicted on account of the Home-Coming weekend. He warns the freshmen that if lack of concern for the regulations continues, the whole class will go on campus after Home-Coming.

Club Selects New Member
Davidson Will Have Five Sponsors At Game

Choosing of game sponsors and the selection of the tenth sophomore member of the club was the main business of the Beavers last Monday evening in their meeting in the parlor of Watts.

Heywood Brinnegar was selected as a substitute center on the varsity football squad and won his numeral on the freshman squad last year. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Davidson Sponsors
Davidson's sponsors for the game will be Miss Jackie Burns for Ben Lacy, Miss Mary Katherine Smith for Herby Rainey, Miss Katherine Traynham for Ben Washburn, Miss Jean Maxwell for Wellford Hobbie, Varsity Manager, and Miss Mary Coons for Scotty Paterson. Mrs. John Frederick is sponsor for John Frederick but will not be able to attend the game.

Bert Bennett, president of Carolina’s student body, sent Myroy Sandifer a message that their student body would cooperate in the plans for the weekend. Sandifer turned the matter over to the Beaver Club.

Carolina Cooperates
After a telephone conversation with Bennett, Frank Carter, President of the Beaver Club, said Carolina would bring five sponsors, whose names and escorts will be announced later. The Beaver Club has consulted with

DANCE TICKETS
Prices for the Home-Coming Dances have been announced and the tickets are now on sale. The set tickets to both of the dances will be $5.00 and to a single dance $2.75. Set tickets may be secured from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. All football players who dress for the Davidson-Carolina game will be admitted free.

War Changes Home-Coming Set
This weekend, Davidson experiences its first Home-Coming since war began last December 7th. The usual easy-going peacefulness

Holidays and Plans Not Changed
Christmas Vacations, December 18 To January 5Coach Shepard, Athletic Director, and others concerning the plans for the game. Members of the Beaver Club will escort the Davidson sponsors at (Continued on Page Six).

Davidson has already felt alterations and the dances are in for their share of the changes.

Shift To Charlotte

Not that this year’s set will be but the usual order of things has undergone a shift to meet the situation. Every change made has two sides and the good counteracts the bad. For example, the decoration contest among the various fraternities, which has been abandoned, and the removal of the game to Charlotte may seem unfortunate to some of us, but on the other hand, practically all of the students and their dates are spending the whole weekend in Charlotte. This mass migration to the Queen City will greatly reduce the amount of travel by the elimination of the numerous trips between Charlotte and Davidson which were previously required.

Better Dances

As for the dances themselves, in my opinion they should be above those of the past. The band for Home-Coming has always been of the same caliber as the one for this year's set, but this year there are two orchestras instead of the usual one. Those upperclassmen who attended last year’s Spring Set will remember the solid swing which was produced by Satterfield, and reports from past performances clearly show that Ted Ross has an experienced crew that should be “in the groove” every minute. The flush notices have certainly not been hampered by the war. They are coming in steadily and add a touch of the old-time flavor to the set. One unfortunate Frosh com- (Continued on Page Six).

President Cunningham announced recently that the Christmas vacation of Davidson College will be the same as that announced in the school calendar. Throughout the nation there has been widespread discussion with reference to the holiday period for colleges and universities. Many girls’ colleges have complied with the request that the holiday season begin by December 15 and end after January 5. Men's colleges, however, seem to feel that this is a step in the opposite direction from the newly adopted acceleration programs. Consequently, as a rule, boys' colleges are adhering to their original schedules or else are abbreviating their usual holiday.

Cunningham Comments

Dr. Cunningham reserved decision in this matter for Davidson until the called meeting of the Association of American Colleges in Philadelphia last week. He and the Administrative Committee of the College have decided that there will be no changes made in the original plans of Davidson, and that classes will be held until Friday, December 18 at 12:30 P.M. The Christmas recess will end at 8:25 A.M. January 5.

In commenting on this decision, Dr. Cunningham calls attention to the fact that the majority of students are from North Carolina and would not use the through trains for their passage to and from home. Since the chief reason for the lengthening of the holidays was to avoid congestion on the railroads, he does not believe this consideration enters so largely into the matter for Davidson.

BEAT CAROLINA

In addition to the regular bus service, two trains will pass through Davidson toward Charlotte each afternoon. These trains are not as crowded as the buses and should accommodate all who plan to attend the dances. It was announced that students will be admitted free to the dances.

November 17 Set For Play

November 17 is the date officially announced for the presentation of the long-heralded “Man Who Came to Dinner,” now being prepared by the Red and Black Masquers. The actors have brought out certain weeks of practice through their performances. Shaw Suh, playing the role of Mr. Whitesides, always goes over and over again the scene between him and Mrs. Turner, played by Miss Lorraine Shelton. But he never fails to blush when she sees the bald spot on his otherwise hair-covered head.

Love Scene

Rumor has it also that the cave manish, nonetheless tender, love scene between Walt Romefelt and Miss Susie Jackson promises to be quite interesting. The hunt for penguins was successful. Three penguins were found for those that are supposed to be sent to Mr. Whitesides as a gift. And enough roaches were found for “Roach,” another of Mr. Whitesides' gifts. The story, of course, starts when Mr. Whitesides, leaving the house where he had been invited for dinner, breaks his hip, and is confined there for six weeks.

McGill and MacGavock Are Tapped

Eight Student Leaders Are Selected With Two Faculty Members

Davidson’s circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity, honored two faculty members and eight student leaders in a ceremony. Those tapped were Prof. W. MacGavock of the mathematics department, M. E. W. McGill, college auditor, and Seniors John Belk, Jimmy Fulcher, Welford Hobbic, Ben Lacy, Lacy Maclean, J. McCoy, Burkehead Walker, and Jack Wayman.

Omicron Delta Kappa is one of the leadership fraternities. Washington and Lee University is the institution from which it originated, and it is now prominent in many colleges.

Faculty Initiates

The two faculty initiates have long been recognized as leaders in student attainments. MacGavock for his efforts toward the improvement of faculty-student relations and other connections, and McGill for his direction of the Athletic Association for many years and for his administrative leadership.

Student Leaders

Belk is President of the Pan Hellenic Council, Co-Captain of the basketball team, Student Council member, and past Vice-President of the student body. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Order. Fulcher is a member of the Freshman Advisor, Y Cabinet, Associate Editor of the Davidsonian, and a member of Phi Epsilon fraternity. Hobbic, Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity and football manager. Lacy is President of the Pan Hellenic Council and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He has served as a student body representative on the Student Council and acted as game captain of the football team in 1932. MacLean is publicity director for the Davidsonian, the Student Council, and the college. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. McCoy is Judge of the Honor Court, Vice President of the Senior Class, and basketball manager. Walker is President of the Senior Class, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council, and a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity. Wayman, serving as Head Beaver Club manager, is Co-Captain of the basketball team, and President of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

GIRLS’ TICKETS

Announcement was made from the Athletic department Monday that the price of girls’ tickets for the Davidson-Carolina game has been set at one dollar, or one-half the regular reserve seat price. These tickets may be purchased from Mr. Whittle’s office either Thursday or Friday at his customary office hours. Sale of these tickets will be controlled by the honor system. Students are expected to buy these tickets only for bona fide dates.