PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT.

One might think from the following ramblings that the columnist did a nice bit of copying from the Charlotte Observer. He would be somewhat justified in that presumption, for Jack Wade and staff covered the Carolina game so thoroughly that it would be almost impossible to say anything about that game here without some repetition. The Observer gave the game some fine publicity last week when the issue seemed in doubt, which was largely responsible for the large crowd on hand for the contest. They were also complimentary to Davidson after the smoke of battle had cleared, to a team that, though completely outclassed, made a gallant stand and at times put on a show of their own.

Post Mortem on Saturday’s Game

Few Davidsonians had really expected a victory over Carolina Saturday, but they had expected a close, thrilling game. They saw a thrilling game, with Davidson providing a share of the thrills, but from the opening minutes of the game it was evident that the ’Cats were in for a sound licking. Perhaps too much hope had been based on the fine victory of Davidson over V.M.I.; Carolina had been much under-rated after its loss to the vastly improved State Wolfpack. Coach Tatum’s youngsters’ impressive wins of earlier in the season were forgotten in the enthusiasm of last week, but their ability was brought home with a bang in Charlotte Saturday. The Heels blocked, tackled, ran, and passed at a pace that utterly bewildered the fighting ’Cats. (Coach McIver later modified his statement to that effect.) Let it not be said that it would have taken a rabbit's foot for each player and a few magic lamps functioning according to their storied powers, to bring victory to the Wildcat camp with the material available. The boys played with all they had, although their defensive line play was not equal to the task, and the celebrated aerial attack functioned beautifully at times to the delight of the Davidson fans. If the Tar Heels can maintain the pace they set Saturday, watch out Blue Devils! They were red hot as evidenced by Tatum’s statement that they played their best game of the season to date. Line-busters Sigler and Croom were the biggest ground gainers for the Carolinians, while Cox and Myers shared the spotlight with their versatile stepping. The Tar Heels did all right through the air lanes, too, out-gaining the ’Cats in that department, but this feature of their play was eclipsed by the crushing ground attack. That play up the middle where the receiver seemed to appear from nowhere wrought havoc among the Cat secondary as it did against State. Alert George Peters, playing the outstanding game of his career, finally doped it out for an interception. Brilliant passing and running were the bright spots in the Davidson attack. George Peters and Art Roach were the chief ground gainers for the ’Cats in their losing fight. Both got off for some nice gains through the Tar Heel line, which was vulnerable at times. Dick O’Hair and Pat Williams added to the solace of the Davidsonians in their touchdown catches. Pat literally took the ball out of the hands of a Carolina back in a repetition of the same feat against V.M.I. Bill Dunn was rightfully commended for his excellent defensive play, as the other linemen were trapped and pushed all over the field. Earle Bethea’s kicking was off for the first time this season, but he got off several nice ones. It can all be summed up thusly: Carolina was red hot; Davidson was off, but could hardly have won had they been at their peak.

This Week In Charlotte

Saturday the 'Cats begin the home stretch with an attempt to salvage some glory from an otherwise disastrous season. Just how important this game is may be clearly understood after a look at the Conference standings. By winning these last two games the Wildcats will finish with a .500 percentage in Conference standings which is better than they have managed to do in recent years. Therefore Davidson must by no means deem to take the W & L Generals lightly, for a loss Saturday would be the crushing blow. The Generals, it is true, have had a poor season, winning only one game, against Hampden Sydney. However, they have shown ability; they did better against V.P.I. than we did and came very close to defeating Richmond. It is reported that they have the heaviest line that the ’Cats will face this year. So keep your wits and fight about you Saturday, ’Cats. The opportunity is at hand.

Odds and Ends

As the deadline between Duke and Carolina nears, it again appears to be a toss-up. Anything can happen and probably will. North Carolina classic is edging along with Carolina, because it’s hard to forget last Saturday. Kappa Sigma, the dark horses of the season, let it be known that they are out for the championship by putting it on the Betas last week, but the S.A.E.’s are still the logical choice for first place if they get by the Betas and K-A’s. If they lose either of these contests some kind of deadlock is almost sure to result.

SAE, Betas, and Sigmas Leading Hot Frat Race Issue Is In Doubt With Crucial Games Remaining

S.A.E. moved into first place last week in the inter-fraternity race with a win over S.P.E. by the score of 3 first downs to 1. Charlie Wills, Elmer Graves, and Co. fought and won a game which ended with the regular score tied. The game between S.A.E. and the Betas, which should be one of the best games of the entire season, is scheduled to take place during the Father’s Day exercises. Kappa Sigma, by merit of its victory over the mighty Betas, are now tied for second place with them. The Kappa Sigs, led by Sutton, Yarborough, and Lacy, managed to end up with a 12-6 victory over the formerly undefeated Betas.

Phi Kaps Climb

The Phi Kaps finished the game with a 6-0 victory over the Independents, which gives them the third spot on the list of standings. Phi Gams downed the Phi Delts by a total of 6-0. Pi Kaps not only ousted the Pikas 18-0 but also overran the Independents 12-6. The S.P.E.’s rose from the depths of defeat to the victor’s path when they downed the Pi Delts by the score of 2-0. To start this week's football activities off with a bang, the Betas, in a fast-moving game with the Phi Gams, defeated their opponents 12-8, on Monday. The Phi Gam passing attack functioned very effectively and almost caused the score to be tied when the Phi Gams pushed the ball down to the one-foot line, only to lose possession of it. In the other game of the afternoon, the S.A.E.’s defeated the Pikas 18-0.

Thursday, November 12, 1942

Biddies Score 27-25 Victory Over Kittens Play State Tomorrow In The Season’s Finale

A Wildkitten eleven, after spotting the highly touted South Carolina “Biddies” a three-touchdown margin, came roaring back in the last half to score thrice in dropping a heart-breaking 27-25 decision to the little Gamecocks on Richardson Field Friday. South Carolina, after receiving Davidson’s opening kick-off, failed to gain, and was forced to punt. Rutland’s Kittens’ scoring march, which was terminated when Fletcher completed a thirty-five yard aerial to Ingram in the end-zone. Big Walt Romefelt split the uprights with his placement.

S. C. Scores

The Biddies were not to be denied, as they took the Kittens’ kick-off and embarked on a sustained drive that culminated when Hurlong smashed over the double stripe from the two. Their successful conversion knotted the count. After an exchange of punts, speedy Jack Couch intercepted Paylor's toss and threaded his way sixty-five yards to a touchdown. The South Carolinian again converted, giving them a 14-7 lead. In the waning moments of the second quarter, the “Biddies,” paced by backs, drove deep into Kitten territory. On fourth down, the powerful Hurlong crashed over to score. The placement was wide to the right, leaving the South Carolina lads with a 20-7 count at half-time. A host of scarlet-jerseyed Biddies smothered Fletcher after he had taken S. C.’s third period kick-off, and the Barium ace fumbled. Williams pounced on the ball to set up South Carolina's final marker, which elusive Bill Rutland chalked up with a twenty-two yard sprint around right end.

Kittens Get Hot

Near the end of the third quarter, diminutive Bucky Faw pitched a short pass to Ingram, who raced 63 yards down the sidelines into pay dirt. Romefelt’s place kick was wide. Although they had been outclassed for nearly three periods, the Davidsonians came to life with a bang to score two quick tallies in the final stanza. After alert John Elkins had recovered a South Carolina fumble, Wingback Ed White made a beautiful catch of Faw's thirty-yard aerial. Once again Elkins fell on a Biddy fumble, and again Faw connected to White to conclude the afternoon's scoring. On offense, Fletcher, Faw, and Ingram were brilliant. On defense, Johnny Walker was outstanding, breaking through repeatedly to smother South Carolina's offensive.Outstanding smear thrusts, The Wildkittens conclude the current season on Richardson Field Friday when they tangle with the State Wolflets. Coach Shepard has been drilling his charges daily in an effort to stop State’s deceptive offense, and the Kittens should be rarin’ to go Friday.

DAVIDSON COACHES
(This is the third in a series of briefs on coaches of the Wildcat teams for the benefit of newcomers to the campus.)

NORMAN W. SHEPARD
Native of Wilmington. Attended Davidson and was graduated from the University of North Carolina (1923). Made letters in three sports, baseball, football, and basketball. Played professional baseball and basketball and coached all sports after leaving school. Was athletic director at Randolph Macon and later at Guilford. After Norton Pritchett left Davidson, Shepard was named to fill his vacancy as Athletic Director. He is also varsity basketball and baseball mentor and Freshman football coach.

Wildcat Sports
DAVIDSONIAN

Joe Austin of Badin is shown going over for the first Carolina score after a perfectly executed double reverse from the Davidson five-yard line. Davidson players visible in the picture are O'Hair (49), Floyd (21), Peters (33), Williams (20), and Lacy.

‘Cats Prepare For Game With W. & L.
Generals Boast Heavy Line; ’Cats Unscathed In The Carolina Fray

Davidson's Wildcats play their third and final home game Saturday when they clash with the Washington and Lee Generals in the Memorial Stadium in Charlotte at two-thirty. Washington and Lee has had a bad season, winning only from Hampton-Sidney, but they have played several close ball games and will be the heaviest team the Wildcats have faced all season. The Generals played their best ball against V.P.I., but the Gobblers managed to come out on top. With “Jump” Bruce out for the remainder of the season with his ailing knee, the 'Cats will be at full strength for their battle with the Generals. There were no serious injuries sustained in last Saturday's game with the Carolina Tar Heels. Though Carolina’s powerful running game proved too much for the Wildcats to handle, the 'Cats showed plenty of offensive power for the few minutes they had the ball. Davidson's passing attack proved especially effective and will probably be the 'Cats' chief weapon against the Generals. The Generals were defeated by a fancy aerial attack last week in their game with the University of Virginia and have no doubt spent plenty of time this week figuring out how to stop the Wildcats' aerial circus. The Generals' biggest offensive threat is light horse Harry Harner, a beautiful open field runner. Saturday's game will be Davidson's last home game as the Wildcats close the season against the Citadel in Charleston next Saturday.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N.C.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
S.A.E. 6 0 0
Betas 5 1 0
K-Sigs 4 1 0
K.A. 3 1 1
Pi Kaps 3 2 0
S.P.E. 2 4 0
Phi Gams 2 4 1
Phi Delts 1 5 0
Independents 1 5 0
Pikas 0 6 0

Duke, U.N.C. ROTC Riflers Start Season
With the athletic department's announcement that the Davidson Rifle Team has been recognized as a minor sport aggregation, prospects for the coming season were pronounced as excellent by Lt. Spencer of the R.O.T.C. staff. Bob Gowdy, one of last year’s standouts, has been elected captain of the 1942-43 squad. Jim Werr is the only regular of last season who is missing, and such experienced sharpshooters as Yokum, Stubbins, and Bar Gowdy are back. Welch, Keys, Rose, and others will hold down other berths on the team. New faces include the pick of southern college snipers in the Fourth Service Command matches second semester. Opponents include V.M.I., Wofford, Citadel, Davidson, and Clemson.

DAVIDSON IN SPOTLIGHT
Teams Approach Big Game With Odds About Even

Carolina's Tar Heels and Duke Blue Devils are getting set for their annual clash in Chapel Hill Saturday. This game should be one of the best games of the season, and it will probably be as bitterly contested as ever. Both teams have a flashy set of backs and hard-hitting linemen. If the game is true to tradition, it will be useless to predict the outcome. Carolina, with their backs showing their heels, ran up a large score while defeating Davidson, 43-14. The Tar Heels, after losing two straight games to Tulane and N.C. State, were back in the groove. Coach Tatum thought his boys played their best game of the season last Saturday against the Wildcats. Duke also had a big day against Maryland, winning 27-0.

W. & M. On Top
William and Mary is probably the best team in the conference, having only a tie with Harvard to mar their record. The Indians are leading the Conference, but they have only played two Conference games. Wake Forest's Demon Deacons came through with a nice win over VMI, 28-0. Wake Forest is having a good season, although they seem to escape the attention of most everyone. State nosed out Miami, 2-0, in a bitterly fought contest. A blocked punt broke the deadlock in the last quarter. The game was played on a wet field, and State failed to gain even one yard from rushing. Virginia romped over Washington and Lee, 34-7. A strong passing attack proved too much for the Generals; the Cavaliers completed 23 of 35 passes. Furman defeated Citadel, 20-0, and V.P.I. took the measure of Richmond in some of the other Conference games. A pass interception in the fourth quarter gave George Washington a close win over Clemson, 7-0.

Outstanding games of this weekend involving Conference teams are Wake Forest vs. Davidson, Furman at South Carolina, and State’s encounter with Georgetown.

Davidson Drops 43-14 Decision to Carolina
Tar Heels Impressive In Downing ’Cats; G. Peters Outstanding

North Carolina's silver-clad Tar Heels scored a convincing 43-14 triumph over the scrappy Davidson Wildcats before a gala Homecoming crowd of 10,000 in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium Saturday. Carolina, rebounding from last week's setback at the hands of N.C. State, unleashed a powerful offensive that overpowered a Davidson eleven outplayed for the greater part of the tilt by the Tar Heels' hard-charging linemen. The Wildcats, though outplayed, were a constant threat with a passing attack that was often miraculous. Davidson struck through the air to ring up two touchdowns. “Shot” Cox gave an indication of what was in store for the Wildcats when he gathered in the opening kickoff and raced 63 yards before a host of red-jerseyed Tar Heels smothered him. Davidson recovered a fumble on the 27. After Cox's alert play, the Wildcats took over on downs on their own 10. Bethea kicked out of danger, but the Tar Heels, roaring back, scored on a double reverse by Co-Captain Joe Austin. Four minutes later, Billy Myers skirted right end, eluded the secondary, and crossed the stripe for Carolina’s second tally. Midway through the second period, Davidson drove from their own 20 to Carolina's two, where Cox slipped inside tackle for the Wildcats' first six-pointer. When Davidson opened the second half, Peters arched an aerial to Pat Williams in the end zone. After Sigler's 43-yard kickoff return, Myers climaxed a sustained drive when he plunged over from the two. The Wildcats retaliated quickly, drilling a pass to O'Hair in the end zone. This brought the count to 27-14 after Frederick’s second successful place-kick. However, Carolina launched another scoring march which was culminated when Sophomore Arbes Fitz dived over guard from the 3. Just before the dying minutes of the fourth quarter, Johnny Pecora tossed to Rivers Johnson, who sped unmolested into paydirt for the Tar Heels' last touchdown. Just before the game’s end, Ehly covered a Davidson fumble in the end zone for a Carolina safety.

Gettysburg Plan
The “Keep Smilin’” plan is that students keep in contact with those graduates who are in the services of this country. Gettysburg College has inaugurated a “Keep Smilin’” plan.

BETTY GRABLE
DON AMECHE
Thursday and Friday, November 12th and 13th
“SPRINGTIME IN THE ROCKIES”

Saturday, November 14th
“GIRL TROUBLE”

SATURDAY LATE SHOW
“THE HIDDEN HAND”

Monday and Tuesday, November 16th and 17th
“BETWEEN US GIRLS”

Wednesday, November 18th
“THAT OTHER WOMAN”
JOHN PAYNE
JOAN BENNETT

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

SURE TO DROP IN AT
BAMBOO GRILL
WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT

HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER