Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...be an enlargement of the activity at the Y.M.C.A. The success of many of these programs is evident that is
to be featured.

Tuesday, July 8, 1942
The DAVIDSONIAN
(Summer Volume)
Published weekly
at Davidson, N.C.

Editor: Shaw Smith.

At the present time, no organization is maintaining the status quo; in a period of emergency, there must be alterations
to meet the changing situation.

You will find the Y.M.C.A. intends to weave a schedule to meet the newly appeared needs of the students.

As gas and tire shortages curb deputations and other extension work, the natural thing to do is to put more
emphasis on the work of the Y on the campus. In particular, there will be...

With one-sixth of the student body composed of the particular sex so adept at instigating and perpetrating scandal, it would
seem that the duties of the filth column would be relatively simple. However, with the departure of most of the
dealers of the winter session to more fertile fields of activity, news volume has slowed down.

Nevertheless, the presence of such local Romeos as "Papa" Sprunt, Little Lard Royster, and Big Peter Young...

Coach Norman Shepard, director of the intramural program, has requested that results of the matches be scored on-site drawings by
the winner or turned in to his office for posting.

Second-round matches in the tennis tourney...

On one night during the week and on every weekend, there will be some form of social activity. This will
depend on your interest and participation. If you are interested in the form of entertainment on a certain program, don't
be hesitant to participate; you, too, can be the life of the party.

We believe in these programs because we believe that they are a vital part of...

In short, the Y and all its facilities are yours that you may glorify and enjoy Him forever.

YOUR RECREATION.

Myron Sancifer—Guest Columnist

It need be mentioned that the affairs of the fraternity court frequently found frequenting after hours include the inevitable Nadine,
Isabelle, and Little Sutch; and to the latter, the only...

Loads Legerton, receiver of very romantic postcards, comes up with the details of Hank McIntosh and Glamoose Hart's adventure with
Mooresville's Towel Queens. All that is known is that the Ford started easy enough when a shotgun was mentioned.

By tomorrow, the municipality...

Other interesting tales come in from the big dealer's Fourth of July beach trip during which one of Georgia's gifts
to summer school, Linus Rankin, stayed at a little for the whole days and saw no...

Action in the tennis division is further along with Don Holland...

Dave Lee...

Although actors and every story of the book...

---

Is it Love?
