DR. JONES FOR FALL SERVICES

ALENDA LUX UBi Che Dabidsonian (0) » RTA LIBERTAS

SCRAP DRIVE BEGINS HERE

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1942 No. 3

Davidson to Present Patriotic Parade to Honor Service Men

Scrap Collection Is Main Object of Festival; Watts To Head Parade

Davidson will present a patriotic parade in honor of the parents and wives of Davidson men in the service and to inaugurate the scrap metal drive on Friday evening, October 9, at seven o'clock. The R.O.T.C. unit will act as Honor Guard for the parents and wives of Davidson's service men and will be under the direction of Col. J. A. McAndrew. Mr. G. B. Watts will be Chief-Marshall of the parade.

Units In Parade

Those organizations taking part in the parade will be: the Band, the R.O.T.C. unit, the parents and wives of Davidson men in service, the American Legion, the American Legion Auxiliary, the Boy Scouts, the Civilian Defense units, the Fire Department, and the Public School children.

Morrison To Speak

The Hon. Cameron Morrison will be the principal speaker on the program which will be held in Richardson Field Stadium at the conclusion of the parade. Other guests will be the mayors of all the towns in Mecklenburg county and Mr. Hoyt Galvin of Charlotte, Coordinator of Mecklenburg County Salvage Committee.

Section Leaders

Lieut. Samuel Spencer, Miss Bonnie Shelton, and Mr. Heath Whittle, will be responsible for the parents and wives of the service men. Commander S. T. Stough will head the American Legion unit, and Mrs. M. L. Davis will be in charge of the American Legion Auxiliary. Giro Piper will lead the Boy Scout division, and Principal B. M. Brown will head the school children.

Lawson Heads

Dr. Eric Lawson, who is Coordinator of Civilian Defense, will lead this unit in the parade. Mr. F. D. Hobart, Chief of the Fire Department, will head the Firemen’s division. All Gold Star mothers will have a special place of honor between the two student battalions.

Actors Begin Play Practice

Masquers To Present “The Man Who Came To Dinner” In November

Rehearsals for the next production of the Red and Black Masquers, “The Man Who Came to Dinner”, began last Monday. The tentative date for the play is some time during the middle of November.

Professor Erwin has accepted the part of the Doctor who has written what he believes to be a great book. Shaw Smith will portray the part of the “man”, Sheridan Whitesides; Mrs. Hengeveld, Mrs. Stanley; Miss Susie Jackson, Miss Preen; Miss Clara Smith, Harriet Stanley; Miss Kalista Hood, Maggie Cutler; Mrs. Turner, Louise Sheldon.

Students Support

Bill Shaw will head the supporting cast as the Expressman. With him are: Eloise Hamrick as June, Johnsie Shelton, the maid; Paul Welch as Richard Stanley; Fred Morton as Bert Jefferson; Beverly Carlton, played by Hub Pierce; Banjo, by Walt Romefelt; Middy Raynal as Professor Metz; Doug Swink as Mr. Stanley; John the butler, John Collins; Sandy by Newton Spencer; Wescott by Dick Port, Mr. Baker by H. W. Hobbs, and Jack Moore, the plainclothes man. The three convicts are Zeb Norman, Ernest Spangler, and Finley Tucker.

Technicians are George McCormick and Robert Cline.

Mebane Directs

The two deputies, Harry Cox and Perry West, complete the cast which will be under the direction of Frank Mebane. George McCormick will also be the stage manager.

Frosh Groans At Hardships Encountered

Asks Leniency From Upper-Classmen Who Once Were Rats Themselves

By CARGILL McCORMICK

Oh, thou majestic and venerable upperclassman, deign you stop thy bloody persecution of the frosh long enough to remember that you, too, were among their lowly ranks years ago? Perhaps in some cases it was many years ago. Could you have been so ignorant to make a few blunders that this year's crop of red-caps is making?

Surprise Shower

Perhaps your first blunder was an encounter with that fiendish fountain on the first floor of Chambers: in the innocence of youth you treated it just as you would any good fountain back home. But no, this was college, and a freshman had to accept conditions without complaint when the thing exploded all over him and his new suit.

"Sit down, freshman!" slapped you in the face as you started to arise from an impressive chapel service. Abashed, you sat by somewhat awestruck as the grim upperclassmen stalked out just as grimly as did your predecessors.

Laundry Burden

On that first Monday you were fool enough to walk out in broad daylight with red cap blazing to high heaven and laundry slung over your shoulder; you had thirty paces, you had fourteen more bags to lug. You refused to carry the fifteenth gentleman's laundry, whereupon he kindly recommended you for recognition from the Court of Control. It was a vigorous lad that had left your room; an old man returned. You felt as if you had just finished Phys. Ed. class.

Next Monday you received an invitation that you simply had to accept—from the Court of Control. After the usual swearing on the Bible, administering the third degree, pronouncement of sentence, and final disgrace before the student body, the Court was satisfied that you had lost some degree of your “noxiousness.”

No Reward

Yes, you went a long year through this, and now take a look at yourself: your hair is falling, or graying fast; there are circles under your eyes; your shoulders droop; you are a chain smoker; and sometimes you feel on the verge of being driven to even worse habits. This is your reward for possessing a certain exuberance common among freshmen, called “noxiousness.”

Oh, great and mighty upperclassmen, we, the lowly frosh, pray that we not be given so intensified a course in how to be upperclassmen. We'd rather stay healthy.

SENIORS SPEAK

Henry Crane of the Senior Class will lead devotional exercises in chapel tomorrow morning, Friday, October 9, while Freddie Speas, also of the Senior Class, will have charge of devotionals Tuesday, October 13, according to an announcement made by Priestly Conyers, Y.M.C.A. cabinet member in charge of chapel exercises. Campbell Ansley led the program last Tuesday, October 6. The Y.M.C.A. will take charge of the chapel devotionals every Tuesday and Friday mornings in the future. Announcements will be made through the “Davidsonian” concerning those leading the exercises.

WILL SING HERE

Committee Is Formed To Promote Sale of Tickets In School, Community

Sale of tickets for the performances in the Davidson College concert series will be in the hands of a committee made up of the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, representatives of Phi Mu Alpha, two non-fraternity representatives, and a member of the music faculty.

Aid Ticket Sales

Craig Schmidt is to serve as the Phi Mu Alpha representative. Wells and Patterson were chosen from the non-fraternity group. A faculty committee and a group to represent the townspeople will also aid in the sale of tickets to the concert series.

Prior to each of the programs in the concert series, a lecture will be given to familiarize the student with the life and works of the person or groups to be presented.

Osborne To Give October Lecture

Next Tuesday, Kenneth Osborne of the Music Department, will give a talk on Helen Jepson, soprano, who will be presented on October 16. Records made by Miss Jepson will be played to illustrate the lecture. This address will be held in the lounge of the Union.

Tickets for the concert series will be on sale in the bookstore beginning Friday. Those students who plan to graduate at mid-semester are to get a reduction in price of the season ticket.

Davidson Has Air Raid Drill

Davidson College experienced its first practice blackout of the school year on the night of October 1. The students, upon the sounding of the alarm siren, went to the prearranged air raid shelters, which were the basements of Chambers, the dormitory, and the library, Science Building, and Rumple.

Blackout Curtains

Due to some error on the part of the officials, the blackout curtains in Chambers shelter and the library shelter had been taken down and therefore were not in place when the time came. There was no light in the shelters, while light was permissible in the Science Building shelter since the curtains there were in place.

Assistants from the student body had been appointed beforehand, and were on duty the entire length of the blackout.

HELEN JEPSON

Concert Series Will Bring Great Artists to Campus

Court Indicts Six Freshmen In Paint Case

Judge McCoy Catches Guilty Parties; Court Passes Sentence

Six members of the Davidson Freshmen Class have been apprehended by the Court of Control and all six have confessed to treating the Freshmen Class numerals—in paint—on the brick walk.In front of Chambers Building, Judge Davidson Graduate Joe McCoy of the Court of Control was a member of the class of STAT. To Scrub Paint: "Timershe has maintained an active interest in the affairs of the college." The guilty freshmen are Henry Farrior, John Patterson, J. H. Miller, Ralph Young, Jack Jenkins, and Mecklenburg. Among members of the Court, it was decided that as punishment for the crime, the six men should be placed on campus for one month. They should meet out in front of Chambers every day with scrub brushes, water, and soap until the white numerals have been completely removed.

Another Case:
Judge McCoy emphasized that the freshmen told men were not the ones who so badly defaced the front pillars of Chambers Building by painting them with paint that will be almost impossible to remove, but were guilty only of painting the front shuffleboard courts on the side. As for the party or parties who painted the pillars, he said that these have not yet been apprehended, but that the court has some red-hot clues. The entire meeting of the Court this week was taken up with discussing and tracing possible clues as to the identity of the parties guilty of performing the paint jobs. At first, it was decided to place the entire freshman class on campus indefinitely or until the guilty parties confessed, but later on Monday evening, with the confession of the six men, this order was naturally revoked.

Frosh Are Guilty:
During the remainder of the meeting, the Court took up the cases of several freshmen hailed before it for infractions of Freshmen Regulations. The guilty parties and their crimes were for not possessing or wearing Freshmen caps: Sam Patton, Jim Patton, Si Wray, Amos, Carl Coffey, John Walker, William Ragsdale, Pete Branton; for disrespect to upperclassmen: Bill Styron, Lowry Stafford, Bill Vinson, Ernest Spangler. Punishment for those men convicted of not wearing caps will be two weeks on campus. That for those convicted of disrespect to upperclassmen consists of two weeks on campus and reporting to a member of the Court at regular intervals as to their behavior.

Purpose:
This test for the freshmen is a new thing, this year being the second time that such an arrangement has ever been given. It was provided last fall by an official amendment to the Student Body Constitution. The object is to familiarize the freshmen with the rules by which the college's unique student government is operated.

CAMPAIGN LEADERS:
Students Receive Questionnaires at Hall Groups. A questionnaire has been distributed by the Freshman Adviser, Jimmy Fulcher, according to an announcement made by the Student Conferences latter this week. The quiz will be given to the class by Fulcher on the provisions of the Davidson Student Government Constitution and its By-laws, and in addition, on the Freshman Regulations issued by the Court of Control and printed in the YMCA Handbook sent to freshmen each summer before their entrance into college in fall. Special emphasis on the test will be placed upon those sections of the Constitution called the Honor System. Freshmen who fail to pass the test will be turned over to the Court of Control for proper disciplining.

Dr. J. A. Jones:
Dr. Jones has maintained an active interest in the college's affairs. He has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits to Davidson. Dr. Jones has been a member of the Alumni Council for the past few years and has made frequent visits