Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 22, 1942

Helen Jepson Begins Concert Series Here
Metropolitan Opera Soprano Also Reviews R.O.T.C Regiment

Helen Jepson, Metropolitan Opera soprano, sang in the first concert of the Davidson College Artists Series Friday evening, October 16, in Chambers Auditorium. Having performed all over the world, Miss Jepson is one of the leading sopranos and is generally recognized as a foremost prima donna of the Metropolitan Opera Company. The pianist for the concert was Barrett. Miss Jepson appeared before the audience dressed in a light blue evening gown with pink accessories. Myron Sandifer, regimental commander of the student body, presented Jepson with a large bouquet of roses after the final song of the program. The next day, she was the guest of honor at a special ceremony.

Miss Jepson's Program:
1. "L'Adieu" - Lalo
2. "Die Lorelei" - Liszt
3. "Widmung" - Schumann
4. "Gretchen am Spinnrade" - Schubert
5. "Il est doux, il est bon" - Massenet
6. "Adieu, notre petite table" - Massenet
7. "Mandoline" - Debussy
8. "Le Crépuscule" - Massenet
9. "Mélodie" - Ravel
10. "Beneath the Moon" - Cadman
11. "Serenade" - Tosti

Literary Club
The first meeting of the year for the Regina Upsilon Literary Club was held with discussions on the order of the program and the continuation of the club's activities. The program was read and discussed, and plans for future meetings were made.

Hall Leaders Have Meetings
Hall prayer group leaders met Tuesday night at the YMCA. Wilson Caterson and Buddy Wells, chairmen of the spiritual development committee, discussed plans for future prayer meetings. Leaders were given a chance to offer constructive criticisms and suggestions for improvement. Buddy Wells stated, "From the enthusiasm shown among the leaders, we have every reason to hope that hall prayer meetings in the future will grow in number and inspirational effect."

Beaver Club
Pledge Bradford sailed up to Greensboro on Sunday for the usual event with Queens College. Pledge Brother Gregg visited his home in Wilmington. The fraternity takes pride in announcing the pledging of two more men, Ed Pratt, a Sophomore, and Joe Thompson, a Freshman.

Y.M.C.A. Will Sell Library of Reid Home
The Reid Plantation library, which was built in 1876, has been moved to the YMCA. The books, many with valuable bindings, are very old, some over 100 years old. The proceeds of the sale will be split between the YMCA and the original owner.

Philanthropic Group Elects New Members
The Philanthropic Literary Society extended invitations to 31 new members. Plans for a social event in the near future were discussed. The new members include Ed Pickard, Eugene Tinton, Spencer, Bob Richardson, and others.

PI KAPPA PHI
This past weekend was eventful for Pi Kappa Phi. Brothers Wilkinson, Eve, Walton, McCrea, Parks, Parrigan, and Evans, along with Pledges Ballentine and Williamson, attended games in Atlanta. Other brothers and pledges visited various locations, including Greenville, Clover, Lumberton, Gastonia, and Hickory.

PHI GAMS
Brothers Preston Oliver, Bob McMullen, and Ray Preston, along with Pledge Brothers Ralph Coonrad and Murdock McWeithen, traveled to Charlottesville. Brother Leighton went to Mississippi with the soccer team, while Brother Dick O'Hair visited his home.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Several brothers and pledges traveled to Atlanta to witness the football game. Non-combatant brothers included Legerton, Behrman, and Fred Morton. Pledges Newbold and Mayor also attended.

Helen Jepson, noted Metropolitan Opera Star, is shown here reviewing the Davidson College R.O.T.C. regiment, which paraded in her honor Friday afternoon prior to her concert that evening. Shown here, left to right, are Dr. John R. Cunningham, college president; Cadet Captain Myron Sandifer, acting regimental commander; Cadet Major Fred Morton, acting regimental sergeant major; and Miss Jepson.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Brothers Erwin, Wilcox, and Pledge Brother Paylor traveled to Mooresville via bicycle. The chapter rejoiced at the progress of its president and Pledge Master, who recently appeared in "Who's Who in American Colleges."

In addition, several Sigma Alpha Epsilon brothers and pledges traveled to Atlanta for the football game. Non-combatant brothers included Legerton, Behrman, and Fred Morton. Pledges Newbold and Mayor also attended.Kins seems than ever ter spending weekend in Looking we hear of where a few have been. Those traveling team were Brothers Hunt, Bethea, Dunn, Hull, Harris, McGeachy, and with the Moore, Brothers and Carter. Graves, Lucas, Bruce though not with the team had their share Atlanta spotlight. The fraternity wishes to express its appreciation to the Phi chapter for its hospitable invitation. Everyone seemed to have a swell time. We can't get much dope on Brothers McAlis, Hodgin, and Douglas; it was their main objective, however. Brother McAlis was known to have stayed on most of the weekend at Converse.

KAPPA ALPHA

This week it would be much easier to mention the Brothers and Pledges of Kappa Alpha who spent the weekend on the campus. President Hugh Sprunt set a precedent for others by driving all the way to the Tech game. Among those who went to the game were Brothers Washburn, Burke, Watt, Jeffries, Ansley, Lean, Durant, and Speas. Brother Speas made a secret tour to the capital city, leaving early Saturday morning and arriving Sunday night. No one seems to know the purpose of the trip. Prexy Sandifer visited in Charlotte with Pledges Hill, MacDonald, T. Speas, Wilds, Collins, and Whitehurst. Brother Ralph Dunn and Pledge Shep Dunn spent the weekend at their home in Sumter, S.C. Pledge Whitesides traveled with the soccer team to the University of Virginia. Visitors of the chapter over the weekend were Mason Wallace '42, who is now in Uncle Sam's forces, and Dixon Speas, a brother of Freddy and Tom Speas, who is connected with the Atlantic Airlines.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The off-campus game drew several of the boys to Atlanta. This detail was headed by Bayru Niell who says that he could not find Tech's campus. Bob Graves had little to tell about the Peach State, since he was keen to talk to Uncle Sam. Mrs. M. E. Parks of Black Mountain was a guest of the chapter for the weekend. Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha is proud to announce the pledging Monday night of M. W. Wester.

BETA THETA PI

As a whole, the Beta crew were Kampus Kids last weekend although a few of the brothers pulled some big deals. Brother Skinner along with Pledge Cushwa journeyed to Columbia, S.C., Friday to enlist in the Naval Reserve and came back Saturday morning to meet the one and only, Mirge Clark, in Charlotte. After sending her off Sunday night he got up Monday morning to take off for Jacksonville to visit his parents. Brother Spike Mebane and Pledges Garrison and Newlin traveled home to Burlington for the weekend while Brother Cushman stopped over at Greensboro. Pledges Joyner and others were among the crowd at W.C. Saturday night and went on to his home in Kernersville. Brother Whizzer White witnessed the Carolina-Duquesne game at Chapel Hill before going home to Graham. Brothers Goode and Rowland, with Pledge Cushwa, pulled a detail to the fair in Gastonia Saturday night. Brother Grayson Tucker and his roommate along with their dates drove to Atlanta Friday morning to witness the Georgia Tech-Davidson game, coming back Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA

Several Sigmas pulled big deals to Atlanta. Leading the pack was “Flip” Phillips who had a date from W.C. Others who made the Atlanta detail were Sutton, Yarborough, Buck Troutman, Charlie Capps, Bobbie Phillips, Legh Scott, Pinky Wilson, and Joe McCoy. Brother Carter made his usual trip to Salem. Pledge McCarn visited at Chapel Hill and Greensboro along with Pledge Stafford. Brothers Pendleton and Miller, the “married ones,” visited Converse and reported a very successful weekend. Ellis, Bill Lacy, Turnbull, Walker, Bahnson, and Bob McCoy spent an uneventful weekend “driving” on the campus.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

SURE WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT
DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM
IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

“Y” Makes Plans For Many Social Events

Gist Urges Testing Life’s Chief Issues
John Collins Sings “Come Ye Blessed” At Sunday Evening Vesper

Vespers last Sunday, led by Prof. P. H. Gwynn, Ph.D., opened with “Day is Dying in the West” as the processional hymn, in which the congregation joined at the second verse. After the scripture, read by Dr. Gwynn, who is professor of education and Freshman counselor, John Collins sang, “Come, Ye Blessed.”

Issues of Life

The subject of the evening sermon was, “Testing the Issues of Life,” the text being Thessalonians 21:1. Dr. Gwynn brought out the facts that education was a hard-earned goal; that although an education should broaden the outlook, sharpen the wits, and develop the soul, hundreds of men go through college without reaching these aims; and that extra-curricular activities and selfish interests should never interfere with scholastic achievement. Dr. Gwynn continued to point out that one thing an education can do for men is prevent them from becoming insincere patriots and unfair citizens. “Davidson men particularly,” the speaker continued, “are inclined to substitute religious formalities for true faith.” “Counterfeit personalities and counterfeit beliefs will be severely tested by life in the next few years,” concluded Dr. Gwynn.

Amateur Show, Hymn Sings, Barbecue To Be Held On Campus Next Month

Many social events will be held on the Davidson campus next month according to Jesse Wooten, chairman of the Y.M.C.A. social committee.

Boogie Woogie

The first in line of these events will be held this Saturday night when the Boogie Woogie artists of Davidson will perform for the student body. The following night, Sunday, October 25, a Hymn Sing will be held in the “Y” lounge. At the Sing, Butch Watkins will play on the xylophone. To celebrate Hallowe'en, there will be a “Hallowe’en Howles” at the Davidson High School. The next day, another Hymn Sing will be held in the “Y”. The next Sunday, November 8, the “Y” social committee will sponsor a Fred Waring show.

Amateur Show

The biggest event of this group will be an Amateur Show similar to the one held last year. Many have already made plans to enter the show and some of last year’s amateur artists will again enter. All those who wish to enter this show should see Smith in the next week or so. This show will be held Friday, November 13. An old Charlie Chaplin movie will be shown on November 1 and to end up the round of events for November, a barbecue will be given on the golf course on Saturday, November 28.

Social Committee

Recently chosen to serve on the “Y” Social Committee and to help promote social activities in the different classes were John Turner, Dave Yocum, Lee Potter, and Bill Sheely of the four classes respectively.

Faculty Aid Open Forum

First of a series of forums about “Obligations of Organizations and Individuals in the Present Crisis” was held last Tuesday evening when members of the faculty presented their respective views on “The Function of the College in the Present World Crisis.” Dr. Cunningham gave views of the administration on the present crisis. Dean Brown presented the ideas of the faculty as a whole; and Coach Shepherd dwelt on the connection of Physical Education with the nation’s struggle. On account of unforeseen difficulties, it was impossible to have a representative of the Military Department in the discussion. As long as public sentiment demands, the Y.M.C.A. plans to sponsor such forums. Next in the series will be “The Function of the Church in the Present Crisis,” to be held sometime in the middle of November.

COVERTS, FLEECES
Harris Tweeds, 20°
Comfortable because they fit you casually and keep you plenty warm. Good-looking because they’re correctly styled and tailored of carefully chosen fabrics. Styles with set-in sleeves, button through or fly front. The kind of topcoat value you've been wishing for!

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.