Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 5, 1942

Home-Coming Set Will Highlight Celebration

Ross and Satterfield Will Play For Dances In Charlotte Hotel

The week-end highlight of social activities is the annual Home-Coming set of dances which will be held Friday and Saturday,
November 6 and 7.

Two Bands

Continuing the precedent set by the Pan-Hellenic Council last Spring, two prominent dance bands have been signed up for the
dance set. The formal dance Friday night will feature the music of Ted Ross and his orchestra, and Johnny Satterfield
will play for the informal dance Saturday night.

Hotel Ballroom

Both of the dances will be held in the ballroom at the Charlotte Hotel. On Friday, the dance will begin
at ten o'clock and will end at two. The music will begin Saturday night at nine and end at midnight.
The decoration of the ballroom is in charge of Frank Bayru and Gene S. There will be autumn leaves and
other signs of the season about to set the scene.

Independent Plaque

In addition to the nine regular plaques about the dance, there will be an independent plaque for the non-fraternity dancers.
Missing from this year’s Home-Coming activities will be the two tea-dances which have been left out because of the transportation
problem and the football game Saturday afternoon. Also absent will be the decoration of the fraternity houses which have been
abolished this year due to the fact that most of the Home-Coming activities will be held in Charlotte, and few
visitors will be here as in years past to enjoy them.

Music and Johnny Satterfield will replace the Clemson Jungeleers. Ted Ross and Johnny were originally scheduled to play for the
set, but Ted Ross was ineligible because of union ruling. Satterfield, who was one of the bands at the Spring
set last year, is scheduled to go to State and Virginia.

Front Campus Walk Removed

Grass Replaces Unsightly Walk On Front Campus

The old walk on the front campus that runs from Shearer Hall to Concord Street is now being removed and
covered over with topsoil, soon to be planted with grass.

Near Completion

This old walk, for a long time somewhat of an eyesore, will be a credit to the beauty of the
front campus upon its completion. Besides this addition to the front campus, several dead trees are being uprooted and removed
under the direction of the Superintendent of the Grounds. While it is necessary to deprive the campus of a few
of its stately elms, through methods of tree surgery, it is hoped to check the loss of any more of
these landmarks of the older part of the campus.

Elms Dying

It is reported that elms are dying all over the country, but it is hoped that this condition will be
checked before it reaches the proportions of the mass death of chestnut trees in the mountains of North Carolina a
few years ago.

Trees Preserved

In a statement to the Davidsonian, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer of the College, said that all possible aid will
be given to the preservation of the trees on the campus, and the furtherance of the beauty and landscaping. All
possible care is being taken to preserve and increase the beauty of the campus in order to make it more
attractive to the students who will of necessity be kept closer to the school throughout the War because of the
shortage of transportation facilities.

SHAVE HITLER SAVE AMERICA WAR STAMPS

Strange Life of Peter Ney Thought To Be French Exile Disguised at Davidson

General Executed

The old graves of the members of the Third Creek Church in Cleveland County, North Carolina, hold the body of
Peter Ney, a school teacher who led a strange and mysterious life. Despite its simplicity, his life was shrouded in
mystery. Before his advent to North Carolina, no one could be sure of the true identity of Ney. His slight
accent led many to believe that he was French. We have a fascinating testimony from those who knew him best
during his life.

HOME-COMING DANCE SPONSORS

Above are pictured the sponsors for the annual Home-Coming dance set to be held Friday and Saturday nights in the
ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel. They are, left to right, top row: Miss Frances Bradley, of Birmingham, Ala., with John
Belk, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, sponsoring for Kappa Alpha fraternity; Miss Frances Manning, of Bethel, with Clarence Legerton, Secretary
of the Council, for Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity; Miss Martha Battle, of Rocky Mount, with Marvin Mebane, Treasurer of the
Council, for Beta Theta Pi; and Miss Evelyn Butler, of W.C.U.N.C., with Dick Phillips, for Kappa Sigma fraternity. Second row:
Miss Jean Maxwell, of Roanoke, Va., with Welford Hobbie, for Phi Delta Theta; Miss Rosalyn Reid, of Charlotte, with R.
L. Brinson, for Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Mary LeGrand, of Greenville, S. C., with Calhoun Merle Kesler.

Guest Soloist For Symphony

Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra Give Sunday Concert

As one of a series of musicals, the Queens College Department of Music presented on November 1, at four p.m.,
the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. As guest artist and soloist with the symphony, the
concert featured Merle Kesler, violinist. Mr. Kesler is a member of the Queens College Department.

Program

The program for the concert was as follows:
Overture to “Cosi fan Tutti” - Mozart
Concerto for violin and string orchestra - Vivaldi, allegro, largo, presto

Dr. Cunningham Meets With College Leaders

American Association of Colleges Holds Meeting In Philadelphia

Since future transportation problems prevented the Annual Meeting of the American Association of Colleges on January 14-15, 1943, as originally
scheduled, the Association called an earlier meeting which was held last week in Philadelphia. Dr. Cunningham, recently returned from the
meeting, has announced several of the proposals of the Board of Directors which have been approved by the Association.

Changes Advised

In view of the needs of educated men and women in the preparation for a commission in the armed services
and for further training along professional and technical lines, the Association recognized new curricular concentration in the first two years
of the college course. Greater emphasis is to be placed on the following courses: English, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, American History
(including reference to European background).

Waiter: (Taps on glass and almost yells out) Long distance for you, Gug. Tee, hee.

All: (Screaming with laughter and jeering) Flush! Flush! Gug’s been flushed by Fan-neeee. Gug’s been flushed by Fan-neee.

(For a moment Guy's face turns white, but his bravado as he stumbles out of the room, looking terribly silly)

Act III

Scene: The stage is partitioned into two different settings. On the left side, one sees Fanny at a telephone in
Miss Googoo's Academy. On the right, Gug is at a phone in the Beta Sigma house. Sixteen Beta Sigmas crowd
around this phone. Time: Same.

(continued)

Fanny: Is that you, Gug?

Gug: (His voice catching, but trying to sound as though everything is perfectly all right). Well, isn’t it Old Fanny.
Hello there.

Fanny: (In a distressed voice) Oh Gug, I'm just about to die of disappointment, but Miss Gomyvo has just told
me that I can't leave the campus this week-end. I'm so-o-o miserable and furious. I wanted so-o-o to come to
Davidson this week-end, and now I'm gonna have to sit in my room, all alone (another sob is heard).

Gug: (Quite the sympathizer) There, there, Fanny. Maybe you'll be able to come to Mid-Winters.

(The scene ends as the Beta Sigs scream with glee. And so another Davidson gentleman bites the dust.)

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

Among the above-mentioned articles are two whose owners have been identified. These are a tie clip belonging to W.D. Vinson
and a mechanical pencil belonging to W. M. Weston. Students are asked to come by the Y.M.C.A. office.and claim their
possessions. Those two

WAR CHANGES HOME-COMING
(Continued from Page One)

& plains of nine negatives and yours truly has also had his usual difficulties. Yes, things have changed, but certainly
not for the worse. Things will be different. This remains to be seen just how this will affect us. If
there is a country which can change over a year, meet new ideas and situations, it's Davidson. Down the chips
are for "Alenda Lux." New Zealand's population about equals that of Detroit, half of the males between the ages of
16 and 60 are in the fighting forces, which total 250,000 men.

INTERFRAT STANDINGS
W L T
Betas --------- 4 0 0
S.A.E. -------- 3 0 0
K. Sigs ------- 3 1 0
K.A. ---------- 2 1 1
Pi Kaps ------ 2 2 0
Phi Gams ----- 1 3 1
Phi Delts ----- 1 3 0
Independents -- 1 3 0
S.P.E. -------- 1 3 0
Pikas -------- 0 4 0

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Behrman and Legerton saw the late show at the Davidson theatre. Many S.P.E alumni are expected to be on campus
next week for the Big Dance. Among these will be Henderson, Isley, Sleet, and Loy. At latest reports, Clarence Legerton
has a date.

DAVIDSON UPSETS V.M.I.
(Continued from Page Five)

Johnny Frederick deserves special mention for their fine play in the Wildcat backfield. Neither of these were starters in the
game Saturday, but they made their presence felt before the game was over. The Wildcats came through the game without
serious injury and should be in fine shape for their important encounter with Carolina in Charlotte Saturday. The Carolina boys
will be out to avenge their defeat at the hands of N.C. State last week, but the Wildcats have tasted
victory and will be gunning for another upset Saturday.

New Members
At that time the following men were initiated into this honorary organization: Herbert Dimmock, Evans, J. L. Fairly, D. P.
Hill, Phillips, Rhea Preston, O. D. F. Miller, J. M. Robinson, and R. W. Coonrad.

New Officers
The new officers for this year, elected at this meeting, are: Scotty Patterson, President; Ben Lacy, Vice-President; and D. D.
Phillips, Secretary and Treasurer. The Delta Phi Alpha Fraternity is for students of German who have had four or more
semesters of college German and are interested in further pursuit of the language. As yet, no special project has been
decided on for this year.

CONFERENCE DELEGATES
Drs. Cumming, Hood, and Gwynn represented Davidson at the North Carolina College Conference which met in Greensboro at the O.
Henry Hotel on Wednesday and Thursday of this week. This was the annual meeting of representatives of the Universities and
Colleges of the entire State.

Peter S. Hipp, for Pi Kappa Phi; and Miss Lucy Wooten, of Memphis, Tenn., with Jesse Wooten, for Phi Gamma.

March from "Dramma per Musica"
present world situation) certain
For a few years before the
section, in the final
Delta fraternity. The formal dance Friday will be featured by the Pan-Hellenic figure, in which these
foreign Languages and Physical Fit
came to this section, in the
years of the Napoleonic wars, the
young ladies and their escorts will be presented.

Le Coucou - Rameau
ness, Tvl
HORSE AIS
Patrol of the Tin Soldier - Pierne
Intramurals Advised
Because of the present transportation difficulties and other patent reasons, the Association recommended that intramural athletic contests rather than intercollegiate
games be the general rule for the duration of the war. A season might be concluded by a game between
neighboring colleges.

Dr. Cunningham states that without doubt this will have its effect on Davidson, although he states that he thinks it
improbable that colleges will discontinue their football schedules.

OLD “Y” OPENS
The Y.M.C.A. announces the opening of the old “Y” to students for use as a recreation room today. The new
room will be under the direction of the Department of Social Activities and Bert Ingram and Buck Troutman will be
in charge of the equipment. This equipment will be obtained by applying at the desk in the rear of the
building. The department invites all students to take advantage of this room and enjoy the use of the pool tables,
ping pong tables, and board games that will be available for use there.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR
Pennants
Fraternity Stationery
Fountain Pens
Shaving Articles
Jeep Hats
AT THE STUDENT STORE
JERRY NEWBOLD, Manager
BOB RAINEY

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT
BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
