CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Wildcat

GUEST COLUMNIST—BUTCH PHARR

Water Polo and diving meets would seem to be the only appropriate sports to talk about at the time of
the writing of this column, since the continuous downpour is about to float Chambers Building off the campus.

Cats To Play Furman

Coach Shepard’s boys are taking the floor again Thursday night in an attempt to knock off the high-ranking quintet from
Furman University. This is one of the few remaining home games and the Cats are going to be trying for
an upset, despite the fact that they are definitely the underdogs. Sadly missing are the services of ex-Captain Yarborough and
big Johnny Fredricks who had been mainstays on the team for the last two years. The rather poor showing of
the varsity against Guilford College last week while gaining a narrow victory threw a damper on the spirits of even
the most ardent of the squad’s followers, but the Cats are expected to come through with more spirit and fight
this time even if the game isn’t won.

Duke Favored To Repeat

The Duke Blue Devils look powerful enough to repeat their victories of last year in the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament
and again emerge with a string of scalps and the conference crown perched proudly on their heads (if it’s big
enough). Others sure of bids to the slaughter seem to be Wake Forest, George Washington, South Carolina, North Carolina, and
N. C. State with the latter having hopes of somehow pulling a few upsets out of the hat, or basket.

Saturday Scrimmages

The intersquad football games are causing great interest among the pigskin fans and afford them a chance to acquire a
little pre-season dope of their own as to the chances of the Wildcat gridiron edition of 1942. The Reds have
racked two straight wins so far and claim to make it an undefeated season. The Whites got the jump on
the Red aggregation last Saturday, but did not have the power to hold the lead from the smooth clicking Reds.
The Whites scored in four minutes after the opening of the game and went ahead again when the Red squad
came back for a tie. But this was the last of the White’s scores and the Reds went in the
lead to hold it for the rest of the game.

Fraternity Basketball

Above are the Davidson varsity wrestlers who will meet North Carolina Saturday afternoon for the state wrestling title. Top row,
Brinson, Turnage, Carter, Hipp. Bottom row, Stroup, Council, Coppedge and Dick.

SPORTS SCHEDULE

Thursday
Basketball, 8:15: Varsity vs. Furman.

Saturday
Football 2:00: Inter-squad game.
Wrestling, 3:00-5:00: Varsity vs. Carolina.
Freshmen Frosh, vs. Carolina.

K.A.’s breezed through the current inter-fraternity basketball tournament and came out ahead in their first seven games to win a
well-deserved title. They have one game left on schedule, but could forfeit and still remain on top. In a tie
for second place are the Pi Kaps and K. A.’s, having two more games apiece in which the tourney runner-up
will be decided. Most disappointing and disappointed team are the Betas and Phi Gams. The Betas, with Walker, Schmidt, and
Caterson were supposedly threats to any organization, but have only three wins out of seven to their credit and only
one more game to go. The Fijis, also expected to be among the top rankers as in last year’s tourney,
are lost in the cellar without a scratch on the winning side of the ledger in spite of the excellent
play of Rudy Larson, who somehow managed to be everywhere on the court.

Let’s all turn out Saturday and help the Cats take Carolina for the state wrestling championship.

Rifle Team To Meet P.C.

The Davidson Rifle Team journeys to South Carolina today to meet Presbyterian College in its second shoulder-to-shoulder match of the
season. Despite the fact that it has done some fine shooting in its matches this year, the team has been
unable to gain a victory.

Barber Leads Cats

The Wofford College team, instructed by Captain Benjamin W. Rushton, defeated the Cats in their first shoulder-to-shoulder match last Wednesday
by the narrow margin of 871 to 860. The Cats were led by Bill Barber, who shot 185 out of
a possible 200. Since this was the first shoulder-to-shoulder shooting for many of the Davidson team, the boys were nervous
and expected to round into better form as the season goes on, and will be out to avenge this defeat
when they go to Spartanburg on March 11. Georgia Tech also nosed out the Cats 918 to 906 in their
postal match last week.

P. S. A. ELECTS FULCHER

(Continued from page three)

Westminster Fellowship. This change, suggested by Mr. Joseph Garrison, director of Student Work of the Southern Presbyterian Church, has been
referred to the executive committee of next year. The chief address of the weekend was made by Dr. J. B.
Cunningham, Saturday afternoon, who spoke on “Youth’s Answer to Christ’s Challenge.” On Sunday afternoon Miss Catherine Smith, traveling secretary of
Student Volunteer Movement, presented a message on “The Challenge of Missions to the World.”

Reds Sweep To 2nd Win

Co-ordinating their offensive and defensive work effectively, the Red eleven rolled over the Whites in a fast exhibition Saturday, February
14th.

White Score

The Whites, gaining possession of the ball, drove to a quick score in four plays. George Peters, fading back to
the twenty, drilled a pass to Buck Archer, who scampered over for the initial tally. Culminating a sustained drive, the
Reds knotted up the count when Art Roach passed to Durant in the gym.

Cage Team Tackles Furman Hurricane In Gym Tonight At 8:15

Determined to salvage a bit of glory from the remaining few contests, Davidson’s basketeers stack up against fast-traveling Furman University’s
five tonight in the gym. The fracas is slated to start at 8:15.

Starters Missing

Coach Norman Shepard of the locals is expected to give the first-string nod to Long John Belk, Jack Wayman, Mac
Bruce, Dave Spencer and Bob McLeod, with Pat Williams, Ed Lucas, and Bob Currie among others in line for heavy
reserve duty. The Wildcats are missing the talented services of Tommy Yarborough and Johnny Fredricks, called by the armed forces
and football, respectively. The Paladins will present a polished aggregation, good enough to rate a fifth place conference berth at
the end of last week’s standings. Paced by a ball-handling wizard, Captain Bill Cecotti, and a towering sophomore sensation, Ted
McCrary, Furman brings its Maroons to town for a game Tuesday night. After that, only the South Carolina and Naval
Base matches, both home affairs, remain on the Cats’ schedule.

Duke Favored

Duke, last year’s champ, again appears headed for top position, with the closest competition coming from Wake Forest, George Washington,
South Carolina, and North Carolina. State should rank as the leading dark horse, providing the Tar Heels can muster sufficient
power to win a tourney bid. Otherwise, Bones McKinney and the State Terrors look dangerous. South Carolina, here on the
twenty-sixth, boasts a colorful squad and a pretty fair record to date.

DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, February 19, 1942

Varsity Wrestlers To Battle Carolina For Mat Title Of State

Carolina Favored In Championship MatchDick Coppedge Back In Line-up

SPE Quint Cinches Top S. P. E.’s Down Beta’s To Win Title. Pi Kaps And K. A.’s In Tie For
Second

The fast-breaking S. P. E. quintet cinched the Inter-fraternity Basketball Crown by downing a hard-fighting Beta squad last Friday by
a score of 27-16.

S. P. E.’s Win Seven

Led by Sid Daffin and Joe Bivins, the S. P. E.’s won their first seven games in a row, starting
with the Phi Gams and ending with the Betas. The champs breezed through nearly all of their games, having slight
difficulty in only one of their matches. Although they still have one more game to play, they can lose it
and still retain the crown.

In second place, there is a tie between the Pi Kappa Phi’s and the K. A.’s, each having dropped only
two games out of the six played. They both have two games left in which to battle it out for
the runner-up spot.

Beta’s and S. A. E.’s Tie

There is another tie for third with the Beta’s and S. A. E.’s running neck and neck with three wins
and four losses apiece. They have only one game left to decide the winner of this place.

The Phi Deltas, not as hot an outfit as the one last year, are holding down the number four position
with two wins out of the five played. The Pika’s are fifth, followed by the Kappa Sigma’s, having one win
over the Phi Gams to their credit.

Phi Gams Last

The fightin’ Phi’s have done no more than fight so far and are bringing up the rear without a scratch
in the win column.

Saturday afternoon in the Davidson gym, the Wildcat wrestlers will meet the U. N. C. team in a Championship Match.
If the Wildcats take this bout, they will be the champions of the state. Although the strong Carolina team is
favored in the coming meet, the Wildcats are out for victory and the title. After a week of what has
been their hardest workout for the season, the grapplers are in the best of shape for the coming fight.

Coach Packer gave out the following line-up. In the 121 class, Stroup with Coppedge back in the 128 weight. Either
Long, Patrick, or Council will fill the 135 class while Brinson again wrestles the 145. Simmons or Dick will wrestle
the 155 and Turnage at 165. Carter again fills the 175 weight and Hipp the unlimited class.

Coppedge Back

Coppedge is back for the first time in a month. After struggling with a hurt shoulder, he is back for
this all-important bout. If ever the Cats tried for a victory, it will be this one and the match will
be bitterly contested every minute of the time. Simmons and Turnage will have exceptional opponents in the Mortachi brothers. These
two brothers are championship material and are expected to go far in college wrestling.

Last Wednesday at V. M. I., the Davidson team dropped a match 22-6 with only two wins the whole night.
Turnage and Hipp both won by decisions. The powerful V. M. I. team was on the offensive most of the
time.

Cats Lose

Last Saturday night, the Cats met the W. & L. matmen here in the Davidson gym. Here again, the varsity
grapplers picked up only two bouts. W. & L. won with a score of 22-8. Carter won by a decision
and Hipp by a forfeit. Turnage lost by a very close decision that was almost a win. Brinson, Simmons, and
Patrick also lost by decisions while Councill and Stroup were pinned.

The wrestling team has had a rough schedule this year and has done well under difficult conditions and strong opponents.
A few of the matmen will graduate this year and will weaken the team some, but perhaps these places can
be filled.

Still scrapping, the Whites drove down to their opponent’s fifteen. Failing to make the necessary yardage by inches, the pigskin
went to the Reds who lined up in punt formation. Roach, faking a kick, slipped around the end and raced
down the sidelines. Cornered at mid-field, he lateraled to Ben Lacy, who scooted over, outdistancing the last White on the
five to close the scoring for the afternoon, although the Whites made one last determined effort to score.

STANDINGS

| Team | Won | Lost |
|------|-----|------|
| S. P. E.’s | 7 | 0 |
| Pi Kappa Phi’s | 4 | 2 |
| K. A.’s | 4 | 2 |
| Beta’s | 3 | 4 |
| S. A. E.’s | 3 | 4 |
| Phi Deltas | 2 | 3 |
| Pika’s | 1 | 5 |
| Kappa Sigma’s | 1 | 5 |
| Phi Gams | 0 | 6 |

Furman claims South Carolina, Richmond, and Clemson among their many victims, although that scintillating early season form has cooled. Once
again, when diminutive Shep Booth sliced off tackle to score standing up from the five, the White aggregation forged ahead.
Terminating a march of fifty yards, Frederick crashed through guard and then converted to put the Reds into a lead
that they never relinquished. A few plays later, Paterson took a short aerial from Roach, giving the Reds a touchdown
margin of 20-13, following Frederick's only unsuccessful placement.

Over the Citadel Bulldogs last week, the Pups in a spectacular 41-39 overtime tilt. After tonight's game, they will have
a day of rest before tackling Wofford here on Saturday night. Next week, the College of Charleston, victorious once over
the Cats this year, will meet the Wildcats again.

Washington and their great sharpshooting forward, Zinic, were the early favorites and plastered Furman the other night by forty points
to replenish their supply of prestige. It’s a hot race.

DRIVE GOAL

Farrington, $127.50; Davidson Public School, Mrs. Ives, $49.56; Thompson Street and Woodland district; Wood, $126.15. In addition to these, other
sums amounted to $72.12, bringing the grand total to $1,043.51.

100% WOOL

Friday and Saturday, February 20 and 21
HELLZAPOPPIN
Martha Raye, Olsen and Johnson

Monday and Tuesday, February 23 and 24
SON OF FURY

Wednesday, February 25
Obliging Young Lady

Thursday, February 26
They Died With Their Boots On
Errol Flynn

BE SURE TO SEE OUR SMART SPRING SUITS

Marion Davis Co.
CHARLOTTE

MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT
