PORTS SPOTLIGHT © By LEGH SCOTT

Game Jottings

Considerably more to the game in Atlanta Saturday from the ABC point of view than was evidenced in the one-sided newspaper writeups of the game, in spite of the impressive number of points amassed by the Engineers. It is a sad pass when the home state papers fail to give credit to a team that fights like the Wildcats did in that game. Atlanta papers and the citizens of that city were generous in their praise of the ’Cats. Papers of neighboring cities have been equally generous in the past, but Davidsonians were downright disgusted when North Carolina papers, possibly tired of using the term “fighting Wildcats,” omitted any reference to such spirit at a time when, of all times, it was most appropriate. Davidson was up against one of the foremost teams of the nation, but the spirit was there (more than has been seen before this season), and the ’Cats fought them on almost even terms for the first half before yielding to the insurmountable odds. The Wildcat spirit is not dead, in spite of the fact that our neighboring sports scribes no longer see fit to mention it.

Tech was indeed an impressive opponent as their 40-man squad, attired in newly adopted blue and white uniforms, took the field. They didn’t look too big but they were in superb condition and fast as the proverbial “greased lightning.” They were much like Carolina teams of the recent past. Long famed for their razzle-dazzle and speed, the Engineers definitely have it again this year. They are certainly one of the best teams in the country and will be hard to stop. Prokop was the big gun in the Yellow Jackets’ backfield, while Eldridge came in for a good share of the honors. Clint Castleberry, the freshman fireball, was stopped cold by the charging Wildcat forwards.

But back to that Davidson spirit, which was so much in evidence. Wildcat tackling was the most vicious seen so far this year, their blocking was good at times, and the passing attack which clicked throughout the first half was a constant menace. All this resulted from a determination to play good ball. The possibilities have been there all along.

Sideline Comments

A sizeable crowd of 11,000 (which is large for a Davidson game) was on hand at Grant Field... There was a representative cross-section of the student body to cheer the ’Cats on... A noble gesture of sportsmanship was offered when the Tech cheerleaders led the Davidson rooters in a Wildcat yell. “O Davidson” was expertly rendered by the Yellow Jacket band... Former Davidsonians seen at the game were “Rosy” Boykin, Lt. Ned Pollock, Vernon Youngblood, Lt. Pres Allcott, and Joe Nelson... It was hot as blazes, and that factor was important in wearing down the undermanned ’Cats. Numerous minor injuries also plagued the team throughout the game. Incidentally, Coach McEver plans to shift “Ripper” Hunt to the center position after he played in that spot against the Techs when both regular centers were injured... With a full extra week to rest up, the whole squad should be back in good shape for the V.M.I. game on the 31st.

Frosh Yield

The freshmen played typical Davidson football in their game with Carolina last week. They scrapped their larger opponents every foot of the way, held them throughout the first half, and came very close to scoring themselves. It was not until the second half that the superior manpower of the Carolina yearlings wore them down. The Kittens showed a greatly improved unity in their play and should exhibit further improvement as they learn through the hard school of experience. McArn, Parrish, and Walker were standouts in the line, while Paylor and Fletcher led the way in the backfield. It is feared that Buck Troutman, a sensational broken field runner, will be lost to the team for the remainder of the season due to a back injury.

Odds and Ends

Plans for a full winter sports schedule are going ahead, but these plans are at best very indefinite. The main headache at the moment is the lack of a coach for the wrestling team, with workouts scheduled to start soon and several stiff matches already scheduled. If no coach is obtained, the matches may have to be canceled, but it is hoped that they will be able to get along with student coaching as the team has always done. Transportation is another big question mark. If nation-wide rationing of these facilities comes, all inter-collegiate contests may have to be canceled. Particularly with respect to basketball, Davidsonians are hoping that this will not happen. Prospects in that sport are the brightest in several years. With most of last year’s squad returning and a wealth of sophomore material joining the varsity, the possibility of Davidson gaining a berth in the Southern Conference Tournament develops into a probability.

If you are suffering from kinks in the muscles from the rugby games in phys. ed., drop by and indulge in a fast game of shuffleboard. The courts are just north of Chambers building. You can’t miss ’em.

BIBLES

KING JAMES AND AMERICAN REVISED

ALSO

A complete line of study material on the Bible, including books of Devotions, Biography, Theology, Poetry, Apologetics, Concordances, Dictionaries, Commentaries, in single volumes and in sets, the works of G. Campbell Morgan and other outstanding Bible Expositors. Greek-English Interlinear Testaments, the Expositor’s Greek Testament, books for every phase of Christian study and Christian activity. We invite all Davidson students when in Charlotte to browse around at The Bible Book Store.

FRED H. PLEXICO, SR., Proprietor
124 West Fourth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Kittens Lose To Carolina, Play Concord

Heavier Tar Babies Beat Stubborn Frosh, 27-0

Davidson's 1942 Wildkittens dropped a 27-0 decision to North Carolina's powerful Tar Babies at Richardson Field on October 16 in their second encounter. The 27-0 score was not at all indicative of the closeness of the game, for during the entire first half and much of the second, the Kittens played much harder football than the Carolina yearlings.

Kittens Threaten

In the first quarter, after Blanchard, Carolina's alert, hard-driving fullback, engineered the game's first offensive drive to midfield, the Kittens pounced on a Baby fumble at that point. With a few reverses and passes, the surprising Kittens drove to Carolina’s two-yard line. On the third down, however, with two scant yards to go for a touchdown, a bad pass from center was fumbled and recovered by a Carolina man. This took a little out of the then rampaging Red and Black frosh, and they were never again able to launch a real offensive.

Blanchard, an exceptionally fast boy who weighs 200 pounds, gained yardage every time he bulled his way into the line and then lit out flashing several times for long gains with his speed.

Fletcher Moves For Davidson

For Davidson, big Gwynn Fletcher, the versatile tailback, put on a dazzling display of all-around football. He reeled off several nice gains through Carolina's big line and completed several passes. His forte, however, was his kicking. Fletcher's long, booming spirals set the Tar Babies in the hole time and time again; three times his boots rolled out within the ten-yard stripe.

Also playing great ball for Davidson frosh were Hugh McArn and Johnny Walker. Additional stars for Carolina were Fitch, Ruthowski, Jack Burke, Ingram, Grover, Slaughter, and Fowler.

The Kittens meet Concord High at Concord Friday in their first night encounter.

Clemson, S.C., Gridders Tangle Today

The Palmetto Classic between South Carolina and Clemson holds the spotlight in this section on Thursday, with little activity scheduled in the state for the weekend. Duke goes to the smoky city to meet Pittsburgh, Wake Forest takes on Boston College, while the Carolina Tar Heels take a trip to New Orleans seeking revenge for the stinging defeat handed them by Tulane last year. State meets Holy Cross at the latter's field, and Furman plays Tennessee at home.

’CATS REST

Following their defeat at the hands of the powerful Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech, ranked by experts as one of the five best in the nation this year, the Davidson Wildcats enjoy an open date Saturday. The Wildcats invade Virginia for the second time this year on October 31. Their destination this time is Lexington, and their foe is the strong V.M.I. team. Coach McEver promises plenty of hard work in the next two weeks on the Wildcat offensive, and the Davidson Eleven will be out for their initial score of the year.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.DAVIDSONIAN, CLICK AGAINST TECH

Davidson's passing attack finally got started rolling to a limited extent against Tech, and Tommy and George Peters (above) were largely responsible for the yards gained through the air. George is a precision passer, and Tommy usually snags ‘em if they are anywhere in the vicinity.

Cagers Start Practice First of Next Month

Matmen Are Returning Veterans and Soph Material Plentiful

Varsity basketball practice will start early in November, Coach Shepard announced Monday. Just how early depends on the number of boys on the football team that are on the basketball squad.

The wrestling team is approaching the beginning of this year’s season without a coach. Former Coach Charlie Parker is now serving with the Army Air Force, and to date, no one has been contacted to fill his place.

Several matches have already been scheduled: There will be two with the University of South Carolina, two with The Citadel, two with Furman, two with Clemson, one with the College of Charleston, and possibly one with the University of Maryland. Coach Shepard said that the game with Maryland might have to be called off because of transportation difficulties. Most of the traveling will be done by bus if it is still allowed after the government “freezes” transportation on November 15th. At any rate, practice is due to begin about Nov. 1st. However, these plans will be carried out only if a coach is engaged for the team.

J. B. Turnage, Paul Ed Hipp, B. Browning, George Council, and Dick Coppedge were all outstanding grapplers of last year’s squad who are now in the armed forces. Left on the squad are Lettermen R. L. Brinson, Wilby Carter, and Ashby Dick; the first two are co-captains.

Good Prospects

Both of last year’s co-captains are back this year and they will form the nucleus of the team. They are Jack Wayman and John Belk. Bruce, Pat Williams, Bob Frederick will also be back from last year’s squad. The squad lost some of its best players by graduation. These were George Marsh, Don Bell, Bob McLeod, and Bill Simmons. Clyde Stroup and Dave Spencer of last year’s varsity will return this year. Coming up from the Frosh team are Ben Williams, Kon Peters, George Peters, Jack Byrd, Ralph Conrad, Bob Durant, and Frank Hall.

The team should have a good season, says R. L. Brinson, if a coach is engaged. Everything seems to depend upon that condition.

DUNBAR PORTRAITS COLLEGE ANNUALS STUDIOS 230 N. Tryon, Charlotte N. C.

Delicious Food at... REASONABLE PRICES THE WOODEN BOWL

WHEN IN CHARLOTTE EAT AT

Wildcat Sports S.A. Page Three

Georgia Tech Rolls Over Davidson 33-0

Betas Lead In Football Race

E.’s, K.A.’s, and Phi Gams Also Undefeated

Beta Theta Pi, featuring a rugged line and a fast array of backs, is perched on top of the frat victory ladder as a result of triumphs over Sigma Phi Epsilon and the Independents. Close at their heels is Sigma Alpha Epsilon, ousting a 6-0 victory over Kappa Sigma. The S.A.E. touch champions tallied their marker midway the second half, when Wills tossed a pass to Allen in the end zone.

Betas Roll

The Betas opened the season with an impressive 20-0 win over the Independents. Walker, Schmidt, and Ransom paced the Beta offensive which netted three scores early in the game and enabled them to coast to an easy victory.

In downing the S.P.E. 12-0, the Betas chalked up their second decision. Walker sparked the Beta backfield as the club rolled to another win. The future of the team looks bright this year, as the flashy back hits figured in every scoring play.

Phi Gams took the measure of the K.A.’s, 12-6, in the first game for these teams, Friday.

Phi Delts Win

Phi Delta Theta, after dropping a heart-breaker to Kappa Alpha, bounced back to trim the Pikas, 18-0, on Monday. Hobbie intercepted a Pika aerial and dashed 35 yards for the initial tally, while Pierce gathered in Maloney’s toss for the second score. In the waning moments of the game, Maloney’s pass to Hobbie was good for the final touchdown.

In the remaining tilts of the week, the Kappa Sigs tangle with the Independents, the S.A.E.’s meet the K.A.’s, and the Phi Gams take on the undefeated S.A.E. outfit.

Booters Play Three Games

Davidson’s soccer team took on three opponents in its first trip of the season last week. At High Point on Wednesday afternoon, they lost a hard-fought game to High Point College, 6-2. The next day they defeated the High Point “Y” by a score of 4-2. On the way to Charlottesville, they were delayed by the flood, and their game scheduled with the University of Virginia was delayed until Saturday morning. The Cavaliers took this encounter, 5-1. Murdock McKeithen, Rhea Preston, Gene Linton, and Ralph Conrad were the outstanding players for the ‘Cats. They have a return game with the High Point “Y” this week and another game with Virginia on October 30.

Peters Twins Shine For ’Cats, Prokop Dashes 66 Yards For Score

Davidson's Wildcats had their fighting spirit up last Saturday in Atlanta, but spirit alone couldn't stop the mighty Engineers of Georgia Tech and the Jackets unleashed a stalwart line and a medley of driving backs in crushing the ‘Cats, 33-0. Sophomore Eddie Prokop stole the limelight with a sparkling 66-yard touchdown dash, but it was the Davidson line that furnished the majority of thrills. The famed freshman, Clint Castleberry, was a marked man, and the Wildcat forwards held him well in check.

‘Cats Threaten

In the first half, the ‘Cats seemed started on a scoring drive only to sustain third down losses or incompletions and turn the ball over to the Yellow Jackets. George and Tommy Peters teamed up in a pitcher-catcher combination for successful tosses and three first downs. The accuracy set up four first downs, but the giant Georgia line held. Passing, however, and Tommy was like a hawk in the second half.

The Ramblin’ Wreck led a score early in the second period, Pat McHugh going over from the three-yard line. The conversion attempt failed and the score remained the same until the dying moments of the half when a blocked kick and long pass, plus a placement made the score 13-0. Another drive of over 60 yards, Prokop’s romp, and another long wave gave the Engineers their remaining tallies.

The shotgun and countless Tech reserves took the toll of the Wildcats in the second half, and it was a battered bunch of ‘Cats that limped back to Davidson. A desperate 28-yard pass from Peters, some nice line plunging by Lacy and Frederick, and a fighting line furnished the Wildcats with their main comfort. Tech amassed 360 yards rushing to Davidson’s 76. The Red and Black took to the air for 76 yards in 24 attempts. Red Bethea and Ben Wash got off several long boots, but were rushed too hard to get much accuracy.

Interfrat Standings

W L
Betas 2 0
S.A.E 1 0
K.A. 1 0
Phi Gams 1 0
Phi Delts 2 1
S.P.E. 1 1
Pi Kaps 0 1
Kappa Sigs 0 1
Independents 0 1
Pikas 0 2

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise DAVIDSON, N. C.

PANAMA

Thursday and Friday, October 22nd and 23rd
GARY COOPER — TERESA WRIGHT
“PRIDE OF THE YANKEES”

Saturday, October 24th
GEORGE BRENT — BRENDA MARSHALL
“YOU CAN’T ESCAPE FOREVER”

Monday and Tuesday, October 26th and 27th
ANN SOUTHERN — RED SKELTON
“PANAMA HATTIE”

Thursday, Friday and Saturday, October 29th, 30th and 31st
GREER GARSON — WALTER PIDGEON
“MRS. MINIVER”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”