Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 5, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters Features

Best known of the traditions are the practice of speaking to everyone on the CAMPUS IN CARTOON

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY............... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON............... BUSINESS MANAGER

STAFF
Bobby Carter................. Assistant Editor
W.C. Plunkett............... Associate Editor
Al Winn.................... Associate Editor
Ed Erwin................... Managing Editor
Joe Eve.................... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher.............. Managing Editor
Bill Lyman................. Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh............. Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean............... Managing Editor
Clarence Legerton........... Sports Editor
Billy Barker................ Movie Editor
.......................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp............... Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young................ Advertising Manager
Joe Martin................. Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely............... Circulation Manager

Vote!

Elections are upon us. Tuesday, determine the president of the student body. We solicit votes. Not for any one candidate
do we solicit them, but for every candidate in every election throughout the period. It is your duty as well
as your privilege to take part in the elections, so that the person chosen may best represent the choice of
the entire student body. Six hundred and fifty votes cast at every election will help toward eliminating any regrets that
might come about when the results of the elections are posted. Six hundred and fifty votes will counteract the powers
of small, understood combines that seem to exist regardless of reforming methods. So go to the polls Tuesday with the
idea that you will make the voting a habit to be continued until the student body is guided by the
most representative officers that this body can afford. And to the elections board we suggest that all elections be announced
in chapel on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays as well as the other days. And, secondly, we propose that all balloting
be done in the lobby of Chambers in preference to having some of it carried on in the banquet hall.
Both these reminders may have a marked effect on the number of votes cast.

More On Student-Faculty Relations

A college or university without traditions, honored and upheld, is like an army colonel without any military training. Something is
sadly lacking! It hasn’t any background; no heritage to pass on to its sons. Davidson College has its traditions---priceless traditions---of
honor---traditions dating back to the time when Enoch used to act as cook, butler, and chauffeur to the president of
the college, do all the janitorial work of the college; mow Dr. Harding’s grass; milk all the professors’ cows; and
support several dozen pickaninnies who knew the old, faithful darky as “papa.”

Best known of the traditions are the practice of speaking to everyone on the campus; wearing a freshman cap; carrying
the upperclassmen’s laundry; and the greatest of all---the traditional Davidson spirit that we like to think every Davidson gentleman has
and respects. One of the oldest customs is the friendly tradition of faculty visitation. Up until the last five or
six years this was observed and enjoyed by the majority of the student body and faculty. The Davidson Gentleman hardly
ever missed a Sunday night at the home of one of his favorite professors and sometimes he managed to make
several visits during the week. He looked forward to the weekend as we do today---only instead of trying to decide
whether he would give the girls at W. C. or Queens a treat, he debated with himself whether he would
visit Dr. Brown, his mathematics professor, or Prof. White his chemistry, again for the second week.

Usually he gave the professor warning on Friday or Saturday. Sometimes, however, he would just drop in because he knew
a warm welcome always awaited him and a firm, friendly handclasp would meet him at the door. The topics of
conversation were not always intellectual---in fact most of the time they ranged from fishing to the student’s and faculty member’s
favorite nickel cigar. Professor Doe's family always joined the group for the first part of the evening and retired from
the gathering early so that the men could talk about “manly” things. The professors always passed out the cigars and
favors and the highlight of the evening came when Mrs. Doe brought in the food---cakes, nuts, and steaming black coffee.

When the student or students (for usually more than one made the calls---sometimes a dozen or more), bid the host
goodnight he thought to himself “ole Dr. Black is a ‘top-notcher’ and not the ‘bad-egg’ I diagnosed him to be
at the first class”---he knew that he had made a strong friendship, one that would still be alive when he
returned to school twenty-five years later to the alumni luncheon. He congratulated himself on the fact that he had made
this visit instead of whipping off to Huntersville and determined to make another the very next Sunday night.

Today the tradition seems to be dying out, but a few of the students know that it isn’t dead yet,
and they still take advantage of their opportunity. They know that the same warm welcome still awaits them there and
the cakes and black coffee are still served by the professor’s wife. Any Davidson gentleman is smart enough to realize
that this tradition has much to offer and can be the source of many a profitable experience and hours of
pleasure.

No, the custom is not dead, and what’s more now---when bumming has hit rock bottom, when cars are about as
scarce as Coca-Cola stands on a western desert, and when the weather offers snow, snow, rain, and more snow---yes, now
is the time to revive the old tradition!

How about it Davidson gentlemen? The faculty has taken the first step---Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

and learning all over again how to cuss, were getting a mighty big taste of what was to come some
day. “Apple Blossom Time,” “The Hut-Sut Song,” and “Goodbye, Dear, I'll Be Back In A (Ha, Ha) Year,” steamed out
of the bejukeboxed Hudephol joints of that secluded collegiate village. Meanwhile, we changed our minds about those “brutal Reds.” Once
we had fumed at the Russians for their assault of the Finns, and now we didn’t know what to think.
But soon, which is typical of America, we were sending money and supplies to the land of “Ah, Spitonia,” “Ah!
Vodka!” and “4 Most of us responded when the school bells tolled last September. Only a few fell by the
wayside or were drafted. We arrived to find two new college buildings, two new restaurants, a completely renovated Hugo's, and
the largest crop of redcaps in history. Let’s don’t go into what we all know we did last fall, how
we tied State in what is almost current history football, started having five instead of six chapel meetings a week,
etc. Since December 7 we have been asked by songwriters, newspapers, and radio commentators to remember Pearl Harbor. Why in
the devil should we try to remember Pearl Harbor? It served to stir us up inside, and make us realize
we were in a war, but we were caught off guard and duped by the Japs. They were more clever
than we were, and in war brutality has no limit. Anything is permissible in war. Still, there was less talk
of how many eggs we nogged during Christmas vacation after we returned, and more of how we were going to
get into the Air Corps. We're getting more serious, if it’s possible for Davidson students to get serious about anything.
Perhaps our seniors are thinking a little more seriously about what those four years they spent ‘neath the sacred oaks
of Davidson have meant to them. Certainly, they realize as the time for departure grows ever nearer that they have
done something here besides learn the Binomial Theorem, the kings of Judah, and how A sold $500. his horse to
B for $500.

The Filth Columnist

By fe

It's almost useless to start another column any more. For the past several weeks our most choice bits have been
relentlessly and maddeningly censored by ye HORRIBLE DARBY. Things that are said most innocently are twisted and misconstrued by him
so as to appear unfit for the pure, shell-pink ears of Davidsonian readers. Then the remnants of what we thought
was a merely passable column become a travesty on the art of keyhole peeping and stool pigeoning. But there is
another stab at it...

The vine-covered halls of Davidson were well-nigh deserted over the weekend. Many of the more adventurous souls hied themselves down
to Limestone College to try their luck in long-distance blind dating. Operating most noticeably down in Gaffney was B-B EYES
RHEA, who was operating with vigor in a shiny, long, Buick. One of the Limestone cuties remarked audibly to her
date that if all the fellows at Davidson were as slick as B-B EYES it must be a paradise for
women. GLENN (as usual) shot clear to Florida, “with wooing as his object.” GLENN is seriously thinking of dabbling in
that most dangerous business, matrimony. Meanwhile, an old flame of TERRELL’S, a certain KATHRYN LINERLONGER, plaintively wonders where, oh where,
that little dog has gone...

Along with GLENN, the other sugar-infested seniors zipped far and wide to polish up their pins a bit. They were
JIM OWENS and ALBERT WINN. AL followed the path already worn to Atlanta by such chronic AGNES SCOTT pilgrims as
RUFUS NIMMONS and JOE HOPPER. The SCOTT girls have grown accustomed to the glare of sunlight reflecting through AL’s bushy
hair and have accepted him as a campus fixture. ’Tis said that their senior gift is to be a statue
of AL to be placed on the fountain in front of the administration building. JIM OWENS was in Fancy City,
Tennessee again this weekend as usual and on Monday night had not yet returned. JIM is now officially commuting from
Tennessee. When we look at AL and JIM we wonder if being in love affects the scalp. Maybe that’s a
possible solution to SQUATTY SQUIRES’ blank and dreamy look. Or MADAME MARSH...

BENNY COWAN anticipated going home over the weekend so as to extend an invitation to the Military D Club set
more forcefully than could be done by letter. However, after three hours of concentrated bumming, he was still within the
limits of old M-town, so he gave up the idea. However, he kept his reputation as an operator by zipping
up to Statesville on Saturday night, where he and DON McIVER found dates easily after buying a toy whistle...

Chief among the contingency going South last weekend were SPIKE MEBANE, JOHN CRICHTON, SENATOR LEE, OX, PITT, BUTCH, and BLOAT
FAISON, all who divided their activities between the Limestone Invitational Conclave and the Winthrop Teeming Tea Dances. CRICHTON’S telling about
the bee that broke his leg, and OX is moaning about losing his right arm. FAISON drew the hatchet corner
of an evil three, after CRICHTON and LEE got there first, while BUTCH and PITT entertained a friend from Stump
Hole Creek. Going a little further west toward Converse, the genial JEW was found making up for lost time, etc.
He didn’t wear his raincoat this weekend. Incidentally, the scoop of the week has come out in the form of
JEW’S date for the Military Set—none other than the malicious Millie. It is said that he got on the boat
some time around Midwinters, but verification has not come through.

Going north we find the usual hand-play party at Sweet Briar, namely John Belk, Pat Williams, Ed Lucas, and LEGS
KELLY, with two newcomers, CHARLIE WATT and MADAME MARSH. All held their own, especially Belk.

Closing this week’s column, I would like to say after the demonstration of thoughtlessness on the part of the Freshmen
in breaking windows last week, Fearless Frank is justified in any action he might take and is well backed by
the student body. I for one would like to see some restrictions imposed and enforced. But, hold on a minute
before closing. The column should not close without some mention of VOSBURGH’S faux pas committed over coffee poured by some
socially prominent lady who was astonished when VOSBURGH poured the cream into the sugar bowl. Oh, well, what the...

Cinema Comments

By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, March 5

MR. AND MRS. NORTH
Gracie Allen, William Post, Jr., Paul Kelly, and Rose Hobart.
For the story of a gabby woman who finds herself knee-deep in a murder mystery, this is entirely too filled
with Allen zaniness to be even amusing. William Post, Jr., is Mr. North, for some reason. Paul Kelly does a
good job as the police lieutenant.

Friday and Saturday
THE BUGLE SOUNDS
Wallace Beery, Marjorie Main, Lewis Stone, and Henry O'Neill.
This story of a hard-bitten Army sergeant who wins back his lost standing is a bonanza for Beery fans. Wallace
is excellent in his portrayal of the hard-boiled sergeant who succumbs to drink and falls in with a band of
saboteurs, only to lick them single-handed, thus winning his way back in the good graces of Uncle Sam. Marjorie Main
is his sentimental sidekick.

Monday and Tuesday
March 8 and 9
LOOK WHO'S LAUGHING
Fibber McGee and Molly, Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy, and Lucille Ball.
Laughs follow one after the other in this riotous, unsophisticated comedy of a radio entertainer who goes to a small
town for a vacation. Bergen, with McCarthy, is the entertainer. Fibber McGee is president of the Chamber of Commerce, and
Lucille Ball is Bergen’s devoted secretary.

Coming:
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS with Douglas Fairbanks.
KATHLEEN with Shirley Temple.

I would like for Rod Turner to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

---
