Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 5, 1942

Prof. Fleagle Teaches Sunday School Lesson
“Four Main Disciples” Is Topic Of Talk

Professor F. K. Fleagle of the Spanish Department spoke to the student Sunday School on the “Four Main Disciples” last Sunday in Phi Hall. He chose as his text Luke 5:1-11, the story of Christ's calling of the first disciples from their fish nets by the lakeside.

Discusses Disciples

Professor Fleagle discussed each of these four disciples, Peter, Andrew, James, and John. He pointed out how very human Peter was, bringing out the time when Peter struck off the ear of one of those who came to take Christ, meaning to protect his Lord’s life with the sword, and remarked that most men are more like Peter than any other disciple.

John Not Strong

Andrew was one of the disciples of whom we know very little, as was James, one of the sons of Zebedee. However, Professor Fleagle dwelt at length on the character of the other son of Zebedee, John. He mentioned how John was often spoken of as the disciple most beloved by and closest to Jesus. John, it was pointed out, was more or less sickly; at least, he was not as strong and vigorous an outdoor type as were the other fishermen, his brother James and Peter.

Eldridge Brown, ‘41, led the group in prayer. It was announced that Mr. Frank L. Jackson of the Administration will be the guest speaker next Sunday at 10:15, the regular time in Phi Hall.

NEW MILITARY
[Continued from Page One]

instructor at the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth and at the Army War College. He was Chief of Staff in the joint maneuvers held in Hawaii in 1932, in which the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps participated. Later he served as Director and Assistant Commandant at the Command and General Staff School.

The Colonel commanded American troops in China during the Japanese incident several years ago and despite the critical situation he avoided clashes between the American troops and the Japanese. In 1939 he went to Puerto Rico as Chief of Staff of the Puerto Rican Department and played a major part in its organization and development. In August 1941, Colonel McAndrew was transferred from Puerto Rico to Camp Wallace, Texas, for duty as camp executive on the staff of Brig. Gen. John B. Maynard.

Colonel McAndrew is married and has two daughters. In observing the functioning of Davidson's military department, Colonel McAndrew congratulated Colonel MacKenzie upon his splendid work here, and said that the corps seems to be in excellent shape. He thinks the student body is an outstanding one, and notes that the actions of the students at drill and the abilities of the student officers denote real qualities of leadership.

Biography Of Mayos Added To New Books
New Books Important To Davidson Student Body

Some of the newest books added to the library are “The Doctors Mayo,” “Civil Air Defense,” “Miami,” and “Our Washington.”

“The Doctors Mayo” is considered by many critics to be the most outstanding biography of the year. The history of Doctors William, Charlie, and Will Mayo are presented to the American public for the first time. They have shared many successes in medicine with everyone else. Their road to fame started as a result of the cyclone in New Jersey in 1883 and their fame has increased continually since this time.

The opinion voiced by many critics is that the book by Lt. Col. A. M. Prentiss “Civil Air Defense” is exceedingly important to the public as a whole and other critics state that this book should be read because of its vast information concerning civil air defense. Every phase of the air bombardment is covered in minute details by the author.

“Miami” is the history of a small town where the population increased from 1,500 to 172,000 in 1940. Miami is the greatest resort of its kind in the world say some of its playboy visitors. Here many people of every walk of life are found beneath palm trees and floodlights which remind one of New York. Miami is the home of some of the most noted people of the United States.

“Our Washington” is the center of the history of the United States. Here you find the beautiful government buildings of today and the underlying patriotism of the past. Few books should be more cherished by the American public as a whole.

Louis Warren To Make Talk

On next Monday morning, February 9, the visiting speaker at Chapel will be Louis A. Warren, Lit.D., of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Dr. Warren is considered an outstanding authority on Abraham Lincoln, having studied, lived, and worked in Kentucky for a number of years. During this time he has gathered a great deal of material regarding Lincoln's life. He is the historian for Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. Dr. Warren will address the Engineers Club at Charlotte Monday noon.

CAMPUS IN CARTOON

KILL EATS RAZOR BLADES AND LIGHT BULBS TO HELP PAY HIS EXPENSES AT NORTHWEST MISSOURI STATE TEACHERS COLLEGE! NONE FOR ME, THANKS M. SLAUGHTER

INTERCOLLEGIATE COMMUTING CHAMPIONSHIP IS CLAIMED BY WILLIAM HALLISEY, CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE STUDENT, WHO “THUMBS” HIS WAY 70 MILES A DAY.

FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES ANNUALLY SPEND $37,360,000 FOR FOOD!

PLAN CONFERENCE

Shown below are those who will take part in the Conference to be held at Davidson February 14-15. They are Miss Ruth Edmiston, President of P. S. A.; Jim Owens, President of the Davidson Y. M. C. A.; Miss Louise Woodson, Director of Young People’s Work of the Synod of North Carolina; and Dr. J. R. Cunningham, who will deliver the principal address of the conference. (Photo by Billy Barker)

PRE-MED FRAT MEETS

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, held its meeting Wednesday night, February 4, at 7:30 o'clock, President Tad Larkin announced. The program consisted of a showing of some moving pictures that Dr. Addison Brenizer of Charlotte had taken of one of his operations.

FREE-THINKERS
[Continued from Page One]

The present freshmen class will not soon forget their first year at Davidson, but only with this cooperation can a successful campaign be waged. For further details about the cooperation the student body can give the court, it was suggested that any member of the court could advise the students upon their duties and responsibilities in this matter.

While being served refreshments, a final proposal was brought before the body concerning the promise Judge Caldwell gave the student body in his recent public address in chapel about the future open meeting of the court. It was unanimously agreed by all members that a public meeting in either Phi Hall or Chambers would be held very soon.

A group of thirty freshmen who persistently refuse to abide by the rules of their class will be summoned to appear. This group will be taken from the recently organized “Twenty-five Club” and the remainder of the freshman class. It was advised that the freshmen be thoroughly warned as to this meeting, which will bring profound embarrassment to the unlucky culprits both at the public meeting and possibly by being called on to stand up and sing a song in chapel.

This was merely a proposal. How far it will be carried out depends on the conduct of the freshmen. It would be an excellent idea for all upper-classmen to caution frosh when they are seen in the midst of committing a crime instead of shirking their duty and urging them on.

The court is composed of these seven men: Judge Caldwell, Don Bell, Gene Shannon, Dick Kelly, Joe McCoy, “Red” Bethea, and Bill Grimsley.

BODY BUILDING
[Continued from Page One]

of vigorous calisthenics led by smiling and genial “Pete” Whittle who does the first few exercises with vim and vigor, but the end of the calisthenics session finds him less vigorously exercising and more vigorously keeping time for his panting followers.

After the initial setting up exercises all take several laps around the intramural field wondering all the while if only one lung is doing its assigned job. Thus far only minor injuries have been sustained. One unfortunate jumped a little too high to snag a pass and on his return to earth sprained both ankles. Many others have assorted aches and pains from complaining muscles. However, in the weeks that follow you may expect to see many healthier faces and livelier gaits on the Davidson campus.

One Hundred-Fifty Delegates Expected For PSA Conference
Dr. Cunningham To Make Principal Address; Miss Edmiston To Preside

Davidson's President, Dr. John R. Cunningham, will make the principal address of the Presbyterian Student Association Conference, Saturday, February 14 when he addresses the delegates from all over the state on “The Christian Answer to Christ’s Challenge.”

Dr. Cunningham will be presented to the delegates of the fourth annual conference by the State Presbyterian Association President, Miss Ruth Edmiston, of Queens College, after Jerry Newbold of Davidson opens the conference with a worship service.

“The Christian Answer”

Four discussion groups centering around the conference theme “The Christian Answer” will be led by Dr. Paul Garber of Duke University, Dr. James Appleby of Anderson, South Carolina, Miss Harriet Tynes of Queens, and Miss Rachael Wylie of Spartanburg, South Carolina.

Highlighting the program Saturday will be the fourth annual P.S. A. Banquet. This banquet is being held in the Banquet Hall of Chambers and will be under the direction of Toastmaster “Dub” Martin, vice-president of the Student Government at Carolina. Dr. Charlie Jones, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Chapel Hill, will deliver the address. Representatives of the Student Volunteer Movement have been invited to attend the conference and they will present their organization Sunday afternoon to the delegates.

Many Delegates Expected

Some one hundred and fifty delegates will represent almost every college and university in the state. Representatives of the Presbyterian Student Associations on the various campuses of North Carolina will be provided for in the dormitories and in the homes of the townspeople. The local college Y. M. C. A. will act as official hosts to the delegates.

A visit by Miss Louise Woodson of Charlotte and Miss Ruth Edmiston of Queens to the campus early this week made possible the completion of the plans for the conference.

Delegates

Davidson and Queens will be allowed the largest delegations. These schools will have fifteen official delegates. Davidson students desiring to attend the conference are urged to leave their names with the Y. M. C. A. secretary as soon as possible.

Officers of the Conference are Miss Ruth Edmiston, president; Miss Margaret Swanton, secretary; Mr. Jake Tinga and “Dub” Martin, Members at Large; and Miss Mary Louise Woodson and Dr. Paul Garber, Advisor. Other prominent campus and church leaders featured on the program will be Mr. Carl Pritchett of Davidson, Dr. Paul Garber of Duke, Miss Lelia Johnson of Salem, and Jake Tinga, Bob Stuart, and Miss Jane Montgomery of N. C. State, Carolina, and Queens respectively, student discussion group leaders.

ATTEND LECTURES

Shaw Smith, Y. M. C. A. Secretary, and Mr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, left Monday morning for Richmond, Virginia, to attend the Sprunt Lectures at Union Theological Seminary. Mr. Pritchett represents the local church and Shaw Smith is the college representative. They will return to campus late this week.

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT...

(Continued from Page Three)

S. A. E’S Essay

True to form, brothers and pledges alike, in starting the new semester carried their operations both near and far. Remembering the coming dance set, a large majority of the boys confined their activities to Charlotte. Among those seen there were brothers Bill Faison, Claude Hackney, Eboe Anderson, Bob McLeod, Dick Port, Bob Smith, Buddy Carson, Peter Young, Bud Wilson, and pledges Tom Powell, Bruce Harrison, Hervey Carrow, Jimmy Wilcox, and Jim Fuller.

Distance records for the week go to brothers Bill Dunn and Johnny McAlister who attended the Midwinter dances at Woodberry. Pledges Bill Dunn and Bob Whaling journeyed to the dances at V. P. I. and Washington and Lee. Brother Frank and pledge Charlie Wills went to their respective homes in Washington, Georgia for an extended trip. Butch Caldwell also spent the weekend at Spartanburg, while Brothers Southgate Jones and Jack Lucas made their way to Forest and Lee. Bill Sprunt visited his home in Durham and Winston-Salem respectively. Also visiting the Camel City was Brother Ed Lucas and pledge Frank Dunn. Elmer Graves found his way to Greensboro for his weekly visit, while Brother Baxter Freeze and pledge brother Louis Bibb were dealing in nearby High Point. Pledge Frank Carter dropped in on Mount Airy for obvious reasons. The entire chapter is anxiously awaiting the big dance set this weekend and is looking forward to some good times.

Kappa Sigs Socialize

Most of the brothers were roaming this weekend making preparations for Midwinters Dances, or just resting their minds from the stress and strain of studying so hard at the first of the new semester. After giving a good account of themselves at the wrestling match Saturday, Ashby Dick went home to Sumter, S. C., and Wilber Carter went to Converse. Dick Kelly went home to Irwin, N. C., as did Pat Williams and Joe McCoy to North Wilkesboro, Dick Phillips to Laurinburg, George Marsh to High Point, and Wileman Ehly to Greensboro. Jim Crook, Priestley Conyers, and John McGee were three of a group attending the Carolina Political Union meeting with the theme of “War Aims and Peace Plans.” Bob Amos and Pledge Jim Ellis traveled to North Wilkesboro for a short visit with Pat Williams, and then they journeyed to Statesville for a date. Guests Sunday night were Julia Marsh and Lon Kineaid. A feed was held Sunday night.

Gamma Sig Will Present Experiments

Students Invited To “Open House”

Many “astounding and colorful” experiments are reported to be in the offing next Tuesday night, February 10, when Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity holds its Open House in the new Science Building.

Students Invited

George Shannon, Jim Kerr, and Sam Welborn have been appointed as the committee in charge for the Open House. The public is cordially invited to witness these demonstrations.

At the last meeting of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, new officers were elected for the second semester: D. H. Clark, president; L. J. Harrigan, recorder; W. H. Squires, treasurer; and Arthur Renwick Patterson, sergeant-at-arms.

Faculty Leave For Atlanta

A called meeting of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools is being held in Atlanta Friday and Saturday of this week. It is being called by the President, Dr. Rufus C. Harris, President of Tulane University, to consider many matters of interest to southern institutions, growing out of the recent Baltimore conference and other developments in the national life as they affect college procedures. Davidson will be represented by President Cunningham and Dean Brown.

Cunningham Speaks

Future engagements of Dr. J. R. Cunningham are as follows: Asheville School for Boys, Sunday morning, February 8. Annual Meeting of the Chamber of Commerce, Winston-Salem, Monday evening, February 9. Mecklenburg County Young People's Council, Dilworth M. E. Church, Charlotte, Thursday evening, March 12.

STUDENTS SEE

(Continued from Page One)

Prints are in the hands of Boyce Rhyne, president of the Camera Club, by the night of the 11th of February. Three winners will be selected, and six photos will be designated as receiving honorable mention. There is no actual prize offered in the first contest, but there will be a grand final picture held near the end of the semester in which the winner will receive some type of prize. Any picture can be entered in this final regardless of its entrance in a previous exhibit.

Jake Sexton Found College Life Expensive

By Herb Morton

Echoes of the past re-echoed as the boy in knee pants leisurely swinging an ax to and fro began his first semester at Davidson in 1880. His name was Jake Sexton.

Hopefulness that first shown forth from the boy’s beaming countenance soon gave way to anxiety. Gildersleeve's Latin was a hard course.

Buys Necessities

As to furniture, Jake was sadly lacking. Going down to “Dunlap's” where he was able to buy anything from nipples to overalls, Jake acquired such necessities as a hard bottom chair, a small mirror, and oil for his lamp.

In order not to entirely patronize only one merchant, Jake paid a visit to “Thompson's” where he purchased certain articles of clothing necessary for a pleasant night's sleep and one pair of red flannels. Not having conveniences such as modern College Laundry offers today, Jake sent his clothes to a “Washer Woman.” Not only did the “Washer Woman” feature “Cash and Carry” service but also repaired (without charge) clothes that may have begun to approach the “dilapidated” state.

Board cost Jake twelve dollars a month which to him was outrageously high. “The food was good—but the cost.” Later in the fall because of constant protests and threats, the board was reduced to ten dollars a month.

Noxious Upperclassmen

Having to contend with unusually “noxious” upperclassmen was the source of many a painful experience for Jake. Such things as rolling a peanut up and down the walk in front of Chambers to entertain the dignified upperclassmen and blowing like a freight train proved very embarrassing for the young scholar.

Since Jake was the son of a “good Scotch” Presbyterian minister, such costly practices as smoking never entered the youth’s mind and “details” to the Queen City were few and far between. His heritage entitled him to half tuition at Davidson. Jake's diary shows the very accurate account of his expenditures for the initial year even including such articles as postage stamps and safety pins. His total expenditures for the fall and spring of 1880-1881 reached the “unheard of” sum of two hundred and sixty-four dollars and twenty-six cents.

NOVEL TEAM

(Continued from Page Three)

The program after the concert is a formal dance at the Charlotte Armory from 10 until 2. On Saturday afternoon, there will be a tea dance at the Armory from 4 until 6, and then an informal dance from 8 to midnight.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

Eleanor Powell

Thursday, February 5
“ALL THAT MONEY CAN BUY”

Friday, February 6
“FEMININE TOUCH”

Monday and Tuesday, February 9 and 10
“LADY BE GOOD”
Robert Montgomery

Wednesday, February 11
“MAJOR BARBARA”

Thursday, February 12
“GENTLEMAN AT HEART”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
Ann Sothern