Page Two The Davidsonian » THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 12, 1942

Founded By the Class of 1915

Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY...........EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON...........BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter........Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett........Associate Editor
Bill Lyman........Associate Editor
Henry McIntosh........Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean........Managing Editor
Clarence Legerton........Managing Editor
Billy Barker........Managing Editor
........Sports Editor
........Movie Editor
........Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp........Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young........Advertising Manager
Lee Martin........Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely........Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart........Collections Manager

And What About Social Life?

Social life at Davidson, long operating under a two-strike handicap, is faced with a state of almost complete stagnation unless
one or two simple precautions are soon taken. The first strike was pitched by the founder, who 106 years ago,
insisted that the patter of tiny dancing feet never trod the hallowed sod of the Davidson campus. The second was
a fast one hurled across the student plate last spring by the faculty in the form of a ban on
all petticoats on college soil after (daylight saving time). The nightfall threatened “out” will be scored by the world’s favorite
excuse at present, the War. The present emergency with its shortage of tires, its rising cost of transportation and almost
impossibility of bumming, plus the cut in money from home has already drastically influenced the number of planned week-end treks.
But its possibilities in the future are breath-taking. One of the major selling points in the recent Pan-Hellenic ticket campaign
was that Midwinters would probably be the last dance on any large scale “for the duration.” Even if there be
no truth to this rumor, the complete social calendar of the average collegian will be limited to four functions which
he either cannot get to or cannot find the means to attend.

Now, granting that a number of students would do well to limit their weekly maneuvers to the late show on
Saturday night, it is equally true that this would not suffice in a well-balanced social diet month in and month
out. Countless chapel speakers have assured us that the purpose of education is four-fold, to wit: mental, moral, spiritual, and
social. Therefore it would appear a shame for the typical Davidsonian, now a flower in the social graces, to fructify
into an evaporated prune. This problem is not as hypothetical as it sounds. Although little public comment has been heard
on the elimination of campus dating, its loss has been felt by at least a strong minority of the student
body, accustomed to entertaining local young ladies or visitors in their respective fraternity houses. Until the present time the ruling
has been considered a nuisance, but not the hardship that it is likely to become. The purpose of the legislation
is obvious, but it seems that the problem could be solved by some less drastic measure. At least this has
been done by nearly every other institution in this vicinity with the exception of the military colleges. One impediment to
a proper solution has been overcome in the rehabilitation of the old library, which will furnish non-fraternity men with an
adequate place and means for entertaining guests. Although the administration has announced no formal plans in connection with this center,
we hope that these factors will be considered in its use.

Four Pages

A meeting of the five members of the Publications Board Tuesday for the purpose of discussing The Davidsonian resulted in
the agreement that the newspaper should appear with four pages per issue for the remainder of the year. Reasons for
the change are centered around the almost complete loss of national advertisement. Selling expenses for soft drinks and candies have
been limited by the rationing of sugar and other advertisers have cut down their selling expenses for other reasons. Although
the size of the publication will be reduced, the staff is rather glad of the circumstance which will allow more
selection of stories rather than depending on nearly all the articles that are submitted. In other words, there is a
bright side to the change, in that a smaller paper might best fit the size of the student body. Up
to this time the Davidsonian has been very large as compared with other college newspapers’ sizes (i.e. large in proportion
to the number of students enrolled). We promise you a smaller, but a better Davidsonian for the second semester, so
patiently help us weed out the topics which have the least appeal.

THE EDITOR.

Letter To The Editor

University, Alabama.
February 7, 1941

Mr. Tony Darby, Editor,
THE DAVIDSONIAN,
Davidson College,
Davidson, North Carolina.

Dear Tony:

Since leaving Davidson a year and a half ago, I have been a constant reader of The Davidsonian. It has
been a real pleasure to keep up with my friends and their affairs through your paper. Many thanks to you
and your staff for the grand job that you are doing.

In looking at The Davidsonian week after week, it has occurred to me that there still remains with the Davidson
student body that ever-present question: “What can we do on Saturday nights besides those lessons we have been putting off
for the last month or six weeks?” And it is only natural that this question has been, still is, and
will continue to be of prime importance.

Always wanting to do my bit for Davidson, who did much for me, I have pondered greatly over this question
and believe that I have finally hit upon the answer and complete solution. Putting credit where credit is due, this
solution is not of my own originality, but is found in a column of Auburn's PLAINSMAN under the date of
January 3, 1942.

I enclose this article with the hope that you will publish it—merely as a suggestion to the student body. By
following this plan of Columnist Martin, not only could the Davidson students provide adequate entertainment for themselves but they could
also raise unheard of sums for worthy causes. Surely there are public-spirited girls in the town of Davidson or nearby
schools who would co-operate.

With best regards and continued good wishes for the success of your paper. I remain

Yours for a better Davidson
BILL MITCHELL,
Class of '42.

(The article mentioned advocated having an old-fashioned kiss bazaar, proceeds from which would go to some worthy cause. “It sounds
like an awful lot of fun to be a way to raise money,” read the article, “at least from where
we sit, but please don’t take it as a joke. It might be more successful than a lot of fancier
schemes.”)

WHO’S RESPONSIBLE

In a space like this from now on until elections we'll print the facts about who made up what page.
Duties are here listed:

Page One........Jimmy Fulcher
Page Three (Directory)........Henry McIntosh
Sports

The Filth Columnist

By ?

Well, it's all over but the shouting! Davidson again made Midwinters THE week-end of the year, and one of the
most eventful week-ends that your Filth Columnist has had the pleasure to encounter. Never before has dating been so open
and prevalent. Such unprecedented dealings! Our inspiring “Y” leader, SHAW SMITH, in spite of all his slickness and suavité, failed
to come through with a date. This in spite of the fact that he receives a sugar-laden epistle from G-boro
daily — the beauteous D. C. from ex-employee, MARTHA BROWN, we presume. Also in spite of the fact that he
had meant to invite a beauteous lassie from Queens, but was beaten to the draw by one of the Pan-Hell
boys. Well, better luck next time COLIN.

JOE BIVINS spent about sixty cents a minute for dancing time this week-end. That is figuring his eight-fifty for a
set ticket, and dividing it by the time that he was present. What in the world do these fellows find
to do besides dance?

Again this year it was the usual procedure for those in the figure to kiss their dates as the lights
turned low. Several executed this maneuver in fine style, but after approximately seven attempts, MADAME GEORGE MARSH gave up the
venture. Poor old GEORGE might well be re-nicknamed “Chicken” after his peckin’.

BLACKIE SWACKIE THOMPSON (ALSTON in classroom circles) pulled the inevitable by spurting out horrible phrases in front of the feminine
acquaintances when some little fugitive from a cotton field jumped up on the car to assist in parking it near
the armory. BLACKIE seemed to express student body feeling toward this horde of tip-hunters.

Date of the week-end awards go to JOHN CRICHTON who escorted that unbelievable bundle of glamour who literally swept people
off their feet in her encompassing glances.

Sympathies of the same week-end go to BEN WASHBURN whose date informed him on arrival that she had to depart
for Wilmington sometime early Saturday morning.

PAGE HARRIS bobbed in and out of the armory Friday night, having missed the K. A. banquet except for an
occasional spurt in and out—when asked his trouble, it was revealed that his date hadn't showed up on the right
bus and that he was meeting everything coming in from Jacksonville to New York City. Finally, lovely MISS CRITCHER was
discovered sitting in the bus station, having been waiting for PAGE there all the time.Quite evident were those illustrious alumni
JAMES CURRIE, NEAL SCOTT, BILL ROSS, HANK KING, GEORGE STOWE, and KD WATSON. That finest girl you've ever seen with
BILL ROSS AND JAZZ CURRIE was Miss JEAN BLOUNT of Greenville, N.C., and others.

The wild goose chase of the century involves the freshmen class, who were to meet in Statesville. By name, BILL
ROBERTSON, whose date was coming all the way from Ward Belmont, SAM TATE, who motored him to meet the date,
and FRANK DAVIS, the story later. Three members of a train it they were who enters. On reaching Mooresville, the
two freshmen took the highway to Salisbury instead of to Statesville, and still not realizing their error at the train
station, asked the man when the train was expected from Knoxville. When they learned that the train had had a
head-on collision, they returned to Davidson still not realizing that Salisbury was not Statesville. The next trip included FRANK DAVIS,
who let them drive all the way to Salisbury before informing them that Statesville was the correct highway. The Ward
Belmont lass was there waiting. BILL SPRUNT will never live it down.

BETSY HILL’S shoes were found downstairs at MA BAIRD'S. And, to top things off, some of the cronies planted the
shoes on GABBY’S desk Saturday morning. On entering their boarding house Monday at lunch, the Phi Delts discovered to their
amazement a girl sitting there in the living room. This girl from the weekend was unaccompanied and apparently unconcerned. HOBBIE
had discovered her wandering around the campus Saturday night and nobly offered their boarding house as a place to stay.
“I just don't want to go back to school!” she explained, accepting his invitation. It was later revealed she left-over
room.

We kinda wonder exactly why SPHSE MEBANE’S car was seen whipping around Davidson late Friday night when he was a
stag at the dances. Answering the wolf call, Fifi. Among those who didn’t quite make it to the Saturday night
dance was COACH BUZZ COUN- CLE—put picked at random, e pluribus unum...

Those who liked PEGGY MANN as a vocalist might ask ED PHILLIPS about her qualifications as an intermission date. And
just what made that long trip to Atlanta seem the thing for FRED MORTON to do?

One person we wish to frown upon this weekend is that snake without finesse, RED (HIMSELF) BURKE. After several attempts
to win the favors of BRIMBERRY ABBOT’S date, RED gave in to the more powerful ABBOT, happened over to whom
we and sought new fields to conquer in the four corners of the armory. YEP, there’s a lot more to
tell from the reason MAC BRUCE is called “JOHN” to the affairs of one “HEY HONEY-CHILE” date of JIMMY JACKSON'S,
but space, time, and Darb won't seem to permit any more. As the French would say it, ADIEU.

Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, February the 5th
A GENTLEMAN AT HEART
* * Landis, Carrol Naish, and Romero, Berle, J. Derr. Cesar Milton Richard Carole! I was unable to find anything
on this feature except its cast and its rating. Therefore I shall let you readers judge for yourselves as to
its merits. This is the second appearance of Miss Landis with Ceasar Romero, and, if it is as good as
its predecessor, it should turn out to be an entertaining show.

Friday and Saturday
February 13 and 14
TARZAN’S SECRET TREASURE
Johnny Weissmuller, Maureen O'Sullivan, John Sheffield, Philip Dorn, Reginald Owen, Berry Fitzgerald, and Tom Conway. This jungle adventure has been
cut from the same pattern as all others in the series. This time Tarzan routs a band of greedy interlopers
and drives them out of his jungle kingdom. The main criticism of this feature is that the great Tarzan series
has developed into adventure yarns more suitable to children’s tastes than to adults. The scenes have become repetitions and need
an injection of clear originality to pep up the outdoor stunts of the jungle giant, played as usual by the
bellowing Johnny Weissmuller. This time a party of scientists, including villainous Tom Conway and Philip Dorn, kidnap Tarzan’s wife, played
by Maureen O'Sullivan, and son, played by John Sheffield, in order to force the jungle lord into revealing the location
of an enormous gold vein. The climax is thrilling, with elephants, alligators, and savages in a grand melee of revenge.

Monday and Tuesday
February 16 and 17
HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY
* * Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara, Donald Crisp, Anna Lee, and Roddy McDowall. This is simply the story of a
boy’s life in a Welsh mining town—but it is a story one will never forget. John Ford reached his peak
in this beautiful direction of a story narrated by a man who tells of his boyhood in a little Welsh
coal-mining town. The picture has an emotional tone that never once gets out of harmony or out of atmosphere. Standing
out in the story is the father, Donald Crisp, and the mother, Sara Allgood, with their brood of boys, among
them Patric Knowles, John Loder, and little “HUW,” played by Roddy McDowell with unusual understanding. Maureen O'Hara is very good
as the beautiful daughter. Walter Pidgeon, as Mr. Gruffydd, the preacher, gives his best performance to date—which is saying quite
a lot, for in the opinion of yours truly he is one of the best, if not the best, of
the actors in Hollywood. In fact, it is nearly impossible to find a single flaw in the superb production. The
feature scheduled for Wednesday is “Robbers of the Range.”

COMING:
HELLZAPOPPIN, with Ole Olsen, Chic Johnson, Martha Raye, Hugh Herbert, and Mischa Auer.
KATHLEEN, with Shirley Temple, Herbert Marshall, Laraine Day, Felix Bressart, and Gail Patrick.

I would like for Wellford Hobbie to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.

PATTER By PAT RUDOLPH

Out of the Night of Davidson:
(Editor’s note: This is the first of three articles by Mr. Rudolph, who bases his knowledge of Davidson on a
stay of three and one-half years.)

Registration and Orientation:
Being of sound mind and body and with all my faculties acutely tuned to the situation, I signed the initial
papers which were, in effect, leases, to be renewed twice a year for four years. They commemorated my association with
that institution called Davidson College. Not only did I sign these leases, but also innumerable other documents referring to my
personal habits, social life, etc. These were the means by which I gained access to the institution. But—enough of the
legal aspects. Let us proceed to the little-oak-shaded village itself.

Rounding “Roadhouse Curve,” the car slowed and I got my first view of Davidson, being the top of Chambers Building.
(I am glad that I didn’t come in from Charlotte, for I might have gotten out at the Mecklenburg Sanitorium,
as Jim Hogg did his first year). We proceeded slowly and cautiously, carefully watching for some sign of activity. We
were on what our catalog calls “one of the finest hard-surfaced roads in the state of North Carolina.” Finally, we
found ourselves gliding ‘neath the famed trees that flank Main Street. We saw the water tank, properly inscribed with class
numerals and “Beat Winstock,” the cemetery, and numerous old rather pretty houses. As we passed the North Gate to the
campus, we saw a number of the inmates standing on the street corner flexing their thumbs in the direction of
what I now know is Charlotte. I suppose that there will always be someone on that corner as long as
there is a Davidson and as long as there is a city as vice-ridden as Charlotte. If ever a statue
is erected in Davidson, it ought to be on that corner, showing a student flexing his thumb, head bared, overnight
bag on the ground. However, we paid these people no heed and proceeded to turn in the gate, finally coming
to rest in front of the great Chambers Building. I was met by a fellow who told me that he
was a member of the “Y” Cabinet. He escorted me into the administrative wing of the great building and there
I made my first payment, was given the key to my room on a fourth-floor ward, and told to proceed
to the Student Store.

I found the student store to be a small hole in that brick wall behind Georgia dormitory, presided over by
two smiling older students, who although possessing the Christian faith, seem to embrace some of the more outward characteristics of
the Hebrew. (It is always this way, I have since learned. Even the names of the managers are symbolic: Parrishberg,
Arnodvitch, Ginsberg, Shawstein.) Here I was thrown a piece of cardboard, a red cap, a few stickers, and a megaphone.
For this, I paid an exorbitant sum.

And so I began my career at Davidson along with almost two hundred other souls whose number has since decreased
considerably, for one reason or another. I remember those colorful meals served in the basement of Chambers, the music test
given by one of the more musical attendants, Mr. Babcock; watching the football team practice, waiting in interminably long lines,
listening to an infinite number of inspirational addresses, forming a huge “D” for C. Fred Smith, that bald-headed historian of
ex-patients. Seniors, do you remember Pete Shackelford, Elmer Bishop, Phil Suttlemyre, Dick Hudson, Rowe Driver, Funkhauser—names some of us have
forgotten through the years.

How were we treated by the attendants? How was the food? What was the religious atmosphere? What did we think
of the sophomores? These questions will be answered in forthcoming installments of this series.
