Thursday, April 30, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. Cumming Appointed New English Chairman
Chosen In South Atlantic Modern Language Association Meeting

Dr. William Patterson Cumming of the English department of Davidson College was recently appointed chairman of the English Committee of the Modern Language South Atlantic association.

In the recent meeting of this association, Dr. Cumming was appointed chairman of the committee on the teaching of English at the college level.

Another Honor

Another honor was bestowed upon the Davidson professor when he was elected vice-president of the South Atlantic states region of the College English association. This association held a meeting at Natural Bridge, Virginia, on April 18. Dr. Cumming is on the English staff here and is an active member of Phi Beta Kappa, an honorary scholastic group.

Honored
DR. CUMMING

Photo Club To Present Show Soon
Annual Spring Exhibit Will Be Held In Eumenean Hall, May 13-16

The annual spring photographic exhibit of the Davidson College Camera Club will be held in Eumenean Hall beginning on May 13 and running through May 16, according to an announcement made by Boyce Rhyne, president of the club.

Last of Year

This exhibit, which is the last of the year, is the third that the club has held on the campus since September. “While other exhibits have been restricted to new pictures,” explained the president, “this exhibit will be open to all prints regardless of whether they have been shown before or not. This should add to the size and interest of the display.”

The club completed successfully its Winter exhibit in February in which Linus Banker won first place with his picture “Afterglow.” Bill Barker carried off second place honors with a winter photograph entitled “Snowbanks” and Banker repeated in the third place position with a print called “Direct Hit.” Approximately ten student photographers competed in this exhibit in which about thirty prints were shown.

Rules

A set of rules drawn up by members of the camera club includes such specifications as the following: All pictures must be in the hands of members of the club by 6:00 P.M. of May 12 after which date no pictures can be accepted. All pictures must be at least eight by ten inches in size and must be mounted on sixteen by twenty inch standard mounting board. No tinted prints will be accepted.

Students Get ROTC Course This Summer
Both Basic And Advanced Work To Be Offered At Summer Session

R.O.T.C. courses will be available to students attending summer school at Davidson College this summer. Freshmen and Sophomores will be permitted to take R.O.T.C. 11 and 12 respectively. In addition to these courses, they may take two six-hour courses or an eight-hour course followed by a six-hour course. These courses will run the full twelve weeks and must be taken for the whole time. No credit will be given unless the course has been taken for the entire period.

Juniors and Seniors

R.O.T.C. 32 and 42 will be offered to Juniors and Seniors who wish to accelerate their work. There will be three hours credit given only if the courses are taken for the twelve weeks running from June 17 to August 29. Students who take these courses will be able to take not more than nine additional hours of work unless they enter laboratory courses, when they may take eleven additional hours of work.

Uniforms

It was announced that khaki uniforms, similar to those the army uses in the summer, will be used for the summer courses. Unless further orders are received between now and the beginning of summer school, the R.O.T.C. staff will be here for the summer session as they were here for the regular winter session.

Greek Letter Men To Give Blood Supply
Fraternities Will Aid In Red Cross Effort

Within a year it is expected that every able-bodied fraternity man in the country will have given at least one pint of his blood to the American Red Cross blood bank.

2,500 Chapters

Under the direction of the executive committee of the National Inter-fraternity Conference, which is composed of over sixty national college fraternities in the U.S. and Canada with approximately 2,500 chapters, the organized blood donation will be made in co-operation with the American Red Cross. Adoption of this mass blood contribution is part of the Conference's search for ways in which national Greek letter groups can aid in the furtherance of the war effort.

Resolution

John M. MacGregor, chairman of the conference, sent a copy of the resolution to President Roosevelt stating that the national inter-fraternity Conference “offers to assist in organizing the student bodies of the American colleges and universities to the end that every student may appreciate the need of his donation to the much-needed blood bank.” MacGregor also declared in his letter to the President that among the undergraduates he had already found a very enthusiastic response.

NEW HOSTESS

Mrs. B. H. Williamson of Mt. Airy, N.C. has arrived this week to take charge of the opening of the new guest quarters in the remodeled “Y” building. She will be associated at least temporarily with the work as hostess of the building. For the time being, meals will be served only by special arrangement with the hostess. It is planned at the earliest date to provide regular meal service.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

Wed. A.M. ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42. May 27
Biology 22B; Chemistry 22B, 92; Economics 52; English 22B, 62; French 22C; Geography 42; German 22A; Math. 11M, 12G; Philosophy 22B.

Thurs. A.M. Physics 22B, 32; Political Science 42; Psychology 32; Public Speaking 32; May 28
Spanish 12B, D, E, 22B, D; Biology 22C; Chemistry 32; Economics 62; German 12B; Greek 12B; History 12B, D; Math. 12I, 32; Political Science 32; Psychology 22B.

Fri. A.M. Astronomy 32A; Bible 12A, C; Business 22B; Chemistry 31, 42B; Economics 22C; May 29
English 12A, C; Geography 22; French 32A; German 12A, C; History 32; Spanish 32A; Applied Math. 31; Biology 52.

P.M. English 12I; French 22B; German 12B; Spanish 12A, C; Greek 12A.

Sat. A.M. Applied Math. 32; Bible 22E, F; Biology 32; Business 32A; Chemistry 52; English May 30
12H, 22A, C; French 12A, 52; Greek 12A; History 62; Math. 11L, 12I; Philosophy 30, 42; Physics 42; Psychology 42A; Political Science 62; Spanish 22A, 52.

P.M. Math. 12B, D, J.

Mon. A.M. June 1
Bible 12K, H; Chemistry 32, 42A; English 12G, 22D, 62; Geography 51; History 52; Latin 12; Math. 12C, 52; Physical Education 32; Sociology 32; Economics 22D.

Tues. A.M. Bible 42; Economics 32; History 22. June 2

P.M. Astronomy 32B; Bible 22A, C, G; Business 32B; Education 72; English 22C, 92; Geography 62; German 42.

Wed. A.M. Biology 22D; History 12A, C; Latin 22; Math. 12H; Physics 52; Philosophy 62; June 3
Political Science 52; Spanish 42.

P.M. Bible 12B, D; Biology 22A; Business 62; Economics 22A, B; English 12B, D, 82; Greek 62; French 22A.

Thurs. A.M. Physics 22A; History 42; Latin 32; Math. 12A, K, 22A, 42; Philosophy 51; Political June 4
Science 22A; Spanish 22C.

P.M. Applied Math. 42; Chemistry 82; French 32B, 72; Geography 32; History 82; Political Science 32B; Physics 12, 22C; Psychology 52.ee apr amr pa ne ‘i . < : A Fri. A. M. Bible 12K G; Chemistry 22A; English 12F, G; Greek 22A; Mathematics 22B; June Spanish 22B.

Buzz’s ‘Gopher’ Given Honors
Gallopin’ Gopher III Changes Hands Again
By JIM STIMSON

“Oh, whut do yu want?” questioned Buzzie, when he was approached for an interview concerning “Galloping Gopher, III.” Old Buzz sat down very pleased. “That's the kind of stuff yu ought to put in the paper,” he said. Then he gave the history of the '29 Model A. At present, Claude Hackney has the car. Buzz bought it from “Jobo” Carter and took possession after a weekend sale. He took it to Baltimore to have it reconditioned. Buzz was the character that put the “Gopher” in the eyes of the public.

Named “Gopher”
“Buzz, why do you call it ‘Galloping Gopher’?”
“Well, a ‘Gopher’ is anything bad, just like old ‘Bards’ McCloud.”
“Why do you call it ‘Galloping Gopher, III’?”
“I had two racing boats once upon a time. They were ‘Gophers.’ Now that I have sold the '29 A Model, I call it ‘Galloping Gopher, IV.’”

The new car is a green convertible and is destined to make history at Davidson as long as it is in the Gopher family. But since we know little of this new car, all mention will be given to the old one.

Tire Trouble
When he bought the car, he had the tires retreaded, but the retread flew off, as he explains it. Buzzie’s old car was known for its tire troubles. If you see other cars on the campus minus a wheel, you know that Buzz has had trouble and borrowed a wheel. “My greatest trouble,” he says, “was keeping the car off the jack.”

“What do you think of the garage in which you found your car last Wednesday night?”
“Judas Turnage can be accredited for that incident,” Buzz replied. Last Wednesday night, Buzz was called to the phone in Georgia from his abode in Rumple to find the car parked on the porch of the dorm. Twenty boys helped to place it on the porch and then helped to get it down when Buzz arrived on the scene. Buzz entered the dorm to find the culprits responsible for the job. The car was promptly replaced on the porch. “This time I drove it off,” Buzzie claimed.

The car has endured all the trips, long and short, without any major issues. It went to Baltimore last fall, but this time the trip was fortunate without any bad luck. Buzz reconditioned the car. Accessories of the car are a spotlight, a fig light (without a bulb), three tail lights, a rumble seat, an outside mirror, and a spare tire. Interesting features are the lack of glass or other luxurious conveniences. The “Gopher” is on account of defense.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Afternoon examinations at 2:00 P.M. May 20th

“Galloping Gopher, III” is quickly becoming as prominent as “Religion,” which “takes the devil out of you.” Other A Models that have presented themselves on the campus are “Jew” Clark’s “Juke Box,” “The Green Hornet,” Jim Werr’s “Collapsible Calamity,” Ed Lucas’ “Loafing Limousine,” “The Rolling Bathtub,” “The Crimson Creeper,” and “The Blue Barb.” Buzzie suggests that Claude rename his car “Hackney’s Hurricane.”

EU SOCIETY
At the last meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society, Prof. Chalmers Davidson lectured on Davidson Authors, and several excerpts from famous books were read. Douglas Swink, Jim Jackson, and John Walker read papers, and new members were initiated into the society. The new initiates are Sam Henderson, Finley Tucker, and Albert King.

YE OLDE CAFETERIA
TWIN
Thursday and Friday, April 30 and May 1
TO THE SHORES OF TRIPOLI
Saturday, May 2
DUMBO
LATE SHOW
ALMOST MARRIED
Monday and Tuesday, May 4 and 5
Wednesday, May 6
UNEXPECTED UNCLE

DAVIDSON
All members of the student body or faculty may enter pictures. Determination of the winners of first, second, third places, and honorable mentions will be done by votes placed by all members of the student body. The entire student body is urged to visit the exhibit and help in the selection of the winners. The date to arrange an Open House for the faculty and students will be announced.

221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
THEATRE

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER

HAND-NEEDLED EDGES
SNAP-TOP TROUSER
LOUNGE MODELS

We ask you, how do you feel and look about now, with the thermometer at 95 degrees or better? If you're wearing a Varsity-Town “Summer Cooler,” you're giving the thermometer the “go-by” as you go by in your lounge model “Cooler” with its casual, correct fashion details. You're smart in a “Rum Cooler,” a “Havana Cooler,” or a “Gab-Cooler.” Which reminds us, we have hundreds of “Coolers” cooling their heels waiting to be seen by you! Tryon Street