Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 1, 1942

Dramatists Prepare Opening Production
Final Tryouts For Minor Parts To Be Held Friday In Quadrangle Room

The Red and Black Masquers began the tryouts for the roles to be given for their fall production, "The Man Who Came to Dinner," on Tuesday, September 29. The tryouts are sponsored by Y.M.C.A. and are to be held in the Quadrangle Room on the third floor of Chambers. The auditions will be continued throughout the week and the final cast will be chosen on Friday, October 2.

Books from the library of the late Dr. J. M. McConnell have been on sale at the Y.M.C.A. for the past several days. Of approximately 300 volumes, about one half are still left. Members of the faculty as well as students have availed themselves of this opportunity to buy these books at extremely low prices.

Proceeds from this sale are to be donated to some worthy cause connected with the war effort. Dr. McConnell, during his many years of service as a professor and dean of faculty, accumulated a significant collection of books. Sales of students' books have passed $125. A remaining amount has not yet been claimed, nor have any books not claimed been donated to the "Y" for a good cause.

During the Summer Session, Professor Erwin found time to build the stage sets for the forthcoming play. Although not yet finished, the scene is nearing completion and will follow the original stage design.

Schedule of Honorary Fraternity Meetings, 1942-1943

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS
TIME MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY
7:00-8:00 Sigma Pi Sigma Eta Sigma Phi Philanthropic Society Y.M.C.A. Cabinet
8:00-9:00 Beaver Club Gamma Sigma Epsilon Y.M.C.A. Cabinet
9:00-10:00 I. R. C. Sigma Upsilon Red and Black Masquers

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
7:00-8:00 Phi Mu Alpha Scabbard and Blade Eumenean Society Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

Clyde Stroup and Pledges Graves, Williams, John- ston, Pracht, Bingham, Roach, Ardrey, Frederick, Warlick, Siske, and Brother White spent the weekend at his home in Greensboro, as did Pledge Rhudy. Pledge White went to his Statesville habitat. The Chapter takes pride in announcing the initiation of Leonard White, Joe Anderson, Clyde Stroup, and Robert Stroup.

Phi Gamma Delta
This weekend the loyal Fijis and their new pledge all “took off” to conquer new fields. Brother Ed Gant and Brother Jack Mowles rated honors for farthest traveling, both going to Bristol, Tenn. Pledge Brother Otto Schenk journeyed to Greensboro. Some of the brothers who took in the Duke-Davidson game included Dick Roberts, Ben F. Williamson, Rhea Dabney, Rhea Pressly, Bob McMullen, and pledge Raphael Coonrad, Sam Leighton McKeithen, and Ed Wood '41.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Dr. Cunningham Speaks About "The Glory of The Cross"
Dr. John R. Cunningham was the principal speaker at the Sunday evening Vesper service on September 27, 1942. For his text, Dr. Cunningham studied "The Glory of the Cross" and dealt with the sometimes artificial evaluation of man's achievements, pointing out that man has soon returned to the cross. The offerings given by the congregation will be used for future work in the Y.M.C.A. Charities and service organizations aided by the funds collected.

Major D. G. Wilson
Major D. G. Wilson, former member of the Davidson R.O.T.C. staff, is now stationed at Fort Benning. In July, Major Wilson was ordered to Camp Toombs, Ga. There he commanded the station complement until he received orders about a week ago to move to Fort Benning. Prior to this, Major Wilson had been stationed at Davidson for two years. He came here as a Captain and was promoted to a Major while on the R.O.T.C. staff.

Hall Leaders Begin Prayer Work
First Meeting of Year Proves Highly Successful
Excellent attendance was recorded at the first of the Hall Prayer meetings. At many of the meetings, plans were made for the continuance of the meetings. Don Caterson and Buddy Wells, co-chairmen of the Y’s committee of Prayer, attribute the fine attendance to the conscientious work of the individual Hall Leaders. These leaders, appointed last week, are: (Left Barrel) Murdock McKiethan and George Patrick; (Right Barrel) Bill Smith, John Luske, and Wesley Rumple.

SPORTS SCENE
(Continued from Page Three)
A great spirit was prevalent in spite of the falling weather. Familiar faces at the game: Vosburgh still trailing the team, Lieut. Jay Goodman, Scott, Watts, Howell Morrow, Bolin, Ex-cheerleader Bob Williams, and Pvt. “Bolo” Hipp, who’s still on the Wildcat roster according to the program if not in reality. We'd like to pay tribute here to fifth-year men Bill Patton, Ed Shaw, and Bunny McCormick. Their unexpected return to school this year has boosted the strength of the 'Cat line considerably. Bob McMullen, D. D. Philips, Dick Robinson, East: O'Hair, John Barron, Bill Lemmon, Duke: Milton Mann, Tommy Powell, Lunceford Richards, Amos Ragan, Sam Yarborough, and Dave Blevens. North: Horace Boarman, G. P. Whitely, Jerry Leland, and Bob Gourley. South: Al Dimmock, Rufus Long, Sam White, and Alex Sime.

Cooperation
Students are urged to take part in this program, which has been highly successful in past years as a means by which the Y.M.C.A. may obtain an insight as to the thoughts and ideas of the individual student,” said Shaw Smith. A variety of discussions are planned, at which subjects of direct interest to college men will be frankly considered. These meetings are entirely informal and attendance purely voluntary, as the Y.M.C.A. believes that students are better reached in this manner.

Baseball bows out to football with the St. Louis Cards firmly in possession of the pennant and much speculation in the air as to the outcome of the series.to | Charlotte. Pi Kappa Phi

The past weekend was an eventful one for all Pi Kapps. The majority went to Winston-Salem for the game, then followed up by attending the affair. The dates were Greta Garth, Katherine Elva Mary Legare, Gloria Deal, Alice Lisk, Carroll Bell, Nell Walser, Shuford, and Josephine Denning. Brother Williams went to Greenville, S.C. for a preliminary physical exam for West Point. Brother Patton and Pledge Herring dealt in Rutherfordton and Limestone. Pledges Robertson and Robbins went home to Kannapolis, while Pledge Barringer went to old stomping grounds in and around Florence. Pledges Reid Abernathy, Hunter, and Sibley got no farther than Charlotte, but enjoyed it just the same. Brothers Gaither and Campbell, with Pledge Cline in the now-famous station wagon, complete with two flats.

Phi Delta Theta

Brothers Smith and Starneg visited friends at W.C. in Greensboro. Brother Wright traveled to Charlotte, where he spent the greater portion of Saturday night. Or it might have been that little village of Mint Hill, twelve miles beyond Charlotte, where Brother John reportedly has a very strong interest. Pledge Brother Hemby visited at his home in Charlotte, but his activities naturally didn’t stop there. Possibly one of the most different weekends was enjoyed by that Brother who spent Saturday and Sunday nights in the home of one of our faculty members, who was out of town for a few days, and naturally desired his better half to have the comfort of a man in the house. It seems best to divulge no further details. Brother Emerson was seen on the streets of Winston in his Spanish caballero hat, accosting a stranger, “Which way to the college?” He and the rest of the chapter, of course, went to the game.

The Chapter wishes to express its regret that, due to a typographical error, Pledge Brother Bill (Stinky) Styron’s name was omitted from last week’s list of Pledges. Pledge Styron is from Newport News, Virginia.

KA

Those who went to Winston-Salem were: Joe Bachman, Hugh Sprunt, McLean, Bill Abbot, Harris, Lard Royster, Ralph Jack (able-bodied cheerleader who really did his stuff), Sim Barnwell, Brothers Mac Jeffries, Lacy Page Dunn, Richeson, and Campbell Ansley. Pledge Tommy Speas, Shepard Dunn, Burke, Burk Ingram, Young, Tom Belk, and Bill Nickels. Bob DuRant, Ben Washburn, Tom Burke, and Scotty Paterson represented KA on the playing field. Brothers Jack Osborne, Tom Stimson, and Murphy Wilds were spotted on the porch of Mitchell College in Statesville. The K.A.'s are glad to welcome two transfers, Brother John Hewitt from N.C. State, and Brother Bob Buie from Millsap College, Jackson, Miss. They have been with K.A. here all this year but were omitted in last week's write-up. We were glad to see Alumnus Bevo Royster at the game Saturday. Bevo, of the class of '41, is now in service with the Marines.

S.A.E.

For the most part, the brothers and pledges who left the campus went to Winston for the game and Salem dance. Brothers Ebo Anderson, Frank Carter, Ripper Hunt, Punchy Bruce, Red Bethea, Jim Harris, Charlie Wills, Port Whaling, both Dunns, Henry Hobbie, Wilcox, Hocky Lee Carrow, Ed Erwin, Lewis Wood, Tommy Powell, and Pledges Rhea Richardson, Roland Paylor, Walker Taylor, Herman Walker, Thornton Wood, and Ellis Allen. Brothers Hugh Hitt, Jack Lucas, Rab McGeachy, Hodgin, Graves, Little, McAllister, and Ray Taylor took a little trip to Mooresville, while Pledge Brother Jimmy Hill tells wild tales of ecstasy encountered.

8:00-9:00 Sigma Delta Pi Le Cercle Francais Y.M.C.A. Cabinet “D” Club
9:00-10:00 Delta Phi Alpha Pi Gamma Mu Alpha Epsilon Delta

Letters From The Lodges

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brother Oglesby went to Greensboro after the game. Most of the Chapter spent the weekend in Winston-Salem—watching the game, attending the dance, and getting drenched. Among those who thus enjoyed themselves were Brothers Brinson, Neill, Henderson, Brockmann, Hodges, Shelton, and Whitley. Brothers Ble- McLauchlin, and Whiddon; Pledge Brothers Jenkins, Sipe, Lilly, Winchester, Legerton, Maness, and Northan. Brothers Gwynn, Robinson, Miller, and Sellars, and Pledge Brothers Bradford and Maxwell went on to Greensboro from Winston and thrilled the “wimin” at G.G. and W.-C. Brother Hugh McLauchlin and Pledge Brother Perry West witnessed the Central High-Barium Springs game on Friday night. Alumni Brothers Dick Cobb and Lawson Withers from Winston-Salem visited the Sig Eps during the day last Monday.

Beta

All but six of the Beta brothers deserted the campus last weekend. Brothers Schmidt and Pledge Brother McNair were the first, leaving Friday afternoon with the band for Winston. Brothers Shaw and Lipscombe went up Friday night with the football squad, with the remainder going up Saturday morning. Brothers Rowland, Pritchett, and Mebane journeyed over to Burlington for the night. Brother Spike Mebane checked out from the campus Saturday night claiming that there was no point in his staying in Winston. We can't figure this out as he looked like he was doing all right to us. Brothers Staley and Garrison took a roundabout route to Winston by way of Rock Hill. Sunday morning Brothers Wheeler, Roseboro, and Sherrill took off to W.C. for the day, arriving back on the hill in time for classes Monday morning.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC. “Just Insurance” R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal 115 East Fourth Street CHARLOTTE, N.C.

M. H. GOODRUM and Company The Dependable Store for Your Hardware and Groceries DAVIDSON, N.C.

ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA, and DECCA RECORDS Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES ANDREW’S MUSIC CO. 231 N. Tryon St. Charlotte

R.O.T.C. Staff Plans A New Cut Policy

The Sigmas spent a rather interesting weekend in Winston-Salem. The entire chapter, with the exception of Lover Dick, attended the Duke-Davidson football game and the dance which the Salem girls gave for the Davidson men. Ben Lacy, Pat Williams, Alf Taylor, Bill Simmons, T. and G. Peters, and Jim Davis went with the football team, while Morgan, Bill Lacy, and Blackburn went with the band. Most of the Sigmas had dates for the game and dance. Alex Bainson entertained the entire chapter plus some of the fairer sex after the 11:30 curfew at Salem.

McCOY CALLS (Continued from Page One)

Judge McCoy asked the cooperation of all members of the Student Body in dealing with rebellious freshmen, and stated that all rules of the court would be strictly enforced.

Students Must Secure Leaves of Absence From Their Instructors

All R.O.T.C. classes and drills will be handled in the future by the direction of the R.O.T.C. staff under Col. McAndrew, an announcement from that department stated. Students must secure a leave of absence from their instructor before taking an absence. Col. McAndrew said this plan was not formed to cause any hardships to the students. The two purposes of the change are using the limited training time to the best advantage of the students and the instilling of the habit of performance of military duty unless specifically excused by the proper authorities. Leaves of absence must be secured prior to the absence from the instructor. The leaves will be granted upon the presentation of a legitimate reason for absence. All absences without leave will be entered on the students' permanent record and may be referred to the Dean for discipline.

THE “THREE”

Take a number from one to three... okay then, it’s Varsity-Town’s “Dartmouth” for newness, for smartness, for modernness. It is a long-appearing coat. It has low-spaced pockets with flaps, an extra cash pocket, inside pen-and-pencil and cigarette pockets. It has midget notch lapels and natural shoulders. $27.50, $42.00

GET YOUR FREE COPY OF VARSITY-TOWN’S BLUE BOOK complete with football schedule, rules, last year’s scores, and valuable helps on clothes care, military information, etc.

YOUNG MEN’S SHOP—THIRD FLOOR 126 SOUTH TRYON ST. CHARLOTTE, N.C.