INAUGURATES MOTHER’S DAY OBSERVANCE ORTA Che Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS SMITH REMAINS AS "Y" SECRETARY Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1942 No. 24

New Davidson Library To Be Dedicated Friday Afternoon

Donor Of New Library To Be Present At Dedication Ceremonies

Formal dedication of Davidson's new library will take place at 5:30 P.M. on Friday, May 1, with President John R. Cunningham presiding. Captain James P. Grey, the donor of the library, will be present, and Dr. A. R. Mann, Vice-President and Director of the General Education Board, will deliver the principal address.

Gift of Captain Grey

Captain Grey gave the library as a memorial to his mother and father, and it has been named for them the Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library. Captain Grey is an alumnus of Davidson of the Class of '85 and resides in Bristol, Va. All the colleges and universities of the Southern Association have been invited to send representatives to the dedication. President H. N. Snyder of Wofford College will bring formal greetings from these institutions.

Program

The program will open with special music by the Davidson Symphonic Band, and immediately following, Dr. C. M. Richards will give the invocation. After a selection by the glee club and greetings from Dr. Snyder, Mr. F. Le Jackson will make a presentation to Captain Grey. The dedication itself will consist of a selection and response, followed by a prayer of dedication by Dr. W. L. Lingle, President Emeritus of the College. Dr. A. R. Mann of New York will then deliver the address. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees, will deliver the benediction following another selection by the glee club. The program will close with the singing of the National Anthem.

Alumni Invited

All alumni of the college have been invited, and the ceremony is being held at 5:30 P.M. so that alumni from surrounding cities will find it possible to attend. On Friday evening at seven o'clock, President and Mrs. Cunningham will entertain at a dinner in the new “Y” in honor of Dr. Mann. Guests will include Captain Grey and his daughters, and distinguished guests from all over the country.

Staff Chosen For Magazine

Lyman Announces Junior Editors For Next Year

Bill Lyman, new editor, announced this week the new editorial staff of “Scripts ’n’ Pranks,” the college magazine. It consists of Charlie Brockmann, John Fairley, Howell Morrow, John Northcross, Ernie Webster, and Paul Welch.

Activities

Charlie Brockmann is the secretary of the Eumenean Literary Society, was on the staff of The Davidsonian, and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Howell Morrow is a managing editor of The Davidsonian staff, a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. John Fairley served on the staff of The Davidsonian. John Northcross, the new Art Editor, is a member of the Red and Black Masquers and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Ernie Webster is a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Paul Welch, a member of the Rifle Team, is also a member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Replace

These men replace Allen, Chapman, Hipp, Lyman, and White, who were junior editors last year. The new staff will assume tasks at the beginning of next year.

BUSINESS STAFF

Peter Young, recently chosen business manager, has announced the business staff for The Davidsonian for the year 1942-43. The staff will be composed of the following: Dick Port, Advertising Manager; Jim Harris, Circulation Manager; Don McIver, Advertising Manager; John Fite Robertson, Subscription Manager; Teensy Hodges, Circulation Manager; and Buddy Carson, Collection Manager. These men replace the following rising Seniors: Calhoun Hipp, Peter Young, Joe Martin, Buck McNeely, and Ivey Stewart.

Miller’s Band To Pay Honor

Famous Band Will Recognize Davidson On Radio

Glenn Miller's “Moonlight Serenade,” which was to honor Davidson on May 8, has been changed to May 6th, and will be heard at 7:15 P.M. instead of 10:00 P.M. as previously announced. Miller's schedule has been rearranged and will go into effect May 5th. Although he was originally heard at 10:00 P.M., Wednesdays through Fridays, he is now to be heard at 7:15 P.M. on Tuesdays through Thursdays.

Fraternity Sing

In accordance with Miller's tribute to Davidson, the annual fraternity sing will be held on the front steps of Chambers building Thursday, May 14th. The contest will begin at 7:30 P.M. and music will be furnished by the Davidson Symphonic Band. Master of ceremonies for the occasion will be Joe McLesky, and the judges have not yet been announced. The various presentations will be judged on originality and musical accomplishment.

Rules

A minimum of five minutes and a maximum of ten minutes will be the only restrictions placed on the contestants, with the exception that four-fifths of the fraternity members must be present. This year’s awards will consist of a loving cup to be presented to the fraternity placing first in the sing, and possibly a cup to the best student director. The Fred Waring cup won by the Kappa Alpha Fraternity last year for the best rendition of “Davidson Our Alma Mater” will not be offered again this year. Beta Theta Pi Fraternity won the cup in the song division of the contest last year.

Louise Morley Praises Spirit On Visit Here

Daughter Of Contemporary Author Praises Friendliness Of Students

By FRANK SANFORD

“Davidson College is the friendliest male campus I have visited since I began my present work with ISS,” said Louise Morley, daughter of Christopher Morley, after she had been on the campus last weekend for only two hours. Here on business, she got a glimpse of our social life when she attended the spring frolics Saturday night with Monroe Bush.

ISS Camps

Miss Morley visited Davidson, as she has many other institutions throughout the country, to explain the work of ISS Camps. Seven of these camps will afford the opportunity for hundreds of college students who are not yet in service to serve their country by helping out in industrial and farm areas over the nation. ISS Work Camps afford excellent training for the students participating and aid materially in our nation’s task during the war. Girls teach underprivileged mothers improved methods of running their homes, conduct day nurseries, and perform other similar tasks. Boys work on farms and in factories to supplant men who have been called to the armed forces.

Opinion Of War

After her discussion about Work Camps, Miss Morley was questioned concerning her ideas about the war. She thought that young people should take especial interest in the war since the world will be theirs when the war is over. She emphasized that the peace would be as important as the war and pointed out that we should be willing to pay the price for peace that we have to pay for war. Miss Morley believed that college students, more fortunate than many other young people, must be willing to assume their full responsibility for the job that is ahead, and that they should feel it their duty to “put back into society what they have gotten from it.”

Political Experience

Miss Morley has plenty of experience to back up her observations. She graduated from Bryn Mawr in 1940 where she specialized in international politics. She spent her junior year at the School of International Affairs in Geneva, Switzerland and had the opportunity to use the facilities of the University of Geneva and of the League of Nations.

GLENN MILLER AND SOLOIST, “Y” Secretary SHAW SMITH

Company A Is Given Cups In Drill Monday

Rudolph And Henderson Lead Best Drilled Company And Platoon

The annual company and platoon competitive drill of Davidson was held Monday, April 27, on the Richardson Field. Captain J. P. Rudolph, commander of Company A, received the loving cup for the best drilled company, while the cup for the best platoon was awarded to Lt. David N. Henderson, also of Company A.

Company Commanders

Commanding the five companies in the feature event of the afternoon were Captain J. P. Rudolph, of Asheville, N. C., Co. A; J. M. Owens, of Palm Beach, Fla., Co. B; D. Rhea of Greeneville, Tenn., Co. C; Glenn Terrell, of Tallahassee, Fla., Co. D; and A. R. Williams, of Winchester, Tenn., Co. E. After the five companies drilled, a platoon was chosen to represent the respective companies in the platoon competition. Commanding these platoons were Lieutenants D. N. Henderson, of Wallace, N. C., Co. A; H. K. Wilson, of Talladega, Ala., Co. B; W. W. Faison, of Charlotte, N. C., Co. C; Geo. Dew, of Charleston, S. C., Co. D; and T. P. M. Plonk, of Macon, Ga., Co. E.

Robertson Wins

Following the company and platoon drills, an individual competitive drill was held in which the best drilled Freshman was chosen. W. E. Robertson, of Sarasota, Fla., received a medal as a token of his merit. Two Freshmen were chosen to represent each Company in this individual competition. Cadet Privates C. E. Wills, N. P. Everett, R. W. Coonrad, R. A. Dunn, A. M. Hill, W. H. Dunn, J. Millis, J. P. Wright, and W. E. Robertson.and A. C. Pendleton were selected for participation in the freshman drill.

Runners-Up
These men were eliminated in turn for some error until Robertson and Kerr of Co. D, and R. A. Dunn of Co. A were left. The judges selected Robertson as the winner.

Acting as judges for the entire competition were Maj. D. G. Wil- ceived the honor and was awarded.

Smith To Hold Secretarial Position For Coming Year

ROTC Captain Fights Battle With Squirrel
Captain March Learns New Tactics From Fray With Pet Squirrel

In today's war-torn world, battles are indeed plentiful and casualties innumerable. These are mere petty brawls, however, as compared to the short but breathtaking struggle which took place on Davidson's usually peaceful campus last Friday. The mad scramble mentioned was the notorious pet squirrel owned by Frank Treat, Captain Marsh of the Davidson ROTC Department.

Surprise Attack
George, using the element of surprise, pounced maliciously upon Captain Marsh as he was strolling calmly behind East, Friday. Realizing that he had been attacked, the Captain quickly cleared his decks for action and cut loose with a vicious right to George's jaw. George fell some ten feet away and seemed to have had quite enough of the U.S. Army at that time. A bit shaken, but with his colors still flying high, the Captain turned to resume his journey, but hearing the scamper of the animal behind him, he turned quickly but unfortunately too late. George had flanked him beautifully and was perched precariously upon his shoulders once more.

Vain Tactics
His complete and thorough knowledge of military tactics seemed of no avail against such a cunning opponent, and the Captain beat a hasty retreat. The withdrawal was a disorderly one in which our hero clasped his hands over his head and jumped about convulsively. The rout terminated between Duke and East where the Captain counter-attacked with another right uppercut. This time, however, George gave forth with an unsheathed paw, which neatly took a plug out of the Captain's hand.

Prisoner
Finally ridding himself of his attacker, our hero quickly drafted the group of students who had gathered to watch the contest, and advancing as skirmishers, they took George into camp. The enemy, however, went down with his guns blazing and inflicted a few more casualties to our gallant force. Captain Marsh, doubtless thinking that the animal had gone mad, wished to keep him for observation, but on finding he was merely a pet, turned him over to his owner in whose room he is safely residing.

SUMMER COURSES
In order to meet the requirements of a larger number of students, dates between which laboratory courses will be offered this summer have been changed. These courses will begin on June 10 instead of June 17 as previously announced, and will close on July 24 instead of July 31. This change will make it possible for students who take an 8-hour course the first term to take a 6-hour course the second term. To accommodate students who desire this plan, a somewhat altered program has been arranged for the second term.

Mothers Will Visit Campus
College Plans Program For Mother’s Day

Plans are being formulated for the initiation of an annual Mother’s Day celebration to be held on the Davidson campus beginning this year. Invitations have been extended to the mothers of all students to come to Davidson on Saturday, May 9, and spend the Mothers’ Day weekend with their sons.

Interest
The plan was presented in chapel last week by Dr. Cunningham, and a number of students indicated that they would like to schedule their mothers to come. A tentative program of activities for the occasion has been worked out. The mothers will arrive during the day Saturday, and they may be invited to attend classes with their sons that morning. The students and their guests will entertain at lunch in the college banquet hall.

Program
During the afternoon, open house will be held in the college buildings, and a program of intramural games and possibly a varsity baseball game will be held. The baseball game is scheduled to be played here that afternoon. The boys will take care of their mothers for supper, and the remainder of the evening will be devoted to informal entertainment in the fraternity houses and elsewhere on the campus.

Ends Sunday
Sunday morning everyone will gather for services in Chambers auditorium at eleven o'clock. The program will be terminated at Sunday dinner, which will be served in the banquet hall. This idea has been carried out by some of the fraternities in past years, but this is the first attempt by the college administration to establish the custom. Similar gatherings are held each year at neighboring colleges and universities.

MESSAGE FROM RED CROSS
In last week’s Davidsonian, the opportunity was first announced for Davidson students to share in the war effort by donating their blood to the Red Cross. This blood is converted into plasma form and distributed to military hospitals for the treatment of casualties. The college physicians are organizing the drive in Davidson and are calling for volunteers from the student body, faculty, and townspeople. At present, the blood is being collected by laboratory technicians at Memorial Hospital in Charlotte, but plans are being worked out to provide the facilities for procuring the blood at Davidson through the college infirmary. All students and others who wish to give blood to this cause are asked to register at the infirmary any evening at 7 P.M., in order that a list may be compiled and preliminary tests taken. Of course, all students will not be suitable for blood donations, but everyone is urged to register.

Last year the cup for the best-drilled company went to Cadet Capt. Vernon Youngblood of Concord, who is now preparing for a commission in the medical corps at Emory University, while the platoon award was won by Cadet First Lt. W. J. Bolin, who is on duty with the armed forces at Camp Croft, S. C.

In connection with this plea, Dr. James McConnell has received the following communication from M. Alexander, Chairman of the Blood Plasma Committee for Mecklenburg County:
“We are very grateful for the generous offer of the Davidson College student body to donate blood to the Red Cross. At a meeting of the Blood Plasma Committee today, we decided unanimously to accept this offer, and as soon as the necessary equipment can be assembled, we would like to procure the blood at Davidson instead of Charlotte. We shall notify you as soon as we are ready.”

Discontinues Graduate Study in Order To Remain On “Y” Cabinet
Mr. C. Shaw Smith will remain at Davidson as Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year, according to an announcement from the “Y” Board of Control.

Plans
When the matter was first considered, Smith planned to continue his graduate study, which led him to think that he would not be able to return to Davidson. After further consideration of the situation, the Board presented to him the need for his services for the next year and prevailed upon him to accept. Shaw graduated from Davidson in the class of 1939 and returned to the campus to take up his present work after teaching for a year at Oak Ridge Military Institute. He is now completing his second year as “Y” Secretary. Shaw attended Oak Ridge for two years before entering Davidson as a junior. He was active in Y. M. C. A. work as a student. Last year he was tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa and was initiated into Sigma Upsilon.

New Building
The “Y” headquarters will be moved within the next few days into the remodeled building which has been assigned for its use. The Secretary believes that these facilities will greatly increase the service of this organization on the campus.

War Hero
LIEUT. RALPH HARKEY
Ralph Harkey Is War Hero
Davidson Graduate Bags Japanese Planes

Lieut. Ralph Harkey, a Davidson graduate of the class of ‘41, has been acclaimed a hero in the war with Japan. The Associated Press stated that Harkey was a young gunner in a big bomber that beat off an attack on another bomber by twenty Japanese Zero planes. The Japanese planes attacked an American bomber and forced it down nearly into the sea. Harkey’s bomber dived at the Nipponese planes and after downing three of them, drove the rest away.

Ammunition Low
When the attack force was driven away, Harkey and his fellow gunner checked up on their supply of ammunition. Between them, they had only twenty-four rounds, hardly enough to count. They escorted the crippled bomber back to the home base.

Last year Lieut. Harkey was a senior here at Davidson and upon graduation, he enlisted in the air corps where he soloed in twelve days. After graduation from a special course in navigation and training school, he was ordered to Hawaii. A month later in February, he was transferred to Australia. Harkey’s parents were recently notified of their son’s exploit and his safety.