Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 12, 1942

Letters From The Lodges

KAPPA ALPHA

Activities for the K.A. order were centered around Home-Coming this weekend. The K.A.'s were glad to have Ansley, Henderson Belk,
Gordon Horton, Mr. and Mrs. Payne, and Dr. Sparrow as their guests at the banquet Saturday night in the Hotel
Charlotte. At the dance were John Hewitt with Sebie Midyette; Page Harris with Whaley Philips; Freddie Speas with Patsy Harper;
Jim Barnwell with Tot Shillingham; Cooch Sprunt with Martha Withers; Hugh Ansley with Mollie Brenizer; John Belk with Frances Bradley;
Mac Jeffries with Dorothy Dean; Hank Watt with Rose McLean; Jim Hill with Mary Neil; Jack Richeson with Dorothy Richeson;
Jack Burke with Margaret Barber; Red Burke with Margie Hill; Bill Nichols with Nancye Johnson; Vance Watt with Lil Sims;
Bob Buie with Mary Enochs; Scotty Patterson with Mary Coon; Murphy Wilds with Mary Jane Edwards; Jim Whitehurst with Patty
Green; John Collins with Miriam Wrenn; George Mitchell with Frances Mosetey; Tom Belk with Ruth Sherril; Bolty Stokes with Helen
Potter; Ben Washburn with Catherine Traynham; Lacy McLean with Ivy B.; Shep Dunn with Nancye Commander. Those who went home
instead of attending the festivities were Jim Lowry to Oxford; Tommy Sham to Winston-Salem.

KAPPA SIGMA

Annual Home-Coming activities last weekend were attended by the great majority of the Kappa Sigma brothers. Besides the dances and
the football game, the program for the Sigmas included a banquet on Saturday night at the Hotel Barringer. Priestley Conyers
was the master of ceremonies. The program included a talk by Dr. Holland on “Boy and Girl Relationships.” Also on
the program was a simultaneous two-minute talk given by four pledges on four different subjects. Pledges and brothers attending Home-Coming
functions were: Alf Taylor with Craig Carmichael; Don Holland with Dorothy Jane Newbold; Ed Fowler with Katherine Kirkman; Wilber Carter
with Mot Sawain; Bob Amos with Mary Ann Pho; Jimmy Mille with Nancy Jane Nuishe; Bill Bahnson with Mary Ellen
Agnew; Bill Simmons with Jeanne Cooper; Cecil Garrett with Wink Wall; Bob Grimsley with Marilyn Younte; Ben Lacy with Jackie
Burns; Doug Sy with Biz Ann Jones; Joe McCoy with Isabel McCanty; Legh Scott with Helen Cox; George Ennett with
Mary Hope Turner; Arthur Pendle with Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. and Mrs. R.S. Abernathy, '29, Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Jim
Abernathy, '32, Winter Haven, Florida; Frank Hard, '40, Atlanta, Ga.; Jack Phillips, '42, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. and Mrs. Dick Rankin,
'42, Mt. Gilead, N.C.; Albert Winn, '42, Richmond, Va.; and Mr. and Mrs. Bob Bryant, '42, Charlotte, N.C.

After the dance, the Beta crew held a breakfast at the Ship Ahoy Restaurant. The Beta's and their dates were:
Frank Mebane with Mary Helen Garrison; Burkhead Walker with Emma Lee Warner; Bob Raney with Miriam Day; Don Caterson with
Belle Hicks Purris; Spike Mebane with Peggy Bell; Finley Pucker with Helen Hemphill; Staley Garrison with Betty Kirk; Wheeler with
Margaret Wheeler; Paul Welch with Jean Evans; Bob Cushman with Carolyn Howard; Dave Yocum with Martha Rushing; Paul Niesler with
Hazel Falk; Gaines Stubbins with Nell Stephens; Elliot White with Shirley Owens; Grayson Pucker with Ann Lee Leggett; Bryant Skinner
with Katherine Godfrey; Alfred McNair with Betty Scott Barber; Bill Ranson with Helen Carrison; Jackie Byrd with Mary Ann Brown;
Charlie Rowland with Jane Lee Murray; John Sherrill with Mickey Williams; Don Bryant with Eleanor Witherington; Jack Pritchett with Jean
Holmes; Dexter Bell with Peggy Witherington; William Joyner with Jane Linville; Bill Spangler with Anita Kenney; Charles Gunn with Kitty
Crane; Bob Powell with Effie Ruth Maxwell; Bill Lemmon with Rosa Rogerson; Nat Garrison with Jane Smith; and Frank Rawley
with Helen Poushee.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The brothers (and pledges!) enjoyed a festive weekend with thirty-two dates. Here is a complete list: Brothers: Harris with Miss
Betty Grantham, Hobbs with Miss Sara Dever, Young with Miss Peggy Parsley, Erwin with Miss Ruth Hayes, Franke with Miss
Ted McCormick, Carson with Miss Nancy Lewis, Taylor with Miss Julia Taylor, Frank Dunn with Miss Joyce Wooten, Port with
Miss Ann Caldwell, McGeachy with Miss Dot Jane Hodgin, Stewart with Miss Mary Carson Jones, Wills with Miss Dot Davenport,
Powell with Miss Carolyn Fuller, Bethea with Miss Bebe Manning, Lucas with Miss “Skeeter” McGee, Bill Dunn with Miss Julia
Garrett, McAllister with Miss Cora Lucas, Carrow with Miss Normie Tomlin. Pledges: Wills with Miss Janet Wills, Walker with Miss
Maryan de Coursey, Alexander with Miss Emily Irby; John McGee with Betty Lacey; Bill Wilkinson with Helen Woodside; Priestley Conyers
with Marguerite Madson; Sammy Yarborough with Mary Louise Smith; Wilson with Annelle McCall; Jimmy Ellis with Lura Kincaid; Cam Henderson
with Bobby Jennings; Hubert Taliaferro with Nancy Cromer; Ashby Dick with Margaret Roland; Frank Gault with Dotty Sappenfield; Monty Powell
with Katherine Midgett; Pat Williams with Amanda Parsley; Gene Sutton with Margaret Taylor. Those who attended as stags were: Bill
Grimsley, Charlie Capps, Charlie Brockman, Jack Walker, Dick Smith, Bob McCoy, Ed Ashby, Buck Troutman, Bobby Phillips, Bill Lawson, Hugh
McArn, Wray Amos, Bucky.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The following beauties were escorted to last weekend’s festivities by Eps: Manning (chapter sponsor) with Mary Dean Lott, Newton with
Lib Lale, Katherine Loy with Sara Jeanne-Lou Lyon, Frances Grier with Ann Glass, Catherine Anne Walker with Adelaide Anderson, Evangeline
Palmer with Miriam Young, Mary Dulls with Gloria Iderton, Lola Sherrial with Laura Anne Jule Hurst, Bernice Colvin with Jane
King and Dot Mauldin (both by Jerrold Robinson), Isabelle McIlwain with Mary Phyllis Gorham, Ray Carter with Joan Stark, Elizabeth
McCord with Jule Poindexter, and Gladys Kingsolver. Alumnus Charley Osley, '41, dated Jane Moore. Paul Bell was a guest from
Wake Forest. The Spee banquet, held Saturday night at Thacker’s, was presided over by Pan-Hellenic representative Clarence Legerton. Jimmy Fulcher
was the toastmaster.

BETA THETA PI

The Betas had a gala weekend at the dances with thirty-eight dates on the campus. The high spot of the
weekend was the Alumni Banquet Saturday night with over a hundred present. The Alumni present were: John S. Smith, class
of '24, Greenville, S.C.; Mr. and Mrs. John Roddey, '24, Rock Hill, S.C.; Dr. and Mrs. Chalmer Davidson, '28, Davidson,
N.C.; Ralph Lincoln, '27, Marion, Virginia; Mr. and Mrs. R.E. Wilson, Jr., '28, Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Olin Nisbet,
Jr., '28, Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. and Mrs. Jim Abernathy, '32, Winter Haven, Florida; Frank Hard, '40, Atlanta, Ga.; Jack Phillips,
'42, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. and Mrs. Dick Rankin, '42, Mt. Gilead, N.C.; Albert Winn, '42, Richmond, Va.; and Mr. and
Mrs. Bob Bryant, '42, Charlotte, N.C.

HOME-COMING HIGHLIGHTS

Many Alumni crowded the Davidson stands at the Charlotte Memorial Stadium to watch the Wildcats play their powerful Carolina opponents.
This game was the climax for the first Davidson Home-Coming ever held in Charlotte. Both the football game and the
Alumni Banquet, which preceded it, were well attended, although transportation difficulties limited the attendance to those living close by.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Fijis raised the roof at the Home-Coming dance weekend. Dates for the affair were as follows: Lucy Wooten with Jesse
Wooten; Peggy Taylor with Bill Lyman; Gladys Hartsell with Hank; Katherine Caldwell with Tom Snodgrass; Patsy Miller with Howell Morrow;
Lou Way with Ed Pickard; Connie Grigsby with Ray Miller; HarrietBenton, Tom Hart; Ollie Meadows, Dick O'Hair; Jen Williamson; Ellie
Shaver, Rhea Preston; Jane Slate, Ed Grant; Isabel Linker, George McCormack; Mary Kathryn McArthur, George Patrick; Arlene Palm- land, Ann
Carter, Harry Crane; Frances Rawlins, Ormand; Jim French, Margaret Osborn; Lee Wolfe, Virginia Hamilton; Rhea Dabney, Ann Abernathy; Colleen Crowell,
Bruce Black, Bob Yount; Clarence Olive, Jane Sloan; Suddy Abernathy; Margaret Thompson, Frances Bryan; Frank Hall, Kitty Gayle; and Leigh
McKeithan, Betty Barber.

PHI DELTA THETA

Dealers and operators were a dime a dozen, as the Phis killed a big one at the Home-Coming dance set.
Brothers Smith and Watson were trying to start a two-man game of murder ball and when seen asked why this
attempt to end their lives, it was found that their dates had been detained at Sweetbriar and W. C. another
day. A party from the dance was surprised to see Brothers Hobbie, Sutton, and Chapman come out of the police
station at 3:00 a.m. on Saturday morning. With their dates too—My, my!!

The snaking committee was headed by Brother Hendee who was ably assisted by Brothers Robertson, Pierce, Conner, Beaty, and Mclver
and Pledge Brothers Cutchins, Whelis, and Powell. What happened to Brother "No-Neck" Loughridge and his fair visitor from Germantown on
Saturday night is still a deep secret and no amount of grilling can loosen the short boy's tongue.

The chapter had a pleasant surprise when in walked Brothers George Dew and Bobby Williams. "Gorgeous George" is a "shave
tail" in the Marines and Murph is attending Union Theological Seminary. Brother Wright was accompanied by his lady from Queens
and Brother "Holy Henry" McIntosh was seen with a beauty all the way from the "sunshine state." Brother Ernie Spangler
had two of the fairer sex. Pledge "Stinky" Styron was the operator of the week and made a solid connection
with a ravishing Sweet Briar lass. Other brothers and pledges attending the dances were Emerson and his faithful follower Archer,
Chapman, Sheely, Weatherly, Bennett, Wadill, Hemby, Starnes, McClean, Maloney, Valentine, Bernhardt, Thurston, Burns, and Hardee.

PI KAPPA PHI

This dance weekend proved to be the roughest deal of the semester so far. The banquet was held Friday night
at the Hotel Charlotte. The faculty and their wives were there, and we welcomed brothers back. Brother Maynard Watson attended
the banquet and both dances. The dates were: Alice Ross, Charlotte; Mary Ellen Wyatt, Charlotte; Ann Burch, Florence; Betty Elkins,
Hartsville; Beverly Parker, Charlotte; Mary Goodsome, Florence; Helen Hunter, Charlotte; Estelle Darrow, Charlotte; Thelma Warner, Miami; Mary LeGrand, Gateville, S.C.;
Wot Wells, Sundale, N.C.; Mary Clark, Charlotte; Mary Dell White, Charlotte; Shirley Morris, Eleanor, S.C.; Marlyn Hipps, "Becky" Beck, Florence;
Lorene Liles, Concord; Josie Jegare, Greenville; Gaines, Anderson, Kannapolis; Dottie Harriel, Elkin; Lucielle Cook, Clover, S.C.; Mava McGinnes, Mooresville; Grace
Williams, Hickory; Billie New, Gastonia; Shirley Leman, Hickory; Anne Bagwell, Charlotte.

INDEPENDENTS

Some of the Independents with their dates for the Home-Coming dance set were: Buck McNeely, Mary Ellen Byrd; Frank Sanford,
Mary Frances McNeely; Speed Martin, Pam Thompson; Ed Rhudy, Genevie Medlin; Bill Harrill, Lyna Thiras; Bill Barber, Louise Moore; Archie
McNeil, Wenni Stokes. Also Clyde Hobbs, Margaret Powell; Jim Mitchener, Alice McCrum; Ellis Kickliter, Betty Ann Gravatt; Rufus Long, Susan
Austin; Jack Ewart, Ruth Ewart; Marks Underwood, Jacqueline Schutze; Bill Vincent, Dorothy Ann Meyers; and Clifford Hardy, Mary Helen Orr.
Many Independents stagged—not staggered—to the Home-Coming festivities, including the game and the merrymaking in general. All reports seem to indicate
a very satisfactory weekend for all the non-fraternity dealers.

VESPERS

Dr. C. M. Richards, Bible professor of the College, was the speaker at the Vesper Service held in Chambers Auditorium
on Sunday evening, November 8. Dr. Richards’ subject was taken from the first chapter of II Timothy, and his subject
was the security found in faith in Christ. It was maintained by the pastor that in order to take our
stand on Christ, the Solid Rock, we must go through three stages. These stages are to execute an act of
intellect, an act of emotion, and an act of will.

YMCA Offers Own Library

“Y” Originates Religious Library For Students

As a result of a request for books on religion, the Y.M.C.A. now has a library of books which should
prove helpful to Davidson students. Last summer, all ministers who have attended Davidson and who were still living were requested
to send a book or two which they could spare which concerned religious matters. The response to this request came
quickly and over 150 books are now in the library.

Two Types

This library is now quite complete and contains two main types of books. One is the book in which students
can browse. All of these books which require only light reading are placed in the bookcase in the small lounge
in the “Y”. In the Y.M.C.A. office are placed the other books which are of the more academic type. These,
for the most part, are used for serious studying and for reference work in getting up Sunday School lessons, deputation
talks, sermons, hall prayer meetings, chapel talks, and the like.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

THACKER’S RESTAURANT 221 S. Tryon St. Opposite Johnston Building For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

STONESTREET Grade A Cafe 418 S. Main Mooresville, N.C.

Unity Church Holds Annual Celebrations

Picnic Dinner, Services Feature Home-Coming

Unity Church had its annual Home-Coming last Sunday, November 8. Fine weather and fine attendance made the gathering one of
the most successful in past years. Each year on the same weekend of the Davidson College Home-Coming, this church invites
all its members and former members to attend the special program.

Program

The program began with a special church service Sunday morning which was followed by a picnic dinner on the church
grounds. After dinner, there was an old-fashioned sing in the church which lasted about two and a half hours. Several
different groups rendered special numbers during the sing. The day of fellowship and worship was brought to an end with
the evening service which was led by the pastor, Charles Patrish. Among those who were able to return to the
Unity Church for the Home-Coming was Jack Davidson, who was pastor of the church two years ago.

The Unity Church is an organization organized and sponsored by the local Presbyterian Church and the Davidson Y.M.C.A., and serves
the residents of the section on the west side of the town of Davidson.

Siegel And 28 Pledges Enter Phi’s

Lecture On “What a Good Phi Member Should Be” Made by Newbold

Professor Paul Siegel and 28 students were welcomed into the Philanthropic Society at the regular meeting held November 2. Features
of the meeting were a talk on “What a Good Phi Member Should Be” by Jerry Newbold; the reading of
two poems by Bob McMullen, John McLeod, and also one by Joe Robinson. Al Dimmock made an extemporaneous talk about
“Hill-Billy Invasion of Newport News.”

Initiates

Those initiated into the Phi's at the end of the meeting were Bob Hamilton, Ed Pickard, Dave Richardson, Eugene Linton,
Robert Worth, Jake Spencer, Charlie McKee, Jim Alexander, Bob Abernathy, Ed Gregg, Sam Gunn, Tom Hollinger, Charlie Hoyt, Hoyt Evans,
John Stuart, Jeep Whiteley, Ed Whitesides, Tag Guiton, Dan Graham, Bill Grey, Bill Styron, Jim Yates, Paul Savi, Henry Roney,
Jack Jenkins, Ed Lilly, Gerald Robinson, and Cargill McCormick. Committees for making definite arrangements for a party have been appointed
by Jimmy Fulcher, president.

QUIPS AND CRANKS

Ed Murray, editor of the QUIPS AND CRANKS, announced that all students who have not had their pictures taken for
the Annual are urged to have them made next week between the hours of 11:15 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. when
the photographer will be in the parlor of Watts. This is the last chance to have pictures taken. Proofs of
the pictures taken by the photographer on his first visit were shown to the students for their selection during the
first days of this week.

Advice Asked By Y Cabinet

Looking For Hints As To Use Of Gift Fund

About this time of year the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet begins to think about the Annual Christmas Gift Fund. The most important
plan which must be made at this time is to decide what this gift fund is to be used for.
Last year the Christmas Gift Fund was used to send Bibles to China, concentration camps in Germany, and to each
man on a U.S. battleship.

Will Decide

This weekend at their retreat, the "Y" Cabinet will decide on the objective of this year’s gift. Alf Taylor, who
is chairman of the committee on World Evangelism and therefore in charge of the Gift Fund, is asking Davidson students
to think seriously about what they would like for the objective to be this year. Any suggestions along this line
will be greatly appreciated and should be given to Alf Taylor or Shaw Smith.

J. O. JONES, INC.

If You Wear A Hat (And Hats Are Really The Thing For College Men) MAKE IT A “LEE” J. O.
JONES, INC.
