Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 15, 1942

Philanthropics Hear Foreman at Meeting To Consider New Members; Requirements Announced By Society

At the weekly meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman gave a most interesting talk on “Analogies of the Assyrian Empire and the Present Nazi Regime.” He was introduced by the chairman, Alex Sime, after the devotional had been led by George Worth. Following this, Rhea Preston gave the Treasurer’s report and also outlined the financial plan of the society for the coming year. Included in this outline were very interesting plans for a social to be given in the very near future.

Memorial Flowers

In answer to President Cunningham's request that student organizations provide flowers in the auditorium for vesper services, Buddy Wells proposed that flowers be put in the auditorium for services on October 18. It was further moved that these flowers be given in memory of Phis who are now in the service of their country, a few of whom are: John Brady, Brown, Dave Huffines, Jim Kerr, Paul Kissling, Bill MacLauchlin, Jack Moore, Tom Plonk, Dave Rhea, and George Shannon.

Next Meeting

At the next meeting, new members will be considered and any student interested in joining this society should see Jim Fulcher or any other member of the Philanthropic Society before Monday evening, October 19. The requirements for admission to the society are the presentation of a paper or talk by the initiate. The program chairman announced that in the meeting Monday evening, October 19, the poems that won the 1942 Literary Award by John McLeod will be read by Bob McMillan. Also to be featured will be a humorous sketch of the qualifications of a Phi candidate, and an extemporaneous talk by one of the members. Jim Fulcher is president of the Philanthropic Literary Society for the first semester of this year. He is also Freshmen Adviser and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Staff Adds Five Books

Emil Ludwig’s “The Mediterranean” Now In Library

“During the past week the library staff has added five new books to its shelves that will be of interest to the students,” announced Dr. Chalmers Davidson last Monday.

“The Mediterranean” by Emil Ludwig, is a book covering a vast and interesting subject which embraces recurrent causes and issues that are being contested on the shores of the Mediterranean today. “The Uninvited,” a current bestseller by Dorothy Macardle, deals with the experiences of a man and woman in a beautiful home, which is considered haunted. The ending of the book is very unusual.

“Van Loon’s Lives”

The author, Hendrick Wilhelm Van Loon, supposedly entertains his heroes of the past in “Van Loon’s Lives.” This book is highly interesting and clever. The fifty years immediately following the Civil War, mingled with a romance of a young Southerner and her dashing beau, constitutes “Drivin’ Woman” by Elizabeth Pickett Chevalier, spiced with excitement.

For a somewhat bawdy, yet wonderful picture of France before her downfall, Elliot Paul's “The Last Time I Saw Paris” will be particularly attractive, it is thought.

SIGMA DELTA PI

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their first meeting at 7:30 Tuesday evening, October 13. Plans for the coming year were mapped out and a short program was presented by the members. This year the Spanish Club will hold joint meetings with Sigma Delta Pi, of which B. B. Walker is president. Walker is also president of the Interfraternity Council, made up of all of the honorary fraternities.

FUTURE SOLDIERS LEARN TO PITCH

Cadets of Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department are not losing any time in learning the tactics of war. Here, all these future officers must learn to throw dummy grenades into an improvised trench some thirty yards away. They are being instructed by First Lieutenant W. Clarence Legerton of Charleston, S. C.

PHI GAMS

The Phi Gams journeyed to Memphis last weekend. Farthest afield was Brother Woote, who made an extended visit to his home. His arrival back on the campus certainly shattered the beautiful rumors.

Journeying in the same direction were Brothers Necar, Thompson, and Grant, and Pledge Mowles, all of whom attended the Virginia Tech game. Grant and Pledge Mowles managed to get to Bristol and Lebanon on their return.

Brother Preston and Brother Coonrad were Phi Delta's lone, but not lonely, representatives at the Phi Mu Sorority party in Charlotte. Pledge Brother Richardson traveled to Spartanburg, and Brother Craft stayed in Hickory. Brother Crowell spent the weekend at his home in Lexington, N.C.

REGION OPENS

(Continued from Page One)

Mr. Hoyt Galvin spoke on the drive. He called for conservation and collection of rags, fats, rubber, tin cans, and scrap metal.

Families Honored

Families of the service men were represented on the speakers' platform by Col. Cochran, who thanked everyone for the kindness shown to those he represented. His plea was for a world organization that would ensure world peace for future generations. Following the speech by the Honorable Cameron Morrison, the meeting broke up with the singing of “America,” again led by the Davidson Band.

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise DAVIDSON, N. C.

Writer Backs Frosh Court For Good Job Declares That Freshmen Need Suppression To Prevent “Noxiousness”

By HUGH McLAUGHLIN

Officially, Rush Week may have come to an end, but there is still one powerful group on the campus that still comes into intimate contact with the class of '46. This august and revered body has been doing its job with unparalleled vehemence. Joe McCoy must be commended for the fine job he is doing in keeping the frosh in line.

Last week in the Davidsonian, there appeared an article written by one of the freshmen, complaining of the so-called “bloody persecution” of his class. As a result, he probably doesn’t understand the fundamental purpose of the control.

Court's Purpose

Without some suppression, freshmen might easily fall into noxious conceit. In order to help them, the Court was first set up. Consider, for example, the action in the case of the six frosh who painted the walk in front of Chambers. Without the discipline of the Court, these freshmen might have fallen into even greater encroachments on the campus. Action taken by the Court on this matter also saved the college the inconvenience of apprehending and punishing the culprits. Next year these same frosh will be governing the class of '47. Therefore, there’s little room for complaint on the part of freshmen.

One of the oldest, and perhaps the most useful, of the Freshmen Regulations is the rule which requires them to carry the laundry of upperclassmen whenever called upon to do so. It is really a good investment. The freshmen carry laundry for one year, and then they never have to worry about it again.

“Victory Parade”

Advantages have been granted to the class of '46 that were never in effect for any of the classes preceding them. No longer do they find themselves being urged on with a machine gun.Say that John left Davidson with the intention of traveling to Atlanta to consummate a “big business deal,” but by the time they reached Greenville, the boys became discouraged and returned home. The Sig-Eps played their first inter-fraternity football game Monday against the Pikas and won. Outstanding among the star players were Miller, McBride, and Thompson. Traveling as far as Nashville, Tenn., Steve met with alumni brother Thurston, who was passing through on his way to school in Oregon. Mebane South took an air Spike Brother crossed the border into South Carolina to spend the weekend at Converse with his mother, who came up from Florida. Brother Upchurch took in the Duke-Georgia Preflight game in Durham, as well as Brother P. Other brothers to journey in the vicinity were Garrison on his weekly jaunt to Rock Hill, Pledge Brother Gallant to his home in Anderson, and B. Skinner to Greenville in order to see his belts when they form the “shirt-tail” parade. The name has been changed to fit the occasion. It is now called the Victory Parade, but it is the frosh who have gained the most from it. Brother Howard went for a hike. Brother Welch, who flew up to see the same, remained successfully on the campus. Brothers Raney and Caterson made a trip to Salisbury. Caterson went to look up some new interests. Pledge Brother Bill Lemon attended the V.P.I. game and then continued home to Marion, Va. His home in Rockingham. Pledge Know spent his weekend in Greensboro; so did Brother Stubbs. Brother Hemby spent his weekend in Charlotte. Brother Whizzer White shizzed up to Morganton and then home to Graham for the weekend.

The Sigmas were rambling this weekend. Brother Raireciictoe made a trip with a visit to his parents in Charlotte. Brothers Brown, Myers, and Knox held dealings in Greensboro. Brothers Pendleton and Pledges Maness, Dalton, and Bobbitt, and Pledge Brothers Sipe, West, Sharpe, Harden, and Mayor went to Queens. Brothers Ehly, Amos, and Williams, and Pledge Brother Jack went to Charlotte. Brother Pendleton and Pledges Maness, Dalton, and Bobbitt, and Pledge Brothers Sipe, West, Sharpe, Harden, and Mayor went to Queens.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“Ebb” Anderson, Bob Douglas, Don’t Wait—Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN
Only $1.50 per year
Send Name and Address to:
THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Class work plays an important role. Instruction in the use of the CRETAN LABYRINTH (Continued from Page One) has tripled! Many morgues are contemplating installing a “Quick Order” or “Biers while you wait” department just to take care of this Davidson overflow. This obstacle course is really a wonderful thing; it makes us get so much out of life, such as galloping consumption and other body builders. It’s a wonderful life! Period.

ALUMNI OFFICE STAFFS (Continued from Page One)
The students and members of the faculty. Student Staff Associated with the office are the following students: Lacy McLean, Sports Publicity; Bob Welch, Photography; Sid, formerly of Mitchell College in Statesville, General Publicity; Boyce Morrison, who was associated with this office last year, continues as addressographer and general assistant in alumni work. Mr. Payne is another student helper to be selected to complete his staff. Mr. Sost has indicated that there will be more in the near future. In addition to Public Relations and College Publicity, this office seeks to promote closer and more productive relationships with the fifty-four hundred living alumni. To this end, Mr. Payne was active during the summer with the current Gymnasium Campaign. He expects to give as much time as possible to this effort during the present term. Alumni meetings will be scheduled during the year in the majority of Southern and Eastern cities where alumni associations exist. At these meetings, according to Mr. Payne, Dr. Cunningham or some other representative of the campus group will present various aspects of college life and future objectives.

Ten Dangers of Alcohol Is Vespers Topic
Dr. Forman Points Out The Misconceptions of Claims of Intoxicants
Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Bible and Philosophy, spoke at the Sunday night vesper service on October 11th. Dr. Foreman chose for his subject ten misconceptions about alcohol. These topics were thoroughly discussed, and the fallacy of each was clearly shown. Among the ten topics were: “Alcohol is a food,” “Only excessive drinking is harmful,” “Alcohol is a stimulant,” “I can take it or leave it,” and “Look at the employment which liquor makes.” He pointed out that man is not born with a desire for alcohol. Many sins of man grow out of human nature, but alcohol is acquired. Dr. Foreman also pointed out that we face a sober foe in the present world conflict and that the armies which drank liquor have fallen before this foe.

Quartet Sings
Deane Watson, Bill Joyner, John Robinson, and Buddy Wells sang “Almighty Lord, With One Accord” by Gauntlett. The Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Pfohl led the congregation in the singing of “Onward Christian Soldiers.” Mr. Osborne was organist and for the prelude and postlude played “Chord in A Minor” by Franck. Flowers for the service were presented in memory of the members of the Philanthropic Literary Society who graduated last June.

Literary Club Has Meeting
Sigma Upsilon Names McLean As Secretary
Lacy MacLean, of Charlotte, was elected secretary of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, at its first meeting of the year, held Tuesday week ago at the Phi Gamma Delta house. MacLean was elected to replace John Northcross, who did not return to Davidson this year. MacLean is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Plan Short Story
Business at the meeting included selecting a continuous literary form for the year, and it was decided that a committee make an outline plot and characters. The various members are to write a short story with the same plot and main characters from varying points of view at the various meetings. Heading the committee is Myron Sandifer, to be assisted by Lt. Spencer, Welford Hobbie, and Dr. Cumming.

Research Papers
A motion was made and passed that at every other meeting a research paper of interest be assigned to various members. The committee includes: Lacy MacLean, chairman, Dr. Johnston, and Ed Erwin, Jr.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

Thursday, October 15th
“TISH”

Friday and Saturday, October 16th and 17th
“PARDON MY SARONG”

Monday and Tuesday, October 19th and 20th
“DESPERATE JOURNEY”

Wednesday, October 21st
“GUNGA DIN”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON, N. C.