Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 26, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY..................EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON..................BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Catterall..................Assistant Editor
Wes Grimsley....................Associate Editor
Alan White......................Associate Editor
Ed Erwin.......................Managing Editor
Fred Price......................Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher..................Managing Editor
Bill Lyman......................Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh..................Sports Editor
Lacy MacLean...................Sports Editor
Clarence Legerton...............Movie Editor
Bill Barker......................Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp....................Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young.....................Advertising Manager
Joe Martin......................Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely...................Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart.....................Collections Manager

“Thirty” for the Old Editor

There are several regrets and more apologies from the retiring staff, yet we feel that we have left the fate of The Davidsonian in hands capable of setting up the type with fewer stains of printer's ink and other handicaps that are responsible for those regrets and apologies.

You have elected a capable person to pilot The Davidsonian through the year from a managing editorial staff of six untiring workers who deserve quite a bit of credit for their contribution to the newspaper. They are: Joe Eve, Jimmy Fulcher, Bill Lyman, Henry McIntosh, Lacy MacLean, and of course, Ed Erwin, the new editor-in-chief. It has been a pleasure to work with these men, and there is a bond existing between us caused by common duties, common complications, and common errors. The reward of friendships outdistances all other acknowledgments of achievement.

But ten men could never put out a newspaper. The co-operation of the student body is the one thing that is indispensable in editing one, and we wish to say “Thank you for your patience and willingness to help.” Needless to say, it is necessary for it to continue in order for the new staff to carry on.

And to this new staff, we wish the best of luck for the coming year in carrying out the motto, “For a better Davidson.”

TONY DARBY.

Be It Understood...

The purpose of The Davidsonian, in relation to the student body at least, is two-fold. First, it is a record of events, or contemporary history of the college. Second, it is the organ of student opinion.

As to the accomplishment of the first end, we the editors and staff of The Davidsonian have contracted to compile the various happenings on this campus into the form, at least, of a newspaper. If we do not deliver we and we alone are responsible.

The second trust, however, lies directly with you. We invite, in fact, we insist that you the student body take advantage of the opportunity to make yourself heard here on every question that promises to create a “better Davidson.” The Davidsonian intends to reflect student opinion, but it does not expect or hope to mold it.

Unfortunately, like all weekly publications printed by small schools, the paper can hardly be expected to serve as an efficient news dispensary for the student body. The student body gathers daily and hears all important announcements, but even those that are hoarded by the frenzied college staff for obvious reasons can usually be disclosed with little difficulty between make-up time Monday night and press time Thursday by anyone interested enough to investigate.

The retiring editor and his assistants set a standard in the pursuance of all these journalistic goals that strikes the incoming regime with feelings of awe. Our only hope is that we may produce a paper that will be worthy of the institution of which you are so justly proud.

As a postscript on our opening letter let us add that any and all criticism on any phase of the composition or content of The Davidsonian is invited and will be appreciated.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

The Filth By ? Columnist—CP

Thursday, March 26
DR. KILDARE’S VICTORY ** Lew Ayres, Lionel Barrymore, Ann Ayres, and Robert Sterling. This is another in the series of productions made famous by Lew Ayres as Dr. Kildare, and Laraine Day as Nurse Mary. But because of the fear of “typing” her, Miss Day has been removed from the cast, and she will be given a chance to show her dramatic abilities in roles with other leading men. Lionel Barrymore, as genial Dr. Gillespie, again has the role of Dr. Kildare’s old friend and counselor.

Friday and Saturday March 27 and 28
BABES ON BROADWAY ** Mickey Rooney, Judy Garland, Virginia Weidler, and Ray McDonald. Strictly for Garland and Rooney fans, this is the same old musical you've seen over and over—though we must admit that Mickey and Judy do manage to instill freshness into it. Mickey's impersonation of Carmen Miranda is one of the high spots of the show and Judy’s singing and Ray’s dancing are always tops.

Monday and Tuesday March 30 and 31
PLAYMATES ** Kay Kyser, John Barrymore, Lupe Velez, May Robson, and Patsy Kelly. With such a combination as Kay Kyser, John Barrymore, Ginny Simms, Patsy Kelly, Lupe Velez, May Robson, and Peter Lind Hayes, it's up to you to figure out what you have, or what have you? It all amounts to a super conglomeration of tomfoolery and nonsense, with Kyser’s peculiar talent for non-acting being a perfect balance for Barrymore’s overacting.

Wednesday's program is a double feature consisting of MISS POLLY and TREAT 'EM ROUGH.

COMING: TWO-FACED WOMAN and THE VANISHING VIRGINIAN.

I would like for Ed Murray to be the guest of the theatre for any production this week.

Down Fraternity Court

Pi Kappa Phi
This was a rather quiet week for the Pi Kapps. However, there were a few excursions to various parts of the country. As usual, Brother “Archon” Larkin took off (to this week.) Brother went to Clemson and Atlanta while Brother Parks traveled to Charleston with the track team. Brother Patton was attracted to Limestone by the heroine of his diary. Raleigh Gowdy operated in Gastonia while Brothers Raymond and Lineberger zipped into Kannapolis. Brother Denny was kept busy between Gastonia and Raleigh while Brother Evans bemoaned the tire shortage in Hickory. Brothers Watson and Gaither were noted in Spartanburg over the weekend.

Pi Kappa Alpha
All in all, an unusually quiet weekend was had by the entire chapter. Those spending their time on the campus were brothers Lane, Parks, Elder, Tallison, Williamson, and pledges Farrow, Turner, and White. Brother Maxwell led the way to Greensboro, while Brothers Neill, Anderson, and Parsons followed close behind. Brother Anderson had a lot of explaining to do as the result of a previous trip. Brother Hodges made Ripley's column this weekend by remaining on campus instead of hiking over to W.C.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Again leading the off-campus parade this weekend was Brother Fred Morton with his usual trip to Atlanta, or perhaps Agnes Scott would be more appropriate. Joe Bivins spent his spare moments in Elkin, while Jack Behrman and Rod Turner thrilled two lassies in Shelby. Daffin and Whiddon went to the party at Queens, while Legerton, Miller, and Fulcher operated in the city. Davis was gone with the wind to Winthrop, while Bobbitt journeyed homeward to Sanford. As usual, Loy, Gwynn, and Winchester trekked to Berryhill, and Henderson, after entertaining a cute young thing from Providence, Rhode Island, for three days, traveled northward to an unknown destination.

Kappa Sigma
Because of the coming holidays the brothers of Kappa Sigma operated little the last weekend. However, the banner was held high by a faithful few including Brothers Kelly and Taylor who ventured down to see the Converse lassies; and as usual Taylor came back with all resolutions broken. George Marsh played the ponies at Pinehurst, N.C., but claims to have broken all even. Of great importance also is the fact that Tom Peters took an epoch-making trip to Charlotte. Frank Gault visited Greensboro and W.C. and Bill Grimsley journeyed over to Queens to lay and George Ennet went to the Montreat haven.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
This week it seems that the majority of the brothers stayed on the campus for the purpose of studying, but Charlotte eventually took its toll. The main excursion of the week was to Pinehurst, and included Brothers Wilson, Crichton, Moore, and Freeze. Brother Graves took his weekly trip to Greensboro. Brothers Whaling, Dee Dunn, and Sprunt went home to Winston and Brother Carter took in Salem College.

Phi Gamma Delta
Considering the proximity of vacation, quite a few Phi Gams undertook trips last weekend. Brother Taylor journeyed to Durham, while Brother Hodges spent the weekend at his home in Raleigh. Brother O’Hair, Brother Frost, and PledgeBrother Jennings went to Rock Hill. Rufus Nimmons was in Charleston, S.C., and Tony Darby visited W. & L. The “Fijis” are looking forward to another quite active weekend, having received two invitations. The entire chapter has been invited to the Pig Dinner to be given Saturday by the Carolina Phi Gams, and also to a Delta Gamma Sorority function at Duke Sunday night. The chapter has accepted both invitations and is planning to attend en masse.

Kappa Alpha
A rather mild weekend was enjoyed by Davidson’s Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha fraternity, with books and the late show claiming more victims than women and late dates. Brothers embarked on functions of a slightly wilder nature. Brothers Turnage, Wilson, and Councill had their share of festivities, while to Charlotte, as usual, went the Belks, John, Irwin, and Henderson, as did Brother Mason Wallace. Dick Coppedge was with the cross-country team in Charleston, while Brother Sandifer and Pledge Brother Jackson were going home to South Carolina. The entire chapter extends its best wishes for a speedy recovery to Brother Irwin Belk, who is ill at his Charlotte home.

Beta Theta Pi
Brother Paul Welch was bumped by a T-Model in Atlanta while on a rifle team trip. He was with Brother Yokum and Stubbins at Clemson. Brother White gave up a trip to Graham for a trip to Charleston with the cross-country team. Brother Barnwell and Pritchett went to their homes in Burlington. However, several of the Spike Mebane went along and stayed until Monday. Brother Witherington was in Greensboro. Brother Robinson went to Gastonia. Dick Rankin was in Lexington. Brother Howell was in Eberlee and Brother Jack Philips went to Mount Gilead with Brother Walker.

IT’S AGAINST THE LAW...
to put cuffs on slacks and trousers of suits after Tuesday, March 31st. The following is one of the government’s new woolen restriction regulations: “No person shall finish a pair of trousers made of wool cloth, or part wool, with cuffs or cause such to be finished with cuffs by others for his account.” In order to take care of any Davidson men who might be affected by this order, we will bring our complete stock of slacks to Miss Minnie’s this Friday. You can protect yourselves by buying from this complete assortment of flannels, coverts, gaberdines, cheviots, venetians, doeskins, and tropicals.

As our new editor takes over, we are hoping that the censorship will not be quite so rigid as that under Horrible Darby's regime. However, with such excellent chances, the school turns limber this week and gives your columnist the problem of filling space with second-rate dealing only. To lead off, we find RALPH WILLIAMS trying vainly but valiantly to recapture his health and vigor of his youth by dating a Junior, Miss at Harding High, in Charlotte. Maybe that’s just his speed. I’ve been bribed not to mention his companion. Incidentally, out of consideration for ——'s good name, we shall refrain from cutting him henceforth in this column.

Among the pitiful few who didn’t attend the local emporium Saturday night were PAT RUDOLPH, MARSHALL CHAPMAN, and GEORGE “HONEY” DEW, who went to MOORESVILLE to visit a Jew friend at the Towel Mill; add references to the 12:30 shift. Everything was fine until JIM OWENS, supporting ladies more of Mooresville patrician circles, entered. PADRE beamed to the base of all 17 hairs on his head and the whole evening turned out rather unsuccessfully.

COLIN SHAW SMITH writes PRISCILLA at the WAFFLE SHOP in Charlotte (she’s an icicle built woo)—"Keep the eggs hot; I’m on my way.” Incidentally, she wants to know what SQUATTY SQUIRES looks like since reputedly locked with him. In the same league with SHAW SMITH, we find BUTCH CALDWELL calling the square dance at the High School Saturday night while JUMPY BRUCE makes off with his girl. GUS McLEAN missed his usual connections to Concord and took Winston-Salem as next best; he must have been satisfied because it was indeed early Monday morning when he returned and he was exceedingly weak.

While in the Phi Delt corner, we find Glenn Terrell has asked a girl, Granny by name, to their Spring Function, and is just now discovering she is married. TAD LARKIN followed his young doe, MISS ROEBUCK, to a teachers’ meeting last weekend (she’s a pedant), but both decided this was no time of year for such affairs, and she went to no meetings at all. TOMMY PETERS unlimbered his right wing at the tavern Saturday night as BUZZ COUNCIL pulled a Mickey Owens, more or less; only, there wasn’t any backstop, and glass on glass makes noise. There's been a guy from Charlotte with brass buttons and a badge looking for them since.

Under solemn oath to leave out the many-cut operators here, we must inform SWACK THOMPSON that JOHN BELK now has ANNE WILEY in miniature form on his desk; a good likeness, only someone has written Martha on it. In closing, we find that even here in monastic confines, scenes often occur. TOM FINDLAY, cleaning the Phi Gam attic, accidentally burst ungracefully into the BLUE ROOM below. This in itself isn't so bad; the rub is that the only lady visitor to the house in Davidson in centuries was powdering her nose therein at the time.

Just one more thing — please somebody do something so that whoever gets this honored(?) job next won't have the tough time this week's collaborators have had. Even in the best of us, there is somewhere the “hair.” Pluck it!

PATTER
—By PAT RUDOLPH

A Note On Spring
Spring is really here. I know? How do I know? I saw the first real Davidson sign of spring today—a bright, shiny new pair of saddle shoes tripping across the campus, as if they didn’t know their significance. Andre Kostelanetz gave Spring a royal welcome on his radio program on Sunday afternoon, and at this point, I wish to do the same. Spring is that time of year when young men’s fancies are turning, in fact, some have turned permanently—you see the old ladies on the street in Charlotte selling jonquils—you join larger and more colorful bull sessions on the front porch of Georgia—half-naked, lily-white skinned boys with blankets head for the nearest grassy plot to get tanned (I really saw two today)—the lingo of the diamond lingers over practice fields all afternoon—Hugo’s ice cream and limeade business zooms—boys curse themselves for having already used up their cuts—Chambers Building’s lawn becomes velvety again—sophomores take more than casual interest in reading Lord Byron's love poems—there are more and more lost balls on the heather (golf course)—too-young-for-the-draft boys popping out in loud new sport coats and suits—seniors talking about trips to New York or Florida before the year is over—seniors bulling about the merits of going to the Kentucky Derby—Rudolph wondering whether anyone’s going to Spring Frolics or not—enough, (Editor’s comment.)

AT MISS MINNIE’S FRIDAY
Jack Wood Ltd.
231 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE

Swan Song
Well, the time has come at last. No more will I spend Monday nights struggling over an idea for this column. No more will I twist and writhe at my desk until nine o'clock, then go out on the campus, looking like a panhandler, stopping everyone to ask them for an idea. In brief, we’re changing horses. I don't know who the unfortunate person will be who is taking over the duties assigned to this arduous task, but it is my hope and desire that he will be well-versed in the art of asking people to be his guest columnist. That is positively the only solution for a nice quiet Monday night at the movies or in the library. I shall supply him with an old list of topics handed down from year to year, varying from “Girl-Break Dances” to essays on “The Art of Collecting French Camodes.” In between these two exciting subjects are such panics as “Flushes, Royal and Otherwise,” “Dancing on the Campus—Or Else (what),” and “Out of the Knights of Pythias, And Who Took On The Clambake.” These and many others will be in the hands of the new columnist before he can say Scriptsnpranks.

In a more or less serious vein, however, let me say that it has been a pleasure and a privilege to have occupied a spot on the editorial page of such a distinguished weekly rag, and I have enjoyed it more than I think I have. If the paper shortage forces any more drastic cuts in the size of this paper, the new columnist will probably be reduced to the grade of paragrapher or sentencer, but whatever you may be, whatever your name is, my best wishes and sympathy go out to you. “Thirty.”

EU’S INSTALL
Ed Taylor was installed as the new president of the Eumanean Literary Society at the last meeting, March 17, at the society hall. Other officers for the present semester are Jim McCrary, vice-president, and Charlie Brockmann, secretary. These new officers take the place of Ralph Williams, Ashby Dick, and Mac Jeffries respectively, while Jesse Wooten remains treasurer.