PORTS SURVEY By BUTCH PHARR

Class Softball

Softball is now competing with the varsity teams for the number one spot on the sports schedule as members of all classes are turning out on the intramural field to either play or pull for their respective classes. The tournament started Monday with the Juniors and Freshmen emerging from the first encounters victoriously. “Speedball” Davis Thomas looked good for the defeated Seniors allowing only one hit in the five innings he pitched, but gave way to George Marsh who was credited with the loss. The Seniors thought the game was on ice having a four-run lead in the sixth inning, but the Frosh came back to eke out a one-run victory. At the other end of the field, the Juniors were trouncing the hapless Sophs 8-4, but a protest was filed when the Juniors put the same man in twice and the game may have to be replayed.

Golf Team At Athens

Continuing their Spring travels, the varsity golfers breezed down to Athens, Georgia to try their luck in the Southern Intercollegiate Tournament. This is the tourney in which last year’s Captain Granny Sharpe showed so well, losing to the winner of the tournament, while the Davidson team finished close to the top. Tommy Bumbarger had the toughest luck of their recent trip when he shot a brilliant 73, only to be beaten eleven strokes by the Georgia number one man who was merely setting a new course record against him. Charlie Upchurch and Frank Mebane have been racking up the majority of the points for the team in the third and fourth spots while Bumbarger and Cavert are struggling with the hotter shot-makers.

Frosh Starts Baseball

Ed Lucas lost a heartbreaker to Carolina last Friday after giving them only four hits before being relieved in the ninth. It was his own wild throw to second while attempting a cut-off play that scored the two winning runs. The Freshmen started their baseball season with a game with Concord High on the home field, and another one here today against Mars Hill. They looked pretty good against the varsity in the practice game though they don’t have a plentiful supply of pitchers. Here’s hoping they can keep up the precedent they set on the gridiron and in the cage earlier this year, being undefeated in both sports.

Trackmen Soil

Track records were falling thick and fast in the meet with V. P. I. last Saturday, but none of them will hold due to the slight gale that was blowing up from the South. McMullin of Tech got a good start in the 100-yard dash and coasted along in the breeze for a mere 9.6. Later on in the meet, Arch Taylor, aided by the same gentle zephyr, ran the high hurdles in 15 seconds flat and the lows in 24.5 which is pretty fast sailing. Bill Loy set another unofficial school record for the 440 even though he came in behind a V. P. I. speedster.

Thoughts:

It looks as if a winning doubles combination has been hit on by the tennis team in Buck Archer and Gene Sutton, who are replacing last year’s team of Shore and Sproull, who were always a constant threat to their opponents. Archer and Sutton won all three of their matches while on the trip during the holidays. The wrestling team started their spring training Monday with only four reporting for the workouts. Most of the grapplers are out for other spring sports.

North Carolina’s Nine Defeats Varsity ’Cats

Some brilliant pitching by Ed Lucas was not quite enough for a victory for the Davidson baseball club as the Cats lost a heartbreaker to the Carolina Tar Heels 4-2, last Friday. Lucas, who gave up only four hits in the entire fracas, went into the ninth with a 2 to 1 lead, but two walks, an error, and one of the Tar Heel singles produced three runs to win for the visitors.

Netmen Back From Recent Georgia Trip

During the Spring Holidays, the Wildcat Tennis Team completed their annual invasion of Georgia. The bright spot of the trip for Davidson was the play of Buck Archer and Gene Sutton, who took all three of their doubles matches. The team left early Friday morning and opened their play against Georgia Evening School that afternoon. The Georgia team finally defeated them 4 to 3 after a thrilling match. After a day of rest on Daytona Beach Sunday, the team was able to defeat the University of Florida team 4 to 3 on Monday afternoon. The score was the same Tuesday afternoon when they met Stetson, but this time Davidson was at the small end of the scoring. The best two men for Davidson on this trip were Archer and Sutton, who took victories in two of their three matches. Parrigan was able to take one match, but neither Schmidt nor Creighton was able to score a win.

Sports Schedule

THURSDAY
Baseball—3:30, Frosh vs. Mars Hill.

FRIDAY
Track—4:30, Frosh vs. Reynolds High.

SATURDAY
Baseball—3:30, Frosh vs. Oak Ridge.

MONDAY
Baseball—3:30, Varsity vs. Wofford.

Bethea

Red Bethea, stellar backstop for the varsity nine, is doing a good job of replacing last year’s catcher and captain Russey Edmundson, who was lost by graduation. Besides his good work behind the plate, Bethea has been one of the leading batters so far this season. Carolina jumped into the lead in the fourth when Johnson of the Tar Heels popped a home run into the short center field bleachers. The Cats came right back in their half of the fifth to jump into the lead with a pair of runs. Jack Clark drew a walk to open the inning.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and scored when Captain Bob Carter sent a double into right. Carter then scored on Bethea’s double to left.

Error Scores Two

The score stayed at 2 to 1 when Lucas started off the ninth by retiring. Johnson, Reynolds, and Hussey walked and Hayworth singled. Reynolds scored and when attempting to nab Hussey off second, his throw was wild and both Hussey and Hayworth scored before Daffin retrieved the ball.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

Wildcat

Little Davey Spencer, veteran tailback of the Davidson football team, stepped into a new role this year as a star track man. Spencer participates in both the broad jump and javelin throw, and took a second place in each in Davidson's recent track meet against Virginia Tech.

In the first game, the Sophomores lost to the Juniors 8-4, while the Freshmen defeated the favored Seniors in a close one 7-6.

Thomas and Wayman Pitch

Jim Thomas was the starting pitcher for the Sophs against Jack Wayman for the Juniors. The third-year men got off to an early lead and held it all through the game, setting the Sophomores down one, two, three, in several innings. The Sophs threatened in the sixth and seventh innings but were unable to get men home after filling the bases. Standouts for the Juniors were Barnwell, Walker, Caterson, and Legerton, while McGeachy, Gaither, Robinson, Thomas, and Welch shone for the Sophs.

Frosh Rally

Surprise of the day was the victory of the unpredictable Frosh over the highly favored Senior nine.

DAVIDSONIAN

Virginia T Meet With Golf Team In Athens

One of the fastest fields ever to compete, the annual Southern Intercollegiate Golf Tournament got underway this morning at Athens, Georgia, with the 36-hole qualifying round holding the spotlight. The team turning in the lowest total score today is automatically crowned team champion of the tourney. The University of Georgia team is the defending champion.

Florida Beaten

Representing Davidson is Tommy Bumbarger, Pete Cavert, Charlie Upchurch, and Frank Mebane, who have just returned from their Spring holiday trip, on which they defeated the University of Florida team 10½ to 7½ and dropped decisions to the Citadel 2½ to 15½, and the University of Georgia 1 to 17.

Bumbarger Stars

Playing the number one post, Tommy Bumbarger, sophomore star, has shown the best form so far. Firing against some of the South's best collegiate golfers, he has displayed excellent consistency. Against the University of Georgia, he shot his best round of the trip, a 73, only to drop his match to Arnold Blum, tourney favorite this year, who shot a par-shattering 62, a new course record.

Upchurch, Mebane Win

Pete Cavert, playing number two and acting captain of the squad, has been pushing Bumbarger considerably for the number one post. Charlie Upchurch and Frank Mebane, playing three and four respectively, have been the most successful in getting points for the Wildcats. Against Florida, they took 9 out of a possible 9.

Thursday, April 16, 1942

Defeats Davidson Track Team; P. C. Today

With an even break in two dual meets against South Carolina and Furman under their belts, Wildcat trackmen travel to South Carolina today in a determined effort to conquer Presbyterian’s runners this afternoon and calm the Purple Hurricane Saturday. Coach Whittle and his protégés are optimistic about the contest and hope to return home with two victories to the good.

Taylor Wins

Virginia Tech swamped the Cats last Saturday in Blacksburg, 80 1-3 to 45 1-3, blasting view records right and left. Only the redoubtable Arch Taylor, who stepped off a sizzling 120-yard high hurdle event in 15 seconds flat, could cope with the Gobblers, and turned in the only clear-cut Davidson wins in this and the 120 lows. Taylor's times erased all standing school records but were nullified by the twenty-mile breeze.

Shannon Ties

Gene Shannon tied for first in the pole vault, while Bill Loy was chalking up another Davidson record at 440 yards, although he finished behind McMillan of Tech. Ben Lacy blew in on the heels of this same McMillan in the century, taking 9.7, while brother Bill followed closely in third place.

---

Chesterfield Advertisement

There’s satisfaction in knowing that the 6¢ revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its bit for Uncle Sam. And Chesterfield’s superior blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos has everything it takes to satisfy a smoker. It gives you a smoke that is definitely MILDER, COOLER, and BETTER-TASTING. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields today. Smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES.

Chesterfields follow the flag. On every front, you'll find them giving our fighting men more pleasure with their milder, better taste.

RUTH HAVILAND and SUSAN CLARKE, of the Women Flyers of America. With the alert young women flyers of America who are doing their part in the National Defense picture... it's Chesterfield. They Satisfy.

WITH MEN OF STEEL, building our ships and tanks and planes, it's Chesterfield. Everybody who smokes them likes them.

First place comes naturally to this light, comfortable Stetson. The “Playboy” gets out in front fast with its casual good looks and holds the lead wherever you wear it. See yourself in a Stetson “Playboy” today.

ANDERSON’S FOOD STORE
Groceries and Meats at Reasonable Prices
Phone 4441