Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, February 19, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON................. BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter.................. Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett................. Associate Editor
Al Winn....................... Associate Editor
Ed Erwin...................... Managing Editor
Joe Eve....................... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher................. Managing Editor
Bill Lyman.................... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh................ Sports Editor
Lacy MacLean................. Managing Editor
Clarence Legerton............. Managing Editor
Billy Barker................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp.................. Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young................... Advertising Manager
Lee Martin.................... Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely................. Circulation Manager
Ivey Stwatts.................. Collections Manager

“Draft Dodgers”

As we write these final lines before putting The Davidsonian “to bed,” the local draft officials in the new gym
are tabulating the data filled in by half a thousand students and townsboys. Those who had to or already have
had to register and those who are in the advanced course of the R. O. T. C. know that before
long they are expected to help furnish manpower for the most heinous and atrocious exploitation of human life and ideals
that the world has ever known.

We were a peace-loving people... a student body composed of men who had high ideals, plans for the future, ambitions
of being beneficial to society and to God. But yet, we are at war... We did not want war... we
are a people who gradually are being incensed with a desire for revenge, a student body who will soon be
filled with base desires to kill and cause destruction in the name of those ideals which are held dearer than
life itself. And so must it be if ever peace may again be found on the face of the earth.

Our Choice

We are a people who through the years have known nothing but freedom and liberty. We believe “that all men
are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights.” We realize that without these necessities
to happiness we could not be content in pursuing the profession of medicine or law; we realize that even life
itself would be unbearable under the rule of Nazism or the “yellow sons of Judas.” Truly, under such circumstances Death
itself would be more welcome.

Draft Dodgers

But yet there are those, who, realizing that we must win this war not alone for our own happiness, but
also for those who gave us birth and who will follow us, are not willing to make their share of
the necessary sacrifice. They are the men that for lack of a better name might be called “draft dodgers.” They
are the fellows who laugh about being physically unfit for service. They are those, who through political pull, continue to
prepare for the future while their classmates make supreme sacrifices. The desire to avoid the hell of war and the
“rocking of our dream boat” is found in all of us at times. But yet most of us realize that
it’s up to us and have reconciled ourselves to do what our government thinks best. We are taking R. O.
T. C. or have signed for V7, the Marine Reserve or some similar branch of the service, or are waiting
to be drafted as a private. But yet, while we are making our sacrifices, some few of our classmates will
remain at home and continue their normal interests. Those of us who are fortunate enough to return will find them
well established in life with a family and a prospering business. They, the “draft dodgers,” will offer consolation to ease
the pains of our mangled bodies and broken minds.

Self-Preservation

Truly self-preservation is the first law of nature. It’s normal to look out for No. 1. But in times like
these we must unite and strive for preservation of those unalienable rights that are far greater than individual preservation. We
must realize that our government is interested only in one thing... TOTAL PEACE. Without it the “draft dodgers” may be
surprised to find their “dream boats” overturned by foreign domination and themselves in a worse condition than those who died
for the cause of honor. We have been attacked and we are in danger. Let every patriot take his stand
on the bastions of democracy. We go to battle in defense of our own land, of our present and of
our future, of all that we are and all that we still hope to be, of a way of life
which we have made for ourselves on free and independent soil, the only way of life which we believe to
be worth living. Can one let his neighbor do this for him?

---H. Mcl.

TOMORROW MAY BE TOO LATE
TOO BUSY TODAY—GET AROUND TOMORROW.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday, February the 19th
PARACHUTE BATTALION
Robert Preston, Nancy Kelly, Edmond O'Brien, and Harry Carey.
This is another of the pictures based on a phase of our national defense program. Although the story is mediocre,
the picture itself is well done, and concerns those lads who leap from planes in Uncle Sam's behalf. All sorts
of boys who enter the service are revealed in the unfolding of this story, including Robert Preston in the role
of the cocky recruit and Edmond O’Brien as the boy who fears fear. (Nancy Kelly is the girl).

Legerton

Friday and Saturday
February 20 and 21
HELLZAPOPPIN
Olsen and Johnson, Martha Raye, Hugh Herbert, Mischa Auer, and Jane Frazee.
This feature deals in sheer madness, and unless you’re untouched by such, we guarantee that you'll scream your head off.
No use to attempt story or plot explanations with Olsen and Johnson interrupting the picture to re-arrange the scenes to
their liking, to denounce the projectionist who is running the film for focusing too long on a pretty girl, to
insert notices relative to the audiences, etc.

Monday and Tuesday
February 16 and 17
SON OF FURY
Tyrone Power, Gene Tierney, George Sanders, and John Carradine.
It’s a tale of high adventure racing from London and the docks of Bristol to the South Seas and back
to England again. It's swashbuckling romance done with all of Hollywood's resources—the story of a lad banished to the South
Seas, where he finds peace, love, and his fortune. He returns to take up his rightful place as master of
the estates of Breetholm. He is unable to forget his girl in the South Seas, however, and he sails back
to her.

Both OBLIGING YOUNG LADY and JAIL HOUSE BLUES are booked for Wednesday in a double feature.

I would like for John Bennett McGee to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

Down Fraternity Court
The Filth Columnist
By 7,27. 2.7

Here we go again with a brand new filth columnist, and this change is brought about to baffle the most
curious (as well as the most noxious) man on the campus, our most ardent reader, BEN LACY, whose misfortune bears
mention first in the round-up of the week’s news. It was his misfortune to be flushed by that Converse belle
whose reason for not filling the date or the week-end was that she was spending the time with her husband-to-be
before he left for the air corps. Keep ’em flying, BEN.

Flashes from Carolina Midwinters reveal that at least one-tenth of Davidson's student body was attracted over there for one reason
or another. LARD ROYSTER, DICK KELLY, JACK CLARK, HAROLD MURDOCK, BAXTER FREEZE and a horde of others were quite evident.
HARVEY CARROW'S o. a. o. gave a very negative retort to his pleadings for a late date, which answer irked
the little one to the extent that drastic measures were taken to relieve his feelings. And then there was the
story about HUGH SPRUNT who spent Saturday night dodging the person from whom he had stolen his date. When HUGH,
date, and former date all got together, they became the best of friends and that’s the end of the story.
Anything lacking?

Things just didn't PAN out for little ED ERWIN, who discovered that his date for the dances didn’t want to
go to anything but the two tea dances. But the story of the week followed the basketball team to Charleston
where they ran upon “the most beautiful girl in the world” and three-fourths of the crew immediately fell in love.With
her. It was the luck of JOE McCOY and JOHN (Technical High School) McGEE to make her acquaintance and have
her postpone her train trip to NEW YORK in order to sponsor the game with the Citadel. It seems that
McCOY had asked her up to one of the dances and several others proposed everything—from marriage to a game of
ping-pong. And proving that her beauty was not just the imagination of the weekend, the Citadel student body rose up
and sang her a song at the game—she graciously bowed from her garb of sponsor flowers and colors.

To the South went JOHN MILLER, RUFUS NIMMONS, JOE HOPPER, and TOM BROWN, who took in the Junior Banquet at
Agnes Scott. And who should be escorting the president of Scott College’s Junior Class but RUFUS NIMMONS of Parlor Stunts,
Incorporated. And those poor unfortunates who remained here this weekend as a result of the Midwinters unraveling were not quite
so unfortunate when some fabulous girl breezed up in a ‘42 Buick Convertible announcing that she was looking for some
Davidson person, also announcing that she was from Society Hills, S.C., and that she had been kicked out of seven
colleges. Who was she?

Unanswered questions this week are centered around why ED TAYLOR had to shave off that mustache, why OUR BOB RANNEY
is referred to as the TWENTIETH CENTURY ROMEO, how JOHN MacKINNON managed to slip away with one of the PSA
dates, how JIM MANN gets by with using the Y reading room when nobody else can, when HUFFINES will be
back from that band trip, and why the fifth columnist doesn't go to bed.

PATTER By PAT RUDOLPH — Kappa Alpha

The largest group of K.A.’s went to Carolina for the dances this weekend. Those who went were: Sprunt, McLean, Dunn,
Royster, Richeson, Wilson, and Wallace. Myron the Moron, etc., went to Converse. Page Harris went down to Roxboro for a
wedding, not his own incidentally. Nat King went home. Plans are being made for the initiation of eleven pledges this
week. The chapter regrets that Pledge Jimmy Darracott has left school.

Phi Gamma Delta

Ten new brothers, Findlay, Frost, Grant, Williamson, Hannah, Roberts, Hall, King, McMullen, and Olive joined the Fiji ranks last Saturday
afternoon when the Phi Gams held their initiation in the dome room of Chambers Building. Saturday night the brothers were
in Charlotte enjoying the annual Phi Gam “Pig Dinner.” The presence of a large number of alumni, good food, better
jokes, and the fellowship contributed toward making the evening a real success. Brother John Foster (’28) acted as toastmaster, while
Dave Hall (’19), Ellis “Tubby” Woolfolk (’23), Ralph Williams (’42), Chapter President, and Tom Findlay ('45) were the speakers for
the occasion.

Pi Kappa Alpha

Brothers Henderson, Hodges, Clark, and Brockman and Pledge Jack Shelton went to Greensboro to attend the Dikean formal at W.C.
Brother Carlton Parsons went home, while Brothers Martin and Parks took an extended trip to Black Mountain and Bristol, Tenn.
Brother Pearsall and Pledge Stroup had quite a time in Davidson over the weekend. The following pledges have been initiated:
Van Vickle, Pritchard, Gibbs, Tolleson, and M. Turner.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

It was Midwinters again this weekend for most of the S.A.E.’s, this time with the setting at Carolina. Those who
went to Chapel Hill are: Crichton, Hackney, Young, Graves, Port, Hunt, McGeachy, Freeze, Jones, Erwin, Hudson, F. Dunn, McLeod, J.
Lucas, and Carrow. All who went had a large weekend. A few of the Brothers went home for the weekend.
Among them were: Bob Whaling, Ivey Stewart, and B. Dunn. Bibb went to Danville for some reason or other.

Phi Delta Theta

Eighteen new members were initiated on last Thursday followed by a banquet at the Sample’s, which was highlighted by speeches
by Brothers Foreman and Brown of the faculty. The following pledges were initiated: Watson, Banks, Little, Oglesby, McLean, Robertson, Emerson,
Burns, Smith, Starnes, and Wright, Hardee, Loughridge, Stiles, Hendee, Sutton. Brother Wright and Pledge Davis went to the dances at
Carolina. Brothers Rudolph and Westall went to their homes in Asheville. The Chapman brothers and Wardlaw went to Spartanburg. Potter
went to Atlanta on a wild hair. Brother Smith went home to Farmville. Mr. and Mrs. B.D. Banks were guests
of the chapter for the weekend.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

The longest hop of the weekend was made to Charleston by Brother Henderson and his host Legerton. Brother Whitley went
to his home in Plymouth. Bevins and McLauchlin went to Meredith and W.C. respectively. Brothers Fulcher and Sellars stayed on
the campus for the P.S.A. conference. Fulcher was elected the new president of the group. A number went to Charlotte:
Gwynn, Loy, Miller, Daffin, and Turner. There was a feed at the home Sunday night.

Pi Kappa Phi

The major event of the week was initiation on Thursday night. Over the weekend Brother Larkin went to his home
in Washington, N.C., and Brother Parks went home to Bristol, Va. Brothers Armstrong and Denny got as far as Gastonia.
Brothers McCall and Miller went to Florence. Pledge Key wound [Continued on Page Three]

Out Of The Night of Davidson

(Editor’s Note: This is the second in a series of four articles by Mr. Rudolph, who bases his knowledge of
Davidson on a stay of three and one-half years.)

Adjustment and Maladjustment:

One rainy afternoon in September of that first year we assembled in back of the New Gym. (This was one
of the biggest problems of my first year: Which was the new and which was the old gym?) We ran
across the Golf Course, dodging the abundant supply of Meadow Muffins, panted up that long hill, almost quit when we
got to the Concord Road, but managed to eke out a few more steps somehow, and finally fell prostrate in
our tracks at our starting place. Almost thirty of our group won cakes but most of us were so fatigued
that we had to delegate consumption of the same to less weary fellows.

What did we think of the sophomores? After that first shirt-tail parade on a crisp fall evening, we decided that
they belonged to one of the lower levels of the animal kingdom. They were really a doggy bunch. We were
particularly grieved at their actions after they had set fire to the huge bonfire which we had spent many hours
laboring over.

What were our favorite eating places? Well, the Little Pep occupied a monopoly locally in those days. The entire Kapernois
family was there to wait upon our every desire. Numerous nicknames popped up here and there concerning said establishment. There
was “Ptomaine” Mary, a faithful waitress, who could be depended upon to cheer up the bluest inmate on any occasion
with her Epicurean philosophy of life. The restaurant itself assumed the name of “The Greasy Spoon.” Other places that polite
Davidson society frequented were The “Roadhouse,” and The Tavern. (We still do.) The Roadhouse called itself “A Home for Davidson
students” in one of its larger advertisements in this paper. The Tavern said: “It’s part of our job in this
town to provide a place where you can come in, be at home and among friends—and find a place laid
for you at a table and all the goodies you want to eat.” Truly, this was a personification of the
ideals of the neighboring friendly city.

We saw such movies that year as “Marie Antoinette,” “Jesse James,” and that daring film, “Yes, My Darling Daughter,” which
everyone said was greatly censored when it arrived at the local cinema palace. For radio entertainment we had Orson Welles’
Man from Mars program, which created quite a sensation, and Benny Goodman’s Camel Caravan. “Glucose,” the dog, (no relation to
the sophomores) was the object of every Davidsonian’s affections as well as the butt of every joke, including the notorious
Ex-Lax affair. So you see, we didn’t suffer for entertainment.

Our attendants were much more liberal with regard to absence regulations in those days. First-year inmates received more cuts than
present seniors. Also, there was a Dean’s List. Ah, the Dean’s List. To be listed on this sacred document was
like an emancipation proclamation. If you were on this “scrap of paper” a two weeks’ trip to strange and foreign
places was available, or you could even keep a female (turtle) in your room.

There have been numerous improvements since those glorious days. No longer do you see paper imitations of B-19s whizzing across
the then uncarpeted realms of Chambers Auditorium. No longer does the populace turn out en masse for a False Alarm
a la Whiskey Bob. We didn’t have a venetian-blinded Library then, or a be-suited dormitory like James B. Duke Hall.

What were the rooming conditions? What about the social life? These questions, among others, will be answered next week. (To
be continued)
