PORTS SCENE By LEGH SCOTT
Wildcat Sports
Thursday, October 8, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Frosh Preview

After watching a somewhat ragged intra-squad game last Friday, we are interested to see how this year’s frosh eleven will
stack up in its first actual competition of the season, when they take the field tomorrow against the Scotties of
PJC. Whether the junior college rivals will provide much real competition is doubtful, but supporters of the Kittens should be
able to get a fair idea of how well the boys are going to play together against the most formidable
opponents the Freshmen have taken on in years. Many are of the opinion that the schedule-arrangers waited a year too
late to tackle such yearling teams as N. Carolina, S. Carolina, and N. C. State, all of whom are consistently
outstanding in conference circles. They were pretty sure that last year’s fast, powerful, and polished team would have fared well
with the best of ’em if given a chance. There are several bright spots looming already in this year’s team,
but as evidenced in last week's practice game, they have not yet developed the unity and poise necessary to win
tough ball games. There are plenty of talented backs, as usual, with Gwyn Fletcher (the biggest boy to come from
Barium yet) the chief standout. In the line it will be the same old Davidson story of not much weight,
but plenty of fight. Coach Shepard is working the players hard on fundamentals and team spirit with the help of
student assistants “Lard” Royster and Ashby Dicks. Since the frosh games are the only games scheduled on the campus this
year, and in view of the outstanding opposition they will face, student interest in Freshman football should be at a
new high this season.

On To Blacksburg

Confused and disillusioned by their stinging defeat at the hands of Rollins, it is hard for the Wildcats to muster
the spirit to carry them through against the strong V.P.I. Gobblers. But they have a date with them in Blacksburg
this Saturday and are using their precious time this week in correcting the errors observed in that game and in
rebuilding an offensive spirit. Coach McEver told the boys on Monday to forget what happened on Saturday night insofar as
pessimism was concerned. The ’Cats have a powerful offense as demonstrated spasmodically against Rollins; their defense is terrific as long
as an aggressive spirit can be maintained. Reed Bethea’s condition has been diagnosed as water on the knee, and he
will be out of action for at least a week. However, Peters and Roach both showed up well Saturday and
should be able to put plenty of fire into the tailback slot.

The Gobblers are BIG and tough, but they have not been too impressive so far this season. They were hard
pressed to defeat Furman’s weak team, 7-6, in their opening Conference game and were thoroughly trounced by William and Mary,
which is, however, one of the most powerful teams in the South. Davidsonians will remember the fast-stepping

PONY BACKS

The above combination has borne the brunt of the backfield duties for the Wildcats to date. Typical Davidson scat backs,
they make up in speed, fine running, and passing what they lack in weight. Left to right are: Art Roach,
wingback; Bob Durant, blocking back; Ben Lacy, fullback; and Mac Bruce, tailback.

FIGHT ’CATS!

Page Three

Kittens Meet PJC Scotties In ‘42 Opener

Sparked by stocky Gwyn Fletcher, Barium Spring’s latest gift to the Davidson football forces, this year’s pack of Wildkittens open
their ’42 season here tomorrow afternoon when they meet the PJC eleven. Coach Shepard isn’t too optimistic about the chances
of his charges as compared with last year’s powerhouse. However, the line is big and fast, though the backfield is
replete with elusive runners. Fletcher is expected to follow close in the footsteps of his illustrious predecessors Dave Spencer and
Art Roach.

Scotties Weak

In last fall's contest, the little Cats rolled over the Scotties without much trouble, amassing a total of 54 points.
This time the Scots will be out for revenge but are reported to have only a mediocre team. In an
intra-squad game last Friday, Dick O’Hair didn’t save the student body a glimpse of any action against Rollins, the 180-pound
back intercepted a pass thrown by Roach on Rollins’ ten-yard line and picked his way nicely to about the 50-yard
line. This does not represent a stable quartet as substitutions and alternations have been frequent. Although speed and blocking were
very much in evidence, the frosh have much to learn about team-play.

Probable Lineup

The Wildcats will probably start on the flanks, with either John Elkins or Roland Peters in the number 3 spot,
the backfield in physical shape, except for Bruce's ailing knee. His condition has been diagnosed as water on the knee,
and he will be out of action for at least a week. Pace and Roach both showed up well Saturday
and should be able to put plenty of fire into the tailback slot. The Gobblers are BIG and tough, but
they have not been too impressive so far this season. They were hard pressed to defeat Furman’s weak team, 7-6,
in their opening Conference game and were thoroughly trounced by William and Mary, which is, however, one of the most
powerful teams in the South. Davidsonians will remember the fast-stepping

Davidson Offense Rolls But Fails at Goal Line — Carolina Wins

Flashing an array of fast backs and an alert defense, the Rollins Tars defeated the Wildcats before a large crowd
Saturday night at Richardson Field. The Tars, dark horses of the Southern Conference race, after another hectic weekend in which
the big teams of the South battled for the top of the heap in the South.‘But Davidson twenty and put
on a : $ $ ) 4 James, who ran wild during two quarters to spoil their home- twice already
this season, and, cacl a ah - pe bat on 21 conference, surged on with an interception at Allison. A
Para F Ana rae - and fiche x a a ae ye? ors ‘ sve moar burst of speed to
make the concrete a coming last year, and who was back this year. Other information tasted sweet victory. Impressive 18-0
win over the S. Carolina Gamecocks, who had tied the expected to play a lot at center. Information on the
team is scarce. There is no common ground for comparison between the Gobblers and the ’Cats. It all narrows down
to whether the Wildcats can renew confidence in their ability and develop a scoring punch. If they can, the game
should be a “natural.”

It was sad. Davidson’s failure to score when so close to the promised line was not understandable, and that failure
led to a complete breakdown in their excellence of play. We were convinced that the less said about the game,
the better. However, there is some consolation to be salvaged from the shambles of defeat. First, Rollins has a good
ball team. They are fast, hard-charging, and alert; they were quick to take advantage of the Wildcats faltering and convert
their skill into two sudden scores.

The above caption puts the story of last week’s game in a nutshell. Davidson’s failure to score when so close
to the promised line was not understandable, and that failure led to a complete breakdown in their excellence of play.
We were convinced that the less said about the game, the better. However, there is some consolation to be salvaged
from the shambles of defeat. First, Rollins has a good ball team. They are fast, hard-charging, and alert; they were
quick to take advantage of the Wildcats faltering and convert their skill into two sudden scores.

Davidson outplayed them in every department of the game except rushing, as shown by the statistics. The ’Cats net yards
gained were 225 as compared to 152 for the Tars; they scored 14 first downs to 8 for Rollins; Red
Bethea’s punting average was 41 yards for six kicks, while Rollins averaged 36 yards for seven boots—to mention a few.
They stopped the vaunted Cal Peacock cold, although not so successful with Grady Ray, who averaged 4 yards a clip
in 19 rushes. Roach’s average bettered Ray’s as he gained 40 yards in seven tries. There was plenty of good
play by the Wildcats. Tom Peters’ tackling and pass receiving, Burke and Durant’s backing up the line, and Bethea’s kicking
were notables.

Francis Hoover’s call to active duty is a blow to the coaching staff. Already undermanned by the loss of Chet
Chapman to the Navy, the ’Cat and Kitten mentors really have their hands full. Little Lieut. Davey Spencer is now
a married man. He received a big ovation at the game Saturday. A salute to the new world champs, St.
Louis Cards, who completely humbled the veteran Yanks. With the inter-class tournament drawing to a close, attention is being focused
on the inter-frat tournament which will begin next week.

But, confidentially, I think HATLEY’S COFFEE and SODA Shop is the place to be. Expert economies of planned production and
coast-to-coast distribution at nationally advertised low prices. Select your new Clipper Craft Suit from the finest fabrics. Don’t wait—Subscribe Now
to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Only $1.50 per year. Send Name and Address to: THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N.C.
