Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 5, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HARWELL DARBY

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter - Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett - Associate Editor
Atco Winthrop - Associate Editor
Ed Erwin - Managing Editor
Joe Eve - Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher - Managing Editor
Bill Lyman - Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh - Managing Editor
Lacy MacLea - Sports Editor
Clarence Legerton - Movie Editor
Billy Barker - Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Peter Buck - Assistant Business Manager
Ivey Stuart - Advertising Manager
CUGs - Circulation Manager
leave - Circulation Manager
tions - Collections Manager

HERE’S A WARNING
From past experience of dance weekends, the Pan-Hellenic Council has discovered that at least one car has been broken into and has been relieved of wraps at every set that there is any record concerning. This year’s Pan-Hellenic Council is seeking extra police protection for the cars parked in the area, but car-owners are cautioned to leave no valuables in the car while it is parked outside the armory, and students are urged to carry these instructions to visitors who bring their cars. Sometimes it has been known that windows are broken when nothing of value, apparently, had been left in the car. So to remedy any fear of windows being broken, we suggest that all the doors be left unlocked and all wraps and other valuables be taken inside the armory, whether they are checked at the desk or left on the chairs behind the decorations. This, of course, is only a suggestion, and if it seems wiser for you to leave wraps in the cars, we can only hope you are not as unfortunate as some have been in the past.

... V—

FOR “30”
“V” for Victory has fast become the universal and popular symbol for the Allies’ cause, so certain college and other newspapers have begun substituting the three dots, a “V”, and a dash for their conventional “30” which signifies the ending of a news story. The Davidsonian is adopting the symbol.

... V—

CONSERVE THAT TIME!
When war times come, the ordinary course of life automatically changes to fit the demands of the nation, and it is quite natural that it does so. Time, (time for doing things other than sleeping, exercising, and the rest of the normal everyday activities) becomes shorter. There are more things to do, even in a college community like Davidson. The things that once seemed very important are made secondary by activities entered into by everybody for the common good of all.

At Davidson, we see certain organizations right now slipping into a state of complacency; these organizations were previously active and were really important to a great number of persons. Yet, now, they slump into this indolent state that separates the really worthwhile organizations from the ones that are actually unnecessary and relatively unimportant for the well-being and broadening of Davidson men.

From The Inside
We refer to the honorary fraternities. The time seems ripe to utterly erase the existence of certain organizations from Davidson life. Those non-functioning bodies of disinterested members really would appreciate some excuse for disbandment. One member of an organization has recently admitted that he was so wronged by being asked to join the group that he now wishes he had his two dollars in his billfold and that the literature wouldn’t litter up his post office box any longer. Another chapter charges five dollars per year for an occasional get-together that amounts merely to a social chat that somewhere along the line, sometimes, catches a glimmering of the organization’s function as a sideline in the conversation. Perhaps names ought to be mentioned. We sometimes wonder if the members of Eta Sigma Phi know who they are themselves. With all due respect for the good that might and should be gotten out of a classical fraternity, and the recognition they received for their excellence in the fields of Latin and Greek, we also wonder whether their knowledge of these two subjects has been to a great degree aided or stimulated by their four meetings which have taken place during the first semester.

“Too Many Broths...”
Another argument against the mass of these associations is that the fact of their number tends to make the ones that actually accomplish something seem less glorious in their achievement and the name of their organization is lost in the maze of Greek letters that float carelessly in the list of activities of some of our more prominent students. And what can the individual do to rid the place of the evils of too much organization? If you belong to two honorary fraternities which are supposed to be active, and you find that you get little or nothing out of either, simply drop one and make the one you consider the more worthwhile actually worthwhile. When time becomes such an important factor, we'll have to use it to the best of our advantage.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH
Now that exams are over and we have had time to celebrate that joyful occasion, we can get back into the full swing of college life and begin to think once again about some of the basic things here at Davidson besides the books. Just in case you haven't already guessed it, I'm talking about the hall meetings on Wednesday night. It seems that most of us forgot all about these meetings during the rush and drive of exams even though most of us believe that we need prayer even more at a time like that. Anyway, that water is already under the bridge, and right now we want to begin thinking about our plans for the hall meetings during this semester.

Although they are in the minority, some boys believe that these Wednesday night meetings are just some more religious services, the only differences being that these are not compulsory.

Voluntary
What we hope everyone will realize is that these are voluntary meetings, organized and run wholly by students for the good of the student body. In other words, these are our meetings and it is entirely up to us to make them what we want them to be. I'm sure that we will all agree that the boys on a hall ought to be drawn close together, and that some bull sessions are really helpful while others are merely a waste of time. These are the two convictions we want to build on. All the boys on a hall need to get together at least once a week, and they could come together for no better purpose than to discuss their mutual problems and convictions along the more serious and religious lines. So, if you don't enjoy going to the meeting on your hall and if you don’t get anything out of it, maybe it’s your own fault. You know, we can’t expect to get much out of anything unless we put something into it. How many times have you led the meeting on your hall? When someone else is in charge, do you contribute to the discussion or just the reading of the scripture and a prayer or two? How many subjects have you suggested that the boys on your hall discuss? Have you thought of any ways of improving the meetings on your hall, and tried out those ideas?

You’ve Got Time
Surely, anyone by the time he reaches college has done some thinking for himself, and has his own ideas about what is wrong with the religion that most people have today, and has ideas about other similar problems. I'll venture to say that your ideas are at least a little different from those of the other boys on your hall, and that you could have a good time on Wednesday nights discussing things with the other fellows, if you would just give it a try.

Responsibility
It's true that we do have one or two men on each hall who are somewhat responsible for seeing that the meetings are a success, but these meetings belong to you just as much as they do to the hall leader, and just because the “Y” might have picked out another man to contact on your hall it is no sign you shouldn’t.

BUY STATES DEFENSE
WAR NEEDS MONEY!
It will cost money to defeat our enemy aggressors. Your government calls on you to help now. Buy Defense Bonds or Stamps today. Make every pay day Bond Day by participating in the Pay-roll Savings Plan. Bonds cost $18.75 and up. Stamps are 10¢, 25¢ and up. The help of every individual is needed. Do your part by buying your share every pay day.

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON
Thursday, February the Fifth
ALL THAT MONEY CAN BUY
Edward Arnold, Walter Huston, Jane Darwell, Simone Simon, and Gene Lockhart. This production is quite unusual, in that it is the story of a debt-ridden farmer, James Craig, who sells his soul to the devil for seven years of prosperity. All good things begin to come to James and his wife Anne Shirley. Their crops flourish, they findgold coins, and a son Daniel named after their friend Daniel Webster, is born to them. The night of his birth, Simone Simon, a strangely attractive creature, appears to James and announces that she is to be the baby’s nursemaid. Time passes and wealth changes James terribly. He deserts his wife Anne and spends most of his time with Simone. When the seven years are almost up, the devil’s mediator, Walter Huston, comes to remind him of his pact. James immediately goes to his friend Daniel Webster for help, and he persuades him to hold a jury trial. Daniel does so, and although the jury is composed of notorious men, he swings them over to his side. His soul more his own, he returns to his wife Anne and son Daniel to live happily ever after.

Friday and Saturday
February 6 and 7
THE FEMININE TOUCH
Rosalind Russell, Don Ameche, Kay Frances, and Van Heflin. Frankly, I wasn't able to get any dope on this production, except that it is billed as one of the season's top comedies. Ameche and Miss Russell make a very humorous team in this feature, their first together. However, after looking over the names of the stars in this picture, one must agree that it has all the requirements of a feature attraction.

Monday and Tuesday
February 8 and 9
LADY BE GOOD
Ann Sothern, Robert Young, Eleanor Powell, Dan Dailey, Jr., Lionel Barrymore, Red Skelton, and John Carroll. This feature is essentially a parade of star personalities through a musical composed of works of George Gershwin, the famous songwriter. Ann Sothern and Robert Young have the part of a songwriting team who have to rely on the divorce courts twice before they can finally make things turn out. Eleanor Powell begins her comeback in this big-time musical, which features that popular young comedian, Red Skelton. John Carroll and others help to make this a top-notch production.

The feature booked for Wednesday is MAJOR BARBARA.

COMING:
“HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY,” with Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara, Donald Crisp, Anna Lee, and Roddy McDowell.
“SON OF FURY,” with Tyrone Power and Gene Tierney.
“TWO-FISTED WOMAN” with Greta Garbo.

I would like for Red Burke to be the guest of the theatre production this week. Take it upon yourself to make the Wednesday night meetings the kind of get-togethers you'd like them to be. There's an old saying, “If you don't like my peaches, don't shake my tree,” so if you don't like the meetings the other boys on your hall are having, get in there and make it your meeting and the kind of helpful session you think it should be. Thanks a lot for your help so far, and let's all put everything we have into making the hall meetings this semester a bigger and better part of Davidson.

Sincerely yours,
JIM McCRARY.

The Fifth Columnist
By? 2? 2

Another week, another paper—but we almost forget. This is definitely not just another week! For this is Davidson's delight, the dancer’s delirium, Midwinters. This is the week of locks and blocks, heartaches and lovebirds. This is the time of the Davidson year that the young men’s fancies lightly turn to what they've been thinking of all year. It is now that the Freshmen, having weathered one Davidson dance set successfully, feel that the time to put away childish things has come and attempt to become grapplers in their own right, throwing head-locks with abandon. It is also the time when the administration chains off all entrances to the Freshman field — why, we don't know. It is a time when, after the fraternity feeds are over at four a.m. on Saturday morning, Concord road is swarmed with fleeing vehicles in a mad rush to become peaceful in the country. The Pan-Hellenic bigwigs of the dance, the Council members, seem to be holding the flush records. Even the added attraction of being in the figure doesn't seem to be a sufficient urge for their womenfolk. HOCKEY McCALL leads the field with five, an all-time high. PAT RUDOLPH, as we all know, went home Christmas to find not one but both locks engaged. LUCAS was slow in starting, but has come through handsomely by squiring MILLIE BRENIZER. RODNEY TURNER, like PAT, was involved in a great unlocking at Xmastide. Even MOOSE WALLACE was seen about Charlotte Saturday in the company of RALPH DUNN, hitting the Tavern soon after visiting the Century Club. The Broadway Leg Show had much more than its share of Davidsonians among them JIMMY FULLER, DABNEY, RALPH LEWIS, BIBB, SQUAT OWENS, CHARLES WATT, and numerous freshmen whom we couldn't recognize with their mouths open. PINKY WILSON wandered into the witching hour, his broad grin cracking a face much pinker than usual. Better wash that face next time, PINKY. HENRY McINTOSH disappeared over the weekend, presumably retiring to think up plans for JOHN TURNER at Tallahassee, who is all that, according to HENRY. BOB CROWELL, also known as the late-date king, elaborately laid plans for a late-date last weekend, only to find that his late-date was the roommate of his early date. Not daunted, CROWELL had already mapped out a similar schedule for Midwinters. It will backfire, though, as we know that his date has done the same. STIM STIMSON, tired of dates who come up just to go to the dances, is stagging it. Did we say stagnant? Being the Beta Pan-Hell man carries some sort of jinx. First, STANLEY MAFEE was catapulted into the navy, and subsequently Pearl Harbor. Then BOB BRYANT middle-aisled it at mid-year. What fate awaits JACK PHILLIPS? and countless others of the usual Saturday night crowd.

By PAT RUDOLPH
(Editor's Note: Last week's “Down Pat” was written by a Guest Columnist, Jack Westall. This week the author returns.)

If You Haven't:
Slept through an 8:30 class... ridden back from Charlotte with eight others in a cab... blown the dust out of your mailbox... had a milkshake at Hugo’s for breakfast... had “the prettiest gal in the south” for the dances... had coffee at the Varsity or Hatley’s... griped about going to drill... bummed to Charlotte... breathed in the nicotine atmosphere of a matinee... whistled at a pretty girl... been in a water fight... broken at least one window... played touch football in front of Dormitory row... gone to sleep while studying... haunted the P.O. for that expected Sugar report... hiked to the Roadhouse... bulled about everything from sex to religion until 2 A.M.... cut a brew at the Tavern... listened religiously to Glenn at 10 every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday... attended prayer meeting... dated a luscious Queens girl... compassed every Carolina campus... known your way around every Carolina town of any size since your freshman year... bought some stationery from a campus salesman... thought seriously about burning Rumple... wished for a new gym complete with swimming pool and dance floor... screamed “Fire!” out of your window when you saw a female intruder... sworn off smoking for Lent... crammed for an exam... heard wild tales about Montreat... heard even wilder tales about Lynchburg... given to the Y Gift Fund... bulled with Colin Smith... given Colin Smith a weed... been on the editorial or business staff of at least one Davidson publication... read the magazines in Hugo's spacious library... thrilled to one of Davy Spencer’s plucky charges... yelled your throat out for the Wildcats... jumped like a grammar school kid for cough drops at football games... spent hours studying spots and not cracked a book... flunked a review... explained the location of Davidson to some Yankee... taken a sunbath on Richardson Field... put off writing a term paper until the night before... wondered whether you'd go in V-6 or V-7 and then finally ended up in a V-8... eaten those broken crackers at the Stud... gone in Ralph Johnston's back room before the show... received a flush-o-gram from Mr. Gaffney... washed a pair of wool socks... bought a ticket for Midwinters...

THEN YOU'RE NOT AN AVERAGE DAVIDSON STUDENT.