CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN GUEST COLUMNIST, GENE SUTTON

The first scrimmage for Davidson’s spring football squad will be held Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field when the Wildcat squad will put on a show for the visiting young ladies on campus for the Midwinters dances. Coach McEver and his aides, after two weeks of practice, have declared the squad ready for the first game-condition scrimmage, and the visitors and the students will see their first football of the 1942 season. Coach McEver announced recently that practice would be just as tough as ever. The number of players attending the dances will be very small, probably, since the work in the practice sessions will be tough. The addition of Georgia Tech to the Cat schedule has everyone worrying a bit earlier than usual. 

A trip to the field any of these afternoons will find those around really leaving a gap in next year’s eleven. Claude Hill, Marsh, Frank Caldwell, and the other seasoned performers can’t be replaced by untried freshmen and holdovers from last year’s reserves. A great deal of hard work is expected from the much-heralded frosh, since they have some big shoes to fill.

Cage Comment

The basketball players have now played their part as stage setters. Yes, they were the important OTHER TEAM that sharpened the eyes of Duke and Carolina on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Coaches Cameron and Long may not have been aware of the fighting Cats when each of their teams were opposing our boys, but on the night of the encounter with their own teams, they had many anxious moments from our revamped and much-improved quintet. We will all wait with interest to see the result of that all-important first game between the State and Conference leaders, Duke and the boys from Chapel Hill. Our game with Furman on the same night has been called off to give the glamour boys on the squad a chance to get in the swing.

The Pros Swing In

The swing reminds me of the top tennis players of the world seen in Charlotte last spring, and next Tuesday night on our own courts. After seeing some of them, very evidently knowing how to appreciate the game, I hope that some of the more tennis-minded boys will at least see Messers. Riggs, Kovacks, and others in action. Interest is being maintained in this professional tour by the unique manner of promoter Thompson, owner of the Philadelphia Eagles professional football squad. Playing in a round-robin arrangement, the winner of the greatest number of matches will receive 35 percent of the player winnings, number two 27 percent, number three 20 percent, and the last man 18 percent. An added two hundred dollars is given to the winners of the doubles match that will pair Riggs and Budge against Perry and Kovack. 

I also hope that some of the school officials that have long kept tennis in the background at Davidson will see its future as a sport of wartime duration and will provide more courts, and a few of championship quality to increase the pleasure of the game for all students. With no information on Wake Forest, Davidson is the only school in the Big Five that does not have all-weather courts for her team. I wonder what will become of that offer from a Charlotte agency that will give Davidson all-weather courts cheaper than most schools could get them? ATTENTION, MR. JACKSON.

SAE, Pika Match Are Highlights of Fraternity Race

Wofford Next For ‘Cat Guns

With tabulations following the first four rounds of inter-fraternity basketball concluded Monday night, the S.A.E.s precariously found themselves on the top rung of the victory ladder. The last team turns their eyes toward the first match of the shoulder-to-shoulder qualifying round Tuesday. Davidson's opening engagement with Wofford next week is as yet undecided.

Schedule Heavy

An unusually large number of shoulder-to-shoulder engagements are planned for the gunners this year, and tentative dates are booked with the Citadel, Clemson, N.C. State, P.C., and the Charlotte Rifle Club. Poster matches include Georgia, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, Montana State, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, V.M.I., Ole Miss, and L.S.U.

Barber Leads

At press time, Bill Barber with 189 out of a possible 200, Bob Dunn with 187, and Gaines Stubbins with 182 were in the lead for the number one position. 

Games for the rest of this week will put the Betas against the Phi Gams and the Pikas within reach of the purple-clad S.A.E.s tonight, with the remainder of the dates as yet undetermined. Men like Dave Spencer, 

Wildcat Sports

Footballers Round Out Two Weeks

Changes Made In Both Line And Backfield; Line Looks Weak But Ball-Carriers Abound

Candidates for next year’s Wildcat eleven are rounding out their second week of spring practice with heavy drills and scrimmages each day. Already it has been noted that several changes are being made in both the line and the backfield from last year’s eleven. Several of the members of last varsity are being changed to positions made vacant by the graduation of some of our senior stars. And also some of the members of the undefeated freshmen team are being moved to other positions.

Center Vacant

The center position made vacant by senior Frank Caldwell’s graduation is being fought for by Morehead, ‘Red’ Burke, C.C. Gene, and Bingham Moore. In the guard position, the two best prospects seem to be Alf Taylor and B.F. Bibb. However, Lewis and Grimsley are making strong bids for these positions. At tackle, Riff, Herb Rainey, and Luke are showing up well, supported by Price Gwynn, Guy Simmons, and several other members of last year’s freshmen team. Dick O'Hair, Pat Williams, Bill Dunn, and Tommy Peters, among many others, are battling it out for the end positions.

Backfield Shot

The backfield, which was shot to pieces by the graduation of such outstanding stars as Hackney, Spencer, and Shannon, is being rounded into shape again with several new faces. Bruce, George Peters, and Roach are out for the tailback spot; Buck Williams and Ripper Hunt are working in the fullback position. Abie Short and Wileman are alternating at wingback with the aid of some new men from the freshmen squad. Red Jethea and Bob Durant are holding down the blocking back duties. 

An intra-squad game is planned for Saturday afternoon, and practice for the whole week will be geared towards this game.

Six-Man Team Enters Games

Practice continued in the halls of Chambers this week for Davidson's six-man entry in the annual Southern Conference Indoor meet, as the small squad began hard work. Coach Pete Whittle has decided to enter Arch Taylor, Dick Port, and Blanton Williamson in the highs and strengthen these three in the lows with the addition of Bill Lacy and Hugh Sprunt. Lacy and Sprunt will both be in the 60-yard dash also.

Shannon Vaults

Gene Shannon, the only representative in the field events, will enter the pole vault and should be well up in the standings.the final standings. Taylor, who finished second to Moffat Storer in the lows last year, will be the favorite to win with the Duke ace not entered.

CAFETERIA Scheduled day for a tilt with the Terriers in the home gym on Tuesday. The Phantoms, Duke, has Hill, varsity quintet Chapel just at and one Midwinters Dance Set.

Break Even
The Cats broke even in their two games last week, losing to the Red Terrors of N. C. State 60 to 43 on Night, and then downing 44 to Wednesday. The Red Terrors jumped to an early lead, and the Wildcats were never able to seriously threaten this early lead. Bob McLeod scored 10 points, with Dave Spencer adding seven. Tabscott and Mock, with 13 and 12 points respectively, were the leading scorers for Davidson on Tuesday night. John Belk rang up 11 points to show the Cats the way in the victory over Guilford. Bruce, who has improved with every game this season, followed with 8 points.

Lose Frederick
The loss of Johnny Fredricks will be a decided handicap to the Cats. Fredricks has been a mainstay for the last two seasons. This vacancy will call for a shifting by Coach Shepard to try to find another clicking combination. Fredricks was forced to drop out because of low grades and will probably be lost to the team for the rest of the season. The game with Wofford at Spartanburg Monday night is expected to be fairly close, though Wofford has a better record for the season so far. They have won 4 games, losing only one in state competition, and have the advantage of being on a familiar court. The Cats are favored to take the measure of Guilford when they meet them again in a home game the following night. Having beaten them earlier this week, the varsity should win easily for a repeat.

Invade S. C.
After the Guilford game on Tuesday, the varsity leaves on a trip to South Carolina. They will meet the College of Charleston on Thursday and then journey to take on the Citadel Cadets at Charleston.

The Wildcats, who have been unable to break into the win column this year, were the underdogs when they took the court against the White Phantoms Tuesday night. Because of their stubby squad, the sports scribes have called the Phantoms the “White Bantams,” but the stubby men have been whittling larger opponents down to their size all season. The Blue Devils, who have averaged slightly over 50 points per conference game this season, were led by their flashy Sophomores, the Loftis Brothers and Bob Gantt, all of the Championship Durham High School Team, who have sparked the Duke team all year as they again point for the Conference Crown. This was a game between the leaders of the Southern Conference and the squad bringing up the rear.

N. C. Vs. Duke
One of the best games of the season will be played next Saturday when the Phantoms of Carolina, minus the services of All-American Glamack, attempt to throw a wrench in the beautifully running machinery of the Blue Devils of Duke. Though Carolina has been previously beaten, the game will be one of the hardest of the year for the Dukes.

Davidson Wrestlers Upset Dope To Down Maryland Terps 22-10
Council And Carter Get Pins; Hipp, Brinson, and Turnage Keep Clean Slates

Davidson's varsity wrestling team pulled one of the season's first upsets Saturday when they downed the Maryland Terps 22-10 at Davidson. The Terps, reputably one of the strongest teams in the Southern Conference, were able to win only two of the day's matches. The Cats’ trio of undefeated grapplers, Hipp, Turnage, and Brinson, added another win to their string, but none of them were able to pin their opponents. George Councill and Wilber Carter, wrestling in the 128 and 175 lb. class respectively, were the only Cats able to pin their opponents.

Terps Begin Strong
The Terps started out strong, winning two of the first three matches easily. Clyde Stroupe was pinned by Glasgow in the opening 121 lb. class, but George Councill came back to pin Armiger of Maryland in the 128 lb. class to even the count. Searly put the visitors out in front again when he pinned Rufus Long, but from there on it was all Davidson. In the 145 lb. division, R. L. Brinson decisioned Remsberg to keep his own personal slate clean. Then Ashby Dick sent the Cats into the lead for the first time when he also decisioned Armstrong. Ben Turnage defeated the Maryland captain, Dunn, in the 165 lb. bracket and Carter followed by clinching the match with a win in the 175 lb. class. Carter was the second Cat to pin his man, downing Lee of the Terps in the second round.

Hipp Wins
Although the final match had no bearing on the outcome of the team meet, it was the most exciting of the day. Davidson’s captain Ed Hipp won a decision from Conrad of Maryland, but the outcome was decided in the last 30 seconds of the match. Trailing by a count of 7 to 6 and needing two points to remain undefeated this season, Hipp broke Conrad's hold and came up to gain the necessary two points to win the match. At the time, Davidson led 19 to 10, and Hipp's win brought the Cats’ final score to 22.

Third Win
The win was the third against one loss for the Cats and being so decisive over such strong opposition points toward one of the conference's best matches next weekend when the Cats meet Washington and Lee. The Generals have four conference champions on their squad and are one of the conference favorites to cop the championship.

Smarten Your Appearance Early With A New SPRING SUIT
$29.50

There’s a treat in store for you when you see the appealing fabrics in our easy-fitting, modified drape suits, and you'll find it still a greater thrill to wear them. In tweeds, coverts, shetlands, and worsteds.

M. H. GOODRUM COMPANY
HARDWARE GROCERIES
Davidson, N.C.

New Spring Sport Coats $12.95 to $16.95
MEN’S STORE STREET FLOOR
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.