Page Two « THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 19, 1942

_ The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY............. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON............. BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bobby Carter................. Assistant Editor
W. C. Plunkett............... Associate Editor
Al Winn..................... Associate Editor
Ed Erwin.................... Managing Editor
Joe Hye..................... Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher............... Managing Editor
Henry McIntosh.............. Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean............... Sports Editor
Clarence Legerton............ Movie Editor
Billie Barker................ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Calhoun Hipp................ Assistant Business Manager
POOP OYOUN................ Advertising Manager
ie Martin.................. Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely............... Circulation Manager
VOY 7...................... Collections Manager

Why Not Have Dances Here?

The Pan-Hellenic Council might well be congratulated on the last set of dances sponsored by Seabbard and Blade and the “D” Club, as it was truly one of the finer sets. However, it was rather disheartening to note how few persons attended due to lack of transportation and various other reasons. It looks to us like the time has come to make it a necessity for the students to ask for dances on the campus. “Impossible,” say some, “and we’ve thought out all the angles.” But there must be some angles that haven't been thought out. The fact of the presence of Joe Barnwell’s band performing between the halves of the senior-varsity basketball game the other night put ideas into quite a few heads---ideas that consisted of the newer gym, decorated to the rafters, swelling with the tunes of a Pan-Hellenic signed band here in Davidson.

But there are arguments against having dances in Davidson. “There's no place to have them!” scream those same persons, “The gym’s too small and the banquet hall is out of the question.” We agree on the fact that the gym is too small for a regular dance set for the whole school---but a Junior-Senior dance is not out of the question---also, it seems that fraternity dances might be better attended with less expense per person if they could possibly be held in Davidson. Tire shortage has tended to make last minute rides almost impossible to secure---you just can’t ask a date without having a ride arranged for in advance---and if this transportation element could be eliminated, the expense would be split down to the cost of the dance ticket plus a few incidentals.

But, there is still another problem to solve. We aren’t allowed to have dances in Davidson. Everybody seems to realize that they take place, yet the ban persists.

DAVIDSONIAN Editorials Features Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Thursday and Friday, March 19 and 20
LOUISIANA PURCHASE
Bob Hope, Vera Zorina, Victor Moore, Irene Bordoni.
Bob Hope, Vera Zorina, and Victor Moore wrap up this musical hit with their intriguing personalities. Although it’s a comedy, it does very nicely with Hope’s wit and Zorina’s dancing. The story concerns itself with Hope’s fall for conniving crooks.

Saturday, March 21
JOE SMITH, AMERICAN
Robert Young, Marsha Hunt, Darryl Hickman.
This story of an average Joe American, played by Robert Young, brings quite forcibly home the lesson that each loyal American may soon be called upon to prove the depth and sincerity of their love for our country. As a defense worker in the installation of bomb sights, Young is kidnapped and beaten by enemy agents but is able, after his escape, to lead to their capture, thus proving his loyalty.

Monday and Tuesday, March 23 and 24
REMEMBER THE DAY
Claudette Colbert, John Payne, Ann Todd.
This story concerns a self-made man, the great man who is running for President of the United States, and his recollection of the time when he played a part in her true love. Claudette Colbert is at her best as the school teacher.

COMING: PLAYMATES and PARIS CALLING

Yes, I would like for Jerry Newbold to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

A swell dance set is just over and the student body has begun to realize that the year is rapidly drawing to a close. Spring is once again in the air, the juniors are wearing their coats and ties, and are speaking to everyone, and many young men’s fancies are turning to thoughts of wooin’ Dogpatch Style. The aforementioned dance weekend went off in great style, and as usual many new locks were formed here on Saturday since he had to go to the doctor and that she'd better not come at all. Having been thusly flushed our heroine granted BEN WASHBURN a date. GENE made his exit a day early to avoid meeting his erstwhile date with BEN. LIBBA left the pin at school, needless to say. GENE was seen in Winston-Salem Sunday night with a date. What double-dealing!

Why was LUCY MORRISON so late in arriving Friday night? The story is awfully weak... LUCAS and CRICHTON were two late-comers, also, since neither arrived in time for the figure, which was held at eleven-thirty. However, we understand that was one weak point. There were at least six freshman who asked his girl up to dance! ... and the mighty midget SHEP BOOTH passed up sleep all Friday and Saturday to be with his Farmville Flash — Goodbye Meredith. GEORGE LACY McLEAN whipped off to deal at P. C., leaving MARTHA BATTLE to worry about herself. HOBBIE has given away his pen and now seems to be in a little deeper than he had wanted to be.

The HEAD was so upset over the fact that his love was attending the dance with HUGH SPRUNT that he didn’t take in the set. JACK CLARK showed up at the school to faint in pretty swell entertainment any time for the rest of the year, including Spring Frolics. What a dance looking and acting his usual self—just the rat. There was a shot-looking crew Sunday afternoon, including PINKY WILSON, who had topped off the dances by an afternoon strolling on the beautiful Queens campus. Also there were BOBBY MILLER, QUEENIE SMITH, and GEORGE PATRICK.

GENE SUTTON wired LIBBA HARDWICK that he couldn't be here on Saturday since he had to go to the doctor and that she'd better not come at all. Having been thusly flushed our heroine granted BEN WASHBURN a date. GENE made his exit a day early to avoid meeting his erstwhile date with BEN. LIBBA left the pin at school, needless to say. GENE was seen in Winston-Salem Sunday night with a date. What double-dealing!

Down Fraternity Court Kappa Alpha pulled by Brothers Hipp, Parks, and Par- Ainsworth, Asheville; Miss Ann Hunt- Centering around the annual Military origin, who forsook the dances to whip ington, Asheville; Miss Sybil Trexler, and "D" Club dances, the K. As had off to Bristol, Va., where they attended Concord; Miss Mary Lowry, Columbia, a lively weekend of entertainment. the dances at Sullins College. Other S. C.; Miss Ernestine Norvill, Tracy Among the brethren taking dates to Brothers who had callings stronger than City, Tenn.; Miss Lucy Morison, Da- Charlotte were Charlie Watt, Cam Wil- Charlotte were Prive Lineberger and vidson; Miss Martha Withers, David- son, Mason Wallace, John Belk, Hugh Henry Denny and Brother Robinson son; and Miss Barbara DeMar, Char- Sprunt, Hank Watt, Irwin Belk, Hen- who went to Winston-Salem and Gas- lotte. derson, Belk, Sandy Sandifer, Tommy tonia respectively. Brother Mclver spent the weekend Glasgow, Nat King, Ed Whitesides, and Dates of the chapter were Anne in Bristol, Virginia. Brother Conner, Jim Jackson. The Brothers Councill Vless, Converse, Grace Williams, Mick- Brother Sutton went to their respectivend B. G. B. Turnage explored the finer points of farm life, while Brother Abbott made a big splash at Harris Lake. Larkin and Mary Kathryn McArthur, homes in Rock Hill and Decatur, Sigma Phi Epsilon Georgia. SAE and Whitesides, Speas, et al. were with the glee clubs and band. Another dance weekend has come and gone, and so have the following young ladies: Peggy Dorsey, Betsy Hodges, Alice Withers, Evangeline Palmer, Dot Bell, Scott, and Neill. The Military Dances occasioned the presence of a number of visitors to the campus, among whom were Brothers Martin, Parsons, Breniers, Hill, and Clark, and Pledges Fraely, Shelton, and White. 

Journeying down for the dances and other reasons were Brothers Hodges and Anderson, and Pledge Rife. They spent the night in Raleigh, but this time not in Capitol Square. Beta Theta Pi brothers came back Sunday, expressing their enjoyment of the weekend. The Military Club Set was the main attraction for most of the brothers. The dates included: Grace Aske, Edith Ebelein, Penny Durham, Louise Payne, Martha Brander, Carolyn Parker, Pat Stoyles, Mary Helen Garrison, Sarah Dawson, Katherine Mauldin, Virginia Lybrand, Dora Garrett, Carolyn Robinson, Mary Louise Fay Coker. 

Sunday found Brothers Legerton and Davis down Winthrop way, while Bivins went north to Meredith. Whiddon, Powell, McLauchlin, and Whitley visited Winston-Salem, after which Whitley joined Henderson, Isley, Betts, and Blevins for the Sophomore Formal. 

Kappa Sigma dates for the dance set the past weekend included: Julia Bridger, Millie Srenizer, Anna Tomlinson, Flora McDonald, Jean Sullivan, Bliss Street, and Elmer Graves. The following dates were especially welcomed: Miss Aileen Long, Charlotte; Miss Tina Granger, Charlotte; Miss Eleanor Amos, High Point; Miss Sara Harris, Spartanburg; Miss Ernestine Sitton, Winthrop; Miss Jean Otey, Orlando, Florida; Miss Betty Urquhart, Winston-Salem; Miss Ann McConnell, Talladega, Alabama; Miss Jean Otto, William and Mary; Miss Skeeter McGehee, Greenville, Mississippi; Miss Jean Howie, Charlotte; and Miss Margaret Boger, Charlotte. The chapter was pleased to have Brother Nelson Tracy of Vanderbilt as its guest for the dances. 

Visiting Greensboro for the weekend were Brothers Bob Whaling, Johnny McAlister, Rab McGeachy, Hugh Hill, and Dunn, who made his regular weekly run to Winston. Brother Ben F. Moore went home to McCall, S.C. Lewis Bibb is confined to the infirmary with measles. 

Phi Gams dates for the weekend were Lillian Shutting, Chattanooga; Lib Traynham, Betty Jean Moore, Gwin Barnwell, and Belle Purvis. Brother Yocum and Pledge Skinner took the weekend at Sweetbriar. Brother White made his weekly trip to Davidson; Martha Ann Nixon, Queens; and Brother Garrison. 

PATTER By PAT RUDOLPH Guest Columnist: DAN HODGES Davidson College, 1952; North Mecklenburg’s Shangri-La

It's been done before and we're doing it again—in print. Maybe, if the powers-that-be read Pat's column, they'll take notice, sooner or later, and help us make Davidson the ideal stomping ground for every American man. Lately, there's been some comment about what changes should be wrought at Davidson. Put a bunch of these suggestions together and here’s what you get:

Sports and Such—The golf course no longer a replica of some Scottish heath—Caddies, clad in the Davidson colors, red and black, available at all times—The clubhouse no more a fragile handful of shingles and rusty nails, but a handsome little brick building with soft drinks and golf balls for all—Twenty more tennis courts, thus eliminating that frantic springtime after-dinner rush of the boys who want to get a couple of sets played in the early afternoon—The “Newest Gym,” a tremendous, up-to-date edifice, containing everything from an indoor track and five or six basketball courts to an eighty-foot swimming pool and slick rooms for visiting teams to stay in.

Dormitories or Die—Hot water in Georgia so the “moguls” won't catch the hives from those winter dashes to the shower-room spigots—Showers on the floors of all dorms that lack them right now—Urns containing the ashes of North and South placed in the lobby of Chambers—Two new dorms to take the place of the Barracks—Telephones in every room for the nominal fee of one buck a month—Window panes that can't be broken—Electric plugs in the walls—At the rear of each hall, a chute that leads directly to the laundry and does away with the middleman—Coca-Cola vending machines on each floor—A “small student store” in the basements of the dormitories—Large traps to capture any noxious rodents that might creep into the rooms.

Students and Institutions—Voting for one office over in one day instead of three or four—All the boys wearing coats so as to abolish the ugly association with “politicking”—The phenomenal union of honorary fraternities with studies and extra-curricular activities going on in perfect harmony—A re-installation of the Dean’s List to give extra incentive for making good grades—A system of unlimited cuts for those who make the Dean’s List, with other cuts based on the student’s marks in each class—A better understanding between the Greeks and the non-Greeks so as to obtain “liberty and justice for all.”

Social Life and Stuff—Dances on the campus in the “Newest Gym,” featuring the best bands in the country—Feature-length movies at the local show that are short enough to let the boys out in time for drill—Greater class spirit obtained through each class putting on a social function during the year—Enoch passing out nickels to visiting alumni from the steps of Chambers.

Well, these are only some of the suggestions. There are countless others. We expect these changes to take place after the war. And if and when all this does come about, then what? You tell me. I've got an idea there'll just be this many more improvements the Davidson students will want to see made.

Among Our Many Helpful Books Are:
The works of G. Campbell Morgan, especially his commentary on the Gospel of Luke.
The works of F. Crossley Morgan.
The Gospel of Luke by Charles Erdman.
Life on the Highest Plane by Ruth Paxson.
Word Pictures in the New Testament by A. T. Robertson.

LET US ASSIST YOU IN YOUR BIBLE STUDY FOR THE COMING YEAR
The Bible Book Store
124 West Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Right Dress for that Spring Vacation!
Here’s the right dress for vacation or campus. Come over and take a look at these smooth numbers Mellon’s is showing for Spring—they’re cooking with gas!

A dance on the campus would oppose the dances if they witnessed a Davidson dance and actually sensed the high plane upon which they are conducted. And with the interest of saving tires and fuel prevailing, it seems that it’s time to face the facts and solve the problem in the interest of the majority.

Hill and Neisler went to Kings Mountain. Brother Wilson and Bash went to Winston-Salem. Brother Joe Barnwell was at his home in Burlington. Brother Steve Thurston was here for the weekend.

Pi Kappa Phi
The one big “deal” of the week was Mary Hope Turner and Hazel Thayer. Following the Friday night dance, a feed was held at the fraternity house. Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Peters were guests of the chapter.

Phi Delta Theta
A large number of the Phis attended the Military-D Club Dance Set last weekend in the Charlotte Armory. Among the dates were Miss Eloise. Guest of the chapter this weekend were Mr. and Mrs. Earle G. Bellamy, Knoxville, Iowa, and Mr. W. H. Morrow of West Point, Ga. Guests of the Phi Gams for dinner last evening were Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham, Dr. and Mrs. Cumming, Dr. and Mrs. Watts, Dr. and Mrs. E. E. Brown, Mr. and Mrs. McEver, and Major and Mrs. D. G. Wilson.

Ed. Mellon Co.
The Carolinas’ Leading Men’s Store
106-108 West Trade Street
Sport Coats, $10.00 to $26.00
Slacks $3.95 to $8.95
Spring Suits, $22.50 to $40.00
Arrow Shirts $2.25 Up
Sweaters $1.50 to $7.50
Sport Shoes $3.50 Up
STUDENT'S DEPT., SECOND FLOOR
Open Thursdays ’Til 9 P. M.
Ed. Mellon Co.
CHARLOTTE