Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 29, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PETER YOUNG BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries Managing Editor
Howell Morrow Managing Editor
John Fairley Managing Editor
Jim Thomson Managing Editor
Deane Watson Sports Editor
Legh Scott News Editor
Bobbie Wills Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager Dick Fort
Advertising Manager Don McIver
Circulation Manager Jim Williams
Circulation Manager Teeny Hodges
Subscription Manager John Robinson
Collection Manager Buddy Carson

Our Viewpoint...

Whether fair or unfair, true or false, there is an attitude towards the youth of our country on which we have often found occasion to comment as it regards faculty, administration, and trustee relations with the students. It is now evidencing itself in national public opinion. We refer to the enigmatic ideas which the American people harbor as to the soundness and capabilities of the eighteen and nineteen-year-olds.

Our newspapers daily exalt this section of American manhood and designate it the hope and potential savior of the nation. They tell us that this group, of which the Davidson student body, like all college contingents, is largely composed, will make the best soldiers of any in the land. They inform us that we are at exactly the right age and stage of physical development, as well as the period of formative psychology, to receive and absorb army discipline. They inform us, in short, that they are ready to consider us as men and as soldiers.

In the same breath or on the same page, however, these front page philosophers (and congressional contradictionists) will begin to hedge. They say that we are old enough and morally strong enough to offer our lives in their protection, but that we do not have the moral fortitude to face the personal temptations of life. They decide that the army, which has proved its discipline by cleaning out every city near which it has a camp, will not provide in this respect for its men, and that it falls within the limits of the politicians’ duty to take over in this respect, a matter in which the military authorities have proved them notably lax.

They accuse the army of having no knowledge of the length of time necessary to train its own men. They are like a patient who has paid an expert to prescribe and are not willing to swallow their medicine.

It would appear that we who are affected most, we of the class in question, should be allowed to express ourselves. We think we speak almost unanimously when we say that we are ready and glad of the chance to serve our country in any and every way. We do not demand, as some seem to think, the right to vote or any special privileges. We only ask that if and when we are called that we be called all the way. We beg that we have the opportunity of training with veteran troops and seeing action when our military leaders consider us ready. We ask that we be considered moral men capable of solving our own problems and meeting our own temptations. We ask that the public accept our faith in the leaders of the army and in ourselves.

We think we have a just basis for our requests in the conduct of our comrades who have already seen fit to enter the service. We believe ourselves capable of living up to their example, which should convince anyone, we think, of the seriousness of our purposes. Perhaps our actions in the past have justified suspicions of our aims. Perhaps some of our water fights and window breakings have been adolescent. But we think the increased maturity of the average youthful mind has passed every test in any real crisis.

We ask no favors, then. We ask no exceptions nor lightened tasks or responsibilities. We simply ask the consideration we believe we have earned.

Cinema Comments
By LACY McLEAN

Thursday, Friday and Saturday
MRS. MINIVER
One of Hollywood's greatest works opens at the Davidson theatre Thursday for a three day run. Greer Garson, the wife around whom the story is built, and Walter Pidgeon, the husband, are supported by an excellent supporting cast which includes Teresa Wright and Richard Ney. The scene is set in present day, bomb-torn England.

Monday and Tuesday
SOMEWHERE I'LL FIND YOU
The screen’s top romantic team, Private Clark Gable and lovely Lana Turner are linked in a beautiful love story. The action usually enjoyed in a Gable-vehicle is not absent from the matinee idol’s latest.

Wednesday
GIVE OUT, SISTER
The Andrews Sisters of radio and recording fame are the top billed artists in the week's Bargain day show. It's a fast moving swingy musical. Richard Davies has the male lead.

LATE SHOW
Richard Arlen, Arline Judge in THE WILDCAT

I would like for Jimmy Harris to be my guest for any show during the week.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

WOODROW WILSON MILLER HALL IS CONSIDERED THE OLDEST FRATERNITY HOUSE IN THE U.S. IT HAS BEEN USED EXCLUSIVELY AND CONTINUOUSLY FOR FRATERNITY PURPOSES SINCE 1854. PHI KAPPA PSI - GETTYSBURG COLLEGE

WOODROW WILSON WAS THE MOST COLLEGIATE OF ALL OF OUR U.S. PRESIDENTS. HE ATTENDED FOUR (DAVIDSON, PRINCETON, VIRGINIA, AND JOHNS HOPKINS), BECAME PRESIDENT OF PRINCETON; WAS OFFERED THE PRESIDENCY OF SEVEN OTHER UNIVERSITIES, RECEIVED 21 HONORARY DEGREES - MORE THAN DID ANY OTHER PRESIDENT ON A PURELY ACADEMIC BASIS. HE TAUGHT AT BRYN MAWR, WESLEYAN AND PRINCETON. COACHED FOOTBALL AT WESLEYAN.

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA ONCE OWNED A COW WITH A WINDOW IN HER SIDE. VETERINARY STUDENTS STUDIED FOOD DIGESTION THROUGH THE OPENING. WINDOW COW.

Under The Flag

This week we are printing a portion of a letter to Coach Norman Shepard from Lt. Frank Caldwell of the United States Marine Corps, now training with the parachute arm of service. This year’s sophomore class will remember “Butch” as Judge of the Court of Control as well as Captain of the football team. After a few personal remarks he says:

I wasn't satisfied with the army and thought I’d get into a tougher outfit, so I joined up with these fighting Marines. Well, after three months as a line officer, I felt that this was too much like the army so I volunteered with the Paramarines, the best outfit in the world. Every man is hand picked and is put through a tough physical before being permitted to take a whirl at this interesting game. I took one at Quantico and barely passed my depth perception test but they needed good men so they took me. My 187 lbs. was frowned upon, because maximum weight is 190 and they like ‘em around 150. But I'm down to 185 now and am getting into real good physical condition. These calisthenics we have makes those we had in football look rather silly. We take a two mile run with boots at 5:15 a.m. in the morning topped off with a brisk 30 minute setting-up exercise period. We eat and rest until 8 when we learn how to pack chutes which is fairly complicated. We eat chow at 12 and fall out again at 1 o'clock for tumbling and more calisthenics and a 2 mile run and knock off at 4:30. I've been here a week now and our regular class doesn’t start until Monday (19th) so we've got a week's jump on them. We follow that routine for three weeks and then we go out to the towers and make practice jumps via guide wires and cables to get the feel of the chute. Then the fifth and sixth weeks we make our qualifying jumps and also have target practice with the Reising Sub-Machine Gun, jiu-jitsu, and hand-to-hand fighting. That's the course in a nutshell. I am living right now with three other officers in the same school in brand new barracks of which we are the first to occupy. We have a suite of rooms with connecting baths and it makes me feel like college days once again. All the streets here are laid out in large avenues or double-road affairs or boulevards I believe they call them in higher circles. If I come back from this war this is the place I'd love to stay and have all the hunting and fishing I please. MGM movies is coming down next week to film us marines and they want us to show the world how we fight. You'll hear something about it soon.

Sincerely,
“BUTCH”.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN

The Deplorable Lack of Suitable Closings to Letters, or, Sincerely Yours.

Tuesday

Dear June,

Although our date together Saturday night was our first, I certainly did have a good time, and hope that you enjoyed it as much as I did. I certainly hope that we can get together again soon.

I finally got Bill Lyman to come back to school.and it took me 5 hours to come 70 miles! Isn't that terrible? “Tell May ‘hello’ for me,” Corny? Embarrassingly so! But writing a letter isn’t half so bad as trying to find a suitable way to close it. The general situation is this: you've gone, say, to Salem or Converse the weekend before and had the inevitable blind date. The girl is nice, attractive, and fairly good looking, but is still just another girl who is not particularly exciting—yet, not to be looked upon with scorn. For some reason, girls’ schools in this section abound with such girls. They're O.K., but nothing to blow your top over. At this stage, you're without a “one and only,” but are desperately seeking someone to get “locked” with. This girl seems to have potentialities, so, in your desperation, you're writing a “bread and butter” letter, just to keep contact in case she should turn out to be interesting. The result is the stupid letter case quoted above. But how can you sign it? Undoubtedly the worst shortcoming of the English language is a lack of suitable endings for almost any letter, much less one of the type under discussion. The first closing that comes to mind is “Sincerely,” but that has come to mean nothing through overuse. Besides, it has a formal sound and certainly a dull one.

How about “Love”? That also has come to mean practically nothing, but you hesitate to use a word that, in itself, could have vast implications. Besides, you’ve had but one date with the girl. At this point, you rack your brain for ideas, and remember that someone used to sign her letters “Always.” But that’s dull too. What about “Fondly”? Good college fudge, no! That sounds like a kind, faithful old dog. Maybe “Yours?” Again, dull and inappropriate. “Ever”? Worse! In the end, you write “Sincerely yours,” curse yourself, and by one more repetition, the phrase becomes more prosaic and despicable. Have you, the reader, any ideas on how to end such a letter? If so, please bless mankind by imparting your secret to the rest of the world. $100,000 in War Bonds and a year’s subscription to the Davidsonian will be given to any student who will submit a suitable ending. Address entries to “By-Lines,” care of this paper.

The Operating Table

With the homecoming weekend just around the proverbial corner, many of the campus’ wolves pulled several large deals in gleeful anticipation of leading the lambs to slaughter during the forthcoming Homecoming. C. P. Sprunt must have a lock in the front office as he has failed to appear in the classroom for the past ten days. His latest venture has been to Virginia where it is rumored he has a heavenly hideaway from the cares of the world. T. C. McCoy and a bunch of limbers journeyed to “Little Jerusalem” to enjoy a satisfying mug of milk at Roy's Place. Ben Pitt Moore visited “Hock” and returned jubilant over the fact that the old saying, “absence makes the heart grow fonder for someone else” was not true in his case. Long John Belk trekked to the Gate City on a lone wolf deal of which we haven't heard much. Our fondest hopes are that he did not again embarrass his date. Hipless Graves, as usual, dated in Greensboro and this time he failed to wear a red neck-tie. The latest flush heard of is that of Jesse Wooten whose prospective date wrote that she would be unable to escort him to the frolics due to a wedding on the same night. Just so it isn’t her wedding, it’s okay. The deal of the week seems to have been in Asheville. Lt. Ned Pollock arrived on the campus Friday and left Saturday with Bayru, Sutton, and Rail Brinson. They reported a wonderful time but war priorities have caused a shortage. All three spent the night in the back of Pollock’s car. Pat Williams and Lacy McLean found their dates at Sweetbriar so enticing that they were unable to leave the campus until the eleventh hour and strolled on to the beginning of the first period Monday morning. Wilbo and North Carolina and Virginia in their roving by visiting the fair lassies at Salem, Hollins, Sweetbriar, Randolph-Macon, and W.C. Ten High Douglas has found a new lock in Chester after an eventful two-day stay there, and is planning to return every weekend hereafter. B. B. Eyes has Red Bethea hastening to Charlotte in his spare moments. Jim Dendy and Lard Royster spent an eventful weekend on the old campus playing gin rummy in their spare time. Jack Wayman made his usual trek to the fair city and failed to return until Monday morning. The “Old Lady,” Ivey Stewart, still has his old habit of applying numerous lotions to his body. In a recent inspection, it was found that he has a total of twelve bottles (of lotions) on his shelf. The season of flushes is fast approaching so we will have a much more readable column for you at a later date. Simmons covered Randolph-Macon and the staff.

By MAC JEFFRIES

Little has been said from the Chambers Auditorium platform in recent months—even in recent years—which had more import and more sound advice for Davidson men and for college men everywhere in these stirring times than the thought uttered there by President Cunningham on the opening day of school and again last week, concerning staying in college and applying oneself to the task of absorbing all the information and practical knowledge one is able in the months of grace left to the college man in the near future. You will remember that Dr. Cunningham emphasized the crying need felt by the government for trained leaders which must come from college campuses, and the fact that the government was not handing out special privileges to college men simply because they were college men, but because this need existed and must be filled. Leaving the men in college to receive those qualities of leadership was the most expedient way of meeting these vacancies. For this reason and for this reason only, reserves for every branch of the service had been created, and it would be no shirking of patriotic duty to sign with one of these reserves to obtain the time to finish the training that one needs to fit himself for the task that lies ahead. Placed in this light, the unpatriotic aspect would lie in not following up to its full advantage the opportunity we possess here at Davidson of rendering valuable service to the country even while we continue our seemingly ordinary lives here on the Wildcat campus.

The United States Government has judged it wise to leave valuable potential material for the armed services in school for an admittedly uncertain period of time—as long as feasible to the best interest of the nation; evidently they believe that the educational institutions of America are well-prepared to provide their students with training that they will use in the dangerous game ahead; this being so, and the authorities having fulfilled their part of the bargain, it remains our job—our patriotic, solemn duty—to continue to perform our part of the bargain with renewed diligence and to the utmost of our ability. In doing so, in all fairness to ourselves, we should not overlook the long-range side of the thing. When the war is over, and millions of men are returning to civilian life, and to business competition, those of us who did not see fit to finish our education may find ourselves regretfully looking back to the opportunities we passed up at this time in our life. We may miss sorely what we can insure now by merely stopping and thinking seriously about the whole matter before taking any sudden, hot-headed step. And of course, in this consideration, we should place foremost the question of what the government desires us to do in the crisis in which the nation finds itself.

In this line, enough cannot be said of the immeasurable contribution made by the local R.O.T.C. department to the proper training of the men under its jurisdiction. The unit, under the able direction of Col. McAndrew, has markedly revised and improved its organization, to the end of making itself more realistic with respect to the conditions of actual warfare under which its members may soon find themselves. Col. McAndrew, from his wide personal experience, has profitably supplemented textbook instruction with the practical, everyday advice needed by any young army officer on entering the service. Davidson is fortunate in having such a unit with such a commanding officer at its head.

By the way, Davidsonians have not always looked on the military department with the favor they do today. At first, there seems to have been no little opposition to its installment here, on religious grounds. Looking through an old issue of the Davidsonian the other night, I ran across the following excerpt from an editorial of November 20, 1930. Written in defense of the recently installed R.O.T.C. unit, the article said in language ironical enough today: “There are many people who will resent a recent implication that Davidson College has been captured by the War Department ... Space does not permit a discussion on the advantages of a training which helps to coordinate mind and body ... or of whether there will ever be another war in which the U.S. will participate. It is impossible for a man to prophesy!”