Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 30, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN ------------------ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PETER YOUNG ---------------- BUSINESS MANAGER

Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Features would doubtless be more impressed with the service if they had a better opportunity to participate in it. Perhaps this is a minor detail, but the minor details are entities which total “a better Davidson.”

Sympathy

The Davidsonian wishes to express for the entire student body deepest sympathy to Al and Herb Dimmock and to Ivey Stewart in the recent losses in their families.

CAMPUS CAMERA

MY DAZE
By BILL LYMAN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ed The Sad Case of the Big Beaver, or, Jumping Joe Meets His Fate.
Henry McIntosh ---------------- Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher ---------------- Associate Editor
Joseph B. Mac Jeffries ---------------- Managing Editor
McCoy Howell Morrow ---------------- Managing Editor
Deane Watson ---------------- Managing Editor
Sports Editor ---------------- Bill Barker
Staff Photographer ---------------- Bill Barker

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager ---------------- Dick Port
Advertising Manager ---------------- Don Melver
Circulation Manager ---------------- Jim Harris
Circulation Manager ---------------- Teensy Hodges
Subscription Manager ---------------- John Robinson
Collections Manager ---------------- Buddy Carson

Don’t Forget...

If you haven't registered for the Red Cross blood donation, don’t fail to drop by the infirmary tonight. Now that arrangements have been made to collect the blood here, the medical staff wishes to complete the mechanical details as soon as possible so that the Red Cross doctors can start the actual collection at their convenience. The worthiness of this cause need not be re-emphasized. Don’t let this opportunity to serve actually and practically slip by because of absent-mindedness or forgetfulness. At press time Monday, only fourteen students had reported to Mrs. Johnston for their preliminary test, although allowance must be made for the intervention of the dance weekend. We hope to report a volunteer list well up in the hundreds by next issue.

Recommendation...

In planning your week’s program, don’t overlook the dedication exercises for the new library tomorrow. It is an unusual event which will be honored by an interesting program. The presentation of the $150,000 building is not a bi-weekly occurrence on the Davidson Campus. Unanimous attendance is certainly a small enough price to be paid for such a useful and generous gift.

Commendation

Dr. Cunningham is to be commended on his plans for the celebration of Mothers’ Day weekend on the campus. Such a program will not only permit students to accord the customary honors to their mothers, but will allow the parents to get a first-hand idea of the education for which they are paying. It is hoped that a large number of the mothers will find it possible to attend. Such an idea is worth the effort necessary to make it a tradition. May it receive the success it deserves.

Suggestion...

One suggestion for a more effective vespers service would be to place hymn books in the balcony for use by those sitting out of seat. The majority of the Sunday night visitors also sit in the balcony and would doubtless be more impressed with the service if they had a better opportunity to participate in it. Perhaps this is a minor detail, but the minor details are entities which total “a better Davidson.”

My name is Joseph B. McCoy, he said, but people call me Jumping Joe, the Big Beaver. I am president of the Beaver Club, he added.

Jumping Joe was noted for his efficiency. He was very efficient. He did everything he was supposed to when he was supposed to. He always had his accounting problems up. He began his term paper before the night before they were due. In fact, his term papers were finished before the night before. He would read his psychology text when he was sun-bathing, thus tanning his body and studying at the same time. He allowed only twenty-three minutes a day for bulling. Conversely expressed, Joe was never inefficient about anything. Except one.

He loved to go to Spartanburg. I love to go to Spartanburg, said Jumping Joe, the Big Beaver. This love proved to bring about his downfall. One week he studied hard all week so he could go to Spartanburg on the weekend with a free conscience. Everything is going to be hotsy-totsy this weekend, he said. But it turned out to be coldsy-toldsy. Joe's girl at Converse unexpectedly had to go home. Joe was up a hole as to what to do in order not to waste time. He had brought no books to study. He could find no one else to date. He had seen all the shows in town. The next bus to school was not leaving for five hours. I have five hours in which not to waste time, said Joe, but there is no way to spend it profitably. I am up the well-known creek without a paddle. Jumping Joe sat down in the bus station miserably. After one hour he was more miserable. After two hours he was even more miserable. After three hours he could not stand it any longer. I cannot stand it any longer, he said, I believe I shall commit hari-kari. And he did. Now the Beaver Club needs another Big Beaver.

Moral: Always put off until tomorrow what you know fudge well you ought to do today.

Down Fraternity Court

Pi Kappa Phi

Wanderings of the brothers were for the last weekend due to the fact that most of them attended the dances in Charlotte. The Fraternity held its banquet in the Hotel Charlotte Friday night. It was well attended by the brothers and the members of the faculty that are brothers. Dates for the dance set were Grace Williams, Dot McCoy, Tina Granger, Winnie Pons, Frances Roebuck, Dorothy Raymond, Billie May New, Margaret Yount, Betty Grantham, Gladys Lipscomb, Dallas Howard, Christine Hahn, and Edith Hahn. Some of the brothers forsook the dances for other diversions. Among these were Brother Murray to Raleigh, Pledge Bradley to Waynesville, and Brother Bumbarger to Hickory. Also among the missing were Brothers Hipp, Evans, and Tyrone Gaither who pulled a blanket detail to Myrtle Beach.

Phi Gamma Delta

Phi Gam dates for the weekend were Jean Paxton, Randolph-Macon; Nancy Gaston, Helen Morgan, Martha Anne Nixon, Martha Brandon, Ollie Meadows, and Patricia Goodwin, all of Queens; Judy West of University of Chattanooga; Kara Crane, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Mona Moseley, Charlotte; Billie Jo Sherwood, Bristol, Tennessee; and Joella Craig, Agnes Scott. Fred Stair ('39) and Ensign Frank Barker ('41) were alumni brothers who were guests at the house during the weekend. The Fijis and their dates attended a feed at the house after the Friday night dance, and a banquet at Tenner’s on Saturday night. Brother Cavert journeyed home to Nashville, Tennessee, over the weekend and Brother Morrow operated at Salem College.

Phi Delta Theta

The Phis entertained at the Spring Frolics for the following exciting femmes: Mildred Runnion, Furman University; Kay Ward, West Palm Beach, Florida; Ernestine Nouvell, Tracy City, Tennessee; Wilna Baskin, Florida State College for Women; Anne Huntington, Asheville; Nancy King, Sullins; Jean Graham, University of Chattanooga; LaRue Mizell, Atlanta, Ga.; Martha Boyd, Hollins College; Nell Rhodes, Statesville; Sally Moore, Davidson; and Nell Tate, W. C. U. N. C. Brother Gene Vereen of Atlanta visited the campus over the weekend and gave out with some commandments that were well worth hearing. The biggest deal of the week was pulled by Brothers Colson, Smith, and Hendee who visited Mooresville.

Kappa Sigma

Dates of Kappa Sigma this week were: Margaret Little Blount, Julia Bridger, Ann Wiley, Martha Hipp, Flora McDonald, Peggie Butler, Dot Stallings, Martha Swain, Julia.Marsh, Mary—Louise Hovis, Frances Sweeny, Diane Page, Helen Cox, Scott Tyrene, Bobbie Jennings, Caroline Eddy, Mary Sue Briggs, and Betty Dorton. Visitors from State included Coit Robinson with Martha Lewis, Bill Thompson with Martha Cloud, George Brandt, and Larry Hardin.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The majority of the brothers and pledges attended the dances this weekend. The Fraternity banquet was held in the gold room of the Hotel Barringer on Saturday night. Dates for the weekend included: Lib Morris, Emma Rhodes, Sarah Hutchins, Julia Gwinn, Margaret Skinner, Sue Howe, Mary Eleanor Holman, Rosemary Vinson, Mary Webston, Susan Durden, and Betty Thomas. Brothers Van Vickle and Pritchard spent the weekend at the Country club. Brothers Hodges and Parsons finished off the weekend by making the usual run to Greensboro Sunday.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The great majority of the brothers remained on the campus for the festivities of the Spring Frolics Set. The chapter had the pleasure of entertaining twenty-two young ladies, who were as follows: Miss Peggy Dorsey, sponsoring for the Chapter; Miss Edwina Lawrence, Miss Mary Steele Hubbard, Miss Dot Maudlin, Miss Ellen Isley, Miss Sara Newton, Miss Virginia Hengeveld, Miss Dot Burgess, Miss Ruth Edmiston, Miss Helen McGill, Miss Helen Smithy, Miss Montise Coker, Miss Evangeline Palmer, Miss Agnes Mae Johnson, Miss Ann Glass, Miss Kitty Maxwell, Miss Libby Andrews, Miss Jule Hurst, Miss Caroline Williams, Miss Paula White, Miss Mary Louise Garrett, Miss Frances Moses. The annual Installation Banquet of the Chapter was held Friday evening at Thacker’s. The main speech of the evening was delivered by Charlie Gold of Rutherfordton, an alumnus of the class of '34. Short talks were given by Professors Kimbrough and Fulcher, and Dr. Gwynn. Sam Hay was awarded the plaque for being the “Most Outstanding Freshman,” and Price Gwynn was named the “Most Outstanding Man in the Chapter.” Ed Hay acted as Master-of-Ceremonies. “After-the-dance” deals must include the pilgrimage of Brothers Turner and Bivins, with their respective dates, to Myrtle Beach. Hugh Knox went home to Andrews, S.C., and Dave Blevins was frustrated at W.C.

Kappa Alpha
With the Spring dances providing the main point of interest, the Kappa Alpha brethren operated in typical K.A. fashion during the festive period. Among those sporting (more or less) dates at the hops were Mason Wallace, Charlie Watt, Lacy McLean, Cam Wilson, Hank Watt, Freddie Speas, George Sinclair, Campbell Ansley, Ralph Dunn, Tom Pinkerton, and Scotty Paterson. Brother Councils (Buzzie) and Brother Royster took in Myrtle Beach. The Catawba called several brothers and pledge brothers, including Backlash Glasgow and Pantywaist Whitesides. Several went home, Pledge Brother Gracey traveled up to Virginia. Some remained dormant, and a number stagged in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
The brothers made the most of the last Dance Set of the year and a big time was enjoyed by all. A few of the chapter members strayed to other points of interest, but the majority remained and welcomed the following visitors: Millie Brenizer, Ruth Hayes, and Jean Howie of Charlotte; Tee McCormick, Margaret Taylor, and Peggy McAlister of Greensboro; Johnny Bennett and Frances Swing, of Winston-Salem; Isabele Gibbs, Elkin; Nancy Lewis, Mt. Airy; Ethyl Litch, Laurinburg; Bryant Durham, and Betsy Miss Sadie Gwin Allen, Houston, Texas; Jean Otey, Orlando, Fla.; Nita Lynch, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Judy Constantine, Birmingham, Ala.; Skeeter McGee, Greenville, Miss; and Martha Ludlum, Meridian, Miss. Brothers Bill Sprunt, Bill Faison, Butch Caldwell, and B.F. Moore journeyed to Washington, D.C. to attend the Province Gamma Convention held over the weekend. Brothers Rab McGeachy and Roy Hunt spent the weekend at Myrtle Beach. The Brothers Bob Douglas, Jim Millikan, and Pop Rogers made the campus for the dances.

Beta Theta Pi
Brothers Jim McCrary and Don Caterson traveled to Greensboro last weekend on “Y” business. McCrary, it is said, exchanged his halo for a victory wreath. Brothers Barnwell and Pritchett spent the weekend at home in Burlington.