Thursday, March 12, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Spring Fever And Cleaning Worry Frosh
Snow And Snow Fights Give Way To Necessity of “Cleaning House”
By DICK ROBERTS

At last the snow has gone. While it furnished wonderful ammunition for a while, it was interesting to the boys from Florida, that they got up in the middle of the night just to look at it! But now the snow and cold have given way to the fair skies of spring.

“Down Fraternity Court” this has caused a slight rippling, which could hardly be termed a seething and a “movement.” Instead of snow battles, the conflict is now between the effects of spring fever, and the necessity of “getting the house cleaned up.”

Spring So far not much has been done—spring has triumphed. But it won't be long until the cheap freshman labor is called into action. He is up and scourged.

“Spring Cleaning” has a formidable sound. Even the strong of heart usually quail before the recollections and associations which these words call forth. But in a house which for several months has been lying fallow, these words mean even more than usual. It takes real courage to lift the corner of a rug and look directly at the debris hidden there.

Frosh Labor The freshmen laborers of course, bear the brunt of this discovery. Also, any other dirt caches are subtly called to their attention. “Theirs not to reason why, but to do or die.”

Kitchenette Problem In most houses, the kitchenette presents a real problem. It is left until last, and usually constitutes the largest job. If it is to be done right, the dishes should all be washed, the glasses polished, and the moss scraped off the sink. Naturally, the job is started out right, but about halfway through things start getting smoothed over so that nobody can tell the difference.

Generally, some big talker persuades the chapter to undertake the project, such as varnishing or painting. This type usually gives up when things are most disturbed. But lo, he returns to claim his glory when everything has been returned to an immaculate and shining state.

Fever Wins The eternal battle between spring fever, and ambition and energy, has been won by the energy of the good brothers. But spring fever has definitely scored a moral victory. No one can be found who will honestly say “It was worth it.”

RUSSIAN CLASS Dr. G. R. Vowles announces that the voluntary Russian class is continuing work with thirty members in the group. The class meets every Friday evening at 7:15. Most of the work is oral. No grades are given in the class, and no credit is given for the work. The new text is especially adapted for oral work, stated Dr. Vowles.

DARBY FULTON (Continued from Page One) served as missionaries for about fifty years. He spent his early life in Japan until about fourteen years of age, at which time he returned to the United States for schooling.

LEADS “D” CLUB DANCE MISS BETTY URQUHART

Many Interesting Experiments Performed By Chemistry Frat Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the chemistry fraternity, held a meeting last Tuesday night, March 3, in the Chemistry Building. The members of the student body were invited to attend an exhibition which consisted of the performance of various experiments by different members of the society. A large crowd was present for the exhibition, and the experiments were of a nature that would appeal to the average student. Some of these were rather spectacular in character, and they were all of educational value.

WATTS NAMES (Continued from Page One) In order to have the most effective plan there should be an air raid warden for each hall of each dormitory, so the following additional men are being asked to serve in that capacity: J. M. Newbold, Rumple; W. L. Birmingham, E. W. McLeod, and J. P. Walker, Watts; F. W. Hobbie and P. M. B. Young, Georgia; J. S. Mitchener, M. S. Brewer, and J. F. Robertson, West; R. W. Coonrad, W. B. Abbat, and B. D. Banks, East; R. J. McMullen, A. E. Dimmock, and C. J. Daniel, North-South; C. R. Schmidt, J. W. Davis, and D. G. Bryant, Duke. These students will be thoroughly instructed in air raid precautions and fire fighting. The full cooperation of the student body is asked in carrying out the plan.

Demonstrations Notable among the demonstrations were the experiment on luminal performed by Paterson Beatty and Ross Parks with the assistance and supervision of Professor Tad Rainey. Larkin gave an exhibition with potassium and ice, termed the “potassium cannon;” while Harold Murdock showed some points in connection with spontaneous combustion. Other experiments were given by Jim Kerr, Rhea Preston, Shannon, Sam Welborn, George Cowan, and Bennie Miller. Johnny Tights proved some audience characteristics of mite by an experiment termed the “Blackout Room.”

Plans, which are yet not made, are to provide light-proof “blackout” rooms in comparatively secure locations to which students may retire during an alarm.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Presents Experiments

Leading Ladies Announced For Military-D Club Set

Appleby Gives Vespers Talk Elaborate Decorations Planned For Dances Friday and Saturday

LEADS MILITARY BALL “Don’t Worry” Was Subject Of Vesper Talk Miss Lillian Shutting, escorted by Lt. Col. Walter Wooten, who is president of Scabbard and Blade, will lead the figure for the Military Ball on Friday night. Leading the figure for the “D” Club dance on Saturday night will be Miss Betty Urquhart escorted by Ed Lucas, who is president of that organization.Figure on Friday night will be presented under blue and white decorations and will take place in the usual manner, the junior members of the organization entering first and forming an arch of sabers through which the set members will march with their sponsors.

On Saturday night, the figure will be formed in the shape of a "D," honoring the “D" Club and will take place under red and black decorations.

Sponsors:
Sponsoring Seabbard and Blade will be Miss Sara Harris, with Capt. Frank Caldwell; Miss Eloise Ainsworth with Capt. Pat Rudolph; Miss Carolyn Parker with Capt. Jack Phillips; Miss Flora McDonald with Lt. Jim Crook; Miss Peggy Calhoun with Lt. Bennett Cowalt; Miss Mary Katherine Becker with Capt. Ralph Williams; and Miss Margaret Plonk with Lt. Tom Plonk.

Sponsors for the “D" Club will include Miss Eugene White with Dave Spencer, Miss Jean Otey with John Crichton, Miss Martha Withers with Bob Carter, Miss Anna Tomlinson with George Marsh, Miss Ernestine Norvelle with Jim Owens, Miss Aline Long with Claude Hackney, and Miss Betsy Lake with Julien McCall.

Vespers will be conducted by Dr. William C. Robinson of Columbia Theological Seminary.

Next Wednesday the team meets Charlotte Rifle and Pistol Club, and the final match of the year will be at Clemson on March 21.

In a three-way match at Richmond last Saturday between State, V.M.I., and Davidson, the ‘Cats came in third, trailing by eighteen points. However, Barber of Davidson was high scorer of the meet. The team took second place in the tournament on February 21.

REBUILT LIBRARY NEARS COMPLETION (Continued from Page One)
Mrs. Williams will take up her duties at the Student Center when the building is ready for use.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY.

At the Student Store
Deluxe Ice Cream

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE'S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food:

FARM FOR SALE
50 Acres: 10 Miles from Davidson
In Vicinity of Croft
25 Under Cultivation
25 Wooded

WM. R. CAFETERIA

PAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
“WOMAN OF THE YEAR”
Spencer Tracy
Katherine Hepburn

Wednesday,
“UNCERTAIN FEELING”

Monday and Tuesday, March 16 and 17
“CORSICIAN BROTHERS”
Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.

Thursday and Friday, March 19 and 20
“LOUISIANA PURCHASE”
Bob Hope
Vera Zorina

BELK BROS. MEN'S STORE
SMART IDEAS IN SPORT COATS
$49.95 $16.95
Plaids, checks, and solid colors

ELECTRICITY — WATER!
Reasonable Prices
For Further Information Apply To:
M. H. GOODRUM ANDERSON’S FOOD STORE
George Tate
Davidson, N. C.

Full Line of Hardware and Quality Merchandise at Reasonable Prices

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM
HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.