Dr. Garber Speaks Vespers Sunday At Davidson

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Presbyterian Students Meet Here Saturday

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1942 No. 15

Y. M. C. A. Will Sponsor Inter-collegiate Forum On Radio Station WBT

Delegates From Five Schools Are To Take Part In The Discussion

Davidson will be host at an Open Forum radio broadcast this month which will include delegates from several college campuses. The broadcast will take place either on the 22nd or the 29th of February; the program is to be presented from the studios of WBT in Charlotte, and the specific details of its arrangement have been put into the hands of Priestley Conyers, who is in charge of that department of the Y. M. C. A. As to the conducting of such a forum, Conyers said, “It is our hope that the enthusiastic support which we have received from these delegates and from WBT will make possible a most stimulating series of such forums.”

Topic Of Forum

The topic of discussion for the forum is: “Will the Democracies Be Able to Co-operate with Foreign States, Under Other Systems of Government, in Maintaining a Durable Peace?” Representing Centre College in Danville, Ky., will be Jimmie Evans of Louisville. Evans is Business Manager of the Centre annual and has held a leading position in the activities of that institution since his entrance there. He is traveling over four hundred miles to attend this discussion.

Represents U. N. C.

Ridley Whitaker, of the University of North Carolina, is another guest who is attending. Whitaker is President of the Carolina Political Union and has been most active in intercollegiate activities for the past three years. His home is in Greensboro, N. C. Last week Whitaker acted as host to Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, who was a guest on the Carolina campus at that time. From Emory University in Atlanta, Ga., comes Jack Matthews; he is one of the most outstanding men that this institution has ever produced. Jake Tinga is the representative from North Carolina State. He is (Continued on Page Six)

Dr. Garber To Speak Sunday

Durham Pastor Is Popular With Students

Dr. Paul Leslie Garber of Durham will be the speaker at the College Vespers Service Sunday Night, February 15. A member of the Synod’s Committee on Student’s work, Adult Advisor to the State Presbyterian Student work on the Duke University campus, Dr. Garber is well qualified to speak to students and is in great demand on the college campuses.

Graduate Of Union

Dr. Garber is pastor of the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church of Durham and a graduate of Union Theological Seminary. He has done graduate work at the Duke University School of Religion. Not only is he here as Vespers Speaker but also to take part in the Presbyterian Student Association Conference this weekend. P.S.A. Vespers is host.

DR. PAUL GARBER

TELEGRAM

Fred Waring's telegram to The Davidsonian Tuesday was as stated: “We are repeating ‘Davidson, Our Alma Mater’ on our Chesterfield Program February thirteenth at seven P. M. Eastern Standard Time: Hope you’re listening: Cordially, Fred Waring.” “Davidson, Our Alma Mater” was written by Fred Waring last spring as a proposed Alma Mater for the college, and a cup was offered by him to the fraternity giving the best presentation of this hymn at the annual inter-fraternity sing which took place in May.

Dr. Odum Gives Lecture Here Wed. Morning

Carolina Professor Speaks On “The South At Its Best”

Dr. Howard W. Odum, the well-known authority on social problems and inter-racial relationships, will address the students of Davidson on Wednesday and Thursday, February 11 and 12. Dr. Odum is appearing at Davidson under the sponsorship of the Davidson lecture course which has brought a number of outstanding men to the campus during the current lecture series.

Speaks On South

At 8:30 P. M. Wednesday, Dr. Odum will discuss the subject: “The South at its Best.” In this lecture, the cultural, social, and economic conditions in the South will be considered and attainable standards of culture by 1950 will be discussed. At the regular chapel period on Thursday morning at 10:15 “Morale for War and Peace” will be the title of Dr. Odum’s speech. Dr. Odum has achieved distinction in his field of study. He is director of the Institute for Research in Social Science, University of North Carolina, and has been Kenan professor of Sociology at this institution since 1920.

Research And Study

During a life of research and study in his field of endeavor, Dr. Odum has been outstanding in his contributions to the science of sociology. He has been a member of numerous commissions on inter-racial and social services. Dr. Odum is the author of eighteen books dealing with sociology and related topics. Among the more recent of his works are: Introduction to Social Research, 1929; An American Epoch, 1930; Cold Blue Moon, 1931; Southern Regions of the United States, 1936; Ameri- (Continued on Page Six)

Waring Plays College Song

Pleasure Time Tomorrow Presents Alma Mater

Tomorrow night, Fred Waring and his famed Pennsylvanians will present “Davidson, Our Alma Mater” on the Chesterfield Pleasure Time program.

Written In '39

“Davidson, Our Alma Mater” was first presented by Fred Waring on October 27, 1939, after receiving a petition from the students of Davidson College to write a suitable alma mater. This is the song that the fraternities sing in the annual singing contest sponsored by Fred Waring.

Letter to Pfohl

In a letter to Mr. James C. Pfohl, Fred Waring’s director of college relations explained that because of the recent ASCAP restrictions, they had not been able to play the song as much as they wished to. This song has been definitely scheduled for tomorrow night at 7 P. M. over the NBC network.

RUSSIAN CLASS

A class in the Russian language, which will meet one hour per week, Friday at 7:15 P. M., is being inaugurated at Davidson by Dr. Vowles. No credit will be offered and no grades will be given. The course will cater to students interested in learning a few fundamentals of the language. Those signed up for the course are: Dan Hodges, Bill Lyman, Pat Rudolph, Wesley Scott, Wellford Hobbie, Jack Moore, Fred Boykin, Page Harris, George Sinclair, and Priestly Conyers.

Dr. McCain Talks Here

Phi Beta Kappa To Give Annual Banquet

Dr. J. R. McCain will give the address at the Phi Beta Kappa banquet for its new members on Friday evening, March 13.

Banquet For Initiates

New members for whom this banquet is being given are those that were initiated into the organization in the fall and those that will be initiated just before the banquet. Last year alumnae from surrounding communities and freshmen making high averages were also asked to attend. Members of the chapter have not decided whether invitations will again be extended to these two groups.

As part of the Lecture Committee series, Dr. McCain will speak in chapel on the morning preceding the banquet. This chapel will be an extended period. The subjects for neither of Dr. McCain's addresses is known.

Founded Darlington

Many achievements have been made by Dr. McCain. He has received an M.A. from the University of Chicago and a Ph. D. from Columbia University. Davidson gave him an L.L.D. in 1925; Darlington School in Rome, Ga., was founded by him. At present he is President of Agnes Scott College, a senator of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, and a Trustee of the General Education Board of New York.

New Name Needed

Old Library Remodelled Structure To Be Entirely Different From Old Building

Have you had an inner urge, which you carefully hid from your fellows, to point out with inner pride some object of interest to a pulchritudinous feminine visitor and casually remark, “The—name—was my idea?” Well, fellows, here's your chance.

Name Wanted

A name is wanted for that majestic mass of masonry which stands silent and deserted only a few scant yards due west of that sawed-off barracks of brick known affectionately or otherwise as Rumple. Ah! Perhaps you had forgotten that structure, which as the Library was the scene of many a session of concentrated cramming or rigorous research. But you had better be careful with your attempt at nomenclature, for with only a superficial inspection of the premises at present, you might try something like “The Haunted House of Hidden Horrors” or “Davidson's Deserted Depository of Knowledge,” either of which would seem slightly ridiculous before many moons. For there'll be some changes made. In fact, quite a bit of the work has already been done. By the latter part of March, the college authorities hope that the main remodelling will be completed, and the furnishing and decorating may be done. And then what will we have? You might call it a reception center. A hostess will be appointed, who is to have an apartment in the building. Well-furnished guest rooms will replace dusty rows of stacks. Kitchen and modern equipment, wherein delicious victuals will be prepared for service in the luxuri- (Continued on Page Six)

“Y” WANTS HELP

Shaw Smith, Y. M. C. A. Secretary, has asked the students to co-operate with the “Y” by helping to find places for the P. S. A. delegates to stay Saturday night. Students who are planning to be away from the campus over the weekend are urged to get in touch with Shaw Smith immediately. Those students wishing to represent Davidson at the P. S. A. Conference should also contact the “Y” Secretary as soon as possible. The registration fee will be $1.25, which includes the banquet Saturday night and all meals with the delegates.

Mid-Winters Dates Represented

Largest Groups Come From Queens And W. C. U. N. C.— Most Girls Tar Heels

Of 205 girls that attended the Pan-Hellenic Midwinters’ dances last weekend, as dates of fraternity men, 42 different colleges were represented, as well as 19 states all over theEast and South. More girls from Queens College in Charlotte were represented than from any other school, with 23 attending.

G. B. Watts Is Honored
Sheahan Appoints County Air Raid Wardens

Defense Co-ordinator Paul Sheahan announced Saturday that Dr. George B. Watts and C. M. Westbrook had been appointed chief air raid wardens for Mecklenburg County.

MISS RUTH EDMISTON Air Raid Warden

Air raid wardens and fire watchers of the city of Charlotte and Charlotte Township will be under the supervision of C. M. Westbrook. He is expected to appoint assistant air raid wardens over districts of 5,000 which have been subdivided into sectors of 500. Mr. Westbrook is succeeding Chief Palmer who resigned in order that he might devote his time to training fire fighters.

In Charge Of County

Dr. Watts, who is in charge of rural Mecklenburg County, has already appointed a warden for each incorporated town in the county. Later, assistant wardens may be appointed for each town in the county under the supervision of the wardens of each town.

The first meeting of the air raid wardens took place Sunday at Central High School. The success of this meeting in every way caused some isolationists to change their minds.

Mr. Westbrook has been connected with civilian defense since its inauguration last year.

Men Register For Selective Service Here

Registration for elective service will be held in Chamber's banquet hall, Monday, February 16, from 7 A.M. to 9 P.M.

This registration will give an opportunity for college students and others who would be under Mecklenburg County supervision to register at the college rather than finding it necessary to travel to Charlotte. Registration cards for students will be sent to their local registration boards unless a student requests that his card be filed in this county. College students who are taking advanced R.O.T.C. are not required to register. All men whose ages are twenty to forty-four inclusive are required to register in accordance with the following dates:

Citizens And Aliens

Male citizens and aliens born on or after July 2, 1920, and born on or before October 16, 1904, who have attained the age of twenty on or before December 31, 1941, and have not attained the age of forty-five on February 16, 1942, and who have not hitherto registered.

Mr. F. W. HenBeveld, a member of the selective service board of Mecklenburg County, will direct the registration at Davidson. Twenty-five helpers from the faculty and students will aid in the registration.

Different Schools And States

Florida and Mississippi each had 5 representatives. Wesleyan, Atlanta; Frances Cricher, Roxboro; Frances Fleming, Converse, Laurens, S.C.; Peggy Capen, Haven, V.I.; Bristol, Va.; Caroline Miller, Sweet Briar, Charlotte; Betty Caruther, Chattanooga; Alice Eddy, Southern Pines; Pat Schultz, U. of Md., Annapolis; Doris Lee Huntsberry, Washington.

Kappa Sig Girls

Members of Kappa Sigma escorted Julia Bridger, Converse, Marjorie Webster, Meredith, Peace, Hood, U.N.C., U.S.C., U. of Tenn., U. of Ala., U. of Md., Southwestern, Bowling Green, Anderson, E.C.T.C., Catawba, and Elon.

Third in the highest number of girls from any state was Tennessee, with 13, followed by Georgia, with 12.

Dates of members of Beta Theta Pi included: Martha Rushing, Sweet Briar, Ark.; Walker, Agnes Scott, Summerville, S.C.; Betty Jean Moore, Graham; Helen Shaw, Peace, Fayetteville; Jane Willis, Thomasville, Ga.; Harriet Cunningham, Converse, Davidson; Nelle Johnson, Queens, Charlotte; Edna Sprunt, Duke, Winston-Salem; Burlington; Frances Tucker, Agnes Scott, Laurel, Miss.; Edith Ebelin, Lexington; Barbara Mebane, Shorter, Ga.; Peggy Brown, Philadelphia; Zetty Kirk, Winthrop, Rock Hill; Pat Stoehl, Queens, Charlotte; Shirley Owens, Graham; Kitty Wheeler, W.C., Greensboro; Helen Hemphill, Winthrop, Chester; Dottie Ann Skinner, Jacksonville; Rosemary Holland, Queens, Charlotte; Polly Vaughn, Elon, Burlington; Frances Brownlee, Charlotte; Sumter; Sarah Dawson, St. Mary’s, Carverton; Nancy O’Herron, Hollins, Charlotte; Anita Kinney, Charlotte; Barbara Lee, Charlotte; Bobbie Jennings, Charlotte; and Stuart Maurice, Winthrop, Florence.

KA Guests

Kappa Alpha played host to the following girls: Betty Sprunt, Hollins, Winston-Salem; Jean Stearns, Tampa; Marion Sims, G.S.C.W., Louisville, Ga.; Mary Corbett, Wilmington; Sadie Gwynn Allen, Sweet Briar, Birmingham; Marilyn Reeves, Greensboro; Becky Roberts, Greenville, S.C.; Martha Sauvatn, Salem, Concord; Betty Clemmons, Limestone, Florence; Betty Kelly, Philadelphia; Kaki Gant, Converse, Burlington; Pizey Butler, W.C., Laurinburg; Novella Pope, Duke, Dunn; Julie Marsh, W.C., High Point; Jean Meredith, Randolph-Macon, Lawrenceville, Va.; Janet Kelly, St. Mary’s, Erwin; Rachel Trexler, Randolph-Macon, Salisbury; Rosaline Sprong, Columbia; Sara Huchens, Queens, High Point; Mary Jeter, Converse, Rock Hill; Amanda Parseley, Sweet Briar, Charlotte; Annelle McCally, Queens, Florence; Margaret Fulton, Converse, Nashville; Dottie Sappenfield, Queens, Charlotte; Lillian Daugherty, Charlotte; Caroline Eddy, Charlotte; Jess Evans, Chattanooga; Betty Carbaugh, Sweet Briar, Chattanooga; Mary Lou Briggs, High Point; Margaret Van Sleen, W.C., Gastonia; Lou Kincaid, W.C., High Point; Nancy Jane, Charlotte.

Dates of members of Phi Delta Theta included: Mary Dana, U.S.C., Columbia; Sybil Trexler, Converse; Norvell, U.T.; Eloise Ainsworth, Tracy City, Tenn.

Trustees Meet Feb. 18

National Emergency Conditions To Be Discussed

On Wednesday, February 18, the Executive Committee of this college will meet in Chambers. Because of the important chapel meeting on that date, this meeting falls at a very inopportune time. It has been proposed that the trustees suspend the meeting long enough to attend this assembly. This meeting is of utmost importance because it has to do with the regular routine work of the college as affected by the present national emergency.

Other business of the meeting will be to attempt to reach a decision as to Davidson’s part in the Christian Education Movement of the Southern Presbyterian Church. The entire denomination is to take part in this movement which is scheduled for the coming year. The movement is not a new one with the Presbyterian Church, but it has been emphasized more this year.

Annual Presbyterian Students Meet Saturday To Find “The Christian Answer”

EDMISTON TO PRESIDE

Dr. Cunningham To Address Presbyterian Delegates

Newbold Takes Part In Program

Saturday, February 14, approximately one hundred and fifty Presbyterian students representing almost every college and university in North Carolina will gather on the Davidson campus for the Fourth Presbyterian Student Association Conference. Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, will deliver the principal address of the conference Saturday afternoon when he presents to the delegates, “Youth’s Answer to Christ’s Challenge.”

Conference Theme

“The Christian Answer” is the conference theme this year and around this theme the discussions and addresses will center. Leading the discussion groups are Dr. James Appleby, a graduate of Davidson and now pastor in Anderson, S.C.; Miss Rachel Wyhe, director of Religious education in the First Church of Spartanburg; Miss Harriet Tynes of Queens College; and Dr. Paul Leslie Garber, pastor of the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church of Durham and adult advisor to the Presbyterian Association.

In the discussion groups, the delegates will attempt to find “the Christian Answer” to the question of personal discipline, our campus needs, problems of community life, and the challenge of the Christian enterprise.

Newbold Conducts Service

Registration of delegates will take place from 1:00 to 2:00 P.M. Just after the opening exercises, Miss Ruth Edmiston will preside and introduce the worship service leader, Jerry Newbold. Following the worship service, Dr. Cunningham will deliver his address.

From 4:30-5:30, the discussion groups will hold their meetings. Mr. Mokey Faison, from the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. and a recent graduate of Davidson, will be the leader for the Fellowship period which will just precede the banquet Saturday evening.

Martin Toastmaster

Reigning over the activities of the banquet will be “Dub” Martin, vice-president of the student body at Carolina and member at large of the P.S.A. Council. At the banquet, each institution represented will take part in the evening’s entertainment. Highlighting the program for the evening is the address by The Reverend Charles Jones of the Presbyterian Church of Chapel Hill. Mr. Jones’ message is “The Christian Answer to the Gospel of Christ.”

Smith Brings Message

The conference will continue Sunday morning when Miss Lelia Johnston, president of the S.C. P.S.A., will lead the worship service. This will be followed by a message from Miss Catherine Smith, former missionary at Salem and a representative of the Student Volunteer Movement. Mr. Carl Pritchett will deliver the principal address.

(Continued on Page Six)