by Prairie S. Sit

Popular demand has provoked another Harris fake affair this season. This is the last of the summer events and from the looks of it, it should be one of the best.

WNT 95"

CORNER

Phieh

ATT A
Fatied ware a!

LO? URo GS-0 2 iTOL:

Yo yo Tyow LE there--that will help. Eugh and Pov

TED, so winning, eating, music, getting your vince

Ging, doting, need there be more?—yours is the first

magh, Pish...Understand several Char-! ting your vrunovtcs: a
hovte Classics to come. 86 Sta- | nes GnooEhbor[’ vy a
acoville, Nico...And Tuesday is another: “Music under the trees by a guest from many...Popular records beneath the blue with a chun should”

no cs acs pinic Lemaonace OL al

co torrid on etorey er carpus

for @isten ard @. Dorsey's i Lf there's anyt

better than beara _ivs_

if anyone is. willing to join, for a session, let me know. The girls have orchid ices."

it's all soHtiortny
for wevidser. & : a victory
marker votweor: ae Whiléiness
is it a necessity) “or the
Curmationrs to grind during class -
hours.

Being so studious, girls, you might not have noticed anything around the campus.

electric. foro. 2 Beat

6@ to make sense TI cow
OF. it. an

Toned +47 de . +

ee eOgtS food, L. Cathey and «. omen], ave ‘you noticed the

math problems (students of 'em) are | Shen? Someone sells wine

to have study hall in the basement OF TY") ay the ionsiton Sate

beginning tonight at 7:50 with Donna ols Bieat pias a

Dr. Robinson on hand to answer riddles. Hope those of you earnestly desirous of help will be here...) wart ON

Rhea Dabvroyts @ good song leaders: — kebby-Die* is a man of his word...e : back in time for Sunday School—

(after that pilgrimage to Conn. the night before...Pinslepxcrady is doing a good job with Sunday School this summer... Woleo Flen, his mother is now and hope she'll find vavilson good, here...Tulchor gets more sermonizing than anyone I know...Aair wavers, the little angel with the wings, is doing a good job with the Entertainment committee. They tell me she is studying Spanish. Gloria Warren

