Thursday, May 14, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Eighty Mothers Visit Campus Over Weekend
Mothers And Sons Participate In First Mother’s Day Program

Saturday marked the beginning of what is expected to become an annual affair in the social program of Davidson College
when some eighty mothers answered the invitation of the college to be its guests for the Mother's Day weekend.

Invitations
Two weeks ago, invitations were sent to every mother of a Davidson student inviting them to come visit with their
sons and be the guests of the college from Saturday morning through Sunday evening. This invitation was answered by eighty
mothers who were seen on the campus arm in arm with their respective sons, who were escorting them—proudly—through the new
library and chemistry buildings, or seated in the new Y. M. C. A., conversing with other students and their mothers.

Committee Heads
Members of the faculty and their wives planned the program in which the mothers took part. Rev. W. G. McGavock
was the chairman of the Reception committee, Mrs. H. K. Fulcher was chairman of the decorations committee, and Mrs. W.
H. Belk was chairman of the sponsoring committee. Both Saturday and Sunday the homes of the president of the college
and also of the faculty were open to the visiting mothers. All were invited, and many attended classes with their
sons.

Program Highlights
The highlights of the occasion were the banquet Saturday evening in Chambers building, where mothers were welcomed by President Cunningham
and Jim McCrary, President of the Y. M. C. A., and serenaded by their sons; and the church service Sunday
morning to which the guests and their sons marched arm in arm to hear the special Mother’s Day sermon presented
by Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the Presbyterian church of Davidson. To use the words of the “Welcome” written on
the Mother’s Day program sheet, “It is good to have here, even for today, those who have bred and nurtured
the lives of this college—The sons of Davidson.”

285 Students Sign Pledges
Results of the drive for pledges to buy War Bonds and stamps regularly were recently released by Ralph Clontz, chairman
of the drive at Davidson. Of the 587 students living in the dormitories, only 285 signed pledges. From East and
West, with a total of 120 in each, 50 and 55 respectively, signed pledges. In North and South, with 63
students, 16 pledged. Rumple, with 60 students, had 26 signatures; and Watts, with 96, had 55 who signed pledges. Georgia,
with 63, had 40 pledges; and Duke with 75, had 43.

Low Percentage
These results show a low percentage of pledges as compared with those obtained in other colleges in the South. The
average pledge at Davidson was about ten cents per month. The University of North Carolina boasts a percentage of 85
per cent who signed pledges. Clontz has asked that those students who did not make pledges buy as many bonds
and stamps as possible nevertheless.

Lingle Makes Vespers Talk
Sunday night the guest speaker at the college vespers services was Dr. Walter L. Lingle, former president of Davidson. The
text of the sermon was taken from the first chapter of James, and the subject of the talk was on
the necessity of living a spotless life, especially in these troubled times.

Pitfalls
In the course of his speech, Dr. Lingle mentioned a number of pitfalls to those who try to live a
Christian life. Among these were bad literature, suggestive shows, and alcoholic beverages. Throughout his sermon, he read different passages of
scripture to illustrate these different points.

Exhibited By Camera Club
Students Will Vote On Best Pictures In Spring Exhibit
Prints in the Spring exhibit of the Camera Club are on display now and for the coming week. These pictures
include the former two exhibits of the Camera Club during the school year and others have been added. The display
was opened Wednesday, May 13th, and will stay open until Saturday, May 16th.

Vote
Members of the student body are invited to the exhibit and vote, as in the two previous exhibits.Visit former groups
of pictures, for the print which is the best, will be given to the contributors of the winning pictures. There
will be prizes in their opinion: first, second, and third prize in the contest, and several honorable mentions. These will
be awarded the week after the exhibit according to the popularity of the pictures as shown by the students' votes.

Plan Picnic
This coming Saturday afternoon, the Davidson Camera Club, in conjunction with the Camera Club of Queens College, is to have
a picnic on the Davidson campus. During the past week, new officers were elected for the coming year. However, the
results of this election could not be obtained at press time.

MOTHER’S DAY COMMITTEE
Mrs. W. H. Belk and Mrs. McAlister Carson, both of Charlotte, were chairman and vice-chairman respectively.

Pictured above are the members of the sponsoring committee of the Mother’s Day Club of Davidson.

Second Group Donates Blood For Red Cross
Forty-Eight Pints Collected
Blood collection at the infirmary last Monday brought in 48 pints for the Red Cross Blood Bank. Three doctors and
twelve technicians from Charlotte helped the regular infirmary staff in the collection. The three doctors were Dr. Alexander, Dr. Morton,
and Dr. Jesse. During the first collection, some volunteers from the baseball team were unable to be present because of
a game with the Morris Field team. Several members offered blood during the afternoon. Dr. Cunningham was among these, but
they refused to let him donate at the same time. Other members of the staff were able to take donations
of blood at times during the afternoon.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon Street
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

In Charlotte... Headquarters for Newcomers

DO YOU DIG IT?
DAVE AIKEN—YALE '45—GETS $10 FOR THIS SLANG
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it you'll be ten bucks richer. If we don’t, we'll
shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island
City, N.Y.

ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Our “Y” man simply means that for a really good drink at any sports contest, his pal should have had
some of the Pepsi-Cola everybody was enjoying at the boxing bouts. In other words, chum, Pepsi-Cola goes great any time.
Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
