CAT CHAT By BUTCH PHARR

The forgotten sport of cross country is coming back into the news with the announcement by Coach Whittle that he
will take a squad to represent Davidson in the meet at Charleston, S.C. The endurance machines to accompany Pete on
the trip will be Coppedge, Nichols, Nimmons, and Parks. There is no indication, however, that this sport, which was dropped
last year, will ever be put back on the college’s athletic curriculum.

Duke Wins Another

The Southern Conference Basketball Tournament ran practically true to form with the powerful machine of the Duke Blue Devils easily
downing State in the finals 45-34 for the conference title. This was Duke’s second straight conference crown, which finished an
almost perfect season, having lost only one conference game before the tourney. Coach Shepard, who represented Davidson on the tournament
committee, reports that the question of using freshmen on varsity squads next year because of the draft is still undecided
and that it may be left up to the individual schools to decide. Shepard also suggested that in next year’s
tournament every college in the conference should be allowed to compete regardless of their season’s record.

With rumors filling the air of the fate of college and professional sports during the present emergency, there is a
lot of uncertainty even on the part of the college officials as to whether all of the sports programs will
be carried out. Several large schools throughout the nation have already dropped some of their sports, and many more will
probably follow suit. For a good article on this subject, those interested should read Whitney Martin's column in nearly all
of last week's papers that run his articles for the Associated Press. Martin says that the best way for those
connected with sports, and who would like to see them continued through the war, should quit praising the value of
sports as a morale builder and a good means of relaxation for the tired defense worker, and concentrate on closer
co-operation with the defense executives. Loud talk and no work won't get sports anywhere.

The close of the Wildcat’s spring football practice opened the way for the real spring sports. Coach Whittle is already
rounding his trackmen into shape with chances for a good season very promising. Arch Taylor, who placed first and third
in the indoor meet, Captain Blanton Williamson, Dick Port, Bill Lacy, Gene Shannon, and Hugh Sprunt, have a jump on
the rest of the squad because of the indoor meet and are being counted on for the winning points in
the meets this spring. The squad opens with a meet with the South Carolina Gamecocks on April first and should
be in good shape by then.

The start of the current baseball season sets another question mark in the minds of the sports followers. Last year’s
graduation left many of the most important positions wide open to be fought for this spring. Catcher and Captain Rusty
Edmunds will probably be replaced by Red Bethea, backstop for last year’s freshman squad. Also missing are Jimmy Yarborough, last
year’s shortstop, Jim Hoge who held the third corner, and big Frank Niven who was quite a power at the
bat. The pitching staff is still well intact and the bright spot in the lineup.

An optimist’s dream: Davidson with a new gym complete with a first-class basketball court and indoor swimming pool, a decent
golf course, one on which the game could actually be enjoyed, all-weather tennis courts which could be played on even
a few days after a rain, better equipment for intramural sports. Doubt if we'll live to see it.

K. A.’s Still Hold Lead; S.A.E.’s In Close Second

On the gridiron, they were knotted for third. On the hardwood, the K.A.’s clinging precariously to the top awarded 190½
points for their efforts in the Interfraternity competition with 276 points. The S.A.E.’s are in close second, with only a
half-point margin separating the two leaders.

S. P. E.’s Third

A fast court aggregation enabled the S.P.E.’s to climb to third in the standings. Since they held down the third
spot in touch football, the 261 points place them in a commanding position should the leaders falter. By touch and
tying for third in basketball, the Betas clinch fourth place in the standings, separated by a margin of 29 points
from the third place S.P.E.’s.

Although the Pikas failed to place in touch and tying for third in basketball, the Betas clinch fourth place in
the standings, separated by a margin of 29 points from the third place S.P.E.’s. The Pikas, with 142½ points, give
them undisputed possession of the cellar.

Volleyball Next

Volleyball will inaugurate the spring sports program followed by the interfraternity track meet.

Scabbard And Blade And The “D” Club...

PRESENT FREDDY JOHNSON AND HIS ORCHESTRA March 13th and 14th, 1942 At the Charlotte Armory

Swapping their basketballs for snowballs are Long John Belk and Jack Wayman, elected last week to be co-captains of next
season’s varsity quintet. Belk, from Charlotte, N.C., and Wayman from Miami, Fla., led with Senior Bob McLeod, lead this year's
Wildcats in points.scored. (See Charlotte Observer, March 7.)

'Cat Trackmen Hold Practice
Large Squad Turns Out; Brenizer and White Missed

Last Monday afternoon Coach Heath Whittle gave the initial call for the 1942 Wildcat track team, with over 35 candidates
reporting for the squad. Preparation was begun immediately for the first meet with the University of South Carolina on April
first.

Veterans Report

Arch Taylor and Captain Williams Belk,—B. B. The team will be built around veterans: Blanton in the hurdles; John Turnage,
and Bill Loy and Taylor in the quarter mile; Hugh Sprunt in the dashes; and Don Bell, Glenn Terrell, Turnage,
Baxter Freeze, Dave Spencer, and Gene Shannon in the field events. The loss of Chase Brenizer, star field event man
and one of the high point men of last season; Captain Jack White, stellar 440 man; and Matt Long, who
transferred, will be a severe setback, though there are several good men filling the vacancies.

Soph Prospects

Coming up from last year’s freshman squad are several promising prospects. Among these are Bill Lacy, who was outstanding in
both track and field events for the frosh, winning thirty points in one meet. With him are Dick Port, who
ran both high and lows; Pat Williams, hurdler and field events; Elliet White and Long in the distances; and Rhea
Dabney in the dashes and broad jumps.

Interfraternity Standings

Baseball, the major sport, will conclude the eventful season.

Mae Peas for You

There’s satisfaction in knowing that the 6% revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its
bit for Uncle Sam. Every time you buy Chesterfields you get the satisfaction of a smoke that’s definitely MILDER, far
COOLER, and BETTER-TASTING. Chesterfield’s superior blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos will give you more smoking pleasure than you
ever had before. Try a pack of Chesterfields today.

CHESTERFIELDS are mighty important in this man’s army. New recruit or old-timer... they all like the cigarette that satisfies.

WILLIAM TRACY and ELYSE KNOX (a Chesterfield girl), starring in Hal Roach’s comedy hit. Our movie stars are doing a
grand job selling defense bonds and entertaining our soldiers. Many of them choose Chesterfield to send to men in uniform.

Thursday, March 12, 1942

Wayman, Belk Elected Co-Captains For Next Year; McCoy New Manager
Tie In Ballots Initiates New System; Joe McCoy Succeeds Morris As Varsity Manager

Unlimbering their pitching arms after a long winter's rest, Davidson’s varsity diamond crew swung into action Monday for an arduous
three weeks of conditioning and practice. The first game is slated for March 30, when the Cats take on the
Catawba nine.

Seniors Missing

Gone from the local lineup are such familiar faces as those of Tom Yarborough, Niven Latta, Hoge, and the stellar
captain of ‘41, Rusty Hudson. Even Duke would find trouble in filling the shoes of those top-notch performers, and with
Davidson’s limited supply of talent, talk is a big one.

Coach Norman Shepard seemed favorably impressed with the election and the new system; two captains prevent the frequent change of
captains during the game often necessary with only one established captain.

Both the electees have seen service this year as members of the regular starting five, Wayman usually at a forward
and Belk always as the center. Belk led the Wildcat squad in scoring both during his freshman year and during
the past season, sinking 210 points. Wayman stood third in the score column with a season total of 75 markers.

Col. VIVIAN J. OLSEN, Cadet MARIE HOFFMAN of the Women's Defense Cadets of America. This and similar organizations send millions
of Milder, Better-Tasting Chesterfields to the men in uniform.

Kappa Alphas...........276
Sigma Alpha Epsilon....275
Sigma Phi Epsilon.......261
Pi Kappa Alpha..........190
Kappa Sigma.............179
Phi Delta Theta..........175
Phi Gamma Delta........112

Come One, Come All

Set Ticket $4.25
Night Dances
Tea Dance
