STUDENTS ELECT SANDIFER PRESIDENT MILITARY-D CLUB SET THIS WEEKEND

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

NEW MANAGING EDITORS ELECTED

Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1942 No. 18

Scabbard And Blade Taps Twelve Cadets

Military Fraternity Selects Members From Rising Senior Class

At a ceremony performed yesterday afternoon at the regular drill period on the R.O.T.C. field, Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, tapped twelve men into membership. These men, members of the Junior class, were Myron Sandifer, Jesse Wooten, Ashby Dick, Jack Wayman, Don Caterson, John Belk, Joe McCoy, Johnny Frederick, Herb Rainey, Bob Raney, Fred Morton, and Ed Erwin.

Sandifer Chosen

Myron Sandifer, of Lowrys, GA, is the Battalion Sergeant Major. He is also Vice-President of the Y.M.C.A. and a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Jesse Wooten, of Memphis, Tennessee, First Sergeant of Company “A,” is Vice-President of the Y.M.C.A. and a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity.

John Belk, of Charlotte, Sergeant of Company “C,” is President of the Student Body, Co-Captain of the Varsity Basketball Team, and a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Ashby Dick, of Sumter, S.C., First Sergeant of Company “E,” is First Vice-President of the Student Body and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Johnny Frederick, of Hackensack Lake, N.J., is a Sergeant of Company “D.” He is also a varsity football player and a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

McCoy Tapped

Joe McCoy, of North Wilkesboro, N.C., is a Platoon Sergeant of Company “A.” In addition, he is President of the Beaver Club, Manager of the Varsity Basketball Team, and a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Fred Morton, of Waycross, Georgia, is First Sergeant of Company “D.” He is also Manager of the Debate Team and a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Herb Rainey, of Mountain View, N.J., is a Sergeant of Company “E.” He is also a varsity football player and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Ed Erwin, of Davidson, N.C., is a Sergeant of Company “C.” Erwin is Managing Editor of The Davidsonian, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Jack Wayman, of Miami, Fla., is First Sergeant of Company “B.” He is also Co-Captain of the Varsity Basketball Team and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Bob Raney, of Little Rock, Ark., is a Sergeant of Company “B.” He is also a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Darby Fulton To Talk Here

C. Darby Fulton of Nashville, Tenn., will arrive on the campus next Friday to conduct a religious emphasis program. He will deliver the vespers message to the student body next Sunday evening, March 22.

Dr. Fulton is the Executive Secretary of the Committee of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, a post which he has occupied since 1932.

At Memphis Convention

Dr. Fulton was present at the Mission Conference at Memphis, Tenn., which was held earlier in the year. Many Davidson students will be especially interested in the discussion which this speaker will give because of their attendance at the Memphis Conference.

This guest speaker has had a long period of service in the foreign missions fields. He was born in Kobe, Japan, where his parents (Continued on Page Three)

Dance Set Is Main Event This Weekend

“D” Club And Scabbard And Blade Present Freddy Johnson’s Band

The 1941-1942 Hellenic Council will present its third dance of the year this weekend at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium. Tradition has bestowed the name Military Ball on this set, but this year the “D” Club boys will make their bow to society along with the military men. Freddy Johnson and his University of North Carolina orchestra, “The South’s Favorite Band,” will provide the music for this set. Maestro Johnson is bringing with him his girl vocalist, Anne Russell.

Tickets Are $4.25

Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council began selling set tickets to the dances on Monday of this week at the price of $3.75, plus U.S. taxes, making a total of $4.25. Individual ticket prices have been set and will be on sale at the door at all three dances. On Friday and Saturday nights the tariff will be $2.20 plus tax, totaling $2.50. The dance on Saturday afternoon is popularly priced at $1.10 including tax.

Four No-Breaks

There will be four “No-breaks” and one “Moonlight Waltz” at each of the night dances. The “Waltz” is not to be considered as a no-break, but as the dimmed lights and revolving crystal ball will be featured at this time as well as during the no-breaks. Approximate times for each no-break are announced as follows: Friday night—First: 11 P.M., Second: 12:45 A.M., Third: 1:15 A.M., and Fourth: 1:45 A.M. On Saturday night the First no-break will be at 9 P.M., Second: 9:45 P.M., Third: 10:45 P.M., and Fourth: 11:45 P.M.

YMCA Holds Discussion On Station W.B.T.

College Leaders Discuss Post War Plans

Last Sunday between 6:00 P.M. and 6:35 P.M., Radio Station WBT broadcast an intercollegiate forum on post-war planning sponsored by the YMCA. Participating in the discussion were Bedford Black of Wake Forest College, Jake Tinga of North Carolina State College, Edward Hughes of Centre College, L.P. McLendon, Jr., of the University of North Carolina, and Albert Winn, Davidson's student body president.

Davidson's Priestley Conyers Presides

In introducing the program, chairman Priestley Conyers pointed out the fact that there is in evidence an increasing interest on the part of college students in the peace. Conyers further pointed out two facts which must be kept constantly in mind whenever people talk about the peace: “First, we must win the war, else all talk about the peace is, of course, useless. Second, we cannot possibly know what conditions will be at the end of the war.”

Agree On Peace

In a meeting prior to the broadcast, the participants reached agreement on one issue which they spoke of as being of the utmost importance. They agreed “that the winning of this war is not an end in itself; that the winning of the war must be regarded as a means to an end, that end being the establishment of a more just and durable world order.”

At the annual Spring Tap Day of Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity held yesterday on the drill field, the following men were tapped: John Belk, Don Caterson, Ashby Dick, Ed Erwin, Johnny Frederick, Joe McCoy, Fred Morton, Herb Rainey, Bob Raney, Myron Sandifer, Jack Wayman, and Jesse Wooten.

Watts Names Air Raid Men

County Warden Appoints Fire Watchers And Wardens For Each Hall

An efficient system for emergency action in case of air raids is being set up at Davidson under the supervision of Dr. G.B. Watts, Mecklenburg County Air Raid Warden. It was originally planned last week to have an air raid warden and fire watcher for each dormitory.

On March 3 the following men were appointed Air Raid Wardens: G.L. Patrick, Rumple; E.S. Whitesides, Watts; S.A. Booth, Georgia; R.B. Port, West; R.J. Grimsley, East; C.L. Woodbridge, North-South; Harold Maxwell, Duke.

Fire Watchers Named

At the same time these men were named to serve as Fire Watchers: G. Council, Rumple; R.S. Beam, Watts; A.G. Taylor, Georgia; P.M. Williams, West; A.M. Crowell, East; J.M. Bruner, North-South; G.B. Peters, Duke.the appointments of last week it has been decided that in (Continued on Page Three) following; old and, Remodeling of the library nearing completion, to present expectation be first of should for a the ready April. Y. M. C. A. Given Rooms Mrs. of Winston-Salem is in charge of furnishing the On. there lounge On the and hall rooms occupancy Camille Gamble and decorating building, the floor, right main is a large to the left is a at the there as one enters, smaller sitting of the M.-C. A. men's coat and washroom with he paced off the back hall on this floor. The guest room, far end wide three Y are room entire upper floor is given to rooms. These guest rooms will furnish comfortable accommodations for from fifteen to twenty. A hostess located on the of this floor overnight visitors. ment will be north east Corner. Mrs. Williamson Hostess Mrs. B. E. Williamson of Mount Airy has been engaged by the College to have charge of the of the She to serve as Hostess for the the Williamson opening building will continue remain. Mrs. Wil extensive experience in this of Her a fresh Three) and is deeply interested in it son, Ben Williamson, Jr., is (Continued on Page is according the apartments undertaking. These men will participate in the figure at the Military Ball. Rebuilt Library Nears Completion Books On V-7 Are Available Library Secures Several Volumes On Naval Affairs For V-7 Men collection of books of interest and importance to those interested in Class United States Naval Affairs is now available in the college library. The following: especially recommended Deck Officers and the suggested list of the U. S. N. Ordinance; Navigation the lowing: cially ested reading Roy “Naval and Nautical Bluejackets’ for Astronomy 7" and Manual.” Naval Customs Books recommended library collection all V-7 “Naval Usage,” and “Naval Leadership.” the list, naval-minded, students “Modern Naval Strategy,” Admiral Sir Reginald B and McMurtie. general include traditions and by Lovette; Another new not on but of interest to the for men in Customs, Leland the list, naval-minded, students is they are interested in. Miss Carroll Glenn, Young Violinist: To Play In Chambers Auditorium Miss Glenn Rises To Early Fame In Music Carroll Glenn, young American will be heard in a recital Phi Mu Alpha part of their concert series on March 19 violinist, presented by as in Chambers’ Auditorium. Miss Glenn, South a young and vivacious established America’s Carolinian, has herself as one of musicians in a short a moving sequence started in 1938. She cal talent at a very early age, and was on her career at age By the she was eleven years old, she had exhausted the local teaching talent of her home. started the of four. time Education “Although the family funds were none too plentiful, the Glenn family moved to New York to give Miss Carroll Glenn the training On being admitted to the Institute of Musical Art, she made such rapid that given a scholarship at the end of her first she needed. progress she was year. A fellowship at the Juilliard School completed her musical education. Public recognition came to Miss Glenn when she was the sole winner of the Walter W. Naumberg Foundation for 1938. This entitled her to a recital in New York's famed Town Hall. This performance won the Town Hall that year. Heralded, sponsors, her Award for and with no influence, Miss Glenn requested Dr. Stock. Knowing not even her audition by an nothing of her, the name, eminent conductor, always sympathetic to young artists, granted her request. So impressed were their expert auditors that Dr. Stock called together the member of the Civic Orchestra, so that she might be heard with full orchestral background. Wooten Is Second; Williams, O’Hair Win Student Body President, Editors Elect rising Davidsonian Staff For '42 Myron Sandifer became president of the Davidson student body Wednesday when he defeated Jesse Wooten in the run-off. Pat Williams elected first vice-president of the student body was at a meeting of the retiring editors Tuesday, while Dick O'Hair became second vice-president Wednesday by defeating Alf Taylor in the final run-off. The formal and sports staffs of the Davidsonian Monday the managing editors of the 1942-43 publication were chosen. They are Deane Watson, Jim Stinson, Powell Morrow, Legh Scott, Mac Jeffries, who will lead the editorial staff; and Leonard Pharr, who is to handle the sports section. The new managing staff will assume its duties following the election of the editor-in-chief, which is scheduled and will probably start some time next week. A new policy is being inaugurated in the choice of the business manager, who will succeed John Crichton in this post. This man will be appointed by the publications board and his name will be announced at approximately the same time as that of the editor. The business manager is responsible for the choice of his staff. The managing editors were chosen on the basis of ability and faithfulness as evidenced by two years’ work as freshman and sophomore reporters. Phi Betes To Hold Banquet For Initiates Dr. McCain To Speak For Honorary Fraternity Tomorrow night Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity will have its spring initiation and banquet in honor of the new members of this organization who were chosen a few weeks ago. The ceremonies will begin at six P.M. with the initiation of new members which is to take place in Chambers building. After the initiation, the fraternity will hold its annual formal banquet in honor of the initiates in the banquet hall of Chambers. Old Members The present members of Phi Beta Kappa who were initiated last fall are Dan Hodges, Joe Hopper, Hershell Seagle, Arch Taylor, Rod Turner, and Albert Winn. Those who are to be initiated, having already been announced in a previous issue, are: Charles Henderson, Edd Scott, Davis Thomas, Alston Thompson, Carlton Parsons, Jim Kerr, and Cam Wilson. Dr. J. M. McCain will be guest speaker for the occasion. Dr. McCain is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and is widely known in colleges of the south. He is president of Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Georgia. ELECTIONS BULLETIN Gene Peters and Bill McLean were in the run-off for the student body race, the result of which was not available by press time. One was elected Thursday on the fourth ballot. After the third ballot Peters had 199 votes and McLean 168, having eliminated Don Bryant. DICK O’HAIR