Pade Tae

July 28, 1942

SNOOPING PLANT FOR SOFTBALL LOOP;
ED MUPILE WILL DIRECT ATHLETICS

A reorganization of the grouping of the softball teams of the first school in order to ensure a more balanced
season of play was announced today.

Definite plans for the arrangement have not been completed, but the most likely grouping will pick a team from one
of the first floors of Duke, another from the second floor, and the third combined. Tow and Run people will
join forces and the two floors of East will form one team.

In the last week of activity during the first term, the all-star aggregation captured two out of three game series
from the 1st Duke team; dropping the second game of the series, but winning the others without any serious trouble.

Salisbury freshman! Unite in singles championship. A doubles tournament will probably be held within the next two weeks. Intramural Director
Pete Hittle will have all phases of the athletic program during the recent term, succeeding his on-guard so is away
on vacation.

One softball team will continue their Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday playing schedule with all games called for 4:15.

DAVIDSON

On Tuesday, Cornelius by

A welcome to a new arrival, S.T. LOR BLE. WELLS, the Senator, disappointed with the situation on the Hill, reported
in from CHARLES CAMP (specialized in various ways) and made it over in just in time.

DRAMA PROGRAM FOR YMCA SATURDAY NIGHT

Aladdin visitors, the dramatic society, inactive since the close of the winter session, will present their first offering on Sunday
night.

ESCAPILITY.
Thursday & Friday:
SILENT WORK (popular prices)

with Cac Cooper
Saturday:
20 BOWED LAT AL
Monday & Tuesday:

After the play, the YMCA will be host to the spectators at a watermelon rake sing. The drama, a one-act
farce, features a summer play under the direction of Ernie Vee over, and has been given at Davidson by the
faculty several years ago.

It is a parody of a train trip from Hoboken to New Jersey, Trenton. The cast had not been announced
at press time. Both the watermelon feast and the play will be held on the east lawn of the YMCA.
Festivities begin at 8:00 PM.
