Thursday, May 7, 1942 ¢ THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Dr. A. R. Mann Speaks At Library Dedication

College Holds Dedication Of Grey Memorial

The Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library was dedicated Friday afternoon at ceremonies held in front of the new building. President John R. Cunningham presided at the dedication service. Capt. James Parks Grey, the donor of the new library, was present for the ceremony. Dr. A. R. Mann, Vice-President and Director of the General Education Board, made the address and President H. N. Snyder of Wofford College brought greetings from other educational institutions.

Program

The symphonic band directed by Mr. James C. Pfohl presented a musical program preceding the service. Following the doxology, the invocation was given by Dr. C. R. Richards, professor of Bible. Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, also a Bible professor, read the scripture, which was followed by a number from the Davidson Glee Club under the direction of Mr. Earl Berg. Frank L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, presented to Captain Grey a book of appreciation for the gift in honor of his parents. The book contains the signatures of all present students of the College together with all the faculty members, administration, and entire college staff.

Prayer

Following the reading of the Litany of Dedication, Dr. W. L. Lingle, President Emeritus of Davidson, offered the dedicatory prayer. “The Part of the College Library in Higher Education” was the subject of Dr. Mann’s address. After a second number by the glee club, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees, pronounced the benediction.

Regular Army Accepts Kerr

Word was recently received from the War Department stating that Jim Kerr of the Senior Class has received his commission in the regular army. He is the first Davidson student ever to achieve this honor. Ten Davidson Senior R.O.T.C. students appeared before a government board of examiners last February. These men were Caldwell, Hackney, Kerr, Owens, B. E. Shannon, G. W. Shannon, Williams, Wilson, Wooten, and Squires. All of these men except Kerr were eliminated because of some physical defect or for some other consideration.

Board

The examining board, headed by Colonel Matthews, visited a total of twenty-six schools and examined 134 applicants. Out of this number, only nine appointments were made. Jim Kerr, of Baltimore, is taking honors in chemistry. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the honorary scholastic fraternity, and is a member of the “D” Club. He has been outstanding on the Soccer team, and he is the manager as well as a member of the Rifle Team. Kerr belongs to Delta Phi Alpha, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the Glee Club.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

Davidson Societies End Contest For Best Writers

Writers Of Best Short Story, Essay, And Poem To Receive Cups

Davidson’s annual literary contest, sponsored by the Philanthropic and Eumanean Literary Societies, came to a close on Tuesday, May 5, at 12:00 P.M. The contest divisions consisted of three prizes with a silver loving cup to the author of the best short story, essay, and poem respectively.

Judges

Judging this year’s contest are Dr. Davidson, Dr. Cumming, and Professor Lilly. The winners will be announced at a later date with the actual awards being made at commencement. Winners in last year’s contest were Crawford Wheeler, a sophomore, in the short story division, Joe Robinson, who graduated last year, with a poem, and Bill Lacy, a sophomore, in the essay division.

Two Notables Are Honored At Dinner

A dinner was served at the new “Y” lounge Friday evening, following the dedication of the new library. The occasion was to honor Capt. James P. Grey and Dr. A. R. Mann. Brief addresses were made by Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees; Dr. R. A. Dunn, Ex-President of the board; Dr. Hamilton McKay; Mr. W. H. Belk; and Ex-Governor Cameron Morrison.

Mann Praises Davidson

In response to these addresses, Dr. Mann spoke in warmest appreciation of the type of culture and character being produced by the college. Speaking in special appreciation of Davidson, he indicated he had had occasion to study records of Davidson graduates for the past five years and found that 53 percent had gone on to graduate work. “I think you would search far in the life of American colleges to find that record excelled or even equaled,” stated Dr. Mann. He stated his conviction and that of his board that institutions like Davidson must survive and continue their valuable contribution to our civilization.

ANSWERS BLOOD PLEA

Davidson Ed Hipp of Greensboro is pictured above donating a pint of his blood to the Red Cross Blood Bank. He was among the first fifty volunteers who contributed Monday. The remainder of the 350 offerers will probably give their blood next week.

Mr. McGregor Speaks Here

Speaker Says Knowledge Of Bible Essential

Last Sunday at the evening vespers, Rev. J. Rupert McGregor of Burlington, N. C. was the guest speaker.

The Scripture lesson was read by Reverend Carl Pritchett, after which the glee club sang the anthem “Come Holy Spirit.”

Faith And Prayer

Reverend McGregor pointed out that we know what we worship, and that our God is the great fact of life, without which we cannot be satisfied. Faith and prayer are two of the main ways to establish contact with God.

He went on to say that to be mistaken about religion is one of the most tragic things that can happen to a man. Thus, to know religion—we must have a knowledge of the Bible, its doctrines, and be willing to carry out its teachings.

Eternal Things

The small things of life, such as science and mathematics, can be proved and demonstrated, but the devotion to love for us and each other, come to us by faith.

BETTY GRABLE
Thursday and Friday, May 7 and 8
“SONG OF THE ISLANDS”

Saturday, May 9
“TORPEDO BOAT”
LATE SHOW
“I WAS FRAMED”

Monday and Tuesday, May 11 and 12
“RINGS ON HER FINGER”

Wednesday, May 13
“CASTLE IN THE DESERT”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

VICTOR MATURE
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SEW CAFETERIA

PAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
—Sporting Goods—S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N.C.

Dr. Lawson Declares Blackout A Success; Problems Are Solved

"Thursday night’s blackout was a success," declared Dr. Lawson. "With each trial, there develop new problems which are largely cleared up at the next blackout, and this last one was the most successful of all."

New System

A new system of using one central Control Center, which is located in the town Library and in the fire station, was used. The job of this station is to take all calls from the various wardens posted throughout the town and to disperse crews to their needed locations.

Experiences Blackout On April 30

Co-Operation

The college was completely black and the students were said to have been very co-operative. When asked whether or not it was advisable for the students to go to the movies during the blackout, Dr. Lawson said, "No, we have no objection to the students being in the movie house at the time of the blackout. The main thing that we are after is to see that the students are off the streets. There seems to have been a little misunderstanding on the part of the town people when we had to remove them from the streets. These are government regulations and in the future, prosecutions will be made if the authority of the wardens is not heeded."

There was a little trouble in town last Thursday night, and the ambulance was sent out six times, the fire truck five times, and the road service crew one or two times. The blackout lasted from 9:15 to 10:15, allowing enough time to check on all of the details. The first blackout of the year lasted for only one half an hour.

The Greatest Army in the World Needs Flight and Ground Crew Officers NOW FOR COLLEGE MEN A NEW OFFICERS’ TRAINING PLAN

In the skies over America, the mightiest air fleet in the history of the world is mobilizing for victory! So fast is it growing that there is a place here—an urgent need here—for every college man in America who can qualify for Officer’s Training. The U.S. Army Air Forces need Flying Officers and Ground Crew Officers. And many of them must come from the ranks of today’s college students—men who make their plans now for the necessary Aviation Cadet training.

Thanks to a newly created Air Force Reserve plan, men of all classes—aged 18 to 26, inclusive—can enlist for immediate service or continue the scholastic work required for graduation before being called to active duty. You must meet the requirements for physical fitness, of course. In addition, you take a new simplified test to determine your ability to grasp the training. A college man should pass it easily.

$75 A MONTH DURING TRAINING

Those accepted who wish immediate duty will go into training as rapidly as facilities permit. As an Aviation Cadet, you are paid $75 a month, with subsistence, quarters, medical care, uniforms, and equipment. In 8 months you can win an officer’s commission as a bombardier, navigator, or pilot—and be well started on your way to serve America and advance yourself in aviation.

Three Enlistment Plans for College Men

Juniors—Sophomores—Freshmen May Continue Their Education

1. A new plan allows Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen, aged 18 to 26, inclusive, to enlist in the Air Force Enlisted Reserve and continue their schooling, provided they maintain satisfactory scholastic standings.

All College Men May Enlist for Immediate Service

2. All college students may enlist as privates in the Army Air Forces (unassigned) and serve there until their turns come for Aviation Cadet training.

3. All college students may enlist in the Air Force Enlisted Reserve and wait until ordered to report for Aviation Cadet training. Upon graduation or withdrawal from college, men will be assigned to active duty at a training center as facilities become available. If the necessity of war demands, the deferred status in the Army Reserve may be terminated at any time by the Secretary of War.

The new Army Air Force Enlisted Reserve Plan is part of an over-all Army Enlisted Reserve Corps program shortly to be announced. This program will provide opportunities for college men to enlist in other branches of the Army on a deferred basis and to continue their education through graduation if a satisfactory standard of work is maintained. In case of necessity, the Secretary of War shall determine when they may be called to active duty. It is understood that men so enlisted will have the opportunity of competing for vacancies in officer's candidate schools. This plan has been approved in the belief that the continuance of education will develop capacities for leadership. (Reserve enlistment will not alter regulations regarding established R.O.T.C. plans.)

New Deferred Service Plan Allows You to Continue Your Education

MANY BRANCHES OF SERVICE

There are also commissions awarded in ground crew service. College men particularly will be interested in the requirements for Armaments, Communications, Engineering, Meteorology, and Photography. If you have engineering experience, your chances of getting a commission are excellent. As a Second Lieutenant on active duty with the Army Air Forces, your pay ranges from $183 to $245 a month.

ACT AT ONCE

If you want to fight for America, this is where your blows will count. If you want the best training in the world, and years of solid achievement in aviation—the great career field of the future—this is where you belong. Your place is here—in the Army Air Forces. If you plan to enlist immediately, start getting your necessary papers ready for the Aviation Cadet Examining Board when it meets in your locality. For complete information, see your Faculty Air Force Advisor. You can take your mental and physical examinations the same day you apply. Get further information now.

NOTE: If you wish to enlist and are under 21, you will need your parents’ or guardian’s consent. Birth certificates and three letters of recommendation will be required of all applicants. Obtain the forms and send them home today—you can then complete your enlistment before any Aviation Cadet Examining Board.

SEE YOUR FACULTY AIR FORCE ADVISOR FOR FULL INFORMATION

(Or Apply to Your Local Recruiting and Induction Station)

Army Recruiting and Induction Stations Are In the Following Cities:
Asheville
Durham
Fayetteville
Raleigh
Winston-Salem

Aviation Cadet Examining Boards Located in the Following Cities:
Charlotte
Fayetteville
Wilmington