LOCAL GEM DRIVE OPENED TUESDAY

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1942 No. 8

PHI BETA KAPPA SELECTS FOUR NEW MEN

College Community Begins New Gym Drive

Connor, Parks, Wood, Sandifer Win Honor

Cunningham Makes Talk

Drive Is Initiated Here With “Davidson Nite” Dinner; Film Shown

Last Tuesday night, the drive for a new gymnasium opened with a “Davidson Nite” dinner which was attended by 175 representatives of the town and college. Dr. Cunningham delivered the main speech of the evening, telling about the effort now being made to undergird the financial life of the college with special reference to funds for the erection of the new gym when construction can be resumed.

Davidson Movie

A 1200-foot film was shown depicting all phases of college life. The goal of the drive is $250,000, approximately half of which is already in sight. The General Education Board of the Rockefeller Foundation has offered $50,000 towards the gym if alumni and friends of the college provide the rest.

Chairman Beaty

Mayor E. A. Beaty is chairman of the Committee here at Davidson. The town is divided into three groups. The first division is under the direction of F. L. Blythe and the following are captains in this division: A. V. Goldiere, captain of team 11; E. L. Jackson, of 12; N. W. Shepard, 13; F. C. Sherrill, 14; G. A. Whittle, 15. The second division is under W. McGill and the following are the respective team captains: J. E. Bailey of team number 21; F. K. Fleagle of 22; H. E. Fulcher of 23; L. T. Horton of 24; W. E. Vowles of 25. Division number three is under the chairmanship of S. T. Stough and the captains are F. M. Cochran of team number 31, D. B. Hobert of 32, W. G. McGavock of 33, C. M. Arbuckle of 34, and Tom Saddler of 35.

YMCA Goes On Retreat

Cabinet Will Spend Week-end In Montreat

Sunday and Monday, November 14 and 15, the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet will hold its retreat in Montreat. The main purpose of this retreat is to make plans for the Christmas Gift Fund. The Cabinet will leave from Charlotte after the football game Saturday afternoon and will arrive in Montreat Saturday night. They will stay at Sylvan Heights which takes the place of Assembly Inn, which is being used by aliens.

Sunday Program

The retreat will begin early Sunday morning when the cabinet members will climb Lookout Mountain for the morning worship program which will be led by Shaw Smith and Jim McCrary, president of the Y.M.C.A. Later that morning, formal reports of the different departments of the cabinet will be made in the light of stimulating thought of the Christmas Gift Fund. The main business of the retreat will be to decide upon an objective for the Gift Fund and to make complete plans for presenting it to the students.

Gift Fund

In view of the times that we are in now, the cabinet realizes that the Gift Fund should be a real challenge for the students to give generously to a worthy cause.

Meatless and fishless Wednesdays in Washington’s fifty-two government cafeterias are expected to save six tons of the two products weekly.

RECEIVE PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS

BILL CONNOR
ERSKINE PARKS
MYRON SANDIFER
BILL WOOD

Thirty Minute Change Made

Sigma Upsilon Chooses Four More Juniors

Wheeler, Hill, Fairly, and Bumbarger Are Chosen by Literary Society

Crawford Wheeler, Peck Hill, John Fairly, and Tom Bumbarger were elected new members of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, at its last meeting, held on Tuesday night, Nov. 3, at the Kappa Sigma House. In addition to electing these new members, all juniors, four papers were heard during the meeting of the Blue Pencil Chapter.

Begin Story

Prof. Henry Tracy Lilly started the chapter's continuous literary form by reading the first installment entitled, “Fugue in E Minor.” The continuous form this year is a basic plot, arranged by Lt. Sam Spencer, and written from various points of view. The basic plot concerns a woman evangelist, her male musician accompanist, and a girl who attracts the musician and elopes with him. Prof. Lilly treated it in a stream-of-consciousness style from the point of view of the frustrated evangelist.

Following “Fugue in E Minor,” Priestly Conyers read an essay on some problems of post-war peace and suggestions on the attitudes that the people of the United Nations might assume toward the problems.

Poem On Davidson

Next, Dr. Chalmers Davidson read a poem that expressed his feelings toward, and paid tribute to, Davidson College. The program was concluded with a humorous essay read by Myron Sandifer, entitled “David Mus Rattus.” The essay concerned “Old Dave,” a famous rodent that has inhabited No. 31 Georgia since Old Chambers burned in 1923.

Refreshments

Following the rendition of the regular part of the program, Steward Port served refreshments to the brothers, while the members fell into informal discussions over current problems. New members are chosen twice each year by the brothers on the merits of their literary accomplishments and their interest in good writing. The four new brothers will be initiated at the next meeting.

Ga. Tech students are warned against throwing any object at Tech football games, especially liquor bottles. The guards and ushers have been instructed to report anyone seen doing this. The offender will have his pass book confiscated and given a permanent offense.

FIRST LECTURE

Hallet Abend, for fifteen years prior to 1940 chief Far Eastern Correspondent for the New York Times, will lecture here Friday, November 13, at the chapel hour. His subject will be Japan and her plans and preparations for the war.

Many Gather In Charlotte For Luncheon

Hotel Charlotte Is Scene of Home-Coming Luncheon; Smith Performs

The lecture will begin at 10:35; the morning periods are being shortened by five minutes in order to give Mr. Abend more time. This will be the first public lecture of the year for Davidson.

Lyman Plans Holiday Issue

The Christmas issue of Scripts ’N Pranks will be out on December 16, announced Bill Lyman, editor of the campus magazine. In this December issue there will be a holiday theme predominating throughout, since the magazine will be mailed out two days before the Christmas holidays begin. “Any students who wish to submit articles for consideration are invited to do so,” said Lyman. “They must be submitted to me before the last of this month,” he added. As yet, only one article has been definitely selected for the December Scripts ’N Pranks, which is an essay concerning Davidson's most illustrious alumnus, entitled “Woodrow Wilson at Davidson.”

Saturday, November 7, was the day and date for Davidson’s annual Home-Coming banquet. Large numbers of alumni from the southern states assembled in the banquet hall of the Hotel Charlotte for another record-breaking convention of the past. Students of Davidson College, even though the transportation problem kept many away, were also present. Dr. A. C. Beam, who is President of the Alumni Association, was toastmaster for the occasion. Dr. James Jones gave the invocation which was followed by the singing of the National Anthem by the Glee Club. Music was played throughout the program by the college orchestra under the direction of...Mr. Pfohl. Students Attend Later in the program, members of the Student Council, Student Group, Y.M.C.A., Pan-Hellenic Council, and O.D.K. were introduced to the assembled alumni. The highlight of the luncheon came when Collin the Great, alias Shaw Smith, performed feats of magic that had the audience completely confused. By a plan of effective schedules, we moved up the second, third, and fourth periods. The starting time was at a public disadvantage, leading to breakfast and wishes in this way. The same number of students moved up one half hour. Faculty Children There are numerous faculty members who have children in schools which are now in line. The college recognizes the needs of the students to have breakfast before classes and to cooperate with them. Restrictions on the use of taxicabs in New York City will save 107 million taxi miles annually, 15,000 new tires, a number of recaps, and 10 million gallons of gasoline.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS ENLIST Last week a recruiting party representing the Army, Navy, Marines, and their respective air corps visited Davidson and found many boys interested in enlisting in the Reserve Corps. Above, Jim Neill, of Statesville, is receiving an explanation of the Reserve plan, while Freshman Stuart Merriam of Schenectady, N.Y., is being fingerprinted after signing up.

Fathers’ Day Sponsored By ‘Y’ Committee College Sends Invitation To All Fathers To Be End Guests Announcement was made by the Office of Public Relations of the decision on the student Y.M.C.A. Fathers’ Day celebration on the weekend of November 21. A special committee on plans and arrangements was composed of Myron Sandifer, Chairman; Priestly Conyers, Dean Tom Howard, and others. They are completing arrangements in cooperation with Alumni and Public Relations. Invitations Sent According to Mr. J. L. Payne, Director of Public Relations and Alumni Secretary, all fathers of students now at Davidson have been sent individual letters from President Cunningham, requesting that they attend. Mr. Payne asked fathers to notify him as to their time of arrival and to make reservations for the banquet to be held Saturday evening, November 21, at 6:30 o'clock in Chambers Hall. Dr. Cunningham’s letter also requested that fathers make reservations for room and meals at Davidson through their sons, either at the guest house or in the homes available in the community.

Students’ Cooperation In releasing the program of events, a copy of which was included in Dr. Cunningham's letter, Mr. Payne pointed out that several changes in the program would be made after collaboration with the committee. Sunday schedule remains the same.

AMATEUR SHOW POSTPONED The Y.M.C.A. originally scheduled the show for November 13. The date was changed because the play, “The Man Who Came To Dinner,” would have been performed just four days later, on November 17. A new date for the Amateur Show has been indefinitely postponed and will be announced in the next Davidsonian.

Pfohl Directs Music Series Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra will present the tenth concert on the Sunday afternoon series of musicales at 4 p.m. on November 15. Six numbers from some of the better composers will be played in Chambers Auditorium. The orchestra will be under the direction of James Christian Pfohl. The group is made up of both student and faculty musicians from Queens College and Davidson College. Pieces on the program are as follows: “Cosi fan tutte” by Mozart; Concerto for Violin and String Orchestra by Vivaldi; March Overture from “Dramma per Musica” by Zach; “Le Coucou” by Arensky; “Patrol of the Tin Soldiers” by Pierne; and “Pavanne” by Ravel.

Connor Leads Senior Class With 95 Average; Sandifer Is Second Myron Sandifer, Bill Wood, and Bill Parks, all of the senior class, have been elected to Phi Beta Kappa, it was announced Thursday. Dr. W. P. Connor, President of Gamma North of the Carolina Chapter, cited three reasons for this change. First, in a few weeks students would be getting up before daybreak. Second, the faculty recognizes the needs of the students to have breakfast before classes and to cooperate with them. Third, the college recognizes the needs of the students to have breakfast before classes and to cooperate with them. The elections were based on six semesters of work. They are graduating in February. Connor, from Rock Hill, S.C., is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. Sandifer, President of the Student Body, is from Lowrys, S.C., and a Kappa Alpha brother. Wood is from Davidson, a member of Alpha Epsilon. Parks lives in Bristol, Va., and belongs to Pi Kappa Phi.

Large Cast Gives Play Smith, Erwin, and Miss Hood Take Lead Parts On November 17th, Black Tuesday, at 8:30 p.m., the Masquers will present “The Man Who Came to Dinner” by Kaufman and Hart. Shaw Smith, Professor E. J. Erwin, and Miss Hood will take the lead roles. The supporting cast is made up of Mr. T. W. Stanley; Miss Jackson as Mrs. Stanley; Paul Welch as Richard Stanley; Miss Eloise Hamrick as June Stanley; Kalsta Erwin as Miss Preenes; Susie Hengeveld as Harriet Stanley; Sam Spencer as Bert Jefferson; Middy Raymal as Professor Metz; Bill Shaw as the Expressman; H. W. Hobbs as Mr. Baker, with two convicts, Zeb Norman and Ernest Spangler; the beautiful Mrs. Turner as Lorraine Sheldon, the actress; Newton Spencer as Sandy; Dick Port as Westcott; McCormick as the radio technician; Walt Romefelt as the comedian. Robert Clitre plays the part of the plain-clothes man. Hub Pierce takes the part of Beverly Carlton playing a new tune “What Am I To Do” by Cole Porter and written especially for the production. The quartet, composed of Buddy Wells, William Toyner, Herb Dimmock, and G. P. Whiteley, will also be heard. The set was designed by Professor E. J. Erwin and the stage manager will be George McCormick, assisted by Jimmy Gribben. The price of admission will be thirty cents.

Bicycles are going to be less plentiful from now on. Their manufacture has been cut to 10,000 a month by WPB and concentrated in two plants: the Westfield Manufacturing Co., of Westfield, Mass., and the Huffman Manufacturing Co., of Dayton, Ohio. They will turn out a “Victory Model” which will not carry a name or trademark.