Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 19, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor
Associate Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
Photographer
Associate

BUSINESS STAFF
Dick Port
Don Melver
Jim Harris
Hodges Robinson
Advertising Managers
Circulation Manager
Circulation Manager
Exchange Manager
Manager

Teensy John Buddy Carson

Dad’s Day...
A great deal has been said regarding Dad's Day elsewhere on this page but we would like to add our word of welcome to the more official ones from the administration and the sponsors of the affair. At press time there was no accurate indication of the exact number of parents expected, as the majority would not know until practically the last moment whether it would be possible for them to attend. Its sponsors voiced the hope and the strong expectation that a large number would find it possible to surmount the prevailing difficulties and put in their appearance at the celebration. Following the success of the Mother's Day festivities of last spring, it would be a shame if only a small number of the Dads would be able to enjoy the full and representative program planned in their honor. The importance of the guests certainly needs no emphasis to those who stop to think of who backs their student careers. Let us all join, therefore, in showing the most important group of Davidson supporters the time of their lives.

Scholarship...
The announcement of fraternity scholarship averages brings to light an interesting fact about the school year 1941-42, a fact fraught with a certain amount of embarrassment. Records prove that the highest average, that of the Beta Theta Pi group (1.587 or an approximate numerical grade of 83), does not overlap the lowest average for the year 1940-41. The lowest for that period was 1.608. The drop of the highest last year from the top mark of the preceding period was half a literal grade—from B to C—or a lowering of .5 according to the point system—2.005 to 1.587.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Letters Editorials Features

What happened last year to cause such an unprecedented collapse? This is an amazing revelation. Even so, was it sufficient justification for the marked scholastic decline? Much of the difference will be attributed to the change in psychological attitude of the student body caused obviously by the entrance of our nation into war, since its relation to sunspots, the only other acceptable cause for current phenomena, is negligible. Apparently, this condition, or the causal condition, whatever it may be, is still evident in student minds, since every fraternity admits a lower average for the first grade period of this year than for any within the memory scope of the senior brothers. The drop last year was decided by the war period, while both terms will be affected from present appearances this year. In short, a similar drop in student marks may rightfully be expected this year.

This state is a black mark against the far-sightedness of student minds. We are constantly reminded that our educational future is doubtful, that “we should get all we can while we can,” that we should use this opportunity to fit ourselves for what is to come after the war. If you are not interested in what is to follow the peace, then you should be interested in your part in the war. With the government in need of competent men trained in every conceivable line, the actual draft-dodger has little of anything on the collegiate time-waster.

This grade report is another evidence that it is high time we took hold of ourselves, quit mentally jumping up and yelling “whee,” and settled down to a little honest hard work and preparation. Most of us know now the nature of what is ahead of us, although we may have no suspicion as to the time element involved. We are forgetting, however, that the only reason we are not already involved is that the government considers our present training valuable, not necessarily to us but certainly to it. They are not interested in a lovely transcript or a Phi Beta Kappa key. They are interested in how thoroughly we have learned enough to apply to whatever job it may be our lot to perform. Let us by all means settle down, then. Let us realize that this is as much our training as the months we will receive in camps. We have heard it and will doubtless hear it over and over again. Let us not overlook the lesson as portrayed in the evidence.

Sympathy...
The Editor and staff of the Davidsonian wish to express for the entire student body its sympathy to Legh Scott and to his family in their recent loss. We feel inadequate to build any sort of verbal memorial to men of the calibre of Neal Scott. Losses like him bring home to each of us the nearness and intensity of the war, and its effect upon each of us. It can only be our hope that we of the now peace-endowed student group may face danger and if necessary death with the strength and the courage that he evidenced.

CAMPUS ODDITIES
FATHER OF AVIATION
JOHN J. MONTGOMERY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF SANTA CLARA MADE GLIDER FLIGHTS AS EARLY AS 1884. IN 1905 HE DESCENDED FROM A BALLOON IN A TANDEM MONOPLANE AND LATER IN THE YEAR FELL TO HIS DEATH IN A MOTOR PROPELLED PLANE.

SUBSCRIBE TO A BLOW AT TOKIO! BUY WAR BONDS & STAMPS!

Rutgers BEAT PRINCETON 6 TO 4 IN THE FIRST INTERCOLLEGIATE FOOTBALL GAME, PLAYED IN 1869. THEY DIDN'T DEFEAT THE TIGERS AGAIN UNTIL 1938, 35 GAMES LATER IN THEIR LONG SERIES.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
A YANK AT ETON
The inimitable Mickey Rooney heads the cast of the show which some call his greatest. Set in England with all its time-honored (by the British, at least) customs and established traditions, it provides an excellent set for Mickey’s Yankee realism to run wild. The young redhead’s take-offs of an English accent are good. Freddie (Little Lord Fauntleroy) Bartholomew and Ian Hunter head the supporting cast which includes sexy Tiny Thayer.

Saturday
BIG STREET
Although its lack of “name” actors gives it only a tentative two-star rating, the write-ups bill its original plot as a good Saturday matinee bet. Something new in the star “tough guy,” city street line.

Late Show
SECRET ENEMIES
Continuing in the revival of the spy series, this movie offers some excitement for a quiet Saturday night. It also comes with little recommendation for its cast from previous films.

Monday and Tuesday
THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR
One of the season's gayest light comedies which stars Ginger Rogers and Ray Milland with Rita Hayworth also up in the money. The Major, Ray Milland, is placed in some rather embarrassing situations by the Minor, Ginger Rogers, who is masquerading as a girl of 12 during most of the show. Interesting as well as informative is the capturing of the Sudan.

Wednesday
THE FALCON’S BROTHER
This is a sequel in the Falcon series which has offered better than average bargain day entertainment. A good pre-drill mystery for anybody’s Wednesday afternoon. I would like for John Dunlap to be my guest for any performance during the coming week.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN
On the Catastrophic Implications to Davidson Men of the Extended Holidays at Girls’ Schools, or, a lamentation. Perhaps the extrovert...Undergrad has failed to perceive the approaching calamity, but such was forcibly brought to my attention recently and I have in vain sought to pull myself out of a spiritual depression since. The fact is—and we must face the facts in these days—that Christmas holidays this year will not be at all what they used to be. Why? Simply because almost all girls’ schools are having extended holidays beginning on the fifteenth of December and ending on the fifteenth of January. Have you examined the catastrophic implications of this month-long holiday? In former years Davidson students have arrived home at about the same time as the ladies—yet, before students from other men’s schools. The advantages of such a situation are incalculable. The girls, fresh from their respective convents, would arrive home hungry for men and certainly ready for a rollicking gay time. Who were at home to receive them with open arms? Davidson men! Davidsonians could get that all-important first-of-the-holidays look. They would have the femmes dated up for the rest of the holidays. Indeed, in their respective communities Davidson men during the holidays have been the declared envy of all other college men. But, alas! We are now at war. During these days of strife, the male collegian is playing a losing game to the uniform anyhow. We are unable to explain it, but at the mere mention of a uniform, a young lady loses all her sensibilities. Now, when the uniformed men will have the jump anyhow, due to the earlier holidays for girls, Davidson men—yea—all college men will be left completely in the cold. Usually “By-Lines” has some bright solution for student problems. In the present case, however, we are thoroughly frustrated. The only thing we can possibly do is to cloak ourselves with the most cynical stoicism and accept bitter defeat.

Under The Flag
Capt. F. M. Cochran, Jr. ('34), son of Lt. Col. and Mrs. F. M. Cochran of Davidson, recently received his promotion to the grade of major. Major Cochran still holds a college record in the shot put set while at Davidson. He is now stationed with a Flying Fortress command in Florida. It is not yet known whether his promotion will carry with it a transfer to other duties.

Lucas (42), stopped in Davidson Monday on his way from Ocala, Florida, where he has finished his primary flying training, to Sumter, S. C., where he will begin basic instruction in the Army Air Corps.

Ensign Neal A. Scott (40), died of wounds received in action with the Pacific fleet, according to an official notice to his parents in Goldsboro, N. C., last Friday night. Ensign Scott had been serving on a destroyer since spring. No details were issued in the notice.

Capt. J. W. Kennedy (40), of the United States Marine Corps, has been reported missing after the sinking of the aircraft carrier Wasp on which he was serving. The Wasp was sunk in the Pacific last month.

The Operating Table
This weekend offered little in the way of material for ye olde wielder of the knife. As always, however, the dealers were not to be denied their due. “Mother” Richeson and “Little Jock” Dunn were seen operating around a nearby tavern last Saturday night. It is reported that they were in dire financial straits and had to borrow money from their dates(?).

Among those seen at the Duke-Carolina game, as usual, were “Hips” Graves, “Nick” Lucas, “Dottie” Whaling, “Face” Wilcox, “Smiley” Hill, “Tyrone” Powell, “Jim Dendy” Royster, “Hockey Lee”, “Flip” Phillips, “The Button”, “Leaflet” Harris, and “Rail” Brinson. It is reported that Brinson was given an advanced course in wrestling in Kenan Stadium.

Our agent advises us that “Indifferent Anne” left “Doug” holding the bag. What's that bag got anyway?

Jack Wayman is reported to be suffering from a short circuit with his two telephone operators. “Baldy” (he leaves youth on the hatrack) Young is reported to have another reason for losing his hair. The weather at the South Pole is hard on one’s thatch.

“Stoop” is reported to be suffering from a severe case of a new disease, “Conversecutieitis”.

The longest deal of the weekend was perpetrated by “Marvin” Mebane and his Converse lock. The deal began from the depot in Charlotte. Where it ended, nobody knows. Ask “Marvin”.

We wonder why the “Y” cabinet refused to take “Front Office” Sprunt on the retreat. Even ole Jess went along.

It was too bad about Ben Lacy breaking his leg. We hear that he is still very beautiful though.

Big Red Bethea is still spending the weekends in Charlotte. Did “Bebe” let you stay up till five a.m. with her this time, Red?

Tom Collins McCoy was seen dealing around at the game Saturday with a gang of kids. He is also reported to have been the instigator of a wild ride in the Crimson Creeper later on.

“Prune Face” Lee went to the Social Center of the South for the weekend and came back talking wildly about not being able to wait until Christmas. Who is she, Senator? Catherine?

This seems about all the dope on the dealers for this week. However, there are prospects for a big deal this next weekend, what with the game with Citadel and the dances following. We'll see you at the game and perhaps at the dances if nobody finds out who I am.

With The Staff
By JIM STIMSON

Elsewhere in this paper is an announcement of the full plans for the Dads’ Day program. This program gives a schedule of the weekend events which our fathers will see and take part in during their brief visit to the campus. This program will enable our dads to revive their college days in a more modern and better-developed setting. Yet the inauguration of Dads’ Day at Davidson will not mean much to the sons unless they put something into this new program. The program, no matter how well planned, can be monotonous. Often Davidson students have griped about a change—or innovation in the college program, thinking that it is not worthwhile. Such incidents have proved the fact that what we get out of a thing depends upon what we put into it. Have we all made an earnest endeavor to make our fathers feel that we want them to be here for the weekend? Dr. Cunningham has stressed that the fathers should be invited as guests of the students themselves, more than guests of the college in general. This may be the last opportunity that many fathers and sons will have of being together for a visit of father to son on the campus. If this first affair is successful, it might be an annual affair, but present world conditions will probably prohibit a permanent Dads’ Day each year at Davidson.

Students are also taking a lead in this program as well as the college officials. A committee from the Y.M.C.A. has collaborated with the faculty committee in making plans for the weekend. This student committee, after accepting their responsibility, has seen the value of the new idea and are interested in seeing a successful Dads’ Day. Last spring the students and their mothers responded well to the inauguration of the Mothers’ Day at Davidson, and this idea proved to be a success. Both of these events are new to the Davidson campus, but they have been popular annual events at other colleges and universities all over the country. A few years ago an article appeared on the editorial page of the Davidsonian, suggesting that we have a Dads’ Day on our campus. Now the answer to this article has come. It is the responsibility of all of us to show our interest in order to have a successful weekend. Whether our fathers come or not, we can help another boy show his father a good time. Let us all put something into this new event on our campus. What we get out of it depends upon what we put into it, and what our dads get out of it depends upon what we put into it. Let us all give dad a big time. He is the man we love most.