PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

When Davidson and V.M.I. take the field against the Flying Keydets Saturday, it will be the twenty-third meeting of Davidson
and V.M.I. on the gridiron. The two schools began their football rivalry back in 1904, and they have met each
year since 1926 except in 1939. It has been a pretty even series in all, with the Wildcats winning nine,
losing twelve, and the remaining game ending in a deadlock. Davidson’s most decisive victory over the Keydets, and incidentally their
last, was their 38-13 win in 1936, the largest score V.M.I. has ever amassed over the Cats being their 20-0
triumph in 1927. This year’s encounter finds the Wildcats, still scoreless, up against V.M.I.’s most successful team in recent years.
With All-American candidate Joe Muha leading the way, they have rolled over three conference opponents, Virginia, Richmond, and Maryland. However,
the ’Cats have been polishing their attack for the Squadron for two weeks now, and they are still quite anxious
to score a few points. It has been mentioned that V.M.I. has practically the same team that the Davidsons fought
to a standstill last year only to lose a heartbreaker, 13-7. With abundant optimism and faith in the Wildcat spirit,
yours truly is predicting victory Saturday!

A Look At The Greeks

With intercollegiate activity at a low ebb in the State the past week, the campus spotlight has been focused on
the interfraternity football race which is nearing the decisive stage. The pre-season favorites appear to be holding their own with
the exception of last year's champs and holders of the intramurals cup, the K.A.’s, who went down before the rampaging
Betas and were tied by the Phi Gams. However, anything can happen yet. After the S.A.E.’s, still undefeated, and the
pace-setting Betas tangle, the picture should be somewhat clearer, while the Sigmas are primed for an upset after taking the
Phi Delts on Monday. The Independents got more into the thick of things by virtue of their victory over the
hapless Pikas.

Down East

All kinds of fireworks may be expected to break loose around Durham and Raleigh this weekend as the up-and-coming Dukes
take on undefeated Ga. Tech and State’s Wolfpack seeks to justify the theft of the Tar Heel Ram by repeating
their last year’s conquest of Carolina. Tech, with its speed and deception, appears about two touchdowns better than the Devils,
but their defense seems vulnerable enough for the Dukemen to account for some points themselves after scoring nine touchdowns on
favored opponents in the last two weeks. From this corner, the State-Carolina fracas looks like a toss-up, with both teams
due to bounce back after humiliating defeats from intersectional foes. State always plays inspired ball against the Heels, but it
looks like a little too much Carolina this time. Another one-nightcap to the thrill it is to after all. Picking
the Wake-Clemson doings, the Deacons by a hair. A few more predictions: Georgia over Alabama, South Carolina over Citadel, V.P.I.
over Virginia, Richmond over W. & L., S.C. over Tennessee. That's enough for a start. The best sports writers risk
their reputations at picking winners, so what is there to lose here?

Odds and Ends

Another headache appears on the football scene as Roach, Buck Williams, and Bingham take on a no-travel-with-the-team status due to
scholastic difficulties. This is an unusually severe blow when it is remembered that both Williams and Roach are much-needed wingbacks,
and Bingham is one of the very few centers on the squad. To combat the latter difficulty, Coach McEver is
grooming “Ripper” Hunt for the pivot position, already undermanned by the injury of Heywood Brinnegar. However, on the brighter side
of the picture, ends Dick O’Hair and Bill Dunn are back in shape, and Red Bethea is becoming more and
more available for heavy duty. “Scotty” Paterson is still on the sidelines from an injury suffered in the Tech game,
but he may be ready to go Saturday. There has been plenty of praise for the sophs on the squad
this year, but not enough has been said about Sam Hay, who took over the veteran Rainey’s tackle slot while
the latter was injured and played a whale of a game, especially against V.P.I. Buck Williams, another soph, and he
will see lots of action at home yet, has also proved himself worthy of the red and black. Reports have
it that the Freshman game with Concord last Friday was quite a scrap. The Kittens won by a safe margin,
but there were plenty of close calls, including two stabs within the Davidson ten-yard line by the highs. The frosh
have shown continued improvement in their three games to date and should provide some interesting action in their tussle with
the South Carolina frosh, which will be the curtain raiser for the homecoming festivities next week.

(Continued Next Column)

LINE BUCKERS

Red Burke and Bob Durant (above) have been very effective in plugging those holes that will develop in the line.
Burke has had nearly a full-time job at the center position, and his stamina, tested to the fullest by the
lack of adequate reserves, has been incredible. Sophomore Durant broke into the starting lineup to replace the injured Bethea and
has been a consistent performer.

Thursday, October 29, 1942

State Teams Have Bad Day As Duke Wins

Blue Devils to Paugine were the only Big Five team Saturday to bring home the bacon last week over a
crippled team, and almost as they twice pushed through the two scores to take command of the game from the
opening kickoff.

Coming Up

State and Carolina clash in their annual battle in Raleigh Saturday, with the stolen mascot “escapade” adding quite a bit
of color to this. The State’s capture of Carolina’s Ram last week, but were forced by school officials to return
it. This, coupled with State's surprise win over the Tar Heels last year, has created a great deal of tension
for the game. Despite their 27 to 0 shutout, the Wake Forest Demon Deacons received good notices for their stand
against the mighty Boston Eagles. The Deacons were also victims of a dazzling aerial attack as the Eagles took to
the air in the third period. The Deacons had held them in check since their early score. Clemson's Tigers, victors
over South Carolina in their clash last Thursday, furnish the Deacon's opposition Saturday. The game will take place in Wake
Forest Saturday night and holds fine possibilities.

DAVIDSON COACHES

(This brief is the first of a series on the coaches of the Wildcat teams for the benefit of newcomers
to the campus. Information courtesy Lacy MacLean, Public Relations Office.)

EUGENE McEVER

Head coach of football. Hometown, Bristol, Tenn. Played four years at the University of Tennessee under Col. Bob Neyland. Was
the nation’s high scorer in 1931 and was selected as an All-American halfback for two years. Col. Neyland stated in
1941 that McEver was the best back that he had ever coached. He was also a crack baseball and basketball
player and received an offer to join the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League. He came to Davidson with William
S. Newton, after coaching for a year at Tennessee, and under their coaching, Davidson won 23 games, lost 17, and
tied 5. McEver was elected head coach at the beginning of the 1937 season when Newton went to N.C. State.
1942 is his sixth year as head coach.

SPORTS SPOTLIGHT

Coach Spearman brings reports from his scouting trip of last week that Washington and Lee put up a real battle
against V.P.I., as verified by the score. To put it briefly, it looks like the ‘Cats will have their hands
full again on the weekend of the 14th. Coach McEver’s class in mass murder, having suffered few casualties and still
undefeated, is taking on all comers, and they are now seeking a match with the Wildcat varsity—minus equipment.

A Complete Line of The Best

Southern 5 & 10c Store

Davidson, N.C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

STURDY TACKLE

Sophomore tackle Mike Storer (above) has been a standout despite their two early defeats. The Blue Devils really have their
work cut out for them.

Tar Heels Lose

Carolina’s previously undefeated Tar Heels bowed to Tulane’s fancy aerial attack, 20 to 14, in their intersectional battle inNew Orleans
Saturday Pulane’s superiority was apparent except for a very few minutes. The very first three quarters favored North Carolina State,
which took a sound thrashing at the hands of a revived Holy Cross eleven to a 28 to 0 tune.
The abilities of the Crimson hard-blocking line gave them a great advantage. Bill Shaw's unexpected return to school this year
has added much-needed power to the line.

Leading INTERFRAT STANDINGS:
1. S.A.E. 2 0 0
2. K.A.’s, 6-0, To Retain Lead; S.A.E.’s and Phi Gam Next
3. Kappa Alpha 1 1 1
4. Phi Delts 1 0 0
5. Pi Kaps 1 2 0
6. S.P.E. 1 2 0
7. Independents 1 2 0
8. Pikas 0 3 0

The Betas established themselves at the top of the intramural football standings and loom as the team to beat in
the remaining games. Although rolling up six first downs to their opponents' one and keeping their backs to the wall
constantly, the K.A.’s could not muster a scoring punch and succumbed to Walker, Schmidt, and others.

S.A.E.'s Win:
The S.A.E.'s remained close on the heels of the Betas by trouncing the Kaps, 24-0, and are a threat to
Betas' supremacy. Led by Charlie Wilts, they have a good chance of stopping the Pink and Blue team. The game
will be played at home.

K.A.’s Tied:
In a two-way tie for fourth place are the Phi Delts and the K.A.'s, by virtue of their bitter struggle
last Wednesday which ended in a 12-12 deadlock. The Phi Gam scored in the closing moments on a Crowell-to-French pass,
and the Delts came back to knot the first count at 12-12 when Jim snagged an aerial from Ed Manget.

Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Epsilon, and the Independents found their place in fifth place. The Pikas, still
without a victory to their credit, hold down the cellar berth.

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY
M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise, Hardware, Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Wildcat Sports:
BEAT V.M.I.
Cats Seek Triumph Over Powerful VMI
Strengthened Wildcats Battle Joe Muha and Company

Kittens Down Concord High:
Faced with the task of checking the bull-like thrusts of “Jolting Joe” Muha, the valiant Davidson Wildcats journey northward Saturday
to invade Virginia Military Institute and square off against Muha and Co.'s strong aggregation. Davidson's Ward-Kittens defeated Concord High on
Friday, Oct. 23, in their third game of the season. Receiving a weak punt from the opponent's booter, soon after
the game started, Fletcher and Paylor pushed the ball to the one-foot line. Paylor plunged across, and the victory march
was on. Ingram snagged a beautiful twenty-yard pass from Fletcher to score the second tally. Following the pace set by
Paylor, another player plunged off left tackle for a thirty-five-yard run for the third score. Doing all of the converting
was big Walt Romefelt, who had a perfect total of three boots through the uprights for three tries. When the
smoke of battle had cleared, the scoreboard showed: Davidson 21, Concord 0.

Outstanding Players:
Fletcher and Paylor were the outstanding players in the backfield, while McArn excelled in the line. Troutman, because of a
back injury recurrence, was forced to leave the game in the third quarter. The score for the Frosh so far
is two games won to one lost—trouncing PLLC in the opener and being defeated by the hefty lads from Chapel
Hill.

Next Game:
On Nov. 6, the University of South Carolina freshmen come to Davidson to play the 'Kittens. After their excellent performance
in past games and the experience gained against the first three adversaries, the Frosh are determined to show the S.C.
team that Davidson wins other victories than those of a moral nature. The Kittens will be playing on their own
stamping ground. Their spirit will be boosted and their desire to win increased by the backing they receive from the
members of the student body.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison, L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

STONESTREET Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N.C.

THE DAVIDSON PAN-HELLENIC COUNCIL Presents
Johnny Satterfield AND Ted Ross AND THEIR ORCHESTRAS
Playing For HOMECOMING DANCES
NOVEMBER 6th and 7th
Set Ticket — $5.00
Individual Ticket $2.75

WE SINCERELY INVITE YOU!
DROP IN AT THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
