Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 10, 1942

Letters From The Lodges

KAPPA ALPHA

KA’s this week were preoccupied with the annual affair of the year on the Davidson campus—the KA-Kappa Sig, held in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte Saturday night. After a delicious and extended banquet, the chairs were pushed back, and the dance was on. Dates for the weekend were: Mary Smith with Tom Delk; Jean McSween with Heywood MacDonald, Nancy Johnson (as usual) with Bill Nickels, Emma Parrott with Ralph Dunn, Bunny Sprunt with Tom Speas, Betty Sprunt with Hugh Sprunt, Miriam Wrenn with Bob Durant, Fuzzy Helvenston with John Lawson, Penny Durham with Vance Watt, Jo Wrenn with Ed Whitesides, Sarah with Bob Buie, Peggy Parsley with Lacy MacLean, Katherine Ben with Jim Lowry, Jane Patton with Jim Jackson, Mary Fred Speas with George Mitchell, Frances Moseley with Dever Washburn, Rosalyn Reid with Belk, Margaret Preston with Lisk.

Brother Patterson thought it wise to remain where he was, in spite of the great strain under which he had been existing over the weekend. Brother Jackson managed to eke out a feed for the ravenous brothers Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA

On Saturday night, December 5th, the Kappa Sigmas and Kappa Alphas gave their annual KA-KS formal, held in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte. On the program were Gene Sutton (KS), Page Harris (KA), Dick Phillips (KS), Ben Washburn (KA), and Lacy MacLean (KA). Guests at the banquet and dance were Lt. Sam Spencer, Ensign Emmet Seibels, and Johnny Yarborough. Music for the evening was provided by Gib Todd and his orchestra. 

Kappa Sigs and their dates present were: Bill Simmons with Sis Glott; Don Holland with Blackard; Dick Phillips with Butler; Pat Williams with McWilbur; Amos with Julia Marsh; Grimsley with Carolyn McSwain; Pendleton with Mary Helen Garrison; George Peters with Janet Holmes; Jim Davis with Lou Ninninger; Gene Sutton with Gloria Deal; Joe McCoy with Bess Alexander; Wilma Long with Park Withers; McCall with Currie; Wilson with Miller; and Lowry with Salem College.

PI KAPPA PHI

Most of the Pi Kapps stayed on “dear ole D.C.” this weekend, but a few strayed away. Brother Karl Fisher decided to show the campus to two of the brothers, Denny and Bob Herring. Brothers Dick Bradley, Erskine Anderson, and Peensie Hodges journeyed to Greensboro. From all reports, Brothers Brinson and Neill carried out another of their “bigger” deals in Greensboro, while Brinson and Jim Millis hung out at the Greensboro Country Club. Brother Goldstein attended a dance on the Converse campus at Spartanburg, and Brothers Brock and Clyde Stroup attended one at Winthrop. Pledge Wray Campbell, as usual, went home to see the folks. Pledge Hill went back to Hickory, and Pledge Smith went to Salisbury for the weekend.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The approaching Christmas holidays and the depleted supply of funds kept many of the Pikas on campus this weekend. Among those who were able to get away were Brothers Anderson, who journeyed to Greensboro to see his “one-and-only,” and Brothers Brinson and Neill, who carried out another of their “bigger” deals in Greensboro. Brother Jim Millis hung out at the Greensboro Country Club, while Brother Alf Taylor and Craig Carmichael jaunted to the W.C.U.N.C. campus. Brother Goldstein attended a dance on the Converse campus at Spartanburg, and Brothers Brock and Clyde Stroup attended one at Winthrop. Pledge Wray Campbell, as usual, went home to see the folks. Pledge Bost, as usual, went home to Statesville, but we are glad to report that everybody did not go home. Brother Maxwell and Farrar, for some reason, went to Richmond, Va.; Brother Fisk could not resist a mid-week trip to Charlotte with the local druggist Saturday.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Last weekend most of the Sig Eps attended the steak fry at Professor Kimbrough’s cabin. The whole chapter enjoyed a most delightful feed at the Pi Kappa Phi house on Sunday night. The activities of the chapter have been and will be seriously handicapped by the damage done to the house by a mysterious and disastrous fire that gutted the interior on Saturday morning. We take this opportunity to thank the various other fraternities who have been so generous in offering their houses and equipment to us.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Most of the brothers spent the weekend on the campus or in Charlotte. Among those seen in the big city were Brothers Hunt, Bruce, Moore, Bethea, Carter, Stewart, and Pledges Hood, Paylor, Richardson, and Alexander. Brothers Hobbs and Taylor spent the weekend with their folks in Virginia. Brothers Graves, Lucas, McAlister, and “The Runt” spent the weekend in Greensboro. Attending the various activities in Winston-Salem were Brothers Port, Dee Dunn, Carrow, and Whaling. Brother Young visited with his brother in Norfolk, Va. The chapter regrets that Brother Bill Dunn had to leave to train with the air corps as an instructor. Brother Poss McLean, Lt. (jg), was welcomed by the chapter.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Fijis burned up the dance floor at their function, the Pledge Dance, last Saturday. To the music of Mleet Green's orchestra, chapter president Jesse Wooten led the pack. Miss Janet Crook, from Queens, was his date. Miss Virginia Oliver, from Wilmington, was the date of Brother Oliver. Pledge Brother Tom Snodgrass dated Miss Alice Ross, from Charlotte. Brothers Dick O'Hair and Rhea Dabney escorted Sisters Lou and Rosane Nichols, from Rock Hill, S.C. Pledge Brother John Barron ran competition with the stag line for Miss Fran Smith, also of Rock Hill. Brothers Al King and George McCormack brought beauties Eloise and Isabel Linker, both from Davidson. Pledge Brother Harry Cox enticed Miss Jane Mulhollen all the way from St. Pete, Fla. Brothers Ray Preston and Bob McMullen had Miss Josephine McLauchlin and Miss Mary MacLean down from Winston; while Miss Kitty Crane, from Queens, was there with Raphy Conrad. Pledge Brother John Rose staggered the stag line with his date, Miss Mary Lou Stack. Pledge President Tom McGehee “drug” Miss Harriet Thigpen, of Charlotte, and Pledge Brother Lee Wolfe was accompanied by Miss Mary Frank Colender.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi Delts had their fall fraternity banquet and dance at the Charlotte Country Club. Brother Hobbie exhibited his wit as toastmaster and presided over the banquet. Dates of the brothers and pledges were as follows: Misses Peggy Sadler, Adair Evans, Massie Lee Clark, Laura Jean Lore, Nancy Cromer, Edna Adams, Lucy Baxter, Rebecca Griffin, Jean Noble, Katherine Kirkman, Edna Efird, Virginia Neal, Georgia Anne Robertson, Mildred Graham, Martha Harrison, Jacqueline Pope, Dora Lybrand, Nell Johnson, Jean Chester, Helen Lisk, Virginia Neal.Virginia Anne Buckner, Elaine Wells, Caroline Gaither, and Barbara Demar. Most of the brothers were reluctant to get back to the campus after such a big weekend. (Continued in Column 6)

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

church; Miss Martha Rushing, Sweetbriar, with David Yokum; Miss Mary Catherine McArthur,

Volumes From First President Placed In Davidsoniana Room

A collection of old books recently secured from the Robert H. Morrison estate by the library is to be placed soon in the Davidsoniana room, Dr. Chalmers, librarian, announced Monday.

Interesting Volumes

Among this group of thirty-five or more volumes originally owned by the first president of Davidson College are several interesting old volumes, such as “The Modern Practice of Physic—exhibiting characters, causes, and methods of healing diseases of all climates,” which is dated 1820. It contains chapters on “The Plague,” “Canine Madness,” and “The Cramp.”

Religious Books

Other eye-catchers among the collection being put on the shelves are books entitled “Fanaticism,” “The Young Christian,” and numerous volumes of “Memoirs of the Philanthropic Society for Promoting Agriculture,” as Davidson's first president was somewhat of a farmer.

Davidson President

Robert Morrison was a graduate of the class of 1818, Chapel Hill, in the same class with James K. Polk. He served as pastor of several North Carolina churches, and then as president of Davidson College from 1836 to 1840. He was still living in 1887 during Davidson's fiftieth anniversary, but was not well enough to attend.

All of Mr. Morrison's five daughters married officers in the Confederate Army: General T. J. Jackson, Gen. D. H. Hill, Col. John E. Brown, Gen. Rufus Barringer, and Major Alphonso Avery.

Son Inherits Books

His library was inherited by his grandson, Capt. Rufus Reid Morrison, who graduated from Davidson in the class of 1902. He lived and kept the books with him in the beautiful old mansion at Mt. Mourne. When Capt. Morrison moved to Davidson, the old collection was secured by the library. Since then, the family has moved to Raleigh.

The Morrison collection will afford an interesting pastime for anyone in the mood to browse. They will be placed in the Davidsoniana room and labeled.

Morrison Estate Wills Collection of Old Books To College Library

Many Take Communion

Cunningham Presides At Unusual Vespers

Dr. John R. Cunningham presided over the communion held at the vesper service last Sunday evening in Chambers Auditorium. This was the first observance of “The Lord's Supper” at vespers this year and in the history of the college. The vesper committee considered this plan because many students never have the opportunity to attend a communion service during their stay at Davidson.

Scripture

Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., and Dr. L. B. Schenck read the scripture readings for the service. Dr. Gwynn read the story of the Crucifixion and Dr. Schenck read appropriate communion passages from Corinthians and Romans. Rev. Carl Pritchett and Dr. C. M. Richards led in prayer. Dr. Cunningham gave a brief message before serving the communion elements. He told the purpose of this special service and invited all students who confessed Christ as their Savior to partake of the communion. Mr. Pritchett aided Dr. Cunningham in carrying out the service.

Special Music

A portion of the combined Glee Clubs of Davidson and Queens presented special music for the service. Buddy Wells, a member of the Davidson Glee Club, sang a solo, “Were You There When They Crucified My Lord.” Members of the faculty and members of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet passed the communion among the student body and visitors. The lights in the auditorium were turned out during the communion.

Eight Initiates Join Masquers

Miss Clara Smith, Lt. Sam Spencer Are New Red and Black Masquers

Red and Black Masquers initiated eight new members Wednesday evening, December 7. Two outstanding initiates were Miss Clara Smith, who was considered one of the most outstanding actors in “The Blue Ghost,” as well as “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” and Lt. Sam Spencer, who played an outstanding part in “The Man Who Came to Dinner.”

Other Initiates

The other initiates were Hub Pierce, Walt Romefelt, Finley Tucker, Dick Port, George Worth, and Don Holland. These men were outstanding actors in plays presented by the Red and Black Masquers last spring and this fall. A feed was held following the initiation. Short skits were presented by the new members following the initiation. These skits added greatly to the life of the party and many of the old members complimented the new members on their skill.

Masquers’ Crest

The Red and Black Masquers’ crest was selected and a description was given to all those present. It is composed of a shield with the two masquers on it and black curtains. The curtains are gathered at the top and held together by a dagger and a serpent, which were taken from the college shield. A motto was not decided upon, but will be taken up and discussed in the near future.

“Y” Entertains For Hospital

The Y.M.C.A. Student Sunday School, which holds classes every week at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium, will present their annual Christmas party at the sanatorium Tuesday, December 14. Deane Watson will be in charge of leading the entertainment. The Mayhew Brothers, consisting of Butch Watkins and David Blevins, will play some hill-billy songs with some hill-billy instruments.

Quartet

This will be followed by a quartet made up of Ad Dimmock, Herb Dimmock, Whitely, and Watson singing carols. The quartet will then lead the whole assembly in the group singing of a few of the more popular carols. Lee Jeep and Deane Potter will accompany them on the piano.

DEPUTATION

The Y.M.C.A. sent a deputation to Women’s College over the weekend of November 29th. Shaw Smith presided. Deane Watson sang a solo and was accompanied by Lee Popper on the piano. Myron Sandifer, President of the Davidson Student Body, gave a talk on “The Church's Mission in the World of Tomorrow.” Sandifer emphasized the importance of Christianity in the leaders of our nation in establishing a society which will ensure the welfare of all men. Heywood Brinegar spoke on “The Christian’s Responsibility in the Post-War World.”

study and Christian activity. books of Devotions, Greek Testament, Morgan and other to browse around

FRED H. PLEXICO, SR., Proprietor
124 West Fourth Street
BIBLES KING JAMES AND AMERICAN REVISED

ALSO

A complete line of study material on the Bible, including Commentaries, Concordances, Dictionaries, single volumes and in sets, Biography, Theology, Poetry, Apologetics, books for every phase of Christian study and activity. Greek-English Interlinear Testaments, the Expositor’s Greek Testament, and other outstanding books of Bible Expositors. We invite all Davidson students to browse around when in Charlotte.

At The Bible Book Store
Charlotte, N.C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER