STUDENTS ENJOY CAMPUS THANKSGIVING

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

OTTS LECTURE SERIES

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1942

Dr. John M. McKay Will Begin Lecture Series Sunday Night

Princeton Seminary President Will Speak At Regular Vesper Hour

Dr. John M. McKay, noted author and speaker, will begin this year’s Otts’ Lecture Series in Chambers’ Auditorium on Sunday night, November 29 at the regular Vesper hour. Dr. McKay is President of the Princeton Theological Seminary in Princeton, New Jersey. He received his education in his native land, Scotland, where he still maintains contact with many of his theologian friends who are prominent now in religious circles abroad. Two of the most prominent of these are Bruner and Keller. Scottish clergy still recognize him as a prominent figure of their group. His slight Scotch accent and unusually fine address make him very popular wherever he has been heard. His complete mastery of both English and his native tongue gives him wonderful ability as a speaker and as a writer.

“The Defense of Christianity” will be the general topic of the four lectures which will be held at the Vesper hour Sunday, and at special Chapel services, which will be lengthened for his lectures, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday mornings. Dr. McKay is not new to Davidson, having delivered the commencement address about two years ago. As President of the Princeton Seminary, and as a noted speaker, he is one of the leading ministers of the Northern Presbyterian Church.

These lecture series are made possible by Dr. P. Otts, who gave the first set in the spring of 1896. They have been on a rather irregular schedule of one series every two or three years. Dr. Hood announced that, from now on, they will be held regularly every two years. Each of these series has been published in book form, and may be found in the Davidson College library.

Musical Group Gives Recitals For Weekend

Little Symphony and Concert Band Play For Dads

Music organizations gave three concerts over the Dad’s Day weekend. The Little Symphony Orchestra played at Queens and at Davidson, while the Concert Band played only at Davidson.

Queens Host

Queens College was host to the Little Symphony Orchestra Friday night for supper. Following this, they played a concert at the college. Sunday afternoon the Orchestra played a program of music by Weber and Mendelssohn as one of the regular Sunday afternoon musicales.

Miss Moseley Soloist

Elsie Stokes Moseley, of Charlotte, was soloist for the program Sunday. Numbers played by the orchestra were the overture to “Der Freischutz” and “Concertstuck for Piano and Orchestra, Op. 79” by Weber; and excerpts from music to Shakespeare's “A Midsummer Night's Dream” and “Symphony No. 5, in D Minor, Op. 107” by Mendelssohn.

Concert For Fathers

Fathers of Davidson students heard the Concert Band Saturday afternoon in front of Chambers Building. The program was presented as part of Dad’s Day and featured march and light classical numbers.

Literary Societies Met First In 1837

Philanthropic And Eumenean Groups Began During First College Year

By JACK RAMSAY

One of the first sights that greets every newcomer to Davidson is that of the Literary Society halls standing in the center of the front campus. Most of us are familiar with the activities of the societies that occupy these halls, but few of us know much of the history behind Davidson's two literary societies.

Societies Founded

Since the day in the spring of 1837 when 65 students enrolled at Davidson College to form the school’s first student body, these societies have played an important part in the history of the school. The Eumenean Society was founded in April and the Philanthropic Society in June of 1837. The Phis began their activities with a total of some thirty members which included half of the student body. Immediate plans were made for the establishment of a library. Next came the writing of the society's constitution which, with its quaint and exact language, covered many phases of life on the campus. It spoke of the “dutyes” of the society member, provided for “hous” and “commity” meetings and the activities of the society. Meetings, according to the document, were to be “opened with a praer, if any suitable member be present.” Cornelia Shaw, in her book on Davidson College, points out that not until the twentieth meeting did a prayer mark the opening of a meeting of the society. Afterwards, a chaplain was named to perform the duty.

Arguments of the society member of a century ago were varied and in some respects were not unlike present day arguments. Debate questions included: “Is the moderate use of intoxicating drinks dangerous?”; “Is love voluntary?”; “Does marriage militate against a man’s prospects?” On one occasion, the following question was debated: “Should students be excluded from female society?” This was decided unanimously in the negative.

Society Badges

Each society has its badge. The Eumeneans wore a pink ribbon as an emblem of distinction, and the Phis wore a blue ribbon. Strict secrecy was kept in regard to the societies. Miss Shaw points out a number of secrets that were inviolable. Among these were: “Any part of the society’s constitution and by-laws, the names of officers, the amount of semi-annual dues.”

Only five years after the founding of Davidson, plans were begun for the building of society halls. Hard times seemed to stand in the way of these plans, but in 1848 the $1500 necessary for each hall was raised and work begun. Both halls had been completed by 1850, and the two societies continued in their roles as centers of college activity. The present student government originated in the society halls. Each society was responsible for the conduct of its members. Both had a vigilance committee that reported offenses to the society which tried those guilty of such violations as intoxication and lying and expelled those convicted. In the society regulations can be found such statements as the following taken from the Philanthropic Society records: “Any member found guilty of attacking faculty houses will be expelled.” Certainly the literary societies played an important part in the early life of Davidson College and have contributed much to the establishment of Davidson in the place that it holds today.

“OPERA IN MINIATURE” STARS

Pictured informally above are the artists who presented the “Opera In Miniature” program here Monday night. They are, left to right, Willard Matthews, General Manager of the group; James Montgomery, tenor; Marie Montain, soprano; Virginia Kendrick, contralto, and Elwyn Carter, baritone. This presentation was the second in a group of six concerts which comprises the Davidson College Artist Series. The group presented scenes from the operas “Carmen”, “Martha”, and “Faust”.

Judge McCoy Warns Frosh Class

Nearby Town Starts Drive

Mooresville Opens Drive With “Davidson Night” Banquet Last Tuesday

A “Davidson Night” banquet was held at the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville on last Tuesday, November 24, at 7:00 p.m. Although Mooresville is near the Davidson area, where the drive to raise funds for the new gymnasium was started two weeks ago, many people who would ordinarily have come to the banquet here were kept away because of the gasoline and tire rationing.

See College Movie

Mr. L. T. Horton, the Chairman of the Mooresville committee of the Davidson gymnasium campaign, came to the aid of the alumni in Mooresville by organizing the banquet which took place on Tuesday night. During the course of the evening the Davidson alumni, their families, and their friends, were entertained by a new technicolor movie showing scenes of the Davidson campus. The Davidson Music Department provided musical entertainment for the occasion.

First Report

The first report on the progress of the campaign in the Davidson area was received on November 13. At that time $7,068.75 had been pledged and contributed. This amount was given by 79 friends and alumni of Davidson in this immediate area and by two or three friends who were visiting here at the time the campaign was inaugurated.

On November 16, a second report was received. In the three days that had intervened between the first and second reports a total of $2103.75 had been collected in cash and in pledges. Twenty-seven people contributed this amount, which brought the grand total to $9842.50.

Court of Control Extends Campus Sentence Five More Days

In chapel Tuesday Judge Joe McCoy of the Court of Control announced to the Freshman Class that the campus sentence of two weeks which was imposed last Thursday would go into effect that day. This new sentence, which will make the total two and a half weeks, was deemed necessary by the Court of Control since the Frosh have been quite noxious during the first five days of the campus. These acts of noxiousness, which have included getting up in chapel before time, notes of rebellion on the campus and broken campuses, have been noticed by the court and action is being taken. Also at this chapel program, Judge McCoy read the section of the Constitution which states that if any Freshmen offenses aredeemed serious enough by the court, they may be referred to the Council which can suspend or dismiss the student from college. Judge McCoy stated that this will be the last warning to the freshmen who have committed some serious offenses lately. Heretofore, the Court has tried to be lenient on the freshmen, but this class has taken advantage of this chance that has been given them and have acted ungentlemanly. The court has ordered those most noxious of the Frosh class to wear yellow caps, but these have not yet arrived. However, Judge McCoy stated that the Freshmen must learn to respect the Court of Control and that this will force more severe sentences on them unless they show marked improvement during their two weeks on campus.

HEADS DAD’S DAY
Coach A. H. “Pete” Whittle (left), assistant director of athletics at Davidson, had charge of all the athletic activities of the Dad’s Day program last weekend. Joe B. Johnston (right), superintendent of Barium Springs orphanage, was honorary chairman of the program and will head the Dad’s Day program next year.

Reporter Has Session With Opera Guests
Stars of “Opera In Miniature” Express Praise of The Davidson Campus
By RILEY (DUSTY) BRADHAM

On Monday evening, November 23, Davidson heard “Opera In Miniature”, a very novel form of music. Mr. Willard Mathews, manager of the company, stated that this is the first time that three of the greatest operas have been attempted at one time. He added as an afterthought that it was also the first time that such was sung by American artists who were American-trained. Mr. Mathews seemed very enthusiastic about classical music in the future. He estimated that there was at least one thousand percent more interest in opera in the country today than there has ever been before.

Like Davidson
All of the artists were very enthusiastic about Davidson, especially Miss Virginia Kendrick who claimed a real relationship with the college through her husband, J. Woodrow Clark, who is an alumnus of DOC. She especially praised the YMCA Guest House. Miss Kendrick, who seemed anything but the deceptive and wily Carmen off the stage, stated that she had studied at the Curtis Graduate School. She has sung in numerous operas with the Philadelphia Opera Company and has done considerable solo work in the Holy Trinity Church of Philadelphia and the Brook Church where the beautiful Christmas Carol, "O Little Town of Bethlehem," was born. She has also sung with the Civic Symphony Orchestra and the York Symphony.

Miss Marie Montain, the charming and beautiful Martha, is not only a soprano but an accomplished violinist as well. She began her music career in Wyoming and won her Masters degree in Italy. She seemed very proud of her beginning in Wyoming which took her halfway around the world. Miss Montain has done considerable solo work in Radio City Music Hall under the direction of the noted Erno Rappe.

One of the most important members of the company is Miss Audrey Boyce, accompanist. Miss Boyce received her Masters in Paris and also studied at the University of Michigan. She has played for the Shuberts as well as many other immortals of the music world.

Especially generous in their praise of Davidson were Messrs. Elwyn Carter and James Montgomery. Mr. Carter stated that his audience here was by far the most appreciative that he has had on his present tour, and was immediately supported by Mr. Montgomery who added that Davidson students formed the most (Continued on Page Four)

Official Gives Requirements For Services
Procurement Committee Outlines The Duties of The Armed Services

In an announcement from Mr. O.W. Hengeveld’s office, he stated that he had just received a communication from the joint Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard College Procurement Committee outlining the duties of the Armed Services Representative in each institution. He wishes to call the attention of the students to the following statements that outline a portion of the duties of the Armed Services Representative:

1. To follow the progress of each student enlisted in a college enlistment plan and to assure that all such students make the most of their college opportunities by preparing themselves for service in the several armed services;
2. To notify appropriate Army, Navy, or Marine Corps representatives of withdrawal or failure to maintain good standing on the part of the enlistee at his institution. A student is considered to be in “good standing” as long as his academic record is maintained at the level or above that required by his institution for the conferment of a baccalaureate degree. A student will be considered as “not in good standing” if he fails at the end of any academic term, quarter, or semester to maintain normal progress, that is, to maintain the scholastic average required by his institution for the conferment of the baccalaureate degree, even though the institution is willing to allow the student to continue “on probation.” In interpreting the scholastic average under this regulation, a student who failed to earn a “C” average would be considered “not in good standing.”

Alumnus Dies Fighting Japs
Gordon Killed While Protecting Friend

Recent communications received by Mrs. Joe Gordon of Louisville, Kentucky, told of how Lieutenant Joe Gordon, formerly of Davidson, lost his life in the Pacific. A member of Gordon's squadron wrote the letter in which he told of the gallant way in which his own life had been saved by Gordon.

Saves Friend
Lieutenant Gordon had been named flight commander on a scouting trip over Jap-held islands. He was responsible for the whole flight. He was the first to take off and the last to land. When all members of the squadron were ready to land, Joe spied a Jap plane swiftly coming in from above. The flier nearest the Jap had not seen the enemy plane. Joe flew in between his friend and the oncoming Jap, into the Jap’s firing line. Joe saved his friend but was shot down.

PFOHL HONORED
Mr. James Christian Pfohl, Director of the Music Department of Davidson, has been named a member of the Advisory Committee to the Music Division of the American Union.

Other Members
Public announcement of this fact was made in the Music Educators Journal. Other members of this committee announced at the same time are Arthur Brandenburg, Raymond Burrows, Leon Ruddick, Carol Pitts, Lorraine E. Watters, J. Tallmadge, and Henry Sopkin.

Irving Wayman Is Selected Chairman of The New Elections Board
Student Council Announces Appointment of Fourteen Seniors

In a meeting of the newly appointed Elections Board Tuesday, Jack Wayman, Senior from Miami, was chosen to serve as Chairman for the 1942-43 elections. Serving on the board will be a Senior from each of the nine social fraternities, three independent Seniors, and another Senior representative from the Student Council.

Members
These men are: Marvin Mebane, Herb Rainey, Tom Stimson, Ivey Stewart, Dick Phillips, Calhoun Hipp, Frank Crane, Welford Hobbie, Newbold, Hugh Wattle, McNeeley, Murdock, and Lyman Parrigin. Jerry Buck, Clyde Hobbs, Harold.

These men will be sworn in at a chapel service in the near future, as they will be charged with running the elections which must necessarily take place among the graduation of several Senior office-holders at the end of the first semester.

Duties
This group has the responsibility of controlling and regulating any and all campus elections under the closed political system in force at Davidson. It must define a combine and soliciting of votes, apprehend violations of these and other offenses in connection with the elections.

Importance
The Elections Board is appointed by the members of the Student Council, although it elects its own officers. “Its importance in campus life cannot be over-emphasized,” stated Myron Sandifer in announcing the members of the board, “It is one of the most responsible of the student groups.”

WRESTLING
The athletic department announced Tuesday the opening of an intramural wrestling tournament open to all students starting December 7. Equipment, it was stated, can be checked out any afternoon at the gym to those wishing to start working out now. Those interested were encouraged to start working out now. If enough interest is shown, a regular wrestling team may be formed. Wrestling was discontinued this year because of the lack of a coach. However, the regular schedule is still in effect and it is hoped that a team can be reformed.

Firing Starts For Riflemen
Regular Practice Schedule Begins Monday

Practice got under way in earnest for the Rifle Team on Monday afternoon. A regular training schedule has been set for this year's team. Present plans call for each member to fire an allotted target each week. At the end of each week, these will be averaged and compared with the record of the rest of the squad.

Newcomers
Several freshmen, who have just completed their firing training, will join the squad soon. The most promising of them are: T. M. Snow, Spang Rainey, and H. M. McArn. All of these qualified as Experts before they recorded scores. Sergeant Burton will direct them until the time they join the varsity.

Competition Begins
Intra-squad competition will begin in about two weeks. The Freshmen will fire against the upperclassmen.