Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, April 1, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean
Henry McIntosh
Jimmy Fulcher
Mac Jeffries
Howell Morfaw
Legh Scott
Jim Stimson
Deane Watson
Leonard Pharr
Bill Barker

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Calhoun Hipp
Peter Young
Joe Martin
Buck McNeely
Stew Ivey

On Visiting...
We were amazed recently to overhear one of the collegiate athletic luminaries remark that he had not visited any professor
since his arrival at Davidson because he “would not know what to talk about.” This remark is an attitude which
has been a main reason why evidence of an ideal faculty-student relationship at Davidson has never reached its ideal. It
is not that the professors do not understand the students, but the students do not understand the faculty.

If you will notice during some lull in your classroom discussions, a number of the faculty members swing heavy watch
chains. It is no accident that twenty-eight of the forty-odd professors wear O.D.K. keys. These were awarded for the same
leadership that they are given today. Examine a few annuals of past years and you will find a number of
familiar faces identified with lists of activities that might possibly be a surprise. For example, the 1930 yearbook proves that
Dr. I. W. Johnson, besides belonging to Phi Beta Kappa and O.D.K., was captain of both the basketball and tennis
teams. Playing on the same basketball squad were Dr. W. G. McGavock and Mr. Carl Pritchett, the former, among other
honors, serving also as secretary and treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and the latter holding the presidency of the student
body. In the 1926 annual, John T. Kimbrough can be found holding down a position on the baseball team, while
D. G. Wilson holds Y.M.C.A. and class offices, and is a leader in Scabbard and Blade. The same process can
be followed with each of the twenty-nine Davidson graduates now serving on the faculty; and in the records of some
twenty institutions for the rest.

These sketchy statistics prove rather conclusively one fact that many students forget. The faculty takes a personal interest in every
student, not because it is their job or duty to do so, but because they have been and in a
sense still are students themselves. They have earned letters in the same sports, labored over the same publications, haggled in
the same meetings in which the present generation of students becomes involved. The students have the opportunity to obtain the
most expert advice on any scholastic problem. Their advisors are equipped not only with personal experience but also with the
professional viewpoint. The problems and interests that concern the majority of Davidson men for four short years constitute the basis
for a life’s work for every professor.

If, after careful examination of the individual college records of each of the faculty members, the students are not convinced
that they are “regular fellows,” their showing at the Varsity-Faculty basketball game, on Senior-Faculty Day, and in the Stunt Night
program should at least arouse curiosity to determine by personal contact outside the classroom the true character of the instructing
staff. However, if you really feel no urge to acquaint yourself with your professors, don’t force yourselves on them out
of a sense of duty. But the least you can do is to invent a valid excuse, instead of admitting
that you “would not know what to talk about.”

Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters Features

U. S. Diet Standards Studied

REVEAL BEST FOOD BUYS PRICE INCREASES

The average price increase for a moderate cost adequate diet for a family of four, for one week, has increased
24 percent in the past year, according to the National Dairy Council. The foods chosen were based on dietary standards
set up by the Bureau of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture. The prices were from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, Washington, D.C. Average price increases of each group of foods were computed from
the latest retail prices in 51 cities compared to the same period of the previous year. The smallest price increase,
9 percent, was for flour and cereals. Milk was the next smallest with an increase of only 15 percent. The
price increase for fats varied from 16 to 63 percent with an average of 32 percent. Among all fats, butter
with 16 percent showed the lowest increase.

Down Fraternity Court

Pi Kappa Alpha

Beta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha had a most enjoyable evening at a formal dinner dance which took place at
the Charlotte Country Club, March 28. The whole fraternity turned out to take part in the most prominent social event
of the year. After a satisfying banquet, the party swung toward the sentimental side and they danced their feet away
to the waltzes of Johnny Bobbitt. Chaperones for this event were Miss Craig and Mr. Watson of Queens; Charles Sherrill
of Davidson; Mr. and Mrs. Allen of Statesville; Zebulon Long and many others. Schools were represented by dates at the
dance, with Queens and W.C. leading. The dates from Queens were: Jane King, Sarah Hutchins, Lil Lail, Mary Eleanor Robeson,
Diana de Winter, Nileen Long, Jane Kirkpatrick, Mary Jo Lucas, Mary Allison, Rosemary Vincent, Martha Bulloch, Mary Webster, and Edith
Ann Smitherman. Other dates were: Frances Mann, Mary Lee Taylor, Julia Guion, Margaret Skinner, and Carol Bissett of Greensboro; Miss
Aileen Seville and Joyce Wooten from Salem; Betty Strickland, Wilson; Ann Smith, Nell Johnson, and Nancy Jane Ryan of Charlotte;
Eloise Hamrick, Davidson; Dot Turner, Shelby; Gladys Stagg, Rumney; Mary Knowles, Carolina.

Beta Theta Pi

The majority of the brothers were in Greensboro for the weekend. This included Don Caterson, Crawford Wheeler, George Buckley, Frank
Mebane, and Tub Efird. Brothers Pritchett and Barnwell went to Burlington. Brother White was in Graham. “Spike” Mebane reported a
fine weekend in Rock Hill. Brother Neisler went to his home in Kings Mountain. Brothers Smith and Lipscomb went to
Gastonia and Charlotte. The rest of the brothers were in Phi Delta Theta.

At the first on-the-campus function of the year, the Phis entertained the pick of local and out-of-town belles. The event
took place last Saturday night. The guests were royally feted by Miss Grace at the boarding house for supper. That
night there was entertainment enjoyed by all, except a number of the females who kept getting more nervous and restless
as midnight approached. Among the dates were Dot Herren, Jane Singletary, Judy Scholl, Dot Swaringer, Margaret Bangle from Queens; Lucy
Morrison, Martha Withers, and Grace Moore of Davidson; Nancy Rinehour and Sybil Trexler from Concord; Laura Smith from Mooresville; Ray
McLanahan from Statesville; Marille Hicks, Nancy Jane Ansley, Betty Jo Miller of Charlotte; and Tina Duckworth of Lincolnton.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The majority of the brothers enjoyed a sporting weekend, dividing their time between Camden and Greensboro. Those choosing the Carolina
Cup races were Brothers Baxter Freeze, John Crichton, “Ox” Alcott, Ed Erwin, and Frank Lee. The strongest contingent, which witnessed
the Greensboro Open Golf Tournament, was composed of Brothers Johnny McAllister, Jack Lucas, Rab McGeachy, Mac Bruce, Ed Lucas, Harry
Hudson, Harvey Carrow, Frank Dunn, Bill Dunn, Bob Whaling, and Pledge Brother Frank Treat. Brothers Bud Wilson and Southgate Jones
visited Duke, while Brothers Sprunt and Port vacationed quietly in Winston-Salem. Brothers McLeod and Bibb traveled to Charlotte, while Brothers
Caldwell and Moore spent a hectic weekend somewhere in the vicinity.

Kappa Sigma

A number of the brothers followed the crowd to the golf tournament inGreensboro. Included in the group were: Jim Davis,
Wilbur Carter, Gene Sutton, Mack Brewer, Ben Lacy, John McGee, and Dick Phillips. Brothers Marsh Simmons, Ellis, Millis, and Short
went home to High Point. Brothers McCoy and Kelly played the ponies at Camden as a prelude to their annual
trip to the Derby. Brother Taylor was in Rock Hill, since Converse is having holidays. Most of the other brothers
either went home or to Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Duke University was the destination of most of the Phi Gamma this weekend. The Delta Gammas gave a cabin party
where 27 Fijis played baseball, danced, and sang. Now the professors know why they were sleeping through Monday’s classes. Brothers
Williams, Wooten, Finley, Frost, Grant, and Olive went to Chapel Hill Saturday night to enjoy the Phi Gam Norris Pig
Dinner there. Archie Taylor, Dan Hodges, and Hank Crane honored Winston-Salem before all went over to Durham, High Point, and
Brother Cavert in Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Phi
Even though the holidays are only a few days off, a great number of the brothers felt that they had
to satisfy their restless spirits by pulling numerous hares over the weekend. One of the longer deals was pulled by
Brother Armstrong, who spent the weekend in Columbia, S.C. Brothers Murray, Woodward, and Evans traveled to Greensboro, N.C., while Brothers
Gaither and Watson operated in Asheville, N.C. Brother Hipp pulled one in Greenville, the results of which have yet to
be heard. Brother Logan went to Rutherfordton, while Brother Bumbarger zipped to Hickory. Brothers Eve and Williamson spent an unusually
quiet weekend in Charlotte. Brother Denny went to Gastonia, and Brother Wilkin and Pledge Birmingham enjoyed a “double feature” in
Mooresville. O.D. Evans went to Winston-Salem and Erskine Parks dated at Foxcroft.

Kappa Alpha
Greensboro proved to be the main destination of Kappa Alpha brothers last week, with Harris, John Belk, Sprunt, Buzzie Councill,
McLean, Royster, and Washburn leading Sigma Chapter's delegation. To Camden for the Carolina Cup and other interests went Brothers Wallace
and Houston, while Brother of St. Mary’s. Charlotte held many adventures for Mitchell, Pinkerton, and Dunn, but they struggled back
to the campus. The remaining members of the chapter were, for the most part, around the campus in preparation for
the intramural sports grind. Sympathies and best wishes are again extended to Brother Irwin Belk, who remains confined to his
Charlotte home because of illness.

NOTICE
During the Spring Holidays, the Davidson College Library will be open from 10 A.M. until noon each day except Sunday.
This arrangement will give those students who are staying here over the holidays for re-exams or for other reasons a
chance to use the library for a part of each day.

Some few stayed on the campus to prepare parallel before Holidays. Brother Hart has not yet found the reason for
Bob Crowell’s going to Lexington Sunday morning. Jesse Wooten started his debating tour. Brother Morrow was in Greensboro awfully teenth
during the tournament, especially at the Boar and Castle late Saturday afternoon. Here such characters as Ed Lucas and Millie
Brenizer, John Belk and Ros Reid, Rosy Boykin and Libbie Jones, and all the gentlemen “Hornunged” the Chamber Maids late
Saturday night. All Saturday was “nine-holey” entire stags discuss the last “shot.” Mack Brewer was trying to regain the good
graces of Vi Johnson—the results have not been revealed, but Sunday he was seen with Betty Sprunt. Jack Lucas himself,
asking to be excused from Libba Thorne very early in the evening. Dick Phillips raged into Greensboro Sunday with Piggie.
They made a handsome couple—like the Trylon and Perisphere. Hercules Houston appears to be the hero of the Camden crew,
since he made artificial press tags and tickets which were good enough to get them in. Mason Wallace and the
Old Lady Akers guided their little playmates, Hock McCall and Legs Kelly, through a (well, anyway) weekend until they reached
Rock Hill, where the two little waits were playing on a hill. They fell 20 feet but sustained only a
suppressed ego. Mary Coons was also not to be found. Evidently, they went nowhere together. At the Phi Delt indoor
function, Jack Loughridge received the grand prize for the most beautiful blind date of the evening. Reverend Hobbie and some
unidentified grammar school girl were responsible for junking the Phi Delt’s favorite sofa. The Pika Ball was quite a twirl.
It must have been because Bayru Neill and Rail Brinson were found in Greensboro late Sunday night wandering around sporting
golf caps as if nothing had happened. Mac Bruce lived up to his name, “Jumpy,” in Greensboro. When trying to
dodge one of Nelson's approach shots, he jumped up and spilled his coke all over Bill Dunn and twenty other
innocent bystanders, while he fell into the nearby trap and was completely covered with sand.

In order to save the editor of the filth column in the first issue after the holidays, will all those
men interested in having their name in print please save all the clippings in their local dispatches and on return
send them addressed to Filth Columnist, Local. This will ensure a filthier filth column. Thank you.

SLYME.

By PAT RUDOLPH
The Ways of Allaying Parental Mid-Semester Ire, or There is an Evil for Every Good Thing.

You, a typical Davidson man, are probably jubilant today over the prospect of spring vacation. But have you any right
to be? Frankly, no! Evidently, you haven't reflected and considered the facts of the case. You have forgotten about one
little item that has a very important bearing on your pleasure—the mid-semester report!

Why has the Davidson faculty, or whoever is responsible, been so sadistic to arrange it that the reports come out
during the holidays? Why not, just as well, after you return to school? Let us suppose that this is your
situation. You arrive home and the family actually drools they are so glad to see you. They have missed you
and have forgotten what a noxious son you are. They have been scared by military conditions and there mills vaguely
in the back of their minds the thought that you may be in uniform by June. So they treat you
as though you were MacArthur himself. They overlook the fact that you've spent far more money than your allowance permits.
They forget that you lose over half your clothes and say nothing when you buy a complete new spring get-out.
They do not re-protest about your smoking. In fact, everything is hotsy-totsy.

That’s the first day or so. Then your report arrives. Bang! Everything becomes coldsy-toldsy. For one thing, your folks try
to reform your smoking habits (for the 49th time), inevitably reminding you of Gene Tunney’s Readers Digest article eternally damning
the nicotine stick. Or they use some acquaintance of yours, either a glamour-athlete or a Boy Scout type model of
perfection, and demand why you don’t act like him. (Formerly you had liked the boy.) Enjoy your vacation!

Another result is the eternal harping on the matter of money. Dad worked his way through college. Where does all
your money go? The income tax this year is more than the family income and will be next year. Etc.,
etc., etc. And the most annoying thing about it all is that it’s horribly true.

Your parents don’t actually do anything drastic about your bad grades. But it’s the General Attitude that gets you down
in the end. You haven't got a chance against that indescribable but damnable Attitude.

Now the problem confronting you is how to minimize these annoying effects that your report must necessarily produce. Certainly, the
best solution is to go to New York or Washington instead of going home. In such an event, you will
probably have just as good, if not a better, time, and, which is more important, you will not be at
home when the report arrives.

But if such recourse is not possible, there remains nothing to do but face the music. The best way to
allay parental ire is to start talking the minute you get home. For instance, deplore your misfortune in your English
reviews. If you had just understood two of the questions, you would have made a B plus instead of E.
Such will probably pull down your high daily average to a D. And in “eco.” the Prof. is so hard
that it’s inhuman. On the last review, the highest grade was 83. And so on about the other subjects. The
object of which is, of course, to make things seem much worse than they really are.

Be sure and get to the mail every day before anyone else does. This will most likely be inconvenient as
hang, but it certainly is more profitable in the long run. The psychological effect of your handing her the report
rather than their getting it direct from the registrar is no less than remarkable.

I remind you of all this simply that you may begin today to prepare the family. Don’t be caught red-handed
at the last minute! Have everything under control!
