McCOY IS NEW JUDGE

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SING TAKES PLACE TONIGHT

Volume XXIX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1942

Lacy Chosen As President Of “D” Club For Next Year

Fredericks, Rainey To Be Vice-President And Secretary-Treasurer

Ben Lacy, rising Senior from Richmond, Va., was named president of the “D” Club, while John Fredericks and Herb Rainey were elected Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer respectively at the last meeting of that organization.

Activities

Ben Lacy was also recently elected president of Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was secretary-treasurer of the Student Body his sophomore year and of the Numeral Club. Johnny Fredericks and Herb Rainey are both members of Scabbard and Blade, and belong to the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. In the realm of athletics, Ben Lacy has made a letter in football for two years. He starred in track this year, running the 100 and the 220. Fredericks has made a letter in football for two years as well as in track. Herb Rainey also lettered in football in his sophomore and junior years.

New Members

At this same meeting of the club, five new members were initiated. These are Jim Neill, manager of football; Clarence Legerton, manager of the wrestling team; Welford Hobbie, football manager; Joe McCoy, basketball manager; and Jack Wayman, who was on the basketball team. Ed Hipp read the financial report, and announced that $43 was made on the faculty-student basketball game. This is the largest sum that has ever been made on this occasion. A social function was planned for the members and their dates at the Red Fez club on the weekend before exams.

Student Body Will Turn In Ration Cards

Local Board Requests Co-operation Of Students

Students who drew Sugar Ration Books are requested to give their boarding houses tickets Number One and Two. Tickets covering the periods of May 5-16 and May 17-30 should be given to the boarding house managers or operators. Students’ Sugar Ration tickets may legitimately be used to secure sugar only when the student is boarding in a private home.

Ask Co-operation

Local Rationing Board members request the prompt co-operation of all students concerned. The boarding houses will turn the tickets into the Rationing Board where they will be kept on file as a matter of record. The operators of the boarding houses procure sugar under a plan that is different from the plan used by individual citizens.

Dr. Johnson Talks Here

Tomorrow morning in chapel, Dr. Guy B. Johnson, noted sociologist, will give a talk. Dr. Johnson is on the faculty of the University of North Carolina and is in the Social Science department. He is well known all over this section of the country for his study of the Negro.

Subject Is Negro

Heads “D” Club

BEN LACY

Racing Stars Exhibit Skill

Thomas And Swakhammer Compete In Hundred Yard Dash In Stadium

By ED SUTTON

Davidson track wound up its season Thursday night in a short but thrilling engagement. At approximately 10:15 P.M., Mr. D. “Ginsberg” Thomas entered his business establishment, located behind the dormitories, and in his usual business-like manner, addressed the one and only Swakhammer. He asked the prominent jewelry salesman to remove his tin ware as quickly as possible so as not to clutter up his beautiful store.

“Swak” vs. “Gins”

This could have been more than usual courage, but “Swak” ventured to say that he would leave the fudge well pleased. “What’s more,” he asserted, “I will be most glad to assist you in the straightening of your noble Hebrew profile, when I catch you.” Ginsberg, feeling safe, stated that this was an impossibility and that Swak would never catch him in the first place. At this, Swakhammer began to draw greenbacks from his pockets and to scream madly about a one-hundred yard dash to settle things once and for all.

A Bet

Handing five dollars to Dave Henderson, he called for Thomas to match his bet, which Thomas immediately did. The crowd followed the two contestants to the stadium where “Swak” electrified the throng by removing his shirt and showing off his “manly” build. Condition filled the air of “Swak’s” past. He was rumored to have been able to run the hundred in 9.7 during his college days, but the years had passed and many were doubtful.

The two men went to their posts. Swakhammer took the lead with Ginsberg close behind. At a breathtaking pace, the contestants went down the track, with “Swak” leading the way for eighty yards. With only twenty yards to go, his legs would function no longer and Ginsberg overtook him for a photo-finish victory.

His talk in chapel will be on some phase of the Negro but his definite topic is not known. Dr. Johnson will talk to Dr. Gwynn's class Friday and students are invited to attend this class. This sociologist has spoken widely in this state and is on a tour at present. This speaker is sponsored by the Davidson Y. M. C. A.

“Swak” Defeated

“Swak” was carried back to his car, where with his dying breath, he stated that his only regret had been that the race had not been called for seventy-five yards. After an hour or so, he acquired enough strength to grasp his five dollars from Ginsberg’s hand, and with a cry, jumped into his car and roared off into the darkness.

Military Unit Names Junior ROTC Cadets

New Plan For Taking Advanced Course At Own Expense Revealed

The list of the thirty-eight Juniors who have been chosen, subject to physical examination, for the regular advanced course in military science was posted this week. This list had not been approved by press time, however. At the same time, the department announced that many rising Juniors who wish to take the advanced course will be allowed to do so at their own expense under Paragraph 20.

New Plan

This program does not guarantee a commission, uniform, or pay, but if and when vacancies occur through the year, these students may be admitted as full members of the reserve corps. In an attempt to clarify certain questions that have arisen with regards to this program, it was explained that students taking this course will be awarded regular college credit, but they will still be subject to the draft.

Air Corps Trainees

Students applying for the Army Air Corps Reserve program, wherein they will be allowed to finish their education before being called except in an extreme emergency, are not able to take the regular advanced R. O. T. C. course, but they are eligible for the training under Paragraph 20. Henceforth, infantry commissions will be offered to graduates from the unit, although Davidson can still transfer these officers to only a limited number of branches after they go to active duty.

DEFENSE HEAD

Jesse Wooten of the rising Senior Class was recently appointed co-ordinator of the war effort for the Davidson Student Body. It will be his duty to organize the workers in the various divisions of the defense project. The work in the blackout practices, the selling of defense stamps and bonds, the collecting of tin foil and waste paper, and all other such enterprises will be dealt with so as to improve the defense effort of the community.

The appointment of a general war effort co-ordinator has been tried in other colleges and has proved highly successful.

Editors Will Serve Board

Murray, Lyman, Erwin On Publications Board

In the elections held last Monday for the choice of new members of the Publications Board, Ed Murray, Bill Lyman, and Ed Erwin were chosen to fill these offices. Ed Murray, of Raleigh, N. C., defeated Welford Hobbie, of Roanoke, Virginia. Murray is a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, and is the newly appointed editor of next year's annual.

Defeats Young

Ed Erwin, of Charlotte, N. C., defeated Peter Young of Davidson. Erwin is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and is the newly elected editor of The Davidsonian for the coming school year. Bill Lyman, of Birmingham, Ala., defeated Joe Eve, of Augusta, Georgia. Lyman was recently elected editor of the college magazine, Scripts ‘n Pranks, and is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

Duties

The duties of the Publications Board are important to student activities of the college in that this board...handles the financial affairs of the publications. This board also chooses the business managers of all the publications.

YMCA Board Of Control Elections Finished Tues.
McIntosh, Patterson, Scott, And Jackson Chosen By Students

Spring 1942 the body chose one rising Senior and two rising Junior representatives for the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control. Elections concluded Tuesday when students chose Henry McIntosh of West Palm Beach, Fla., as the Senior member of the board, while Ed Patterson of Charlotte, and Leigh Scott of Goldsboro, are the two rising Juniors selected. Mr. F. L. Jackson was re-elected as one of the faculty representatives of the group.

Duties
This body directs the general policies of the Y. M. C. A. and handles all appropriation of funds. It is composed of six faculty members and six students. Two of the faculty members are elected alternately for two-year terms, while the President of the college, the President emeritus, and the college minister are automatically members. The Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. is also a member. Of the student members, two rising Juniors are elected to serve two years and a rising Senior to serve one year. The President of the Y. M. C. A. is automatically a member.

McCoy Appointed To Head 1942-43 Court Of Control

Fraternities To Hold Sing Here Tonight
Joe McClesky To Be Master of Ceremonies For Annual Contest

Davidson's fraternities will compete for prizes at the annual Inter-Fraternity Sing on the steps of Chambers Building this evening, Thursday, May 14, at 7:30 P.M. Phi Mu Alpha has appointed the three judges for this annual competition that they sponsor. These judges will come to separate decisions without any discussion between them. They will each have a rating blank on which they will put the fraternities in descending order of the quality of their performances.

Judges
These three judges are Mr. Ralph Brausa, Mr. McLeod, and Miss Julia Miller. Mr. Brausa is the Director of the Band at Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem. He is a member of Phi Mu Alpha and has been associated with fraternity sings before this at Murray College in Kentucky. Mr. McLeod is the Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville. Since he is a young man, he is very interested in young people. Miss Julia Miller, the third judge, is the president of the boarding students and their activities at Queens College.

Awards
This year's awards will consist of a loving cup to be presented to the fraternity placing first in the sing, and possibly a similar cup will be presented to the best student director. These prizes will be given on the basis of the judges’ ratings, which depend on originality and musical accomplishments. Fred Waring's cup will not be given this year. The Kappa Alpha fraternity won that award last year for the best rendition of “Davidson, Our Alma Mater,” composed for Davidson by the famous radio artist, Fred Waring, at the request of Davidson students.

McLesky
Joe McLesky will be master of ceremonies for the event. That position was held by Shaw Smith last year. Music for the competition will be provided by the Davidson Symphonic Band. Two important rules are being emphasized by Phi Mu Alpha, sponsors of the program. A minimum of five minutes and a maximum of ten minutes is set for each fraternity. The other rule is that at least eighty percent of the members of the fraternity must take part in the singing.

THREE BUSINESS MANAGERS
Shown above are the three business managers of Davidson College publications chosen for next year. Left to right, they are: Peter Young, Business Manager of The Davidsonian; Welford Hobbie, recently chosen Business Manager of “Quips and Cranks,” Davidson yearbook; and Joe Eve, Business Manager of “Scripts 'n Pranks,” college humor magazine. These men have been appointed to their positions by the Publications Board.

Judge JOE McCOY

Greeks Elect New Leaders
Fraternities Select Officers To Serve Chapters For Coming Year

Officers of the nine social fraternities of Davidson College were elected recently. Beta Theta Pi elected Burkhead Walker to succeed Al Winn as President. Also elected were Craig Schmidt, Vice-President; Bob Rainey, Treasurer; and Charlie Upchurch, Secretary.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Joe Martin was chosen by Pi Kappa Alpha to succeed Ed Scott as President. Jimmy Neill was elected Vice-President; Ross Parks, Treasurer; and Tommy Lane, Secretary.

Kappa Alpha
Kappa Alpha elected Hugh Sprunt, President. He will take over the duties of Charlie Watt. Others elected were Lacy McLean, Vice-President, and Arthur Paterson.

Young Heads S. A. E.'s
Peter Young was chosen to succeed John Crichton as President of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Bill Wood will be the new Vice-President; Ivey Stuart, Treasurer; and Buddy Carson, Secretary.

The Kappa Sigs elected Ben Lacy as their new president to take over the duties of Alston Thompson. Other new officers are Joe McCoy, Vice-President; and John McGet, Secretary.

Wayman Succeeds Herring
Jack Wayman is the new president of Phi Delta Theta, succeeding Geddie Herring. Erskine Parks was chosen Treasurer; Price Lineberger, Historian; and Hank Crane, Corresponding Secretary.

Phi Gamma Delta
Ralph Williams will turn over his duties as president of Phi Gamma Delta to Jesse Wooten. Preston Oliver is the new treasurer; Bill Lyman, Secretary; and Henry McIntosh, Corresponding Secretary.

Phi Delta Theta
Phi Delta Theta elected Henry McIntosh as president to succeed Jim Owens. Don McIver will be the Vice-President; Jim Chapman, Treasurer; and Bob Pierce, Secretary.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Fred Morton will succeed Sid Daffin as president of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Jimmy Fulcher will be the Vice-President; Clarence Legerton, Secretary; and Jack Behrman, Treasurer.

Pan-Hellenic
Officers and members of the Pan-Hellenic Council were elected last week to manage inter-fraternity problems. John Belk was elected President of the council, Clarence Legerton; Vice-President, and Marvin Mebane, Secretary-Treasurer. Other members of the council are Dick Brinson, Ed Erwin, Welford Hobbie, Phillips, Calhoun Hipp, R. L. Johnson, and Jesse Wooten. These men have already taken office.

Frederick To Be Recorder; Washburn, Brinson Will Serve As Juniors
Joe McCoy was appointed Judge of the Court of Control for next year at a meeting of the senior members of the student council Monday. Johnny Frederick was appointed recorder at the same time. Ben Washburn and K. L. Brinson will serve as senior members of the Court. Junior representatives on the court will be Earl Bethea and Bill Grimsley. Bob Durant and Eugene Bingham will serve as sophomore representatives. McCoy served as junior judge for the past year. He is a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity and will serve as Vice-President next year. He is the new manager of the basketball team and Vice-President of the rising Senior class. He was President of the Beaver Club this year and a Student Store clerk.

According to the Constitution, members of the court are appointed by the President of the Student Body in conference with the senior members of the student council.

Retiring Judges
Frank Caldwell has served as judge, while Don Bell has acted as recorder. Other judges this year were Dick Kelly and Joe McCoy, seniors; Earl Shannon and Matcl I, juniors; Gene Bethea and Bill Grimsley, sophomores.

Advisory duties of the court of control consist of acting in a disciplinary capacity to the freshman class, and to impose and enforce disciplinary measures for infractions of regulations placed on the freshmen by the student body.

YMCA Cabinet Appointed By New Leaders
Meet To Plan “Y” Work For Coming Year

New cabinet members of the Y. M. C. A. were announced early this week by Jim McCrary, the new “Y” President. These appointments were made by McCrary and Shaw Smith after much consideration. They are as follows:

Committees
Hugh Sprunt, Vespers and Church Relations; Watson Crane, Deputations; Jesse Wooten, Social Life; Alf Taylor, World Evangelism; and Henry McIntosh, Publications. Bill Howard will be in charge of Scout work, and Bill Wood will work with Deane Hank on Boy's School. Jay Taylor will handle “Hi Y” and the Gra-“Y.” Others are George Ogilvie, Community Service; Jimmy Fulcher, Freshman Work; Myron Sandifer, Student Government; Buddy Wells and Don Caterson, Spiritual Development; and Priestly Conyers, Chapel Services.

Both the old and new cabinets met last Wednesday night at Mr. Pritchett’s home. The seniors on the old cabinet gave short talks on the past and future Y. M. C. A. work. Jim McCrary led the opening devotional.

Old Cabinet
The new Y cabinet succeeds the following men, who have served on this body during the past year: Myron Sandifer, Vespers and Church Relations; Arch Taylor, Sunday School; Ralph Watson, Deputations; Henry McIntosh, Social Life; Monroe Bush, World Evangelism; Bill Sprunt, Publications; MacLauchlin, Boy Scout Work; Jimmy Fulcher, Hi-Y and Gra-Y work; Jerry Newbold, Community Service; Charlie Watt, Freshman Work; Albert Winn, Student Body; Jesse Wooten and Jim McCrary, Spiritual Development; and Charlie Parrish, Chapel Services.