PORTS SCENE By LEGH SCOTT

Wildcat Spirit: We Did It Again

Everybody prayed for it, but few really expected the “thin red line” to stand up under the punch of Doc Newton’s best Wolfpack team since he has been coaching at State. So it was a jubilant bunch of 'Cats who trudged off the turf of Wilmington’s Legion Stadium with a well-earned tie with that much-vaunted Wolfpack. It was an equally jubilant Wolfpack. Neither team managed to show much offensive power. Art Faircloth’s much-touted passing failed to materialize, and after a shaky Wildcat first quarter, their running attack was nullified. State nullified most of their early gains on the ground by resorting to the air lanes where they were even less successful. Faircloth’s excellent coffin-corner punting kept the ‘Cats in a hole in the early part of the game. “Peanuts” Doak, also outstanding for his vicious blocking, was stopped cold. Davidson made most of their gains through the air as expected, and although held in check on the ground, managed to even up their side of the yards gained ledger by completing six out of twelve aerials. Soph Tom Peters was the most successful receiver, with “Punchy” Bruce and Ben Washburn on the tossing end. After a pass interception, which was recalled because he had stepped out of bounds just after setting sail for pay dirt, everybody agreed that he stepped out, but it was a hard pill to swallow. When Buck Williams took Washburn’s pass to the State twelve, it looked like the victory drums might beat after all, but the half ended before another play could be called.

Game Sidelights

At the beginning of the game, the crowd was definitely pro-State and was prepared to see the ’Cats take a thorough trouncing. By the end of the first quarter, the tables were definitely turned, and by the end of the game, the masses of khaki-clad servicemen had formed a Davidson cheering section. Ex-manager Vosburgh was seen carrying the downs marker (in uniform). Ex-Wildcat Stan Yoder (also in uniform) was very much in the thick of things. Publicists Gene Sutton and Lacy McLean got in their plugs over the airwaves, Sutton’s being somewhat of the whoop whoop type, while McLean restricted himself to a few quiet remarks at halftime. At the other end of the line, there was considerable criticism of the aforesaid Mr. Reid’s partiality to State, which is understandable but hardly forgivable. According to the loudspeaker, Davidson had exactly six guards in the game at one time. It was never possible to tell just who was playing. To this criticism, with no hard feelings intended, this column adds a hearty amen.

A Look at the Future

With Duke on tap in Winston-Salem Saturday, the ’Cats are working hard to make a good showing. Their stock was boosted considerably by last week’s game, and Duke is as yet an unknown quantity. Wallace Wade is gone from the Duchy of Durham as are most of the glamour boys who played in the transplanted Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day. But the Devils always turn up with a powerful team and this year should be no exception with the team under the able tutoring of Eddie Cameron, who has been at Duke long enough to learn many of the wily Wade’s ways. There are a host of capable reserves to take over the big shoes of the bowl boys. Anyway, the Davidson's are out to continue in their role of “giant-wounders” (if not killers). While the ’Cats have their hands full in Bowman Gray Stadium, eyes will also be on the other opening Big Five and Southern Conference games. Especially will Davidsonians be interested in how Carolina fares with Wake Forest, for somehow they figure that this may be the year to take the Tar Heels.

Those Cardinals

In the midst of all this football talk, I can’t help but say a word of praise for the Gas House Gang, better known as the St. Louis Cardinals of the senior major league baseball circuit. If it were not for the preponderance of Bum fans in the vicinity, yours truly would dwell at length on the superb performance of a great ball club in doing the seemingly impossible feat of practically clinching the league pennant after trailing by over seven games a few weeks ago. What’s that record? Four games won out of the last 40 played or something like that... Oh well, nuff said...

DAVIDSON COLLEGE FOOTBALL ROSTER

Ends
*Dick Williams 178 6'1" 2 Pittsburgh, Penn.
*Pat Williams 180 6'1" 2 N. Wilkesboro, N.C.
Arthur Paterson 165 6'1" 3 Madison, N.J.
Bill Dunn 175 6'1" Maxton, N.C.
Buck Archer 175 5'8" 2 Shelby, N.C.
Tom Peters 170 6'2" 1 Kingsport, Tenn.
C.T. Daniels 165 5'11" 1 Oxford, N.C.

Tackles
Price Gwynn 185 5'11" 2 Davidson, N.C.
Guy Simmons 218 6'1" 1 Jacksonville, Fla.
*Herb Rainey 205 6'0" 3 Mt. View, N.J.
*Bill Shaw 200 6'0" 3 Fayetteville, N.C.
Peck Hill 170 6'0" 2 Richmond, Va.

Guards
George Floyd 215 5'10" 1 Woodruff, S.C.
*B.F. Moore 180 5'11" 3 McCall, S.C.
**Alf Taylor 165 5'9" 2 Nashville, Tenn.
Don Lipscomb 170 5'9" 1 Gastonia, N.C.
Sam Hay 178 6'1" 1 Hickory, N.C.
Bill McLean 160 5'9" 1 Lenoir, N.C.

Centers
Red Burke 170 5'10" 2 Washington, D.C.
Gene Bingham 170 6'1" Gary, W.Va.
Deane Watson 165 5'10" 2 Tampa, Fla.
Heywood Brinnegar 160 6'1" Winston-Salem, N.C.

Backs
*Mac Bruce 165 5'10" 2 Greenville, S.C.
*John Frederick 185 6'0" 3 Packanack Lake, N.J.
*Ben Lacy 165 5'11" 3 Richmond, Va.
*Earle Bethea 185 6'1" 2 Dillon, S.C.
*Roy Hunt 175 5'10" 2 Greenville, S.C.
Ben Washburn 175 6'2" 3 Wilmington, N.C.
Art Roach 165 5'10" 1 Barium Springs, N.C.
Bob Durant 180 6'0" 1 Tryon, N.C.
Buck Williams 165 5'11" 1 Salisbury, N.C.
George Peters 165 5'11" 1 Kingsport, Tenn.
Wileman Ehly 150 5'8" 3 Greensboro, N.C.
Sheb Booth 140 5'8" 2 Lawrenceville, Va.
Don Erb 135 5'8" 1 Badin, N.C.

*Denotes letterman

Roach thrilled the crowd of 10,000 servicemen and defense workers with his spectacular 80-yard jaunt.

1942 WILDCATS

Above are pictured three of Davidson’s more promising sophomores who showed up well in the State game and who are expected to repeat their performance against Duke Saturday. Art Roach, back, and Tom Peters and Bill Dunn, ends.

Frosh Expect Good Season

Over 60 Candidates Report. Tough Schedule

Prospects for a successful Frosh football season are bright, although the current Wildkittens tackle one of the toughest schedules in the school’s history. Under the tutelage of Coaches Shepard and Hoover, ex-Wingate College mentor, the Kits are rounding into shape. Among the sixty odd candidates are many former high and prep-school veterans.

Linemen Plentiful

Pacing the flankmen have been Grover Ingram, former Barium Springs athlete, and rangy Lowrey Stafford, who is a product of Greensboro High. 190-pound Walt Romefelt promises to put in a determined bid for a tackle berth, while Ozzie Young, ex-V.E.S. lineman, will probably hold down the other tackle post. Guards, though plentiful, are rather light. Bill McCall, 150-pound Barium lad, has been impressive, as have Hugh McCarn and Johnny Walker, both tipping the scales at 160. Battling for center are “Mutt” Bahnson, 155-pound scrapper, and Dick Parrish, another Barium product. Pushing the pair is Richardson, who prepped at Rhea Darlington.

Talented Backs

The backfield, built around Gwyn Fletcher, should be especially strong. Fletcher, a brilliant Barium speedster, paced the state’s high school scores last fall. Jack Burke, shifty little Washington, D.C. boy, looks like the starting wingback, while stocky Sam Patton seems to have the nod at blocking-back. Rounding out a promising outfit are J.W. Elkins and Roland Paylor, who are waging a spirited battle for the remaining position. The frosh open their schedule at Field on October 2 against Presbyterian Junior College.Teams Battle To Second Straight Tie; Offensive Thrusts Stalled

Fighting with the traditional spirit and ferocity of an embattled Red and Black eleven, the Davidson Wildcats toppled a highly-touted N.C. State team from its loftier perch in the Big Five and sent the Pack back from Wilmington last Saturday humiliated by a zero-count deadlock.

Sparked by Bonny Ben Washburn and shifty Art Roach in the backfield and an entire line of outweighed but not outcharged battlers, Tommy Peters snagged four aerials and blocked an attempted field goal from his flank position to grab individual honors. The forward functioned as a single unit with every man a hero as they repelled the savage attack.

Roach Runs

Within an inch of being this year’s initial glamour boy, Roach came within an inch of an eighty-yard touchdown jaunt after intercepting a Wolfpack pass, only to have his spectacular run nullified by official decree. He stepped out on his own twenty-seven.

Half Stops It

Coach Gene McEver took the wraps off of a scrappy, hard-charging aggregation—a typical Davidson eleven. The Cats displayed a dangerous but inconsistent offense. At the half, Washburn had engineered a drive to the State twelve. Then, with second down and a pet scoring play on deck for just such a moment, the referee picked up the ball, announcing the half a split second before it could be snapped.

State Threatens

Doc Newton's charges threatened only in the final period when they drove to the Wildcat eight, only to be held for downs. They came back again, and Peters blocked a fourth-down placement on the thirty-five. The Cats, to say the least, were promising. The first team of O'Hair, Williams, Shaw, Rainey, Taylor, Moore, Burke, Hunt, Lacy, Roach, and Bruce, backed up by such stellar performers as the Peters twins, Washburn, Paterson, McLean, Durant, Simmons, Williams, Dunn, and a host of others did yeoman’s service. Particularly encouraging was the showing made by previously untested reserves. McEver was able to substitute frequently without serious loss of strength to the team.

It cannot be determined whether the lack of scoring is indicative of a lack of offensive power by either team. Both teams played outstanding defensive ball against which any offense would have difficulty.

Stops Pack; Peters Receives in Upset Draw

Grid Season Is Underway

The Southern Conference football season for 1942 gets underway with a bang this Saturday as all 16 members take on stiff opponents in opening games. While Davidson's Wildcats take on Duke at Winston-Salem, N. Carolina meets Wake Forest at Chapel Hill, and Richmond and N.C. State play at Raleigh. Out of the State, Clemson clashes with V.M.I., Carolina-Tennessee play at Columbia, V.P.I.-Furman at Lynchburg, South Carolina at Greenville, William and Mary-Navy at Annapolis, W&L-W.Va., Maryland-Connecticut. The Citadel plays Camp Davis at Charleston, and George Washington takes on Western Maryland Friday night.

Hoover Helps Coach Frosh

Francis Hoover, former Wingate Junior College coach, has been added to the Athletic staff at Davidson. He is a graduate of Appalachian in the class of 1940. Before school opened, Hoover helped Varsity Coach Lawrence Spearman with the line and the ends. Now he is working with Norman W. Shepard on the freshman eleven. An end on the powerful Appalachian team of '39 and ’40, Hoover has had two years of coaching experience at Wingate. His tenure at Davidson may be cut short, however, since he is enlisted in the Naval Reserve and may be called into active duty after about a month. In case he is called, Shepard will assume complete control of the rookie’s training.

Hobbie Picks Jr. Managers

Manager Welford Hobbie picked Frank Carter, Jim Davis, and Burwell Armstrong to return as Junior managers for this year’s edition of the Wildcat football team. These boys have been chosen after two years of work for the team through a process of elimination, the number of candidates being unlimited until the junior year when the varsity manager picks three, from whom the next manager is elected. Dick Phillips will serve as Freshman manager, since Ned Pollock is with Uncle Sam’s army this year.

STATE TIES CATS

DUKE NEXT

Class Gridmen To Begin Play

Interclass football starts next week with many of last year's all-stars lost to Uncle Sam. With only John Belk, Bob Rainey, and Sam Yarborough left from the All-Class First Team and Jim Lowry, H. Morrow, and Hugh Sprunt from the second team, a new set of all-star gridmen will have to take the empty places. Last year the experience of the hard-fighting Seniors triumphed over the resistance of the Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen. It was not lucky breaks that gave the four-year men their wins, for all the starting nine of the Seniors won places on the first or second all-star teams. The class squads started working Monday, and from the looks of the squads, the Seniors will have to fight hard to win top place again. Inter-frat football will take the field immediately following the inter-class games. Last year the S.A.E.’s triumphed over the K.A.’s for a 6-0 win in the championship playoff. This gave S.A.E.’s eight straight wins and was the K.A.’s first loss. The K. Sigs came in to take third place and the S.P.E.’s took fourth. From the All-Frat selections, only three men are back who were on the first team—John Belk, Rainey, and Sam Yarborough, and the second team’s ranks are depleted too. As yet, it is too early to venture any guess as to the outcome of this year's contests.

Thursday, September 24, 1943

Davidson Plays Duke In Winston Saturday

‘Cats In Good Shape For Tilt, Will Face Strong But Untested Devils

Davidson's Wildcats journey to Winston-Salem Saturday night to tangle with the Duke Blue Devils in their second successive Southern Conference and Big Five Football game. Kickoff will be at 3:00 o'clock. It will be the opening game of the season for the Dukes. Though they cannot afford to count the Wildcats short after their tie ball game with State last week and most of last year's regulars gone, Duke will enter the game untested. 

Dukes Strong

However, Wade left a promising bunch of reservists behind for his successor, Eddie Cameron, to build his new team with. Such backfield aces as Tom Davis, Bobby Rute, and Leo Long are back. Coach Cameron has a couple of first-class men in Bob Gantt, marked for All-American this year, and Ralph Morgan. The line is the big question mark, but it is a certain thing that from the endless reserves available, a stout forward wall will be molded together by game-time. If comparisons with last season are to be made, Duke may be expected to bounce back strongly after their stinging defeat at the hands of Oregon State last New Year’s. But hardly can they be expected to roll over the Wildcats with the machine-like precision with which they racked up their overwhelming victory at Davidson last fall.

The Cats are expected to be in good shape, having come through the State game without serious injury. George Peters is expected to be back in harness at his tailback post, as Gene Bingham at center. Although improved physically, Bethea is not expected to see action this week.

Angus McCabe TWEEDS $47.50

College men who revel in good clothes and a sporty appearance will find the fulfillment of their wishes in handsome Angus McCabe tweeds. You'll cheer for their keen-looking weaves and smart Fall colorings. Easy-fitting 3-button models!

MEN’S STORE STREET FLOOR

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Don’t Wait—Subscribe Now to THE DAVIDSONIAN

Only $1.50 per year

Send Name and Address to: THE DAVIDSONIAN, DAVIDSON, N.C.