Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 10, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
North Charlotte, Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ED ERWIN
BUSINESS MANAGER PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh Associate Editor
James McClure Associate Editor
Mac Thompson Managing Editor
Howell Morrow Managing Editor
John Fairley Managing Editor
Jim Stimson Managing Editor
Doane Thompson Managing Editor
Lee Thompson Sports Editor
Bob Thompson Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager Dick Port
Advertising Manager Don McIver
Circulation Manager Jim Harris
Circulation Manager Tenny Hodges
Subscription Manager George Rosborough
Collection Manager Buddy Carson

Social Improvement

Davidson College has few weaknesses. Those that it has could be classified as minor ailments most of which are now moving toward correction. Its weakest avenue of development which it offers its students we have always considered to be its under-rating and lack of emphasis on social and recreational pursuits. Until this year it has made little difference. Students could pack an overnight bag and trip to any point within a wide radius to secure the relaxation which the campus could not afford. This year such trips are not only impracticable and expensive but are fast becoming impossible.

Whenever the “social question” has been brought up, however, it has immediately evolved into an argument over the dance, a truly thorough study of which has never been made. A number of convincing arguments favoring dances on the campus have been brought forth only to be met by equally convincing counter-arguments. We beg permission to present some of both for analysis:

Under the practical heading, the favorable points of convenience and distance have never been confuted. The remarkable accident record of students returning from Charlotte to Davidson in the dawn hours of a dance weekend has long been a source of wonder to all concerned. The disruption of studies caused by a Charlotte dance weekend has caused professors to give up in disgust on four Fridays, Saturdays, and Mondays per school year.

A practical counter-argument which supporters of campusing this activity have found befuddling, however, is the question as to where such social functions could be held. In answer to this, allow us to point out the comparative dimensions of the Charlotte hotel ballroom, where this fall a very successful, if crowded, Homecoming set of dances was held, and the more available campus facilities. The ballroom measures 32 feet by 92 feet, totaling 2944 square feet. The banquet hall in Chambers is 66 feet 6 inches wide with a length of 83 feet, a square area of 5519.5 square feet. The college gymnasium is 90 feet 9 inches long and 61 feet wide, which gives it an area of 5535.75 square feet. This reveals the amazing fact that there are two halls on the Davidson campus which have almost twice the floor space of the ballroom.

There is an element in the student body to which the dance system as now planned does not reach at all. Few people realize that the price of a dance ticket is conservatively only one-third or less of the cost of an average dance weekend. As one professor put it, many students leave Davidson as socially barren as they were when they came. Although the dance is far from being the only acceptable form of social entertainment for students, it is by far the most far-reaching, effective, and popular among those of collegiate age today.

Besides this “extra-curricular” expenses attached to Charlotte dances that would be absent from campus functions, there are a number of mechanical ones involved in presenting a dance. The cost of the hotel or armory, for example, is one hundred dollars a night. This item alone comes to $800 a year which could be turned to a more worthy end on the campus. This year’s Pan-Hellenic council has agreed to invest any profits that it may show in war bonds for the new gymnasium drive. If they could have this item and others which would be eliminated by having local dances, they could show a profit that would help any drive. Naturally, this council cannot speak for future ones, but it imagines that they would be willing to do the same thing. In any event, there is no reason that sponsoring groups should not be charged for the use of a hall here as in Charlotte for a cause as worthy as the gym drive.

An argument that no one would oppose is that dances on the campus could certainly be better planned and controlled were they held in Davidson. The undesirable “outside element” would cease to present a problem. Dances could be confined to more suitable hours. Chaperonage of dates could be handled as it certainly is not now. Should a mother attempt to get in touch with her daughter on a dance weekend now, there is no way of even discovering where the young lady is staying. Provision could be made whereby all the girls would be in by some reasonable hour. There can be no such provision now.

Perhaps the argument that Davidson is a church school, hence there should be no indulgence in the worldly pleasure of dancing within her bounds is the one which the “pros” of this question have had the most difficulty in answering. We do not wish to become involved in any theological arguments which we are not equipped to support, but we would like to point out the position of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church on this matter. In the seventieth meeting of this body in the summer of 1930 in Charlottesville, Va., Concord Presbytery, in which Davidson is located, tendered an overture “asking the Assembly to reaffirm the historic testimony of our church as to the moral danger of card playing and dancing and theatre-going, or failing that, to rescind former actions advising against these forms of indulgence.” The Assembly replied by accepting the report of the Committee on Overtures which ended with the paragraph, “The personal decision in such matters is to be made by a Scripturally enlightened conscience under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, rather than through enforced obedience to positive prohibitions of particular forms of hurtful indulgence and amusements.”

The “Scripturally enlightened conscience” in our case is the faculty and the Board of Trustees. The Pan-Hellenic council in conjunction with the Student Body as a whole and its leading organizations is preparing a petition and plan to be presented to them. For a “better Davidson” we feel it deserves their most careful consideration.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

C. O. SHUNKS YEARS HE INTERESTS YOUNG PEOPLE IN COLLEGE WORK THEN SECURES REMUNERATIVE EMPLOYMENT TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO ATTEND. A LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER, HE HAS NEVER LOANED OR GIVEN MONEY TO HIS PROTEGES. HIS HOBBY HAS “SENT” MORE THAN FORTY-FIVE STUDENTS TO ILLINOIS COLLEGE DURING THE LAST 25 YEARS.

BLONDE, ATTRACTIVE MISS JO CHAPMAN IS THE ONLY FEMININE COLLEGE BASKETBALL COACH IN THE U.S. (MARTIN COLLEGE, TENN)

DUKE UNIVERSITY IS LOCATED ON WHAT WAS ONCE A RACE TRACK. [RESERVED FOR DUKE UNIV.]

Y’s Corner By SHAW SMITH

Holidays are almost here! Before they arrive, however, two activities demand close attention. Number one is the Gift Fund. Here's hoping you read the Davidsonian extra and ask questions about it. Take a long-sighted view and you'll see the benefits. Hobbie is on the jump about his collectors. These men, by the way, are not mere collectors, but they are there to explain any point about the project as well. It’s Thursday when this is read and by then we'll know its success. Mention “not for-getting” as a last-minute reminder for hope is in the air. We're hoping every man came through. A. Taylor, Pat Williams, Dick O'Hair, Jim McCrary, and Bobby Miller are others on the zip with the fund. Buddy Wells and his signs on the campus were most helpful. “Toothpaste” B. Currie, “Grimmie” Bill Grimsley, “Harpo” Stubbins and other characters make enjoyable a profitable project by their good humor and friendliness along with good hard work. Mind you, these mentioned are only a few of many like them. Every man approached has helped—if not actively, then with suggestions and honest criticism. Good student body? Honestly, just try them out and see if they can be beaten. I mean it! But enough for now on the Gift Fund. Paying after Christmas is a part yet to be!

Number two point of interest is the Christmas Party. Several ventures socially have proven most successful lately and almost all the credit goes to Jesse Wooten, Dave Yokum, Lee Potter, and Bill Sheeley. They compose the Social Committee. Recent experiments show their keen judgment and hard work to be profitable to you. The Christmas Party with all of Queens’ queens gracing our campus at the invitation of Pan-Hell and Longest John Belk has many features. Bill Lyman and his “Quiz Your Professor” Show should be a highlight. Bingo, Santa Claus, popular music, group singing, and general mooning about in the basement ofChambers should be most enjoyable. And block dancing—square to you, blockhead as I say, block dancing with Belk to Slimy Sander’s Melody Moment; of Jugland to top off the evening “Good Nights” individual judgments. No looking forward to a Big and hope you'll be there. Christmas Vespers on the way! Another triumph for Mr. Pfohl and the Music Department. Watch it come through beautifully, as always. Might mention this follows a really big day for this department last Sunday. The afternoon presentation was excellent and the music for that very outstanding communion service helped make the service the success it was. Genuine appreciation to our Dr. Cunningham for that which proved its need by the reception it received.

Have you seen the Y bookshelf? Drop by especially to look over this collection of books given by interested friends. It might surprise you with its usefulness. Miss Carrie McGee is known by many as one of the most thoughtful and generous persons in our part of the state. (I speak from the point of a Mount Olivian!) She was here a few days ago and saw our need for a pool table cover. It already has been put on and gay sounds of joy over it bounce ever now the door between the office and pool room. It’s typical of all of us at home call her shows Davidson without having been through before. And? Spirit—Davidson. It all goes to show we don't exclusively own this spirit but are just a small part of a great spirit had by many fine Christian people all over the world—of which “Gee” is one of the most outstanding examples I have known.

Cinema Comments By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE
Jack Benny and Ann Sheridan hold top billing in the cast of a show designed for comedy. Ronald Reagan provides the serious love making while Sheridan handles the female romantic angle in addition to doubling in the comic scenes. Jimmy Cagney vies with Benny as a fun maker and the results are just one long laugh from start to finish.

Saturday
WINGS AND THE WOMAN
Anna Neagle and Robert Newton head the bill for the story of women and aviation which is a timely topic in present day conditions.

Monday and Tuesday
THE BLACK SWAN
One of the top action pictures of the year. Laird Cregar, a comparative newcomer who is rapidly gaining screen fame, portrays a pirate leader opposed to Tyrone Power. Maureen O'Hara tops the list of female characters and is beautiful in her finery to which the pirates helped themselves. The story, full of action and fighting, is a good one.

Wednesday
HIGHWAY BY NIGHT
Barton MacLane, Richard Carlson, and Jane Randolph star in the billing for “Highway By Night” which deals with the lives of the truck-drivers who cover the road day and night, week after week.

FRANK McBANE
I would like to be my guest at the theatre for any performance next week.

The Operating Table
Social functions created the gab and gossip that floats around the campus this week. Reading from left to right we find that five of the frats had their floats made while rains came. Wooglin smiled on the dog-liver at the Beta house. “Cherry Pie” Garrison left Davidson Saturday afternoon for Rock Hill driving with one hand and the other bound in a sling. We were wondering just how he managed, seeing him out Sunday morning. After some work, “Knowing” man Finley Tucker pinned-up for the fifth time in five trips to Davidson from Chester, S.C. That same feeling of “in there” also goes to Monk Catervon who spent seven and one half hours on the couch of the K.A. house telling his date good-night. Joe Barnwell displayed and explained “How to use a U.S. sleeping bag to the best advantage.” Little Joe, the college army man, concluded that the only gift made the man.

The S.A.E. friendly neighbors Phi Gams are still wondering what happened to Ben Williamson who never showed up for the dance. Exchanging dates in a blackout seems to have been the favorite sport of “Slam-Out” O’Hair, John Barron, and Rhea Dabney. John must have been first in line as he emerged with three distinct shades. The K.A.-Kappa Sig lock grew even tighter as they exchanged handshakes, dates, jokes, and cocoa in the ballroom of the Charlotte Hotel. Red Burke expressed his warm feeling of brotherhood with a message while hanging onto the mike of the P.A. system. Close-ups here and there showed Eugene Sutton jitterbugging beyond capacity, Betty Sprunt doing 150 words a minute, Carolyn McSwain waiting at the station for Bill Grimsly, Mary Jeter listening to Page Harris recite the story “How to Catch Polar Wolf,” H.H. Sprunt checking rooms in the hotel at three A.M., John Belk’s pup doing tricks under the banquet table, Ben Lacy explaining how he pinned up the Alf Taylor picking straw and leaves out of his thin but famous blanket at 1 A.M. Saturday morning so he could catch two hours sleep before class; Bobby Miller leaving the banquet table because his date took the Salem babe “just in fun,” stole a drag off the cigarette of the boy next to her, the Eel wondering why his date keeps giving back his frat pin, and on into the night.

After such a weekend it is only fair to warn the fellows that too much of a good thing will drive you crazy.

Letters to The Editor
Davidson, N.C.
Dec. 7, 1942

Dear Ed,
Generally about this time of year the first snow begins to fall. To those at Davidson for the first time, this may seem a quite obvious statement. But in the past, a snowfall has been an event at Davidson, for it is then that we achieve our remarkable record of breaking as many window panes as possible. Last year it was eight hundred thirty-six. But this year it seems that things should be different. Not so much because the administration has taken a firmer policy in such things—let’s not forget that—but simply because deliberate window smashing isn’t in keeping with these times. There’s lots of space around here for staging strategic snow-ball fights without having to invade the dormitories. Well, anyway, a very Merry Christmas—and let's hope it’s a white one so we can do our window smashing at home.

Sincerely,
Myron Sandifer.

By-Lines By BILL LYMAN
On the Driving Ambition of the Female When Dating, Which Is To Be “Seen.”

Only the most suave and experienced men can date effectively. Effective dating is complicated by the axiom that the only thing a girl wants to do on a date is to go where she’ll be “seen.” For some inexplicable reason, a girl is never content unless she’s noted at the right places at the right times in the right clothes with the right men. Have you ever seen a girl who was satisfied with a mere movie for the evening's extra-curricular activity? Of course not! After the show she must go to a popular “coke” joint. As soon as she arrives she cranes her neck looking all around the place, and if not enough of the right people are there, she decides she wants a bag of popcorn, or something equally inane that can’t be purchased at that place. (What she actually wants is a steak dinner, which she orders when she arrives at the place desired.) So you go to another joint, and if enough of the right people are there, she will entrench for the evening. I repeat, all that a girl wants is to be “seen.”

But how much good can you do under such circumstances? Do you think that the girl will pay any attention to you if she is watching Errol Flynn on the screen? How can she notice you at a popular night club when she's watching every feature and every action of every girl in the place? And particularly when she's trying in subtle ways to entice every man there?

I cannot understand how girls ever really enjoy themselves. All that they think about is the next dance set or the next football game, and then when either does come, instead of having a good time they think about and scheme for the next dance set or the next football game. So to do any good with a date you absolutely cannot give in to your date’s desire to be “seen.” You've got to get her some place where there will be no outside attractions. Problem: How can you get your date to a nice quiet little place without annoying her? Again I say, only the most suave and experienced operators, one of which “By-Lines” is certainly not, can do so effectively.

The only definite rule that “By-Lines” can lay down is this: Don't ever get into anything intellectual with a girl unless you're feeling particularly mean and nasty. A girl will go to any extreme rather than be caught at such arts as discussing politics, philosophy, sports, or books, or playing “Quiz,” or playing a game where it takes quick thinking. Indeed, I know one girl who did quote a few appropriate lines from Wordsworth at a dinner party, and was forthwith sent to an asylum.