Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 12, 1942

Jackson Teaches Class On Spiritual Resources
College Treasurer Addresses Sunday School

Mr. F. L. Jackson, College Treasurer, taught the lesson at last Sunday’s College Sunday Class in Phi Hall at 10:15
A.M. Following a brief devotional service conducted by Bill Tyson, Mr. Jackson addressed the group on “Spiritual Resources.” The talk
was filled with much helpful advice to students drawn from the experience of the speaker’s rich life. Many interesting points
were brought to the attention of those who attended. “College is a laboratory of life where the students should practice
Christian living,” said Mr. Jackson. He went on to say that later life only magnifies the problems and questions that
are faced in college. If a student can meet these problems successfully while in his formative years, he will meet
them successfully when he faces them later in life. Another point made was the decrease in the interest in religion
in this section of the country. This used to be the center of the “Bible Belt,” but a recent survey
showed that 68 percent of the people in North Carolina were no longer interested in religion. The increase in profanity
is another sign of the lack of interest in religion.

MID-WINTERS DATES REPRESENT 42
(Continued from Page One)

worth, Wesleyan, Asheville; Ann Huntington, Asheville; Flora McDonald, Queens, Little Rock, S. C.; Betty Chapman, Converse, Spartanburg; Grace Ashe, Winthrop,
Rock Hill; Margaret Martin, Hood, Washington; Sarah Harris, Converse, Spartanburg; Nell Midenhauser, U. A., Gadsden, Ala.; Amia Hecht, Sweet Briar,
Atlanta; Phyllis Ogsbury, Salem, Durham; Martha Boyd, Hollins, Philadelphia; Betsy Johnson, Wesleyan, Macon, Ga.; Mariella Williamson, W. C., Asheville; Mabel
Ringling, Ward-Belmont, Sarasota; Norma Wedul, Philadelphia; Ruth Hayes, Charlotte; Juliette La Borde, Converse, Asheville; Eaddy Williams, Randolph-Macon, Spartanburg; Sarah Street,
M. S. C. W., Mt. Comb, Miss.; and Helen Walker, Arlington Hall, Macon, Ga.

Midwinters guests of Phi Gamma Delta included: Anne Wiley, Queens, Charlotte; Frances Hull, Queens, Charlotte; Martha Brandon, Queens, Scotland Neck;
Anne Dunn, St. Marys, Birmingham; Inez Parrish, Salem, Winston-Salem; Maujer Moseley, Charlotte; Mary Clayton Martin, Randolph-Macon, Memphis; Lucy Wooten, Memphis;
Anne Howard, Southwestern, Lake Cormorant, Miss.; Kathryn Crosby, Randolph-Macon, Leland, Miss.; Virginia Elliot, Duke, Lincolnton; Sarah Taylor, Hollins, Mooresville; Eleanor
McFadden, Winthrop, Rock Hill; Meredith George Bowes, St. Marys, Fayetteville; McConnell, Combs, Tenn.; Nancy King, Sullins, Bristol, Tenn.; Patsy Miller,
U. N. C., Augusta, Ga.; Phyllis Summers, Statesville; Mary McCall, Catawba, Statesville; Nancy O'Neil, Winston-Salem; Johnnie Terrell, Charlotte; Jean Mary
Baldwin; Irene Bristol, Bristol.

Included as dates of Pi Kappa Alpha members were: Mary Anne Bell, B. G. U., Bowling Green, O.; Julia Guion,
W. C., Newburn; Bruce Biggs, W. G., Charlotte; Mary Jo Lucas, Queens, Charlotte; Betsy Johnson, Sullins, Lebanon, Tenn.; Ellen Self,
W. C., Asheville; Daphne Lewis, W. C., Greensboro; Betty Brockmann, W. C., High Point; Elizabeth Morris, W. C., Newburn; Emma
Blades, E. C. T. C., Newburn; Frances Scott, W. C., Statesville; Jeanne Tomlinson, A. J. C., Statesville; Susan Darden, Wilson;
Lillian Russell, W. C., Newburn; Mary Kay Smith, Statesville; Jane King, W. C., Newburn; Sally Moore, Davidson; Frances Dean, M.
S. C. W., Granada, Miss.; and Peanut Arlington Hall, Greensboro.

Playing host to the following girls were members of Pi Kappa Phi: Olive Cranston, St. Marys, Augusta; Mandy Morgan, Winthrop,
Hyman, S. C.; Betty Grantham, Salem, Fairmont; Louise Rohner, Winthrop, Edgefield, S. C.; Josephine Legree, Gastonia; Frances Roebuck, Washington, N.
C.; Margaret Osborn, St. Marys, Welch, W. Va.; Margaret Baugh, Queens, Charlotte; Eloise Hamrick, Davidson; Betsy Thomas, Wilson; V. V.
Garth, Salem, Hickory; Billie May New, W. C., Gastonia; Josephine Beaver, Duke, Albemarle; Sybil Elrington, Charlotte.

Dates of members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon included: Frances Winthrop, Darlington, S. C.; Jean Otey, Gunston Hall, Orlando; Harriet Porcher,
Sweet Briar, Charlotte; Mary Carson Jones, Converse, Charlotte; W. Charlotte; Mary Buchanan, St. Marys, Charlotte; Tee McCormick, Greensboro, C.; Aileen
Long, Queens, Rocky Mount; Martha Jallard, St. Marys, Durham; Martha Hardin, Arlington Hall, Washington, Ga.; Millie Brenizer, Sweet Briar, Charlotte;
Catherine Pennie Glenn, St. Marys; Frances Swing, W. C., Winston-Salem; Mary Brooks Folger, Columbia; Betsy Hill, Salem, Winston-Salem; Lib Hoppe,
Charlotte; Mary Katherine Kennegy, Randolph-Macon, Chattanooga; Dottie Eifler, Limestone, Tampa; Anita Lynch, Avery, Chattanooga; Carolyn West, St. Marys, Kinston; Nancy
Lewis, Salem, Salem; Nadine Klamke, Brenau, Minden, La.; Johnnie Bennett, Salem, Winston-Salem; Betty Jean Hendrix, W. C., Greensboro; Betty Carlisle,
Shorter, Rome, Ga.; Louise Bird, Arlington Hall, San Antonio; Pat Hardwick, Findley, O.; Jane Kennedy, Charlotte.

Sigma Phi Epsilon members had as their dates: Virginia Hubbard, Eunice Watson, Mary Steele Hubbard, Dona Ford, Catherine Loy, and
Ann Thurman, all of Charlotte; Edwina Lawrence, Meredith, Elkin; Mary Hall, Flora McDonald, Sheffield, Mass.; Dot Burgess, Winthrop, Kingstree, S.
C.; Mary Dean Lott, Agnes Scott, Hickory, N. C.; Jean Jones, Waycross, Ga.; Evangeline Palmer, Queens, Shelby; Margaret Sharpe, Converse,
Lenoir; Mary Eleanor Robinson, Queens, Wilmington; Martha Withers, Davidson; Becky Ward, St. Marys, Plymouth; Helen Kogelshotz, National Park, Martinsburg, W.
Va.; Betty Albergott; Marilyn Williams, Marjorie Webster, Rochester, N. Y.; Kitty Maxwell, W. C., Charlotte; Ann Abernathy, St. Marys, Lexington;
Mary Louise Phillips, W. C., Spruce Pine; Martha Bullock, Queens, Rowland; Margaret Walton, G. C., Oxford; Mary Heilig McDow, Queens,
Asheville; Betsy Hodges, Queens, Grifton; and Betty Barrentine, Mary Davis Wolfe, and Mary Louise Garrett, of Queens and Charlotte.

This list does not include dates of non-fraternity Davidson men, since they were not available.

CAMPUS ODDITIES

UMAR FRATERNITY LODGE IN AMERICA — BUILT AT KENYON COLLEGE (OHIO) BY DELTA KAPPA EPSILON - 1852

CREW RACES ECHOES OF THE PAST

With Midwinters still fresh in our minds it might be interesting to look back over the last ten years and
review the bands that the Pan-Hellenic has brought to Davidson for the Midwinter dances. Of course, everyone will remember Will
Bradley last year. In 1940 Bob Chester and his Bob-Cats played for the Wildcats. In 1939 there was a split
attraction. Dean Hudson played on Friday and Hal Kemp took over on Saturday. Nineteen hundred and thirty-eight saw Bunny Berigan,
and in 1937 it was Jan Garber. In 1936 Freddie Martin held forth. In 1935 Paul Sabin played the dances.
It was about that time that the ODK, the “Y,” and the Honorary Fraternity Council petitioned the Trustees for a
social center, and campus dancing. That was seven years ago. In 1934 Emerson Gill played; and the year before that
Art Kassel played for the dances. Ten years ago, in 1932, Tal Henry and his North Carolinians were the Pan-Hel
choice. Taken all together, they form a list of bands that any school could be proud to list.

This year will take care of all expenses, meals at the hotel, and the banquet to be held in Chambers.
Fifteen delegates will officially represent Davidson and others will be allowed to attend if the conference limit is not exceeded.
Students interested in attending the conference are urged to get in touch with the Y. M. C. A. Secretary, Shaw
Smith, at once.

Contest
By HUGH McLAUCHLIN

This afternoon at the Y. M. C. A., there has been waged the Battle of the Century. Don Holland and
Jack Behrman met this afternoon to decide who should have the privilege of presenting their best girl with the trophy
the “Y” is offering the winner. It has been rumored that the winner may meet the Southeastern Conference champion. We
call attention to the fact that this is only a rumor, and it is not told as a definite fact.
From the latest report, it is a “nip and tuck” affair. And it may still be in progress. It is
to be decided in the best three out of five.

WHO STARTED THE FIRST INTERCOLLEGIATE RIVALRIES? IN 1852 THE LONG SERIES BETWEEN HARVARD AND YALE BEGAN!

COLGATE UNIVERSITY WAS FOUNDED BY 13 MEN WITH 13 DOLLARS AND 13 PRAYERS!

Prayer Group Leaders Plan New Services

At a meeting of the Hall Prayer group last Monday night, the group made plans to make the discussion groups
more interesting and to make the boys on the various halls feel that they are the main factors in these
meetings. Due to the fact that many boys have moved and transferred, new leaders have been appointed on several halls.
At the meeting Monday night they decided to begin the dormitory idea and to appoint dormitory leaders. The hall leaders
will work with these leaders and make their reports to them.

News Letters

It is their aim for every boy to feel that it is his discussion and that he should take an
active part in the discussions. They plan to continue the news letters which consist mainly of attendance reports and news
about the general topics discussed. Jim McCrary states that the leaders are always open for suggestions or new ideas that
might improve the weekly meetings.

QUESTION OF THE WEEK
(Continued from Page Five)Dance but who go to hear the music. The question has arisen as to the restraint of
the students in regards to stamping feet, clapping hands, etc. I think that last Friday proved that it is possible
for us to behave like gentlemen, possibly due to the influence of the presence of our dates, and keep the
concerts in the future. Well, there you are, just a few of the many varied opinions of Davidson's first Swing
Concert.

Ed Cup Causes Considerable Confusion

Five sets, so the last point will be won at a very uncertain time. If it is not over yet,
you should trot right up to the “Y” and see what is going on.

Loving Cup

And, by the way, you should take a peep at the little silver loving cup of which the proud winner
will be the temporary possessor.

Referees

The referees have not yet been appointed, for it is a delicate task to perform. It is certain, however, that
whoever they are, they are having a hard time trying to keep their eyes on the small white ball and
still not feel as if they had been on an all-night drive.

PRESBYTERIAN STUDENTS

[Continued from Page One]

Sermon Sunday Morning on the subject “Are Ye Able?” Following dinner, the conference will hold a business meeting and the
election of officers for the coming year. The conference will close Sunday afternoon with a Communion Service conducted by Paul
L. Garber and Mr. Carl Pritchett.

Registration Still Open

A registration fee of a dollar and a half is required.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

At the Student Store

Deluxe Ice Cream

SCHMIDT REPLACES HORTON

Charlie Watt has been appointed as the Chairman of the Student Committee to conserve valuable metals, and Craig Schmidt named
collector for Duke dormitory to replace Gordon Horton, who has left school. This committee, working under the supervision of Dr.
George B. Watts, chairman of the Davidson Defense Conservation Committee, is providing receptacles in which students may place their tin
and lead foil. Cooperation by every student in conserving these metals vital to national defense is essential.

Schools Hope To Undertake Regular Work

Southern Association Holds Called Meeting

A resolution concerning the standards of our southern schools was passed by the called meeting of the Southern Association of
Colleges and Secondary Schools. This meeting was held in Atlanta last Saturday, February seventh.

Harris Leads

President Harris of Tulane presided at the meeting and these are some of the main points of the resolution.

Southern Standards

Standards for Southern schools have been unsettled and fluctuating for many years. All this time, the Southern Association of Colleges
and Secondary Schools has labored unremittingly for reasonable uniformity in standards of achievement as the basis for the granting of
degrees.

Conditions Improved

In the early part of this century, it was possible to obtain a bachelor's degree from a bona fide college
after only one or two years of work. Consequently, the public, as well as the students themselves, were in doubt
as to just what a bachelor’s degree meant. It has not been until recently that this unfortunate set of circumstances
has been eliminated to a large degree.

No Changes

The proposal has come up that colleges grant degrees to students after only one or two years of work. Such
a proposition has been advanced as a result of the present world crisis. However, the Association “deplores any proposal, particularly
under wartime conditions, to award the bachelor’s degree at the close of the junior college or of the sophomore year
after only two years of college beyond the secondary school.” It is apparent that if such a resolution were to
pass, we would be once more in the same deplorable situation that it has taken us some fifty years to
escape.

Associate In Art

There is a degree that is being offered to students at the close of a two-year course called the Associate
in Arts. The Association has no objection to the continuation of this title.

Philanthropic Society Appoints Committees

YMCA Aids In Colored Work

Alex Sime Is Put In Charge Of That Branch

Alex Sime has been put in charge of the Y. M. C. A. colored work. This work is centered around
the local community center.

Students Held

Men from the college are in charge of the adult education classes which are held twice weekly in the hut.
Every Sunday afternoon, Alex conducts a Sunday School class for those who find it impossible to attend any of the
other services.

Discussions

On Sunday nights, the young people conduct a discussion. They have their own organization and conduct round table discussions of
youth and racial problems. Of course, several college boys are present, but the young people themselves are directly responsible for
the way in which they are conducted. Recently, two boys, Bob McMullen and Bob Hart, have taken charge of two
Sunday School classes at the Baptist Church.

“Y” Gives

The Y. M. C. A. is directly responsible for looking after the men and boys of the local church. The
“Y” recently sent a ton of coal, a supply of ping-pong balls, and some used cue sticks to the hut.
Tom Brown and Jack Bagley at present are taking care of the Scout troop. Two WPA workers are responsible for
the recreational activities, but the boys from the college do a great deal to help out in this.

Future Plans

As soon as possible, Alex plans to begin similar work at Smithfield, a community near Cornelius. Sime has asked that
all who feel that they would like to help in this work to contact him at once. He says that
with the help he feels he needs, he could do fine work with the colored people of the community.

NEW NAME

(Continued from Page One)

ous dining room. Quite an improvement! Thus, you will discover, the college is meeting the long-felt need for somewhere to
entertain guests of the college and hold social functions. However, don’t get the idea that this is intended to serve
as a Student Union or Social Center. Hence, a name designating such a student’s dream would neither be appropriate nor
earn the proposer any notoriety. Dr. Cunningham has stated that the Student Center would come later in a bigger and
better way. There, you have all the names which will not do. Now, all you have to do is get
a bright idea (no brainstorms, please) and share your creation with the president of the college.

GLEE CLUB

Two Davidson music organizations traveled to Winston-Salem last Monday afternoon, February 9, to perform for the annual Chamber of Commerce
Banquet. Throughout the banquet, a small group from the orchestra played soft music. The Davidson Glee Club gave several numbers
during the program. The principal address of the banquet was given by Dr. J. R.

ODUM GIVES

[Continued from Page One]

American Regionalism, 1938; American Social Problems, 1937; American Democracy, 1940.

Various Committees Appointed For This Semester

At a meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society on Tuesday night, February 10, various committees were appointed for the coming
semester. The formation of these groups was suggested by the Executive Committee in a previous gathering. The various committees and
the men composing them are as follows:

Chairman Committee—George chairman, assisted by John Turner and Al Dimmock. House Committee—Paul Kissling, chairman, assisted by Bob McMullen and Ralph
Coonrad. Record Committee—Buddy Wells, chairman, with Jim Kerr and John Braidy assisting. Social Committee—Bill MacGlauchlin chairman, assisted by Jim Fulcher
and Ray Preston. Program Committee—Shannon.

New Members

A new system of acquiring members was inaugurated last semester and was brought into use at this meeting, when the
various members discussed prospective candidates. This system differs from the old one in that the new man is brought in
under the Bid Method instead of doing some piece of literary work.

Dues

During the assembly, a report from the Treasurer was heard which laid emphasis on the prompt payment of dues. Attention
was called to the awarding of trophies at commencement for the best short story, poem, and essay of the year.
The trophies will consist of a loving cup and five dollars.

Y. M. C. A. WILL SPONSOR

(Continued from Page One)

Vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. has just returned from the Oxford student conference.

Al Winn Representing Davidson

Al Winn, President of the student body. Al is beloved by both faculty and students of our College. The program
has been arranged in close cooperation between the Department of World Evangelism, the officials of station WBT, and the college
administration. The program itself is to be followed by an informal banquet given in Charlotte for the various delegates. In
a statement from Munroe Bush, of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, concerning the origin of the forum, he said,
“This effort arises from both the Memphis Convention and the C. P. U.-I. S. S. Conference which was held recently
at Chapel Hill. At this time, Youth’s great patron, Eleanor Roosevelt, stressed the importance that we see clearly enough and
think deeply today so that tomorrow we may take our place as the leaders of a rebuilding civilization.”

Chairman Of Commission

Dr. Odum is the chairman of the North Carolina Commission on Interracial Cooperation; he is a member of the North
Carolina State Planning Board. He was a member and the assistant director of the president’s Research Commission on Social Trends,
1929-30. He held the important post as chief of the social science division of the “Century of Progress Exposition,” Chicago
1933.

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT

(Continued from Page Five)

Pledges, and guests to a very enjoyable feed at the house. Pledge Will Harvin returned to the campus this weekend
with date Jessie Tingen to the pleasure of all.

BILL SHAW

Latest Model Parker Pens and Pencils. Reduced Prices On All Golf Equipment. Class Rings. Jewelry.

THE STUDENT STORE

Managers

Cunningham, president of Davidson College.

Special Valentine Candy.

DAVIS THOMAS
