Thursday, February 5, 1942 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Question Of The Week

Many colleges in the Southern Conference and in the nation use training tables for all their athletic teams. William and
Mary and Clemson are some familiar examples. At the training table, the athletes are fed only for the time they
are in training. It has been suggested that such a system be installed at Davidson. With reference to the system
which is now in use here, do you think that it would be advisable to install such a plan for
the athletes at Davidson? Below are set forth the opinions of some half-dozen students, most of whom speak from the
athlete’s point of view.

Pat Williams, Sophomore: I am in favor of the training table if it could be worked out satisfactorily with the
fraternity boarding houses. I think that it could be, since the only sport that would really take any number of
boys away from these boarding houses would be football. I see how it could be worked out during football season,
but when basketball season comes around you won’t have enough boarders to run the boarding house. I’m not in favor
of keeping the same boys the whole year. I think that when football is over, they ought to return to
their own boarding houses, and the basketball boys brought in—and so on with track and baseball. In this way, these
boarding houses could stand to lose five or six boys for a couple of months, and still not go in
debt.

Arch Taylor, Senior: I do not approve of the idea of a training table for Davidson athletes principally because of
the boarding house arrangement here. Each fraternity has its own boarding house, and it depends upon its own members to
support it. If, however, as few as half a dozen men should be taken from the boarding house during the
year to eat at a special training table, a grave hardship would result for the boarding house, because such an
establishment cannot come out even with less than about thirty members. For this reason more than any other, I believe
that the training table would not be beneficial.

Joe Eve, Junior: I think that training tables are necessary at mass calisthenics. It is nothing against the boarding houses
that they do not have the proper food for training tables since no one house has enough players to demand
a particular diet, but if the school was to provide a central eating place during the regular season with a
trained dietitian to prepare the meals, they might not beat Duke but they would be able to give State and
V.M.I. a better fight.

Red Bethea, Sophomore: I think they would be advisable, and so do my colleagues, Elmer Graves and Mac Bruce. The
reason is because more of the boys would be in shape to encounter our tough foes on the gridiron.

Bob Amos, Sophomore: Training tables in the boarding houses themselves are fine, but I do not think the members of
various athletic groups should be taken from the fraternity boarding houses. Since the boarding houses are in themselves a good
part of the fraternity life, it seems that the best solution to the problem of training should be left to
the individuals. It would be fine if the boarding houses themselves would have training tables, but I don’t think the
fraternity boarding house should lose any of its members upon whom it depends for monthly dues.

Fred K. Betts III, Freshman: Yes, I do believe we should have training tables for athletes. Most athletes are fraternity
men and even those who are not must board at different boarding houses. This would naturally cause the athletes to
be susceptible to different menus and diets. Athletes need a steady nourishing diet because of their strenuous exercise. If all
athletes could be fed at a training table, they would be getting the food they need without upsetting the routine
of their boarding houses which are hurting their systems with improperly chosen foods.

SONGSTRESS Davidson and Enoch Light. L.R.C. Climates Fourteen New Junior Members

Peggy Mann, the attractive young vocalist who will appear with Teddy Powell and his orchestra, will be one of the
surprises which the “Surprise Band of the Year” plans to present to the music lovers of Davidson. She has sung
with the bands of Larry Clinton, Ben Pollack, and Enoch Light.

Novel Team Does Band’s Vocal Work Dick Judge and Peggy Mann Sing In Band’s First Southern Tour

Teddy Powell and his Orchestra, who are playing for the Davidson Midwinters Dance Set, are currently on a tour of
the Southeast. This is their first trip into this area. Featured with his band, Teddy Powell has the two vocalists
Peggy Mann and Dick Judge. Peggy Mann has been called “the dynamic song stylist.” She has sung with such bands
as Larry Clinton, Ben Pollack, and Enoch Light. Pretty, twenty-one-year-old Peggy has dark, sparkling eyes and is vivacious and medium
height. She has earned enthusiastic applause wherever she has appeared. Dick Judge, the romantic baritone, is the featured male vocalist,
and has sung with such bands as Richard Himber. During the past holiday season, Teddy Powell's band has been heard
in many large centers in this part of the country. He played in Richmond, Spartanburg, Asheville, Atlanta, and other places
throughout the Southeast. After this, he headed up into Virginia and West Virginia, where he played several college dances. Among
his most recent engagements have been the famous Fancy Dress Ball at Washington and Lee and the Midwinters Dances at
V.P.I. At both of these functions, he made an excellent impression on those who heard him. Some students who were
at home during the vacation either heard him or report that he is ideal for Davidson's Midwinters Set.

Landscaping Begun Soon

News has come from the Treasurer’s office to the effect that “cleanup operations” on Davidson's new buildings are to begin
soon. The equipment house on the southern end of the campus is being removed so that the view of the
court consisting of the science building, the library, and the south end of Chambers building will be improved. New walkways
are to be constructed, shrubs and grass are to be planted, and the filling in of the basements will be
completed.

B.S.A. Hold Celebration Local Troops Will Observe Scout Week

Boy Scout Week will be celebrated from February 6th through 12th. The five troops in and around Davidson will take
part in the observance of this week.

Special Event

Each troop will have some special event during that week which will represent to the community in which they live
the work that they are doing. The local white troop will hold a Father-Son banquet and a chapel church service.
Cornelius will have a church service and a program at the high school in which they will demonstrate the work
that they have done in the line of first aid and air raid precaution work. The three negro troops will
hold a church service, a boxing tournament, and will stress the advancement of their boys in the respective ranks.

President Speaks

The high point of the week will be an annual address given by President Roosevelt to all the Scouts in
the United States. On February the 16th, there will be a banquet given for all the councilors and Davidson has
been asked to send representatives to this affair. Walter Head, who is the president of the national association, will speak.

Group Considers Georgia Conference

At the last meeting of the International Relations club, held Monday night at the Kappa Sigma house, fourteen new members
were initiated. These included: Fred Morton, Bob Pierce, Ed Erwin, R. L. Brinson, Tommy Lane, Jesse Wooten, Spike Mebane, Hugh
Sprunt, Peter Young, Ed Murray, Wellford Hobbie, Hugh Battle, John Doe, and Bill MacLaughlin. The club is considering sending a
delegation to the Georgia Tech Conference, which will meet at Georgia Tech, Atlanta, Georgia, on March 13-14. The Endowment for
International Peace will send distinguished speakers who will participate and round table discussions will form an important part of the
program.McGee, and} The next meeting of the club will} concert. For the convenience of all} em end of Chambers may
be seen] SUL Lie eat! that It has been Priestly Conyers. ‘be held on February the sixteenth}! \),., boys taking
part in this event, much more clearly. | \nother aegis OIENIDECE CS ts 1p the} necessary to do in the
past few Conference There will be a guest speaker, prob-] 4) R ©. T. C. students have been cee jordering
of a new flag to replace} months in preparation for the week After the meeting a discussion} ably a member
of the faculty, who} i vitad to attend the concert in uni- aa Dae the battered and worn emblem] to
come These boys, in addition was held with regard to the send-| will lead a discussion on an unan-| ;,,.,
The landscaping of this CO | which now adorns our campus. A] to all their school work have un- ing
of delegates to the Southeast-| nounced problem of current World erin ar muantnah (ecwealcend already begun by the removal of
the new flag is area demand and] dertaken the leadership of the ern International Relations Club’s| affairs. (Continued on Page
Six) dirt left from the excavation of the | has been ordered and is en route. Scouts. ; e u
Down Fraternity Court * : en ‘ be K. A.’s Trip journeyed to New Bern and neigh- | son, the
dates (to think) ! of Pledges | ited his parents. Delta Kapp chapter of Phi Gam-~] Lexington to see the
bride-to-be ; : borhood to investigate submarine} Hugh McLauchlin, Lacy Sellars, and And as usual, Florence, S. C.,|™4# Delta takes
pleasure in announc- The brothers and pledges that Davidson K. A.’s added another : : ne : = Sonne tine
oH = eel eenleEihie GEOR en Preston Mae soma eco ‘ : ' . | scare. And at this writing
they] Herb Morton, respectively wis ‘the destination of Brother "Mc | ging t couldn't. find anything else to do ko
ithein Tene lett wads arer aa sre: still among the missing. : Call, who investigated recent “flush | Of the
Sophomore: class made it to Charlotte. They were, ing week-ends, the first of the month : Pled Delts Deal tes.”
Brother Plunkett spent Wi Churet TART Nel providing ample opportunity for _Brother Brinson and Pledge aT Pare Ti or Pare
fats = ‘ hate ss Betas Settle inn, iurch, Upchurch, elsh, trips which included such feminine Fraley enjoyed a quiet.
Saturday foe Raiminieandect rai i get VAIS RSE AS AUST aa aa Most of the wild hairs ‘settled | Buckley,
Efrid, Stubbins, Jack’ Phil- points of interest as Converse, evening, in plates vile) ane prolpe aeons carralahrened lout for \
- ey _ | down after a big week-end at] ips, and Caterson. Somebody said @Oticensg. Winthrop, and W. &,L.
Lane tendered his flower garden Tidwiniens” Brother Hebbic made Brother Larkin_visited his 1avor— Brother —Bryant’s;.-wedding--—Very|that-Pat-was iteittaateaah eran ie (dance week-end
in the Virginia] in Charlotte. Seen at the concert ° ; a sara be os a ' : ine Gaal
ite teacher in Washington, NOH pach thsret) = li eae mde TTT Roa saa ie eee city). and later at
the tavern was Brother = i bales EAM A AAR while Pledge Bradley traveled MOLES nrc ten teh ois clan
tie Oig Disc! avern for’ Gates last» week-enc arrae Charlotte: triehdavat Hill, and also Brother Brockman} ¢"e- ward to Waynesville,
N.C. srothers pag Aele sant Brothers Ed ‘Taylor and Paul aie see oe i ao ‘ll - attended the musical.
Pledges Sutton, Hendee, and Davis] Gaither and Watson operated in YW : : Welch triped to Goldsboro, EI- ae Denes
at OB ke Brothers Martin and Parks and] were planning on operating big at} Newton and also at Queens, Brath-
, ane i ae ates oe managee liott White made it to the fair “city” ; oes an ss eh
an ibe il Pledge Farrar dated in the Queens] W. & L. Saturday night, but-night]ers vans and Bubbarger followed =
fe = ey : pe 7 : eaten ve of Graham. Brother Neisler spent meted Baterson Bets Beebe q| City
and in due course migrated} came and they were only in Danville | the well beaten path to Hickory) Urkade
Mitac ath De i ens Aa his] the week-end with. Brother Garri- TO: St) Mary os ; eng mandy garopbe
to die tavern. and Averitt. N.C, while Brother Armstrong took SULT i ground Huck Rankin} on in Burlington. pyEr toy
ir Vise 8 Chaps! Hill. At Brother Morehead and Pledge Pledges Tate and Ste sand] his usual route to Gastonia
Broth- made his regulars se WA weekly to| [Continued on Page Six) the same time, Brothers Sprunt and Ag! bd
Yeats Fi ; edges late and Starnes anc ; : a aa alld fesendine = McLean were enjoying a prolonged
ht ae er ae Sa Brother Westall were at their homes | &' ee ae hall re » 's home
i jj-| beauty show with no luck while} jn Morganton and Asheville. Pledges | 4860 to get no i ;
ats : * ° EN former's home in Wil-| Deauty Shanon was more fortun-| ile and Emerson took Salem by
tte. Melge Hirminghaon spent a The Pan-Hellenic Council Converse proved to be of sufficient ate at the Davidson theater. storm
on their trip to Winston. uniey ntful week-end in the In- Of charm to lure Brothers Wilson, It..is_with great regret
that The chapter regrets the loss of "7 Davidson College Houston, Watt, and Washburn, DOMES the pledging of Pledge Wilson
who has transferred Phi Gams Visited while Pledge Brother Darracott liams. to the University of Minnesota. Giacate last weekend. of.
Bhi Presents headed home, as did Brother John Sig Eps Adventure _Mr. and Mrs. Sutton, of Decatur,] (0.4 Delta were
“Mr-oand—Atrs sca Soe Belesercuet eminence: : Most of the brothers were on the pales Bilestp of she chapter lant |
siiind J Lyman; parents a Bil Teddy Powell Campbell Ansley was home in} campus this week-end, preparing Lyman, and Col
and Mrs. Riviera, Na Charlotte for his weekly date with for Midwinters. However, there parents of Lee penne Mr. and
»An 18 Louise, and among those frequent-| vor. a few “hairs.” Rod Turner Mrs.-Lyman were also present. at 6 D
” ing the haunts of the Queen City ie top honors with his trip to the Phi Gam feed Sunday
evening, Surprise Band of the Year were Pledge Brother Abbot, Broth-| Atlanta and vicinity. Charlie Isley The usual ‘song fest
was supple: For er Sinclair, Pledge Brother George) .,4 CC, Henderson journeyed to mented by the serving of sandwiches Council,
Brother Freddie Speas, and Greenville, S. C. on a band deputa- and hot chocolate. Mid Wi t many others. As
usual, the Tavern tion, while Jack Davis topped his Brothers Bob Crowell and Moose 1d- in ers provided the main
center of attrac-| | oh and off with his usual fo Hart spent a quiet (7) time in Lex- FRIDAY
FEBRUARY 6 tion. Winthrop. ington at the home of a Duke stu- I The ultimate in pleasure from} Jack Behrman
and Fred Morton dent. coe Concert 4:30 P.M. Formal___- 10-2 other adventures can only be gained} shuttled up to the
University of Rock Hill was the quest of Dick if their nature remains secret, so] North Carolina for a Peace
Con- Pi Kappa Phi’s Remain O'Hair and Hank Crane, while Jesse SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7 for the benefit of watchful parents}
ference, bringing back gruesome After last week’s “deals,” the} Wooten, with the aid of the same Tea Dance 4-6 P.M
Inf 1 8-12 P M and professors, all remaining mem-| tales of hair-raising adventures. Bev} majority of the chapter was
content| Mr. Crane, made a visit to Chapel Someta beehtatd norma Soe O53413 bers of Kappa Alpha fraternity! Bobbit completed
his plans for Mid-} to remain on the campus and in-| Hill, Pledge Tom Findley visited Concert in Chambers Dances
in Armory were determinedly studying on the} winters with a quick one up to GiC.| dulge in the “late show”
Saturday | his family at Fort Bragg. campus. Saturday night found Price night. However, some of the bolder "Greensboro. (the
old “W.-G.at- U. S. Tax N.C. Tax Total ; A Gwynn and Bill Loy among those} souls and the perennial
“dealers”| traction) had the honor of seeing SET TICKET. __ $7.51 $0.76 $0.23 $8.50 Piles -luvesteere present at Berryhill—in their
old} made pilgrimage to their various} Tony Darby, and Dan Hodges paid A fairly quiet week-end Was] hunting grounds. Also
among the/}ases of operations. The longest!a more serious visit to his parents All Profits Will Go To The spent by
way of conditioning for} lesser “dealers” were Pledges Fred-| “hare” of the week was pulled by|in Raleigh. Arch Taylor was
seen . Midwinters. In addition to most of dy Powell and Rush Winchester,| Brother Eve, who journeyed home-] passing through
Winston—the story American Red Cross the freshmen who were campused} who visited their homes in Chester,| ward to Augusta, Ga.,
where he vis-] is vague, but there's talk. supposedly, Brother Elder indulged] S C, and Berryhill, respectively. 7 in his
intellectual pass time of|“poogie-Man” Whitley was espied eae is : eee i= me bridge and chess Also on the camp-|
in the Queen City—as were other WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE us was basketball star, Pledge) small
operators SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM HOTEL WM.R. BARRINGER Thomas. Sunday visitors to the chapter TNE ee
° e Brothers Scott, Parsons, Dave| were the Misses Jule Hurst, Kitty Henderson, Maxwell, and Hodges| Maxwell, and Laura Ann
Ander-)
