Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 8, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave, New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
PETER YOUNG

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean........Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh....Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher.....Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries........Managing Editor
Howell Morrow.....Managing Editor
John Fairley........Managing Editor
Jim Stimson........Managing Editor
Deane Writson......Managing Editor
Legh Scott..........Sports Editor
Rob Welsh..........Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager........Dick Port
Advertising Manager........Jim Harris
Circulation Manager........Teensy Hodges
Circulation Manager........John Robinson
Subscription Manager......Buddy Carson
Collection Manager..........Guilt

Most of the pranks of each freshman class are overlooked and smiled at by the upper classes and excused by
the faculty on grounds of thoughtlessness or boyish spirit. Most of these acts can in justice be so classified. There
is nothing in the Davidson definition of either class or school spirit, however, that includes the defacing of college property,
particularly Chambers building.

The hideously painted numerals on the columns of that edifice do not represent a material blot on the building half
so much as a blot on the character of the entire student body, both clearly visible to the most casual
passerby traveling through the town. Even the greenest first-year man could not have failed to gather from his orientation training
and from his knowledge of Davidson's reputation that this is not the sort of thing that men do here. It
is more typical of a class “C” high school.

It has been suggested that the responsible party was not a freshman. If this is the case, then we have
occasion to be even more ashamed. We could possibly waive a freshman’s guilt by pretending that he had not been
around much and did not know any better. Any upperclassman who would pick this method of incriminating the freshman class
is, well, inexcusable.

If whoever did the painting is proud of his work, we sincerely hope that he or they will have the
courage to stand up for it. If not, we hope they will show the intestinal fortitude to take the blame
and punishment like men and not saddle the responsibility for their deeds on an innocent class.

Elections...
The Publications Board is now working on a recommendation to the student council, the necessity of which has become evident
ever since the shortened educational program was instituted. From all appearances, there are to be only three classes in college
within the next few years, possibly months. Requirements for election to the editorship of the publications, in fact to all
campus offices, will have to be revised accordingly.

Those who have used the excuse that there was no use trying out for these activities because there was little
possibility of their being in school long enough to be eligible for the more important offices should realize that in
reality the situation is reversed. They will be responsible for these offices a year earlier than formerly.

The details for such a plan must necessarily be worked out after the army has completed its statement of policy
in regards to college students as a whole and the college authorities have determined what adaptations they will make in
classification of students. An announcement was considered advisable so that members of the lower classes should be made to realize
their true relation to campus life, should the college program continue to follow its expected course.

Success...
The success of the newly inaugurated physical education program, we must admit, has come as something of a pleasant surprise
to us. Having observed both the students and the members of the athletic faculty only in peacetime, we were astonished
at the seriousness in the attitude of both.

In a letter to Mr. N. W. Shepard, Athletic Director, from the President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, Davidson
very adequately meets the requirements for a well-rounded physical training program: (1) It is compulsory for all students who are
not physically disabled. (2) It requires at least three periods a week of not less than one hour each. (3)
It is designed to develop endurance, agility, and courage.

The letter quotes Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs, Chief of the Bureau of Naval Personnel and Chairman of the Joint Army-Navy
Personnel Board as saying: “It is hoped that men of the universities will institute among themselves a regime of self-discipline
and conditioning in order better to complete the immediate job at hand and prepare for the greater tasks to come.
It is sincerely urged that the college officials and faculty members will support and participate in all such programs.”

Neither the athletic staff nor the student body apparently need such a letter to stir them into increased effort with
regard to the physical fitness program, but it expresses, we think, the purpose of all in this connection as clearly
and concisely as any we have seen.

The only danger which the local program faces is the relapse it might possibly suffer when the novelty of the
idea wears off. The best feature about the plan is its regularity. As Mr. Shepard pointed out, the actual time
spent in exercise is hardly enough to really condition the participants as things now stand. We cannot afford, therefore, to
become lazy. Nor should we let the three classes per week mark the limits of our physical endeavors. The intramural
and intercollegiate programs are designed to help us enjoy our conditioned physiques, as well as to supplement the physical education
scheme. Let us keep our awakened realization of the importance of things physical.

Campus Forum
Dear Ed,

Sometimes it becomes necessary to remind the student body of certain rules and formalities that we have to live by.
It is just one of these formalities that I am writing you about today.

I think that as long as we consider ourselves a select group of students, and pride ourselves on being Davidson
gentlemen, that we should wake up and discover just how much harm we can do to each other by this
silly gossip that flies like the wind around the campus. They say that “A woman's tongue is worse than the
sting of an adder.” This may be true, but when we stop to think just how much gossiping we do
then I think we should be ashamed of ourselves.

It is our duty as upperclassmen to instruct the freshmen, and to be examples to them. If we condemn them
by spreading wild, untrue rumors about them, then we are not gentlemen but instead are building a bad reputation that
will follow them all through their college life. There are, of course, many boys on the campus who do have
rather distorted reputations. To these boys it seems we take a delight in spreading wild rumors. Why don't we think
that we are hurting them and still not doing ourselves any good? Let's be grown-ups, and quit being children, or
gossiping old maids, and try to live and let live. It’s too easy to lie, so let’s be sure of
a thing before we spread it, and be constructive instead of destructive in our criticism.

Sincerely,
A Student.

Dear Ed,

At the time of a recent visit to the campus it was indeed gratifying to see the American flag floating
atop the campus flag pole. There is nothing particularly shocking about this observation to be sure, but many have been
the times when this flag pole stood for weeks at a time without the Flag on its halyard.

This fine old emblem stands for all those things that greater Davidson stands for. Davidson men have and will die
in defense of this flag and all the principles that give it universal respect. Excepting the Cross, no other inanimate
object so symbolizes the Christian way of life, the democratic principle and the optimistic viewpoint as does this flag.

Since the founding of the college, the basic courses offered have been these subjects or those closely related to them.
In these dark and troublesome days Davidson must remain steadfast in these teachings. Pressing ever forward under this flag to
gain the prize that is contained in these ideals, victory will come to our arms and peace will once again
settle upon whatever may be left of our physical and worldly wealth. The youth of our nation can again begin
to plan for a future. But all of their plans will be in vain unless the plan includes in part
national and world-wide measures that will ensure its fulfillment. Will we this time be standing united and ready with our
lamps filled and lighted when the opportunity comes? Who among our number will be the helmsman this time? None, to
be sure, unless we begin today to shape up our program and see to it that those in high places
know our will in this matter.

And what of such a program? Actually, it can be so simple as to be complicated. In this, as in
everything else that we undertake, there are three very necessary and important elements. To begin with, we must have the
WILL to change things and there must be embodied in this will a well-devised and thought-out plan. Secondly, as a
people and as a nation we must seek and rely upon DIVINE guidance in the execution of and application of
the parts of the plan. These first two elements will cost us nothing but some serious thought and study. The
third element is the expensive one but an all-important part of the plan. This is the CAPACITY to make this
plan work. When World War II is over, this nation will have the mightiest army that man has yet dreamed
of. It will have been purchased and built from the toil and sweat of millions of our present...citizens and the
millions yet to come. We must keep a large part of this force to ensure the proper functioning of our
plan. Truly, it looks as if opportunity will again come to this nation in the form of a challenge to
take the lead and supply the leadership in reshaping the world. What will our answer be this time? If we
fail to heed this summons, there is good reason to feel that our nation will not again be so favored.
It is with nations the same as with individuals. “He that shuns responsibility soon finds that it is taken from
him and placed in the hands of others.” God forbid that we be found wanting this time.

Very truly yours,
William F. Gaffney, (30), Captain, U.S.A.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Charlotte, the Little Davidson on Weekends, gives us a Fall Service speaker par excellence. Dr. Jas. A. Jones, long known
to Davidson men and now, among other things, heading the Davidson Alumni Association, returns to be minister for this year's
services after having been the man in charge of these so many years ago. Buddy Wells, McCrary, and I went
over a while back to extend the invitation. His office in that beautiful Myers Park Church has the friendly atmosphere
of Dr. Jones himself. Long we talked about the purpose of these services and just what we hoped they would
accomplish. Your interest and sincerity will help a lot to make these meetings really count, and your prayers are—only one
word—necessary.

Bulling at the Snappa house is quite choice. Lard, Bayroo, Rail, and Shaveless Rab play the host role beautifully. I’m
afraid to enter portals with money (as if I could) for fear Friend Hammond would exchange it for part of
an endless line of fine clothes. Honestly believe he's one of the most fascinating talkers in the business and this
is all sincere, complimentary. If we who make claims of inner warmth were half as interested in being as interesting
in selling our wares, the story of our Church could be different; believe me, there's a lesson there.

Pool shooting is made easier by Genial Gene Bingham, thanks to his behind-the-scenes help in keeping cues in shape for
sometimes thoughtless sharks. Same for Ralph Young, magazine orderly. Bill Disque and Ed Wood, magic lovers (and lovers of magic)
with Lennox Turnbull, coming magic lover, rate small thank you and more later as their work increases. John Sherrill jumps
into place as teacher of Colored class at Community Hut as season for same Hut begins. Have you visited this
place yet? It’s worth an afternoon’s time some day to see what Davidson is doing with the student’s help to
keep our colored friends from just roaming the streets. A fellow doesn’t have to go to Africa to do missionary
work; even their oldsters are taught to read and write there.

So Morton forsakes the play, “M. W. C. T. D.” along with Morrow. Tish! Now they have to pay to
get in. Did ya see H? Murdock at the game? Looked lonesome even with all those girls about him until
E. Patterson came along. That's true love or maybe Ed was holding the money again that night. It would be
nice though if every fellow had a friend like that. So seldom.

Lacy MacLean action you can't beat. This saga of criticism, active help in them, and—don't be surprised—prayer about them. Try
it! See you in church—and hope you wear coat and tie. It adds much to individual appearance and is part
of what some folks call “self-respect.” That's right, friend.

By The Operating Table

Probably the bluest weekend in many a moon beamed upon the studs of old D. C. but win, lose or
draw (lost the last two) nothing could phase the operators who drowned their myriad sorrows in Davidson Climber fashion, in
buttermilk and lemonade at the Boar's Head, Piccadilly, Bamboo Room, and Tavern. At the latter location, Bob “The Nation” Crowell
was seen wrangling with the house dick over some minor infraction of tavern etiquette. Was finally seen resting peacefully at
seven a.m. on a hotel lobby lounge.

“Alonzo” McIntosh, frustrated after his program buildup of the game, was seen waddling across the campus at midday Sunday, after
having spent a peaceful night on his fabulous earnings, at the Barringer with ex-roommate, Gus. Robusky, Stud Store Mogul, astounded
his Beta brothers at the game, with one of those amazing rarities, a beautiful feminine dark-horse. Now Raney’s dilemma is
trying to decide which of four belles to ask for the approaching Hops. Yokum's “lock” from Sweetbriar caused McCrary no
end of trouble when she wired little David that she was arriving on the “Wildcat” campus unexpectedly Friday PM. It
seems that the Reverend had lined up dates for a big weekend when “Bad News” Gaffney breezed in to spoil
the party. Spike Mebane floated off on a magic carpet Saturday night and landed in Dreamland where there was a
Battle to disturb his peace. A weekend never to be forgotten by the lad.

Long John's dinner party apparently attracted the most potent aggregation of females, with Mott, Millie, etc., running up the voltage
of all concerned. Sut is reported to have made the party successful by his impromptu remarks, while Flip took over
as M.C. (as in you know what) when the gathering moved in on the club. True Blue Magee wins the
monogram for being the hardest man to keep out of the column this week. The strongest rumors connected with his
name refer to his plotted flight to Arkansas, while other murmurs concern some duel with Behrman over Lois, of Charleston
and Queens.

Feature attraction, Wee? Marshall and Pop tangled with a Winthrop duo Saturday PM, and in the mad rush, forgot to
go to the game. Understand that you boys had more than a moral victory. First Flush of the season—Bob Miller
by that old Faithful, who is now a freshette at Converse. Ten High and Ebo made their customary weekly trip
to a little spot “just a little bit south of North Carolina.” O’Hair, Ragan, Moose, McCormack and Crowell rushed back
to Davidson Sunday morning, and barely missed getting here in time for church. After this valiant effort, this quintet was
so overcome that they slept through the evening vespers.

Government Regulations dampened Rat Hole Lyman’s spirit on his bi-yearly jaunt to Lynchburg. He and Kid Oliver made the best
of their trip by catching bad colds.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday October 8th and 9th
WAKE ISLAND
Brian Donlevy, Robert Preston and Carey McDonald headline the cast of the filming of the Marines' heroic stand on the
now famous Pacific Island. For sheer dramatic entertainment, excitement and America's struggle against the Yellow Menace, it's everyone's patriotic duty
to see it.

Saturday, October 10th
LADY IN A JAM
With beautiful Irene Dunn and Patrick Knowles in the starring roles, “Lady in a Jam” promises to be one of
the season's best comedies. A novel plot which combines several amusing situations with an amusing story and uses two masters
of the comedy in its leading roles will furnish excellent entertainment.

Monday and Tuesday October 12th and 13th
MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS
Orson Welles scores again as Director and Actor in “Magnificent Ambersons” with Joseph Cotton and Dolores Costello in the supporting
roles. The story is of a family which might be termed eccentric or peculiar, but who, notwithstanding, form the center
of an engrossing plot supported by some top-flight acting.

Wednesday, October 14th
FANTASIA
Walt Disney's latest full-length feature, Fantasia, plays the Davidson Theatre Wednesday. For those who haven't already seen it, it's a
must. A musical with a beautiful setting, it provides an opportunity to hear the best in music while viewing wonderful
portrayals of the world of fancy.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN

The Current Trend in Collegiate Bands, or, What? No Striptease?

“Did you see State play the University in '38? You bet I did. During the half, State’s band came roller-skating
onto the field, with three majorettes, shooting skyrockets, riding in front on top of an elephant. When State formed a
gigantic ‘U,’ the elephant walked into the middle of the field and four three-year-old girls, dressed in Marie Antoinette costumes,
covered the elephant with a pink silk sheet. When they lifted the sheet—the elephant had disappeared! Oh-h-h, it was a
great day for State. The crowd went wild.”

“That reminds me of the Tech-Clemson game in '34—when a movie star came out on the field, dressed as a
Spanish matador, leading eleven live tigers on leashes—”

“And then the Tech boys, wise to what was going to happen, let loose a hive of yellow jackets on
the tigers. What a game, what a game!”

“Weren't several people killed?”

“I believe so. But it was a magnificent coup on the part of the Tech men. Didn't their band end
by playing ‘Amen’?”

“Why yes—with 350 choir boys singing on a special platform.”

“Unh-hunh. Tech's bandmaster certainly deserved Al-Band that year.”

“Say, do you remember the Davidson-Duke battle in '29? Never in my life have I seen such a game. During
the half Duke had 46 high school bands on the field at the same time, all playing ‘Alice Blue Gown!’
Just at the climax, a plane swooped down into the center of the field and a Metropolitan Opera prima donna
in a red dress, floated down into the center of the field in a parachute, singing the ‘Star-Spangled Banner’. The
crowd cheered for ten minutes without stopping.”

“Yeah, and then a huge silver ball was shot from a cannon, high over the stadium. When the ball reached
its zenith, it burst forth thousands (Continued on Page Three)
