Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTA

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1942 No. 5

Board of Reserve Corps Officers
Army, Navy, Air Corps, Marines and Coast Guard Represented

A board representing the various branches of the military and naval reserve corps was present on the Davidson Campus Wednesday,
Oct members in order to inform the student body of the plans which the government has made for college men.
All of the regular college activities were suspended after 12:30 on Wednesday in order that every student might attend the
addresses given by the board members and take part in the conferences in which particular problems were discussed.

Represent Services

At 1:30 the entire student body was required to meet in Chambers Auditorium where each of the six board members
delivered an address, discussing the particular branch of service which he represented. The Army Air Corps, the Navy Air Corps,
the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Army, and the Coast Guard were represented on the board.

Chance To Enlist

The Davidson students will be allowed a period of two weeks in which to study their own problems, advise with
their parents, and decide which branch of enlisted reserve they prefer to enter, if any. More representatives from the armed
forces will return at the end of that enrollment period to accept applications for the desired branches.

Confer Individually

After the addresses on Wednesday afternoon, representatives will be available for conferences with individuals concerning their particular cases and the
branch that they would like to enter. The members of this board are visiting the campuses of all the colleges
in this district in order to explain their plans and advise with all college men.

Spencer Will Handle Part In Play Cast
Director Reports A Near-Disaster In Scenery Accident

Director and cast of “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” soon to be given by the Red and Black Masquers,
have announced several changes to be made in this recently popular screen production.

New Cast Member

Lieutenant Spencer of the R.O.T.C. Department has been added to the cast of this play. Spencer will take one of
the leading parts in the characterization of Bert Jefferson, the town newspaperman.

Narrow Escape

The elaborate set for “The Man Who Came to Dinner” was all but completed and was already arranged on the
stage of Chambers Auditorium last week. The cast had just finished a strenuous rehearsal. Stage manager George McCormick was getting
ready to get the stage back to normal when he looked up and saw the whole set falling upon him.
He barely escaped injury by jumping off the front of the stage as the set fell to the floor behind
him.

Repairs

Because of this setback, Professor Erwin, who is in charge of the production, and the stage manager have had to
combine altering with repairs to make the stage equipment what it was before the mishap. In spite of this setback,
it has been reported that the play is rounding into shape and promises to be one of the best ever
produced by the Masquers. As yet, no date has been set for the performance, but it is hoped now that
it will be possible to present this production the first week in November.

“HOLIDAYS”

It has recently been announced by Dr. John R. Cunningham that the proposed plan to lengthen the Christmas holidays from
December 15th to January 15th, thus eliminating Spring holidays, is now under consideration and a conclusion will be reached, possibly
this week. Dr. Cunningham pointed out, however, that Duke and other Universities were making no changes in their vacation schedules,
and that colleges throughout the country were not following a uniform practice with regard to this matter.

First Issue Set Nov. 6
Home-Coming Will Be The Theme of Initial Scripts ’N Pranks

The first issue of the Scripts ’N Pranks will come out on Nov. 6th, the day before Homecoming, announced Bill
Lyman, editor of the humor magazine.

Homecoming Issue

This first issue, which will be a Homecoming Issue, is now at press. Homecoming features that will be included in
it are: Seven drawings involving those who will attend the dances; caricatures of senior football players; a page on Miss
Frances Bradley, who will lead the figure on Friday night; and fashions to be worn at the game.

Two Poems

Another feature will parody cigarette advertisements, and there will be two poems, one by Albert King and the other by
Tinsley Bradley. Short stories include: “Sound Business,” by Arch Taylor, who won last year's prize for this story; and “Runaway,”
by Paul Welch. Essays by Crawford Wheeler and Albert Dimmock, entitled “Practice under Arclights” and “It’s Swing,” respectively, will also
be in the first issue.

Englishman’s Letter

A special feature in the Scripts ’N Pranks will be a letter to students from an English student, who describes
collegiate conditions at Loughborough. Howell Morrow has written “Taffy,” a parody on Time, True Confession, and The New Yorker, which
will also be included. Concluding the issue will be numerous cartoons and jokes. The cartoons were drawn by Leonard White,
Tom Gregg, and Jim Elliott, art editors for the Scripts 'N Pranks.

School Sends Ten to P.S.A.
Fulcher, Smith, Conyers, Newbold Attend Meet

Davidson College will send a total of ten to the Presbyterian Students Association Conference in Raleigh this weekend. Besides the
six regular delegates which were chosen after press time, there are four who are attending and will have a part
in the program. They are Shaw Smith, Jimmy Fulcher, Jerry Newbold, and Priestly Conyers.

Shaw Smith Leads

Shaw Smith will lead a discussion group in which Priestly Conyers is the student chairman. Jimmy Fulcher, president of the
P.S.A., will preside over the meetings of the conference. Jerry Newbold, a member at large of the P.S.A., will be
toastmaster at the banquet Saturday night.

Conference Starts Friday

The conference will be held in Raleigh at Peace Junior College beginning Friday, October 23, and will close Sunday, October
25, with a special communion service. The topic of the conference will be centered around the P.S.A. theme for the
year, “Working With the Living Christ.”

Inform Students As To Programs
One Hundred Alumni Hear of Gym Drive
Dr. Cunningham Speaks To Atlanta Association At Luncheon

Dr. John R. Cunningham was the main speaker before some one hundred guests of the Atlanta chapter of the Davidson
Alumni Association at a luncheon Saturday, October 17th. The luncheon, which preceded the Davidson-Georgia Tech football game, was held at
the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel.

Lake In Charge

Mr. John E. Lake, secretary of the chapter, headed the committee in charge of this banquet, presided over by Mr.
Scott Candler, a member of the Davidson College Board of Trustees. Many of those present were young Davidson alumni who
are stationed in army camps in the State of Georgia. There were several from Ft. Benning, nearby.

Cunningham Speaks

The president of the Board of Trustees, Dr. J. McDowall Richards, introduced Dr. Cunningham who addressed the group on “Phases
of Life at Davidson,” stressing in particular the recently launched drive for the building of a new gymnasium. In this
connection, Dr. Cunningham stated that such alumni meetings are being held throughout the South in behalf of the funds needed
to build the proposed new gymnasium. Meetings were held in both Greenville, South Carolina, and Spartanburg, South Carolina last week,
and one is planned in Rock Hill on Monday, October 27.

ANNUAL PICTURES

All group pictures will be completed by the Christmas holidays because of the number of seniors graduating in mid-year, Ed
Murray, Editor of the annual, announced this week. Proofs of individual pictures, the editor stated, would be back in two
or three weeks. Two different shots will be taken of each student thereby giving him two proofs from which to
choose his annual picture. All students are urged to go by the parlor of Watts and have their picture made
before Friday, October 23.

New Members Initiated By Students

Victory Bike
By DEANE WATSON

No one would call the student body old fashioned. An adjective like this is inconceivable after hearing the ultramodern slang
being tossed back and forth and seeing the flashy suits being worn by the “dealers” on the way to Charlotte
and points north or south.

Bicycle

However, comparing the Davidson campus of 1942 with the same campus a few years earlier, we find the bicycle coming
back in vogue. Of course, this repetition of history is not quite complete in detail because of the lack of
the famous “bicycle built for two” (still, some of us will admit that one “Lard” has been seen riding should
have been so constructed).

Smith Rides Again

One can hardly trudge down to the local post office withoutHearing the whirr of that precious substance, rubber, beating on
the pavement, feel the breeze that eminent professor of magic, and Oye Shaw Smith, follow a raven board down the
street with F [ment and as secretary rs-coattails flapping in the Autumn breeze. Tragedy later front the looks Chapel each
morning, of Chambers building like Piccadilly square on a Saturday afternoon. One poor unfortunate Freshman who hasn't yet gotten into
the swing of things and consequently doesn’t have a bicycle, was seen rushing out of the front of like a
bat in the morning. As he neared the bottom of the marble steps, he seemed to falter for a second
then his flying feet sank into the spokes of a bike parked against the steps. The unfortunate Freshman lit parts
hanging all over him. Such again, is a shining new victory with a crash of demolished machine the sad story
of the victory of the machine over the common man. We are glad to see such a fad returning and
sincerely hope that, seriously, the bicycle is here to stay till victory comes some day.

Beaver Club
Campus Leadership Club Picks Nine Sophomores As New Members

Beaver Club, underclass leadership organization, has selected nine new members from the Sophomore Class: Bob Durant, Bill Dunn, Sam Hay,
Hugh Hill, Jack Lucas, Bill McLean, Bobby Miller, George Peters, and Tom Peters. The club is composed of ten sophomores
and ten juniors, who are elected for their general spirit, leadership qualities shown on the campus, their interest in athletics,
and scholarship. Selection of only nine leaves one vacancy in the club which will be filled later.

Members
Durant is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and blocking back on the Wildcat eleven. Dunn is a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and a football man. Hay is president of the Sophomore class, varsity tackle, and belongs
to Sigma Phi Epsilon. Hill is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, a football player, and on the sports
staff of the Davidsonian. Lucas, also a Sigma Alpha Epsilon, performed on the freshman baseball team. Bill McLean is secretary-treasurer
of the student body, varsity guard, and a Phi Delta Theta brother. Bobby Miller is a Davidsonian sports staff writer.
The Peters twins, George and Tom, are both versatile athletes. The Peters, along with Miller, are members of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Original Organization
The Beaver Club originally was organized to entertain visiting athletic teams, but its services have been extended to give it
a prominent place in campus life. The Beaver Club promoted the Salem-Davidson day this fall and similar functions with nearby
girls' schools in the past few years. Although transportation difficulties will limit such activities in the future, Frank Carter, president
of the Beaver Club, announces that plans are being made for something to take the place of these day sponsors.
Plans have been formulated to name sponsors for the two home games remaining on the Davidson schedule. In accordance with
past policy, there will be a sponsor for each of the senior men on the team.

(Continued on Page Four)

BEAVER CLUB INITIATES
Pictured above are the nine new members of the Beaver Club. Members of this honorary leadership club are chosen exclusively
from the Sophomore class. They are: left to right, Hugh Hill, Bob Durant, Bill McLean, Bill Dunn, George Peters, Jack
Lucas, Tommy Peters, Sam Hay, and Bobby Miller.

MILITARY EXHIBIT
An exhibit sponsored by the Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, is being planned by the active
members. Here, it was announced by Jesse Wooten, president. This exhibition will celebrate Scabbard and Blade Day, to be held
this year on October. A suitable place to keep the relics to be shown has not been decided, but will
be announced. Included will be many relics, some of which are German machine guns and German helmets, some swords, and
old automatic rifles. Also, there will be shown examples of the most modern United States equipment.

Dean Tells Statistics
Facts on Enrollment, Courses, Vocations, Classes Are Revealed

As Davidson College begins its 106th year, it has a total of 680 students.

Freshmen Lead
As usual, the freshman class leads in the enrollment with a total of 230. The other classes follow in order
with 181 Sophomores, 158 Juniors, and 111 Seniors.

Vocations
As to the prospective vocations of Davidson, we find that the field of medicine leads all with 130; next is
business with 80, the ministry with 67, law with 39, and engineering and teaching both with 20. These are only
the leading fields of choice of Davidson students. We find that among Davidson there are 18 students who are candidates
for B.S. degrees, 295 for B.A., 72 for M.A., and 16 for A.B.

Popular Subject
The most popular subject in school today is English with 475 students taking it. Bible study claims second place with
380, mathematics with 285 (plus 10 applied math students), Spanish with 252, and physics with 233. Professor Mulcher has the
largest number of students in his classes this year with a total of 152; Professor C. K. Brown runs a
close second with 139, Professors Irwin and Johnston have 132, and Professor Cumming nets 120.

In the church affiliation of the students, we find that the Presbyterian Church leads the others with a total of
343. The Methodist comes second with 95, Baptist with 49, and the Episcopal Church with 31. There are 27 non-church
members enrolled this year.

States Represented
Davidson students come from a total of 34 out of the 48 states and the District of Columbia. The complete
list of states and students from them are as follows: North Carolina 179, South Carolina 69, Georgia 52, Florida 29,
Tennessee 25, Virginia 12, Mississippi 10, Alabama 8, Kentucky 7, New York and Texas all with 7, Arkansas and Pennsylvania
with 6, District of Columbia 3, Missouri and Ohio with 2, and Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, and New Hampshire
each with 1 student.

The majority of missionaries are now back in the States. There was only one boy caught in a submarine nest
but escaped. He has been through several narrow escapes since that time but says that the men of the merchant
marine are not afraid and are anxious until the war is won. The sailors of the merchant marine may be
rough and hard to understand, but they have their religion and it is a strong one, says Archie Torrey. Mr.
Torrey is a member of the Federal Labor Union, the Theological division.

Mariner Visits Charlotte
Archie Torrey, Now Merchant Sailor, Visits School

Born In China
Archie Torrey, a Davidson man, was born in China in 1913. He came to America in 1935 and entered Davidson
College in 1937. His family is in America now. His father, S. R. G. Torrey, and mother are here sharing
the Christian holiday. They entertained some reservations about what was amusing to Mr. Torrey. He is now preparing himself for
the ministry and entered the merchant marine in which capacity he hoped to do his country some good. He trained
as a seaman aboard a merchant vessel.

Merchant Sailors
A few months ago his ship...
