Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 3, 1942

Library Adds Works By Eminent Authors
History By Freeman, Collection By Burnett Are Best New Books

Two very important books have been added to the library recently, that should be of high interest to the students, according to Dr. Chalmers Davidson. “Lee's Lieutenants” by Douglas Southall Freeman is an important treatment of these generals in action and under the stress of action. This book is the first volume in a projected trilogy on Lee’s lieutenants and stands in a class by itself. It is said to be a triumph both of scholarship and of military history alone.

Collection of “Best”
The other important book to be published recently is “This Is My Best,” edited by Whit Burnett. In this work are the writings of the foremost authors in the United States today that they consider to be their best piece of work. It is a massive volume weighing nearly three pounds, but it should interest every lover of good writing by modern authors.

Secure Other Books
Other books obtained by the library are “Swimming,” “Alcohol Explored,” and “Peace.” “Swimming” gives detailed instructions in the various strokes and treats pre-season training, out-of-water exercises, and is illustrated with underwater photographs and line drawings. “Peace” by Ben Ames Williams tells of the relationship between a father and his adolescent son during the period since the present war began. “Alcohol Explored” by E. M. Jellinek gives a detailed presentation of what happens to alcohol in the body. To a person who drinks, this book will give confidence to go ahead, since things are not as bad as they are made out to be. To the temperate person, this book will reveal knowledge that he has doubtlessly been misinformed about.

NEWS FROM MASQUERS
The Red and Black Masquers have announced that there will be no second performance of the play, “The Man Who Came To Dinner.” The presentation of this play took place on November 17, and a second showing on Saturday, November 24 was originally planned. This second performance was to be one of the events in the Fathers’ Day Program, but the illness of Shaw Smith, who played the leading role, necessitated a postponement. The response of the students and town to the first presentation of the play was very encouraging and the Masquers, as a result of a demand from many students, planned a later showing. The conflicts of other events in the near future have made this impossible, and it has been announced that such plans have been given up entirely.

Two Shelves Combine Into Union Library
Eumeneans and Philanthropics Merge Their Collections In 1887
By GEORGE WORTH

Both of the literary societies contributed much to the founding of Davidson's excellent library facilities. Even though the college started before the ground had been broken for the first building, the two societies soon had a collection of books before the number of volumes they owned was surpassed. Philanthropic minutes show that the society collected during the summer of 1837 for the purchase of books. By December there were so many books on the shelves that it was necessary to number them. Eumeneans in 1839 started their library with 49 books. 

Moving Books
January 20, 1887, was similar to the day last fall when the whole student body turned out to move the books from the literary society halls to the library room in Chambers Building. There the Juniors and Seniors arranged them on the shelves. Thus ended the separate libraries of the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies.

McKAY BEGINS OTTS LECTURE
(Continued from Page 1)
to God. There is nothing more social than response to God, and Christianity has always worked for a community of love. It is necessary that we become a part of this great scheme of things. In conclusion, Dr. McKay stated that if we love to the end, we achieve not only happiness, but blessedness. Civilizations are for souls, not souls for civilizations. The test of civilization is what it does for the individual.

MEMBERS OF DEBATING TEAM
Pictured above are the members and alternates for Davidson's 1942-43 debating team. They are, left to right, top row: Jim McCrary, Heywood Brinegar, Priestly Conyers, and Hank Crane. Lower row: Grayson Tucker, Howell Morrow, A. W. Bosch, and Ed Pickard. Crane and Brinegar are alternates for the team. The debating group in the past has been divided into two teams which after debates in the spring have each made extended trips during the spring holidays. No definite schedule for such trips has been announced as yet.

Letters From The Lodges
PHI DELTA THETA
After a big Thanksgiving, many of the Phi Delts were satisfied to stay on campus. However, a few of them left campus for greener grass. Brother Starnes went to his home in Asheville for Thanksgiving. Brothers Davis and Burns went to see the close game between Georgia and Georgia Tech. Brother Smith made one of his regular trips to Greensboro, while Brothers Colson and Connor went to Charlotte to take in the points of interest. Brothers Hardee and Wright quite anxiously await the results of the air corps exam which they took in Charlotte. The chapter is happy to announce the pledging of Jim Montgomery, a member of the Freshman class.

PI KAPPA PHI
Except for the freshmen, last weekend saw the usual gadding about of the Pi Kapps. Most of those who were lucky enough to have tickets, tires, or magic thumbs, drifted southward, with the Winthrop Dance claiming Everett, and Florence, S. C. being looked after by Lineberger and McEachin. Joe Eve got as far as Athens and Augusta, also taking in the Ga.-Ga. Tech game. The Pi Kapps' solitary, but significant, contribution to Charlotte was Ed Murray. Also attending the Winthrop Dance was Ragsdale, while Gaither ambled up to Newton.

KAPPA ALPHA
Off for Winston-Salem this weekend were Brother “Pokes” J. Stimson, and Speas. All of them were said to have had a fine time at the Salem dance. Brother Peterson, also going to Winston, said that the hunting was excellent. Brothers Washburn, Abbot, and Harris traveled to Athens, Georgia, to see the Georgia-Georgia Tech game. Brother R. Dunn took a trip to his home in Sumter, South Carolina. Also going home were Brothers Daniels and Royster to Oxford, Brother Riche to Waynesville, and Brother MacMillian to Norfolk, Virginia. Brother Hewitt enlisted in the Naval Air Corps and left Tuesday. We are sorry to report his loss from the chapter. Pledge Durant journeyed to Fayetteville, and Brother Sandifer went to Greensboro. Due to “Judge” McCoy’s decision, all freshmen stayed on the campus this week. Brothers Mitchell, Belk, Sprunt, Watt, and Pledges Whitesides and Bachman operated in Charlotte.

KAPPA SIGMA
Visiting Lynchburg, Va., and surrounding areas were Brothers Fulcher and McLauchlin. Brothers White and Winchester went to their respective homes for the weekend.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Pikas for the most part spent a quiet weekend on the campus. Of course, all the freshmen pledges were here since all of this class has been campused. Brother Brinson toured the whole state of North Carolina over the past weekend. “Rail” first went to Charlotte and then turned north to Hickory. With Bob Walton over in the metropolis of Detroit, the list is complete, except for a group of brothers this past weekend, the sextet including Brothers Simmons, Williams, Amos, Davis, and Herring.Strenuous diversion developed, Pledge Brother Newell, the majority of the pledges, ahh uy; arith; farther tht Currie, and over-up Man Vaylor. Some of our finer traits, a sense of Pledge Brother Garrison, took in brothers, who got no further than Greensboro and Burlington. Brother Garrison traveled to Rock Hill, Burlington, and back to Rock Hill.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Henderson and Yarborough, who participated in a different event, were “Brothers Millis, Schmidt, Upchurch, Welsh, Chapter President Jesse Wooten, and White, who also spent a great deal of time in Burlington. Participating in a different event, Brother Caterson spent the weekend in Salisbury. Brother Paul Neisler went home to Kings Mountain as usual. In cooperation with Judge McCoy, all the pledges except those having permission stayed on campus and enjoyed the “Y” activities.

Brother Carter was strongly attracted to Greensboro and Salem. Wooten, it is rumored, dated three SAE girls in two days. The annual fraternity banquet took place this past Saturday night at the Charlotte Country Club. Pledge Brother Bill Ross took his debut in a tux and wowed the ladies. The toastmaster, presided at the dinner, entertained his “little sister” on the campus from Saturday to Monday. Brother McGee was a weekend guest at Brother Miller's home in Charlotte but didn’t sleep much as an odd clinking sound was heard.

Brother Archie McNeill took the cake by attending the Ga.-Ga. Tech game. Bill Harrill took his date to Banner Elk. Pledge Brother Frank Dunn successfully passed a weekend in Salisbury. Brother George McCormack took off for Kings Mountain, while Pledge Brother Ed Pickard attended a dance. Brother Clyde Hobbs and Bill Robinson had a big weekend in Whiteville. Bob Dunn made a trek home to Atlanta. Jeep was seen up at Boone as usual. Jim Mitchener went to Rutherfordton to check up and Speed Martin headed home for Mullins. Todd and Jim Dendy spent an uneventful weekend. Seen in Charlotte were Barker, Henry Farrior, and many others. Boarman and McDowell had quite a scene on the Square. Bruner and Ichabod took the wrong bus and landed in Mount Holly. Has Queens moved?

Thanksgiving in Rock Hill and KAPPA SNAPPA

The Kappa Snappa’s split up and went in all directions this weekend. “Ludwig” Neill went to Statesville to serve on the U.S.O. committee for soldiers and sailors. Rab, the crab, enjoyed immensely the S.A.E. dance at the Charlotte Country Club. 

Club Makes Announcement

Banker, President of the Camera Club, has made the announcement that the club will sponsor another photographic exhibit sometime in the near future, probably before the Christmas holiday. This exhibit will be held in the Eumenean Literary Hall. All the past exhibits have proved very successful and the entries for this community display are planned to be even better than usual.

Contest For All

The contest is open to the entire student body and all entries should be turned in to one of the members of the Camera Club. Students who are not at present members of the club should see Linus Banker to make arrangements for the entry of their particular pictures. These names will help us get to know the other students in a real sense. In fact, some of them have left lasting impressions upon us which we will carry all of our days.

In listing the advantages of the game, we should not overlook the fact that “murder ball” gives the coaches a wonderful source of amusement. Often I have seen an instructor weak with laughter as he watched a crippled student on the ground struggling with the most earthly contortions. I believe that most of the students really enjoy this game and it is much better than the dull and lifeless calisthenics which the physical classes formerly employed. The participants enter into the game with zest and enthusiasm, and no one can deny that it is not good exercise. Nevertheless, we do not believe that a game which is as rough as college football should be pursued by men with nothing resembling protective equipment. We commend the instructors for trying to devise some form of competitive sport in which all students can take part. We even think that much can be said for murder ball, but some sport which would produce fewer broken bones, we believe, would be far better.

Ways after the kickoff we pat on a trip to Hiram so that then in picking each other up abs have expected of them. Pabst on his elbow to complain to the ref so that before it was terminated, we were thoroughly disillusioned. We could “gents” understand. Not were able to out their qualities beautiful perse. We didn’t care that next spring we would instead bunch as we it to quiet group that remained calm and collected under the most trying circumstances.

Who was his cute little date? Lard Royster from Oxford-on-the-Tar went North to his homestead for hunting purposes. We haven’t named what he caught yet. “Nail” had a nice little journey this weekend, going first to Charlotte then to High Point (Chub of the universe), around by Winston (to catch the bus) and thence again with Harvey Carrow, resting Thursday and Friday.

LATE “THUNDERBIRDS”

Saturday, December 5th “THE GLASS KEY” “THE MUMMY’S HAND”

Monday and Tuesday, December 7th and 8th “THE ROAD TO MOROCCO”

Wednesday, December 9th “OMAHA TRAIL”

December 3rd and 4th SHOW DAVIDSON “MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT” DAVIDSON, N.C. THEATRE