PORTS SURVEY By BUTCH PHARR

Page Four Wildcat Sports Thursday, May 7, 1942

Leaving a brilliant record for the season behind it, the varsity track team ended the year Saturday with a decisive victory of 56 over the highly vaunted squad from N.C. State. Note should be taken that this is the team which recently won the Carolina A. A. U. meet and was supposedly the best in the state. Another feather was added to the track team’s collection when South Carolina nosed out Clemson for the track title of that state.

Lost from this year’s squad will be Taylor, high point man for the year; Loy Davidson, consistent 440 man; Spencer, stellar field event man; Captain Williamson, who was converted to a high jumper; Shannon, of pole vaulting fame; and weight men Bell and Terrell.

From the freshmen squad will come several likely prospects who should go far in an attempt to fill the gaps left by the above graduations. George Peters marked himself as sure-fire varsity material in the frosh meet with Mars Hill Saturday when he scored 23 points. Peters broke the school record for the high jump, clearing the bar at 6 feet, 3-5 inches, but it won’t stand as official since he is a freshman. Peters also placed first in the broad jump, low hurdles, pole vault, and came second in the highs. Other good prospects from the first-year squad are Ox Pendleton, George Ennett, Pittman, and Roach.

Coach Shepard wishes to announce a free showing of the American League movie “The Ninth Inning,” presented through the courtesy of the Hillerich and Bradsby Company, manufacturers of Louisville Slugger baseball bats. The picture is to be shown at 7:15 on May 21 and 22. No admission is to be charged and all students are invited to attend.

The end of round five of the Interfraternity Softball Tournament finds the K. A.’s undefeated after four games, with the Phi Gams in second with only one defeat. Davis Thomas has been whipping his fastball in there for the first four games and if he keeps up the pace, they should easily come through victorious if the Kappa Sigs or Fijis don’t upset the bucket.

K. A.’s Undefeated In Softball Race; Fijis Next With One Loss

With four wins and no losses against them in the Inter-Fraternity Tournament, the Kappa Alpha Softball Team is well on its way to the Softball Championship, and the coveted Athletic Cup for their chapter room next year.

Phi Gams Hot

The Fijis, boasting a record of three wins and one loss, have come up with a surprisingly strong team and are the biggest obstacle left in the K. A.’s championship drive. The Phi Gams have All-Tournament Adolph Larson in short-field, and a fine infield sparked by Tricky Dick O'Hare at third and Bob Crowell at first.

Tie For Third

The S. A. E.'s, boasting wins over the Phi Delts and Betas, are in third place. The S. A. E.’s bowed to the K. A.’s in their only defeat after a brilliant pitching duel between Davis Thomas and General Wood. The S. A. E.'s were deadlocked 9 to 9 with the Sig Eps Monday afternoon when the game had to be called because of darkness.

In fourth place are the Betas, Pi Kaps, and Kappa Sigs, all holding three wins and two losses. The Betas have taken victories over the Pikas, Kappa Sigs, and Phi Delts, and have lost to the S. A. E.’s and Pi Kaps. Al Winn has turned in some excellent pitching performances for the Betas.

Frosh Take Track Meet

The Davidson Kittens closed the track season last Saturday with a 62-55 win over Mars Hill Junior College. Peter’s first and Pendleton’s second in the last event decided the match.

Summary

100-yard dash—Pendleton (Davidson), Goodman (Mars Hill), Pipkin (M). Time 10.5.
220—Ennett (D), Pipkin (M), Goodman (M). Time 24.1.
440—Edwards (M), Green (M), Ennett (D). Time 52.4.
880—Edwards (M), Green (M), Belk (D). Time 2:04.6.

(Continued on Column Three)

“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

KEEP ‘EM FLYIN’

Warm Dad's heart—give him the ties he loves. Smartly styled—comfortably cool—guaranteed washable—and everlasting. 4Fold Palm Beach Ties have the air of American personality. They are easy on the eye and help to economize. Give him several and use the difference to Keep ‘em Flying.’ So take a tip from the wise—give Dad 4Fold Palm Beach Ties. See them now.

Made in America by BEAU BRUMMELL
4FOLD CONST. U.S.PAT.RE.20942
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT THIS LABEL

Ed Lucas, number one pitcher of the Davidson varsity baseball team, is shown trying to beat out the throw to first in the game with Carolina last week. The Tar Heels defeated the Cats 4-1, despite Lucas’ splendid pitching. Note the ball already infirst baseman’s mitt. (Continued from Column One)

Mile—West (M), Grimsley (M), Edwards (M). Time 4:53.
High Hurdles—Jones (M), Peters (D), Floyd (M). Time 15.5.
Low Hurdles—Peters (D), Jones (M), Willis (D). Time 20.6.
Shot—Trentham (M), Roach (D), Riffe (D). Distance: 47 feet, 6 inches.
Discus—Riffe (D), Trentham (M), Roach (D). Distance: 120 feet, 3½ inches.
Javelin—Pendleton (M), Renfro (D). Distance: 145 feet.
High Jump—Peters (D), Trentham (M), McAllister (D). Height: 5 feet, 3½ inches.
Pole Vault—Peters (D), Pittman (D), Bibb (D). All tied for first place. Height: 10 feet.

Cats Defeat Catawba In Extra Inning Game

With a hitting spree in the eleventh inning, the varsity baseball squad defeated the hot Catawba team 7-4 in an extra inning struggle.

Score Tied

At the beginning of the ninth inning, the teams were deadlocked at 2-2 with Bob McLeod pitching brilliantly for the Cats. In the first half of the ninth, Dave Maloney hit a homer with none on to put Davidson in the lead by 3-2, but a Catawba player did the same in their half to even the score. No runs were scored in the tenth frame.

Maloney Hits

Maloney hit again to start the big eleventh inning rally, and a few runs were scored.

Wildcat Track Team Downs N. C. State In Final Meet Of Year

Frosh Defeat Tech Monday

Showing new power at the plate, the Davidson Freshman baseball team blasted out an 8 to 2 victory over High Tech of Charlotte last Monday afternoon. Herb Morton, Kitten hurler, allowed the visitors only 6 hits and was especially tough in the clutches.

Frosh Rally

Catching on to the slants of Simpson, the opposing hurler, the Kittens pushed three runs across in the fourth. Lopridge opened the frame by singling to right and was advanced on another single by Kendrick. Both scored on Peters’ triple, who in turn scored on Roach’s long fly to centerfield. Williams followed with a triple but died on base. Two more runs were added in the sixth on three hits and an error. In the seventh, Turner opened another scoring spree with a double to the centerfield bleachers. Peters, Roach, and Williams followed with singles to bring in three runs before Lefty Kerr came to the rescue of Pitcher Simpson.

Two Games

The Frosh meet Central High of Charlotte Saturday afternoon and tangle with Tech High again on Monday.

In a dual meet with N. C. State last Saturday, the varsity track team closed their season by downing the slightly favored Wolfpack by a 79 to 47 count. Andrews, State’s one-man track team, gathered 23 points in the meet to lead the individual scoring and win half of his team’s total points.

Taylor, Nimmons Lead

Arch Taylor led the Wildcats, winning two firsts and a tie for second, with Rufus Nimmons next, winning two first places. Taylor completed his brilliant hurdling career with first places in both highs and lows, tying his recently established school record in the highs with 14.9. Taylor also tied with Ben Lacy in the 100-yard dash for second place. Nimmons won the 880-yard run with a time of 2:05 and the mile run with a 4:43. Other point winners for Davidson were Lacy 5, Loy 5, Spencer 6, Parks 5, Belk 4, Shannon 5, Port 4, Sell 3, Terrell 3, Williams 3, Williamson 3, O'Hair 2, and Dick 2.

Cats Play In Golf Tourney

Davidson's golf team plays their last match this afternoon with Washington and Lee, and will stop on the way back for the 36-hole metal score Southern Conference Tournament in Winston-Salem Saturday. Last year’s winner in the Tournament, Duke, is again favored in the Tournament.

DO YOU DIG IT?

WHAT DO YOU SAY?

Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you'll be ten bucks richer. If we don’t, we'll shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.

*ENGLISH TRANSLATION

This dilly is giving the hurry-up sign to her girl friends because the boys are taking them dancing and Pepsi-Cola’s on the menu. (me-n-u, get it?) Just the thing for a college man’s budget, too. Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers.