Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 16, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY : Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate-year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
JOHN CRICHTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
BUSINESS STAFF

Tradition ...
Possibly the most hallowed part of the heritage of every Davidson man is the sum of the traditions which over
the passage of one hundred and five years have been acquired, cherished, and handed down from one student generation to
the next. The unwritten customs constitute the code which makes Davidson, in fact any school, different from the rest. They
form the basis for that intangible known as atmosphere, the bonds for those celebrated ties of fellowship, and the current
for that kinetic force, spirit.

Perhaps the theme or patriarch tradition here is that of “The Davidson Gentleman.” At least it has existed longest. Under
it are catalogued many small customs, such as the one compelling the exchange of a friendly greeting with anyone encountered
on the campus. The traditional courtesy to strangers, which unfortunately does not extend to younger members of the opposite sex,
is a part of this tradition. The customary behavior at the college dances is in a real sense included. The
honor system and efficient student government are tangible evidences of the same tradition.

At some time during our history, however, several conflicting traditions have emerged. For example, a Davidson student can be instantly
spotted in any crowd when a girl passes within saluting distance. He is the adolescent who whistles and skillfully screams
“fiyah.” For a sure-fire alma mater test for any youth suspected of knowing what follows “Alenda Lux,” arm the same
with two hard snowballs and a whole window pane and await proof. But these might possibly be excused by a
broad-minded fair sex and a copious damage fee. There is another tradition that if not started recently has certainly become
exaggerated during the current scholastic year, and which promises to blackball the school’s untarnished name unless checked. It concerns the
growing of whistling and cutting up generally during the devotional portion of the chapel program. This has finally been accepted
by resigned and patient student body presidents as the expected accompaniment for the announcements, but to visiting service such conduct
comes as a rather chilly shock. One of Davidson’s oldest and best friends was once heard remarking, “Davidson students are
gentlemen individually, but taken collectively they are a bunch of hoodlums.” This, it would appear, is not exactly the reputation
we would like.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Editorials
Letters
Features

SLYME
By BILL LYMAN

On the Strategical Aspects of a Campaign to Get a Dance Week-end Date, or Page Bites Again.

Has any girl been unusually nice to you lately? Has some wench been particularly coy around you during the last
week or so? Probably! But have you delved into the underlying reason of such an attractive attitude? Probably not! Fool!
You have been once more illusioned, for a brief period, into thinking that finally you are a Power a Dawg
With The Women. Will you never learn from bitter experience?

It is an amazing coincidence, is it not, (1) that some alluring damsel, who has hardly noticed you before, has
suddenly become very attentive to you, and (2) that the Davidson Spring Frolics set both come within three weeks of
each other! You have, in all likelihood, already bitten and asked the said temptress to the week-end set! She probably
doesn't give a tinker’s fudge about you and will not until later.

There are many and devious ways of trapping the unwary male. Let us suppose that some unsuspecting Davidson joe, such
as Page Harris, goes to a dance at St. Mary's a couple of weeks before Spring Frolics. On the dance
floor, he sees a glamorous creature whom he knows he hasn't a chance with, but whom he has met on
various occasions and to whom he has been very attracted. Meanwhile, the glamorous creature has spotted Page and realizing (1)
that the Spring Frolics set is almost on her, and (2) that Page is from Davidson, maps out her campaign.
She is a thorough strategist, having had experience with almost every men’s school in the East, and, it takes her
but 2.58 seconds to know her every action between then and the victory she mentally envisions. She watches over the
shoulder of her momentary dancing partner and when Page glances at her—snap!—her face lights up into a brilliant smile of
recognition and delight. Poor, unsuspecting Page! Little does he know that he is doomed. His face likewise lights up in
delight (although unfeigned), and he strikes a bee-line for the lady.

“Hello, Eve.” She squeals with delight. “Pa-a-ge! This is wonderful. I’m so glad you’re here. Etc., etc., etc.” She is
entrancing. One moment she is beaming, her teeth and eyes flashing, and the next moment she gazes at him with
a dreamy expression of ecstasy. Now gay, witty, bewitchingly shaking her earrings—now shooting him the lowest grade of you know
what since the original Eve. When someone else breaks, she gives his hand a confiding squeeze, pats him on the
shoulder with her other hand and gazes on him as though it would break her poor innocent little heart to
part from him for a moment.

All of which continues during the entire evening. Page hasn't a chance. She gives him no breaks. She sits out
several dances with him. In fact, she does everything short of asking him to marry her. He is trapped completely,
unaware as he may be. Before the night is over he has done what he knows full well he should
never do, on an impulse. He has asked her to the Spring Frolics dance set!

Moral: “Une fille n'est qu'une femme mais un bon cigare est une fume,” which translated means, “A woman is only
a woman but a good cigar is a smoke.”

Down Fraternity Court

Kappa Sigma
To the St. Mary's Junior-Senior Dance went Brothers Shep Booth and Dick Kelly. Jimmy Davis visited his home in Salisbury
accompanied by Wilbur Carter who was also seen in Winston-Salem and High Point over the week-end. Bob Miller was in
Wilmington and John McGee visited his family in Charleston, S. C. Ben and Bill Lacy and Pat Williams were with
the track team at V. P. I. Bob Amos and George Marsh were in Greensboro and High Point. Lump Richardson
and Wileman Ehly spent the week-end at their homes in Greensboro. Pinkey Wilson re-visited Hargrave Military Academy in Chatham, Va.
Brothers Ed Hipp, Jim Crook, Priestly Conyers returned Sunday from a debating trip through Kentucky, Alabama, and etc. The remainder
of the chapter, with the exception of Brother Sutton, whose location for the week-end has not been determined, confined their
activities to Davidson and Charlotte. The chapter was visited by Mr. and Mrs. Yarbrough, parents of Sam Yarbrough.

Kappa Alpha
As usual, the K. A.’s functioned brilliantly and craftily during the period following the close of holidays and the return
of regular class activities. Brother Sprunt took in the track meet in Virginia during his trip, Brother Thomas visited the
belle of Huntersville, and Brother Abbott enjoyed his usual week-end of square dancing. The entire chapter joins in congratulating Bill
Sutton, who became a pledge last week.

Beta Theta Pi
Brother Jim McCrary spent the last week in New York and vicinity. Brother McCrary had to call on a feminine
acquaintance to get him out of the N. Y. C. jail. Jim reports the traffic on those Yankee bridges moves
too slowly. Brother Whizzer White was at V. P. I. with the track team. Brother Ed Phillips and Paul Welch
ran a detail to the land of the sky—Asheville. Brother Smith and Neisler spent the week-end at their homes in
Gastonia and Kings Mountain respectively. Brother Caterson wins the prize of the week. Some maiden came to Davidson, picked Caterson
up, carried him to her home in Salisbury, and returned him safely to school. More power to you Brother Caterson.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
The biggest event of the week-end was the convention trip taken by Legerton, Henderson, and Behrman to Duke not to
mention State, Wake Forest, and Carolina. Among other things they took in the Freshman-Sophomore Dances at Carolina and the annual
Sig-Ep Ball at N. C. State. Fred Morton returned from his Debating Trip with hair-raising tales of adventures in the
Big City. Ed Hay forsook eastern North Carolina for America’s Most Historic City.while the Knox dynasty, along with Myers, Betts,
and Brown, journeyed to Myrtle Beach. Jack Davis made his usual trip to Winthrop, and Queens claimed Dick Miller, Bev
Bobbitt, Sid Daffin, and Paul Behrman, who has returned to the campus for a music course. Price Gwynn, Rush Winchester,
and Bill Loy trekked to Barryhill, while Lacy Sellars and Jerry Robinson dated in Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

In spite of the fact that this weekend immediately followed the annual spring recess, a large number of the brothers
betook themselves to nether portions of North Carolina. Leading the trek to “one of those” dances at St. Mary’s were
Johnny McAlister, Rab McGeachy, Jack Lucas, Hocky Carrow, and Bill Dunn. Frank Treat and Bob Whaling dated at W.C. in
Greensboro. Ed Lucas, Ox Allcott, and Hugh Hill spent the weekend in the Gate City also. Frank Carter and Jim
Harris visited Salem in Winston. Charlotte boys visiting their homes in the Queen City included Bill Faison, Jim Wilcox, Ivey
Stewart, Peter Young, George Tate, Bob Smith, and Buddy Carson.

Phi Gamma Delta

Brothers Olive and Northcross journeyed to St. Mary's last weekend. Brothers Nimmons and Taylor attended the track meet at V.P.I.
in Blacksburg. Returning from New York Sunday were Brothers Wooten and Summers. Brother Crane returned Sunday from a church conference
in Richmond. Monday afternoon found Brothers Darby and Hodges leaving for an extended trip to Huntersville.

Pi Kappa Alpha

The majority of the brothers and pledges spent a quiet weekend on the campus recuperating from the holidays. Due to
the fact that the W.C. girls had not returned to school, Brother Brinson turned his tracks toward Winston to give
the Salem girls a thrill. Brothers Parsons and Hodges could not await the return of the W.C. girls and went
to Greensboro to see that they returned safely Sunday night. Brother Hill spent a quiet weekend in Charlotte with his
family.

Phi Delta Theta

Brothers Rudolph, Dew, and Westall went down to Myrtle Beach to catch up on the sunshine and some other matters
we won't discuss. Brother Boykin spent a pleasant weekend in Raleigh with Libbie.

THE FIFTH COLUMNIST

The long-awaited Spring Vacation has come and gone. College life has fallen back into its rut, and we go on
our way as usual. However, the effects of the vacation have not yet died away, and it is interesting to
note the happenings of that six-day holiday. The most noteworthy thing of the whole vacation is the number of men
Dan Cupid struck down. Strong, fine young men left Davidson on April 2 to return April 10 weak and worn,
slobbering over some female who in their eyes has taken on divine form. This is love.

“DUCK” RANKIN pulled the headliner when he decided a baseball team was not enough to manage and added a wife
to his many duties. Back from his “bit of heaven,” murmuring about weddings and such. JACK WAYMAN is gazing off
into space, dreaming about Miami High School. TAD LAKIN comes back with a distinct smell of orange blossoms. JACK WESTALL
is stumbling around in a daze after having supplied a ring for the third finger, left hand. Ah, sweet mystery
of life, but let’s drop this love and turn to the other deals of the Holiday.

VOSBURGH, GATE JONES, BOB SMITH, BUDDY CARSON, JOHNNY FREDERICKS, “WEE-WEE” McGEE, CHAPMAN, etc., turned toward New York to show the
town a thing or two. Needless to say, they all came raving back, yelling about the big deals pulled and
the Brooklyn Kickapoo Juice consumed (milk to the faculty), but one look at the crowd returning, and the conclusion is
that New York took all they had (money and otherwise) and returned them dreary-eyed, but oh so wise, back to
Nawth Calina. Quote from one of the travelers: “We had a fine time; saw everything good to see in New
York.” If that were true, my lad, you wouldn’t be back in Davidson, because the really good things in New
York worth seeing are many and varied and Davidson gentlemen should not go to such places.

“BARBS” CARTER, at last off campus for a spell, headed north at the first opportunity. He stopped over in Roanoke
for a bout with Miss Primo Canero and then went to West Virginia to enjoy the beauty of the mountain
gals and the dew. The COUNCILS and crew headed toward Maryland but rumors had the “A” broken down in the
vicinity of Lynchburg—what a coincidence.

Now that we have dealt with the holidays, let us turn to the past weekend. The student body, having stayed
on the campus for three days, headed for Charlotte and eventually the Charlotte Waffle Shop. This place has rapidly been
growing in the esteem of the Davidson students and it’s not because of its food. The dope is that she
won a beauty contest. Next time you go in, look at her face for a change, even that’s good.

OWENS set some kind of record last Saturday. He’s a good man if he can look a Coca-Cola in the
eye after that. OWENS and GUS McLEAN zoomed up to Mooresville to discuss love with a waitress in the Avon.
They came back with deep thoughts, but that sounds silly even to their best friends.

Last but not least, there are repercussions from the trip some of the gents made to St. Mary’s. “MISH” WATT
seems to have found someone he thinks he can convince. Her name is Libba Thorne. Ask HARVEY CARROW who “Pemmy
Wemmy” is. It seems that the person that answers this is cutting old HARVEY clean out.

Before this paper comes to an end, the writer would like to propose the Distinguished Medal to all those boys
who went to the dance at St. Mary’s this last weekend.

NAVY ANNOUNCEMENT TO COLLEGE FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES 17-19

You want to serve your country! Why not serve where your college training will do the most good? Under the
Navy’s newest plan, you can enlist now and continue in college. If you make a good record, you may qualify
within two years to become a Naval Officer—on the sea or in the air.

Who may qualify

80,000 men per year will be accepted under this new plan. If you are between the ages of 17 and
19 inclusive and can meet Navy physical standards, you can enlist now as an Apprentice Seaman in the Naval Reserve.
You will be in the Navy. But until you have finished two calendar years, you will remain in college, taking
regular college courses under your own professors. Your studies will emphasize mathematics, physics, and physical training.

To become an Officer

After you have successfully completed 1½ calendar years of work, you will be given a written examination prepared by the
Navy. This examination is competitive. It is designed to select the best men for training as Naval Officers.

If you rank sufficiently high in the examination and can meet the physical standards, you will have your choice of
two courses—each leading to an officer’s commission:

1. You may volunteer for training as an Aviation Officer. In this case, you will be permitted to finish at
least the second calendar year of your college work, after which you will be ordered to active duty for training
to become an officer-pilot. Approximately 20,000 men a year will be accepted for Naval Aviation.

2. Or you will be selected for training as a Deck or Engineering Officer. In this case, you will be
allowed to continue your college work until you have received your degree. After graduation, you will be ordered to active
duty for training to become a Deck or Engineering Officer. Approximately 15,000 men a year will be accepted.

If you do not qualify for special officer’s training, you will be allowed to finish the second calendar year of
college, after which you will be ordered to active duty at a Naval Training Station as an Apprentice Seaman. Those
who fail to pass their college work at any time may be ordered to active duty at once as Apprentice
Seamen. Your pay starts with active duty.

Here’s a real opportunity. A chance to enlist in your country’s service now without giving up your college training... a
chance to prove by that same training that you are qualified to be an officer in the Navy.

DON’T WAIT... ACT TODAY

1. Take this announcement to the Dean of your college.
2. Or go to the nearest Navy Recruiting Station.
3. Or mail the coupon below for a FREE BOOK giving full details.

U.S. Navy Recruiting Bureau, Div. V-1, 30th Street and 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.

Please send me your free book on the Navy Officer Training plan for college freshmen and sophomores. I am a
student, a parent of a student who is ____ years old attending ____. Name: ____. College: ____. Street: ____. City
& State: ____.
