CAT CHAT By BUTCH PHARR

Page Four

Interfraternity Track

Sports highlight of the week will be the annual interfraternity track meet which ends today. The meet is usually attended “en masse” by the students who come as much for the laughs as anything else. Especially pleasing to the upperclassmen is the sight of an overconfident freshman starting out on a distance run in a cloud of dust, expecting to win in a breeze, and collapsing on the second turn. Last year’s meet was practically a dual match between the Kappa Sigs and the K.A.’s, with the former finally pulling ahead to win. That was the year freshman Bill Lacy outshone everybody on the track and practically won the meet single-handed. Naturally, the question was raised after this whether or not freshmen trackmen should be allowed to enter the meet, but to keep the frosh from deserting the team for this one meet for the sake of their fraternity, the rule was not changed. This year, the stipulations for entrance are (1) must not have scored a single point in either a freshman or varsity track meet, or for any other school as a transfer, (2) must not have scored in any pre-season track meet like the Southern Conference Tournament of a few weeks ago, and (3) must not be out for any other college sport.

Seniors Lead

Inter-class volleyball is drawing (or may have drawn by the time of publication) to a close this week with the nine old men on the Senior’s team still undefeated, and they are predicting, in spite of a few creak joints and bald heads, as of Squatty Squires, that science will win over energy. The Juniors are closely trailing the leaders with only one loss against them. They meet the Seniors again this week and may tie them for top honors if they can win this return match. The Sophomores, as seen, are fighting but still losing to every comer, although there have been a few close games.

Sports Lull

In all sports this week, there is a definite lull because the various activities have either just ended or are just beginning. The varsity golf team has been traveling regularly to Charlotte for practice on the Carolina Country Club. The qualifying rounds will be run off in a few days with acting captain Pete Cavert and Tommy Bumbarger battling it out for the number one spot. Bad weather has kept the tennis team inside, but practice will start as soon as the courts dry off. John Crichton, this year’s captain, Craig Schmidt, and Gene Sutton are expected to shine this year, though the services of last year’s captain Dick Shore will be sadly missing. Coach Shepard will journey to New Orleans next Saturday for the meeting of the National Basketball Committee, of which he is a member. This committee draws up and changes all rules in both the U.S. and Canada concerning intercollegiate basketball.

Seniors Remain On Top; Fraternity Track Next

The Seniors, with a perfect record of four wins and no defeats, lead the field in the Inter-Class Volleyball Tournament. The Seniors took the lead after defeating a scrappy Junior Nine last Friday afternoon. The teams both had perfect records and were determined to keep them, but the juniors finally bowed to the smashing fame of the seniors after each team had gained one game. This is the only blot on the junior’s records, as they have defeated the hapless sophomores 2 and the freshmen 1. The freshmen have lost to the seniors 2 and the juniors 1, but they defeated the sophomores to take third place. The sophomores have yet to break into the win column and are holding up the other three clubs. The proceedings were held up Monday due to the weather, so the fraternities and it is never wise to pick a favorite for this event. Last year the Kappa Sigs, with their one-man track team, Bill Lacy, nosed out the Kappa Alpha’s for first place in an exciting meet. Lacy, who was later a star on the freshman track team, won practically all of their points and was high point man of the meet.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY

Full Line of Hardware and Groceries
Davidson, N. C.

Cat Trackmen Open Against SC Gamecocks

With indications of a promising season in prospect, the Wildcat trackmen swing into their second week of conditioning in anticipation of the dual meet with South Carolina's Gamecocks on April 1. Brenizer, a winner in the field events, and Jack White, stellar 440 man, leave gaps which at present must be filled by the disposal of Captain Matt Little’s strong material. However, the return of seasoned veterans Captain Archie Chapel forms a sound nucleus for the current squad. Blanton Williamson, Taylor, Hill, Turnage, Nimmons, and recent winner Dick Coppege should perform capably in the hurdles, while Selk, Rufus, and John should pace the distances. Baxter Freeze, Don Spencer, Gene Shannon, and Sell, who placed in the pole vault at Carolina, lead the field events.

Sophs Outstanding

Promising products of last year’s frosh outfit should strengthen the team considerably. Bill Lacy, remembered for his superlative performance against Boyden in which he hung up thirty points, and former Woodberry Forest cinderman Dick Port should push Williamson and Taylor in the hurdles. Pat Williams, ex-McCallie athlete, is likewise a hurdler in addition to being a shot-putter. To round out the team are distance men Rufus Long and Elliott White, who figure in Coach Whittle’s plans for the upcoming meet with South Carolina's Gamecocks.Hittle announced that he plans to enter a five-man squad in the annual cross-country meet to be held in Charleston in the near future.

CAFETERIA
The exact schedule for the rest of the week will be slightly altered. The highlight will be reached on either Wednesday or Thursday when the juniors and seniors meet for their second game with the championship at stake.

Fraternity Track
The Inter-Fraternity Meet will be held Wednesday and Thursday of this week, and all indications are that it will be one of the most successful ever held. A great deal of interest has been shown by all.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 2001

Thursday and Friday, March 19 and 20
“LOUISIANA PURCHASE”
Zera Zorina

Saturday, March 21
Monday and Tuesday, March 23 and 24
“REMEMBER THE DAY”

Wednesday, March 25
“NEXT TIME WE LOVE”
Victor Moore

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Lees Sporting Goods

Thursday, March 26
“DR. KILDARE’S VICTORY”
Ayres

415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

Wildcat Sports
DAVIDSONIAN
March 19, 1942

Baseball Practice In Full Swing; Season Opens With Catawba
Rifle Squad Ends Season

With only six returning lettermen out for pre-season practice, Coach Norman Shepherd is counting on some of last season's reserves and some new candidates to form the nucleus of Davidson's baseball nine. The team will play their year’s opener in less than two weeks, meeting Catawba on March 31.

Pitchers Strong
Two of the six lettermen who are out for the team are pitchers, with Ed Lucas and Bob McLeod, both right-handers, leading the pitching staff. Left-handers Mac Morris and Paul Neisler, along with Walter Major who is up from the freshmen team, will carry the brunt of the pitching staff.

Another sophomore, Earle Bethea, has the inside track on the catching position while Paul Kissling, who was reserve catcher on last year’s team, will probably fill the same spot again this season.

Carter Leads
With Captain John Crichton, led by Carter at first base and Jim Owens at shortstop, both are lettermen and will provide experience. Red Burke and Dick Phillips are waging a hot fight for the keystone spot.

Frosh Promise
In the outfield, Sid Daffin and Jack Clarke were both awarded letters for their work last season and will probably be in the starting line-up against Catawba. Butch Caldwell, Bob Smith, Doug Horner, and Elmer Graves are the most likely candidates to fill the other outfield spot.

The Rifle Team closes its season this week with matches against the Charlotte Rifle and Pistol Club Wednesday night, and the Clemson Rifle Team Saturday afternoon. After suffering recent defeats by Clemson and Wofford, the inexperienced Davidson team is out to redeem itself in these two matches of the season.

Wofford Wins
In the match with Wofford last week, Davidson was defeated by a score of 911 to 875. The five men with the highest scores were Stubbins 180; Barber, 179; King, 178; Yokum, 172; and Keys, 170. 911 was the highest score Wofford has made this season.

Thursday and Friday of last week, the scores for the Hurst Trophy matches were fired, and led by Captain Bone, the Cats showed the way. The result of the match will be announced at a later date.

Charlotte Five Qualify
Those men who were successful in attaining positions on the team are Dave Yokum, G. Stubbins, Bob Gowdy, Nat King, and Bill Barber. The remaining members of the squad continue their battle for the other five positions.

The Rifle Team also has on its schedule this week postal matches with V. M. I, Mississippi State, U. of Dayton, U. of Detroit, U. of Florida, and the U. of Hawaii.

Tennis Drills Await Courts
Despite the current dearth of courts, Davidson netters are ready to swing into action upon the completion of local court surfacing barring practice. The Frosh should also place a strong team on the courts, with Craig Schmidt, Gene Sutton, Lyman Parrigan, Buck Archer, and Bob Shore showing the way. The GVA squad, after the loss of Sproull and Sain, will be making three professional tutoring visits per week.

Professional Coach
Jackie Byrd and Gerry Robinson are the leading contenders for honors, with several other good players to back them up.

There’s satisfaction in knowing that the 6¢ revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its bit for Uncle Sam. And, when you buy Chesterfields, you have the satisfaction of knowing you are getting a superior blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. This famous blend gives you a smoke that is definitely MILDER, far COOLER, and lots BETTER-TASTING. Make your next pack Chesterfields. You can’t buy a better cigarette.

FIRST TO FIGHT is the motto of the U. S. Marines, FIRST for a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke is Chesterfield.

SAFELY BACK from a raid or dog-fight, it's a happy landing for our air fighters when they light up and PATRIOTIC WOMEN’S ORGANIZATIONS are doing a real job on the home front in our fight for the American way of life.

Chesterfield
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.