For Victory... Buy UNITED STATES DEFENSE BONDS & STAMPS

ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI

JIM McCRARY ELECTED “Y” PRESIDENT

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1942 No. 19

McCrary Elected

Summer School Plans Announced By Fleagle

Registration To Be Held June 17; Classes Start The Same Day

Registration for summer work will begin at 8:00 A.M. on Wednesday, June 17. All classes will meet for the first period at 10:30 on the same day. No dormitory rooms will be available for summer school students until the opening day of the session, Wednesday, June 17. No dormitory rooms are available for women students, but the Director of the Summer Session will be glad to submit a list of private homes where comfortable rooms may be obtained.

Board

The College does not provide board, but this can be secured at private boarding houses at about $30 per month. Prof. F. K. Fleagle announced the following expenses: Tuition—$5 per semester hour. Room—$2.25 per week. Laundry—$0.75 per week. Health fee—$1.50 per term. Damage deposit—$3.00. A laboratory charge is made for students taking scientific courses just as in the regular session of school.

Courses

The following courses will be offered in the first term of summer school: Bible 11-12, Economics 21-22, English 11-12, English 21-22, English 41-42, German 11-12, Math 11-12, Music, Political Science 51-52, and Spanish 11-12. In addition, the following laboratory courses will be offered during the first term: Biology 31-32, Chemistry 21-22, Chemistry 31-32, Chemistry 41-42, and Physics 21-22.

Second Term

Bible 21-22, Business 31-32, Geography 51, Geography 32, German 21-22, History 11-12, History 51-52, Math 11-12, and Spanish 21-22 will be offered during the second term. Laboratory courses during the second term will be: Applied Mathematics 31, Biology 52, and Physics 82.

Courses will be offered in accordance with the regulations of the War Department.

Rules and Regulations

The same standard of work and the same college rules governing the regular session will be in effect during the summer, and the same methods of grading will be used. No course will be retained if the enrollment does not justify it. Any such course will be withdrawn.

(Continued on Page Three)

Alumni Club Has Banquet

Davidson's Alumni Club of Charlotte will hold its annual banquet at the Charlotte Hotel on Friday night at 7:00 o’clock. This banquet is the largest get-together of Davidson alumni each year, and last year’s banquet was the largest in the history of the college. Mr. George E. Wilson, who is the president of the Charlotte club, will be in charge of the arrangements which concern the members in Charlotte, with Mr. John L. Payne in charge of the details which concern the college itself. Principal speakers for this year’s banquet include Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, who will be the principal speaker of the night. Other short addresses will be presented by Mr. Payne, the alumni secretary, and Coaches Shepard and McEver. A new feature of this year’s gathering will be the extending of an invitation to the fathers of Davidson students from Charlotte and surrounding towns. It is also expected that all alumni connected with Davidson College itself will attend this year’s banquet. During the change of courses, a musical interlude, featuring students connected with Davidson's Music Department, will be presented.

College Plans Dedication Of Grey Library

Dr. A. R. Mann Will Make Dedicatory Address

Dedication of Davidson's new Hugh and Jane Grey Parks Memorial Library will be held officially on Friday afternoon, May 1, Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the college, announced this week. The chief speaker for the occasion will be Dr. A. R. Mann, Executive Secretary of the General Education Board of America, which handles the interests of the John D. Rockefeller Foundation. At that time, the college will have as its special guests Capt. James P. Grey, donor of the library, and members of his immediate family.

Portraits

It was also announced that portraits of the donor’s parents, in whose memory the library was given, have been placed in the lobby of the building within the last week, as an additional gift of Captain Grey.

Cunningham Away

At the same time, Dr. Cunningham announced that he will be in Asheville next week, holding all pre-Easter services for the churches of that city. He will speak in the city auditorium each noon, and in the First Presbyterian Church at night.

NEW MANAGING EDITORS

Above are pictured the six new managing editors of The Davidsonian elected last week by the retiring staff. First row: Mac Jeffries, Howell Morrow, and Legh Scott; second row: Jim Stimson, Dean Watson, and “Butch” Pharr, Sports Editor.

QUIPS AND CRANKS

In an interview with Julian McCall Monday, concerning this year’s annual, future plans of the publication were announced. This year’s beauty section of the yearbook has already been selected, but the selections will not be announced until the annual comes out in the late spring. Students who submitted pictures may receive the same if they will call by 21 Georgia this week. All pictures not called for will be delivered at a later date. All students who have pictures of sponsors are requested to turn them in to Julian McCall immediately. Snaps from the various social fraternities are also to be turned in as soon as possible.

Dr. Fulton Well Qualified To Speak To Student Body On Missions

Dr. C. Darby Fulton of Nashville, Tenn. will begin a series of sermons for the Davidson Student Body on March 20. He will deliver the vespers message to the students next Sunday evening. Dr. Fulton is the Executive Secretary of the Committee of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the United States; he has occupied this position since 1932.

Memphis Conference

Dr. Fulton was active at the Missionary Conference at Memphis, Tenn., a gathering which was held earlier this year. Many Davidson students attended this conference and will be interested in what Dr. Fulton has to say with reference to the work of this group. A long period of service in the foreign missions field provides this guest speaker with valuable experience upon which to base many of his remarks to the students upon this important work. He was born in Kobe, Japan, where his parents were missionaries for a period of about fifty years.

Education

His early life was spent in Japan until about fourteen years of age, at which time he returned to the United States for his education. He attended the following institutions and received degrees as specified: Presbyterian College—Clinton, South Carolina, A.B., 1911; University of South Carolina, A.A., 1914; Columbia Theological Seminary, B.D., 1915; Princeton Theological Seminary, S.T.B., 1916; Presbyterian College, D.D., 1924.

In 1917 he returned to Japan and served until 1925 when he was called to serve as one of the Secretaries of the Executive Committee.

Before returning to take up his work in this country he visited the other fields in the Far East, spending several months in Korea and China. In 1932 he became Executive Secretary, and besides his visit to the Orient in 1925, he spent several months in 1935 studying the work in Brazil, and made another brief trip to the Orient in 1937 just in time for a first-hand study of the difficulties beginning in Korea. An authority on foreign missions work, Dr. Fulton has remarked as follows: “Dr. Fulton’s birth in Japan, his association from childhood with the Japanese people, his travels in other countries of the Far East, and his present position as Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church, together with his rare gifts of personality and eloquence, combine to make him a strikingly effective speaker on mission themes.”

VOICE RECITAL

In a half-hour musicale Sunday afternoon, the following program of voice recital will be given:

None But the Lonely Heart - Tchaikowsky
O Du Mein Holder Abendstern - Wagner
David Trimble

ROTC To Be Inspected

Col. A. H. Cummings Reviews Unit May 7-8

It has been announced by the R.O.T.C. department that Lieutenant Colonel A. H. Cummings will inspect the unit on May 7-8. Colonel J. A. McAndrew will inspect the North Carolina State unit on May 4-5.

Lieutenant Colonel Cummings was born in California, and served as a First Lieutenant in the World War. He was promoted to his present position on August 18, 1940. He comes to us from Presbyterian College at Clinton, South Carolina, where he is the professor of Military Science and Tactics.

Senior Inspection

At this regular three-day spring inspection, the seniors will be quizzed on the Rifle Company, the Heavy Weapons Company, the Anti-Tank Company, the Defense Gun Platoon, and the Anti-aircraft Artillery Platoon. The juniors will be inspected on the Rifle Platoon, Photograph Reading, the Machine Gun Company, the Anti-Tank Company, and the Company Squads. The sophomores will be inspected on the Automatic Rifle, Musketry, Scouting and Patrolling, and the Rifle Squad. The freshmen subjects will be the rifle, Military Sanitation and First Aid, and Map Reading.

Parade

The inspection willbe climaxed by a formal parade. Davidson has excelled since 1928, and all members of the staff hope that we received a rating this inspection can keep this record up this year.

Two Debate In “Phi” Hall

Last Week a debating team composed of Davidson's Jim McCrary and Jesse Wooten met a girl's team from William and Mary. The debate was held in Phi Hall on the question, “Resolved that all men between the ages of 18 and 21 should have one year of military training.” The William and Mary team was composed of Miss Virginia Sternes, Lord God-of-Abraham (Elijah) of Petersburg, Virginia, and Miss Marjorie Henderson, of Winter Haven, Florida. These two students are on a tour of the South. Jim McCrary and Jesse Wooten defended the negative side of the question, the William and Mary team upholding the affirmative. The Davidson teams, on their northern trip during Spring holidays, will meet this same team in a return debate. This debate last week was non-decisional.

Model A Aids YMCA Work Tremendously

Smith And Other “Y” Leaders Purchase Car

By HOWELL MORROW

And lo, there was heard a mighty noise, and the air was filled with the tumult thereof, and the men of the hill country of Mecklenburg lifted up their eyes and behold, there appeared before them a chariot driven by one named Jimmy Fulcher. He drove it heavily and with great confusion, so that the people said one to another, Let us flee from the face of him for surely the vehicle which carrieth him is possessed with demons.

The car ceased its noise, and the wheels stopped before the portals of the YMCA building of Davidson College. And, straightway, Shaw Smith, a leader of the Y, and some other rulers of the organization took counsel together. And Jimmy Fulcher went unto them and spake saying, What are ye willing to give me, that I will deliver it unto you? And they weighed unto him sixty pieces of silver; and from that time “Religion” has served the YMCA of Davidson College.

1931 Model

“Religion” was born back in 1931, of a substantial old Ford family, and before last August, the history of the sedan is almost unknown. If she could only speak English (her language is very loud yet not understandable), she could perhaps tell stories of some of the experiences she witnessed before coming under the strict and devout care of the YMCA. She must have dimmed her lights and hissed with shame upon seeing any evil, because “Religion” was predestined to lead a righteous life of service. Jimmy Fulcher bought this car for $70 from the Used Car Company of Newport News, Va, while working in the shipyards there. Upon arriving at Davidson, this Victoria Sport Sedan was purchased by the Davidson YMCA and has since been used for Young People’s Work, colored work, Boy Scout work, and more.

Dr. McCain Discusses Fraternity’s Problems

Speaker Departs from Tradition Of Formal Address

Dr. McCain, President of Agnes Scott College, departed from the usual custom of delivering a formal address at the Phi Beta Kappa banquet held Friday evening, March 13, in the Chambers Building. Instead of the traditional oration, Dr. McCain gave an informal discussion of some of the important problems facing the Senate of this national fraternity. Those attending this banquet fell into three groups. Many interested alumni of Davidson attended as well as the members of the fraternity chapter. The third group was twenty-three Freshmen whose grades were above average.

Three specific problems listed by Dr. McCain formed the center of the discussion he gave in his talk. These three points were the following: First, the selection of colleges in which to establish new chapters. Second, what the fraternity can do to promote liberal arts colleges. Third, planning for the future peace of the world. Dr. Cunningham introduced the speaker, Dr. McCain, to those present at the banquet. Dr. McGavock, president of the Davidson chapter, presided at the banquet and gave the address of welcome. One member of each of the groups present replied to the address of welcome given by Dr. McGavock. These following men made the replies: President of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Blakely, president of Queens College, answered for the alumni. Dr. Winn responded for the members of the chapter while a Freshman replied for the Freshmen.

President Of YMCA For 1942-43

Alf Taylor Becomes First Vice-President

“Y” President

Lacy MacLean Led Other Candidates For J. P. McCRARY

Magazine To Appear Soon

Scripts ’n’ Pranks Comes Out Next Week

Davidsonian Editorship

Jim McCrary, of Lonoke, Arkansas, was elected president of the YMCA in the final balloting yesterday over Jesse Wooten of Memphis, Tennessee. McCrary is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and has participated in debating and freshman football as well as his work in the YMCA program.

BULLETIN—Alf Taylor, sophomore from Nashville, Tenn. was elected on the second ballot to the first vice-presidency of the YMCA. The run-off for the second position gave the decision to Watson, Phi Delta Theta. He opposed Tommy Bumbarger, Pi Kappa Phi, in the final voting yesterday.

Lacy MacLean led the other candidates for The Davidsonian editorship election in the first ballot yesterday. The other candidates were Jimmy Fulcher, Ed Erwin, and Joe Eve. Scripts ’n’ Pranks will come out in its third issue of the year at the first of next week. This number contains many special features outside of the usual stories. John Northcross is the artist who drew the cover picture of the magazine. Other drawings are several cartoons by Beall Rodgers and cartoons from the Yale Record and The Harvard Lampoon.

The literary works for this issue are many in number and variety. Ed Erwin is the author of a short story, “Truck Ride.” Freshman etiquette is the subject of an essay by Jim White, and Myron Sandifer wrote on National Defense at Davidson. “Education, Common and Preferred” by Dr. Trout is another piece. Various opinions on Davidson faculty and students are included. A poem by Arch Taylor titled “Shoot or Be Shot.”

PHI MU ALPHA PROGRAM

Concerto in A Major - Mozart
Allegro aperto
Adagio
Rondo—Tempo di Minuetto

Concerto in D Major - Tchaikovsky
Allegro moderato

Intermission

Ave Maria - Schubert-Wilhelmj
Minstrels - Debussy
After a Dream - Faure
March—From “Love for Three Oranges” - Prokofiev-Heifetz
Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso - Saint-Saëns

SIGMA UPSILON

Sigma Upsilon, the honorary literary fraternity, held a regular meeting in the Phi Gamma Delta House at 9 o'clock last Tuesday evening, March 17. Four members of the society took part in the program by presenting a number of various literary works. Professor Davidson read a poem which he has recently composed. Bill Lyman read an original essay to the group. Another chapter was added to “J. Lysander Mallory,” the fraternity's epic, by Dr. Johnston. The final number on the program was a play which was presented by Pat Rudolph.

Music Groups Give Concert

Glee Club, Little Symphony Perform At Salem

Davidson’s Glee Club and the Davidson Little Symphony performed at Salem College in Memorial Hall last Saturday. The program consisted of a group of numbers by the orchestra, a serenade from Don Giovanni, sung by Mr. Earle Berg and accompanied by the orchestra, and Sonata for Organ and Orchestra with Mr. Ken Osborne at the organ.

Glee Club Numbers

Numbers by the Glee Club included the following: “Crucifixus” by Lotti, “Salvation Belongs to Our God” by Tchesnokov, “Oh, Holy Father” by Palestrina, “Hushaby,” “Battle of Jericho,” and “Dance My Comrades.” The orchestra played Schubert's Symphony No. 5, "The Emperor Waltzes” of Strauss, and closed the program with “The Star-Spangled Banner” while the Glee Club sang.

The Women’s Chorus of W. C. under the direction of Mr. Vassar joined with the Davidson Glee Club in presenting a program at Thomasville Sunday night.