| PORT SURVEY By BUTCH PHARR Page Four Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 23, 1942

Sports and War

In an earlier column, attention was called to the changes that were taking place throughout the country in the sporting world—because of the war. Large universities are completely dropping major sports from their schedules, professional teams are being ruined by men enlisting and being drafted into the army, traditional contests that have thrilled the public for years are being postponed for the duration, and to top all of the confusion, some people are demanding the total discontinuance of athletics for various and seemingly senseless reasons.

Should there be a discontinuance of sports during the war? This question is answered by that narrow-minded group with an emphatic, yes! They claim that a nation in war should have no time to be either engaging in or watching sports events, and that the people should be constantly aware of their danger and continuously working with this in mind, without any distraction from their work by such useless pastimes as a sport of any kind.

What would America be without sports? Of all times for a high standard of sportsmanship and fighting competition to be maintained, now seems the best. There is no better way to be trained to give a fight to win and lose, to fight and be fought, than through sports. American youth should be preserved during the war and after.

Class Softball

With only one game to play, the Seniors and Juniors were in a deadlock Monday for the lead in the Inter-Class Softball Tournament. Both teams have won four games with only one loss against them. The Seniors lost their first game to the Freshmen, but came back in the return encounter to down them easily and have not lost since. The Juniors lost their one game to the Seniors in a ten-inning game, yet beat the Frosh easily both times which adds to the confusion. The Sophomores, as usual, are behind with no wins, but manage to give each team a hard fight. The Juniors and Seniors barely eked out wins against them, both winning by only a one-run margin.

Fraternity softball is next in the schedule and it looks like the K.A.’s will be the team to beat. They have in David Thomas one of the best pitchers in the league, with a pretty good infield to back him up. The Kappa Sigs are expected to give them a tough battle with a well-rounded team, and “the Madame” Marsh on the mound. The S.P.E.’s, Phi Gams, and Pikas should be close behind and may take the lead from the favored two.

Cats Beat Wofford

Wofford’s nine was really set back on their heels when the Cats cut loose on them in the game here Monday. Davidson finally succeeded in knocking a pitcher out of the box, having a big inning in which they counted eight runs. Featured was Dave Maloney’s home run—a blow making the center fielder cut off a 220-yard dash along the track to the far end of the stadium. Lefty Paul Neisler looked good in the win, having Wofford well in hand during the entire game.

Juniors And Seniors Leading In Softball; Frats To Play Next

Two Upper Classes Lead With Only One Game To Play. Sophomores Last With No Wins

With Thomas and Taylor as individual stars, they have played several close games, but lack that final winning punch. With the inter-class tournament ending this week, frat ball men could get underway early next week. The Juniors took the championship last year but lost many valuable men to graduation, which should leave the K.A.’s, Kappa Sigs, and the S.P.E.’s as the three favored teams because of their hot pitching staffs.

Jack Clark, left fielder for the Wildcats, is shown sliding into third in the Duke game, which the Blue Devils won, 9-3. Clark was the leading hitter in the Cats game with Wofford College, collecting four hits for five times at bat, while Davidson was winning 12-6.

SPORTS SCHEDULE

FRIDAY
Baseball: Varsity vs. Wofford, away.

SATURDAY
Baseball: Varsity vs. Morris Field, away.
Frosh vs. Albemarle, home.
Track: Frosh vs. Belmont Abbey, home.

TUESDAY
Golf: Varsity vs. North Carolina, away.
Frosh vs. Albemarle, home.
Track: Varsity vs. Presbyterian, away.
Frosh vs. P.-C. Frosh, away.

Frosh Team Wins Match

By capturing the last doubles match of the evening, the Kitten TCHS ICANT LOT got off to a precious start when they downed a determined team. Matches as Byrd, Robinson, Davis, and Ranson won. The Cadets rallied to take the remaining singles, and Ranson won. Lier and Sutton defeated Henderson in straight sets.

Davis and Henderson Win

After matches to knot up the count, Davis and Henderson took the number three doubles to break the deadlock. The chores by Madame Marsh and the “phiffle” ball of Al Winn. Marsh at third and Charlie Watt at short have been outstanding. The Juniors received some excellent twirling from Jack Wayman and Bill “General” Wood. Wayman, along with outfielder Burkhead Walker, has been leading power at the plate for the Juniors all season, and they may be the team to ruin the Seniors' perfect year.

The Freshmen have a well-balanced club with no really outstanding stars. Jake Alexander, though a little wild, has proven himself a capable moundsman and has done most of the pitching for the Frosh. They split their two-game series with the Seniors, bowing the Seniors in the first game but coming back strong in the second.

BRIAN DONLEVY
BUD ABBOT
Wednesday to Thursday, April 23
“THE REMARKABLE ANDREW”
WILLIAM HOLDEN

Friday and Saturday, April 24 and 25
“RIDE ’EM COWBOY”

Monday and Tuesday, April 27 and 28
“THE MALE ANIMAL”
HENRY FONDA

“ROBBERS OF THE RANGE”
ELLEN DREW
LONCOSTELLO — April 29

Juniors in both of their games, and defeated the Sophomores in their encounter. The infield, composed of Little, Hill, Starnes, Jackson, and Shaw, has played excellent ball afield.

Thursday and Friday, April 30 and May 1
JOHN PAYNE
MAUREEN O'HARA
RANDOLPH SCOTT
“TO THE SHORES OF TRIPOLI”

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Phone 2001
Davidson, N. C.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

Determined court outfit from Oak Ridge Military Institute, 5-4 Monday

Cadets Rally
The Kits swept the first four

Pete Cavert Leads Team With 157 In Qualifying Round. Bumbarger Shoots 165

Although failing to cop either the individual or team title, the Davidson Wildcats nevertheless succeeded in taking sixth place in team competition at the Southern Intercollegiate Golf Tourney held in Athens, Ga., on April 15-18.

Cavert Hot
Captain Pete Cavert, whose 77-80 missed the championship flight by only two strokes, paced the Davidson linkmen in qualifying. In second position was Tommy Bumbarger with rounds of 83-82 for a total of 165. Following close behind the two pace-setters were Charlie Upchurch and Frank Mebane, who toured the links in 84-82 for 166.

Blum Leads
Arnold Blum, University of Georgia’s number one man who scored a scintillating 62 in the earlier match this spring, led the qualifiers, while Grover Poole, a junior who repeated his 1941 triumph, won the individual title after three days of gruelling match play.

L. S. U. Wins
The Tigers from Louisiana State University captured team honors in the star-studded field that featured representatives from twelve leading southern institutions. L. S. U.’s outfit smashed the old record by clipping five strokes off par.

Fast Field
Davidson's showing was all the more creditable in view of the fact that the competition was even keener than the fast pace set at the National Intercollegiate Tourney held last year in Columbus, Ohio. A thirty-six hole total of 455 was necessary for qualification in the Athens event, while 158 was good enough at the Nationals last summer.

Davidson Nine Defeats Wofford College Team In Game Here Monday

Varsity Track Team Scores Two Victories
In the last two meets, the Davidson track team has racked up victories over Presbyterian College, 66-60, and over Furman, 95-31. Both meets were away from home, the one with Furman on Thursday at Greenville, with Presbyterian at Clinton Saturday.

Taylor High Man
Placing first in all but two of the events against Furman, the Wildcats rolled up a count that was never even threatened by the hurricanes. Furman managed to take firsts in only the javelin throw and in the shot put. Arch Taylor was high point man for the meet with ten points coming from firsts in both high and low hurdles. Ben Lacy was second with nine points, followed by John Belk with eight, and Port and Bill Lacy with six points each. Other Davidson men gaining first were Bill Loy in the 440, Shannon in the pole vault, Tervel in the discus, Spencer in the broad jump, and Parks in the two-mile run.

P. C. Meet Close
With the results not decided until the last event, the meet was a different story with Presbyterian at Clinton, with the Cats finally winning by only six points. Taylor and Ben Lacy tied with Aiken of Presbyterian for high point men with two first places each. Taylor winning again in the highs and lows, with Lacy taking firsts in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Shannon and Loy continued their winning ways, taking first in the pole-vault and 440-yard run respectively. Shannon cleared the bar at eleven-six during this meet.

Paul Niesler Holds Wofford To Six Runs As Cats Gain Their First Win
Paul Niesler pitched the Wildcats to their first win of the season, 12-6, over Wofford College on Richardson Field last Monday.

Eight Runs In Sixth
Coming from behind in the middle of the game, the Cats scored eight runs in the sixth inning to obtain a lead that was never overcome. Lefthander Paul Niesler lasted the whole game, which is quite a feat in itself.

Clark Leads
Jack Clark was the leading hitter for the day, getting four hits out of five trips to the plate. Shortstop Jim Owens got three hits as did Dave Maloney, who got a home run and a double out of his three. Maloney’s homer came in the big sixth inning with two men on bases. The clout carried to the far end of the stadium and Maloney easily scored standing up.

Starting for the Wildcats were Paul Niesler, pitcher; Red Bethea, catcher; Bob Carter, first base; Dick Phillips, second base; Jim Owens, shortstop; Dave Maloney, third; Johnny Frederick, right field; Sid Daffin, center field; and Jack Clark, left field.

Carolina Tuesday
The varsity has a game with Morris Field away next Saturday, and one with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Tuesday. They do not play another home game until May sixth when they meet Guilford College here.

Frosh Lose
The Freshmen lost to Oak Ridge Military Institute in a game here last Saturday in which half of the Cadets’ runs were unearned. The Frosh used practically everything they had in the way of pitchers, even taking Tommy Peters from the outfield to try to stop the attack.

Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

SPRING SINGLE
The Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College Presents
1—Fri., April 24—10-2—Johnny Satterfield and His Orchestra
2—Sat., April 25—4-6—Johnny Satterfield and His Orchestra
2—Sat., April 25—8-12—Johnny Satterfield and His Orchestra
CHARLOTTE ARMORY

PRICES
Set Ticket, $5.75
Friday, April 24, 1942—10 P. M.-2 A. M.—$2.75
Saturday, April 25, 1942—4 P. M.-6 P. M.—$1.10
Saturday, April 25, 1942—8 P. M.-12 M.—$3.25

FROLICS TICKETS

Large selection of COOL SUMMER Slacks for your choosing! Solids, stripes, and checks in wide variety of color and materials including a group of all-wool models. An especially attractive selection in plain colors, checks, and herringbones.

Marion Davis Co.
118 SOUTH TRYON STREET
In Charlotte...

WESTMINSTER
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, N. C.

“THE CAROLINAS' LARGEST HOTEL”
THE HOTEL CHARLOTTE
Headquarters for Davidson and their friends.
A. L. BLAND, President and General Manager