Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 26, 1942

Intra-Mural Activities Slows To Standstill

With the interfrat basketball tourney drawing to a slow close, activity on the intra-mural front died from want of competition
during the past week. E.’s take top honors with the K. A.’s locked in a tie with the Pi Kaps
for running up honors. The close of the cage tournament saw the S. P. Due to the close of the
local bowling alley, ten pins will not figure in the competition this year, and exactly when the next scheduled sport
will start has not been decided. Either volleyball or badminton is the next scheduled event.

First Team
Bill Loy, SPE
Adolph Larson, Phi Gam
Cam Wilson, KA
Dick Miller, SPE
Crichton, SAE
Glenn Terrell, Phi Delt
Burkhead Walker, Beta
Davis Thomas, KA
Bill Pitchard, Pika
Ed Murray, Pi Kaps

Wilbur Carter, junior 175 pounder, has been a consistent point winner for the grunt and groan artists lately after getting
off to a rather slow start. Carter, with undefeated Hipp, has been the only Wildcat to win in the last
two matches. Most of Davidson's entrants in the Southern Conference Indoor Games boast hurdling among their accomplishments. The quintet shown
here are, reading from left to right, Bill Lacy, Arch Taylor, High Sprunt, Dick Port, and Blanton Williamson. The only
trackman not pictured who will make the trip is Gene Shannon, pole vault entry.

SCHEDULE
Thursday: Basketball vs. Furman, there.
Friday: Wrestling—Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro.
Saturday: Basketball vs. Norfolk Naval Base, here at 8:15.
Wrestling Conference Tourney in Greensboro.
Indoor Conference Tournament in Chapel Hill.
Track—Southern.

Long John Track Team Enters Meet At Chapel Hill

Davidson's indoor track team, composed of the five young men who spend their afternoons running through the halls of Chambers
because of the lack of the necessary gym facilities, will journey to Chapel Hill this weekend to compete in the
Southern Conference indoor track and field games. The Wildcat squad this year is composed of three lettermen, Blanton Williamson, Gene
Shannon, and Arch Taylor; and promising sophomores, Bill Lacy and Dick Port. These Cats will find plenty of competition on
The Hill. About 300 athletes and 30 teams have already filed entries, with many institutions still to be heard from.
The entry list is expected to be even larger than that of last year.

Many Filed

Many of the Southern Conference teams have already filed their entries, with Carolina and Duke presenting the strongest outfits. Maryland
has also entered a well-rounded squad and may prove the dark horse entry of the meet. Carolina is given a
slight edge as favorite over their close rivals from Durham.

Many of last year’s champions have already filed entries for this year’s meet. Some of the champions who will defend
their titles are Steve Lach of Duke, shot-put; Werner Brown of Duke, 440-yard run; Carolina's one-mile relay team and Mike
Mangum in the 70-yard high hurdles; Clemson’s Ralph Fennell, pole vault; and Virginia's Ned Campbell, 60-yard dash.

Non-Conference Entries

A good many non-conference teams have filed entries in the meet, with Navy, as defending champion, favored to repeat. Catholic
University and Virginia Tech will also enter strong units.

Last Indoor Meet

This will be the last indoor meet of the season for the Davidson team and unless something unforeseen turns up,
Coach Pete Whittle will begin regular track practice next week. The first outdoor meet is scheduled for early in April,
and prospects are bright for a very successful season.

Injury Riddled Matmen Face South’s Pick In Greensboro’s Southern Conference Tourney

Varsity Closes Season In Home Game Saturday

With a string of four straight wins behind them, the Davidson basketball squad will wind up its 1942 cage season
with the Norfolk Navy Base at home Saturday. The Cats have four more games on their schedule with only one
of the contests scheduled away from home. After dropping the opening game of a short two-day road trip to Charleston,
the Cats came back to win four straight during the last week. College of Charleston nosed out the Cats 33
to 29, but on the following night, Davidson trounced the Citadel in an overtime period, 32-30. Then the Cats returned
home to hand out lickings to The Citadel in a return match, Furman, and Wofford. The win over Furman, which
also was in an overtime period, was especially sweet to Coach Shepherd's boys since it dropped Furman from the first
eight teams in the conference, thereby eliminating them from the tournament.

Wayman Hot

Jack Wayman was the big man in the Cats' triumph over the Citadel at Davidson when he paced the squad
with eight field goals to rack up 16 points. Two days later John Belk led the Cats in their 34-29
win over the Purple Hurricane from Furman with 11 points. In their final game of the week, Davidson again defeated
Wofford College, this time by a 49 to 35 margin. George Marsh led the Cats with 14 markers.

Furman Tonight

The varsity five played the South Carolina Gamecocks in theDavidson gym last Tuesday night, and journeyed to Furman today to
take on the Purple Hurricanes at night. The Cats took the measure of this fast-moving squad in a close game
last week, but they may find it a little tougher sailing on the Hurricanes' own court. In the last game
of the season, the Cats will meet a team from the Norfolk Naval Base in a return game at Davidson
this Saturday.

Moundsmen Limber Up

Very soon, probably the first of next week, Coach Norman Shepard will give the initial call for the candidates for
the 1942 Wildcat baseball nine. The prospects are bright for a good season with many veterans returning from the 1941
club. Already underway is the drill for the mound staff, which began practice some three weeks ago in the gym.
Among those “loosening up” are Mac Morris and Jack Davis. Expected to report as soon as basketball and spring football
practice is over are pitchers Ed Lucas, Bob McLeod, and Smokey Joe McLesky, and catchers Earle Bethea and Tom Burke.
A great loss will be that of Rusty Edmondson, catcher of last year, who was graduated.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

At the Student Store
Deluxe Ice Cream

FARM FOR SALE
50 Acres: 10 Miles from Davidson
In Vicinity of Croft
25 Under Cultivation
25 Wooded
ELECTRICITY — WATER!
For Further Information Apply To:
George Tate
15 Georgia Dormitory

Whites Shade Reds For Win

After having suffered two consecutive defeats, a scrappy White eleven rallied to turn back the Reds by the narrow margin
of 7 to 6 in the third practice tilt of Spring training, which is now entering its final stages.

For the entire first half, stellar line play prevented the offensive fireworks which have marked the preceding games, although one
Red drive died out on their opponents' five, and a determined White march terminated on the twenty. Particularly outstanding for
the Whites was the defensive work of Lou Bibb and Herb Rainey, while Alf Taylor and B. F. Moore paced
the Reds.

Coming back after the half, the Whites succeeded in pushing over a score, as Buck Williams rammed over from the
four for six points. Bill Turner, chunky guard, split the uprights with a placement. During the period, Arthur Roach engineered
a drive to the Whites' thirty-five yard line. In one of the game's most brilliant plays, Roach slipped off-tackle and
threaded through the secondary to score standing up. Frederick’s attempted conversion was wide, leaving the count at 7-6.

A desperate White aerial was intercepted by Fredricks in the waning moments of the game and carried down to the
Whites' twenty-five yard line.

Punchy Cats Enter Tourney Tomorrow And Saturday—W. & L. Favored

Davidson's crippled wrestlers, undaunted by last week’s heart-breaking loss to Carolina, attempt to whip themselves into the best possible shape
for a weekend of matdom’s stiffest competition in the Southern Conference Tournament Friday and Saturday in Greensboro.

Carolina gave the Wildcats a decisive lacing in Saturday’s match, thereby winning the state championship, but the difference between the
two teams was far from that indicated by the 24-6 score. Probably the sharpest effect due to physical mishap resulted
from the loss of B. B. Turnage, 165-pounder, but the entire squad was hindered by injuries of varying importance.

Injuries Hurt

Now they are in even worse shape. Back strains slow down and hamper George Councill, R. L. Brinson, and Captain
Ed Hipp. Ashby Dick is definitely out with the same injury and some bunged-up ribs. Dick Coppedge is still troubled
by his strained shoulder. Turnage has not yet recovered from the effects of flu, an infected mat burn, and pink
eye. The plague couldn't have come at a more disastrous time.

Still Hope

Still, Coach Charlie Parker hasn't given up on his charges, and he and Buzzie Council are patching up the team
as well as possible. Hipp, Turnage, Carter, Brinson, and Councill are conceded the best chance of grabbing a share of
honors in what should be the toughest conference tourney in history. W. & L., V. M. I., and Carolina entries,
along with the Red and Black, fill each weight four deep with championship material.

Team Named

Barring further luckless happenings, the following aggregation should represent Davidson: Hipp, Carter, Turnage, Simmons, Brinson, Councill, Coppedge, and Stroup, in
descending order from the unlimited division down to the 121 class. Warning not to expect a pennant, the local grapplers
promise to make a meritorious showing and do their darndest to bring home the bacon.

Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

Thursday and Friday, February 26 and 27
Errol Flynn, Olivia DeHaviland
“They Died With Their Boots On”

Saturday, February 28
Cary Grant, Joan Fontaine
“YANK ON BURMA”

Monday and Tuesday, March 2 and 3
“SUSPICIOUS”

Wednesday, March 4
“MELODY LANE”

Thursday, March 5
“MR. AND MRS. NORTH”

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
