LYMAN ELECTED MAGAZINE EDITOR

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXIX. X-528 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1942 No. 22

Bill Lyman Will Serve As Editor-In-Chief Of Scripts ’n Pranks

Lyman Defeats Chapman In Final Ballot For Editorship Of Magazine

In the final ballot held last Friday for the Editorship of the Davidson campus magazine, “Scripts ’n Pranks," Bill Lyman
of the rising Senior class was elected. Other candidates for this office, having served on the editorial staff of the
magazine for three years, were Jim White, Calhoun Hipp, Jim Chapman, and Harry Allen.

Activities

Lyman is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Social fraternity. His home is in Birmingham, Alabama. Since last year
he has been a member of the Honorary French Fraternity, Le Cercle, and he is also a member of Sigma
Upsilon, Honorary Literary fraternity. In the last part of his sophomore year and in his Junior year Lyman served on
the Editorial staff of The Davidsonian, having been one of the managing editors. He is also a member of the
Eumanean Literary Society.

Chapman

Running against Bill Lyman in the final ballot and runner-up for this office was Jim Chapman. Chapman is a member
of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and is from Spartanburg, South Carolina. He was on the Editorial staff of
The Davidsonian last year and this year was Fashions Editor of the “Scripts ’n Pranks.”

Dedication Of New Library To Be May 1

Dr. A. R. Mann To Deliver Main Address

In the early afternoon of May 1, the formal dedication of the new Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial
Library will take place. Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, will preside. The library, which is considered one
of the most modern in the South, was only recently finished and put in use. The need for a new
library was seen by its donor, Capt. James Parks Grey, several years ago, and the present building is the realization
of his dreams.

Program

The invocation will be delivered by Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, professor of Philosophy and Bible. Davidson College will acknowledge the
greetings from colleges and universities throughout the South. This event will be followed by music presented by the Glee Club.
The books in which the student body and friends of the college signed will be presented by Mr. F. L.
Jackson, Treasurer of Davidson College. This book is a slight token of the appreciation for the new library.

Principal Speaker

Following the presentation of the “Thank-You” book, the principal address of the evening will be delivered by Dr. A. R.
Mann, Vice-President and Director of the General Education Board. Dr. Mann has held this office since 1937. From 1931-1937, he
was dean of the New York College of Home Economics at Cornell University. The new library was put into use
last fall. The moving of the books to this library by the students was considered by many one of the
most spectacular events of the year. The moving was done by forming two lines of students extending from the old
library to the new and passing the volumes.

NEW PRESIDENT

Sam Hay of Hickory, N. C., was elected president of the Rising Sophomore Class, and Sam Yarbrough of Albany, Ga.,
was chosen Secretary in the final voting on Wednesday before the Spring Holidays. Hay defeated Abie Short of High Point,
and Yarbrough won over Tom Little of Macon, Georgia.

Kissling Ends “Y” Service Here Tonight

Six Services And Interviews Feature Florida Pastor’s Visit

Davidson's Spring Services, sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. and led by Dr. Albert J. Kissling, end with the
final meeting here tonight.

Dr. Kissling arrived at Davidson on Monday afternoon in order to conduct these services which began last Tuesday at chapel.

Interview

The main purpose of these meetings was given in an interview with Dr. Kissling on his arrival. He stated, “The
spiritual life of any institution cannot be handed on from generation to generation, but must be created anew by each
succeeding group. The religion of our fathers, no matter how good, is not enough for their sons unless it has
set new flames of burning loyalty in their hearts. These meetings are for the purpose of creating new flames of
devotion in the sons of Davidson. There is much darkness in the land. It is the time for us to
flame the more brilliantly for our faith, and this can only be achieved as each man relights the torch of
faith in his own life.”

Pastor

At present, Dr. Kissling is pastor of the Riverside Presbyterian Church in Jacksonville, Fla., and since he has been located
there, he has been guest minister at many of the colleges of that state. He was born in Nashville, Tenn.,
in 1901. He attended Westminster College, Missouri, and later the Union Theological Seminary where he was a Johnson Fellow in
Theology. He also studied at the University of Tubingen in Berlin and at Edinburgh University in Edinburgh. After finishing his
studies at Edinburgh, he was stated supply to Wardie Kirk in that city. Later, he was offered the leadership of
this church but declined the invitation in order to return to The United States, where he has served for the
last ten years. In 1941, Davidson College conferred the degree of Doctor of Divinity on Dr. Kissling. At present, his
brother, Paul, is a member of the Davidson student body.

Angel To Give Recital May 10

Postponed Concert By Singer On Music Series

Wilson Angel, baritone, will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium on May 4 as a part of the regular Phi
Mu Alpha concert series. Mr. Wilson was scheduled to give his concert here earlier in the year, but he was
forced to postpone the engagement until May.

Officers

Phi Mu Alpha recently held its elections for officers for the coming year. Six positions were filled by duly elected
students for the 42-43 scholastic year. The new President is Craig Smidt. Fred Speas was chosen to serve under Smidt
as Vice-President of the fraternity. Harry Allen was chosen as Secretary, Joe Barnwell will hold the position of Treasurer, Bill
Robin-

Editor

BILL LYMAN.

R.O.T.C. Units Will Compete For Two Cups

Military Faculty Will Judge Competition At Friday’s Parade

Davidson's R.O.T.C. battalion will have its annual competitive drill between companies and platoons selected from each company tomorrow in the
college stadium on Richardson Field. The best-drilled private in the freshmen class will also be selected. The military faculty of
Davidson will judge the competition this year, since outside officers are not available at the present time. A custom of
long standing will be broken since judges will not be called from the outside.

Judges

The judges are Col. J. A. MacAndrew, P. M. S. & T., Major D. G. Wilson, Capt. E. E. Marsh,
and 2nd Lieut. S. R. Spencer. The staff invites all of the townspeople as guests for the special military drill.
A cup will be awarded, and the best-drilled private in the freshman class will receive a medal. The company captains
are Capt. Pat Rudolph, Company A; Capt. Jim Owens, Company B; Capt. David Rhea, Company C; Capt. Glen Terrell, Company
D; and Capt. Ralph Williams, Company E. Company C, with Capt. Vernon Youngblood as leader, won the company competition last
year. Lieut. Jay Bolin’s platoon from Company B won the platoon competition. Tom Milliken won the freshmen individual competition.

Music Camp Annual School To Take Place June 22-July 26

This summer at Davidson the seventh annual Music School Camp will be held from June 22 to July 26. This
camp will be conducted by the Davidson Department of Music under Mr. James Christian Pfohl. Students between the ages of
ten and eighteen will be taken, and they will be organized into working groups according to their age and musical
experience. Mr. Pfohl plans to have various ensemble groups as well as a band, orchestra, and chorus.

Formal Concerts

Many of the formal concerts will be held outdoors, or in the auditorium of Chambers. The Davidson College buildings, athletic
fields, and campus provide adequate equipment for a music school featuring a camp program. One of the most entertaining features
will be the informal campfires, with stunts and impromptu music which will alternate with

Waffle Shop Beauty Gives Life History

Student’s Current “Heart Throb” Tells All To “Davidsonian” Reporter

By DEANE WALTON

On Trade Street near the Union Station and only a stone's throw from that familiar place worn smooth by hosts
of Davidson students for nearly half a century, the bumming corner, is a tidy, modernistic little cafe that proclaims itself
in neon letters a foot tall to be the Charlotte Waffle Shop. In the last few months this little shop
for a very definite reason has become almost as popular and as frequented as that optimist’s corner for returning Davidsonians.
It is not the food served there, nor is it the drink, though both are satisfactory. It is something which
appeals to a husky youngster much more than these two necessities of life. In fact, it is something which appeals
to any husky youngster from eight to eighty. In short, it is a beautiful girl known to many as “Priscilla
of the Waffle Shop.”

Full Name

Priscilla is nineteen years old and has been in Charlotte for almost two years. Though everyone knows her first name,
only Shaw Smith and a few others know that her full name is Priscilla Mullen. She came from a little
town about 45 miles northwest of Charlotte which bears the name Maiden. When she left her home some two years
ago, she was already well known to the younger set, having been acclaimed the most beautiful girl in town for
two consecutive years, and though she would not admit as much, on seeing her, few would doubt that she left
many pretty broken hearts in the little city.

Age

Contrary to the Priscilla age-giving it past the “never been kissed” stage, she does stillDoesn't it seem unbelievable that they
could see flashes at the first? Wolves are apprehended in the Waffle Shop long before they begin to howl. Miss
Mullen has that low soothing voice that, although never loud, seems to brush aside all other sounds and make itself
heard. She speaks very softly and not often, yet always seems to smile when she says anything.

Priscilla says that from what she has seen of Davidson boys, she likes them. She added with a faraway look
in her eyes, "However, Shaw Smith is my honey." Upon hearing this, several bystanders admitted that contrary to their previous
ideas, "Colin" the magician must be all that he claims to be. Other persons who have made an impression on
Miss Mullen’s memory are "Geddy" Herring, David Vosberg, and "Squatty" Squires. On being asked her opinion of him, Priscilla showed
two fetching dimples above a smile and said, "Oh, he’s cute!"

Movies and dancing are among the favorite recreations of our striking brunette subject. She likes romantic movies, and her all-time
favorite team is Tyrone Power and Lana Turner. As for her favorite song, Priscilla says that as far as she
is concerned, no song can ever compare with "My Buddy."

For the information of those interested, Priscilla is not engaged, nor does she have a steady boyfriend. For further information
such as phone number and address, it is rumored that David Vosberg has the dope.

Adviser JIMMY FULCHER

Double Music Will Feature Final Dances

Prices Are Announced For Three Dance Spring Frolics Set

Tickets for the three annual Spring Frolics to be held May 24-25 can be purchased from any Pan-Hellenic Council member.
The price for the three-dance set is $5.75. Individual tickets for the dances will sell at the following prices: Friday
night, $2.75; Saturday afternoon, $1.10; and Saturday night, $3.25.

As announced last week, Johnny Satterfield and Hatch Hurst, both from the University of North Carolina, will furnish music for
the Friday and Saturday dances. Satterfield’s orchestra will handle the formal and tea dances, and Hatch and Satterfield will combine
for the Saturday night dance.

The two bands, Hatch and Satterfield’s Tar Heels, will alternate playing. Each band will have a place on the stage
and will play groups of numbers lasting approximately fifteen minutes. This will be a new feature for Davidson dancers, but
it will probably be received with enthusiasm. This method has been used before with gratifying results in other schools and
colleges, and from the reports circulating on the campus, this new feature will be liked enough to merit a repeat
performance at some of the dances next year.

These bands are not so well known on this campus, but they have played for dances given by other colleges
in the South. The Tar Heels rely on solid heavy dance music in all tempos to put them over with
the dancers. They come from the same university as Kay Kyser, but unlike Kyser, they do not have a tricky
style of their own. They have their own arrangements and play in a style that is so famous.

Dr. Poteat To Visit Campus

Will Address Students On Current Affairs

Dr. Gordon Poteat, noted scholar and speaker, will visit Davidson on April 20 and 21 to give two talks. Dr.
Poteat will make a public lecture in Chambers Auditorium on Monday, April 20, using "World Revolution and a New World
Order" as his subject. On the following morning, he will speak briefly in the Chapel hour on "The Meaning of
Freedom."

Twenty years in the Orient has made Dr. Poteat an expert on Far Eastern affairs. He is well known as
a scholar and public speaker. At present, he is a professor of Eastern affairs.

H. E. Fulcher Succeeds G. H. Watt As Freshmen Adviser For Next Year

Debate Teams Return From Holiday Tour

Northern And Southern Teams Return To Campus After Extensive Trips

Members of Davidson's two debating teams returned this week from their spring trips. One team made a northern trip, debating
the following schools: Washington and Lee, Hampden-Sydney, William and Mary, and Haverford.

Another group traveled to several southern colleges and encountered debates from Centre College, Sewanee, Birmingham-Southern, University of Alabama, and Agnes
Scott.

The northern team was composed of Bill Summers, Jesse Wooten, Jim McCrary, and Fred Morton. The southern trip was made
by Dow Bell, Ed Hipp, Jim Crook, and Priestly Conyers.

Summers and Morton

The debaters on the northern tour left the campus on Monday afternoon, March 30. Summers and Morton, the members of
the negative team, clashed with the team of Washington and Lee on Wednesday, April 2. The question debated was "Resolved:
that capitalism should go after the war," which ended as a non-decision as did all of the debates on the
northern trip.

On Wednesday, April 2, the affirmative team, McCrary and Wooten, debated the question, "Resolved: that the eight Churchill-Roosevelt principles should
be established and maintained after the war." This debate was with the team of Hampden-Sydney.

William and Mary

Both affirmative and negative teams debated at William and Mary. The subject was "Resolved: that the government should control by
law all labor unions." On the following Wednesday night, the negative team met the debaters of Haverford in a discussion
of the labor question.

During the southern trip, the question, "Resolved: that the government should control by law all labor unions," was the only
subject discussed.

Southern Team

Don Bell and Ed Hipp made up the affirmative team for the southern trip, while Jim McCrary and Priestly Conyers
were the negative debaters. The affirmative team lost one debate to Centre College on Monday, March 30, while all the
other encounters resulted in non-decisions. The negative team debated at Sewanee on Friday, April 3; the same team met Birmingham-Southern
on Monday, April 6. The team encountered the University of Alabama on April 7, and on Wednesday, April 8, both
teams debated at Agnes Scott. The negative team debated Auburn on Thursday, April 9.

Annual Sing

Thursday, May 14, has been set as the date for the Interfraternity Sing sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha. A cup
will be awarded to the fraternity which presents the best music and another to the best conductor. No cup will
be given for the best singing of "Davidson, Our Alma Mater."

Glenn Miller has announced that he will recognize the event on his broadcast on the evening of Friday, May 8.
Beta Theta Pi fraternity won the sing last year, and Gus McLean, a member of Phi Delta Theta, won the
conductor's cup.

Henry McIntosh, Jerry Newbold, J. D. Phillips, N. J. Wayman Eliminated

Jim Fulcher of Davidson was elected Freshmen adviser for the coming year in the voting on Monday, April 13. He
defeated Hugh Sprunt of Wilmington, N.C. on the third ballot. Jesse Wooten of Memphis, Tenn., was eliminated on the second
ballot, held the preceding Friday.

Rising Seniors

The Freshman adviser is chosen from the rising Senior class by the members of that class. Others who were nominated
for the office and were eliminated in the first vote are: Henry McIntosh of West Palm Beach, Fla.; Jerry Newbold
of Wilmington, N.C.; Dick Phillips of Laurinburg, N.C.; and Jack Wayman of Miami, Fla.

Fulcher is the son of Professor Fulcher of the Physics department. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social
fraternity, served as a managing editor of The Davidsonian, is a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet this year, and belongs
to the Philanthropic Literary Society. He was a member of the freshman basketball team.

Sprunt

Hugh Sprunt, the runner-up, is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of the student council, a member
of the track team, treasurer of the "Y" Board of Control, and a member of the Beaver Club. He played
on the freshman football team.

Dr. Matthews Leaves School For US Army

Davidson Doctor To Take Up Duties At Fort Bragg

Last Monday, Dr. W. C. Matthews turned his duties as associate physician of Davidson College over to Dr. James B.
Woods.

Tribute

In Monday's Chapel service, Dr. Matthews was given a farewell tribute by Dr. Cunningham and the Student body. He was
praised for his work here during the past three years, and Dr. Cunningham expressed the hope that he would resume
his work here after the cessation of hostilities.

Dr. Matthews will go to Fort Bragg where he will be in the medical unit. He graduated from Davidson in
1934 and received his doctor’s degree from the University of Virginia. He had his internship at the University hospital and
later served on the staff.

New Physician

Dr. Woods comes to Davidson from the Goldsby-King Memorial Hospital in Tsing-Kiang-Pu, China. After graduating from Davidson in 1918, he
went to the Medical School of the University of Virginia, and later went back to China as a medical missionary.
After his marriage to Elizabeth Grier Blair of Hangchow, he became Superintendent of the Goldsby-King Hospital.
