Page Two Thursday, October 1, 1942; THE DAVIDSONIAN — The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Editorials ---- Letters ---- Features: Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Opportunity

Each year Davidson has several series of musical and cultural entertainments. Some are better than others. Some come highly recommended and prove disappointing, while others turn out to be genuine dark horses. Nearly all of the musical programs hold a high reputation among the musically educated, although we of the lay public may attend on faith.

What we are driving at is that it is indeed unusual that a southern college should be fortunate enough to secure a program that should hold the sure-fire appeal to its entire student body that the planned schedule announced recently by Dr. Cunningham must.

We were rather disappointed that only 329 tickets have been subscribed. We thought that the Scotch blood within so many of our student veins would recognize the opportunity of seeing the entire group of distinguished artists for what would be the “per ducat” price everywhere else.

If we were to miss the opportunity to get this series here this year by failure to subscribe our quota of 450 tickets it would certainly be a black eye to the reputation of the Davidson cultural taste, as well as a slur on our individual bargaining powers.

While perusing a recent issue of the Charlotte newspaper, my eye happened to glance at an article concerning the introduction of a new course in the Davidson curriculum — World Strategy. The course was entitled “Comparative Strategy,” and that it was based, in keeping with the times, entirely on military principles. Nothing else was told of the course itself; the only other information in the article stating that all students were required to take it and that it was being taught by Prof. P. H. Dee.

By a curious coincidence, for days before I happened to run across this news item, I had in vain racked my brain in an effort to find a subject to write on for one of my assignments. Then, I saw the article and thought it would be interesting to attend one of Prof. Dee’s classes and take notes as rapidly as possible.

The AVERAGE STUDENT CRAMMING FOR EXAMS LOSES TWO POUNDS IN WEIGHT.

“Handsome devil you. I bet you're making hundreds of girls jealous, just like poor little me.” Maizie kept up this steady fire for about 20 minutes, and then Prof. Dee, who was watching her closely, whispered to me, “Here comes the assault!” Whereupon Maizie leaned ever so close to Jim, slipped her hand under the table into his, and started whispering to him in husky, love-sick monotones. Then she straightened up and took two sips of water from her glass, which was the prearranged signal to us for victory. We sauntered over to the table, Chapman returned to his, and Prof. Dee said to Maizie, “You were superb tonight, Miss Flower. But have you remembered security?”

“Oh, yes, I have sufficient dates with him before the actual dance.”

“What is security?” I asked her.

“Oh, that’s keeping his interest up until the dance is over.”

“And how do you go about doing that?”

“How do most girls keep most boys interested?”

“Oh really?” I said, significantly.

At that point she glanced at my fraternity pin, and asked, “Is that a Gamma Phi pin?”

“Why, yes.”

“Oh, you darling, darling boy,” she said, suddenly taking an interest in me. “I think the Gamma Phi's give the most wonderful dances, you gay old devil you.”

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

WILL VANISH DURING FINAL EXAMS

By ERWIN

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF

Lacy McLean Assistant Editor

Henry McIntosh Associate Editor

Jimmy Fulcher Associate Editor

Howell Morrow Managing Editor

Deane Whitson Managing Editor

Leigh Scott Sports Editor

Bob Welsh Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Advertising Managers Don McIver

Teensy Hodges

John Robinson

Jim Harris

Subscription Manager

Ruddy Carson

Wildcats

Next we travel to the Dick Reynolds Country Club where a fair gathering was assembled including Sprunt, Brinson, Chapman, and Sutton. Here they held forth for several hours with true Fitzgerald philosophy until a couple of the Davidson gentlemen decided that it would be a good idea to serenade the girls of Salem College for their luscious time. This songfest came to an abrupt end when Wilbo and Mot, a perfect example of dirty Dan Cupid's work, decided that they wanted to be alone; throwing the canaries the well-known wet blanket.

Bruce and Bethea, the two humor men, were finding great sport securing “Zoot-Suit” Burke the “best-looking” girls on the floor as his dancing partners whenever the whistle blew. This put quite a strain on Davidson's little center; he was listed as missing in action at practice Monday.

Spike Mebane had the intellectual type this weekend, a Madame Duvall, in the person of a petite schoolmarm who tried to give Spike some sense to counteract his nonsense. Marvin triumphed and caught the twelve o’clock bus back to Davidson — Sucker!

Jack Wayman and his Pirates are to be congratulated for one of the most successful pep meetings in a number of years, and the student body as a whole is to be commended for the spirit in which they joined in the rally.

Our first editorial duty of the week, we feel, comes under the head of “bread and butter.” We would like to thank the girls of Salem College who so graciously went to a great deal of trouble to show us a good time. We regret that all could not have enjoyed the visit to the Twin City, but we hope that the sponsors of the affair feel repaid by the good time that was had by all who did get there.

This Saturday the Wildcat drive will receive its first real test of the year—when the Cats meet Rollins in our first home (well, near home) game. Let's keep that same spirit both at the contest and at the pep meeting Friday.TT mint y P ner b a research paper. due shortly. My Chapman, sitting with three other BERLIN CORRESPONDENT “ry s based which actual om ‘ We hope that we will have an oppor- SPF! is not a one-year proposition but a plan, accordingly, was to make an Davidson men in a corner. .* hacked i a vad i Me s vieon ene sag . , ; oo ° e fan Say ua - tunity to be hosts at a return engage- Four-year contract. Let's keep 'em TOH- actual trip to Chicora and learn all Maizie continued her recitation. A thrill packed , ® 4 ' y 8 8 in’ over Rollins’. about the new war-inspired course, “Second, there is the Situation and drama of. the o'Pa M r d Tuesd ment and that ours may have a portion and to take my findings the sub — Opposing Lines of Action. The sit- “work of news. TALK OF THE TOWN of the success that was theirs. ject of my treatise, uation is that there is a Delta man in a war- Les . Sympathy Wherefore on the following after- Phi here and that he is without a torn country. A modern story revolving around The Court . - Ow, (he Davidsonian wishes to extend noon I went to Charlotte, caught a bus out to the college campus, and, upon inquiry, - found my ways to date. I have two opposing lines of action: to go over to his table, or to get him to come over here. For A story with all the glamor a good plot. Just what you need to take your mind off the war. Good a . . sympathy to the families of two of its Prof. Dee's Office. He was a very the third paragraph, the Analysis which Newspa- ° cast and Prey of humor. ¥ One of the most important phases ai and Davidson's best friends. young professor, just out of grad. of Opposing Lines of Action -it 1 en con- PRIORITIES ON PARADE the training of a college man is his direct The name of Dr. S. C. Lyon needs no Mite school, and had a very pleas- co aver theteghe will think awe for- lovee ete. 8 hips erp a * ¢ : . . ing manner. i 2 sate if en . ee ioral As —— -- tion during his freshman year. Proper editorial tribute to keep his memory alive and explained Wir mission cnee aearth sehereas iT tune him here, Lacy Maclean well. Double feature day comes through: discipline during this period may have a in the hearts of students, faculty, and ine his course in Comparative The “Toiitth” paragraph includes Friday and Saturday with a good show. Preston Foster great deal to do not only with his success- ful adjustment to campus life but to his future life as well. The responsibility for this discipline at Davidson is vested in the Court of Control, the importance of whose work is often underrated. We are prone to look on this group as an instrument for Freshman baiting”, and to shout lustily for “Silvertongue” in chapel while we friends who knew him. Sixteen years of faithful and open-hearted service is enough to endear a man of his caliber to the host with which he came in contact on this campus, and to make him missed in memories of those far from the campus now. For those who were not so, fortunate as to feel his influence directly, he was simply the kind of man that left David-~ Strategy. “You are indeed here at a most opportune moment.” he said, “for tonight we hold individual lab for Miss Mrefe TP lower, a sophomore. Will you meet us at the Tavern at 9:30?" ~ "ow “At the Tavern?” I Said “What kind of a course is this?” “Here at Chicora,” replied Prof. Dee, “we believe in progressive education. This is a course on how to dupe stag lines and influence men. , The entire system is based on military strategy. A patriotic motif, sight. This was soon followed by a nell’s library are going fast. The approved side. Watch for ‘em. forget the more serious purpose of the son better for his having lived and served you see."_ _ sort of daring, half-wicked wink -at- ow prices just don’t fit: By the by, 7Priestly Conyers, Chapel-Speaker Court. Davidson is in reality a very democratic school. It has practically no hazing of any kind and very few regulations which differentiate the first-year men from the upper classes. The few rules we have are designed to make the Freshmen respectful and courteous, regardless of the example we upperclassmen set at times. It is up to us, therefore, to cooperate with Joe McCoy as far as possible and to make the Freshman training a serious matter. There is no reason why we should feel like heels when we report infractions. Theoretically, it is for the good of the Freshmen. Let’s make it so in practice. - oe here. The other friend of whom we spoke was Mr. M. F. Dunbar, of the Dunbar Studios in Charlotte. Few students came into close contact with him and consequently do not realize the services, not only in the line of business, but also as a genuine and devoted friend of the college and its students, that Mr. Dunbar rendered to them. A college must have an excellent faculty and a well-rounded student body to gain any sort of reputation, but the willingness of its friends to stand up for it and its sons goes a long way toward sustaining this reputation. We are appreciative of such friends as Mr. M. F. Dunbar, I was at the Tavern promptly at 9:30, and in a short while Prof. Dee entered, escorting a most ravishing female. He introduced me to her, and she was the expected Maizie Flower, a terrifically attractive young lady. They sat down, and Prof. Dee began explaining to me how they worked the comparative strategy. “First of all.” he said; “she must use Camouflage, a very important phase of Comparative Strategy: There are two types of camouflage -physical and mental. For physical camouflage she uses all beauty treatments to make her appear desirable and glamorous. We train the girls carefully on every phase of make-up—the correct lipstick, rouge, powder, mascara. Then they must fix their hair in the most becoming style, and, of course, wear “revealing clothes.” “But what is mental camouflage?” kinds of— claim your money or your unsold books. Only a few days left. Of all books sold. only about four misplaced. If form runs true, they'll show up within a few days as soon as you check your book and your pocketbook. Could you have forgotten to pay—huh? Thanks, Dr. F. Johnston, for taking on a big job. Our Sunday School class needed you and thanks are not enough. (Course, who'll tend the baby—Congratulations!—if the Mrs. decides to come to hear you?) Monk Caterson, between trips to G'boro, and Buddy Wells have made a good beginning on Hall Prayer Groups. Reports from the first week mighty encouraging. I'm honest in limi—then a faint blush as though embarrassed by her audacity. “This is “te Approach,” whispered Prof. Dee. “And now you and I must go out as though to make a phone call, so Miss Flower will be alone in possession of the Terrain.” Prof. Dee and I made our Retreat rather ostensibly, but then slipped back in through a side door and stood behind a pillar, where, unseen, we could hear, and observe all that went on. By that time Chapman was at our table, sitting with Maizie. “Now comes the Advance,” whispered Prof. Dee. And we heard Maizie, looking at Jim as though being with him was just the final aim of all existence, saying that these meetings have say, “You darling, darling boy. I think you're gorgeous to come over here and protect little bitty old lonesome me. I certainly have been missing you lately, you gay old getter and man with pressed suits has just drifted in. Have a pen, Priest! That's Smith for you, wants to catch the flicker so he leaves the “Y" Corny—The “Y" Corner to the first man who comes along—I shouldn't have come along! Would like to thank Jesse Wooten for good Chapel talk Friday. While on the subject, let me plug my “dept.” If you have anything you want to get off your chest that might help us, (or otherwise) let us know. You're the man we want. Hate to put a knife in his back, but can't turn down this opportunity to dig dirt on Smith. We're told he and the lieutenant pulled a fast one last weekend. The game, then — G'boro, and one of the crowd came back with a Georgia accent. Johnny Sherrill just in. Says he’s not holding any dope. Neither am I. Hope this is enough.