DEFENSE ATHLETIC PROGRAM STARTS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TWELVE WEEKS SUMMER SCHOOL

Volume XXIX. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1942

No. 13

Davidson Athletic Association Inaugurates Exercise Program

Program Designed To Aid Students’ Health For National Defense

The Athletic Association assumed more widespread duties Monday by the introduction of a five-day athletic program for the new semester.
In an address by Coach N. W. Shepard at Monday's chapel exercise, the program was defined to include two afternoon
periods, the first being scheduled for 2:30 and the second for 4:30 o’clock Monday through Friday.

The first day's turnout was considered successful by the athletic directors, since a great many persons were there who were
not out for varsity or inter-fraternity basketball. Although the attendance is not compulsory at present, there is a possibility that
it will be made compulsory if deemed necessary.

Defense Measure

Similar to the programs in other colleges which have recently been adopted, this is a defense measure to encourage college
students to become fit to fight. Plans for the program include conditioning the participants and carrying out a gradual increase
in making the exercises more difficult. Vigorous calisthenics will be followed by running and team games such as “tug of
war” and others. As the trainee becomes conditioned, individual sports such as boxing and wrestling will be attempted.

Many Attend Mission Meet

Twenty Davidson Students Go To Convention

More than twenty Davidson boys attended the Second Quadrennial Youth Convention on World Missions held in Memphis, Tenn., from December
30-Jan. 1. The purpose of the convention was “To Confront Presbyterian youth of this student generation with the world’s present
desperate need of Christ, and Christ’s challenge to them as they face that need.”

Five Commissions

The whole program of the convention was built around the reports of five commissions, each of which investigated some topic
connected with missions and presented their reports to the whole group. These topics were all some phase of the theme
“Christ, the Church, and the World” which in turn was based on the proposition “Thy Will Be Done.”

High point of the convention, which was attended by 1,465 young people from outside Memphis and approximately 600 others, came
on the final night in the Memphis Municipal Auditorium in which most of the program was carried on. At that
time Dr. C. Darby Fulton, of Nashville, Tenn., Executive Secretary of Foreign Missions brought the closing challenge “We Dedicate Ourselves.”
Nearly 4,000 people crowded into the auditorium to hear Dr. Fulton’s address, in which he called upon the group to
pray, persevere, and sacrifice.

Other principal addresses were given by Dr. W. T. Thompson of Richmond, Va., on “God's Will for His World”; Dr.
John A. Mackay, of Princeton Seminary, on “The World Scene”; Dr. James L. Fowle, of Chattanooga, Tenn., on “The Adequacy
of Christ”; Mr. R. H. Edwin Espy, of New York City, on “The Mission of the Church in the World
Today”; Miss Ruth Seabury, of Boston, on “Youth Answers the Call.”

Worship for the entire convention was led by Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, President of Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, assisted by
the A Capella Choir of the General Assembly’s Training School and Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Dr. Charles E. Diehl,
Moderator of the General Assembly, opened the convention with words of welcome.

Canvassers Accomplish $1,000 Goal

Dr. Cumming Sponsors New Red Cross Drive

The Red Cross Emergency Drive in Davidson branch has succeeded in reaching its goal of one thousand dollars. Dr. W.
L. Cumming announced last Monday that $996 had already been deposited in the Davidson Bank and that by this Saturday
the contributions from the Davidson Cotton and Asbestos Mills would be turned in, bringing the total to well over a
thousand dollars.

The captains of the canvassers who directed the drive were: Mrs. D. G. Wilson, of the North Main Street section;
the Rev. Mr. Tate, of the Elm Street section; Mr. James A. Farrington, of the Mill Village section; Mr. Thomas
Sadler, of the Asbestos Mill section; Mrs. Merle Dusenbery, of the Old Charlotte Road section. In addition, Mrs. E. N.
Linker, of the School Street section; Mrs. W. W. Wood, of the Woodland-Thompson Street section; Miss Sarah E. Jetton, of
the South Main Street section; Miss Mattie B. Murphy, of the Concord Street section; and Mr. Lorenzo E. Poe, of
the colored section.

Last fall the Davidson-Cornelius Chapter of the Red Cross voted to give up its charter and merge with the Mecklenburg
County chapter of the Red Cross. This move was dictated by the lack of equipment at Davidson to deal with
the increased activities of the Red Cross. By merging with the large county chapter the opportunities for local Red Cross
work in Davidson were strengthened rather than lessened.

After the annual meeting of the Mecklenburg Chapter of the Red Cross, held in Charlotte on January 16, Dr. James
A. Alexander, chairman of the Mecklenburg County Chapter of the Red Cross, announced that Dr. W. P. Cumming of the
English Department was elected to membership on the board of directors of the chapter.

Schedule of Ticket Prices At Midwinters Dances

Price U.S. N.C. Total
Set Ticket* $7.51 $0.76 $0.23 $8.50
Concert $0.97 $0.10 $0.03 $1.10
Tea Dance $1.99 $0.20 $0.06 $2.25
Night Dances $3.31 $0.34 $0.10 $3.75

*Set Ticket includes Concert and all dances.

Students Pay Subscriptions To Gift Fund

Monroe Bush, chairman of the “Y” Gift Fund Committee announces that $1,513 has been paid out of the $1,698 that
was pledged for this year’s subscriptions to buy Bibles. One thousand and four hundred dollars has been sent to the
American Bible Society, which is in charge of delivering the Bibles to the three causes for which Davidson students pledged
their gifts. Six hundred dollars has been used in China, five hundred in Germany, and three hundred for the U.S.S.
North Carolina, an American navy ship.

One hundred and eighty-five dollars is yet to be paid in order to complete the amount pledged for this year’s
fund. Monroe Bush has expressed the hope of receiving the balance of unpaid pledges as soon as possible so that
the campaign can be closed.

“We are very greatly pleased,” said Bush, “with the way students and other subscribers have been prompt with their voluntary
gifts. The whole campaign and response has been an inspiration to the Y. M. C. A. and others interested in
our work.”

The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet originally set a goal of $1,000, later changing it to $1,500, when they began
to receive such a generous response. Five hundred fifty donations were given, and five hundred thirty-eight of these were gifts
out of the student body. Two dollars and eighty-four cents was the average donation of all gifts, while $2.78 was
the average student donation.

Presbyterian Students Will Gather Here February 14-15

Ministers And Laymen Will Give Addresses For Various Programs

Over a hundred and fifty Presbyterian students will gather at Davidson College, February 14-15 for the annual Presbyterian Student Association
Conference of the Synod of North Carolina. “The Christian Answer” has been selected as the theme of the two-day conference
which will bring students from almost every college and university in the state here for the fourth annual PSA Conference.
During the meetings, and especially in their discussion groups, the delegates will try to find “The Christian Answer” to first,
our personal problems; second, our campus problems; third, our community problems; and finally, our world problems.

Presiding over the Presbyterian Student Association Conference will be Miss Ruth Edmiston of Queens College. Jerry Newbold of Davidson will
open the conference with a devotional service. Dr. John R. Cunningham will make the principal address to the delegates Saturday
afternoon. Saturday evening a banquet will be held in Chambers. Dr. Charles Jones, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Chapel Hill, will be the banquet speaker. Toastmaster for the occasion will be “Dub” Martin, Vice-President of the student government
at Carolina.

Dr. Paul Garber of Duke University and Mr. Carl Pritchett of the Davidson Presbyterian Church will conduct the Communion Service
Sunday afternoon. Mr. Pritchett will also deliver the sermon Sunday morning. Miss Lelia Johnson of Salem College will conduct the
morning worship Sunday. Discussion group leaders for the conference are Mr. Frank Jeter of North Carolina State, Miss Harriet Tynes
of Queens, Miss Rachael Wylie of Converse, and The Reverend James Appleby.of Anderson, South Carolina. Davidson College will be allowed
fifteen official delegates at the conference. Davidson. Peggy Mann, the attractive young vocalist who will appear with Teddy Powell and
his orchestra, will be one of the surprises which the “Surprise Band of the Year” plans to present to the
music lovers. While Powell's fourteen music makers create their “danceable rhythms to keep the crowd swaying,” Peggy will offer the
lyrics and demonstrate her “dynamic song style.”

VOCALIST

On Saturday afternoon All Profits Will Go To American Red Cross

Teddy Powell and his “Surprise Band of the Year” will play for the Midwinters Dances on February 6 and 7.
This was announced shortly before the Christmas vacation by Pat Rudolph, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The gala of the
year promises to be a most colorful affair. Due to the national emergency, it will probably be the last set
of the year which will boast of a “name” orchestra. This, together with the fact that the Pan-Hellenic Council has
voted to turn over all profits to the American Red Cross, will probably boost the attendance.

The usual routine of having two tea dances and two night dances will be changed somewhat this year. A concert
by Powell’s orchestra will be featured on Friday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium here on the Davidson campus. This will be
the first event of its kind ever to be held here and is designed particularly for the convenience of the
students, since they will not have to make a trip to Charlotte on Friday afternoon. The concert is scheduled to
begin at 4:30 P.M. and will last for approximately an hour and a half. The formal dance will be on
Friday night at the Charlotte Armory from 10 until 2. On Saturday, there will be a tea dance at the
armory from 4 until 6, and the informal dance will begin at 8 and continue until midnight.

Teddy Powell and his orchestra [Continued on Page Three]

College Speeds Up Curriculum In Line With Defense Program

RECEIVES PH.D.

Prof. Chalmers G. Davidson, Director of the Grey Memorial Library and Associate Professor of Bibliographical History, has recently received word
that he has been granted the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from Harvard University.

Military Head Receives Call To Baltimore

Col. G. T. Mackenzie, P.M.S.&T. of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit, will turn his duties over to Col. Joseph A. McAndrew
sometime this week. Colonel Mackenzie, who has served at Davidson since September 1939, will go to Baltimore, Maryland, February 15,
where he has been assigned to the Inspector Generals’ Department in the third corps area headquarters. Colonel McAndrew arrived on
the campus last Tuesday, January 27. He comes to the college from Camp Wallace, Texas.

Colonel Mackenzie came to Davidson as a Lieutenant Colonel but received a promotion last fall from the war department. He
came from Fort Douglas, Utah, where he had been stationed as the third Battalion Regimental Commander of the thirty-eighth U.S.
Infantry. President John R. Cunningham has commended Colonel Mackenzie for his great part in developing the R.O.T.C. unit at Davidson,
first as commander and then as the military head. He has been connected with R.O.T.C. units elsewhere, but he states
that he has had a particular joy and interest in his work at Davidson. Mackenzie served in the first World
War and received the following honors and awards: the Silver Star with an Oak-leaf Cluster, the Purple Heart, and the
French Croix de Guerre. He has received for his service the World War medals and Mexican Border medals.

J. L. Payne Is Alumni Secretary

Succeeds Lamar Burton In Publicity Post

Mr. J. L. Payne of Charlotte has recently taken up his duties as Davidson College's Director of Public Relations and
Alumni Secretary, it was announced after the holidays. He succeeds Mr. C.F. Smith in the office of Alumni Secretary.

Alumnus

Mr. Payne is an alumnus of Davidson himself, having graduated from the college with the class of 1916. Until recently,
he has been associated with the Ford Motor Company in Charlotte as Sales Promotion Manager. The dual office of Director
of Public Relations and Alumni Secretary was formed recently from the old office of Director of Public Relations and the
office of Alumni Secretary. It has as its objective the creation of public goodwill for the college and the stimulation
of loyal interest and support for the institution from alumni. It contacts alumni, arranges meetings for them, organizes alumni meetings,
and aids Davidson graduates in any way that it is able. In addition, it has the job of keeping the
college before the public eye, of creating and taking advantage of any opportunities to further the college interests before the
public, and to call public attention to the institution. According to Dr. Cunningham, it meets a need that has long
been felt at Davidson.

Modern music enthusiasts have praised the “brilliant and intricate dance creations” which will issue forth from the fourteen swingsters under
the baton of Teddy Powell. Powell will bring his organization to Chambers Auditorium on Friday afternoon, and a concert will
create “just the proper mood” for Friday night's formal.

POWELL

Twelve Weeks Summer School Is Included In New School Plans

Davidson College, falling in line with the majority of the colleges and universities of the south, has formally announced the
changes made by the adoption of her new speed-up program which will go into effect at the end of this
semester. This program does not change the present regular session of the college but merely makes it possible for a
student to attend two sessions of summer school in one summer, giving him a chance to acquire twelve hours of
credit toward his graduation. Also, if the student has a deficiency of quality points, he will be able to make
up for those he lacks by attending these two sessions.

Six Hours

To clear up the potential questions in some students' minds, it will still be possible for a student to take
only two courses each six-week semester which will give him six semester hours toward graduation. The students who are planning
to enter Davidson next fall will probably expect the most trouble. If these students attend the full session of summer
school, it will be possible for them to complete some courses with which they have the most trouble. The faculty
urges those boys to attend at least one session of summer school to finish the work required to receive a
diploma in three years. Of course, the rising sophomore class will not find this arrangement quite as advantageous as will
the rising junior class of the coming year. However, it will be possible for them to graduate in the summer
session after their third year. The rising junior class will be able to graduate in mid-term of their fourth year.

Starts June 17

Summer school will start on the seventeenth of June after a week's vacation from the regular session. This will give
the summer sessioners time to recuperate from the gruelling ordeals known as exams. Also, the students who are entering from
high school will have time to pack their clothes carefully, neatly, and with prudence. The two-semester session will terminate on
August twenty-ninth, thus giving the students another breathing spell before the beginning of the fall term.

Article Lauds Student Fund

In the January issue of The Record, a widely-circulated publication of the American Bible Society, appears an article recognizing the
work of the Davidson student body in pledging and donating this year’s gift fund to the spreading of the Scriptures
where they are most needed in the world. Copies of this article, accompanied by letters encouraging other institutions to follow
our example, are being sent to the student body presidents of all Christian colleges throughout the country.

The average amount donated to Davidson's gift fund during past years has been between a thousand and twelve hundred dollars.
This year, under the leadership of Monroe Bush, the goal was set at $1,500. There were 552 pledges made, of
which all but twelve were made by students. The total amount pledged exceeded all expectations, being something over sixteen hundred
dollars.

The United States’ war against Germany will not, so far as is presently known, affect the distribution of Bibles to
German prisoners. The money for these Bibles will be cabled to Geneva, Switzerland, and the Bibles will be printed in
Berne, from where they may be sent into Germany.
