TRUSTEES LAY WAR PLANS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

PHI BETA KAPPA: BIDS SEVEN

Volume XXIX. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1942, No. 16

Trustees Form Plan For War Conditions In College Program

Authorize Conferring Of Degrees As Soon As Work Is Completed

The Trustees of Davidson College met last Wednesday, February 18, at 10:00 A.M. and spent the entire day in the deliberation of the problems concerning the planning of the college program and the consideration of the wartime conditions which face the institution.

The body took certain action and authorized the conferring of degrees upon students who have finished the required study, at the end of the first semester, the regular commencement period, or at the end of the summer school—this for the duration of the war.

The Board of Trustees authorized the President of the College and the Dean of Faculty, with the advice and consent of the Education Committee of the Trustees, to fill emergency needs in the faculty of the college if there are unexpected dislocations during the war period.

At this meeting, the members gave approval to Davidson’s moving forward with the Christian Education movement of the entire Presbyterian Church during this year and next. This plan contemplates an effort to secure additional funds for the college, to permit not only funds for further physical equipment, but also for added endowment.

The Trustees were pleased with the progress which has been made this past year especially with reference to new buildings and the completion of the Administrative Staff of the College, according to Cunningham.

Rickey Will Judge Art

From March 8-11 the Davidson campus will be visited by Mr. George Rickey, professor of art at Nurenburg College. The visit of this internationally known artist will coincide with Davidson's annual spring art exhibit. Mr. Rickey is a friend of Mrs. W. P. Cummings, having met her while they both were attending Balliol College of Oxford University. His stop is one of a series made on a tour under the sponsorship of the American Association of Colleges and the Carnegie Foundation.

Contributors

The exhibit in Eumenean Hall will present the work of several Davidson students. Leon Drake will exhibit some portraits and John Northcross will present a series of portraits representing Female Figures of Fiction. Leonard White will display caricatures whereas Bill Campbell and Dan Hodges are to present some portraits. Mr. Rickey will criticize these works in informal discussions with the boys and he will also demonstrate different types of modern art.

OTTS LECTURE

Dr. Cunningham, President of the College, announces the acceptance of the invitation extended by the College to President John A. Mackay, of Princeton Theological Seminary to deliver the Otts Lectures during the next academic year. These lectures have to do with the general defense of the Christian position according to the terms of the foundation established by Dr. Otts some years ago. President Mackay in accepting the invitation agrees to come for the week just after Thanksgiving next fall. This series of lectures after delivery will be turned to publishers and distributed in book form.

Lee’s Picture Given By UDC

Unveiling Of Portrait Of Famous General Takes Place In Library

A portrait of the South's famous leader, General Robert E. Lee, was presented to the Davidson College library by the General James H. Lane Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy of Charlotte, N. C. The ceremony was held in the Davidsonian Room of the library at 4 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, February 18.

Reference Room

This picture of General Lee has been placed on the north wall of the reference room on the first floor of the building where it occupies a place along with other portraits and paintings. Mrs. Thomas B. Snodgrass, of Charlotte, N. C., the Historian of the General James H. Lane Chapter of the organization, presided at the presentation ceremony.

Dr. C. M. Richards of the Davidson College faculty opened the program by leading the group in a prayer. Mrs. Snodgrass introduced to the assembly Mrs. J. Bryan Rudisill, the President of the Chapter. Mrs. Rudisill presented the picture to the College Library and read a paper on the life of General Lee.

Unveiling

The main event of the program was the unveiling of the portrait, a duty which was performed by Master George Albert Rudisill, the young son of the President of the General James H. Lane Chapter.

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, the director of the College Library, delivered the acceptance speech. Dr. Davidson told the chapter of the regret which Dr. Cunningham, the President of the College, had expressed at not being able to be a witness of the presentation of the gift to the library.

Acceptance

In his acceptance, Dr. Davidson expressed the appreciation on the part of Davidson College for the generosity of the James H. Lane Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy who gave a Confederate flag which was presented to the college in 1935.

In speaking of the Southern hero whom the ceremony honored, he said: “That the picture of Robert E. Lee should hang in the library of Davidson College seems to me peculiarly fitting. He was not a Carolinian, but a Virginian, not a Presbyterian but an Episcopalian, yet the same antebellum spirit which produced Robert E. Lee moulded Davidson College. The same ideal of loyalty to our own people and loyalty to the faith of our fathers pervades this institution as it did Robert E. Lee.”

Davidsonians

He made references to the many Davidson men who have served in the armed forces of the nation during the wars which have engulfed the people of this country. In closing, he said: “There are many who believe that had the most famous former student of Davidson College, Woodrow Wilson, had his way in the forming of the last peace, there would be no World War II.”

The meeting closed with the pronouncing of the benediction by Dr. R. S. Burwell of Davidson, N. C., the oldest living alumnus of the college, class of ’75.

“PHI BETE” INITIATES

Seven members of the Junior and Senior classes have joined the Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity, national scholarship brotherhood. Those pictured, in order from left to right, are Charlie Henderson of Charlottesville, Virginia; Jim Kerr of Bartow, Florida; Carlton Parsons of New Bern, North Carolina; Davis Thomas of Tampa, Florida; Alston Thompson of Richmond, Virginia; and Bardstown, Kentucky.

Kappa Snappa Visited By Fire

Pan Hellenic Council Sets Ticket Price

Final Plans Are Made For Military Ball

Definite plans have been made by the Pan-Hellenic council in a meeting concerning the price of the set ticket for the Military ball which is to be held at the Charlotte Armory on the weekend of March 14th. In a recent interview, Pat Rudolph, President of the Pan-Hellenic council announced that the price of the set will be $3.75, plus tax.

Plans also have been made for the decoration for both the Friday and Saturday night dances, which are to be shared by the Scabbard and Blade Military Fraternity and the “D” club respectively.

Friday night, as the spotlight shines on the great seal of Scabbard and Blade emblazoned on the stage wall, the members of Scabbard and Blade and their dates will form the figure beneath the dimmed lights and blue and white crepe paper decorating the Charlotte Armory. As each officer walks forward his date will be presented with a favor in the form of a miniature silver saber.

Saturday night being the night of the “D” club’s participation in the set, the stage will bear a large gold “D,” a replica of the D that reposes on the sweaters of members of the “D” club. The armory will be decorated in red and black streamers and the figure will be formed by members of the “D” club and their dates.

Freddy Johnson's orchestra, which played for the homecoming dances of 1940, and is made up of students at the University of North Carolina, will supply the music for this dance set.

By LACY SELLARS

During the small hours of Monday morning everyone in the vicinity of Fraternity Court was awakened by the harsh piercing cry of, “Fire!”

To explain this rude awakening, go back to the night before. Don “Frog” Bell, returning from a wild hair, went to the Kappa Snappa House, the vacant fraternity house and abode of four students, and debated whether or not to prepare for his Monday’s classes that night. His weary mind was finally won over to the negative but, being a foresighted student, he made preparations for arising at an early hour to get “on the drive.”

Remembering how cold it is at the regular time to get up, he gathered a load of wood from the yard and laid it in place. After moving an easy chair and a stool over to the study lamp, Frog went to bed and pleasant dreams of getting the fire started.Foot fireplace fixing the set alarm clock for 5 up before chickens and driving before a big open fire while seated in an overstuffed easy chair. Alarm Ashiest part Don was rudely waked by little clock. It seemed he smelled a dream as the alarm approached its end. Immediately, the whole house filled with smoke. Thinking the house was on fire, he rushed through the house yelling, “Fire! Get up!” After rousing the other three occupants, Frog rushed out the door in search of the excitement. Ed Hipp, the second to wake, followed in the wake of Bell. Brinson and Bayrou Neil, less conscious than the other two, staggered about the room and sighted big crimson flames leaping from the footstool. Bravely they fought the flames and after a desperate struggle, had the conflagration under control.

When Hipp and Bell retrieved Frog, an inquest was held to uncover the mystery surrounding the fire. It was found that Frog had not known that he built his fire upon an old newspaper. As the four slept soundly, the paper caught fire from the embers of the old fire and set the logs to burning merrily. Soon a burning log rolled from the fireplace and set fire to the footstool. The log kept on burning and bored a hole right through the floor. No injuries were sustained and by Monday night the house was repaired—except for the lingering odor of burnt wood and varnish.

All of these men have averages above 92. Charlie Henderson, the only Junior in the group, was given a bid because he plans to graduate earlier than the others in his class. Ed Scott of Statesville, North Carolina, and Cam Wilson of Bardston, Kentucky, are also notable members.

George Rickey Will Demonstrate Some Of The Principles Of Art

Mr. George Rickey, noted artist, will visit Davidson from March 9 to March 11. While on campus, Mr. Rickey will talk about the principles of painting and drawing, and discuss the place of art in present-day life. He will demonstrate some of his techniques and share his experiences as an artist. Mr. Rickey, a graduate of Oxford College, has studied extensively in Paris and other places. He is currently attached to the faculty of Muhlenberg College, Allentown, Pennsylvania, where he is the head of the Art Department.

Rickey believes that art has become too remote from life and left in the hands of too few people. In his opinion, there are only two really democratic art forms today—the age-old one of mural painting and the relatively modern one of printmaking, such as etching and lithography. Mr. Rickey’s field is the former. He has painted murals for the Treasury Department of the Federal Government, for Olivet College, Michigan, and for Knox College, Illinois, in addition to many smaller projects.

From Wednesday, February 25 to Monday morning, March 2, some examples of Mr. Rickey’s work, including a section of a mural cartoon, eleven paintings, and seven drawings, will be on exhibition on the first floor of the Eumenean Society Hall. Although the pictures will not be available while Mr. Rickey is on campus, he will have slides of all the pictures which he will use if students or faculty members wish to discuss any of the items included in the exhibition.

Mr. Rickey would like to talk with various groups about some of the problems they have in common. As an artist, he is concerned with what people are, think, and do, and he plans to show how these three factors affect the art that is produced in the world.

Judge Praises Co-operation Of Upper Classes

Co-operation in the drive to improve the traditional humbleness of the freshman class seems to be improving slightly, said “Butch” Caldwell, Judge of the Court of Control and chief administrator of justice to the freshmen. “There have been many reports of delinquency on the part of the class of '45 and the names have been recorded,” he continued. Plans were made for the indictment of the offenders in the chapel on Tuesday of this week.

Those sentenced for the crime of not wearing the prescribed freshman caps were: Bob Allen, Fred Betts, Jim Lowrey, Murdock McKitchen, John Stuart, Don Hollinger, Ralph Coonrad, D. B. Crawford, Bill Clup, Bob Kendrick, Don Erb, Bruce Fisher, Frank Bailey, Dick Gillespie, Tom Glasgow, Gene Gracey, Bob Stroup, Bob Herring, Sam Kimrie, Gene Linton, Jim Miller, Jack Moody, Jim Nisbet, Jim Morgan, Jim Robinson, Wade Birmingham, and Bob Smith.

An even greater wrong,” said Judge Caldwell, “has been the assault on the thriving grass of the front campus.” The freshmen guilty of this are: Lawson “Tommy” Peters, Jack Frost, Don MacIntosh, Charlie McKee, Jim Yates, John McDowell, Jake Lewis, Rogers, Ned Alexander, Everett, Bill Merit, Jack Frost, Bob Durante, George Worth, Bob McMullen, Bill Grey, Bob Dunn, Horace Boarman, Bill Brock, and Bill Betk.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Seven Davidson Men With Highest Grades

Thomas, Kerr, Scott, Parsons, Thompson, Wilson, Henderson Are Chosen

From the Junior and Senior classes of Davidson College, the Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity, a national scholarship brotherhood, has enrolled seven new members according to an announcement made in chapel today. Charlie Henderson has the position of being the only Junior to be selected. This, however, is considered not out of order since he expects to graduate early.

Seniors chosen for this honor were Davis Thomas, Jim Kerr, Ed Scott, Parsons, Alston Thompson, and Cam Wilson. All seven had averages above 92. Cam Wilson, of Bardston, Kentucky, is a member of Scabbard and Blade, First Lieutenant in the R.O.T.C., a member of the Elections Board, and a member of the Alpha Kappa Psi Social fraternity. Charlie Henderson, of Charlottesville, Virginia, is Business Manager of the Band, and a member of Phi Mu Alpha. Also, he is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Jim Kerr, of Bartow, Florida, is in the R.O.T.C.; he has played soccer for three years and is Battalion Captain. He is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the Philanthropic Literary Society. Ed Scott, of Statesville, is Varsity Track Manager, a member of the “D” Club, Vice-President of Pi Gamma Mu, and Vice-President of Le Cercle Francais. He is President of the Pi Kappa Alpha Social fraternity.

Davis Thomas, of Tampa, Florida, is Finance Manager of the Student Store, and a member of the International Relations Club. He is Vice-President of the Kappa Alpha Social fraternity. Alston Thompson, of Richmond, Virginia, is a member of the Elections Board, President of the International Relations Club, and President of Kappa Sigma Social fraternity. Carlton Parsons, of New Bern, is a transfer from the University of Virginia. He is Freshman Track Manager, a member of the “D” Club, Pi Gamma Mu, and Secretary of the Pan Hellenic Council. He is Treasurer of the Pi Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity.

Steele Leads 31st Infantry

Davidson students and friends were interested in hearing this week of the exploits of a regiment of the U.S. A.E.F. under the command of Col. Charles L. Steele, formerly of the R.O.T.C. staff of Davidson College. The account was contained in an A.P. report from Correspondent Clark Lee. It relates how the crack 31st U.S. Infantry Regiment, under the command of Col. Steele, advanced in the face of determined enemy resistance some distance, recovering lost territory, and inflicting heavy losses on the Japanese.

Colonel Steele is considered one of the most popular heads that the Davidson R.O.T.C. department has ever had. He left in 1940 for active duty with the army, being replaced by Colonel McKenzie. His wife and son, Jimmy, still reside in Davidson. It is also announced that Lt. John Hay, of the class of '41, and Lt. Harry Kuykendall, '37, were also with General MacArthur on Bataan Peninsula.