Thursday, March 5, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Down Fraternity Court

Phi Gamma Delta
Limestone Baptist College claimed the interest of Brothers O’Hair, Pharr, Bellamy, and McCormack last weekend. Tex Campbell visited points in
and near Lynchburg, while Brother Morrow visited in West Point, Ga. Prexy Williams’ interest has changed from Chattanooga to Warm
Springs, so, needless to say, he was at his home in Warm Springs. Brother Arch Taylor participated in the Southern
Conference Track Meet in Chapel Hill, while Brother Crowell spectated. Guests of the chapter included Dr. Tyler Haynes, Section Chief
of Phi Gamma Delta, and Col. and Mrs. Findlay, parents of Brother Tom Findlay.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The past weekend was spent here in Davidson by the entire chapter, the occasion for staying being the annual Founder's
Day Banquet. Among the alumni present were Brothers George Ivey, Z. V. Long, Dr. Lafferty, Charles B. Douglas, Robert H.
Graham, Jack Beall, Burton H. Smith, Dr. S. C. Byrd, and Dr. J. T. Dendy. Dr. S. C. Byrd of
Laurens, S. C., and Dr. J. T. Dendy of Rock Hill were both awarded the fifty-year membership charters of the
fraternity.

Phi Delta Theta
Brother Boykin went over to Raleigh to say “hello” to St. Mary. Archer and McLean paid a visit to Atlanta
and Emory. Brothers Tate and Pearce attended the dances at W. C. U. N. C. Brother Chapman spent the weekend
at home in Spartanburg. Brother Starnes operated at the function at Limestone. Brothers Westall and Rudolph visited their homes in
Asheville. Dudley Pennington of Atlanta and George Meehan of Savannah were guests of the chapter Saturday.

Kappa Alpha
Davidson's Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha wandered far and wide last week for their feminine entertainment. Brothers John Belk and
Charley Watt tripped up to Lynchburg, Wallace and Sandifer down to Converse, and Royster and Abbott to Limestone. Greensboro found
wrestlers and studs alike making the most of their opportunities, the Councills, B. B., the Bird, and Ike in particular.
A Sunday night feed closed the proceedings.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Fred Morton took honors this weekend with his jaunt to Atlanta. Miller and Lewerton dropped Davis at Winthrop as usual,
and they took a tour of South Carolina, ending up at Winnsboro. Lacy Sellars and Hunter Dalton visited their homes
in Greensboro and High Point respectively. Brothers Henderson, Powell, Whitley, Whidden, and Isley were off with the Band. Turner, Daffin,
and Hay were at Queens, as were Gwynn and Winchester at Berryhill. Brother Cam Dudley, '40, was a visitor over
the weekend.

Beta Theta Pi
Brother Finley Tucker is taking an early vacation at his home in Jacksonville. Neisler went to Kings Mountain. Joe Barnwell
was in Burlington, with Brother White three miles north in Graham. About half a dozen brothers were with the Band.
Brother Grayson Tucker took in a dance at Converse. Brothers Wheeler and Welch tripped to Greensboro. Brothers “Spike” Mebane and
Garrison were at Rock Hill. Brother “Twede” Rainey spent the weekend with Brother Howell.

Pi Kappa Phi
While most of the brothers remained on the campus over the weekend, some managed to tear themselves away from their
studies long enough to take a few “hares.” Brother Murray and Pledge Hersey chose Greenville, Brother McCall chose St. Louis
as his base of operations this weekend.

Kappa Sigma
Brothers Alf Taylor, Ashby Dick, “Pinky” Wilson, John McGee, George Ennett, and Cam Henderson traveled with the Davidson crowd to
Limestone and High Point and Greensboro this past weekend. Those seen in High Point and Greensboro this weekend were Ed
Fowler, Bob Amos, Jim Millis, Sam Yarborough, Frank Gault, Jim Davis, Dick Phillips, Jim Ellis, Legh Scott, and Abie Short.
Hipp, Simmons, and Carter represented Davidson in the Southern Conference Wrestling at Greensboro. Bill Lacy traveled with the Indoor Track
men to Chapel Hill for the games. Pat Williams, George Marsh, and Dick Kelley went up to Lynchburg for the
weekend. Mack Brewer traveled to Winston-Salem and came back via High Point and Greensboro. Among those initiated on Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday of this week were Ellis, Ennett, Fowler, Grimsley, Henderson, Miller, Millis, Pendleton, Holland, Rochelle, Short, Morgan, Swink, T.
Peters, Richardson, and Yarborough. We held a banquet for the initiates Wednesday night with a number of alumni from Charlotte
present.

S. A. E.
The past weekend lured many brothers away from the campus. Brothers Caldwell, Allcott, Powell, and Hunt were among the excursion
to Limestone. All reported that it was a good trip. Brothers Crichton and Lee journeyed to Winthrop to spend a
quiet, restful weekend. Other brothers who headed north were Rab McGeachy, Elmer Graves, Pledges Hugh Hill and Ray Taylor, all
going to Greensboro. Pledges Jack Lucas, John McAlister, and Bob Whaling visited Hollins and Randolph-Macon. Brother Ed Lucas made a
belated start but, nevertheless, followed their tracks to Virginia, promptly making up for lost time. The Charlotte contingent included Pledges
Bill Dunn and Jim Wilcox, also Brothers Carson, Faison, Stewart, and Young. Brother Port traveled to Chapel Hill to run
for the Cats. At last reports Brother Hackney was seen traveling towards Live Oak, Florida.

Sunday Class Changes Plan
At Sunday School last Sunday an entirely new type of service was conducted. Breaking away from the conventional “guest speaker”
program, talks were given by students on vocational guidance subjects. Among the addresses given was a short talk by Tad
Larkin on Medicine; Bill Tyson, Law; Ed Patterson, Chemistry; Rosy Parks, Teaching; and Tom Stimson, Business. The speakers brought out
in their respective talks the reasons they chose their professions, educational requirements, and the effects of the war on their
respective fields. Jerry Newbold conducted the devotional, choosing as his Scripture the 12th chapter of Romans. The Sunday School officers
expressed their belief that an occasional change from the regular guest speaker program to one of this type would prove
very beneficial to the students. They would appreciate an expression from the student body as to whether this type of
program should be repeated. Dr. Foreman will be the speaker next Sunday.

Davidson’s Symphonic Band returned from an extensive spring tour last Tuesday, after five days on the road in both the
Carolinas and in Georgia. The band, under the direction of Mr. J. C. Pfohl, played eight concerts on their successful
trip. Washington and Decatur, Ga.; Greenville, S. C.; and Marion, Rutherfordton, and Forest City, N.C. Over the coming weekend, the
Little Symphony Orchestra will take some of the men from the band on a trip to Spruce Pine and Lees-McRae
College, to give concerts.

Pool Match Opens Soon
Fifty Men Apply For Tournament; Trophy To Be Offered To Winner
Play-offs will begin this week for the championship Pool Tournament, it was announced by Ralph Williams earlier in the week.
Fifty enthusiastic “sharks” have put in their applications.

Trophy Offered
To encourage pool and a competitive spirit in the college, a trophy is being offered to the winners of the
tournament. This will be something like the one given for ping-pong. A tremendous amount of time was taken up in
the preliminary matches of the ping-pong tournament, so a deadline will be set for each of the pool matches. Williams
has asked that it be made clear that any match which is not played on time will necessarily disqualify the
participants.

MR. GEORGE RICKEY
(Continued from Page One)
discuss with him any of the items in the exhibition.

To Demonstrate Ability
In his demonstrations Mr. Rickey will make a drawing or a painting of some members of the audience who may
wish to sit for him. As he works he will explain his moves and discuss his techniques and answer any
questions which may arise. If any members of the group are interested, Mr. Rickey would be glad to have them
sketch the model, also, and try out the methods which he will discuss.

On Monday morning, March 9, Mr. Rickey will address the student body at the regular chapel period at 10:15. At
4:30 Monday afternoon, the Student Art Exhibit will meet with Mr. Rickey for a discussion of their work.

Lecture Monday Night
This noted artist will deliver a lecture on Monday night, March 9, in Chambers Auditorium on art; he will show
types of work by a number of slides which he will bring for this purpose.

On Tuesday morning, March 10, at 8:25, Mr. Rickey will lead a discussion in Professor Foreman’s class in aesthetics. Mr.
Rickey will give demonstrations in oil painting on Tuesday, March 10, from 4 to 6 P. M. The artist will
be the guest of Sigma Upsilon Tuesday night at which time he will take part in a discussion with this
group.Appreciation of art will receive a lecture by the artist on Wednesday morning at 8:25. At any time during his
visit, Mr. Rickey will be glad to make individual appointments with students who are interested in talking with him.

FACULTY GAME
The D Club announced today the annual Varsity-Faculty basketball game which is to be held on Tuesday, March 10, at
the college gym. This affair, to students in the past, promises a big attraction to draw an even greater crowd
this year with such notables as Drs. Frontis Johnston, Carl Pritchett, William Matthews, W. G. McGavock, Major Wilson, Lt. Spencer,
and Coaches McEver and Chapman, carrying the mail for the faculty. The varsity boys are out for revenge this year,
having lost last year to the nobility by a three-point margin. This year's game is expected to be another close
one, since both teams are about evenly matched. The tickets will be on sale tomorrow and may be purchased from
any D Club member.

French Circle Enjoys Party
Club Soon To Invite Visitors To Meeting
Last Wednesday night, Le Cercle Francais held a meeting at the home of Dr. Goldiere. The students and faculty members
present joined in the many games and songs sung and played in French. The Circle decided to hold another meeting
two weeks from that night, sometime in March. The latter part of the meeting will correspond with groups at Queens
and Salem, who will be invited to attend.

(Continued from Page One)
Winn Asks Stop To Vandalism; Reveals Petition For Improvements
By CHARLES BROCKMANN
There is probably not a student at Davidson who hasn't at one time or another fallen prey to the animal
instincts within him and vandalized property not his own.

Winn Speaks
Last week, the president of the student body brought to the attention of those assembled in Chapel one particularly outstanding
example of wastefulness, and also let it be known that such things must stop. Though the cost in dollars of
these heretofore frequent outbursts may not be great, the problem is one of wastefulness and must certainly stop.

Students Shiver
Tired of constantly replacing windows, school officials were justified in ceasing to do so several weeks ago. The occupants of
this dormitory, both those who enjoyed the dubious pleasure of breaking the windows and the nonparticipants, have since suffered no
few regretful shivers in making their way from the shower.

Dangerous
Aside from the discomforts of sub-zero weather in the hallways, there is an element of danger in the broken bottles
and windowpanes that frequently bedeck them, an element not at all lessened when “some of the boys” get together and
eliminate the hall lights with snowballs or more bottles. As Al Winn remarked, we suppose that intelligent college students can
be expected to do so.

Needless Destruction Criticized In Chapel
During especially trying times, such as exams or what-not, especial pleasure is apparently derived from other forms of destruction. We
might find fires burning gleefully in the cozy dormitories; again we might be stopped by a veritable river of aqua
pura (the result of streaming showers and stopped-up drains). This goes on while we ask the authorities for tiled baths!

Perhaps some future time the student body as such may reach a degree of development and culture that will cause
it to relinquish such avocations. Perhaps even we might reach a utopian time when we will not only stop destroying
things, but go so far as to conserve things like electricity and water.

Needless Waste
Seriously, let us realize this now: wanton destructiveness is, first of all, a waste of time and money; secondly, it
is childish; thirdly, it shows a definite lack of consideration, both for other students and for our own future comfort;
and finally, it indicates a serious disregard for the ideals of thrift and carefulness that should be followed in supporting
the present national effort.

Mr. Pritchett Speaks About God’s Armour
Pastor Cites Spiritual And Physical Battles To Be Won Through God
Mr. Carl Pritchett conducted vespers last Sunday night for the last time this year. He preached on “The Whole Armor
of God” and his text was Ephesians 6:10-18.

Spiritual Battles
In Mr. Pritchett’s introduction, he said that in the days that were ahead of us there were going to be
many hard battles to be won, both physical and spiritual. There were, of course, going to be many physical battles
that we will have to fight on the actual battlefield but that at the same time we will have many
to fight right here at home, spiritually. In order to face these battles with confidence, it will be necessary to
have adequate armor, Mr. Pritchett said. This armor will be the Whole Armor of God. This armor shall consist of:

The Girdle of truth, or sincerity. The greatest enemy of religion, said Mr. Pritchett, is not the atheist, but the
insincere Christian.

The Breastplate of integrity. By daily living in right choices, we can become, as it was said of Lee, a
living example of the statement that Character is Invincible.

Next, the Shoes of Peace were spoken of. Any R. O. T. C. student knows that a good soldier must
have good shoes in order to best fight the winning battle. These must be the fitting shoes of confidence.

The Shield of Faith is our main defensive weapon, for with it we can shield our whole bodies.

The Helmet of Salvation, signifying the hope of immortality, will give us strength.

The Sword of Spirit, the word of God, is our main offensive weapon.

Armor Completed
“Here is your armor. It will take strength to be able to use it, and that strength comes from God,”
said Mr. Pritchett. “Wear this armor and pray without ceasing and in the day of evil, you will be able
to stand as a stone wall.”

Photographs, Supplies and Kodaks
W. I. VAN NESS
215 North Tryon Street

MICKEY’S DRY CLEANING

(Continued from Page One)
torrid jitterbugs, put on an impressive show for the admiring Limestone girls—all of whom crowded around to watch the smoke
from his feet. “Speed” Martin joined Rippa in the “jittin” and for a while the groove was strictly occupied.

Dates were chosen in the unique way of matching a shamrock and number with the shamrock number of the girl
you wished for your date.

Taylor Active
Reports filtered back of the beautiful dates that many of the sophomores secured, especially “Neck” Taylor. Ashby Dick, though not
a Sophomore, seems to have attracted numerous envious glances because of the lovely belle which he escorted. In spite of
the hardships sustained in bumming and the late return trip, contacts seem to have been made with Limestone, contacts that
may culminate in something more.

Brother Williamson went to Winston. Brother Williamson competed in the track meet at Chapel Hill. Brother Patton journeyed to Rutherfordton,
N. C., as Brother Miller and Pledge Key traveled to Florence, S. C. Brothers Evans and Walton operated in Hickory,
N. C., as did Brother Raymond in Spartanburg and Brother Plunkett in Harts.

BILL SHAW STATIONERY
PARKER PENS AND PENCILS
COMPLETE LINE OF GOLF EQUIPMENT
THE STUDENT STORE
DAVIS THOMAS, Managers

Gracie
Thursday, March 5
“MR. & MRS. NORTH”
Allen Paul Kelly

Friday and Saturday, March 6 and 7
“THE BUGLE SOUNDS”
Wallace Beery
Marjorie Main
Lewis Stone

Monday and Tuesday, March 9 and 10
“LOOK WHO’S LAUGHING”

Wednesday, March 11
“MAJOR BARBARA”

Thursday, March 12
“UNCERTAIN FEELING”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

Cash and Carry
1 BAG
Hours 8-6
Davidson, N. C.

A Hat that's The Stetson “Playboy” $5.00
Stetson takes a bow for this five-star favorite. And you will, too, for you'll be hailed everywhere you wear the
light, handsome “Playboy.”

Efird’s Men’s Shop
Street Floor
