Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 12, 1942

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

HARWELL DARBY.................EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JOHN CRICHTON.................BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF:
Bobby Carter....................Assistant Editor
Walt Griswold..................Associate Editor
Alte Winstead..................Associate Editor
Ed Erwin.........................Managing Editor
Joe Eves..........................Managing Editor
Jimmy Fulcher................Managing Editor
Billy Henry......................Sports Editor
McIntosh..........................Movie Editor
Clarence Legerton...........Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF:
Calhoun Hipp..................Assistant Business Manager
Peter Young....................Advertising Manager
Joe Martin.......................Circulation Manager
Buck McNeely................Circulation Manager
Ivey Stuart......................Collections Manager

For Your Information...
Elections Board duties, as defined in Section Four of Article VI, are here written: “The duties of the Elections Board
are: To conduct all elections strictly according to the provisions set out in this Constitution; to count, file, and post
all election returns as soon as possible after the polls are closed; to set forth previous to the election period
a set of definite and specific rules including clear-cut definitions of such elections terms as ‘Combines,’ ‘Soliciting votes,’ etc., these
rules and definitions to be composed by the Board each year subject to the approval of the Student Council; and
to make public the penalties as listed in Article IV, Section 12, which shall accompany the infraction of the same.”

In accordance with the regulation the Elections Board, headed by Bill Sprunt, has made the following definitions: At a meeting
held on March 4, 1942, the following definitions were set forth in accordance with the regulation:
(1) A combine or union shall be defined as any individual or group influencing or swapping votes for any particular
candidate in return for any consideration whatsoever. By interpretation, this definition applies to fraternity and non-fraternity men alike, or to
any group, individual, or individual within a group which shall take it upon itself to use these methods in our
elections.
(2) The soliciting of votes shall be defined as any entreating, importuning, requesting, or pleading for votes by any candidate,
or by any individual, or any group, or any individual within a group on behalf of any candidate.
(3) A group shall be defined as any assemblage of two or more persons forming a separate unit, such as
an organization, club, fraternity, society, or class.

Borrowed...
“Two weeks ago, the New Bern (N.C.) Sun-Journal ran a picture of the sponsors for the midwinters dances at N.C.
State. Beneath the picture of these five beautiful girls was this cryptic caption, ‘Their submarine blasted out from under them
during an attack on an Atlantic convoy, these German sailors, above, managed to escape from the wrecked craft and started
swimming toward the British destroyer which scored the hit. The picture was just received. The submarine was reportedly one of
three sunk by the Allies during a recent five-day battle between the convoy and the enemy. The airplane photo, right,
shows a British destroyer standing by to rescue the crew of another U-Boat put out of action in a different
engagement.’ My, my you State boys are rough with girls!” ---Daily Tar Heel.

Volunteer Land Corps
Organized to make young people useful who as yet are not called to military service, this organization, headed by Miss
Dorothy Thompson and Dr. Herbert Agar of the Louisville Courier-Journal, aims to draw youth from all parts of the Nation
and place them, for the summer months of the vacation period, on the farms of Vermont, which are faced today
by a 40 percent labor shortage. The workers, both young men and women of college age, will be paid $21
a month, and room-and-board, the equivalent of a soldier’s pay, and will be under the supervision of the farmer with
whom they live, the Volunteer Land Corps, and the Agricultural Consultants representing the government of Vermont.

As Miss Thompson has written, “The Volunteer Land Corps launches in a small, intensive way, the movement of the civilian
soldier and defender, ally of his comrades in arms, lover and worker, builder and creator by work and good neighborliness
of the democratic and cooperative world of tomorrow.” Aiming to render service, both to a New England countryside badly in
need of the produce of this great farming State, and to the young workers, most of whom would never before
have chanced at the great privilege that men enjoy who watch things grow and reap the harvest, Miss Thompson is
appealing to the youth of all sections to consider the large advantages in such an enterprise and, if conditions permit,
join the ranks of those many hundreds who have already signified their intention of aiding in this contribution to the
welfare of their Nation.

As to who may participate, Miss Thompson tells us “The Corps is open and welcomes all young men not yet
called to the colors---any man or any young woman over the age of 16. It accepts all; it rejects none.
Yet it is a student movement in essence, because it believes that the university youth owe a special service and
the duty of setting a special example to the rest of American youth.”

CAMPUS IN CARTOON
WHO, AFTER A LOSING SEASON, DIDN'T CLAIM HE WAS BUILDING CHARACTER!

PROF EDW. M. NEALLEY OF SANTA ANA J.C. HAS MADE UP 1000 LECTURE CHARTS DURING THE PAST 35 YEARS. HE
HAS DIAGRAMMED OVER TWO MILES OF PAPER THREE FEET IN WIDTH!

PRINCETON PITCHER BACK IN 1874 STARTED THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CURVE BALL. JOSEPH MANN, '76, NOTICED THE BALL BROKE INTO
A CURVE WHEN HE LET IT ROLL OFF THE SORE FINGER: HE WORKED ON THE THEORY ALL WINTER AND THE
FOLLOWING SPRING...

Cinema Comments
By CLARENCE LEGERTON

Friday and Saturday March 13 and 14
WOMAN OF THE YEAR
Spencer Tracy, Katherine Hepburn, Fay Bainter, Reginald Owen, and Minor Watson.
This story of the matrimonial struggles of a brilliant writer and her reporter husband has Katherine Hepburn as a young
Dorothy Thompson, a linguist, writer and columnist of note who falls in love with sports writer Spencer Tracy. Katie is
so wrapped up in her affairs she relegates her marriage to second place, a thing which he can't stand. He
leaves her, and she must work fast to get him back.

Monday and Tuesday March 16 and 17
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR., Ruth Warwick, Akim Tamiroff, J. Carrol Naish, and H. B. Warner.
This is the kind of movie that has romance, thrills, rescues, sword play, and all the things that went into
the dream world of movies. It is the story of a pair of avenging twins in old Corsica, with Doug
Fairbanks, Jr., giving one of the best performances in a dual role. Ruth Warwick is a beautiful heroine who must
be rescued from the baron, Akim Tamiroff. J. Carrol Naish and H. B. Warner, who love the twins, and John
Emery who hated them, are very good in their roles.

Wednesday, March 18
NIAGARA FALLS and NORTH OF KLONDIKE, a double feature.

COMING: LOUISIANA PURCHASE, with Bob Hope. PLAYMATES, with Kay Kyser.

I would like for Henry McIntosh to be the guest of the theatre for any feature this week.

Down Fraternity Court
Kappa Sigma
Last weekend Tom Shaw and George Peters travelled to their home in Kingsport, Tenn. Pinky Wilson went to his home
in Lowell, N.C. The George Marsh, Jack Rochelle, Jim Smith of the faculty, Mrs. Wood, and Brother Jimmy Shaw of
Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Alpha
The chapter extends its sympathies to Charles Shaw on his recent bereavement. Daffin, Turner, and Behrman were seen at Queens,
while E. Hay was on a “Y” Deputation to Converse. Millis, and Bill Simmons to High Point. Jim Davis spent
the weekend in Salisbury along with Mack Brewer, Legh Scott, and Shep Booth, and Wileman Ehly went home to Greensboro.
Ashby Dick got in his usual extensive detail to Sumter. At the basketball tournament were Dick Phillips, Gene Sutton, Jack
Clark, and Joe McCoy. Dick Kelly found his way to Converse and Don Holland thrilled the Queens girls. Bill Grimsley
and George Ennett went to Lynchburg and Randolph-Macon. Mr. and Mrs. Ellis and Miss Mabel Patton were guests for Sunday
dinner and Frances Maynard and Caroline Parker were dates.

S.A.E.
Following the formal initiation by the fraternity on Friday night, a banquet and dance at the Charlotte Country Club was
held on Saturday evening at which time Tommy Powell of Houston, Texas, was awarded the pledge cup, an honor which
is awarded annually by the fraternity. The award was made this year by Brother Peter Young of Charlotte, winner for
the class of 1943 in the absence of last year’s winner.Buck Fuquay. Especially welcomed visitors included Mr. and Mrs. Osborne
and their usual haunts this past week with Brother Hill leading the way to the Tavern. Brothers Neal and Henderson
went with different motives to Chapel Hill. The varied territories covered included Brother Purcon's trip home while Brother Maxwell took
a sudden turn in direction toward South Carolina. Brothers Hodges, Brinson, Scott, and Pledge Turner took their weekly jaunt to
W.-C. and Pledge Anderson spent a very enjoyable weekend in Capital Square in Raleigh, N.C. Sigma Phi Epsilon took honors
this week with their “hair” to Charleston, where, among other things, they took in the Citadel Midwinters. Our representation at
the basketball tourney at Raleigh consisted of Bivins, Gwynn, and Winchester, while Morton and Whitley were dealing down Atlanta. Pi
Kappa Phi continued to “deal” over the weekend. The basketball tourney in Raleigh attracted Brothers Miller, Wayman, and Gowdy while
Brother Larkin was attracted to his sea coast shrine in Wilmington, N.C. Pledge Floyd traveled to Woodruff, S.C., and Brother
Hipp zipped in Greenville, S.C. Brother Gaither operated in Newton and Brother Bumbarger did likewise in Hickory. Brother Herring returned
to his home in Roseboro, N.C. while Pledge Yantis spent the weekend in Atlanta. Brother Denny went to Gastonia and
Brother Fisher went to Kannapolis. The remainder of the chapter divided their time between the local cinema and Charlotte. Phi
Delta Theta Brothers Terrell and Carter hit Washington for the wildest hair weekend while Brother Wardlaw (better known as the
lone wolf) went to Atlanta and attended the dances that southern city had to offer. Brothers Brattey, Connor, and Watson
visited Winthrop and Rock Hill. Brothers Rudolph and Westall spent the weekend in the snowed-under city of Asheville. Brother Tate
went to his home in Morganton.

The Fifth Columnist 250 By ?

Well, it doesn't seem like five weeks since Midwinters, but here we are on the eve of another dance weekend.
As this weekly appears, most of the campus dealers are laying their intricate plans for another of the quarterly dances.
The Military Set promises to be one of the better dances of the year from the angle of operating, and
we hope to be in a position to shoot all the readable dope straight to you this time next week.
Now to settle down to the business at hand...

SHEP BOOTH took all hundred pounds of himself up to Salisbury for just another weekend, but much to his surprise
returned with an advanced case of the sugars. Seems he met a gal who had just the right “x” to
solve his equation. Imagine mistletoe at this time of year or holly. JACK CLARK migrated southward and must have nested
for the remainder of the winter as he hasn't returned yet. ED GARROU and his O.A.O. canvassed all the theaters
in Charlotte Saturday night to find a show that they hadn't seen and settled on the leg affair at the
Broadway. Imagine his embarrassment when, in true Parliamentary procedure, a motion was put before ED says that “no nudes is
good nudes.” BILL GRIMSLEY crossed up Brother SHEP BOOTH by taking advantage of the “when the cat’s away” principle to
silently move up to ole R-Macon to tackle SHEP’S other girl. They spent an exciting evening over a Ouija Board,
which predicted that he would marry her and have seven (7) kinds. What a future...

SQUATTY SQUIRES finally has achieved his goal by dating the queenly PRISCILLA, of Waffle Shop fame, for the Military Set.
JOHN BOOTH and his friend, Grandad, painted the friendly city a new vermillion up until the wee hours Saturday night.
TOMMY LANE popped into the Tavern Friday to get the jump on the ol' boys, un-stabled his sleek charger, and
dashed home to the house. PAT RUDOLPH dashed off to Asheville, the “village” mentioned last Monday in Hap Hopper, to
confirm his date for the coming weekend and to further convince ELOISE that he is not a dance weekend bigamist.
RALPH WILLIAMS pulled a fast one by inserting the picture of his “steady” in the paper instead of that of
his date. As long as you can keep that sort of double-dealing up, we're for you, bulldog. It was worth
anyone’s while to have dropped by the Picadilly early Sunday morning. Such goings-on! KAISER WILSON floated on the proverbial cloud
for the forty-eight hours that his “Sweeter than the sweetest” PEGGY TAYLOR was here. Mighty cute gal, that!

For quite a while now our own “BONNIE BANKS” WASHBURN has had his eyes on The Campus Kid (MOT SAUVAIN
to you) and now that “GLAMOUR BOY” SPRUNT seems to have definitely fallen out of the picture, BEN is trying
desperately to take up where he left off. This, however, was nipped in the bud when she flatly refused his
invitation to the coming set of dances. Now we feel that we owe you an explanation concerning the name attached
to the young lady mentioned. The Saturday night the Senior banquet was being held at Salem, Miss SAUVAIN and two
unidentified freshmen, thinking all the hawks would be guarding the seniors, took off for the midnight show (so they say)
and were caught returning at 2 A.M. Sunday morning. They were sentenced to two weeks strict campus and probation for
the rest of the year. WILBO CARTER, BEN LACY, and LITTLE JOHN McGEE aided these culprits in escaping. Having suggested
this midnight escapade, and feeling guilty rather keenly, they went back Monday night to try and make amends.

DICK PHILLIPS had his biennial tare at the Southern Conference tournament this past weekend. After having led his brother Sigmas
at State in a songfest, unforeseen circumstances arose making it necessary for him to retire. In doing this he missed
another exhibition of the “Genial Jew’s” warped yet much-publicized technique. This time it was a high school girl attending the
Beta Convention. And in closing this column, there is a late radio tune blasting forth that seems rather appropriate—“Nobody loves
me—I’m a skunk,” yet as long as the columnist keeps you guessing as to identity, there is no worry of
lost love from hostile readers. See you next week...

PATTER By PAT RUDOLPH

Au Revoir To That Important First Digit of the Hand

Whether college students are cognizant of the fact or not, that fateful day of December 7, 1941, when the Japanese
pulled that most clever ace out of their bloody sleeves, not only posed serious military problems for F.D.R., et al,
but also an extremely serious transportation problem for college students. We find ourselves at this point facing a constantly growing
enigma. Probably none of us realized that day that the attack by those insidious Japs was going to cut off
our major supply of rubber from the East Indies, and thus necessitate the freezing of the automobile tire business.

To be specific, let me give an example from a typical diary: “Thursday, February 26, 1942: Had to go to
Charlotte this afternoon. Was on bumming corner at 1 P.M. Finally caught a ride with a man in a truck
at 2:45 P.M. Came back on the bus.” I believe that this experience is typical of students in the more
or less isolated college communities similar to Davidson. The reason I give for saying that it is a “constantly growing
enigma,” is that Mr. Henderson of Washington has definitely stated that there is no rubber on hand at present for
student private consumers, and that there will not be any for a year or three or until the war is
over. Therefore, if the problem of bumming is acute now, think of what it’s going to be next year! You
underclassmen are going to be forced to turn in your thumb for a nice green, fresh bus or train ticket.
Alas! I must retract a statement I made in this column not long ago. I said: “As long as there
is a Charlotte, and as long as there is a Davidson, there will always be someone on the bumming corner.”
That magic word DURATION comes in at this point. Everything has been “suspended for the duration.” This, I repeat, includes
good and fruitful hitchhiking. Yes, I predict a good future for the Southern Railway and for the Atlantic Greyhound Corporation.
In fact, if you have some money you want to invest in something besides Defense Bonds, buy a little railroad
stock. It will be a good investment for the “duration.”

What other evidence of this enigma do we have besides the aforementioned Davidson-Charlotte situation? Well, there were the Davidson students
who were on the corner at noon in Charlotte last Friday trying to bum to Charleston. At nine o'clock that
night they had reached Orangeburg, S.C. There they boarded a train for the rest of their journey. Even during Midwinter
Dances, one social fraternity was forced to charter a bus to take the boys and their dates back and forth
to the dances.
