BAND DUEL FEATURES SPRING DANCES

ORTA Che Mavbidsonian ALENDA LUX UB LIBERTAS

PARRIGIN SENIOR HEADS CLASS

Volume XXIX. No. 21

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1942

PARRIGIN TO LEAD SENIORS

Two Carolina Bands Will Play For Spring Frolics

Satterfield And Hatch Will Share Spotlight

Johnny Satterfield Plays Friday, Alternates With Hurst Saturday

Pat Rudolph, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced today that the combined music of Johnny Satterfield and Hurst Hatch will furnish the main attraction for the Spring Frolics Dance Set to be held on April 24 and 25. The dances, three in number, will be held in the Charlotte Armory as usual. There will be a formal dance on Friday night, a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, and a formal dance on Saturday night. Satterfield’s band will provide the music for the Friday night formal and the Saturday afternoon tea dance, and both bands will join in on Saturday night for a “Battle of Music.”

New Feature

At this dance, Satterfield’s and Hatch’s bands will both occupy a position on the stage and will provide continuous dancing and entertainment throughout the entire evening, playing alternate sets of numbers, each set lasting approximately fifteen minutes. This feature of the weekend will be something new in the annals of Davidson dances and is expected to be popular with dancers.

Popular Bands

Both of these bands hail from the University of North Carolina and are said to be equally as fine as Freddy Johnson's orchestra, which furnished music for the Military “D” Club set last month. Satterfield is said to have one of the best brass sections of any college band in the country. Hatch and his Carolinians, Chapel Hill's newest dance band, are reported to be one of the most popular organizations to be recruited at the University.

Prices Set

The price of the set ticket for Spring Frolics will be $5.75 including tax. The price for the Friday night dance will be $2.75 and for the Saturday night dance $3.25, while the price for Saturday afternoon will be $1.10. All the above prices include both Federal and State tax. These tickets will be available from all Pan-Hellenic Councilmen shortly after the Easter recess.

Class Picks New Leader

Newbold Is President At Sunday School Class

The Student Sunday School at its last meeting, March 29, elected its officers for the coming year. Jerry Newbold was elected president, succeeding Billy Tyson, last year's president. John Evens took over the office of Vice-President which was held by Jerry Newbold. Bob Turner, last year’s Secretary-Treasurer, was succeeded by Bill Grey.

Newbold

Newbold has been active in work for the last three years. This past year he served on the “Y” Cabinet as head of the department of community service. Newbold was recently elected as a member at large of the Presbyterian Students Association. He also holds an important post in the Young People’s Council of the Synod of North Carolina. This Y. M. C. A. Student Sunday School occupies an important place in the religious life of the college. Its meetings are held every Sunday morning at 10:15 in Phi Hall.

Rumple Gives Best Skit In YMCA Show

Dormitories And Faculty Participate In First Annual Stunt Night

By GEORGE WORTH

Chambers Auditorium was filled with noises: laughter, gunshots, songs, bird calls, yells, explosions, and more laughter, as Davidson experienced its first Stunt Night, produced by the Y. M. C. A. on Friday, March 27, from 8:15 to 9:45 in the evening. Shaw Smith and Ralph Williams were responsible for the success of the program as they did most of the work in preparation for the performance. The judges of the acts were Mrs. Cumming, Dr. Harding, and Mr. Jackson.

Rumple First

Rumple took first place in the competition against representatives from all the different dormitories and faculty. Entitled “A Typical Night in Rumple,” or “How to Duck a Bottle,” the skit put on by the Rumplemen featured Wilford Whitley and about half the boys in that venerable building. The grand finale of the show was Rumple’s raid with Buzz Council as the air warden. Incidentally, Rumple burned down during the raid.

Runners-Up

Honorable mention was given to the Faculty and to West Dormitory for their skits. Outstanding was the star of the West Dormitory cast, John Northcross. His make-up and costume were outstanding, and his performance in the audience was unforgettable to all that saw it.

Faculty Skit

Faculty members played the part of students in a skit entitled “8:25 Monday Morning.” Even Al Winn, as played by Dr. Schenck, was unable to answer questions on Mother Goose asked by the teacher, Dr. Cumming. Other students caricatured by the faculty were Monroe Bush by Dr. Johnston, Claude Hackney by Dr. McGavock, Pat Rudolph by Dr. Foreman, and Walter Wooten by Lt. Spencer. The class ended abruptly when Dr. Cumming defeated Mr. McEver in a wrestling match by using some of his jujitsu.

Other memorable performances were given by Georgia and Watts Dormitories. Terrell Glenn led a ballet made up of boys and sang “Beautiful Brown Eyes.” The Watts skit featured imitations of Prof. Kimbrough by Dick Port, Prof. Lilly by Erny Webster, and Major Wilson by Hank Crane.

Walker Heads Spanish Club

At a meeting of Sigma Delta Phi, honorary Spanish fraternity, Monday night, new officers were elected for the coming year. The new officers are: B. B. Walker, president; B. G. Parks, vice-president; R. L. Brinson, secretary; and C. H. Hobbs, treasurer. A play, given by Dr. Goldiere’s pupils, was the highlight of the program, which was held in Dr. Goldiere’s classroom. In the cast of the play, entitled “Uno Debe Casarse,” were Howell Morrow, Tommy Bumbarger, W. C. Plunkett, and R. J. Black.

INCOMING CLASS PRESIDENTS

LYMAN PARRIGIN
PRICE GWYNN
JOE McCOY

Kissling To Speak At Services

ALUMNI MEET

Winston-Salem alumni of Davidson College will hold their annual meeting in that city on April 10. Plans for the program have not been announced yet. Also near at hand is the meeting of Davidson graduates now living in the metropolitan area of New York, which will be held on April 15.

Sandifer Will Attend Meet

New President Goes To Convention In Louisiana

Myron Sandifer, newly elected president of the Davidson student body, will attend the Federation of Southern Students conference at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, this week-end. Sandifer will represent the student governing body at the convention, which will be attended by student government and publications representatives from all over the South. The convention is to be built around discussions of the place of the college students in the world today.

Discussions

Many of the discussions will be devoted to answering what the college student can do to help win the war without destroying a democratic bulwark—education. Much of the time of the convention will be spent in determining the position of student governing bodies and publications during the war days.

The convention of the SFCSPR will be held both at Baton Rouge and New Orleans, being transported from L. S. U. in Baton Rouge Saturday afternoon to Tulane-Newcombe in New Orleans by bus.

Speakers

One of the principal speakers of the convention will be Governor Sam Jones who will speak to the assembly Friday afternoon. Climax to the convention will be an assembly held on Easter Sunday morning at 7 on the campus of Tulane-Newcombe. Rev. J. D. Gray of the First Baptist Church of New Orleans will deliver the inspirational address. The Tulane-Newcombe A Capella Choir will furnish the music. The program will be broadcast.

Twenty-first Convention

Representatives from 13 states will be present at the 21st annual convention of student governing body and publications. Paul Arst of Louisiana State University will lead the men’s division of student government.

Y. M. C. A. Spring Services’ Leader Is Pastor Of Jacksonville Church

Rev. Albert Jacob Wissling will be the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. Spring Services which will be held in the latter part of April. Dr. Wissling is known throughout the Southern Presbyterian Church.a prominent minister. He is at present the pastor of the Riverside Presbyterian Church of Jacksonville, Florida, where he has served for ten years.

Studied Abroad
He was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1901. He attended Westminster College, Missouri, and later the Union Theological Seminary where he was a Johnson Fellow in Theology. Dr. Kissling also studied abroad at the University of Tübingen in Berlin, Germany.

SIGMA UPSILON
Sigma Upsilon held its regular meeting on March 31 in the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house. The program was opened by a short story given by Professor H. T. Lilly. Following this, Sandy McEachern read a new chapter of the lyric poem, "Lysander Mallory," to which a new chapter is added at each meeting of the society. An essay by Ed Taylor, and a poem or play by W. H. Sprunt concluded the program.

Junior Class
Gouwens Will Speak June 7
Commencement Exercises Set For June 6-8
In Scotland, Dr. Kissling attended the University of Edinburgh and was stated supply to Wardie Kirk, an Edinburgh church. This church later called him to serve as their pastor but he refused the offer to go to America.

Degree From Davidson
Davidson College conferred upon Dr. Kissling the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1941. Since Dr. Kissling was called to the Riverside Church, he has been a guest minister in many colleges. He has preached twice at Rollins College, and at the College for Women at Tallahassee, Florida State College, and at the University of Florida, delivering the baccalaureate sermon in 1935. Paul Kissling of the Davidson student body is a brother of Dr. Kissling.

Spring Speaker
Dr. Thomas J. Kissling of the Riverside Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Florida, will speak at the Spring Services sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. Dr. John A. Thomas of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, who also conducted the Fall Services at Davidson in 1940, will be the Baccalaureate preacher.

The Commencement program for the class of 1942 will begin on Saturday, June 6, and continue through Monday, June 8.

Photos Made Of ROTC Unit
Julien McCall, editor of Quips and Cranks, announced that the photographer for the annual was here again Monday to take pictures of the R.O.T.C. Unit and others will be taken at a later date. Many boys have been contacted in the past two weeks about getting their names in gold on their annuals. Any others who have not been seen may contact either Wilfred Hobbie or Campbell Ansley. Also, any boys who have not yet recovered their girl’s picture back from the beauty section may secure them from Julien McCall.

Grimsley, Amos, And Loughridge Win Class Offices in Balloting
Price Gwynn of Davidson was elected to head the rising Junior Class when he defeated Earle Dixon of Dillon, S.C. on the final ballot Monday. On the same ticket, Bill Grimsley of Greensboro was chosen to serve as Vice-President of the class, and Bob Amos of High Point was elected to continue in his post as Secretary-Treasurer of the class. Gwynn is a member of the Student Council, is a sergeant in the R.O.T.C. unit, and is on the football squad. He belongs to Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

President Sophomore Class
The final voting for President of the rising Sophomore Class between Sam Yarborough and Jack Shaw was postponed until Wednesday. The final ballot for Secretary between Sam Yarborough of Philadelphia, and Tom Loughridge of Charlotte was also postponed.

Six Elections Remain After Spring Recess
After the Spring Recess, elections for the heads of the Student Government, Annual, Freshman Handbook, Davidsonian, the Student Council, Editor of the Magazine, and the Y.M.C.A. Board remain to be chosen. The Freshman Class Advisor is selected from the rising Senior Class and only the members of this class vote in this election. Nominations for this office are made by the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and are subject to additions by the Senior Class. The entire student body will vote for the editor of the Magazine. Jim Lyman, Allen Ball, Harry Hipp, Junior Calhoun, White Chapman, and Jim White are eligible for this office.

Student Council
The Student Council consists of fourteen members: The President, first Vice-President, second Vice-President, Treasurer, and Secretary of the Student Body, and the presidents of the three classes.

1942-43 Frolics
Walker Are Other New Officers
Belk, Paterson, And McLean Are Runners-Up In Final Ballot
In the final ballot cast March 30, Belk Parrigin defeated John McCoy of Charlotte. At the same time, Vic Walker of North Wilkesboro was elected Vice-President. McCoy of Mount Gilead was chosen Secretary. Parrigin succeeds himself as President of the Class of 1943, having been elected last year to fill the unexpired term of Matt Long, who withdrew from school. He is a member of Phi Kappa fraternity, the tennis team, and holds an assistantship in Chemistry. He is also a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemistry Honorary Fraternity.

Vice-President McCoy
McCoy of Madison, N.C. was elected Vice-President. He defeated Scotty Patterson of Charlotte. He is a member of Phi Kappa fraternity, a sergeant in the R.O.T.C. unit, and is President of the Beaver Club. He was recently elected Varsity Basketball Manager, to Scabbard and Blade, and is a clerk in the Student Store.

Walker
Walker defeated Lacy McLean of Charlotte. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and is sports manager and alumni secretary. He is also sports manager for the Junior Class. He was recently elected President of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and is a Bible assistant to Dr. Martin.

N.C. College Group Meet
Winn Leads Discussion On Student Government
Students of the North Carolina Federation of Student Governments held the thirteenth annual conference at Queens College in Charlotte on Friday and Saturday of last week. Al Martin, Jr., of Chapel Hill, presided over the meeting. On Friday night at the formal dinner in the Hotel Charlotte, J. Sheahan, Director of Civilian Defense, addressed the conference. "Honor Systems" On Saturday morning, Al Winn led the discussion on Men’s Student Government. His subject was "Honor Systems." Mr. Ty Johnson, Director of Civilian Defense for North Carolina, addressed the conference. Reports from the various committees were given. The election and installation of officers were held at the informal dinner in the Gold Room of the Hotel on Saturday night. Attending from Davidson were Al Winn, Myron Sandifer, Pat Williams, and Bill McLean. The party was held at the Carolina Theatre after the banquet Saturday night.