Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 26, 1942 The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION
RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers
Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO Entered as second-class
matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879. HARWELL DARBY EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JOHN
CRICHTON BUSINESS MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF Bobby Carter Assistant Editor W. G. Plunkett Associate Editor P. M. A. Peterson Associate Editor
Ed Erwin Managing Editor Joe Eve Managing Editor Jimmy Fulcher Managing Editor Bill Lyman Managing Editor Henry McIntosh Managing Editor
Lacy MacLean Sports Editor Clarence Legerton Movie Editor Billy Barker Staff Photographer BUSINESS STAFF Calhoun Hipp Assistant Business Manager Peter
Young Advertising Manager Re Martin Circulation Manager Buck McNeely Circulation Manager Ivey Stuart Collections Manager On Student Faculty Relations From
the discussion forwarded by the Y. M. C. A. sponsored student-faculty relations open forum in Phi Hall the other night,
came the resulting decision that the main cause for the present status existing between faculty and students of Davidson is
the attitude of the student body (which attitude probably has sprung up from tradition) of frowning on all relations other
than simple “question-answer” intercourse between faculty and students. Therefore, if the student body should actually desire a better relation between
faculty and students (and we think the relation could definitely be improved), the simplest way to get this better relation
is to start a movement which frowns on the “smooching” utterances that automatically emulate from onlookers when a person lingers
by the professor’s desk after class. “Don’t you think we can’t tell who’s trying to impress and who’s really interested
in the thing discussed!” one professor assured those attending the open forum. In this editorial, we do not intend to
defend the “apple-shiners” nor do we advocate their going unchecked. But, after the admissions of several representative seniors, we conclude
that the attitude and sounds are merely a joke and should not prevent a person’s intellectual curiosity from finding stimulation
from the professor’s desk. And yet, other persons contend that they do not think of stepping by the said desk
for fear of someone's misinterpreting their intellectual curiosity as being a sham for impressing that holder of the grade book.
The situation has actually become serious, and the only way toward better faculty-student relations is for the student body to
immediately frown on the persons who embarrass the after-class-question man, or the Sunday night visitor, and for the student body
at large to become after-class-question men and also Sunday-night-callers. Letters To The Editor FROM THE STUDENT STORE Dear Tony: We
would appreciate it if you would print this letter as we would like to ask the cooperation of the entire
Student Body in regard to the future policy of the Student Store. We feel that through The Davidsonian everyone can
be reached and the facts can be placed squarely before them. As everyone knows, prices on most articles are going
up and will rise even further. Up to now we have raised the retail price on these goods in only
a few cases, whereas nearly all of the wholesale prices have advanced or our supply has been rationed. We would
like to continue the present prices, but this can only be done with the cooperation of all. The honor system
is working very well—only recently we had a complaint on it by the manager of the College Store at Wofford—but
there are always some who place their own prices on cookies or who forget to pay. These, of course, are
the exceptions, but even that little bit is going to be needed to help keep prices down. The penny cakes
have always been a point of controversy. Managers for the past three years claimed that these particular items were handled
at a loss because of the mistaken impression that “broken cookies were free,” and because many insist upon setting their
own price on them. The price on these has gone up recently, and the profit, always small, has been further
reduced. We have been seriously thinking of taking these cakes off sale altogether but hope that the students will cooperate
so as not to make this necessary. Posted in front of all the shaving preparations is a list of all
the articles subject to the 10 per cent Federal Excise Tax. We are not allowed to absorb this tax and
would appreciate it if each person who bought any of the listed goods would report it to the clerk so
that he can make a record of it. As long as we have self-service this is the only method which
we can employ. We also wish to thank everyone for his support and cooperation so far, especially in regard to
bottles and bottle deposits. However, we would like to ask that when you return a bottle for credit that you
tell the clerk rather than taking it out in trade so as to keep our records straight. Thank you, again,
and we earnestly solicit your cooperation in making it easier for us to serve you. Sincerely, DAVIS THOMAS, BILL SHAW.
DIRECTED AT SENIORS Saturday Morning. Dear Tony: It has long been argued that our Chapel Services are of no spiritual
value to the Student Body—that many of the talks heard from the platform are just “bull”—that nobody remembers them, or
even listens to what is said. Last Friday in an extended Chapel Service the World Day of Prayer was observed.
It was a day in which Christians the world over were united in prayer. Here was, if any has been,
a chapel service that was an inspiration to all who joined in it. And yet 43 per cent of the
Senior Class did not think it worth their while to attend. Fifty-six (out of 128) members of the Senior Class
figured that they could save a few minutes time by using one of their cuts on this extended chapel period
rather than one of the normal length. If such cooperation is shown on a really worthwhile chapel program—how can you
expect to improve them? (Signed) G. T. B. CAMPUS IN CARTOON THE FIRST INTERCOLLEGIATE BASEBALL GAME ENDED WITH A HIGH
MODERN MERCER UNI. HAS HAD AT LEAST ONE SON OF O.P. GILBERT, ALUMNUS OF 1897, ENROLLED FOR EVERY YEAR SINCE
1920. Cinema Comments By CLARENCE LEGERTON Thursday and Friday February 26 and 27 THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON Errol
Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Arthur Kennedy, and Charley Grapewin. Rousing entertainment is this picture of the life and times of
General Custer (Errol Flynn). Olivia de Havilland, as his wife, is more beautiful than ever, and Anthony Quinn is very
good as the Sioux chief “Crazy Horse.” John Litel, as Sherman, villainous Arthur Kennedy and General Walter Hampden lend splendid
support. Saturday, February 28 A YANK ON THE BURMA ROAD Barry Nelson, Laraine Day, Stuart Crawford, and Keye Luke. It
is evident that a lot of last minute changes went into this timely, but not well done, story of a
Yank (Barry Nelson) who pilots a fleet of trucks over the Burma Road. After Laraine Day loses her love for
her husband, who is flying for the Japs, Barry steps in to fill the gap. Nevertheless, it’s impressive to hear
an announcement of the Pearl Harbor bombing in a movie. [Continued on Page Three] Down Fraternity Court Phi Delta Theta
Brother Owens went over to Tracy City, Tenn., for his weekly talk with Ernestine about the army. Brother Mclver journeyed
to his home in Bristol, Va., for the weekend. Brother Westall went to Asheville to talk over plans with his
wife about bringing a trailer for her to stay in back to Davidson, and to attend his sister's wedding. Brother
Starnes tagged along. Brothers Banks, Oglesby, and Hardee attended the dance at Clemson. Sigma Phi Epsilon The majority of the
brothers confined their activities to the Queen City and vicinity over the past weekend, although Herb Morton ripped up to
his home in Bullock. “Stacey” Robinson was with his host Lacy Sellars in Greensboro, while “Phi Bete” Henderson journeyed to
Chester, S. C. Fred Morton and P. H. G., the third, were spied in Berryhill, much to “Myrna’s” chagrin. Bev
Bobbitte and Knox minor were at Clemson’s Midwinters, while “Eddie” Bivins commuted between Meredith and Elkin. Kappa Sigma Since initiations
were beginning the past weekend, practically all the brothers were present. Feeds were held Saturday and Sunday nights. Brothers Melvin
Means and Bob Finley were guests for the weekend. Dr. Lacy, father of Lacy boys, was present at the Sunday
night feed. Emily Early and Betty Youngblood were dates. Jim Crook is back after an appendectomy and is greeted enthusiastically.
The chapter announces pledging Doug Swink. Kappa Alpha Initiation of new members into their chapter highlighted the past week of
Alpha activities, as Sim Barnwell, Bill Abbott, George Council, Jack Richeson, Irwin Belk, Hen-Belk, Bob McMillan, Lowry, and C. T.
Daniels Sigma Brothers Kappa derson Jim became Otherwise, the activities of Davidson's K. A.’s were limited for the most part
to Charlotte trips or limbering up exercises on the campus.

Pi Kappa Phi's biggest and most eventful “deal” of the week was pulled by Brother Morris, who zipped off to
Atlanta to join the Naval Air Corps. Brother Herring, who also made the “long hop,” acted as co-pilot on the
maneuvers. Brother Hipp led another dealing crew to the Clemson Midwinters, where he was accompanied by Brothers Watson and Gaither
and Pledge Key. Brother Larkin went to Washington, N.C., while “Physical Ed” Murray operated in Raleigh.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Between the wrestling matches, basketball game, and fraternity pins coming back, the usual rounders were hindered somewhat this weekend. Brothers
Pritchard, Van Vickle, Martin, Graves, Turner, Parks, and Pledge Farrar paid their weekly visit to the Queen City. Measles and
Citadel stepping into his love life, Brother Hodges spent an uneventful weekend at home and W.-G. burg Telegram-Letter-Vos declares Gaither
open season.

Beta Theta Pi
This past weekend found all the brothers on campus for Phi Alpha’s initiation. Saturday night, 14 new brothers were initiated:
Carl Rowland, Allan Bosch, Billy Ranson, Grayson Tucker, Don Bryant, Pete Crayton, Jack Goode, Jack Byrd, Dexter Witherington, Dan Lipscomb,
Charlie Rowland, Rush Smith, John Sherrill, and Jack Pritchett. After the initiation, the chapter came down to the house for
a fried chicken feed.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Taking the distance record this weekend was Brother Bud Wilson’s jaunt homeward to Talladega, Ala. Pledges Harvey Carrow, Jack Lucas,
Johnny McAlister, and Brother Reb McGeachey threw a hare Saint Mary’s way in Raleigh. Homeward to Winston sped Brother Bill
Sprunt and Pledges Dee Dunn and Whaling. The chapter welcomed to the campus this weekend for a brief visit Mrs.
E. A. Hudson of Houston, Texas, mother of Pledge Harry Hudson.

Phi Gamma Delta
The Phi Gams indulged in their usual treks about the surrounding countryside. Brother Walter Wogten (true to form) went shooting
to Chattanooga. Hank Crane journeyed to Winston and Brothers Bob Crowell and Butch Pharr sought diversion in Lexington. Brother Hodges
traveled home to Raleigh; King and Thompson, to Bristol. The brothers assembled at ye olde Phi Gam Lodge for a
feed and sing Sunday night.

The Fifth Columnist
By 2
A tight-mouthed group of dealers tore down to the recrootin’ station with visions of luscious lates in their eyes only
to be grossly disappointed when they discovered the keydets weren’t the only ones who had to check in at 1
A.M. Among the depressed ones were DAVE VOSBURGH, MISH WATT, JEW CLARK, etc. They do admit one lucky guy lucked
up on a half hour of hand-holding. Elon is preparing for its second great catastrophe in a month; BETTY ELDER
had accepted a bid to the Military Set—guess it’ll be a hurricane this time. Clemson dances SWACKHAMMER THOMPSON and GINZBERG
THOMAS celebrated last weekend sipping cokes in the late show. The D. A. A. is said to have billed B.
B. TURNAGE as the “Masked Marvel” for the coming tournament—at least he’ll fill part of the bill. CARLTON PARONS and
TWO-TON MAXWELL zipped up to W. C. twice in three nights last week to show the tire-minded public that Defense
isn’t all there is to a tactical situation. JOHN BELK received a valentine recently from G’boro entitled “to the Sweetest
Boy in the World.” Reliable reports from Statesville say ED SCOTT becomes eligible for induction into Mole’s Buffet Club. Nadine
the Machine seems to hold quite a few charms for some of the student advocates of square dancing; hope she’s
not too methodical about it. MAC MORRIS still wonders if he could pass that physical in Atlanta again; at least
the city turned out to be more than a DICK RANKIN comes back from a terrific weekend feeling so low
that the zippy Yankee lass he met on the bus couldn’t entice him on to Winston no matter what. DICK
O’HAIR and NECK TAYLOR will probably be mooning over some suds at the road come the weekend; they too are
wondering whom MARY JETER is favoring at the Converse Mall-break. And then there’s the story about DAVE VOSBURGH who really
did pull one at some time or other. While enjoying a weekend in South Carolina, some young lady received a
telegram which read, “VOSBURGH is in the infirmary — (signed) —HOBBIE.” This same young lady, not easily fooled, made her
rebuttal in a letter received Monday which explained to VOSBURGH all her thoughts and some were not too pleasant. If
it’s straight dope we have on HUTCHINGS BOOKER, he amused a dawn patrol Friday night singing “We won’t be back
until morning” amidst the expostulations of several femmes who immediately fell for our newly exposed Casanova. We didn’t realize you
sang, HUTCH. Before you finish the year, read GEORGE WILKINSON'S exciting bumming experience, the data for which was collected this
weekend as this poor unfortunate took the wrong bumming corner and ended up in Bessemer City instead of King’s Mountain.
The error resulted in a five-mile walk back to his highway.

PATTER
By PAT RUDOLPH
Out of the Night of Davidson
(Editor’s note: This is the third in a series of articles by Mr. Rudolph, who bases his knowledge of Davidson
on a stay of three and two-thirds years.)

Recreation and Hallucination
...and so the present senior’s second year at this noble institute was ushered in by the war in Europe, and
Davidson inmates blandly went to see “The Wizard of Oz” at the local filmery, patronized the “new Jim’s Tavern,” listened
to such records as Jan Savitt’s “720 in the Books,” Bing’s and the Andrew Sisters’ “Ciribiribim,” and giggled at such
killer-dillers as “People who live in glass houses might just as well answer the doorbell” in the Strips ‘n’ Flanks.
We beat Duke University 2-0 (in soccer), and the column “Discords” in the Davidsonian tried to promote one of John
Kirby’s new records which went by the name of “In a Twentieth Century Outhouse.” Dr. Chalmers Davidson's library had a
rush for “The Grapes of Wrath,” and the column, GLEANINGS (The Filth Column of that day) had this to say:
“Sam Spencer certainly developed into the Casanova of the Campus, after having spent Friday night at Converse with Scotty and
Saturday up at W. C.” Davidson's first Interfraternity Sing was held that year, and the word, “Mishtown” adorned the Southern
Railway underpass in huge white letters. As a result of almost a month of snow on the ground after Christmas,
there was a great abundance of fresh air whizzing through the dormitory halls, because, as most of us know by
now, glass has a magnetic attraction for snow in these parts, especially if the snow is packed tightly into a
ball and thrown. This was also the year that “Public Nuisance No. 1” Jaslow, the salesman, was practically creamed by
the entire body (student). So much for the various colorful events of the year. Let us look into some of
the more serious facts.

1. Rooming conditions: Where there had been a be-cindered road arose James B. Duke Hall, home of the idle rich
of our little community. This magnificent structure was opened to the public (and students too) early in the year. Replete
with suites, easy chairs, and sun-bathing terraces, this Country Club raised the standard of living at Davidson greatly. It was
something new here to have musical floor coverings and hot and cold water out of the same faucet, together with
a total lack of electric wires camouflaging the ceiling. We are delighted to see that old Duke is still with
us, because everyone thought that after the first heavy rain she would go down like the Titanic.

2. Social program: This was opened in November with the Homecoming celebration, starring none other than Freddy Johnson and his
orchestra, who helped us beat The Citadel on that occasion in a most dreary and cold rain. In rapid succession
came Bob Chester, playing for Midwinters, Dean Hudson at the Military Ball, and Johnny Long at Spring Frolics. These were
the dances. What about the rest of the social program? Well, there was a Converse Day, I believe; which together
with a few social fraternity and literary society functions made up the rest of the season. This seems to be
one of the major complaints of the students—no well-balanced and normal social program in which the entire student body can
take part. When I think of the thousands of dollars that have been spent by the students of this institution
for transportation between here and Charlotte, it makes my pocketbook cry out in protest. But alas! “in accordance with the
requirements of the Trustees of the College, dancing at Davidson is forbidden.” In these auspiciously sacred words, you see one
of the most amusing, and at the same time, most ridiculous situations known to mankind. They allow us to have
dances, yet we must go twenty miles to have them. I realize that there is not a suitable place to
have the major sets of the year, but what about the smaller organizations?

(To be continued)
