Thursday, February 19, 1942
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Second Photo Exhibit To Open February 26
Prints Will Be Accepted From Any Member Of The Student Body

Linus Banker, who is in charge of the Camera Club’s photo exhibit, announces that the new exhibit will open on the 26th, and last through the 28th of this month. Prints will be accepted from anyone whether a member of the Camera Club or not. “A great deal of interest was taken in the last exhibit, which was presented in the fall of last year,” Banker said.

Welsh Winner

Out of 35 prints entered, Bob Welsh won first place with a picture entitled “My Azalea.” Billy Barker took second place with “Incomplete,” and Linus Banker won third with his picture, “Destruction.” Linus Banker, and the other members of the Camera Club, hope that even more students will take part in these exhibits. “Any person,” he says, “may make as many entries as he likes, just so they are printed and mounted in the proper manner.”

Rules

These prints must be of size 8 x 10 or over, and must be mounted on 16 x 20 mounting boards. No hand-tinted prints may be used in this exhibit. All entries must be turned in to Boyce Rhyne, Jack Ramsey, or Linus Banker. They must be in no later than the afternoon of February 25.

Sigma Upsilon Holds Meeting
Dr. Hood Adds Chapter To The Serial Epic

Four members took part in the program at the meeting of Sigma Upsilon held Tuesday night at the Phi Gamma Delta House. Bill Sprunt, in charge of the program, first announced a short story that was read by Sam Spencer. Following criticism of Spencer's contribution, Dan Hodges presented a light story entitled “Sketch on a House Party,” in which several high school boys and girls lent subject matter for the rather humorous plot. Following the feed managed by Ed Taylor, Shaw Smith was called on for a number of his own poems, after which the program was concluded by the next chapter of the multi-authored epic, “J. Lysander Mallory.” Most of the members were present and the meeting was very successful according to Arch Taylor, president of the organization.

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT
[Continued from Page Two]

up on the campus of Limestone College. Watson went to Red Springs and Robinson to Derita. Hipp took off to Raleigh and Williams to Greenville. Brother Patton went home to Rutherfordton and Walton to Reidsville.

Beta Theta Pi

The big operators for the week were Brothers Spike Mebane, Church, Shaw, and Howell, who took in the Spivak set at Carolina. Brother Barnwell went to Burlington. Brothers Buckley and Wheeler tripped up to G-boro, and Brother White went to Graham. Pledge Skinner made it to Greenville. Mr. G. E. Wilson of El Dorado, Ark., visited the chapter this weekend.

Kappa Sigma

Taking in the dances at Chapel Hill this weekend were Sutton, Kelly, and Clark. McCoy, McGee, and Pledges Miller and Henderson journeyed to Charleston, where McCoy further ruined his reputation. Phillips, Amos, and Pledge Ellis were at W. C. again. Ben Lacy, Wilbo Carter, and Alf Taylor went to Converse. Several of the Brothers went home. Pledge Yarborough accompanied Pledge Richardson to Greensboro. Davis went to Salisbury, Scott to Goldsboro, Millis and Short to High Point. The chapter regrets that Brother Crook is in the hospital in Charlotte convalescing after an appendectomy.

Physics Frat Studies Radio
Discuss Importance Of Radio In Present War

The Physics fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, has been studying the problems in the development of radio during the past semester. Papers have been read before the society, and discussions have taken place concerning many aspects of this subject. The different types of radio tubes, various electrical circuits used, and many technical questions have been brought to the attention of the members.

Technical Advances

The society spent some time in a discussion of the different uses to which radio served in the last World War. The advances which have been made by workers in the field of radio in recent years have been considered and discussed. The latest and most interesting development which has been brought to the attention of the group is frequency modulation which will greatly improve reception. This new innovation in the field of radio will practically eliminate static and will prevent fading. Disadvantages of the new method are found in the fact that stations must be very close or must be connected by telephones. Such constructions, of course, are impossible in the face of the present war.

Photography New Subject

During the remainder of the present semester the society will discuss the technical side of photography. These two subjects, radio and photography, have been chosen for consideration as appropriate by the group, because both these studies are playing an important role in the present war. The army is making use of these sciences to an ever-increasing degree.

85 Sign Up For Draft
Between 600-700 Affected By Registration

On Monday morning, February sixteenth, for the second time in twelve months, Davidson students were called upon to register as prospective soldiers in the army of the United States. All those students that were not of age for the last registration and who attained the age of twenty after December thirty-first, 1941, were required to report at the new gym between 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M. on February 16th.

85 Students

Mr. Hengeveld, registrar of Davidson College and director of the registration in this district, said that there were approximately 85 Davidson students and about six hundred others in this district who were required to register in this draft. He stated that contrary to the registration of last year there was no grumbling or complaining because of petty inconveniences; that there were no complaints that the procedure was foolish or unnecessary. Instead, there was a business-like air made possible by the registrants that evidenced the great change of American attitude. The assistants in the registration were made up of members of the faculty and citizens of Davidson.

“MY AZALEA”

Entries are still being received. A recent winner in the photographic contest is this picture taken by Bob Welsh of Charlotte. These contests are sponsored by the Camera Club and a second exhibit opens on February 26th. The picture above is entitled “MY AZALEA” and Bob's sister Jean is the beauty whose charm lends no little aid toward making this picture number one of the first series. Watch your Davidsonian for the winner of the second photo contest. (Photo by Bob Welsh)

Symphonic Band Makes Trip To Georgia Feb. 21

Library Adds Poetry Books
Two Rare Volumes Are In Latest Additions

Davidson's library has just received a new volume of verse entitled “North Carolina Poetry.” The book is edited by Richard Gaither Walser, who was a member of the class of 1929 here at Davidson. The library already had a fine collection of Carolinian poetry and the addition of this volume makes it practically complete.

McNeill’s Book

Among the books which had already been secured are two rare volumes. The first of these is entitled “Songs Merry and Sad” by John Charles McNeill. The volume, which is a first edition autographed copy, was presented to Davidson when McNeill was on the staff of The Charlotte Observer. The second is called “Catawba River and Other Poems.” It was written by John S. Kidney of whom not much is known, although his life has been investigated by Mr. Davidson. This copy was published in 1847.

Other selections of North Carolina poetry include: “Select Poetry of North Carolina,” by Moore; “North Carolina Poems,” by Brooks; and “Wood Notes,” by Clarke.

‘Ew’ Members Hear Poetry
New Officers To Be Elected At Next Meeting

Priestly Conyers read several original poems as the program of a meeting held last week by the Eumenean Literary Society. It was decided thatElection of officers would be held at the next meetings of the Society. They will succeed retiring president, Ralph Williams; vice-president, Ashby Dick; and secretary, Mac Jeffries. President Williams declared that this meeting was one of the best held by Eumenean this year, and that the Society is considering taking in some new members who are showing distinctive literary ability.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Seven Concerts To Be Given In Three States

Davidson's Symphonic Band will leave on its annual spring tour Friday, February 27. Under the direction of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, the band will leave Davidson in chartered buses for Washington, Georgia. Here the first concert of the tour will be sponsored by the City High School and will be played in their building.

Play At Agnes Scott

Saturday they will travel to Decatur, Georgia, where they will be presented by the Junior Class of Agnes Scott College that night. The performance will be held in Presser Hall. The band will travel to Greenville, S.C., Sunday and will rest up until their first concert Monday evening, March 2. They will present another concert in Greenville that same night.

Return To North Carolina

After the concerts in Georgia and South Carolina, the band will travel back to North Carolina where three tentative concerts have been scheduled for them. After a total of seven performances, the band will return to Davidson, Wednesday, March 4. The concerts will be built around a program of numbers, beginning with a group of patriotic numbers and ending with “The Star-Spangled Banner.” The program will include several light classics and two solo numbers by band members, Craig Watkins, Cornet, and B. L. Schmidt, Jr., Marimba.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

CAFETERIA

Frosh Debate P.S.A. Elects Fulcher Team Will Be President For ’42-’43 Chosen Next Tues. Evening

Forensic Council Will Sponsor Freshman Try-out In Phi Hall

The Freshman Debating Team will be selected on Tuesday evening, February 24, in a tryout which will be held in Philanthropic Hall at 8:15. The team which will be chosen will attend the South Atlantic Forensic Tournament which will take place at Lenoir-Rhyne College in Hickory, N.C., on March 5th, 6th, and 7th.

Each participant will present a five-minute speech upon the question: “Resolved, That the Democracies Should Form a Federation to Establish and Maintain the Churchill-Roosevelt Principles.” This is the question which has been adopted by Delta Sigma Rho, the national forensic fraternity. Each Freshman trying out for the team will be required to present a comprehensive argument taking either the affirmative or negative side of the question. Four men will be chosen to make up the team, and two alternates will be designated. The faculty forensic council and one faculty member who is on the committee on debating will judge the tryouts and select the winners. Both the arguments which are presented and the delivery of the speeches will be considered in making these selections.

Dramatists Will Meet

Red and Black Masquers To Select Spring Play

Led Hay, president of the Red and Black Masquers, announced Monday that a meeting will be held within the next week to select the play which is to be presented this spring.

New Members In Cast

Inactive for the past several weeks since their production of “The Blue Ghost,” the Masquers plan to discuss the induction of new members who will receive their baptism of drama in the coming production. Hoping for cooperation from the prospective cast members, Hay stated that the Masquers plan to present the proposed play a few days before the spring holiday session. If this is possible, plans will be made for another production before the close of the semester.

LE CERCLE MEETS

Le Cercle Francais will meet at Dr. Goldiere’s home on Tuesday, February 24, at 8 PM. The program will feature a short skit taken from “Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme.” 

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
HARDWARE GROCERIES CLOTHING
Davidson, N. C.

CHARLOTTE’S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices

Leads P.S.A.

JIMMY FULCHER

Garber Gives Vespers Talk

Durham Pastor’s Address Is On God’s Call

Last Sunday night, in the regular Vesper hour, Rev. Paul L. Garber of Durham delivered the sermon. Rev. Garber formed his address around the text, “I Have Called Thee by Thy Name, Thou Art Mine.”

Personal Obligation

This thought, he said, brings out the idea that God considers each person as an individual with particular needs in His sight and understanding. Each one of us has a personal obligation unto God which must be fulfilled if God's power and love is to be felt. Rev. Garber concluded his speech with a discussion of the thought, “Love One Another As I Have Loved You.” He expressed the opinion that these words of the Saviour hold the key to our problems today, both personal and international. It is only through love, he stated, that a new life of peace and cooperation may evolve.

Delegates Make Jerry Newbold Of Davidson A Member At Large

Jimmy Fulcher was elected president of the Student Association of the Synod of North Carolina at the fourth annual conference which was held on the Davidson Campus last weekend.

Turner Vice-President

Mary Turner, of Duke University, was chosen to serve as vice-president of the Association, while Pete Munroe, of Carolina, will fill the post of secretary—a position previously held by Margaret Swanton. Jerry Newbold and LaRue Allison are to be the members at large. Fulcher, of the Junior Class, is on the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet; he is active in the work of the Philanthropic Literary Society and is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon Social Fraternity. Miss Munroe is a Carolina junior transfer from Queens College and is active on the Carolina campus in student group work and P.S.A. activities. Jerry Newbold is a Junior, a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, and Vice-President of the local Sunday School Department of Community Service of the Y.M.C.A. Miss Allison is a Duke transfer to the junior class of Queens College where she is active in P.S.A. work. He is in charge of the college Y.M.C.A.; he was also a delegate to the Memphis Conference at the beginning of the year.

Many Delegates Attend

One hundred fifty students attended the conference representing most of the colleges of North Carolina. They participated in a two-day program consisting of discussion groups on “The Christian Answer,” Messages, Worship, and the general business of the organization. The weekend was rounded out by fellowship periods under the supervision of Mr. Mokey Faison, director of Boys Work at the Charlotte Y.M.C.A.

New Name Suggested

One of the chief items of business that was discussed by the assembly was over the possibility of changing the name of the organization from the P.S.A. to the West- (Continued on Page 2)

Ed. Mellon Co.

Why not a SPORTS Three-some for SPRING! Here's a whole Spring outfit in one! Smartly casual Shetland sport coat with matching and contrasting slacks, tailored to a perfection Davidson men will recognize as authentic. Come in this weekend and try them on.

221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT

106-108 West Trade St.

The Carolinas’ Leading Men’s Store

And, of course, you'll want a couple of these sweaters—they’re solid! Cashmere and fine wools in slipover and cardigan styles $1.95 to $17.50.

STUDENT’S DEPT. 2nd Floor Open Thursdays 'til 9:00

Ed. Mellon Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.