. ball Tournament.

CAT CHAT By BUTCH PHARR

FRATERNITY TRACK

Proof that history repeats itself was evidenced last in the inter-frat track meet. The Kappa Sigs not only won the
meet again with the K.A.’s second but produced a new freshman star to gain the majority of their points. This
time it was freshman Tommy Peters who took three of the field events—namely, the shot put with a toss of
44 feet, 8 1/4 inches, the discus with a throw of 107 feet 1 inch, and then the high jump
by clearing the bar at 5 feet, 4 inches.

Feature events of the meet saw fraternity records broken this year by Dick Miller, Ben Lacy, and Gene Bingham. Miller
clipped nine seconds off the old record for the three-quarter mile run in one of the prettiest races seen on
this track in a long time, his time being 3 minutes, 39 seconds. Ben Lacy breezed down the 100-yard stretch
in the time of 10 and 3-10 seconds to set another precedent closely followed by Ox Pendleton. Gene Bingham set
a new record at 55 seconds on the 440-yard run which is claimed by nearly every trackman to be the
most grueling one on the schedule.

CROSS COUNTRY

The distance runners for the varsity track journeyed to Charleston, S.C., for the annual cross-country meet there in the heart
of the city. The squad did well for themselves, gaining a third place as a team. The versatile athletes of
Duke showed that they had not overlooked cross-country in their attempt to grab all of the southern titles available by
placing one, two, and three across the line. Rufus Nimmons led the Davidson entries by placing eighth with Jim Nichols
right behind him in ninth spot. The winning team was decided by the ones getting three men across the finish
line first, no matter in what position.

TIME TRIALS

Coach Whittle ran off the first time trials for the varsity track team last Friday to size up the current
prospects. Bill Lacy looked good in taking firsts in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and tying with John Belk in
the high jump when they both went out at the same height. Taylor is still to be counted on for
firsts in both hurdling events, with Glenn Terrell who is first man in both the shot and discus throw. Rhea
Dabney captured the broad jump with a leap of 19 feet 7 inches while Gene Shannon is easily the number
one man in the pole vault. The South Carolina Gamecocks will furnish the Cats their first opposition on the Davidson
track April first.

VOLLEYBALL

Coach Whittle urges all the fraternities to run off their games as quickly as possible with as few postponements as
necessary. The Inter-Class Softball Tournament is coming up next and could be run off before the holidays if the volleyball
games move along as scheduled. The seniors have kept their slate clean in inter-class athletics for this year by winning
the volleyball tourney with no defeats.

Seniors Take First In Volleyball; Juniors 2nd

The Seniors took their last barrier, a scrappy Junior Nine, last Friday afternoon in a thrilling volleyball game to keep
their slate clean for the season in the Volleyball Tournament. The Juniors bowed to the mighty Seniors twice, but defeated
both the Sophomores and Freshmen. The Sophomores defeated the Freshmen in their first encounter this year but gave the second-year
men the game and a tie for third place when they failed to show up for their second game.

With both the class volleyball tournament and the Inter-Fraternity Track Meet history, interest is now centered around the Inter-Fraternity Volleyball
Tournament. The Pikas took the championship last year but lost many of their best men by graduation.

Six Games

The opening rounds in the tournament were held Monday noon with six of the fraternities playing games. The S.A.E.’s downed
the Betas, the K.A.’s beat the Pi Kaps, the Kappa Sigs upset the Pikas, and the Phi Gam, S.P.E. game
was postponed.

FAUL AND CRYMES, Inc.
Sporting Goods

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
415 S. Tryon Street
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Charlotte, N.C.

At the Student Store

PRODUCTS
Deluxe Sanitary Food Products
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Ice Cream

Page Four

Wildcat Sports | THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAPTAIN CARTER HITS

Captain Bob Carter of the varsity baseball team is shown smacking out a hit in the Cat’s first game of
last season. Carter is playing his second regular season at the initial bag and will be a mainstay in this
year’s infield together with Burke at second, Owens at short, and Maloney at third.

Winning five first places and tying for another, the Kappa Sigma fraternity won the annual Inter-Fraternity track meet. The Kappa
Sigs defeated the Kappa Alpha fraternity, who were second, by a 40 1/3 to 23 margin. The Pikas were third
with a total of 18 1/2 points while S.A.E. came in fourth with 14 3/4 points. Tommy Peters was the
individual high scorer of the meet, winning three first places for a total of 15 points. Peters won the shot
put, the discus, and the high jump for his tallies. Bill Dunn of the S.A.E. team was second individual high
scorer winning the 220-yard dash and the hurdles.

Three track records were broken during the meet with Dick Miller's record time in the three-quarter mile being the most
notable.Sensational in that Miller's time of 3:39.8 first Mine sec betel Drs fh even nine with at, seconds from old
record behind the plate veteran receivers Don Caterson and Paul Wis.

J. K. HAMPTON GROCERIES
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 5041
Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT'S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Varsity competition, the local student body will see Coach Shepherd's diamond crew in action Saturday when the Cats take the
field against a highly regarded team. Outfield strong, such at present nominations for first-string berths are uncertain. Veteran righthander Ed
Luras should get the starting nod on the mound, while the rest of the nine stack up with Bethea behind
the plate, Captain Bob Carter at first, Red Burke at second, Jim Ny at shortstop, and Dave Mahoney holding down
the hot corner. The outfield is composed of three players, including Butch Caldwell, Dickie Phillips, Sid Clarke, Bob Smith, Elmer
Gray, and Doug Horner.

Bethea Catching
Sent Rob McLeod and Mac Junior Jack Davis, and Paul Neishker and Wal are likely candidates for service. Neishker and
from the port side.

CHARLOTTE'S LEADING RESTAURANT
Delicious Food at Reasonable Prices
221 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Ben Lacy and Gene Bingham set the other two records, Lacy winning the 100-yard dash for the Kappa Sigs in
10.3 seconds and Gene Bingham running the 440 in 55 seconds. Pika of the Kappa Sigs was right behind Dunn
in the individual race, amassing nine points by winning the 600 and placing third in the 440 and the three-quarter
mile broad jump. The remaining first place was taken by Ox Pendleton of the Kappa Sigs in the broad jump.
Pendleton's distance was 20 feet and 4 1/4 inches. In the 880-yard relay, first place was a tie between the
K.A.'s and the Kappa Sigs. The Pi Kaps were third while the Phi Gams came in fourth. The Kappa Sigs
took five first places and one tie for first, five seconds, two fourths, and one tie for fourth to account
for their 46 1/2 points.

FROSH REVEAL (Continued from Page One)
Terrible hill, around the final cruel curve and summoning their last resources from their willpower alone, they staggered through the
welcoming portals of East Dormitory, conquerors of the elements. Time: six hours and fifteen minutes. Gentlemen, a toast!

J. O. JONES, INC.
NEW SPRING...
SUITS
SPORT COATS
SLACKS
ENSEMBLE SETS
Are Here In Abundance
COME IN EARLY TO SEE These Outstanding New Things
CLARENCE Is Our Davidson College Representative
Have Him Show You
McARTHUR'S
J. O. JONES, INC.
8-210 South Tryon Street

Thursday, March 26, 1942

Lacy Leads Varsity In Track Time Trials
Distance Men Take Third In Cross Country Meet; Cats Stand In High And Low Hurdles

With the season's first track meet less than two weeks away, Coach Pete Whittle and his Davidson tracksters are rapidly
rounding into shape for the opener with South Carolina. In preparation for the meet with the Gamecocks, which will be
held on April 1, the first time trials of the year were held last Friday.

With Captain Blanton Williams out of uniform and the team's distance runners away, sophomore Bill Lacy paced the team, winning
two first places and tying for another. Arch Taylor also won two events, as did Glenn Terrell.

Bill Lacy was the winner in the 100 and 220-yard dashes while his tie was with John Belk in the
high jump. Ben Lacy was runner-up in the 100 while Hugh Sprunt came second in the 220.

Taylor-Hot
Arch Taylor, who is expected to go great guns in the low hurdles after his conference-winning performance at Carolina a
few weeks ago, was the winner in that race and also in the 440-yard dash. Bill Loy placed second in
the 440 while Dick Fort won the high hurdles.

Dabney Wins
Rhea Dabney and Gene Shannon captured the two remaining first places, Dabney winning the broad jump and Shannon the pole
vault. The Varsity cross country team took third place in a cross country meet at Charleston, S.C. Duke took top
honors in the meet and Carolina second. Rufus Nimmons led the Davidson men, crossing the finish line in eighth place.

ANDERSON'S
MICKEY'S FOOD STORE
A Complete Stock of Groceries and Meats
Phone 4641
DAVIDSON, N.C.

SPRING VACATION TRIPS COST LESS BY GREYHOUND
Spring vacation this year is BE-KIND-TO-YOUR-CAR-AND-TIRES-WEEK—in other words, go home by Greyhound. It's your chance to be kind to your
pocketbook, too—you don't need a course in higher mathematics to figure out you're way ahead at Greyhound's low fares. The
schedules are convenient—the deep-cushioned seats are as rest-provoking as a dull lecture—and the crowd's sure to be a lot of
fun. Yes, sir, the right start for this vacation is by Greyhound!

From Davidson—
To One Way Round Trip
New York $7.35 $13.60
Washington $4.85 $8.75
Winston-Salem $1.00 $1.65
Bluefield, W. Va. $3.25 $5.85
Miami, Fla. $9.50 $17.10
Wilmington, N.C. $3.25 $5.85
Roanoke $2.90 $5.25
Charlotte $0.30 $0.55
Greenville, S.C. $1.75 $3.15
Plus 5 Per Cent Tax

C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Davidson, N.C.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Tel. No. 2111

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
