FREDDY JOHNSON BOOKED FOR MARCH BALL

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

R. O. T. C. CAMPS ARE DISCONTINUED

Volume XXIX. X-528

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1942 No. 15

Freddy Johnson Will Play Next On March

Former Military Ball To Be Military—D Club Affair Next Month Includes Tea Dance And Two Night Dances

Freddy Johnson and his University of North Carolina orchestra will play for the combined Military and “D” Club Ball, on March 13 and 14. The Hellenic Council is sponsoring this set, but is delegating the figures over to Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, and the “D” Club, Davidson’s athletic organization which recognizes lettermen in the various sports.

Three Dances

The set will consist of three dances, a Friday night formal, featuring a Scabbard and Blade figure, a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, and an informal dance on Saturday night, in honor of the “D” Club. All dances will be held in the Charlotte Armory, which will be available despite rumors to the contrary.

Homecoming, 1940

Freddy Johnson's orchestra is well known to Davidson students, his last appearance here having been at the Homecoming Dances in November, 1940. His organization is similar in many respects to that of The Duke Ambassadors, who played for the Homecoming Dances last fall.

Fifteen Musicians

The band consists of fifteen musicians, including a female vocalist, Anne Russell. Said to be now the most outstanding college band in the south, Johnson’s band was only recently reorganized and has created quite a sensation over at Chapel Hill.

Price Not Set

The price of the set tickets has not been determined yet, due to the fact that the contract was signed just before press time. This will be announced in the next issue of The Davidsonian, by the Pan-Hellenic Council, who say that the price will be on a par, if not lower than that in effect at the Homecoming set last fall.

Perform Drill

Although considered one of the smaller sets of the year, these dances are always among the most colorful and brilliant, due to the fact that all the members of Scabbard and Blade appear in uniform at the Friday night dance. The new members of this organization perform a military drill as their part of the figure, which adds considerably to the festivities.

“D” Club

The “D” Club has not yet announced any plans for their figure at the Saturday night dance, and this item, together with the price of the set ticket will be announced in next week’s Davidsonian.

Painter Will Visit Campus

Mr. George Rickey, a Faculty-Student visitor, will be on the Davidson campus during the second week in March. His visit will be preceded by an exhibition of his paintings from February 24 to March 2.

Studied in Europe

Mr. Rickey has lived and studied in Europe many years. Sponsor for his visit to this campus and many other American college campuses is the Arts Program of the Association of American Colleges. The Carnegie Foundation is aiding the Association in this project.

Murals

Murals for the Treasury Department of the Federal Government have been among Mr. Rickey’s many paintings. He will visit Davidson on a tour which includes a number of southern colleges, ending at Duke University.

Dance Set 13 And 14

Three Left In Run-Off

Crichton, Hodges, Williams Tie In Election

A three-way tie resulted in the election held in Chambers early this week by the Senior class to elect a member of their class to fill a vacancy in the Student Council. John Crichton, Dan Hodges, and Ralph Williams tied for the position which occurred when Tommy Yarborough withdrew from school to enlist in the Navy.

Three Men Nominated

The names of three seniors, John Crichton, Dick Kelly, and Ralph Williams, were presented to the Senior Class by the Nominations Committee in a short meeting of the class Friday morning. To these, were added the nominations from the floor of Don Bell, Dan Hodges, Ed Scott, Glenn Terrill, and Davis Thomas. Seniors voted Monday on the eight candidates in the banquet hall of Chambers and early that evening, results of the election were released. Sixty members of the Senior class cast their ballots for their selection.

Yarborough Leaves

Tommy Yarborough, diminutive captain of Davidson's Wildcat basketball team, left school to enlist in the United States Navy. Word has been received here that Tommy has been accepted and is now stationed at the Navy training school at Norfolk, Virginia. The election was held to fill his vacated position on the Student Council. Officials announced that another election would be held to remove the tie Tuesday. If this subsequent election failed to break the tie, other elections will be held until one candidate has received a majority.

The Nominations committee and the elections board have been quite active this past year because of withdrawals of certain student officers. Ordinarily not called into use until about March, the committees saw service as early as last fall when they were called upon to nominate a successor to Matt Long, former president of the Junior class, who withdrew to enroll in M.I.T.

Winn Announces

Albert Winn, president of the student body, announced that elections for important student offices for next year are forthcoming and will probably be held in the latter part of February or early in March.

Drive Goal Is Passed

Davidson’s Red Cross Quota Is Topped By $43

At the conclusion of the Emergency Red Cross Roll Call last week, a total of $1,043.51 was turned in to Dr. W. P. Cumming, Chairman, and the check was forwarded to the Charlotte headquarters.

Eleven Districts

The canvassers for the different districts turned in their collections to district captains. The town was divided into eleven districts, each with a separate captain.

District Captains

A list of the districts, their captains, and the amounts contributed follows: Elm Street, Rev. Mr. Tate, $18.25; School Street, Mrs. Linker, $25.00; North Main Street, Mrs. Nelle Wilson, $195.00; Concord Street, Mrs. Murphy, $207.00; Asbestos Mill, Mr. Sadler, $33.50; South Davidson, Mrs. Dusenburg, $15.25; South Main Street, Sarah Jetton, $47.50; Mill Village, Mr. Continued on Page Four

training. Every upperclassman should consider it his duty as well as privilege to turn up freshmen for disobeying regulations, and the Court of Control promises a forceful program if the co-operation of the student body is achieved. So when the latest actions of the court are announced in chapel, when freshmen are sentenced to two weeks’ campus, every upperclassman should pledge to himself to report any violation of the sentences, plus violation of the existing rules established to govern the Class.

When a freshman class comes to the point that it is allowed to interrupt student body meetings in chapel with its displays of “noxiousness,” class spirit or what have you, and gets by without rebuke, the student body has taken a step backward in freshman training. One idea has been forwarded that the action against fraternity initiation weeks has had a large effect on the attitude of this year’s freshman class. Because there is no chance for upperclassmen to threaten the freshmen with more than a promise of poorly-enforced campuses, the unruly freshmen are uncontrollable. But now that the movement toward more control over the class has started with Frank Caldwell’s appeal for co-operation of the student body in chapel Tuesday, and with the policy of several fraternities of standing behind the “wear freshman caps” rule, the freshmen will have to get a different attitude if they expect to be exempted from freshman training by the end of this semester.

Criticism Of Churchill Unwarranted

School Plans Summer Term

Brown Announces Term From June 17 To August 29

Dr. C. K. Brown announced further plans for an eleven weeks’ summer school at chapel Monday, March 16.

Two Periods

The summer session will be divided into two periods, the first being six weeks, the second five weeks including Saturdays. The program originally included six weeks, but the college plans to have Saturday school for the last five weeks, making up for another week. Thus the same amount of work will be offered in each period.

Begins June 17

Summer school begins June 17, and lasts through August 29. Courses will be offered as follows: (1) six-hour courses from June 17 to July 24 and from July 27 to August 24, (2) eight-hour courses from June 17 to July 31, and (3) four-hour courses from August 3 to August 28. All of the work in a course must be taken and not only one semester of it.

“For example, a student who wishes to take sophomore English must take the whole course in one of the two periods of the summer session,” stated Dr. Brown. A student may secure twelve hours credit either by taking two six-hour courses, one after the other, or by taking an eight-hour course and a four-hour course.

Prospectus

On Friday, February 20, students who now plan and expect to attend the summer school will be asked to give that information together with the names of courses they would like to take. This information is necessary to enable the school to plan the offerings of the summer courses. The students will be asked to give the information by signing a card indicating tentative registration, not ultimately binding upon the student. He is asked to give two choices of courses for each period so as to indicate to the faculty the courses which the students desire most.

Graduation Accelerated

Sophomores can accelerate their work by taking advantage of two full summer schools and thus graduating in the summer of 1943. Freshmen by taking advantage of three full summer schools can graduate in three years. Students who wish to make up lost credits can do so in either session of the summer school.

OWENS THANKS

Jim Owens wishes to express, in behalf of the “Y,” his appreciation to those Davidson students who opened their rooms to the visiting delegates at the P. S. A. conference this weekend. Owens also wishes to thank those who voluntarily waited on tables at the banquet Saturday night and those who gave their time and services in many other ways. Numerous compliments indicated that the delegates were pleased with Davidson’s campus, cordiality, and fine spirit.

Allied Reversals In Far East Are Not The Fault Of War Leaders

By CHARLES BROCKMANN

The fall of Singapore last Sunday afternoon was a tragic blow to the Allied cause; perhaps the greatest blow since Dunkirk. That defeat, coupled with the recent escape of German battleships through the British blockade, has brought a storm of criticism upon Churchill and his cabinet from the English people. On Sunday afternoon, Winston Churchill calmly accepted blame for both of these setbacks, and told English-speaking people the world over that they must expect such defeats and reverses until England and the UnitedStates can better adjust themselves to carry on this war.

Blame Rests

Neither Churchill nor his subordinates deserve blame for Singapore's fall—nor is Roosevelt responsible for our country's bad start in the Pacific campaign. The blame, if there be blame, rests upon the phlegmatic Parliament and Congress who are now so busily engaged in criticizing their leaders’ inefficiency. 

Long ago, Roosevelt asked for power to fortify Guam and our other strategic Pacific outposts. Long ago other foresighted British and American leaders saw the danger of the Yellow Empire; but Congress, not wishing to offend Japan and reluctant to recognize her growing belligerent attitude, refused the President’s requests. 

Not Efficient

It is a recognized fact that the democratic form of government is not efficient in aggressive preparation for war—it is not meant to be. But the legislative bodies of England and the United States, instead of acknowledging their slowness to act in the past few years, now lay all blame for the current defeats upon the leaders who tried in vain to prevent them.

Direct and Sincere

Churchill’s speech was direct and sincere. Surely his fellow-countrymen must realize that theirs is probably the greatest leader in the world today. Surely they—and we in the United States—can muster the faith and courage to bear with and stand behind our leaders through the first dark months of the ordeal. Surely we can see that these men are doing all that is humanly possible with the material at hand, and striving to the utmost to make up for time lost in past years, through no fault of theirs.

Faculty Aids In “Y” Forum

Students and faculty members got together for an Open Forum on student-faculty relations at Phi Hall Wednesday night. Davidson's faculty furnished speakers for the discussion. Dr. McGavock offered suggestions for improving the relations between students and faculty and breaking down the barriers for better co-operation; and then Dr. Foreman discussed the matter from a scholastic viewpoint. Also presenting their ideas on the subject were Dr. Johnston and Professor Fleagle.

Holland Wins Ping-Pong Cup

Defeats Jack Behrman In Tournament Finals

Don Holland captured the Y.M.C.A. ping-pong trophy on February 12, by defeating Jack Behrman in the finals of the tournament held in the Hall of Chambers.

Behrman Second

Jack Behrman of the Junior class ran a close second to Don Holland in the Ping-Pong Tournament that has taken months to work up to this final play-off. Holland started strong in the finals where the winner had to triumph in four games out of seven. He won the first three games straight, to put Jack in a hard position. Jack rallied to take the next two games from Don. This brought the score to 3-2 in favor of Don, who worked hard in the next game and was able to take it from Jack by the narrow margin of 21-19. This brought the final score to 4-2.

Parrigin Referee

Lyman Parrigin refereed the match, which was played before a gallery that came to witness the finals. Don Holland won with a sandpaper paddle, contrary to the general practice of ping-pong professionals. “He is a sure and steady defensive player, only timed kills,” said Ralph Williams, M.G.A., who was in charge of Y. social activities. Williams further said that the tournament this year was a great success. He said that the following years will see similar activities, played only for entertainment. In the future, the ‘Y’ will present Holland with a permanent trophy. A new trophy is procured every year for this tournament. This year’s activity was considered by all officials to be a great success, increasing sports among Davidson men.

ROTC To Stop Special Camp

Summer Training Camps Close For Duration

It has been officially announced that the R.O.T.C. training camps, which have been held for six weeks every summer, have been discontinued. This discontinuation will extend throughout the duration of the war and six months after the war is over.

Service School

In the meantime, all R.O.T.C. advanced course students will be required to satisfactorily complete a basic training course at a special service school before being commissioned. This does not apply to the present Senior class, whose members have completed their summer camp training. These men will be commissioned upon graduation.

Later Announcements

Further details regarding the above plan as it affects the members of the Junior class will be announced at a later date as soon as instructions, relative to the matter, have been received from the War Department.

Student Body Meets Board

Trustees Are Here Wednesday For Discussion

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College met Wednesday morning. The chief business of this meeting was to discuss the part Davidson is to share in the Christian Education Movement of the Presbyterian Church, Southern. This meeting took place before chapel and was of great importance to the Davidson student body since the routine for next year was one of the chief factors of the meeting.

Attend Chapel

In order that the students might know the trustees better, the meeting was adjourned before chapel and the trustees went down into the auditorium. Dr. Cunningham introduced the various members to the student body. Among those present were Dr. J.M. Richards and Dr. R.A. Dunn.

Richards Is President

Dr. Dunn has been a member of the board of trustees for the past fifty years. A large part of this time, he served as president. Dr. Richards is president of the board at the present. He is serving as president of Columbia Seminary.

Debate Teams To Take Tour

Summers Announces Spring Tour Of Two Teams

Two varsity Davidson debating squads will begin their spring tour a few days before Spring Holidays, Bill Summers, President of the Forensic Council, announced this week. The trip will continue for about two weeks, beginning two or three days before, and continuing through and beyond the holidays. Each team will be divided into an affirmative and negative squad. One team will go north, debating various colleges as they go, and another will go south.

Northern Team

The northern team will consist of Jesse Wooten and Jim McCrary, affirmative; Fred Morton and Bill Summers, negative. Tentative engagements for the northern tour include Hampden-Sydney, Washington and Lee, University of Richmond, Bryn Mawr, Haverford, and Temple.

Southern Team

The southern team is made up of Don Bell and Ed Hipp, affirmative; and Jim Crook, Priestly Conyers, negative. Tentative schedules for this trip are Centre, Auburn, Sewanee, Kentucky, Vanderbilt, Agnes Scott, and University of Georgia.

Home Engagements

Two home engagements also have been booked so far. On March 13, Davidson will debate the University of Richmond in Chambers Auditorium, and on March 10, the woman's team of the College of William and Mary. This last is believed to be the first woman's debating team ever to debate on the Davidson campus. It was also announced that a tentative home engagement with Princeton is also planned.

HODGES ELECTED

DAN HODGES, of Raleigh, N.C., was elected in the final balloting for the student council position left vacant by Tommy Yarborough. Tuesday's election was the second balloting and was between JOHN CRICHTON, RALPH WILLIAMS, and DAN HODGES. The run-off took place on Wednesday morning with seniors only voting. HODGES is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, is editor of the SCRIPTS ‘n’ PRANKS, and is both a member of Phi Beta Kappa and O.D.K. honorary fraternities.

Day Of Prayer Will Be Observed Friday

Large Participation Expected On Day Of United World-Wide Prayer

EXTENDED CHAPEL

Pritchett To Preside Over College Service

Tomorrow morning in an extended chapel service, the World Day of Prayer will be observed. Throughout the world on this day Christians will be united in their prayers. The World Day of Prayer is sponsored by the Women’s organizations of the Churches of the world. All denominations will participate.

In years previous to this, the local Women’s Auxiliary has held the service in the church, but due to the national emergency it was thought wise to hold a larger meeting.

Pritchett Presides

The meeting tomorrow morning will be presided over by the Reverend Carl Pritchett. It is hoped that it will be possible to have an address given by Miss Katherine Smith, of the Student Volunteer Movement.

Cunningham Closes

There will be a period of directed prayer, for the nation’s homes, and prayers for the Christian church. It is probable that a Davidson student will lead a prayer for the students of Davidson. Dr. Cunningham will close the service with a prayer for World peace. An impressive service is planned, and it is hoped that as many of the community as possible will be in attendance at this meeting. A section is to be reserved in the balcony for the colored.

Bush To Head Drive To Get Mission Funds

Dr. Kerr Taylor has made an appeal to the Davidson students to contribute to the Young Peoples’ Foreign Missions Fund. Dr. Taylor, the Educational Secretary of the Executive Committee of Foreign Missions in the Presbyterian Church of the United States, notified Monroe Bush, head of the Y.M.C.A. Department of World Evangelism, that over $5,800 dollars must be raised if the plans which have been made to support eight missionaries are carried out.

$8,000 Is Needed

These missionaries are to be supported by the money raised by the Young Peoples’ Foreign Missions Drive. A sum of $8,000 will be needed for the project, and at present only a small part of this amount has been collected. The entire amount must be raised within two months in order to send the eight mission workers into the foreign fields for whom the money will be contributed. The plan provides that the money which the drive will raise will enable four married couples to take up foreign mission work in three fields. Two couples will work in the Congo; one couple will go to Brazil; and the last couple will be sent to China. Dr. Taylor asks that the students of Davidson give all that they can toward advancing this cause. He made an appeal to the student body to help to keep more missionaries in the foreign fields at a time when their service is of more importance than ever before.

Start Drive

Monroe Bush stated that he would start a drive to help contribute to this fund in the near future. He expressed the importance of the cause in the following words: “Faced with the closing of most mission doors throughout the world, it is imperative that the Protestant Church in America does not allow its few remaining footholds to be torn loose. We at Davidson not only must, but will carry our measure of this financial burden.”