PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

’Cats Make Promising Start

The 1942 basketball season opened for the Kannapolis BACAL on Friday night, as the Wildcat court-men took the floor under considerable pressure. Having been raised in pre-season write-ups as the most promising aggregation of recent years, they had to prove it; and by winning a convincing victory over the Cannon basketeers, they demonstrated that Davidsonians are not likely to be disappointed in their record for the season.

The ’Cats looked particularly good on offense with Sophs Tom Peters and Jim Lowry racking up most of the points. Outstanding were the fast breaks for the basket. Coach Shepard commented on the excellent work in retrieving the rebounds from the backboard. He cited this feature as a failing of Davidson teams of the past few years and pointed out that Duke and Carolina always account for a large percentage of their points in this manner.

Davidson showed weakness at times on defense as Hicks and company matched the ’Cats point for point in the second half. Shepard uses a man-to-man defense and is working his charges hard this week to improve their defensive play. Co-captains Belk and Wayman showed good form in their floor-work, as did George Peters, but Long John seemed to have momentarily lost his eye for the basket. “Feets” Currie, Pat Williams, Jack Byrd, and John Frederick stood out among the reserves as every man in uniform saw action.

It will be hard to predict from the opening game how the ’Cats will stack up against conference opposition, but the Kannapolis team was first-class opposition for a starter. The first chance for comparison with a Big Five team will be the game with McCrary tonight, as the Eagles lost to the Carolina White Bantams by only one point.

Friday’s game was a rough and tumble affair resulting in a broken tooth for Tommy Peters and a bloody nose for Bob Currie as J. D. Hicks, former Wildcat star, used his elbows to good advantage. With experience, a smoother brand of play may be expected as the season progresses, giving the sophs time to gain the needed experience.

We are still wondering why Davidson never plays the Virginia conference teams. It is understandable why this is impossible this year with travel so difficult, but the ’Cats have had to meet the stiffer opposition of the Palmetto state teams for years in seeking their conference wins, while the weaker northern members of the loop went unchallenged by the Red and Black.

Double-Header

A double-header is on deck at the gym tonight as Coach Spearman’s frosh team makes its debut in the prelude to the varsity clash with Belmont Abbey. Prospects are rather gloomy for this year’s freshman five, especially in light of the enviable record of last year's yearlings. The frosh have a return game with the Crusaders there next week to complete their pre-Christmas play. Plans for games after the holidays are pending the decision of the Southern Conference committee on freshman participation in varsity events in their meeting this weekend.

McEver Praised

We received an interesting clipping from a Nashville paper from former Davidsonian Sports Editor Andy Dale, who is now a medical student at Vanderbilt University. In commenting on Frank Sinkwich’s receiving the Heisman Trophy for this year, the columnist cited Gene McEver, All-American Tennessee gridder and now head coach at Davidson, as being, in his opinion, the best back in the South of all time. This is noteworthy recognition. Sinkwich has been appraised by many as the chief contender for this honor. But the Nashville scribe was convinced of the soundness of his choice in recalling not only McEver’s ability to pick a hole and charge through it, but also his prowess at the art of broken-field running. This is just another reminder of the talent we have to mold the fortunes of the Wildcat gridiron warriors.

Miscellany

Wildcats received recognition on two of the All-State teams selected by newspapers in the state. Ben Lacy was named first string for his position on the Greensboro Daily News All-State team and has received a certificate to that effect. Red Bethea made the second team in the Charlotte Observer selections for state honors determined by ballots mailed in by subscribers. Missing this year was the avalanche of Davidson ballots that have in past years brought recognition to Wildcat stars. Pat Williams and Alf Taylor received honorable mention in the All-Southern Conference selections.

Fans were pleasantly surprised at the appearance of the basketball team in snappy new uniforms complete with the short-sleeve shirts used by many teams now. Referee “Penny” put on an interesting sideshow at the opening game with his floor antics including skipping about the court. Some of his decisions were not so popular.

College Sports Scribes Choose All-Americans

ST. LOUIS, Mo., Dec. 9 (Special) — Eleven colleges are represented on the 1942 All-American football team selected by the nation’s college sports writers and announced today in the Sporting News, National Weekly. It is the first time in the nine-year history of the poll that some one college has failed to place two men on the honor eleven. Frank Sinkwich of Georgia walked away with top honors and the captaincy of the star aggregation, and his backfield mates are Paul Governali of Columbia, Bill Hillenbrand of Indiana, and Bob Steuber of Missouri. Linemen named to the team are Dave Schreiner of Wisconsin and Bob Dove of Notre Dame, ends; Dick Wildung of Minnesota and Gil Bouley of Boston College, tackles; Alex Agase of Illinois and Chuck Taylor of Stanford, guards; and Joe Domnanovich of Alabama, center.

There were 482 players nominated to the all-star team by the 86 writers who represented colleges in 40 states and the District of Columbia in the balloting which was compiled by Robert S. Kunkel, Executive Secretary of the National Inter-Collegiate Sports Writers Association. Second Team: Poschner of Georgia and Gantt of Duke, ends; Wistert of Michigan and Osuri of Ohio State, tackles; Ramsey of William and Mary and Wright of Notre Dame, guards; Mosely of Yale, center; and Holovak of Boston College, Bertelli of Notre Dame, Harder of Wisconsin, and Dobbs of Tulsa, backs.

Thursday, December 10, 1942

Wildcat Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GRIDDERS ON HARDWOOD

“Doc” Renders Great Service

White Serves College As Trainer For Decade

Since his arrival at Davidson nearly a decade ago, Perry “Doc” White has served Davidson’s athletic organizations in such a faithful and efficient manner while performing his duties as trainer that he has rightfully deserved the title of Davidson's true “unsung hero.”

Born and reared on the outskirts of this little college community, “Doc” later moved to Cornelius. Here he became somewhat of a “Jack of all trades,” as he farmed in addition to establishing and operating a garage.

Started As Assistant

In the fall of 1933, White first became associated with the college, serving in the capacity of assistant trainer. However, after two years had elapsed, “Doc” assumed the full responsibilities attendant with his present position of trainer.

Glancing back over the years replete with occasional thrills and outstanding individual athletes and great team performances, “Doc” can recall equally memorable moments. Foremost in his memory was the elusive Mackorell, threading his way through a broken field, and Corbin’s devastating blocking clearing the way for Lafferty, an inspiring leader. Not to be forgotten was 1939's fine gridiron outfit, featuring a high-scoring backfield, or the court aggregation captained by Ned Iverson which crashed its way into the conference tourney in 1939.

Although “Doc” claims that baseball, ‘the national pastime,’ is his favorite sport, he nevertheless believes that football has afforded him his greatest thrill. During the past season, a hitherto scoreless Davidson eleven snapped out of their scoring lethargy to smash the highly touted V.M.I. Cadets and give “Doc” his biggest thrill.

Looking back over his nine-year stay at Davidson, “Doc” paid tribute to the boys with whom he has been associated by making the statement that he has never seen a single boy that he didn’t like. These same boys likewise admire “Doc” White, who, with each passing day, is contributing a bit more of his unselfish and invaluable work.

Four Wildcat stars of the gridiron shown here have turned to play basketball this season. However, they still wear their football headgear in the photo to play safe after last week's rough opening game. Left to right are: George Peters, Pat Williams, Tom Peters, and John Frederick. Tommy and George haveBroken into the starting line-up as sophs, and all four will see plenty of action during the coming season.

Wildcats Face McCrary Eagles Tonight In Gym

Players Pick New Manager

Managers for next year’s Wildcat football squad will be announced at the third D-Club Banquet, which will be held in the Banquet Hall of Chamber's Building Monday night, December 14. These managers have already been selected by secret ballot. Frank Carter, Burwell Armstrong, and Jim Davis, having served as Junior managers during the current season, will be eligible for this honor. These men will replace Wellford Hobby, varsity manager; Barn Neill, equipment manager; and Dick Phillips, frosh manager. Another feature of the banquet will be the presentation of certificates to those men who earned letters during the 1942 season.

Riflers Hold Squad Match

Tom Snodgrass was high scorer with 183 out of a possible 200 as the rifle team held its first inter-squad match last Friday afternoon between the freshmen and upperclassmen. The upperclassmen won the match by a score of 876 to 825. Other high scorers were Bill Barber with 182 and Dave Yokum with 181. Scoring in the freshmen high five besides Snodgrass were Bob Worth, Jack Elkins, Jim Bisaner, and Charles Maxwell. Also in the high five for the upperclassmen were John Rose, Gaines Stubbins, and Bob Dunn. Captain Bob Gowdy supervised the match but did not participate in the firing. A return match is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 2:40.

Maybe they've decided with the advent of the court.

Eagles Bring Veteran Quint; Belk, Wayman, Lowry and Two Peters Star

After a successful opening game, the Wildcat basketball squad is set to face some even stiffer resistance this week. Tuesday night the Morris Field squad traveled to the Davidson campus to give the ‘Cats the only service competition that has been scheduled so far this year. Last week Morris Field swamped the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. and came to Davidson craving victory. Tonight the Wildcats will meet one of their toughest opponents in the form of the McCrary Eagles, a semi-pro team. McCrary topped a Heels court last week to whip High Point College stars by a 48-29 margin and then came back to whip the High Point College team. Neal Cochran will lead the attack against the Wildcats, with Bill Wright and Max Lanier, two veteran forwards, behind him. The starting team has not yet been definitely selected, but the Peters twins, John and Pat, Belk, Wayman, and Lowry will probably be the first to face this week's opposition. The team has been having regular practice, and besides the ones mentioned above, Jack Byrd, Williams, and Bob Currie are fighting for starting honors.

DOUBLE HEADER TONIGHT

Cats Take Kannapolis Five In Opener 55-45

Peters Brothers And Lowry Pace ‘Cats; Hicks and Bond Lead Visitors

Though showing a high scoring, improved offense and giving promise of finesse, the 1942-43 Wildcat basketeers opened their season last Friday night in the local gym with an impressive 55-45 triumph over the strong Kannapolis Y.M.C.A. quintet. Led by a driving offense, Tommy Peters, Jim Lowry, and George Belk turned in excellent floor performances. The Cannonites jumped to a quick 4-3 lead at the outset, but the Cats put on the pressure, clicked from 3-4, to 7-4, on up to a commanding margin which they never relinquished. Davidson's sophs were looking remarkably sharp for their first varsity contest, and the score at intermission stood at 31-20. Kannapolis, sparked by Davidson’s J.D. Hicks, and last year’s Wake Forest captain Bond, throttled the Wildcats at the beginning of the second half, and the game turned into a give and take proposition, the Cat lead revolving around 10 points. Lowry was popping them in from all angles. He completed the game with 19 points, followed by Peters with 16 and George with 9. Tommy Peters received a big hand from the crowd when he remained in the game in the last period after suffering a broken tooth and badly cut lip. Tom Shaw also drew applause for his scrappy brand of floor play, while Bob Currie, Pat Williams, Johnny Frederick, Jack Byrd, and Bill Sutton continued to break into the struggle and play on par with the starters. Witt was bad, and consequently the Cats’ passing and shooting looked ragged. However, with a couple more such practice tilts under their belts and Coach Shepard's guiding hand to straighten them out, the Red and Black hardwoodsmen look to a tournament bid and revenge over Big Five rivals. The Fray’s scoring totals showed Tommy Peters ahead at 19 points, Lowry at 16, George at 9, Byrd at 4, Belk at 3, and Wayman and Williams at 2 apiece. Tommy looks like a possible bet for top conference honors, while the veterans Belk and Wayman have proven their ability in the past and will be there before long.

Wildkitten Basketeers Will Face Belmont Here

The 1942 Wildkitten basketeers will be seen in action for the first time when they meet the Crusaders of Belmont Abbey in the local gym on Thursday, December 10. A game with Pfeiffer Junior College which was scheduled for December 5 was canceled. The Crusaders are out to avenge last year’s defeat. Davidson's frosh have been practicing about three weeks and are developing a small, but speedy, five. Coach Spearman has been mainly stressing a fast-breaking offense and accurate passing. The squad is made up of three teams which hold inter-squad games at each practice. The starting quintet probably will be Bill Hodgin, Jack Burke, Rhea Richardson, Jim Hill, and Bill Robertson.

Matches Begin

The intramural wrestling tournament officially got under way Monday with the weighing-in process completed, although the matches didn’t start until Tuesday. The tournament was scheduled to be completed in the latter part of the week. At 6:00 p.m. Monday, seventeen men had been officially weighed. These contestants were classified in divisions. At 121 lbs. are Clyde Stroupe, R.A. Bradham, Frank Cockinos, and John McGee; tussling in the 128 lb. bracket will be Ben Williamson and J.T. Bagley. In the 135 lb. field will be W.B. Abbott, W.W. Ormand, Joe McCoy, and Dan Graham; while R.L. Brinson, Bill Lawson, and Priestley Conyers will fight it out for the 145 lb. position. Ralph Coonrad and Ashby Dick make up the 155 lb. class; Dick O'Hair and Wilbur Catter struggle for the 165 lb. place. More contestants were expected to weigh in before the matches began, to make the tourney more colorful. Varsity positions will probably be filled by the winners in each weight class. The matches which take place after Christmas are not definitely decided upon.

PERSONALIZED CHRISTMAS CARDS PRINTED WITH YOUR NAME IN COLLEGE PHARMACY

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N.C.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

A.S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N.C.

M.H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N.C.

TO ALL DAVIDSON——
White’s Wishes
The Best of a Holiday Season
WHITE’S DRUG CO.

Thursday and Friday, December 10th and 11th
JACK BENNY — ANN SHERIDAN
“GEORGE WASHINGTON SLEPT HERE”

Saturday, December 12th
“WINGS AND THE WOMAN”
LATE SHOW “DR. RENAULT’S SECRET”

Monday and Tuesday, December 14th and 15th
TYRONE POWER
“THE BLACK SWAN”

Wednesday, December 16th
“HIGHWAYS AT NIGHT”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N.C.