Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

YOUR PICNIC AT HARRIS LAKE
SPECIAL PROVISIONS THIS SATURDAY

NEWS FOR BLACKOUT: The final social event of the summer season, a picnic at Harris Lake, is scheduled for Saturday
afternoon, according to Harvey Henshaw, who is in charge of the activities.

Information that Davidson will be placed on the list of organizations for essential work for blackout was announced by Professor.

This means that the lights of the L050 will be allowed to remain on until one o'clock under dim-out regulations
after the first hour of the test is finished.

The blackout will begin at nine P.M. and will affect most of the county throughout the night, but the college's
special ruling will allow it dim-out privileges from one hour after the first until 1 P.M.

The library will close Friday nights at 9:15 and students will be allowed to check out books then for the
remainder of the night.

Girl's rooms in town who are attending the summer session will come under the same ruling as the dormitories—complete blackout
for one hour and then dim-out for the rest of the night.

The dim-out regulations state that the shades of the room must be drawn or the light shaded in the room.

MR. PR. SHEANAN WILL SPEAK SUNDAY NIGHT

Mr. Paul R.V. Sheanan, business officer of the Myers Park Church in State, will be the vespers speaker for the
last of the summer series to be held Sunday night at 7:50. The program will be held under the Sheanan
enjoys a wide reputation as an able speaker.

The picnic setup will be provided by the "Y" and will begin at 3:00 P.M. There will be no charge
for the picnic setup, but the services of the lake have offered a reduced price of 50¢ per car.

John Durnce, Charlie Capps, and others have guaranteed a good day for anyone who makes an application.

The special performance this weekend sponsored by the "Y" will be a presentation of the Pomona Players program. The performance
will begin at 8:00 P.M. and last until 11:30 P.M. The first half hour will set the sentiment with recordings
and then the regular performance will commence.

The program will be held under the trees at the usual place on the west side of the campus.
