Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, November 26, 1942

Dads Greet Sons In First Campus Event
Hundred Fathers Visit Davidson Campus For The Week-End Celebration

A happy reunion of 108 sons and fathers was brought about on Dad's Day on Davidson campus. Though it is the first Dad's Day, it will be followed by others. Mr. J. B. Johnston of Barium Springs was elected President of the Dad's Club shortly after the Dad's Club dinner Saturday evening. The fathers and sons went to a called meeting of the dads at the Guest House. Plans were made for a Dad's Day next year and a date was set. A Dad's Day committee was elected with Mr. J. B. Johnston as its president. Mr. Johnston was elected unanimously by the fathers.

In plans made for next year, it was decided by the dads not to hold Dad's Day when a football game was scheduled on the campus. A quiet week-end in which the fathers could be with their sons and learn more about the campus life was the desire of all present. A touch football game (S.A.E. vs. Betas) and a Commando football game followed the meeting at the Guest House. Dads and sons attended tournaments in ping-pong and horseshoes followed by water sports in the afternoon. The day ended with a banquet at which all the sons introduced their fathers. A serenade to the fathers by the students was led by Priestly Conyers. This was carried out with great enthusiasm on the part of the sons. The fathers were welcomed by Myron Sandifer, President of the Student Body. Following this welcome, Dr. John R. Cunningham spoke to the dads. He expressed certain hopes but gave no definite plans as to whether Davidson students would be allowed to remain in college.

One of the major events of the evening were the songs of World War I sung by a fathers’ volunteer quartet. This was greeted by enthusiastic applause from the audience. Mr. Earl Berg of the Davidson faculty gave a vocal solo. Thanks to all who aided in making Dad's Day possible were expressed by Mr. John Payne, Director of Public and Alumni Relations. Following this, all present joined in singing “O Davidson,” led by Berg.

Film Shown
A 1200-foot film of life on Davidson campus was shown to the fathers to give them a better insight into the life led by their sons. This replaced the play, “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” which was scheduled. Sunday morning, 50 fathers and sons met in front of Chambers Building and marched to the church where they heard a special sermon by Rev. Carl Pritchett. Sunday evening, a concert was given by the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra at which many dads and sons were present. The Concert Band played for the dads Saturday afternoon in front of Chambers.

Enjoyment Expressed
As the fathers were leaving to go back home, many of them expressed their hopes of being able to come back again next year. Sincere enjoyment was shown by the many compliments bestowed upon the Dad's Day program.

REPORTER HAS SESSION WITH OPERA GUESTS
(Continued from Page One)
...intelligent audience to whom he has sung on this trip. Mr. Carter said that he felt truly at home on the hill as he has been well acquainted with Mr. Berg of the college faculty for a number of years. He also knew Mr. Pfohl quite well at the University of Michigan where they both studied. Mr. Montgomery, the very officious police officer of Carmen, an alumnus of Princeton, felt quite at home in what he wanted to term “Southern Princeton.” While in college, Mr. Montgomery ran the mile on his Alma Mater’s track team. His time (4:16) was such that he earned a position on the United States Olympic team, but because of a pulled tendon was unable to sail with the team. He expressed interest in college athletics and wished for Davidson a very successful track season in the coming spring.

Annual Arrangements
All Seniors who plan to graduate in February, and all other students who expect to leave school before June, 1943, may arrange for purchase of this year's edition of “Quips and Cranks” immediately. Wellford Hobbie, business manager of the annual, announced that those boys who are subject to draft at once, or who will leave Davidson for any other reason before publication of the annual, and who wish to receive copies, should see him at once. Necessary steps in reserving a yearbook are leaving $2.00 on deposit and leaving the address to which the annual is to be mailed. It is possible to make arrangements with Hobbie to have the annual sent C.O.D. if funds are not available at the present time. Publication date for Quips and Cranks has been tentatively set for May 15.

Mr. Pritchett Leads Sunday Night Service
Rev. Carl Pritchett conducted services in Chambers Auditorium. Rev. Pritchett is pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church and this is the second time he has talked this year to the student body.

Illustrates Theme
The theme of the sermon this Sunday was higher morals and purer bodies. In his sermon, Rev. Pritchett compared Christ's healing of the soul to a physician's healing of the body. He cited body and soul together and showed how each affected the other. He spoke of the sins of the fathers coming down to the children of the third and fourth generations and how much a pure body and clean mind would mean in the days to come.

Christ Forgives
In closing, he related the story of Jesus and the woman convicted of adultery who was brought before Him to be stoned. It is well remembered how Christ told the people to let the person who had committed no sin cast the first stone. The people left and the Master told the woman to go and sin no more. In this way, he brought out the great forgiveness found in Christ. A few of the fathers were still at college and attended the service with their sons.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

FATHERS’ DAY PROCESSION
Pictured above, with Chambers Building providing a background, is part of the parade of 108 fathers who, with their sons, form a procession to the Presbyterian church for its service last Sunday morning. Leading the group is Mr. John Payne, head of the Alumni and Public Relations Department, which was largely responsible for the celebration, and Prof. W. W. Wood, Chairman of the sponsoring committee, with his two sons, Bill, a member of the Senior Class, and Lewis, who is in the Sophomore class.

Sigma Upsilon Hears Papers By Members
Fairly, Wheeler, Hill Enter As New Members of Literary Society

Orchestra Is Selected For May Program
Queens-Davidson Symphony Will Perform On Nation-Wide Program

North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs has announced that the Queens-Davidson Symphony will represent North Carolina on a nation-wide music program in May. Each state has chosen the outstanding student musical organization to represent it over the air on the radio program “American Music.” The Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra has been selected to represent this state. The broadcast will be during National Music Week.

Four papers and the initiation of three new members made up the program of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, at its last meeting held on Wednesday night, November 18th, at the Phi Delt House. Bill Lyman, president, and Lacy Maclean, secretary, conducted the initiation ceremony. New members are Crawford Wheeler, Peck Hill, and John Fairly.

MacLean Reads Essay
MacLean read the first paper, which was an informal research essay concerning Alexander I of Russia. The paper concerned the alleged faking of the death of Alexander, whereby his successor...ruled Mrs. Maurice Honigman, of Gas. While he was still alive, unknown to Tonia, president of the North Carolina Federation of Music Clubs wrote Mr. Pfoht saying, "The knowledge that more interest is shown in music at your institution is most heartening and truly inspiring. I am so truly thrilled by the recognition and the tribute that has been accorded your fine group."

The second installment of the Blue Pencil's continued story for the semester, "Fugue in E Minor," was written by Hobbie from the point of view of Harry Schroeder, an alcoholic and degenerated jazz player touring as a convert with Mina McElroy, a frustrated woman evangelist.

PHI DELTA THETA
The majority of the Phi Delts remained on campus. Archer made the trip to The Citadel and attended the dance there. Brother Jim Chapman replaced Brother Smith and Brother Starnes as ladies' man at W.C. At a big feed on Sunday night, Misses Grace and Anne Sample were guests of honor. In recognition of their relationship with the fraternity, they were presented with sweetheart pins.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Brother Dick O'Hair led the football team to its final game with The Citadel in Charleston, accompanied by Brother George McCormack, who operated the crank on the motion picture camera. The chapter was honored by visits from Mr. Tom Snodgrass of Charlotte, Mr. J. E. Wood from Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. C. K. Black. Pledge Brothers Sam and Jim Patton and Harry Cox, all freshmen, went, saw, and conquered a doll in a jewelry store window. Phi Gams entertained a feed at Sunday night after vespers. Mrs. D. G. Wilson, wife of Major Wilson, was the guest of honor. The affair was a farewell for Brother Ed Grant, who left last Monday for his home in Richmond, Va., before entering the U.S. Air Corps.

KAPPA SIGMA
The Sigmas were active again this weekend with the usual deal of taking Charleston by storm. Brothers Ben Smith, Lacy, and Joe McCoy were among those taking part. (Bug-Eye) Bob McCoy and (Gat-tooth) Cam Henderson added to the party. Brother John McGee entertained with a dinner in Charleston, and finally, the party ended with a dance. Also present were Pledges Bill Wilkerson and Lennox Turnbull.

The Sigmas were well represented on the playing field by Wileman, Williams, Alt Taylor, Shep Booth, Tommy, and George Peters.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Dad's Day program of the college kept most of the Pikas on campus this weekend to help entertain them. Among the fathers who visited the chapter over the weekend were Mr. J. J. Goldston, Mr. W. Johnston, Mr. K. W. Graves, Mr. Warlick, Dr. Siske, Dr. Campbell, Dr. Raynal, Mr. Bountap, Mr. Springs, Mr. Rhudy, and Mr. Johnston. A few of the brothers found it to their advantage to leave campus. Among these were Pledge Holt, who went to Greensboro, and Brother Ardrey, who went to his home in Bayru Neill, who accompanied the football team down to the game in Charleston. Brothers Brockmann and Pearsall donned their new R.O.T.C. uniforms and went to the Queen City on Friday and Saturday to try them out.

KAPPA ALPHA
This week, we were very glad to have up for Dad’s Day: Mr. Sandifer, Mr. Whitesides, Mr. Ansley, Dr. Dunn, Mr. Sutton, and Mr. Manwaring. A feed was held at the Kappa Alpha house for the fathers on Saturday night. Mr. Jackson, a fellow Kappa Alpha, was a welcome visitor at the feed. Traveling down to Charleston with the team were Brothers Durant, Burke, Patterson, Washburn, and MacMillan. Brother Jackson and Brother McLean reported a very successful weekend at The Citadel. An initiation was held this past week, and the Kappa Alphas want to welcome Jim Jackson and Sutton into the fraternity as brothers. Pledge Brother Wilds took in the homecoming dances at his old Alma Mater, Clemson. Brother John Belk went up to Greensboro to see his O.A.O. Several of the brothers went to Charlotte this week: Whitesides, Watt, Lowry, and Mitchell.

PI KAPPA PHI
Pi Kappas hung around pretty close to old D.C. this weekend. Pi Kappa fathers who were here for the weekend were: Mr. E. W. Walton, Hickory; Mr. C. H. Reid, Charlotte; Mr. G. P. Fowler, Hickory; Mr. C. A. McArthur, Charlotte; Mr. R. S. Williams, Miami, Fla.; Mr. C. A. Cline, Hickory; Mr. Paul Bumbarger, Hickory; Mr. J. H. Hill, Hickory. Some of the brothers for the weekend were: Brother Evans, who went home to Hickory, and Brother Bradley, who went to Waynesville, N.C. Among the very few attending the game were Brother Armstrong and Pledges Floyd and Barringer. Brother Parks dealt in Bristol. Brothers Campbell and Wilkinson had dates at Salem on Saturday night. Brother Everett went to Mooresville, where he attended a dance.

BETA THETA PI
The Betas had ten dads on campus last weekend for Dad’s Day. They were as follows: Mr. Paul F. Schmidt, Shelbyville, Kentucky; Mr. Staley F. Garrison, Burlington, N.C.; Mr. W. A. Mebane, Shelby; Mr. Ranson, Charlotte, N.C.; Mrs. J. F. Witherington, Mt. Olive, N.C.; Mr. C. W. Upchurch, Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. J. B. Goode, Charlotte, N.C.; Mr. D. L. Joyner, Kernersville, N.C.; and Pledge Charley Gunn visited in Greenville, South Carolina, this weekend, and Pledge Emarr Daugherty visited Montreat while Bob Powell went to his home in Goldsboro.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
In Charleston this weekend for the game and dances were Brothers Carson and Pledges Grimbell, Cooper, and Smith. Brothers Moore, Dunn, Grosse, Bethea, Hunt, Bruce, and Morgana were with the team. Brother Douglas and Pledge Brother Walker attended dances at Clemson. Brother Port spent the weekend in Winston. Several fathers of brothers attended the Dad's Day festivities. The chapter welcomed Mr. McAlister of Greensboro, Dr. Richardson of Macon, Ga., and Mr. Taylor of Wilmington. The chapter regrets that Pledge Brother Tompkins had to withdraw from school this week. It wishes a speedy recovery to Pledge Brother Ellis Allen, now undergoing two operations in Pennsylvania.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The Father’s Day celebration took up most of the Sig Ep’s time. The following boys had their dads down: Fulcher, Chaney, Dalton, Shaw, Maness, Sellars, and Blevins. A feed was held at the house Saturday night for the honored guests. Fulcher, Hugh West, and John McLauchlin left the festivities. Jimmy Perry left in the middle of the day for Charlotte. As soon as football star Gwynn came back from Charleston, he and Brother Miller left for Greensboro. Clarence Legerton, Jack Behrman, Ed Lilly, and Jack Jenkins went to Charleston, attending the football game, dance, etc. Rush Winchester had a date in Berryhill. Wendell Knox attended the dance at Clemson. Hewitt made a trip to Wadesboro.

The latest styles are now on display. Be sure to buy your Evans Slippers. They are comfortable, well-made, and built to stand plenty of hard wear. Come in—won't you?

JERRY NEWBOLD
Buy Your Pennants, Fraternity Stationery, Fountain Pens, Shaving Articles, and Jeep Hats at the Student Store. Managers: Bob Rainey

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK. It’s Safe.

Evans Slippers $4.90 - $15.00
Gilmer-Moore Company, Charlotte

MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St., Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation, Phone 5490