CAT CHAT By LACY MacLEAN

Grunt ’n’ Groan

Coach Charlie Parker's wrestling team appears still on the road to a successful year. In booking Maryland, Washington and Lee, and North Carolina, the wrestlers signed up to face the three teams whose reputation through the years is always the best. Year in and year out, they’re the top of the circuit. Add to these three V.M.I., who licked Carolina; throw in V.P.I., one of the South’s strongest, and you have an ambitious schedule for anybody.

On top of their schedule, the Cat grapplers are facing other troubles. Keyhole Browning, almost a sure shot for three points in the 121-pound class, left school for the army, and inexperienced Clyde Stroupe, his successor, has been unable to go the limit against any of his opponents to date and is destined to lose to the Southern Conference Champion whom he must encounter Saturday. Last year the Generals topped the Cats by a close margin, and with four conference champs in competition again, will be heavily favored to take the Cats. Aylor, winner in the tournament’s heavyweight division last year, lost to the State heavyweight whom Hipp defeated; this unreliable figuring gives Hipp an edge over the W. & L. wrestler, but may mean nothing on the mat. The return of Bill Simmons for the Cat squad may strengthen somewhat in the middleweights, continuing the winning ways he exhibited last year.

Barefoot Boys

A somewhat comical note is the only news from Coach Pete Whittle’s indoor trackmen. The war situation has cut out the supply of indoor track shoes, and there is a definite possibility that the Davidson delegation may enter the competition barefooted. Seriously though, Coach Whittle has set his eye for a fourth place in conference standing when the totals are added up, and considering the numerical size of the squads, a fourth would be worthy of applause. With Taylor almost a sure shot to take a first in the low hurdles, and a possible place in the highs, and Shannon with a few points in the pole vault, the Cats may come through in a satisfying manner if some of the other members of the squad, any of whom may count a few markers, are able to get through the preliminaries.

Sul Gains Grid

From the situation, it seems the team is in for a lot of hard work, with few to clear the way for a talented array of backs. The numerical strength of the frosh eleven, or rather the frosh fifty of last fall, is still evident with approximately 23 of the fifty candidates.

Basketball Bulletin

A late report on the courtmen’s encounter in Spartanburg Monday night puts them back in the win column with a 37-31 victory over the Wofford Terriers. Dave Spencer, captain for the night, with ten points and Mac Bruce, whose eye is improving with 15, led the Cat's offensive punch. The Terriers, winners over Clemson by a large margin, provided stiff opposition for their visitors, but the Presbyterians held the lead throughout most of the contest. The scoreboard at half-time read Davidson 15; Wofford 10.

Next weekend finds the basketeers journeying to Charleston for games with the College of Charleston and The Citadel, which may prove to be the Cats' first conference victory. The Bulldogs, weakened severely by graduation, stand near Davidson on the bottom of the conference ladder after dropping a one-point decision to Clemson’s lowly Tigers. It is highly possible that the Cats may end up the season with a much better record than they now possess. With their hardest circuit contests behind them and encounters with Furman and Citadel, both reputedly weak, and one with South Carolina, the second-ranking outfit in the Conference whom the Cats came near upsetting in their first game, the win column may grow substantially without any swelling in the losses.

Ed Hipp, Captain of the varsity wrestlers, is undefeated so far this season in his unlimited class, after having met some of the best grapplers in the Southern Conference. Hipp will grapple the Conference heavyweight champion, Aylor, of Washington and Lee in the match Saturday, one of the toughest schedules on the Davidson books.

Page Four

Tommy Peters, Luke Riffe, Louis Bibb, and Gene Bingham, Freshman stalwarts from last season’s undefeated Wildkittens, form a stone wall on the right side of the line in Spring Practice and may be starters by next fall. These frosh are showing great promise. (Photo by Billy Barker)

Rookies Dominate Grid Scene

Kittens Meet Barium Again

The Wildkittens are sharpening their skills in preparation for their upcoming matches next Tuesday and Saturday with Barium Springs and the University of North Carolina Frosh. Defeated earlier in the season by the Barium grapplers, the Frosh are determined to make a much better showing than previously. The Carolina yearling squad offers an impressive record with wins over Duke and State freshmen. The team is somewhat weakened in the 121-pound class by the loss of Johnny Lord, who dropped out of school, and in the 165-pound division, the loss of football back Bob Durant, who was injured in the match with Barium and may not see action. Coach Council may have Bob Miller and Hank Watt, who show a great deal of promise.

Rifle Team Ranks High

The new rifle team competed against Wofford College yesterday at 3:00 in its first shoulder-to-shoulder match of the year. There were ten men on each team, but only the five highest scores counted. Mr. Gaines Stubbins, Bob Kerr, W. R. Dunn, and David Yocum made up the team positions.

Cats Fire First Stage

In the first competitive shooting match of the season, Davidson fired the first stage of the Fourth Corps Area matches on Thursday. This match was in the all-prone position and schools in the area were represented. Davidson was led by Yocum with a perfect score of 100. Bill Barber and Gaines Stubbins had scores of 99, while Dunn and King tied for third place with 98.

M. H. GOODRUM COMPANY
“Merchandise of Highest Quality at Reasonable Prices”
Davidson, N. C.

With nearly half of the two starting teams composed of freshmen, the Davidson football team will have its first practice game of the football session Saturday. The contest was originally scheduled for last Saturday but will now be an intra-squad game. Nine members of last year’s undefeated freshman team will be in the starting lineups. Coach McEver has announced the starting line-up for the Reds and the Whites. George Peters will be handling the tailback duties for the White backfield, with Bethea at center. The Reds have Washburn in the tailback position.supported by Durant, Khy, and Lacy. O'Hair and Patterson are filling end positions with Kitfe and Gwynn at tackle, Taylor and Moore at guard, and Morehead at center. The freshmen have a large representation from their undefeated team. Kitfe and McMillan are at tackle, Bibb and Turner at guard, Brinegar at end, and Durant, Short, and G. Peters in the backfield are on the starting teams. Roach has been out for a week but was back in by Monday. I. Peters, although not in the starting line-up Saturday, is showing up well in practice. George Floyd hurt his ankle Monday afternoon and won't be able to play Saturday. In all, the freshmen have 23 men on the squad of about 50. Many of these freshmen have been switched to new positions.

Many See Action
Most of the squad will probably see action in the scrimmage game Saturday.

Drink Pasteurized Milk
IT’S SAFE
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

and Hunt supporting him. On the line are Brinegar and Archer, ends, McMillan and Rainey, tackles, Bibb and Turner, guards, and Burke.

SPE’s Lead Inter Frat
A smooth-working Sigma Phi Epsilon hardwood aggregation has forged its way to the top of the inter-frat standings as the cagers near the end of the season. The SPE’s thus far have swept through five encounters without a setback, flashing a well-coordinated defense and offense. Although several of their victories have been close, the SPE’s have turned in fine performances in adding to their growing list of victims.

Betas Close
Following the SPE’s closely are the Betas, who have suffered one loss against five victories. Paced by Burkhead and Walker, the Betas will endeavor to tie up the standings in their coming clash with the SPE’s. In a commanding position, should the leaders falter, are the Pikas who boast a .667 winning percentage, having dropped two decisions by narrow margins. Following the leaders are the K.A.’s who have three wins and two losses to mar their record. Knotted up in a three-way tie for fifth are the S.A.E.’s, Phi Delts, and Pi Kapps, while the luckless Phi Sigs and Gams lag far behind in the victory ladder.

Feature Clash
The Sig-Eps, clinging precariously to the top rung of the ladder, meet the Betas this week in a tussle which should be a fitting climax to the fraternity competition.

ALL LATEST—
Victor—Blue Bird—Columbia—Decca—Records
Portable Phonographs and Record Players
ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

DAVIDSONIAN
Wildcat Sports — Thursday, February 12, 1942

Davidson Cage Squad Invades Charleston For Contests There
Hold Phantoms To 8 Point Margin, But Are Outclassed By Powerful Dukes

Cat Matmen Grapple W&L
Davidson's matmen, returning once more to the wrestling wars after last night's grueling struggle with V.M.I., find the Southern Conference spotlight focused on them Saturday when they tackle last year's Washington and Lee champs in the gym. Although the Generals will be top-heavy favorites by virtue of their past performances, the Cats are out for blood and set to topple those high-flying Virginians. With four conference title-holders in the 121 pound, 128 pound, 135 pound, and unlimited divisions respectively, W. & L. boasts a powerful, veteran aggregation. However, Coach Charley Parker is confident that his boys will put up a game fight, and the possibility of an upset looms strong. Last year's nip-and-tuck affair ended in a 17-15 win for the Generals.

Strong Battle
Parker expects his protégés to offer their strongest battles when George Councill, 128 pounder, R. L. Brinson at 145 pounds, and heavyweight Ed Hipp, enter the ring. The last three are undefeated this season. Perhaps the outstanding encounter of the evening will occur in the unlimited class, where Captain Ed Hipp of Davidson faces Aylor of W. & L. This will be the rubber match of their three-year series, for each has pinned the other in one of the two previous meetings.

Cats Return
After Saturday's engagement, the Cats return once more to a vigorous practice grind, and under Coach Parker's skillful tutelage, prep for their coming clash with North Carolina, the outcome of which decides the state championship. Last night’s V.M.I. Generals hold victories over both the Tar Heels, and next week’s struggle should prove interesting, indeed.

Although they were outclassed by the Blue Devils, Coach Duke Shepherd's boys threw a real scare into the highly favored Phantoms. With John Belk doing a wonderful job on defense against Carolina's Bob Rose, the Cats were within two points of the lead with only ten minutes left in the game and it took a rally by the Phants in the final moments to gain their 45 to 38 win.

Lose To Duke
The following night the Cats did not fare so well as the Duke cage squad defeated Davidson 75-38. However, the Cats were forced to play without the services of Belk, who suffered a slight brain concussion in the Carolina game, but the Devils had one of their hot nights. After the contest, Coach Shepherd remarked that the Devils had one of the best quintets in the country and that they could have given any team in the nation a stiff match had they played the way they did against Davidson.

After the contest with Duke and Carolina, the Cats made a week of it, taking on Wofford at Spartanburg Monday night and returning home for a game with Guilford Tuesday. Taking the next two days off, the Cats will then journey to Charleston for two games with the Citadel and College of Charleston.

To replace Fredericks, Bob Carter, lanky senior, has been added to the Cat roster. Carter saw service in the Duke game and is traveling with the team on their Charleston tour.

Return Home
The Cats will return home on the 17th of February for a five-game stand at Davidson. The Citadel opens the streak and Furman, Wofford, College of Charleston, and South Carolina all invade the Cats in that order. With the exception of the Furman game, all the contests will be return engagements.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Cesar Romero
Johnny Weissmuller
Walter Pidgeon
Thursday, February 12
“Gentleman At Heart”

Friday, February 13
“Tarzan’s Secret Treasure”

Monday and Tuesday, February 16 and 17
“How Green Was My Valley”
Maureen O’Hara
Donald Crisp

Wednesday, February 18
“Robbers of the Range”

Thursday, February 19
“Parachute Battalion”
Carole Landis
Maureen O'Sullivan

DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”

B day at Davidson. (Photo by Billy Barker)

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE
HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER