**THE DAVIDSONIAN**
Thursday, November 5, 1942

~The Davidsonian~
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITORIALS
Home-Coming

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED ERWIN

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean - Assistant Editor
Henry McIntosh - Associate Editor
Jimmy Fulcher - Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries - Managing Editor
Howell Morrow - Managing Editor
John Fairley - Managing Editor
Jim Stimson - Managing Editor
Doane Watson - Managing Editor
Legh Scott - Sports Editor
Bob Welsh - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
BUSINESS MANAGER: Jim Harris
Advertising Manager: Dick Port
Advertising Manager: Don McIver
Circulation Manager: Jimmy Hodges
Circulation Manager: John Robinson
Subscription Manager: Buddy Carson
Collection Manager:

Home-Coming

Home-Coming is here again. Perhaps the same Home-Coming it has been, perhaps not the same it would have been. And
yet it has a number of features which should make it the best in the history of the holiday. The
returning alumni will miss the annual tour around the campus to observe, and criticize, the changes and revel in tales
of old times. They will miss the alumni luncheon in the banquet hall, for it could not possibly be the
same anywhere else, they maintain. They will miss the festive atmosphere that the fraternity decorations always provided. They will miss
their annual opportunity of ‘slipping’ a stiff and rusted grip to their old and new brothers within the memory-hallowed halls
of their particular lodges. They will feel a real sense of loss at missing their only opportunity of resuming, if
only for a night, the carefree fellowship that was dormitory life, and repeating the unforgettable experience of a collegiate “bull
session”.

They will miss most of all faces of classmates, handshakes of friends cut short by the circumstances which mar the
celebration. The vacancies in seats that have not been empty at a Home-Coming since the graduations of their respective years.
The later generations will see chairs vacant in tribute to their owners defending the ideals of which the reunion is
an evidence. Yet the celebration will not lose its most valuable aspects. It should not be the environment, but the
fellowship that provides the spirit of the occasion. Those who return for the weekend will be those who have a
deep and real interest in the college and in the friends they expect to find in attendance. Those who attend
will have to make a material effort to do so this year. A full program, although differing somewhat from the
customary one, has been planned for the alumni, and no disappointment is expected from any quarter. The older ones will
find their banquets and reunions, while the younger ones are expected to join in the revelry of the dances. The
game, we predict, will be no letdown for anyone. From our correspondence and other contacts, we expect a large portion
of the returning Davidsonians to come from those in uniform stationed at camps in the vicinity. Others, too far away
to revisit the campus for the fete, assure us that nothing would be more to their taste than to be
present, and that they will be thinking of us throughout the scheduled celebration. We would like to assure them in
return that their thoughts and good wishes are repaid with interest, and to tell them that any visit from them,
for whatever reason, will be considered a special occasion.

Holidays

We are glad that the Christmas holiday question was finally settled, and without bloodshed. Already the rumor machine had started
circulating “definite” reports of decisions ranging from six weeks to one day sandwiched between double cuts. This rumor business, no
matter how strongly emphasized, continually pops out of hand. If those who advertise their speculations as unquestionable fact would stop
to consider some of the damage they cause, we cannot believe these wild tales would continue. Think it Over.

Password

The sports department mentions the valiant showing the team made in Lexington Saturday, but we consider it time that there
was some evidence that everyone is interested in the boys. Forgetting that it has faced one of the hardest schedules
in its history, and ignoring the excellent showing the team has been making all season, in spite of some awfully
hard “breaks” and long trips, some of us, we fear, have become discouraged as to the outlook for the season
as a whole. The unmistakable victory last week should be sufficient to arouse the interest of even the “fair weather
friends” and convince them that if we, the student body, back the "Cats, we can and will BEAT CAROLINA!

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
ICELAND
The story of the U. S. Marines’ invasion of Iceland comes to the screen with John Payne and Jack Oakie
taking the lead in the romantic action. Sonja Henie adds to the plot as a beautiful Norwegian skater, and provides
several beautiful dancing and skating sequences.

Saturday
GIRL TROUBLE
Don Ameche and Joan Bennett carry the lead in this light, gay comedy. The story is laid in a

Letters

ALEXANDER MEANS, PRESIDENT OF EMORY UNIVERSITY, PRODUCED THE FIRST ELECTRIC LIGHT IN AMERICA. IN 1857, 21 YEARS BEFORE EDISON, MEANS
ATTACHED WIRES FROM AN ELECTRIC MACHINE TO A PIECE OF CHARCOAL. WHEN THE CURRENT WAS TURNED ON THE CHARCOAL REACHED
A WHITE HEAT EMITTING A DAZZLING LIGHT.

TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE HAS A SCHOOL FOR CHEFS WHERE THEY

With The Staff
By JOHN FAIRLEY

No advice as to the things a man at Davidson should seek to accomplish is so valuable as that of
those men who now look back upon their college life here, realizing wherein they succeeded and wherein they failed to
take advantage of their opportunities. This indisputable fact makes Dr. MacGavock’s timely chapel talk last Monday worthy not only of
attention, but also of careful contemplation. Dr. MacGavock's four suggestions, which he gathered from letters received from all types of
Davidson graduates, emphasize points that too often college men realize too late, after their collegiate opportunities have passed irrevocably away.
In their intellectual development, for instance, most students fail to find the real meaning of a Liberal Arts education until
their Senior year, if then. In the mad effort to pass or get a better grade than the next man,
the value of real thought and knowledge of true, lasting value is often lost. Where the blame for this delayed
development lies it is difficult to say; however, the possibility is strong that a remedy lies in another of the
points transmitted by Dr. MacGavock. That is, in closer relationship between students and faculty, which incidentally is something for which
Dr. MacGavock has been steadfastly working for several years. There is little doubt that student pressure against any extra-recitation relations
with professors will seem silly and insignificant after graduation when compared to lost advantages of contacts with well-trained, matured minds.
If Davidson underclassmen knew their professors better, they would much more rapidly reach that point at which they begin to
absorb and not merely to memorize. Another realization that is slow to come to undergraduates is that of what influence
is exerted upon them by their classmates, and what influence they themselves exert. And it is not necessarily, nor even
generally, the accepted campus leaders who have the deepest and most lasting influence; it is these men who really have
some inner strength or who are ready to lend a friendly hand even to those looked upon with intolerant contempt
by a student body that is often too willing to list anyone who does not conform to its exact standards
of custom and interest. A remarkable number of the graduates expressed regret at not having developed their spiritual life on
the campus. It is a shame that a degree of mild antagonism to things religious still exists here, possibly as
a reaction to compulsion in attendance of religious exercises. Take heed of Dr. MacGavock’s conclusions. This practical advice from the
pens of men who have already experienced what we are now undergoing should strike home more forcefully than counsel from
any other source.Who can deny that they know whereof they write? By SHAW SMITH

Rumor has it that her sister is experiencing domestic complications. Now our shrewd Prexy, not to be outdone, is trying
to make a deal with Borton to beg, borrow, or steal his forgotten Mary D. for the dances. News has
just come in that Sandy, in desperation, has even tried to date the intuitive Brunette from the Queen City and
Queens. Pat “Split Lip” Williams had it tough last weekend when Mandy refused to come across for his six points.
It's hard to operate, much less osculate under such conditions. Ask “Mug” Taylor.

“Nation” Crowell and Moose Hart did it again. These two miracle men take notice if he can use a walker
in track. Speaking of the coach, he did a swell directing job of the Halloween Show for the local P.T.A.
That Mr. Carl Pritchett is about the finest man I know—his fearless preaching of the Gospel is something indescribable. If
you lie in bed through the morning service, I promise you without any doubt you miss one of the most
useful offerings that Davidson has—that can be yours. Did you hear him last Sunday? He is like a loudspeaker through
whom the Lord speaks—I mean it. See you in church.

Scar-Face McCoy is having Isabelle McCan as his prey for the hogs. Some of her friends call her “Pat.” Wonder
why? On active duty Wednesday at the Seabbard and Blade blanket warming, one was able to see Wayman and Anara
only occasionally when they would come up for air. Everyone began to wonder when “Robusky” Rainey’s date shouted, “Bob, put
my chewing gum back.” Caterson, Belk, and Sandifer had to play games even to get their femmes to open their
mouths—all local yokels. Belk and Mebane just can't seem to find the right contacts for the past few weekends. Stock
market reports show that Bell Telephone and Telegraph are paying extra dividends this month due to financing by these two.
Everybody's talking about it... everybody's looking forward to it... everybody's trying to get dates for it. Yes, everybody's GOING. Where?
To the Biggest and Best—Home-Coming Dance Set. When? Friday and Saturday nights. Where? Hotel Charlotte Ballroom. You can't miss it.
You won't miss it. See you there.

By BILL LYMAN

Curses, Flushed Again!

Although this subject has been featured to the regurgitating point, I should be committing a grave literary breach were I
not to write on the “flush” note this week. Today and tomorrow are banner days in which the flush prolifically
thrives, culminating in a brilliant climax after two weeks of rapidly increasing business. In case you are one of the
ignorami, in Davidson parlance the “flush” is a letter, telegram, or phone call from a dance-set-invited femme to a local
joe, wherein she informs him that she will not be able to attend the dances. Most such notes come at
the eleventh hour (i.e., today or tomorrow), although some arrive early enough for the male to catch his breath and
resume the offensive.

Did you know: Bob Turner helped collect 15,000 pounds of scrap for the scrap drive—a lotta stuff. Dr. Jas. A.
Jones gave us some of the best services I can remember—straight, hard, sincere preaching. One point to remember is that
so many of the Hall Prayer Groups are letting the weeks just slip through our fingers. The modern setting and
provides a good two hours—helped lay a good foundation for his relaxation from a war-torn world.

Monday and Tuesday: INVISIBLE AGENT
Ilona Massey, whose figure some of the beauty experts have described as the most perfect in Hollywood, takes top billing
in H. G. Wells’ “Invisible Agent.” The story is enhanced by all the romance and excitement of the life of
the fantastic element in war as it might be.

Wednesday: KING KONG
One-half of the double bill is filled by an old thriller, King Kong. Fay Wray takes the female lead in
a show packed with romance, mystery, excitement, and the supernatural. The other attraction is a top-flight western.

Late Show Saturday: SPY SHIP
I would like for Legh Scott to be a guest of the theatre for any show this week, coming by
meeting nightly for about a week before the services began. Come again, Dr. Jones! Anytime. Speaking of spirit—which we weren't,
but which is a good subject—the football team “just played naturally” (says Red Burke) and did everybody in these parts
feel proud. Glad to see the band and fellows out to welcome ‘em back home—Geo. Sinclair Seley were back at
the ol’ school for the trip to Knoxville. No kidding, that guy does me good. Stuart Merjor hair to be
cut like his. Fred Speas can fix a crackerjack scrapbook—come by and look at the one he's fixing for us.
John Sherrill is doing a mighty good job at the colored community center with the help of Bob Worth, Leighton
McKerthen, Newt Spencer, Garland Newland, and Walker Taylor. There is heavy competition in the realm of magic in Brother Lennox
Turnbull—ask him to show you. The P.S.A. conference was fine at Raleigh two weekends ago. Jimmy Fulcher made a fine
state president last year. Dr. Barbour was swell at this conference—as usual. Upperclasses will remember him from Spring Services 1940—Mrs.
Barbour and he dropped by the Bob McCoy—zip down to Tech and see Buzzic.

To illustrate to the uninitiated what actually occurs, “By-Lines” will present a drama, in three acts, entitled:

THE WAY OF ALL FLUSH
By Whatta Butler

Act I
Scene: A very feminine dormitory room in Miss Googoo's Academy. On one dresser, pictures of seventeen boys are displayed. Two
girls, smoking, are seen lounging on a bed.
Time: Noon on the Friday of a Davidson Dance Set.

Margot: Well, Fanny, and what are you gonna do this weekend?
Fanny: (Languidly) I think I'll weekend—George still replaces Jerry Newbold (and the? We oughta have a “ready” time.
Margot: But I heard that you told Gug you would go to Davidson with him this weekend.
Fanny: H-m-m-m, So I did—I almost forgot about that. Thanks for reminding me. (She takes another puff off her cigarette
and begins polishing her fingernails.)
Margot: But Fanny, what on earth will you do? Don’t you realize that this dance set begins tonight?
Fanny: (Languidly) I'll give him the rawest flush on record and make him love it. He'll ask me to the
next dance set at the same time. (She takes a final puff on her cigarette).
Margot: But how on earth can you do that?
Fanny: Heavens, you are naive, Margot! Just watch me. In the first place, I'll make the flush as embarrassing as
possible. Another very important factor is to flush him so late he can’t possibly get another date. (She thumbs absent-mindedly
through a movie magazine as she nibbles daintily on a small piece of candy).
Margot: And what next?
Fanny: (She has evidently found something interesting in the magazine. She rivets her attention on it for a few moments,
then glances, absent-mindedly at Margot). What? Oh yes... uh... what were we talking about?
Margot: Gug and the Davidson dance set!
Fanny: Unh-hunh, (Returns to the magazine as her voice trails off. She subconsciously lights another cigarette, puffing on it with
languid poise).

Act II
Scene: Dining hall at the Beta Sigma house. About forty men are noisily eating lunch. One boy, Gug, is sitting
at the head of a table and talking louder than all the rest. He is evidently in an expansive mood
and talks in an assertive, self-assured voice.
Time: Same day, 12:35.

Gug: Well, boys, just wait until you see Fanny. She's the most beautiful gal I've ever laid my eyes on,
and (significantly) I do mean from head to toe! (He is in a marvelous mood and winks in a good-humored
way at everybody in general).

(Continued on Page Six)
