Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 24, 1942

Y’s CORNER
By SHAW SMITH

Hi Friends,

It’s good to begin again, but after a summer with Eds and Co-eds, it just ain't the same with only Eds. Frankly, it was fine and surprise—both beaux and beauties studied and I mean hard. Maybe that’s just a special excuse used on mine, but our gracious girlies put more time on studying than any summer school in our history. (This latter information is not historical fact, but is honest opinion.) Even Clyde Stru- a girl's affection, sez-he, led class in Spanish pid, the object of many every day on Chambers steps. Russ Seam held study hall daily in his car, called a house. Night brought varieties of study moods, methods, and sometimes wars. Well, it's over now, but even magnolia dreams do not stop some Remember that...

Frosh Show Spirit

Freshmen (the men with the red caps) seem to be off to a good start in spirit. Cheerleader Wayman has some good ideas on spirit and is putting them into practice. I say, keep an eye on this fellow. He's going to end the season with much of the spirit you give credited to his earnest enlistment. So let’s back him, his ideas, and our team. Everybody knows about our team. State had some men out, too, last Saturday. ON TO DUKE. And to victory of one kind or another.

Orientation will be remembered long by new men for numerous speeches, new faces, and so many new things to know. I'll remember this year’s for the same reasons: long speeches, new faces, and so many new things to know. Under the red caps, the same questions, something of the same actions, etc., etc. Wouldn't it be bad if they were different? Davidson has produced some big men here, and they started just as you “Freshies.” And some had difficulties expected of things here to be different and found us (perish the thought!) quite average. Yep... Davidson has lots to be grateful for, much that is challenging to the thinking newcomer. Tis this: May you who are somewhat disappointed stick it out long enough to see beyond your disappointment into the fineness of the many good things here. And when you see the greatness, may you not forget your early experience—and strive to make it better for some man like you who'll be here next year—or find the same situation—and not be able to see it through as you have. You see, there might be, therefore, some reason for your disappointment.

Time Cures All

Wanna cure for homesickness? Answer: Time. Nope, it isn't sure. That's just a relief, but by time, and homesickness, is one to head the list of “Those Things Which Are Changed for the Better.” Mrs. McLauchlin (mother of Tom and Hugh) was one of many mothers up to see their offspring. Always good to have the home folks, and especially now that the “Y" has quarters adequate to care for them.

Looks Back

Reviewing the summer school shut reminds me of much you might remember: Rhea Dabney, song leader extraordinary, leading music “Under the Stars” or just anywhere and letting us enjoy it... The big Amateur show with D. Blevens as M. C. with Jim Dendy, junior transfer and musician par excellence, complete with blankets and lipstick as an Indian Chief and $2.00 First Prize. Softball with the best umpires in the business regardless of what the stands, “Stutt” the Base Ball player, L. McLean, Bill McBride, Lard, and numerous other not-knowing players had to say about it... (confession: Eyes under par in naval examination three days ago! (Ha, ha!)) Myron Sandifer... co-worker beating me at my own game of “Throwing Bills” or “Passing the Buck”... All in fun ‘cause he really did a good job. And, by the way, if anyone doesn’t know of the fine man we have as of the side out—let me say sincerely he is missing a valuable experience... Sunday School in the “Y” lounge (To be in the same spot throughout this year). Rev. Pritchett’s consistent preaching... can’t be beat... Think I’m kidding? Ask who goes to hear him consistently... Is it your... Can be... Yours, the man the next.

Phi Gam’s Gather

Most of the brothers remained on the campus over the weekend to take part in the successful completion of the Fiji Rush Week. Following the formal pledging ceremony, a great majority of the brothers and new pledge-brothers crowded into the midnight bus and headed for Charlotte. Brother McCormick spent the weekend in Wilmington taking pictures of the game. The chapter had as its guests over the weekend, Mr. T. W. Morrow of West Point, Ga.

Beta’s Back

With few exceptions, all of the Beta brothers have returned to the campus after a very pleasant summer vacation. A very successful Rush Week was enjoyed by the Phi Alpha Chapter, and the following boys were pledged: Frank Rawley, Charles Gunn, Bill Smith, William Joyner, Bill Sengel, Cargill McCormick, Bob Powell, Bill Lemmon, Kerf Caterson, Ed Wayland, Lamar Dougherty, Erskine Gallant, Billy Newell, Nat Garrison, Garland Newland, Joe Knowles, George Cushwa, Alfred McNair, and Bryant Skinner. The chapter was delighted to have at the pledging ceremony its faculty brothers, Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. J. R. Cunningham, Dr. F. W. Johnston, and Dr. Chalmers Davidson.

S. A. E.'S Journey

The weekend found members and newly pledged men alike in Charlotte after the completion of the pledging ceremony Saturday night. The only globe-trotting was done by Brothers Bruce, Hunt, Grosse, Moore, and Bill Dunn, who went with the Wildcats to meet N. C. State at Wilmington. Brothers Carter and Harris were also present at the game. Brother Earle Bethea, unable to make the trip because of a shoulder injury, journeyed to Charlotte to see a doctor, among others. In response to certain letters from the Navy Department, Brother Bob included both Charlotte and Chester, S. C. in his rounds. The group welcomes two new brothers, Deloney Hull, Junior transfer from Emory University in Atlanta, and Henry Shaw Smith Hobbs, sophomore transfer from the Guest House.

Hostess For Davidson

Among recent additions to the Davidson community is Mrs. Rufus B. Wilson, of Burlington, North Carolina, who was invited at the close of summer to fill the recently created position of hostess for the newly organized campus guest house. Mrs. Wilson is considered well qualified to fill her new position, as she has just come from the Sigma Chi fraternity of the University of Georgia, where she served as house-mother. During the past summer she took additional training in a specialized course for hostesses. Symbolizing a new combination of southern hospitality and Davidson courtesy, Mrs. Wilson's guest house will entertain guests of Davidson's students and faculty. Also, with the assistance of Shaw Smith and the Y. M. C. A., Mrs. Wilson hopes to carry out Dr. Cunningham's plan of making the guest house a college center, a gathering place for both students and faculty, with the possibility of holding a few student-faculty luncheons for select organizations later in the year. Mrs. Wilson’s son, Rufus, Jr., attended Davidson College for two years before going to the University of Pennsylvania to attend the Wharton School of Business. Mrs. Wilson's charm and smile have introduced her very ably to the students and the college community, and she hopes to see each member of the college within the guest house this year.

THE END

FRATS PLEDGE (Continued from Page One)

Robersonville, N. C.; Carey Wells, Canton, N. C.; Phillip Whittier, Granite Falls, N. C.; Roy Williams, Miami, Fla.; Dave Walker, Maxton, N. C.

Kappa Alpha

Tommy Speas, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Sheperd Dunn, Sumter, S. C.; Vance Watt, Thomasville, Ga.; John Collins, Charlotte, N. C.; John Lawson, Oxford, N. C.; Tom Belk, Charlotte, N. C.; Jack Burke, Washington, D. C.; Burke Ingraham, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Osborne Young, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Clayton Schofield, Decatur, Ga.; Bob Stokes, Charlotte, N. C.; Jimmy Hill, Mt. Pleasant, Tenn.; Ed Manget, Decatur, Ga.; Haywood McDonald, Chester, S. C.; Bill Nickels, Bristol, Tenn.; Murphy Wilds, Hendersonville, N. C.

Phi Delta Theta

Elwood Weatherly, Elizabeth City, N. C.; Bill Sheely, Elizabeth City, N. C.; Charles Bennett, Elizabeth City, N. C.; Jack Wheliss, Rockingham, N. C.; Tommy Hemby, Houston, Texas; Bob Thurston, Taylorsville, N. C.; Fred Rainey, Decatur, Ga.; Tom Wadill, Newport News, Va.; Kenneth Barber, Atlanta, Ga.; George Bernhardt, Lenoir, N. C.; Ernest Spangler, Princeton, W. Va.; Charles Powell, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Henry Cutchin, Rocky Mount, N. C.

Kappa Sigma

Bob McCoy, North Wilkesboro, N. C.; Reed Smith, Jr., Columbia, S. C.; Charles Blackburn, Hendersonville, N. C.; Monte Powell, Whiteville, N. C.; Ashby, Mount Airy, N. C.; Hugh McArn, Laurinburg, N. C.; Bob Phillips, Laurinburg, N. C.; Bill Lawson, Gastonia, N. C.; Wray Amos, High Point, N. C.; Cecil Garrett, High Point, N. C.; Carl Coffey, North Wilkesboro, N. C.; Thomas Faw, North Wilkesboro, N. C.; Buck Troutman, Charlotte, N. C.; Jack Walker, Columbia, S. C.; Lowery Stafford, Greensboro, N. C.; Lennox Turnbull, Richmond, Va.; Bill Wilkinson, Charlotte, N. C.; Charley Capps, Cleveland, Miss.

R. O. T. C. STAFFS (Continued from Page One)

Wayman complimented the freshman class on its spirit evidenced at the first rally, and expressed the wish that the three upper classes would strive to match.“These pep meetings will have to be better than ever this year, since they will have to furnish all the enthusiasm heretofore given by the football games on the field here at Davidson,” said Wayman.

Ed. White, Richmond, Ky.; Alex Bahnson, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Jimmy Alexander, Charlotte, N.C.; Ellis Allen, Davidson, N.C.; Pete Branton, Leland, Miss.; George Grimball, Greenville, S.C.; Bill Hodgin, Charlotte, N.C.; Ford Little, Greensboro, N.C.; Thornton Hood, Kinston, N.C.; Ned Ramseur, Greenville, S.C.; Rhea Richardson, Macon, Ga.; Cooper Smith, Columbia, S.C.; Walker Taylor, Wilmington, N.C.; Arthur Thompkins, Columbia, S.C.; Herman Walker, Greenville, S.C.; Jack Willis, Washington, Ga.; John Patterson, Tallahassee, Fla.; Roland Paylor, Kinston, N.C.

Other additions are Henry Hobbs, Jr., and DeLoney Hull, SAE’s from University of Mississippi and Emory.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Bost, Statesville, N.C.; Tommy Campbell, Si C.; Robert Stroup, Wilmington, N.C.; Jack Pracht, Nashville, Tenn.; Middy Raynal, Statesville, N.C.; Bill Warlick, Statesville, N.C.; Sid Blacksburg, Harold Rudy, Greensboro, N.C.; Bill McCall, Barium Springs, N.C.; Gwyn Fletcher, Barium Springs, N.C.; Billy Johnston, Statesville, N.C.; Grover Ingram, Barium Springs, N.C.; Lewis Rogers, Kannapolis, N.C.; Holt Ardrey, Greensboro, N.C.; Bill McClintic, Va.; Eade Anderson, Horse Shoe, N.C.; John Dunlap, Charlotte, N.C.; Dick Parrish, Farmville, N.C.

Letters From The Lodges
University of Mississippi.

Phi Delt’s Feed
The brothers spent a rather quiet weekend last week, characterized by sleeping and loafing around the campus. After the ceremonies Saturday night, the new pledges were treated to a feed at Hatley’s, following which most of the brothers headed in the direction of the late show. Brothers Hobbie, Archer, Watson, and McLean were in Wilmington with the team. The only out-of-town detail which has come to our notice was a trip to the Queen City Saturday night by Pledge Brother Hemby.

Pi Kaps Rush
Pi Kappa Phi ended a very successful rush week with nineteen pledges. The pledging ceremonies were held at 7:00 o'clock Saturday night. Brothers Vowles, Mebane, and McGill were present. After the ceremony and traditional visit from the brothers, the entire chapter, including pledges, left for Charlotte; and a good time was had by all. Pledges Hunter and Reid spent the weekend at their homes in Charlotte. Pledge McEachin spent Sunday with relatives in Charlotte. Brother Armstrong was with the team in Wilmington in the role of a manager. Outside of the pledging ceremony and the Charlotte detail, it was a very quiet weekend, probably because it was the first weekend of this semester.

K. A’s Pledge
After a week of vigorous rushing, Davidson's Sigma chapter of Kappa Alpha Order takes pleasure in announcing the pledging of seventeen boys. The new Knights are Ed Manget, Jimmy Hill, Heyward McDonald, Bob Stokes, Burke Ingram, Osborne Young, John Lawson, John Collins, Bill Nichols, Murphy Wilds, Jack Burke, Lee Brown, Tom Belk, Shepherd Dunn, Tommy Speas, Clayton Schofield, and Vance Watt. With the addition of these seventeen slicksters, the majority of the chapter retired to Charlotte or other points to get all the fun they could, while at Wilmington, Bonny Ben and Scotty Paterson aided the Cats no end in their battle with State. The entire chapter wishes to thank faculty brothers, Lt. Spencer, Dr. Richards, Dean Bailey, Mr. Jackson, and Dr. McGavock for their attendance at Saturday night’s pledge ceremony.

Sporting Spees
After a most successful rush week, most Sig Eps stayed on the campus and vicinity to relax. Not content to remain on the campus, however, were Price Gwynn, Hunter Dalton, and “Baldy” Behrman who visited the girls at W.C. and High Point. Of course, there were the usual trips to Charlotte and Queens. Looking over the members and especially the pledges, the Spees find that the prospects for the 1942 fraternity football team look very good. With the combined efforts of seasoned men from last year and the pledges, the SPE’s should be set for many wins this season. Also, with the aid of some freshmen, the Sig Eps should have a chance to successfully defend the basketball championship which they won last year.

Sigmas Celebrate
Most of the brothers of the Kappa Sigma fraternity stayed on the campus Saturday night for the pledging ceremony. Afterwards, some of the brothers adjourned to Charlotte for a celebration. Those Sigmas who went with the team to Wilmington for the Davidson N.C. State football game were: Ehly, Ben Lacy, Booth, Taylor, Williams, Simmons, and Tommy Peters. Daniels went in the capacity of manager, and Sutton as spotter.

Pikas Peaceful
Most of the chapter spent the weekend on campus after the Rush Week excitement; but a few managed to make the trek to Charlotte, among them Brothers Maxwell, Shelton, Brinson, and Pledges Farrar, Pracht, Raynal, and the two “Stwoops.” Several of the more industrious (?) brothers and pledges spent a good part of the weekend house-painting. The chapter welcomed several alumni members during the week, among them Brothers John Scott, Vernon Youngblood, and Satterfield and Pledges Buddy Tolleson and Jim Fraley.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Be Sure to Stop in for School Supplies
Fountain Pens and Pencils
Drug Supplies
At The WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Davidson’s Oldest and Best
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Russell Beam Saves Couple From Water
Russell Beam, a member of the Junior class from Lumberton, N.C. and a K.A. reports quite an experience several weeks ago. As the story goes, he was on the bank of the Lumberton River when he heard a girl scream. Just in time, a little while before, he had seen a drunk soldier and a girl head up the river in a boat. He ran to a position on the bank from which he could see the two in trouble, dived in, and swam to the pair, carrying with him a torpedo buoy. Each of the couple was hanging on a log, but the girl’s was a dead one, and she was going down for the last time when Russ arrived. He left the buoy for the soldier to hang on until a boat arrived, and towed the girl to safety. The soldier and his girl were unharmed.

NEW MEN FILL (Continued from Page One)
He is the third graduate of Davidson to enter our teaching staff in the last four months and joins the department of Physics. Mr. Siegle received his A.B. at the University of Richmond and did his graduate work at Duke University. He comes as instructor in Psychology.

Again. The brothers gathered at the front of the houses, congratulated the boys on seeing the light, pledged them up officially, and then made them shake several hundred more hands. It’s all over now. Everyone is happy. Work really starts next week, but first, Charlotte and celebration.

Brothers and Pledges Both Feel The Strain
Rushers and Rushed Are Glad When Pledging Ceremonies Are Over
By GRAYSON TUCKER

Twelve o'clock Monday. Upperclassmen are tense, waiting like so many beasts outside the freshman’s doors, ready to spring when the hall gives the signal. The big shots, ex-high school front mirrors comb their hair. The dead line comes, you rush in—and you keep on rushing until Friday night. The freshman and his new friend walk on down towards Frat row for the first big date of the week. On the way, he hears about the beer sign the maids held up last year, and about the time the clapper fell out of the bell on top of Chambers. Where are you from? Oh well, do you know so and so? And so it goes—parties, girls, hunting trips, football, high school experiences, college courses, and what have you? He meets thirty or forty boys at each house he visits, but of course he is used to remembering names after the faculty reception on Saturday night. He might start off as John Doe, but his name is so twisted by the end of the evening that he just doesn't give a darn. After a date with each of his two or three favorites, the average fellow is still at a loss. After all, didn’t each bunch tell him theirs was the best? By the last day of the week, everybody is shot, the conversation dwindles, baggy eyes everywhere. The upperclassman walks up with his man the last night, tactfully excuses himself from staggering up the fifty-seven steps to the top floor of Watts, and with a sigh of relief, washes his hands of the whole thing. Saturday was a day of silence. What a change. Came seven o'clock, though, and things started again. Our suits are three button, notched lapel, single breasted jobs with regular flap pockets. Thirty and thirty-five dollars, the wild and woolly cowboy belts, suspenders and leather jewelry. One dollar to one fifty. Sweaters, fancy ski patterns, argyles with mufflers in solid stuff. Prices to suit you. Shirts are still button down and oxford weaves. Two and two fifty. Sturdy, rugged, long-wearing jackets in many fabrics, with stout corduroy slacks and easy on the pocketbook. Service in the order of the day and this calls for wind breakers, rain coats, and top coats. Prices start in the low brackets. This is no quiz on Shakespeare, but a question of sartorial importance for college men. It's Khaki or Mufti from here on. For those back in school, clothing has taken on a functional, practical aspect. With a schedule demanding clothing that is more durable, less fadish, designed to answer the needs of a more active life.

Marion Davis Co.
Buy Bonds

Today’s COLLEGE MAN
Now as never before every school boy wants to be educated in war time clothes economy. So let us help you pass a course in how to buy and care for your clothes. Our tailoring shop will take care of all your alterations. Quick service and economical. Keep your war time clothes in good condition.