WELCOME FATHERS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

TOP IN SCHOLARSHIP

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1942 No. 9

“Opera in Miniature” To Be Next Artists Series Presentation

Four Young American Singers To Stage Scenes From Popular Operas

“Opera in Miniature,” the next number on the Davidson College Artists Series, will be presented by four American singers on Monday evening, November 23, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Costume presentations of portions of three operas will make up the program. All the singing will be in the English language versions of the pieces.

“Carmen” and Others

The program is divided into three different parts, each of which is made up of selections from one opera. The first section will be scenes from “Carmen” by Bizet. The “Spinning Wheel Quartet” and the “Goodnight Quartet” will be included in the scenes from “Martha” by Von Flotow that make up the second section. The last section shows the “Garden Scene from Act 3” and the “Prison Scene from Act 3” from the opera “Faust” by Gounod.

Opera Stars

Elwyn Carter, baritone; Virginia Kendrick, contralto; James Montgomery, tenor; and Marie Mountain, soprano, will make up the cast of all the presentations. Although they are young, they have made national reputations as singers through the radio and concert tours.

Elwyn Carter, who sings the baritone part, has appeared all over the United States as an operatic lead, concert recitalist, and oratorio singer. In previous trips to the South, Mr. Carter has performed in concerts in Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. Everywhere the critics have remarked on the great power and fine quality of his voice.

Contralto

Singing contralto will be Virginia Kendrick, a Pennsylvanian with much experience in operatic productions. She has performed with the Philadelphia Opera Company, the Trenton Symphony of New York, and orchestras, and over station KDKA of Pittsburgh. At one time she was the directress of a glee club in a college for women.

Young coloratura soprano for the group is Marie Mountain, who has had much experience over such radio stations as WJZ, WOXR, and WNYC. For six months she was a soloist at the Radio City Music Hall, appearing on the weekly productions of that theater.

James Montgomery

Princeton graduate and ex-broker of Wall Street James Montgomery, tenor lead for the quartet. The crash of 1929 took Mr. Montgomery from his desk in Wall Street and started him on his music lessons. For ten years he sang at the Steel Pier in Atlantic City. He performed in light opera elsewhere and soon became well known for his work in the Gilbert and Sullivan operas. Several opera companies have used him in lead performances. Several concert tours have spread his reputation over the nation.

Osborne’s Lecture

Monday, Nov. 23, at 5 p.m. Mr. Osborne will give a lecture on the pieces to be performed that evening. This will be given in the Y.M.C.A. lounge and any students who are interested are invited to come.

Some students who signed cards indicating their desire for season tickets to the Davidson College Artists Series have not yet purchased these tickets. They will be on sale at Mr. Pfohl's office all the rest of this week and up to the night of the concert. They will then be on sale at the door of the auditorium.

Hitch-Hiking To Charlotte Becomes Bad

Student Offers Suggestions To Remedy Transportation Problem

“Hey, how about a ride into Charlotte? Going to Charlotte?” Zoom! If you happen to be close enough you will hear words that should not come from a Davidson student an hour later when the next car comes by. The louder and more full-bodied this scene is repeated, the more oaths are much in evidence.

No Easy Rides

The difficulties this year in transportation to Charlotte are a headache to every student, be he freshman or senior. No longer do the Davidson hitch-hikers stick their thumbs into the air and the next minute settle back comfortably in the cushions of a car. Getting seats on buses is a thing of the past. Now you are indeed fortunate to secure standing room for the twenty miles to Davidson’s haven of rest—Charlotte.

This problem is evidenced by an amusing—yet sad—sight which I saw the other day on the highway. It was early Saturday afternoon, quite an ideal day. The sun shone brightly. In front of Davidson was a student, his hair slicked back, his clothes neat, a smile on his face. “How're they running?” I asked. “Pretty slow but I’ll get there,” he replied optimistically.

You fool! I thought. I caught a bus after a drag-out battle to secure standing room, and spent an enjoyable weekend abroad.

Return Trip

Another battle was fought in Charlotte in order to get back to the inevitable—vespers, and upon alighting from the bus I immediately saw the hitch-hiker to whom I had talked yesterday. He was leaning weakly against a telephone pole, one arm was holding his other arm in the position denoting a desire for a ride. “No luck?” I asked. He opened his mouth to speak but no words came out. Suddenly he swayed and was about to fall to the ground when I caught hold of him. When he was safely in the infirmary, and was regaining consciousness he looked up at me. He opened his mouth and weakly said, “No luck,” which was perfectly evident to me.

Student Store Bus

And that is the way it goes. Possibly this was an unusual case, but I suspect that there are some milder cases, and some worse cases. Anyway, it is pretty bad. It was said some time ago that what this country needs is a good five cent cigar, but what Davidson needs is a good bus to run into Charlotte. This would be a good opportunity for the students’ store to add to their larder. If Rainey or Newbold could locate a good used bus, they could positively make a killing, and get rich off something besides freshmen.

New Location

It has been suggested that Davidson should be moved to Charlotte for the duration and I firmly believe that this would be a good idea. The Charlotte Hotel could be taken over for a dormitory and for class rooms. Maybe some of the boys could secure rooms out at Queens. Some responsible person should present this plan to the trustees at their next meeting.

It has also been suggested that Charlotte should be moved to Davidson. This plan I think is a little outlandish, as it would involve many difficult operations. But it is plain to all of the students that something has to be done—and done soon—about the problem of transportation. The sooner the administration sees the light the better it will be.

OPERA STARS

Virginia Kendrick (upper left), contralto; Elwyn Carter (upper right), baritone; James Montgomery (lower left), tenor; and Marie Mountain (lower right), soprano, will present “Opera in Miniature” on Monday evening, Nov. 23, as part of the college Artist Series.

Cabinet Goes To Mountains For Retreat

Y.M.C.A. Discusses Plans For Gift Fund At Montreat

Last Saturday afternoon, following Davidson's victory over Washington and Lee, the “Y” Cabinet left Charlotte and went to Montreat which was the terminus of the “Y” retreat. Practically the whole cabinet participated in the retreat and those present were Jim McCrary, Jesse Wooten, Myron Sandifer, Alf Taylor, Don Caterson, George Oxilvie, Billy Wells, Hanks Crane, Henry McIntosh, Tom Howard, Priestly Convers, and Shaw Smith. Deanne Watson, Hugh Sprunt, Bill Wood and Jimmy Pulcher were not able to make the trip.

Headquarters

The group arrived Saturday night and after a short devotional turned in for some rest. The headquarters for the retreat was at the Selwyn Cottages. Early the next morning the party climbed Lookout Mountain where the Sunday morning devotional was held. They returned to the cottages before continuing the afternoon program.

Statistics Show Fraternity Scholarship Steadily Getting Lower

First place in the fraternity scholarship competition for the 1941-'42 session went to Beta Theta Pi with an average of 1.587. Second place was taken by the Kappa Sigmas with an average of 1.537, and third place went to Sigma Phi Epsilon with an average of 1.513.

Other Standings

The remaining six places were taken as follows: Phi Delta Theta, 1.486; Phi Gamma Delta, 1.452; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1.390; Kappa Alpha, 1.387; Phi Kappa Phi, 1.345; and Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.214.

Kappa Sigma Fraternity led the other social fraternities in the scholastic rating for the 1940-'41 session with an average of 2.00756. This year the Betas forced the Kappa Sigmas, winner...of the 1940-'41 race, to a second place. Previous Rating: The other fraternities were rated as follows last year: Kappa Alphas, DAD’S DAY HEAD PROF. W. W. WOOD “Y” Chooses Debate For Open Forum Foreman, Lingle, and McEver To Lead Forum on “Duties Of The Church” “Obligations of the Church in the Crisis” will be the topic for discussion of an open forum to be held at the Y.M.C.A. on Tuesday night, November 24 at 7:30 p.m.

Gift Fund
Gift Fund as an annual campaign for this year. Subscriptions were passed to send out planning for the Gift Fund for this year.

Thanksgiving Classes Meet
The schedule on Thanksgiving Day, November 26, will be the regular Thursday schedule except that the morning class hours will be abbreviated by five minutes each to allow for a lengthened Chapel period, at which time Dr. Cunningham will preside and brief addresses will be made by several individuals. 

Myron Sandifer, President of the Student Body, Jim McCrary, President of the Y.M.C.A., and Rev. Carl R. Pritchett of the Davidson Church will speak on the subject of Thanksgiving. The Faculty does not intend to continue this arrangement for Thanksgiving Day beyond the duration of the war. The day is being used for class work instead of Saturday, November 14, which was declared a holiday in order that students might be present for the Davidson-Washington and Lee game in Charlotte.

RESERVE ENLISTMENT
R.O.T.C. authorities wish to announce that the various branches of the Reserve Corps will be closed to enlistment after December 31, 1942. This announcement was made to avoid confusion and to urge those men who wish to join one of the reserves and have not done so to make arrangements for this as soon as possible. Because of the Christmas holidays beginning on December 18th, these men will actually have only until then to enlist, and therefore, speed is of utmost importance.

SCENE FROM PLAY
Phi’s Meeting
Phi Delta, 1.73627; Beta Theta Pi, 1.70315; Gamma Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.72000; Pi Kappa Phi, 1.66756; Sigma Upsilon, 1.655; Phi Delta Theta, 1.63550; and Sigma Phi Epsilon, 1.608. A comparison of last year’s standings with the new standings shows that the highest average in the 1941-’42 competition is lower than the lowest average in the 1939-'40 race.

Frosh Penalty
The entire freshman class will go on strict campus for two weeks beginning today, the Court of Control decided at its last meeting. The reasons for this decision are stated as being failure to wear freshman caps, general obnoxiousness, and disrespect to upperclassmen. “We mean for these caps to go on and to stay on,” said Judge McCoy. “If this doesn’t happen, those who are guilty will be given yellow slips.” No excuse will be accepted for failure to wear freshman caps since there is now a supply of them at the Student Store.” Judge McCoy urged all upperclassmen to cooperate in the enforcement of these regulations.

“The Man Who Came to Dinner,” a production of the Red and Black Masquers, stars the three actors pictured above. Kalista Hood (left) plays Maggie Cutler, a secretary; Shaw Smith (center) plays Whiteside, the title role; and Prof. Erwin plays the Doctor.

Merits of Co-education At Davidson Discussed By Debaters
Jack Ramsay had charge of the Philanthropic Literary Society program which was held Monday night, November 16. The first topic on the program was a talk on “The Founding of Phi Society” by Jack Ramsay followed by a debate “Should Davidson College be Co-Educational?” and an extemporaneous talk by Jerry Newbold on minstrels. Following the short history of the society was the debate on “Should Davidson Be Co-Educational?” On the affirmative were John Robinson and Jerrold McKee, and Charles Haywood and Brinegar were on the negative but failed. Finance, social, and program committees were selected. The program committee consists of Alec Sime, chairman; Jack Ramsay, George North, John McCrea, George Oligvie, and Wells. The social committee consists of Jimmy Fulcher, John McCrea, Jerry Newbold, Bill Robinson, John Evans, Horace Boarman, and Rhea Preston. On the finance committee are Jim White, Toppy Evans, Rhea Preston, and Bob McMullen.

Reception Inaugurates Fathers’ Day Celebration on Saturday; Program To Feature Banquet
Mr. Joe Johnston, Dr. W. W. Wood Share Honors To Head Committee
Dad's Day will be celebrated on the Davidson campus under the sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet on Saturday, November 21, and will extend over into Sunday, November 22. Fathers of Davidson students will arrive on the campus during Saturday morning. At noon on that day, a varied program of entertainment which has been arranged for the visitors will get under way. Some of the items scheduled for the first day are a play, a banquet, a touch football game, and an inspection of the classrooms and laboratories.

“Uncle” Joe Johnston
Mr. Joe Johnston, superintendent of Barium Springs Orphanage, has indicated his acceptance of an invitation to serve as honorary chairman of the sponsoring committee of fathers. He now has eight foster sons attending Davidson College in the persons of the graduates of the Barium Springs school in the student body. Chairman of the sponsoring committee of fathers will be Dr. W. W. Wood of the faculty. He is the father of two Davidson students and is the head of the Davidson College Mathematics and Applied Mathematics Departments. Immediately following lunch on Saturday, the fathers and sons will assemble at the Y.M.C.A. This will be an informal meeting and will not last very long. During the afternoon there will be several different activities. The college buildings will be open for inspection by the visitors. Mr. Payne hopes that some demonstration experiments will be performed for the visitors in the laboratories. Mr. Whittle, the director of intramural sports, has arranged three games for three o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock the S.A.E.'s will meet the Betas in a touch football game. Immediately following this game there will be another game of touch football between the fathers and the faculty. The fathers will then see a game of murder ball, also known as Commando.

Masquers’ Play
In the evening, both the fathers and sons are to attend a banquet in Chambers building. Speakers for this event will include members of the sponsoring committee of fathers. Following the banquet, the Red and Black Masquers will again present their play “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” This play stars Shaw Smith, in the title role; Kalista Hood, as his secretary; and Prof. Erwin, the doctor.

Sunday morning there will be a special Sunday School class for fathers and sons. Before Morning Worship they will assemble in front of Chambers and march to the church in a body. A concert by the Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra is scheduled for 4:30 Sunday afternoon. Elsie Stokes Moseley will be the piano soloist for the program.

Celebration Committee
Myron Sandifer heads the special committee of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet that is in charge of the program. Other men on the committee are Deane Howard, Priestly Conyers, and Tom Watson. This group is working with Mr. Payne, Director of the Office of Alumni and Public Relations, in making final arrangements for the day. Mrs. W. G. McGavock is serving as chairman of the local ladies’ reception committee. She has announced that all the accommodations in the Guest House have been reserved, but that there is still plenty of room in faculty homes for any students who wish to make last-minute arrangements for their fathers. Some students are making plans for their fathers to spend the night in the dormitories.