Page Eight

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Friday, October 29, 1943

HINKLE TO PLAY
(Continued from Page 1)
The upcoming Dance Set will be restricted to only one semi-formal dance this year, due to wartime conditions. It will be held in Fireman's Hall in Charlotte from 8:00 till 12:00 Saturday night, with music by Ervin Hinkle and his orchestra. No decorations will be used this year, since a recent law prohibits them. Although the Pan-Hellenic Council is sponsoring the dance, it is planned for the entire student body and their dates. An effort is being made to procure special buses from Charlotte to Davidson after the dance.

Pan-Hell Members
Henry P. Royster, KA; president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, states that the customary Pan-Hellenic figure will be replaced this year by a no-break for members of the council. Pan-Hellenic members are as follows: Bobby Miller, Kappa Sigma, vice-president; Bill Smith, Beta Theta Pi, treasurer; Raphael Coonrad, Phi Gamma Delta; Jim Alexander, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Hunter Dalton, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Bob Pierce, Phi Delta Theta; Kurt Weill, Pi Kappa Phi; and Bill Wysor, Pi Kappa Alpha. Tickets are $2.50 per couple, and may be bought from any of the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

EVANS HEADS SENIORS
(Continued from Page 1)
Freshman advisor, and Royster as judge of the Court of Control. Both are members of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Royster is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, while Watt is president of the KA’s, a member of the Y cabinet and the football team.

The Senior Class elected John Evans as its president and Bobby Miller as representative of the class to the student council. Evans, president of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, is a member of Phi Literary Society and Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity. Miller, president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, is a member of the Y cabinet, the Pan-Hellenic Council, and of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity.

The Junior Class elected C. T. Daniel president and Jim Lowry student council representative, while the Sophomore Class chose Jim Alexander president and Bryant Monroe student council member.

VALIANT 'CATS OVERWHELMED
(Continued from Page 7)
Forward wall, receiving a tremendous ovation when he was injured. The entire Davidson eleven was highly praised for its gallant fight against the rugged, experienced Blue Brigade.

No, our suits aren’t Government Issue, but they are practically uniforms for college men. Every man on the campus will want one of our covert, gabardine, or twill suits to see him through.

For you pre-flight men, we have complete stocks of uniforms and general equipment.

If your schedule doesn’t allow time for shopping why not drop in some Thursday evening—we’re open ’til 9 you know—and have plenty of time to make your selections.

J. Mellon Co.
Open Thursdays Til 9 p.m.