men.

Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 29, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Monthly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.75 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave., New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

BOB PIERCE ........................................ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CUSHMAN .................................... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Dave Richardson ................................ Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson ............................ Managing Editor
George Apperson ................................ Managing Editor
John Ashe ............................................. Sports Editor

Freshmen

We of the Davidsonian staff would like to offer a sincere, though belated, greeting to the Class of 1947. Perhaps
never before in the history of the college has there been such a class as yours. Few of you expect
to graduate. War is everywhere before us, even here on the once peaceful Davidson Campus in the form of the
Cadet School. The atmosphere itself is filled with uncertainty. However, this need not deter you from what would have been
and, in fact, should be now your purpose in coming to Davidson---to prepare yourself for your later life. If you
will put forth a conscientious effort, those few months while you are here can be the most fruitful ones in
your entire life. Put aside all these high-school attitudes which some of you still have and become men.

Never before in the history of our nation has there been such a drastic need for leaders, now and after
the war. These leaders will of necessity come from the ranks of us young men. We cannot prepare ourselves for
such a responsibility by making college a social whirlpool. We owe it to ourselves, our families, our nation, and our
God to successfully meet this challenge to America’s young manhood.

To The Upper Classmen

We, of the present student generation of the upper classes at Davidson College, are faced with a responsibility, the scope
of which few of us realize. It has become our lot to instill into the minds of the freshmen a
respect and a love for Davidson’s heritage and traditions. Not only must this be done by a group which is
smaller than the freshman class, but it must be done within the space of a few short months before the
majority of us leave college. The task that is set before us is Herculean in its proportions, but we cannot,
we must not shirk this responsibility. We must show them that at Davidson there are traditions and beliefs that are
greater than themselves, that it is a part of Davidson tradition that all Davidson men exhibit friendliness, the ability to
assume responsibility, the willingness to work, and the proper respect for authority. It is only through a concerted effort on
the part of the upper classes and a corresponding mental receptiveness on the part of the freshmen that this can
be accomplished.

Homecoming

Homecoming is here again. Perhaps not the same homecoming it has been in former years, perhaps not the same it
would have...been. And yet it has some features which should make it the best in the history of the holiday.
The returning alumni will miss the annual tour around the campus, the festive atmosphere that the fraternities always provided, and
most of all the handshakes of friends, cut off by the circumstances which mar the celebration. The older classes will
notice vacancies in seats that have not been empty at a homecoming since the graduation of their respective years. The
later generations will see chairs vacant in tribute to their owners, defending the ideals of which the reunion is evidence.
Yet the celebration will not lose its most valuable aspects. It should not be the environment, but the fellowship, that
provides the spirit of the occasion. We would like to assure our alumni that any visit from them on this
occasion, for whatever reason, will be considered a special homecoming.

Y’ Corner by ED. PATTERSON

In keeping with the times, the Y started the school year with some doubts. In particular, the office of General
Secretary was uncertain. Shaw Smith had completed his valuable work at the end of summer school, and Myron Sandifer was
to carry on until the Navy called him into active service. Sandy received his call one week after school started,
but during that time he had set the wheels in motion—the freshmen were successfully oriented, and the Y cabinet was
organized. We will miss Shaw and Sandy a great deal. But, it is an ill wind that blows no good.
The good arising from this situation is that the present Secretary is none other than our own pastor, Carl Prichett.
He has a lot to give to the Y and to every man in the student body.

Cabinet Good

Another bright spot in the picture is the Y Cabinet. A large part of the work rests upon these men.
Every one of them is willing and able and solid, through and through. Just one example: The attendance at hall
prayer meetings has increased noticeably this year.

Dr. Smart Popular

Looking forward to the Fall Services, let us be prepared with prayer and thought to take from these meetings a
good portion of the treasure that will be there for us. For factual references about Dr. Smart, see “Who’s Who
in America.” Sidelight: his wit and wisdom have made him one of the most popular campus speakers in the country.

Homecoming Plans

Bill Smith is completing plans for Friday night activities on Homecoming weekend. The noise of a big pep rally can
be heard already. Ah yes! Bonfire, shirt-tail, refreshments in the Guest House, etc. Who isn’t going to have fun!!! (The
girls will enjoy it, too.)

Note in passing: the fine spirit of cooperation and determination in the student body. Footnote in passing: how well the
Mighty Potentate Royster is liked by the freshman class despite his keen interest in judicial duties.

Yours,
Ed Patterson

You need those extra smokes per pack if you're a student at Davidson College! A survey revealed that if you
buy one pack, you're almost sure to have one-quarter of the weeds bummed before the last one is gone. Definitely,
two can’t smoke as cheaply as one!
