ATTEND SPRING SERVICES

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

SCOTT TO HEAD DAVIDSONIAN

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1943 No. 17

LEGH SCOTT ELECTED TO EDITOR’S POST

Student Body Hears Mauze At “Y” Service

March 9, 10, 11 Set As Dates For Lectures; Held Twice Daily

Dr. George W. Mauze will be the speaker at the 1943 Spring Services sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. during three days, March 9, 10, and 11. Dr. Mauze will hold services twice a day, at an extended chapel period and at 7:15 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. At times during his stay on the campus, he will be available for conferences with students. Those interested may get in touch with Shaw Smith for an appointment.

Attends Meetings

Several different groups will meet with Dr. Mauze next week. On his arrival Monday night, he will attend a special meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet to plan the Spring Services. He will also attend the regular “Cabinet” meeting Wednesday night. Dr. Mauze is scheduled to talk at a special gathering of students. He plans to talk with the hall prayer group leaders and also to one of the hall prayer groups Wednesday night.

Conferences

Students are urged by the Y. M. C. A. to arrange conferences with Dr. Mauze. Shaw Smith said, “He will be glad to speak to any student that wishes to talk over little problems with some minister. Every year men avail themselves of the opportunity provided by the conferences to become better acquainted with the speaker for these devotional meetings.”

Dean Becomes Member of Civil Service Board

As a student in the class of 1923 at Davidson, Dr. George W. Mauze was a star member of the basketball team, playing the center position for two years. His Junior year he was the All-State Center for basketball, and he was the captain of the varsity team his Senior year.

Other Activities

Other activities in college included being secretary of the Student Council. He was a First Lieutenant in R.O.T.C. and was a member of the Bachelors’ Club. Dr. Mauze’s old home was Huntington, W. Va. At present, he is the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. He succeeded Dr. Cunningham in that position when Dr. Cunningham came to Davidson as president.

Two Win In Art Exhibit

Smith’s “Juke Joint” and Dendy’s “Mountain Scene” Judged First

Prizes awarded in the Student Art Exhibit by Judges Foreman, Siegal, and Clara Smith went to Bob Smith and Jim Dendy. These prizes of five dollars each were awarded to Smith’s “Juke Joint” and Dendy’s “Mountain Scene.” Honorable mention was given to Leonard White for versatility in his caricatures and architectural drawings, though it was difficult to select any one for honorable mention without including the others.

By popular ballot, Gaines Stubbins’ “Boys, But Paper’s Rationed Too” was in the lead with “Juke Joint” and Stubbins’ “Deane Sorty Watson” running second and third. The other entries were one oil painting and four watercolors by Jim Elliott; three pencil drawings, one pastel, and one oil painting by Bob Smith; two pastels by Gaines Stubbins; three caricatures and five architectural drawings by Leonard White; three cartoons in watercolor and two oils by Tom Gregg; and two pastels by Hoyt Evans.

Dr. C. K. Brown, dean of the faculty and professor of economics, was appointed to the Mecklenburg Civil Service Board on Saturday by Judge William H. Bobbitt, resident judge of the Fourteenth judicial district. Dr. Brown is filling the place left vacant by the late Dr. Archibald Henderson on the board. His term will last for three years.

Judge W. H. Bobbitt made the announcement of the appointment of Dean Brown Saturday afternoon. Judge Bobbitt, as resident judge of the Fourteenth judicial district, is responsible for the appointment of members of the civil service board of the county. Two men from the County of Mecklenburg and one from the City of Charlotte make up the membership of the board. Dr. Brown is one of the county members. The other county member is chairman of the board, Mr. Victor Shaw, while the city member of the board is Mr. Graham.

Prior to accepting the position on the civil service board, Dr. Brown had held only one other public office. This has been as a member of the county district school board in Davidson. As professor of Economics at Davidson College, Dr. C. K. Brown has worked himself into a position of prominence in his chosen field. One of his outstanding achievements has been a book which he wrote, “Introduction to Economics.” Dr. Brown has been Dean of the Faculty of Davidson College for over two years.

The activities of the civil service board require that the resident district judge give the oath to new board members. Judge Bobbitt, acting in that capacity, plans to give Dean Brown the oath of office at the earliest possible date that is convenient.

Pictured above are the four new Managing Editors of the DAVIDSONIAN who were elected last week by the retiring staff. They are, top, left to right: Hugh Hill and Ed Sutton; bottom, George Worth and Jim F. L. Jackson.

Hillbilly Band Gives Concert

Y. M. C. A. Social Activities Planned Soon

By CHARLIE GUNN

Full activities have been going swing this past week and plans have been made for many interesting social events in the near future.

Mayhew Brothers

On Saturday evening, in the vicinity of nine o'clock, the “Y” lounge was spread with a thick coat of sweet, delectable corn which invaded every corner and delighted every connoisseur present. It was produced by the Mayhew Brothers, Manly “Slimmy” Sanders and Jimmy Morea. Mike Cockinos did some tasty vocals so that everyone had a grand time, and after it was over said “shucks” and eventually “stalked” away. Later in the evening, the boys entertained the members of the Phi Society and their dates.

But greater things are yet to come in the field of informal Saturday evening gatherings. In the near future, a variety show of intracorn competition is planned. Everyone is to bring his own washboard, everyone his own cowbell, and everyone his own lungs. It will be a community affair. Watch for the date!

“Y” Activities

Remember this coming Saturday night. Informal old-time movies in the “Y” lounge from 9 to 10. There will be Charlie Chaplin and the unforgettable Harry Langdon. It is hoped that friends in the film booking office will come through with “Men of Muscle,” but keep your fingers crossed and come and see.

The Listening Hour started last Sunday will continue this Sunday under the direction of Mr. Osborne of the Music Department in the “Y” Lounge after Vespers. A most interesting request program has been planned featuring the Eroica Symphony of Beethoven.

F. L. Jackson Gives Refund Information

Explains Administration Policy To Students in Chapel Talk Last Week

Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer, explained at a recent Chapel meeting the College's policy with reference to refunds. The policy announced by Mr. Jackson is that (1) the full amount paid January 5 had been refunded to men who withdrew prior to February 1; (2) three-fourths of the amount to those withdrawing during the month of February; and (3) two-thirds to those who will withdraw during March.

Catalog

Attention was called to the announcement in the Catalog that College fees are assessed not on a semester basis, but on a yearly basis and are payable one-half at the opening of College in September and one-half on return to College after the Christmas Holidays.

By January 1, seven months of the College year’s expenses have been paid; by February 1, eight months, and by March 1, three-fourths of the year’s expenses have been paid.

Refunds

Mr. Jackson made it clear that the administration desired to carry out to the letter the promise made to students and their parents during the Christmas holidays that a satisfactory refund would be made in case of withdrawal and assured that anyone who felt any uncertainty about his refund being equitable, should come by his office for a conference on the matter.

Red Cross To Ask For Gifts, Campus Campaign

Davidson's drive for the Red Cross War Fund got underway on Wednesday, March 3, with G. McGavoe and Ed Knight co-chairmen of collections. Captains have been selected to make solicitations on each dormitory hall. Money contributed at Davidson will go toward filling Mecklenburg County's quota of $115,000. Mr. Fred Helms, a Charlotte lawyer, has been appointed by the Red Cross Chapter to present the program to the Davidson student body. Ninety percent of the proceeds of the drive will go to war work: to aid in countries where American soldiers are fighting, to communicate with prisoners, to provide blood plasma for the fighting.Forces, and as a liaison unit between soldiers and their relatives at home. The national Red Cross drive extends from March 1 to 15, but an intense, shorter drive is planned for Davidson. The goal for the nation this year is $125,000,000.

Band Plays At Concert
Students Hear Symphonic Band Friday Night

Last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson Symphonic Band under the direction of Mr. James C. Pfohl presented its second concert of the school year. Special features of the concert were a cornet quartet consisting of Craig Schmidt, George Bernhardt, B. E. Nading, and Homer Hayworth who played “The Trumpeters,” and a trombone solo, “Atlantic Zephyrs,” played by Foster Phillips. Other numbers on the program were March, “Semper Fidelis” by Sousa; Introduction to Act III from “Lohengrin” by Wagner; Niobe: A Romantic Legend by De Rubertis; Manhattan Serenade by Alter; Russian Sailor’s Dance from “The Red Poppy” by Glière, and Mannin Veen “Dear Isle of Man” by Wood. The band presented its first concert last November. Although many band members are being called into active duty, Mr. Pfohl plans to present other concerts during the spring.

Prof. W. G. McGavock Heads
NEW EDITOR LEGH SCOTT

Writer Tells Of Brave Act Of Hugo Sapp
Davidson Catastrophe Is Reported by Druggist
BY ED SUTTON

Hugo Sapp, the mighty mogul of the Citadel, received quite a shock after the game Tuesday night, when peering from Main Street he viewed a blazing spectacle a short distance down the way. The fire, sighted by the bouncing Hugo, was coming from what seemed to him the front of the M. H. Goodrum and Company building. Hugo debated whether to phone the Fire Department or go in person to inform the blaze fighters of the catastrophe.

Makes Decision

Students from Rumple and Watts, who had seen the burning spectacle from their rooms, had by this time hurried to the scene and added to the excitement, which comes so seldom to Davidson’s usually peaceful atmosphere. But wait! What of our hero, our man of the hour, Hugo Sapp? Alas, my friends, as is often the case, the true hero is forgotten and no one took notice of him as he trudged homeward to a well-earned rest.

Defeats Mae Jeffries For Editor of Davidsonian
Two Elected To Positions

In a recent election, Legh Scott of Goldsboro, N.C. won the position of Editor of the Davidsonian, succeeding Ed Erwin. Active in campus life, Scott rose from the Sports Editorship. Brinegar, McMullen Become Vice-Presidents

Haywood Brinegar and Bob McMullen came out winners on the third ballot in a closely contested election for Vice-President of Y.M.C.A. Their strongest competitor was Raphael Coonrad.

Born In Winston-Salem

Brinegar has lived all his life in Winston-Salem, where he attended Gray High School for four years. There he was elevated to the three highest offices possible: president of the student body, president of his Senior Class, and president of the Hi-Y. While Haywood has been in Davidson, his outstanding achievements have been gained in two seasons of both football and basketball; he is a member of the Beaver Club, Forensic Council, Deputation Committee, and the secretary of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

McMullen

McMullen was born in Hangchow, China, and lived there thirteen years. He attended a Shanghai high school for three years, was elected president of the student body, and played football, basketball, and baseball. His senior year was spent at McCallie. Bob is a Phi Gam here at Davidson and a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He played football his freshman year and has played in the Davidson Symphonic Band for some time.

Florence Dinner Held With Dr. Price As Toastmaster; Mr. Payne Principal Speaker

Florence held its Davidson Night Dinner Thursday, February 25, to raise funds for the gymnasium. Dr. Julian Price, chairman of the drive, was toastmaster for the 42 people present. Announcement was made at this meeting that the subscriptions for the drive thus far have netted $160,000. On the program for the meeting, the principal speaker was Mr. John L. Payne, Davidson's Alumni Secretary. He spoke of Davidson's consciousness of her responsibility to church and state, determination to continue to serve with increasing vitality the present needs of democracy.

"In order to do this," Mr. Payne said, "She must appeal to her family for the larger funds and equipment essential to the task confronting her. Otherwise, for what shall we save ourselves and the world from chaos? We had best keep faith with the times."

Other Dinners Scheduled

Davidson Night Dinners have been held in many localities and others are scheduled for the near future. Tuesday night, Dr. John R. Cunningham spoke at one of these meetings in Bristol, Va.-Tenn. Mr. Robert Kell, chairman of the alumni in that district, was in charge of the meeting. Friday night, Dr. Cunningham will speak at a similar meeting in the John Marshall Hotel in Richmond, Va. Dr. W. T. Thompson, a professor at Union Theological Seminary, is chairman of the drive in that city.

"Y" GIFT FUND

Goal for the 1942 Gift Fund was $1700. $2200 was pledged and pledges paid to date total $2,100.96. Those who have not paid their pledges as yet are urged to do so as soon as possible. The drive will not be a total success until all pledges are in. Alf Taylor, chairman of the drive, expressed his deepest appreciation to the student body and to Welford Hobbie for their splendid response.