: Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN SSS Thursday, February 18, 1943 The Davidsonian of 1915 Founded by the Class Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” The DAVIDSONIAN Present Editorials Letters Features With The Staff By Mac Jeffries Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY North Charlotte, Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Publishers Representative New York, N.Y. SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., March 3, 1879, act of Congress EDITOR-IN-CHIEF IVEY STEWART BUSINESS MANAGER EDITORIAL STAFF BUSINESS STAFF Senior Opinion... ODA became appreciative of a fact Davidson students which most suspected but which few really seriously doubted when the organization aired its poll of student opinion a week ago. The average student is “pressing a frank opinion in or giving a serious answer when approached in a poll. We had predicted that the whole thing would turn into a farce when the results were tabulated and all crossed fingers and heaved a sigh of relief after the answers of the first class, the Seniors, were compiled last week. Although the members were appreciative of the spirit in which its project was undertaken, they were nonetheless shocked by the answers. For example, the questionnaire revealed that less than 50 percent of the Seniors who submitted answers knew the four student body officers. ODA trembles to think what the results will be in the lower classes. Some of the other answers were, to say the least, surprising, although in the majority of cases the answers were approximately 2 to 1 in favor of one side of the question. In answer to the often debated fraternity-independent question, the results were rather unexpected. The majority of the fraternity members (about 3 to 2) thought that a barrier existed while the majority of independent Seniors (approximately 4 to 3) felt that there was no barrier at all. By a vote of 6 to 5 the class decided that the benefit accruing from a compulsory church and chapel system outweighed any harm it might do, but they were reluctant to advance practical ideas by which the religious life at Davidson might be improved. It appears that Shaw Smith has yet to convince twelve Seniors that the YMCA plays an active important part in campus life. In short, the final returns on the questionnaire promise to be unusual, valuable, and instructive. We look with interest to the publishing of the completed results. We may learn something. Page Three remain on the campus for his dances. All during last summer while we were away from college we were wondering what the school and the Pan-Hellenic Council had in mind about ways and means of remedying the social situation that would face Davidson on its opening in the fall. The only solution that seemed to us at all practical, in the light of the difficult transportation problem, was the solution of dances on the campus. To obtain this last, we knew it to be necessary to first obtain permission of the faculty of the school, and work through them to getting permission from the Board of Trustees of the College, whose say-so would be final. This was obviously the duty of the Pan-Hellenic Council, as representatives of the social life of the school, and the backers of all previous Davidson dances. On returning to school, we heard from various sources that a petition had been drawn up, and indeed had been submitted to the faculty social committee, who had approved it. Our hopes began to rise: we could see the Davidson student of the near future being able to enjoy a good time right here on the campus, without the nerve-racking experience of having to meet a date in Charlotte, bring her back to campus for a meal, then pack her, bag and baggage, evening dress and all, into one of Mr. Greyhound’s buses for the long, crowded trip back to Charlotte. You know the experience we are talking about; you had to go through with it yourself two weeks ago. Fine as a dance may be, the pleasure is certainly reduced by half for both you and your date by having to go through the worry and bother and alarm that a modern dance in Charlotte amounts to. And then the dream bubble broke. The resolution got no further than the faculty committee. It seems that the Pan-Hell held a council meeting, and after long discussion, decided to withdraw the motion for campus dances, and to continue on the way we’ve been doing. Now, we don’t know all the ins and outs of the reasons for the Council’s decision. But we do think they are missing the best opportunity they have ever had to obtain dances on the campus. At no other time, past or future, have conditions been so pressing—conditions that should certainly warrant at least careful consideration by all concerned in transportation, first and foremost, then the problem of campus dances. The need for the social life more than ever in the strain and stress of the next few months and years. And dancing, it seems, is the only form of social that will make a genuine appeal to the vast majority of the Davidson student body. And the same is true, if we look at it from the point of view of the faculty and trustees. The day may not be far off when they would rather see the Davidson student have his dances on the campus rather than go all the way to Charlotte. We have heard several people of authority and influence in the school speak in those terms already. If we can get the campus dances now, when they are so urgent, it will greatly simplify the problem of keeping them campus dances. Because after the war, when transportation returns to normal, the average Davidsonian is not going to want to remain. He would much prefer Charlotte in normal times. But if the custom were already established on the campus, it would certainly help remove a cause for contention in later years. These have been just a few of our ideas and comments on what we believe is a very relevant problem. We do hope that the campus dance problem can be raised again and perhaps agreed on to the satisfaction of all concerned. CONE-SHAPED PEACH BASKETS THUS THE NAME BASKETBALL ONCE SET A RECORD FOR THE MILE-RUN AT SANTA CLARA U STUDD FOR Y’s Corner By SHAW SMITH If you had been with us at the Y Monday at noon (at least, if you weren’t—that’s why I’m telling you), you would have enjoyed not only the food, but also Dr. Foreman, Bill Lyman, Mrs. F. Wilson, Dr. McGavock, Professor Pfohl, Bob Hollinger, Prof. Lilly, and Me (!) It was all about Sunday Night Interest Offerings and the first one is immediately after church this Sunday Night. Come and see if what I think is true—they're good. Suggestions, by the way, are most welcome. You’ll have your say about Sunday, incidentally, with Forums coming up. First is Feb. 28 after two Open Forums church on “Compulsory Church.” You’ve been shooting the mouth about it in bull sessions and prayer groups. Come and see what all sides have to say, and more than that—come to state your piece. You are welcome. By the by, be thinking it all out before you get there—your piece will sound better. Slymie Sanders has asked that he be mentioned. I’m so happy to find that his mention is made! Actually, “Young Sanders” rates many mentions. Always with a suggestion or two for the good of the Y, and never too busy to help when asked, this fellow is more of a help than he suspects—so could you be if you’ll pass along your suggestions. Do you have any? Since McIntosh is now away I could mention Fair Adair with pleasure, but I’d better wait a while (They tell me she said to wait a while—) Oh! Incidentally McIntosh is missed. He did more work than a barrel of monkeys with much better results. That goes for Jesse Wooten, Bill Wood, and Hugh Sprunt, too. A. Dimmock and W. Hobbie who took their places in a combined network of departments still going strong after such a strong start. (When I think of strong starts and continued level I think of Rev. Pritchett’s Preaching. You tested him lately—or been tested, friend?) Dr. Mauze, Winston's Own, was suggested by at least 25 fellows as Spring Speaker. He's it, much to my delight. He is being announced this far ahead so we all can prepare for the services. Has any set been really good spiritually without a spiritual approach to them? You can help and you know what I mean. Monday Night meeting of prayer group leaders both interesting and instructive. I still think these meetings have more potential power than we can see. Jim Davis in Ga. with Pat Williams as hall leader had a good meeting last Wednesday. Much talk about hypocritical chapel services and prayer groups. Wonder which side the boy is insincere in—on the campus or in chapel—in the hall or in the prayer group? So many of us afraid to be as good outwardly as we actually are inwardly—Think about that! Ever played a musical instrument with your toes? TheyTell me Butch Watkins can and will-at the Amateur Show this Friday night. Bill Duske with drums, Alf Taylor with some romantic poem of the West, tumbling act by Whitley and Darling, etc., etc., to be featured. Have you signed-up?—Don't be bashful—might mean money. And Slymie Lyman promises to be as fine as Emsee. A fellow received the following from his mother and placed it in a prominent place on his desk: “Resolve to: Eat breakfast every morning. Go to bed early. Not waste time. Write home as often as I can. Telephone home if necessary.” This is a good thing to read after your daily devotion. The piece was signed “Mother.” She, too, fits into the devotional. You know? Someone has said, “What you are: is God's gift to you; what you become is your gift to God.” Someone really said something, didn't he? Yours, Shaw Smith; Lock Mott and Co. at Salem.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
THE IMMORTAL SERGEANT

Henry Fonda and Maureen O’Hara have the leading roles in “The Immortal Sergeant,” one of the better films inspired by the current war. Pathos, comedy, everything needed for a gripping story are found in the plot of this down-to-earth tale.

Saturday
OVER MY DEAD BODY

Although very little information was available on this show at publication date, the title promises a comedy murder set-up which may make for an entertaining afternoon on-campus.

Monday and Tuesday
ONCE UPON A HONEYMOON

Opening the Davidson theatre next week in “Once Upon a Honeymoon” are two of filmdom’s top comedy stars, Ginger Rogers and Cary Grant. Both the featured players are well-versed in screen (Continued on Page Four)

The Operating Table

The writer must admit that his knowledge of the weekend’s happenings was limited by a disappointing excursion to the Hill, where hilarious Davidson spirits were thrown for a loss from the start by a painful Friday night. However, a few of the old faithfuls came through and their limited experience we will endeavor to rehash. Lard, of the recently-pinned-up Monsters, entertained the University Kappa Alpha chapter with a one-man floor show. Did everything but juggle three seals on his nose, we hear. Clockwork Phillips, who sets the G'boro bus schedule, and his fellow lockee Hips, spoiled the hours between Thursday and Sunday for all concerned by moping over missing persons. Beny Lacy completed the wrecking of the ditto-Carrow-West pyramid by spurning his true love for the latter. Harvey, the Pekid Penguin, viewed the drama, admitted that it shouldn't happen to a dog, and disappeared into the night. Flash! Long John Belk jumped onto the floor with none other than Roselyn Ried of the Charlotte family of the same name. Why so fickle, kid? Wilbo and Simmonds started several places only to find themselves (over their own dead bodies) with rumor hath it that the former is henpecked. Sutt found the weekend profitable, earning expenses for the entire trip, at the expense of Dottie and the hospitable K Sig chapter.

But to return to matters of more local interest. The social season in nearby Charlotte reopened with a capital BANG. Grand-Dad Moore instigated the debut by squiring the Queen of the Towel Queens, who broke things up when her youngest granddaughter paged her in the Bamboo. Hungry Henry Gwynn, more tenacious than his mates, somehow missed the Davidson stop on the hoot-owl trip in and was forced to make his own way Sunday afternoon. Tricky Dicky Smith, recently elected trigger man for the Limbers, pulled a silent one to a doubtful destination somewhere in Virginia. Dame Rumor again murmurs “true love.” What's the echo, Dick? Whing-Ding Roberts caused consternation in the Fiji lodge by depositing in its collective midst one of his hometown cuties, now gracing Queens. Much to his indignation he left for the Air Corps with the charmer involved in a Phi Gam clangic, Nation Crowell supposedly leading the pack. A racy boatload was caught put in to Winthrop for the Saturday hop. Jug Douglas with four dates while and credit, was coxain Jeffries, Jackson Whitesides manned fast oars. Add to the list of droolers Bobus Raney, who nearly handed in his Beta pin, Goke, when he found his weekly session at W.C. this trip. Burkehead Walker admitted to intimates that he thought his search in G.C. is nearing a happy ending. He has to let his former lock cool down before dating the new. Barnwell, out he would have to miss Sewest advocate of bundling on buses is Ed Rhudy who was approached by an ex-Carolina date in search of protection from the cold wave, or something. His only regret was that he never learned her last name.

Coming for the first time to our ears, although probably old to the wise guys, are two tragedies which would be more tragic if not mentioned. One is the unhappy ending in Bill Nickel’s affair of long standing, all because of an irate father’s misunderstanding concerning the “accidental” blacking of his daughter's eye. The other concerns alumnus and ex-ranking-military-mogul Wooten. It seems that when said patriot arrived on order to be inducted some technical hangover from an early illness not only prevented him from taking officer training, but caused his honorable discharge and classification in 4F.

If only to prove that the Mayor of Boys Town incurred enemies during his reign we must quote the story dug up from the buried past of Christmas holidays. It seems that Moron was entrusted with the delicate task of putting a damsel, with whom he had only the briefest (Continued on Page Three)

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN

On The Dismal Prospect in Connection with Dating the Rising Mechanical and Sweaty Class of Women, Which Is Nothing To Be Sneezed At.

The war seems to have brought to a head the increasing equality of the sexes that got off to a flying start in 1920 with the advent of woman suffrage. In these days a girl seems to be scorned unless she is either sniping Germans or shoveling coal in a defense plant. The present prom-trotting, pseudo lady-like coed shrouded in lavender and old lace seems and pink tea when compared to her more masculine, sweaty sister. It does not take a prognosticator to see that the “clinging-vine” type of female is fast dying, and that she is being triumphantly replaced by a hardy beast-class of girl. We have it on reliable authority that five girls’ schools in this state alone are planning drastic changes in their academic curriculum for next year. In these schools only mechanical and agricultural courses will be offered, and any hints of culture will be ridiculed as both unpatriotic and namby-pamby.

The rise of feminine brawn presents quite a problem to the male collegian. Heretofore he has benefitted by the learning of his successive predecessors in the art of wooing, based entirely on the prom-trotting, bund. Now, however, he must start from scratch and lay out an entirely new plan of tactics. No longer can he say, “You're the sweetest girl in the world, darling, and I love you,” but rather, “you got the biggest muscles in the union, babe, and I crave for ya tonight.” No longer will he send his beloved a dozen roses at Valentine, but rather a spare-tools kit.

To illustrate our point, we cite the famous trip that Wee Wee McGee recently took to attend the annual dance of the Female Trucksters’ and Hod Carriers Union, Local No. 62 (a division of CIO). Wee Wee, totally unprepared, found himself at an utter loss. At most dances he would no sooner say, “I went to Montreat when I was fourteen,” than any girl from a school within a 300-mile radius would exclaim, “A Sigma! How wonderful!” Thus, he would completely identify himself. But none of the hefty females of F.T.H.C.U., Local No. 62, had ever heard of Montreat, Sigma, or even of Davidson. Then Wee Wee tried the coy approach, only to be rebuffed with, “Say, kid, what kind of a pink are you?” He happened to comment on the good dancing of another, to which the rejoinder was, “**XX$?*! What a phoney!” The conversation was almost entirely mechanical, at which Wee Wee proved most inadept, and could not even say so much as “nuts and bolts.” Whereas Wee Wee before would have heard a few mildly risqué jokes told daringly in mixed company, one Female Truckster told him a joke that he wouldn't even tell his diary. As a matter of fact, Wee Wee had a very hard night of it, and has been a bit shaky ever since. We are frankly frightened at the coming prospect of “social” intercourse. We are reading as much as we can on things mechanical and agricultural, but, even so, fear that we are doomed to bachelorhood. Our generation is an extremely unfortunate one, and we can face the future only with cynicism.