Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 16, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Monthly
“For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

BOB PIERCE .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CUSHMAN ....... BUSINESS MANAGER

Dave Richardson .... Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson ... Managing Editor
Grover Caddell ....... Managing Editor
John Ashe ............ Sports Editor

Two Years After Pearl Harbor

“Faculty Committee Chooses Eight Men As 1941-42 Debaters; Scabbard And Blade Taps Eight Men In Special Ceremony; Y. M. C.
A. Gift Fund Reaches $1600; KA — Kappa Sigma Function.” So ran the headlines three days before Pearl Harbor. And
on the editorial page Editor Tony Darby satirized our telephone system. Henry McIntosh gave his conception of the truly great
Davidson student, and Bill Lyman wrote a witty editorial in reply to Queen's verbal attack on the Davidson student through
their paper, the Queen’s Blues.

But three days later The Davidsonian was completely changed in tenor from the newspaper which had reported the fun and
frolic of collegiate days at peace. The Japs had struck at Pearl Harbor, and American youth was face to face
with war. “We must look further than winning a war. Winning the peace is going to be even more important.”
So spoke President Cunningham Monday morning, December 8, in chapel.

Last week December 7, marked two years of total war for Davidson College and our country. In retrospect those two
years represent change, grief, glory, worry, hard work, and increasing maturity for those of us who have stayed at Davidson
and those of our number who have been called to the service. We wondered on that day in 1941 what
war would mean to us and now we know. Tony Darby who wrote of telephones in his lighter moments was
wounded in the field of action in North Africa; Henry McIntosh gave up a career in medicine to enter the
service and is now in the war zone, a lieutenant in the paratroops. Bill Lyman has just received his commission
at Fort Benning. Dozens of Davidson men have made the supreme sacrifice.

Life does not run on the same tenor as it once did. While its men fight on distant battle fronts,
the college itself has gone to war. Its most important task has become that of training Air Corps cadets. Civilian
students have come to know rationing, crowded housing, and a curtailed social program. They buy bonds, they give blood, they
collect scrap, and they pray for those dear to them at the battle front.

Two years of war have seen a United States, unprepared and suffering defeats, change to a powerful nation, mechanized for
war. Two years of war find us determined to exact an unconditional surrender from our enemies as the only basis
for a permanent peace. The machinery to plan this peace is in full operation. Events have taught us the importance
of an intelligently planned peace, and this time we are prepared. May that peace come soon to the world. May
Davidson men two years from now know a Davidson that we knew in those pre-war days.

— The Staff

DAVE RICHARDSON

Sherman marched through Georgia once, and last Friday night it looked like the Air Corps was going to do it
again. Nobody would have blamed them very much, except the ten or twelve student casualties, because a perfectly good Davidson
tradition had been carried too far. Sure the soldiers deserved a little yelling, and they probably took the...First two hundred
cadence counts in as good humor as anybody who had to get up at six. But it did go too
far. Every last soldier was awake and cussing half an hour before the party broke up. The whole affair might
never have come up if another Davidson tradition had not been neglected. This year, students are forgetting to speak to
everybody they meet on the campus, and, as a result, relations between the Air Corps and the students have become
fubar. If you forget to speak to somebody, the chances are he will not greet the next person he meets,
and so on. With the student body as small as it is, there is no excuse for not speaking, and
since the Air Corps is here for the duration, we might as well do what we can to make everybody
happy. Freshmen especially have been neglecting this tradition, which is every bit as much a part of Davidson spirit as
not booing a referee, and as barking at women. The Air Corps admits they had the yell coming; now it’s
up to us to see that there is no need for it to happen again.

‘Y’ Corner by ED. PATTERSON

There is always a lot of hustle and bustle about this time every year when thoughts are turning to home,
and the folks, and, of course, all the good times you'll have dating, sleeping late, eating, and numerous other things
that make up. We are truly fortunate in having a home to go to, and in being able to get
home for Christmas. Lots of fellows won't make it this year; some of our boys will never see another Yuletide.
Think it over, when you have to go to some inconvenience on your way home and be only too willing
to complain, before you say anything.

If you didn’t attend the Y’s Christmas Vesper program you missed a lot of the tradition at Davidson, and, also,
singing Christmas carols. There was a lot of work done in preparing the auditorium, and congratulations are in order to
Ed Patterson. The Battle of the Hill will go down as a victory for the Partisans and, like Bataan, will
ever be known as a “delaying action”—delaying the Air Corps from singing at such an otherwise peaceful hour. There was
some misunderstanding; they were under orders to sing and weren't just being “meanies.” Ah, sleep once more....

Scraps from here and there... The Gift Fund is a success thanks to the generosity of each of you. No
more worthier cause. Bob Miller did a swell job and deserves a vote of thanks. Rediscovered recently: there’s some good
in the worst of us and some bad in the best of us. Like to see more of the good
in the worst, though. Understand there are some thirty freshmen entering this next semester. Still think we will be short
on students this spring? Guess again. Do the freshmen know there are coaching classes for THEIR benefit? Some fellows think
the Army will be a pleasant relief from college. They have quite a shock coming to them; and had best
take advantage of the time allotted them to be here, rather than playing “Mr. Big.”

Relaxation for studies, not seeing “that same old face” when you get up in the morning, no cramming for reviews,
and being able to sing “Oh what a beautiful morning” without sarcasm, are all a part of the Holidays; but
only a part. Have you ever realized the true meaning of Christmas? Ever taken time to figure out what it
was all about? Try it when you read about the casualties from the fronts and try to figure out just
what we are fighting for. Maybe that will strike home. Home.
