Thursday, December 16, 1943
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Frats Select New Pledges
Activities Planned For Coming Semester

Phi Mu Alpha
In early January, Phi Mu Alpha Fraternity will initiate the following pledges: O. G. Allen, J. S. Dendy, A. J. Owens, A. J. Yow, and L. Williamson. We have one transfer student, H. G. Wyatt, from Carolina. Serving as officers this year are J. E. Evans, President; H. E. Hollinger, Vice-President and Historian; and J. E. Murray, Secretary-Treasurer.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
At the present time, the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Fraternity has only one member, Ed Patterson, but invitations have been extended to six students who are taking advanced courses in Chemistry. The initiation of new members is expected to take place shortly.

Delta Phi Alpha
Delta Phi Alpha Fraternity has only one member on the campus at the present time—J. E. Evans. At the first meeting Monday night, December 13, the following men are to be initiated into the fraternity: R. W. Conrad, S. O. Weathers, B. H. Williamson, J. M. Bisanar, and T. B. Snodgrass. Into the Junior Chapter will be received K. C. Carpenter and E. F. Patterson. At this meeting, the election of officers will also be taken care of.

Eta Sigma Pi
The Alpha Nu chapter of Eta Sigma Pi has held two meetings so far this year. The first meeting was held at Professor Bailey’s home at which time the chapter was organized. The new officers are: President, Claude L. Darling; Vice-President, Park H. Moore; Secretary-Treasurer, Hoyt Evans. The other members of the chapter are Alfred McNair, R. E. Hollinger, and Walter Goodman. Holding the second meeting at the home of Professor Beaty, we initiated Lamar Williamson into the chapter. Dr. Vowles made an informal talk on geographical terms derived from Greek and Latin and also on medical terms derived from German.

Sigma Delta Pi
So far this year, this fraternity has had only one meeting, but in the future, the plans are to meet on the first and third Monday of every month at 7:15. The officers for this year are: President, Bob Cushman; Vice-
(Continued in Col. 4)

ALUMNI AT FORT BENNING
Dr. Allen Frew is shown saying farewell to General G. H. Weems, Assistant Commandant at Fort Benning. Dr. Frew and General Weems became acquainted at Davidson College where the former was a student and General Weems was PMS&T.

Dr. Frew Visits College; Was Pastor at Benning
Alumnus Won National Honor In Debating

Dr. Frew preached at the chapels and in the city churches, visited the men in the hospitals, in the barracks, Mess Halls, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worship services, forums, entertainment activities, and was with them in the field. At the Service Center, he conducted worshipPhilosophy, ties, and counselled with the men individually. A feature of his work was taking pictures of the men in groups, and writing to their homes, enclosing the picture. In the Soldier Forums, he introduced competitive participation, awarding the winner a free long-distance telephone call home anywhere in the United States, or a beautifully bound copy of the New Testament.

The War-Time Service Commission of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., through its Department on Camp Pastor Activities, assigned Dr. Frew, now minister of The First Presbyterian Church of Ardmore, Pennsylvania, for the month of November to Fort Benning at Columbus, Georgia, to work among the service men and women as a civilian chaplain. He visited all the Service Centers, both denominational and non-sectarian, and was very favorably impressed by all the fine work that is being done. He found the churches united in their ministry to the service members.

(Continued to Page 6)

Lt. Brenizer Is At Rabaul
Davidson Graduate Commissioned In Air Corps

A graduate of Davidson College has been playing a big part in the sledgehammer blows that are being dealt to the important Japanese air base at Rabaul on New Britain Island, according to Associated Press dispatches. The flier is Lt. Chase Brenizer, Jr., son of Mr. and Mrs. Chase Brenizer, 622 Clement Ave., Charlotte, N.C., who received his wings and a second lieutenant’s commission at Turner Field, Georgia, on March 20th.

Lieutenant Brenizer, according to dispatches, is described as one of the American pilots who had a large part in the successes which have been reported against Japan’s Rabaul base.

Shoots Down Zeros

Fifth Air Force bombers, determined to knock out Japan's base, have plastered it again and again, and Lieutenant Brenizer has been credited with shooting down several Jap Zeros.

Brenizer graduated from Davidson College in 1941 and has been in the army since that time. He first had infantry assignments at Benning, Wheeler, and Forest. He then went to the Army Air Forces in August 1942, and following his graduation at Turner Field in March, went to Will Rogers Field where he stayed until June.

Lieutenant Hopes for Success

In letters to his parents, the Davidson graduate wrote that “the American planes are getting better and better” and that he was certain “this country had developed a military machine that couldn’t be stopped.”

Lieutenant Brenizer joins the long list of Turner Field graduates who have distinguished themselves in battle areas the world over. His name will be inscribed on Turner’s “Roll of Honor” erected in Post Headquarters there, it was reported by the Turner Field Public Relations Office.

FRATS SELECT
(Continued from Col. 1)

President, John Murray; Secretary, Alfred McNair; and Treasurer, Jim Alexander. The Spanish Club operates as a part of the fraternity for those who have not completed the required semesters of Spanish. There are about fifteen members in the club at the present time. These organizations are designed to further the interest of Spanish on the campus.