Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, November 19, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Monthly
“For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

BOB PIERCE - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB GUSHMAN - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Dave Richardson - Managing Editor
Lamar Williamson - Managing Editor
George Apperson - Managing Editor

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night on the week that it
is to be printed. The editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contributions or communications.

Wildcat Squad...
A word of tribute to the valiant showing the ’Cats have made against their opponents this year. Although outweighed twenty
and even thirty pounds to the man, they have nevertheless won praise from every quarter because of their gameness, their
clean sportsmanship, and their never-die spirit from the kick-off to the final whistle. If teams were judged on this basis
as to its greatness, then truly this year’s Wildcat team would go down as one of the greatest in Davidson’s
history. The Davidson student body is justly proud of you.

GEORGE APPERSON

Among the most frequent statements one hears today are those about the effect of the war upon all phases of
our life. High among these things is a rather undefinable and highly intangible value. Some call it the “Davidson Spirit.”
It has always been one of the great factors in the life of the college. It is able to so
influence a man that his experiences here are never forgotten. It is that something that has endeared Davidson to so
many past generations.

The student body is greatly reduced. More than half are freshmen. Few will be able to complete four years of
work. Under these conditions many things of value are likely to be lost. There should be a conscious effort on
the part of every student to remember these things at all times. We must not lose the Christian attitude that
has prevailed here for so long. With this, there is the fraternal spirit and deep sense of honor which cannot
be forgotten. Davidson men must continue to be considerate and helpful toward their fellow students. Only if we follow these
and other great traditions can we obtain the fullest values from our college life and assure them for others.

Concerts...
Last Wednesday night Miss Eileen Farrell appeared in Chambers Auditorium as the first artist in the 1943-44 series sponsored by
the college. Miss Farrell presented the first of four concerts to be given during the series. The various musical organizations
have long gone without the recognition which their hard work and long hours entitles them to. But that is not
the point here. The point is that a great many of our students are passing up, and will continue to
do so, an opportunity to hear some fine music at a price and place which all can afford. Some of
these men may be missing the concerts just because music is scored for the average ear.Life. It is not a
mere cliché to say that Davidson has been greatly affected by the present conflict. There are, however, certain phases of
our life here which must stand above change if the college, as it was before the war, is to remain
unchanged.

Music is often overlooked by many people. And what a mistake that is, when one looks at the fine men
and women in the past and present who have loved music, and when one realizes the part which music has
played in all our lives. The appreciation of the fine arts is one thing which is definitely lacking in modern
college curricula. In our present-day rush, we have no time for it, and because our minds are too superficial to
ever learn to appreciate such things, we condemn them. That is a sad state. Phi Mu Alpha is to be
congratulated for unofficially backing these concerts. But more than that, after they have gone to the trouble of giving us
such an opportunity to hear really great music, the student body should be anxious to take advantage of the opportunity
and use it to enrich themselves. There are three more concerts this year, and any man would be foolish to
miss one without thoroughly considering the matter. In the future, we expect to see the auditorium much fuller—with students who
can appreciate music at its best, or have the sense to want to learn something of it when given such
a chance.

Corner by ED. PATTERSON

The impression of the Fall Services can still be felt on the campus. Few men have the power and force
that Dr. Smart showed in presenting to us real, working, everyday religion. How can we forget his talks on the
“Goodness of God's Creation” and “Suffering With Christ?” The striking note throughout the series of talks was a peculiar combination
of inspiration and practical suggestions. All in all, the Services did much to enrich our “stockpile” of Christian Faith.

Little Recognition

There are lots of fellows here who are doing some good work and receive very little public recognition for it—not
that publicity is what they are working for. You've probably seen the Y-car (which the Chinese have named “One Long
Pang”) filled with boys heading for the Sanitorium every Sunday morning—that’s what I mean. Then there are the fellows who
help out with the Scout work and Gray-Y clubs in the community; the boys who keep Hall Prayer Meetings going
every week; the fellows who are always willing to lend a hand when needed, i.e., at Vespers, making posters, etc.
These are the men who play the biggest part in keeping up the Davidson Tradition, and in keeping a friendly
and Christian atmosphere about the school.

Some people have said that one of the biggest parts of an education is knowing the people you meet in
college. There is a lot of truth in this. There are a lot of different kinds of people at Davidson.
We’ll all have a real education when we learn to know, understand, and appreciate each other at Davidson.

Yours,
Ed Patterson

PHI SOCIETY

This year the Philanthropic Literary Society began with only nine members. These were R. W. Coonrad, J. P. Alexander, T.
P. Bradley, Hoyt Evans, J. E. Evans, W. H. Grey, W. R. Smith, R. E. Hollinger, and T. A. Guiton.
The following were issued bids to become members: R. O. Freeman, Walter Goodman, Dick McCloy, Edwin Meeks, Newt Spencer, Lamar
Williamson. Officers elected were president, Hoyt Evans; vice-president, Bill Grey; secretary, Tag Guiton; treasurer, John Evans; first critic, Ralph Coonrad;
second critic, Tinsley Bradley.
