Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 22, 1943

Letters from the Lodges

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Off on the hare of the era went Brother Rhea Preston, who stayed among the deep Southern belles for about
five days, visiting Atlanta, Chattanooga, and other towns, too small to mention. Running him a close second were Brothers Rhea
Dabney and Moose Hart, who staggered the long, long way to Charlotte. Brother Tom Howard “headed” for Winston-Salem to inspect
arrowheads, it says here. Brother Bob Crowell snuck out on his usual to Lexington, and Brother Possum Ormand “visited relatives”
in Bessemer City.

DK threw a big ‘un at the house Sunday night after vespers, gorging on an excellent feed prepared by Brother
Wolfe and cohorts, and, despite opposition from certain unnamable sources, got hot in a singing practice afterwards. The Chapter enjoyed
entertaining Pledge Brother Harry Cox's mother over the weekend. The bridge club waxed hot in its usual daily congregations and
Brothers Ralph Coonrad and Dick O’Hair and the rest of “the track team” defeated South Carolina at Columbia on Saturday.

BETA THETA PI

The dances at Greensboro were the big drawing card for most of the Betas this weekend. To them went Brothers
Bob Raney, Monk Caterson, Nat Burkhead Garrison, Joe Walker, William Joyner, Crawford Wheeler, and Frank Rawley. Also going along was
Pledge Brother Newell. Brother Paul Welch had a “high” time via airplane piloting between Salisbury, Hickory, and Charlotte. To the
Queen City with her usual diversions went Brothers Cushman, Ranson, Welsh, Phillips, Philips, Schmidt, Upchurch, Knowles, Roseborough, and Barnwell. Betas
with the track team were Brothers Sam and White as they journeyed to Columbia, S.C. for the meet. Brother Paul
Neisler went to bed; twelve hours starting Saturday and nine and a half hours Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA

Coming into the home stretch, the Sigmas are really putting out for their last flings at the social world. The
biggest congregation went to Greensboro for the W.C. dances, where our noble Brother Taylor was pleasantly surprised when his date
brought “the” blanket, due to his forgetfulness. Following with other blankets for a picnic after the dance were the Brothers
“All Smiles” Scott and “No Expression” Amos. Those three brothers were joined by Brother Holland and Brother Morgan for the
usual song fest that follows a W.C. dance, and this combination of five turned it into Sigma with ease. Feeling
the call to travel far for satisfaction, Brother Peters (Tee) made it all the way to the Capital City to
see his beautiful blonde of Charlotte; Brother Booth made the usual “every six weeks” trip to Farmville; Brother Williams kept
the women of Sweetbriar living hard; Brother Miller went to Converse, and it is useless of course to mention the
name of his feminine company; Brother Sutton carried his racket to Statesville (tennis racket, of course); whereas Brothers Davis and
Wilkinson thought home was the most inviting haven for the weekend fray. Co-captains Bill Lacy and (Gee) Peters led the
Davidson track team to a victory over S. Carolina, with many points being added by Brothers Ben Lacy, Turnbull, and
Grimsley. Attending the meet in the capacity of track manager was Brother John McGee, while Brother Reed Smith added a
lusty voice as a spectator.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

High honors for “big dealing” last weekend went to Rush Winchester for his affair in Greensboro. In one short afternoon,
he was flushed and drained. It is understood that he was on his way back to Davidson before dark. Brother
Gwynn visited the campus during the week and returned “home” to Greensboro for the weekend. Bradford was also in Greensboro.
Brother Bobbit took a trip to Jacksonville, Florida for some mysterious “business” there. Gregg called on a “friend” at Savannah
over the weekend; he reports great success. ‘Little’ Knox and the VN Major twins sneaked up to Mooresville Saturday night.
We were glad to have Brother “Flop” Shaw with us for a few days last week. He was ERC'd out
of school a few weeks ago. McBride, Whiddon, and Watt couldn’t tear themselves away from the campus; they attended the
late show. Also among the unfortunates remaining on the campus were Chaney twins and the McLauchlin brothers. It is understood
that Behrman plans another extended weekend to Auburn, Alabama until his cuts run out. Harden went to Queens Saturday night.
After a rapid recovery, Sipe took in both Hickory and Charlotte.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phis had a rather active weekend, during which jaunts, both long and short, were featured. Brother Pierce traveled to
that Metropolitan Area, Farmville, N.C. Brothers Weatherly and Sheely went to their home in Elizabeth City, and Brother Starnes went
to his home in Asheville. The deals of the week featured Brothers Montgomery, Colson, and Thurston, dating the fraternity girl
in Charlotte on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday nights respectively, much to Colson’s chagrin. Brother Colson accompanied Montgomery and Thurston on
their wild hares. Brother Ken Barber, the fourth angle of the above situation, saw it to his benefit to “remain
aloof” at Mitchell College, in Statesville. Brother Styron’s exceedingly ruddy complexion, as a result of Mooresville, mortified the brothers at
Sunday dinner, to such an extent that he received a reprimanding from Brother “Mother” Hobbie.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

This weekend was spent by the brothers dealing in practically all the southeastern part of the United States. Brothers Graves
and Dunn took off for Wrightsville Beach, and from all reports the weekend was most successful. Brother Bruce journeyed up
to the Old Dominion to his many women at Sweetbriar and R.M.W.C. Harvey Carrow visited his mother and father in
Washington. We hear that the military police got “Hocky” for impersonating an officer in his ROTC uniform. The loving cup
goes to Brother Grimball this week for pulling the biggest stunt all the way around. He left Charlotte with good
intentions of going to Greenville, but saw one of his cuties from Limestone on the train, and had to stop
there for a couple of hours. After getting all his work here done, he once more started for Greenville, but
once more it was to no avail. This time he went to the formal over at Clemson, and the next
morning he proceeded to go to the Converse tea-dance. While going back to Clemson, Grimball met Ten-High Douglas, who was
going to the Saturday night dance. Nobody seems to know or care much about what happened on this trip, but
again we see Grimball, all his personality gleaming, all over the dance floor trying to obtain a late-date from various
girls at the same time. Brothers Tommy Powell and Rhea Richardson run Brother Grimball a close race for the loving
cup. First, it seems that they spent a small fortune trying to locate several girls. After spending much valuable time
and money, they proceeded to the girl’s house and proceeded to drown their sorrow. Nothing much is known about the
latter part of the evening, walking around in the back of the house. Brother Hunt probably spent the most costly
weekend of all. It seems that he got the urge to go to Palm Beach to see some special cutie,
so off he went. Brothers Little and Carter went to Greensboro. Carter had the honor of being invited to the
Junior-Senior Dance at W.C. The lucky girl was Betty Howard Morrison. Brother Howard not only spent the weekend in Greenville,
he spent the last week there, having several teeth pulled and then dating the doctor’s assistant. Ned Ramseur also spent
a most enjoyable weekend in Greenville.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kapps, as usual, distributed themselves well over the two Carolinas this past weekend. The biggest deal was pulled
by Brother Hipp, who went to Clemson Friday night for the dance and then down to the Citadel Saturday for
their dance.

AMERICAN HEROES BY LEFF

With the bomber pilot killed, the co-pilot seriously injured, both motors shot away, left wing on fire and a swarm
of Jap Zeros all around, Col. Saunders took over his bomber’s controls above Bougainville, escaped the Zeros and saved his
seven remaining crew members' lives by a crash landing on the water at 95 miles an hour. They give their
lives. You lend your money. Buy Second War Loan Bonds.

COURT OF HONOR

Boy Scouts of Troop 58 of Davidson and Troop 1 of Cornelius held their Court of Honor in the Davidson
High School Auditorium at 7:30 on Thursday, April 15. Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Vice-President of the local Council and Chairman
of the Troop Committee, presided at the meeting. Approximately fifty merit badges were awarded to scouts. Several badges of rank
were also presented. The Plaque, given every six weeks, was awarded, and another weekly Honor Patrol Plaque went to Win-A-Robinson.

Brother McBachin went to Derita for a quiet weekend. Brother McBachin went to Winthrop for a dance. Among the Charlotte
visitors were Brothers Cline, McCrea, Wayman, Gowdy, Lineberger, McArthur, and Eve. Brother Gaither, Bumbarger, and Whittier went to Atlanta with
the golf team. Pledge Robertson went home to Kannapolis, and Pledge Roy Williams visited.

Dr. Cunningham Speaks on Position of Negro

President Presents Views of Southern Religious Leaders

15 DISCUSS TOPIC

Hold Informal Meeting In Atlanta Hotel

“Although the church is the logical group to take the leadership, all people believing in democratic principles should assume an
active role in intelligently and sanely working out the negro problem—in the South,” declared Dr. J. R. Cunningham, president of
the college, before a discussion group held in the “Y” lounge after Vespers Sunday evening. Dr. Cunningham was leading the
discussion by reviewing the circumstances and results of a meeting of Southern religious leaders concerning the race question, held in
Atlanta two weeks ago. Those attending the meeting included fifteen leaders from Presbyterian, Episcopalian, Methodist, and Baptist groups. Dr. Cunningham
reported that the forum achieved unusual results because of its informality and open frankness.

“One of the greatest fallacies that Southerners tend to fall into,” declared Dr. Cunningham, “is that...

College Adds Kitchen Annex For Air Corps

Love’s Nest Renovated And Changed Into Post Exchange

Building projects are now under way on the campus to better accommodate the detachment of Aviation Students. More floor space
is being added to the kitchen in the Chambers building. Army requirements call for a certain number of square feet
of floor space in the kitchen for every...

PHILANTHROPIC

Debating was the main item on the program of the Philanthropic Literary Society at its regular meeting, Monday evening, April
19. Following a brief devotional by Bob Abernathy, the debaters had the floor. The topic was Resolved: That open politics
should be established at Davidson College. Ralph Clontz and Bill Gray formed the affirmative team and Jerry Newbold and Jim
Robinson gave the negative points.Man served in the mess hall. Fills half of these requirements? The present kitchen just fulfills
College officials applied for this addition to the main wing of Chambers building over a month ago. Through the delay
in getting the approval of the proper government authorities, the construction could not be started until recently. Red tape in
the government offices of Washington and New York were responsible for most of this delay.

Much of the new floor space will be taken up by a new dishwashing machine. The present kitchen is very
crowded and this hinders the proper preparation of food. When the extra room is provided, the efficiency of the kitchen
staff will be increased. What was formerly known as the Love's Nest is being renovated and turned into a Post
Exchange for the campus Air Corps personnel. The old gymnasium has long been used as a dormitory for students. The
interior is being completely altered in converting it from a dormitory into a Post Exchange.

The only other part of the program was an extemporaneous talk by Hoyt Evans. The topic which he chose was,
“The Place of the Literary Society on the Campus.”

Dr. A. W. Dick Leads Vespers
Spartanburg Preacher Speaks On Apostle Peter’s Life

Dr. A. W. Dick, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, preached on three scenes from the life of
Peter at the vespers service Sunday evening, April 18. These three scenes were all important in the life of Peter
and showed his character and how it was changed by the influence of Christ. There are also some important teachings
about Christian living illustrated in these scenes.

Transfiguration

The first of these is the transfiguration of Christ. Peter’s impulsiveness is demonstrated by his speech. Dr. Dick brought a
new interpretation of this event to the student body. He said that Moses and Isaiah offered Christ an opportunity to
return to heaven. There are several facts to support this statement. Death is a punishment for sin and Jesus was
not a sinner. He therefore did not deserve to die. The Bible says that from this time on he would
take the alternative of death as soon as possible. It was pointed out that if Christ had gone to heaven
instead of dying on the Cross, his mission on earth would have been almost a complete failure.

Three Denials

The second scene of Peter was the one where he denied Christ three times. The actions of Peter in this
scene illustrate the dangerous things leading up to a denial of Christ. Peter was only following at a long distance.
He then huddled up to the fire built by the enemies of Christ and associated with the enemies. When a
Christian denies Christ, he has probably been doing one of the three things mentioned before.

Four of the disciples had been fishing on the Sea of Galilee all night long without any luck. When they
were coming in early in the morning, Jesus told them to go back out and throw the net out on
the other side of the boat. When they did this, they caught a large number of fish. Peter was so
impatient to get to the shore and see his master that he jumped overboard and swam ashore. Jesus was waiting
there and had a breakfast cooking over a fire for them. This scene shows the practicality of Christianity. The first
thing that these hard-working men would want would be a good breakfast.

Firelight

The chief thing that all these events have in common is firelight. Dr. Dick also remarked that there was another
firelight scene where Peter played one of the most important parts. That was the time when all the disciples were
gathered together and they received the Holy Spirit.

Vespers next Sunday will be a program of Easter music presented by the organizations of the Music Department. The numbers
presented will be under the direction of James Christian Pfohl.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Most of the Pikas spent a quiet weekend here at Davidson. Those finding the campus very enjoyable were Gibbs, Henderson,
Rogers, and Bade Anderson. Those brothers leaving the campus for more entertainment were Brother Warlick, Johnson, and Wester to Statesville;
Brother travelled again to Greensboro to see his one and only, while Brothers Stroup and Parks went to Glenn Alpine
and Charlotte respectively. Up to now nobody knows where Brother Brinson went, but Brother Teensie Hodges is still at home.

Joe Anderson

KAPPA ALPHA

A few of the Knights travelled far and wide during a somewhat uneventful weekend. Brothers McClean and Lowry trailed up
to Lynchburg to take up operations, while Brothers Burke and Ansley picked up where they left off last weekend. Brother
Collins journeyed to Salisbury, while Pledge Brothers Whitehurst and Yering journeyed to Greensboro to practice some new tactics. Brother Washburn
and Pledge Brother Monroe did a fine job for the old A.M. at the track meet in Columbia. Brother R.
Dunn managed to stop by Sumpter on the way back from the meet to see his one and only (?).
We hear from reliable sources that a certain party of parties spent quite an eventful time in the Queen City
Saturday night. Wonder why they want to keep it a secret?

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

employee relationship and observing them on the streets. We do not see the negro in his charge, in his home,
or in his social life—places where we must see him before we can understand him at all. The only sense
in which we ‘know’ the negro is that we know how much we can get out of him and how
to handle him in the economic sense,” Dr. Cunningham further stated that the Atlanta group believed that there are two
types of negro leaders: 1) the extreme radical, who wants all social barriers broken down and that done at once;
2) the calm, intelligent leaders, who desire the raising of negro conditions to equality but not “mingling.”

White Leaders

On the other hand, there seem to be three types of attitudes held by the white people: 1) the extreme
radical who believes with the first type of negro leader; 2) the “old guard” Southerner who believes that the negro
is all right “in his place,” the phrase meaning: all right as long as he continues to be subservient and
say, “Yas-suh, boss"; 3) the lethargic man who says, “Sure, I like the negro O.K.," but then promptly forgets the
whole matter.

Dr. Cunningham mentioned some of the recent race riots, particularly those in Durham, Nashville, and Fayetteville. He commented on the
mistake that the press is making in hushing these up. The main interest of the Atlanta group seemed to be
to raise negro educational, health, and economic conditions and standards to proportionate with white levels. Many appalling examples of unfairness
and plain crookedness in nearby and respected communities were cited by Dr. Cunningham. “One thing that is difficult to comprehend,”
he declared, “is the slowness with which the Church, including our own, is facing this problem. It seems to be
the opinion of intelligent leaders everywhere, both Christian and non-Christian, that it is the Church’s position and duty to lead
in the alleviation of the problem.”

Improvements

Before closing his talk, Dr. Cunningham pointed out a number of heartening indications of improving conditions in the past few
years, particularly in educational fields. When asked what each man could do to help the problem, Dr. Cunningham replied, “Keep
your eyes and ears open for any and every opportunity to help, if only in conversation and argument with others.
We must realize that we have a real responsibility, although we must be cautious ever to be sane and level-headed.”

M.-H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N.C.

In Cornelius, we know the negro. As a matter of fact, in the vast majority of cases, our only contact
with colored people is in the employer-employee relationship. We do not see the negro in his charge, in his home,
or in his social life—places where we must see him before we can understand him at all. The only sense
in which we ‘know’ the negro is that we know how much we can get out of him and how
to handle him in the economic sense.

Stop Unfairness

The main interest of the Atlanta group seemed to be to raise negro educational, health, and economic conditions and standards
to proportionate with white levels. Many appalling examples of unfairness and plain crookedness in nearby and respected communities were cited
by Dr. Cunningham. “One thing that is difficult to comprehend,” he declared, “is the slowness with which the Church, including
our own, is facing this problem. It seems to be the opinion of intelligent leaders everywhere, both Christian and non-Christian,
that it is the Church’s position and duty to lead in the alleviation of the problem.”

Three Physics Professors Are Added to Science Department To Accommodate War Program

Parker, Morrison, Foster, Turner Take New Posts As Instructors

DEPARTMENT SHIFTS

Drs. Logan and Gallant To Instruct In Physics

Three new professors have joined the physics department. Due to the important role which Physics is playing in the curriculum
of both Davidson Air Corp and civilian students, these extensive additions and changes have been made to the physics department
in the past few weeks.

Supervisor of all laboratory work in Air Corp Training is Mr. W. A. Parker, son of Rev. J. K. Parker,
pastor of the Centre Presbyterian Church of Mt. Mourne, N.C. He graduated from Davidson in 1934. He served two years
as an instructor in the personnel department, then one year as an assistant in research under Prof. A. R. Olpin
of the Kendall Research Laboratory. Since then he has been with the United States Post Office Department, receiving a leave
of absence from his position to aid in the emergency of Cadet Training. In addition to his laboratory work, Mr.
Parker is instructing in one section of Physics.

Teaching Physics here, under Prof. Morrison

Teaching Physics and in charge of the majority of laboratory work of the Physics department is Professor H. L. Morrison.
Prior to his present position, he was an instructor in Physics, coming to Davidson last fall. He graduated here in
1933 cum laude with a B.S. in Science and took his graduate work for his Master’s Degree at Duke University,
after which he taught science for several years in the public schools.

Prof. A. F. Foster came to Davidson March 1st from the Goodyear Research Department and is now instructing in Mathematics
and Physics. He received his A.B. degree at Wooster and his M.A. degree at Ohio State University.

Turner

Mr. John W. Turner, a major in Physics who will receive his B.S. degree in June, is assisting in the
lab work of the Air Cadet Training Program.

Dr. Logan and Dr. Gallant of the Chemistry Department will begin instructing in Physics May 10th. On or before this
date, another instructor will be added to the department, it has been announced, and at that time there will be
seven lecture sections and the same number of lab sections. It appears also that eight or more Physics sections will
exist by June 6th.

Fifteen Hours

Each cadet taking Physics is required a minimum of fifteen hours per week. This time consists of lecture, laboratory, demonstration,
problem solving, and quizzes. So great has been the demand for this subject that several new labs have been opened
to take care of the additions.
