The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Volume XXX
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 1943

Second Group of Air Corps Cadets Arrive At Davidson Monday
New Group Must Undergo Upper, Under-Class “Rat” Training Period
OCCUPY WEST DORM
Davidson Unit to Receive Training at Cannon Field

The second contingent of the Air Corps Pre-flight Cadets arrived on the Davidson campus last Monday. Although Army censorship prohibits a statement of the exact size of the unit, the number swells considerably the already crowded cadet population of the campus. West Dormitory, hitherto evacuated by Davidson students, has been set up as a permanent barracks for the new detachment. The same rooming system has been installed here as in East, with four cadets sharing each room.

Rat System
A similar disciplinary and academic regime will be in effect with the new cadets as with the old, with the exception of a newly installed “rat system” under which the newcomers will undergo a two weeks quarantine. This detention period, aside from its disciplinary purposes, is designed to protect the health of the cadets themselves and the health of those with whom they may come in contact. These new enlisted men, classed as air crew students, are also under the command of Major J. L. Bonner, who with his staff, is making his headquarters in Davidson.

Cannon Field
Primary training in actual flight work has already begun, and the first members to undertake preparation for combat duty have received instruction at Charlotte's Cannon Field. The flight instruction staff there has increased considerably, and it is expected that training activity will be in full swing soon. Major Bonner has indicated that, although classed now as air crew students, the cadets will be designated through later processing, for subsequent training as pilots, navigators, and bombardiers, according to their individual abilities.

ODK MEETS
It was announced Monday by Burkhead Walker, president of ODK, that its annual spring tap day would take place in the near future. The date is as yet undecided but he said that he wished to bring the event once again before the eyes of the student body. The questionnaires covering campus related topics which were filled in by students in the fall were given careful consideration.

Colonel Steel Gets Letter To Wife Here
Former ROTC Instructor, Now Captive, Sends Message From Formosa

Mrs. Charles L. Steel, of Davidson, received on Monday a direct message from her husband, Col. C. L. Steel, former instructor in the Davidson R.O.T.C., now a captive of the Japanese in Taiwan, Formosa Island. For long months after the fall of Bataan, Mrs. Steel heard nothing from her husband and had no way of knowing what fate had befallen him. Col. Charles L. Steel, who had left his post at Davidson College as assistant professor of military science and tactics in 1940 for active service with the U.S. Army, had gained national fame as commander of Bataan’s fighting 31st Infantry. A few days before Christmas, his wife was notified by the War Department that he was a prisoner of war on the island of Formosa.

Chief of Staff
Just prior to the fall of Bataan, Col. Steel had been made chief of Staff of the 2nd Philippine Army, after he and his men had been recognized for their courageous battle against superior enemy forces. On March 16, of this year, the War Department announced the award of the Legion of Honor to Col. Steel for his distinguished service in the Philippine campaign from December 8, 1941 to March 17, 1942. “His effective leadership was reflected in the high morale and combat efficiency of his regiment,” the War Department said.

The telegram received by Mrs. Steel Monday was dispatched from Sioux Falls, S. Dakota, where the message had been picked up on a short wave radio by an amateur operator.

Message
The message read as follows: “I am well, safe, and happy. Do not worry about me. Will write soon, and it may sometime be before you get this letter. Please send me monthly: chocolate bars, peanut brittle, hard candy, cheese, hard bread or crackers, soluble coffee, fruit cake, and jam. All packed be in tin. Take care of yourself. For me the separation from you is the hardest thing of all. Watch our children and regards to our friends. Please write and radio if you can. All my love. Answer soon. (Signed) L. Steel.”

Morrow Becomes Magazine Editor
Defeats Charles Brockmann as Scripts ’N Pranks Head; Succeeds Lyman

Howell Morrow of West Point, Georgia, was elected editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks, campus magazine, in a recent run-off, defeating Charlie Brockmann in the final poll. The original ballot included Morrow, Brockmann, John Fairly, Doug Swink, and Paul Welch. Morrow was chosen on the third ballot. Morrow is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He was Junior Editor of the Davidsonian and Junior Editor of the Quips and Cranks. He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, the Forensic Council and Debating Team, the Eumanean Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon, the Red and Black Masquers, and Pi Gamma Mu, honorary Social Science fraternity.

Three issues of Scripts 'N Pranks have already appeared this year—the fourth and final issue to be mailed out in May. Ordinarily, the editorship of the magazine entails active editing for the academic year, but this year Morrow will do the last issue, instead of waiting until next fall to assume his duties. Morrow succeeds Bill Lyman in his new office. Lyman is turning over his active editorship prematurely because Morrow will be leaving school in June, he reports.

Your loving husband, Col. Charles

AIR CORPS CADETS MARCH TO
Student Council Is Sworn In And Officers Exchanged In Traditional Ceremony

The induction of the new Student Council and the informal installation of chief rising student body officers both took place during Chapel on Tuesday morning, April 6th. Outgoing President Sandifer conducted the swearing in of the incoming Student Council. Those installed included Dick Port, George Peters, Hugh Hill, Sam Hay, Elwood Weatherly, Bob Amos, Tom Bumbarger, Dick O'Hair, Patterson, Jack Loughridge, Tom Edgar Peters, and Jim Whitehurst.

New Religious Heads Over Respective Departments Yesterday

Others in the skit, not shown, are Dick Port. Shown above is a scene from Georgia Dormitory’s winning skit held in Chambers Auditorium last Friday evening, April 2nd, at the Y. M. C. A.’s annual Stunt Night. Those appearing in the picture, from left to right include: Jim Chapman, as the drunken husband; Harvey Carrow, as the aged grandmother; Bill Lyman, as the sorrowful wife; and Myron Sandifer as the mistreated but innocent daughter and heroine. Cyrus Q. Montague, the villain, and Deane Watson as Hairbreath Harry, the hero. The title of the skit was “Look What Liquor Done,” and it was an old-fashioned melodrama. Bill Lyman and Jim Chapman were in charge of Georgia's stunt.

Gaither Is
Cadets Hear Archer’s Band
Air Corps Cadets stationed at Davidson were entertained Saturday night at the Fireman's Hall in Charlotte with a dance played for by Buck Archer and his Davidson Band. Queens College girls formed the majority of the dates for the Pre-flighters. Dates and refreshments for the affair were provided throughthe courtesy of the college Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. of Queens College. (Continued on Page Three)

Elected Cheerleader Defeats Richeson In Final Ballot; Succeeds Jack Wayman

Bob Gaither, of Newton, N. C., edged out Jack Richeson as cheerleader in a student body election recently. Richeson and Gaither were chosen from a ballot which originally included C. W. Hodges and Lowry Wilson. Gaither was elected on the third poll. Gaither entered Davidson from McCallie Prep School. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, the D Club, and the Golf team. He was also Junior Manager of Intramural Sports. (Continued on Page Three)

Georgia Gives Winning Skit

Georgia Dormitory took top honors in the annual Davidson Stunt Night, presented by the Y.M.C.A. in Chambers Auditorium last Friday night at 7:15. Second place went to the skit presented by the Air Cadets from East Dormitory, and Honorable Mention went to the faculty for their take-off on Davidson students. The winning skit, written and di- (Continued on Page Three)

Announcement of the new Y.M.C.A. Cabinet for the 1943-44 campaign was made by Shaw Smith, “Y” Secretary, on Monday. These men assumed their duties at supper at the Y.M.C.A. on Wednesday night, attended by the old and new cabinets.

New Cabinet

Those appointed and the offices they will hold are: Alf Taylor, Freshman Work; Sam Hay, Vesper Service and Church Relations; Jim Stimson, Publications; Tom Howard and Jack Ramsey, Boy's Work; Deane Watson, Deputation; Bill Sengel, Spiritual Development; Bob Miller, World Evangelism; Pat Williams, Chapel Services; George Worth, Sunday Schools; Ed Patterson, Social Life; Peanuts Covington, Student Government.

Following the formal inauguration of the new Student Council, retiring student body officers handed over symbols of their office to the incumbent officers. Each of these men made a short, informal talk when his turn in the traditional ceremony came. Those turning over and receiving their offices, respectively, in order, include: Bill Lyman to Howell Morrow, editorship of the Scripts ’N Pranks; Shaw Smith (in behalf of Jimmy Fulcher) to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Par- rigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts; Fulcher to Alf Taylor, freshman advisorship; Lyman Parrigin to Pat Williams, presidency of the senior class; Ed Murray to Tom Bumbarger, editorship of the Scripts