PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

That Carolina Game

Tommy and George put their wads of gum one on top of the other on the sideline. Lowry deposited his
on the wall. The crowd overflowed from the stands of the small gym onto the playing floor. Balls swished through
the nets with amazing frequency as the stage was set for the all-important contest. The boys were nervous but not
tense. The game see-sawed up and down the floor for several long minutes, and then it began as Tommy dropped
in two from the foul line and Wayman sunk a long shot. Davidson got hot. They hawked the ball, guarded
closely, passed deceptively as they penetrated the Carolina zone defense and tossed them in from all angles. The Phants handled
the ball smoothly but could not sift through the tight ’Cat defense and their long shots were wild. It seemed
that Davidson could not make a mistake that first half. Several commented that they had never seen a team get
so hot against first-rate competition, especially a Davidson team. A twenty-three point lead at intermission seemed pretty safe.

But something happened to Carolina. Coming back for the second period they began to sink the long ones. The ’Cat
defense became confused, Nagy able to maneuver into position, and the Tar Heels pulled up. Shepard substituted to give the
boys a rest, and the gap closed to nine points. But with the first team intact again in the closing
minutes, the Cats settled down again, and the outcome was no longer in doubt. Everyone played well. Tall Tommy dominated
the play with his accurate shooting and “all-out” floor play. His clever antics brought roars from the crowd. Wayman, playing
the best game of his career, was outstanding in retrieving the ball from the backboard and in taking runner-up scoring
honors. Belk was a ball hawk and got his share of the points. Lowry’s passing was particularly good, while George
Peters played his usual steady game. It was a case of near-perfect teamwork. Carolina’s comeback, which brought about the downfall
of VMI and Wake Forest, came too late this time. They had the usual speed and snap of a Carolina
team, which kept the Cats on their toes the whole game. Nagy proved himself worth of notice with his fakes
and fancy shooting.

Seen after the game: The team drinking quarts of Tanner’s Orange Juice.

Looking Ahead

Victory was sweet Monday, but it’s still a long, hard road to the tournament. Carolina was a tough nut to
crack in the stretch, and they will be even tougher in Chapel Hill. Our boys usually tire quicker in the
vastness of the Woolen gymnasium. State has the habit of winning before the home folks too, and with their greatly
improved team will provide a second big threat to Wildcat hopes in two days next weekend. The team has shown
itself worthy of preseason expectations, though, and they seem to be improving all along. We would like to have seen
them playing Duke on Monday. It would have been quite interesting. But we hear that Davidson can’t get another game
with them. It’s also reported that efforts to secure games with several Virginia teams have been fruitless.

Charlotte News Poll

Ray Howe’s poll for selection of an all-time Big Five basketball team offers a fine opportunity to gain recognition for
some of the Davidson “greats” of the hardwood. Remember such Wildcat court stars as Jim Cowan, Ned Iverson, Jim Hogg,
J. D. Hicks, and Bill Quick? Also consider this year’s five, with high-scoring Tom Peters heading the list. Send in
that ballot. “Get the spirit.”

The Winter Sports Scene

Frosh Ed White and Bill Hodgin on the varsity basketball team as a result of the new Southern Conference ruling—not
for the first time in history, though. Freshmen participated in varsity sports as late as the “twenties” when the recently
defunct system was inaugurated. Wrestling—a war casualty? The two Lacy’s and Port getting in shape for the invitation indoor track
meet at Chapel Hill on February 28th. The regular Southern Conference Indoor Games have been cancelled for the duration due
to transportation difficulties. The awful truth about the physical condition of many as evidenced by the violent coughing in chapel
the day after the mile run and the inability of several to chin themselves, or skin-the-cat. A modified form of
“murder ball,” officially called basketball but still murder. The beginning of inter-frat b-ball competition (S. A. E.’s holding secret practices
in the high school gym) and (the K.A.’s spying on them).

Miscellany

Add exciting basketball games: the victory over South Carolina (first game). Congratulations: To Jake Wade for his column on Davidson's
only experience in the Southern Conference basketball tournament in correction of an error in an earlier story. Best news of
the new semester: Tommy and George Peters getting ROTC contracts thus assuring them of completing the year at school and
incidentally the basketball season. Latest rumor: Davidson will definitely have a football team this fall (big joke).

RIFLE TEAM

The first shoulder-to-shoulder match of the season was won by the Davidson rifle team over the Kannapolis Home Guard rifle
expert team on Jan. 9, by a score of 884-808. Barber Bob Dunn was high scorer with 181 out of
a possible 200. A practice postal match was held with the 9th Inf. Training Reg. team of Camp Croft recently
which was won by the Cats. Today the team will travel to Columbia to meet the Naval R.O.T.C shooters.

Wildcat Sports
Friday, February 5, 1943
THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALL-BIG FIVE VOTE FOR TEAM

Resting after a workout in the Central High Gym on Saturday before taking Carolina to the cleaners Monday are: left
to right, John Belk, George Peters, Jack Wyman, Jim Lowry, and Tom Peters. Coming are the pace setters of the
Wildcat basketball team that made major sport for the first time in a student generation.

’Cats Face Conference Opponents Next Week

By the time this reaches the reader, the Wildcats will have two more important games under their belt. They will
have battled Wofford College Wednesday night and the University of South Carolina. Four crucial games remain for the flaming Wildcats
next week. Davidson has a return engagement with the Catawba Indians in the college gym Tuesday night and meets the
College of Charleston here Thursday. They will journey down to Chapel Hill on Friday for an encounter with the Carolina
White Phantoms and continuing their invasion of the east, they will tangle again with State's Red Terror on Saturday night.

Spearman Is Naval Officer

Coach R. A. Spearman, formerly of the athletic department at Davidson, has been inducted into the U.S. Navy. Spearman is
now at pre-flight school in Chapel Hill undergoing an indoctrination period in order to take his place in the extensive
naval physical fitness program. He was inducted in January. He is the fifth Davidson coach to enter the armed services;
others who preceded him are Coaches Chapman, Littles, Grover, and Bolin. In the athletic department here it is thought that
Spearman will return to Davidson after the war.probably be sent to the Naval Pre-Flight School at the University of Iowa.
He will be qualified to direct the physical fitness program at some base or to help direct this program. Davidson's
coaching staff is now down to three men, Coaches Shepard, McEver, and Whittle. They are handling the entire athletic program
of the college with the help of several students, who assist in the physical education classes.

Tommy Peters Leads 'Cats Over Carolina Wildcats Rise in Loop Race

Tommy Gets 22 As Clicking 'Cats Crush Rally

Davidson's basketeers fought their way to a select spot in the Southern Conference ratings, and Tommy Peters zoomed to within
seven points of the league’s leading scorer Cedric Loftis, as the 'Cat quintet trounced Carolina’s Tarheels 57-41 on Monday night
in the Central High gymnasium.

Paced by tall Tommy, Coach Norman Shepard's smooth-working five completely baffled the Carolina team at the outset and left the
court at half-time with a 32-9 lead. Only for a few seconds was the game even close, and a determined
Carolina rallied to within ten points of the 'Cats, but the resurgence was momentary, and Davidson drew ahead steadily.

Duke's Blue Devils Scoring Rivalry Duke Second

Despite the early season setback at the hands of GW Colonials, Duke has compiled an enviable record and is dogging
the heels of the leader. Carolina was resting on the laurels gained from recent wins over V.M.I. and Wake Forest,
while Davidson had lost only to Duke this year. Then the brilliant Peters heralded Carolina’s defeat. Davidson took undisputed possession
of third place. Washington and Lee, usually a perennial favorite for the conference crown, was idle. However, two wins against
a single loss enabled the Generals to stay ahead of V.M.I. in the race. Rounding out the foremost contenders in
the loop race are N.C. State and South Carolina. Twelve family tilts this week should go a long way in
determining the tournament entrants.

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Feb 3. Wofford Home
4. Univ. of S.C. Columbia
9. Catawba Home
11. Col. of Charleston Home
12. Univ. of N.C., Chapel Hill
13. State, Raleigh
16. Clemson, Home
19. Citadel, Charleston
20. Col. of Charleston, Charleston
24. Citadel, Home
26. Wofford, Spartanburg
27. Clemson, Clemson

Maintaining his supremacy over conference scorers is lithe Cedric Loftis, brightest star in a galaxy of Duke shotmakers. Loftis’ 6-game
total of 92 is considerably better than that of teammates Gordon Carver and Budder Seward, whose records of 73 and
69 points respectively are good enough for fourth and fifth positions in the scoring race. Trailing Loftis by only 5
points is Davidson’s Tom Peters, scintillating soph, who continued his torrid pace by dropping in 22 points against North Carolina.
This enabled the lanky forward to soar into third place with a total of 87 markers amassed in only four
conference skirmishes.

General Merchandise

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
A Complete Line of The Best
Hardware and Groceries
Davidson, N.C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N.C.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR Candy AT THE STUDENT STORE

JERRY NEWBOLD Managers
* Parker Pens and Pencils
* Jewelry
* Stationery
* Fresh Fruit

BOB RAINEY Tickets

DAVIDSON PAN-HELL COUNCIL Presents JOHNNY MACK and His Orchestra Playing for FAREWELL FROLIC February 6, 1943 From 7:00 to 11:00
P.M. CHARLOTTE ARMORY Tickets $2.00
