Page Two. The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office
Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

LEIGH SCOTT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
IVEY STEWART BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Mac Jeffries Assistant Editor
John Fairly Associate Editor
Howell Morrow Associate Editor
Jim Stimson Associate Editor
Deatre Watson Associate Editor
Hugh Hill Managing Editor
Ed Sutton Managing Editor
George Worth Managing Editor
Jim Jackson Sports Editor
Bob Welch Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Dick Port Advertising Manager
Don McIver Advertising Manager
Jim Harris Circulation Manager
Tenny Hodges Circulation Manager
Lyle Kosborough Subscription Manager
Buddy Carson Collection Manager

An Urgent Need...
Due to the exodus of students to the armed services, The Davidsonian faces the most critical period in its thirty
years of existence. Difficulties have been numerous throughout the year with a smaller staff than usual. This has been a
natural consequence of the war conditions. Men who will leave school soon cannot be expected to work with the same
interest as they would with the usual opportunity for advancement on the staff. But now the situation has reached the
point where it is a possibility that The Davidsonian may become a war casualty. Three of the four managing editors
are leaving in the ERC the first of April. In spite of the prospect of their early withdrawal from school,
these men are sticking to their posts until that time with a spirit that is admirable. But what then? Many
have asked why the usual six managing editors were not chosen this year. The answer is simply that four was
the sum total of sophomores still working on the paper at the time of elections. A few recently elected freshmen
continue to work as hard as ever, but the number is too few. We believe that there are enough men
in the student body who don’t want to see The Davidsonian “fall through” that would be willing to help regularly
with the work. Members of the retiring staff have generously offered their continued service, and they have already been called
on with some hesitancy. We hesitate to present this appeal here, but these are the facts. If you have any
journalistic ability and would be willing to help solve this problem by becoming a regular member of the staff for
the remainder of the year, please get in touch with the editor right away.

A Problem Solved...
It was natural that some slight disturbances would arise in the early period of adjustment between a spirited group of
army cadets and an equally spirited group of college students living on the same campus. The only such disturbance that
has amounted to anything, the early morning singing of the cadets, was solved without friction and in such a manner
that should set a precedent in future relationships between the two groups. If the student government had not intervened with
a request to the military headquarters that the songs be discontinued at early hours in the morning, some bad feeling
might have resulted. Some students had unfortunately already taken reciprocal action in reprisal. Now that the problem has been taken
care of as far as we are concerned, we must keep our part of the bargain by respecting the rest
of the future airmen after taps. (Don't know just what to “in cadence, business which still continues.)

Farewell...
As the trickle of Davidson students entering the armed services grows to a steady flow, we pause to pay tribute
to the many enlisted reservists who have already gone and to those who leave us soon. The poise and confidence
of all students during these trying months have been much praised already. We add our voice to the chorus. But
it is easy for us to speak casually of others as they approach this important crossroads of their lives. It
is not so easy to face it ourselves. So we would particularly praise the spirit of these men as they
go into action. Stories of the heroism and devotion to duty of Davidson men are numerous. We like to think
that some of this can be attributed to the foundation they received at Davidson. We know that the men leaving
here now will acquit themselves just as nobly, and we trust that they will go into the fray with the
peace that Christianity offers, that peace that Dr. Mauze profoundly showed us in the services last week. We bid them
Godspeed in their fight for the things we hold dear at D.C. and look forward to the day when we
shall join them in the service.

Credits...
The faculty has made a sound and just policy in their announcement of credits to be given to underclassmen leaving
school before the end of the semester. However, we feel that seniors called upon to leave school under these circumstances
should be given more special consideration. After four years of hard work and with a college degree almost within their
grasp, it seems that they are coming out at the short end of the horn. Those who stay to get
the half credit allowed by the administration will be leaving school only a little over a month from exams. It
is hard on a man to get that near finishing and not be given anything. Of course, the other argument
is that giving diplomas to these men would whistle.

Second THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters
Thursday, March 18, 1943

At Ease
By ALBERT WETZEL, University of Minnesota

TRICK SHOT ARTIST MADE 97 OUT OF 100 BASKETS STANDING ON HIS LEFT LEG AND WITH ONE EYE CLOSED

SULTONSTALL OF HARVARD'S OLDEST FAMILY, SULTONSTALL OF '29, SON OF THE GOVERNOR OF MASSACHUSETTS, WAS THE 10TH SULTONSTALL TO RECEIVE
A HARVARD DEGREE SINCE HENRICUS, WHO WAS OF HARVARD'S FIRST CLASS.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
GENTLEMAN JIM

The ashes to glory life of that fighting Irishman, James J. Corbett, is the story of Gentleman Jim in a
nutshell. The gentleman, Errol Flynn, jumps from the position of a lowly bank clerk into San Francisco's high society on
his pugilistic ability. Here he meets pretty Alexis Smith, daughter of a...

JORDAN. With gunsmoke blazing from each hand, and fire from each eye, Ladd turns in what probably is his best
bad man performance.

Monday and Tuesday
THEY GOT ME COVERED

A couple who are rapidly turning into Hollywood's number one laugh team, Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour, star in Warner
Brothers’ THEY GOT ME COVERED. It's the usual Hope-Lamour picture all over again, plenty of laughs from Bob and plenty
of Dottie from Dot. Musically inclined, but with very little story to back them up.

Wednesday
P. LANG

Many thanks to the Davidsonian staff for this space they have granted to the Air Crew Students. This writer sincerely
hopes his efforts will be of some worth to the Davidsonian as well as to his fellow soldiers, and readily
welcomes criticism and suggestion from both parties.

Wasn't it thoughtful, Messrs., the way our friend, “Unusual Weather” alias “Inclement Clem”, the chap that kept us shivering at
nights and early mornings in Miami, accompanied our train all the way up from Florida and was here to drip
his chilly welcome from the eaves? Nice fellow, Inclement Clem. He and our mythical, sometimes mortal, Joe Ball, should get
acquainted. Speaking of getting acquainted; we've much of that to do. We are as yet unfamiliar with some of our
officers and fellow soldiers, members of the faculty, the regular student body and its activities, and all the townspeople who
are eager to make us feel at home and among friends. Notice the neighborly atmosphere on the campus and in
town? Bet you've smiled out more cheerful “hellos” here in one day than you did your entire stay at Miami
Beach.

Who was the soldier that went clattering down Main Street on a borrowed horse, clutching frantically at the reins, and
lustily shouting “whoa” at the unconcerned steed as it carried him around the corner and into the presence of an
officer? Proving that the Army as...well as the Marines, has the situation well in hand. The bouncing soldier, further jeopardizing
his precarious seat, brought up a lightning-fast salute and, pace unslackened, continued on his bouncing way. For his information, Johnny
Lacatosh has a large bottle of rubbing alcohol. Have you noticed the onion-scented grass that grows on the athletic field?
We thought it might be useful in raising delicately flavored cattle, but others thought the idea a bit dubious. Beach,
accompanying ability make it known now or forever hold your peace—lest you get gigged later for not speaking sooner. In
particular, they are seeking announcers, imitators, tap dancers, acrobats, comedians, magicians, and what have you. By the by, magicians have
to bring their own rabbits, pigeons, and any beautiful woman they wish to saw in half (dopes). We've always been
skeptical of those claiming mystic powers, but any Houdini that produces a beautiful girl for the show just ain't no
fake.

We are glad our first infirmary case, Mister Langley, is well and back with us and hope he has few
successors. Attendance at the services the last two Sundays has been very good. Let's be sure to keep it that
way for all of us can use the strength and peace of mind that comes from church attendance. Steve Kuzma,
our mailman, claims he may start examining all incoming parcels for such things as time bombs. Especially those that may
be misleadingly marked “sweets.”

Our open forum last Thursday at Shearer Hall was very enlightening and seemed to inspire us all with a will
to do our best. First Lieutenant Nash, and Second Lieutenants Brooks and Warley, were eager to give our every question
consideration. Let's fulfill the faith they have in us and each and every Mister “Get On The Ball”—even if we
do kinda squash it.

Attention to the following announcement: All Misters who signed for parachutes report on the fifth floor with same, prepared for
a test jump which Sergeant Gay is conducting. Major Lankin will be stationed at a fourth-floor window shouting encouragement as
you go by. Sq. Commander Lamster will occupy a third-floor window and count the cadence for pulling the rip-cord. Supply
Lieutenant Kreiger will be at the first-floor window prepared to congratulate you on a successful jump or take your application
for another chute. Be sure to clear your pockets of such excess weight as left-handed monkey wrenches, and, oh yes,
be careful of sky hooks on the way down. Happy landings!

Brooks is interested in providing us with some sort of rhythmical entertainment in the form of a jam session or
talent show. He and Mister Kreep-em-Slugging, our bugler, have been busy at it. Everything turns out for the best when
Jim wins the heavyweight title and the girl.

Saturday LUCKY JORDAN
Hardbitten Alan Ladd is the star of Saturday's attraction, LUCKY JORDAN. No information is available on this show, but with
Warner Brothers releasing it, it's a good bet for a bargain at 37¢. I would like for TOMMY PETERS to
be my guest for any show next week.

Y’s Corner By SHAW
Dress Rehearsal: Between 2nd and 3rd acts (Monday night) and “Arsenic and Old Lace” is rolling smoothly along. By publication
time you'll have seen all the stars—too numerous to mention here. But time out for thanks to two men: First
comes Frank Mebane. “A. & O.L.” is his second job this year in the directing line. All joking aside—he’s out
in front with his work this year. Don't fool yourself, he has talent, and is a hard plugger, and has
meant much to the Masquers. Second is Professor Erwin. For years his thankless job of set-maker and adviser, etc., has
been done with thanks unapproaching any part of his excellent work. This set is the best I can recall of
the many made between auditorium offerings from all public departments in school. The Prof. is quiet, but his work certainly
isn’t.

Frank Cockinos, the Sandpaper Voice, flung a party last Monday night with many pretty girls. Many of the fellows had
conflicting reviews; still others couldn’t be contacted because of a busy weekend. Hear George and Hugh Taliaferro had several girls
apiece—which is the usual custom! Frank writes a good word for Joe McCoy and his Count of Control. The members
lower the scholastic rating of the college, encourage others to leave early, and create general confusion. But couldn’t a special
diploma, say, with a war clause attached be given these men with the chance of redeeming it for a regular
diploma by finishing the required hours after the war, if the occasion presented itself?

We are fussed at, but they are a real part of Davidson. Can it be happiness at freedom from them?
I doubt it. If you’d heard all Frankie said about Davidson, you would swell with pride at being a part
of it—and bow in humility knowing how much has been handed down to us. Reports on Dr. Mauze still strong
in favor of his sincere, straightforward preaching, his easy, friendly living with us and his earnest desire to leave us
with the simple, but all-important story of Christ. I believe he did. And Dr. Ben Lacy Sunday! It always does
me good to hear that man. These two men certainly paved an important part of the road leading to the
army.

A dot and a dash and a bit of trash: Kappa Sig party—paving the way for more happy weekends on
the campus—Piggie Butler and Shadow Phillips blending into Cupid's rainbow—Bill Lacy, alone with the howling look and (gentlemanlike) not howling—Phi
Delt and SAE food merger is fine for friendship and food—Ma Baird has been a good friend—anybody who has let
one bum as many meals as I have from her—Well?—Batdy Behrman and crew really hit the slide, upstate fellows, we're
sorry ERC breaks you up—Brother Jack was good enough to feed me Sunday and good enough to feed me good—Wilbo
Carter took me in for sleep a few Saturdays ago in G’boro—Ed Patterson and family, entertaining at dinner. The point
is that friendship is not dead though each subtly mentioned something about ration books. Bigger Point: Being in their homes
surely makes one understand better the reason for caliber men representing these homes at Davidson—similar instances in every row, in
Chapel. And on into the army.

All sorts of rumors about the war days. You see, with the building and its uses, comparatively new things still
have to have experiment—and the load is on her shoulders. Just a word here to say, “Carry on. It's a
hard fight; you've already shown you're a good fighter.”

Yours,
Shaw Smith.

Pitch-and-Toss BY CHARLIE BROCKMANN
The Pitiful Plight of Percival Pugh! Percival Pugh, which was not really his name, lived in Georgia, so, of course,
was an upperclassman; but this didn't seem to help matters much, because Percival was always confused. In September Percival heard
that the Air Corps Reserve was just the thing to be in. In fact, one of the most upperclassmen. Of
course, Percival was smart, this worried him no end. He was, it is said, the only student who ever made
a hundred on one of Dr. Dilly's reviews. Percival was very, very smart indeed. But Percival had one weakness: He
did not drink, he did not smoke, he did not even neck! As a matter of fact, Percival led a
rather dull life. Don't you think? At any rate, Percival had none of the commoner faults. His one great weakness,
which almost resulted in disaster, was that Percival was gullible, and believed about all sorts of things; and particularly rumors
because he was in the Infantry.

In October Percival learned, much to his surprise, that the Navy Reserve was the only thing worthwhile, and also the
only Reserve that would stay in school. This saddened Percival a great deal, because he was in the Infantry. Just
before the holidays he found that the choice was to be in the ERC, unassigned; and he also found, to
his great dismay, that all the ROTC boys would leave after Christmas for parts unknown. This caused Percy much anxiety
because, of course, he was an ROTC boy!

Just after the holidays, however, Percival was shocked by the news that everybody except the ROTC boys would leave, and
he would stay. Now Percival was in the ERC, and also an officer in Advanced ROTC, and, we might add,
Percival had a very military appearance. And, in the meantime, get fifty dollars a month. This made Percival very happy
until he found that it was not true. Now, by this time, Percival’s brain was in a bit...

(Continued on Page 3)
