PETERS, HILL ARE VICE-PRESIDENTS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1943 No. 15

DICK PORT CHOSEN TO LEAD STUDENT BODY

Peters, Hill To Serve As New Vice-Presidents

Peters Elected on First Ballot Hill Is Chosen In Third

George Peters, of Kingsport, Tenn., will serve as First Vice President of the Davidson Student Body for the coming year. Peters was elected on the first ballot over Bill McLean, Sam Hay, Hugh Hill, and Ralph Coonrad. A member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Peters is one of the outstanding athletes in school. He held down the tailback spot on the Wildcat eleven this fall, is now a starter on the basketball team, and is a hurdler. He is a member of the “D” Club, and has recently been awarded a contract in advanced R.O.T.C.

In the race for Second Vice-President of the Student Body, Hugh Hill of Lenoir, N. C., took first place on the third ballot Tuesday, defeating Bill McLean of Greensboro, N. C. Last year, Hill held a position on the Student Council. He is a member of the Beaver Club, is on the Sports Staff of the Davidsonian, the Literary Staff of Quips and Cranks, the Spanish Club, is a football manager, and a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. Hill prepped at Darlington School in Rome, Ga., where he held numerous campus honors.

Speakers Pick McCrary For New Position

Also Choose Five New Members; Debate Trips Are Planned For Spring

Jim McCrary was elected President of the Forensic Council at a meeting of that organization Monday, February 15. Five new members were also elected to the council. They are Heywood Brinegar, Henry Crane, Ed Pickard, Allen Bosch, and Howell Morrow. These men and the three old members: Jim McCrary, Priestly Conyers, and Grayson Tucker, were divided into two debating teams. These teams will go to Southern colleges during March to debate. One of these teams will travel to colleges in North Carolina and Virginia, while the other will go to South Carolina and Georgia. The northern team is composed of Jim McCrary, Henry Crane, and Priestly Conyers. The southern team members are Howell Morrow, Allen Bosch, Ed Pickard, and Heywood Brinegar.

Jim McCrary was elected president to replace Fred Morton, who graduated. Other positions filled at the elections were Henry Crane as vice-president, and Ed Pickard as debate manager.

CONCERT PIANISTS

Fray and Braggiotti Are In Concert Series

Duo-Pianists Will Present Program Including “Rhapsody In Blue”

Jacques Fray and Mario Braggiotti, duo-pianists, will present the next number on the Davidson Series on February 24 at 8:15 p.m. Playing two pianos, this well-known team will present a program containing works by Bach, Wagner, Moussorgsky, Debussy, and Ravel. The final two numbers will be their famous versions of Rhapsody in Blue by George Gershwin and Five Caricatures on the Theme of Yankee Doodle by Mario Braggiotti.

Discovered By Gershwin

Mario Braggiotti was born in Florence, Italy, of American parents, while Jacques Fray is a Parisian by birth. These pianists met while studying at the French Conservatory of Music. George Gershwin early discovered their ability as interpreters of his music and helped them on their way to success. The program to be played is as follows: Organ Fantasy and Fugue in G Minor by Bach, “Liebestod” by Wagner, “Boris Godunov” Coronation Scene by Moussorgsky, La Cathédrale Engloutie and L’isle Joyeuse by Debussy, Pavane Pour Une Infante Défunte and Bolero by Ravel, and the final two listed above.

Mauze Leads “Y” Services

We are pleased to announce that Dr. George Mauze, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem, is to be our speaker for the Spring Services. They are to be held this year on March 9, 10, 11, and 12. “Twenty-five fellows or more have suggested this man to me after he spoke at one of our Sunday Night Vesper services this Fall,” said Shaw Smith, “Y” secretary. “We are looking forward to a useful set of services at a time when they are certainly needed.”

Dr. Mauze was a student at Davidson College before entering seminary for his ministerial studies. He made an unusually good impression upon the student body in his address last fall. Last Spring, Dr. Kissling was the speaker for these services.

New president of the University of Hawaii is Gregg M. Sinclair, a 1912 graduate of the University of Minnesota.

STUDENT BODY OFFICERS

DICK PORT GEORGE PETERS HUGH HILL

Sandifer Announces Point Changes

Hall Leaders Hold Meeting

Wells and Caterson Lead In Discussion of Problems

A meeting of the Hall Prayer Meeting leaders was held in the “Y” lounge on Monday night. Buddy Wells presided over the meeting and Don Caterson led the discussion. The representatives explained to the leaders what their responsibility was, not only in seeing that meetings were held each week, but also in keeping interest alive. They explained that this was a part of their duties as Christian men.

The meeting was thrown open to discussion and presentation of problems that have arisen. Shaw Smith, our “Y” secretary, was present and led the discussion. Certain topics discussed were: Morning Chapel, Sunday Services, and other topics concerning Christian living on the campus.

Myron Sandifer announced Tuesday several revisions which have been accomplished in the Point System, which controls the number of campus offices a student shall hold and which is based on a total of 45 points. The “Freshman Adviser” was advanced to 25 points and the Business Manager of Quips and Cranks was advanced to 20 points.

Additions included Vice-President of the Student Body, 15; Chairman of the Elections Board, 10; and a Member of the Elections Board, 5. The Presidency of the Forensic Council, Managerships of minor sports, and Presidency of the Sunday School Class were reduced to 10 points, and membership on the Debating Team was reduced to 5 points. The Presidency of the Publications Board and officers of honorary fraternities were eliminated from the system.

YMCA Plans Open Forum

Hobbie Announces Another In Series of Discussions

Wellford Hobbie announced this week that the Davidson Y.M.C.A. is planning another in its series of open forums in the “Y” living room on February28, on a question which has always been a point of contention between students and faculty. Under discussion in this forum, scheduled for next Sunday evening, will be the question of “compulsory church at Davidson College.” It is hoped and expected that the student body will be well represented in this forum,” stated Wellford Hobbie in a recent YAGCCGA® discussion. “The view is that these discussions between the student body and faculty will lead to a better understanding between these two important parts of Davidson College.”

Election Information
Position: Men Eligible: Elected by:
DAVIDSONIAN
Fairly, Mac Jeffries, Howell, Morrow, Leigh, Scott, John, Jim Stimson, Dean-Watson
ANNUAL
Student Body
Tommy Bumbarger, Buddy Carson, Mac Jeffries, Don McIver, Howell, Jim Stimson, Gaines Stubbins, Morrow
Rising Senior Class
CLASS OFFICERS
3 Officers for Each Class
Members of the Respective Classes
FRESHMAN ADVISER
Members of Rising Senior Class
MAGAZINE
Charlie Brockman, Tommy Bumbarger, John Fairly, Howell Morrow, Douglas Swink, Paul Welch
Student Body
STUDENT COUNCIL
4 Rising Seniors, 3 Rising Juniors, 2 Rising Sophomores
Members of the Respective Classes
CHEERLEADER
Bobby Gaither, C. W. Hodges, Lowry Wilson, Jack Richeson
Student Body
PUBLICATIONS BOARD
Newly Elected Editors and Business Managers of the three Publications
Student Body
YMCA BOARD OF CONTROL
Rising Juniors and Seniors
Student Body

Actors Finish Picking Cast For New Play
"Arsenic and Old Lace” To Be Put On Soon; Spencer, Mrs. Seagle To Appear

Red and Black Masquers, the Davidson dramatic group, has completed casting for their next play, “Arsenic and Old Lace,” and rehearsals started last Tuesday evening. Many of the parts have been filled by stars from the Masquers' last hit, “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” Among those who are held over from that play is Sam Spencer, who is playing the part of Mortimer Brewster, the lead in “Arsenic and Old Lace.” In the opposite part is Mrs. Seagle playing “Miss Elaine Harper,” a minister's daughter.

The Cast
Two spinsters, Abby and Martha Brewster, who manage to work in several murders during the play, are portrayed by Clare Smith and Susie Jackson. Teddy Brewster, an insane character who thinks he is Teddy Roosevelt, will be portrayed by Bill Lyman. Other parts include Mr. Harper, played by Lamar Williamson; Mr. Gibbs, played by Bob McMullen; and Dr. Einstein, played by Bill Sarber. The three police officers, O'Hara, Klein, and Brophy, are to be enacted by Midi Raynal, Jerry Newbold, and Lyman Parrigan. Two other parts have not yet been assigned.

New President Defeats Williams In Close Vote
Early Election Is Decided On The Third Ballot Completed Tuesday

Dick Port, of Winston-Salem, N.C., was elected President of the Davidson College Student Body last Tuesday morning on the third ballot. Candidates included Pat Williams, Buddy Scott, and Dick O'Hair. The original ballot on Saturday eliminated Wells and O'Hair. Leigh Scott dropped out of the race on Monday. In the final voting on Tuesday, Port was elected president over Williams.

Port attended Woodberry Forest in Orange, Virginia before entering Davidson in 1940. At Woodberry, he was noted for his work on the yearbook, his ability as a trackman, and his heading of the Forensic Council. Port is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, is Advertising Manager on the Business Staff of the Davidsonian, Sigma Upsilon, Le Circle Francais, is a contract student in Advanced R.O.T.C., and is a scholastic leader in his class. Following his good work as a trackman at Woodberry Forest, Port has been a regular starter for the Wildcat cindermen, sailing over high and low hurdles both his Freshman and Sophomore years. Last year with the varsity track team he earned his letter and admittance to the “D” Club.

YMCA Makes Sunday Plans
A luncheon committee composed of Dr. Foreman, Mr. Pfohl, Professor Lilly, Dr. McGavock, Mrs. Wilson, Bill Lyman, Bob Hollinger, and Shaw Smith met in the “Y” lounge on Monday to discuss the possibilities and form definite action with reference to the Sunday Night Interest Programs which are to be held in the “Y” lounge every Sunday night. These programs are to be held immediately after Vespers and are meant to add another form of campus entertainment since the transportation difficulties are causing boys to stay on the campus more. Bill Lyman was made chairman of a permanent committee to arrange and promote these interest offerings. Dr. Foreman and a representative of the Music Department (yet to be chosen) were named to constitute this committee.

This Sunday
This Sunday evening a Listening Hour is scheduled at which Mr. Osborne will preside and play records that students request. A school to teach the Japanese language to naval enlisted men is in operation at the University of Colorado. Linfield College (McMinnville, Ore.) is in its fifty-eighth year.

Amateur Night Plans Rushed To Completion
Annual Affair To Be Held On Friday Night At 7:30 in Chambers

Plans are being rushed along for the big Amateur Night to be held in the auditorium of Chambers on Friday night at 7:30. Joe McCoy and Wellford Hobbie have been making plans for the event and they tell us that from the number of varied entries submitted, an entertaining evening may be expected by all. “Slymie” Lyman will be master of ceremonies. Three judges have been selected from the faculty members and we understand they are men who really “know the arts.” McCoy urges men who have abilities along any lines to see him before suppertime Thursday and get in on the fun.

Requirements
Each act must fall within a definite time limit to be eligible for the competition. The act must last between two and five minutes. A first, second, and third prize will be given for the outstanding performances of the evening. McCoy stated that already a number of good performances have been scheduled. A band, two quartets, and a drum artist have been signed, and in addition, a novelty xylophone arrangement with the performer playing with his toes. The Davidson Amateur Shows are projects which have been sponsored annually by the YMCA and its social committee. In the past, they have always proved interesting and entertaining and the sponsors of this show believe that this year’s performance will prove no exception.