ALOT

nn

on a te

Suh .sbut never We Uy GUE, TAS GALS
Shout permission, I-used EACH LEADER —
g dikes", but after seeing After unsettling Tov an ticlr first
oe belief is that the word gone, The Georgia Girls roved into sic
e fitting... Until those “ro possession of first place v7 menling
. ngs 88 vhe Y begin reporting | jryuc. LIN by the overwhelming score of
Peghes . Oost im!ivds important as the 10 to 0, The Giants honed 2 on Covtras
ced of replacement... Until the Comics for nine hits, including 2 long homers by
realizing that Eds are bashful and need more! John Belk, and made use of seven walks
guest smiles, encouragement. This is not a errors to score their ten runs. Lcomnmile

evitielsa, merely youthful desire for sore— Hoyt
feminine friendship, dean, hearts. Is more mance, - up only six scattered hits
“beautiful because of galloping girls galore! jo. sein was only shutout of the season
were More Beautiful because of good atti-|__ so far. “Buddy Yelch scored his tear
bude shown co fer to Sunday School Gift Pua) worth in the field and at bat by collecting
zd Pickard and Conicdrts are giving you ec} two for four at the plate and by
Trianeé to, help. Do it!...Campus Comment:303) turning Layot's drive in the first inning
weied still doing a good job with afternoon. from a sure hit into a double play. ott
Sunday School Class--sometimes speaking 2%) Led the Losers but with two for two,

urnce—3 might run be wnt pore fab eked

coy
church hour too...Glad to have Mr. Soa Belk Torn cleaned to their first victory by a
on the campus. Definitely an addition. Adke over Rebels I. were man-
ivy who have been to a prayer group with him} »- “lev five hits off of Linton, but

eleven Victors are
ounder yivis
a. mondy, SLco-

rs  Crrel: ens 030! med up-whth

.. Congrats to Rhea Daimay. His initial
appearance in Chapel Tues, shows his poise
Gc tell me he has girls too. Got it?...
Charlie DeLency and music makes delightful
py dren Licicil is no faster for his absence yyyhe

“ron OL! Dive, Really doesn't need to be, Hbtgon cag GL van over hoteless Votte Tr,
sweet as he is...they tell me!...Sandifor's/Premean Jones pitched five-hit ball and
Sunday Night Program was useful as Students f the one atts min was on way. who one
held and Bible hard revealed God in the fj the first inning. puts ete Led st
eyes of different men to be. If you take | bat with... two for two, while Covtras paced
the real time to consider what it means the losers with two for three,
to you I wonder if there would be any very By virtue of scoring five runs in the
varying opinions? Yes! But initial trouble last inning, Watts Ewes able to nose out
is fear of sitting down long enough? the Georgia Crackers 5-3, in the most
to think it out...too bad, and what is most thrilling game that has been played so far
important? pacers probably would tell me it was, Kestony ran into the top of the ninth and
Jerry Newbold, boys and girls promising inning Georgia was trying to stave off a com-
snow this Saturday. Oh Jerry, Junior...Our back. Then Watts came to life
Guest House hostess, Miss Caldwell, and and scored five runs to take a narrow
dietitian, Mrs. Ferguson, are certainly 2h, 9-3 lead improved sufficient for vic-
our workers and still are pleasant to us! tory. The outburst was a result of
to walk, yes-

B

unthinking rests. Just try them and see...! four hits, four errors, at
Man-Of-The-Week: Is a girl...always willing) field while Dod Jones paced their respective
to help from cleaning up after programs to) teams at bat with one for two each,
being on that, serious or gay as the de- | - In what resembled a track meet more
mand, interested in Davidson and what is than a softball game, Georgia I downed
most worthwhile about it, NS. to Tom 17-11. For both teams there was a
trie and we have news. Is it true Sotel of 28 runs, 27 hits, and 17 errors,
Mile co-ed to the q, Davidson, FOU Ne Gavocii was the batting star with three
o held this so far minutes with "Cap" for four, including a home run, Shan-
Linker usually mean more than an hour with} non and Sandifor each collected two base
some.../Still rings Arlene Steindcher as well singles, one of the batters being a critic.
as hi Boyt it... almost, anyway.. Still Smith San Evin Les the Crackers with two for
(is delighted company, as is C. Scofield...|—three, — —_
. (continued on p.3--don't stop now!)

.