Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 18, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The brothers of SAE spent, for the most part, a very enjoyable weekend in Chapel Hill and Raleigh and the general vicinity last weekend, with the exception, of course, of the disappointing losses to State and Carolina. Among brothers found at the games were Brothers Graves, Whaling, Lucas, and Hill. Brother Taylor dealt in at W.C. of Greensboro most of the weekend. The pledges cut their operations down to a minimum this week, since they were confined to the campus, expecting to return to normal with added vigor next weekend. We regret the loss of Brother McAlister, who went to join the army Air Corps. At the same time, we are glad to welcome Brother Bruce back on the campus after an extended stay in a hospital where his knee had an operation performed on it. Brother Macer, having had an operation performed on his knee in Charlotte, is expected to return a little next week.

PI KAPPA PHI

The fact that there is a shortage of gas, tires, and general transportation was not able to keep the Pi Kapps from having their usual scattered state over the weekend. Barringer, Barringer, and Pledge Barringer made a trip to Charlotte, ending up at Queens. We are glad to welcome Brother Floyd back from his extended vacation expense trip to General MacArthur’s headquarters. Brother Wayman has returned to school after having been a private. The basketball team met Columbia and the rifle team met South Carolina. The following brothers sought the comfort of home: Brothers Patton, Robt Kannapolis, Falls, Gaither, and Rutherfordton. Pledge Robertson went to Whittier, and Pledge Yantis trailed along as far as Winston-Salem. Brother Evans saw the game in Chapel Hill. Brother Murray might have gone too. To make this report as complete as possible, it will be necessary to mention the brains, limbers, and studs. Brothers Parrigin, McCrea, Hipp, Lineberger, Robinson, and Pledges Boyce, Wells, Reid, and Williams were among the select that braved the confines of the campus both Saturday and Sunday. Initiation of the pledges took place at the Pi Kappa House Wednesday.

KAPPA ALPHA

The main attraction of the weekend was the basketball game and the Junior-Senior dances at the University. Brothers J. Belk, Washburn, Royster, and Lawson attended the game and the dance. The latter three stopped by Oxford on their way home. Brother Young spent a short time at his home en route to the game. Brothers Jeffries, Barnwell, Whitesides, and Jackson traveled to Winthrop to have a social engagement before the air corps cadets take over. Going to their homes for the weekend were Brother Beam to Lumberton, Brother Waynesville, Brother Chester, and Brother Winston-Salem. Brother Richeson made a trip to Greensboro to W.C. Brother Ingram and Pledge MacDonald visited the chapter at Duke. The chapter is glad to have the following freshmen after their initiation: Murphy Wilds, Joe Bachman, Bob Durant, Shep Durant, Jimmy Hill, Collins, Vance Watt, John Lawson, and Berk Ingram.

BETA THETA PI

Wooglin smiled thirteen times on February 13, as the Beta initiation took place Saturday. The Star rose and fell in the Dome Room of Chambers and was attended by Brothers J. R. Cunningham, Frontis Johnston, Johnny Smith of Greenville, S.C., Bill Joyner, Powell, Bill Sengle, Joe Frank Rawley, Bill Lemmon, Cargill MacCormack, Charlie Gunn, Bill Smith, Nat Garrison, Garland Newlin, and Erskine Gallant. The initiates were Lamar Dougherty, William Anderson, Pete Crayton of Charlotte, Bob Knowles, and Anderson of Anderson, S.C.

War Affects Choice Of Library Volumes

Studies of Germany and Japan Made Easy In Newest Library Books

The library has recently added a number of new books to its shelves. Their coverage is great in scope, running from a comprehensive study of the Japanese army to a series of sixteen humorous sketches on life by Cornelia Otis Skinner. This latter, entitled “Dithers and Jitters,” is a bit satirical and extremely humorous. The former book, called “The Japanese Enemy, His Power and His Vulnerability,” is a serious study of the present war with Japan, written by a New York Times correspondent, Hugh Byas. He predicts a long, difficult war, with American success only if we speed up industrial production.

Book On Nostradamus

“Nostradamus Sees All” by Andre Lamont, is a long and detailed description of the famous prophet, his life, and his accurate and amazing predictions of the future. Virginius Dabney, a native Southerner, critically examines the social, racial, economic, religious, and political problems that he believes are holding back the development of the Southern States, in his “Below The Potomac.” His solution includes more tolerance and liberalism in religious and social issues, a greater opportunity for the Negro to raise his social status, a stronger opposition political party, and less difference in wages.

Short Stories

Jan Valtin’s “Bend in the River” is a collection of short stories and sketches written while the author was a prisoner in San Quentin. These sketches antedate his best seller, “Out of the Night.” The history of all the peoples whose lives have been connected with the Mediterranean, from the Phoenicians to the Spaniards and Greeks of 1939, is found in Emil Ludwig’s “Mediterranean, Saga of a Sea World.” The volume is one to be read with admiration for its glowing words, praise for its insight, but without undue credulity respecting the author's judgments. The war correspondent, Quentin Reynolds, writes “London Diary” with an immense sense of humor in the brisk style which has been enjoyed in much of his previous work.

Autobiography

“Curiouser and Curiouser, A Book” by Dorothy Sims, is a frank, humorous autobiography. Honesty is the point of the book, and the point is placed so delicately that it will tickle you into voluntarily slitting your throat from ear to ear with laughter. “Hitler and I” by Otto Strasser is a book part accusation, part scrappy autobiography, and part self-defense. Described as Hitler's enemy No. 1, Strasser was at one time an associate of the Führer, later broke with him, and for years has been working against him. This book combines a character sketch of Hitler with an account of the early development of the Nazis.

Book About Africa

In the form of a daily record interspersed with chapters on particular topics, Julian Huxley presents “Africa View,” gained from four months of intensive study in considerable parts of four East African territories. He conveys an impression of almost unbelievable variety of nature and man, of problems ranging from witchcraft to the latest refinements of science. Mr. Huxley sees Central Africa as part of a continent that has yet to take the step from barbarism to civilization, and the one major region of the world free to achieve a civilization of its own. Also among the newly acquired books are a large number of works on Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Medicine, and Air Navigation.

Immediately after the initiation, a banquet was held at the Carolina Inn and a smoker afterwards. Speakers at the banquet included Dr. Cunningham, Dr. Johnston, and Brother John Smith.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The SPEs spent a quiet weekend on the campus because of the general transportation, rain, and conditions. Saturday night was spent at the local theater. A few of the brothers played basketball Saturday night before the show. The usual crowd composed of Brothers Gwynn, Maness, B. Robinson, Winchester, Bradford, and Powell journeyed to Greensboro, and Major Shaw went home to Queen City to spend a part of the past weekend. Brother Henderson spent the weekend at home. Brother Spangler visited the chapter at Duke.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phis were operating in true style this week. Brothers McLean and Loughridge journeyed to Chapel Hill for the Carolina game and then on to Raleigh on Saturday. From reports, it seems that Brother Loughridge was the tan athlete of the DH this weekend. Brothers Starnes and Sutton took the train to Asheville where they visited the family of Brother Archer and Brother Starnes. Brother Spangler visited the Co-eds at Duke. Brother Hendee operated in Charlotte with his local belle and took in the dance at Carolina. Brother Clyde Stroup had not reported on his weekend, but it seems to have been extended to unknown parts. Brother Bill McLean has left the chapter to go with the Army Air Corps. The chapter will certainly feel his loss heavily. The chapter regrets the loss of Brother Goldston, who felt the call of the Air Forces this week.

KAPPA SIGMA

Pictured above is Dr. John R. Cunningham, who conferred with Capt. Daniel Iverson, Jr. The occasion of the meeting was the initiation of the evening, which was devoted to the campaign. Capt. Iverson's heroism in the Battle of Midway was highlighted. Initiation was held on Monday through Wednesday with the following Pledge Brothers being taken in: Kenneth Barber of Atlanta, Ga., Henry Cutchins of Rocky Mount, N.C., Charles Powell of Rocky Mount, N.C., Dave Maloney of Washington, D.C., Bill Sheely of Elizabeth City, N.C., Elwood Weatherly of Elizabeth City, N.C., Jack Wheliss of Rockingham, N.C., Bob Thurston of Taylorsville, N.C., Mill Styron of Newport News, Va., Ernest Spangler of Princeton, W.Va., George Bernhardt of Lenoir, N.C., and Fred Rainey of Decatur, Ga.The Sigmas held a field day in Raleigh and Chapel Hill this weekend, with the majority of the chapter going up to watch Brothers Peters (both of them), Williams, and McCoy do their stuff against Carolina and State, under the watchful eyes of Managers McCoy and Wilson, the latter on leave from Red Springs. Among those present there were Brothers Gene Sutton, Phillips, Lacy, Bob Amos, Miller, Millis, Henderson, Fowler, Scott, Davis, Carter, Simmons, and Pledge Brother Wray Amos. Brother Davis went on to do some dealing of another variety at Salem Saturday night. Brother Smith proved the lone exception to the dealers, when he shot up to Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va., to investigate the possibilities of future operations in that sphere of the country. Formal fraternity initiations start Thursday and last through Saturday, with a formal banquet to be held at the boarding house Saturday night for the new brothers.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The most extensive tour among the Phi Gam brothers was that of Brother Crowell, who left Wednesday a week ago to make a tour of all the campuses of girls’ colleges in the states of North and South Carolina. This tour went on through the weekend. Those who went home were Dave Richardson to Richmond, Leighton MacKeithan to Cameron, Lee Wolfe to Monroe, and Dick O'Hair and John Barron to Rock Hill. Hank Crane left Sunday on a deputation to Salem College. Others who went north to the twin city were Rhea Pres- and Bill. Following the departure of the Phi Gams, Buddy Thompson, John Barron, and “Wingding” Roberts left to serve Uncle Sam. Mrs. Howell was a visitor at the Phi Gam lodge last week.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Pikas made the most of the past weekend. Brother Maxwell left early for a trip to New Bern via Greensboro and has not been detected on campus since. We are hoping for a safe return sometime this week. Brother Brinson, after spending the first part of the week in the vicinity of Winston and High Point, felt the urge again on the weekend and made a return trip to the twin city. Brother Shelton was another taking an extended weekend, going home to Greensboro. He brings back tales of braving the elements for a round of golf during his absence. Brother Farrar had such a delightful time in Charlotte Saturday that he felt the call again Sunday and from all reports seems to have answered. Others patronizing the Queen City were Brothers Brockmann, Pearsall, Parks, and Graves. Brother Anderson had a delightful trip to Greensboro and thereabouts, and Hodges spent the usual time at Salem. The entire pledge class, for some unknown reason, spent the entire weekend on the campus.

Davidsonians
The Davidson Nite Dinner was held on the evening of February 11 in the George Washington. Dr. Cunningham was the principal speaker and outlined the current gymnasium campaign. Captain Iverson was recently awarded the Navy Cross for his actions during the Battle of Midway.

Dr. MacD. Richards At Vespers
President of Board of Trustees Speaks On Standards Of Success
Dr. J. M. Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary and president of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, spoke at vespers last Sunday night. Dr. Richards, son of Davidson's class of '22, spoke on “Standards of Values,” mentioning the differences in those things ordinarily chosen as first by the world and those that are of greatest significance spiritually. Dr. Richards said, “In the summer of 1940, Hitler was ‘successful,’ but his success was transient. The same was true of Alexander. On the other hand, Robert E. Lee was commonly considered a ‘failure.’ And finally, so was Christ thought to be when on Calvary's brow.” Dr. Richards proceeded to say that if one were asked what was the greatest gift ever given to Davidson College, he would probably name the gymnasium campaign. But Dr. Richards maintained, “Perhaps only eternity will reveal the gift of greatest value to Davidson.”

Sermon Text
Dr. Richards concluded by bringing his remarks to the text, Mark 10:31, “Many that are first shall be last, and the last first.” Dr. Richards had conferences with any of the students that wanted to talk with him. He remained on the campus for the meeting of the trustees on Wednesday.

CINEMA COMMENTS
(Continued from Page 2)
Both have played both seriously dramatic and hysterically comical roles with equal success, and their presence along with a cleverly written script makes for a good show.

Wednesday
WHISTLING IN DIXIE
One of radio's top comedians who has received just as enthusiastic a reception among film audiences, Red Skelton is the highlight in “Whistling in Dixie,” the attraction scheduled for bargain day on Wednesday. Ann Rutherford, beautiful brunette well known to Davidson audiences, takes the feminine lead in what occupies a place as one of the established laugh riots of the season.

JACK LUCAS
I would like for Jack Lucas to be my guest for any show next week.

Dr. Richards maintained, “Perhaps only eternity will reveal the gift of greatest value to Davidson.” Dr. Richards concluded by bringing his remarks to the text, Mark 10:31, “Many that are first shall be last, and the last first.” Dr. Richards had conferences with any of the students that wanted to talk with him. He remained on the campus for the meeting of the trustees on Wednesday.

ALL LATEST HITS
On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA and DECCA RECORDS

Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte

Phi Mu Alpha Takes In Twelve Initiates
Berg, Osborne Among New Members Received Into Music Fraternity
Last Wednesday afternoon at five o'clock, the Phi Mu Alpha musical fraternity initiated ten students and two faculty members of Davidson College into its membership. Faculty members were Earl Berg, instructor of voice in the Davidson music department and director of the First Presbyterian Church choir in Charlotte, and Kenneth Osborne, instructor of piano and organ in the college music department and also director of the Presbyterian Church choir in Concord.

Initiates
Members of the student body who were initiated into Phi Mu Alpha were Jack Goode, G. P. Whiteley, Bob Gourley, Buddy Wells, Bill Smith, Bill Merritt, Bill Brockmann, John Pearsall, and Horace Pearsall. Phi Mu Alpha is a national music fraternity, organized for the purpose of forwarding the cause of music throughout the United States. The Davidson chapter was organized in 1939.

Capt. Iverson Receives Navy Cross Award
Captain Dan Iverson, Jr., '38, of Columbia, S. C., received a Navy Cross in January for extraordinary heroism in the Battle of Midway. Captain Iverson is a pilot in the Marine Corps air arm. During the initial day of the Battle of Midway, his plane received 219 hits from shrapnel and machinegun bullets on a single flight. He released his bomb and returned to his base where he made a successful crash landing. The following day, after less than four hours of sleep, he took part in an assault that resulted in the damage of an enemy battleship. The Navy Cross was pinned on Iverson's chest by Col. A. B. Miller, commander of the Marines stationed at the Miami Naval Air Station. The presentation of the award took place after an impressive ceremony.

TRUSTEE MEETING
The Trustees of Davidson College held their semi-annual meeting on Wednesday, February 17. Dr. J. M. Richards, President of the Board of Trustees, presided at the meeting. Extended attention was given to the plans for the Air Corps Pre-Flight School to be started here. Those members present at the meeting were much encouraged by the progress in the gymnasium campaign.

Payne Goes To Alumni
Mr. Payne, Director of Public Relations and Alumni Secretary, left the campus Tuesday morning, February 16, to attend alumni meetings in Columbia and Sumter, S.C. Mr. Payne was the principal speaker in behalf of the gymnasium fund at the meeting Tuesday night that was held at the Jefferson Hotel in Columbia. Mr. C. L. Walker is the local campaign chairman with Mr. Mortimer Cosby, '12, manager of the Jefferson Hotel, acting as co-chairman. On the evening of February 18, a meeting in Sumter will be held at the Y Center at 8 p.m. Mr. A. C. Burns, '18, whose son graduated from Davidson last June, is chairman of the Sumter group. Much interest has been shown in both localities in connection with the effort to replace the outmoded gymnasium at Davidson. According to Mr. Payne, a successful continuation of the current drive is anticipated.

Y’ Board Has New Members
Sime, McCrea, and Sanford Take New Positions
Last Monday night the Y. M. C. A. board of control held a meeting to choose three men to fill the positions vacated by three members of the January class. Alex Sime, John McRae, and Frank Sanford were elected by the members of the board of control to fill these unexpired terms of Henry McIntosh and Hugh Sprunt. Myron Sandifer found it necessary to resign his position on the Board of Control because of the point system ruling which allows a student to participate in only a certain number of important activities.

GET READY FOR SPRING
With Manhattan Shirts
$1.95 to $3.50
Shirts with the fine styling and tailoring that well-dressed men appreciate. Fine broadcloths and madras in new Spring patterns and colors. Also plain white broadcloths. Sizes 13½ to 18.

MEN'S STORE—1st FLOOR
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER