LUX UBi

ORTA

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1943

No. 4

Y Campaign

Goal Topp’d

Over Subscription Exceeds
All Expectations

Average Gift $5.00

Davidson’s 1943 Gift Fund Campaign has ended successfully, the $900 goal having been exceeded by more than $200. The Gift
Fund, which is to be given to medical relief in China, was led by Bob Miller.

By 12 o'clock Tuesday the first night of which returns came in, a total of $550, more than half the
goal, had been subscribed. At that time the fourth floor of Watts Dormitory, whose collector was Martin Waters, was leading
with $104. Students had pledged five dollars on the average.

Collectors Meet

On Monday night the collectors held a supper meeting in the Y dining room to discuss the campaign. Pledge cards
were distributed to students and members of the community Monday and Tuesday, and were partially collected Tuesday night. Collections were
completed Wednesday and Thursday, and the campaign was closed Friday in chapel. A thermometer showing the progress of the drive
was set up in chapel during the week.

This year for the first time social and honorary fraternities contributed to the fund as bodies. Each floor in the
dormitories had a student in charge of collections for that floor, and several collectors were assigned to town students.

Lived in China

This year’s fund was suggested to the Y cabinet by the work of Dr. James Woods, college physician, who for
some years was a medical missionary to China. Dr. Woods pointed out the great need for medicines and training in
medical work all over China, but especially along the Burma Road, the most seriously malaria-infested district in the world. Because
of the present high rate of exchange, American dollars can do more good in China than in any other unoccupied
country.

(Continued on Page 4)

CARROLL GLENN

“Come Into My Parlor”

Said The Spider to the Fly

“Come into my parlor,” said the spider to the fly. And so innocently the naive freshman enters Hugo’s for the
first time. In a sweeping glance his eyes take in the magazines arranged in neat array, the neat counter and
the scent of the place.

The friendly smile on the face of the jovial plump character behind the soda stand disarms him. Expectantly he steps
up to the counter and says briskly, in best Joe-College fashion (for remember he is only a freshman); “One milk-shake
with a couple of scoops and hurry please.” He turns around, nonchalance beaming from his face, and whistles a few
bars of ‘Rusty Dusty Blues” hands deep in the pockets of his drape pants. Philosophically he takes a cigarette from
his mouth and looks about. To his utmost consternation, he finds that the plump gentleman is nowhere in sight and
upon further investigation he finds that esteemed proprietor in the rear.

Carroll Glenn Presents
Second Concert In Series

Tuesday at 3:15 P. M.

Music Library
Receives Gift

Symphonic Records Given To
Phi Mu Alpha

The acquisition of some six hundred Columbia Masterwork records, the gift of radio station WBT, has been proudly announced by
the honorary musical fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha.

These records will form the foundation of a chapter record library, distinct from the Carnegie set in Shearer Hall, and
will be frequently available to the whole student body.

Donated by WBT

The Musicians’ Union forbids the re-use of these records by WBT. Mr. Crutchfield, program manager, donated them to the fraternity,
saying that he sincerely preferred that the records be used as a collection to advance music instruction and appreciation rather
than they be sold and scattered.

Those responsible for this striking addition to the resources of the college include Brothers John Evans, Bob Freeman, Bob Hollinger,
and Herb Wyatt. The fraternity plans to index and file the collection very soon, placing it in the new chapter
room, plans for which are now being laid.

MUSIC SCHEDULE

The following is a schedule of musical events to be presented before Christmas:

Tuesday, December 7
Carroll Glenn, violinist
Friday, December 10
Hugh Hodgson, pianist
Sunday, December 12
Christmas Vespers

Violinist is South Carolinian;
She Has Won Four
National Awards

Miss Carroll Glenn, violinist, will present the second concert in the 1943 Davidson Artist Series in Chambers Auditorium Tuesday night
at 8:15. Students will be particularly interested in this concert since Miss Glenn is a native of South Carolina.

One of the country's leading musicians, Miss Glenn ranks among violinists of either sex. When her compelling combination of genius
and charm is considered, her success is not surprising.

Plays With Symphonies

In the space of three years, Miss Glenn has won four major musical awards in open competition. Last season she
appeared with nearly every major symphony orchestra in America and in a number of her own recitals.

Herman Devries of the Chicago “America” said in criticism of Miss Glenn's appearance with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, “Whenever Carroll
Glenn plays her violin, a male music critic, young or old, had better listen with averted eye, lest her beauty
and charming personality cause him to overlook a discrepancy, if any, in her manipulation of the bow.”

Critics Praise Charm

John Evans, president of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity said that Miss Glenn is considered by most music critics
as the foremost woman violinist in America. He emphasized the fact that students and all others who attend the concert
series are particularly fortunate in having such a charming artist, as well as such a talented one.
