PORTS SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT (Guest Columnist: Jim Jackson)

The Wildcats’ losing streak continued despite their brilliant play at the outset of this season, during which they won ten
of eleven games. Duke, in a tight struggle, was recognized by coaches alike as one of the outstanding teams in
this part of the country in many a day. One well-known Charlotte basketeer went so far as to say that
it was the best he’d ever seen on a collegiate court. Their once impregnable and smooth-functioning offense flowed with snappy
and accurate set-ups. Tommy Peters assumed the role of the confident team leader and was an outstanding conference player. They
were hot, and the climax was reached in the first half of the game with Carolina, when they ran up
a score of 32-9. Then something happened. Carolina came back and almost won, and the ’Cats haven’t been the same
since. Floorwork became shoddy, passes went haywire, and long shots wouldn’t drop. Teams which they had previously outclassed and soundly
whipped, teams like Catawba, State, and South Carolina, turned the tables and emerged victors. Davidson dropped from second to ninth
in the conference race. Prestige was lost, and their battle for top place became a fight to get a tournament
berth.

But that’s not the whole story. The Wildcats never gave up. Clemson was conquered in an easy triumph, and the
old spark was back again, though not as strongly as before. John Belk twisted his ankle in the Catawba clash
and has been out since then. He hopes to be back in time for the Raleigh invitational. That spark was
lost for a while against Citadel, but the Bulldogs were playing over their heads. The same fire carried the ’Cat
quint to a last-ditch winning rally. “The basketball team” became “our ’Cats” once more. This is Monday night. Tomorrow night
our ’Cats face those same Citadel sharpshooters in the gym. A tourney bid for either quintet hangs in the offing.
Perhaps Davidson will be only a slight favorite, but there’s little doubt from this corner that they’ll come through with
flying colors. Was I right?

Reserve Strength
Tommy Peters has gotten the headlines this year, and deservedly so. Not only is the scintillating sophomore the pace-setter, but
he received ample votes in The Charlotte News’ All-Southern point contest to place him on the first team. George Sutton
and Bob Currie have been right behind, and the others of the original starting quint have had their share. The
unsung heroes have been the subs, especially those who have battled their way to the top of late. Jackie Byrd
is the squad’s third high scorer, behind Tommy and George. Johnny Frederick has filled in consistently well at center in
place of Belk. Pat Williams, Bill Sutton, and Bill Currie have furnished high-quality ball when called upon. Reserve strength will
pay off at Raleigh.

Grid Grist
Although spring training seems out of the question, Davidson’s chances of being represented on the gridiron next fall grew considerably
brighter with the Navy’s announcement that its reservists and cadets might participate in intercollegiate athletics. Perhaps the Army Air Corps
will follow suit. However, intramurals will tentatively replace the varsity. “Phog” Allen, Kansas University’s noted cage coach, is one of
the experts who favor de-emphasis of participation between separate schools. They may be right. The first object is to train
soldiers. Sports can come later.

Baseball Chances
February is a little early to be talking of the national pastime, but the outlook for a Davidson varsity nine
is fair indeed. While Don Erb has joined the paratroopers, Dave Maloney, Captain Dickie Phillips, Tommy Peters, Jim Lowry, and
others will be around during baseball season. The freshman class is also reported to have some torrid performers among its
many and varied members. Even a mediocre nine should hold its own against the downfallen Nets and the South’s bereavement
of the Grapefruit League. Local athletes may also add prestige to the institution on the cinder path. Ben Lacy, Bill
Peasant, and Dick Port head a galaxy of stars. Versatile George Peters will also perform, as will speedy Art Pendleton.
The freshman class is expected to supply first-flight material in their field. The prospects of the E.R.C. aren’t too great
also, provided the needs of the national defense don’t interfere.

A few ink spots at deadline found their way into print, and we find that Barbs McLeod, last year’s Man
With the Rule Book, is now cutting cadavers at the Pennsylvania Med school. Jim Lowry reports that he plans to
twirl for the Athletics in his spare moments this summer. While bestowing orchids, don’t forget to shove a few the
way of Bill Hodgin and Ed White. The frosh basketeers played some good ball and made the varsity. Art Roach,
grid star of last fall, is now receiving his basic training in the infantry at Camp Croft. If today’s weather
keeps up, spring sport, sun-bathing, will soon catch the students’ fancy. Davidson’s future sports glory lies in the new gym
and the ability of the Class of 1950.

THE OPERATING TABLE (Continued from Page 2)
Giving out with false rumors about one brother pinning another 6.a.0. For further details, see O.E. and the porky one.
Late flash: Hank Crane, posing as the last of the true women-haters, betrayed his true inclinations when after one date
with Evangeline he spent weeks lobbying for another “snaking” ruling for the function. The bitter end, as the saying goes,
came when Moose stepped in to escort the damsel home, leaving Hank more disillusioned than before.

Thursday, February 25, 1943
Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN

THEY’RE OFF!
Ben Lacy, Dick Port, and Bill Lacy leave their holes in a practice sprint in preparation for their participation in
the invitational track meet at Carolina Saturday. Port will run in both the dashes and low hurdles, Ben will enter
the dashes, and Bill will try his hand at the low hurdles and dashes. This meet takes the place of
the regular Southern Conference Games held annually at Chapel Hill, which have been discontinued for the duration.

Five Men To Run At Chapel Hill
Loop Play Is In Final Week
Six Teams Fighting For Berth In Tourney

Duke and Washington & Lee head the five teams who have berths in the Southern basketball tournament to be played
in Raleigh next week. Duke, the winner in 1941 and 1942, has lost only one game, to George Washington, while
George Washington has a single loss but has played 3 fewer games. South Carolina, William & Mary, and N.C. State
are the other three teams who have qualified for the tournament.

Six teams are trying hard this week to win a berth in the tournament. Davidson, with a record of 5
wins and 4 losses, has a good chance and plays two games this week with Citadel and Clemson. An even
split in the two games will put them in the tournament. V.M.I. has won 6 out of 10 games and
has two games with George Washington and Maryland. Citadel, with a record of 3 wins out of 5, plays three
games this week with Davidson, Clemson, and South Carolina. North Carolina must beat Duke this Friday to stay above the
.500 mark and be in line for a tourney bid. They soundly trounced South Carolina Saturday night, 50-27. Maryland has
broken even in 8 games and plays William & Mary and V.M.I. this week. Richmond can wind up with a
.500 average if they beat W.&M. this week.

Riflemen Win Two Matches
Davidson’s R.O.T.C. rifle team took first and second places in the Charlotte Rifle and Pistol Club Annual Indoor Tournament held
in Charlotte on February 20 to maintain their clean slate for the season. Entering two teams in the contest, the
sharpshooters took the “Cheerwine Trophy,” as their first team, led by Dave Yocum with 356 points, amassed a total of
1355 tallies to take top honors. Davidson's second team were runners-up with 1319 points. In third place was the Greenville,
S.C., Rifle and Pistol Club, last year’s winners. On February 13, the riflemen defeated the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at the
University of South Carolina in Columbia by a score of 893 to 803.Stubbins was high scorer for Davidson with 182
points. The marksmen also boast of victories over the Ninth Infantry Training Regiment of Camp Croft and the Kannapolis Home
Guard. They are now firing targets in the Fourth Service Command competition postal tournament.

Port, Two Lacys, White, and Miller Enter Invitational Track Meet

Five Davidson trackmen will participate in the invitational track meet in Woolen Gymnasium at Chapel Hill this Sunday. Dick Port,
Ben Lacy, Dill Lacy, Hilton White, and Dick Miller have been hard at work for the past few weeks getting
into shape for the important event. Most of their workouts have been confined to the trails of Chambers, where Coach
Whittle set up the hurdles and the boys worked the kinks out and practiced up on their strides.

Port will enter the high and low hurdles, Ben Lacy will run the dashes, while brother Dill will participate in
the low hurdles and the dashes. White and Miller will take part in the mile run. However, Miller's participation is
pending his status with the armed service at the end of the week.

The meet takes the place of the Southern Conference Indoor Games usually held at Carolina each year, which have been
postponed for the duration. Most of the Conference teams will enter the event on the invitation of the university, who
were not willing to see the whole idea abandoned.

The Navy Pre-Flight School at Chapel Hill will have several entrants, and several other service men are expected to participate
in the games. All the Davidson entrants are capable performers, but the possibility of their garnering many points is slight
in view of the outstanding opposition. Arch Taylor and Gene Shannon accounted for eight points for Davidson in the Southern
Conference Games last year.

Davidson Tops Maroons 61-54 Wildcats Rally To Chalk Up Close Decision

Davidson College varsity basketball team defeated the College of Charleston, 61-54, in Charleston last Saturday night. The Wildcats, trailing by
a 32-24 halftime score, came roaring back in the final period to rack up the win. Though Citadel pushed through
24 points in the third quarter, Davidson's accurate shooting and tight defense in the final minutes secured the victory.

BEAT CLEMSON Wildcats End Season In Week-end Battles Local Quintet Tackles Wofford And Clemson in Final Series

Davidson’s fine quintet, with a tournament bid possibly hinging on the outcome, journeys to the Palmetto State to face Wofford
and Clemson in the closing games of the regular season. Wofford’s Terriers play host to the Wildcats in Spartanburg Friday
night, while the following evening the ‘Cats will square off against the Clemson Tigers.

Davidson, by virtue of their 49-27 decision over the Terriers in a listless encounter several weeks ago, are favorites to
trounce Wofford again. However, the Bengals, probably Clemson’s best team in years, promise to offer more formidable opposition. Although Clemson
has been a conference doormat during the season, they may spring a surprise on Coach Shepard’s charges. In Hawk training,
Clemson has an offensive threat who could inspire his mates to victory.

The tank tilt will be a welcome addition, as the Wildcats seek to clinch a coveted tourney bid in the
waning moments of the current campaign.

Phi Delts Win Two Contests

Phi Delta Theta moved into first place in the interfraternity basketball race by virtue of wins over the Pi Kappa
Alphas and the Kappa Sigs. Both teams have won three games in as many starts, while the Phi Gams are
next in the standings with two victories against no losses. The Betas nosed out the S.P.E’s 21-19, and the Phi
Gams squeezed by the Sigmas, 19-17. The Betas clinched the Pi Kaps by 29-28. The Phi Delts beat the Pi
Kaps, 21-18, but they lost to the K. Sigs 39-25 Monday night.

The standings:
W L
Betas 3 0
Phi Delts 3 0
Phi Gams 2 0
K. A. 1 1
S. A. E. 1 1
K. Sig 1 2
S. P. E. 1 2
Pi Kaps 0 3
Phi Sigs 0 3

SPRING SPORTS

Coach Norman Shepard, head of the athletic department, stated on Monday that intercollegiate sports will continue at Davidson this spring
insofar as possible. However, he emphasized the fact that the civilian athletic program at the college will necessarily be sharply
curtailed.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

Thursday and Friday, Feb. 25 and 26
“ARABIAN NIGHTS”
Saturday, Feb. 27
“SEVEN SWEETHEARTS”
Monday and Tuesday, March 1 and 2
“THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD”
Wednesday, March 3
“JOURNEY FOR MARGARET”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT
B ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER
