Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 11, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

LEGH SCOTT IVEY STEWART
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

EDITORIAL STAFF
Mac Jeffries ................Assistant Editor
John Fairly .................Associate Editor
Howell Morrow ............Associate Editor
Jim Stimson ...............Associate Editor
Derek Atkinson ............Associate Editor
Hugh Hill ..................Managing Editor
Ed Sutton .................Managing Editor
George Worth .............Managing Editor
Don Henderson ............Sports Editor
Bob Wright .................Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager ........Dick Port
Advertising Manager ........Don McIver
Advertising Manager ........Jim Harris
Circulation Manager ........Teensy Hodges
Subscription Manager .......George Rosborough
Collection Manager ..........Buddy Carson

Well Done...
With the ovation of the mob in Memorial Auditorium in Raleigh on Friday night still ringing in our ears, we
take this opportunity of voicing the great sense of pride which we feel in the showing of the Davidson Wildcats
in the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament. Fighting against seemingly overwhelming odds, the Wildcat spirit was on the rampage against the
George Washington Colonials. It was a spirit of teamwork and sportsmanship which we have never seen surpassed anywhere. In the
pressure of the closing minutes of the fray, the ‘Cats were forced to gamble---and lost. But, even in defeat, they
created an impression that will not soon be forgotten. Tommy Peters has been rightfully praised as the outstanding player of
the tournament. However, credit should go to every man who wore the Davidson Red-and-Black in that contest. It was a
beautiful climax to a successful season. Details of that game will soon pass into obscurity, but may the spirit of
the Wildcat cagers of ‘43, which was so strongly evidenced in their stand, live for aye!

Give All You Can...
Something was said last week about the lack of any real sacrifice in this war by the present student generation
at Davidson. A splendid opportunity for real help for the war effort and even for sacrifice now stares us right
in the face. That opportunity is in giving to the Red Cross War Fund, which is now conducting a solicitation
for gifts on our campus. Early receipts in the local drive showed a fair response: Average gifts of one dollar
each, single contributions amounting to as much as ten dollars. But the need is great! The one hundred twenty-five million
dollar goal for the nation is only a drop in the bucket of all that is needed. Think for a
moment just what the American Red Cross does during wartime. It cares for the wounded at the battlefront, feeds and
cares for the desolate and hungry, maintains contact between prisoners of war and their families, the only contact. A number
of Davidson men have already caught the spirit of giving. One student had but a dollar in his pocket when
approached by the solicitor and that already allotted to pay for some shoe repairs. He gladly turned it over to
the Red Cross. Several others have practically emptied their wallets without hesitation. At a hall prayer meeting last week, the
Red Cross became the topic of discussion. A leader of the conversation was one who had seen the Red Cross
at work in tornado-stricken Gainesville, Georgia, several years ago. Before the group broke up, twenty-seven dollars had been contributed to
the Red Cross War Fund. Appeals for money are numerous these days, but when the real issue is considered in
this case, there should be more honest, self-denial giving like that mentioned above.

Air Corps Efficiency...
Davidsonians will no doubt learn many little lessons from their associations with the army cadets now stationed on the campus.
One of the first to strike us is the amazing efficiency with which they carry out their routines. A group
of the men was detailed to do some clean-up work around the gym, and they obtained startling results. Ditto down
at the YMCA. We see through the results obtained the value of the strict discipline maintained by our armed services.
Collegians (those that still remain such) are unaccustomed to such regular habits. We are not advocating by any means any
change for civilian students, but the contrast does make us feel rather slovenly.

Campus Forum
Dear Legh,
Last week there appeared in the Open Forum column a letter from a student asking the townspeople of Davidson not
to bring or send their small children to the more formal concerts, etc. in Chambers Auditorium. That is without doubt
a pertinent idea, but it seems to me that the student body itself is in line for some reprimand with
regard to Chambers concerts. Attendance at the various concerts in the current artist series has been extremely good, I think,
and the audience has always been appreciative, but the support (or lack of it) that this student body has given
its own music department has been very poor. This criticism is not thrown out in a holier-than-thou attitude at all;
in fact, it is not really intended as criticism exactly. It is more an attempt to bring to the students’
attention the fact that there is a Music Department here, and at that a very good one, and one that
frequently goes to much trouble to prepare and give a really entertaining concert free to any and all who will
come. Anyone who has attended one of these concerts recently has probably gotten the impression along with me that there
were more people on stage than in the audience. This sad state seems partly attributable to the lethargic attitude of
the students themselves, and partly because the concerts are not as widely publicized as they might be. It is certainly
not that the concerts are not good. That they are, whether you feel any great appreciation for the “finer things”
or not. The prevalent belief seems to be that anything to which there is no admission charge is of necessity
not worthwhile. If the students can rid themselves of this idea long enough to take a chance on one or
two of the concerts that Mr. Pfohl and the other members of his department work so faithfully to present, I
feel sure that they will not regret it.
A Junior.

CAMPUS ODDITIES
COLLEGE STUDENTS WEAR IDENTIFICATION TAGS AND SAY HOWDY TO EVERYONE THEY MEET! On "HOWDY DAY" at LOS ANGELES CITY COLLEGE.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH
The happiness of having such a fine group in the air school here was momentarily halted by a most innocent
remark by one of them earlier this evening. “Ho,” he hailed me as I rode away via bicycle: “Are you
the Western Union boy?” Actually, it was complimentary. Yes, I was wearing my hat hiding any pointed resemblance to tell-tale
bald spots! ... But we are glad to have these men on our campus. No kidding. I’ve yet to meet
one without a purpose that isn't much more than a bit of pretty flag-waving. Officers and men who are possible
future officers seem alike in earnest purpose, desire to do their job well; to cooperate in every way possible, and
to be with an unmistakable quality of being likeable. 'Tis rather late to be welcoming them now, but the welcome
is most sincere ... The talent display last Saturday night was not bad at all for a bunch of amateurs.
Jim McCrary surprised many with his gentle wit which flows freely for those who know him when time permits for
the lighter side, (Sunday after he was preaching at Matthews at the morning service!) John Turner, a good bet for
any team for dependability, listed the following as good behind-the-scenes men (carefully leaving out himself who really ran all of
it) as follows: Skirrow, L. Wood, P. Welch, B. Hamilton, J. Craven, J. Ramsey, B. Ingram, among others. P. Siegel
(meaning Professor, no less) took valuable pictures of valuable acts doing an invaluable job, which is not unusual for him—nor
his attractive wife in her own field of art and drama, as well as playing hostess, which means I’m ready
for the Waffles again any time you are, Mrs. S.—She plays in the forthcoming drama by R&B Masquers which goes
on the boards next week I'm told. News is that it is good, really good, but it comes from Lt.
Spencer, who stars. Anyway, it just couldn’t be as good as some this year, and all that, you know and
everything. You see? But I'm going just the same and hope you are there too... And even more important are
the Spring Services which close Thursday night (tonight, as you know) with Friend Dr. G. Mauze leading thinking and good
living. At a prayer group last week, one of the men who is not particularly a four-letter man (YMCA) made
these very Four Star remarks: “There's no denying it, these may be the last religious services for some of us,
because we can’t all expect to come back after the war. This is no time to forget about death, but
a time to make sure you are prepared and ready to die.” ... Hope you were at the services, that
you go tonight, andmore than that—that you are out under the stars some night or quietly at your desk or
beside your bed following up the purpose of the services. Don’t wait, fellows, the time is now. Yours, Shaw Smith,
Cinema Comments.

By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
COMMANDOS STRIKE AT DAWN
Paul Muni and Ann Lee are the stars of what is billed as the greatest picture to come from this
war. Many of the scenes are films of an actual commando attack made by a group of American, Canadian, and
Norwegian fighting men. Sir Cedric Hardwick and Lillian Gish, back on the screen after a long absence, are good in
supporting roles.

Saturday
WRECKING CREW
Paramount’s action-packed drama, WRECKING CREW, is the Saturday show this week. A cast of veteran performers, headed by Richard Arlen,
Chester Morris, and Jean Parker, put plenty of punch into a lively story.

Monday and Tuesday
CASABLANCA
The most dangerous spot on earth, where six people meet to keep an appointment with destiny, is the setting for
CASABLANCA, one of the better shows of 1943. Humphrey Bogart, who inserts real acting ability into a bad man role,
co-stars with Ingrid Bergman, an international beauty who is desperately in love with Bogart. Paul Henreid, the lover of “Now,
Voyager,” takes an important part, and a good supporting cast includes Sydney Greenstreet, Claude Rains, and Peter Lorre.

Wednesday
NORTHWEST RANGERS
NORTHWEST RANGERS, a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer drama, is the bargain day attraction for the week. William Lundigan and James Craig are the
stars in the saga of the great Northwest's fight for law and order.

I would like for WILBUR CARTER to be my guest for any picture next week.

The Operating Table
By ? CONE

The best rumor of the week was that the occupant of seat J-5 in the Junior Section was responsible for
the Doctor's cutting on last week's column written by yours truly.

Tourney Topics: The dealers and operators were in rarest form. “Moose” Hart and Siske spent most of the hours after
the game buzzing through the hall of the hotel looking for pink elephants. The Sigmas were found en masse at
their lodge out at Aggie Institute and we hesitate to print some of the tales that have drifted back.

Hotel Hectics: The casino on the 9th floor, operated by ole grad Allcott, was popular Saturday night. Bill Hodgin, better
known as Country to his cohorts, was in fine shape celebrating his last weekend as a Davidson student—he’s dropping out
of school to work for his Rich Uncle. What did Long Jim Davis mean by hand signals across the floor
to someone? He kept holding up ten fingers and clapping his hands. Could it be that he planned to go
to bed at 10? Who knows? George Peters and “Jim Crow” Lowry walked in the Raleigh Post Office and collected
their “sugar reports” which had been accumulating, awaiting their arrival. Long John spent most of one afternoon in a telephone
booth trying to call one of his cuties over at Duke. Saw Buddy Carson bumming a meal off the Citadel
A.A. “Pretty Pat” better stick to that Virginia League; he sent Upchurch over to Durham to bring a certain co-ed
back but on arrival, he found that she was pinned-up. We all thought the “Y” Queen had reformed “Sutt”—Sutt did
too, till he found out who was preaching last Sunday in Statesville. He left the usual trail of blood (from
his eyes) around Raleigh. The Davidson basketball team had a fine time Saturday night eating off the George Washington A.A.
Saw Jim Clark of '44 there, too. He's married and in the Navy. The Charlotte News’ ace tournament correspondent, “Scoop”
McLean, was there and helped Jake with his column. Mr. Five and Gaither were seen scouring the hotel Friday night
for some cuties—nothing unusual about that. The “Nose” Carrow avoided all crowds this weekend and journeyed to Kinston to see
the folks—he was afraid a crowd or some hedge might damage that oft-broken beak of his.

Additional notes on the “Nation” (Davidson's Glamor Boy, better known to some as “Hippo”): Crowell completely messed up friend “Moose”
and to top it all he sent him a forty-word telegram collect. “Fireplug” Fairly of recent Independent fame had his
new pledge pin mistaken for that of a different order recently. Seems that the shape of the pin combined with
his prominent facial features were just too confusing for the party in question. “Porky” Watson's girl dashed up to show
off her newly acquired Phi Delt pin to Edna Adams over at Queens. But her self-satisfaction was considerably dampened when
Edna pulled back her coat to reveal her also recently acquired jewelry. Jim Montgomery, Bob Thurston, and company pulled quite
a part of the house variety up Statesville way, but details are not as yet available. That's all for this
week—enough blood spilt already.

Pitch-and-Toss
By CHARLIE BROCKMAN

Discovering the Glammer Within You; or, You Too Can Be the Life of the Party!

Last Friday night there were between three and four thousand excited spectators packed like so many sardines into Memorial Auditorium
in Raleigh to witness the second round of the tournament there. Everybody seemed brimful of thrills and expectations and all
were having a rousing good time—that is, all except one nondescript little individual who seemed not greatly impressed by any
of the hue and cry all about him. On the contrary, this person seemed preoccupied with worries of his own
which were far removed from basketball. Occasionally he would realize that the people around him might be wondering as to
his sanity, so he roused himself to give out with a little squeal or two, but the results of his
efforts to sound enthusiastic fell dismally short of his expectations.

The person in question was obviously a foreigner, possibly a refugee from Wake Forest, but he nevertheless illustrates a case
in point. He was the typical example of a downtrodden, restrained personality. Why was he downtrodden?—because he didn’t assert himself!
He was, in terms of “advanced psychology,” a Mouse-like Individual.

All of us have seen at one time or another such sad cases of repression. Many theories have been offered
as to the cause of this malady—possibly the victim doesn’t get his minimum daily requirements of vitamin A; maybe he
has delusions of grandeur, or perhaps delirium tremens or some glandular disturbance. At any rate, the predicament is a most
unfortunate one.

Mouse-like Individuals are generally rather frustrated people. They are usually quiet and unassuming, and always are letting themselves be trod
upon by other people—in fact, they seem to encourage other people to stomp on them because that is the only
way that they can remain downtrodden and unhappy for any great length of time, thereby continuing to be Mouse-like.

Ask yourself frankly—are you a Mouse-like Individual? If there is any doubt in your mind, ask yourself these questions:
(1) Are you afraid of professors, generally speaking, that is?
(2) Do you feel that everybody else has more on the ball than you do?
(3) Are you left-handed, and if so, do you dread the thought of getting up for breakfast?
(4) Do you usually have a run-down, droopy feeling just after finishing the cake course in 10:22?
(5) Do you find it difficult to pay attention to the sermon after a weekend divided among Queens, the Tavern,
and Salem?
(6) Do you see purple spots just after doing fifty extended pushups in your Monday morning Phys Ed class?

If you scored one or more “yes” answers, your case is critical. You should take steps at once to assert
yourself, for you show very definite Mouse-like tendencies. You may ask, “How can I assert myself?” On this point there
is a wide variance of opinion. Let us offer several sure methods from the experience of others:

First, begin by cussing everybody around you. If you miss a class, cuss your roommate for not getting you up;
if you get a memorandum deploring the condition of your room, cuss the janitor; if you don’t like your courses,
cuss the profs; and if you give out of people to cuss, call up long distance and cuss the operator.
After a week or so of this you will have begun to successfully assert yourself.

Now you are ready for the second and final phase of your self-assertion. You have established a reputation for having
a nice vile humor, which commands no end of standoffish respect from your associates, who no doubt think by this
time that there must surely be some cataclysmic disorder in the flow of your bile juices. Take this opportunity to
vent your spleen on everyone around you. Insult people. Call them names. Venture to disagree with any opinions anyone else
may have. Complain loud and long about the cut system, compulsory church, the rooming situation, or most anything else that
comes to mind. Go wherever there are people and make your opinion heard, and if this doesn’t pan out, write
a seething letter to the Editor of the Davidsonian.

Now you are a full-fledged assertee, known to psychologists as a Rugged Individualist. Of course, the folks around you will
have other more uncouth terms for it, but what do you care. Ain't you got fun?
