WELCOME MOTHERS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MAY 6, 1943

No. 25

Pan-Hellenic Elects Booth As President

New Pan-Hellenic Council Members Choose Officers For Next Year:

ELECT GAITHER, GWYNN

All Members Of Council Taking Advanced R. O. T. C.

Shep Booth, representative of Kappa Sigma fraternity, has been chosen president of the new Pan-Hellenic council. Other officers elected by the council are Bob Gaither, Pi Kappa Phi representative, secretary, and Gwynn, representative of Sigma Phi Epsilon, treasurer.

Future Dark

The future of the council is at best uncertain, since several fraternities may not function as active chapters next year, and the possibility of having pan-hellenic dances is slim. Every member of the new council is a member of advanced ROTC and will not be back to assume his duties next year.

Members of the new council are: Frank Carter, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Bob Welsh, Beta Theta Pi; Rhea Preston, Phi Gamma Delta; Teensy Hodges, Pi Kappa Alpha; Bob Gaither, Pi Kappa Phi; Red Burke, Kappa Alpha; Shep Booth, Kappa Sigma; Deane Watson, Phi Delta Theta; and Price Gwynn, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Price 'Y' Gift Fund Is Distributed

Christian Education For The Negroes’ Benefits

Y. M. C. A. officials announce that $2,000 contributed in the Christmas Gift Fund has been distributed to those for whom it was given for the Christian education of the negro.

Part of the money was sent for the use of Charles Tyler, a young colored minister who spoke at Davidson during the drive. He is working among members of his race in Birmingham, Ala.

Literature

Another portion of the money was sent for the purchase of literature to be used in the Christian education of negroes. This order for literature is being handled by the Presbyterian Committee of Publication.

At the special request of Charles Tyler, some money is being donated to Stillman Institute for improving their dormitories. Stillman is a college for negroes that is supported by the Presbyterian Church and has many ministers among its alumni.

Not Closed

Books for this past year’s fund have not yet been closed, as there are still some uncollected pledges. All additional funds received will be sent to Stillman Institute to aid them in improving their physical plant.

Alf Taylor, head of the Y. M. C. A. department of world evangelism, assisted by Welford Hobbie, was in charge of raising this year's gift fund. It was the largest in the history of these funds, being several hundred dollars more than the largest previous gifts.

LAST ISSUE

This issue of the Davidsonian is the last of the current school year. Every year the final issue of the Davidsonian appears about two weeks before the beginning of the examination period. This is necessary because members of the staff are generally so busy with scholastic duties at this time that it is impractical to continue publications. The last issue must also come out soon enough to give the business staff time to wind up its collections before the end of school. Since exams start a week earlier this year, the final issue appears a week sooner than usual, but will not be here next year. The breaking of the precedent gave him the privilege of putting out one issue.

MOTHERS’ DAY PROCESSIONAL TO CHURCH

Shown above is a portion of the procession of mothers and sons to the college church on Sunday morning at the first Mothers’ Day celebration on the campus last year. A number of mothers are expected to attend the activities again this year, beginning with the annual interfraternity sing on Friday night on the lawn near Chambers building. Highlight of the weekend will be the banquet for Mothers and Sons to be held Saturday evening.

Social Fraternities

Last Number of Magazine Appears Soon

Esquire Contributes To May Issue Which Features Pictures

Scripts ’n Pranks, Davidson humor magazine, will make its final appearance of the year as the May issue is mailed to students the latter part of next week.

Highlighting this issue will be a special surprise feature furnished to Scripts ’n Pranks through the cooperation of Esquire. This feature will be artistic in nature, and Howell Morrow, editor, states that he feels sure it will be favorably received by the student body.

Army Life Pictured

In view of the fact that nearly all the Juniors and Seniors will soon enter the armed forces, it seemed appropriate that one article should appear concerning the transition from college life to that of the army. The article which will fill this need is “Never Again, or Confessions of a Shave-Tail,” written by Lt. Sam R. Spencer. This sketch of Lt. Spencer’s first experiences in army life is written along the lines of “See Here, Pvt. Hargrove.”

The cover for the coming issue was designed and drawn by Don Holland. Another art feature will be “Bike Types” by Miss Clara Smith.

Lana Turner

There will also be a reappearance of Davidson’s Blackout Queen, Miss Lana Turner, who was selected by a student poll last fall. Results of this poll were announced in the Holidays Issue of Scripts 'n Pranks. This time, however, Miss Turner will appear in a bathing suit.

Sharing the spotlight on the short story interest will be stories by Ed Erwin and W. H. Sprunt.

Poems

The spring issue will include three poems. One is a parody, “Get All You Can,” by Bill Styron. This poem is especially addressed to the recently departed boys of the E.R.C. A second poem will be “Resurrection,” written by Charlie Brockman and illustrated by Jim Elliott. The third will be “Scripts 'n Pranks Won’t Win the War.”

In normal years the senior editor publishes four issues of the magazine. This precedent was broken for the first time this year to allow Howell Morrow to put out an issue. He was elected to the position of editor of the magazine.

Officers All Chosen

They Will Be Back Next Year Or Elect New Whether

WAR BOND DRIVE

Davidson, N. C., bought more than double its quota of War Bonds and Stamps during the Second War Loan Drive. The assigned quota for the town was $100,000, but the people of this area bought $207,000 worth of treasury securities at the Bank of Davidson. Announcement of this large sale was made by Mr. James V. Lore, chairman of the local war loan drive and cashier of the Bank of Davidson.

Mr. Lore was assisted in the drive by Prof. E. A. Beatty, mayor of the town of Davidson; Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college; and Mr. C. A. Potts.

Presidents

President Visits Union

Dr. Cunningham will attend the Annual Board Meeting of the Trustees of Union Theological Seminary to be held in Richmond, Virginia on Tuesday, May 11. He will deliver the commencement address to the graduating class in which there are several former Davidson students, including Sid Crane, Richard Rhey Gammon, David Alexander McLain, and Roger Phillips.

The newly elected presidents are: Bob Pierce, Phi Delta Theta; Rush Winchester, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Bob Jeffries, Kappa Alpha; Mac Amos, Beta Theta Pi; Tom Bumbarger, Pi Kappa Phi; Archie Farrar, Pi Kappa Alpha.Roy Hunt, Sigma; President of the Bank of David; Mills Rice, Thomas Albert Fry, Alpha Epsilon; and Rhea Dabney, Joseph Rice, and John Rodman Phi Gamma Delta. Williams. 

Wed. A.M. ROTC 12, 22, 32, 42 May P.M. Bible 12B, D, English 12B, D, French 22A, Latin 32, Math 22A, Spanish 22C, Physics 22A, D 

Thurs. A.M. Chem. 52, Econ. 22A, B, English 72, Greek 62, History 42, Math 12, Navigation May 31, Philos. 52 P.M. Bible 12E, G, Chem. 22A, English 11J, 12F, French 22B, Greek 22A, Spanish 22B, Physics 12A, 22C 

Fri. A.M. Chem. 82, French 62, Geog. 32, History 72, Navigation 32, Psych. 52 May P.M. Biology 22B, Chem. 22B, English 22B, E, G, French 22C, German 22A, Greek 21, 12B, Math 11N, 12H, Physics 22B, Spanish 12B, D 

Sat. A.M. Business 42, Chem. 92, English 52, Geog. 42, Philos. 32, Physics 32, Psych. 32 May P.M. Math 12F, J, K 22 

Mon. A.M. May P.M. Bible 22B, D, Biology 22C, Econ. 62, Geog. 31, German 22B, History 116, History 24, 12D, Math 12L, Pol. Sc. 72, Psych. 61, Math 32 

Tues. A.M. Bible 12A, C, Chem. 31, 42B, Econ. 22C, English 12A, C, French 32, German May 12A, C, History 32, Spanish 32 P.M. French 42, History 62, Philos. 42, Physics 42, Psych. 42A, Pol. Sc. 52, Spanish 52 

Wed. A.M. Bible 22E, F, Chem. 12, English 12H, 22A, C, French 12, Greek 22A, Spanish 22A May P.M. Astronomy 32, Bible 22A, C, G, 32, Business 32, Educ. 72, German 42, English 22F, 102, History 12A, C, Latin 22, Math 12I, Physics 11C, 12B, Physics 52, Pol. Sc. 62, Spanish 42, Psych. 42B 

Thurs. A.M. Bible 52, Econ. 32 May P.M. Bible 12F, H, Chem. 32, 42A, English 12E, 22D, 42, Greek 22B, Hist. 52, Math 12C, Phys. Ed. 32, Physics 62, Sociology 32, Solid Geometry, Latin 12 

Fri. A.M. English 12I, German 12B, Spanish 12A, C, 22D, Greek 72, History 22 May P.M. 

Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.—Afternoon examinations at 2:00 P.M. 

During the recent student elections, On Campus Senior-Faculty Compete Tues. Sports Events And Skits Feature Program For Annual Day 

Highlight of the Senior-Faculty Day events Tuesday was the baseball game in the late afternoon at which seniors competed against members of the faculty. Results were not available by press time. The traditional day began at Chapel Tuesday morning when Coach Shepard, on behalf of the faculty, challenged the senior class to meet on the athletic field in the afternoon. The challenge was immediately accepted by Lyman Parrigin, president of the class. 

Sports Competitions Other sports competed in during the afternoon included golf, tennis, basketball, volleyball, and ping pong. Later in the evening, the winners of the various contests were announced by Dr. McGavock. An outdoor supper was served after the baseball game between the horseshoe pits and the gymnasium. Jerry Newbold and Ross Parks were in charge of the meal. The final event of the day was the presentation of skits in Chambers Auditorium. One was presented by the seniors and one by the faculty. 

Faculty Skit “What the Well-Dressed Summer School Student Should Wear” was presented by the faculty, written and directed by Dr. Chalmers Davidson. It included a series of twelve modellings—clothes for different occasions—including class attire, date wear, houseparty styles, etc. The final modelling was “what the summer school students will wear,” which was a uniform. 

The Seniors’ Skit The seniors presented an old stunt, “Arsenic and Old Faces,” with a new twist. It was a take on “Arsenic and Old Lace,” whereby those being poisoned by the two old Brewster sisters were professors rather than lonely old men. 

DR. FOREMAN SPEAKS Dr. Kenneth Foreman presented the second in a series of studies in comparative religion at the “Y” Lounge on Sunday night immediately after Vespers. Dr. Foreman discussed Confucianism and Hinduism and then compared each to Christianity. The first of the series was presented two weeks ago when Dr. C. M. Richards led a discussion on Mohammedanism and Buddhism as compared to Christianity. 

Fraternity Initiates 12 Juniors Undergo Ceremony At Sunrise Thursday Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, held the formal initiation of twelve recently tapped members at an impressive sunrise ceremony Thursday morning. The 12 new initiates who were tapped at a special drill several weeks ago are: Dick Port, Mac Jeffries, Pat Williams, D. D. Phillips, Shep Booth, Bob Amos, Rhea Dabney, Legh Scott, Howell Morrow, Tom Bumbarger, Billy Lacy, and John Rodman. 

Officers Pat Williams is the newly elected president of Scabbard and Blade. At a meeting Monday night, the following other officers were elected from the new men: Dabney, vice-president; Port, secretary; and Phillips, treasurer. Also at this meeting, plans were discussed for having a social function for the members before school is out. The remainder of the time was taken up with informal discussion, which was followed by a feed. 

Mothers and Sons To Spend Week-End Together “Elijah” Highlights Saturday Program For Mother's Day Celebration Davidson mothers will be honored by a special program of events on the campus during May 8 and 9 under the sponsorship of the office of public relations and the Y.M.C.A. Highlight of the event will be the presentation of Mendelssohn's oratorio “Elijah.” Davidson musical organizations with several guest artists will give this number at Chambers Auditorium on Saturday at 8:45 p.m. 

Changes Two changes have been made in the plans from those originally published. The Mothers’ and Sons’ banquet will take place in the court behind Chambers building instead of in the banquet hall. The hall is being used by the Army as a mess hall, so it will not be available for this banquet. Members of the 24th College Training Detachment will give a parade for the mothers Saturday morning at 11:00 a.m. This parade has been added to the original schedule. 

Starting Under the leadership of Mr. John Payne, Director of Public Relations, the custom of a Mother’s Day celebration was started at Davidson last year. At that time, the ladies elected a committee to plan the future programs for that day. The committee has been assisted by Mr. Payne in overcoming the difficulties presented by war restrictions. One of the chief features of the annual program is the procession of mothers and sons to church. The group gathers in front of Chambers and marches to church in a body. There, they are seated in a separate section. The service is a special one for the occasion of honoring the mothers. 

Fraternity Sing Another annual event, the inter-fraternity sing, has been incorporated in the Mothers’ Day program this year. It will be given by the contesting groups on Friday evening. All of the college buildings will have open house to the mothers on Saturday. They will be free to visit the various dormitories. Saturday morning classes have been opened to them and they will be encouraged to attend with their sons. The science laboratories and the library will also be open for their inspection. 

HEADS COUNCIL EP BOOTH VOLLEYBALL At a recent meeting of the fraternity sports managers, it was decided to discontinue the inter-fraternity volleyball tournament. Inclement weather forced the postponement of a number of the games, and it was considered necessary to drop volleyball in order to allow time for the completion of the softball tournament, now underway.