PORTS | SPOTLIGHT By LEGH SCOTT

Disaster

Royster offered the best explanation heard in this corner of the otherwise unexplainable reversals by the 'Cats last weekend. Beset
on all sides for the reason for the failure of the red and black machine in Chapel Hill Friday, he
confessed that our boys just weren't used to such newfangled gymnasiums as Woolen Gymnasium in Chapel Hill. Quoting Lard, “They
are used to playing in a gym where they have to allow for the wind and the birds flitting around
among the rafters when making their shots.”

Lard Fails

Whether or not the boys could have come through in more rustic surroundings is, of course, a matter of question,
but it is certain that they were far from being at home on that spacious floor. Let this not be
considered another dig at the athletic facilities at Davidson, for we realize that if it were after the duration the
'Cats would be performing in equally pretentious surroundings. It is true though that playing at home is a tremendous advantage
in basketball, more so than in any other sport. The most obvious handicap to the 'Cats when playing away from
home is the different arrangement of the backboards—extending four feet out over the playing floor, while in our own gym
they are but two feet from the sidelines. On several occasions the Davidsons would try to shoot only to find
themselves out of position behind the backboards. Once we saw a wild Carolina shot go over the backboard, and while
the Cats let it go, a Tar Heel retrieved it and racked up two points.

As for the real explanation of last week's slump, there seems to be none except that they were very much
off the form which they displayed earlier in the season. In the sole win of the week over the College
of Charleston, the Wildcats looked ragged, failed to display the teamwork and aggressiveness that had characterized their play in previous
games. But the fight had returned to a certain extent in Raleigh Saturday. Both teams that the 'Cats faced last
weekend were vastly improved since they made their debuts against the high-flying Davidsons in Charlotte. Carolina was sluggish in the
first period as in the first game, but when they got going they were unstoppable. The Tar Heels' play in
that disastrous second period was their ability to get up first for the ball almost at will. Long John Lentz,
out with an ankle injury, was sorely missed in retrieving the ball off the backboard for the 'Cats. Tom Peters,
though considerably off his usual game, was better than anything either of the opposing teams could put on the floor.
The most beautiful play in either game was when he went up in the air with Fritz Nagy to block
a sure-crip at the rim of the basket.

More About Sportsmanship

We said something about sportsmanship at Davidson last week, but the displays at Chapel Hill and Raleigh put everything seen
here in the shade, so we will be quiet on that from now on. Over at Raleigh, they hissed and
stomped all through the game, especially when a Davidson player was attempting to sink a free throw. Some State students,
ashamed of the demonstration, blamed it on the high school kids in the crowd.

Last Week

Next week will be the last of conference competition for the 'Cat cagers. They started on the road to recovery
from their recent slump in the State game and should hit their stride again in the closing games. Four wins
in the games remaining at press time would ensure them of a place in the conference tournament. Three wins would
mean that they would probably get in. Since these games are with comparatively weaker teams than the recent opposition, the
going should be easier. However, these teams have been improving, South Carolina being hard-pressed to defeat Citadel and Clemson.

Coach Shepard has had to revamp his starting lineup due to injury, and if George Peters doesn’t recover from his
cold in time, the lineup for tomorrow's game will probably be L. Peters, Byra, Sutton, Wayman, and Lowry.

Miscellany

'Cat supporters are bemoaning the fact that many of Carolina’s basketball players have been called to the colors—one week too
late—including Jim White, who has been outstanding all season. About the same time, there was a mass exodus from Georgia
Tech of athletic satellites including the great Clint Castleberry. College athletes are really beginning to feel the pinch. It has
indeed been an unusual court season. For a while, Davidson was wondering whether or not they would be seeded in
the tournament. Now they are wondering if they'll be in it at all.

Duke Clinches Bid To Conference Tournament

As a result of their loss to William and Mary, George Washington slipped into second place in the conference standings
last week, and Duke took undisputed possession of the first position. The week's activities saw Citadel climb momentarily into the
spotlight by virtue of victories over Wake Forest and Clemson. Davidson, continuing her losing streak started by the defeat by
South Carolina, dropped into lowly ninth place. N.C. State and Carolina climbed back into the first division at the Wildcats'
expense. Duke has now clinched a return engagement at the tournament, in which they have come out champions for two
consecutive years. All the remaining teams still have at least a chance of getting in with the exception of Wake
Forest and Clemson, as conference play enters its last two weeks.

Wildcat Sports Picks, February 18, 1943

Heels Avenge Loss To Cats By Easy Win

Tommy Gets 14, But Heel Spurt Wrecks 'Cats

After trailing by only one point at intermission, Davidson's defense fell apart at the seams in the final stanza to
allow North Carolina to roll up a surprising 50-27 triumph before a large crowd in Woolen Gymnasium last Friday night.
Carolina intercepted 'Cat passes, used the fast break to perfection, and bombarded the cords unerringly as they amassed their victory
margin. Prior to the tilt, the‘Cat cagers Duke's powerful cagers pacesetters in the were dogging the heels of state race.
This unexpected setback, together with the loss to State's Red Terrors, pushed the Wildcats far back in the chase.

Hartley Shines
Once again it was Fritz Nagy and Dick Hartley who led their mates to a well-earned decision. Hartley's southpaw hook
shot was good enough for 15 points, while yearling Nagy's whirlwind finish racked up 12 tallies in the points. Tommy
Peter's, loop's top scorer, was apparently headed for another great evening. However, the Phants clamped down on the torrid soph
and held him to only four gratis tosses in the final period.

Slow Start
The tilt started off rather slowly, since both teams seemed content waiting. Carolina, with Hartley and Freedman setting the pace,
slipped into a fast offensive lead after 7.2 minutes had elapsed. Peters closed the gap to 7-6 with a crip
and a free throw, but Carolina, employing a weave admirably, made the count 14-7. The ‘Cats, flashing their expected form
for once, spurted momentarily to whittle the lead to a mere point. Wayman’s push shot and two baskets and a
free throw by Tommy cut Carolina’s margin to 15-14, as the two aggregations left the court at halftime.

The determined North Carolina outfit came surging back to soar into a commanding lead after intermission. The Wildcats tired rapidly
on the spacious floor of Woolen Gym and never once threatened the Chapel Hill quint.

LONG JOHN
John Belk, rangy Wildcat center, whose height makes him an excellent ball-retriever, has been sorely missed by the 'Cats during
the past week due to an ankle injury. He should be ready to go again soon.

Phi Gamma Delta

THE DAVIDSONIAN

GEORGE IS GOOD, TOO
State Defeats 'Cats 92-45 In Close Game
George Peters is the other half of the twin combination you have been hearing so much about. Although not as
sensational as brother Tommy in racking up points, George has played a consistent game all season, his speed on the
floor being his biggest asset. He gets his share of the scoring though, rang up 12 against State last Saturday
night.

Davidson Meets Citadel In Charleston Friday
Betas On Top
'Cats In Last Week of Conference Play
Wildcat cagers, after the Clemson victory, will try to squat Palmetto State. Early season tabulations found Beta Theta Pi perched
on top of the ladder in fraternity basketball competition. The Betas, paced by southpaw B. B. Walker, have swept to
a pair of decisive victories. For their initial tilt, the Betas hung up a 35-18 decision over the S.P.E.'s and
whipped the knights of Kappa Sigma in their second game, 29-13.

Three Teams Tied for Second Place In Basketball
The Cats next game is against the Citadel. Second place is tied by Delta Kappa Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, and
Sigma Chi, each with a single win and no losses. Phi Delts were impressive in their 31-13 win over the
Pikas, while the Sigma Chis downed the S.A.E.’s 14-11 in a low scoring tilt. The Fijis rolled over the Pi
Kaps, 36-21, in their only game of the season.

Grouped behind the pacesetters with an even split in two frays are Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Phi Epsilon. After
dropping a close verdict to the Kappa Sigs, the S.A.E.'s came back to eke out a narrow 25-23 win over
the Pi Kaps. The SPEs opened their season with an auspicious 38-21 win over the Pikas, but lost their next
fracas to the Betas.

Lagging behind the other fraternities are the luckless Pikas and Pi Kaps, who have yet to hang up a victory.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE OPERATING TABLE
(Continued from Page 2)
acquaintance on the train. Observing his sterling qualities, the young lady exacted a promise that the Military One bestow upon
her the customary token in parting. Imagining crowded stations with neighbors and people looking on, Myron promised to oblige on
the train, only to lose his courage at the last minute. No sooner did he forget the incident than a
letter arrived telling how disappointed the chick was in him. Moral?

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

GET HOT, ’CATS!
Page Three
Terrors Hold Lead of Whole Game As ’Cats Make Desperate Come-back
Cats Divide Two Games
Defeat Maroons, 63-36, But Indians Win, 53-47
Playing the same listless game that led them to defeat against North Carolina, the Wildcats lost to the College of
Charleston. The Cats evened their record with a win against the Maroons, 63-36. Tommy Peters and George Peters led the
‘Cat attack, but the Wildcats didn't turn in the game of which they are usually capable. A last-minute attack that
netted four points brought the total over the coveted sixty mark. Hutson and Easterby headed the Maroons’ relatively impotent offense.
The Charlestonians were outclassed, though they battled spiritedly.

Catawba's Indians caught the Cats with their defense down and gained sweet revenge for their early season loss. Wilkins’ six
field goals and six charity tosses led a determined drive. The entire aggregation played flight ball. Belk was missing due
to a severely sprained ankle. He has been one of the Cats' mainstays throughout the year. Catawba's balanced attack, led
by Handley, turned into a magnificent game. Holhouser, a footballer, also played well.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

Thursday and Friday, February 18 and 19
HENRY FONDA—MAUREEN O'HARA
“THE IMMORTAL SERGEANT”

Saturday, February 20
MILTON BERLE
“OVER MY DEAD BODY”

Monday and Tuesday, February 22 and 23
CARY GRANT—GINGER ROGERS
“ONCE UPON A HONEYMOON”

Wednesday, February 24
RED SKELTON
“WHISTLING IN DIXIE”

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.
