The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXI DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1943 No. 3

1943 GIFT FUND GOAL FOR CHINA RELIEF IS $900

Bob Miller Heads Campaign To Raise Amount By Friday

Surgeon Tells of Great Need

Dr. James Woods Lived in China During War

Dr. James Woods, the college physician, who for the first years of the war was both a physician and a
surgeon in the war-torn city of Chinkiang, China, when interviewed stated that the two most pressing medical needs of China
were more doctors and more medicine. The latter, due to inflation, has reached almost a prohibitive cost. The exchange has
risen from three to one, ten years ago, to eighty to one. This means that instead of taking three it
now takes eighty Chinese dollars to buy one dollar’s worth of medical supplies.

Quinine Reduced

“Along the Burma Road,” said Dr. Woods, “is a section of the country which is the most serious malaria-infested district
in the world.” The main source of Quinine, the Dutch East Indies, is now under the control of the Japanese.
As a result, the supply of quinine to the Burma Road section has been greatly reduced.

Civilian Need Great

The population of the Burma Road area in normal times is not great, but now due to the Chinese army
and the civilians required to build and maintain the road, the population has been multiplied many times. The army has,
comparatively speaking, adequate medical care, but the civilians, of whom there are thousands, have had little provision made for them.
The Red Cross has done something in the way of setting up small hospitals and First Aid stations to take
care of the civilian workers. “Funds given in the past have done an untold amount of good,” said Dr. Woods
who can speak from experience.

FRATERNITY GIFTS

Social and Honorary Fraternities will be solicited for funds in order to realize the $900 goal of the 1943 Christmas
Gift Fund. A number of fraternities have expressed their desire to give from their own treasuries in addition to individual
contributions. This is the first year that fraternities have donated as a group. Such wholehearted support will go a long
way in assuring the success of the campaign. A meeting of fraternity presidents was called at chapel, Friday. The matter
was brought before them, and it will be discussed in their respective chapters.

Men Selected For Canvass

Bob Miller has recently outlined plans for the campaign. He stated that pledges would be taken in the dormitories by
representatives of the campaign, while Bob Pierce would head organization gifts. Dormitory representatives were chosen from the student body at
large. Students to assist in the campaign are: Rumple Dormitory—left side, Clayton Scofield; right side, Bill Gray; Watts 1, Jim
Alexander; Watts 2, Timothy Webb; Watts 3, Ken Barber; Watts 4, Martin Waters; Georgia 1, Ed White; Georgia 2, Gregg
Thompson; Georgia 3, Horace Boarman.Kappa Snapper and South Dormitory, Bryant Monroe; Town students, Bob Turner. These collectors and representatives will
meet at the Y tonight during the supper hour to confer with Miller and Patterson concerning last-minute details.

Davidson Pastor Expresses Views

“The spirit which conceived the idea of an annual gift fund from the student body and has sustained it through
the years is one of the fine expressions of the character and sentiment of our students. The Y-Cabinet from year
to year has a remarkable ability to single out some genuine need which at the same time expresses the desires
and convictions of the students. The opportunity which they are offering this year is another demonstration of this capacity.

“At this particular time in history, there are countless young men who are forced by the stern necessities of the
hour to destroy life. They desire to bind up the wound of the world instead of making them. The purpose
of the Gift Fund this year is symbolic of this suppressed longing in the hearts of many young men today.

“If in the time of China's suffering we can minister to her wounds and be a good Samaritan, she will
likely be disposed to regard us as a ‘good neighbor’ in the future. It is most heartening that the men
of Davidson have already sensed this opportunity and responsibility. Let us hope that the spirit here manifested will prove to
be prophetic of their generation.” —Carl R. Pritchett.

Last Year’s Contribution Exceeded Goal

The Christmas Gift Fund for 1943 is dedicated to Medical Relief in China. The campaign for subscriptions will begin Monday,
November 29th, and will continue through Friday, December 3rd. Bob Miller, heading the campaign, will be assisted by representatives in
each dormitory in contacting every member of the student body. Tuesday and Wednesday nights the dormitory representatives will distribute pledge
cards. Thursday and Friday the pledges and money gifts will be collected. The pledges are payable after the Christmas Holidays.
The campaign will be extended throughout the student body, the faculty, and the community.

Goal $900

Last year’s Gift Fund was used for Christian Education for Southern Negroes. The goal was set at $1,750; however, the
campaign closed with the collection of over $2,000. This year the goal is $900. The funds are to be used
for sending medical relief to the needy in China. The project is non-denominational. In deciding on this project, the “Y”
Cabinet considered both the physical and spiritual needs of those suffering in China.

Only Money Campaign

The Christmas Gift Fund is the only money campaign of the year sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. In the past, the
college and the community have subscribed generously to the Fund. In speaking about the Gift Fund, Ed Patterson, President of
the “Y,” said, “While our goal is fixed on Medical Relief to China, we should not lose sight of the
fact that a great deal of good is done here on the campus. We are real stewards when we give
until we feel it.”
