Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 15, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.80 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

LEGH SCOTT .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
McALISTER CARSON ... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Maco Jeffries ...... Assistant Editor
John Fairly ........ Associate Editor
Howell Morrow ..... Associate Editor
Jim Stimson ....... Associate Editor
Deane Watson ...... Associate Editor
George Worth ...... Managing Editor
Ed Erwin .......... Acting Managing Editor
George Worth ...... Managing Editor

Sports Writers: Bob Phillips, Jim Alexander, Shep Dunn
Reporters: Charles Gunn, Bill Styron, Cargill McCormick, Jim Bisaner, Hubert Leighton McKeithan, Dave Richardson, Taliaferro

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager: Tommy Powell
Advertising Manager: R. L. White
Dexter Witherington, James Carrigan, Leonard
Circulation Manager: Bill Wilkinson
Subscription Manager: Herman Walker
Collection Manager: Lee Wolfe
Asst. Ad. Mgr: Cooper Smith
Asst. Sub. Mgr: Chas. Reid
Asst. Col. Mgr: Robert Cline

Successful “Circus”...
In their efforts to publicize last weekend’s social activities on the campus with girls from Salem and Queens as guests,
Shaw Smith and company advertised that the events would rival a three-ring circus. We could hardly classify the extravaganza as
a circus, for the only animals seen were a few wolves on the loose, but the program was certainly as
entertaining.

Skeptical students opined that the “Y” was trying to outdo itself in promoting more and bigger campus functions. They scoffed
that lack of organization would probably make a farce of the whole idea. Such criticism generally comes from those who
are so absorbed in the idea of getting away from the campus for the weekend that they fail to realize
that there are some students, civilians as well as soldiers, who get their only social diversion from such campus activities.
There are a few who remain on the campus that do not participate either from lack of interest in or
from pure prejudice against any activity sponsored by the YMCA. This criticism and lack of interest on the part of
some is wholly unjustifiable. The many who have joined in the spirit of these occasions have expressed their wholehearted approval.

The YMCA and other departments of the college have a Herculean task on their hands. In view of the prohibition
of the normal social outlet—the dance, they are doing their utmost to provide other forms of entertainment for the Air
Crew students as well as the regular college students. We think they are doing an excellent job. Someone commented that
there must have been a lot of praying done on Saturday to drive away the threatening clouds and provide such
beautiful weather. But Providence alone was not responsible for the success of the event. It took long hours of planning
and organization to put it across.

In closing, we toss orchids to those who contributed to the success of the “circus.” To Wellford Hobbie and the
boarding house managers for providing the bountiful supply of food; to Bill Grosse for handling the arrangement of dates with
the visiting girls; to Alf Taylor for running the square dance, and to all who helped in lesser ways, including
the genial Mr. Smith.

Sunday Activities...
Students have long had strong feelings against the ruling of the administration prohibiting participation in any form of sports on
the campus on Sunday. When the local law enforcement body was called upon last weekend to prevent any such activities
on the local athletic fields, the storm of student protest reached a new high. It was the last straw.

We don’t like to draw a comparison between Davidson and prep schools, but it has been pointed out that at
McCallie school in Chattanooga, where religion is strongly emphasized and students’ activities carefully controlled, the boys are allowed to participate
in sports on the Sabbath. Rules with regard to this subject have been relaxed somewhat there in order to encourage
them to stay on the campus. Yet with all of the college’s efforts to get the students to spend their
weekends here, they refuse them the relaxation and exercise that an afternoon of play in the sun provides, forcing them
to seek this diversion elsewhere.

We believe there should be more of the element of personal conscience in Sabbath observance on the campus and less
compulsion. There are many Christian students on the campus who can participate in wholesome, non-commercialized athletics on Sunday without the
least feeling of sinfulness. On the other hand, the administration encourages students not to study on Sunday, but few professors
make allowances for this in making assignments over the weekend. Neither do they hire students to check up and report
students who prepare Monday’s lessons on Sunday. Is it not the same principle?

Campus Forum
Dear Legh:
You may be interested in some statistics that a Davidson student made last year, the results of which were never
published. He wanted to find out whether a man has a better chance of success in life if he devotes
his time to study while in college and becomes the valedictorian, or if he spends part of his time making
contacts and becomes president of the student body. I am not sure that the statistics prove what he set out
to prove for two reasons. Success is hard to define. It may mean a life that is satisfactory to the
individual and have nothing to do with acclaim from others. In the second place, the criterion for success was taken
to be “Who’s Who in America.” By no means would everyone agree that all successful people are listed in that
publication.

At any rate here are his results: Since 1895 when Davidson first had both student body president and a valedictorian,
there have been two of the former in “Who’s Who” and five of the latter. One of the first two
named was both president of the student body and valedictorian, so he doesn’t prove much except that he was a
pretty outstanding fellow. The results would seem to show that you have four times as much chance of success in
the world if you are valedictorian than if you are president of the student body. I have an idea, however,
that the same statistics taken twenty years from now might be different, since practically all the student body presidents in
recent years have also been at the top scholastically. I pass this on to you for what it is worth.

Sincerely yours,
Chalmers G. Davidson,
Director of the Library.

TINY HEINE AND HIS MEDICAL COLLEGE OF VIRGINIA ORCHESTRA MIX MUSIC WITH THEIR MEDICINE! THEIR “HOBBY” BAND CURES FELLOW STUDENT'S
BLUES.

IN A SCRAP KEY DRIVE, UNIV. OF TEXAS COLLECTED MORE THAN 8500 KEYS.

HELP YOUR PALS OVER THERE!

GIANT CLIFFORD THOMPSON, 8 FEET 7 INCHES TALL, STUDIES LAW AT MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY. BUY WAR BONDS. HE TOWERS OVER HIS
CLASSMATES AS HE STUDIES LAW.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday
FOREVER AND A DAY
Since this show has already run its opening day performance in Davidson on Wednesday of this week, everyone who hasn’t
seen it will no doubt have heard so many varying opinions as to its merits that we’ll forego any comment.

Friday and Saturday
STAR SPANGLED RHYTHM
High voltage joking by Bob Hope, singing by Dot Lamour and Bing Crosby and dancing by Vera Zorina highlight a
rather scantily attired plot in a good song and dance show. Most of the lesser name comedians in Hollywood’s big
time are in the cast, and some good sets plus good songs, among them “Black Magic” make it a good
bet for entertainment. Victor Moore, in a typical part, heads the supporting cast, and Carol Landis adds to the attractiveness
of the sets.

Monday and Tuesday
HAPPY GO LUCKY
Unfortunately, no advance information is available on this show, but its booking spot on Monday and Tuesday indicates that it
is a superior grade musical comedy. Dick Powell, Mary Martin, and Rudy Vallee play the leads.

Wednesday
REUNION IN FRANCE
Joan Crawford returns to the screen in a stirring picture about the war in Europe. I would like for A.
C. Hoheb to be my guest for any show next week.

Operating Table
Back on the job after a week's vacation, the evil eye focuses on a number of choice morsels... Betas Monk
Caterson and Robusky Raney made an all-night stand of both nights of their functioning last weekend. Most of the dog-liver-eaters
weregolf course bound Saturday night with blankets... There were more shields and diamonds worn by girls than by the brothers
it is reported... O'Kelly kept repeating that McCrary made her feel like a heathen. “Neck” faux pas of the season
up in Wilkes County Sunday. Taylor pulled the prize. Now they are calling him the Strangler or something, and McCoy
avows that he can’t show his face in his home town again. “Viceless” Wilson was all smiles last week when
he learned that Julie had been elected captain of the wrestling team. And while on the subject of wrestling, Washburn
and Macky put on such an exhibition at the picnic Saturday that the crowd’s attention was focused on them instead
of M. S. (Master of Ceremonies) Smith.

Lard and “Brains” Dunn tried all the way from Mooresville to Huntersville for dates Saturday night, unsuccessfully. They had their
eyes on a couple of soldiers’ dates, but Henry complained that the soldier was too big for him. “Ace” Maloney
wandered way up to Taylorsville, seeking seclusion we suppose. “Bub Sweet” has been reformed in all except his ways with
the women. What is this wager that is reported between him and “Punchy” Bruce? Speaking of Mooresville, “Awful” Farrar caught
his mumps up there, they say. T. B. Davis, Amos, and Booth continue their secretive trips to Charlotte, but nobody
has been able to discover the object of the expeditions. “Yo-Yo Head” Watson and his date didn’t quite make it
to their singing engagements in Charlotte Sunday. “Porky” purposely missed the bus on account of the companionship was just too
something. Hobbie escorted a crowd over to Queens Saturday and proceeded to get dates for everybody but himself. Reports on
the deal at the Holy City are scarce indeed, but there should be some good stories yet with such wolves
as McCoy and Spencer on the scene.

BUY WAR BONDS

To guard in the quiet early morning when all are asleep, gives a soldier an impressive feeling of importance and
responsibility as he plies his post, back and forth, back by the shadow of himself and gun—and forth, accompanied only
occasionally glancing at it to be sure he makes a straight formidable appearance... Listening to the locomotive whistles talk at
night makes us marvel at the contrasting temperament between that of a Southern engine that announces its approach in a
low, soothing, somewhat melancholy tone; while that of the North pierces the stillness of the night with a shrill, impatient
scream. Is it the way the engineers blow them, or could it be that the steam we make up north
is stronger? What a cozy snug feeling to stand defiantly in a Davidson deluge listening to the amplified pitter-patter of
rain drops on a helmet. Shucks, we soldiers have all the fun. We look forward to a pleasant acquaintanceship with
the members in our group, and at this point add that the over-zealous manner in which some of our Upper-classmen
approached the new group with instructions of the “Rat walk” etc., is not in the least indicative of the majority’s
attitude. For a friendly handshake and a warm smile, stop at the Y. M. C. A. and meet Shaw Smith—one
swell fellow. (Now it’s your turn Shaw) Shaw sparks most of the activities that take place in Davidson, and if
you’ve some unguided excess energy, he’ll be very glad to direct it into the proper channels that lead to Church,
social, and sport affairs. While you're there, you may find pleasure in plopping down in one of the large comfortable
chairs and dreamily listening to some of the swell recordings available. Woe is me! Sitting here on the athletic field
writing this babble, I have been descended upon by a group of Davidsonians—age about nine and popping full of questions.
Several wear flight caps and wings and gaze at me critically while I wish my shoes were shinier, my hair
combed, and remain perfectly disgusted with the button that just popped off my shirt sleeve. Guess they’ll join the Navy
when they grow up. Looking across the field, a few napkins blowing about remind us of the gay crowd that
picnicked, danced, and enjoyed the skits presented by Salem, Queens, and Davidson talent Saturday night. Mrs. Bonner surprised and delighted
us all when she held forth at the mike and expertly rendered a dance-provoking spiel of barn dance chatter. By
far the most fatigued little creature at the end of the day was Mr. Ebony Sniff—a black little dog that
browsed about all over the field, minding his own business and everyone else’s.

“Thanks, Yanks, But Card Dances No Go” headed a local publication's comment on our Squadron Dance. Shucks, but we all
had fun and we're quite sure the girls did too. It seems our dance produced an assortment of wall-flowers that
would amount to a herbarium in itself. Trying to be helpful, Henry, the Davidson man who leads the band, grabbed
the mike and suggested a bit of “cutting in, students with dates.” The answer was a resounding ‘no’ from the
air crew. Our shoulders are still bloody from wading through the Servicemen's Pier at Miami Beach, where the tags in
one hour’s dancing would make those of the combined dances in Charlotte look like small potatoes. Let us add: Introductions
were out as the long hairs glumly shuffled about the floor, snarling and snapping at the stag line as they
slithered by, hoardingly clutching their dates and furtively glancing about with eyes strained and bloodshot from the many furious glares
exchanged when jostlings took place in the course of the dance. The writer that afforded such excellent publicity has touched
a soft spot in our hearts, and we have decided to accommodate him by bringing one of our G. I.
gas masks to our next dance so that he can review it without the slightest discomfort. Let’s see now, how
the deuce can I get this ether into this contraption. Oops, now I dood it.

AL LANG.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

THE NIGHT: folks were thanked for fine work on the Circus? Such as Jim Harris (stadium cleaning), Paul Horn Worth
(stage and lights), LaConte Cathey (sound), “Doc” White (steady work for all and in everything. Incidentally, this man is a
gem. Ask any man who has ever been out for a sport but don’t make me name my sport), same
of Queens, Victory Bells, Davidson, and all surrounding points. Washington to Atlanta (wonderful weaknesses we want), Mrs. Wilson (Guest House
Hostess and friend to all of us and our gals), Mrs. Bonner, Alf Taylor, Buddy Carson, Jack Moore, Coach McEver,
Coach Whittle, and many others (square squealers), S., Q., & D. (stunts), A. Taylor (poem incidentally said as he felt
it, which I greatly like to hear), Constantine Kontos (finger fiddling), Rhea Dabney (song leader... added difficulty: just lost wisdom
tooth!), W. Hobbie (picnic professor... aided by many henchmen), Mr. and Mrs. Krupnick and Mr. and Mrs. Kriegas (without whom
supplying dates would not have been possible!), Cadet Major L. and his Sgt. (ibid), Bill Grosse (listing of boys and
gals... for dates, naturally), George Peters & Playmates (helpers in time of need... remember? I do), Mary Martha Nixon, Sara
Henry, Normie Tomlin, and others (name nabbers), Lt. Brooks (arrangements in general and particular... including Victory Bell cuties with Mrs.
Harvey), All The Girls Who Took A Chance With Us (Blind Dates... we who they “just couldn’t see”), Whitley, Patrick,
(body beautiful bunch tempting the draft boards), Gene Washam and Co. (music extraordinary), A. E. (patience of a patient), Everybody...
for everything, and especially those mentioned in particular...

War is so at odds in the mind's creation, but not so when we stare at empty seats in chapel...
Greenery of the campus, now blotted with khaki; necessary, not nice... Basketball: Air Crew won 37-30 over D. All-Stars, Sgt.
Gay promoting... see ory and Behrman not Brain Bends: Spring... more complete coverage... Quotations: “How I'd like to see you
all again and sit in on one of those evenings at the ‘Y’: hear Fall and Spring Service speakers again”...
“Davidson gives you something to fall back on when the going gets tough. You fellows are doing more for the
war effort than we are. You have given us a background that makes army life a real pleasure. Keep up
the good work”... “Another thing you learn in the army is that you’re not changed because of a uniform. You
don’t, you can’t, forget certain ideals, beliefs, etc., that were there before you went in”... Now Is The Time, Fellows...
Yours, Shaw Smith. Next week some...
