Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 5, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Delta Kappa lost two of her members with the beginning of the spring term. Chapter President Jesse Wooten, who graduated
at the end of the semester as a result of the accelerated program, and Brother Clarence Olive, who transferred to
Wake Forest in order to complete specialized pre-medical work.

Brother Buddy Thompson is out of school for an extended time because of an attack of pneumonia. He is at
his home in Bristol, Tenn. Exams and last weekend permitted flocks of Fijis to light out for home or on
wild hares of various kinds. Brother Tom Cameron and Brother Tom Hart visited the Howards in their country estate in
Jackson, Tenn. Brother Howell Morrow went home to West Point, Ga., while Brother Bob Crowell traveled to his home in
Lexington, Va. Brothers “Kidd” Oliver and Murdock McKeithan and Pledge Brother Leighton McKeithan went hunting and wolfing on the McKeithan
plantation in S.C. Pledges Bill Richardson, Ross Steele, and Dave Richardson ran around in Virginia over the weekend, going to
Randolph-Macon and Lynchburg.

To fill the vacancy left by its graduating president, Delta Kappa elected Bill Lyman, editor of Scripts 'N Pranks, college
magazine, and president of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, as its new president.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The SAE's gave up after a strenuous exam period and scattered as far as return bus tickets would take them.
The City Gate led things, followed by Brothers Hodgin, Little, and others. Enjoying the fellowship in Charlotte were Brothers Bethea,
Lee, Erwin, Stewart, and others. Brother Powell tripped to a Texas wedding, and Brother Douglas glanced off Chester (S.C.).

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kap house was practically deserted over the weekend. All the brothers and pledges went hither and yon looking
for sympathy after finishing their exams. Brother Emery Denny had the exciting end of his trail at Fort Bragg. Pledge
Brother Charlie Reid would no doubt give Denny a close second. He went to Duke and Salem. On the trip
home his pocket was picked. The moral of this little story is: Never go to sleep in a bus station.

As usual, Charlotte received the majority of the brothers and pledges. Brothers Ned Everett, Dick Bradley, George Wilkinson, Earl Yantis,
Clarence McArthur, and Pledge Brothers Van Taylor, Roy Williams, Dave Walker, Ernest Hunter, and Claiborne Smith were among those you
probably saw tramping the familiar territory around Tryon and Trade streets. Other towns in the Carolinas receiving Pi Kaps were:
Hickory: Brothers O. D. Evans, Tony Bumgardner, and Pledge Brothers Robert Cline and Dan McKachin; Greenville: Brothers Calhoun Hipp, Ed
Murray, and Williams; Brother Carl Fischer and Pledge Brothers John Fesperman, Bill Ed Robbins. Brother Shady Campbell went to Sunnyville;
Brother John McCrea did some dealing in Durham and Chapel Hill; Brothers Bob Gaither, George Floyd, and Price Lineberger went
home to Newton, Woodruff, and Gastonia, respectively; and our big dealer of the pledge class, Billy Ragsdale, went down to
Winthrop.

The Pi Kaps are going to miss Brothers Erskine Parks and Frank Logan this semester, who graduated last Friday.

BETA THETA PI

About half of the brothers took off to Greensboro and W.C. over the weekend. The crew included Brothers Pritchett, Raney,
Caterson, Walker, Garrison, Wheeler, Mebane, Barnwell, and Pledges Newell, Newlin, and Garrison. Pritchett, the Garrisons, Mebane, and Barnwell went on
to their homes in Burlington Saturday night, while Pledge Newell went to his home in Roxboro with the whole crowd
coming back to Greensboro Sunday night.

KAPPA SIGMA

Brothers and pledges flocked to Charlotte to see the ‘Cats take Carolina to ride in the great basketball game at
the Queen City Monday night. Brother Tommy Peters was high man again with points to re-enter the race for high
scorer of the conference. Twin Brother George, “Foots” Currie, and Pat Williams also did well for the Davidsons.

For the weekend, Brothers Amos and Booth led the deals with a long jaunt up to see flames at Hollins
in old Roanoke. Brothers Scott and Wilson, the “Queens Kid,” took off to their respective homes in Goldsboro and Lowell.
Brother Wilson is already looking forward to his proposed deal down to Red Springs. Wow... Brother McGee went home to
Charleston, while Ben Lacy and Wilbo dealt in nearby Concord. Pledges Wilkinson and Taliaferro went to Lincolnton for a time,
and George Peters rode up to Richmond for quite an extended jaunt. McCoy, Taylor, and Ace Ennet went “home” to
dear old Montreat, recalling memories of last summer's operations.

The chapter regrets the loss of Pledges McArn and Powell to the armed services, and wishes them well in their
new undertaking. Brother Ashby Dick also leaves for the army, after graduating over the weekend in Davidson's first mid-year graduation
exercises.

KAPPA ALPHA

Topping the weekend after exams was the basketball game which most of the pledges and brothers attended. Playing in the
game were brothers Lowry, Belk, and Sutton. Making trips to their homes were Brothers Royster to Oxford, Beaty to Lumberton,
Speas to Winston, K. Dunn to Sumter, and Richeson to Waynesville and Atlanta. Pledges MacDonald and Lawson went to Chester,
Ingram, Young, and I. Speas to Winston, S. Dunn to Sumter, and Wilds to Hendersonville. Brothers Jackson, Whitesides, Barnwell, Jeffries,
and V. Watt did some operating at Winthrop.

We are sorry to report the loss of Pledge Jack Burke, and Brothers Buie, Sprunt, Paterson, Harris, and Mitchell from
the chapter. Brother Buie returned to Mississippi to complete his work there. The others were among those graduating from the
college last week. Brother Red Burke traveled up to Williamsburg to William and Mary to see his one and only.
Pledge Collins ran up to St. Mary’s while Brother Sandifer went to Atlanta. Brother Abbott traveled up to Henderson.

This weekend will be filled with the dance Saturday night in Charlotte and with a fine golf game on Friday
night.

PHI DELTA THETA

After the long drive on exams, the Phi's were operating in Charlotte in true style. A goodly number of the
brothers and pledges were seen in the Queen City on Saturday night. Brother McLean hit the hometown of Lenoir while
Brother Sutton paid a short visit to his family in Charlotte. On Sunday, Brothers Hendee, Archer, Watson, Sutton, Starnes, and
Pledge Brothers Styron, Sheely, and Spangler hit Walgreen's for a coke and attended the show afterwards. They returned to Davidson
via Beaty’s Ford.

The Phi's were well represented at the Carolina game Monday night. Brothers found there included Oglesby, McClean, Loughridge, Wright, and
Sutton. Brother Hendee and Pledge Styron showed up at the game with two local females of most admirable quality.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The Pikas had a weekend of assorted dealing after almost two full weeks of torture in Chambers Building. As usual,
Charlotte claimed the leading number of victims, with Greensboro running second. Brother Gibbs walked off with honors as the mystery
man of the week. He disappeared sometime Saturday.

COLLEGE’S FIRST MID-YEAR GRADUATING CLASS

Writer Longs For Old Days

Transportation Problems Are Subject of Treatise on “Operating”

By ED SUTTON

Once upon a time, as all good stories begin, cars could be seen streaming by the noble campus of old
Alma Mater—cars with four tires, cars with radios, cars who were never thirsty for a few drops of precious petrol.
Now half-civilized students, screaming, tight, you see a hundred fighting and rushing madly for a single seat on a bus.
Yes, I said bus. Who would have thought of it in the days of old, every ounce of energy for
a bus ride to Charlotte would seem an operator striving with every ounce of energy for a bus ride to
Charlotte. But the day of the operator is over. The Greyhound and the Beaty Ford are filled like sardine cans,
and cries of the poor trampled passengers are muffled by the booming voice of the driver who tells them to
move to the rear so that more can be packed in. As the big coach groans and strains to pull
out, you can hear cracks like “How about half price on the roof” or “If you'd build some shelves you
could get twenty more in here.” One of our fellow students had a grave accident when a citizen of Cornelius
wasn't feeling very well. That is the only time that I have ever seen a crowded bus give half its
seats to only two passengers.

When a student gets to Charlotte these days, which is usually the extent of his deal, he boards another bus.
Not only is he packed in, but he stands.Out is even worse, only like a sore thumb in a surrounding
of olive drab, which seems to be the predominant shade this season. He hears murmurs of “Ah” or “maybe he’s
got a wooden leg” come from the background. On reaching his destination, he is long after the date—sought and then—what
to do? He takes the wonderful little ride, but now things are really bad. His date likes uniforms, the soldiers
like dates, and there, my friends, is a problem which cannot be solved. The female is a movie,” says she—so
movie. Twice more. The female is not seen again until just in time to make classes Monday morning. Brother Brockman
finished all his exams the first week and spent an entire week in High Point. None of the details are
available. Blackjack Shelton and Jim Siske tipped off to Greensboro after Friday exams. Nuff said. Brother Goldston, as usual, spent
the weekend in Concord. On behalf of the entire chapter, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the
members of all the other fraternities for their many courtesies extended to us due to our recent difficulties during the
burning of our house.

Experienced Freshman Last Fall Advises Incoming Students — Trials of New Semester

“Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars, a cage. If McCoy's temper you enrage.”

You're new here, just like we were last September, and you're on a new but not too lonesome road. Our
heads have become misshapen from the constant use of the Red Cap. If red, that's your misfortune; if you look
like last week's laundry in red, that’s doubly your misfortune. We've gotten used to the things, though, and even those
who tied their “identification tags” on with ropes and nearly got their necks broken have fallen into the well-worn rut.

Upperclassmen

First of all, don't any of you get the idea that upperclassmen are down on freshmen. Oh, no! Never think
that. They love you! You're just one of the crowd. Another thing, when some senior tells you to get his
laundry, be sure and tell him that you haven’t got time and put an insulted look on your face. It's
a grand policy. Then when they throw the water on you and you wake up, don’t be discouraged. Just think.
You'll probably be asked to join Alpha Sigma Sigma.

Number Two

Suggestion number two. Always cooperate with your Phys. Ed. instructor. He'll stand by you; stand by you and laugh. They've
just received a large order of leg splints and bandages and some back braces, and maybe you'll be the chosen
few to model. Who knows!

One sure fire thing to do: Forget that you were prep-school’s leading Glamour Boy; forget that you were the world’s
biggest thumb. Forget that you were your high school’s star attraction on all the teams; that you were a God-send
to your community. It doesn’t work! It says so in your freshman handbook.

Shaw Smith

When you have the chance, get to know Shaw Smith. If he’s as clever as Calvin Coolidge and as funny
as Ilsa Maxwell, don't hold that against him. It’s not his fault. He is really great though. You ought to
check that on your list right now.

No Orientation

You've not had the usual lengthy orientation but have jumped into classes. You won't miss it much! Just hang on
and you'll be the grandest on campus!

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

ALL LATEST HITS
On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA, and DECCA RECORDS
Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

Erskine Parks, Fuller, Laurel, Miss.; Peter Young, Bristol, Va.; Shown above are the first graduates of Davidson College in a
mid-winter exercise. Left to right, they are: Front row, Harry Allen, Florence, S. C.; Linus Banker, Charlotte; Harris, Roxboro, N.
C.; Frank Logan, Rutherfordton, N. C.; George Mitchell, Wilmington; Jesse Wooten, Memphis, Tenn.; Arthur Rankin, Mount Holly; Bill Shaw, Fayetteville;
Hugh Sprunt, Wilmington; George Tyson, Florence, S. C. Back row, Ashby Dick, Sumter, S. C.; Wilson McDiarmid, Greenville, N. C.;
Bill Connor, Gastonia; John Wood, Davidson; Fred Morton, Waycross, Ga.

“Y” Sends Deputation To Schools

Visit Queens, Salem in Near Future; Also Serve Nearby Churches

Many churches and other religious organizations have been visited by deputations during the last three weeks, and they will visit
Queens and Salem Colleges on Sunday, February 14. The churches during the last month have emphasized missions. The Y.M.C.A. has
sponsored the trips of several groups of speakers to the churches of this area. The topics presented by these groups
were missions. They went to the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, the First Presbyterian Church of North Wilkesboro, and Mitchell
College in Statesville, as well as to many of the churches in the immediate area around Davidson. Queens and Salem
College are scheduled as the next places to be visited by deputation teams. The subjects of the programs to be
presented on Sunday, February 14, and the students making the trips have not yet been announced.

ROTC CONTRACTS

To fill vacancies left open in the number of contracts by the graduation of seniors in advanced ROTC, the following
have been tentatively selected, subject to passing the required physical examination: Galvich, E. C.; Helland, D. W.; Neisler, P. M.;
Peters, G. B.; Peters, T. L.; Powell, T. L.; Siske, B. C.; Smith, J. L.; Whitley, W. L.; Winchester, R.
B.

Ping Pong Tables

Additional Ping Pong tables have been opened to the use of the students in the old Y.M.C.A. game room in
Phi Hall. These tables are available for use between 1:30 and 6:30 every day, as previously announced to the student
body. The room is under the care of Buck Anderson and Bert Ingram. They are responsible for keeping the room
warm.

Plenty of Amusement

Shaw Smith has reminded students that the Y.M.C.A. provides plenty of amusement for their spare time. There are the Ping
Pong and Pool tables in the Y.M.C.A., Ping Pong tables in Phi Hall, and the games in the “Y” lounge.

“Y” Gift Fund Nearly Raised

Lack Only $300 of Having Entire Amount In Cash

Most of the subscribers for the Y.M.C.A. gift fund have paid their contributions to the collectors. Still unpaid is around
$300. Up to the end of this week, the individual collectors have been in charge of receiving the money. They
will turn in their unpaid cards to the Y.M.C.A. Starting next week, Welford Hobbie and Alf Taylor will personally contact
all those with pledges still outstanding. Welford Hobbie, chief collector for the Y Gift Fund, urges all students to pay
up their pledges. The money is needed now for the work among the Negroes.

Thursday and Friday, February 4 & 5
“WHO DONE IT?”

Saturday, February 26th
JOHNNY COMES MARCHING HOME
LATE SHOW
THE HIDDEN HAND

Monday and Tuesday, February 7th and 8th
KEEPER OF THE FLAME

Wednesday, February 9th
WE ARE THE MARINES

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
