Page Two The Davidsonian

The Class of 1915 Founded by Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly "For a Better Davidson"

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y., CHICAGO
- BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN IVEY STEWART EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

Editorials

thing, at a threat to their abstract rights. But they will not take the trouble to pass through the basement
of Chambers to practice the very same rights. Let's make the rest of the elections one hundred percent representative. There
is little difference in the importance of the office when you think that each is a job to be filled
by the best possible man, regardless of the primary system.

Campus Forum

THE DAVIDSONIAN ROLLS COLLEGE DURING ITS 100 YEARS OF EXISTENCE, HOLLINS HAS HAD BUT THREE PRESIDENTS! ITS FOUNDER CHAS. COCKE

Dear Ed:

There has been in the past so much praise of the Davidson elections system, which many feel is the best
that could be operative at a school like Davidson, that it seems almost a sacrilege to suggest that all are
not so heartily in favor of the "closed politics" system. First, it must be admitted that such a system has
many important advantages, particularly in dispensing with the political hullabaloo and mass psychology

EDITORIAL STAFF

Lacy McLean Assistant Editor Wally Inman Associate Editor Jack Wye Associate Editor Mary Feltrics Managing Editor Maxwell Morton Managing Editor
John Dailey Managing Editor Jim Stutts Managing Editor Dale Wilton Managing Editor Legh Noort Sports Editor Bob Welsh State Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF

Advertising Manager Dick Ort Advertising Manager Jim Harris Circulation Manager Penny Hodges Subscription Manager George Rosborough Contact Manager Buddy Carson

Voting Rights...

Perhaps it is just another evidence of the feeling of the times, to which too many evils have already been
attributed, but the voting this year has so far been a disgrace to the Davidson political system. The last straw,
to our mind, came with two Y.M.C.A. officers, one student body officer, and an amendment to the student body constitution
to be voted on: only 297 out of 540 students exercised this right. When only 297 out of 540 students
take the trouble to vote for as important a leader as the president of the Y.M.C.A., one begins to wonder
whether the will of the majority is being expressed in the most effective manner. Under the closed politics system non-fraternity
men in particular are inclined to adopt an indifferent attitude toward the outcome of elections. The independents have, in large
measure, adopted the opinion that Davidson politics are really a closed affair among the fraternities, in which they have no
part and little interest. For whom the blame for this indifference may be laid is beside the point: that it
is present does not speak well for the system.

FROM 1846 TO 1901! & HIS DAUGHTER MATTY L. COCKE SERVED FROM 1901 TO 1933

IS SAID TO HAVE BEEN FIRST USED BY JOHN WITHERSPOON, PRESIDENT OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, IN 1781

Letters

CAMPUS ODDITIES

GRANDDADDY SERIES LONGEST FOOTBALL RIVALRY IS THE FAMOUS LAFAYETTE - LEHIGH SERIES WHICH BEGAN IN 1884. THEY HAVE PLAYED 75
GAMES!

Win By-Lines By BILL LYMAN

SWAN SONG:

Tonight we sing our swan song, since the new staff will have been elected and appointed by the next issue
of this rag. I suppose that we should be sentimental. As a matter of fact, writing has been quite a
bit of trouble

outstanding dealers is the basis for JOURNEY FOR MARGARET which is the bargain day attraction. Robert Young is a journalist
whose wife, Lorraine Day, suffers from a mental derangement due to a bomb injury. The two English children with whom
he comes in contact on an assignment capture his heart, and the story ends happily as he takes both the
orphans safely back to America. I would like for MYRON SANDIFER to be my guest for any performance next week.

The Operating Table

This weekend found many of the "pinned to the ground", to revert to military parlance, but to revert to the
military find that alumnus dealers were Johnny MacAllister of St. Mary's addicts became pinned to something more interesting before departing
for the Air Corps. Leading on the campus and vicinity were Rail (The Chin) Brinson, Neill, and Oho, who deputized
to every hot spot between the Snappa house and Statesville. Shifting the scene to the nearby Q. City and the
weekly Broadway cutic festival, we hear vague but muzzled reports of Shaw Smith, who came not to dinner but to
"see the magician" leaving immediately after. Big joke Two-Ton Maxwell accomplished the unusual, to say the least, by journeying to
Spartanburg to court not Converse babe but an apartment dweller. Marvin Mebane was voted belle of the ball by the
Converse stag line at their recent girl break. Jolly Joe McCoy passed up the golden opportunity at the figure lead
for this function with "——." Alexander, to trip to Charleston with the basketeers. Speaking of Converse, we wonder what the
effect of the Wofford merger will be on the chances of campus Lochinvars with interests in that area? Question of
the week

The Fiji blanket roll provided the campus kids with food for chatter with "E. F." Crowell giving chase around the
greens shouting weird mating calls to his date. Ray Preston pulled the mystery when he contracted tropical fever early in
the evening and retired, leaving his date to prey on the brotherhood. B. F. Moore sprung the surprise of the
year on his intimates, if the rumor is verified when he calmly journeyed to McColl and matrimony. Seems the bride
is a Senior beauty at Furman. Congratulations and things, Pitt. High School Pierce, Nigger-Head Maloney, and Bub Sweet sought to
evade the prying eye of the public, and this column, by indulging in a secretive hare with the locals. It
appears that the Ace is following in Glamour Ennett's footsteps in trying to lock with one of the comelier dolls.
Jim Montgomery shocked the Phi Delt chapter with tales of a vivid weekend involving date-swapping and the Winthrop May dell.
Bill Emerson made a thirty-seven hour excursion by ferry, rail, and goat-back to spend a short evening with his Vanderbilt
connection. Advocate of long distance wooing recently uncovered (along with the new Freshman) on the first floor of Georgia is
"Cod Liver" MacArthur, whose look is fast approaching the condition of his roommate's. Only the horrors of the Black Hole
of Calcutta look tame compared to a nightmare. R.O.T.C. cut system prevents a sherdunto. Stooging for the paratroopers thumb-pressing detail
to far-off "By Lites" (7) The new courses in comparative military strategy (i.e., the art of snaring men based on
military principles) at girls' schools renders the male collegian even further helpless. (8) So important have the "between-halves" of football
games become that football itself should be abolished.

eligible to vote exercised this right. which they have no part and little interest. For whom the blame for this
indifference may be laid is beside the point: that it is present does not speak well for the system.

Bill Lyman

Football itself should be abolished.

what is to happen to the school and to themselves personally in times like these. It may not make any
difference in the latter connection whether you as a part of the student political set up care what kind of
officers run that organization but it could easily make a great deal of difference to the school. Perhaps you are
one of the embarrassingly large group that wonders what, after all, does the student government accomplish: They are bound by
faculty rules and subject to override by that body, which hits primarily to act as a supreme court. In this
case it would only be necessary to point out that the faculty has never reversed a decision of the Student
Council, that control of virtually all the finances at the disposal of student groups is in the hands of students,
and that our entire system is pointed out as a model in colleges and universities all over the country, many
of whom write in periodically for more information, as Sandifer has testified. If on the other hand you refrain from
voting because you feel that you will not be back next year and that things will rock along for a
few months regardless of how you vote, then you are blind to an even larger issue. Hackneyed as theStatement may
sound, college has always been looked upon as the place where the principles of good, democratic American living are taught.
These are the things that we are supposed to be fighting for. It all comes back to the fact that
people are often willing to die for things for which they are not willing to live. They will sacrifice peace,
fortune, and the present elections system. The complete lack of unity among non-fraternity men at Davidson precludes their operating as
a political unit, which is probably for the best. But still, they feel that each fraternity is organized behind its
own men. In addition, there can be no denial that in past years all of the various fraternities did not
hold firm to the no-combine rule. The non-fraternity man, believing, rightly or wrongly, that his individual vote will have no
effect on an election whose outcome is controlled by such gargantuan organizations, does not feel that it is his duty
to go by the polls and express his sentiments. There is no advocation here of the high-pressure, placard-spreading method of
open politics such as is practiced at Carolina, but I doubt that any such rumpus would result at Davidson from
opening politics to the extent of opening discussion. For the simple reason that I don't believe that high-pressure methods would
be successful at Davidson, where the members of the student body know each other. It has been argued that discussion,
that is, persuasion, would result in keeping the best men out of office. But if popularity is not the only
test of leadership, it seems to me that discussion is the only way to present to the student body as
a whole the good points of a capable man who is not so well known. Whether they are biased or
not, many non-fraternity men feel that the present regulations apply in actuality only to them and are a farce to
fraternity men. Maybe a little more discussion would increase the voting ratio, particularly among the independents in post-war Davidson.

Sincerely,
INDEPENDENT

(1) Be sure to prepare your family for your grades before sending them home.
(2) The male is utterly helpless in the hands of a screaming female, as shown by Page Harris’ famous trip
to St. Mary's last spring.
(3) When rationing of clothes really gets under way, we shall all look like characters in “Lil Abner.”
(4) Over-efficiency never pays, as witnessed by Jumping Joe McCoy's disastrous trip to Spartanburg.
(5) The college man has no chance against the military man.
(6) There is no way in which to close a letter written to a casual female friend.
(7) Our Dad's Day couldn't hold a candle to Little Sisters’ Day, held at a nearby institution.
(8) The only thing that a girl wants when dating is to be “seen.”
(9) All girls who quarantined available women around the center of Davidson's social life were Chaperone Daniels, Fisty Richardson, Country
Hodgin, and Wolf-Man Hood, whose true love declares his other title a misnomer.
(10) In affairs d'amour, the college man has a sort of martyr’s enjoyment out of it.
(11) The college man has no chance against the military man.
(12) There is no way in which to close a letter written to a casual female friend.
(13) Our Dad's Day couldn't hold a candle to Little Sisters’ Day, held at a nearby institution.
(14) The only thing that a girl wants when dating is to be “seen.”
(15) All girls who quarantined available women around the center of Davidson's social life were Chaperone Daniels, Fisty Richardson, Country
Hodgin, and Wolf-Man Hood, whose true love declares his other title a misnomer.
(16) The prom-trotting female is being replaced by a trench-digging, coal-shoveling type of girl, which presents no end of wooing
tactics problems to the college man.

With these sage observations and exhortations, we go. Au revoir!

BY-LINES
Cinema Comments
By Lacy MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday -- ARABIAN NIGHTS -- Walter Wanger's technicolor extravaganza, ARABIAN NIGHTS, is the first of a solid week
of unusually high-caliber cinema entertainment. Maria Montez, whose feminine charms have been widely publicized, is cast as an Arabian charmer
in the role. Co-starring are Leif Erikson and Sabu, an old faithful in pictures.

Saturday -- SEVEN SWEETHEARTS -- One of the rising young character actors, Van Heflin, cast as a freelance reporter-photographer, visits
a charming Dutch village sheltered away in New York. His father prevents his getting the story of the unique village
for a week, but in the interim, he meets a family of seven sweethearts and falls in love with lovely
Katherine Grayson. Marsha Hunt, one of the sweethearts, wins top-ranking honors with Heflin, but Grayson's singing is one of the
high spots of the show.

Monday and Tuesday -- THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD -- Radio's top comedian, Jack Benny, cast as the meanest
man in the world, comes to Davidson Monday and Tuesday in the show of the same name. In the play
with Benny are Priscilla Lane, back at work as always after a leave of absence, and the unfailing Rochester.

Wednesday -- JOURNEY FOR MARGARET -- William L. White’s best-selling novel of the hardships imposed on family life in much-bombed
England.

Y’s Corner
By JIM McCRARY

Hi, Friends! (I'm pinch-hitting for Smith, so naturally, I have to say that). I hope you are not too disappointed
not to be able to find the genial wit and wise thoughts of the magician in this week's corner. Colin
had to go to Charlotte this Monday on business and pleasure, and I tagged along. As we reached the Queens
campus, he remembered then Y's Corner and sent me back to Davidson to write it. My, he sure is kind
to give me such a privilege, isn’t he? Seriously, though, I wonder if we realize how lucky we are to
have such an excellent Secretary. I consider my close association with him for the past two years one of the
most memorable parts of my college experience. Those of you who don’t know him intimately should drop around the Y
more often and find out what's under that “hi friend” stuff. Although sometimes we don’t believe it, there is a
real love for people behind his warm and benevolent helpings of friendship for everyone. Such a love for people can
come only from a love for God, so, after all, his deep spirituality is the secret of his success. That
has come only from a wholehearted commitment of his life to Christ and the doing of His will. Because he
doesn't neglect his quiet time with his God each day in Bible reading, meditation, and prayer, God has blessed his
efforts in the work of His kingdom. Hats off to you, Shaw, for the excellent way in which you and
the Lord have worked together as Y Secretary at Davidson. Regardless of all of his good qualities, Shaw is still
human, and he has his moments of discouragement, as we all do. He has been playing the part of the
unsung hero around here for three years. He always asked for our criticism of the Y and its work, and
criticism is about all that we have given him. I’m sure most of us believe in giving bouquets before the
funeral, and if you think Colin has done and is still doing a good job, drop around and tell him
about it. He would appreciate it a lot, but don’t think for one minute that he put me up to
it. He will probably skin me for writing such an article, anyway. Please don't get the idea that the Y
doesn't still want and need your helpful criticism. We couldn't do without it, but the rest of us need it
worse than Smith does. Recognition should certainly be given to John Turner and his social committee for the well-planned talent
show. Bill Lyman pinch-hit for Major Bowes admirably, and Jim Dendy is an interpreter par excellence. Congratulations to all the
talented performers and especially to the prize-winners, Slymie Sanders and Jim Morgan, the Mildew Brothers; Butch Watkins; and Claude Darling
and Wilford Whitley, Wham and Slam. I heard the Grand Old Opera wanted Slymie to take Uncle Dave Macon's place.
By the way, the Mildew Brothers will be playing their romantic music in the Y lounge after the first show
Saturday night. If you are spending this weekend on the campus, drop around and enjoy yourself and increase your appreciation
of pop music. Speaking of weekend interactions, Hobbie has planned a good open forum on “Compulsory Vesper and Chapel Attendance.”
The discussion will be held at the Y this Sunday night after Vespers, and there will be two faculty members
and two students on the forum. If you have definite opinions on this subject, either pro or con, be sure
to come and let us all know about it Sunday night.

A lot of the boys have been moving this week, and quite a few of the Halls have more boys
than ever before. This means we should have bigger and better prayer meetings, and if you think the meetings on
the hall can be improved, there is a good chance to do some helpful work.

Who was it who said, “Never let the good take the place of the best?” That can be applied to
everything we do.

Yours,
Jim McCrary.
