a ng ag r ASS

RAD 35 ‘rain! RAINGI
But ucer tnat the rain is breaking, get
out there and play those matches, fellers,
\ 11 first rounc matches are long over= -
IUG,

—

"THE MOVIN! PITCHERS"
Shows begin at 6:30 P.M. Matinee on Sat-
urday only. Time shown below indicates
the length of the feature.

THURS-FRIDAY: "WHITE SAVAGE" with Maria
Monte and Sabu (Universal) 76m

SATURDAY: "Hi'G MY GUY", Dick Foran and
Eileen Hervey (Universal) 65 minutes.
SATURDAY LATE: "COWBOY IN MANHATTAN"
Frances Langford and Robert Page (Uni) 59m.
MON-TUESDAY: "STORMY WEATHER", Lena Horne,
Cab Calloway and Bill Robinson (An all-
colored cast) (Fox) 78 minutes.

WEDNESDAY: "TWO TICKETS TO LONDON" Allan
Curtis and Michele Morgan (Uni), 76 min.

"PORTIC THOUGHT OF THE WEEK"
(Darn that fellow Nash! He's here again.)
There was a young belle of old Natchez
Whose garments were always in patches.
When comment arose
On the state of her clothes,
She drawled, "When Ah itches, Ah scratches."
— Ogden Nash

Column (cont. from page 1)

TON, TERRORS SWING INTO 10-2 LEAD

With the first half of the summer soft-
ball season nearing an end, the Town team
holds a one-game lead over the second place
Watts 3-4. The Terrors have annexed three
games without a loss, while Watts has a re-
cord of one and one. Georgia 3 and Watts
1-2 are tied for third with one win and two
losses each. Georgia 1 brings up the rear.
Should Watts 3-1 upset the Terrors in their
meeting next Tuesday, the two teams will
be in a tie for first place and a play-off
will be necessary.

In the best game of the season, the Geor-
gia Giants nosed out the Georgia Crackers
3 to 2. The Giants collected only two hits
but made them count for their one run mar-
gin. The Crackers collected six hits off
Evans but managed to score only twice. Rog-
ers was the leading hitter of the day with
two hits in two trips, including a triple.

The form Terrors lashed an assault of
five hits and five runs on Evans in the
first inning as they defeated the Georgia
Giants 7-5. After the fatal first inning,
the Georgia team played improved ball but
were never able to overtake their opponents.
Spencer was the winning hurler; Siegel and
Sandifer were the batting leaders for the
winners with two for three and two for four
respectively. McAden paced the losers with
two singles and a triple in five trips.
Evans got three singles for five appearances.

The Terrors won their third straight game
by riding to an easy 11-2 triumph over the
lowly Georgia Crackers. The Terrors touched
Jones for nine hits, with outbursts of six
and four runs in the second and third in-
nings. The Giants made five scattered hits
off the offerings of Sandifer and were able
to score only twice. The Terrors were aided
by Jones' wildness, collecting a total of
seven bases on balls. Dr. Johnston paced
the victors in the attack with two singles
for three trips. Sandifer and Shannon fol-
lowed with two for four each.

As the league swings into the final week
there are two games yet to be played: the
critical Watts 3-1 vs. Town game and Geor-
gia 3 vs. Watts 1-2.

The Davidsonian, published every Thursday by Myron Sandifer, George McAden, Gilbert
Trafaceri, Jensen Yow and Herb Kaemer (Hobbie's gone courting), Shaw Smith,
Our Motto: "Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead."
