Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Just to mention: "Val few y mark cone
The Davidsonian

Published every Thursday

Wellford Hobbie-------- Editor Micritus
Myron Sandifer--------- Editor
Colin Shaw Smith------- Columnist
George Holden---------- Sports Writer
Gilbert Taliaferro------ Staff Writer
Joe Mayo--------------- Staff Writer
Jensen Yow------------- Printing
Jules Smith------------ Cartoonist
Verb Hassner----------- Typist

"Darn the torpedoes!
Full speed ahead," remarks on umpiring—he hasn't a chance with the "second front"... We surely miss W. Hobbie—I'm having to
pay for my meals now. Hen-Of-The-Neck: Not because he's gone, but because when he was here he was the same
genuine man he has always been. Friendly, interested in people, appreciative of the best in others, he is just as
much himself as he appears. Men with no more put-on than Joe McCoy find the label of "genuine" unmistakably theirs.
The scarcity of such labels multiplies their value—Best to you, Joe, wherever Uncle Sam sends you.

Glad to have Sam Hey back—he replaces Rhee Preston on the Cabinet and Sunday School job—even taught at the Sanitorium.
You will enjoy and profit from a trip here... Ask any man "What's Maco One?"...

Rev. Pritchett showed up nicely well in softball—no matter how good it will never best his preaching—hope you've been checking
limestone—or stepping where she bit. This Sunday night students take charge of Vespers—Sandifer heads the group and the program is
shaping up well—I hope you're there... "Music Under The Trees" will continue—get a date and treat her to a melody.
Saturday's party is a hodgepodge of entertainment—might surprise yourself, might even be good—C?...

Wade Harris and buddies on 3rd Ga. had a good showing at last Hall Prayer Meeting—was personally helpful to me—still
getting good reports on halls as a whole.

POETIC THOUGHT OF THE WEEK:
She was peeved and called him "Mr.",
Not because he went and kissed her,
But because just before
As she opened wide the door,
He looked at her long away—This must stop...

Yours, Shaw Smith

Softball going strong—hot game Tuesday—Coutres (pitching) vs. Linton, Lard (less) and Grey behind the bat—cuties on the side lovely distractions...
Need Dick Port back again—Butch had longing look in her eye—but J. Davis is tall enough to be looked at
long away—This must stop...

Yours, Shaw Smith
