State Takes 20-0 Victory Turner, Mauro Attack; Cat Passes Click

The North Carolina State Wolfpack decisively thumped the Davidson Wildcats before a crowd of 2,500 sun-drenched spectators at Memorial Stadium,
20-0. Bouncing back hard from a recent 17-0 loss to Duke, the Wolfpack unleashed a powerful ground attack and took
advantage of the shoddy Wildcat pass defense to chalk up the one-sided triumph. The defeat brought down the curtain on
the football scene at Davidson for the '43 campaign.

State Powerhouse Opens

The two teams sparred near midfield for the majority of the first quarter with neither team having the upper hand.
Late in the period, however, the State powerhouse began to roll. With Turner and Gibson ripping the 'Cat line to
ribbons, the Wolfpack steamrollered its way to the Davidson 15 before the quarter ended. On the first play of the
second period, Turner started to run to the left, stopped, and whipped a pass to Pearce in the end zone
for the first State touchdown. Zick converted.

After a punt exchange, the visitors again went into high gear, driving to the Wildcat 9. Turner, on the play
which had scored earlier, passed to Pearce for the second TD. Zick’s kick was good but State was penalized 15
yards for holding. Andrews promptly flipped a 17-yard aerial to Novick for the extra point. The Cats then launched a
powerful passing attack which netted four rapid-fire first downs before it bogged down deep in State territory. The half ended
with the Wolfpack on top 14 to 0.

The final State score came midway in the third quarter after a sustained drive had moved the pigskin to the
'Cat 12. At that point, the elusive Turner waltzed through the Davidson line for the tally. Zick’s conversion attempt was
wide. State put on several more drives, but they were not able to threaten seriously again. Aside from the brief
passing spurt in the second quarter, the Davidson attack was completely throttled by the heavy State line.

Turner State Star

Howard Turner, State’s speedy tailback, was clearly the outstanding performer of the day. He was aided by Mauro and Andrews
in the backfield and Pearce, Zick, and Novick in the line. For the outgunned 'Cats, the game was a tough
end to their season.

---

Wildcat Sports

BASKETBALL NEXT

Friday, November 19, 1943

THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

TOO MUCH CLEMSON

Clemson’s Leonard Riddle is shown going around end for a sizeable gain. Cats shown are Daniel, (23) Williams, (39) Crane.

Wildcats Defeated 26-6 By Clemson

Flowers Makes Only Touchdown of Season

The Clemson Tigers rolled over a stubborn Wildcat eleven 26 to 6 before a Homecoming Day crowd of 4,000 at
Memorial Stadium. Fortified by a host of speedy backs, the Tigers concentrated on their running game.Ashmore, White, and (Continued on
Page 4)

K.A.’s And Sig’s Tied For F’Ball Supremacy

K.A.’s and Sigma’s Tied For Final Supremacy

The K.A.’s and Kappa Sigs battled to a deadlock in the hotly contested interfraternity touch football race. The co-leaders each
won four victories and suffered only one defeat each.

The K.A.’s, paced by Jim Lowry and Bill Nichols, combined a powerful ground attack and a dangerous offensive to crush
their foes. This combine rolled over the Pi Kaps 6-0 and the Betas 12-6 before falling before the underdog Kappa
(Continued on Page 4)

ground attack to outgain and outscore their opponents. After receiving the opening kickoff, the 'Cats launched a drive which penetrated
deep into Clemson territory before it was halted. Led by Ashmore and White, the Presbyterian forces moved from their own
28 to the Bengal 16. The Tiger forward wall rose up at that point and averted the threat. Neither team
was able to produce a sustained march for the rest of the period. The Tigers took the offensive early in
the second quarter, blasting their way to the Davidson 1 where Williams recovered Riddle’s fumble to end the threat. A
few minutes later Rutledge intercepted (Continued on Page 4)

Basketball Season Opens Monday

Cagers Begin Fall Practice

Only One Letterman Returns

Coach Norman Shepherd will issue the call for candidates for the 1943-44 Wildcat cage outfit on Monday afternoon. In spite
of heavy losses to the armed forces, Shepherd hopes to put a flashy outfit on the court which can hold
its own against any opposition. Last season's team, one of the best in the history of the school, reached the
semi-finals of the Southern Conference Tournament before it was defeated in an overtime game by Washington University. George Peters, named
all-tournament and all-conference teams, was the sparkplug of the ‘Cat team throughout the season. Peters was aided by John Belk
and Jack Wyman, as well as other fine players. All members of last year’s team have left with the notable
exception of Jim Lowry. Nevertheless, everything points to a successful season. Ed White and Lennox Turnbull, members of last year's
freshman five, have returned, and freshmen, including Mike Williams, Bob Freeman, Bob Flowers, and J.D. Ashmore, showed up well in
games against the Air Crew this summer. (Continued on Page 6)

“B” Team Loses To Scrappy Barium Boys

In a closely contested, hard-fought game, Barium Springs nosed out the Davidson “B” team by a one-point margin, 20 to
19. The Wildcats outplayed their opponents but lacked the experience and unity that the Barium Springs boys had. Davidson scored
twice in the early minutes of the game, first by a sustained drive from midfield and again by a pass
from Scofield to Thompson, caught over the halfback’s head and run 15 yards to a T.D. Both attempts for the
extra points failed. Barium scored before the half on a drive and pass that was completed (Continued on Page 4)
