Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 3, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Monthly

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Ten cents

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

BOB PIERCE ..........EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB CUSHMAN ....BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Dave Richardson ..........Editor
Sports Editor

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night on the week that it is to be printed. The editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contributions or communications.

International Relations

Perhaps one of the contributing causes of our failure to win the peace in 1919 was the traditional failure of our colleges and universities to train their students in world thinking. Indeed, our students have been more than isolationists. They have usually lived in a little academic world all of their own with little relation to either national or international politics. The time for this has come to an end. We can no longer regard ourselves as insignificant beings in this titanic convulsion. This is our war! It shall be our peace! But have we awakened as yet to this fact? Evidently not.

There has been some effort on the part of the administration, a little on the part of the students, to stir up interest in the student body as to the significance of this global war and as to what kind of peace we shall have afterwards. Some have suggested that more lecturers of national fame be secured so as to enliven our interests and enlighten our minds. Although this is a good suggestion and should be carried out, it is not enough. There must be some basis upon which the interest of the student would be sustained from day to day and from week to week and which would direct his thinking effectively.

In the past, there has been an International Relations Club composed of students interested in this subject with a faculty adviser to guide them. It was a failure—mainly because the course of world events was not close enough to them to enliven their interest. Today this is not the case. However, because of the inadequacy of knowledge of the present Davidson student of things of an economical, political, or historical nature, it cannot be a student club alone. It must be a faculty-student organization. Only then can the student’s mind be most efficiently directed in the channels for the formation of an adequate foundation for objective thinking of things of an international and national nature.

This organization should make its presence felt on the campus by taking over the program on certain chapel days (once every two weeks) by forums open to the student body and town people. Only then can this organization be most profitable to the college. Some faculty member or student must take it into their own hands to organize such a club. If liberal education ever had any worth, it has more in time of war. With all the world in a state of flux, it is the responsibility of the institutions of higher learning to make clear the present significance of this struggle and to educate the men and women who will shape the future.Future at its cessation. Narrow-mindedness. LAMAR WILLIAMSON

“Whatcha say we go up and short-sheet him tonight?”
“Yeah, and let’s stick that old board out in the hall under his mattress!”

And they're off to have a little good clean fun. That’s one of the things that makes dormitory life worth living. Now let’s look in on the fellow who gets short-sheeted. In nine-tenths of the cases, he will act mortally hurt and raise cain for a while just as part of the game; then the whole thing will be forgotten. Some fellows attract short-sheeted beds, glue-smeared door knobs, and sometimes even cutting remarks and knowing winks just like Broadway attracts freshmen.

How many of us ever stop to think about that sort of fellow’s viewpoint? All too often, those of us who do think of the other fellow occasionally do so unfairly. If a boy seems to be a little queer because he doesn’t act just like the rest of the crowd, or because his ideas do not coincide with the average campus opinion, we are often narrow-minded enough to shun him, pester him, or give him vicious “cuts” behind his back. This is no passing problem applicable in only a few cases; it is a common failing among the student body. More good boys than we care to admit have been driven away from Davidson by an attitude of mockery which has no place in a democratic society. We pride ourselves in having a student body with a high standard of individual character. It is safe to say that there is not a man in Davidson College who does not have something admirable about his character; usually far more than we give him credit for. Isn't that a good thing to remember the next time we feel a little mean “cut” coming on?

‘Y’ Corner by ED. PATTERSON

The Evolution of a College: A short while ago I ran across some old school rules. They were found in a catalogue issued for the school year 1845-46. I want to pass some of these rules on to you, asking that you compare them with our present college rules.

1. The denial of the being of God, or the inspiration and divine authority of the Holy Scriptures; or an endeavor to propagate principles subversive to the Christian Religion, by any student, shall subject him to expulsion from college.
2. No student shall play at cards, dice, or any other immoral game; or buy, keep, or use in his room or elsewhere any intoxicating liquors; or keep a dirk, pistol, or any deadly weapon; or visit tippling-houses, or other places of ill fame; or use profane language; or be guilty of any grossly immoral conduct whatsoever, under severe penalties.
3. No student shall leave the college grounds to visit his home, or any other place whatsoever, or to go beyond the limits of an ordinary walk for recreation, without obtaining express permission from a member of the Faculty.

How often have you stopped to think what Davidson can mean to you? The point is brought home strongly by the Davidson men now in the Armed Forces, who have written back or come back and told how they feel about it. Here’s part of a letter that expresses what many of them are thinking:

“—while I was at school, people kept saying Davidson is different and it is fine—you know the first five lines of every speaker's address. Well, I put it down as so much bunk—but it isn’t bunk, that is, from one standpoint at least, and that is the campus. You don’t find anything to equal it outside that campus, I can tell you. I say all this fervently, because I mean it.”

Yours,
Ed. Patterson

STONESTREET Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main
Mooresville, N. C.