Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thursday, March 11, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Fijis who attended the Southern Conference Basketball Tournament last weekend in Raleigh were Brothers Bob Crowell, Rhea Dabney, Moose Hart,
and Tom Snodgrass. Brother Leighton McKeithan saw the final game between Duke and George Washington on his way to Cameron.
Brother Murdock McKeithan was at the whole series of games, going with the team as an assistant manager. Brother Mauze,
Spring Series speaker, visited the Lodge for dinner Tuesday night. Over the weekend, Brothers Bull Lyman and Howell Morrow visited
Salem College at Winston, and Brother Preston Oliver went to his home in Wilmington. Brother Dick O'Hair spent the weekend
“in undisclosed places somewhere in the mountains, north of Taylorsville.” Brother Wolfe visited his home in Monroe, and Pledge Brother
Bob Jones snagged a quick trip to Concord.

KAPPA ALPHA

As the boarding house waiters can testify, the K.A.’s on the hill were few and far between on campus this
weekend. Even “Bone” Richeson, not being able to stand it any longer, left for a few hours. Other Brothers left
for various destinations: M. M. Lawson and Shep Dunn went to Sumter, Brother Jackson to Columbia, and Brother Royster to
Oxford. Pledge Brother Young went to Charleston, and the majority of travelers journeyed to the basketball tournament at Raleigh. Representing
the Order on the team were Brothers J. Belk, Lowry, and Sutton. Among the spectators were Brothers Washburn, McLean, Collins,
and J. Belk. Brother Lowry, not being satisfied with the female talent there, maneuvered to Greensboro to take up operations.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The greater part of the chapter seemed content to remain on campus last weekend, with a few members taking in
Charlotte and a few more Raleigh and points of interest in South Carolina. The contingent of Parks, Blackjack Shelton, and
Two-ton breezed through the town in a quest for finer things south of the border. The Queen City was made
up of Brother Pledges Ardrey and Graves. Brother Pearsall settled for a date at Queens and a party afterwards, while
Brother West visited St. Mary's in Raleigh. Brother Ace Maloney came forth with a date with one of the Davidson
Belles. Brother Pierce, a regular Phi Mu advocate, attended their party in Charlotte. Brother Hobbie was present in Raleigh for
the Tournament. Brother John Wright left school this week with the purpose of entering Meteorology School. The fraternity will miss
this loyal brother.

S. A. E.

Many of the brothers attended the games in Raleigh. Among those seen there were Brothers Carrow, Ox Allecott, Carter, Harris,
Graves, Taylor, Hill, Wilcox, and Brother “Pop” Rogers, now of the Coast Guard. Brothers Bruce and Hunt spent the weekend
in Greenville. Also, their homes for the weekend were visited by Brothers Smith, Walker, Ramseur, and Grimbell. The chapter regrets
that Brother Port is ill in Winston-Salem. Brother Bill Hodgin is leaving school for an army job.

BETA THETA PI

The Betas again covered the state and other points last weekend. Those attending the Southern Conference Tournament in Raleigh were
Brothers Garrison, Upchurch, Walker, Welsh, and Sherrill, while Brother Byrd was there making his fine showing with the team. Brothers
Stubbins and Yokum journeyed to Raleigh with the rifle team and took in the tournament while in the capital city.
Brother Kinley Tucker took off for Laurinburg for the weekend. Brothers Walker and N. Garrison went to Greensboro College to
take in the dances, and Brother Walker, in his usual role as dealer, took part in the figure. Brother Schmidt
has returned to school after spending ten days at his home in Shelbyville, Ky. Brother Smith went to his home
in Gastonia while Brothers Ransome, Phillips, and Goode went to their homes in the Queen City. Brother McCrary spent the
weekend in Matthews, N. C. conducting the church services there Sunday. Pledge Brother Newell was dealer of the week with
an extended detail to Washington, D. C.

PI KAPPA PHI

The brethren of Pi Kap Lodge were operating far and near this weekend with many on an extended detail and
operation. Journeying to the Southern Conference Tournament in Raleigh were Brothers Dickson, Stroup, and Brockimann—and Pledge Siske. Brother Hodges found
his way to Winston-Salem on some sort of business, and Brother Neill made the regular trip home to Statesville.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

All of the Brothers who were able to get the necessary transportation went to the Tournament at Raleigh. Those attending
were Brothers Gwynn, Miller, Shaw, Bradford, White, Morton, Robinson, and Maness. The brothers also had a swell time at the
party which the brothers of N. C. Beta at State College were having. The trip was a great success. Lieutenant
Ed Hay, class of ‘42, of Fort Benning paid the chapter a brief visit the first of the week. In
addition to attending the Tournament, Brother Miller managed to make his usual trip to Greensboro, and Brother Gwynn, although unable
to make it to Greensboro, had a very successful weekend in Charlotte. Brother White took in Rock Hill in addition
to the Tournament. Brother Legerton spent an extended weekend at Lehigh taking in the dances there. Brother Hay visited his
home in Hickory over the weekend. Brother Gregg went to Wilmington, his hometown. Brother Sipe had some big dealings in
Spartanburg. Brother Powell took his usual trip to Chester. Brother Walt Major was seen in Charlotte. Brother Winchester was forced
to spend what he called “a dismal weekend” on the campus. Brother Wart Robinson promises plenty of big deals in
the future. Other brothers remaining on the campus over the weekend were Lilly, Whiddon, Knox, Blevins, Brown, and Myers.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi’s were very active off campus this weekend. Brother “Big Bill” Emerson made a visit to Atlanta to see
his family, and for “one” other good reason. Brothers Smith and Starnes spent their extra time, as usual, in Greensboro.
Brother Starnes seems to have been very favorably impressed with a “yankee dame” which he met at G. C. Brother
Ace Maloney came forth with a date with one of the Davidson Belles. Brother Pierce, a regular Phi Mu advocate,
attended their party in Charlotte. Brother Hobbie was present in Raleigh for the Tournament. Brother John Wright left school this
week with the purpose of entering Meteorology School. The fraternity will miss this loyal brother.

KAPPA SIGMA

Most of the Sigmas followed the Cats to Raleigh for the tournament last week. Manager McCoy, Peters, T. and G.
Williams, White, and Currie went with the team. Others in the van were: Amos, Davis, Mills, Scott, Wilson, Coffey, Wilkinson,
Ben Lacy, Bill Lacy, Sutton, Flipowicz, Carter, Pendleton, “Rooster” Booth, and “Bugeye” McCoy finally showed up in the capital after
a week of physical exams for West Point.

New Schedule Is Announced
Chapel Period Changed; More Time Given Between

A new daily schedule went into effect last Monday in order that the regular college classes and those for the
air corps cadets may be worked out concurrently. Last week the schedule was moved up a half hour from that
followed during the winter months. It was planned at the time to work out the cadets’ schedule in accordance with
the regular schedule. However, numerous conflicts and confusion about the bells made the new changes necessary.

Ten Minutes

First period now begins at 8:30 with the first bell ringing at 8:20. The first bell for each class will
ring at twenty minutes past the hour, with the tardy buzzer coming at half past. This leaves ten minutes for
students to change as compared with five minutes allowed by the old schedule. The chapel period now comes at 12:20,
immediately after the fourth period, with dinner following at 12:45.

The new schedule:
7:30 .......... Rising Bell
8:20 .......... First Period
9:20 .......... Second Period
10:20 ........ Third Period
11:20 ........ Fourth Period
12:20 ........ Chapel
12:45 ........ Dinner
1:30 .......... Fifth Period
2:30 .......... Sixth Period
3:30 .......... DrillQuiz Program To Be Staged

A Bible quiz program with Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman as quizmaster will be held in the parlor of the Y
immediately after vespers this Sunday. Questions will be fired at a board of four. This board is composed of Myron
Sandifer, James McCrary, Professor E. J. Erwin, and Professor Frazer Hood. Hosts and hostesses at the occasion will be Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Dr. and Mrs. Fraser Hood, and Dr. and Mrs. K. J. Foreman. The standard of
questions to be asked will be for an A student after an elapse of time. Questions are to be contributed
by members of the Bible department.

Fort Point and other activities at Bragg and Fayetteville. Not satisfied with their dealings in that sphere, Currie, McCoy, and
Wilson stopped by G'boro on the way back. McCoy continued to play the role of a great little actor by
dating Piggie. Shep had beat him to the draw in Raleigh with Alice Sprunt. Ed White continued his operations by
going up to Virginia to see a girl. “Tricky” Dick Smith was in Elkin per usual. Brother Cam Henderson joined
the growing list of those leaving for the armed services by enlisting in the army air corps. Bill Grimsley pulled
out this week for the naval air corps to further deplete the ranks.

STONESTREET Grade A Cafe 418 S. Main, Mooresville, N. C.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK It’s Safe MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

A Complete Line of The Best Southern 5. & 10c Store Davidson, N. C.

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber Service Norton’s Barber Shop DAVIDSON, N.C.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries DAVIDSON, N. C.

STRING QUARTET PLAYS HERE

The Roth String Quartet, artists of international renown, will appear in Chambers Auditorium on Friday, March 12, at 8:15 p.m.
This concert will conclude the Artists Series brought to Davidson College this year by the administration in order to provide
outstanding entertainment for the students during the war years.

Jim McCrary Leads Service

The World Day of Prayer, which is observed by churches universally, comes this year on Friday, March 12. Started by
women of the Southern Presbyterian Church in 1887, it has spread rapidly since then. On the program in Chapel Friday
morning, Jim McCrary, President of the Y, will preside, explaining the meaning of the World Day of Prayer. The Scripture
will be read by Rev. Carl R. Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson church, and will be followed by a prayer
led by Professor Beaty. Upperclassmen will remember that last year there was an extended chapel at which Miss Katherine Smith
of New York was the speaker. This year, because of Spring Services the three preceding days, Friday’s chapel will be
limited simply to a prayer service in which the Davidson community is cordially invited to participate.

ALUMNI WIN (Continued from Page 1)

Rice, in the class of '39, was another president of the Y.M.C.A. and the year following his graduation he was
the general secretary also. He was a member of the student council and O.D.K. and he was active in debating.

Show At Y.M.C.A. Saturday Night Is Presented

Varied Entertainment Pleases Small Crowd By Jim McCrary

Last Saturday night the entertainment which was originally intended to be a show for the Air Corps Cadets, turned out
to be the usual happy gathering of students, with a smaller number of cadets present than was expected. Jim Dendy
opened the program of the evening with organ music in the distinctive Dendy style. Claude Wilford Whitley, known in the
entertainment world as “Wham” and “Slam”, did their now famous tumbling acts. The Mayhew Brothers, Jim Morgan, Slymie Darling, and
Dave Blevins, gave their special renditions of “Ida Red” and an original ballad dedicated to ERC boys, which was written
to the tune of “Wabash Cannonball”. The Mayhews advertised their sponsoring product with subtlety and wit. Old time movies were
shown featuring a master of pantomime in days gone by. Deane Watson played several popular numbers on the piano, and
the program was ended by Baldy Behrman and his Backroom Boys, who jived out on “St. Louis Blues” and other
pieces.

Gray Delivers Talks at “Y”

Biologist Speaks On Advances In Science

Dr. Lote Gray, eminent research biologist, stirred the student body into thought early this week with his information on recent
advances in the field of science. “The most important developments of this generation will probably be the use of the
energy from Uranium and the transmission of power by radio,” said Dr. Gray to a small group of students. “It
usually takes a generation to develop something after it has been made available. One generation made petroleum available and the
next developed the engines to employ it. The same thing should happen with Uranium. Transmission of power by radio will
take away the network of wires over the country. All you will have to do is put up a big
antenna and hook your lights to it.”

Dr. Gray gave his chief address on “The Place of Pure Research in the Community.” In this he outlined the
progress of civilization from the earliest days. Different types of thought followed separate routes through the ages to reach modern
times. The Rockefeller Foundation first brought Dr. Gray to the United States from England, his native country. Since then he
has decided to remain in this country and is now employed as a research specialist in biology by the University
of Pittsburgh.

During one of Dr. Gray's many talks he happened to mention that American college education demands too much production and
not enough real education. When asked later to comment on this statement, he said, “The students come to college to
get grades and not to get an education.” A student then said, “I would like to work more on getting
an education and get poorer grades, but what would I say to my parents?” He replied, “The student will have
to educate his parents to the need of his getting an education, not grades.”

New Library Additions

“Wings for Offense” and “Bombs and Bombing” Among New Books

Davidson's Library has recently added five new volumes to its shelves which pertain to military aviation. The books are now
on the shelves and open to the student body and also the new group of aviation cadets taking their pre-flight
training here. With the arrival of the new group to Davidson, there came an increased interest in military aviation and
it was with this in mind that the new books were obtained.

First in this group is Army Flyer by Lieutenant General H. H. Arnold and Major General Ira C. Eaker. The
main subject of the book is military aviation as a career, from aviation cadet to air general. Another in this
series of writings is Wings For Offense by Captain Burr W. Leyson. This new volume is supplemented with exceptional photographs
and contains up to the minute information on air tactics.

Other Books

Bombs and Bombing is also one of the current editions on hand. The book was written by Wiley Ley, and
contains information that should be known by all civilians. It explains all of the various types of bombs and explosives
used in warfare, and tells how the various air attacks are carried out. Major Bernard A. Law’s book, Fighting Planes
of the World, is also present. This volume contains twenty-seven full color illustrations of the various countries’ planes. It also
gives interesting information about the planes. Last in the group of new editions is The Command of the Air by
Guilio Douhet, a foreigner. Douhet had expressed views concerning the prospect of great aerial wars as early as the first
part of this century and these with other viewpoints are expressed in this book.

WAR BONDS

Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

ALL OVER THE WORLD - America's 900,000 aviation workers combine their skill and experience to satisfy today's demand for vital
war necessities. Thanks to our airplane makers, ground crews and pilots like Capt. Haakon Gulbransen (shown here), of Pan American
Airways, needed supplies are flown to our fighting men all over the world.
