Page Two ° J / Pa THE DAVIDSONIAN The Davidsonian Founded By the Class of 1915 Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson” Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF LEGH SCOTT McALISTER BUSINESS MANAGER CARSON EDITORIAL STAFF Mac Jeffries Associate Editor Editorials By-Lines: by BILL LYMAN WISE CORNER SPRING is here! If you don’t believe it, friend, just walk through our campus. Beautiful ... no bull! And (plug, plug) while you’re walking, friend (and I do mean friend) you might drop by YOUR “Y” (get the 2nd person references? ... sure you do!) No kidding, it’s mighty pleasant to have a bunch of the “fellers” Fubs Martel, J. O. McGruder (swell fellows... and hard workers all!) not to mention numerous (note the amount, friend) who have dropped in. You'd be surprised at what you can get out of some of our lil sessions... mighty fine... no kidding! mighty helpful to pull a Vil- magic (you know... sure you do!) when the conversation lags. Associate Editor John Ferly, Howell Morrow Associate Editor, Tah taneen Tavesur Associate Editor George Worth Managing Editor Bal leymane Acting Managing Editor Ed. Erwin, Acting Managing Editor George Worth Managing Editor Sports Writers Bob Phillips, Jan Alexander, Shey Dunn Reporters Charles Gunn, Bill Sryran, Cargill McCormick, Jim Beaaner, Dave Richardson, Gilbert Ualaterro, McRerthians, Williamson, Park F. Beruhtor Lamarcr Maur I'll be glad to show it to anyone, living or dead, interested... Ha ha!)... friend, about “he who laughs at oneself, can accomplish many good things”... mighty sound philosophy which you can always find in the Deacon... ever talk to him?... mighty fine, mighty fine! CONGRATS: to Dick Port, Jim Chapman, Wellford Hobbie, Coach Ansley, Stom Stimson, Monk Carterson, Burk Walker, Lyman Parrigin, Clyde Hobbs, Deane Watson, George Bernhardt, Joe Eve, Ed Murray, Moron Sandifer, Dick O’Hair, Bob Raney, Clarence McArthur, Spike Mebane, no kidding, as BUSINESS STAFF Advertising Manager Tommy Lowell Advertising Manager Leonard White Circulation Manager Dexter Washington Subscription Manager James Carrigan Manager Wal Wilkinson Manager Norman Waker Manager Tee Wolfe Asst. Sub. Manager Cooper Smith Veeco Manager Chas. Reid Asst. Ueto Manager Robert Chie Thirty As we put this last issue of the “Davidsonian” for the year to bed, we are well aware of the fact it may be the last for the duration. We can think of several dramatic things to say in the light of this fact, but we would rather close more simply. First, we regret that we will not have the opportunity of carrying on next fall with the bare beginnings made this spring. After a shaky start Joe Barnwell, Alf Taylor, and Joe McCoy, etc., not to mention (and there really are lots more, especially YOU (!!!) friend)... all hard workers... and good boys. They each and every one deserve a big hand (let's give it to them... whaddaya say? That's it!... Fine!) All are real helpers! KOCKINOS: has just dropped in... friendly smile (always an asset). HERO-OF-THE-WEEK: his hair tousled over, a broad, grinning face. like a dog here... no kidding... and gets hardly any recognition for it! But he's just as efficient and helpful just the same (can we all say that? Ask yourself! You might be surprised!) Does such handy things as: emptying the waste basket... ash trays... dusting books (drop in at Your “Y” and look ’em over sometime, friend)... filling the ink wells... a mighty hand Pierson... and he plays Billiards! Get it now? Initials are: B. P. Think... that’s With his is usually He works THOUGHTS PAST AND FUTURE: been reading an old but mighty sane book lately... Dale Carnegie on friends, friend... says be sincere to get friends... think it over... Orchids to our Mrs. Murgatroyd... a real helper (one on whom one can depend!)... Did you notice how our student body acted last week? Which just goes to show what the Davidson spirit really is and what a swell bunch of fellows are in And it’s always Reminds us of what Deacon Fuller said Letters PHI DELTA THETA The Phi’s were active throughout the countryside this past weekend, ranging from Brother Wat- to Brother Styron’s visit to Cornelius. Brothers Sheeley and Hendeve and Pledge Brother Forbes took in the more vivid sights and Salem, including the May Day festivities. Brothers Marshall and Jim Chapman spent another quiet weekend at their home in Spartanburg. Brothers Bernhardt and Powell also tive homes in Lenoir and Rocky Mount. Brothers Starnes and Thurston were in Rock Hill again to take in the May day activities and the dance on Saturday night. Brother Starnes seems to have another “flame” from all reports. Brother Barber traveled up to Montreat and climbed Mt. Mitchell. The chapter was honored by the presence of Brother Loughridge’s girlfriend, who came down from Germantown, Pa. KAPPA SIG A merry threesome, Taylor, Booth, and Currie, wound its way towards Farmville to bring back large portions of feminine admiration. Brother Taylor found himself the object of a tremendous starline. Brothers Wilkinson and McGee embarked upon the screwiest deal that has ever been pulled among the Sigmas. It seems that they began without preparation, going to the beach, and caught a ride to Statesville, ending up in Albemarle, and returned to Davidson completely worn. Achievement: Saw one picture show. Several of the brothers traveled to Salem for the annual May Day festivities. These included Pledge Brother Thompson, Brother Sutton, and Brother Carter. Brother Davis had his habitual long one to Sweetbriar, Brother Holland was sheltered by Queens, Brothers Amos and Garrett went home to High Point, Brother Coffey went with Brother from the Lodges spent the weekend at their respective homes. We were glad to have Thursday, May 6, 1943 Brothers Jack and Charley Wills attended the Victory Ball at Limestone College. Miss Janet Wills and Miss Jimmie James were their THE DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters FEATURES By ALBERT At Ease P. LANG Al Lang and Marlyn “Bonecrusher” Wilt Drifting? Drifting? Drifting into an air of emotional rapture instilled by the beautiful, entrancing sunset which settles so very softly in westernmost skies, casting its long, slender, dreamy shadows of loveliness upon the grand fellows were in dire need of stationery, envelopes (no stamps needed—that’s nice) and the other vital writing materials. Well why not? How do you expect them to write to their mothers if they don’t have those articles? Well, if it isn’t their mothers, it must have been their sisters then. The usual trip to Greenville was made faithfully by Brother Hunt. The fraternity extended a warm welcome to Brother Frank Lee who is an Air Crew Student at Catawba College. Pi KAPPA PHI A stag party held on the banks of the Catawba River was the main attraction for the Pi Kapps this week. Thomas Fancher, an air corps cadet from Miami, was our guest, a good time was had by all. Thursday night, April 22, the fraternity elected officers for the rest of this semester and the coming year. Brother Tommy Bumbarger was elected Archon to replace Brother Jack Wayman. Brother Fisher was re-elected secretary to replace Brother Bumbarger; Brother Boyce was elected historian to replace Brother Lineberger; Brother Cline was elected chaplain to replace Brother McCrea; and Brother Evans was elected warden to replace brother Murray. The function this week could not —for untold reasons—keep Brother Evans from Hickory or Brother McCrea from Pledge Floyd traveled to his home in Woodruff, S. C., and took in Myrtle Beach. BETA THETA PI Varied were the activities of the Beta Brothers this weekend. Joining in the evening of Saturday at Mitchell College of Statesville were Brothers Alf McNair, Robert Cushman, George Roseborough, and Nat Garrison. To Greensboro Walker. To the May Day festivities at Salem went Brothers Joe Knowles, Bob Powell, and Dexter Witherington. and Dexter Witherington. The first review of the 24th C. T. D. by the commanding officer, Major Bonner, was held Saturday morning. The men were all dressed up in their new summer (sun tan) uniforms. Major Bonner commented favorably upon the progress which had been made by the men. Our thoughts of sincere appreciation and thanks go out to Mr. Robert Wits for throwing together a military band within about one week and having such a good one. More power, fellows. Let’s go, men, we all believe you've got something. Soon you'll compete with any band (military). It really sounded good, considering the fact that you had such a short time to get it together. Men, for a good outline of personal gigs for individuals in your quarters you might go down to 303 West, see Messrs. James A. West, James Whitehead, James Witmer (my gosh, fellows, how does James know when he gets in his own bed. I would think James would get into James’ bed? Am I dizzy?) and Dwight Wolfe. Good night folks. Marlyn Wilt, 24th C. T. D. Mind moving over a bit, Marlyn? Just wanted to squeeze in here long enough to thank the staff for this space in their paper and kinda smile a thanks and goodbye to the folks who have bothered to read us. We hope “At Ease” has played a little part in introducing the Air Crew students to the people of Davidson and are confident that the happy association they are now enjoying will last. A bit reluctantly, then, for Marlyn and ourselves, we'll say. “Bye now, AL LANG. Y’s Corner By SHAW SMITHBeginning to get our student body! Look around! But there is a great deal of satisfaction from having been able to serve to some small degree. Truly, no kidding, friend. 

YOUR Scrutiny - SIGMA PHI EPSILON Brother D. Phillips. ASG, has taken more kidding lately than any. 

MORALE BUILDER: What Bradford pulled another stunt by filling the house with Cornelius Craig Schmidt and Charlie Up- “See you later. I've got to study now.” A friend suggests that he not do that and wants to know why the Parks thinks he should. The Remark Proper: “Welllll... I've got a reputation to uphold!” Moral.

The LaGasseys of the Air School have had many congratulations, but here are belated ones. The wedding was just the other day, you know. Rumor has it that HE still introduces HER by her maiden name. All of which shows what a great force is habit. Rumor also closes about Sgt. Gay. Ask him, just ask him! Nice!

HELPFUL HENRYS: Gene Gracy: Fat, but cute and sincere worker with the NYA group at devotions privately are keeping it up? I don’t know a better way to prepare to be a private or an officer. 

WELCOME: All the mothers, of course, they are always welcome anyway, but especially is this true on “Mother’s Day.” Mr. John Payne and staff have prepared a good program, but the best program of all will be the get-together with “Mama.” True...

YUTTC-T. Daniels: The wild hair all over his head comes perhaps from his rushing about trying to be useful. It is no secret that his use is great. His quietness does not hide his value and we are most fortunate to have him.

ARMEN’S AIRING: The graduating class of the Air School gave a fine affair in Charlotte last Saturday night. More pretty girls and pretty girls. 'Nuff said. Major and Mrs. Bonner, whom by the way, were there in full fashion, as was everyone I saw! Seems strange to have some of the fellows on the verge of leaving this early. All of us are hopeful that it will not be long before they can return as visitors... civilian visitors, you know!

After the affair Mr. and Mrs. Krebs, Mr. and Mrs. Krum, and four of us stags enjoyed a midnight snack. Have you ever tried to eat when your eyes won’t stay open and your mouth can’t? But the fellowship was good.

BEFORE YOU LEAVE: What about paying me that big visit you promised? These days make a good time for us to have that session... and there is no talking after “Taps” when we get “in.” No kidding, come up and straighten out the “Y” before you go. O.K.? It’s your “Y” and mine, you know...

GRATEFUL? Mightily! Wish I could thank everybody for everything, but it’s quite impossible. Still, you must remember this: Whether you agree with everything the “Y” does or not, you have been a great thing in my life.