Page Four . THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 25, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

PHI DELTA THETA

With the dances in Charlotte this weekend, the goodly brothers of the sword and shield were seen in their usual operating roles. Dates for the gala occasion included Miss Lois Lemmon with Brother Ed Sutton; Miss Anne Keeter with Brother Buck Archer; Miss Camille Trotman with Brother Jim Chapman; Miss Emily Blake with Brother Welford Hobbie; Miss Nell Brown with Brother Smith; Miss Barbara Baker with Brother O. E. Starnes; Miss Gloria Holmes with Brother Don Melver; Miss Eaddie Williams with Brother Marshall; Miss Anne Wheeler with Brother Ken Barber; Miss Baker with Brother John Forbes; Miss Janet Emerson with Pledge Chapman; and Miss Jane King with Brother Deanne Watson.

It is said that Brother Sutton, who is notoriously known to have gotten the most horrible blind dates imaginable in the past, really hit the jackpot this time, and when calling for his date was so surprised to see a beauty walk out that he asked if he hadn't gotten the wrong address.

Brother Hendee journeyed to Atlanta to the Command about Service classification. However, he also had time to see another Potter affair. Brothers and Burns left the campus for their homes during the weekend, visiting Atlanta and Gainesville respectively. Other Brothers who were at the dances in the stag line were Brothers Weatherly, Spangler, Robertson, Emerson, Cutchin, and Powell. The chapter was glad to have Brother Smith back with them for the weekend.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Activities of the SAE’s were centered around the Pan-Hell ball this weekend. Most of the brothers were at the dances and the following had dates: Brothers Smith with Millie Breniger of Charlotte; Harvey Carrow with Martha Dozier of Rocky Mount; Ivey Stewart with Mary Carson Jones of Charlotte; Bob Douglas with Sarah Harris of Spartanburg; Mac Bruce with Peggy Booth of Charlotte; Elmer Graves with “Tee” McCormick of Greensboro; Jim Harris with Peggy Wilson of Wilmington; Charlie Wills with Elizabeth Erwin of Washington, Ga.; Jack Wills with Dottie Armour of Washington, Ga.; Frank Carter with Mary Louise Merritt of Mt. Airy; Ford Little with Betty Yost of Greensboro; Bill Hodgin with Valda Stone of Kingsport; Ray Taylor with Julia Taylor of Greensboro; Thornton Hood with Agnes Kinston; Ed Erwin with Edna Adams of Queens College; Herman Walker with Betty Wilson of Greenville; Tom Connor with Martha Harrison of Charlotte; Bill Grosse with Betty Erkhart of Charlotte; Red Bethea with Bebe Manning of Dillon; Bob Whaling with Harriet Mason of Salem College.

On Saturday night the Fraternity held its annual banquet in honor of the newly initiated brothers. Each year a cup is presented to the best all-round Freshman and it was presented to Brother Bill Hodgin. The chapter welcomed Brother “Poss” McLean, Lt. USNR. Also back for the dances were Brothers Bethea, Hodgin, and Whaling who are awaiting induction into the army.

KAPPA SIGMA

The Sigmas began a swell weekend at a banquet Friday night in the Hotel Charlotte with Brother Jim Davis officiating as Master of Ceremonies in presenting a colorful “Take It or Leave It” quiz program. Following this program, the first dance of the set was attended with Piggie Butler, the date of Brother Phillips, and Bess Owen Alexander, the date of Brother McCoy, representing the chapter in the figure. The whole chapter, with an array of beauty at their disposal, made a complete success of the Military Ball and completed the night’s program in spots unknown.

The brothers and dates were: Brother Davis with Bettie Caldwell; Brother Bob Amos with Mary Ann Thomas; Brother Williams with Amanda Parsley; Brother G. Peters with Mary Bellamy; Brother T. Peters with “Cappy” Goode; Brother Holland with Doris Daniel; Brother Booth with Evelyn White; Brother Swink with Lib Jones; Brother Wilkinson with Jeannette Fair; Brother Taliaferro with Carolyn Norman; Brother Bill Lacy with Nell Hogshead; Brother Scott with Janet Kelley; Brother Miller with Carolyn Eddy; Brother Pendleton with Mary Helen Garrison; Brother Garrett with Wink Hall; Brother Stafford with Eloise Hamrick; Brother Ben Lacy with Carolyn West; Brother Sutton with “Normie” Tomlinson; Brother Amos with Sara Hutchins; Brother Phil- lips with Jane Bahnson; Brother Lawson with “Piggie” White; Brother Coffey with Pat Gwyn; Brother Wilson with Annelle McCall; Brother Carter with Martha Sauvain; Brother Conyers with Mabel Beach; Brother Yarborough with Betsy Smith; Pledge Ansley with Jane McCord; and Brother Desportes with Nancy Cromer. Brother Dick Kelly dating Allie Hyman and Brother Jim Ellis dating Laura Kincaid were welcomed back on their visit for the weekend.

PI KAPPA PHI

With very few exceptions, all of the Pi Kaps were in Charlotte for the dance set this past weekend. The exceptions were Brother Barringer who went home to Florence; Brother McEachin, who took in the dances at Winthrop; and Pledge Robbins who went home to Kannapolis. Dates for the weekend included: Jane Elliot with Ned Everett; Dorothy Crews with Clarence McArthur; Martha Ludlam with Calhoun Hipp; Helen Hunter with Billy Robertson; Wilmer Warner with Jack Wayman; Dot Wells with Bob Patton; Elenor Self with Bob Gaither; Margaret Helms with Lib Lael; and Gurth Karl Fisher with Robert Cline. The remaining went as stags. We are happy to have Pledge Alfred Hill and Jimmie Rhyne with us for the dances.

BETA THETA PI

The ranks of Phi Alpha of Beta were divided this weekend between Greensboro and Charlotte, the latter drawing the majority of brothers, for they took in the Pan-Hell dance, and a good number of both daters and stags were present. Brothers Joyner, McNair, and Pritchett journeyed to Greensboro to attend the Adelphian Formal at WC. Nat Garrison and Newell took time out at G. C. W. Barnwell went to his home in Burlington.

It was a pleasure to welcome the parents of Brother Bob Welsh on Tuesday, and to have them with us to enjoy the hospitality of Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham at their home on that evening. Into the armed services have gone Brothers Bosh and Daughtry. We are indeed sorry to see them go.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The past weekend saw Fijis turning out for the Pan-Hellenic dance set in Charlotte. Dates for the dances were as follows: Miss Oliver Turlington, from Randolph-Macon Woman's College, with Brother Bill Lyman; Miss Peggy Garth, from Salem College, with Brother Henry Crane; Miss Betty Withers, also from Salem, with Brother Bill Ross; Miss Rose Marie from Sullins College, with Brother Howell Morrow. Miss Ollie Meadows, from Queens, was Brother Dick O'Hair’s date, and Miss Nancy King, of Sullins, was with Brother Al King. Brother Shea Preston dated Miss Grace Herndon; Brother Crumley of Queens, and Pledge Brother Bob Jones escorted Miss Kathryn Kirkman, of Charlotte. Brother McMullen brought back a life-size portrait from his excursion to dances in Greensboro. Brother Lee Wolf dated in Monroe. And everybody else was in Charlotte.

KAPPA ALPHA

As most of the brothers are of a social nature, they were to be found at the dances this past weekend, with the following being fortunate enough to have dates: Miss Emily Polhill with Bill Abbott; Miss Dolly Dudley with John Lawson; Miss Jean Sloan with Red Burke; Miss Katherine Traynham with Ben Washburn; Miss Jean Friday with Jimmy Whitehurst; Miss Peggy Parsley with Lacy McLean; Miss Celeste Norris with Hank Watt; Miss Jean Chester with Bob DuRant; Miss Rosalyn Reid with John Belk; Miss Helen Hemphill with Sandy Sandifer; Miss Frances Mosaly with Ed Whitesides; Miss Louise Payne with Campbell Ansley; and Miss Margie Pinckney with Jim Jackson. Sponsoring for Kappa Alpha in the Pan-Hellenic figure Friday were Brothers Belk and McLean's dates, and in the Scabbard and Blade figure on Saturday the dates of Brothers Belk, Sandifer, McLean, and Jeffries.

The chapter is pleased to announce the initiation by special provision of Tommy Glasgow, who is now serving as a Corporal in the Field Artillery. Pledge Brothers Ed Whitesides and Clayton Schofield are to be initiated tonight to bring the total of spring initiations to seventeen. At the regular meeting last week, the following new officers were elected: No. 1 Mac Jeffries, No. 2 Jim Jackson, No. 3 Jack Richeson, and Pan-Hellenic representative Red Burke.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Last weekend the S. P. E.’s went to the dances. They began the weekend by having a banquet on Friday night at Hotel Charlotte. Brother Gwynn was the toastmaster and principal speaker of the evening. The brothers and their respective dates were: Brother Legerton with Betsy Hodges; Brother Walter Major with Libby Ryland; Brother Rudisill with Lilly; Brother White with Lib Andrews; Brother Gregg with June Poindexter; Brother Bradford with Margaret Machlin; Brother Tom McLauchlin with Josephine McLauchlin; and Pledge John Hardin with Mary Brown Craig. Brothers Maness and Gwynn managed to take in Greensboro as well as a dance. Brother Miller got back on his old schedule by going to Greensboro. We are glad to have Brothers Tarleton from Charlottesville, Virginia, and Isley from Waynesville, N.C., with us over the weekend. Brothers Morton and McBride went on a “wild hare” over the weekend—we don't know where. Jack Behrman was seen in the fraternity house over the weekend. We understand that Bradford enjoyed the dances. Gwynn was glad to get back to the usual run to Greensboro.

Buck Archer's Hep Cats Are Solid Senders

Fourteen-Piece Student Orchestra Makes Debut on Campus

By ED SUTTON

Were you on hand in Chambers last week when Maestro Archie Archer and his solid fourteen filled the auditorium with some stuff that was strictly in the groove and had the cats in a trance for almost a full hour? As is known by all, Archer is no musician himself and does not actually lead the band, but much of the credit of its organization and planning go to him. Buck says that he is a cross between a business manager and a utility man.

Barnwell and Morgan

In charge of orchestrations is “Jumping Joe” Barnwell, who also plays a lot of drum with the hep crew. Jim “Goot” Morgan has also been a faithful worker with the band and supervises the actual playing of the jive and icky. Other members of the orchestra include Ned Everett, Stimy Sanders, and Bill Merrit in the sax section; George Bernhardt, Craig Schmic, and Bill Evans playing some knocked-out trumpet; “Doc” Hollinger and Foster Phillips on the trombone; and Alf McNair, Beverly Bobbit, and Layman Whiddon rounding out the rhythm section.

Pfohl Advises

Mr. Pfohl of the Davidson Music Department has been very helpful to the boys by advising them and by letting them use some of the school equipment which the band lacked. Archer says that his solid band will be on the beam in a few more days as they are really beginning to get together on their work now. They are planning to give another concert soon and promise that the hot licks will be flowing like water over a cataract.

First Band

It is certainly a strange thing that Davidson's first swing band should be worked together by a non-musician.but it seems to be progressing nicely and “Mother” Archer, as the boys affectionately call him, is really going all out to see that his band will not just buzz out like so many of the other attempted orchestras have done. If the band is not left too full of holes by the calling of the E.R.C. or by the draft, the students should have swing for some time to come.

Grand Alchemist (National President) War College Schedule
March 8 April 3
Monday Friday Saturday
6:00 Reveille (Squadron Formation)
6:45 Breakfast (Squadron Formation)
7:30 Mil. Customs & Cour. Hyg. and Sani- Scheduled
8:20 tation (Comb. Squad.) Study
8:30 Physical
9:20 Medical Aid (Combined squadrons) Training
9:30
10:20 Reserved for Commanding Officer Inspection &
10:30 Ceremonies
11:20 Physical Training (Comb. Squad.)
12:20 Dinner (Squadron Formation)
12:30
1:20 Supervised Study Alt. Spee Geography 1-3-5
2:20 History 1 Mathematics 1-3-5
2:30 English 2
3:20 Geography 2-4-6 History 2 Mathematics 2-4-6
4:20 Scheduled Study
4:30 Military Drill (Squadron Formation)
6:00 Supper (Squadron Formation)
7:00 Mail Call—Release from quarters
7:30
7:45 Close call to quarters
9:00 Call to quarters or Library
9:30 Taps

Medical Aid Dr. Woods Shearer Hall
Mil. Customs & Cour. Prof. Lilly 305
History 1-2 Prof. Johnston 335
Geography 1-2 Prof. Rogers 225
Geography 3-4 Prof. Porter 229
Geography 5 Prof. Foreman 214
Geography 6 Prof. Brown 218
Mathematics 1-2 Prof. McGavock 330
Mathematics 3 Prof. Kimbrough 210
Mathematics 4 Prof. Mebane 144
Mathematics 5 Prof. Smith 144
Mathematics 6 Prof. Parker 220

Five New Members Are Taken In By Gamma Sigma Epsilon
At a meeting on Wednesday, March 17, Gamma Sigma Epsilon initiated five new members. These men are: Jim Davis, John Lusk, D. D. Phillips, Rhea Preston, and Louis Smith. The ceremony was attended by Dr. J. B. Gallent, Worthy Grand Alchemist (National President) of Gamma Sigma Epsilon and member of the faculty.

Davidson Plans Made
Plans were made to hold an open meeting in the lecture room of the Chemistry Building in the near future. Members of the fraternity will present experiments which should be of interest to the entire student body. These demonstrations will include the thermite bomb, various types of gunpowder, cold light, and other experiments. They will be presented in a manner that will interest all students. In addition, plans were made to sponsor moving pictures on chemical topics which will be of general interest. The meeting was concluded by a feed for the new members.

National Organization
Gamma Sigma Epsilon, which has become a national organization, was founded at Davidson in 1919. Davidson’s Alpha Alpha Chapter is proud to have as members two of the fraternity’s national officers. They are Dr. J. B. Gallent, Worthy Grand Alchemist (National President), and Professor O. J. Thies, Jr., Grand Chancellor and Historian, who is also a charter member of the organization.

E.R.C. TO CALL (Continued from Page One)
town or make business-like arrangements for their settlement.

President’s Statement
Dr. Cunningham issued the following statement on Monday to the reservists leaving school: “In my judgment, now is the time for each student to resolve and determine whether, Providence permitting, he will return to finish his college education. In the hope and belief that Davidson students are wise enough to see the advantages involved, we are not saying goodbye, but au revoir.”

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

New Program Is Originated For Students
Navy Announces New Reserve; Juniors and Seniors Are Eligible
Juniors and Seniors, 18 to 28 years old and pursuing a course leading to an engineering degree or to a baccalaureate with a major in physics, naval architecture, mathematics, or electronics, have an opportunity today to become Navy officer candidates. The new program, the first for juniors and seniors since the halting of the V-7 plan with the President's ban on voluntary enlistment last December, was announced by Captain M. C. Robertson, U. S. N., Director of the Sixth Naval District of Naval Officer Procurement with offices in the Healy Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

The accepted candidates will remain on inactive duty in college under the jurisdiction of the director until placed on active duty for training by authority of the Bureau of Naval Personnel in Washington. “With the launching of the new warships and the laying of new keels almost daily, the Navy is looking for well-qualified college men for subsequent commissioning in the Naval Reserve, upon satisfactory completion of the Reserve Midshipman Course,” Captain Robertson said. “The new program is to be known as class SV-7.”

Applicants may obtain full information or be examined either at the Director's office in the Healy Building, Atlanta, or at the branch offices located at North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C., University of South Carolina library, Columbia, S. C., the Center, Charleston, S. C., or the Lynch Building, Jacksonville, Florida. This announcement came to the Davidsonian for immediate release from the Sixth Naval District, assistant District Public Relations Office in the Forsyth Street Building in Atlanta, Georgia. It is urged that all men who can qualify for one of these courses inquire into this matter as soon as possible.

ALUMNI BANQUET
Davidson Alumni of Washington, D. C. will meet for an alumni dinner in the Willard Hotel at 7:00 P. M. Friday, March 26, in the interest of the gymnasium campaign. General Fred W. Rankin, class of '05, will serve as chairman of the meeting. General Rankin is one of America’s most eminent physicians; his home is in Lexington, Kentucky.

Changes Announced
Set Up Students Being Called Necessitates Reorganization of Military Unit
Because of the large number of students withdrawing from school with the E. R. C. or other reserves, it has been necessary for the ROTC unit to be made smaller and a new organization of officers or non-commissioned officers to be set up. Under this plan all officers and non-commissioned officers will be reduced to the grade of private and then re-appointed. The unit will be composed of only one battalion of three companies and the change will take place on March 26, 1943.

New Staff
The new battalion staff will be as follows: Myron G. Sandifer, Lt. Colonel; Joseph B. McCoy, Major; Norman J. Wayman, Captain; Ross L. Parks, Captain; and Benjamin R. Lacy III, Captain. Captains of the companies and the band will be R. W. Rainey, E. J. Erwin, Jr., and John F. McGee with D. C. Caterson as Captain of the band. Lieutenants in the battalion are C. W. Ansley, J. A. Fredrick, D. Phillips, J. L. McLean Jr., E. M. Sutton, H. W. Rainey, T. F. Sanford, J. M. Belk, C. A. McArthur Jr., and T. F. Stimson.

Sergeants
The following men will be sergeants in the new organization: B. B. Walker, W. J. Lyman, J. M. Mebane, E. C. Phillips, W. C. Robinson, J. A. Lusk, C. W. Wheeler, W. L. Carter, W. H. Crane, W. P. Conyers, J. S. Eve, B. C. Hipp, R. A. Gowdy, R. B. Port, C. C. McNeely, C. H. Hobbs, E. S. Barnwell, T. V. Bumbarger, R. T. Amos, M. Carson, T. V. Burke, W. H. Barber, L. Cathey, W. F. Carter, S. A. Booth, A. M. Crowell, W. R. Dabney, T. H. Dimmock, and R. A. Currie.

Other Sergeants
Others who are to be sergeants include: J. R. Dunn, S. F. Garrison, M. H. Jeffries, P. H. Gwinn III, W. E. Robertson, D. D. Phillips, S. H. Henderson, K. R. Scott, S. G. Stubbins, W. W. Lacy, W. E. White, P. M. Williams, W. H. Morrow, D. M. Yokum, R. G. Cushman, W. G. Harrill, M. K. Mann, R. S. Preston, M. C. Sanders, B. L. Watkins, W. L. Whitley, and W. L. Withers.

Those men appointed as corporals are: R. E. Chaney, R. H. Caney, J. L. Fairley, R. C. Clontz, C. B. Brockman, A. A. Farrar, S. B. Hoyt, W. O. Major, A. A. McNeil, E. C. Major, F. D. Marshall, E. C. Glavich, T. P. Howard, R. H. O’Hair, R. O. Pierce, T. N. McLauchlin, B. C. Siske, A. G. Skirrow, H. Pearsall, J. L. Smith, A. G. Taylor, C. W. Upchurch, H. F. Tucker, D. C. Watson, R. B. Welsh, C. L. Woodbridge, P. B. Welch, L. R. Wilson, J. P. Harris, R. B. Bobbitt, and J. T. Hart.

Other Appointments
Those men who are to be privates first class are: D. W. Holland, P. M. Neisler, R. E. Miller, T. L. Peters, G. B. Peters, W. F. Rawley, R. B. Winchester, T. L. Powell, and W. C. Wilkinson.

Thursday, Friday, & Saturday, March 25, 26, & 27
“YANKEE DOODLE DANDY”
LATE SHOW SAT. NIGHT March 27
“HIGH CHUM”
Mon. & Tuesday March 29 & 30
“CITY WITHOUT MEN”
COMING
“ANDY HARDY’S DOUBLE LIFE”
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER