SHARPE SAR

The champion Georgia Giants ran against their first setback on Thursday night by being upset by Watts I in a thrilling game, 4-3.

The Giants seemed to be coasting to another win with a 3 to 1 lead going into the last inning. But singles by Scofield, Grey, and Linton, and one Georgia error brought three runs across the plate and Watts held a 4-3 lead. Then Guiton retired the Giants in order in their half of the inning and the game was over. Inscoe and Grey led the winning attack with two for four each. Davis of Georgia had a perfect night at bat with three hits.

Paced by Dabney and Ervin, who got a home run and two singles each, the Georgia Crackers blasted out a 12-9 triumph over Watts III. The Crackers collected a total of fifteen hits during the game. Owens paced the losers with three for five.

Watts III-IV gained a double victory by beating Town, 14-12. One was a regular game and another a postponed game. Mayo led the attack with a circuit clout, while two hits each for Town.

WITH THE STAFF
The Davidsonian
Published every Thursday just for the heck of it.
STAFF FOR THIS ISSUE:
Myron Sendifer...Editor-Emeritus
Gil Tolliferro...Editor
Rabbi Smith...Columnist (?)
George McAden...Sports Manager
ATO...Literary Critic
TON...Chinese

Herb McGonigle...Typist
Motto: “Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead.”

WILLIAMS WINS TOURNAMENT

Top-seeded Mike Williams won the long-delayed summer tennis tournament as a result of his victory in the finals over unseeded Ben Williamson. The match went only one set by agreement, Williams winning 6-3. Williams had beaten Jerry Newbold in the semifinals while Williamson had upset fourth-seeded Myron Sendifer. Williams also gained the only Davidson victory in a team match with Charlotte.

The Giants closed their season with a 12-8 decision over Georgia I. Preaden led the eleven-hit attack on Hart with three for four, while Beelk and Withington each got two for two. Ervin and Evans collected two hits each for the losers.

In the season final, Georgia I defeated Watts I 6-3. McBride and Ervin led with two for three.

The final standings showed the Giants with seven wins and one loss, the Crackers second with four and four; the rest tied with three and five. A note of thanks to Shrew Smith for his efficient (?) job of umpiring this season. G. Me.