Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 11, 1943 Letters From The Lodges

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kapps were scattered over the State last week-end, with a large number attending the "Farewell Frolic" dance in Charlotte. The following stags attended the dance: Brothers Bumbarger, Everett, Eve, and McArthur. Pledge Reid escorted Miss Mildred Parrigin and Pledge Hunter escorted Miss Mary Clark to the dance. However, Brother Evans traveled to Limestone College; Brother Walton to Hickory, and Brother Robinson to Derita, while Brother Bradley managed to reach Charlotte.

BETA THETA PI

The Betas and their dates for the "Farewell Frolic" were: Betty Lynn Barnwell with Joe Barnwell, Mary Jo Brissell with Spike Mebane, Mary Catherine MacArthur with Bill Smith, Mary Lisk with Paul Welch, Miriam Day with Bobby Raney, Bell Hicks Purvis with Don Caters, Marjorie Imbody with Grayson Tucker, Grace Ashe with Craig Schmidt, Wilma Tillett with Bob Welsh, Shirley Owens with Whizzer White, Lane Allison with Newton Spencer, Mary Helen Garrison with Eunice Holt, Jane Foushee with Nat Garris, Lucy Riddle with Lama Dougherty, Betty Scott Barber with Al McNair, Helen Hunter with Hesot Knowles, Billie Luck with George Roseborough, Mary Steve Mosely with Ed Phillips, and Jack Good with Jack Good. Brothers Lipscombe gave up the idea of attending the dance and spent the week-end at the dances in Gastonia. Brother Walker divided his time between Greensboro and Mt. Gilead. Pledge Turner journeyed to Greensboro and on to High Point.

KAPPA SIGMA

Most of the Sigmas went to Charlotte for the "Farewell Frolic" last week-end. Those who had dates are the following: Annette McCatta with Jim, Molly Bo with Carolyn Eddy, Wilf Taylor with Bob Miller, Bob Jennings with Cam Henderson, Dick Mott with Wilbur Carter, Evelyn Butler with Dick Pugh, Jessie Evans with Jim Millis, and Wink Wall with Cecil Garrett. During the past week, the Sigmas pledged four freshmen: Gregg Thompson, Gene Desportes, Blanton Belk, and Pete Withers.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Climaxing a week in which fun, food, and fellowship were enjoyed alike by brothers and pledges, Delta Kappa chapter initiated eleven freshmen and junior pledges into Phi Gamma Delta last Friday. The following men were taken into the chapter at the formal ceremony held in the dome room of Chambers: Bruce Black, Ed Pickard, Lee Wolf, Ed Wood, Bill Ross, McGhee Snodgrass, Leighton McKeithan, Harry Ormand, Ray Miller, and Dave Richardson. The Fijis are happy to have Brother "W.Y." Thompson back at Davidson after an attack of pneumonia which kept him at home since Christmas. Brother Amos Ragan led the Fijis in celebrating the Norris Pig Dinner, an annual Phi Gam celebration, last Monday night at the "Maxwell House." Stag jokes told by Toastmaster Hank were good to the last flop. Among the speakers at the banquet were Brothers Gene McEver, Elmer Brown, and George Watts, and Purple Legionnaire Cumming. Brother Harry Ormand spoke as a representative of the freshman class, and Brother Lyman finished off the intellectual side of the celebration with the presentation of the Hoxie Thompson award for outstanding chapter spirit to Brother Lee Wolfe, and the Lingle award for scholarship to Brother Dave Richardson. The Phi Gam banquet, held at the Barringer Hotel in Charlotte last Saturday, was followed by a dance. Dates for the banquet and dance were: Miss Sally with Bill Lyman, Miss Spears with Dick Roberts, Miss Lou Margaret Ballard with Harry Ormand, Miss Virginia Wood with Ed Craig, Miss Mary Preston with Dave Richardson, Miss Grace Howell with Albert King, Miss Elizabeth Hayes with Tom Snodgrass, Miss Mary Jeter with Dick O'Hair, Miss Annie Oliver with Brown Rhea, and Miss Margaret Morrow with Tom Morrow.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The Pikas scattered in all directions last Saturday. Charlotte and Greensboro were the leading centers of attraction. Brothers White, Shelton, and Ardrey went home to Greensboro while Maxwell, Brinson, Bayrum, Neill, and Pledge Graves attended the "Farewell Frolic." Brother Goldston, running true to form, skipped off to Concord.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

The Sig Eps, big and numerous, spent the week-end taking in the dance and all its attractions. Those few members who were not in Charlotte were enjoying other forms of entertainment. Brother Myers spent the week-end in Florida soaking in the sun; Brother Knox enjoyed the music of Jerry Wald at Clemson; Brother Mecklin spent the week-end in Washington; and Brother Mayor, who has not yet returned, went to Greensboro. Brother Shaw enjoyed a warm homecoming at his home in Sumter.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

The Farewell Frolic held last week-end was well represented by the chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Leading the procession were Erwin Pan and Ruth Hayes. Most of the brothers and their dates were: McCormick with Paylor and Julia Taylor, McAlister with his sister, Lucas with Carrow, Bethea with Bebe Manning, Caldwell with Anne Caldwell, Carson with Maralee Black, and Pledge Brother Little with Jane Morgan. Brothers Hill, Moore, Stewart, Lucas, Lunt, Whaling, and Pledges Walker, Alexander, and Connor joined the fun. The chapter would like to take this opportunity to welcome Tom Connor as a pledge. Brother Bruce is at present convalescing in Presbyterian Hospital from a knee operation performed last Friday. We hope that he will be out again soon and that his knee will heal quickly. Brother Douglas spent the week-end at Clemson while the Wills boys took in Georgia in good form. Jerry is the new Clemson Senator.

KAPPA ALPHA

The K.A.s and their dates for the Farewell Frolic are as follows: Jean Nash with Ralph Dunn, Lib Sits with Vance Watt, Mary Ann Jeffries with Hank Watt, Jane Harrell with Mac Jeffries, Betty Bruns with Shep Dunn, Margy Hill with "Red" Burke, Marjorie Paine with Tommy Speas, Peggy Pfaff with Jim Whitehurst, Peggy Nickles with Bill Nickles, Roz Reid with John Belk, and Cacky Sen with Washburn. Sigma Chapter regrets the loss of Pledge Tommy Speas, who went to the University of Virginia last Monday to take special training in meteorology as a part of the war program.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT

221 S. Tryon St. Opposite Johnston Building For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

AT SPAULDING RECEPTION

Albert Spalding is pictured above with Dr. John R. Cunningham at the reception given him last Friday evening following the concert in Chambers Auditorium. The reception was given in the parlors of the Y.M.C.A. Members of the faculty and a few special guests were present at the reception. Andre Benoist, Spalding’s accompanist, was also an honored guest at the reception.

PHI DELTA THETA

Dr. Tale of the Sea; Richards Is Next Speaker

Morgan, pastor of the North Carolina Gamma's happy brothers gathered together last Sunday night and sang the songs of the old fraternity after Dr. F. Crossley had addressed the students using the story of the Galilee in a storm as the basis of his subject.Concerts with their dates

The city of Davidson saw most of the chapter leaving with their dates last Saturday afternoon. Those not so fortunate, without dates, attended the farewell dance at the armory. Among the brothers present at the dance were: Bob Pierce and date, O. E. Starnes and date, Deane Watson and date, Bill Sheely and Elwood Weatherly both with their Elizabeth City beauties, Bill McLean and Dave Maloney, true to form, showed up with dates that kept the stag line jumping all night. Others that attended the dance were Brothers Archer, Robertson, Sutton, and Pledge Brothers Thurston and Forbes.

The chapter also enjoyed a visit from Brother Robertson, Lieutenant U.S. Army. He is stationed nearby and was our guest for the weekend activities.

The 1,500,000 railroad workers of America all work together. They keep the trains rolling and see that troops, supplies, and essential traffic get the right of way. Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Concord Minister Preaches At Vesper Service

Dr. Morgan Speaks On “A Tale of the Sea”

Dr. Morgan, a well-known minister and teacher, has been pastor in Concord for a number of years and a teacher. He is the son of Dr. G. Campbell Morgan, a famous minister of England, where he is popular at young people’s conferences. Dr. F. Crossley Morgan was born in England.

Dr. Morgan emphasized the point that understanding the meaning of events that at the time of occurrence appear to be discouraging and possibly destructive is crucial. When the disciples thought they saw a ghost and were afraid, they learned that Christ was approaching and could calm the water. Dr. Morgan used scenes of this story to present several lessons.

Dr. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, will speak at the vesper service next Sunday evening. He is president of the Davidson Board of Trustees and the son of Dr. C. M. Richards.

WAR BONDS WRITE LETTERS

Lieut. Spencer Speaks About Honor System

Former Prexy Addresses Assembly in Interesting Program

In a brief review of the history of several of Davidson's organizations, especially that of the honor system, Lt. Spencer presented on February 8 one of the most interesting chapel programs of the year. Lt. Spencer first gave a sketch of the life of E. H. Bean (96), the first to propose the student government set-up as we have it today. Though the plan was accepted and a student government was set up, it seemed to attract little attention and received hardly any publicity in the student publications. It was not until 1909, at a mass meeting of the student body called to vote on the abolishment of hazing, that the student government really came into its own. From that time on, it steadily gained prestige, and in 1924 the honor system was separated into two sections—the present honor system and the student body regulations. In 1937, the entire code was rewritten and enlarged.

Authority of Class Officers

Lt. Spencer pointed out that although the honor system did not officially come into existence until 1895, it had been functioning ever since the founding of Davidson, with the class presidents having the final word and authority to expel any student found doing anything deemed dishonorable.

Following this, Lt. Spencer briefly traced the history of the student magazine from “The Davidson College Monthly” to the “Scripts ’N Pranks.” He read several quotations from these magazines, giving interesting sidelights on student opinion regarding subjects such as the honor system.

Campus Organizations

“The Skating Club, Soc and Buskin, Greek Circle, and other school organizations were outlined next by Lt. Spencer. He mentioned that for many years the literary societies were by far the most powerful organizations on the campus, sponsoring many improvements within the college. Both amusing and interesting were the old rules of the college governing “cards, dice, or other immoral games,” and “gaming, theatricals, and spirituous liquor.”

Lt. Spencer closed his talk with the thought that years have gone into the making of the Davidson honor system and the widespread fame this honor system enjoys today.

They give you each tobacco, that’s why Chesterfields give the goods ... their MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE really satisfy.

THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT

Chesterfields are MILDER - BETTER TASTE

There are two good reasons why Chesterfield gives smokers everything they want in a cigarette. First, Chesterfields are made of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. Second, Chesterfield blends these choice tobaccos in the one right combination to bring out the best smoking qualities of each tobacco. That’s why Chesterfields give the goods ... their MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE really satisfy.