EDIFORIAL

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Published every Thursday

Myron Sandifer, Contributor
Shaw Smith, Columnist
Ginny Telfer, Reporter
Owen Lewis, Reporter
George Leland, Sports
Prince

Motto: "Davidson in all its goodness."

A Davidson student on leaving Davidson notes that one of his greatest memories has been his association with the faculty.
The sad factor is that too often the student does not realize the importance of knowing the faculty members until
the last few months of his last year. Therefore, let us look at this important subject now and see what
we can do to improve student-faculty relations.

First of all, realize that the faculty is here to help you in every way they can. They are not
scheming against you, trying to flunk you; rather, they are vitally interested in your staying here. Do not be hesitant
to approach them when you are having difficulty; if you are sincere, they will respond. Cultivate a friendship with your
teachers and with other members of the faculty. Every association that you have with one of them adds to a
part of your education.

It is an accepted fact that the faculty goes out of its way to encourage relations with the students. They
have proved that they will meet the student more than halfway. It is hard for them to make the first
move. That is our part.

Therefore, let us take it upon ourselves to do our part in setting student-faculty relations. Their homes are opened to
students every Sunday night, and they cordially welcome each visitor. Through these channels comes the opportunity for us to form
student-faculty friendships.

One thought for this week: Even roads and trains ask permission of the owner. Too many conveyances have been found
days later in obscure parts of the campus with flat tires, bent wheels, and the like for the situation to
be humorous. Even without physical harm done, there is the hurried need of a trip or athletics, and the would-be
rider stops in the vacant spot wondering why his intended ride is gone. Just ask the man who owns one.
The point of this mention is that now no one who owns a bike must always worry about it being
taken without permission.

Congratulations to the new President. Good luck on a difficult job. The faculty has worried a great deal about you,
how you are doing, and what you have done before. To the first and second runners, remember that you are
the only bunch of candidates that I can remember.

And I agree for one of the most important subjects now: student-faculty relations. I commend Wally Stephens and Mary C.
Watson as the fair ones on the social committee, giving time, talent, and happiness to you. George Tigler reports prayer
grounds doing well. I hope you are participating.

Remember, the faculty has something to give you; every association that you have with one of them adds to a
part of your education. The faculty has kept its word to help you. Sacrifice of time and self amounts to
the fact that Davidson has many notable qualities, especially its accessibility. Welcome home, Bobby Godfrey, Sir Watson, and George McCormick.
Those among many have dropped back to Davidson.

Mustn't forget Graken McFadyen and Veric Johnson (back on the way to Charlotte). Millie didn't stay home that weekend.

How I hesitate to mention the successes. See you at Harris Lake. Church above all.

Sunday School
Candy
Religious Music by Fred Waring

Tuesday: Music by Fred Waring
Wednesday: 10:15 PM, Hall Prayer Group
