Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

SPOUSE,

HERD & THERES; Students--Some now studying and others--not studying... Girls... Summer School Y.M.C.A. Quincy. Traces are delightful cause(?)... Reminder: Bring
all found articles to the Y, report lost ones, claim from list of watches, glasses, etc., already turned in... Bobby
Miller's announcement of Prayer Groups: "glorified pull-sessions, yes! but I guess the name 'Prayer groups' comes because men just don't
walk seriously without praying." Hope your group was beneficial... There is so much potential power in them... I know... as
you can... keep going... Welcome to Joe McCoy... now one of the Boys here for the summer to help in
athletics (girls included, fish, flesh!)... Recommended reading: Tinsley Bradley's poem, "The Rose", page 21, last issue of Scripts in France...
The Y does: Known for his conscientiousness, determination, and the one fan in this world who is unafraid of any
kind and whose sincere smile and love of people and God are unmistakable in all he does... His initials are
E.S. (Earl Smith)... Thanks to Herb Kassner, George Meadin, Jenson Yow, and Gil Taliaferro for their efforts with this sheet...
Frank Kirk and Jim Elliot for help with "Music Under The Trees"... Honest Thrill: Hymns... "A Mighty Fortress Is Our
God" and "Our God Our Help In Ages Past" used as background in almost all recent war pictures, watch for
them... Sincerely, Myron Sandiver.

"THE MOVIN' PICTURES" Cabinet directs the work of the Y, every student is a member and has a share in
it. Those who wish to do regular Y work should see the Cabinet. The Department of Community Services will work
with the people at the mill community in Davidson through the service community on wheels. The Department of Spiritual Development
will be under Hoyt Evan and Bobby Miller. They have organized small Prayer Groups and they work to encourage personal
devotion among students. The Student Government Representative will work with the Y Cabinet and the Student Council.

"FLIGHT, 20,000 FEET." Richard Dix! "FALL IN". William Tracy, Jean Parker. "MY FRIEND FLICIA". Roddy McDowall as Tom.

This week's poetic thought is: "Enduring work is not by some lovely pastoral scene, nor by some high-sounding catchphrase, but
by the honest and virtuous work at the end of a day, by long and arduous labor... in other words,
good work."

---

