t X 4

GYM FUND STILL LACKING

ORTA

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON GETS ARMY SCHOOL

Volume XXX

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1943

No. 14

ARMY AIR CORPS TO TRAIN CADETS HERE

Report on Gym Fund Termed “Optimistic”

News Article Last Week Mis- 
informed; Fund Still Lacks $25,000

Cunningham announced this week that the newspaper article last Saturday evening stating that the College Gymnasium Fund campaign had gone over the top with a collection of $200,000 is “unfortunately too optimistic.” Dr. Cunningham, in a recent interview, stated that the campaign has reached the point where every confidence is held that the goal would be reached in the near future. However, the impression given by the recent news article could unfortunately result in the delay of needed funds. He also said that between $25,000 and $50,000 must yet be acquired in order to guarantee the ultimate success of the Gymnasium fund campaign.

Local Scouts Hold Banquet

Troop 58 Celebrates National Scout Week

Boy Scout Troop 58 of Davidson, N. C., has passed an eventful National Scout Week featured by the Scout Church Service last Sunday morning and the Father and Son Banquet Monday night. Mr. Pritchett, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, preached a sermon to the combined troops of Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville on Scout Sunday, February 7. The text for his sermon was the first scout law, “a scout is trustworthy,” and his scripture reading was the story of Jesus as a child talking to the wise men in the temple. Mr. Pritchett explained the different kinds of trustworthiness and told why they are so important in the character of a man. The scouts present for the service are members of Troop 1 from Cornelius, Troop 19 from Huntersville, and Troop 58 from Davidson. The Davidson Cub Pack also attended.

Fathers of the scouts were invited to a Father and Son Banquet held last Monday night, February 8, at 7:30 p.m. in the Alenda Boarding House. Twenty-six fathers and sons were present for the occasion. The feature of the program was a movie entitled, “Scouting Trail to Citizenship.” This pictured the growth of a young boy from the day he entered the scout troop and helped him become a much better citizen. The movie was shown by Mr. Gambrell of Charlotte, N.C. Dr. Cunningham spoke to those present at the banquet. The local troop has made an exhibit and set it up in the window of the old post office. Jerry Piper, assistant scout master of the troop, said that it might be entitled, “The Camp Site of Our Dreams.” Several events are on the calendar for the boy scouts of Davidson. On Thursday, February 11, they are having a treasure hunt, followed by a feed.

FAREWELL FROLICS SCENE

Pictured above is a conga line hastily formed at the Farewell Frolic Saturday night. Sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, it was the first completely informal night dance in Davidson's social history and was designed to fit in with wartime restrictions. The affair, held at the Charlotte Armory, opened at 7:00 and closed at 11:00. Music was furnished by John Mack and his orchestra.

Faculty Announces That D Will Not Observe Spring Recess

YMCA Holds Competition Of Amateurs

Annual Stunt Night To Be Held February 19

An Amateur Show will be given on Friday evening, February 19, at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium. This attraction will be sponsored by the college YMCA and will be presided over by master of ceremonies, Bill “Slymie” Lyman. Registration for the events of the evening’s program will be handled by Joe McCoy. In order to take part in the competition, the name of the participant and the nature of the act must be submitted to McCoy before Friday.

Prizes

A time limit will be set upon each of the acts. They must be of between two and five minutes duration. A first, second, and third prize will be presented for the most outstanding performances of the evening. These awards are to be provided by the merchants of the city of Davidson.

Judges

The judges for the occasion have not yet been selected, but they will soon be chosen and will be announced Friday evening. The Davidson Amateur Shows are projects which have for some time been sponsored by the Social Committee of the College YMCA. An amateur hour was given here last year and another show was held during the summer school session.

Attractions

A number of promising attractions for the program have already been signed, it has been announced by McCoy, the registrar for the occasion. The band, two quartets, and a dramatic artist are included among the more noisy of the events. A number of imitations and impersonations, several readings, and a special number featuring Dick O'Hair and his “bones” have been signed. The sponsors of the Amateur Hour expressed the opinion that such events as this will not only prove a diversion for the college students but will give entertainment to the entire community.

New School, Transportation, Graduation Problems Make Holidays Impossible

At a meeting of the faculty last Monday afternoon, it was decided that contrary to the usual procedure of the college, Spring Holidays will be eliminated this year and classes will extend through until the last week of May. Though there was a long debate over this matter, the faculty thought it best that these arrangements be made thus shortening the school term by one week.Permit certain students to graduate.

Summer School

Although the present school term will end the last of May, Dr. Cunningham announced that plans have been made for the college to run a full month through June. Plans are being made so that underclassmen yet of selective service age may complete as much of their college education as possible before entering the armed services.

Principal Reason

The faculty considered the cadet training program that will soon be inaugurated as one of the principal reasons for the elimination of spring holidays. Since cadets enrolled in Davidson will be on a full-time basis with no holidays permitted, the faculty thinks it expedient that the regular college program not be interrupted either.

Transportation

“Transportation has become a very serious problem,” Dr. Cunningham stated today, “and because of the increasing difficulty in finding any means of transportation for long distances, the college thinks it best for school to remain in session until the end of the present semester without holidays.”

Graduation

The plans of the faculty at this time are that graduation will be on the 31st of May. Added benefit will be received from the proposed program because students in the naval reserve and many in the marine reserve will have over a week more at home after the end of this term before being called to duty with the armed services.

This affair, sponsored by the Davidson government, was completely unique among Davidson dances, with the singing of hymns. The dance was held at the Davidson House. (Photo by Bill Baker.)

Dr. Johnson Will Continue Sunday Class

Consents To Conduct Sunday School For Next Semester

Dr. Johnston, who has been teaching the regular Sunday morning student class for the last semester, has consented to continue as teacher for the second semester of the year, according to an announcement by John Newbold, chairman of the YMCA committee. When Dr. Johnston took over the class at the beginning of the year, he consented to teach for the first semester only. Now he has agreed to carry on the work for another semester. The class meets every Sabbath at 10:15 in the parlor of the Grey House.

It fitted Davidson students to have Dr. Johnston teach such a class. He presents his subject in an informal and attractive style. He is a Professor of History at Davidson, having graduated from the college with the Class of 1930. While he was in school, he was a member of both Phi Beta Kappa and ODK. He was a member of the basketball and tennis teams and still holds his interest in students and their activities and problems, which he knows well.

To coordinate the class into a unit, several committees have been appointed. They are, according to Newbold: arrangement of furniture - Bill Hoyt, Jack Craven, and Ralph Young; hymnal committee to supplant the present hymnal with some of the great hymns that are not in the book - Bob Werth, Bob Hamilton, and Toppy Evans; co-treasurers: Bob MacMillan and Bill Grey; leaders to conduct class in special music - William Joyner, John Festerman; class pianists: Lee Potter, Stuart Merriam; devotional leaders for the remainder of February: Bob Abernathy, Charlie Gunn, Walter Brown, on February 14, 21, and 28, respectively.

Spaulding Has Compliments For Davidson

Tells Interviewer of Musical Career, Present Tour, Local Impressions

Albert Spalding, noted American violinist, appeared in a concert given on February 5, in Chambers Auditorium. In an interview with Mr. Spalding after the concert, he stated that he was returning to New York for a two-day stay before continuing his tour of the country. Since January 1, Mr. Spalding has played in nine states. His complete concert tour will cover all forty-eight states.

When asked what type of audience he appeared before most frequently, he said, “I play for anyone who is willing to listen.” He did not intend to play the Coca-Cola Hour again soon, at least not until this concert tour was concluded.

Two Violins

On his tour, Mr. Spalding carries two violins: a Guarnerius and a Stradivarius. Since a violin can be overplayed as well as underplayed, he tries to give them both an equal amount of use, generally choosing the Guarnerius for pieces requiring more dramatic emphasis.

Musical Career

Concerning the beginning of his musical career, Mr. Spalding said, “I had asked for a violin at the age of seven. No one knows why—I don’t myself! No one in my family played violin nor can I call to mind any bit of drama such as hero worship of some great violinist whom by chance I might have heard. No, likelier the impulse came from a street fiddler with a monkey. It thrilled me to think that with arduous work I might get to be as proficient and possibly have a monkey, too.”

Baritone Voice

Mr. Spalding’s speech is quick and decisive, and he speaks with a New York accent. His voice is a resonant baritone, and his enunciation has a slightly theatrical tinge, which with his cultured manner stamps him as a thoroughbred. In closing, Spalding said that Chambers Auditorium was a most excellent location for a concert because of its fine acoustic qualities. He also stated that the Davidson student body and faculty was a very appreciative audience. Despite transportation difficulties, Mr. Spalding’s concert was attended by one of the largest crowds that has appeared for a concert of the current series. The Davidson student body was well represented, and an unusually large number of people from Davidson and surrounding communities were present.

DR. JOHNSON

For Fliers

First of Two Contingents Will Arrive About March 1

Aviation cadets of the Army Air Corps will receive pre-flight instruction at Davidson College, as announced by the Department of War on Saturday, February 6. Announcements from Washington listed 281 American colleges and universities that will receive contracts for training members of the armed services. Five other institutions besides Davidson in North Carolina were also on the list.

Not Yet Signed

Davidson College has not yet signed a contract with the Army for the services to be rendered. The administration of the college is expecting members of the government to arrive in the near future. When these men arrive, details of the contract will be arranged and it will then be signed. Representatives of the Army who surveyed the college about two weeks ago had several statements to make about the program. They informed the college that it would house, feed, and instruct the cadets. The Army would be responsible for discipline and training. After completing the five-month course of pre-flight work here, cadets will proceed to regular flight training centers.

About 500 Men

Dr. Cunningham, giving the views of the Army men, stated that the unit at full strength will consist of 500 men. These will be divided into two separate contingents of 250 men each. Present schedules call for the arrival of the first group on March 1 and the second about one month later. Each group is going to receive instruction here for five months in four basic courses—physics, mathematics, American history, and English. On the completion of the course by a group of 250, they will be replaced by a new group of cadets.

Special Emphasis

Special emphasis was placed by Dr. Cunningham on the fact that the college is not being taken over by the Army, but it will provide the Army with certain services as provided for in a contract. The work of the regular students will go on as before. The cadets will probably have different hours from the college students and they will place more emphasis on physical exercises than will the regular students.

Press Statement

In a statement to the press, the college president stated, “The plans call for a total of about 800 young men on the campus approaching a crowded condition for Davidson, but the Army representatives assured us that we would be able to provide adequate facilities. We now house 650 boys and they said we would be able with the same facilities to house about 800. Davidson does not now have a central dining hall and the Army will supervise the diet, and we will be able to use the large dining room in Chambers Building for that purpose. That will make it necessary for us to make certain changes and install a kitchen there. But we will be able to handle the situation and we are delighted that we can have this opportunity to be a part of the war effort.”

Survey

Members of the Air Corps who assisted in the study of the college arrived from Maxwell Field, Alabama, and Shaw Field, S.C. Representatives of the Engineer Corps who conducted the survey about the college came from N.C. State. N.C. State was picked for both engineering and pre-flight training.

(Continued on Page 4)