The Davidsonian

Published every Thursday... just for the hang of it.

Staff Writer
Staff Writer
Headlines

Gilbert Taliaferro,
HOE Meno AOU UTO0 OU

JGHSEN VON vio 65 oe

To all great columnists (such as Walter Winchell and Shaw Smith), there comes a time when a sub is necessary... Ole S. Smith, being a resident of home-town Mount Olive (N.C.) until Thursday, this is my chance to slip in a word. It seems that this is my chance to pass out an orchid that should have been passed out long ago. Namely to one Colin Shaw Smith. After serving as Y Secretary here for three years, Shaw leaves at the end of this month for... you guessed it... the Army. Even in normal times, it would be hard to find anyone who could replace Shaw... particularly so now. He's human enough to get EA.

Jules WIk5 GOBBOUDUOUOOUD Art
les SH SielchesG GUO UU ODOT Gel aohlschy)
idtto:
‘Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead! (said Farragut)

This might be just your favorite enemy,

POLITIC THOUGHT OF THE WEEK
"Exams are cribs," I've always said,
Stay up to study; I go to bed.
I never cram, I never worry;
I laugh to see the others scurry.
I'm the teacher, - Unclaimed.

Close to (gosh, did you ever see a man slower about getting up in the morning!) and he's gotten closer to more boys than you or I will ever realize. One may look over the thing objectively and say that the secret of Shaw's success is his talent at magic or his unusual personality, but to know the real truth I think you have to go deeper than that. You have to go down to the very core of things... and there you will find Shaw's faith. It's because of Shaw's belief in Christ and the Y as His Work that you and I have seen the Y grow in strength as an active campus organization. When he goes, we'll miss the old Rabbi.

But with an eye to the much nearer future, here pops up next week's Y function... Namely a Square dance at the campus. This will be our last weekend during the summer session, and this is the big celebration. What more? See you and your date there! From one who's gone through it, a word of commendation to Prexy Rhea Dabney for his handling of the bicycle-borrowing problem. After Tuesday's chapel talk, anyone who borrows a bike on the sly... is just an old so-and-so... and even more.

THE DAVIDSON THEATRE
Thursday-Friday: "DIXIE" with Dorothy Lamour and Bing Crosby.
Saturday: "FIRST COMES COURAGE" featuring Merle Oberon.
Saturday Late: "WILD HOUSE" a Hal Roach streamliner.
Monday-Tuesday: "DUBARRY WAS A LADY" with Lucille Ball and Red Skelton.

First evening show begins at 6:30, second at approximately 8:30. Matinee Saturday.