= Top - 5 n oo i o. SST -
* ° er) a4 “ao
So Bias a _ _ = ann A ; i: Lee ta res

Hampered by unusually rainy weather,

During the past weeks, only two softball
games have been played. In these, Watts
I-II defeated Watts III-IV in an upsetting 15-4
score.

The Singles Tennis Tournament has progressed slowly during its first week. To date, the results of only two matches have
been posted. Jerry Newbold defeated George McAden in the first round 6-0, 6-4, and Paul Starling won a one-set triumph
over Bryan Monroe by 6-4.

Moving into the second round with Newbold and Starling, the following players received byes in the first round: Mike Collins,
R.E. Bason, Joe Linton, Freeman Jones, Lyon Sandifer, and Dexter Witherington. Tournament manager McCoy stated the necessity of having all
first-round matches played off at the earliest available time. Winners are reminded to post results of the matches as soon
as they are played.

TS LOVIN! Productions and error counted with Mayor's civic scorecard.
Shows begin at 6:30 p.m. Matinee on Saturday. Time indicates the length of the feature picture.

THURS-FRI, "RANDOM HARVEST" (MGM)
Greer Garson and Ronald Colman, 126 min.
SATURDAY, "SHADOW LEADER X" (R.K.O.)
Ann Dvorak and Eric Portman, 96 min.
SATURDAY-LATE, "CINDY ELLA SWINGS IT," a pre-musical, 70 min.
MON-TUES, "OX BOW INCIDENT" (FOX)
Henry Fonda and Dana Andrews, 75 min.
WED-THURS, "BERLIN CORRESPONDENT" (FOX)
Virginia Gilmore and John Sutton, 70 min.

Continued from Page 1:
Books given to soldiers and the public by all standards—students (girls and boys), 3 professors, general passers-by—this kind of rating
would be a matter of course, not from an outstanding act or recent achievement, but just because of his consistency
of being on a higher level, and to not hear anything but good about Laurinburg's Bryant Monroe is a record
to boast of, which is what he wouldn't do, which is one reason why he is that news. A fellow
by the name of Jack Bradley (the same); long ago a "man-of-the-week" is now "man-of-the-nicest" in Davidson. Published every Thursday,
it consists of Wellford Hobbs, Byron Sandifer, Shaw Smith, Jensen George McAden, Hero Kassner, and Gilbert Soliver.

Subscription Rates:
LS Sayl. You're kidding!
