he Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1943

No. 2

Students Give To War Relief

Community Almost Doubles Its $1,000 Goal

The Community of Davidson almost doubled the goal set by contributing $1,800 to the National War Fund drive held here
during the past two weeks.

Davidson students, caught rather hard-pressed after the Homecoming weekend, gave $80.00. The drive is still going on, and more contributions
are expected.

The National War Fund makes it possible to support seventeen separate War and Relief agencies in one big drive, eliminating
the necessity of numerous small solicitings that only tend to get in the way and influence people against drives in
general.

The contributions will be distributed among the following organizations: War Prisoners’ Aid, United China Relief, United Service Organizations, Greek War
Relief, Russian War Relief, French War Relief, Belgian War Relief, Polish Relief, British War Relief, Queen Wilhelmina Fund, Seaman's Service,
Czechoslovak Relief Fund, United Yugoslav Relief Fund, Refugee Relief Trustees, U.S. Commission of Care of European Children, and Friends of
Luxembourg.

These many deserving relief funds must be met by the American people, who alone are in a position to do
so.

STANDINGS
Pts.
W L Pet. Scd. Op.
K. A.’s 4 1 .800 63 12
Kappa Sigs 4 1 .800 63 12
Betas 3 2 .600 48 18
S. P. E.'s 3 2 .600 32 14
Pi Kaps 1 4 .200 19 26
Pikas 0 5 .000 6 115

CHOSEN BY WHO'S WHO

The above Davidson students were selected to be included in the 1943-44 volume of Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges. Top row: Sam Hay, Ed Patterson, Bob Pierce, Henry Royster. Bottom row: Hank Watt, John Evans, Bobby
Miller, Bill Smith.

Roving Writer Tells of Visit To Local Theatre

By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Holding our food like men, we tripped down to the local cinema last night, eyes shining in anticipation of the
colossal production on. We stalked up to the box office, planked down thirty cents ($.30), and stumbled into the semidarkness,
hoping to find a seat on some polished board.

Lightning flashes across the screen; black bats flutter hither and yon. A lone mansion appears on a far-off hill. Rain
beats down on a lonely figure, in the foreground of the desolate scene, who gazes hopefully at the darkened house.

The noise of the rain, lightning, bats, and dramatic music suddenly stop to allow an ear-splitting scream to pierce the
silence. The lightning, bats, and music resume and the figure throws caution to the hurricane and madly rushes up the
hill. Reaching the door of the mansion, he feels for the knob, only to see the door swing inward away
from his sinewy hand.

He walks in, and looks up into the face of an enormous butler (always played by Boris Karloff) who stares
ominously down his hawk nose at our hero. The door suddenly slams shut; our hero snaps around with gun drawn.
Quick as a flash, he whips back, but the butler has disappeared.

Our hero advances to the foot of a large staircase, and noiselessly ascends the stairs, which branch into two separate
cases. Stairs to the right, stairs to the left. Between the staircases he notices a huge...

(Continued on Page 6)

GIVES DAVIDSON EIGHT PLACES

Eight Students Win In Poll

Selected For Excellence In Campus Activities

Eight members of the Davidson Student Body were recently honored by receiving requests for their biographies to be listed in
the 1943-44 edition of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

The following men were selected by an anonymous committee for their excellence in various forms of campus activity: Sam Hay,
Ed Patterson, Bobby Miller, Bob Pierce, Hank Watt, Henry Royster, Bill Smith, and John Evans.

Sam Hay has been president of the Class of ‘44 in his sophomore and junior years. He is president of
the Student Body, a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, the Beaver Club, and captain of the football team.

Ed Patterson is president of the Y.M.C.A., and of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity. He is a member of
the Y. Board of Control and the Y Cabinet.

Bobby Miller, secretary of the Pan-Hellenic Council, is president of Kappa Sigma fraternity, and a member of the Beaver Club,
the Y Cabinet, and Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity.

Bob Pierce, editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, is president of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, business manager of the annual, recorder of
the Court of Control, and is president of the 21 Club.

Hank Watt is president of Kappa Alpha fraternity, adviser of the freshman class, a member of the football team and
of the Y Cabinet.

Henry Royster, Judge of the Court of Control, is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of the 21
Club.

Bill Smith, manager of the Student Store, is treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and a member of...

(Continued on Page 6)
