SHCOND TERM DRAWS 125
The prospects for the second semester of the '43 Davidson Summer Session look unusually bright. One hundred and one students
from the first term are returning while twenty-four new students have been enrolled. Of these twenty-four, eight are girls, and
the remaining sixteen are boys.

NC July 22, 1943

PRESTON GRADUATES

As another evidence of wartime conditions at Davidson, the Student Body will elect next week its second Summer Session President.
By accelerating his course, Rhea Preston, this term's President, will graduate tomorrow (Friday), and will thus be ineligible to continue
in his office.

The Student Council has already made provision for the election of the new President. A nominating committee composed of Preston,
Nell Stephens, and Hank Watt has been appointed. Nominations from this committee will be presented to the Student Body at
Tuesday's chapel period, at which time they are subject to nominations from the floor. Voting by secret ballot will be
on Wednesday morning and will continue until the elections are completed.

Members of the present council who will return for the second term are John Belk, Raphael Cooney, Phen Debney, Nell
Stephens, Hank Watt, and Buddy Wells. Preston, Willie Brenizer, and Bobby Miller will not return for the second term. The
vacancies created by their leaving will be filled by election in the usual manner. If any members of last year's
council return to school for the second term, they are automatically members of the Summer Council.

Any student who has attended Davidson for as much as one semester of a regular session or one term of
the summer session shall be eligible to vote in the forthcoming election. The Elections Board has stated that the elections
will be conducted in the usual manner. Campaigning and solicitations are illegal.

A large variety of courses are open for the second term's work under various professors. In all, the available subjects
are as follows: Bible 21-22, Biology 31-32, English 11-12, French 21-22, German 21-22, History 11-12, History 71, History 72, Math
11-12, Math 11-125, Psychology 31-32, Spanish 21-22.

Classes on Monday will be as follows: the first class will be from 10:30 to 11:10, the second from 11:10
to 11:50, and the last from 11:50 to 12:30. On Tuesday the regular 8 o'clock schedule will be resumed.

The last term begins its official session on the 26th of July and comes to a close on the 26th
of August.

SPECIAL NOTICE
The Vespers for this Sunday will be a worship-hymn service in the Y Lounge. You are most cordially invited.

THE DAVIDSON THEATRE
Thurs-Fri: "HIT THE ICE" Abbott and Costello with Ginny Sims, (Universal)
Saturday: "THE CAPTIVE WILD WOMAN"
Sat. Late: "GOOD-BY, JUDGE"
Monday-Tuesday: "DESPERADOES" Randolph Scott, Claire Trevor, Glenn Ford. A Columbia picture in technicolor.
Wednesday: "Pilot No. 5" Franchot Tone, Marsha Hunt, Gene Kelly (M.G.M.)
First evening show begins at 6:30. Matinee on Saturday only. Admission 36¢.
