NOTED SCIENTIST SPEAKS HERE

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Che Davidsonta

ODK TAPS SEVEN MEN

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1943 No. 23

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA TAPS

Dr. Robert Millikan Nobel Prize Winner Speaks Here Friday

World Famous Physicist, Noted Philosopher, To Lecture In Chambers

Dr. Robert A. Millikan, one of the foremost physicists of the day, will speak here at Davidson Friday, April 23.
His subject will be “War, Science, and Religion” as he addresses the students here at 11:30 Friday. This influential man
is international in his fame. His work and publications on the electron are a notable achievement in the very world
of science. At present, he is Chairman of the Executive Council at California Tech in Pasadena, having studied at Oberlin
and Columbia and universities abroad.

Widely Honored

Dr. Millikan has been honored by universities all over the world, among them the University of Liege, the University of
Paris, Casimir the King (Poland), and the University of Ghent. He is a member of various honorary scientific societies in
Holland, France, England, China, Russia, and Germany. In this country, he holds degrees from such outstanding institutions as Columbia University,
the University of Pennsylvania, Yale, Harvard, Northwestern, and the University of Chicago, where he filled the Chair of Physics from
1896 to 1921. In 1923, he won the Nobel Prize for Physics for his work on the electron, the first
American to receive such an honor.

In Religion and Philosophy

Not only is he a scientist, but also a man of religion and philosophy, having done much to combine these
with science in America. It is on this line that he will speak.

Author

Dr. Millikan is the author of many books in his field. Included among them are: A Course in College Experiments
in Physics, 1898; The Evolution of Science and Religion, 1927; Science and the New Civilization, 1930; and Cosmic Rays, 1939.

Editor Gives Information On Magazine Plans

Interesting Features For Last Issue

The first issue of “Scripts 'n Pranks,” Davidson College humor magazine, under the new staff headed by Howell Morrow, recently
elected to head the publication for next year, will make its appearance during the early part of May, Editor Morrow
announced this week. It will be the last issue of the magazine to appear this year.

Morrow states that he and the staff have planned an unusually fine issue for their debut. Since almost the entire
Junior and Senior classes of Davidson will be entering the armed forces in June, he has asked Lt. Sam Spencer
of the ROTC Department to write a short story on his experiences on first entering the army after graduation.

Cartoons

Also featured will be a series of cartoons by local artist, Miss Clara Smith, depicting the faculty members as they
ride their bicycles around town. In addition, there will be a poem entitled, “Scripts 'n Pranks Won’t Win the War,”
and a series of poems satirizing the ERC boys as they vacated the dormitories.

Tantalizing Tale Found In Library

Reporter, In Search of Knowledge, Finds Interesting, But Incomplete, Paper

By CARBILL McCORMICK

Just a crumpled piece of waste paper... but what’s this—something about the noble art of love? Scrutinizing the paper left
on a library carrel by some previous student, I drew up a chair and sat down. It was the draft
of a freshman theme.

There’s no denying the fact that its creator committed a felony against the literary world by soiling a clean sheet
of paper with this ill-fitting, boring assembly of malapropisms; and the Davidsonian disavows any connection with said offense in printing
the heinous lines here:

First Love

“Lo everyone, there comes the delicious experience of a first love. Most of us reach this zenith of adolescent glory
in those cherished high school days stamped indelibly on one’s mind. Some dark-eyed Amazon of sweet sixteen or a blonde
Isabelle (!) of the rising junior class may be the object of one’s affections. In the boredom of Hamlet one
morning, one’s eyes, in their perversion around the room, light on a cute blonde that causes Shakespeare to sink into
obliteration in one’s mind.

“I was sixteen when this helpless plight first declined upon me. It was in the late summer of June (sic!)
and the soft nights had a mystical emulance about them that only Texas can produce.

Hayride

“The occasion was a hayride which included a trip of several miles of gently rolling cattle country that eventually ended
in a watermelon feast, naturally. A friend of mine, after much arguing, persuaded me to let him get me a
blind date, which I didn’t want to do. Strangely enough, against my will, I found myself perambulating to my date’s
domicile, which had been described as ‘cute, blonde and blue eyes.’ She was more than that. She was a beautiful
and... (four or five lines of this.)

Silver of Moon

“The hayride was a perfect setting for any romance. A thin silver of a moon stood back and let a
firmament of celestial bodies create that enchanted feeling that one notices when out in the open nocturnally... (Fifteen lines of
this).

“I soon made the gratifying discovery that my blind date was no let-down. She and I were indeed agreeable. We...

End of Story

And at this incident, friends, our Walter Winchell just stopped, was interrupted, or more probably, was bloodily assassinated and his
body put in the library book elevator. Now mistakes in grammar, vocabulary, and construction are partially excusable; but I send
forth an urgent plea to the author of this tale, for the sake of our insatiable curiosity, reveal to us
the outcome of this, your first thrilling romance!

Fraternities Talk Future With Faculty

Discuss Problem of Whether To Close Or Remain Open During Crisis

At a meeting of the faculty committee on fraternities, called in the faculty room of Chambers Building on Wednesday night,
April 14, Dr. Frontis Johnston, chairman of the committee on fraternities, the presidents and treasurers of nine Davidson social fraternities
discussed with members of the faculty and administration the problem of keeping open or closing the fraternities next year because
of the war crisis.

The first problem to be approached was that of disposing of the fraternity lodges. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of
the college, speaking for the board of trustees, said that he thought the board would be unwilling to close the
houses entirely for the duration, since it depends on rent derived from them to fill out the college budget. He
said, however, that he thought they would be willing to make some reduction in the rent, or work out some
plan of temporarily renting them to other lessees until the fraternities reopened, if they decided to close.

Problem of Closing

The next problem to be approached was the actual dilemma of whether to close the fraternities entirely for the duration,
or whether to try to struggle along with the greatly reduced membership that they will have next year. Several chapters
came out with definite proposals of closing, giving as their reasons the belief that remaining open would result in turning
over the chapters to inexperienced men next year which, in turn, would result in lowered standards. Others expressed the desire
to remain open, saying that there was no reason for closing as long as there were even a few members
left who were willing and capable of carrying on.

Dr. Cunningham closed by expressing the hope that the fraternities will remain open to maintain as near as possible normal
relations. Discussion was adjourned pending voting by the chapters.

HONORED BY ODK

SCOTT

BUMBARGER

WILLIAMS

Duke Leaders Hold Meeting Next Tuesday

Foundation Officials Lunch In Charlotte

Directors of the Duke Founda-tion from New York and other areas will meet at a luncheon given for them by
the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce at noon next Tuesday in the Charlotte Hotel. The luncheon will be given as an
expression of appreciation to the Foundation for what the Duke Endowment has meant to educational institutions throughout the Carolinas.

Mr. George Ivey To Preside

Mr. George Ivey, president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, will be in charge of the meeting. He has asked
President John R. Cunningham to make the address, in which he will summarize the great benefits the Carolinas have received
from the Duke Foundation. The Duke Foundation is a philanthropy set up by the will of the late James B.
Duke, tobacco magnate. The will provides that a majority of the funds in the foundation be allotted to the needs
of Duke University, with about 5 percent going to Davidson, 5 percent going to Furman, and some to hospitals and
orphanages.

WELLS

Havic Chosen For Honorary Frat Position

Elected President By Honorary Fraternity Council Last Week

Jim Davis, of Salisbury, N. C., was elected President of the Honorary Fraternity Council at a meeting held in the
parlor of Watts on last Wednesday night. Davis succeeds Burkehead Walker of this organization as president. Davis is a member
of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity. He represents Alpha Epsilon Delta on the council,
which is the honorary pre-medical fraternity on the Davidson campus.

The Honorary Fraternity Council is composed of the presidents of all honorary fraternities on the Davidson campus. The fraternities and
their presidents are: Delta Pi, Spanish, Bob Cushman; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Ed Beaver; Sigma Upsilon, Literary, Tom Peters; Philanthropic Society,
Mac Jeffries; Eumenean Society, Alex Patterson; Phi Mu Alpha, Musical, Paul Welch; Alpha Epsilon Delta, Toppy Evans; Sigma Pi Sigma,
Physics, Caspar Woodbridge; Delta Phi Alpha, German, D. D. Phillips; Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science, Sam Henderson; Scabbard and Blade,
Military, Pat Williams.

“Y” DISCUSSION

Dr. C. M. Richards, Professor of Bible, will open a series of two discussions on comparative religion with a talk
on Mohammedanism and Buddhism, as compared to Christianity, to be held in the “Y” Lounge this Sunday evening, April 25th,
immediately following Vespers. Dr. Richards plans to discuss Mohammedanism and Buddhism separately, and then compare each to Christianity. Questions and
answers will follow, as well as a general forum.

SEVEN MEN

One Senior and Six Juniors Are Chosen by Leadership Frat

Seniors To Give Party To Faculty

Senior-Faculty Day Planned For May 4; Athletics, Stunts To Take Place

The annual Senior-Faculty day will be held this year on May 4th, according to Lyman Parrigin, president of the senior
class. Events of the day will begin in early afternoon, when seniors will vie with faculty members in various athletic
contests. These events will be followed in the late afternoon by an outdoor supper. In the early evening, stunts will
be presented by both groups, followed by a smoker.

Athletic Program

The athletic program of the day will include baseball, golf, tennis, volleyball, basketball, and ping pong. Bill Walker, chairman of
the Athletic Committee, and Burkehead Chalmers, co-chairmen of the Senior Class Day Committee, will be in charge of the skit
entitled “Arsenic and Old Faces.” Supper arrangements are being completed by Jerry Newbold and Ross Parks, co-chairmen of the Food
Committee. Because of the war, the usual barbecue will have to be given up, and fried chicken with ham substituting.

“Senior-Faculty Day is a tradition that has always been immensely enjoyed in the past,” declared Parrigin, “and we hope to
make up in quality what we have lost in quantity this year. Our committees are functioning actively, and we plan
to make the event an even greater success than before.”

YMCA Cabinet Airs Problems With Leaders

Holds Joint Meeting With Board of Control

A joint meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet and Board of Control was held Monday night, April 19.
Immediately preceding the meeting, the two bodies were served supper. At the meeting, many problems facing the two groups were
clarified and discussed. Among them was the increased financial objective which has been created by a new building and the
resulting increased expenses. Various other phases of the budget were considered.

Present

Among those present were Dr. Cunningham, Mr. Jackson, and Reverend Carl Pritchett. At the conclusion of the joint meeting, the
“Y” Board held a meeting at which business that concerned the Board alone was discussed. Chairman of the Board of
Control is Mr. Frank L. Jackson, who is also Treasurer of Davidson College. The duties of the board, among others,
are to plan the financial side of the Y program.

Men Tapped At Chapel Ceremony Include New Student Officers

In its annual Spring tap held this morning at the regular chapel hour, Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa honored
seven men with bids. The seven men, one Senior and six Juniors, thus honored were Bill Lyman, Dick Port, Buddy
Wells, Legh Scott, Tommy Bumbarger, Pat Williams, and Alf Taylor.

Activities

Bill Lyman, Senior from Birmingham, Alabama, has served as Editor of the Magazine during 1942-3. He is President of his
social fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, as well as of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary society, and the Publications Board. Dick Port,
Winston-Salem Junior, is the newly elected President of the Student Body. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity, and of the Sigma Upsilon literary group. He was recently tapped into Scabbard and Blade. Buddy Wells, of Richmond,
Va., is the incoming President of the Y. M. C. A. He has been serving on the “Y” cabinet and
has been active in all phases of the work of that organization. He is a member of the Glee Club.
Legh Scott, of Goldsboro, who recently took over the Editorship of The Davidsonian, is a member of Kappa Sigma social
fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, Scabbard and Blade, and served as Junior representative on the Student Council. Tommy Bumbarger of Hickory is
Editor of the 1944 Quips and Cranks. He is a member of the Spanish Club, the Beaver Club, and Scabbard
and Blade. He served as Junior representative on the Student Council and was Vice-President of the Sophomore Class. He is
in Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. Pat Williams, of North Wilkesboro...

MOTHER’S DAY PROGRAM

Friday, May 7
8:00 P.M.—Interfraternity Sing, Chambers Auditorium (Sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha)

Saturday, May 8
8:30 A.M. to 1:30 P.M.—Arrival and housing of Mothers.
8:30 A.M. to 12:30 P.M.—Open House—Class Rooms, Library, College Museum, Science Laboratories, Art Exhibit.
12:30 P.M. to 1:30 P.M.—Lunch (Student to arrange for his Mother's lunch.)
1:30 P.M. to 5:00 P.M.—Open House Dormitories, Y.M.C.A and Guest House, Fraternity Halls.
2:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M.—Sports Events, Richardson Stadium.
4:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M.—Davidson Color Movie, Science Building.
5:30 P.M. to 6:00 P.M.—Band Concert, Campus
7:30 P.M. to 8:30 P.M.—Mothers’ Day Banquet.
8:45 P.M. to 10:00 P.M.—Elijah, Mendelssohn (An Oratorio by Queens-Davidson Musical Organizations) Chambers Auditorium.

Sunday, May 9
9:15 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.—Breakfast
10:15 A.M. to 11:00 A.M.—Student Bible Class, Y. M. C. A. Lounge.
11:00 A.M.—Mothers and Sons assemble in Front of Chambers.
11:05 A.M.—Procession of Mothers and Sons to College Church.
11:15 A.M.—Services, Presbyterian Church.

All Mothers are invited to remain with their Sons through the day.
7:30 P.M.—Evening Vespers.
