Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 8, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

LEGH SCOTT McALISTER CARSON
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Ed John Fairly
Howell Morrow
Jim Stimson
Deane Watson
George Worth
Sports Writers
Reporters Jim Ly

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager Donny Powell
Advertising Manager I n t
Circulation Manager Dexter Wit
Subscription Manager J t
Manager Bill
Collection Asst. Ad. Mgr Herman
Asst. Cir. Mer Let
Asst. Sub. Mgr Co mit
Asst. Col. Mer Reid
Asst. Col. Mgr Chir

Fraternities
It is now evident that few, if any, of the national fraternities on the campus will be able to maintain active chapters next year. Therefore, we suggest that some action be taken soon either by the Pan-Hellenic Council or the administration toward the adoption of a unified policy for the immediate future of the Greeks. We are of the opinion that the decision should be to discontinue all such national social fraternities at Davidson for the duration. There may be one or two fraternities who expect to have enough members remaining in school to attempt to carry on actively. However, this will be impossible for the great majority. The financial problem alone prohibits such an attempt. Five or six boys cannot possibly finance the rent and upkeep of a lodge for a year. If some are counting on pledging enough freshmen next year to keep things going, they should remember that the length of time that these men will remain in school will be very uncertain. Even if some fraternity should find it possible, through some financial reserve or from gifts, to continue their activities, it would be unfair to the others if they were permitted to carry on. Of course, it would be impossible to prevent “underground” meetings of those who remain in school, but the pledging and initiation of new men should be strictly prohibited. We hate to see fraternity life end at Davidson, even in the face of such a crisis. Nevertheless, a uniform policy of disbanding all for the duration seems to be the only fair solution to the problem. Some say that there has been so much pressure in the past against fraternities at Davidson that they would never be established again here if discontinued. We believe that fraternities have proven their worth at Davidson in the promotion of character, fellowship, and scholarships and that after the war they will return stronger than ever. Interested alumni will see to that. But for the present, since some must go, let all active chapters be discontinued at the close of the current semester.

Commendable Spirit
The way in which the “remnants” of the Davidson student body (or club, as some would have it) are getting along with the aviation students is indeed praiseworthy. Although the opportunity for contact between the two groups has necessarily been at a minimum, many have taken advantage of the opportunity for new friends and fellowship. The way in which the students and the soldiers participated jointly in the social function over at Queens the other weekend is an example of that spirit. The cadets’ participation in the YMCA stunt night is another. A student met one of the cadets on the street of a nearby city last weekend and was greeted by, “Hi, Davidson.” It turned out that it was one of the men with whom the student had been pitching horseshoes here on the campus. We hope that these men are really beginning to look upon Davidson as their own Alma Mater. The YMCA has done a good job in providing joint social entertainment, and we trust that the relationship will continue to be as pleasant as it has so far. The spirit is typical of the American way as well as the Davidson way.

“Y’s” Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Are gonna be on the campus? Nice! And heartier unless it could be. But the day promises well as the night. Stadium De ny good pleasure to do it personally, tired girls—well! Track meet, square dancing, John and Dall Grosse to help pair off the dates. Dancing in the stadium, Coach Always knew their D. Dix tendencies. Jim Harris is doing good behind the scenes work of arranging the stadium, everything in arranging for picnic feature: stunts of Charles Atlas variety by A.W. Whitley, George Hood, and Jack Bellman. I don't wanna miss it—those girls. Hood, Little, Richardson, for being good thankies one day last week. Rhodes for the button-hole go to: Al Lang, for his delightful “At Ease” column—not only a good writer, but a good man in many ways—Melvin Lamb, Getter-Up Mornings—worked hard on the air TITS. No reason for their getting 2nd for his interest in all his men and their happiness—The trio from East—Gene Kurtz (Clarinet), Constantine J. Kontos (piano), and Ed Kresinske (drums)—little time for practice—made fine with stunt night audience—we're hoping to show Saturday—Johnnie, Lacatosk handled hard job of emceeing people unknown to them and did it well. All boys showed they had talent—Bill (a tipfulness Sunday. Activities open rum—Buele Archer and his boys—show what interest and hard work can accomplish—Buddy Wells—already showing ability student body saw in him at election time.—Mrs. J. V. M., local lady for generous and thoughtful check for the work here at the “Y”—Frank Cockinos, late student of ERC vacating fame—for the good he saw in Davidson, spoke of, and contributed to—you may write him at the Recreation Center, Area A, Fort Bragg, N. C.—Judge Hays—talked of what he knew to be true. Prof. Osborne interesting and delightful Listening Hour programs at the Y after church every other Sunday—Rev. Carl Pritchett—who shows me more how to evaluate by merely walking by than many could with two hours talking—occupant of No. 2-Watts lives for something beyond himself—I mean really lives—N. D. K.—who will be struck by reading those letters yet never know how they strike me—Jerry Newbold—improving all he works with and himself as well—and now the light talk about fellow students without in- Stink-weeds to: The fellow who leads without investigating truth or lack of it in his remarks—or without weighing needless hurt even if partly true—talks Scripture or prayer in chapel or church—the man any—man—who during the reading of a who answered for an absent “buddy” in class last week he hurts the honor system and stunts his own growth—Likewise the vespers “Sit-in-my-seater”—Anyone who stopped reading this stuff earlier in the column (which does not mean you!) for writing so much. Yours, Shaw Smith.

Letters From The Lodges

Phi Gamma Delta
Brothers Howell Morrow, Ed Pickard, and Henry Crane were among the debaters who took last week off, Brother Crane going to Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, the University of Virginia, William and Mary, and the University of Richmond, while Morrow and Pickard visited Winthrop College, the University of Georgia, Agnes Scott, Emory, and points south. Brother Possum Ormand took off on an extended trip home to Thomaston, Georgia, and Pledge Brother John Fairly visited his home in Richmond, Va. Brother Bill Lyman Spartanburg again, and Brother Dave Richardson attended the freshman dance at Randolph-Macon. Pledge Brothers Jake Alexander and Bob Jones visited their wives in Concord, with Jake coming straight back by way of Winston-Salem. Brother Moose Hart and Brother Lee Wolfe spent the weekend at the Wolfe's home in Monroe, and Brother Ben Williamson stayed in Mount Airy. Brother Bob Crowell had “a fine weekend” in Lexington.

Kappa Sigma
As if they couldn't get enough of it in one weekend, a small group of Sigmas descended once again upon the campus of Randolph-Macon. Brother Booth led the pack with Brothers Davis, Amos, Taylor, and Wilson collaborating to make it a Sigma occasion. The understanding is that Brother Wilson really had to resort to that syllable of his last name in order to obtain one of the lovelies. His blush did it. Brother Garrett, Amos, Stafford, and Brother Troutman followed the first group to Lynchburg, but detoured from R-M to fight with the local femininity. There is a vague knowledge that one of the girls was named Louise. Pledge Brother Joe McCoy was handed by Converse whereas Brothers Carter, Bob McCoy, Holland, Wilkinson, and Dick Phillips found themselves at home. Brother Wray spent a strenuous weekend reading the funny papers.

Phi Delta Theta
Brother Hobbie, as usual, stayed on the campus, while Romie Chapman gurgled his way to Spartanburg and back. Brother Pierce had plans shattered for a trip either to Winston-Salem or Rock Hill, and consequently, compromised on Cornelius. Pledge Brother John “Hotlips” Forbes partied in the Salem Lunch with assorted friends. Brothers Thurston and Montgomery operated brilliantly in Charlotte and Davidson, the old maxim, “two heads are better than one,” not applying in this case. Brother Emerson journeyed to Morganton to visit Brother Sam Tate. Brother Archer took his last pleasure trip for the duration, going east with the tennis team, playing Duke and Carolina, among other things. Yo-Yo Head Watson, as usual, sojourned in Charlotte, which is another word for Janie.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Brother Farrar and Pledge Siske took the dealing prize this week with another trip to Boone for their health. The mountain air, they heard, was very bracing even if a bit cold. Brother Parker was the only visitor of the Queen City on Friday night, while Brothers Warlick and Johnson looked into the Statesville situation. Brother Rogers made it to Kannapolis to see about the home front. The Chapter announces that in recent elections A. A. Farrar was elected president; Horace Pearsall, vice-president; C. W. Hodges, Pan-Hellenic Council member; Sam Henderson, treasurer; and Joe Anderson, secretary. These officers will be formally installed Thursday.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
This past weekend found most of the brothers hitting the road for the weekend. Brothers Richardson and Little journeyed to Mooresville. Brother BenPitt Moore took off for McColl to spend the weekend with his folks. Brothers Jack and Charlie Wills drove to Washington, Ga. Brother Frank Carter spent the weekend at home in Mt. Airy. Brothers Claude Hackney and Hips Graves took off for Greensboro. Also seen in Greensboro was Brother Harvey Garrow. Brother Harris was seen in Winston. Brothers Alexander, Douglas, Bruce, Hunt, Carson, Smith, and Dunn were seen in Charlotte. The Chapter welcomed Brothers 1st Lt. Hackney, '42, and 1st Lt. Jim McDuffie, '41, back to the campus.

Pi Kappa Phi
As usual, most of the Pi Kappas took big details over the two Carolinas. The biggest deal, by far, was pulled by Brother Clarence McArthur — Stephens College, Columbia, Missouri. He was gone for ten days to see the one and only. Brother Hipp went to Senior Formal and also to Greenville. Brother Eve took his usual weekend trip to Augusta. Brothers Fisher and Lineberger went home to Kannapolis and Gastonia. Among the Charlotte visitors were Brothers McCrea, Whittier, Bumbarger, and Gaither. Pledges Robertson and Robbins both went home to Kannapolis. Brother Evans went home to Hickory.

Kappa Alpha
The knights for the most part stayed on the campus this weekend and pursued their studies. However, there were a few who journeyed to foreign cities. Brother Whitesides went home to Gastonia on Long Creek, Brother Nickels to Statesville, and Brothers Sandifer and T. Belk to Converse. Brother Burke started to operate in the metropolis, but was almost operated on instead before he could get away. “Father Divine” MacMillan, accompanied by Pledge Brother Brown, journeyed up to the Twin City to pick up where they left off last weekend.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Last weekend the S.P.E.'s held their annual Installation Banquet and Dance in Charlotte at the Ship Ahoy Restaurant. In the absence of the former President, Clarence Legerton, Jack Behrman presented the gavel to Rush Winchester, rising President. The other new officers were recognized: Sam Hay, Vice-President; Rudolph Chaney, Secretary; Hugh McLauchlin, Historian; Wendel Knox, Guard; and Price Gwynn and Ralph Chaney, Marshals. Brother Behrman was elected the most valuable man in the fraternity, and Ed Lilly was selected the most valuable freshman in the fraternity. We were glad to have Professor and Mrs. Fulcher, Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere, Dr. and Mrs. Gwynn, and Mr. and Mrs. Morrison with us at the banquet. The brothers and their dates were: Rush Winchester, Frances Adam; Jack Behrman, Evelyn Beaty; Price Gwynn, Katherine Loy; Ralph Chaney, Mary Burke Hatcher; Tom Gregg, Mary Martha Mauldin; Tom McLauchlin, Arlene Keller; Hunter Dalton, Dorothy Mauldin; Tom McLauchlin, Arlene Gibson; Jerry Robinson, Billie Luck; Bob Bradford, Elva Grace Ayett; Andy White, Adelaide Anderson; John Mayor, Dot Van Hook; John Maness, Helen Burwell; and Pledge Brother John Harden, Tillie Wright. We regret the loss of Brothers Miller, Maness, White, Shaw, Morton, Brown, Myers, Mayor, Paul Behrman, and Blevins to the E.R.C. Also, Brother Legerton has left us to go to the University of South Carolina Medical School. Brother Powell has joined the Air Corps.

Beta Theta Pi
Week before last the Beta Brothers were dealing from Baltimore, where Brother Walker went to attend his brother's graduation, to Miami where Brother Paul Welch found nine days of home life quite restful. Between these points went Brothers Cushman and Tucker to their homes in Florida. Brother White made his usual trip home to Graham, N.C. and Brother Neisler the same to King's Mountain. This weekend found Brothers Caterson and Raney on the campus at Spruce Pine. Brother Spike Mebane attended the dance at Converse Saturday night. Brother Joyner visited his home at Kernersville. Brothers Rawley and Nat Garrison visited Greensboro, then departed to their respective homes at Reidsville and Burlington. Also to Burlington went Brothers Staley Garrison and Newlin. Brother Neisler went home again. Brother Jim McCrary represented the debating team, seeing the sights of the Old Dominion State in Randolph-Macon, University of Virginia, in Richmond, and in Williamsburg. With the tennis team went Brothers Schmidt and Byrd. To the Queen City went Brothers Barnwell, Upchurch, Skinner, Knowles, Smith, Phillips, and Roseborough. Also Pledge Brother Yocum.

At Ease
By ALBERT P. LANG
A hearty welcome is extended to the incoming group of Aviation Students, and we who have been here assure them that they will find their stay here both pleasant and very worthwhile. We shall do our utmost to acquaint them with the procedures here and rest assured that they will cooperate and join us in our effort to make this the best College Training Detachment in the country.

Intermission between classes at Shearer Hall proved quite interesting last week when several of our musically inclined members obliged by pouring a fusillade of jive our way. Mister Kontos officiated at the piano and gave out with a stream of boogie-woogie that rocked us in our seats and set our feet to tapping. Gene Kurtz picked up a clarinet and after a few timid wheezes, comfortably propped himself against the wall and gave out with some mighty sweet licks. Mr. Lagges draped himself around a huge tuba and provided a rhythmical background of deep notes. Messrs. Latchen and Lakowski conceived the fiendish idea of combining their talent on the drums, and together assembled an assortment of beats as complex, if not as well spaced, as any Krupa could produce. At times the rhythm section was a bit independent and domineering but the piano, reed, and brass rallied to the cause and somehow made themselves audible in spite of the din. Mr. Lakowski was quite entertaining as he beat the bass, and daringly jeopardized his hand by methodically reaching out to silence the vibrating cymbals, so vigorously and constantly struck by Latchen. You were swell fellows, thanks for the show.

A few days later we sat in quiet admiration while pilot Captain Pharr spoke to us about the various tasks ahead of us before we receive our wings. The Air Corps is well represented in Captain Pharr and we could do nothing but listen intently to his enlightening talk and gaze covetingly at his silver wings.

Shaw Smith, of the Y.M.C.A., claims he has more fun than a three-ringed circus in store for us this coming Saturday afternoon. What with a couple hundred girls from Salem and Queens to help us watch a track meet, enjoy a lawn party, and stomp a good old-fashioned square dance, we wouldn't miss the fun. “Chew Terbaccy, spit on the ground, twirl your partner around 'n round.” Excluding the expectorating, that’s just what many of us did Saturday before last in Davidson and at Queens College. In the Davidson High School Gym you might have recognized among the twirling gyrating mass of smiling faces, those of Messrs. Krug, Kulbacki, Kulpa, and Sgt. Beiard. All bent on delving into the intricacies of the dance of the barn, we found it less confusing and much more fun to take part in the affair than to stand at a distance attempting to analyze it.

The joviality of Johnny Lakatosh mixed well with the contagious smile of Bill Kruise as they jointly M.C.'d the Stunt Night show. Our boys were quite entertaining despite the fact that their act was impromptu and, although they basked in the footlights, they were as much in the dark as the audience as to what would happen next.

The dance is the thing apparently, and touching off the high spot of the weekend was our Group Dance to the inviting rhythmical cadence set forth by Buck Arsher's Band on Saturday evening at Fireman's Hall in Charlotte. The presence of our C.O. Major Bonner and Mrs. Bonner gave our affair an official air and yet their friendly mingling and wholehearted participation identified them as the acting Ma and Pa of one big happy family. Skeptical? The news photographs taken are being furiously bid for by nationally known dentifrice manufacturers for their en masse glistening smile advertising values. Kenneth Lamster and June Senger of Milwaukee added a tender romantic note to the evening by announcing their engagement. Congratulations, but gosh Ken, isn't one war enough? Lts. Brooks, Gelinkn, and Zindel joined in the dance, while all were reminded of the absence of our fun-loving Lt. Warley by a pathetically lonesome and unclaimed pack of mints, his delight, lying on the concession counter—waiting, waiting, waiting. While we're at the refreshment stand let's thank Whitey Kreps for serving the cokes, and also click a few pop bottles together in appreciation of the efforts put forth by all who made our affair a success—especially the girls. It's midnight already and like Cinderellas the girls must go, so it's back to our buses soldiers. Steam those windows with rousing songs; now lean a bit forward and coax the laboring bus along. The cool night air is fresh and invigorating as we leave the panting bus and make our way in the general direction of the campus, our barracks, and bed. Gosh but we're tired. Goodnight.

Al Lang, 244th College Training Det.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
THE HARD WAY
A cast of newcomers among the Hollywood star ranks, but a cast which is familiar to cinema-goers play in Thursday and Friday's attraction, The Hard Way. Ida Lupino, Cagney's wife in Yankee Doodle Dandy, and Jack Carson, Errol Flynn’s friend in Gentleman Jim, are the only old-timers in the story, teaming with Dennis Morgan and Joan Leslie.

Saturday
FRANKENSTEIN MEETS THE WOLF MAN
The epitome of horror is a term which might well describe the latest Frankenstein show. The old favorite, Boris Karloff, meets another old favorite, The Wolfman. Billed to play for two days in place of the usual one indicates that it must be of better-than-average timber. I would like for JACK WAYMAN to be my guest for any performance next week, in a situation which should satisfy any spook-seeker.

Monday and Tuesday
IT AIN’T HAY
Bud Abbott and Lou Costello, who seem to be able to turn out pictures as fast as the local houses can show them, are billed again in their newest show, It Ain’t Hay. The two comics are up to their old tricks and their antics will be amusing to those who liked their other shows, because this is a repeat performance with some new lines.

Wednesday and Thursday
FOREVER TODAY
No information was available on this show, but the fact that it is playing for two days suggests it is worth seeing.