Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

PORTS SPOTLIGHT BY JIM JACKSON

Davidson has long been known as an underdog eleven. Davidson has the spirit, puts up the game tight, wins the
moral victory, and loses the ball game. That's the attitude of too many Davidson fans; that’s traditional. Or rather, that’s
the way it’s been until recently. Then last fall, an underdog Wildcat football team plastered V. M. I. 24-6, and
Davidson stock soared. Of course, an anti-climax was reached when Carolina and Citadel beat the Cats, but the spark was
there. A red-hot basketball team, led by the Peters twins and Jim Lowry, with the new fire, blazed a victorious
trail into the subsequent championship of the conference tournament, and George Washington five was mighty lucky to get off with
the narrow win which they managed in the semi-finals. But the war's taking all that away. Of course, Davidson won't
be hit any harder than a lot of other schools, perhaps much lighter than the majority, but no time for
the departure of Tommy and George Peters could be more inopportune than the present. Not to complain, but unless there
is a real effort made by alumni and students, when hostilities cease, the Wildcat sports teams may sink into the
same old lethargy. Here’s looking at Davidson after the war.

MANY SOPHS LOST

Not only will two of the most colorful and talented pair of athletes in the country, the Peters twins, go
with the armed forces at the end of the semester, but many others have gone and will go in the
near future. Jackie Byrd, a driving and fiery basketeer and one of the most promising tennis aces to hit the
campus in many a day, will go. Bob DuRant, a swift-charging blocking back, wrestler, and hurler, leaves for the Army
Air Force. Buck Williams, Gene Bingham, and Luke Riffe are already in the service and have deprived the Red and
Black of three of the best all-around athletes in the South. Bill Dunn, Art Roach, Gwyn Fletcher, and Buck Troutman
won't be furnishing Coach Gene McEver with first-rate gridiron material next fall. And there are many others. This year’s sophomore
class was the class of the new Davidson in the field of sports, but the sophs were shot to pieces
by the war.

TOMMY AND PAT ELECTED

Not to be ignored is the nomination of Tommy Peters as captain and Pat Williams as alternate captain of next
year’s cagers. At a recent basketball dinner at Coach Shepard’s house, Tommy deservingly gained the honor traditionally reserved for the
seniors, and Pat was rewarded for his steady and patient play throughout the 1942-43 schedule. And to the unsung heroes
of the court, the Managers, must go a large portion of available glory. Succeeding Joe McCoy as varsity manager is
Buddy Carson, while Pinky Wilson is the new frosh head.

TRACK MEET

This is Monday and qualifying for the inter-frat track meet has not yet begun, but if the results of this
year’s meet are similar to those of previous relays and dashes, the deciding factors will be the points gained by
athletes of varsity material, usually freshmen. This hardly seems fair to the ordinary intramural athletes, those who are not quite
up to the varsity caliber. Freshmen and upperclassmen who have been working out with the varsity and are reasonably assured
of squad berths use the meet as a proving ground. Of course, this can be of great help to the
coaching staff in getting a line on what the material is and in searching for latent talent, but it takes
the intramural atmosphere away from track. The future varsity stars usually clean up in the fraternity clash. Whether or not
a new system is preferable depends upon the purpose of the event. There are two sides to the question.

SPRING SPORTS

In the sign-off to major Davidson sports on a large scale, the spring sports will play the leading role, and
the outlook is pretty good. Frank Mebane and the golf team are polishing up their mashies and woods in preparation
for the Southern Intercollegiate. Coach Whittle is putting the final finesse on his track charges, and Coach Shepard has come
down to heavy work, which has most recently featured the stickwork of Dave Maloney. The Ace poled one over the
left field barrier at slugging drill last Thursday in an amazing exhibition of strength and skill. Tommy Peters and Jack
Loughridge have also shone in recent practices.

INTERNATIONAL ATHLETICS

America has baseball for her national pastime and the game has spread to all corners of the earth. Even the
Japs, almond eyes that they are, have undertaken the sport, and it rates in Tokyo along with the Judo-wrestling of
Tojo’s (plug) boys. In Cuba, the pellet pounding has gained a firm hold, and the Cubans have proved to be
a vast resource for professional ivory hunters. Their own two popular games, Jai Alai and cock-fighting, are two of the
roughest and most thrilling sources of amusement there are. In England, as in South America, the popular sport is their
football, which corresponds to our soccer. Recently, a wartime throng of 75,000 flocked to view two of the Isles’ top
teams, but the Britons have their own form of baseball in the game of cricket. But all this is beside
the point. It is now time to close shop and go to bed. Good night.

Navy Program, after selection by the Office of Naval Officer Procurement, will be detailed directly to college. While at college,
they will be uniformed with ENGIN active duty under military discipline.

DEBATING TEAM

(Continued from Page One)

Since all college debating teams are prepared to speak on this topic, it facilitates the intramural contests in this field.

Subject

The subject of the debates is Resolved: That the United Nations should form a Federal Union with the power to
tax and regulate trade, provide an international police force, settle international disputes, and provide enforcement of these settlements.

Wildcat Sports Thursday, March 25, 1943

Riflers Down Wofford, To Meet Citadel

Marksmen Continue Undefeated In Match Here

Davidson's undefeated riflemen continued their current win streak on March 18th at the Armory with an amazing 931 to 581
victory at the expense of Wofford College. The Cats, in amassing their 931 points, set a new school record for
competition. Individual scoring honors for Davidson went to Clarence McArthur, who posted a sizzling mark of 190. Following the top
man were: Barber, with 188; Stubbins, with 183; and Worth, with 181.

With this triumph, the Wildcats avenged two losses handed them by the Terriers during their matches in 1942, and rose
still further toward the climax of an undefeated season. Davidson will close its regular season on Saturday, March 27, against
The Citadel in Charleston. When the team embarks tomorrow for the City-by-the-Sea, it will be seriously weakened by the loss
of Worth and Davis, who will have by then answered the call of the I. R. C., and by the
necessary absence of McArthur. Worth and McArthur have been consistent leaders all year, and their absence will greatly endanger the
Cats’ chances for an undefeated season.

National riflery matches started this week. Davidson, one of four teams representing the South, fired the first stage in its
quest for a high rating in the National tourney on March 22 and 23. In the shooting on March 22,
Monday, the Wildcat score was about even with the average of leaders of previous years. Should the Wildcats come through
against Citadel this weekend, they would become the only Davidson athletic team in recent history to go through the regular
season unbeaten, and consequently are determined to fire as accurate a set of targets as possible.Best Players Are Selected Managers
Make All-Fraternity Selections

The five intramural basketball stars were selected by fraternity sports managers as the top five in frat cage competition for
the past season, by virtue of receiving the highest number of votes. Burkehead Walker of the Betas became 1943's most
valuable player. The left-handed hook shot artist was a member of the all-aggregation along with Bob Pierce, Dick Miller, Jim
Jackson, and Ace Maloney, all of whom polled sufficient ballots to rank on the first team. Pierce and Miller were
but a lone point behind Walker in the final tabulation.

Although he departed in mid-season, Bruce Black gave a good account of himself to rank on the second team, along
with Lennox Turnbull, Ed Murray, Charlie Wills, and Tommy Powell. Voting was close, and only a few points separated the
nominees.

The first team:
Miller - S. P. E.
Pierce - Phi Delts
Maloney - Phi Delts
Walker - Betas
Jackson - K. A.

The second team:
Black - Phi Gams
Murray - Pi Kaps
Turnbull - Kappa Sigs
Wills - S. A. E.
Powell - S. A. E.

Honorable mention: Crowell, Phi Gams; Caterson, Betas; Skinner, Betas; Winchester, S. P. E.; Gwynn, S. A. E.; DuRant, K. A.;
Manget, K. A.; Booth, Kappa Sigs; Troutman, Kappa Sigs; and Waddell, Phi Delts.

THE DAVIDSONIAN TENNIS TRIO

Above are pictured, left to right, Craig Schmidt, Buck Archer, and Eugene Sutton, three veterans of last year's fine tennis
team, who will be slamming them across the net for Davidson again this season. Archer and Sutton are co-captains. Prospects
for a good season are bright with several outstanding performers coming up from last year's freshman aggregation.

Netmen Meet Duke and Carolina April 2-3

Co-captains Archer and Sutton Lead Team in First Matches

With the return of three veteran first-line performers and the addition of several shining freshmen, the 1943 edition of the
Davidson tennis team takes the court next week against the strong netters of both Carolina and Duke, April 2 and
3, respectively. In the long-standing rivalry, the team will be led by co-captains Buck Archer and Eugene Sutton, and paced
by scintillating sophomore shotmaker from Kentucky, Jackie Byrd. If Craig Schmidt fails to make the diamond nine, he too will
be back to reap more of the honors he gathered last year as the runner-up to John Crichton.

Byrd a Threat

Byrd established himself as one of the top racket-swingers in the South in high school and as a freshman, and
may continue his meteoric ascent to supremacy. Sutton and Archer consistently turn in valuable games, giving the netters all the
balance they need. From last year’s frosh, along with Byrd, comes Gerry Robinson, who also has proved himself to be
a top-ranking player. Other berths on the squad are unsettled, but veteran Lyman Parrigan and Jim Lowry, who played some
last year as a freshman, are also working out on the diamond, and Eddie Fowler on the fairways.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

FINAL STANDINGS
Betas
S. A. E.
Phi Delts
S. P. E.
Kappa Sigs
K. A.
Phi Gams
Pi Kaps

CINEMA COMMENTS (Continued from Page 2)
Flag,” and “Give My Regards to Broadway.”

Monday and Tuesday
CITY WITHOUT MEN
Linda Darnell and Glenda Farrell head the cast of a show, the title of which should make it go.

SPRING SPORTS ON DECK

Wildcat Nine Opens Season Next Friday

Divot Diggers Plan Matches
Bumbarger, Mebane, Gaither, Upchurch Head Team

Popping off a strenuous and diligent two weeks of practice with several rounds of qualifying scores, the Davidson golf team
settled down to the last lap of practice before swinging into the regular season, although none of the matches have
been definitely scheduled. Captain Frank Mebane announced earlier in the week that the Wildcats could only hope for the best,
although there are returning lettermen. Most keenly felt losses result from the ineligibility of Ray Taylor and the departure of
Don Bryant, who was for two years high school title-holder for the State of North Carolina.

Bumbarger Hot

Tommy Bumbarger will hold down the number one slot, the same position at which he drove last season. The steady
junior has been slamming them straight down the Myers Park Club fairways with consistency, and Monday turned in a sparkling
74 for 18 holes. Mebane will probably step back into the number two, while Bobby Gaither and Charlie Upchurch, the
other returning lettermen, are battling with newcomers for the remaining places. Wilbur Carter, Ed Fowler, Ed Ashby, and Phillip Whittier
are among the leading candidates for the berths.

E. R. C. Threatens

Prospects can hardly be termed good, with the E. R. C. call on deck and Mebane, Captain and runner-up for
low scoring honors, in the select April 1 group. However, the team plans to carry on as best they can.
Because traveling is next to impossible and the status of usual foes is on the unsteady side, no games have
been made as yet. Davidson will be represented at the Southeastern Intercollegiate meet in Athens provided the annual tourney is
held this year. Matches with Georgia, Georgia Tech, and the University of Florida are being hoped for, while arrangements will
be made for bouts with Carolina, Duke, and The Citadel.

Practice Needed

The winding fairways and sloping approaches of the Myers Park Country Club are being trod daily by aspiring golfers, and
the team feels that it is improving daily. However, at the beginning of the week, only Bumbarger showed enough class
to mark him as a really proficient college clubber.

Open Meet

Clemson on Richardson Field in First Game of ’43 Season

Despite inclement weather conditions during the past few practice days, Coach Norman Shepard is shaping the Varsity nine into a
well-rounded outfit in preparation for their opening engagement with the Clemson Tigers next Friday afternoon on Richardson Field. If a
sound battery can be molded from the assortment of twirlers and receivers that now fight for starting and relieving positions
on the squad, the Wildcats may put a pretty fair team on the diamond.

Neisler Best

Only Paul Neisler has sufficient experience on the mound to rate him a veteran, and the other hurlers are an
unknown quantity. The catching position is wide open, with George Floyd and Red Burke on the inside track. While Ace
Maloney and Dick Phillips stand to hold down third and second respectively, the other infield berths probably won't be known
until Thursday afternoon. Jim Owens and Bobby Carter, last year's standouts at short and on the first sack, are turning
out to be the hardest men to replace.

Schedule Named

A twelve-game schedule, subject to change at any time with the demands of the armed forces ever pressing, has been
arranged. While not listed as definite contests, frays with the Morris Field Air Base and N. C. State’s Wolfpack are
in the process of arrangement. Following is a list of games lined up for the Red and Black sluggers:

April 1—Clemson, here.
April 2—Clemson, here.
April 3—Carolina, here.
April 6—Catawba, here.
April 9—Catawba, there.
April 13—Furman, there.
April 14—Clemson, there.
April 19—Carolina Pre-flight, there.
April 20—Carolina, there.
April 24—Catawba, there.
April 26—Duke, there.
April 28—Carolina Pre-flight, here.
April 29—Catawba, here.

A lot of polish will be necessary to ready the Cats for their coming struggles.

Michael gets top billing among the aspiring golfers and the team feels that it is improving daily. However, at the
beginning of the week, only Bumbarger showed enough class to mark him as a really proficient college clubber.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

No show had been booked for Wednesday when the Davidsonian went to press this week. Late show Saturday: Ritz Brothers
in "How Are You, Chum."

I would like for Rhea Dabney to be my guest for any show next week.

Expert Barber Service
Grade A Cafe
A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Norton’s Barber Shop
Davidson, N. C.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR
Parker Pens and Pencils
Jewelry
Stationery
Fresh Fruit
Candy
AT THE
JERRY NEWBOLD
Managers — BOB RAINEY
