By LEGH SCOTT

Sportsmanship

Davidson has long been praised for its spirit of sportsmanship and fair play, win or lose. That spirit has been much in evidence during recent years with Davidson frequently coming out at the short end of the horn. Now that we have a basketball team that to date has been hitting the victory column pretty frequently, we are wondering what has happened to that spirit among the fans (it’s still there with the team). This subject has been hashed and re-hashed both from the platform and in these columns. We hope that what we say here, in light of what “Mayor” Sandifer said last week, will not be laying it on too thick. But what we have seen of booing and heckling of officials and opposing players during the current season seems to be definitely out of line with the expected conduct of Davidson men. Remember too that such displays often handicap the play of our own team as well as creating a bad impression on the public.

A Rough Evening

Davidson's loss to South Carolina seems to have been a repetition of the Wildcats’ victory over North Carolina in reverse. The ‘Cats couldn't get started up the first half, got hot in the second period, and almost caught up. The Gamecocks were red hot all the way, dropping them in from all angles. However, the Davidsons matched them point for point in the last half, 35-35.

Most of the ‘Cat point makers were pretty bottled up throughout the game, but Tom Peters continued his fast scoring pace in racking up 27 points to regain the conference scoring lead. We haven’t heard any more from the S. C. player who thought he could hold Tommy to less than ten points. He almost succeeded, though, in the first meeting of the teams when Peters got only eleven markers before fouling out of the game. The ‘Cats tired rapidly in last week's game before the barrage of fast breaking and guarding thrown up by the Gamecocks. Larger floor space than the team is used to playing on may have had something to do with this. But the reserves played well in the closing minutes and have been doing so all season. Pat Williams, Bob Currie, John Frederick, Jack Byrd, and Bill Sutton lead the list, while Ed White and Bill Evagin, contributions of the frosh to the varsity, have also seen action. They do not function with quite the same spark and smooth teamwork that characterizes the starting five.

CAROLINA TOMORROW

STATE SATURDAY

Page Three
Thursday, February 11, 1943
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats Drop 2nd Encounter To Gamecocks, 68-54

Tommy Peters Continues His Torrid Pace in Scoring 27 Markers

Davidson lost her second basketball game of the year last week, dropping a 68-54 decision to South Carolina’s Gamecocks in Columbia on Thursday night. There are no apologies to offer; the Birds were hot and the ‘Cats were cold.

Backed by their freshmen flashes Henry Martin and Furman Riddle, Carolina jumped to a quick lead and held it throughout the contest. Earl Dunham, ace Gamecock defensive man, went out on fouls in the first period while trying to guard Tommy Peters, the home team kept rolling up markers.

Peters Hot

Tommy was the shining light in a shoddy Wildcat game, and even the leading conference scorer missed a few crips. It just wasn't a Davidson night and the South Carolina team was out for blood. After overcoming a Davidson lead in the opening minutes, Carolina couldn't be headed. Riddle slipped in several under the basket, Martin built up his total consistently, and Henry Brogden pushed through a couple of hook shots. The big court, square backboards, and partisan crowd kept the ‘Cats at a constant disadvantage, though they kept battling with typical Davidson spirit.

When the Wildcats left the floor at the half trailing 19-38, the outlook was dark; and it was darker when the Birds got hot in the second period of the game in Charlotte, and they're also aware of the fact that the Wolfpack is now a much stronger unit than the one which they beat in the same city. We are still certain that this is the best Wildcat basketball team in recent years and one of the outstanding teams in the conference this year. A large number of ‘Cat supporters are planning to follow them down east for these two games. So do your stuff ‘Cats!

A big question mark as to the future of sports at Davidson arises with the announcement that aviation cadets will dominate the scene starting the first of March. We can look to the uninterrupted completion of the cage season, but that is about as far as certainty goes. It is possible that a limited intercollegiate program will be carried on for the few remaining as civilians, but it is expected that the army program will take over most of the athletic facilities of the college.

Invitational Track Meet

Although basketball enjoys the entire spotlight at Davidson now, an interesting track and field event is in the making down Chapel Hill way for the last day of the month.Of the fact that war conditions necessitated cancellation of the regular conference indoor meet, the officials at UNC were not willing to see the whole idea tossed aside. An invitational meet is being planned to take the place of the regular event. Davidson is already making plans to enter five men in the games. Ben Lacy will carry the Wildcat colors in the dashes, while brother Lill is working on the hurdles, broad jump, and high jump. Dick Port in the high hurdles and “Whizzer” White and Dick Millet in the distance runs complete the list of Davidson entrants.

The meet is expected to attract national interest, with outstanding athletes from all over the East participating. A number of cadets from the pre-flight school at Chapel Hill will also be entered.

Miscellany

Seen in town this week: Lt. G. Spearman, USNR, on a short leave before going on to duty in the Midwest and minus about fifteen pounds. The basketball team, composed chiefly of former members of the freshman team, have a game here tomorrow night with PJC. They hold victories over Pfeiffer and Belmont Abbey. Hearsay has it that boxing will be included in the physical education program in the near future. We say leave that on a purely voluntary basis. Without adequate instruction by experts, this sport would result in more harm than good. Winter football practice is strangely missing from the scene this year. ’Nuff said.

There’s still time to vote for the all-time Big Five basketball team. Get those ballots in. The Wildcats travel east to play North Carolina on Friday and N.C. State on Saturday. This game takes the place of one originally scheduled with Guilford, which was recently canceled. Information is scarce about the Charleston team, but they are reported to have a weaker team than usual, having lost several games in South Carolina circles.

Tommy Peters regained the individual scoring lead in the Southern Conference basketball race by scoring 27 points in last week’s game with South Carolina. This brings Tommy's total conference points to 172, while on Monday the runner-up, Fritz Nagy of North Carolina, had 163 points. The referees were on their toes and the foul shots were numerous. The Wildcats pulled up in the third period to roll up a 22-point margin. Charleston, on Tuesday and Thursday nights in the local gym, the Cats pulled up. Gamecock victories were over The Citadel, Davidson, and Clemson. The Citadel came back after their loss to South Carolina to whip Wake Forest twice and Clemson once, and took over fourth place with a record of three wins against one loss.

With five minutes to play, Davidson drew within five points of the high-flying Birds. Tommy was hitting the basket from all corners and getting plenty of support from his teammates. Lowry tipped in two, George Peters sank a long one, and Belk, Wayman, and Byrd were playing ball. Then both John and George went out on fouls and a free throw was nullified. Tommy was easily the outstanding ball player on the floor. Besides dropping in 27 points, the lanky forward turned in a magnificent floor game and ball-handling exhibition. The entire Davidson five fought gamely and their daring, but accurate backhand passes drew admiration from player and spectator.

Chapel Hill — The Phantoms need that win badly to give them even an outside chance at the tournament. They are also determined to avenge their stinging defeat at the hands of the Wildcats. The game will feature two of the loop's leading scorers in action: Tommy Peters and Fritz Nagy, leader and runner-up for individual honors to date. Other Tar Heels that the Davidson team will have to throttle include Dick Hartley, Lou Hayworth, and Jim White.

Raleigh — Over in Raleigh Saturday night, the Red Terrors will be out for the same thing: revenge for their first defeat by Davidson. With a completely revamped team since the earlier encounter and playing on their home court, State will face the Cats on more nearly even terms this time. Duke played without the services of Cedric Loftis, one of the leading scorers in the Conference. The win Saturday night extended Duke's conference triumphs to six against one loss.

George Washington's sharp-shooting Colonials defeated North Carolina State 46-40 in a thrilling game Friday night to maintain their lead in the Conference race. The Colonials boast of four wins over conference foes, one of them over the second-place Duke Blue Devils. Led by Big Bob Gantt, with 14 points, the Blue Devils walloped the University of North Carolina’s White Phantoms 51-39 in their meeting in Chapel Hill Saturday night. The Phantoms need that win badly to give them even an outside chance at the tournament. They are also determined to avenge their stinging defeat at the hands of the Wildcats. The game will feature two of the loop's leading scorers in action: Tommy Peters and Fritz Nagy, leader and runner-up for individual honors to date. Other Tar Heels that the Davidson team will have to throttle include Dick Hartley, Lou Hayworth, and Jim White.

Tommy Peters' points have all been scored in five conference games, giving him an average of slightly over 22 points per game. Nagy's points have been collected in seven conference tilts at less than ten points per game. Jim Lowry, John Belk, and Jack Wayman are pushing each other for runner-up scoring honors for the Wildcats. Peters' best single performance was against Duke when he tossed in 29 points, while his lowest score was in the first game with South Carolina, when he was held to 10 points by close guarding. He has been the high scorer for the Wildcats in every game but that one, when Jim Lowry racked up 14 for top honors.

Saturday's loss dropped the White Phantoms into the second division with a record of nine wins and eleven conference games. They meet the Red Terrors of North Carolina State Tuesday night and have a return engagement with the high-riding Davidson Wildcats in Chapel Hill Friday night. Duke's defending champs are facing a busy week, meeting two conference foes and two non-conference teams. The Blue Devils travel to Virginia to meet Washington & Lee on Tuesday, and then move on to meet Maryland on Friday night. Saturday night's games include Davidson at N.C. State, South Carolina at Clemson, W. & L. at Maryland, and Virginia Tech at W. & L.

Sigmas, Fijis Win Contests

Interfraternity basketball got off to a fast start last week with six of the nine teams going into action. Thus, competition is again resumed for the athletic trophy, the Greek teams having been idle since the completion of the football season. All but one of the matches scheduled for the first round have been played. In the opening game, the score of which was announced last week, the Phi Gams rolled over the Pi Kaps to the tune of 36-21, and the Kappa Sigs downed the S.A.E.’s, football champs, in a low-scoring game, 14-11. The K.A.-Phi Delt game was yet to be played at press time.

By winning these two games, Davidson will have a firm hold on their conference standings and second place in the Big Five for the season.