WITH THE STAFFWISE CORNER.

The Davidsonian
Published Every Thursday

Myron Sandifer ........Editor

Shaw Smith.............Columnist

George McAdee..........Sports

Gilbert Taliaferro......Writer

Jensen Yow..............Printing

Herb Kasmel.............Typist

Motto: "Darn the torpedoes, full speed ahead."
Mailed in a plain envelope

POETIC THOUGHT OF THE WEEK

There was a young theologian named Fiddle
Who refused to accept his degree;
He said, "Tis bad enough to be Fiddle,
Without being Fiddle, D.D.,"
- Contributed by Toto Thics
(Aw, heck! We enjoy them)

"The Missing Link"

or
"What's Wrong With the Davidson Summer Session"
(Any resemblance to the Scripts 'n' Pranks is a compliment.)

Figure it out yourself: Imagine a hundred and fifty people in constant association with each other, and half of 'em not able to talk intelligently with the other half! Well, that's just the way it is. The missing link in the summer session is just a matter of vernacular (bull, to you). So without further ado or gabbing, may I editorially recommend to all the new students the following indispensable Davidsonians:

A DAVIDSON DICTIONARY

A.K. - to Act Krazy about someone because of ulterior motives.

Grin of the moon in Daytime (love will find a way).

Sunshine Brings Flowers: To Joe Anderson, one of the best pool-room managers the Y has had in years. I'm not kidding, and he's a good boy as well as being good for something. To John Bolk, who, regardless of his chapel announcements, has helped the Y put on socials, etc., for the past year and with success, too. Horace Boorman, back from the wars, for help with his prayer groups. Bev Bobbitt for music contributions with promises of more next semester. I'm ready. Carl Coffey for just being a darn good boy. Homer Coonrad for painting signs. It's harder than it looks. Charles De Lancy for his offers to help. One of these days we'll take him up on one he can't get out of. Remember, Jim Dancy for being so willing to help at any and all times. No stuff, he's a mystical magician for us. Hoyt Evans and Bobby Miller for leading hall prayer groups so officially. Bob Flowers for answering the telephone and being so nice about delivering messages. More of a help than you know, friends. George Grimball, for that Sunday he almost lived in church. Come again and bring your friends. To Moose Hart whom I judged incorrectly. You see, he had paid his debts (except for the tire) and I was just jealous for the way girls flocked around him as if he were the only Hart for them. Ho hum, Valentino is out. Sam Henderson for help for Freshmen in English. W.C. Hoyle for being a one-man C. of C. for Cheraw, S.C. Jofes M.C. Watson, Nell Stephens, Bill Smith, Ry Coonrad, I. Sandifer (what an able substitute) for good work on the July Jamboree. Bob Jones and Lorene Lyles for reminding me. Frank Kirk for being so happy and helpful at the same time. Katherine Locke for a good disposition. Pretty, too. 

Detail - a jaunt or venture anywhere — not here, (i.e., Kero).

In the Books - process of performing academic duties.

R.A. - to have a miserable feeling.

In the know - full of dope.

Rotate - to revolve slowly on an axis.

Stud - one who drives (See: On the book).

Wild hair - to deal a la Haliburton.

I close with three which, while not synonyms, may be used interchangeably during any lull in the conversation: "Ach," "Het," "A good tun," "Forget it." Get the idea? Parlez-vous le Davidsoniana? MS/ns

There are many, many more, but space confines me.

Bill Scoggin for being the mover. Worked the machine (as assistant to O'Stem). Harriet Porcher (pronounced in various forms) for an infectious laugh. (She has a giggle that makes me giggle!!) Good gal, too. Charles Thompson for representing Mt. Olive so well. N. Ridenhour for studying so hard, especially the whole of this issue (she says). Please note, professors. To Jim Davis, Man of the Week, for his personality, perseverance, sincerity, and genuineness. He's one who has plenty of personal attraction but works hard just the same, and that's noteworthy. Yours, S.