b: 25, 1943 Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 25, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

KAPPA ALPHA

“Speed” Martin dropped in the past week to polish off his career here. Robert Dunit spent some time in Charlotte. He made room for Pledges Floyd and Bill Barber in the bus station and had a good time. Barber spent an educational week-end at home with Bill Harrill. Those who went home this week-end were Brother Sandifer to Lowrys, S.C., Brother Louisville, Ga., Tom Belk to Charlotte, and Phe Young to Winston-Salem. Brother Royster turned to his nearby hometown of Charlotte. Sigma Chapter announces the death of Brother Richeson’s father last week. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to him and his family.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Brother Clyde Stroup spent the night in Davidson for the first time this year—in the interest of a rest cure. He was married, too! (not Robinson). Hobbs was in Charlotte. “Sally” Ramsey had another date in Charlotte, spending the best part of Sunday in the Queen City. Clyde Meek went up to Mooresville.

KAPPA SIGMA

The Kappa Sigma Fraternity held its initiation on Thursday and Friday, February 18th and 19th, terminating in a formal banquet on Friday night with Brother Whitt as guest. Those initiated were: Bill Wilken, Hub Cotter, Bill Law, Reed Stafford, Cecil Garrett, and John McGee. Brothers George Peters, Pat McCoy, Bob Currie, and Gene Sutton paid homage to Salem College. Brothers Marvin Mebane, Pritchett, and Wheeler crossed the line to attend the dances at Converse, while Brothers Raney and Caterson made their usual trips to Greensboro. Brother Barnwell went to his home at Burlington. To the deep south went Brothers Church, Goode, and Ranson. Brother Rush Smith returned to his home in Gastonia. Visiting the Queen City were Brothers Phillips, Rosenborough, Welch, McNair, Sherrill, Skinner, Gallent, and Neisler. Brother Joyner did big dealing in his hometown Kernersville. Brother John McGee made a visit to Charleston.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Anticipating the departure of Brother Hank Crane in the near future, Delta Kappa held a fling in the form of a party in honor of feminine beauty last Saturday. It was a week-end affair, with a marshmallow roast on the golf course later, and dinner at the “Horst” Saturday night. Pledge Grover Maxwell hit the spotlight this week. Among the dates on the campus for the party were Miss Evangeline Brinson with Brother Hank Crane, Miss Betty Lou Speers with Brother Jones, Miss Alice Ross with Brother Al, and Miss Grace Herndon with Brother Howell Moore. Brother Howell Moore spent the week-end in Winston and Brother Call returned to Mt. Airy. The chapter welcomed Brother Bob Smith, from U.S.C.G.R., back to the fold for a short visit. Brothers Tom McGhee and Leigh McKeithan both went to their homes—McGhee to Jacksonville, and McKeithan to Cameron.

PHI DELTA THETA

The men of the Sword and Shield were active again this week. Brother Rainey got the tree street blues and took off for an extended detail in Atlanta, Decatur, Agnes Scott, etc. Brothers Hobbie and Watson journeyed to the Queen City. Reports have it that a good time was had by all. Brother Hendee and Sutton went to Salisbury to visit a friend in the air corps who is stationed at Catawba. Brother “Neck” Loughridge spent the week-end in exchange. Pledge John Fort, who recently joined our noble ranks, traveled to Queens. Brother Pierce was host to Brother Emerson, who made a lovely trip, having to go by bus, rail, and ferry boat to complete his journey. The chapter regrets deeply the loss of Brothers Hardee and Oglesby to the Army Air Corps. They were true brothers and their absence will be felt deeply.

INDEPENDENTS

Jim Mitchener went to Gaffney to check on his military status at the Gaffney “Draft” board. Bill Harrill stopped his “knightly” trips to Mooresville long enough to go home. El “Vino” Myatt went to York, and Hugh Battle went home. McNeely went to Mooresville.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Rock Hill was the destination of Brother Legerton this week. Brothers McBride, Gregg, Bisanar, and White were seen at the home game in Greensboro. The Majors did some fine dating in Charlotte. Herb Morton, guest of John Hardin from Charleston, S.C., was seen at the Golden Gloves. We were glad to have Brother Hay with us. Thursday’s initiation included Brothers McBride, Gregg, Bisanar, and White.

PI KAPPA PHI

Once again the Pi-Kapps have made history. Brother Cline took in the dance at Chapel Hill. Brother McEachin was taken in at Queens. Brother Gaither was just looking around down in Spartanburg, but Brother Wayman Patton found out Hickory had paved streets. Brother “There’s no place like home” according to these brothers. Homeward bound were Brothers Bradley to Waynesville, Whittier to Granite Falls, Walton and Evans to Hickory, Reid and Hunter to Charlotte, Boyce to Albemarle, and Robinson to the big city of Derita. Pledges who were formally initiated last Wednesday were Earl Yantis of Atlanta, Jack Barringer and Dan McEachin of Florence, Steve Boyce of Albemarle, Robert Cline of Hickory, Ernest Hunter and Charles Reid of Charlotte, Carey Wells of Canton, Phillip Whittier of Granite Falls, Bill Ragsdale of Hemingway, and from the faculty, Dr. Gallant of the Chemistry Department.

BETA THETA PI

Beta Brothers’ numerous and varied diversions this week included Brother Daugherty’s destination, Agnes Scott. Brother Byrd journeyed to Charleston. Brothers Welch, Stubbins, and Yocum competed in the Charlotte Pistol Club team’s rifle and pistol match on Saturday. Back home to Charlotte went Brothers D.D. Phillips, Welch, and Upchurch. Brothers Nat Garrison and Ney Tucker went to Burlington. We regret to lose Brothers Grayson and Tucker, who have gone to fulfill the duties demanded of them by Uncle Sam.

Spanish Club Initiates Men Monday Night

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their annual initiation last Monday night. The meeting of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary fraternity for Spanish students, and the Spanish Club was held at the Delta house where eleven new members were taken into the fraternity and twenty-two were initiated into the club. The new members of Sigma Delta Pi are: Henderson, M.K. Mann, C. Ny Field, W.H. Barber, J.P. Fountain, J.S. Black, S.F. Garrison, E. Murray, R.B. Black, K.G. Cushman, and A.G. Skirrow. Those initiated into the Spanish Club, for less advanced students, are:| than Sigma Delta. Pi, are J. B. Mayor; E. B. Hunter, W. Wilkinson, | Rei Mer JI LUT aYy; ba *hillips, F. D. Walker, R. B. Winchester, J. E. Fowler, R. S. Yar | Bryant, J. B. Hardee, | Die Pia le Gesittonian oe Whaling, E. E. Yantis, C. B. Brockman, C. T. Daniels, N. P. Everett, | Walt aMe ghey eS yh Ashe hs aes | Morton, Pf. L. Powell, C. L. Shaw, | jee \N Walton, A. G. Pendleton, | and S. B. Hoyt. 

Discussion 
Following the initiation ceremony an informal discussion was held. 

and attended the semi-finals. The emphasis was placed on terms different weather conditions, this is a basic knowledge because very helpful in conversations. Prof. Fieagle, Prof. Blythe, and Prof. Goldier were present at the meeting and took an active part in the discussion. Refreshments were served toward the end of the meeting. 

A. S. BROWN 
General Merchandise 
DAVIDSON, N. C. 

STONESTREET 
Grade A Cafe 
418 S. Main 
Mooresville, N. C. 

Actors Start 
The band which played on Broadway quite “star-studded,” was given in the last edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Above are pictured the recently promoted officers of the R.O.T.C. Battalions. Left to right, they are: E. M. Sutton, Cadet Captain, Co. “F"; M. G. Sandifer, Cadet Major, 2nd Battalion; J. B. McCoy, Cadet Major, 1st Battalion; J. D. Phillips, Captain Adjutant, 1st Battalion. Missing is B. R. Lacy, Cadet Captain, Co. “B.” 

Play Practice 
Masquers Will Soon Present “Arsenic And Old Lace” 
The Red and Black Masquers announce plans are being hurried to present their newest production, “Arsenic and Old Lace” by Kesselring. No definite date has been set but co-directors Dr. Erwin and Frank Mebane say it will probably be around March 16. Finlay Tucker, as Jonathan Brewster, is taking the part written for Boris Karloff several months. All reports are that Finlay probably should have been at least a second for Karloff on Broadway. The rest of the cast, which is proving to be quite “star-studded,” was given in the last edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN. We understand that this production has the most elaborate setting, and all things point toward even a better play than was given last fall. 

ORGAN RECITAL 
Organ pupils of Mr. Osborne will give a recital on Sunday afternoon, February 28, at 4:30 p.m. as the next regular Sunday afternoon Musicale. Four pupils will perform on the program. The following will appear: J. S. Dendy, Jr., playing Choral in A Minor by Franck; J. W. Flora, Jr., playing Sonata III (First Movement) by Guilmant; J. T. Fesperman, Jr., playing Toccata (First Movement) by Moffat; and Bill Richard playing Prelude and Fugue in D Major by Bach. Last week's Musicale was an organ recital by Mr. Osborne himself. He played several classical pieces. 

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK 
It’s Safe 
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY 

Expert Barber Service 
Norton’s Barber Shop 
DAVIDSON, N. C. 

New Library Volumes Appeal to Servicemen 
Books on Life in Armed Forces Are Added 
A number of volumes have been added to the Davidson College Library which will be of interest to students and the air corps cadets. A few of these will be valuable as aids to servicemen. Baumer’s “He's In The Army Now,” Tuthill’s “He's In The Navy Now,” “Officer's Guide,” “Blue Jacket’s Manual,” Shield’s “Air Pilot Training,” and Shield’s “Meteorology and Air Navigation,” are books which are especially valuable to servicemen or those who will soon be called. 

Peace Writing 
The writings of a number of authors on subjects dealing with the peace conditions after the war. Some of these include E. H. Carr's “Conditions of Peace,” H. L. Stimson’s “Guild of the German Army,” W. Patton's “The Church and the New Order,” H. Hoover's “Problems of a Lasting Peace.” The popular reading list of the library has been added to by the addition of the following volumes: Ogden Nash's “Good Intentions,” Bell's “The Robe,” Marcia Davenport's “Valley of Decision,” Alice Hobart's “Cup and the Sword.” In addition to the books which have been listed, a number of new magazines have been obtained. Subscriptions have been bought to the following: “New Yorker,” “Infantry Journal,” “Air Force,” official army fliers periodical, “U. S. Air Service,” and a renewal of “Civil Aeronautics Journal.” Since Davidson has been selected for the training of Air Corps Cadets, the library has attempted to add volumes which will appeal especially to these men. A number of the present student body will soon enter the armed forces and books upon military subjects will be of special interest. 

“Stock Piles” Says Men Should Build Up Reserve of Christianity 
Dr. Frank Caldwell, President of Louisville Theological Seminary and Professor of Homiletics, spoke Sunday night on “Stock Piles of Christianity.” He cited the example of Paul influencing the sailors in the storm-tossed boat, Peter preaching to the Ethiopian church, Stephen praying while being stoned to death, and Christ being accosted by the Pharisees. These men in crisis called on their stock piles of Christianity to meet the situation. 

Building Stock Piles 
Men do not wait for the battle to start to build an ammunition dump. Our government should not have waited until the war to start building up a stock pile of rubber. Dr. Caldwell said, “Today men are being called upon to make great decisions. Unless a reserve of Christian faith has been built up through righteous living and thinking, men will not be able to face the crisis which the troubled conditions in the world today will undoubtedly bring upon us. Each man must strive to increase his stock pile of Christian faith so that he will be better able to make wise and courageous decisions at every emergency which he may have to meet.” 

Discussion Held At Y 
Forced Vesper Attendance Is Subject of Forum 
“Compulsory attendance at vesper services” will be the subject under discussion at the Y. M. C. A. forum next Sunday evening at the “Y” lounge. Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dick Phillips, and the new Y. M. C. A. President, will present the problem in an informal discussion with the students and faculty present. These faculty and student representatives will present the questions involved in the problem and lead in an open discussion with those who are present. 

Question Popular 
This question of compulsory attendance at church has caused frequent contention between faculty and students. Wellford Hobbie, who is head of the forum department on the “Y” cabinet, stated that the problem should be of particular interest to all students who have frequently discussed it in “bull sessions.” This program will be the second in a series of Sunday evening interest programs. In order to make the restriction to campus worthwhile, these programs will be held frequently on Sundays after the vesper service. Last Sunday, the interest program was the playing of more Carnegie set records. 

A Complete Line of The Best 
Southern 5 & 10c Store 
Davidson, N. C. 

Student Body Constitution, whereby the Freshman Advisor would be placed on the Student Council of the school’s political set-up. The amendment, presented by the President of the Student Body, Myron Sandifer, to the school, provided that the Freshman advisor would automatically become a representative for the Freshman Class on the council, at the same time necessitating the dropping of one of four Student Councilmen usually elected by the rising Senior Class. The proposition, following the usual procedure required by the Constitution, for amending the same, was read by Sandifer to the student body in Chapel a week before the deadline for voting. On Thursday, it was read again, and put on the ballot the next day. It was subsequently rejected. Many arguments, pro and con, were offered in the general discussion that followed the reading in Chapel. It was stated that the Freshman Advisor being on the Council would give the freshmen a representative that they have not had before, who would look after their interests in the governing of the school, since most of the questions that arise involve first-year men. On the con side, arguments were presented that freshmen would feel hesitancy in approaching the Council that they would not feel if he were simply a member of their advisor. The full amendment was stated on the ballot Friday morning, and the student body, by a decided negative majority, declared its disapproval. 

Prof. Osborne Begins First Y Program 
Last Sunday night after Vespers there was a musical program at the Y. M. C. A., consisting of the playing of requested records from the Carnegie Library. This program was under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Osborne and was the first of a series, which will last as long as there is a demand for it. The pieces that were requested for the program last Sunday consisted largely of compositions for the piano by Chopin and Debussy. In addition to these and closing the music for the evening was the orchestral work “The Afternoon of a Faun,” by Debussy. In conclusion, Mr. Osborne said that anyone wishing to request the playing of any Carnegie pieces should see Shaw Smith or Bob Hollinger during the early part of the week. 

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY 
General Merchandise 
Hardware and Groceries 
DAVIDSON, N. C. 

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR 
Parker Pens and Pencils 
Jewelry 
Stationery 
Fresh Fruit 
Candy 
AT THE STUDENT STORE 
JERRY NEWBOLD 
Managers 
BOB RAINEY