Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 22, 1943 The Davidsonian the Class of 1915 Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Founded By Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate
year Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.
LEGH SCOTT . McALISTER CARSON ---EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER - ~ EDITORIAL STAFF Mac Assistant John Editor Editor Editor Editor Editor
Jeffries Fairly Howell Morrow Stimson Deane Watson Associate George Worth Managing Editor Bill Lyman Acting Managing Editor Ed Erwin Acting
Managing Editor Associate Associate Associate George Worth Writers BR Phillips, Reporters Charles Gunn, Bill Managing Editor Alexander, Shep Dunn McCormick
Taliaferro, Jim Styron, Cargill Hubert Jim Bisaneary Dave Richardson Leighton McReithar BUSINESS STAFF Manager Tommy Powell Leonard White Circulation Manager
Deater Witherington James Carrigan Bill Wilkinson Herman Walker Mgr Lee Wolfe Su Mgr Cooper Smith Reid Robert Cline Chas Mir
The Other Side... Since we expressed our opinion several weeks ago on the subject, much has been said and done
toward solving the problem about the future of social fraternities on the campus. The following article was sent to the
Davidsonian by the National Interfraternity Conference and sheds some light on the opinion of that group as to the future
for the Greeks. We are not reversing our opinion, but such a difficult situation demands thorough consideration of both sides
of the issue before a decision is reached. WASHINGTON, D. C.—The college fraternity, whose pattern has been woven into the
fabric of American education for 118 years, is girding its loins to meet the terrific dislocation of a nation at
total war. The ranks of the undergraduate Greek-letter society men are rapidly becoming decimated as the collegians join the colors,
leaving some 2,500 fraternity houses, valued at $80,000,000, vacant on 125 campuses. A special war committee of the National Interfraternity
Conference, headed by Cecil J. Wilkinson of Washington, is developing ways and means to ensure the continuity of the functioning
of the fraternities so long as any men are available for undergraduate membership. The navy has announced and the army
has indicated that they will have no objection to enlisted men who are sent to college for specialized training joining
fraternities. In these soldier and sailor students the college Greeks expect to find sufficient membership recruits to carry on at
least a chapter cadre. During the First World War an order was issued by a subordinate in the War Department
declaring that fraternity life and military discipline were not compatible in those colleges where the student army training corps operated.
The National Interfraternity Conference appealed to Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, a former president of his own college fraternity,
who countermanded the original edict, enabling fraternity life to continue. In the current conflict the college Greeks hope to initiate
men who have not yet reached the draft age, as well as those who are barred from military service by
physical disability. The DAVIDSONIAN presents Editorials Letters Features They expect also to draw members from the ranks of the pre-medicals,
the pre-engineers and pre-dentals. The fraternity leaders believe that the problem of the vast real-estate holdings will be solved in
many instances by the leasing of the houses by the armed forces through the colleges and universities. Already some of
the Greek lodges have been taken over by the army and navy. It is expected that between $9 and $12
per month will be paid as room rent for each man billeted in a fraternity house. Such compensation would enable
the house-owning corporations to meet their carrying charges and preserve their holdings until normal college life is resumed after the
end of the war. In the state of Arizona the legislature has passed an emergency bill authorizing the governor and
the secretary of state to lend from funds received from the sale or lease of university timber lands to fraternities
owning real estate at the University of Arizona a sufficient sum to retire the mortgages on such real estate. The
loans, secured by first mortgages, bear 3 per cent interest, and are to be repaid before 1970. Of the approximately
900,000 living college fraternity men, it is estimated by Chairman Wilkinson of the war committee that more than 135,000 are
in the armed forces. More than 500 Greek-letter men have been killed in action and many have won citations for
gallantry. The national fraternities have been heavy producers of war bonds. Several have donated ambulances. Many undergraduate chapters have volunteered
as groups as blood donors. Keep Campus Clean... The Davidson Campus is a beautiful spot in the springtime. But recently,
largely through student thoughtlessness in discarding paper and trash, the front campus has been in a condition far from praiseworthy.
A cleanup detachment of the aircrew students has done a thorough job of freeing large sections of the campus from
the scattered debris. They removed truck loads of leaves, completely rid the back half of the campus of littered paper;
some were even seen picking up cigarette butts one by one from around the entrances to Chambers building. Students should
be grateful for this service rendered them. When the shameful conditions on the front campus have been improved, we should
refrain from making it unsightly again. Cans for the disposal of waste paper and other trash are placed at frequent
intervals on the campus for this purpose. Let’s think twice before tossing a paper aside next time, thereby marring the
natural beauty of the college grounds. Mother’s Day Plans are already taking definite shape for the second Mother’s Day celebration
on the campus, which comes this year on the weekend of May 8. An outline of the scheduled events, as
released by the publicity office, appears elsewhere in this issue of the Davidsonian. Those who participated in the occasion last
year were delighted with its success. It should be equally attractive this year and provides an excellent opportunity for mothers
and sons to spend a weekend together, especially in view of the fact that many students will soon be going
into the service. It is another example of the effort being made to provide pleasant weekends on the campus this
year. Invite your mother right away. CAMPUS ODDITIES AT THE UN. OF NEW MEXICO TWO "LOVE TREES" WERE PLANTED, EACH
NAMED FOR ONE OF TWO LOVERS. THE TREES FLOURISHED WHILE THE ROMANCE LASTED BUT DIED WHEN THE LOVERS DRIFTED APART.
NICHOLAS M. BUTLER, PRESIDENT OF COLUMBIA U., HAS RECEIVED 37 HONORARY DEGREES. Y’s Corner By SHAW SMITH Man-Of-The-Week: He wears
a yellow sweater frequently, but this is not the reason for the classification. Quiet, thorough in his work, life, thought—was
elected to head N. C. Young People for this next year as one of many tributes paid him. A Y
Cabinet man as well for next year... his many tributes seem to be mainly more work, but that is the
reward for good work! Mentioned especially for all the arranging done at the Q. S., V. Bi, Circus the other
day. He was one of few who stayed at the Y to do the dirty work of looking after details
others had forgotten and left for him to do while they played. After being here until after Seven o’clock asked
to be relieved because he had been quite sick all afternoon, went home and stayed a week in bed. Yeah,
I know you will say he was foolish, but he did a hard job well, and when he saw how
badly he was needed he stayed on even when he felt so bad. No kidding, Bobby, appreciation is great for
your help the Saturday, for your suggestions that come now and then, and for your thorough life that we see
every day. Your folks, The Millers, should feel justly proud... and thankful... News Item: Pvt. Frank C. Cockinos, Fort Bragg,
is expected to arrive in Davidson this week with stories, gags, and news, from the front... of the barracks. We
are all hopeful that we get a chance to see him and that his personality has remained unchanged... as well
as his voice. Remember? Welcome back, Frankie! Another Welcome: To Mrs. McCrary of Arkansas. Here is one big reason son
Jim is a proved leader. You see, they have learned to follow him. That Which Is Likable: Rain, as long
as we don't have to be in it!... To get letters from fellows like Henry McIntosh. One of the hardest
working men I have known on the campus, and one of whom P. D. T. should be justly proud... “Cop”
Linker. A man with more good philosophy about living than you will find without... Coach Whittle, mean it... Myron T.
M. T. M. M. Sandifer. When his name was brought up one day someone in the group merely said, “Clean,”
which is enough—and much more than many of us will ever be rated... An M.A. or Ph.D. degree. Some of
us graduate to the Pa. degree, but many will remain with the lowly Mr. tag, all of which means it
must be getting late and writing difficult. Yours, SHAW SMITH, Operating Table By ???? “Easy Joe” Eve, Siske, and Hipp
pulled a big one to Citadel and Clemson with vague rumors floatingBack about their trying to float a battleship. Or
didn’t you see Eve in chapel Monday? Punchy limbered out on his deal to Randy Mac until late Saturday night
on account of the company, when he finally broke over. McLean also at Macon in company with the Lieutenant and
dating one Olivia Turlington, erstwhile friend of Slyme, who is traveling to Winston to rendezvous with her this weekend. Naturally
Spencer with Trexler, the Davis ex. And there was Marvin in Greensboro being untrue, W. C. to be exact. Belk,
Carter, Brinson, and Taylor on a midweek deal to Winston, fruitlessly searching for a pink dress, spotted while calling figures
at the Y square. Wabash is the only man in Davidson who wants to get in khaki. Bob Miller, seen
walking off into the dark on the Converse campus Saturday night: Tsk Tsk. Colin cut short his magic trip up
Virginia way: Sally Millie must not have been available. Monk and Robusky asked to have their names put in... they
haven’t missed an appearance this year and promised to pull a choice one for next week’s column. The little Chap
has finally caught the sugar breeches at Lynchburg. Trouble is he doesn’t know how he stands. “Ace” and “Sweet” still
applying Dr. John R.’s famous axiom. O’Hair is getting restless again. Campus isn’t as attractive these balmy nights. Or is
it? Prexy Port and Lover Lacy were seen running around in an exclusive residential section of Rock Hill at two
a.m. Sunday wearing flowered Indian costumes. And the other Lacy was seen trudging off into the blackness with a babe
in the same town. What happened W. W.? Wyman, Carson, and McCoy were having a great game over at the
Charlotte, C. C. Carson was in a sand trap, but Wyman in better shape on the green, and then the
night watchman’s dog broke it all up. Mooresville Mona is reported seeking contacts with the great “Slugger” Graves. Gowdy picked
up Virginia in Charlotte the other night, or rather she picked him off the Beatty’s Ford... Results unknown. They are
having to arrange the May Day festivities on different weekends at a couple of schools so Jeffries can oblige both
with his part in the May pole dances. And “Whispering Tom” Burke is proudly displaying his pin again after a
stormy session up Washington way.

By ALBERT P. LANG
By Al Lang and Marlyn “Bonecrusher” Wilt

Since we have two groups living apart in different dormitories and maintaining somewhat different schedules we find it difficult to
intimately include the new group in our writing. We're pleased therefore, to have found a swell voice for them in
Marlyn Wilt who will carry the ball one week, then flip it our way the next. It’s all yours Marlyn.

AL LANG.

Thank you Mr. Lang for the fine introduction, you really have no idea how much this means to me. Don't
expect too much, then you won't be disappointed. I would like to come back at “Al” and the men of
Squadrons A and B (you noticed that I said Al and the Men) with a great big loud boisterous roar
of thanks for the very kind welcome extended from the men of Squadrons C and D. Our first impressions of
the upperclassmen were terrible, (please underline that three times for Jack and Joe, who were wearing brass knuckles until yesterday),
but now we must, or at least we will say sincerely to each and every man that we believe it
has been a great pleasure, indeed, to be allowed the privilege of joining hands with such a fine group of
fellows in the start of our ascension of a ladder which will reach the supreme heights, which are success and
ultimate VICTORY.

In a previous edition of the Davidsonian the “rat line” was defined. The impressions of the fellows of their first
few days here, we believe, can be indicated by a short excerpt from “Incentive” by George Matthew Adams. The excerpt
is as follows: “The child is born with an early sense, or desire, to find out things. Most of its
slumbering faculties move slowly, but curiosity is one of the first to leap into activity.” Yes, you upperclassmen could have
called (past tense) us embryo-cadets that first week, if you had wanted, but now, no. We wanted to find out
things, we were curious to know what the “rat line” was. Did we find out? Well they tell me that
Messrs. Wickham, Brown, Wiggeton, Whetsel, Wolfe, and a few other brother Aviation students of this collegiate organization of ours had
said the older classmates had used asperity to a certain extent in the obtaining of a very well executed line.
But now that it’s nearing its conclusion, the fellows look back and say, “that was fun, wasn’t it?” (No murmuring
from C and D, please.)

There is one imaginary flight in Squadron D which has already assigned their chief “(what shall I say now) grease
monkey.” They call him “Mech” (pronounced Mac) and he has stated that it is very sickening to hear the name.
(Don’t tell him this but the fellows honestly think that he will make the best, one of the best, pursuit
pilots in the U. S. Army Air Forces for slapping those dirty, so and so Japs). From observation many persons
have come to the conclusion that the 24th College Training Detachment has the “salutenest” bunch of men in the nearby
territory. Maybe right now we have a pretty good outfit, but be careful gentlemen, don’t get the big head as
Lt. Warley puts it. Those other groups have got it in them to make us look rather sickly if we
don’t maintain the Mere Foundation we have. Keep building.

Speaking of saluting, Lt. Warley says that his own arms even get tired returning salutes to the nice young children
of Davidson. He likes this, kids, let’s get his arm really sore. Wisps of swirling clouds said by, the moonbeams
of romantic moonlight shine through in a very timely manner. Just when Henry was going to — now now —
This and heaven too, has been setting many hearts throbbing with the rapture of an emotional romance. Oh yes, there
are girls of course, pretty girls. Speaking of the sparks of sweet words from the hen here and the stultifying
effects it has, Messrs. Woods Wyen, Wilmer and Spearman seem to have attained the knack of meeting the lovely ladies
at the Armory in Charlotte on their first night out better than some of the upperclassmen have in six weeks.
Maybe some fellows just know how to “fan the breeze” better than others. Do you suppose they do Mr. Wilcoxen?

What is it that every weekend sends Eddie “Cookie” Kuklinski back from Charlotte with a trance-like expression on his face?
Could it be the charming bathing beauty picture on his dresser? In closing we’re going to toss orchids, with the
sweetest of fragrance, to the new cadet officers, who are and have so excellently taken over practically the full responsibility
of leadership in the absence of the very busy officials of the post. We are thrilled to have our group
realize that thing we so, sometimes, insignificantly call training can easily be established in such a democratic way. More power
gentlemen and also let’s see lots of stiff competition from our lowerclassmen. Utilize what you’ve got, add quite a little
more and let’s go men.

Professional men can employ the use of chewing gum, lollipops, balloons and whistles but the Army affords no profession, so
if there is any way on earth to get to the top it must be from the use of that
little thing we call a brain. Read this with a pointed finger and a sort of disconnected chortle, a sweeping
shissht, that kek-kek sound and then a downward sweep of the fist and ssptt and you’ve got nothing.

Good Evening
MARLYN H. WILT, 24th C. T. D.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
THE AMAZING MRS. HOLLIDAY
Deanna Durbin continues successfully her new type of role, she’s cast as a grown-up full-fledged actress, and does nicely in
the part, in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s production “The Amazing Mrs. Holliday.” In featured roles with Deanna, are Barry Fitzgerald and Edmund O’Brien.

Saturday
TARZAN’S TRIUMPH
Saturday’s feature is another of the popular Tarzan series which younger theatre-goers have been enjoying for years. This time, as
usual Johnny Weissmuller, former Olympic swimmer and record holder, is cast as the ape man with Frances Gifford in the
feminine lead. It’s the newest of the series and one of the best.

Monday and Tuesday
THE MOON AND SIXPENCE
Perhaps the most apt one word description of the film version of John Steinbeck’s best seller would be different, yet
it is a character study told in the deliberate style of an interested onlooker which makes the story at the
same time impersonal and yet real. George Sanders’ portrayal of the painter is remarkable and unmistakably the difference between a
mediocre and a good picture. Herbert Marshall and Doris Dudley share the starring roles, while a rather large featured cast
supports well.

Wednesday
AMERICAN EMPIRE
A story of the American Empire to the west in the days when our country was young is always exciting,
and with such a cast as the one in “American Empire,” headed by some veterans such as Preston Foster, Richard
Dix, and Leo Carillo enough action is guaranteed to make it a bargain for bargain day.

I would like for EUGENE SUTTON to be my guest for any performance next week.
