Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Volume ID

DAVIDSON, NC, THURSDAY, JULY 1

STUDENT COUNCIL CHOSEN STUDENTS TO CELEBRATE
FOURTH AT HARRIS LAKE

In the voting during the past two weeks, the following were elected to the Student Council for the Summer Session:
Phea Preston, John Belk, Ralph Conrad, Phea Hager, Hank Smith, Buddy Jones, Nell Stephens, and Millie Brenizer. John Belk, as
President of the Student Body, is automatically the President of the Council, and Millie Brenizer has been elected Secretary.

The council took their oath of office in Tuesday's chapel and will function with the powers and responsibilities of the
regular Student Council. As stated in the Constitution of the Student Government, it shall be the duty of the Student
Council to receive, prefer, and try any charges against a student for violation of any provision of the Constitution, to
investigate rumors, and to strive toward the improvement of life on the campus.

R.O.T.C. BEGINS COURSE

The Davidson R.O.T.C. unit got underway last week with an enrollment of sixty men. There are four freshman sections and
one sophomore section. Due to the small number enrolled, there is but one company instead of the usual large battalion.

The command of the company is rotated between Lieutenants Jones, Hart, Henderson, and Belk. Drilling is carried on three times
a week: on Mondays and Wednesdays at 2:40 p.m. and on Fridays at 1:20 p.m. The freshman sections are studying
rifle marksmanship now and will take up sanitation and first aid later. The sophomore section is currently studying technique and
rifle fire, and later will study the tactical training of the individual soldier. Besides the regular classroom instruction, there is
an additional feature in that a number of training films on various subjects dealing with military life will be shown
to the R.O.T.C. students.

STUDENTS TO CELEBRATE FOURTH AT HARRIS LAKE

This Saturday all thoughts of Davidson students will be centered at Harris Lake where the "jumping" July Jamboree will take
place. There, beside the clear waters of the lake, the students will seek relaxation and rest from the studies and
heat of Davidson.

The plans are for all to meet in front of the Y at 4 o'clock where the transportation will be
waiting. From the Y, the group will proceed to Harris Lake and to the recreation of swimming. Following swimming, a
picnic supper is planned through the management of Jerry Newbold and the cooperation of the Boarding House. The evening will
be brought to a close with music and dancing in the pavilion.

The entire cost of the day's entertainment to each student will be 15¢ to take care of the admission to
the lake plus all the student wishes to put out for cold drinks, etc. This sum of 15¢ will be
paid upon arrival at Harris Lake.

Joe McCoy will be in charge of the hour or so of swimming and will see to the safety of
everyone. His word will be law and the cooperation of each student is expected.

So until Saturday, study hard for Saturday will brim with streams, swims, and dancing at the glorious July Jamboree.

BELK TO HEAD PAN-HELL

At a meeting to organize the Summer Pan-Hellenic Council, John Belk was elected President. Belk has had experience at this
position, having served as President of the Pan-Hell during the past school year.

The council consists of: John Belk, Kappa Alpha; D.D. Phillips, Beta Theta Pi; Joe Anderson, Pi Kappa Alpha; Tom Connor,
S.A.E.; Bobby Miller, Kappa Sigma; Phil Whittier, Pi Kappa Phi; Beverly Bevoit, S.P.E. The function of this council is to
act as an inter-fraternity governing body.

---

