Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ERRORS COST BLAST ALL-STARS

JOHNSTON HITS .500

Johnston of the Town Terrors, by getting four for six in his last game, won the batting championship for the
first half of the league season with a terrific .500 average. He collected eight hits in sixteen official trips to
the plate.

Hoyt Evans of the Georgia Giants came in second with a hefty .462, while Myron Sandifer of the Terrors rounded
out the big three with .412.

Players batting over .350 in the first half are: (ten or more times at bat)

Johnston (Town) .500
Evans (Ga. III) .462
Sandifer (Town) .412
Conrad, H. (Watts I-II) .385
Ervin (Ga. 2) .385
Jones, F. (Ga. I) .364
Lirias (Watts III-IV) .364
Spencer (Town) .364
McAden (Ga. III) .357
Owens (Watts III-IV) .357

THE PICK OF THE LEAGUE
Selections by Joe McCoy

First team:
Position - Player - Team
Catcher - Masters - Town
First base - Watts I
Second base - Evans - Ga. I
Third base - McGavock - Town
Shortstop - Ervin - Town
Left field - Johnston - Town
Center field - Williams - Ga. I
Right field - Crane - Ga. III

Second team:
Position - Player - Team
Catcher - Bailey - Ga. III
First base - Adams - Ga. I
Second base - Withers - Ga. III
Shortstop - Adams - Ga. III
Third base - Hall - Ga. I
Right field - Owens - Ga. III

TOWN UNDEFEATED

The Town Terrors, by defeating Watts 3-4 in their final game, completed an undefeated season with a record of four
wins and no losses, to win the league title for the first half of the summer session.

The defeat dropped Watts to a second-place tie with Georgia 3; each team having a record of two wins and
two losses. Georgia 1 and Watts 3-4 bring up the rear with records of one win and three losses.

The Terrors had no trouble in vanquishing Watts, winning by an overwhelming score of 21-2. Led by Batting Champ Johnston,
who collected two triples, a double, and a single in six trips to the plate, they collected a total of
18 hits off the offerings of Coutras. The winners were aided by the sixteen errors charged against Watts. Spencer managed
to hold the losers to five scattered hits, Plonk and Owens slapping out two singles each.

In the other game of the week, Georgia 3 took a close game from Watts 1-2 by 8-6. Evans led
the hitting attack with two hits in three trips. The Giants were coasting to an easy victory until the seventh
when Watts rallied to score five runs on three hits, three errors, and a walk. The rally fell short, however,
and Georgia held their two-run margin.

Blasting out seventeen hits, the Town Terrors rode over the All-Stars Wednesday evening 17-1. McGavock led the hitting attack with
four hits in five trips, one hit being a circuit clout; Johnston and Sandifer followed with three for five. Spencer
allowed the All-Stars eleven hits, but kept them well scattered, and furthered the attack by homering in the fifth. Hart
and Watt hit best for the All-Stars with 2 for 4 and two for 3 respectively.

Town 17, All-Stars 1
Spencer and Sandifer; Evans and Belk.
Umpire: Shaw Smith, Thirty.
