Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Tess

S| “VF {¢ CORQUIEN Bue

JP orTs

yj oe

TE DAVIDEQONTAN TT
_ “published Weekly (Tit
STAFF

© Yoltford Hoboie * Co-editor

= Myron Sandifor Co-Editor
Shavr Smith — Columnist
Gilbert Taliforro Reporter
Georse MeAdcen Sports
Herbert Kassner Typist
genson Yor Printing

‘Pocruits to the staff are still welcome. Our motto the same:
—"Darn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead!"

|

DAVIDSON TRADITIONS
Beneath the tangible features of every organization worth its salt there lies a certain intangible value spoken of as "tradition."
This is particularly true of Davidson, particularly true in the sense that the Davidson Traditions mean more than anyone on
the outside realizes. This is not the place, of course, to list the important Davidson Traditions in the manner of
"1 - 10 inclusive," but three customs are certainly worthy of special recognition.

The first of those is the tradition of Friendliness. It has long been a custom on the Davidson campus to
greet a fellow student in passing. If his or her name is not known, it is sufficient to say: "Gentleman."

Another tradition is the friendly spirit of intramural games — good feeling and common sense between rival fraternity teams and
an actually closed system of politics.

In the second place, Davidson students have come to regard the YMCA as a second office. The presidency of the
YMCA has become the most coveted office on few college campuses. The presidency of the YMCA has become the most
coveted office on the Davidson campus. The Y officers are no longer regarded as "mishaps." There are other evidences of
the friendly spirit — the habit of cheering for the other team after an athletic contest, and the feeling of
mutual respect.

The summer intramural softball league has been organized and a schedule through the middle of July has been made out.
The team managers are: Rhea Dabney for Georgia I, Bobby Miller for Watts I and II, Hank Watt for Watts
III and IV, and Myron Sandifer for the Town team.

During the past few days, managers have been calling dates for their respective teams and have held a few practices
preparatory to the opening games.

So far, only one game has been played in the league race. In this game, Georgia I downed Watts I
and II in a free-scoring contest, 14 to 10. Freeman Jones pitched six-hit balls for the winners, holding the Killer
Watts hitless in the three innings. Harry Cox sparked the winners at bat with two long triples in two trips
to the plate. Sam Ervin and Moose Hart collected home runs to aid the Georgia team. The Georgia sluggers hopped
on Ralph Coonrad for thirteen hits, including several extra-base hits other than the two homers. J. D. Ashmore led the
Killers at the plate with three hits in four trips, including a triple. The Killers were very erratic in the
field, collecting a total of nine errors compared to four for the winners.

The league games are scheduled for Thursday evening through July 10th. Monday will be used in playing any games that
might be rained out. Shaw Smith will call the balls and strikes. Every team will play each of the other
four teams once. The remaining schedule will be posted on the bulletin board by the north door of Chambers.

We know that there is not much room for improvement over the YMCA. But most importantly of all, there is
the tradition about the HONOR SYSTEM, the belief that the good of the Student Body comes first. This tradition is
our heritage.

All boys that play tennis are urged to enter the Summer Tennis Tournament. There will also be a Girls division.
All entries for the tournament will be closed on Friday evening.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as closely as possible.
