Valiant ’Cats Overwhelmed By Blue Brigade; Floyd Hero Of One-Sided Gridiron Battle

The powerful Camp Davis Blue Brigade rolled over a fighting Davidson College eleven 27 to 0 on October 23 before an audience of 15,000 servicemen. The Soldiers, following a punt exchange, took over near midfield and launched a drive which resulted in their first tally. Led by Stoeckel and Bisceglia, the Blue Brigade smashed its way to the Davidson 1 where Bisceglia hurdled the line for the score. Provenzano’s placement attempt was wide and the ‘Cats trailed 6-0.

Davidson took Provenzano’s kickoff and, failing to gain against the massive Soldier line, was forced to punt. Ashmore was badly rushed, his poor kick wobbling out on the Wildcat 35. Once again the Blue Brigade went into high gear. Following a 4-yard gain, Bisceglia broke through the Cat line and bulled his way to the 4 before he was halted by Crane and Ashmore. On the next play, Neblecki crashed into the end zone for the second touchdown. Soloman converted to give the Brigade a 13 to 0 margin.

Early in the second quarter, the Soldiers staged another march which Nebelecki terminated with a 4-yard line buck. Soloman again converted. The scrappy ‘Cats brought the crowd to its feet by completing two long passes just before the half ended. After the intermission, Johnson sent in his regulars and this powerful aggregation promptly blasted its way to paydirt. After Provenzano and Santone had collaborated for two first downs, Norm Standlee, former All-Pro fullback, crashed through the Davidson line for 13 yards. Two plays later Standlee, with a tremendous effort, scored again.

Wildcat Sports

BEAT CLEMSON TIGERS
Friday, October 29, 1943
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Seven

Davidson Meets Clemson Next

Underdogs Lose To Coast Guard; Sailors Take To Land To Defeat Cats 36-0

Davidson’s Wildcats, greatly outweighed and outplayed, bowed to the favored South Carolina Coast Guard eleven, 36 to 0 in their first home appearance of the season. After a scoreless first period in which the Cats slightly outgained their rivals, the Coast Guard machine drove deep into Davidson territory where Henderson put his mates in the lead with a field goal from the Cat 16. A few minutes later the Sailors struck paydirt again on a “sleeper” pass from Spencer to Lancaster which clicked 53 yards and a touchdown. Henderson converted to give the South Carolina club a commanding 10 to 0 lead. Just before the half ended, Adamiec climaxed another march by plunging through the Wildcat line for the second tally. Henderson again kicked the point and the Presbyterians left the field on the short end of a 17-0 count.

After intermission, the Sailors launched another scoring march. Led by Taggart and Keating, they passed and ran to the Cat 1 where Keating crashed into the zone for another touchdown.

Season In Game With Tigers

Following the open date this week, the Davidson Wildcats encounter the Clemson Tigers in Charlotte. It will be the Cats’ second conference game of the season and they are looking for their first victory. Clemson will probably enter the game as favorites but the Wildcats will have plenty of time to prepare themselves and are determined to defeat Coach Frank Howard’s team. Clemson will feel the loss of Marion Butler, star tailback, who is entering the army a few days before the game, but they are grooming several freshmen who will be able to take over.

Whitmire Clemson Star

Don Whitmire, 180-pound wingback, will be the man the Cats will have to watch. Whitmire is a speedy, powerful runner who fits in well with the reverses and spins that are always prominent in the Tigers’ attack.

No Serious Injuries

Davidson will enter the game at full strength since no serious injuries were sustained in the bruising attack of Camp Davis. The passing combinations with Ashmore and Seefield on the throwing end and Watt and Williams doing most of the receiving will be crucial for the Wildcats.Surge of power, blasted his way into scoring territory for the final Davis 6-pointer. Mellus, Captain of the Blue Brigade, booted the point. In the final minutes, Flowers snatched Scofield’s pass from the air and, behind neat downfield blocking, romped to the AA 7 before he was downed. The Blue Brigade rose up, however, and averted the threat. The Davidson aerial assault accounted for all the ‘Cats yardage for their rushing totals were on the minus side of the ledger. George Floyd stood out in the Davidson (Continued on Page 8) another HD. attempt was blocked. Early in the final quarter, Taggart swept the Davidson end, and behind beautiful blocking, romped 48 yards for the fourth marker. Henderson’s boot was wide. The final Coast Guard score came late in the quarter when Henderson intercepted Scofield’s pass and ran 40 yards. The husky back kicked the extra point to end the Sailors’ scoring parade. The Cats tried desperately to make their passing attack connect throughout the game, but the Coast Guardsmen’s 5-3-2-1 defense held them at a standstill. The Davidson attack showed little power throughout the game. Injuries suffered by Ashmore early in the game hurt the Presbyterian effort severely. Bryant and Monroe stood out in the forward wall as did Captain Sam Hay who played Fisher’s conversion. Cat's most serious threat. The aerial game of the red and black has showed up well so far and is likely to produce a high-scoring game.

Starting Lineup
The probable starting lineups will be:
Clemson Davidson
Freeman ---- LE ---- Williams
Galties ---- LT ---- Cooper
Simpson ---- C ---- Monroe
Jenkins ---- RG ---- Woltz
Traynham ---- RT ---- Floyd
Saviers ---- RE ---- Hay
Russell ---- QB ---- Watt
Rathell ---- LH ---- Daniel
Riddle ---- RH ---- Crane
Whitmire ---- FB ---- Ashmore

The game of football is the ultimate result of an illegal play made by an English Rugby player in 1823.

Wildcats Seek First Victory
VMI Victorious in Cats’ First Game
Keydets Stop Davidson Offense To Win 13-0

The VMI Keydets capitalized on several fumbles by the visiting Davidson Wildcats to gain a 13-0 decision on October 2. The Wildcats were on the offensive and in Keydet territory all during the first half and appeared to be headed for touchdowns on numerous occasions. In the first period, they drove from their own 44-yard line to the VMI 3. Ashmore then flipped an aerial intended for Watt that was intercepted by Jones.

Davidson made a poor start in the second half, with a fumble on the first play. The Keydets recovered on the Wildcat 30, but had to kick to the Wildcat 17, where the 'Cats again fumbled. VMI recovered the ball on the 9-yard line and passed to the five-yard line, whereupon Collins carried the ball over tackle on a reverse for a touchdown. The fighting Wildcats came back immediately after the kickoff and carried the ball to the VMI 45 on alternate runs by Crane and Ashmore. After Ashmore’s punt to the VMI 17, Jones passed to Collins for a gain of 68 yards. The Davidson defense again held the Keydets and the 'Cats took possession of the ball on their own 13-yard line. Jones took Ashmore’s punt and was downed on the Davidson 44. With a passing and running attack, the Keydets drove to the five. Collins again plunged off-tackle for five yards, making the score 13-0. The Wildcats immediately marched down the field. Ashmore drove 12 yards to the VMI 50, and then passed to Ed White for a 36-yard gain, placing the ball on the VMI nine. Crane received a pass on the five, and Ashmore fumbled on the next play. The game ended shortly after, the Wildcats having made 9 first downs to 5 for the Keydets.