The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

SCABBARD AND BLADE TAPS TWELVE

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1943 No. 19

McAlister Carson Is Elected Davidsonian Business Manager

Carson Succeeds Ivey Stewart In Publication Post

McAlister Carson, Jr., of Charlotte was elected business manager of the Davidsonian for the year 1943-'44 at a meeting of
the Publications Board on Saturday, March 13. Carson succeeds Ivey Stewart, who was chosen to fill out the unexpired term
of Peter Young of the January graduating class. He will take over his new duties immediately. Other Junior members of
the business staff, who were eligible for the position include: Dick Port, Advertising; Don Melver, Advertising Manager; Jim Harris, Circulation;
Teensy Hodges, Circulation Manager; and George Rosborough, Subscription Manager.

Hails From Charlotte

Carson is a graduate of Central High School in Charlotte, where he was editor of the annual in his senior
year and was also active in other phases of the school life. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, is a junior manager of the basketball team, serves on the editorial staff of Quips and Cranks, is
a first sergeant in ROTC and was recently tapped by Scabbard and Blade.

Actors Stage Broadway Hit In Chambers

Spencer, Smith, Jackson Head Star Studded Cast In Presentation

Last Tuesday evening, March 16, at 7:15, the Red and Black Masquers, Davidson's dramatic organization, presented the comedy hit of
Broadway a year or so ago, John Kesselring’s “Arsenic and Old Lace”. Starring in the campus production were Sam Spencer
as Mortimer Brewster, Clara Smith as Abby Brewster, and Miss Susie Jackson as Martha Brewster. The production was staged by
Frank Mebane, and Prof. E. J. Erwin had charge of the stage effects. Managers were George Worth and George McCormick.

The performance, given in Chambers Auditorium, was attended by a large and appreciative audience, who turned out to see the
cast, who had presented other productions of equal success in the past. Spencer, Miss Smith, and Miss Jackson, were all
leading performers in the Masquers last play, “The Man Who Came to Dinner.”

Special Make-up

Special wardrobes and makeup were ordered from New York to make the play even more effective, as they will be
the same as are now being used in the Broadway production. The plot for the play revolved around the Brewster
family, all of whom are insane. Mortimer Brewster, played by Sam Spencer, was able to untangle some of the mixed
affairs of the family and to bundle them off to the various institutions where they belonged.

A large portion of the credit for the brilliant performance of the play at Davidson is due to Director Mebane,
also president of the group, and to Prof. Erwin, who handled the staging of the play. The cast for the
play was as follows:

Abby Brewster ........ Clara Smith
Rev. Dr. Harper ...... Lamar Williamson
Teddy Brewster ....... Bill Lyman
Officer Brophy ....... Lyman Parrigan
Officer Klein ......... Jerry Newbold
Martha Brewster ...... Susie Jackson
Elaine Harper ........ Mrs. Sarah Seigel
Mortimer Brewster .... Sam Spencer
Mr. Gibbs ............ Bob McMullen
Jonathan Brewster .... Finley Tucker
Dr. Einstein ......... Doug Swink
Officer O’Hara ....... Lawrence Boggs
Lieutenant Rooney .... Midday Raynal
Mr. Witherspoon ...... Howell Morrow

BUSINESS MANAGER BUDDY CARSON

Quiz Program Held In YMCA

Foreman Questions Board of Experts on Bible

Davidson's new Y.M.C.A. was the scene of a battle of wits Sunday night after vesper services, when two students and
two members of the faculty made up a board of experts at whom Bible questions were fired. The members of
the faculty were Professor Erwin and Dr. Hood and the student representatives were Myron Sandifer and Jim McCrary. Dr. Kenneth
J. Foreman of the Davidson Bible Department was on hand to ask the questions and Bill Lyman was Master of
Ceremonies.

Professor Erwin showed so much knowledge of the Bible that many of the audience wondered why he had been teaching
English. No one could touch Dr. Harding as far as the questions concerning Job and Songs of Solomon went, and
many of the more general questions were skillfully handled by Sandifer and McCrary.

Programs Are New

The Sunday evening programs are a new feature at the Y.M.C.A. this semester and are arranged so as to have
a musical program every other Sunday. The first of the series drew only small crowds but the attendance has built
up nicely until now there is quite a crowd on hand every week. Next Sunday the program will be a
listening hour of music of the old masters and should prove as entertaining and enjoyable as the musical programs of
the past. Everyone is cordially invited to attend.

Classes Begin For Soldiers

Air Corps Cadets Start Their Academic Work

Davidson's newly arrived group of Air Corps Cadets started their first classes at Davidson last Monday morning. For the first
week of their stay here the cadets had no classes because of a sort of orientation period and an adjustment
of professors’ classes so as to be able to hold classes for students and soldiers alike.

Schedule Altered

As is already known, the schedule of classes was altered slightly last week to meet the problem arising from the
conflicting time table of the students and cadets. Since the type course that the cadets take is limited to only
certain subjects, many professors, who have been teaching other courses, have been changed over to help out those professors who
are necessarily loaded down with the number of classes which they have to teach a day. The teachers have all
expressed the opinion that the cadets are very willing and courteous pupils.

Scabbard and Blade Taps Twelve In Ceremony

Scabbard and Blade Holds Semi-Annual Tap Day At Drill on Monday

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, held its annual tap day at a special parade on Monday, March 15.
Twelve junior members of the regiment were extended bids to join the organization at drill on Monday. Selections are based
on military proficiency, participation in campus activities, and scholarship.

New Men

Those tapped are: Cadet Sergeant W. W. Lacy, Cadet Sergeant S. A. Booth, Cadet First Sergeant S. A. Scott, Cadet
Sergeant Lee T. Amos, Cadet Sergeant T. V. Bumbarger, Cadet Staff Sergeant R. B. Port, Cadet First Sergeant P. M.
Williams, Cadet First Sergeant McAlister Carson, Cadet Sergeant M. H. Jeffries, Cadet Sergeant D. D. Phillips, Cadet First Sergeant W.
R. Dabney, and Cadet Staff Sergeant W. H. Morrow.

These men will go through a period as pledges and will be initiated formally in the near future. They and
their dates will participate in the figure at the Military Dance in the Charlotte Armory Saturday.

Lead Dance Figure

The pledges for Victory will form a dance figure on the floor and will then form as the spokes of
a wheel through which the senior members of Scabbard and Blade and their dates will make an arch with their
crossed sabers from which formation the novices will be tapped. The exercises took place at a special regimental parade. After
the tapping ceremonies, cadet captains Ed Erwin and Don Caterson, president of the local chapter, passed among the ranks and
tapped the new men with their sabers as they knelt in their positions. Following the tapping, the new men reviewed
the regiment alongside the senior members.

Scabbard and Blade has the title of the fifth regiment. The senior members of the local chapter are: Don Caterson,
Ed Erwin, Joe McCoy, Lacy Walker, Clarence Parks, John McGee, Dick Phillips, Eugene Sutton, John Selk, Frederick, Herb Rainey, Myron
Sandifer, Bob Erwin, Marvin Mebane, Lean Burkehead, Legerton Ross, John Jen Lacy, Raney, and Jack Wayman.

CALENDAR

Friday, 9:00 P. M.-1:00 A. M.; Pan-Hellenic dance, Hotel Charlotte.
Saturday, Military Dance, 8:00 P. M.-12:00: Charlotte Armory Auditorium.
Sunday, 4:30 P. M.: Concert by Music Department, Chambers Auditorium.
Sunday, 7:30 P. M.: Rev. Carl Pritchett to preach for vesper service.
Chapel: Friday: Devotional led by Legh Scott of the junior class.
Monday: Devotional led by Frank Sanford of the senior class.

Writer Tells Of Reserves Being Called

Enlisted Reserve Corps Men To Leave Campus On April First

By ERNEST SPANGLER

Hey there, Joe, when are you going to the army? This question, along with, “When do you think the E.R.C.
men will be called up?” have enlivened the conversation of many a bull-session at Davidson this year. Indefinite as this
affair of military strategy is, this article is written to enlighten you on this matter.

Most of the students at Davidson fall into one of the following categories: E.R.C., V-7, V-1, and Advanced R.O.T.C. The
E.R.C. probably claims the most victims with its visits.

In the voting for class officers on Tuesday, Sam Henderson was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Senior Class, Jim Jackson,| 175
misled boys having sign } Secretary-Treasurer of the rising | cd dotted line | Juniors, and Jim Whitehurst | Secretary-Treasurer
of the next year's | First To Go | The first call of the ERC will | Sophomore Class. |
These were the only men elected | Two men re- | on the second ballot in the race for |
each of the other class officers | Juniors | The Juniors voted on Wednesday | Dick O'Hair and Pat Williams
for | president, and Dabney and Mac | Rhea Jeffries for | vice-president. | remained in the | the Sophs
and Tom Peters re- | race for president in the | was between Arthur Pen | voting, while the choice
for vice-president | Charlie Gunn and Elwood Weatherly were the two remaining candidates | to vote for Sam Wad Loughridge
and | dates for president of the present | Freshmen. They were | vice-president between Heat and Ed Whitt. Among
those elected on Tuesday, Whitehurst, Jackson, and Henderson are members of Kappa Alpha Order; while Henderson is a member of
Pi Kappa Alpha. Jackson is also the new sports editor of the Davidsonian. Those elections yet to be held and
men eligible are: Office Eligible Freshman Adviser Rising Seniors Magazine Editors Junior Staff Student Council Student Body Cheerleader Junior Cheerleaders
Publications Board Editors and Business Managers of Publications "Y" Board of Control Student Body April 1st with about one hundred
boys leaving school. The remaining, those who are majoring in physics, math, pre-medical, pre-dental, and pre-osteopathic, will be exempt until
June, some until July and others indefinitely. Those who will be called April 1st will have to report to the
replacement center within ten days, receive a furlough, and then be drilled with serum and aptitude tests. This test will
determine the mentality of the men and they will be classified accordingly. Some will probably be sent back to school,
some to specialized schools, and others will be commissioned as privates in the U.S. Army. Advanced R.O.T.C The Advanced R.O.T.C
constitutes the second year of the R.O.T.C course. Nearly all boys in this division will be deferred until June (grades
allowing). They will then be sent to Bennings School for Boys where they will receive three months of intensive training.
From Fort Benning, the men will be assigned to active duty as second lieutenants. Junior students will receive three months
of preparatory training before entering the Bennings School for Boys. Yours truly has not a worry in the world, however,
because he's in the draft. He won't be around very long but maybe we'll all have a reunion in Berlin
one of these first days. TAPPED BY SCABBARD AND BLADE Twelve juniors were tapped by Scabbard and Blade at drill
last Monday. Reading from left to right in the picture are, first row: Bill Lacy, Shep Booth, Legh Scott, Bob
Amos, Tommy Bumbarger; second row: Dick Port, Pat Williams, Buddy Carson, Mac Jeffries, D. D. Phillips, and Rhea Dabney. Not
present in the photograph: Howell Morrow. BAND LEADER Bub Montgomery Student Body Closes Drive Community Donates $1583 To Red Cross
Fund The Davidson Red Cross War Fund drive had reached a total of $1582.95 by Monday night, March 15, with
a few canvassers yet to be heard from. This is the largest amount raised by a Red Cross drive in
Davidson, according to Dr. W. P. Cumming, the Red Cross chairman and the director of the current campaign. Last year
the final tabulation was $1043.51, and not only was that amount surpassed this year, but each district in the community,
without exception, increased its contribution. Concord Street showed the greatest gain, with an increase of $207 over last year’s total
of $91. Campaign Successful The success of the campaign was due, Dr. Cumming said, not only to the generous response
of the students and townspeople to the urgent call from the Red Cross, but also to the unselfish work of
the volunteer canvassers. For the drive, the town was divided into 14 districts. These districts, with the amount raised in
each, the captains and their assistants, are: Davidson College, $340.48, Dr. W. G. McGavock and Ed Patterson with Jim Craven,
Bob Cushman, Kay Dabney, John Alexander, John Burts, John Daniels, Bob Durant, Hoyt Evans, J. T. Fesperman, Bob Gourley, Bill
Grey, Jim Jackson, John Lusk, Ed Manget, Milton Mann, Archie McNeil, Carlisle Moore, Art Pendleton, Gero Piper, Tom Powell, Jack
Richeson, Ed Robbins, Clayton Scofield, Alec Sime, Ernest Spangler, Newt Spencer, Paul Starling, O. E. Starnes, John Stuart, Walker Taylor,
Burkehead Walker, John Walker, William Warlick, and Bob Worth. Community Districts Districts in the community are Concord Street, $298, Mr.
M. Murphy, with Mrs. C. G. Davidson, Mrs. J. C. Bailey, Miss B. Sample, and Miss Mary Brick; Woodland-Lorimer Streets,
$177, Mrs. F. L. Fleagle, with Mrs. McElvey, Mrs. Fulcher, Mrs. Thies, Mrs. Goldiere, Mrs. Beaty, and Mrs. Turner; North
Main, $279, Mr. Charles Steel, with Mrs. W. Wilson, Mrs. Blain, Mrs. Gallant, and Mrs. Hartness; Davidson Public School, $40.96,
Miss Bonnie Shelton. Other Areas Other districts are: Central Main Street, $41.25, Mrs. Buff; College Laundry, $2, Mrs. Frank Johnson;
Elm Street, $38; School Street, $57.50, Mrs. Carl Cathey; South Main, $88.50, Mrs. J. B. Alexander; West Davidson, $17.50, Mrs.
Mayhew; the mill village, approximately $150.75, Mrs. Overcash; Asbestos Mill, unreported, Mr. Murrell; Mocks Hill, $109.18, Mr. Poe, with Mrs.
Rossie Norton, Mrs. Dossie Houston, Mrs. I. R. Coles, Mrs. Viola Withers, Miss Z. M. Byers, Miss J. E. Brown,
Miss B. D. Baucom, and Mrs. A. G. Jenkins. Military Figure Will Feature Pan-Hellenic Dance This Week Bub Montgomery Will
Lead Satterfield’s Band In Two Night Set Tickets are now on sale for the Pan-Hellenic Dance Set, to be held
in Charlotte this weekend. It has been announced by John Belk, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, that in the absence
of Johnny Satterfield, who is now in the Armed Services, Bub Montgomery, a popular Chapel Hill musician, will officiate as
the band leader. However, it is to be understood that the music for the occasion will be as originally composed
by Satterfield’s orchestra. Two Dances Two separate dances are scheduled, one on Friday night, from 9 till 1, and the
other on Saturday, from 8 till 12. The first dance will be formal and will feature the usual Pan-Hellenic figure.
The Saturday dance will be informal; however, a Scabbard and Blade figure will be the keynote of the occasion. Friday's
function will be held in the ballroom of the Hotel Charlotte, while the final dance on Saturday is scheduled for
the Charlotte Armory. Unstable Conditions Although the late news of the ERC has caused rather unstable conditions as far as
social matters are concerned, a very good representation of the Student Body, replete with dates, is expected, and President Belk
urges every student to support this dance. As most every student probably realizes, this weekend crop of festivities will undoubtedly
be the last one enjoyed hereabouts for a long time to come, and it will be to the extreme advantage
of every Davidsonian to partake of the joys of these two dances. Prices Fixed The prices for the function are
moderate, with set tickets costing $4.50, while single bids cost but $2.50, and from all appearances, it will be well
worth the money. Those attending the last Homecoming dance will remember Satterfield’s well-arranged program of hot and sweet swing, and
can judge the prospects for this function by the pleasurable effects of the last one. Half Credit Given Men Called
Out ERC Men Leaving School May Obtain Credit For Work Completed Announcement came from Mr. Hengeveld’s office early this week
that an entirely new policy regarding credit for courses started this semester by men who are to be called from
school by the E.R.C on April 1 had been adopted. Credit Given It was revealed that if these men remain
on the college rolls until March 27, they will be given credit for the courses they are passing at that
time, although they will be allowed credit for only half the semester hours of the courses. Gain Is Made In
other words, this will allow sophomores, for example, who are called at this time to re-enter with the rating of
juniors, although they must make up the necessary total number of hours before they will be granted a diploma. Penalties
Penalties in the form of loss of credit will be imposed for cuts in excess of the regular limit although
no strict rule in respect to such loss has been explained.
