Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 5, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915
Member Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of © Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO + BOSTON + LOS ANGELES + SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

ED ERWIN IVEY STEWART
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andy McLean: Assistant Editor
Bill Lyman: Associate Editor
J. Eve: Associate Editor
Mac Gillespie: Managing Editor
Howell Morrison: Managing Editor
John Fairley: Managing Editor
Lin St. Pierre: Managing Editor
Don McLeod: Managing Editor
Legh Scott: Sports Editor
Bob Wells: Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Dick Porter: Advertising Manager
Don McIver: Circulation Manager
Jim Harris: Circulation Manager
Teensy Hodges: Subscription Manager
George Rosborough: Collection Manager
Buddy Carson

Debut...
With this issue, The Davidsonian makes its belated 1943 debut. It is not the usual dashing journalistic sally into a waiting collegiate world, we fear, but rather a timorous venture into a diminished sphere with a clouded future. Several interested, we hope, subscribers have inquired as to the future of this particular publication, and, having no recourse to a crystal ball, we were forced to admit that this question had vexed our imaginations for some time now. Our only answer is that we plan to continue publication in the customary form as long as it is practicable, and we hope that this will be possible throughout the spring. The necessity for some sort of newspaper will not be restricted, we expect, by anything that is from the available evidence likely to happen. It is not our policy to apologize for our work or to solicit compliments in any form, but the editor feels that the restricted staff that has consented to tackle the doubled jobs connected with compiling material for this paper, when the hope of gaining recognition in the form of editorship has been practically eliminated in each case, deserves his thanks and those of the student body. The problems of coverage will naturally be more difficult and we would like to solicit the continued cooperation of students and faculty in the interests of a better Davidsonian “for a better Davidson.”

Rumor Box...
Inspired by memories of sleepless afternoons wasted in worried bull sessions about the latest whisper of what was to happen to who when, most of which never did, last semester, we are inaugurating a new device which we hope will prove to be an active stimulus to student morale. This will take the form of a “rumor box” which has been placed in the lobby of Chambers. Any rumor which you encounter, with reference to campus life, of course, which you would like to have confirmed or denied, write out and drop in the box. We will attempt to find its source and to publish the true version of the item. We realize that we are sticking our reportorial necks out in attempting such a service and that in many of the cases we will be as much at a loss to discover the truth as you. However, we hope to make it a worthwhile venture and invite the timid victims of campus rumor mongers to drop their worst in the receptacle. Anticipating the first ten contributions, we would like to announce that reliable sources seriously doubt the truth of the rumor about the student store. The possibilities of its becoming a post exchange with bar, et al., is to say the least “dubious.”

Congratulations...
Overcoming a long-standing and entirely natural prejudice toward the publication recognized as the “humor magazine,” in a rather loose rendition of the term, we feel bound to congratulate Editor Lyman on the flattering rank accorded him by the Harvard Lampoon. Of course, it must not be forgotten that the Lampoon is also a humor magazine and following the sometimes questionable sense of humor that such literary efforts have been known to portray, perhaps this is some sort of joke. However, we should, we suppose, take the honor accorded Lyman and his assistants at its face value and concur in the opinion of the experts. We would not infer that our plaudits are bestowed in any begrudging fashion, and we extend to the staff of Scripts 'N Pranks our best wishes for continued success and recognition. (Editor’s note: Anyone furnishing proof of family relationship between the Editor of Scripts 'N Pranks and the Editor of the Harvard Lampoon will be awarded a free subscription to the Davidsonian and the possibility of “public congratulations by the YMCA Secretary.”)

Some Generosity...
Perhaps the most genuine and outstanding quality of all great men and true friends is generosity. Some give of their wealth, some give of their time, some give of their very selves. The important thing is that they give unselfishly of what they have to something they love. Davidson has lost two great and true friends. Captain James P. Grey, who magnanimously proved his loyalty in life with his many gifts to Davidson, of which the library is an outstanding example, has left another memorial to his own generosity. The new year also brought the irreparable loss of one of its most generous givers of the last commodity. In the death of Dr. Archibald Currie after 36 years of active duty with the college faculty, Davidson found itself missing one of its sincerest personalities and most respected characters. Few people realize the unique nature of Dr. Currie’s capabilities. One of his courses, which has proven one of the most popular and valuable among Davidson graduates for years, has no imitation in any institution in the country. The text was printed solely for his classes. The administration has been unable to find anyone to continue two of his classes because the essence of his teaching was not to be found in any text but in himself. Davidson will not fail because of the loss of any one or several men, but the contributions of such men have made this fact possible. The lives of such Christians are missions completed.

CAMPUS ODDITIES
FACULTY IS A M
JIM MUIR OF FREED-HARDEMAN COLLEGE, SCORED A STAGGERING TOTAL OF 78 POINTS, OR PRACTICALLY TWO A MINUTE, AS HIS SCHOOL CRUSHED BETHEL COLLEGE 110 TO 30! THE NETS ALL BUT CAUGHT FIRE!
DR. WALTER C. JONES OF THE BIRMINGHAM-SOUTHERN GREEK-LETTER FRATERNITIES?

$5400 WILL BUY ONE BARRAGE BALLOON! BUY A BOND TODAY!

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Our ranks are depleted a bit because of war, studies, a combination of both, too much or too little of each, etc. Anyhow, our number is smaller and our jobs perhaps a little more difficult. There is much feeling of pressure, and the fight is not to fight the war but to fight the books. Ho-hum, wonder if another life is thrown away or maybe made. Who knows? YOU can say, friend, about ‘em. But now to things at hand war and books aren't! Sad to report that Edwin Rudolph, billiards champion of world fame, offered to come here but his only free date was during exams. Maybe next year? The pool room is open for practice in preparation, perhaps, for when he arrives. Mr. Allen Craig gave us pleasure and profit with his visit. He had many friends before he came; more now. The Methodist conference at Duke this weekend attracts Art Pendleton, Gene Gracey, Milton Mann, and Marks Underwood. It’s a real pleasure to affiliate with other denominations because so many of our men are from churches other than Presbyterian. This foursome proves the usefulness of the Methodists and there are many more! Two new cabinet members, Dimmock and Hobbie, take over a combination of departments for this semester. Not only is their work on the campus commendable, but the boys themselves will be useful men. Wish it were possible, however, to put all useful men to work even much more at a definite post such as the YMCA. Free post cards with pictures of the proposed gym are yours by dropping by the Alumni Office (some day on your way to see the Dean perhaps!).or the Y. Well, plenty of company. What a word cabinet allows. Now have free copies of “The Upper Room” or “Day by Day,” devotional booklets, can be had at the Y. Ever tried them? They're good and can help you be more so, too. Try using a daily devotional and see.

Spring Services are not so far away, and our speaker has been recommended by at least 50 interested men on the campus. He will be announced in a week or few. Amateur Show on the way. Are you signed up? There’s the phone; it might be someone calling to congratulate us on our basketball team. It should be!

Yours,
Shaw Smith.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN

A Counter Flush

Flushed, or, Fie on Women!

“Long distance”
“Long distance? I want to make a person-to-person call to Raleigh, please.”
“All right. Whom are you calling, please?”
“Miss Fanny Boswell, St. Mary’s College.”
“What was the name again?”
“Fanny Boswell. F-a-n-n-y B-o-s-w-e-l-l. Fanny Boswell.”
“Fanny?”
“Yes, Boswell.”
“How do you spell the last name?”
“B-O-S-W-E-L-L.”
“Murgatroyd?”
“No, Boswell. Boswell!”
“Oh, Boswell. And what was that address?”
“Saint... Mary’s... College.”
“Thank you. Just a moment, please.”

(Two-hour pause)

“Hello, Davidson? Your party is ready now. What is your name, please?”
“Dick Sutherland.”
“How do you spell that last name?”
“Lady, just call me Dick and let it go!”
“What number are you calling from, please?”
“Uh—2397.”
“Deposit one-ten, plus tax, please.”
“Listen, lady, I hate to be personal, but just how much is the tax?”
“Just a moment, please.” (Six-minute pause) “The tax is fifteen cents.”
“Thus making it $1.25 in all?”
“Just a moment, please. One-ten plus fifteen... five-zero-zero, one-one-two, and one-zero-one. That'll be $1.25 in all.”
“Gee, thanks.”

Clink, clunk, clunk. Clank, clank, clink.

“Go ahead, Davidson.”
“Hello, Fanny?”
“Dick! You angel!”
“Fanny! How in the world are you?”
“Just fine and dandy, you devil! It’s wonderful to hear your voice again.”
“Listen, Fanny, excuse me for calling you this late, but I have just this minute gotten out of the infirmary, and didn't know I was gonna get out so soon. The Pan-Hell is throwing a dance here tomorrow night and I'd like to know if you can come.”
“Oh, you darling! You perfect darling!”
“Then you can come?”
“Well, yes and no.”
“What do you mean, Fanny?”
“Well, you see it’s this way, Dick. I already have a date for it and am leaving in the morning.”
“You already have a date?”
“Yes, I already have a date.”
“Well!”
“However, I'd rather have a date with you than anybody I know!”
“Aw-ww. I bet you tell that to all the boys.”
“I do, dearie, but it still makes you feel good. ‘Bye now.”

The Operating Table

The extraction of the Class of '43 nips in the seedling stages some of the juicier and more promising romances and makes angles out of several of the most promising triangles, as if we needed to mention names. However, we must carry on and attempt to scare up a few new heels and deals.

Leading the rumor list lately is the note that “Somebody Else Is Taking My Place.” Hobbie really got the dash of cold water just as he seemed to be warming up. Another guy shipped her the ring when he wasn't looking. (Speaking of rings, the Southern Bell(e) is really getting the 6-cent calls to Miami lately, Wayman.) S. F. Taylor got his too when he found he was the wooden one instead with demure Craig. “There's one born every minute,” Hockey Lee says he has thrown in the towel and refuses to furnish bush confetti for the duration. (We wonder.)

Question of the week: What are to be the weapons for the Carrow-Lacy duel scheduled early? The news isn’t all bad, however, as Sutt pledges that he can reform the Salem “Y” Week Queen. Hi-Port made the trek to Concord in hopes of sneaking in a few minutes with Lil Butch—over alumnus Sprunt’s dead body. Rumor has it that Roz is thinking “why don't you speak for yourself, Long John.” (Alden fun, of course.)

Honors in Eco. Morton wasn't so economical the other night. What vintage, Fred? Hottest tip of the week: Information, please—how can a platinum blonde match a pseudo-red and not get snatched bald-headed? Really keeps them guessing, too!

Priscilla of Waffle Shop fame re-entered the picture on the arm of Ten Brew Davis, goaded by the flapjack Victory of the ‘Cats over U.N.C. Bob Ames was shooting the old syrup to his “waffle,” too. We hear that “Smiley” Hill is holding quite a crush on la’ Stafford. Playing with matches, etc. Be careful, Hugh. Congratulations to Herb Rainey who will be middle-aisling soon. Why won't Wee John McGee admit to similar plans?

Contributions to the class gift fund are literally pouring in from all the short-term alumni. Peck Hill left his contribution on the campus corner. As if the Snappa lodge were not plagued with enough woman trouble in the form of the four-degreed female in residence, Sir Henry of Oxford-on-the-Tar placed his frat pin on Lady Hunt, who, incidentally, is far, far away.

The underclasses, looking forward to future June weeks, are enviously eyeing the name of the Responsible Young Man of the ‘42-‘43. The man on the street thinks MacLean knows about finagling the beauteous sponsor for commencement. The evaded issue, but I bet “Stinky” Dunn vies with Wayman in disregarding the ban on long-distance phoning by purchasing the line to Minneapolis. Subject of lecture unannounced, but results indicated by beaming counts.

Frosh Rhea Richardson held high hopes for the coming Golden Gloves campaign until his dreams were shattered by a right-cross-to-the-eye in the bus station. The attack was apparently unprovoked, unless you ask the four hundred and fifty witnesses. Missing from recent Beta grip: clippings is “Checks” Rainey of the stud store R.’s. The problem seems to be the absence of a pin, or something.

Veiled in secrecy on the first floor of Georgia are tales of Lyman’s venture into an Alabama Pullman car. The origin is mysterious but it ends with mental pictures of Slyme, shoes in hand, and insisting that the whole thing was a hideous mistake. Also reticent about the details of his romantic escapades is “Juke” Jeffries, who finds his Rock Hill communications being endangered by a Freshman flank attack. Military history records a surprise sally into the territory only to find it occupied by a persistent saboteur.

Bribery and blackmail prevent the release of the most savory morsel of the week which centers around Mayor “No Third Term” Sandifer. Not now, maybe next week. Hush note receivers for the approaching frolic have so far kept their devious secrets but results will be tabulated and published at an early date. The one-night stand with informal 7-11 features promises fun for all. Since we are all for fun, let’s all join in.

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
WHO DONE IT?
Lou Abbott and Bud Costello in their latest and best laugh riot provide the feature attraction at the Davidson Theatre. A murder mystery provides the background for the antics of the two funny men of the stage and screen, but they manage to turn the tragedy into a first-rate comedy. Full of slapstick and the usual type of Abbott and Costello pranks, it is a picture which their followers will proclaim a killer.

Saturday
JOHNNY COMES MARCHING HOME
The handsome baritone Alan Jones carries the male lead in “Johnny Comes Marching Home,” a modern film keyed up to fit the tempo of our modern times—the world at war. Gloria Jean holds up the female lead while Phil Spitalny and his beautiful all-girl band add to the scenic enjoyment of the picture as well as contributing to the musical entertainment.

Monday and Tuesday
KEEPERS OF THE FLAME
One of the year’s best in dramatic entertainment is scheduled for the week's opening show in Keepers of the Flame. Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn are in the featured roles in an Axis story with a new twist. Hepburn plays the daughter of a German who is exposed by newspaperman Spencer Tracy. Parent's Magazine and Variety both give it excellent notices in their Movie Review sections.

Wednesday
WE ARE THE MARINES
A March of Time full-length feature portrays the cream of America’s fighting men—the Marine Corps. The picture includes shots of the Leathernecks playing, drilling, training, and fighting.

Late Show Saturday Night
THE HIDDEN HAND
with Elizabeth Frazer and Craig Stewart