Page Two The Davidsonian

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Member Associated Collegiate Press

Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY, Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
LEGH SCOTT McALISTER

BUSINESS MANAGER
CARSON

EDITORIAL STAFF
Mac Jeffries
Fairly
John Howell Morrow
Associate Editor
Jim Stimson
Associate Editor
Bert Aatsn
George Worth
Managing Editor
WT Toman
Athletic Writing Staff
Ed Erwin
Managing Editor
George Worth
Managing Editor
Sports Writers
Bob Philips, John Alexander, Shep Dany
Reporters
CRIM, Vu, Carll McCormick, Jim Besater, Dave Richardson, Hubert Labafe, Laughten McKerthin, Lamare Wilaisens, Pack Moar

BUSINESS STAFF
Advertising Manager
Jimmy Powell
Advertising Manager
Leonard White
Circulation Manager
Dexter Withermeton
Subscription Manager
James Carrigan
Collection Manager
William Walker
Asst. Ad Manager
Anna Cir.
Mar. Deco Wolfe
Asst. Ad Manager
Cooper Smith
Asst. Cir. Manager
Chas. Read
Asst. Cir. Manager
Robert Chine

Student Government

Davidson's student government, with its enviable honor system, has developed through the years to the extent that it is unexcelled by any other. It has become a model which many other schools have attempted to emulate. Numerous requests for information about our constitution and organization come from all over the country each year. Visitors to the campus have difficulty in comprehending the success of a system which relies wholly upon the honesty and integrity of the students. Such customs as self-service in the student store and examinations being taken in the absence of the professor amaze them. There have naturally been occasional violations demanding the resulting severe discipline, but on the whole, the success of the system has been phenomenal.

With many college organizations facing the prospect of disintegration due to the mass exodus of students to the armed services, the student government also faces a very crucial period in the next few months. Only one member of the newly elected student council expects to return to school next fall, and all of the new student body officers will have responded to the service call by June. It will be necessary for those students remaining to choose an entirely new student government administration. Upon their shoulders will rest the responsibility of maintaining the high standards of the honor system. This will be extremely difficult with the rapid turnover of students entering school and leaving after a few months. We trust that those who stay here will sense this responsibility and exert all their influence toward the thorough indoctrination of incoming students as to the principles of our student government. Those elected to positions of leadership must be as conscientious as those before them have been in upholding the honor system. If not, the whole system will deteriorate rapidly, and the offenses now controlled by the students themselves will necessarily revert to control by the faculty.

Davidson has come a long way in the achievement of a really workable student government. If lost now, it would probably take years for it to return again to the present standards. We urge you who will remain at Davidson for a while yet to give the student government your full support during these critical months in order that it, along with other cherished Davidson traditions, may not be pushed aside and the good of decades of work undone in a single year.

Baseball

In the absence of the regular sports columnist this week, we would say a few words in praise of the Davidson baseball team of 1943. Through a linotype mistake, the “hapless” Wildcats were termed “hopeless” in last week's issue. Although nearing the end of a disastrous season, insofar as scores are concerned, we would not describe their efforts as hopeless nor the time they have spent on the sport wasted in any sense. We admire the determination of those who wanted to play ball this year and went through with their schedule in spite of the lack of seasoned veterans and in the face of the stiffest competition a Davidson nine has faced in several years. It was advocated by some that the sport be given up this year even after the schedule had been arranged. It was said that the team would bring discredit to Davidson's athletics. We think there will be far more praise of the spunk of the team for sticking it out than unfavorable comment. After all, the purpose of sports at Davidson is, as it should be everywhere, to provide an opportunity for as many as possible to benefit from the exercise and team spirit of friendly competitive athletics. Of course, this is idealizing to some extent. It is disheartening to see the alma mater go down in defeat time after time. But this is not the first time that a Davidson team has carried through against insurmountable odds. They have been doing it for years. And even though it may become necessary to suspend intercollegiate sports altogether in the near future, we hope that Davidson with her indomitable spirit will be in there with the last ones. We recall General Douglas MacArthur's famous statement: “On the fields of friendly strife are sown the seeds that bear the fruit of victory.”

The Straight Of It

One of the primary requisites for writing or commenting on news is to get the facts correct. In the recent student agitation over the question of athletics on Sunday, we made a statement that should be corrected. Reports, which we too hastily deemed to be true, were circulated that the town policeman, posted down at the stadium on Sunday afternoon, had been running students away who had intentions of engaging in sports on the Sabbath. It has since been pointed out that this law enforcement officer was stationed there to prevent out-of-town and other non-student groups who have been gathering there from indulging in games on Sunday on the campus. The officer has instructions not to interfere with the students, since their conduct on the campus is under the control of the administration, and any such incidences that may have occurred were purely through misunderstanding.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Thursday, April 29, 1943

CAMPUS ODDITIES

THE AVERAGE PARADE BAND MEMBER MARCHES 160 MILES IN FORMATION DURING FOOTBALL SEASON!

HARVARD HAS HAD THE MOST REPRESENTATIVES IN THE PRESIDENTIAL CHAIR - FOUR BUT THEY HAVE REPRESENTED ONLY TWO FAMILIES — ADAMS AND ROOSEVELT

THE FIRST SHOT OF THE CIVIL WAR WAS FIRED BY CADETS FROM THE CITADEL MILITARY COLLEGE OF S.C.

Cinema Comments
By MAC JEFFRIES

Thursday, Friday and Saturday
AIR FORCE
This is the dramatic story of history in the making—a story of a heroic flight by a Flying Fortress from one Pacific theater of war to another as the Japs struck Pearl Harbor. Produced by Howard Hawks, the cast includes John Garfield, Gig Young, Harry Carey, and others, but the real hero is “Mary Ann,” the sturdy B-17. Excellent entertainment.

Monday and Tuesday
IN WHICH WE SERVE
One of the most realistic and heralded pictures of the war comes to the local screen. Written, directed, produced, and starred by Noel Coward, the British Orson Welles, this wonder picture depicts the story of a British destroyer from construction to destruction in the Battle of Crete. The cast turns in an excellent acting job. Without doubt one of the great war pictures of all time, this is a must-see for your list.

Wednesday
NIGHT PLANE FROM CHUNGKING
Not much information was available on this production, but the cast of Robert Preston and Ellen Drew promises to make it at least a picture above the average of Bargain Day runs.

Thursday and Friday
HITLER'S CHILDREN
Starring Tim Holt and Bonita Granville, with Otto Kruger, and Kent Smith in supporting roles, the film version of the unbelievable Readers’ Digest special, “Education for Death,” flashes across the screen. As the story of the struggle of the German people under the Nazi program of sterilization for women unfit to produce for the Reich, it combines with obvious propaganda a moving human affairs saga.

I would like for “ROY BOY” HUNT to be my guest for any performance this week.

Mother Nature’s Easter outfit certainly was becoming, and made a sharp contrast with the drab apparel she had been sporting weekends. Even the birds seemed to note the difference and chirped happily about this beautiful day that enabled them to display new plumage and sing from the trees, rather than seek their usual Sunday shelter under the dripping eaves. Gosh, but wouldn't it be swell fellows if every Sunday could find our barracks as deserted as it was on Easter 'bout the time of services? Let's keep the spirit of Easter with us every Sunday throughout the year, and take advantage of the religious opportunities at hand, for the stage of the game may not be far off when a church will not be near and the only services available will be those we can muster within us. We can do it if we try.

Noted a super abundance of visiting friends and relatives strolling about theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Campus with soldiers happy in their company. Camera shutters clicked furiously as folks posed against this tree 'n that tree, in front of the Chambers Bldg., while others balanced smilingly atop some of the fiendishly constructed architectural monstrosities.

At Ease
By ALBERT P. LANG

A couple hundred fellows can wish up goes the Kuzmas’ way and should make for many pleasant days ahead. The gesture that most typifies the spirit of comradeship among our armed forces takes place a very few minutes after a train full of recruits pulls out of their hometown station. I’m talking about that someone that invariably weaves down the rocking aisle, sharing a box of sweets or what have you. We’re proud that his type is well represented in our group. In fact, sharing our goodies from home has mounted to a terrific problem over the holiday and we're apt to be seen walking through the streets of Davidson holding out anything from pretzels to jelly beans. So don't be bashful, help yourself — can’t waste food y'know.

Guard duty can be quite educational, if a bit dampening at times. Ask Fred Lang, one of the boys that sloughed about the whole night during a particularly heavy rain the other week. After having rowed out to Fred's post, his relief sought for him in vain until a slight ripple and the exposed tip of his gun plodding back and forth like the periscope of a sub made his whereabouts known. He was finally salvaged and emerged with a wonderful knowledge of aquatic life. And, oh yes, a slight cold too.

Our basketball team has been successful up-to-date, and walked away from its last tussle with a victory of 39-30 over the Davidson team. Sergeant Gay, hop out of that speeding G. I. buggy and take a bow. (Credit: John Fairly). No comment.

Hank Crane, whose name rhymes with the famous “Frank” made so by a well-known poem I'll be glad to recite to you any time you drop in the office, makes the paper this week! You'll have to ask him why; I promised I wouldn’t say. But I'd like to go to it even if I don't dance at it. (Get it?) Congrats!

Harry Landis must be awfully fond of the hangar at Cannon field for he occasionally threatens to take it with him on his take-offs. Please, Harry, don’t ever do that. You may have difficulty landing with it.

Some of the fellows have been discussing a suitable departure gift for their pal, Five Bounce Lawhead. How about a nice sponge pad about six inches thick, Lee? Make those landings mighty comfortable.

Casting a glance over Ed Kuklinski's shoulder the other day, as he sat writing assiduously, we saw the following and present it with his permission:

AN AIRCREW STUDENT'S DAY

“We wake each morning before the sun comes up,
For that grand achievement, at home, I'd win a cup.
Physics in the morning gives me great delight,
Yes, my fellow “Chopheads,” you may say I’m not all right.
Time to dress for gym, allowing just five minutes—
I may look like Sea Biscuit, but golly, there’s a limit!
Track Coach Whittle loves these Carolina hills.
Whenever he pulls out his whistle, we develop chills.
History in the afternoon could be such a bore,
But Professor Johnson lectures like Shakespeare galore.
The science of figures is not so clear,
But it would be much better if I had my girlfriend near.
Gas masks worn on Wednesday disguise our baggy eyes,
The breathing apparatus echoes weary sighs.
And ‘Squadron mass left’, Captain Korby commands,
Daily mock review, Headquarters demands.
To close the Army day is the duty retreat,
And every Air Crew Student thinks it very much ‘all reet.’
Charlotte pent-up emotion.
‘It made Milwaukee famous’ is my favorite potion.
Weekends in The Carolina belles are pretty and so mellow.
That picture on my dresser proves it, states this fellow.
This revealing little poem may still be incomplete,
But I will cease my ramblings, lest Al Lang kick my seat.
Ain't I the meanie though,
AL LANG, 24th College Tr. Det.

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

This Easter was about the best one I remember. Just too many good services to attend. Winston had its usual masterful event in all the simple, beautiful, and moving power we have all heard about. Armand Hendee, Gene Gracy, John Burns, Priestly Conyers, Jim McCrary, and his fine mother, Mrs. “Mac” and I had a real trip Winston-way. None of us shall forget things we have done lately. About a hundred of our Air School boys and about three-fourths that number of college boys made a good addition to the folks from town. I had looked forward to this service with Rev. Pritchett for a long time; it was worth it and more. Coach Gene McEver and I were talking about the Reverend and his preaching tonight. Ask Coach what he thinks! You know what my impression is if you have read this space at all. I was mentally playing with parts of the service later that day when the thought came — his wife who was listening intently — that this man has done more to prepare me personally for the war than any other man I know. He has done it with sermons like Sundays, and by living every inch of it all the week. Do you doubt my devotion to him? What is more important than preparing for every phase of the war... this one and the one every man lives every day that he lives. I mean the one inside each of us... you know? Thanks Rev.

Speaking of the Coach: Remember his chapel talk the other day? Seeing him now and then allows nothing of the fineness that is really his to show as it would if you knew him well. It is men like the Coach that make a solid church and community. Turn about is fair play: Ask Rev. Pritchett!

A record: Mr. Pfohl played his 14th service in one week at Vespers last night. That they were all good is no record; that is quite usual... for him and his helpers, Brothers Osborne and Berg, as well as his hard workers from the student body.

Comment: (Pointing to the filing cabinet in the “Y” office) “Oh! Now I know what it is you mean when you say the Y-Cabinet?”

Who was the hammer-head that borrowed Shaw Smith's bicycle and returned it without reporting a slight damage to it? Shaw, being the forgiving type, really doesn’t mind. In fact, he kinda likes the new arrangement for the broken steering apparatus has given his wheel a most distinctive and amusing personality. Riding it isn’t even a compromise, for it has developed a decidedly independent nature and takes special delight in Geeing when its rider wishes to Haw. Most disconcerting we can verify.

Did you see the art exhibit? Thank Prof. Siegel. What! No rats pictured? Tish, tish.

Mr. Hengeveld. Efficient, steady, and one of the best friends any man at Davidson can have. Freshmen Counselor title doesn’t limit him, thank goodness! You probably have had to stand in line to see him, too. Remember how you waited until you were ready to “just about cuss” and how you forgot you had been there all day. Where can one get that kind of patience, and still give you advice that works to your good? (I know my number is about up, but all this is too true to let pass!)

Steve Kuzma and his bride, Marie Sewitala both from Pgh., happily strolling about. We'll all agree Steve’s one swell fellow, even if he does kinda gum up the works with his puttering about in the mail room. All the good luck that a couple hundred fellows can wish up goes the Kuzmas’ way and should make for many pleasant days ahead.

Lesson: Tonight about 11 some of the fellows dropped around for a session which is always a most enjoyable thing for me. I had to write this stuff and thought I'd be slick enough to get someone else to do the job. After a session with the slight-of-hand (always good when the conversation is slow) I mentioned the bright idea of each good fellow writing a paragraph and having it all complete in a matter of minutes. John Fairly, Ray Miller, Ben Williamson, and New Prof John Turner all turned me down without wasting words. Jake, the Snake, Alexander wrote a line or two (later found out it was merely in hopes of using the “Y” phone to contact Salem!) but didn’t plug the “Y” so found them useless. Neatest trick of the evening: the mass disappearance of all helpers at the mention of work.

“And so, thanking you for the kind applause that you should have...”

Yours,
Shaw Smith.