Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 18, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

KAPPA SIGMA held its first function of the year on Saturday night, which was attended by most of the brothers and their dates. A picnic supper originally planned to be held outdoors was held at the boarding house due to inclement weather. Then everyone adjourned to the gym for an old-fashioned square dance. Brothers Slimy Morgan, Dave Bley, Colin Jim, and his assistant Semi-Colin provided the music. Next, the group was entertained with a magic show. The festivities concluded with a feed at the lodge at 11 p.m. Dates for the occasion were Betsy Hodges, Parsley, Ann McCall, Irma Siceloff, Della Murdoch, Butler, Mary Lisk, Nancy Ansley, Becky Hobbs, Martha Withers, and Julienne Marsh, Helen Cox, and Jane Kincaid.

BETA THETA PI
The Beta Lodge was the scene of deals galore as the brothers swung into action over the country. Brother Shelby from Jacksonville, Fla., visited the chapter, delighting the brothers and their dates. Brother Mebane, Prite, and Barnwell pulled a deal to bring Brother Goode to the Queen City. Brother White’s family visited, and Brother Lipscomb was busy with the 124th Corp school and will be sorely missed by the chapter.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
The Sons of Minerva, in anticipation of a big Charlotte deal this week, limited their travels to one-night stands. Brother Graves led the customary parade to Greensboro, with Brother “Mohawk” Taylor extending the scope to Brother Burke's home in Washington, D.C. Brother Lowry’s home in Birmingham was also visited. Other points included Twin-City by Brother Washburn, Chester by Brother MacDonald, Hendersonville by Brother Wilds, Tryon, N.C. by Brother Durant, Chattanooga by Brother Stimson, and Marion by Brother Watt. Brother Dick Port returned from an extended illness.

KAPPA ALPHA
Though the wandering KAs were fewer this week, their scope was extensive. Brother “Little” Taylor visited Brother Burke's home in Washington, D.C. Brother Lowry’s home in Birmingham was also visited. Other points included Twin-City by Brother Washburn, Chester by Brother MacDonald, Hendersonville by Brother Wilds, Tryon, N.C. by Brother Durant, Chattanooga by Brother Stimson, and Marion by Brother Watt. Brother Dick Port returned from an extended illness.

PHI DELTA THETA
Phi Delta Theta was active this weekend with numerous deals and operations over the countryside. The deal of the week was pulled by Brother Loughridge, who left the Davidson Campus on Thursday for an extended detail in Germantown, Pa. Brothers Weatherly, Thurston, and Montgomery toured to Rock Hill and spent time with the maidens of Winthrop. In the Queen City, Brother Sutton spent the weekend with his family and friends, while Brothers Colson and Hendee were seen making the rounds at Queens. Brother Wright returned from his home in Chattanooga, Tenn., only to find his orders waiting for him. Brother Rainey also left for the armed service, and the chapter will greatly miss both of these valiant wearers of the sword and shield.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Most of the brothers visited their usual weekend retreats; however, a few ventured to more distant places of attraction. Brother Winchester and White went to Washington, and Brother Lily went to Richmond. All reported success, especially Brother Winchester. The McLaurin brothers visited their home at Raeford, N.C. Brothers McBride and W. Major reported success in Mooresville. Brother Legerton went all the way to the “Queen City” for the weekend. Brother Robinson reported success in Charlotte at Queens. The “Greensboro Boys” last weekend were Brothers Maness, Bradford, and Gwynn. Brother Miller, a leader in this weekly exodus, failed to make this trip. The chapter was very glad to have Mr. and Mrs. Behrman of Greensboro as guests for the weekend. Brother Bobbit also visited the campus to play in the band. Brother Powell visited his home in Chester, and Brother Knox visited in Andrews, S.C. Other less fortunate brothers remained on the campus. Brother Walker stayed in the Chemistry lab, and Brother Gregg also stayed.

PHI KAPPA PHI
Phi Kappas again covered the two Carolinas last weekend. Brother Gaither went to his favorite stomping ground, Spartanburg. Brother Murray visited in Winston-Salem, while Brother Everett visited the “unknown” in Kings Mountain. Brothers Evans and Cline both went home to Hickory, and Walton is said to have been there, although no one saw him. Brother Fisher went to Kannapolis, and the rest of the members hit Charlotte. They were Brothers Withers, Bumbarger, Wayman, Evans, Wilson, and Gowdy, and Pledge Shova. We were very sorry to see Brother Bradley leave us last week to join the army.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Brother Ed Wood took off on the best hare of the weekend last Thursday afternoon, visiting the University of Virginia and his home in Charlottesville. Close behind in the race for distance records was Brother Rea Preston, who went to Montreat. Brother Bob Crowell and Brother Moose Hart stayed at the home of Pledge Brother Bob Jones in Concord over the holiday. Pledge Brother Jake Richardson took in the Queen City, while Brother Alexander dated in Macon. Brother Wolf kept his usual weekend date in the metropolis of Monroe. The list of members of Delta Kappa in the services was lengthened last week by Brother Tom McGehee, who has been called to report in the near future by the ERC.

PHI KAPPA ALPHA
The chapter remained relatively inactive last weekend, and most of the members who did leave campus went to their respective homes. Brother Brinson, recently recovered from an appendectomy, went to his home in High Point. Brothers Neill, Johnston, and Warlick went to Statesville, while Crevo and Leonard White journeyed to Greensboro, as did Holt Audrey. Brother Hodges is reported as having visited in Winston-Salem. Up to their usual form, Pledges Parrish and Ingram trucked off to Barium to their C.A.O.’s. Brother Brockmann went to High Point and G.C. Most of the others stayed on the campus or do not want their activities divulged here. Brother Maxwell seems to have constituted the

A.S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N.C.
A Complete Line of The Best

Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N.C.

Varied Poems Presented by Phi
DR. MAUZE AND “Y” LEADERS
Pictured in an informal pose at the Y.M.C.A. lounge are the founders of Davidson College's Spring Services. Seated from left to right they are: Secretary of the local Y.M.C.A. Buddy Wells, recently elected 1943 “Y” President; Jim McCrary, retiring president; Dr. George W. Mauze, speaker for the services; and Shaw Smith, General Secretary of the local Y.M.C.A.

Dr. Mauze Directs Message To Students Entering Service
Members Poetry To Be Entered In Annual Inter Literary Society Contest
Reading of original poems by members of the society was the main feature of the bi-weekly meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society held in Phi hall, March 15th. Nearly thirty original poems were read by members of the group who had composed the poems to present to the society. Several humorous poems were included in the collection, and a large number of more serious pieces of literary work were read, ranging all the way from poems in the style of Robert Frost to work patterned after that of Edgar A. Poe.

Enter Contest
The entire group of poems are to be entered in the Inter-society Poetry contest that is sponsored each year by the two literary societies. Business for the evening included the making of plans for electing officers to fill posts that will be vacated in the near future and providing for the assessment of fines.Charlotte delegation all by himself.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Topics Center Around Christian Living For Six Spring Services

Dr. George W. Mauze, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, spoke at the spring services under the sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. during Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of last week. Topics for his addresses centered around the theme of Christian living in the armed services. He urged students to do their very best to become good Christians.

Communion

The last service of the series was the traditional communion ceremony. At that time Dr. Mauze spoke on, “Who is Jesus?” This talk was full of illustrations from the New Testament, telling the character of Jesus. Following the sermon, Dr. Pritchett assisted him in the administering of the sacraments. Dr. Mauze’s first topic, presented in chapel on Tuesday, was, “Playing the Game by the Rules.” He drew parallels from athletic games to illustrate that each has to have rules to control it. In the second service, he spoke to the students on whose rules should govern their lives, theirs or God’s.

Challenge

On Wednesday morning, the talk was on Christ not being indifferent to the type of life. The next topic was “Choosing the type of life.” The challenge of Christ was represented in the fifth talk by the desire to do one's best. This desire was compared with the high flying of an eagle. Dr. Mauze then illustrated the dangers to the students' own Christian living by the high flying of the eagle.

Music was provided for the meetings by the Glee Club and its members. Among the soloists for the programs were Buddy Wells, Priestly Watson, and the Davidson Quartet also sang at one of these services.

Cabinet

Members of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet had charge of the devotional parts of the program preceding the messages from Dr. Mauze. Chief among these Cabinet members was Shaw Smith, who led the program and presented Dr. Mauze to the student body at the service held in chapel on Tuesday morning. This year these meetings were held earlier than customary in order to help many of the student body soon going to the army or other reserves.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Dr. B. R. Lacy Gives Timely Vespers Talk
Union Seminary President Speaks On Christian Life In Service

Dr. B. R. Lacy, President of Union Theological Seminary, spoke to the student body at the regular Vesper program last Sunday, March 14, on leading a Christian life in the armed services. Dr. Lacy divided his talk into three parts. They dealt with Christian speech, Christian actions, and Christian morals. He called on the men of the college to remember that they represented the church when they went into the world, whether into the armed services or into civilian life.

Chaplain

As a chaplain in the last World War, Dr. Lacy took part in front line action with a unit of the field artillery. From the men of that unit with which he was acquainted, he was able to draw illustrations for the statements made in his talk. He also gave illustrations from incidents in the Civil War and World War I. Three men from Dr. Lacy’s unit received decorations for extraordinary heroism. He told the story of the winning of one of these awards. His battery was giving close support to the infantry in one of the large pushes. The American troops were receiving many casualties. The medical officer attached to the battery saw the trouble that the infantrymen were in, so he greatly endangered his life by going up to the front lines and personally giving aid to some of the foot soldiers. Under heavy fire, this doctor picked up one man and carried him back to his own battery aid station. Dr. Lacy said that these decorations were given to make these men examples for the soldiers. In the same manner, Christians should serve as examples in living. Dr. Lacy urged the students to follow a Christian life because they will be important in leading men to Christ.

ALL LATEST HITS
On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA, and DECCA RECORDS
Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte

Roth String Quartet Ends Concert Series
Seniors Make Comment On Questionnaire
O.D.K. Questionnaire Brings Forth Few Practical Suggestions
by MAC JEFFRIES

While thumbing through the Senior O.D.K. questionnaire the other night, looking for some figures on which to write a story of the results of the tabulation that has been done, I was struck by the wide variety and the amusing replies to some of the questions asked on the sheet. Concerning any project that O.D.K. might undertake to improve the college, some of them were really practical; others ranged from the ridiculous to the mildly humorous; but as far as we could see, none of them were of such nature as to make action on them by the fraternity plausible or even possible. Some of the suggestions were already being worked on by other organizations more appropriate or more capable of carrying out the work, but most of them, we are sorry to say, were given in pure fun, and even took mean slashes at the fraternity itself, with no possible advantage.

First Paper

The first paper we picked up started out in good form. “ODK,” it said, “should undertake to try to improve the relations between students and faculty.” A worthy project, indeed, but one rather difficult to push any further than it has gone, and one which has been and is being handled by organizations more suitable to the task. The next one was in a somewhat different vein. It suggested that ODK sponsor a set of chimes that should ring for fifteen minutes every day. “And thrown in as a parenthetical expression was “Cost, $1,500.” The members are still trying to figure out if he was serious, or whether he wanted them rung by the none too musically minded brothers of ODK.

THE TENT

One was to be expected. We thumbed through it with a sigh. But the next one struck our attention—being unusual at least. The author would like to see the fraternity undertake a study of the amount of appreciation that the student body has for its traditions.

Dances on the campus

Another one of this type caught our interest by advocating the promotion of the personification of the Davidson gentleman in every student. An interesting thought, but one that would require a good deal more than any man up here has ever possessed. Then followed a series of suggestions that could be expected in answer to a survey. Day, such as Converse New week-end entertainment, socials on the campus, etc., etc. Then the oldest and loudest of them all, “Burn Rumple and the Old Gym.”

Silence

Another suggestion concerned the establishment of an athletic scholarship to aid in obtaining good athletes here. Stunt nights and Quiz programs were also popular. Probably the most popular suggestion of all, at least with the students, was that of an enforced silence in the dormitories, with signs hanging on each door on the hall. Another thought that the brothers of ODK would make good horticulturists and should set about landscaping the campus at once. Well, to that, the brothers could only say that they thought that Mr. Hobart was perfectly capable of handling that situation.

However, all the answers were not in fun. Some of them were actually bitter in their denunciation of ODK, and with suggestions for its own improvement. Several came out bluntly with an “Improve itself” statement, and one, more concrete than others, suggested that before it started on anything else, it should knock out fraternity politics within it and cease to make it the “farce” that it is.

Shaw Smith

But the classic of them all concerns that genial gentleman that sits in the swivel chair in the “Y” office all week. The suggestion runs that ODK should back Shaw Smith for President of the United States and Post-War world. Some people really have the imagination. It was really an enjoyable experience. As soon as the tabulators get around to the others, we plan to be back for more. Believe me, it’s worth the trouble.

Thursday and Friday, March 18 and 19
“GENTLEMAN JIM”
Saturday, March 20
“LUCKY JORDAN”
LATE SHOW
“SECRETS OF A CO-ED”
Monday and Tuesday, March 22 and 23
“THEY GOT ME COVERED”
Wednesday, March 24
“KEEP ’EM SLUGGING”
NEXT
“YANKEE DOODLE DANDY”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON, N. C.