Page Two The Davidsonian | Founded By the Class of 1915

Editorials handle the equipment. If it could be arranged to give monograms to two or three of the best freshman managers, the competitive spirit which drives men to work would be aroused. And similar policies in other activities would bring dividends in results obtained.

Y’s Corner
Perhaps the wisest thing about the “Corner” this week is that this is it.
Yours,

Member Associated Collegiate Press — Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Shaw Smith
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

Dirge of the ERC...
We went down to the armory one cold December day,
We listened to the Colonel, we heard the Captain say:
“You’ll get two years of college, two years and maybe four,
All you’ve got to do is join the Enlisted Reserve Corps.”

Here’s to Dr. Cunningham, may his name forever stand
Throughout the college history and all around the land.

A Challenge...
Now that the ERC is leaving it will become increasingly difficult for those of us who are to stay on at Davidson to concentrate on the task at hand. The tendency will be to break loose as much as possible from the grind during these last few months. For there are only a few months of college life at most remaining for most of us. It's going to be a lot easier (says AVC, I'll be in the army soon myself, no need to worry about books in these short weeks, better eat, drink, etc., for tomorrow I, too, will be going to war.) This is certainly not the patriotic attitude to take. The government is leaving us in school now simply because it thinks that the more education we get, the better we will be able to serve our country. The country is crying for trained men: doctors, ministers, military officers, technical experts, political and civil leaders to help shape the future. The colleges must furnish the bulk of this trained manpower. So for those who are chosen to continue their academic studies to waste precious time is little short of sabotage. The author of the air corps column elsewhere on this page expresses this idea superbly in urging his fellows to be diligent in their studies. Time is too short for dilly-dallying. As much as we have joked about “get all you can,” that is really the only reason we are still here. Keep on plugging away until you get the go signal. You'll be thankful many times that you did.

Now we're in the army much sooner than we thought,
We draw our fifty dollars, and all our clothes are bought.
When the war is ended, and the strife and conflict o’er,
We'll all be rejected from th' Enlisted Reserve Corps.
by Hank Gwynn, ‘45, ERC.

Forum—
The last few Saturday nights programs have been given for entertainment of the increasing number of students that have been staying on the campus. I'm not saying that these programs weren't any good, but I am saying that a small dance would put them in the shade for good entertainment. The authorities of the college allowed some organization to have a square dance a few weeks ago; maybe I'm not mentally balanced, but I can't see why a good old orthodox dance is so much worse than a square dance. I'm really heated up about this, mainly because I think we should have dances on the campus and also because there is no good reason for not having them. Yet they won't give them a try, so if there is anything I can do for immediate results, I'll be more than glad to do my share. Also, now that the cadets are here, I believe our argument has been reinforced. There are a good number of cadets that stay here on the weekends, and it has been proven that music is a good thing for morale. Besides it would give them something to do. Therefore, I suggest that the students select some men to go to the faculty and discuss this subject and then make plans for some campus dances in April.
Sincerely,
A Junior.

We are glad to print this student's opinion on an overworked but still very timely topic. The Davidsonian has expressed itself frequently on this controversy of long-standing. So far as we know the case has never been put before the board of trustees, who have final jurisdiction in the matter—ED.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents Letters — Feature
Dear Legh:
You know ladies talk a great deal, and these days the ladies in town are talking about what we can do in a social and recreational way both for the air cadets and the regular college students. Already along this line the townspeople have opened their homes and are trying to help in every possible way; we are noticing, too, the splendid efforts of the “Y” in meeting the need, and the college social committee. Everyone seems to be pitching in and doing his best. Beginning with the very successful Christmas party, the “Y” has staged a series of events such as the Sunday evening listening hours, the square dances both past and forthcoming, the quiz programs, to fill the empty and often lonely hours for those left on the campus; we understand, too, a new college orchestra, the best in a number of years, is in full swing and ready to provide its share of entertainment. Last weekend the whole town held “open house” for the newcomers and tried to give them a touch of Southern hospitality in the form of fried chicken and ice cream. So far the effort has proved real and genuine, and the results encouraging. Naturally, no one will say that the need is entirely filled. We will have to have more ideas, more work from everybody. But if the start is indicative, and if the students, faculty, townspeople, and cadets will continue to work together, the “one big family” idea will become more than just a time-worn byword.
Sincerely yours,
A Townswoman.

The Operating Table
By ??
The secrets of the past weekend dance were well hidden by the participants but a few have leaked out and so—with your permission I'll forward them on to you. Leading the list of the experiences was the Davidson Y president Dexter Witherington, George Rosborough, and Chasseur Newt Spencer had a follow the leader game with another car which turned out to be a plain clothes detective. The crew are now out on bail to go to court on an estimated ten charges. Here is hoping that they get off light as it would be rather bad to have the above spend their remaining few weeks of freedom behind bars. Another who had an exciting weekend was “Horrible?” I hear the Sigmas were entertained immensely at their bans. 

At Ease
By ALBERT P. LANG
Thoughts at random: of our soldiers on a rainy morning, equipped with our more than ample raincoats, so much resembles an Indian reservation full of tepees. The effect is startlingly real on chilly mornings when upturned collars guide the frosty breaths up like wisps of smoke... A kindergarten class, stopping to watch us march by, looking so wholesome and worth fighting for, America in the cradle. Their bright colored little shirts and dresses looking as buds on a rose bush, and the teacher, long and thin in their midst, the stem from which they grow... Ours is the job of learning in a hurry men—a big hurry. For every minute we sit in class pondering with an idea, toying with it, yet not grasping it; some soldier, comfortably distant from us, may be fighting and dying in vain to keep from us for one precious minute, the campus. Last week-end the whole town held “open house” for the newcomers and tried to give them a touch of Southern hospitality in the form of fried chicken and ice cream. So far the effort has proved real and genuine, and the results encouraging. Naturally, no one will say that the need is entirely filled. We will have to have more ideas, more work from everybody. But if the start is indicative, and if the students, faculty, townspeople, and cadets will continue to work together, the “one big family” idea will become more than just a time-worn byword.

An Aviation Student basketball team has been organized by Sergeant Buck Archer's band. I'm getting ahead of my story, so let me backtrack and tell you why I believe you will receive many letters. The main reason is because of the performance Buck Archer's band gave tonight. I heard several boys saying that we should have a dance here every Saturday night. They also said that they were going to get together and really try to do something about their ideas, and a few said they were going to write letters to you. Well, I’m writing this one just to make sure you get one, because I have often heard people say they were going to write a letter to the Davidsonian, yet they never do. I hope you receive many letters this week regarding dances on the campus.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The campus. It is my belief that you will receive a you will print the one which proves most conclusively that we should have dances. Suggestion: One of the main reasons freshmen and sophomores are no longer willing to participate in many campus activities is that they have no hope of gaining recognition for their work. They cannot look forward to holding the more distinguished positions occupied by juniors and seniors. Their lowly labors go wholly unrewarded. Many campus organizations are suffering acutely from this situation. Take athletics for example. There are not enough track managers on hand for the workouts. Now that Archer and his boys have proven that they have a good orchestra and because they would be willing to play for us, I believe that we could have some good, yet cheap, dances. I’m not advocating a dance every Saturday, but I don’t believe that one every other Saturday night would be too much.

For the end was “Put Put” Williams who started on Thursday and ended it the Jap who would tear the books and pencils from our hands. Remember, we've a buddy protecting us. Let's make it worth his while. We're very proud of the fact that over 92% of us are buying war bonds each month. The fact is in part due to the subtle salesmanship tactics used by Lieutenant Warley. I still think he made a rather suggestive, if not surrealistic, picture as he hovered over us; pen in one hand, bludgeon in the other. Seriously, our group was 100% cooperative, and Lieutenant Warley was pleased that he did not have to bring any high-pressure selling into play.

Typical of Davidson's attitude was the reduced price of admission, offered by the local producers of the play, “Arsenic And Old Lace”. The quality of the play very nearly approached that of the original production, and the many laughs it produced throughout the evening indicated it was a success. We have been given the special privilege of seeing movies on Sunday, visiting homes for dinner, and have even sent Gay, and we trust it will be successful in any games it undertakes. Sergeant Gay, who has had three years of basketball, claims his boys are good; while team Captain, Raymon Kulbacki, under terrific pressure, modestly admits they are invincible. The snappy, scrappy quintet is made up of Ray Kulbacki, Karl Krug, Ed Kuklinski, Al Lake, and George Lace. There's your fanfare Messrs. Go into your act and make it good or yours truly is going to have a bad case of adjectival alphabetical indigestion.

Our windjammer, Mister Lamb, plays taps so soulfully that he has to do an encore. He is striving to get the same favorable response at Reveille, but his efforts are rewarded with the most disconcerting and unappreciative remarks. How a person can play so sweetly in the evenings and assemble such an awful mess of corn in the mornings I'll never know. Power of suggestion: After listening to a convincing lecture on appendicitis by Dr. McConnel, Paul Langewisch staggered off to the infirmary clutching his right side. Fortunately, the case was not serious and Paul returned safely the next day to report the meals there, excellent, the service superb, and the nurses beautiful. ‘Scuse me, don't feel well. Got a pain in my side. See ya there.

Aviation Student Al Lang (24th College Training Detachment).

Pitch-and-Toss

CHARLIE BROCKMAN thought he should have a little sugar sprinkled on his head (but he protested and proceeded to turn her over his knees and paddle the most vivacious one). Peggy’s mother really got peeved with “Punchy” when one of his friends called him at three o'clock the other morning. What a late hour to be leaving your date, Mac. However, he was seen later over on the steps with his date for the figure. “Muscles” Behrman seemed very downcast when the flash bulbs in the cameras of his stooges failed to go off when he was descending the corner posing and waiting until a very late hour on Sunday. How they did go off. Shep wrote jour- did Manda arrange all those class cuts Pat? O’Hair really had a cutie to have acquired the date so late. It must be that personality, Dick, as it couldn’t have been good looks. The roaming reporter also caught some of the S. and B. boys acting very naughty during the no-break Saturday night, how about it Mayor? Anybody that gets a blind date one Saturday and has her for the dance set the next, really is there. I wonder what method Carson used, the Arkansas one? It seems that “Scoop” McLean took his girl in rather late Saturday night. In fact, her father thanked her the next afternoon for bringing in the morning paper. Also along the line of bringing in their dates rather on the late side was the other occupant of II Ga, Long John who called Rosalyn the next day and asked her to meet him on the corner as he was afraid to come to the house. Is it getting to be a habit, Long? It seems Ben Pitts also had a run-in with the cops on a speeding charge but got out lighter than did the fellows mentioned earlier in the column. There is argument among the students as to whether “Loads” Legerton or “Silver Tongue” McCoy had a date with one of the Queens Cuties. Loads had her in the Panhell figure, but all the rest of the time she seemed to be in the “Judge's” presence. Up to the old snaking habits again McCoy? We sure were glad to see that “Lard” and Molly Bub got to the kept late hours, especially Shaw. And so went the weekend. Of course, numerous other scandals arose but the above are all that I could dig up. If you have lasted this long, thanks for reading and I hope no one has been offended.

Two hours of good old Americanism is in store for the coming weekend in a magnificent telling of George M. Cohan’s life, Yankee Doodle Dandy. James Cagney, who won the Academy Award for his characterization, portrays the small song and dance man who was “all America in one pair of pants,” and he is ably supported by Joan Leslie, Irene Manning, Walter Huston, Richard Worf, George Tobias, and Eddie Foy. It’s essentially the story of the man who won presidential approval for his flag-waving, but since it’s George M. Cohan, there are lots of his familiar songs. Frances Langford sings “Over There,” Cagney and a chorus join for “Yankee Doodle Dandy,” and you’ll hear “45 Minutes from Broadway,” “You’re a Grand Old (Continued on Page Three).

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.