Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

rAd
anaes

WITHDS VWEHC'G' THIS “AND situs!
Saturday Afternoon - 4 p.m. - Transportation leaves MICA for Harris Lake July Jamboree.

SUNDAY:

10:15 a.m. Students' Sunday School, Y Lounge - Myron Sancifer, Teacher

11:15 a.m. - Morning Worship at the College Church - Rev. Carl Pritchett, Pastor

8:00 p.m. - Vesper's Program in front of Chambers - Dr. W. Crossley Morgan of Concord, Guest Minister

9:00 p.m. - Bible Quiz in the Y Lounge Prof. Ervin, Quizzer - Two Students

---

POSTPONED CELEBRATION TO BE HELD THIS WEEK-END

This Saturday afternoon, July 17, the Y.M.C.A. of Davidson is sponsoring its Jumpin' July Jamboree at Harris Lake.

The Jamboree was originally scheduled for the week-end of the 4th, but due to inclement weather, was postponed. The program
for the day includes swimming, picnicking, and dancing in the evening.

All the students are urged to acquire dates for the occasion. The entire group will meet in front of the
"Y" at four o'clock Saturday afternoon, and two Faculty members will proceed to Harris Lake. A bus has been provided
for transportation.

Joe McCoy will have charge of the swimming during the afternoon, and he and his assistants will see to the
personal safety of those in the water. Everyone is requested to cooperate fully in any request that Joe might make.

After the swim, a picnic will be in order. Through Jerry Newbold's management, the food for the picnic has been
obtained from the various boarding houses. The supper will be followed by music and dancing on the large Pavilion. The
dancing will bring to a close the festivities of the day.

In the event that the weather should make the Jamboree impossible, the Y.M.C.A. will have a square dance here on
the campus for the students and their dates.

There will be no charge for the afternoon except for the cost of going in swimming which amounts to 7¢.
Any other expense will come from extras, such as cold drinks.

You're cordially invited to spend the afternoon and to bring a date (if possible).

---

Mrs. T. H. Smith Resigns

Last week Mrs. T. H. Smith turned in her resignation as Supervisor of Dormitories at Davidson College. She has held
this position for twenty-one years, and the respect she has earned is evidenced by the fact that the 1943 Quips
and Cranks was dedicated to her.

Succeeding Mrs. Smith at the end of the Summer Session will be Mrs. Gordon Caldwell, who is now the dietitian
at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium.

---

ALL THAT I SURVEY: Records show that Mary Frances Watson and "Kate" Weiser are now one year older by the
book - Congrats! All hearts are full of joy... Speaking of niceties, note faculty-student softball games - good games plus
fellowship - shows interest in students as well as exercise - come down and watch - and holler all you
like. Problem (?) arises: Noises in dorms not quite as consistent with gentlemanliness as thoughtless "racketeers" would like to believe
- unfortunate that many who really want to study are too gentlemanly reserved to speak of it to buddies on
the hall - fortunate that buddies on hall can take stock of night activities.

(Con't on Page 2)

---

Remember:

4:00 o'clock Saturday afternoon in front of the "Y" (Only)

CORRECTION

There are 26,600,000,361 leaves on the Davidson Campus. Sorry.
