BASEBALL TEAM LOSES THIRD TO CATAWBA

Thursday, April 29, 1943

Catawba Hands ’Cats 11 to 6 Shellacking

Lowry Gives Up Twelve Hits To Slugging Indian Baseball Nine

Over at Salisbury last Saturday, the baseballers dropped their third straight to the Catawba Indians, but they made their strongest bid for victory of the current season before bowing by a score of 11-6 to the slugging Indians.

Lowry Tosses

Jim Lowry went the route for the Davidsons but was touched for twelve safeties, most of which were amassed in the first three innings. In those first frames, the Catawbans piled up ten counters, while the Cats were able to push only two men across the plate. Dave Maloney’s homer in the third with none on started a Davidson comeback. The few Cats bunched most of their hits in the fourth, racking up four runs in that inning.

Hanley Pitches

After this brief slugging spree, Don Hanley moved to the mound from third base to relieve Lentz, the starting hurler for the Indians. Hanley allowed the Davidsons only two hits in the remaining five innings and received credit for the victory. Leading the hitting for the Cats was Maloney, with two safeties for four. Phillips, Peters, Loughridge, and Lowry connected for one safety each.

Belk, Pre-Flight

In games on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week in Chapel Hill, the Davidson nine suffered two other defeats, at the hands of the Naval Pre-flight School, 14-7, and to the University, 14-4. Lowry pitched the entire game against the Cloudbusters, giving up fourteen hits, while his mates came across with twelve bingles to end an extended hitting famine.

Tar Heels Hit

The Tar Heels pounded the offerings of Paul Neisler and Tom Peterson on Wednesday, in rolling up 14 runs. Another Cat hitting slump developed, and the Davidsons were able to count but 4 markers when the smoke of battle cleared from Emerson Field. After meeting the strong Duke Blue Devils on Monday of this week in Durham, the Cats conclude the season with the fourth in their series with Catawba on Richardson Field today.

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

STONESTREET
Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Tennis Team Plays Citadel And Ga. Tech

Davidson Racquet Men Face Four Tough Matches This Week

In the midst of their busiest week of the season, the Davidson racqueteers face two tough opponents on the local courts this weekend, meeting Citadel on Friday and Georgia Tech on Saturday. The netmen met Duke and Carolina on their respective home courts on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. It was their second match this year with each of these schools, having dropped to both by the identical scores of 4-3, earlier in the season.

Citadel Is Strong

The Citadel brings one of the strongest teams in the state to Davidson for tomorrow's contest. They are rated close to the strong Presbyterian College team, who handed the Cats a 7-0 shellacking recently. Georgia Tech will also furnish stiff opposition in the match Saturday. Members of the squad are in good condition for the all-important matches.

Close Match Promised By Comparative Scores

Last year the Cats took a 5-4 victory over the Citadel. In previous meets, State has defeated Catawba decisively by practically the same score. The Cats, in spite of the loss of Archer, have one of the strongest teams in recent years.| . | a4 th eh ah i ae fatied L | Seeking to make it four in a row recorded better times in the dash | well-rounded team) this year running and although they have failed to win a match to date, they have | When they engage N.C. State in events, but the Cats appear to hold ; ; ; ‘ 5 lp . ; n | 1" faced some of the outstanding | Raleigh Saturday, May 8th {the edge in the longer races. The teams in the south. | Teams Are Even | field events should be a toss-up ; - | | By comparative scores the two | Peters Returns } teams should be “evenly matched George Peters, who passed up N . ye : r oD Wa Golf Victory | | The Davidson linksmen came off j« With a tie-sevictory over Georgia | Tech in a match played at Druid Hills Country Club in Atlanta on Monday of last week. Results of this match were unavailable at press-time last week. It was an easy victory for the Wildcat golfers, who came out on top in each pairing of the match. Playing for Davidson were Wilbur Carter, Ed Fowler, Phillip Whittier, and Tommy Bumbarger. . The meet with Tech is the only | meeting so far between the Wildcats and a collegiate foe, and no| | other matches are definitely scheduled at present: ALL LATEST HITS On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA and DECCA RECORDS Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES ANDREW’S MUSIC. CO. 231 N. Tryon St. Charlotte A & P PRODUCTS M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY General Merchandise | Hardware and Groceries DAVIDSON, N. C. Wildcat Sports THE DAVIDSONIAN RACKETEERS IT decisions by | of the who meet Citadel and Georgia Tech here tomorrow and Saturday Above is pictured Davidson's tennis team which played Duke and Carolina Tuesday and Wednesday and | ),\),) SHOP BELK’S FIRST! COOL CLOTHES for Civilians and Enlisted Men Make Our Store Your Store in Charlotte BELK BROS. WANTED! CAMP COUNSELLORS / | The Durham Y. M. C. A. needs counsellors for camp | this summer. If you are not subject to call for military service and have qualifications of a camp counsellor, write: CAMP DIRECTOR, Durham Y. M. C. A., Durham, N. C. State your qualifications and salary you would expect. HAVE YOU EATEN AT THE DAVIDSON DINING ROOM Home Cooking and Home Made Cakes Like Your Mother Makes ICE CREAM — CAKE and SANDWICHES SERVED BETWEEN MEALS Open from 12:00 A. M. to 8:00 P. M. Softball ‘Track In Conference Meet Six Run Season SAE’s Defeat Beta Team In Season Debut —<Hese Game On Watts Field TRACK TEAM IS SIXTH IN CONFERENCE Page Three Team Scores Men Place Hill Davidson Cinder Sixth In Chapel Track Event 3 poi tay Is ern ¢ ene MLC ( tp Opens With : I 1 Satu Carolina Wins Cu ina racked ( Oprere h 1 Ve Vhie I i M | \ ndiv ) t \ Cu \ crete io 14~1/2). DD (4 S I nite pce H ( \\ nd a) : Mit ( 1) (1 ) ING ( \ (t ) 1 Clemsor u ()) Rally hid Lacy Leads rL se \ Hua Ben Lacy accounted V eta tdacalayiter || Doe with a rd and dth place ir yeh Ms the 220 and 100 yard dashes respectively. A six-run rally stretched into a | for four points with 4th place in the high wat I ine he ! | hit Lh t (, | 1 lt uitt nnit y poit nd 1d Ath na thre ity ma let I e low ce in \ t i ! ) n hi ut i 1 a) | Hale } na point Winnie hile h i tI ! it ! ! event the | Washburn, Coonrad, § h, and } Ben Line posed -t BUS IN NORTH CAROLINA helps” RavTLE IN TUNISIA ® It looks just like it hound you sion’, a CONnVOy Tool > won the growing und en ining it hd always d see loading up at ti minal in town-—but it’s. bound on a “military just as surely as if it were rolling in down a mountain road in Tunisia. to be built rs have te be battles transported of war have before and worke plants. that That's duties miles Wal are supplying our armies. a big part of Grey- getting workers to often many from their homes. to and from centers there are soldiers to carry s or other milita on And there are many others ] to full war effort. cam} ry ind on leave. travel is ¢ nti isn't as in the effort some ound service is convenient or comfortable remember that the war occasion Greyh please comes first—that the job of whipping the Axis 5 te Victory road With than at home as well asat come hiner be done will service ever. GREYHOUND LINES