Cat Five
Defeats ‘Y’

Jones Leads Scoring With Lowry Second

In hanging up their third win in three starts, Davidson’s flashy cagers swept to a 65-23 victory over the Charlotte
YMCA last Friday in an encounter that was in favor of the 'Cats from start to finish.

Jones Hot

The Davidson Five, although still a little green, held the limelight for both halves and set a pace that was
much too fast for the “Y’s”. They led at the half by a score of 42-9. Freeman Jones, showing much
improvement over earlier exhibitions, led the scoring for the evening with a sizzling 16 points. He was followed by Big
Jim Lowry, who is beginning to develop that dead eye for the basket, with 15 points. The “Y's” only threat
was Red Meroney, former Tar Heel Cager, who turned in a score of 11 points.

“Y’s” Weakened

The “Y’s” were stymied from the beginning due to the absence of one of their stars, who led them to
victory over Catawba College in a previous engagement. Two other regulars were absent also.

The Cats, although winning by a large margin, will be expecting a tough game when they meet the YMCA again
on January 31.

Wildcat Sports

GET HOT 'CATS

Thursday, December 16, 1943

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

CATAWBA SHOOTS GOAL

Heller (9) takes rebound as Lowry (7) makes effort to block. Mike Williams (12) moves in with Wallser (9), Peeler
(11), and McGinnis (13).

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Jan. 4—Fort Bragg at Davidson.
Jan. 6—Catawba at Davidson.
Jan. 8—Carolina at Charlotte.
Jan. 11—Morris Field at Davidson.
Jan. 14—High Point College at High Point.
Jan. 15—Guilford College at Guilford College, N.C.
Jan. 18—Camp Sutton at Davidson.
Jan. 31—Charlotte Y.M.C.A. at Davidson.
Feb. 4—South Carolina at Davidson.
Feb. 5—Catawba at Salisbury.
Feb. 8—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 9—N.C. Pre-Flight at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 10—N.C. State at Raleigh.
Feb. 14—Guilford College at Davidson.
Feb. 16—Clemson College at Davidson.
Feb. 18—N.C. State at Davidson.
Feb. 19—N.C. State at Davidson.
Feb. 23—High Point College at Davidson.
Feb. 26—Clemson College at Clemson, S.C.

Triplett, Owens, and McBride Spur Attack

The smoothly functioning S.P.E. cagers continued to set a torrid pace in the interfraternity basketball race. The leaders, with Andy
Owens, Bill McBride, and Ralph Triplett showing the way, have scalped three foes with ease.

BOXED IN STORY

SPE 3 0
KA 2 0
K SIGS 2 1
BETAS 1 1
PI KAP 0 3
PIKA 0 3

Following a one-sided win over the Kappa Sigs, the leaders crushed the luckless Pikas 45 to 20 in a wild,
free-scoring encounter. McBride dropped 17 points through the mesh to lead the attack. Floyd was outstanding for the losers. After
this victory, the S.P.E.’s increased their prestige by routing the Pikas.

(Continued to Page 6)

SPE’s SET HOT PACE

Cagers Win In Opening Tilt

Morris Field and Catawba Fall Before ’Cat Five

Davidson Wildcats opened the 1943-44 basketball campaign with one-sided victories over the Morris Field Flyers and the Catawba Indians on
the local hardwood.

In their first engagement, the Cats exhibited mid-season form as they blasted the Flyers from Morris Field 54-19. The Davidson
cagers led by only 17-11 at the half-time, but the collegians' scoring spree was too much for the outclassed airmen.
Mike Williams, former prep star at McCallie, paced the attack with 21 points, followed by Ed White with 16. Moriabo
was the high scorer for the vanquished with 6 points.

(Continued to Page 6)

Cat Cagers Meet Bragg and Carolina

‘Cats Face Tough Foes

Cagers Return Early From Holidays For Practice

The Davidson team, undefeated thus far this season, will encounter three tough foes immediately following the Christmas holidays.

The cagers are to return after the holidays on Saturday, January 1st, in an effort to prepare for the three
games the following week.

Fort Bragg

On Tuesday, January 4, the Wildcats will play their first Service team, Fort Bragg, on the home court. This will
probably be the first real test for the 'Cats. In Fort Bragg’s only encounter thus far this season, they defeated
the strong North Carolina cage team by a decisive score.

Catawba

Following in rapid succession will be the 3rd in a series of four games with Catawba and the first game
with the Tar Heels from the University of North Carolina. The Catawba game will also be played here at Davidson
on Thursday night, and if the first game between these two teams is any indication, a very heated contest is
in store.

Tar Heels

After one day of rest, the 'Cats journey to Charlotte for their first game of the season in the Queen
City. Carolina, aided by many V-12 standouts, is expected to have one of the top teams in the Southern Conference,
and if the ’Cat cagers can get past this strong outfit, they will have an excellent chance of standing high
in the Conference ratings at the close of the season. This game is considered a home contest for Davidson, and
it is hoped that there will be a large representation of the student body to back the ‘Cats in their
first Conference start.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N.C.
