Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, April 15, 1943

Letters from The Lodges

BETA THETA PI
The annual spring function of the Betas marked a perfect and timely beginning for that fairest of seasons when the Brothers and their dates, in the usual Beta spirit, started the weekend on Friday the 9th at the Woman’s Club of Charlotte with a banquet. Guests present were Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Cunningham, and Dr. and Mrs. Chalmers Davidson. LaRue Allison with Newton Spencer, Miss Janet Cook with Mr. David Baker, guest of Newt which we enjoyed in his visit here, Eloise Hambrick with Joe Knowles, Martha Withers with Dexter Witherington, Miriam Day and Bob Raney, Lilly Fitzsimmons with Frank Rawley, Anne McKoy with Bob Cushman, Ruth Maxwell with Bob Powell, Lib Andrews with Charlie Gunn, Lura Gene Lore with Ed Philips, Betty Scott Barber with Alf McNair, Jane Cook with Paul Welch, Tommie Scott with Bob Welsh, Betty Kenyon with George Roseborough, Mary Ellen Agnew with Jack Byrd, Marie Sitton with Crawford Wheeler, Shirley Owen with Elliott White, Mary Katherine McArthur with D. D. Phillips, Margery O'Kelley with Jim McCrary, Nancy Crowmers with Bryant Skinner, Hazel Falls with Paul Neilser, Belle Hicks Purvis with Don Caterson, Martha Battle with Spike Mebane, Jane Lineville with William Joyner, Peggy Witherington with Bill Smith, Lerline Ross with Joe Barnwell, and Nancy Ansley with Bill Ransom.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Among the dealers tripping the light fantastic at the three-ring menagerie in the stadium Saturday evening and night were Brother Henry Crane, with Miss Inez Parrish, from Salem; Brother Moose Hart, with Miss Boo Leigh, from Salem; Brother Bunny Pickard, who subtly showed Miss Elaine Kunantzky, from Agnes Scott, the darker spots of the Campus; Brother Raphie Coonrad, with Miss Jane Grey, of Queens; and Pledge Brother Jake Alexander, who rode back to Winston on the special bus after a riotous day with Miss Sue Willis, from Salem. Brother Dick O’Hair entertained Miss Sophie Duffie from Salem. Brother Bill Lyman rambled off to Birmingham, Ala. to see about a new set of false teeth, while Brother Howell Morrow got back in the groove to Bristol, Virginia. Brother Crowell gurgled his way to Greensboro, and got back!

PHI DELTA THETA
The Phis spread themselves rather widely the past weekend. The majority of the brothers were on campus with the bevy of Queens and Salem girls. The report has it that “a good time was had by all.” Brother ‘Mother’ Hobbie did well for everyone except himself. Brothers Jim and Marshall Chapman traveled to Lynchburg, while Brother Colson honored ‘the Jax,’ Florida. The deal of the week took place at Brother “Smiling Bob” Thurston’s “Hunting Lodge.” Good hunting was enjoyed by Brothers “Bluebeard” Sheely, “Whifflebird” Montgomery, “Bat-boy” Maloney, “Milermore” Starnes and “Smiling Bob.”

KAPPA ALPHA
The big event of the weekend being the Salem-Queens Day function, many of the Knights remained on the campus, and tried to get dates through the “Y.” Among the lucky brothers who succeeded were Brothers T. Belk, Washburn, T. Stimson, Daniel, Nickols, and Monroe. Their respective dates were: Miss Nancy Jane Ansley, Miss Katherine Traynham, Miss Martha Nixon, Miss Mary Stewart Snider, Miss Betty Withers, and Miss Nancy Horner. The traveling Brothers were few but widely scattered. Brother MacDonald went to Chester, S. C., Brother Scholfield to Atlanta, Brother Shep Dunn to Gaffney, S. C., Brothers Jeffries and V. Watt to the V. M. I. Easter Hop, and Pledge Brother Ozzie Young to his home in Winston-Salem.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Pi Kapps were well represented at the Four Ring Circus last Saturday with Miss Bett Hancock, Brother Robinson; Brother Cline—Miss Greta Garth; Brother Wayman, Miss Margaret Ezelle; Brother McCrea, Miss Ruth Kolethoff; and Pledge Robertson, Miss Nell Denning. Brothers Gaither, Whittier, and Bumbarger, members of the golf team, are making a trip to Pinehurst this week. Among the home-goers this weekend were Brother Wells to Canton, N. C.; Brother Karl Fisher and Pledge B. A. Fisher to Kannapolis.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
This weekend found most of the Pikas having a gay time at the on-campus function given by the shyst. Those attending the festivities were Brother Johnston, Wester, Eade Anderson, Teensie Hodges and future, Lib Morris of Salem, Clyde Stroop, with Betty Lou Spears, of Queens. The longest trip of the weekend was made by Sam Henderson and an unknown date to Charleston to see the garden festivals and what-not. Those going to their homes were Brothers Gibbs, Rogers, Warlick, and Pledge Parrish. Joe Anderson went to G. C. to see his only one. Rail Brinson managed to get as far as Montreat.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Most of the brothers remained on the campus during the weekend. Seen at various places of amusement were brothers Dick Port with Ann Caldwell, Jim Harris with Barbara Humbert, Ripper Hunt with Joyce Wooten, Ben Pitt Moore with Peggy Minals, and Bill Grosse with one of the local girls. Among the ‘stags’ were Brothers Buddy Carson, Mac Bruce, Harvey Carrow, “Dee” Dunn, Jack Wills, Charley Wills, Tom Powell, and Jim Alexander.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
With some exceptions, the SigEp’s remained on the campus over the weekend to take in the “fellowship” here. Some of the dealers managed to tear themselves away. Lauchlin made a visit to his home as a pretense to cover up a special deal which, incidentally, fell through with an echoing thud. Bobbit visited his home in Sanford. Rudolph Chaney went to Charlotte. Hay visited his home in Hickory. “Monk” Dalton went to High Point, his home. “Wort” Robinson was seen with a certain friend from Queens. Gregg also dated a Queens friend.

KEEP 'EM FLYING
Buy War Stamps

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop DAVIDSON, N. C.

LEADS: RIFLEMEN
Pictured above is Gaines Stubbins, newly elected captain of the rifle team. Stubbins was high scorer for the rifle team this year. The team had what is considered a very successful season, losing only one match.

War II Are Topics Of Library Additions
Two of the chief topics of the day, the war and South America, are the subjects of several recent additions to the Memorial Library. One is the autobiography of Isabella de Palencia, a Twentieth Century Isabella of Spain, which she entitles I Must Have Liberty. From the Cloisters of Old Spain to the responsibilities of New Spain she modestly tells her part and describes the customs.

New Highway
Another of Latin origin is Herbert C. Lanks’ By Pan American Highway Through South America. This is a report of his half year, thirteen thousand mile automobile odyssey from the Caribbean to the Straits of Magellan. He tells of the present conditions of the road and how it will serve the western hemisphere in the future. Third of the works on Latin America is The Nazi Underground in South America by Hugo Fernandez Artucio, a native Uruguayan and a professor at the University of Montevideo. Name for name, and fact for fact, here are case histories, activities, and organizations of the Nazi octopus in South America.

Dwight Lee
Another triumvirate of books deals with the period and events leading up to the present war. First of the three is Ten Years, by Dwight E. Lee, which deals with inter-European relations from 1930 to 1940 and gives a clear understanding of the problems in that area which fomented World War II. Unlike the memoirs by journalists and scores of books on special topics, it attempts an analytical examination of the whole story rather than a subjective or partial account.

Pre-war history is again the subject of Lost Peace by Harold Butler. From his office as Director of the International Labor Office at the League of Nations Building, Geneva, Harold Butler makes his narrative on “the lost peace.” His recollections on past mistakes and on all the problems of international organization, are those of a man who was not merely on the inside of the Geneva experiment but also in a post of great responsibility.Revolutionary Anatomy

Completing the triumvirate is an analysis of the major revolutions from the English in 1640 to the present Russian one, The Anatomy of Revolution. His literary style makes historical reading interesting as well as educational. Germany and her geopolitics are the subject of The World of General Haushofer. In this work, Andreas Dorpalen, the author, gives the account of the major general of the last war and professor of Geography at the University of Munich. General Haushofer had a vision of Germany as the power of the world. As early as 1919, he advocated a pact with Japan. Even since 1932, he has been one of the leading figures in forming German foreign policies and actions.

Form of OBITUARY

Rev. O. G. Berg, father of Mr. Earl Berg, musical instructor at Davidson, died on April 9th at Moorhead, Minn., following a stroke. The funeral was held on Sunday, April 11th, at the Bethesda Swedish Lutheran Church, in Moorhead, of which he had been pastor for many years. Mr. Earl Berg went to his home for the funeral. Rev. Mr. Berg is survived by four children and several grandchildren.

Religious Men Hold Meeting On Racialism

Dr. Cunningham Attends Atlanta Conference With Other Churchmen

Dr. John R. Cunningham, with fourteen other outstanding religious men from the four leading denominations, attended a conference on present interracial problems in Atlanta on April 7. The conference was held at the invitation of Bishop Henry St. George Tucker, presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, and included men from the Methodist, Baptist, Episcopal, and Presbyterian churches. Also in attendance were: Dr. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, Mr. Eugene Barnet, General Secretary of the International Y.M.C.A., and Dr. W. W. Alexander, a specialist in the field and now associated with government agencies.

Church Contribution

The question was attacked from the point of view of what the churches could contribute to the resolution of interracial problems. Dr. Cunningham announced that the conclusion of the day’s discussion was, “That the problems are not insurmountable and can be solved if the leadership of both races approach the problem sanely and in the spirit of Christian understanding and good will.” Dr. Cunningham will discuss the findings of this conference at a forum in the “Y” lounge next Sunday, after vespers.

‘Heritage And Destiny’ Is Book Latest Otts Lecture

Dr. MacKay Publishes Lecture Series Delivered Here And At Lafayette

ISSUED BY MacMILLAN

Elaborates On Potency Of Mankind’s Destiny

Heritage and Destiny is the name of a new book by Dr. John A. Mackay, President of Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey. The work, published by the MacMillan Company, gives permanent literary form to the spoken words of two lecture courses delivered by Dr. Mackay during the past two years. In his preface, the author refers to the Lyman Coleman Lectures, delivered at Lafayette College in February 1941, and his lectures on the same topic at Davidson College, during November of last year.

Honors Cunningham

For the stimulus to make his thoughts articulate for college audiences, Dr. Mackay acknowledges his indebtedness to President John R. Cunningham, of Davidson, and to President William M. Lewis, of Lafayette. In his book, Dr. Mackay has developed his central thesis beyond the content of his lecture, but its basic theme remains the same—and may be stated thus: The sense of heritage is the most potent force shaping the destiny of Mankind today.

Chief Heritage

Dr. Mackay maintains that “the purely forward view has broken down in our modern age, and we must look backward for a creative pattern of life. Mankind can only get a fresh start by a re-discovery of the past. When God, coming in the Great Tradition, is chosen as the Chief Heritage of Humanity, then men will fulfill their true destiny in personal, cultural, and national life.” Heritage and Destiny is dedicated to “The Presidents, faculty members, and students of two great Christian Colleges—Lafayette and Davidson.” It is a timely, yet timeless, Christian appraisal of the determinants of destiny; of intense interest and pertinence, especially at such a time in history as the present.

Mackay’s Life

Dr. John A. Mackay was born in Scotland and is a graduate of the University of Aberdeen. Following graduation from Princeton Seminary and a year’s study in Madrid, Spain, he went to Lima, Peru, as an educational missionary of the Free Church of Scotland, founding in 1917 the Anglo-Peruvian College. In 1925, he was appointed to the chair of Philosophy in the University of San Marcos, Lima. For six years, he served as a lecturer and writer under the auspices of the South American Federation of Y.M.C.A.’s. Coming to the United States in 1932 as a Secretary of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, he was subsequently elected in 1936 to the Presidency of Princeton Theological Seminary. Besides being an author in Spanish, Dr. Mackay has written in English—The Other Spanish Christ, The Other America, and A Preface to Christian Theology.

CORRECTION

Last week’s issue stated erroneously that refreshments for the Air Crew Students’ dance in Charlotte two weeks ago were furnished by the college Y.M.C.A. This food was furnished by a committee headed by Mrs. Harvey of the soldiers’ headquarters in Charlotte. The Davidsonian regrets this error and is glad to give credit where it is due. The contribution of the Charlotte women added much to the success of the occasion.

BING CROSBY
Friday and Saturday, April 16 and 17
DOROTHY LAMOUR
“STAR SPANGLED RHYTHM”
— BOB HOPE

Monday and Tuesday, April 19 and 20
DICK POWELL — MARY MARTIN
RUDY VALLEE

Wednesday, April 21
JOAN CRAWFORD
“REUNION IN FRANCE”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON, N.C.

The following items have been forwarded to the Davidsonian from Army and Navy posts concerning alumni in the service.

Benjamin E. Colkitt, Jr., '42, was recently appointed a Naval Aviation Cadet and transferred to the U.S. Naval Air Training Center, Pensacola, Fla., for intermediate flight training.

Lt. Chas Brenizer, Jr., '41, recently won his silver wings of a pilot in the Army Air Forces at Turner Field, Albany, Georgia.

Mac G. Morris, '42, and C. C. Morehead, '43, after successfully completing the elimination training course at Anacostia Naval Air Station, have been transferred to the Naval Air Training Center at Pensacola for intermediate flight training.

Lt. Edwin F. Lucas, Jr., '42, has received his wings as a pursuit pilot at Craig Field, Ala., and has been ordered overseas immediately.

2nd Lt. Thomas J. Glenn, Q.M.C., of the class of 1940, has recently been promoted to 1st Lt. and is stationed at the New Cumberland Quartermaster Depot, New Cumberland, Pa.

Stone Makes Vespers Talk

Stone Discusses “Message Of Revelation” Sunday

Reverend R. H. Stone, of Charlotte, was the Vespers speaker on Sunday, April 11. Reverend Stone, a Davidson graduate, has distinguished himself in home missions work in Western North Carolina. The subject of Reverend Stone’s sermon was the “Message of Revelations.” It was pointed out that several attitudes may be taken toward Revelations. The book may be considered a mass of unrelated dreams and visions or a book that no one understands. Reverend Stone expressed his belief that John was allowed to see a great vision. In this vision, it is seen that Christ will be supreme, our spirits are kept by God, and that all people are provided for by God. Reverend Stone further brought out the relation between the people in the vision. They are united in position, having attained a place in heaven. They are united in character, salvation, and feeling. Reverend Stone encouraged the audience to be faithful and receive the crown of life.

William Joyner sang a solo by Mozart, “Hark! The Voice of Jesus Crying.” Mr. Osborne, organist, played as prelude, “Gethsemane” by Malling and as postlude, “Christ Lay In Death’s Dark Tomb” by Bach. Mr. Pfohl directed the glee club.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR
Parker Pens and Pencils
Jewelry
Stationery
Fresh Fruit
Candy
AT THE STUDENT STORE
JERRY NEWBOLD, Manager
BOB RAINEY