Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 4, 1943

Letters From The Lodges

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Brother Mat Long, who left Davidson at the end of his sophomore year to study at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, visited the chapter last weekend. At the same time, Pledge Brother Jim Patton left school for good and returned to Waynesboro to see his brother before Sam left for the army. Delta is happy to announce the pledging of John Fairly. Leading the dealers during the past weekend were Brothers Bill Lyman and Rhea Dabney, who visited in Spartanburg, S. C. Brothers Howell Morrow and Al King stayed at the King’s over the weekend, dating at Sullins College in Bristol, Tenn. Brother King was met by a reception committee of 15 girls, it is rumored. Brother Moose Hart and Brother Bob Crowell visited Crowell’s home in Lexington, while Brother Murdock McKeithan traveled to his home in Cameron, S. C. Brother Ed Pickard dated hot and heavy in Greensboro, Brother Dick O'Hair wandered down to Rock Hill, and Brother Ben Williamson went to his home in Mt. Airy. Brother Henry visited in Hickory, and Brothers Leighton McKeithan and Ray Miller ran up to Statesville Saturday night.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Most of the brothers spent a rather quiet weekend on the campus. Brothers Little, Richardson, Ox Allcott, Ripper Hunt, Jug Douglas, Wood, Hill, Hood, McDonald, Carson, and Carrow were seen in various places in Charlotte. Brothers Grimble, Walker, and Ramseur spent the weekend in Greenville. The Chapter welcomes Brother “Ox” Allcott back to the campus. Brother Hodgin accompanied the basketball team on its weekend tour. Brother Bethea journeyed home to Dillon over the weekend, Brother Winchester visited his home in Wilmington, possibly because of orders from the “King.” Brother Berryhill visited Charlotte and “Baldy” Behrman was seen on a street corner in the Queen City. Brother Bobbit forsook the lure of Charlotte for a trip to his home at Sanford. Other visitors to the Queen City were Brothers McBride, Watt, Brown, and Walt Major.

PI KAPPA PHI

Practically all of the Pi Kapps left the campus this past weekend. The biggest of the deals was pulled by Brothers Parrigin and Patten, who went to the Sullins Mardi Gras in Bristol, Va., and also visited Brother Erskine Parks, who leaves for Camp Lee this week. Brother Wayman represented the Pi Kapps at the basketball game. Brother Hipp took an extended weekend to Greenville, and just made it back for what he thought was his first period class Monday morning. He walked in on the Colonel about 9:00, having forgotten the drastic schedule change. Among the minor deals were: Brothers Everett, McCrea, McArthur, Reid, and Gowdy to Charlotte; Brother Fisher and Pledges Fisher, Robertson, and Robbins to Kannapolis; Brother Eve to Greenville, S. C.; Brother Lineberger to Gastonia; Brother Gaither to Newton; and Brother McEachin to Winthrop.

BETA THETA PI

The brothers were scattered over the two Carolinas last weekend. Brothers Barnwell and Nat Garrison went to their homes in Burlington. Brothers Wheeler and Pritchett stopped over in Greensboro Saturday night and then continued on to Brother Pritchett’s home in Burlington. Brothers Caterson and Raney made their usual trip to Greensboro as Brother S. Harrison took off on his weekly trip to Fayetteville. Brother Walker spent the weekend in Winston-Salem as Brother C. G. Skinner journeyed into the mountains to Spruce Pine, N.C. Brother Heisler spent the weekend at his home in Kings Mountain while Brother Erwin tripped to Winston-Salem, as did Brother Rush Smith in Gastonia. Brother Graves surprised the chapter by sneaking away to Greensboro. Brother Cooper Smith met Converse in his hometown Columbia, S.C.

KAPPA SIGMA

Brother Sutton traveled down east to his home in Fayetteville over the weekend. George Ennett and Alt Taylor retreated to Montreat to plan their spring offensive. Going to Greensboro were Brothers Wileman Ehly, Wilbur Carter, Lowry Stafford, and Legh Scott. Brothers Wray and Bob Amos went to their homes in High Point, while Brother Pinky Wilson went to Lowell. With the track team at Chapel Hill were manager John McGee, Ben and Bill Lacy, Joe McCoy, George and Tommy Peters, Pat Williams, and Bob Currie. They were busy in South Carolina cleaning up the last resistance between the Wildcats and the tournament. Jim Davis rested up at his home in Salisbury, while Priestly Conyers did the same in Spartanburg. Recent alumni visitors to the chapter are Brothers Dick Manning of the Marine Air Corps, Bob Finley, U.S. Army, and Dick Kelly, who is now a student at Jefferson School of Medicine in Philadelphia. The chapter regrets that Brother Jim Millis has left school to enter the army air corps.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Last weekend was reported to be successful for most of the brothers. The S.P.E.’s, realizing that there will not be many more weekends, took advantage of this fact and scattered out to various points of interest. Brothers Blevins, Legerton, Hay, and White traveled in the “roofless wonder” to Hickory, the home of Brother Hay; and from there, Legerton journeyed onward to transact a big deal in Montreat, while Blevins braved snowy weather to reach his home at Spruce Pine. The usual delegation to Greensboro was composed of Brothers Gwynn, Bradford, Maness, and Morton. For some mysterious reason, Brother Miller was lured to Chapel Hill instead of Greensboro. Rock Hill was the destination of Brothers White and Knox. Rumors say that they had a very successful weekend. Brother Robinson took an extended trip to Atlanta. Brothers Ranson, Philips, Upchurch, and Goode took the long trip to Charlotte and their homes. Brother Jackie Byrd journeyed to Wofford and Clemson with the basketball team. We are all very sorry to have Brother Grayson Tucker leave us. He has left school to attend the Army Meteorology School at Chapel Hill.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

Friday night Brother R. L. Brinson suffered an attack of appendicitis. He underwent an operation at Memorial Hospital in Charlotte, and is getting along well. The weekend saw a large part of the chapter on campus, but there was the usual Statesville detail, consisting primarily of Brothers Johnston and Wester, who made it in the hinder part of a pick-up truck. Brother Putt Pearsall is reported as having visited friends in Charlotte—as good an excuse as any for going to the Queen City. Pledges Ingram and Parrish hightailed it to Durham to see their respective flames. The biggest risk of the weekend was taken by Brothers White, Blackjack Shelton, Brockmann, and Pledges Graves and Ardrey, who dared venture as far as Greensboro. Brothers Henderson and Swoop, somewhat befuddled after the fall-through of a proposed super-jaunt to Washington with the former's roommate, managed nevertheless to visit his home in Newton, getting back in the wee small hours of Monday morning. Brother Neal, somewhat lonesome without Rail, spent his time at home in Statesville. Joe Anderson made the weekly trek to his shrine at G.C., while Pledge Jim (Crelvo) Siske visited his home in Pleasant Garden. Beta of Pi Kappa Alpha takes pride in announcing the initiations of Brothers H. M. Raynal, M. W. Wester, J. W. Johnston, L. T. Rogers, and Eade Anderson.

KAPPA ALPHA

For the most part, the KA’s stayed close to home base this weekend, the waiters complaining of the largest number this year to take supper at the boarding house Saturday night, thus curtailing Brother Hojo Jackson's anticipated jaunt to the Queen City. However, some of them did manage to get out of bounds for short periods of time, and some, for good. Brothers Burke, S. S. Dunn, Nickels, and departing Brother Baxham made it two in a row to Charlotte, with Brother Dunn actually claiming to remember, faintly, having a looker to keep him company on his second trip. John Belk dealt down at Clemson, making good use of his Pan-Hell key, while Mayor Sandifer kept him under a watchful eye as far as Converse. Brother Ingram visited his Winston-Salem home, while Brother Lawson visited Brother MacDonald at Clemson. Brother Sutton and Brother Lowry helped take the Tigers into camp at Clemson, while Brother Washburn went to Wilmington. Thursday night it was our privilege to welcome several of the Charlotte alumni brothers back home for the annual model initiation, the lucky brother this year being Ed Manget. After the event, the chapter served a feed to all down at the court. We regret this week the loss of Brother Joe Bachman to the Enlisted Reserve, and wish him all the luck in the world in his new job. This week we will also lose Brother Jimmie Hill to the Army Air Corps.

PHI DELTA THETA

The Phi’s were most active on the campus this weekend due to an on-campus function which was hailed as most successful. The party consisted of a dinner, after which the brothers and their respective dates spent a few hours in song and various other amusements at the house. The merry party then retired to the golf course where they continued their festivities.

Students and Faculty Join In Discussion

Compulsory Church Attendance Discussed in Y.M.C.A. Open Forum

“Should church attendance be compulsory at Davidson” was the topic of the open forum held in the “Y” lounge after the Vesper service Sunday evening. Before the general discussion was held, Drs. C. K. Brown and J. H. McKinnon gave their perspectives on the matter.and W. G. McGavock of the faculty and Dick Buddy Wells, representing the student body, presented their respective views on the subject.

Dr. Brown
Dr. Brown brought to the attention of the group that members of the Davidson community are not just the students and the faculty, but parents and alumni as well. Everyone, as part of a community, is compelled to do certain things for the benefit of the whole society. As we must attend physical education to develop physically, go to classes to develop mentally, and live with others to develop socially, so we must put the same requirements on one outstanding phase of Davidson life, that of church attendance.

Phillips
Dick Phillips felt that compulsory measures are not in the spirit of Christ; that of the entire student body one-third go because they want to, one-third because they are on the campus, and one-third attend the church service because they have had to rush back to the campus so as not to be marked absent. He felt that there would be a better spirit if those who felt compelled to attend were not there.

Dr. McGavock
Dr. McGavock stated that his ideas had changed from time to time. Now as he looks back at the times when he felt he was compelled to attend as a student, he sees in the service much good, and contends that church attendance is part of Davidson spirit. Buddy Wells also referred to church attendance as part of the spirit at Davidson, one of the outstanding marks of our school.

Suggestions
The discussion which followed concerned not as much compulsion but more the way in which our attendance could be handled. It was suggested that a student pledge that he had gone to church once on Sunday. In opposition to this statement were such retorts as stretching the honor system too far and encouraging participation in weekend activities elsewhere. The present plan, it was stated, discouraged morning church by providing for the one-felt-necessary church service to be in the evening, which was agreed to be not the best habit for later life. It was suggested that cards be printed to be signed by the minister of the church visited by the off-campus student, ascertaining his attendance.

Personal Decision
It was observed that the majority of students have been made to go to church since childhood. It is a question of determining the time at which they are to make their own decisions, now or after college. It was commonly agreed that compulsory church is a worthwhile requirement, but the student should be allowed to go where he wished and at the most convenient time each Sunday.

Popcorn and marshmallows took the spotlight. Brother Watson and Pledge Forbes, whose dates from Queens were unable to attend the party, remedied the situation by journeying to the Friendly City. Brother Pierce visited his home in Farmville, N. C., while Brother Jim Chapman pulled an extended detail to his native city of Spartanburg. Brothers Montgomery and Waddill were the dealers of the week and came through with two of the fairer sex from Winthrop of admirable quality.

LECTURER DR. PETER GRAY
New Schedule Takes Effect
Morning Classes Set Back Thirty Minutes From Winter Schedule

Class periods rearranged Monday, the morning bells being set back half an hour from the winter program. War department authorities failed to pass the schedule for the Aviation Cadets that was tied into the new class program. The College administration is working on a schedule that will meet the approval of the Washington officials. This will be put into effect in the near future.

Class Bells
The bells for the present class day schedule will ring as follows:
7:30—Rising bell.
8:25—First class period.
9:20—Second class period.
10:15—Chapel.
10:40—Third class period.
11:35—Fourth class period.
12:30—Dinner.
1:25—Fifth class period.
2:20—Sixth class period.
3:15—Drill.
4:10—End of classes.
5:30—Supper.

Phi Society Has Dance
Group Entertains With Square Dance in Old Gym

Philanthropic Literary Society members held a barn dance in the Old Gym last Saturday evening from 8 to 10 p.m. Over sixty of the members and their dates were present for the square dance. A professional band from the town of Davidson provided the music. Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Washum were guests of the society and Mr. Washum acted as caller for the dances.

Refreshments
Following the activities at the gym, the party went over to the “Y” where refreshments were served. The Maylew Bros. and Shaw Smith provided the entertainment with several musical numbers. The dates of the society members were Emmy Wood, Hilda Gamble, Kitty Crane, Nancy Houston, Lu Wayland, Sally Pardee, Eva Crews, Martha Keller, Betty Maxwell, Margaret Ezell, Ruth Edmiston, Jane Gray, Lucy Hassell, Louise Smith, Frances Cashion, Jane Bookout, Margaret Cochran, Billie Luck, Elnora Anderson, Anita Carron, Thelma Martin, Medell Bookout, and Anne Braken.

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY
General Merchandise
Hardware and Groceries
DAVIDSON, N. C.

A Complete Line of The Best
Southern 5 & 10c Store
Davidson, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Noted Soloist Will Present Concert Here
Mary Louise Beltz To Give Program in Chambers Sunday Afternoon

Miss Mary Louise Beltz, contralto, will present the next of the Sunday afternoon musical programs at 4:30 p.m., March 7, in Chambers Auditorium. Miss Beltz is one of the outstanding young singers of America and was winner last year of the Young Artist Contest of the National Federation of Music Clubs. She has won admirers over the nation wherever she has been heard, and criticisms have been enthusiastic. “The one born for great singing shines forth from her voice and manner,” commented a critic of the Raleigh, N. C. News and Observer.

Miss Beltz has been surrounded by music all her life. While still a child she sang in special services at the church where her father was pastor, in Lawrence, Kansas. When she was in high school she entered the Kansas State Music contest and won. She won this contest the three following years. Upon her entrance to Ottawa University, she took up the study of piano and harp. Her proficiency in the latter instrument led to a partial scholarship at the University of Kansas, where she led all musical activities. After her graduation, she set her goal to study at New York's Julliard School, winning a four-year scholarship at that famed institution. Then followed an opportunity to teach in Julliard School as well. Engagements with the Chautauqua Opera Company and the Brico Symphony Orchestra followed.

As her reputation spread, her appearances increased in number and importance, leading to radio engagements over the NBC networks, as well as many other stations throughout the country. Yet, with all this success, she is a modest singer indeed. “My hope is only to sing and sing, and to strive to make others love and appreciate great music through me,” she says.

Miss Beltz will be accompanied by Willa Mae Kelly, a talented pianist who has appeared as soloist with the Austin Symphony Orchestra and with the Cincinnati Conservatory Orchestra, and who will play a solo group during Sunday’s concert. Miss Beltz’s program here will include: Vade ben spesse by Rosa, Chi vuol la Zingarella by Paisiello, Aria: O mio Fernando from “La Favorita” by Donizetti, Psyche by Paladilhe, Seguidilla from “Carmen” by Bizet, The Green River by Carpenter, Joy by Watts, Over the Steppe by Gretchaninoff, and White Horses of the Sea by Warren. Miss Kelly will play Reflets dans l'Eau by Debussy and Toccata by Ravel.

Biologist Will Speak Here on March 8-10
Dr. Peter Gray Will Give Series of Lectures and Conferences

Dr. Peter Gray, professor and director of research in biology at the University of Pittsburgh, will deliver a series of lectures on the Davidson campus on March 8, 9, and 10. At the chapel period on Monday, March 8, Dr. Gray will give his principal address on “The Place of Pure Research in the Community.” His other lectures will be at formal meetings with groups of students, two of which will be held Monday and Tuesday afternoons at 4:30 in the Y.M.C.A. guest house.

Subjects
The subjects announced for these discussions are: Monday, “The Nature and Origin of Life”; Tuesday, “Biological Aspects of Human Origins.” On Tuesday morning at 11:40 in the guest house Dr. Gray will speak on “The Lost Continents,” and on Wednesday morning at 9:15 in room 229 Chambers he will talk on “The Biological Origins of Camouflage.”

Group Conferences
Dr. Gray is eager to meet with students from as many departments as possible and hopes that group conferences will include a cross-section of the student body. He will be glad to visit classes and contribute to the discussions, as time permits. Students and faculty members will also have the opportunity for personal interviews with Dr. Gray.

Dr. Gray was born in London and received his education at the University of London and on the Continent. He comes from a long line of British professional men and authors. His work in pure research and his numerous technical papers give him background and purpose to state the case for pure research.

Handcrafts
His scientific interests and accomplishments are balanced by experience in most of the so-called “handcrafts” and training in both metal and wood machine shop practices. He uses these techniques in the manufacture of many of the instruments used in his research. As a student, he earned a living as a chef in Paris and still regards cooking as one of the fine arts. He exemplifies, in short, not the detached scientist in pursuit of a single goal but the very human individual who finds in whatever he undertakes another manifestation of civilized living.

Sigma Upsilon
At a meeting on Tuesday night, March 2, the members of Sigma Upsilon listened to papers which were read by members of the faculty and student body. Dr. Chalmers Davidson read part of a continued short story; Howell Morrow read a short story; Priestly Conyers read an essay; and Dr. Lilly read a research paper.

Business
The meeting was opened and the minutes of the last meeting were read. Following the roll call, the meeting was then turned over to Ed Erwin who had charge of the program. Following the reading of the papers and the business, Steward Port served refreshments.

Thursday and Friday, March 4th and 5th
“STAND BY FOR ACTION”
Saturday, March 6th
“CHETNICKS”
LATE SHOW: “TRUCK BUSTERS”
Monday and Tuesday, March 8th and 9th
“A NIGHT TO REMEMBER”
Wednesday, March 10th
“SERGEANT YORK”

DAVIDSON THEATRE
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON, N. C.