we on.
y Le, ° *,
4 ' 4 AG. u ".
Vis Ade 8.
7 5 BOG
ij aie
i? 74 vA
C ew 7
- of

In the balloting for the new President
of the Student Body for the second term
of the summer session which was held on Wednesday, July 28, the field of five
candidates for the position was reduced
to four. The four men who still remain
in the running are John Deik, Theo Dabney,
Jim Davis, and Ed Pickard.

It was expressed by Theo Preston, former President of the Student Body, that
the students must realize their obligation to vote in this election; only a
small number of votes was cast in the
first day of voting. Every student who
has been at Davidson for at least one
term, summer or winter, is eligible to
cast a vote and is urged to do so.

The second ballot will be taken at
chapel on Thursday morning, and subsequent ballots on Friday and Saturday,
if necessary.

Hay's return to school added
one member to the Summer Council. He
was elected to the regular Council last
spring and is thus automatically
a member of the Summer School Council.
Vacancies on the Council will be filled, as usual, by appointments.

This week's entertainment at the Y will
be a five-star feature of local talent
known as Novelty Night. The program will
be held on the west porch of the Y and
will begin at 9 p.m. Heading the star-
studded list will be Charley Delaney and
his string ensemble. A famous quartet
from the institute will lend a bit of harmony
to the conviviality, and then will turn
their talent to group singing. Eade
Anderson (The Sensation) Semi-Colin
will dazzle with tricks from the old
Maestro, and Jim Dendy will milk the old
accordion. To top it off, a round of
Bingo will be played for premiums. Shaw
Smith will be the Master of Ceremonies.

The Social Committee has made tentative
plans for the next two weeks' end program
as follows:

August 7, Minstrel Show at Y,
(Jerry Newbold in charge)
August 14, Swim at Harris Lake
Saturday, August 21, Novelty Night at Y,
Sunday: 10:15 a.m. Sunday School in Y
Lounge; Shaw Smith, teacher
11:15 a.m. Morning Worship at
Davidson Church; Rev. Carl
Pritchett, minister
3:00 p.m. Vespers Program conducted by summer school students,
Tuesday: 9:00 p.m. Music Under The
Trees
Wednesday: 10:00 a.m. Hayride Group

DAVIDSON THEATER

Thurs-Friday: "LADY OF THE LAKE" with
Barbara Stanwyck (United Artists)
Saturday: "JACARE", A Frank Buck
picture, (United Artists)
Saturday-Late: "FLIGHT OF THE ISLANDS",
A Universal musical,
Mon-Tues: "BORDERLINE" with Randolph
Scott and Pat O'Brien,
Wednesday: "GET GOING", A comedy with
Robert Paige,

NOTICE
Jerry Newbold, manager of the Student Store,
urgently requests that every student who
has a "pop" bottle in his room please return
it to the store as soon as possible. Until
most of the bottles taken from the store are
turned in it will be impossible to get a
full quota of drinks.