Che Davidsonian

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1943

No. 5

Cunningham Visits Duke

President Assists in Forming Alumni Club

At a church service conducted by Dr. Cunningham in Durham, North Carolina, November 28, the chapel was almost filled by Davidson Alumni who are now attending Duke University in the Navy V-12. They came in a body to hear the president of their Alma Mater preach, and later they discussed plans for the organization of a Davidson Alumni Club. The club was duly organized, and together with the Davidson students now at Carolina, it held a social function on December 3, which was a big success.

Purpose of Club

The purpose of this club is to afford the many alumni in the Armed Forces at Duke and Carolina the opportunity to get together and carry on the old Davidson Spirit, which is apparently still burning brightly in them. Dr. Flowers, President of Duke, found this out one night while waiting for a bus. A group of Davidson men, also waiting for a bus to the station, began singing Davidson songs with considerable zest. Dr. Flowers was surprised, according to eyewitnesses.

Gym Plans Given To Durham Firm

J. R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, and Mr. Y. M. Cannon, chairman of the committee on Grounds of the Board of Trustees, have told the firm of Atwood and Weeks, in Durham, to proceed with plans for the new gymnasium.

Dr. Cunningham said, “I feel increasingly confident that the many friends of Davidson will make possible the objective in the same spirit of generosity and loyalty that prompted the alumni last year.”

Atwood and Weeks recently built the new Woolen Gym at Chapel Hill.

CHRISTMAS VESPERS

The annual Christmas Vespers program was held December 12 under the direction of J. C. Pfohl and Earl Berg. Music by the combined Davidson-Queens Symphony Orchestra and the Davidson Symphonic Band, and the choirs of Davidson and Queens Colleges.

Vindictive Druggist Cuts Drowsy Davidsonian Staff

By Ah! Skeegam

The Scene—Office of The Davidsonian.
Time—Eleven thirty.

As our story opens, pandemonium, characteristic of a newspaper office just before going to press, is rampant. Editor Pierce, feverishly checking his reflection in the window, is in a reverie. Ed. (musing): “Well, we did that layout after the basketball game.” The contralto in the corner chair suddenly awakens. “Snoop, we have a job to do!” Ed. (resuming): “A visit to the palace of the vindictive druggist.”

Y Gift Fund Totals $1,503

Rumple Right Leads Dormitories With $154.00

The annual Y. M. C. A. Christmas Fund drive ended on Friday, December 3, breaking the $900 goal with a total of $1,503.65 which will be used this year for medical relief in China.

The average student gift was $5.20, and for the first time in the history of the college, every student contributed to the fund.

$374 Collected

As has been customary in the past, students made their contributions through pledge cards which were provided by the “Y”. These pledges will be paid to the respective hall chairmen before Thursday, January 6, 1944, and all students who are not planning to attend school after the holidays are urged to pay up their pledges before leaving. Already $374 of the fund has been collected in cash.

Of the total gift, $1,171 was given by the students of the college while $145 was given by the faculty. The dormitories on various other halls made up the rest. Rumple Right totaled $154.35 while Rumple Left was close behind with $151.50. Georgia second floor and Watts second floor finished third and fourth with $145.00 and $143.00 respectively.

COURT RECESSES

Due to several unforeseen circumstances which have occurred during the past few weeks, the Court of Control has taken a recess.

Christmas holidays are not far off, and a sentence of any kind would be too short to conform with the Court’s usual punishments. However, after the holidays and exams, the Court will reconvene. Our material will be accumulated for a ‘21’ Club of the most noxious freshmen.