FIRST AIR CORPS CLASS GRADUATES

THREE NEW BUSINESS MANAGERS

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Volume XXX

First Air Corps Class Graduating Presents Dance In Charlotte

Advanced Group Will Finish Work Here In Near Future

Alumni Events

MORRIS FIELD BAND

Students Plan Special Program For Graduation Dance Saturday

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 29, 1943 No. 24

PUBLICATION MANAGERS

Business Managers Are Named By Publications Board

Pierce, Harris, and Carson To Manage Annual, Magazine, and Davidsonian

LYMAN ANNOUNCES Mother's Day Schedule

Davidsonian Manager Previously Chosen

The graduation dance of the first class of aviation students to graduate from the Army Air Force 24th College Training
Detachment, Davidson College, will be held Saturday, May 1, at Freeman's in Charlotte. The dance will be formal and will
begin at 9:00 P.M. with the presentation of the commanding officer, Col. Louis J. Sample. It will continue with the
grand march and presentation of the Davidsonian colors.

Music will be furnished by the Morris Field 68th A. A. F. Band under the direction of W. O. William
U. Turton.

Serving on the dance committee are Capt. L. A. Kuchler, chairman; Lt. L. J. Krupnick and Corp. P. E. Land,
music; Maj. I. Lankin, hall; Corp. E. R. Lake, transportation; J. H. Lawrence, G. J. Lagges and H. C. Landis,
refreshment; Corp. P. E. Land, decoration.

The following are excerpts from the dance invitation:

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., April 29, 1943

Dear Sir or Madam:

We, the first class of aviation students to graduate from the Army Air Force 24th College Training Detachment, Davidson College,
cordially invite you to attend our graduation dance to be held at Freeman's in Charlotte on Saturday, May 1, 1943,
at 9:00 P.M.

The dance will be formal, and music will be provided by the Morris Field 68th A. A. F. Band. We
hope you will join us in celebrating this significant milestone in our training.

Sincerely,
The Graduating Class

Bob Pierce, Jim Harris, and Buddy Carson have been elected as business managers of three publications by the Publications Board.
Pierce was chosen for the Quips and Cranks, Harris for the Scripts 'N Pranks, and Carson for the Davidsonian. All
three are members of the Junior Class and are taking advanced R.O.T.C. This means that none of them will be
back next year to carry out their duties.

Bob Pierce, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, Davidson yearbook; Jim Harris, business manager of the Scripts 'N Pranks,
humor magazine; and McAlister Carson, business manager of the Davidsonian, were chosen by the Publications Board. The new managers are
selected from the junior managing staff of the respective publications and two faculty representatives.

Mother's Day celebration at Davidson was inaugurated last year under the leadership of the Public Relations department and the college
Y.M.C.A. Its sponsoring committee was headed by Mrs. W. H. Belk.

In an announcement from the Office of Public and Alumni Relations Monday, several changes in the order of alumni events
in the Commencement program for this year were revealed. In an effort to meet the unparalleled situation created by the
national emergency and to aid in the conservation of time and expense, all alumni activities have been condensed into a
one-day program, a procedure which was followed for the first time last year.

According to Mr. Del Payne, Director of Public Relations and Alumni Secretary, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council will
meet on the morning of May 20, instead of the day before. The Alumni Day program on May 20 will
include the Senior-Alumni luncheon at 1:00 P.M. At this time the Senior Class will be recognized, and special fifty-year diplomas
will be presented to members of the class of 1898.

President Jeffries called the meeting to order and Secretary Scott read the minutes and called the roll. Old and new
business was discussed. The meeting was turned over to Program Chairman Erwin, who introduced the first paper of the evening
by Sam Henderson, who was followed by Erwin reading a short story.

N.C. State College will be the government inspector for the Davidson R.O.T.C. Battalion on Tuesday night, May 12. All the
events for the inspection have been scheduled for the one day of May 12. In normal years, the schedule covers
more than one day. The morning will be taken up with demonstrations of principles learned in the classroom. The parade,
drill of special units, and the inspection of the unit will fill the afternoon.

All nine of Davidson's social fraternities will participate, and in addition, this year the Air Corps unit here will enter
a team in the inter-fraternity sing to be held on the front steps of Chambers Building at 7:30 Friday evening,
May 7. Sigma Upsilon, Davidson College's honorary literary society, held its annual initiation supper. Erwin read a short story.

The annual Mother's Day celebration to be held here next weekend, Phi Mu Alpha, Davidson honorary musical fraternity, will sponsor
another inter-fraternity sing on the front steps of Chambers Building at 7:30 Friday evening, May 7.will be reading his initiatory
paper before the society. It concerned the | clude infants' combat—principles, | ance of the evening, to be decided |)
by judges selected to decide the event, will be the silver cup now being held by last year’s winners, Beta
Theta Phi.

Next week the student body will vote for one coach between Buddy Carson and Bob Pierce, for the student representative.
This will be the last chance for them to do this, in view of the fact that a large percentage
of the students are anticipating activities elsewhere. Those who successfully complete all phases of their preparation are destined to become
pilots, navigators, bombardiers, or gunners in the Army Air Force.

A special effort is being made to fan a large number of alumni to return to the campus for the
program on Saturday. It was stated that the usual sleeping accommodations in the dormitories will be arranged for all who
can come on Friday or who will remain over Saturday, Sunday, and Monday.

Critics Smith, Goldtere, Wheeler, and Sandifer reported favorably. The next paper was a work by Erwin himself, a short story
arising out of the wounded of the African campaign, and called “For Valor.” Brother Chapman closed with a short story
concerning the travels of a work of art from place to place.

All R. O. T. C. students will be excused from afternoon classes. The Battalion will form at two o'clock and
march to Richardson for inspection. Selected units will give demonstrations of close order and extended order drill.

Members of this first graduating class will soon be moved from Davidson to continue their training elsewhere. Boarding House Habits
Create Disturbances

Through careful observation, it has been possible to note certain peculiarities in boarding house technique which, to say the least,
are interesting if not spectacular. Although the overwhelming majority of Davidson gentlemen are well-versed in gourmandistic savoir-faire, it is undoubtedly
true that every boarding house contains at least one delightfully individualistic character who takes pleasure in making each meal a
source of wretchedness for his neighbor.

Probably the most prevalent of the boarding house oddities is the garrulous, palsy-walsy buffoon, whose very verbosity causes every meal
to be an endless succession of head-turnings, pass-me-thises, belly laughs, and an intolerable flow of trivial drivel. He is the
explosive type of humorist, who, when stricken with his own comedy, leans back, shudders silently in a paroxysm of mirth,
and then erupts violently in a convulsion of noise and exuberant jollity.

Then there’s the joker—you know him—who takes diabolical pleasure in repeating entirely moral but utterly revelating jokes at the table,
then cackles in glee at his victims’ bulging eyes and frantic gasps. This man is closely allied to the Joe
who stations himself at the end of the table and, in the most domineering voice, completely dictates both conversation and
the culinary progress of the meal. It is not likely that anyone who eats three meals a day can overlook
the sardonic wretch who, with his caustic tongue and innate griping nature, causes every meal to be the bane of
the waiters’ existence.

With presumptive insolence, his most noteworthy activity is taking devilish joy in watching the waiter (whom he whimsically calls garson)
helplessly obey his every whim. Totally inconsiderate, he is not unlike the grunting, hair-in-eyes, doltish bottleneck who, gobbling away unattentively,
completely ignores all polite requests for food.

Even more disconcerting to the waiter is the Saturday night operator who enters ten minutes late, arrayed in his “dealing-best”
and who sits down proudly amid the comment and applause of those seated. But there are two types which vie
with each other for top honors in abomination. First, is the extra-dessert-caller-forer who, though absolutely cognizant of the prevailing sugar
rationing, glowers venomously if he is denied an additional piece of pie or two. Secondly, there is the mayonnaise-and-jelly caller-foxer,
who insists on demanding all manner of rare jellies, herbs, and exotic spices. Vinegar and A-1 Sauce are his favorites,
and if he is countermanded in his requests he screams in wrath; from the waiter’s standpoint, the last mentioned is
the most disgusting of any boarding house habituee. All, though, are extremely noxious, and in these troubled times they merely
constitute another indigestible burden.

All R. O. T. C. captains eye the trophy presented to the best drilled company. Lieut.-Col. Joe McCoy, commanding officer
of the battalion, is holding the cup. The award was won by Company C and Company B was runner-up.

The meeting closed with a typical feed. All class I R. O. T. C. captains will have open house, with
mothers invited to sit in on class with their sons. It is also planned to have the Y. M. C.
A. and Guest House open to the visitors. All R. O. T. C. students will be excused from afternoon classes.
The Battalion will form at two o'clock and march to Richardson for inspection. Selected units will give demonstrations of close
order and extended order drill.

The Mothers and Sons Banquet will be held at 7:30, followed by the oratorio “Elijah” by Mendelssohn in Chambers auditorium.
The combined musical talents of Davidson and Queens College will produce this entertainment.

A special effort is being made to fan a large number of alumni to return to the campus for the
program on Saturday. It was stated that the usual sleeping accommodations in the dormitories will be arranged for all who
can come on Friday or who will remain over Saturday, Sunday, and Monday.

The outstanding event of the day will be the procession of mothers escorted by their sons from the Chambers building
to the church, where special seating will be arranged. The program will be concluded by a Mother's Day service led
by Mr. Carl Pritchett.
