Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ROBOMAILER

Volume 1 DAVIDSON, NC,

AUGUST 12, 1943 No. 9

SMOG.

School Drive for

As the Sunday two students' tuition to Glade Valley High School draws to a close, $176.25 has been pledged. The
goal, announced last Thursday, was $150. Even so, this is not a complete report since some pledges have not been
turned in.

Ed Pickard, chairman of the campaign, announced that all money in excess of the goal will be given to the
Glade Valley School to be used for other scholarships. Because each student works part-time at the school, the tuition is
very low (only $75 per year).

The latest reports show:
1) Watts Dormitory has turned in $71 cash and $26 pledged.
2) Georgia Dormitory $59.25 cash, pledges unreserved.
3) Individual girls $10.50 cash, $5.50 in pledges.
4) Contributed by some seniors $10.

Y TO SHOW COLLEGE FILM

This week's Y.M.C.A. program will feature the showing of the film of Davidson College. This film was taken last year
for use in the Gymnasium Drive, and although it has been widely shown throughout the Carolinas, many of the students
have not had an opportunity to see the picture.

The film shows action shots of the College in regular session. There are four reels and the show will last
about forty minutes. The scenes are in color.

The R.O.T.C. Department will be in charge of the projector.

Time: Saturday 9 p.m. Place: Y.M.C.A. NOTE: Make your plans now for next week's program, Square Dance on the Campus.

WHEN 'N' WHERES

Saturday:
9:00-11:00 Davidson College film at Y.M.C.A.

Congrats to the Students!

FRATERNITIES PLEDGE 7

Seven new members have accepted their membership by recent pledging. Of the seven men, the first four are freshmen who
entered July 26th.

The new pledges are as follows: Kappa Alpha — Julius Smith and Bill; Pi Kappa Alpha — Sam Allen; Sigma
Phi Epsilon — Worth Upchurch; and Pi Kappa Phi — Luther Beck, Jr.

LOSS: Delta Students Guard Day School. Show Griffith, teacher.

SUNDAY:
10:00 a.m. Sunday School. Show Griffith, teacher.
11:00 a.m. Morning Worship. Rev. Walter L. Lingo, Guest Minister.
7:30 p.m. Vespers. Rev. Edgar Woods of Haven, Fla., Guest Minister.
8:30 p.m. Hymn Sing at Y.M.C.A.

TUESDAY:
9:00 p.m. Music Under The Trees.

WEDNESDAY:
7:00 p.m. Hall Prayer Meeting. Jack Hughes.

Orchids to the Sunday School Class and the entire student body for the fine showing on the scholarship drive.

MONDAY-TUESDAY:
7:15 p.m. Softball Games on the Freshman Field.

Off the record: Note the excellent opportunity to hear the extra-good guest ministers this Sunday... see you there? — S.S.
