PORTS SPOTLIGHT BY JIM JACKSON

It may be a little late to be writing about basketball, but it’s never too late to write about fighting
spirit—typical Davidson fighting spirit. A lot of people at the tournament had heard a lot about the Wildcat spirit and
still were skeptical when the ’Cats took the floor against a highly-favored George Washington quintet last Friday night. They realized
exactly what the will to win means, and a great number of Davidson students were reminded of it in a
manner which they will never forget. The ’Cats didn’t win—no, but they had more to be proud of in losing
than they might ever have gained by winning. It was another moral victory for Davidson, but not of the traditional
variety. This was a new type and it showed the nation’s experts just what kind of basketball a team from
a little school in North Carolina is capable of playing. Unfortunately, the annals of Southern Conference sports history won't record
that battle too strongly. The championship is what counts.

But one thing they will record: the individual performance of Tommy Peters and his unanimous choice as forward on the
All-tourney team and trophy award as the Most Valuable Player. Only a war could keep Tommy and George from becoming
the outstanding pair of athletes in the country.

In musing over the possibilities for Davidson’s future greatness in the sports world, the possibility of the introduction of swimming
and boxing teams was brought to mind. Once peace has again descended on the world and sports are back to
their normal status, the proposed new gymnasium of splendor and capacity should be completed with its many and varied facilities.
A tank team to rival that of Carolina’s famed Blue Dolphins, current Conference title-holders, and the reinstatement of inter-collegiate boxing
into the Presbyterian domain would be welcomed by more than one party. With the advent of increased training programs in
peacetime for perpetual preparedness strengthens this hope.

One of the nation’s leading weeklies carried an article on Walter Driggs, owner of the Detroit Tigers, major league club,
hailing him as the game of baseball's number one fan. It’s the story of a wealthy magnate who realized his
boyhood dreams and made his ballclub a pleasure for fandom and not a lucrative proposition. Most of the South’s baseball
will probably come from magazines this summer. War is, indeed, horrible.

Slipping back to basketball for a moment, it is notable to see that Appalachian’s fine cage crew, led and coached
by the famed Belus Smawley, were invited to Kansas City and the National Intercollegiate playoff as champions of the North
State. After the lickings they gave Catawba this year, the Mountaineers might have done well had they been in the
recent Southern tourney. It is also rather interesting to note that Tom Peters is probably the first Davidson athlete to
be besieged by autograph hunters and asked to speak over the radio as a celebrity.

A position of creditable work, but little reward is that of a freshman Davidsonian writer. Those frosh who have been
turning out patiently for sports include Bobby Phillips, Jimmy Alexander, Bob Thurston, and Shep Dunn. With little hope of advancement
due to the military situation, theirs is the part of a rear gunner in actual combat.

With the end of the basketball season, the intra-fraternity sports program swings into the last leg in the trophy race.
The Betas, by virtue of their fine showing both in football and on the court, rank as favorites to cop
the cup. However, volleyball and softball always play important roles in the point standings, just as important as those of
the earlier sports. The annual track meet, a proving ground for freshmen stars, comes up soon. Last year’s trophy winners,
the K.A.’s, won neither football nor basketball, but placed high in the meet, went undefeated in volleyball, and won the
softball title to carry top honors.

Arthur Daley, successor to brainy John Kieran as sports editor of the New York Times, writes in his Sunday column
of the hospitality and respect which the Americans and others received in the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. The sports
writers would play a game among themselves, based on the usage of pass and passport to get into the contests,
and counting off so many points for the usage of either or both. The Germans then treated all foreigners as
honored guests. Perhaps these same athletes and writers may enter the heart of the Nazi stronghold before long, and enjoy
respect once more, though hospitality will hardly be present. That isn’t a forecast, that’s premonition. And that’s all.

Betas and Phi Delts Tied In Frat Basketball League

Intramural basketball continued last week with the scheduled games, although there was some mix-up due to the fact that many
students left to witness the Varsity’s stellar performance at Raleigh. Several contests were run off, despite postponements, and they packed
the usual spirit that accompanies intra-frat ball. The Spees managed to triumph over a Kappa Sig fivesome to the tune
of 32-27, the K.A.’s rolled over the hapless Pikas, 23-17, and the Betas trounced the Pi Kaps. The SAE-Phi Delt
match was cancelled, pending the return of absent brothers.

In Monday’s frays of this week, the battles were hot and two of the most startling upsets of the year
were pulled. The undefeated and high-flying Betas fell before an inspired Phi Delt outfit, 25-17, and the hitherto victory-starved Pikas
pulled one out of the bag to hand the favored Fijis a 38-21 licking. In an afternoon affair, the SAE’s
came out on the long end of a 15-12 count with the K.A’s. Interest has mounted high in the fraternity
struggles, and with the possibility of winning the coveted intramural trophy hanging in the balance, all quints are playing their
hearts out. Only two more rounds of play are remaining in the annual race. Each year in the campus cage
tourney numerous stars, some of them of varsity calibre, are produced and display amazing proficiency on the hardwood. Then, as
an unlimited source of strengthening physical training, the basketball league has no equal in the intramural field.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

ERNEST ELLISON, INC.
“Just Insurance”
R. E. Ellison
L. R. Teal
115 East Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Wildcat Sports
ALL-SOUTHERN TOMMY PETERS
Thursday, March 11, 1943

Colonials Top Fighting ’Cats In Semi-Finals
Davidson Whips State, 33-30, But Last Minute Rally Wins For G. W.

Third-seeded Davidson came close to upsetting the dope bucket in last week's Southern Conference basketball tourney by taking N.C. State
33-30 and then barely dropping their semi-final game to George Washington by a scant seven points, 47-40, in an overtime
period. Saturday night the Colonials were crowned Southern Conference champions by virtue of a 50-40 rout of Duke’s highly-touted Blue
Devils. George Washington spurted ahead shortly after the Dukes had racked six points in the first two minutes, and the
Colonials were never headed.

State Trounced

In their first game, the Cats played rather erratic ball and never got far in front of the draft-weakenedState five.
Tommy Peters was top scorer with 17 points, more than half of the team total. This victory put Wildcats into
the semi-final tussle with George Washington on Friday night. The smooth-working Colonials were slated to take the ‘Cats in stride,
but fiery Davidson played the favorites off their feet, and the score was tied at 15-15 when the half-time whistle
blew. Tommy Peters was nearly perfect, hawking the ball consistently and racking up 11 points in the first half; George
Peters and Jim Lowry were sinking long set shots regularly.

Wildcats Lead
The Wildcats came back strong after intermission, their old poise and confidence regained, and they quickly went into a comfortable
lead which soon mounted to nine points. Washington settled down, and as the ‘Cats cooled off somewhat, they chopped Davidson's
lead to five points with only two and a half minutes to go in the contest. With Davidson leading 38-33,
Washington’s Jim Rausch dropped a fluke basket, bringing the score to 38-35. One minute and forty seconds remained when Tommy
Peters left the game on his fourth personal foul, and Captain Joe Gallagher made good the free throw to bring
the Colonials one point closer at 38-36.

Fatal Rally
Davidson froze the ball and the desperate invaders committed three consecutive fouls trying to grab the ball and get a
shot. Using strategy that would have paid off nine times out of ten, the ‘Cats chose to take the ball
out on each occasion, rather than take the chance of missing the foul shots and permitting the Colonials a chance
to utilize their vaunted and deadly fast break. However, the clever Jim Rausch stole the ball and swished in a
long basket with seven seconds left in the contest. The count was knotted at 38 up and G. W., inspired
by the turn of events, went on to rack up 9 markers to Davidson’s 2 in the overtime to win,
47-40.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. Tryon St.
Opposite Johnston Building
For Private Dining Room Reservation Phone 5490

TWO MORE FOR WILDCATS
Pictured above is a scene from the Davidson-George Washington tournament battle. Tommy Peters is shown as he adds two more
points to his and the Wildcat’s totals for the night.

Track Begins
Coach Heath Whittle issued Tuesday the official order for opening of varsity track and field practice, and a sizeable turnout
of veterans and novices alike greeted the cinder path. Although many have been working out regularly for several days, this
was the first regulated drill and consisted of various loosening up and conditioning exercises. Light workouts will be the keynote
for the first week of practice before the heavy and arduous toughening begins. With the close of basketball, George Peters
and John Belk are expected to report and should combine with the Davidson entries in the recent Indoor meet at
Chapel Hill to form a steady basis for the squad.

Tommy Named Most Popular And Valuable
Dropping in 17 points against State, adding 19 more against a watchful George Washington quintet, and turning in a spectacular
all-around performance in both battles, Davidson's Tommy Peters stole the applause of both spectators and sports writers in the Raleigh
tourney and gained the Most Valuable and Most Popular Player awards, besides being voted unanimously to a berth on the
all-star five. Not only did Tommy prove himself to be more than a match for any defense that either State
or George Washington could set up, but the Kingsport flash tabbed himself as one of the outstanding floor men and
team players in Southern basketball or national circles. Although Duke's Gorden Carver topped the tournament scorers with 40 points, the
Duke sharpshooter garnered his tallies in three frays, while Tommy racked up 36 in but two tilts.

By selecting Peters on their conference team choices, to a man, hitherto hesitant sport writers at last were forced to
admit that Tommy's amazing record as a sophomore was no flash in the pan, and gave the Wildcat star as
much publicity as a home town favorite. Along with Cedric Loftis of Duke, who was also a unanimous selection, Bob
Gantt, Bubber Seward, and Koniewski of George Washington, Peters was named to the all-tourney berth. On the second team were
Shumate of Citadel; Gallagher and Rausch of the Colonials, Sotnyk of V.M.I., and Carver of the Blue Devils.

Page Three

Cat Marksmen Whip Carolina NROTC Firers
Tar Heels Are Beaten 915-843; Wofford May Come Saturday
Topped once again by steady Gaines Stubbins, who fired a sparkling 189, Lt. S. R. Spencer’s ROTC riflemen handed the
North Carolina Naval R.O.T.C. firing squad a severe 915 to 843 setback in Chapel Hill Saturday last. As they continued
unhindered on their unending string of wins, the Davidson marksmen established themselves as one of the top Southeastern teams. Although
the results of the Fourth Command matches have not yet been posted, the locals are hoping for definite proof of
their ability.

Five Hour Match
In trouncing the Carolina riflers, the ‘Cats were compelled to fire a nerve-racking five-hour match, which lasted from 12 noon
to 5 p.m. Clarence McArthur followed Stubbins with a 186, equalling the high score of the naval unit's leading shooter.
Saturday of this week the ROTC team of Wofford College has been invited up for a contest, and on the
next weekend the Wildcats journey to Charleston to renew hostilities with a group of target shooters from The Citadel.

INTRAMURAL STANDINGS
A record of the respective fraternity fives, complete through Monday, March 8, is as follows:
Phi Delt 4-1
S.A.E. 3-2
Fijis 3-2
Kappa Sig 3-2
KA 2-3

(Continued from Page 1)
The more audacious members of the crowd could be heard whispering timorous but audible “damn Yankees,” but were quickly rebuffed
by a justly sarcastic “did Davidson play Notre Dame last year?”

Friction Overcome
All friction was overcome in the subsequent days, though, as Davidson found the students from Detroit or Pittsburgh to be
just as good as the boys from Atlanta or Charlotte. Even though routine or Army prevents actual camaraderie, Davidsonians will
soon find that these boys can be as long on fellowship and as short on snobbery as any of our
present companions or better.

Thursday and Friday, COMMANDOS STRIKE AT DAWN March 11th and 12th
Saturday, March 13th WRECKING CREW
LATE SHOW LADY BODY GUARD
Monday and Tuesday, CASABLANCA March 15th and 16th
Wednesday, NORTHWEST RANGERS March 17th

“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE DAVIDSON, N. C.

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER
