GRADUATION MAY 31

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SUMMER SCHOOL JUNE 8

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1943 No. 22

Graduation To Be Held On May 31
Dr. P. D. Miller Of San Antonio To Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon

RECEIVE DEGREES
Commencement Exercises To Begin May 29

Announcement was made from the office of Public Relations of the schedule for the 1943 commencement exercises. The program is
scheduled to begin with the regular alumni activities on Saturday morning, May 29. According to Mr. John L. Payne, director
of public relations and alumni secretary, the observance will be streamlined as was the case last year on account of
the war and the restriction in travel.

“It is hoped,” said Mr. Payne, “that many alumni will find it possible to return to the college at least
for this one day. We believe, as indicated last year by our splendid attendance, that a large number of our
friends and former graduates who could not be absent from their business and, in many cases, from war work for
the duration of the customary commencement period, will be able to spend at least Saturday, May 29, on the campus.”

Baccalaureate
The baccalaureate sermon will be preached on Sunday morning, May 30, by the Rev. P. D. Miller, D.D., pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church, San Antonio, Texas. Until recently Dr. Miller was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh,
N. C. and was intimately related to the affairs of the Synod of North Carolina. He was also a member
of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College. An alumnus of Davidson of the class of 1922, Dr. Miller is
a brother of Dr. O. L. Miller, eminent bone specialist of Charlotte, N. C. On Monday morning, May 31, diplomas
will be issued to approximately 72 seniors at the graduating exercise.

PICNIC SUPPER FOR QUEENS-SALEM
Pictured in the informal group above are a number of those who enjoyed the picnic supper in the stadium at
the Queens-Salem Day last Saturday evening. Those pictured in the foreground are left to right: Buddy Carson, Margaret Ezell, Jack
Wayman, Mary Martha Nixon, Edna Adams, and Virginia Ann Buckner. All four girls were dates from Queens. In the background
to the left is seen the picnickers as they passed by the tables of sandwiches, potato chips, cake, cookies, etc.

Administration Proposes Plans For Celebration of Mothers’ Day
Five new members were formally initiated at the regular meeting of Sigma Upsilon held Tuesday, April 6, at the Beta
house. The new men are Jim Chapman, Sam Henderson, Bob Miller, Bill McCormick, and George Worth. Following the initiation, the
program consisted of an essay by Prof. Johnston on “Why No Good History Books Have Been Written Recently,” a burlesque
on “Macbeth” by Howell Morrow, and an excerpt from Dostoyevsky’s “Brothers Karamazov” by John Fairly. The following officers for next
year were also elected: Vice-President, Leigh Scott; Treasurer, George Worth; Stewards, McCormick and Miller.

Salem, Queens Girls Frolic At Four Schools
Take Part In Outdoor Entertainment In Stadium
By Bill Styron

Haste thee and bring with thee Jest and Youthful Jollity.
—Milton.

It would be rank heresy to say that the representatives from Queens and Salem this weekend, especially the blind dates,
were not at all attractive. But we, being in a heretical and blasphemous state of mind, are prepared to make
that unhallowed statement. Entirely adverse to the deep-rooted tradition of the wretched martyrdom of on-campus functions, we can safely say
that the occasion of late was most enjoyable.

Contrary to weekend precedent, Saturday was a glorious day. Spring was in the air, the earthworms began to turn, and
Rumple creaked childishly in the April sunshine. Evidently, all was right with the world. The only blot upon this idyllic
scene was a frumpish, glowering group of thwarted “flushees” who huddled malevolently at the threshold of the Y, brooding over
their appalling fate, and making nasty cracks at the blissful couples who slithered down the walk toward the athletic field.
Rejoicing and gaiety, though, were the order of the day, and all gloom was obscured in the ensuing festivities.

The track meet with VPI was the first on the afternoon’s program, and the effects upon the fairer members of
the spectators were something for a psychologist’s notebook. Completely deranged emotionally, the girls simultaneously babbled in delight and shrieked in
dismay, regardless of who won what. Of course, it was all unintentional, and their apparent ignorance regarding loyalty to the
right team was quickly excused.

Basketball Game
Following the meet, a basketball game was staged between the Davidson Intramural All-Stars and the Air Corps Cadets Champions. The
game was greatly enjoyed by everyone but the players, who found the down-court blocking on both sides a mite bit
too rough. After the brawl in the gym, the guests and escorts retired to the stadium for supper. Needless to
say, the food was excellent, even with Taylor and Hobbie making a spectacle of themselves by voraciously consuming everything in
sight.

Three Plays
But the keynote of the whole affair was struck with the three-way drama presented by the three schools. Salem led
off on the boards with a lachrymose, woeful burlesque entitled “Diamonds or Roses,” starring Barbara Humbert as Talliaferro Truelove, the
hero, and Joyce Wooten as the damsel in the foul clutches of a viper. The audience survived long enough to
endure an even more woebegone tragedy “The Mean Queens Dean,” which laboriously portrayed the carefree life of Queens College. As
an anticlimax, Bill Lyman’s “Look What Liquor Done, Gra’maw” was presented, the Georgia Theater Guild outdoing itself in an extremely
moral morality play. This dejected melodrama had to do with one Fanny, her incurably oiled father, and an assorted group
of heroes, grandmothers, and snakes in the grass. Deane Watson played an excellent juvenile lead. Seriously, all three skits were
intensely interesting, and provided an hour’s amusement for all concerned.

Square Dance
As a fitting conclusion to the festivities, a monstrous square dance was held in the middle of the stadium complete
with a three-piece band, a faltering public address system, and Alf Taylor. Spurred on by the lusty howls of the
“Doctor,” Mrs. Bonner, all groups—Salem, Queens, the AAC, and Davidson—had what may be termed a large time. The party lasted
well nigh unto 10:00, when a note of solemnity was added by the sudden departure of the girls from Queens.
The stars were shining brightly when the stags departed for the late show.

Col. Simmons Is Promoted To New Rank
Davidson Alumnus Receives Promotion To Rank Of Brigadier General

Word has been received at Davidson College of the promotion of Colonel James S. Simmons to the rank of Brigadier
General. According to Mr. John L. Payne, director of public relations and alumni secretary at Davidson, a message from the
War Department has been received which states that “On April 2, 1943, the President appointed Colonel James Stevens Simmons, M.
C., Director of the Division of Preventive Medicine, Office of the Surgeon General, U. S. Army, brigadier general in the
Army of the United States with rank from March 14, 1943.”

Class Of ’11
Gen. Simmons is a native of Graham, N. C. and a graduate of the class of 1911, having received the
Bachelor of Science degree. After his graduation from the University of North Carolina and later the University of Pennsylvania Medical
School, he became resident physician at the University Hospital. In 1916, General Simmons attended the Army Medical School and in
1934 received a Ph.D. degree from George Washington University. General Simmons has been engaged in research work for many years
in a number of Army laboratories. He is the author ofMany publications are associated with the development of research in
bacteriology.

Simmons has Four Generals

In making this announcement, it was stated by Mr. Payne that the appointment of General Simmons brings to four the
number of Brigadier Generals who are alumni of Davidson College. One of these, General Don E. Scott of Graham, N.C.,
is a brother-in-law of Gen. Simmons. The other two are Gen. Fred Rankin, also of the Surgeon General’s Department, U.S.
Army, and General T. H. Jones of Fort William, Maine.

THE BEST PAPER MONEY CAN BUY! U.S. WAR BONDS & STAMPS

Beavers Take In Eighteen New Members
Tommy Peters Becomes New President; Miller Is Vice-President

Beaver Club, an underclass honorary leadership organization, elected 18 new members at a meeting held last Thursday night. Two Juniors,
Rhea Dabney and Bob Gaither, will replace Buck Archer and Earl Bethea, who have left school. Six Sophomores, Tommy Powell,
Jack Laughridge, Sammy Yarborough, Charlie Wills, Jim Lowry, and Ed Fowler will fill the vacancies left by Bill Dunn, Bob
Durant, Jack Lucas, Hugh Hill, Bill McLean, and Haywood Brinnegaar.

Election

The Beaver Club is normally composed of ten Sophomores and ten Juniors, and these men were chosen to fill the
membership. However, a new precedent was set by choosing ten freshmen this year, rather than waiting until next fall, as
has been the custom in the past. These men are John Wilker, Ed White, Lennox Turnbull, Ellwood Weatherly, Jim Whitehurst,
Herman Walker, Wray Amos, Ed Ashby, Bobby Phillips, Joe Young, and Ozzie Peters.

Newly elected officers for the Club are: Tom Peters, president; Bob Miller, vice-president; Sam Hay, secretary; and George Peters, treasurer.

"Y" Leaders Meet Soon
Cabinet And Board Hold Joint Gathering

Members of the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control and of the Cabinet will hold a joint meeting Monday night, April 19.
The chief topic of discussion will be the overlapping fields of the two groups. Both control phases of the work
of the Y.M.C.A. That organization will function much smoother if there is understanding between the Board and the Cabinet on
the policies of each.

New Members

Recently appointed members of the Cabinet will have an opportunity to become acquainted with the Y.M.C.A., its purposes, and members.
Both student and faculty members are on the Board of Control, and they aid in forming the policies and supervising
the finances of the Y.M.C.A. The next student body elections, and the last for this year, is the one for
members of the Board of Control.

HEADS BATTALION LT. COL. McCOY
Officers Get New Positions
McCoy Replaces Sandifer As Cadet Lt.-Colonel Of Battalion

Changes last week in the Battalion Staff in the Davidson ROTC Department promoted Cadet Major McCoy to Cadet Lt. Colonel,
replacing past Lt. Colonel Myron Sandifer, Jr. The position of Ranking Executive Officer is now held by newly appointed Cadet
Major Ross Parks. The remainder of the staff is comprised of Captain Adjutant Jack Wayman, Supply Officer Ben Lacy, and
Staff Sergeant Bill Robinson.

Sandifer Resigns

Lt. Col. Myron Sandifer resigned his position as commander of the battalion and is no longer taking an active part
in ROTC. He is taking a pre-medical course and plans to enter a medical school instead of going to the
Army this summer.

R.O.T.C. Units Seek Honors

At the drill period on Wednesday, April 21, the Davidson ROTC battalion will hold its annual competitive drill. Trophies will
be presented to the commander of the units demonstrating the best company order drill, best platoon close order drill, best
platoon extended order drill, best squad close order, and best squad extended order. Scabbard and Blade will give a medal
to the best-drilled man in basic ROTC. Captain Pat Rudolph of Company ‘A’ received the cup for the best-drilled company
last year. The unit is making preparations for the annual inspection to be held early in May. The inspecting officer
has not been selected to date.

Members of Class V-1 Naval Reserve who will have completed four or more semesters of their college course on July
1, 1943, and members of Class III (d) Marine Corps Reserve who are in their freshman and sophomore college years
as of this month will be given the written test of their qualifying examination on Tuesday, April 20, 1943, in
Chambers Building, it was announced by Dr. P. H. Gwynn. The test will be the same for both classes of
reservists except that certain parts of the prescribed test will not be required to be taken by the Marine Reservists.
However, any Marine Reservist desiring as a matter of interest to take those parts of the test not required, may
do so with the understanding that the scores made on those parts will not in any way militate against them,
but might be of value as the basis for an estimate of aptitude for certain courses of study.

Gwynn Will Conduct Naval Reserve Test

Dr. Gwynn states that it is his understanding that men who qualify on these tests will be ordered to active
duty on or about July 1, 1943, with pay, subsistence, and uniforms. They will be assigned to colleges with which
the Navy contracts for further training. It is important that all men who plan to take this test be present
for both the morning and afternoon sessions. The test will begin at 9:00 A.M. on Tuesday, April 20, 1943. Students
expecting to take it are asked to assemble at 8:55 A.M. in Room 206, Chambers Building. All men who are
required to take these tests will be excused from their regular college classes on April 20.

Summer School Session Will Open June 8 For First Term
Dr. Brown Announces Dates For The Summer School Semesters

TERM ENDS AUGUST 28
Fourteen Semester Hours Credit Are Available

The summer school session will begin this year on June 8, according to an announcement last week from Dr. C.
K. Brown's office. Dr. Brown says that the first term will begin June 15 and close July 20. The second
term will begin three days later on July 26, closing August 28.

Open June 8

Laboratory courses for the first term will open on June 8 to permit more extended time and credit. According to
the present schedule, the laboratory courses in science will consist of an eight-hour course and a four-hour course. In other
subjects, six-hour courses and three-hour courses are scheduled for the first term. No eight-hour courses will be offered during the
second term. This schedule will enable a student entering June 8 and remaining through August 29 to obtain 14 semester
hours of credit. Those entering June 15 can secure only 12 hours.

Dr. Brown pointed out the fact that work done in either term will be credited without reference to the other
and that it is not necessary for a student to take both terms to receive credit. By selecting courses offered
in the regular college session, the college is giving the student an opportunity, at any stage of his college course,
to advance his academic standing.

Classes

An outline of the schedule: All six-hour courses meet for 75-minute periods twice a day for 30 days. All eight-hour
courses will be covered in forty days. Dr. Brown says, “The same standard of work and the same college rules
which govern the regular session will be in effect during the summer.”

Registration

Registration for laboratory courses will begin on Tuesday, June 8, at 8:00 A.M. Other courses to be taken during the
first term will begin at 8:00 A.M. on Tuesday, June 15. All classes will meet at 10:30 for the first
period on the day of registration. Registration for the second term will be held on July 26.

College Band Gives Concerts
Symphonic Band Plays Concerts In Winston-Salem

Davidson College’s Symphonic Band, made up of 85 members of the regular Davidson College Band, made its first trip of
the year to play three concerts last Friday. The concerts were under the direction of J. C. Pohl, and were
presented before three Winston-Salem high schools during the day Friday. The first concert was in the Gray High School auditorium
at nine o’clock in the morning. At eleven o’clock, the band played another concert at Reynolds auditorium. The third and
final concert of the day was presented at Haynes High School at two-thirty in the afternoon.

Solos

Xylophone solos by B. L. Watkins of Winston-Salem were featured on the program, which included both band and symphonic music.
Due to transportation problems, this year’s schedule of trips has been drastically curtailed. Heretofore, the band has taken several trips
during a year. The officers of the band are B. L. Watkins, president; Manly C. Sanders of Greenville, S.C., vice-president;
and Jim Whitehurst of Charlotte, secretary.
