WILLIAMS ELECTED PRESIDENT

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTS SIX

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1943 No. 20

Rising Seniors Elect Williams President
Hay and Weatherly Are Chosen to Head Junior and Senior Classes

Final elections for presidents and vice-presidents of the rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes were held last week. Elected for
president of the rising senior class was Pat Williams; vice-president, Rhea Dabney. President of the rising junior class is Sam
Hay; vice-president, Jack Loughridge. Rising sophomore class officers are Elwood Weatherly, president, and Ed White, vice-president.

Seniors
Pat Williams, president of the senior class, is from North Wilkesboro, N. C. He is a member of the Kappa
Sigma social fraternity, the Scabbard and Blade, the Beaver Club, and the Spanish Club. He has been on the student
council for the last two years as secretary-treasurer and first vice-president of the student body. He was a three-numeral man
his freshman year, and has been a varsity letterman in football and baseball the last two years. He has been
elected alternate captain of the basketball team for next year.

Rhea Dabney, vice-president elect of the senior class, is a Jackson, Tenn. boy. He is vice-president of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity, is a member of Scabbard and Blade, and the Spanish Club. He is a sergeant in advanced ROTC.
Rhea is a former member of the Davidsonian staff and has also been on the track team two years.

Juniors
Sam Hay, a Hickory, N. C., boy, has been re-elected to the presidency of his class, the rising juniors. Sam
has been the president of the sophomore class the past year. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity, the D Club, and the Beaver Club. He is also active in the Alchemist Club and Deutscher Verein.
Sam played frosh basketball and football and was on the varsity football team this year.

Also a repeater in his office is Jack Loughridge, vice-president elect of the rising junior class. Jack, who hails from
Germantown, Pennsylvania, is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Before coming to Davidson, he attended Germantown Academy,
where he was active in sports. He made his numerals last year holding down third base on the frosh baseball
team, and also played basketball.

Sophomores
Elwood Weatherly was elected to the presidency of the rising sophomore class. Elwood is a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, and comes from Elizabeth City, N. C. He is a member of the Glee Club, and is now
in the band.

Ed White, who is the vice-president of the sophomore class for next year, is from Richmond, Kentucky. He is a
member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a former Darlington student. He played both football and basketball for the
frosh this year.

Debate Team Goes On Tour Of Southeast
One group goes to Virginia, other team travels to Georgia

Debating team members will take their annual trip during the week of March 29 to April 3. Two different groups
will go out during the week. One will go north into Virginia and debate four teams, while the other group
will go south into Georgia to debate another four teams.

War Conditions
Due to the war conditions, the activities of the debaters are more limited than in former years. The withdrawal of
students who are entering the armed services has reduced the funds that they are receiving from the college. The congestion
of public carriers and the gas ration have seriously curtailed the scope of the tours. Forensic Council members decided at
the beginning of the year to have debating trips this year, but set limits that the northern team could not
travel further than Virginia and the southern team was to stop at Atlanta.

Members of the northern team are Jim McCrary, Priestly Conyers, and Grayson Tucker, with alternate Henry Crane. The southern team
is composed of Howell Morrow, Led Pickard, Allen Bosch, and alternate Heywood Brinegar.

Three Leave
In the recent calls by the armed services on the student body of Davidson, these teams have lost three members.
They are Grayson Tucker, Allen Bosch, and Heywood Brinegar. Since the debaters thus have fewer people traveling, they hope that
the reduced funds will pay for their planned tours.

Four definite engagements have been made for the northern group. They will debate the teams of Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg, Va.;
the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Va.; the University of Richmond in Richmond, Va.; and William and Mary in Williamsburg,
Va.

Three Dates Set
One date is still open for the southern team as they have been able to arrange only three debates. The
Forensic Council hopes that by the time of the trip, another engagement will have been added to the schedule. Those
definitely decided upon so far are engagements at the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga.; Agnes Scott College in Atlanta,
Ga.; and Emory University also in Atlanta, Ga.

The subjects for all the eight debates will be the same as it is the N. A. T. S. subject
for the current year. (Continued on Page Three)

NEWLY HONORED SCHOLASTIC LEADERS
H. Henderson, R. L. Parks, J. D. Phillips, and H. B. Roney are the six seniors with high scholastic averages
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Public announcement of their choice was made in chapel Monday morning, March 22, by Prof.
W. P. Cumming. Two of the above men are in their seventh semester of work, while the other four are
in their eighth semester of work. A higher average is required for election in the seventh semester than in the
eighth.

Liberty Ship Named For William L. Davidson in Wilmington
Mrs. Chalmers G. Davidson Sponsors New Ship

S. S. William L. Davidson, the 179th vessel of the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company, was launched in Wilmington yesterday at
one o'clock. The name William L. Davidson was chosen in honor of General William L. Davidson, the man for whom
Davidson College was named. General Davidson was an early pioneer in education, and the land on which Davidson is now
located was originally a part of his property.

Mrs. Davidson was born Miss Alice Graham Gage of Chester, S. C. She has been prominent in the social life
of Charlotte. Mrs. Chalmers G. Davidson will act as sponsor for the vessel. Dr. Davidson is a direct descendant of
General Davidson, and his Ph. D. thesis at Harvard University was a biography of General Davidson, which unfortunately has not
been published.

General AAC To Hear Student Choir
To Broadcast

Davidson's Glee Club will present a program over Station WBT on Thursday, March 25, at 9:45 p. m. This is
the second in a series of regular programs given by the music department over the air every Thursday.

Under the direction of Mr. Berg, the Glee Club will sing a wide variety of pieces. Of special interest to
the students will be their rendition of “Oh Davidson” and of “All Hail, Oh Davidson.” There will be several different
solos for the Glee Club and for individual members. Among the numbers on the program will be the negro spiritual,
“Swing Low Sweet Chariot.” A piece just learned by the Glee Club is “Eight Bells,” and this will also be
presented. Two Latin songs of a religious nature will also be sung.

Archer's Band
Swing Concert Friday: Will Be In Gym

Buck Archer and his band will play for the Army Air Corps Cadets in the gymnasium Friday night from 7:30
to 8:30. Members of the student body are also invited to attend.

This same organization played a concert for the Y. M. C. A. Wednesday a week ago. Since that concert, the
group has added a vocalist, Deane Watson. Watson's singing is well known on the campus through his other programs presented
for the students.

The Y. M. C. A., which is sponsoring the concert, cordially invites the townspeople, the student body, and the officers
and men of the Air Corps to attend.Since her marriage in 1937 to Dr. unit, it will be an hour
of “in- “Crucifixus” and “Adoramus Te.” Davidson informal listening to popular music.

PHI BETA KAPPA PICKS SIX NEW MEMBERS
Honorary Fraternity Elects Six Seniors

ERC To Call 107 Students From College
Army Calls Those Neither Pre-Medical, Pre-Dental, Nor Physicists

One hundred and seven Davidson men, members of the army Enlisted Reserve Corps who are not in advanced ROTC, majoring
in physics, or pursuing pre-medical or pre-dental courses, leave for active duty with the armed forces on Saturday. These men
were notified several weeks ago that they could expect to be called by the first of April. They are remaining
in college through this week in order to receive credit for half the hours which they are passing at the
time of their withdrawal as allowed by the faculty.

13 Weeks

Following the receipt of orders to report for duty they will be given about ten days to wind up their
personal affairs. They will then be sent to replacement training centers for thirteen weeks of basic training. Upon completion of
this training, those qualified will be detailed for further training under the army specialized training program. All students withdrawing from
college who expect to receive the allowed credit for this semester's work must attend classes on Friday and Saturday of
this week, according to an announcement from the Dean of Students. Withdrawals are being handled by the dean's office. The
offices of the dean and the treasurer will be open from three to five on Thursday and Friday for the
necessary transactions. ROTC equipment may be checked in any time after drill on Wednesday.

Instructions

The following instructions have been issued to facilitate the withdrawals:
1. All withdrawals will be handled by the Dean of Students.
2. All students withdrawing from college must present a notice from their draft board or their induction papers or written
consent from their parents.
3. All ROTC students must get a card from the dean authorizing the return of ROTC equipment, which must be
presented to the treasurer in applying for a refund of deposits.
4. A notice of withdrawal must be obtained from the dean to be presented to the treasurer in applying for
the refund of college fees.
5. All checked equipment, library books, etc. must be in. Students withdrawing should settle all unpaid accounts in college property
such as laboratory equipment.

(Continued from Page Four)

SENIOR PRESIDENT PAT WILLIAMS

Queens College Will Sponsor Square Dance
Davidson Students and Air Corps Cadets are Invited

Queens College has invited the student body of Davidson to attend a square dance starting at five o’clock Saturday afternoon,
March 27. The student body of Queens included the soldiers attending Davidson in the invitation. Some are planning to attend
in response to this request. Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council expected that at least fifty students would sign up for
this party and hope that eighty would sign. Thirty or forty cadets going will complete the number of boys asked
for by the Queens students. Accompanying Dr. and Mrs. Davidson to Wilmington will be two young women who will act
as attendants. Miss Harriette Cunningham, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John R. Cunningham, who is now a student at Converse
College, and Miss Louise Payne, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John L. Payne, and secretary to Dr. James A. Jones,
pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, will assist Mrs. Davidson in christening the vessel.

Square Dance

Starting at five o'clock in the afternoon, the program will feature a square dance. Alf Taylor and Buddy Carson have
been asked to call other parts of the square dance program. The program will also include a skit by the
faculty and many refreshments.

Returning Favor

Queens is giving this dance in return for the Davidson-Queens Day program given for them last fall. The Queens events
will be similar to the events given them here on the campus. Both include a square dance as the main
attraction and skits by the faculty and refreshments are on the two programs.

(Continued on Page Four)

Test To Be Given For Army Navy Programs

The Army and Navy will pay all expenses of students selected on the basis of the tests on April 2.
Since there will be no further tests for some months, all high school students or recent graduates will have to
take the April 2 examinations to qualify for the training. This is an excellent opportunity for every ambitious boy, especially
for those who are likely to be drafted within the next year.

College Programs

Successful candidates will be enlisted or inducted into the Army or the Navy and sent to college at the expense
of the respective service. Students chosen for the Army Program will take qualifying tests on Friday, April 2. Dr. Gwynn
said, “Most boys accepted for either the Army Specialized Training Program or the Navy College Training Program will eventually become
commissioned officers in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard.”

Ardrey, Parks, Phillips, Roney, Gwynn, Henderson Are Tapped

Four seniors in the last semester of their time at Davidson, and two who are in the next to last
semester were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, it was announced in chapel last Monday.
R. S. Ardrey, R. L. Parks, S. D. Phillips, Jr., and H. B. Roney, Jr., were the seniors elected who
will graduate in June, and P. H. Gwynn, III, and S. H. Henderson were the other two men.

Scholastic Averages

Scholastic averages which the men elected have made at Davidson are as follows: Roney, 93.1; Phillips, 92.7; Parks, 92.6; Ardrey,
92.5; Gwynn, 94.5; and Henderson, 93.8. Requirements for election to Phi Beta Kappa, according to Dr. W. I. Cumming, president
of Gamma chapter, are an average of 95 in the seventh semester of college and 93 in the eighth. This
insures “automatic election, other requirements being filled.” However, the chapter may if it wishes elect men with 94 and 92
averages.

Seventh Semester Men

Dr. Cumming explained that the election of the two seventh semester men was not unusual, except in the case of
Henderson, who would probably have been elected in the summer semester if he were not leaving school in June. The
date and program for the spring initiation have not yet been definitely decided.

Juniors Cast Ballots For New Advisor
Magazine Election Scheduled Next Wednesday

Alf Deane Watson and Tom Howard remained in the race for Freshman Advisor after Ed Patterson was eliminated on Tuesday's
second ballot. Voting by members of the Junior class continued on Wednesday. All the rising Senior class members were eligible
for the position.

Those Nominated

Those originally nominated were Price Gwynn, Tom Howard, Hunt, Mac Jeffries, Harold Maxwell, Dick Miller, Ed Patterson, Henry Royster, Alf
Taylor, Roy Taylor, and Deane Watson. All but Watson, Howard, and Patterson were eliminated on the first ballot.

Scripts 'n Pranks

Next on the list of student elections will be the editor of Scripts 'n Pranks for 1943-44. Those nominated for
this position are: Charles Brockmann, John Fairly, Howell Morrow, Douglas Swink, and Paul Welch. After this election, voting for the
Managing Editor will follow. Eligible editors will be chosen for the Student Council, Cheer Leader, Publications Board, and Y. M.
C. A. Board of Control.

NO ISSUE APRIL 1

There will be no issue of the DAVIDSONIAN on April 1. Publication will be resumed on the following week, April
8. Contracts with the printer were written and signed before the spring holidays were cancelled. Since next Thursday would have
been during the holidays, no issue was planned for that time. That contract still holds, so the DAVIDSONIAN will not
be printed next week.

(Continued on Page Three)
