PORTS SPOTLIGHT BY JIM JACKSON

Leading sports experts rate Duke and George Washington as certain finalists in the current Southern Conference eliminations. From this corner, there seem to be forces which may or may not break up this general consensus of opinion. One is the fact that the favorite or favorites rarely come through in the S.C. tourneys, and another is the Davidson Wildcats. The former theory is flexible, the latter a matter of past performance and fighting spirit. Tonight the ’Cats meet State. If they win, they must tackle, in all probability, George Washington. Belk is back, though on probation with regards to his ankle, and if Tommy and the ’Cats are hot, it’s a right spot for an upset. Here’s hoping.

There are many things about this year’s cagers you can't forget, and many more you won't forget. You can’t lay aside that sparkling record of seventeen wins and only five losses, nor can you cover up Tommy Peter’s scoring spree. And it will be plenty hard to lose recollection of Tommy’s snake shots under the basket, George’s backhand passes and uncanny free throw accuracy, Wayman’s backhand flips, and Long John’s floor work. Nor will Lowry’s five long ones before the game and all-out performance throughout, Jackie Byrd’s speedy breaks, Johnny Frederick’s and Pat William's spirited and deadly play, and the entire fighting spirit of the ’Cats, especially that of Bob Currie, Shotgun Sutton, Bill Hodgin, and Ed White, be easily forgotten. Win or lose, they were never beaten.

A climax in spirit was attained one week ago Tuesday night in our gym when the ’Cats came from behind in the final few moments to top a towering Citadel quintet, 48-44. Never before has the student body gone so all-out for victory, and never have they been so proud of their team’s play and victory. The win not only inched the ’Cats a notch higher in the conference standings but, coupled with the triumph over Clemson, gave the locals the third ranking spot in tournament seedings.

Topping the intramural basketball race at the present time are the Betas, with a record of four wins and no losses. Monday night they trounced a strong Fiji five, 36-28, and appear unstoppable. Only a touted Phi Delt quint stands in the way of Burkhead Walker and Company. The Phi Delts swamped the Kappa Sigs, 39-25, and have a high-scoring organization. The S.A.E.’s, pre-season favorites, dropped another battle when the Phi Gams romped over them last week, and appear out of the running.

Foul Shots

A little-heralded, but all-important factor in the Wildcat’s drive to 17 victories this year was their ability to out-average their opponents on the free throw line. A marked example was the initial clash with The Citadel, in which they garnered 16 points by gratis tosses to the Bulldogs' 1, and won by merely 5 tallies. In this fracas as in others, George Peters shone with his foul shots, and maintained a lofty number of completions per game all season.

Alibis

Among the numerous post-game announcements by the publicity departments of losing teams was the publication in the Gamecock, South Carolina’s fine publication, which stated that the Gamecock’s key men were sick the night they lost to the Tarheels, 50-27. Perhaps this accounts for the fact that the Gamecocks have dropped off lately from their torrid pace, but on the other hand, the Wildcats lost to Carolina by a similar margin, and we’ll stack up the ’Cats against the Birds now or then.

THE OPEN FORUM (Continued from Page 2)

They were amazingly quiet and subdued considering their age. I have no idea who they were, but am making a plea to all parents in the community that they not permit their children to attend such events, under any circumstances. Children were made to play and not to go to concerts. On the surface, it would seem in this particular case that the respective parents found a convenient way to keep their children occupied, and yet leave them free to attend the concert. Note will be taken that the parents in question were nowhere near their respective sons. They were probably in the back of the auditorium somewhere enjoying the program. I am glad that someone did. —SENIOR.

CLINT FRANK! UNANIMOUS CHOICE FOR ALL-AMERICA BACK IN 1937. DOLLARS FLY MAKE YOUR UNCLE SAM CLINT’S RIGHT ARM GAVE YALE ITS GREATEST AIR MIGHT. NOW HE'S A CAPTAIN IN THE ARMY AIR CORPS AND IS WITH GENERAL DOOLITTLE'S COMMAND IN AFRICA! BUY MORE AND MORE WAR BONDS! U.S. Treasury Dept.

Wildcat Sports

TAKE STATE

‘Cats Make B

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gunners To Meet Carolina

Yokum and Stubbins Top Davidson’s Only Unbeaten Athletic Team

Lt. S. R. Spencer's R.O.T.C. riflers, the only undefeated athletic team sponsored by Davidson College, face an acid test this weekend when they encounter a North Carolina Naval R.O.T.C. team from Chapel Hill. At the present time, the ’Cat marksmen are engaged in firing the final round of targets in the Fourth Service Command tournament, and the local trigger men have hopes of finishing high among the top teams of the Southeast. Having disposed of the South Carolina and Charlotte Naval R.O.T.C. clubs in recent matches, the Davidson squad is looking forward to meeting Citadel and V.M.I. in foreign territory. The Citadel match is scheduled for next weekend and the V.M.I. clash for three weeks hence.

Balance and accuracy in every department have made the riflers a major threat this year. Almost every member of the squad has had experience, and the majority shot on last season's team. Experts hold this to be one of the outstanding factors. Perhaps the most steady man on the team is David Yokum, while Gaines Stubbins ranks right up there. Such firers as Bob Gowdy, Billy Keys, Bob Dunn, and Bill Barbour would give any force accurate firepower.

Coach Calls Track Team

Chapel Hill Field Too Fast; Drills Are Started

Despite the fact that they failed to place in the Southern Indoor meet at Chapel Hill last weekend, Davidson's track nucleus, namely Ben and Bill Lacy, Dick Port, Dick Miller, and Elliott White, gave a good account of themselves and promise to offer many a threat in the coming season. This year's field in the Indoor games was the largest and most powerful ever to assemble in Woolen gymnasium, featuring the University of North Carolina’s vaunted runners, the United States Naval Academy team, and variegated outfits from service camps. Carolina and Navy ran neck and neck all the way, with the Tarheels finally emerging victors by a 3-point margin.

Varsity Practices

Coach Whittle announced that practice would begin this week, and both freshmen and upperclassmen are invited to try out. A schedule, as broad as possible, will be arranged soon. Plans for the coming season are indefinite due to material, opponents, and transportation. C’est la guerre. However, hopes run high for success on the cinder path if a schedule is realized, for ’Cat track teams have always given a good account of themselves in the past. Last year the ’Cats had a most successful season, triumphing easily over such foes as N.C. State and South Carolina. Leader of the spiked crew was bespectacled Arch Taylor, who holds the conference marks in the high and low hurdles. It is of interest to note that George Peters broke, unofficially, the school record for the high jump, when he leaped 6 feet, 3-5 inches in a freshman meet against Mars Hill. Tommy also is a track artist of ability, but reserves his talent in favor of baseball.

The picture above is familiar not only to Davidson students, but to...Sports fans throughout the South, Tommy Peters achieved the highest slot in Southern Conference scoring by racking up a total of 209 points in the league.

Statistics Show “Cats Rated High in 42-43

Davidson's offered two records this year on the hardwood Cagers to which ‘Cat fans point with pride. The Wildcat’s team 17 wins against but 5 defeats marks one of the South’s top records. Tommy Peters scored 383 points, 209 of them in Conference competition, placing him at the head of the list in both the South and Southeast. His 383 points give him an average of 17.4 per regular game, and his 209 in 11 conference struggles an even 19 average. The blond ballhawk bid fair to establish a new conference average and overshadow George Glamack’s 20.5, but managed to gather only 8 markers against a watchful Clemson team in the final fray.

Bureau of scoring statistics show the final averages for the past season:
C.P. T.P.
Peters 209 383
Lowry 133
Byrd 99
Wayman 96
Boelk 82
Frederick 63
Williams 28
Sutton 11
Currie 10
Hodgin 14
White 26

Perhaps more to be lauded is the complete 'Cat record for the year, against both conference and non-conference enemies. The season record is as follows:
Davidson Opponent
55 Kannapolis “Y” 45
50 Morris Field 26
52 McCrary Eagles 40
60 Charlotte “Y” 36
50 Duke 60
59 Guilford 27
37 Catawba 32
58 South Carolina 43
57 North Carolina 41
49 Wofford 27
51 South Carolina 68
37 Catawba 53
63 College of Charleston 37
27 North Carolina 50
45 N.C. State 53
53 Clemson 31
54 Citadel 49
61 College of Charleston 54
55 Citadel 44
40 Wofford 38
49 Clemson 32
107 Opponents 923

THE OPERATING TABLE (Continued from Page 2)

The bulletin read (for the benefit of those who didn’t see it:) “I don’t mind going to the army, but I’m tired of answering questions.” Leo Johnson was also seen on board a one-man party in the city and having quite a time. If the 'Cats seemed pretty well done for after their weekend in S.C., it should be explained that it was not from the stiff opposition as much as from a night-long disturbance in the adjoining room, which caused them to lose considerable sleep.

Moves On....

The moving finger, having writ, try again.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

Page Three

Revamped Clemson Bows In Final Fray
George Peters and Bill Hodgin Star in Final ’43 Fracas
BY BOBBY PHILLIPS

In their final game of the regular season Saturday night, the revamped Davidson quint easily defeated Clemson's cellar-dwellers, 49-32, on the Tiger’s home floor. This conference victory, their fourth in as many starts, gave the ‘Cats fourth slot in the final loop standings, and it enabled them to be seeded number three in the forthcoming tournament.

The outstanding feature of the game was the play of Clemson's Tom Gillespie, who held high-scoring ‘Cat ace, Tommy Peters, to an amazingly low total of eight points. This was the first time of the current season that anyone has been able to hold 20-point Tommy to less than two digits in the scoring column. Tommy, sinking four field goals, made his usual high percentage of shots attempted, but Gillespie’s close and careful guarding allowed him to get only a few shots over.

Clemson stayed close on the 'Cats’ heels throughout most of the game, but in the last five minutes, Davidson broke away to gain a 17-point advantage at the whistle. This spurt was led by freshman Bill Hodgin, who grabbed eight points in two minutes in the contest. Davidson's steady top men were George Peters with eleven points and Jackie Byrd, who was impressive in collecting nine points and playing a greatly improved floor game. Johnny Frederick got his usual six points and Jim Lowry tallied five to complete the scoring for the 'Cats. Marion Craig, Clemson ace and Palmetto’s leading scorer, was held to a mere six points while playing only half the game. Scoring honors for Clemson went to Riley and Morse, who each netted six markers.

Felines Top Wofford Five

Davidson's hardwood five ran into unexpected opposition last Friday night in Wofford’s gymnasium and barely managed to squeeze through with a 40-38 verdict over the hard-fighting ‘Terriers. Tommy Peters could rake in but 13 markers, while Wood of the Wofford aggregation showed off in front of the Spartanburg fans by collecting a total of 18 points. The ‘Cats were out in front 21-16 after a slow start and had the Terriers on their heels throughout. Scheduled to be a warm-up for the following night's tilt with Clemson, the contest turned out to be a real thriller, and Aubrey Faust almost tied it up in the last moment.

Tommy Peters to Lead Basketeers

Davidson Five Faces Wolfpack At 9 P.M.; Devils and Colonels Best

Davidson's third-seeded Wildcats, sporting once more the flash of early season victories, tackle a pack of N.C. State Wolves tonight at 9 o'clock in the first round of the Southern Conference Invitational tournament. Led by one of the nation’s hottest ballhawks and highest scorers, Tommy Peters, the ‘Cats have smashed to recent triumphs over Citadel and Clemson in a manner reminiscent of their pre-Yuletide victory string. To top it off, John Belk has returned to the court wars after a two-week layoff, though he is still hampered by that bad ankle.

Seeded one and two in the current tourney are, of course, the cage twins from Duke and George Washington Universities, respectively. Should the 'Cats conquer State, they will face G.W. tomorrow night in the semi-finals, provided the rangy Colonials put out a shattered William and Mary quint. The Indians have lost the cream of their squad to the Air Corps, including veteran shot-maker Glenn Knox.

Duke meets V.M.I. today. Duke, sporting a conference record of 12 wins against a lone defeat at the hands of the Colonials, is seeded first and generally regarded as the odds-on favorite. Until overwhelmed by that same G.W. aggregation, the Cadets were looked upon as a decided threat, but have dropped most of their prestige and are expected to lose by a sizeable margin. In the same bracket with Duke and V.M.I. are South Carolina and The Citadel, who also clash tonight. The Gamecocks have cooled off somewhat since upsetting Davidson but are still a hot ball club and are seeded fourth, while the Charlestonians rule as favorites despite the seedings.

Failure of North Carolina and Wake Forest to make the tourney grade makes the annual joust a more cosmopolitan affair, though detracting from the interest of Tarheel fans. The Phantoms, who find themselves left out for the first time in history, are not well-represented. This is a new low for the Phantoms, while the Deacons last missed in 1936.

Big Five in Van

With the recognition of Tommy Peters as official loop top scorer, added attention should be brought to Coach Shepard's charges. The combination of Tommy and George Peters and the ever-present fire of the Wildcats makes them one of the most popular fives to be watched.

ALL LATEST HITS
On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA and DECCA RECORDS
Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St., Charlotte

WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT
BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM
IN THE HOTEL WM. R. BARRINGER