Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

4s & q. A
, >)

ee

VR noua
Ai is NOT ta,

Devicesn Col-
wae up oF

\, On Tuesday night
leBe be nae ea

SS TN
Ss

S \

SAME Ss

Ae LU”)

A Je We

C3 2 &
SN ced \!
With the second half of the softball season progressing into the last round, the Georgia Giants are resting on top
of the league with a record of four wins and no losses. The Georgia Crackers are in second with a
record of two and two. The other three teams are far off.

John Belk, Freeman Jones, Ike Williams, J. D. Ashmore, and Rob Fletcher pace the leaders.

On Thursday, the Giants won their third straight game with an easy 22-5 victory over the Wildcats. Belk and Jones
led the scoring with twelve points each. Ed Ashmore was behind with ten.

The game remained on fairly even terms during the first half, but in the second half, the Wildcats went hard
to hold a commanding lead for the remainder of the game. Others playing in the game were Ellington, Linton, and
W. Grey.

The Davidson team defeated a team composed of Aircrew Cadets by the score of 6-0. The victors played good tennis
throughout, dropping only twenty-two games in the twelve sets that comprised the match. The results were as follows:

SINGLES
Welborn (D) defeated Carson (A) 6-2, 6-2
Newbold (D) defeated Moir (A) 6-0, 6-2
Linton (D) defeated Harwell (A) 6-1, 6-0

DOUBLES
Welborn-Newbold (D) defeated Carson-Moir (A) 6-0, 6-2
Linton-Conrad (D) defeated Harwell-Doster (A) 6-1, 6-3
Walker-Schneider (D) defeated Hicks-Hamm (A) 7-5, 6-4

The Lions return for a match at Davidson on Friday (tomorrow) at 4:30 PM. Playing for Davidson will be: No.
1 Willie Maidens, No. 2 Jimmy Welborn, No. 3 Jerry Newbold.

DOUBLES: No. 1 Maidens-Welborn, No. 2 Newbold-Walker, No. 3 Linton-Conrad.

Boyt Evans pitched five-hit ball as the Giants posted a 5-0 win over the Wildcats. Ed Ashby and Ben Evans
led the 11-hit attack with two for three each.

The game was very ably supported in the field, the Giants making only one error. Homer Conrad got two of
the team's five hits.

The Georgia Crackers lost a golden opportunity to move into a tie with the Giants as they completely fell apart
and lost to the Giants. The Giants stamped their slugging force by blasting out fourteen hits, led by Hoyt Evans
and George Waden, who got three for four each. Evans pitched his best game of the year, giving up only
three hits. He missed his third straight shutout in the fourth when an error put a man on third base,
and a hit followed to bring in the run.

The game between Water 3 and Town ended in a tie because of darkness and will be completed at a
later date. The second Town-Georgia 3 game rained out and will also have to be played at the end of
the season.

Games for the rest of this week: 1 on Thursday and Town vs. 1 on Friday.

---
