TENNIS TEAM DROPS CLOSE MATCHES

Thursday, April 8, 1943

Clemson Wins Opening Series With Davidson

Inexperienced Home Nine Lose 12-4 and 21-0 In First Games

Davidson's 1943 baseballers opened the season here last Wednesday and Thursday against a smooth and powerful Clemson nine, which pounded
out victories over the inexperienced Cats in both games, 12-4, and 21-0.

First Score

For the first four frames of Wednesday’s game, Davidson seemed headed for victory, having punched across one run in the
opening stanza with Tommy Peters scoring on “Ace” Maloney’s double, and getting two more in the third on an error,
a single by Jack Loughridge, and a double by Peters. Meanwhile, Clemson could do nothing with the offerings of Paul
Neisler, but in the fifth inning, the Tigers bunched a free pass and three singles to push across three markers
and knot the count at 3-3. Jim Lowry replaced the tiring Neisler at the beginning of the sixth but was
quickly sent to the showers by a walk, a single, and two doubles, which netted the visitors five runs.

O’Hair Relieves

Dick O'Hair relieved Lowry in an attempt to quell the rampant Tigers and retired the side, but the slugging Bengals
came back in the seventh and eighth frames to pound out two singles, a triple, and a four-base blow, which
brought four more tallies. Davidson had been unable to touch the Clemson ace, Herb Herren, further, and their only other
run came in the ninth inning on Maloney's homer with none on.

Lanky Jim Lowry started on the mound for the Cats in Thursday’s encounter but was shelled from the hill in
the first frame by four Clemson bingles and three Davidson errors, which brought in five Tiger runs. Tommy Peters was
called in from centerfield to the mound and retired the side after being pounded for a double, a triple, and
three more runs. Peters could do little with the Tigers, the visitors blasting out nine more hits and seven runs
before Neisler relieved him in the seventh. The Bengals likewise pounded Neisler, collecting five hits and seven runs in the
last three innings.

GEORGIA GIVES (Continued from Page One)

Directed by Bill Lyman and Jim Chapman, was entitled, “Look What Liquor Done.” Its cast was made up of Bill
Lyman as the aged mother of a worthless husband who drank his family to ruin, played by Jim Chapman, with
Harvey Carrow as the grandmother, Myron Sandifer as the daughter, Dick Port as the villain, and Deane Watson as the
hero. It had as its moral the theme that drink never pays.

A Complete Line of The Best Southern 5 & 10c Store Davidson, N. C.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS Any Record You Want Parker-Gardner Co. 118 West Trade St., Charlotte

M. H. GOODRUM AND COMPANY General Merchandise Hardware and Groceries DAVIDSON, N. C.

Expert Barber Service Norton’s Barber Shop DAVIDSON, N. C.

Kappa Alphas Take Honors In Frat Meet

Fighting neck and neck with the Kappa Sigs all the way, the Kappa Alphas took top honors in the fraternity
track meet on March 25, as Ben Washburn edged out George Peters in the last leg of the relay, the
final event of the afternoon.

Duel

Early in the day it was evident that the meet would develop into a duel between these two fraternities, but
the winner was not decided until the final event was run. Team scores were: Kappa Alpha 35 1-4; Kappa Sigma,
33; Betas, 12; S. A. E., 10 1-4; S. P. E., 10 1-4; Pi Kapps, 7; Phi Gams, 6 1-4;
Pikas, 5; Phi Delts, 2.

Summary:

100-yard dash—first, McArthur, Pi Kapps; second, Smith, Betas; third, Ehly, K. Sigs; fourth, Pierce, Phi Delts. Time 10.6.

Three-fourths mile run—first, Miller, S. P. E.; second, Taylor, D. A.; third, Monroe, K. A.; fourth, Ross, Phi Gams. Time
3:34.8.

Hurdles—first, G. Peters, K. Sigs; second, Willis, S. A. E.; third, Ormand, Phi Gams; fourth, Pierce, Phi Delts. Time 14.0.

440-yard dash—first, Washburn, K. A.; second, Ehly, K. Sig.; third, Smith, Beta; fourth, Hart, Phi Gams. Time 55.4.

Sets Record

60-yard dash—first, Miller, S. P. E.; second, Monroe, K. A.; third, Walker, Betas; fourth, G. Peters, K. Sig. Time: 1:33.

220-yard dash—first, Washburn, K. A.; second, Smith, Beta; third, Richardson, K. A.; fourth, McArthur, Pi Kapps. Time 24.6.

Shot-put—first, T. Peters, K. Sigs; second, Durant, K. A.; third, Maxwell, Pikas; fourth, Caterson, Betas. Distance 40 feet 4 3-4
inches.

Discus—first, Durant, K. A.; second, Turnbull, K. Sig; third, Whitehurst, K. A.; fourth, Robinson, Pi Kapps. Distance 100 feet 11
inches.

New Record

High jump—first, G. Peters, K. Sig; second, Graves, S. A. E.; third, Wills, S. A. E.; fourth, tie among Behrman,
S. P. E.; Hood, S. A. E.; Morrow, Phi Gams; and Washburn, K. A. Height 5 feet 10 inches.

Broad jump—first, G. Peters, K. Sig; second, Whitehurst, K. A.; third, Dabney, Phi Gam; fourth, Ehly, K. Sig. Distance 20
feet 2 inches.

One-half mile Relay—first, K. A.; second, K. Sig; third, S. A. E.; fourth, Betas. Time 1:41.6.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TIMBER TOPPER

Pictured striding over the low hurdle above is Co-captain Bill Lacy of the Davidson track team. Half of the Lacy
brother combination which scored 23 points in the opening meet with Catawba Saturday, Bill also stars in the dashes and
the high jump. He is expected to be an important factor when the Wildcats meet V. P. I. here Saturday.

Marksmen Lose To Citadel

Rifle Team Closes Season With Only Loss In CloseMatch Davidson’s marksmen finished their collegiate competition Friday with a shoulder-to-shoulder match
at the Citadel, in which they dropped a close decision to the Keydets, the first defeat of the year for
the riflers. The team scores for the firing were 917 for the Citadel and 903 for the Davidson squad, with
Webb and Rowland of the Bulldog team and Gowdy of the Wildcat marksmen leading the individual scores.

Individual Scores
Complete scoring data for the match was as follows for Davidson: Gowdy, 185; Yocum, 183; Snodgrass, 181; Stubbins, 181; and
Barber, 173. For the Citadel: Webb, 188; Rowland, 188; Pashley, 184; White, 180; and Bull, 177. McArthur and Worth, who
have been firing numbers two and four respectively throughout the season, were unable to fire in the match. Next week
the team will participate in the firing of the Hearst Trophy Matches, a national postal competition.

Season Averages
Lt. Spencer, who coached the team through the season, announced the following season averages:

J. O. JONES, INC.
IF YOU NEED ANYTHING in the ARMY UNIFORMS or EQUIPMENT—Be Sure To See J. O. JONES. CAPS — SHIRTS —
BELTS and All Kinds of INSIGNIA for OFFICERS and ENLISTED MEN ... Come To See Us.... J. O. JONES, Inc.

Copyright 1943, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Wildcat Sports
TRACK TEAM TRIUMPHS 83-43

Davidson Cindermen Take Initial Track Meet From Catawba Team

Carolina and Duke Netters Edge Cats 4-3
Tennis Team Loses Close Pair, Prepare for P. C. Tomorrow

On April 2nd, the Duke Blue Devils tested through a wind that amounted to almost a gale to defeat the
Wildcat tennis team by the score of 4-3, at Davidson. Byrd won his match, and there was a tie in
the doubles competition with the Blue Devils capturing the second and winning a hard-earned victory.

Carolina Match
Immediately following the Duke match on the 2nd, the ‘Cats met Carolina on April 3rd at Chapel Hill. Here again
the opponent edged out a win but only after a little struggle. The feature match was between Captain Harold and
Jack Byrd.

The schedule for the remainder of the season is as follows: April 10, Wofford, there; April 17, South Carolina, here;
April 24, Citadel, here; May 1, University of Richmond, there; May 6, William & Mary, there; and May 20, Georgia
Tech, here.

Lacy Brothers Lead Scoring
Davidson’s track team won its opener against Catawba held Saturday, taking first places and a total of 83 points to
the Indians' 43. Outstanding individual performances were by the Lacy brothers, who took firsts in the 880-yard run and two-mile
run respectively. W. Lacy also won the 100-yard dash in 10.4 seconds.

Summary:
100-yard dash—first, W. Lacy (D); second, Port (D); third, Sequeira (C). Time 10.4.
220-yard dash—first, W. Lacy (D); second, Port (D); third, Sequeira (C). Time 23.2.
440-yard run—first, Wall (C); second, Baird (D); third, White (D). Time 52.4.
880-yard run—first, B. Lacy (D); second, Kelly (C); third, White (D). Time 2:03.4.
Mile run—first, B. Lacy (D); second, Kelly (C); third, White (D). Time 4:34.8.
Two-mile run—first, B. Lacy (D); second, Kelly (C); third, White (D). Time 10:34.8.
High jump—first, W. Lacy (D), Peters (D), T. Peters (D), tied at 5 feet 7 inches.
Broad jump—first, Janagelli (C); second, Washburn (D); third, Yancey (C). Distance 21 feet 1 inch.
Discus—first, Johnson (C); second, Turnbull (D); third, Frederick (D). Distance 137 feet 3 inches.
Shot put—first, Johnson (C); second, Turnbull (D); third, Frederick (D). Distance 47 feet 6 inches.
Javelin—first, Janagelli (C); second, Washburn (D); third, Yancey (C). Distance 197 feet 3 inches.
120-yard high hurdles—first, W. Lacy (D); second, Port (D); third, Sequeira (C). Time 16.4.
220-yard low hurdles—first, W. Lacy (D); second, Port (D); third, Sequeira (C). Time 27.6.

CADETS HEAR ARCHER
Featured on the program were Joe Archer’s orchestra, and by George Bernard, saxophone. Due to inadequate public address systems, Deane
Watson was unable to be the featured vocalist.

GAITHER IS ELECTED
The four junior cheerleaders who were elected from a field of approximately fifteen juniors last fall were in action at
all the nearby games and several distant ones. Gaither succeeded Jack Wyman in his new office.

YOU CAN DEPEND ON CHESTERFIELD’S Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos to give you a MILDER, BETTER-TASTE. More
and more smokers are swinging along with Chesterfield because they know they can always depend on this MILDER, BETTER-TASTING cigarette
to give them more smoking pleasure. Because it is made of the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos,
Chesterfield is known the world over as the cigarette that SATISFIES. You can't buy a better cigarette.

THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT
