ATTEND SERVICE TONIGHT

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

BUMBARGER NEW ANNUAL HEAD

Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 1943 No. 18

BUMBARGER WINS ANNUAL

Dr. George W. Mauze At Spring Services

Students Urged To Attend Thursday Night Communion Service

Dr. George W. Mauze of Winston-Salem will preach at the last of the Davidson “Spring Services” in Chambers Auditorium tonight.
As has been the custom in the past, the last service in the series will be a communion service and
the student body is urged to attend if it is at all possible.

Dr. Mauze arrived at Davidson on Tuesday morning at 11 a.m. and talked in chapel that morning for the first
time. The chapel periods for this week have been lengthened by taking some of the time from each of the
four morning classes.

Upon arrival at Davidson, Dr. Mauze attended a special meeting of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet before addressing the student body in
chapel.

Meets Students

Several different groups have met with Dr. Mauze since his arrival here. On Wednesday night, he attended the regular Y.M.C.A.
Cabinet meeting and he spoke to the ministerial students. He also met with the hall prayer group leaders and attended
one of the prayer groups on Wednesday night. Many of the students met with Dr. Mauze in private conferences during
the first two days and those who have not done so and still wish to talk with him may do
so by arranging a conference through Shaw Smith at the Y.M.C.A.

As a student at Davidson in the class of 1923, Dr. Mauze was a star member of the basketball team,
playing on the varsity for two years. His junior year he was all-state center and in his senior year he
was captain of the team. Basketball was not his only sport, however. He was a mainstay on the football team
and a regular on the Wildcat nine. Along with his athletic ability, Dr. Mauze was Secretary of the Student Body,
a member of the Bachelors Club, and a First Lieutenant in R.O.T.C.

Dr. Mauze’s original home was in Huntington, W. Va. At present, he is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at
Winston-Salem. He succeeded Dr. Cunningham in that position when Dr. Cunningham came to Davidson as president.

Jazz Players Perform at ‘Y’

Behrman's Backroom Boys Hold Jam Session

Baldy Behrman and His Backroom Boys will play at an informal jam session in the “Y” Lounge, Saturday evening, March
13, from 9 to 10 p.m. The program planned by the Backroom Boys will have several numbers featuring the different
members of the group. Among these pieces will be “Nightmare,” which is featured by Melvin Sipe. Blues and other kinds
of jazz for a jam session will also be played.

Members

Members of the Backroom Boys are “Baldy” Behrman, cornet; Jack Moody, drums; Beverly Bobbitt, piano; Dave Blevins, trombone; Melvin Sipe,
clarinet; and Alfred McNair, guitar. This same group of players has performed at other times for the students. One chapel
last month was devoted to their music. They played in the Y.M.C.A. Amateur show and performed at the program given
in Chambers Auditorium on Saturday night.

In The Groove

Behrman, the leader of the “Boys,” said, “Sometimes we are in the groove and sometimes we are out. I hope
that we are in Saturday night.”

Students Give To Red Cross Campaign

First Day Sees $110 Collected In College For Two Week Drive

Collections for the Red Cross War Fund totaled $110 on the first night of the drive, it was announced by
Ed Patterson, chairman of the college campaign. Additional collections were made on Tuesday night, and the final solicitation will probably
be on March 15th. It has been emphasized that ninety percent of the funds collected in the drive will go
toward work in the war zones.

Captains

Volunteer captains have given their time in contacting student members for their contributions. These men are: Ed Robbins, John Burns,
Jim Jackson, Carlisle Moore, C. T. Daniels, Burkhead Walker, Jack Richey, Ed Manget, Bob Durant, Newt Alexander, William Spencer, John
Stuart, J. T. Fesperman, Archie McNeil, Gero Clayton, Bob Gourley, Bill Grey, John Walker, Bob Worth, Alec Sime, Walker Taylor,
Milton Mann, Ernest Spangler, Paul Starling, Tom Powell, Bob Cushman, Art Pendleton, John Craven, Hoyt Evans, and Ray Dabney. John
Piper, Stubbins Gaines, and Leonard White made posters to help publicize the drive.

Satterfield Is To Play For Dances

Carolina Band To Be Featured At Davidson Pan-Hellenic Dance Saturday

Johnny Satterfield and his orchestra will be featured at Davidson's next dance set to be held Friday and Saturday night,
March 19th and 20th. This set, which comes about the time the Military Set has come in the past, has
been named the Pan-Hellenic Dances. The Friday night dance is to be held at the Main Ballroom of the Charlotte
Hotel and will last from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. The Saturday night dance is to be at the Armory
Auditorium and begins at 8 p.m., ending up at midnight.

Prices Announced

Prices for the set were set by the Pan-Hellenic Council at $4.50 for the entire set with a single dance
ticket going for $2.50. The regular Pan-Hell figure will be presented at the Friday night formal with the regular informal
coming up Saturday.

Johnny Satterfield and his orchestra come from Carolina where they are ever popular with the student body and have played
for college circles all this past year. He will be remembered for his hot licks and smooth swing at Davidson's
Saturday night Homecoming Dance.

Unstable Conditions

Because of the unstable conditions this year, it has been impossible to schedule the four regular sets usually held at
Davidson. For the same reason, the council has not been able to make plans as far in advance as has
been customary. Although many men in the Enlisted Reserve Corps may be called from school before that weekend, the council
is planning definitely to go ahead with the dances and asks the support of the students.

THREE STARS OF ‘ARSENIC AND OLD LACE’

The three stars of “Arsenic and Old Lace” pictured left above from left to right: Abbey Brewster, Mortimer Brewster, and
Lieut. Rooney. All three played important parts in the first Red and Black Masquers production, “The Man Who Came to
Dinner.”

Camera Club Makes Plans For Meeting

Prof. Siegel Talks On Photographic Drawings

“Photographic drawing techniques and the use of paper negatives” was the subject for discussion at the bi-weekly meeting of the
Davidson Camera Club, held March 5 at the home of Professor Paul Siegel.

Professor Siegel, who was in charge of the discussion, presented a photographic drawing and several prints made from paper negatives
and explained in detail the process of making drawings from photographic negatives and the technique involved in producing prints from
paper negatives. Siegel pointed out the value of such processes in obtaining unusual and artistic effects through the use of
the camera and darkroom.

Program Committee

Business for the evening included the fixing of a definite meeting time and the planning of programs to be presented
in the future. Following a brief discussion, the club decided to set Wednesday, 7:30 as the regular meeting hour. A
program committee was set up consisting of the president and vice-president. The next meeting of the club, it was announced,
will be held March 17 at the “Y” lounge at which time Bob Welsh will present an informal talk on
the Art Center in Los Angeles.

Officers for the second semester are the following: president, Jack Ramsay; vice-president, John Stewart; secretary, Bob Powell.

CALENDAR

Thursday:
7:15 P.M.: Last Spring Service (Communion)

Friday:
Chapel: Service.
8:15 P.M.: Roth String Quartet, Chambers Auditorium.
World Day of Prayer

Saturday:
9:00 P.M.: “Baldy” Behrman and his “Back-Room Boys,” Y.M.C.A.

Sunday:
4:30 P.M.: Little Symphony Orchestra, Chambers Auditorium.

Tuesday:
Chapel: Devotions led by Ed Murray of the Senior Class.
8:15 P.M.: “Arsenic and Old Lace,” presented by Red and Black Masquers, Chambers Auditorium.

To Star Clara Smith In Leading Role

Red and Black Masquers are presenting on Tuesday evening, March 16, at 8:15 p.m. John Kesselring’s “Arsenic and Old Lace,”
starring Clara Smith, Sam Spencer, and Jackson. The play has proved a success on Broadway where it is now playing
in its third year. Frank Mebane, president of Red and Black Masquers, is directing the production. George Worth and George
McCormick are stage managers. Professor E. J. Erwin has charge of stage settings which are to be the most elaborate
ever used at Davidson.

Cast

The complete cast of characters:
Abby Brewster - Clara Smith
The Rev. Dr. Harperp Lamar Williamson Teddy Brewster ill Lyman Officer Brophy -- Lyman Parrigan Officer Klein -- Jerry Newbold
Martha Brewster Susie Jackson Elaine Harper Mrs. Sarah Seigel Mortimer Brewster -- Sam Spencer Nir CAND elas ele -- Bob
McMullen Jonathan Brewster -- Finley Tucker Dr. Einstein Doug Swink O'Hara Lieutenant Officer Boggs Kaynal Morrow make-up been ordered from
New York Smith’s Miss Lyman’s -- Lawrence Rooney... Middy Witherspoon -- Howell Special wardrobes Mr. and have Miss wardrobes, and
Mr. be the. sroadway. and Mr. Tucker’s make-up are Jackson's uniforms, to same as those used on Star Players Many
of the members of the from group cast former hits by this The characters are played by actors from “The
Man Who Came to Dinner.” They are Lieut. Sam Spencer, Miss Clara Smith, and Miss Susie Jackson. are stars dramatic
three leading former Red and Black Masquers productions is Frank Mebane, director of this and many former hits. He was
the director of “The Man Who Came to Dinner,” and is president of the dramatic group. Mebane has been working
the cast for they are now rehearsed for the final production. Plot Plot for this murder farce revolves Another carry
over from several weeks and well re- around the Brewster family, all the are insane. Mor- played by Sam Spencer,
is able to untangle some of the family complications, and get all of them off to the institutions where they
belong. members of which timer Brewster, Admission to the performance Tuesday night will be 30 cents apiece. to right are
Miss Clara Smith as and Miss Susie Jackson as Martha Brewster. BLACK MASQUERS production of the year, Again they are
featured in another Masquers production along with other well “The Red and Black Masquers to Stage Broadway Murder Farce “Arsenic
and Old Lace” Guidant Body Is To Listen To Orchestra Little Symphony To Play In Chambers Sunday The Davidson Little
Symphony Orchestra will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium this Sunday afternoon, March 14, at 1:30 p.m., the next of
Davidson's regular Sunday afternoon musical programs. The Little Symphony had a large share in the presentation of an impressive vesper
service of music and meditation last Sunday night, at which time it played Purcell’s “Trumpet Voluntary” and Handel's “Air” and
“Allegro” from the “Water Music Suite.” The program for Sunday afternoon will include: Overture: “The Marriage of Figaro” Mozart Symphony
No. 24 Mozart En Bateau from “Petite Suite” Debussy Waltzes: “Tales from Vienna Woods” Strauss Miss Mary Louise Beltz, noted
contralto, was heard last Sunday, March 7th. Miss Beltz is one of America’s most outstanding young singers, and was winner
last year of the Artist of the National Federation of Music Clubs. She has won admirers over the nation and
was received in Davidson where she was heard and liked by her audience. ANNUAL EDITOR TOMMY BUMBARGER WINS EDITORSHIP Juniors
Make Choice From Six Candidates Roth Quartet Will Present Last Concert Replaces Symphonietta Cancelled Because of Transportation Difficulties Roth String
Quartet will present the last concert of the Davidson Artists’ Series in Chambers Auditorium, Friday, March 12, at 8:15 p.m.
The Biart Symphonietta was originally scheduled to present the final concert of the series, but due to transportation difficulties involved,
it was forced to cancel its engagement. The college was able to engage the Roth Quartet as a substitute attraction.
Members The Feri Roth, members of the quartet violin; Rachmael Weinstock, violin; Julius Shaier, viola; and Oliver Edel, cello. Each
is a virtuoso in his own right, and as a quartet they have the coordination, technical and interpretive skill necessary
to bring forth a really distinguished performance of chamber music. Press critics and commentators in general have accorded the Roth
Quartet a place of superiority among string quartets. The New York Times acclaimed it as “unexcelled and indeed unequalled,” and
from the Pasadena Star-News, “Music of such quality seldom is heard in any hall.” Ends Series The concert Friday night
will compose the finale for the Artists’ Series. This series has been under the sponsorship of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary
music fraternity, and has brought to Davidson a number of outstanding artists. Previous concerts in the series have been given
by Helen Jepson, soprano; an operatic quartet presenting “Opera in Miniature”; pianist Ernest Hutchinson; violinist Albert Spaulding; and Bragiotti and
Fray, duo-pianists. These programs were formerly sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity. The college took charge of this
year’s series and was able to secure artists of prominent authorities. Alumni Win Fellowships Williams, Crane, Rice Receive Honors At
Union Three Davidson graduates have been chosen by the faculty of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Virginia, as recipients of
fellowships for graduate theological study. Seven of the 31 seniors were given the award. The three Davidson graduates were: Rod
Williams, the Thomas Cary Johnson Fellow; Sid Crane and Sherrard Rice, Walter W. Moore Fellows. Rod Williams Williams graduated from
Davidson in 1939 after having come here from Emory University. Besides being president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, he was
a member of the Eta Sigma Phi honorary Greek fraternity. He served as assistant pastor of the Davidson Unity Church
and is widely known in Presbyterian young people’s circles. In 1939, he was a delegate to the World Conference of
Christian Youth in Amsterdam, Holland. Sid Crane Crane, a graduate, is the son of the Rev. and Mrs. Charles L.
Crane, missionaries in the Belgian Congo. He was president of the Y.M.C.A. and a member of O.D.K. and Phi Beta
Kappa honorary fraternities. He is also a past president of the General Assembly's Young People’s League of the Southern Presbyterian
Church. Mac Jeffries and Gaines Stubbins Eliminated In Third Ballot Tommy Bumbarger of Hickory, N.C. won out in the final
ballot over Mac Jeffries and Gaines Stubbins, becoming Editor of Quips and Cranks. The original ballot included Howell Morrow, Buddy
Carson, and Don McIver. Bumbarger was elected on the third ballot. Activities Bumbarger attended Hickory High School, entering Davidson in
1940. Since entering Davidson he has been active in many fields. Tommy is a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, Junior Club, a member of the Spanish Club, a Beaver Club member, served as Junior Class representative on the
Student Council, was Vice-President of the Sophomore Class, and is a member of the Davidsonian and Scripts and Pranks, the
student publications. He was a member of the Advanced R.O.T.C. and is on the golf team. Birdmen Get Fine Welcome
By Local Mob Pre-Flighters Are Gentlemen; Warmly Received At Local Station By BILL STYRON The surging emotions, anxiety, and exquisite
pain of apprehension which has been the lot of the Student Body, suddenly came to a climax last Tuesday with
the advent of 200-odd cadets. Anticipation of the Corps had been heralded in advance, and the occasion was attested by
the general good-will on the part of the students. Needless to say, the pre-flighters are gentlemen of the first water.
No Trouble Although the fledglings have been in the air for some weeks, the advent of the first large group
was, to say the least, a quality cargo. Needless to say, as is prevailing on the campus, the pre-flighters are
gentlemen of the first water. It is surprising that hostilities did not spring up at once. As Tuesday night was
to be remembered, anything becoming to a Northerner’s conception of the idyllic pleasures of the Sunny South was suspended, but
not appearances. Blue vs. Grey has been suspended, at least for the present. As Tuesday night was to be remembered,
anything becoming to a Northerner’s conception of the idyllic pleasures of the Sunny South was suspended, but not appearances. It
was typical of that insipid, irritatingly damp weather which is peculiar to this Davidson sector of the otherwise sunny earth.
Coupled with the fact that the pre-flighters only the day before had basked on the beaches amid the glorious surroundings
of southern Florida, the weather could have been, to put it mildly, rather depressing. Accompanied by this climate quirk, then,
the birdmen were initiated into our venerated surroundings. Obstreperous Pack But the worst of the story is yet to come.
Notwithstanding the fact that it was well nigh unto slumber time, a yelling, raucous, obstreperous pack of Davidsonians galloped about
to usher the new airmen across the campus in the correct collegiate manner. A few early-to-bedder, uninformed as to the
proceedings, might have thought the entire uproar due to a surprise visit by First Lady, or some other equally notorious
character. But it was merely a forlorn, travel-weary group of soldiers which huddled on the platform, and the jubilant reception
doubtless did little to bolster the spirits of those concerned. Although the well-meaning procession of students looked much like a
crowd of joyous French Republicans during a revolutionary beheading ceremony, the fliers were much too done-in to put up either
protest or praise. (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Page 3)
