Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, March 4, 1943

The Davidsonian
Founded By the Class of 1915

Member
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”
Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina
Ten cents per copy.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
$1.80 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN .................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
IVEY STEWART ............ BUSINESS MANAGER

Lacy McLean ............... Assistant Business Manager
Bill Lyman ................ Associate Editor
Joe Eves .................. Associate Editor
Mac Jeffries ............... Managing Editor
Howell Morrow ............ Managing Editor
John Fairley ............... Managing Editor
Jim Stimson ............... Managing Editor
Deane Watson ............. Managing Editor
Legh Scott ................ Sports Editor
Bob Welsh ................ Staff Photographer

EDITORIAL STAFF
Advertising Manager .......... Don McIver
Advertising Manager .......... Jim Harris
Circulation Manager .......... Hodges
Circulation Manager .......... George Rosborough
Subscription Manager ......... Buddy Carson

In Closing...

This week the retiring editor finds himself in a completely unique position in his year’s experience in editorial composition. Countless Monday nights have found him with plenty to say and with nothing to say it about. This time the circumstances are exactly reversed.

When one identifies himself with an activity for four years it becomes difficult to convince himself that the association is at an end, no matter what its nature has been. When it has been pleasant the realization is virtually impossible. However, we willingly surrender to what we suspect to be wiser and more capable hands.

It would be thoughtless of us to fade out without thanking the members of the staff, administration, faculty, and student body who have helped us by contribution, advice, and suggestion, and who have evidenced enough interest even to read our journalistic efforts. The list of those who are actually responsible for the material which fills these pages is too long to enumerate. We would particularly like to mention our debt to Mr. J. L. Payne who, in his work as Alumni Secretary and Public Relations head, has been untiring and consistent in his aid to this publication.

As we look back on a year of publication and examine our file of ideas unused and plans left incomplete, we find that our term has been little different from that of any other college editor. We never wrote that inflammatory editorial that would throw the student body into arms against the rigid and unbending discipline thrust dogmatically upon them. We never scored that complete scoop that would put the paper before the eyes of its readers in a new awe-inspired light.

We only hope, however, that our purpose as expressed last spring, to report the several aspects of campus life accurately and completely, was in some measure accomplished.

In closing, we would like to solicit the increased cooperation of everyone concerned for the new staff, for that is what will be necessary to continue publication of a paper of which Davidson will be proud. You have chosen a good editor aided by a competent staff, but they can’t do it alone. Make this your paper also, “for a better Davidson.”

Ed Erwin.

Novice Song...

Never before, and perhaps never again, has a new staff taken over the reins of The Davidsonian in more unusual circumstances. It is a rather helpless feeling. The war has been with us for over a year now, but until recently it had wrought few drastic changes in the cloistered life of Davidson. Reports have drifted back from the fronts, both at home and abroad of sacrifice and heroism, of too little and too late, and lately of the turning tide: Allied offensive, victory in ‘43. These reports, in spite of their sensational character, have not really brought the war home to Davidsonians. There has been no real sacrifice here in the sense that many know the meaning of that word. News of the deeds of friends, with us but yesterday, have stirred us, but it has still seemed unreal and far away to many.

Suddenly, though, the changes have become drastic. Activated by the urgent need for manpower of a nation involved in a conflict for survival, the government has reached its long arm into our midst with its call to the colors. Fraternity brothers, roommates are leaving in droves. We that remain have a restless feeling. Uncertainty, individually and collectively, is the chief nemesis of the Davidson spirit arising out of this crisis. We, the new staff, in our journalistic venture, are plagued by that uncertainty. Our ranks are depleted, the impetus to work is gone for some. But we intend to carry on as long as possible for a Better Davidson, now and after the war.

Welcome Cadets...

The Davidsonian extends on behalf of the Davidson student body a hearty welcome to you cadets of the Army Air Forces, who will be with us for the next five months. We hope that besides sharing the physical equipment of our college with you we may also share some of the Davidson spirit which is our heritage. We know that your life here will of necessity be strictly regimented, but we seek as cordial a relationship as is possible between our student group and yours.

You are doing big things for your country. Many of our alumni are already in similar service all over the world. More are joining them every week. We, ourselves, will be going soon. Until we are called we are seeking to make the most of our educational opportunities, and in that way we too feel that we are serving our country in a smaller way.

Your coming has of course brought about a crowded condition on the campus, for you and for the regular college students. The dormitory which you inhabit was occupied by students two weeks ago. However, we are glad for Davidson to have this opportunity for more direct participation in the war effort. May we repeat that we are happy to have you with us, and however close or distant our relationship with you, may it be a pleasant one. We consider you from now on as a real and vital part of Davidson College. We wish you greatest success in your work here. Davidson is proud to have a part in your training.

ODDITIES

CLAUDE OVERHOLT, A U. OF AKRON JANITOR, LAYS CLAIM TO BEING THE “CHAMPION FACE MAKER OF THE U.S.” HE IS CALLED THE “RUBBER FACED MAN” CAN ‘SWALLOW’ HIS NOSE!

FENN COLLEGE, CLEVELAND, PURCHASED A HALF BUILT BUT BANKRUPT $2,000,000 SKYSCRAPER FOR $250,000, MADE NECESSARY ALTERATIONS AND NOW HAS A COMPLETE COLLEGE WITH CLASSROOMS, LABS, LIBRARY, GYMNASIUM AND DORMITORY ALL UNDER ONE ROOF!

THE BALL IS ACTUALLY IN PLAY FOR ONLY 12 MINUTES IN A 60-MINUTE FOOTBALL GAME!

Y’s Corner
By SHAW SMITH

Odds and Ends: J. Newbold using the Y phone, “Want to do something for the Y, I mean the Phi?” (The phone has influence) All of which means Phi Party was good. Ever seen “Beaky” Bradley dance? I haven't either, but I was at the Square. Anyway, he didn’t need to with his beaming face, that was broken with smiles as he tripped hither and yon! Yet, he was not alone. Bob Hamilton, Jack Ramsey, The Noseburgh, A. Sime, Jack Ramsey, many other notables in attendance. No kidding, they were almost as much fun to watch as the girls! Earlier evening gave First Prize winners (Amateur Show) Sanders and Morgan chance to show really extraordinary talent as Hews in Y Lounge. This for general public, but after Square broke up participants made slow way to Y, and had repeat showing. Tag Guiton (Honorable Mention in Amateur Show for ‘recitation’) second H. M. for date. Proved by frequent dropping up to meet same, some still unknown to Tag. Tish, tish. Casonova Cocinos proved invaluable as behind scenes worker with both properties (chairs, etc.) and dates! Younger sister visited next day, was second edition of Bro. Frank. Better looking, of course, also better voice: “Like No. 5 sandpaper,” rumored. But all jokes aside, or whatever was talent as Hews in Y Lounge. The Sandpaper Voice is most willing worker every time asked. Next Sat. time movies at Y Lounge between 9 and 10. Sunday, after comes another fine “Listening Hour.” You must attend to really enjoy. Remember that. Washburn B. Johnson, J. McCrae, B. Grosse (Big help, incidentally, with criticism recently) led by Dick Phillips with others made recent Compulsory Church Discussion lively and more helpful. If you think nothing will come of it you might be right, and you might be wrong. What do YOU think... and how much trouble would it be to let me know your sincere suggestions? Might be helpful. Try it. no? By the way, as suggested in a prayer group recently there is a Y suggestion box on the table outside Y office. Use it.

Congratulations to hard working Davidsonian men.From top to bottom. Small staff, work, faithful few because of war cutting long-time plans for politically minded. Here's the chance to show spirit, not Vote Work. Your plans? Priestly Conyers busy getting chapel speakers last minute because War upset in Happens frequently, Conyers’ extra schedule. (Reason for continuous cold, Sandy?) Note, too, politicians, OL P. speakers. C. secures chapel dear! And in all seriousness, do you have something on your mind to air or do you know anyone who has? Rev. Pritchett ashamed Dear, made have a me almost billfold fast He was talking about giving. I’m tickled every time I think of all of you and the Gift Fund, but it certainly is easy to rest after It’s a con Hope you think about that every time you come to church and that you come to church every time you can. Do? Nice! a good job. continuous one: Enjoyed being at Jon Murrays Hall Group the other night. After the meeting Buck Troutman showed me Ask him to show or L. Stafford. Congratulations: 19 Rumpte; 3 South; and 108 East (how I know confidence able, a trick. not what!) on con- of many to give you valuable, difficult, but most pleasant jobs. Hall Groups meeting every night in some cases preparing for Spring Services. Even if your hall doesn’t meet, you can, yourself. Think it over, friend. Wonder if some of us are preparing for last services like these we shall attend? Could be. Are we? Welcome to the campus again, Dr. Mauze! And we are glad of the reason for your being here. Letter from a soldier the other day had this in it, “Truth forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throne; Yet, the scaffold sways the future, And behind the dim unknown, Standeth God with the shadow, Keeping watch upon His own.” I’m glad I like it. ’Scuse me, there’s the phone. Hope it's your girl calling this number. Yours, Shaw Smith.

Open Forum

To the Townspeople: At the Fray and Bragiotti concert last week I happened to get a seat in approximately the center of one of the middle sections of the auditorium. I considered myself lucky to get such a choice seat, but was stupid enough not to take cognizance of the fact that four little seven and eight-year-old boys were occupying the row in front of me. Had I used any sense at all, I should have immediately moved as far away from that place as possible. The result of sitting behind the little boys, unfortunately, was that the concert, instead of being enjoyable as it should have been, became a prolonged torture. The little boys did not actually make much noise, but their fidgeting around playfully, their whispering, and their giggling were terribly annoying to those in the vicinity. I in no way condone the little boys. Indeed, think (Continued on Page 3)

The Operating Table

Speculation is still rampant on the campus as to the identity of the disher-outer of the tasty morsels that have spelled ignoble, immodest delight to a few and ruin to many in these columns. Guesses have run all the way from Little ED, HIMSELF, to “Tiger” Dendy, but the true identity of the doctor who has been doing all the cutting still remains shrouded in mystery. Lest the trail get too hot though, this much-denounced scribe has bowed out in favor of the new journalistic generation. But, although the narrator changes, the subjects of past dissertations continue to expose themselves to the all-seeing eye. It seems that Lard Royster has finally found the solution to his transportation problem by persuading Klotz to let him wear his famous uniform on his next jaunt to the Gate City. O. E. Starnes recently set some kind of record in the art of getting to the point. Met gal, pinned same down at Winthrop in less time than it takes to tell it, twenty minutes to be exact. However, it is rumored that the unpinning took place shortly thereafter. Tom, the Red, Burke, finds himself in a most perplexing dilemma. A certain girl not satisfied with the possession of his jewelry acquired an obsession for a photo of the unfortunate. After putting out to the tune of six bucks for said picture, something went wrong. The picture is to arrive shortly, and “Red” plans to sell to the highest bidder. And speaking of pin trouble, Deloney The Face, Hull is having problems too. “Dee” Dunn has been playing with fire, and is about to get burned. Just to make things interesting he's been dating Joyce lately, but when Johnny began to disapprove, he sent her one of the third party’s letters as evidence “of the frivolity of it all.” Now Joyce is threatening to turn over Dee's epistles to Johnny to prove the opposite. Tch, tch. And while on the subject of Dunns, “Pumpkin” is still lost in the frozen north. Still gets the air mails, but has quit passing them around for public consumption. “Zorro” Bachman, who has the distinction of being the first D. C. man to be called by the ERC, was given quite a sendoff in Charlotte the other night. His official state (Continued on Page 3)

Pitch-and-Toss

By CHARLIE BROCKMAN

On The Decline And Fall of Radio’s Plug-Ads. Sometime last Spring there appeared in the Reader’s Digest an article called “Radio's Plug-Uglies”, which was a rather fluent attempt at putting a stop to the absurdities by the makers of various products in an attempt to sell said products. For a time it appeared that this article might bring relief to millions of wretched listeners, but lately there have appeared several new broadcast plugs which make the previously silly Pepsi Cola ditties sound like excerpts from a master’s thesis. To wit: this bit of gurgling comes beaming out of WBT from sun-up till supper, singsong by a voice which would appear to belong to a normally-developed woman: “—And don't forget darling, Bring some Skinner's Macaroni, And some Skinner's Spaghetti And some Skinner’s Skinner’s Skinner’s Skinner’s Skinner’s Da... da... Skinner’s!!" Less annoying only by virtue of the fact that it is not quite so lengthy is the following, whined by the childish voice of “Wee Bonnie Baker”, who evidently is out of anything else to do: “Buy Dentyne brand new! And some Dentyne regular too!” Even if we could acquiesce to this pitiful request, we don't want peppermint, after the fiftieth time of that! Surely no human being in his right mind started the baloney about “hustle-bubbles”, or worse, the extended ode on a soap-box which eventually terminates: “.—Super-Suds, Super-Suds, Nothing does like SuperStuuu-uds.” Then too, chirping for another soap in imitation of the more intellectual bob-white, is the female who squeaks, “Rinso-WHITE, Rinso WHITE!” These insults, hurled incessantly at American intelligence, put the at-least-original “B.O.” foghorn among the classics. It’s bad enough when such plugs chirped in a sort of taste at afternoon, but when programs that listeners depend on for real entertainment resort to such idiotic tactics, something ought to be done. Lucky Strike’s cryptic “Best Tunes of All, etc.”, repeated some sixty times in less than an hour, nearly drove once-devoted listeners from the Hit Parade a few weeks ago. Before that we were wishing that the same firm could keep their d—— “green” and send the commercials to war. If such gruesome epithets annoy the listener who turns on the radio for a little relaxation, imagine the effect on the already-harassed housewife. If any salesmanship is involved, it is only the stimulation of a desire to sell the radio to the first junk man who shows up!

Cinema Comments

By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday

STAND BY FOR ACTION

Called the “Mightiest Drama of all-time”, STAND BY FOR ACTION boasts an impressive array of stars. Robert Taylor, Brian Donlevy, and Charles Laughton got the top billing while Walter Brennan, Marilyn Maxwell, Henry O'Neill and Marta Linden rate the lower brackets. This action thriller is the story of the American Navy's work in evacuation in the Pacific area. Robert Leonard directs for Metro.

Saturday

CHETNIK

The fighting guerilla of the current war provide the scene and story for Draja Mihailovitch and the immortal Anna Sten in Saturday's feature attraction.

Monday and Tuesday

NIGHT TO REMEMBER

Columbia's production, NIGHT TO REMEMBER, which stars Loretta Young and Brian Aherne, is the better than average love story booked for Monday and Tuesday. The story follows rather conventional lines, but the acting is good and the plot not too staid to be enjoyable.

Wednesday

SERGEANT YORK

Gary Cooper and Joan Leslie co-star in the repeat performance of one of the best shows of the last several years. Both of the leads are carried well and there is excellent work among several members of the supporting cast. Action seekers will appreciate the vivid war scenes and the shooting match in the mountains of Tennessee while the sentimental streak is touched by the story of Alvin York’s struggle with his conscience as well as with his affair with Joan Leslie.

LATE SHOW: TRUCK BUSTERS

I would like for JIM MITCHENER to be my guest for any show next week.