Friday, November 19, 1943
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Fall Services Closed Nov. 6
Smart Presented Six Sermons During Series

Fall Services of 1943 came to a close Thursday night, November 6, with a communion service following Dr. W. A. Smart’s final sermon. Dr. Smart presented six sermons during his three days on the Davidson campus, speaking at chapel each morning and at 7:15 each evening. He opened the series Tuesday morning by discussing the question of the source of goodness in non-Christian people, making the point that all goodness comes from God, regardless of where it is found. Tuesday night Dr. Smart spoke on the laws of the spirit, giving three fundamental rules necessary to spiritual growth. In chapel Wednesday morning he spoke on the relationship of pleasure to religion, his thought being that all impulses are God-given and each has its place in the balanced life. The topic of the sermon Wednesday night was “Suffering.” In developing this theme Dr. Smart said that suffering is not always the consequence of sin, nor is piety always rewarded with prosperity, supporting this view with Christ’s promise that all who follow Him must suffer. The text used Thursday morning was “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God.” The speaker interpreted the word “first” to mean a place of prime importance, and stated that God should have such a place in every man’s life, regardless of his occupation. In his closing sermon Dr. Smart spoke on entering into the suffering of Christ, and extolled the compassionate heart that is sensitive to the pains of others and can sympathize with them.

Edgar Patterson, president of the Y. M. C. A., said in a statement to The Davidsonian, “Dr. Smart’s series of messages served as an excellent mental and spiritual catalyst for his hearers. He brought religion down off the shelf and presented it in practical terms.”

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
Thur., Fri., Nov. 18, 19
A Lady Takes a Chance
Sat., Nov. 20
The Adventures of a Rookie
Mon., Tue., Nov. 22, 23
The City That Stopped Hitler
Thur., Fri., Nov. 25, 26
Rosie O’Grady
Coming—
Five Graves to Cairo

HOLIDAYS
Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 25th will be a general holiday throughout the campus, for civilian students and aviation cadets as well. Last year it was exchanged by agreement between faculty and students for an additional Saturday holiday when one of the chief football games of the season was played in Charlotte. This year Christmas holidays are expected by the administration to run from Friday, December 17 to January 5.

Church Opens Building Fund
A campaign for funds to build a new church on the Davidson College campus has been authorized by the trustees of the college and is now under way. The goal set for the drive is $250,000. Gifts amounting to $50,000 have already been received in that direction. Mr. T. S. Morgan, who assisted in the securing of funds for the new gymnasium, is working with the college this fall toward the completion of the campaign. This campaign will not be conducted like the gym fund drive last year. During the latter drive, gifts were widely solicited among alumni and friends of the college, whereas the present goal is expected to be met by large donations. Dr. J. R. Cunningham, president, states: “The prediction is that this year will see an all-time high in the record of American gifts to philanthropic undertakings. Many of the friends of Davidson are anxious to see her equipped in the best possible way for her service in the post-war period. It would seem probable that the providing of funds for the new church can be secured within the next few months. There is a hearty agreement among the people of the college and community as well as among the ministers and leaders of the Church that such a structure is greatly needed and should be provided.”

Mr. Jackson told The Davidsonian that collections on the Gymnasium Fund have been very satisfactory. He said that almost $200,000 of the pledged $260,000has been collected either in cash or Government bonds. is “Comme il faut”——

He: Please.
She: No.
He: Pretty please.
She: Positively no. I said no.
He: Aw, please, ma, all the other kids are going barefooted.

In R.O.T.C. Hocking Gives Phi Beta Talk

Professor J. M. Douglas President of Chapter

Dr. William Ernest Hocking, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Harvard University, will deliver the annual Phi Beta Kappa oration on November 29 in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Hocking will speak to the student body during chapel and will deliver a public address at 8 PM. In the evening, he will speak under the auspices of Phi Beta Kappa; after his address, there will be a formal reception for him in the guest house, to which members of Phi Beta Kappa and their wives are invited. Professor Foreman is arranging some informal meetings with various groups who are interested in philosophical questions.

Dr. Hocking, a native of Cleveland, Ohio, has taken the following degrees: A.B., A.M., Ph.D. at Harvard; D.D. at Williams; D.D. at Chicago; Th.D. at Glasgow; L.L.D. at Oberlin. He has taught varied philosophical subjects at Andover Theological Seminary, the University of California, Yale, and Harvard University. A famous lecturer, Dr. Hocking has toured in Europe, giving talks also at Oxford and Cambridge University. During the first World War, he served as an observer at the American and British Fronts under British auspices. He has also worked with the United States War Department. Dr. Hocking is famous for being the author of several well-known philosophical works, several of which are: The Meaning of God in Human Experience, Man and the State, The Spirit of World Politics, and Thoughts on Life and Death.

Officers

For this year, Professor J. M. Douglas is the President of Gamma Chapter of North Carolina of the Phi Beta Kappa Society; Dean J. C. Bailey, Vice-President; and Professor G. B. Watts, Secretary. There are no undergraduate members of Phi Beta Kappa in the Student Body.

Battalion Is Organized

Department Moore Chosen Lieut-Colonel; Commands Unit

The two companies and band of the Davidson College ROTC were combined on November 3 into a Battalion headed by Lt.-Colonel P. H. Moore. Lt.-Colonel Moore's Staff is comprised of R. M. Flowers, Personnel Officer, and Lt. J. K. Inscoe, Operations Officer. The following changes in Company "A" occurred: R. M. Flowers transferred to Staff; I. B. Garrett promoted to Staff Sergeant; W. A. McBride promoted to Platoon Sergeant; P. M. Medford promoted to Sergeant; K. W. Barber promoted to Corporal; H. G. Bradford promoted to Corporal; C. E. Ratliff promoted to Corporal; and W. A. Wier promoted to Corporal.

The following changes occurred in Company "B": P. H. Moore and J. K. Inscoe transferred to Staff; B. B. Moore promoted to Captain, Company Commander; F. B. Cooper transferred to Company "A" and promoted to Lieutenant; L. A. Meeks promoted to Staff Sergeant; J. A. Wheliss promoted to Sergeant; C. D. Williams promoted to Sergeant; K. C. Carpenter promoted to Corporal; S. J. Ervin promoted to Corporal; and G. P. Marsh promoted to Corporal.

These above changes were made in an effort to strengthen the ROTC. If anyone appointed to a post is found lacking, he will be replaced, according to Major E. E. Marsh, PMS&T. The first showing of the new battalion at a parade on Monday, November 15, Major Marsh and Sergeant Burton did not expect an excellent showing, but they hope that rough spots will be ironed out soon.

SIGMA UPSILON

No definite plans have been made this year for Davidson's chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary fraternity recognizing literary talent, but it is the opinion that the society will be reorganized in the spring, after the student body has had a chance to show its abilities. Bobby Miller is the only student member on the campus this year.