Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

Davidsonian

LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1943

Sait Speaks For Fall Services Next Week

Annual Series Begins Nov. 2

Emory Professor To Bring Religious Lectures

Dr. Wyatt A. Smart, Professor of Biblical Theology, Candler School of Theology, Emory University, will conduct the Fall Services in Chambers, which will last for three days, November 2, 3, 4. The morning service will begin at 12:45 and will last until 1:15. The night service will begin at 7:15 and will terminate at 8:15.

A native of South Carolina, Dr. Smart received his A. B. degree from Vanderbilt University in 1904 and his B. D. from Union Theological Seminary in 1907. He also did special graduate work at the University of Chicago. Two universities have conferred on him the honorary Doctor of Divinity degree; they are Southern Methodist University in 1919 and Ohio Wesleyan University in 1930.

Ordained In 1907

Dr. Smart was ordained to the ministry in 1907 and served as a pastor in Lynchburg, Portsmouth, and Charlottesville, Va., before joining the original faculty of the Emory Theological School when it was organized in 1914.

In addition to his work in the classroom and on the campus, Dr. Smart is the leader of Emory’s weekly chapel programs. He is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis, Phi Beta Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity.

STUDENT BODY LEADERS

Pictured above, left to right are Sam Hay, Ed Patterson, Bob Pierce, and Henry Royster. Second row, left to right are Hank Watt, J. Evans, C. T. Daniel, and Jim Alexander. All were elected at the beginning of the present school term.

Ervin Hinkle

Home-Coming Pan-Hell Ball; Freshmen Entertain Friday With Shirt-Tail, Pep-Meeting

Davidson Homecoming festivities will be held this year on Friday and Saturday, November fifth and sixth, in Davidson and Charlotte. Leading off the series of Homecoming events will be a bonfire, pep meeting, and shirt-tail parade at 7:30 Friday night. A concert by the Davidson Symphonic Band in Chambers Auditorium will follow. The “Y” will sponsor Friday night’s events, which will be concluded by an informal reception at the Guest House from 9:30 till 10:00. Everyone is invited and refreshments will be served.

Alumni Luncheon

Davidson alumni will gather in Charlotte Saturday for a luncheon at the Hotel Charlotte. A program of entertainment will be presented to the visiting sons of Davidson. Highlight of the weekend will be the football game between the Davidson Wildcats and the Clemson Tigers Saturday afternoon in Charlotte’s American Legion Stadium. The Wildcats are hopeful of winning their first victory of the season at that time.

Homecoming Dance

The annual Pan-Hellenic Homecoming Dance will be held on Saturday night.

Evans Heads Senior Class

Patterson Chosen President Of Y. M. C. A.

The Davidson student body has elected Sam Hay, Ed Patterson, Toppy Evans, C. T. Daniel, Jim Alexander, Hank Watt, and Henry Royster as its officers for the 1943-44 school year.

As president of the student body, Sam Hay is chairman of the student council and representative of the student body on the YMCA cabinet. Hay is also a member of the D club, Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and of Sigma Upsilon.

Ed Patterson was chosen president of the YMCA and head of the Y cabinet. Patterson is also president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemistry fraternity.

Pierce Heads Paper

Bob Pierce, president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, has been chosen editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian until his graduation in February. Pierce is a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, recorder of the Court of Control, business manager of the annual, assistant business manager of “Scripts ’N Pranks,” the college magazine, and President of International Relations Club.

To be business manager of the Davidsonian, Bob Cushman, president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, was chosen. Cushman is also vice-president of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity, and a member of Philanthropic Literary Society, and Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity.

Lead Freshmen

Hank Watt and Henry Royster were chosen to lead the Class of '47 through its freshman year, Watt as president and Royster as vice-president.

---