HEAR NOTABLE VIOLINIST Che Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ATTEND FAREWELL FROLIC Volume XXX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1943 No. 13 Johnny Mack and His Band To Play For Farewell Frolic Informal Dance In Charlotte Armory Replaces Mid-Winters Set Johnny Mack's Band Davidson's Charlotte evening, 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. take the place Mid-Winters Set. Eleven Artists Eleven artists make up Johnny Mack's band. They will come straight to Davidson from the Tantilla Gardens of Richmond, Va., where they have been playing. War time restrictions made necessary the change of the dances from the usual three or four to one. The closing time of the dance has also been changed from twelve to eleven so that the students and their dates can ride the buses back into town. No Figure Informality will be the key note of the dance. Dress will be informal for both the boys and girls. There will be no figure. Instead of the elaborate decorations of former years, the dance floor will be surrounded by tables where the dancers may sit. The tickets for the Farewell Frolic are two dollars apiece. Regiments’ Leadership Reassigned Graduation of Seniors Necessitates Shuffle Among R.O.T.C. Officers Many changes have been made in the R.O.T.C. setup on account of the graduation of Seniors. Many officers are in their respective places as in the last semester. However, the following have been reassigned: Battalion Heads Major 1st Battalion, Myron G. Sandifer. Captain and Adjutant 1st Battalion, James D. Phillips. Major 2nd Battalion, Joseph B. McCoy. Captain and Adjutant 2nd Battalion, Norman J. Wayman. Second Lieutenant, Staff of 2nd Battalion, William C. Robinson. Captains Captains: Benjamin R. Lacy, Company “B"; Eugene M. Sutton, Company “F”; Ross L. Parks, Company “E”. First Lieutenants: John M. Belk, Company “A”; John A. Frederick, Company “B"; and Thomas F. Stimson, Company “E”. Second Lieutenants Second Lieutenants: Wilbur L. Carter, Company “A”; William H. Crane, Company “G"; Joseph S. Eve, Company “G"; Boyd C. Hipp, Company “B”; Clyde H. Hobbs, Company “C”; Clarence A. McArthur, Company “C”; and Cyrus C. McNeely, Company “B”. First Sergeants: William R. Dabney, Company “B"; Edward S. Barnwell, Company “E”; McAlister Carson, Company “G"; Price H. Gwynn, Company “F"; Legh R. Scott, Company “C”; and Patrick M. Williams, Company “A”. Other Sergeants Color Sergeants: John A. Lusk and Crawford W. Wheeler. Sergeants: Robert A. Currie, Company “A”; James P. Harris, Company “A”; Samuel H. Henderson, Company “G"; McChesney H. Jeffries, Company “G"; William W. Lacy, Company “A"; Alfred G. Taylor, Company “A"; and Robert B. Welch, Company “A”. NEW MANAGER Magazine Has High Standing Scripts ’N Pranks Ranks In Top Eight Scripts ’N Pranks, Davidson's collegiate magazine, was ranked as one of the eight best college magazines in the country by the Harvard Lampoon in its December issue. At the end of each year, the Lampoon, a well-known humor magazine of Harvard University, writes a critique on the other student magazines throughout the nation. This is the first year that the Scripts ’N Pranks has received praise in the annual critique. Other Winners The Lampoon awarded first place this year to the Yale Record, and the remaining seven schools that were noted were not ranked. The other magazines were the Williams Purple Cow, the Columbia Jester, the University of Washington Columns, the West Point Pointer, the Annapolis Log, and the Scripts ’N Pranks. All of the magazines praised are from schools in the East except the Washington Columns, from the Far West, and the Scripts ’N Pranks, from the South. Editors for the Scripts 'N Pranks for the calendar year have been Dan Hodges, editor for 1941-’42, and Bill Lyman, editor for the present college year. Lyman Comments “Although the Harvard Lampoon has always been recognized as one of the very top college magazines in the country,” said Lyman, “so that this comes as a very nice honor, it must be realized that the judgment is in no way final. The official ranking will be made by the National Scholastic Press Association in March. The staff of the Scripts ’N Pranks has hopes of rating high in this official contest.” Another honor came to the Scripts ’N Pranks recently when the Ohio State Sundial borrowed two cartoons from the Homecoming issue for their Christmas issue. Both were drawn by artist Tom Gregg. The Sundial is president of the American Association of College Comics, and was last year voted the most representative college magazine in the nation. STOP RUMORS The Davidsonian has selected what the staff believes will be a worth-while project in ridding the campus of dangerous rumors. The staff takes this up as a worthy and serious project and suggests that students cooperate. All reports that are considered to be unofficial should be turned in to The Davidsonian, so that the staff can inquire about and analyze the facts. This new project will begin next week. A report of a rumor should be mailed to the paper or turned over to the editor in written form. The innovation of this plan seems appropriate at the time in which we are living. Board Names Ivey Stewart New Manager Stewart Will Replace Young As Business Manager of Davidsonian Ivey Stewart, senior from Charlotte, N. C., has been chosen by the Publications Board in its January meeting to succeed Peter Young as Business Manager of the Davidsonian. Complete Term Stewart, who served for three years on the business staff of the publication, will complete the 1942-'43 term left vacant by the graduation of Young Friday. Ordinarily this post endures for a term of one year and its holder is chosen from a group of six juniors on the staff. He takes over his duties in the spring and continues them until the following spring. How Elected The manager, like the manager of the other two publications, is elected by the members of the Publications Board, which is composed of one student elected representative, either Editor or Business Manager, from each publication and two faculty members, this year Dr. Jackson and Prof. Poole. Stewart is a member of the newly conducted Elections Board and of Pi Gamma Mu, honorary social science group. He is President of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. SUNDAY MUSICALE Mr. Earl Berg, baritone of the Davidson Music Department, will present the first Sunday afternoon concert of the new semester on February 7 at 4:30 P.M. He will be accompanied by his wife, Eunice Plann Berg. He will sing the following numbers: Recitatives and Aria from St. Matthew Passion Bach Handel Ah! Mio Cor Come, raggio di sol Caldara Plaisir d'amour Martini Vai pleure un reve Ruc Marte Franz Die Beidere Grenadier Schumann Gruppe aus dem Tartarus Schubert Fussreise Wolf Swedish folk songs: a. Wristallen den fria b. Virvindar friska Do not go, my Love Hageman To the Children Rachmaninoff The false Phillis Old English FAMOUS VIOLINIST Albert Spaulding Albert Spaulding Gives Violin Concert Tonight Well Known Musician Presents Fourth Number On Artist Series Albert Spaulding, internationally known violinist, and master of ceremonies of the popular radio program, the Coca Cola Hour, will appear tonight in the fourth of the Artist Series’ Concerts presented by Davidson College. The program, which will be presented in Chamber Auditorium, will begin at 8:15 tonight. Single tickets are on sale at $1.50 general admission, and $1 for students of the college. Debut In Paris Spaulding's career as a concert violinist began in Europe, where he studied, and where he was first recognized. His debut into the musical world was made in Paris. Born in Chicago, he came to the United States for his first concert tour at the age of eighteen, and hasbeen acclaimed by critics and audiences ever since.

Favorite Sports
The musician’s career has been an eventful one. As a young American, he was fond of boxing, a sport shunned by artists usually because of the danger of injury to the hands. Spalding is quoted as saying, “I enjoyed it, but anyone could knock me out.” When not at work, the famous musician relaxes by swimming and playing tennis. At the outbreak of the first World War, he canceled his scheduled concert tour and enlisted as an aviator. Both the Italian and the French governments awarded him for distinguished service in this field. At the close of the war, he again took up music and has been playing in concerts for 30 years.

Career In Europe
From the time Spalding's career was assured, he rose immediately in European fields, playing at command performances before royalty all over the world and being awarded the Legion of Honor by France for his musical work. Davidson men look forward to the aristocrat of the violin in a concert here on the campus. The program to be given includes the following:

Program
Sonata in A Major, Corelli
Sonata in D Major, Ludwig van Beethoven
Fantasy, Villa-Lobos
Variations, Joachim
Nocturne, Chopin
Scherzo-Valse, Chabrier-Loeffler
En Bateau, Debussy
Caprice, Saint-Saëns

Spalding’s tour is under the management of the Metropolitan Musical Bureau, Inc., of New York City.

HEADS COMMENCEMENT PROCESSION
Dr. Walter K. Greene, president of Wofford College and commencement speaker last Friday, is shown here at the head of the procession into Chambers auditorium along with Dr. John R. Cunningham, Davidson's President, on his left. Behind them are Rev. Carl Pritchett (left), and Dr. C. K. Brown, dean of the faculty. The twenty-four graduates and the faculty followed in the procession.

Twenty-Four Get Diplomas In Graduation
Dr. Greene Delivers Baccalaureate Address At Mid-Year Ceremony

Twenty-four students graduated at the first mid-year commencement ceremony in the history of Davidson College on Friday, January 29. Dr. Walter K. Greene, president of Wofford College, made the principal address to the graduating class. The program opened at 12 noon with the academic procession of the graduates, speakers, and faculty. Rev. Carl Pritchett gave the invocation.

Dr. Greene’s baccalaureate address outlined the present situation and went on to show that the chief hope of America in the present crisis is a combination of the heart as well as the body in the winning of the war and of the peace to follow it. Dr. Greene said, “A combination of mechanics—the bodily organization, and the dynamics, or spiritual force constitutes America's pressing problem. Our spiritual Plymouth Rock is built upon the foundation of an appreciation of the sacredness of the individual. All of our other concepts of freedom are the capstones that rest upon it.”

Honor Students
Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Faculty, presented the graduates to Dr. Cunningham, who awarded the diplomas. Dean Brown announced the honor students: Bill Miller and Bill Wood of Davidson received bachelor of arts degrees cum laude. Connor Belge and Erskine Parks of Bristol received bachelor of science degrees cum laude. Fred Morton of Waycross was awarded a bachelor of arts degree magna cum laude.

The students awarded diplomas were as follows: Harry Allen of Lenoir, Linus John of Davidson, and others.

Davidson To Benefit By Graduates’ Gift
Donor of Library Sets Up Queens-Davidson Fund To Maintain Gift

A trust fund of $150,000 was set up this week for Davidson College from a bequest given by James Parks Grey, a wealthy hosiery mill owner who died in Charlotte on December 30. His will provided that 20 percent of his stock in the Grey Hosiery Mill of Bristol, Virginia, be held in perpetuity for Davidson College. The income from that stock he directed to be used to maintain the James Parks Grey Memorial Library, a $150,000 gift he made to the college a few years ago, and the rest to be used by the trustees to the best interests of the college.

Trustees of Estate
Trustees and executors of the estate were named as the Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, Mr. Frank L. Jackson, Treasurer of Dynamics and Mechanics, and Dr. Well of Bristol. Captain James Parks Grey, class of '95, was very modest in making his first gift in 1941; he wished to remain anonymous. This time, however, the gift was made as a legacy, recognized only after his death.

Five Sons
His oldest brother, Dr. William Grey, class of '84, returned to his Alma Mater, Davidson, in 1893 to serve as Professor of Latin Literature until 1935 when he was made Professor Emeritus. Hugh A. Parks made significant contributions to Davidson. The five sons, all of whom graduated from Davidson, were recipients of the best that Davidson had to offer and throughout their lives, they associated with the highest endeavors in Davidson.

Grandsons
In addition to the five sons of Mr. and Mrs. Grey, three grandsons and one great-grandson have been graduated here. The new library is a fitting tribute and lasting memorial to James Parks Grey.

Court Gets Number Of Yellow Caps
McCoy Warns Negligent Freshmen To Have Caps On By Tuesday

Negligent freshmen were warned of their lax conduct last Tuesday. The Court of Control has a supply of yellow caps on hand in case of the consistently negligent wearer of a yellow cap. As long as the Court is in session, it will be strict with respect to the wearing of yellow caps.

Marshall of Mars Hill was one of the graduates; Arthur Paterson led the academic procession at the beginning of the ceremony. Many students, parents of the graduates, and friends of the college attended this, the first of three commencements for Davidson during 1943.