Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 19, 1943

Frosh Campus Stops Dec. 1st. Royster Will Tolerate No More ‘Noxiousness’

On November 11, the entire Freshman class was placed on strict campus by the Court of Control. The campusing is supposed to end December 1, but any infraction by the class will result in a prolongation of the sentence. Judge Royster said that several Freshmen have been caught violating this ruling and states that they will be severely punished. The entire Court will decide on the punishment, but something severe is guaranteed. Judge Royster states that he will not tolerate any foolishness by the Freshman class and he promised serious punishment to each violator. Any sentence by the Court of Control is subject to review by the Student Council in order to protect Freshman interests. To back the Court of Control, any Freshman who flagrantly violates Freshman Regulations and Court sentences is subject to the full discipline of the Student Council. This means that a habitual violator can be dismissed from school.

Major Checks ROTC Here

During the middle of the past month, an inspection of the school led by Maj. A. D. Sanders was highly successful. This inspection was not the annual War Department inspection but more on the order of a check-up. The report submitted so far is definite.

STATE TAKES VICTORY (Continued from Page 3)

Williams were clearly the stars on the brief passing jaunt. Captain Sam Hay turned in another fine 60-minute job at his tackle slot. The absence of George Floyd due to injuries hampered the Presbyterians a great deal.

“B” TEAM LOSES (Continued from Page 3)

They bucked the point across and the half ended 12 to 7. In the second half, play fluctuated at midfield until Scofield intercepted a pass, running it back to around the 25. Soon after that, our kick from the goal line was partially blocked, enabling a Barium linebacker to scoop it up and drive across for their second score. The extra point was good. Davidson passed and ran the ball deep into Barium territory and took the lead again when Flowers drove over from the 4. This time Coonrad’s kick was good. Barium Springs scored their winning touchdown in the third quarter on an intercepted pass in the flats which they ran over standing up. They missed the extra point, which was not vitally needed anyway. Although Davidson tried desperately to score in the closing minutes, the attempt was futile and the game ended 20 to 19 in favor of the scrappy eleven from Barium Springs.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO. General Merchandise

WILDCATS DEFEATED (Continued from Page 3)

Ashmore’s aerial and hauled it back to the 'Cat 20. Once again the “thin red line” held the Bengals at bay and Ashmore punted out of danger. Late in the period, Seay broke through and blocked one of Ashmore’s boots, and Chappell fell on the ball on the Davidson 20. Russell, the ace Clemson flanker, on an end around, romped into the end zone untouched. Freeman's kick was wide and the visitors led 6-0 at the half. Soon after the intermission, the Tigers scored again when Whitmirescooted 41 yards on a reverse. The extra point was blocked. The Clemson forces, capitalizing on another Wildcat miscue, scored again a few plays later. With the ball in the McEvermen’s possession on their own 29, a bad pass from center eluded the ‘Cat backs and Clemson recovered on the 18. Rogers and Trumpore smashed to the 1 where the latter terminated the march by crashing into the end zone. Mooneyhan’s kick was good and the Tigers held a 19-0 margin at the end of the third quarter. Still another miscue set up the final tally. Simpson fell on Crane’s fumble just inside the Davidson 20. Despite a 15-yard penalty, Trumpore chalked up the marker on a 19-yard off-tackle jaunt. Mooneyhan again converted. Late in the final chapter, the ’Cats uncorked the drive which resulted in the Wildcat score. Paced and Black machine marched to the Tiger 1 where Flowers hit the right side of the line for the touchdown. Williams’ conversion attempt struck the crossbar and bounded back onto the field. Trumpore, Rogers, and Whitmire were the outstanding performers for the Bengals. Ashmore, Flowers, and White led the ‘Cat ground-gainers while Williams, Hay, and Floyd played creditably in the forward wall.

K. A.’s AND SIGS TIED
(Continued from Page 3)

Sigs 2-0. They rallied and closed the season with victories over the S.P.E.’s and the Pikas. Tom Abell and Dick Baxter were the standout performers in the big forward wall. The Kappa Sigs, with a host of speedy backs, used a tricky attack to achieve their fine record. The Sigmas opened the chase with a narrow 1-0 win over the S.P.E.’s. In their next appearance, they were soundly thumped by the Betas. They came to life at that point and copped their remaining games easily, climaxing the spurt with a 54-0 triumph over the hopeless Pikas. The other clubs tried desperately to keep pace with the leaders but they were unable to do so. The Betas, led by Ellington, White, and Witherington, and the S.P.E.’s, with Triplett, Owens, and Bob Bradford as their stars, tied for the runner-up slot.

Above all, it is, according to Maj. E. E. Marsh, PMS&T, the best the College has ever received. It is truly a report that the faculty and students can take pride in. On every detail, Davidson was either Excellent or Adequate. This maintains the high standing that Davidson has enjoyed in the past.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. TRYON ST.
Opposite Johnston Bldg.
FOR PRIVATE DINING ROOM RESERVATION PHONE 5490

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
THE BEST

DeLuxe

EFIRD'S MEN’S SHOP
Street Floor

WEAR HIGH QUALITY Clipper Craft FALL SUITS

Now, more than ever, the famous Clipper Craft Plan works to your advantage, giving you the style you prefer, the quality that’s so important—and the savings that make your dollars go further. You get the economies of planned production and coast-to-coast distribution at nationally advertised low prices. Select your new Clipper Craft Suit from Cluster-stripe worsteds; rich Paca-Moor Shetlands; Decorated Twills; Worsted Cheviots ... in your favorite models.