Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The first round of the boys' singles tennis tournament is now under way with the following matches scheduled:

Pete Withers vs. Ed Pickard

Mike Williams (Bye)

Charles DeLancy vs. Orph Coonrad

O.D. Lewis vs. Carl Coffey

Bill Linton (Bye)

Jack Watt vs. Jimmie Love

Harry Cox vs. John Craven

Jerry Newbold vs. George Meaden

Ben Williamson vs. Bobby Flavors

Joe Cushman vs. Harold Marshall

Reeza Jones (Bye)

Phillip Whittier vs. Fitzhugh Legerton

Troy Evans vs. Andy Owens

Mason Sandifer (Bye)

Bryant Monroe vs. Paul Stirling

Dexter Hightower (Bye)

The first three rounds, the matches will be decided by the best two out of three sets. The Semi-finals and
Finals will be three out of five sets.

The first round is to be played off by the END OF THIS WEEK! The respective opponents are requested to
get together and arrange a time of play as soon as possible.

This article is written only three games have been played in the Twilight League. Watts III and IV are tied
for first with one victory and no defeats. Georgia I is second with one victory and one defeat, and Watts
I and II are last with no victories and two defeats. The Georgia III team has not played as it
has been rained out on two occasions.

In the second game of the season, Watts III-IV blasted out a 15-9 victory over Georgia I. The Watts capitalized
on seven errors and four hits to score seven runs in the first inning. They managed to hold on to
their lead throughout the contest, with Angelo Coutzeas pitching a seven-hit game. Talliaferro was the hitting star for the winners
with two hits in three trips to the plate. McBride led Georgia I, gaining two hits in three appearances, including
a triple. Brewin also made two hits in four trips, duplicating his first game's performance. The losing pitcher was F.
Houlahan, who gave up only eight hits but received poor support from his field, however, his team making a total
of fifteen errors.

In the third game, Penn handed Watts I-II their second straight defeat by a score of 11-6. Sam Spencer hurled
for the winners, receiving good support in the field. Five of the nine players batted .500 or better and all
but two received hits. Hobbie led the team with three for four. McCoy, Spencer, and Linton each got one hit.
McCoy's hits included a double. Sandifer collected two hits in four appearances. Every player but two got hits for Watts,
although no player got more than one. Spencer, Linton, and Hobbie each had one for two. The losing pitcher was
Linton. Watts was shut out for two innings by Spencer, but in the third, they broke loose for five runs
on five hits. This game was played five innings because of threatening weather.

Games scheduled for the next week are Georgia III vs. Watts III-IV on Wednesday; Penn vs. Georgia I on Thursday;
Georgia III vs. Penn on Monday; and Watts I-II vs. Watts III-IV on Tuesday.

There are 26,600,000,000 leaves on the trees of the Davidson Campus.
