PORTS SPOTLIGHT BY JIM JACKSON

As the days grow longer and balmier, the Davidson man grows lazier and soon the stadium will be filled in
the afternoon hours with sunbathers. And as the annual clothes-shedding season approaches, the annual problem of what to do on
Sunday afternoon, when it’s too much like spring to study and the outdoors calls, approaches. There are many arguments, good
and bad, for and against Sunday sports. It is an old Davidson tradition, and a respected one, to observe the
Sabbath by refraining from any athletics. Perhaps this is the best policy. Perhaps it’s not.

More than ever before, the Davidson student finds himself the victim of circumstances and confined to the campus for the
weekend. And when a free and ungoverned afternoon rolls around, it’s only natural for him to seek as pleasant a
diversion as possible from the drudgery of classes and drill. One side gives the following answer to the problem of
Blue Law: If a person can gain the most complete and enjoyable relaxation on Sunday by engaging in a good
game of softball or a round of golf, well why not let him play? While the Seventh day is specified
as a day of rest, the type of rest is not specified. This seems to be the view of not
only the majority of students, but the general trend in American life.

But there is another side to the question. The respect and dignity of Davidson College must be preserved. There are
many who believe that any participation in sports on the Sabbath is a degradation, however slight it may be. They
are well entitled to their views, even though the views may be unappealing to those whom they were designed to
govern. The hope remains that a happy medium will be reached, and it must be reached soon.

ORCHIDS TO RIFLERS

The largest bundle of orchids this week, and probably for many other weeks, goes to Lt. Spencer's ROTC rifle team.
By arduous practice under skillful tutelage, the local firers have carved for themselves a niche in the Southeastern hall of
fame. By placing third in the Fourth Service Command matches, they gained a chance to fire in the national tournament
and further prove their merit. While not one of the “major sports organizations,” the marksmen are undoubtedly the most successful,
and the student body will be pulling for them in the nationals.

FRAT TRACK

With the annual fraternity track meet scheduled for the afternoons of next Wednesday and Thursday, and the Betas reasonably assured
of the cage crown, the intramural cup race should become a pretty well-decided affair within the following few days. Should
the Betas come up with a winning combination, they have to break even in softball and volleyball to wrest the
trophy from the defending Kappa Alphas. The leaders have a simple formula for victory. They simply hang onto a bunch
of versatile veterans, while their foes are constantly dropping dependable performers to the Army and Navy.

SPORTS POLL

The latest sports poll picks the Cardinals and the Yankees, last year’s winners, in the coming struggle for the National
and American League flag chases, and offers the Brooklyn Dodgers and St. Louis Browns as most probable holders of the
runner-up slot. Only a few seasons have gone by since all these nines save the Yankees were foundering in the
second division, and the Browns a perpetual last. In the same poll, Ed Stanky, erstwhile shortstop and field captain for
the Macon Peaches in the war-torn Sally League, is picked as rookie of the year in the National, where he
will hold a former Piedmont League flush at Winston Salem, is named to the same position as he makes his
bid for Detroit's outfield.

FOOTBALL NOTICE

Coach Shephard was quoted in the Charlotte News as saying that Davidson planned to fall in line with the Army’s
O.K. of intercollegiate football and put a Wildcat eleven on the field. Two veterans from this year’s team will be
back, Ace Maloney and George Floyd.

DIAMOND TALE

Among the many tales of Connie Mack’s prowess and wisdom in guiding his beloved Philadelphia Athletics is of the temperamental
hurler who insisted upon giving the water bucket a punishing kick after each inning in which he failed to give
a top-flight performance. These little incidents had been going on long enough for the sure-footed slinger to destroy three entire
aluminum buckets. Fearing for the blow to the financial status of his none-too-lucrative proteges, Mack took matters in hand. Little
was thought by the squad when the most recently battered container was replaced by a shiny new one. And little
was thought when the unfortunate moundsman strode off the hill after failing to stem the opposing tide, and planted a
swift one squarely into the pail. But when he yelped in pain and anger and was found to have sustained
a broken toe, and the bucket showed not so much as a dent, they began to wonder. It was finally
brought to light that Connie had replaced the regular bucket with one of galvanized iron. Hence a lesson in patience
and self-control that one baseballer won't forget.

And then there’s the old fishing story about the frog, the moccasin, and the bottle of spirits. One version goes
that two gentlemen of color were out in their rowboat on the mill pond one summer afternoon and plying a
lazy course across the lake. Their luck was none too good and when one felt a meaningful tug on his
line he reeled in with glee only to find a mere frog engaged to the barb. But the dreadful side
of the predicament lay in the fact that a large and venomous water moccasin hung firmly onto the dangling frog.
Not wishing to get within striking distance of the reptile and yet determined to secure the frog, the unfortunate fisherman
poured a few precious drops of the sunshine water into the snake’s gaping jaws, and it immediately let go. All
proceeded in normal fashion until the two were about ready to row in and call it a day, when a
breathless moccasin appeared at the side of the boat, this time with a larger and more valuable frog. That's enough
to quit on.

Wildcat, Thursday, March 18, 1943

Cat Trackmen Face Catawba In First Race

Six Lettermen Head Squad Prepping For Indians April First

Answering Coach Heath Whittle’s initial call for varsity track practice last week were six lettermen and last year’s squad. With
a week’s experience behind them, the thin-clads are an assorted and promising bunch of freshmen reserves pounding the cinder path
daily in preparation for the opening meet with Catawba here on the afternoon of April 3. John Belk, Ben Lacy,
Bill Lacy, Jim Nickels, Dick Port, and Elliott White won their Block “D” letter as members of the ‘42 aggregation
and form the nucleus for this season. To back them up are such stars from the erstwhile freshmen as George
Peters, Art Pendleton, and Ray Paylor, while the intramural flash, Dick Miller, appears likely to capture a tidy sum of
points.

Frosh Eligible

Among the frosh this year come Rhea Richardson, Ken Barber, Walter Brown, and Jim Whitehurst, leading the freshmen class’s bid
for varsity stardom. While other candidates are working out now and still more are expected to show up with warmer
weather, these four are the likeliest prospects at the present time. In the dashes, the ‘Cats should be well represented,
although there isn’t a man who can equal the efforts of the top conference stars, but seconds and thirds rack
up points, too. The two Lacy’s head the list in this department.

George Stars

George Peters and Dick Port are top-ranking hurdlers, destined to garner their share of markers for the Red and Black,
and the former is equally potent in the pole vault, while the Davidson record in the high jump at over
six feet. Art Pendleton should prove an excellent man in the javelin and broad jump (he bettered twenty-two feet holding
an unofficial record).

THE DAVIDSONIAN

RIFLERS HOT!

Page Three

R. O. T.C. MARKSMEN

Varsity Nine

Rifle team now headed for the national matches. Frank Davis, Ken Barber, George Waynick, Tom Snodgrass, and Bob Dunn are:
Clarence McArthur, Paul Welch, David Yokum, Bill Barber, and Bob Gowdy.

Riflers Fire In National Matches

Greeks Ready ForMeeting Davidson's annual inter-fraternity track meet is scheduled to be held next Wednesday and Thursday, March 24 and
25, it was announced early this week by track coach and intramural mogul, Heath Whittle. Coach Whittle has issued the
following list of events to be run: 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard run, 600-yard run, and 120-yard low hurdles. Pitt
Smith is scheduled to turn in some creditable quarter miles.

Leading runners in the middle distances are Long John Belk, Ray Taylor, and W.P. Baird, while some help in this
field is expected from the freshman class. Khizzer White and Jim Nickels are, of course, the outstanding contenders for endurance
laurels. Although the E.R.C. call seems pretty definite now for the first of April, Coach Whittle stated early this week
that the order wouldn't diminish too greatly the ranks of his charges. While only the definite Catawba meet is scheduled
to date, engagements with Presbyterian College, Clemson, N.C. State, V.P.I., and South Carolina are pending.

Spring Brings Varied Voices
BY JOE EVE

On these clear spring days, vocal personalities of the heads of the athletic domain vaunt themselves in no uncertain terms.
However, only to the Davidson student do these varied sounds ring a note of familiarity and authority. Only from the
daily grind of the provoking and ‘healthful’ physical education classes does one of the most beloved sounds emerge. Its bull-like
quality is revered and respected by all who come in contact with it. Not only from the muscle-building meetings of
the average student, but from the green of Richardson Field, as well, floats the mellow melody of one skilled in
the ways of athletes. Not what one would term of public-speaking quality, this highly respected verbal expression often ascends a
scale beyond its range, but always manages to crack out in definite authority.

Mingling delightfully with the whispers of the last-mentioned voice comes another from Richardson's award. With typically Davidsonian leadership, this machine-like
disturbance rings clear, and in like manner do all those at whom it is directed move to obey. Not forgotten
is the voice of one who, upon gazing on the bleeding face of a felled Golden Gloves warrior, muttered in
resonant tones, “Whussa matter him? He look like he daid.” Gone, but not forgotten.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.,
118 West Trade St., Charlotte

Davidson Firers Rate Third in Southeast

On the basis of its standing in the 4th Service Command Intercollegiate Match, the Davidson rifle team has been invited
along with the University of Florida, University of Alabama, and the Citadel to represent the seven Southeastern states in the
National Intercollegiate Rifle Matches to be fixed during the next two weeks. According to Lieutenant Sam Spencer, instructor, this will
be the first time a Davidson team has been entered in the National Rifle Matches. The four teams selected will
represent North and South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi, and Alabama, the seven states in the 4th Service Command.

ROTC authorities had already received word that the Davidson rifle team had taken third place in the annual 4th Service
Command Match, piling up a score of 3657. The University of Florida made a score of 3703 to win first
place, and the University of Alabama was second with 3688 points. Davidson was ahead of the other schools in the
prone stage of the match but slipped into second place on sitting and kneeling positions, ending up third after the
standing position.

Heading the lineup for the Wildcats sharpshooters were Bill Barber of Atlanta, and Bob Gowdy of Birmingham, Ala., who shot
379 out of a possible 400. Stubbins of Los Angeles tied for second honors with 367 points each, and Bob
Worth of Richmond, Va., took third with 367. In fourth place, 20 points behind the Wildcat team, was the Citadel,
followed by Mississippi State, the University of Tennessee, the University of Georgia, Wofford College, the University of Mississippi, Georgia Tech,
and Tuskegee Institute.

Davidson riflemen, undefeated in shoulder-to-shoulder competition during this season, meet Wofford at Davidson today at 2 p.m., and The Citadel
at Charleston on Saturday. They are, top row, from left to right: Bob Worth, Bottom row, left to right, cadet
school.

Scores for the Fourth Service Command Match were as follows:
Florida - 3703
Alabama - 3688
Davidson - 3657
Citadel - 3637
Miss. State - 3628
Tennessee - 3607
Georgia U. - 3489
Wofford - 3486
Ole Miss - 3360
Georgia Tech - 3337
Tuskegee No. 1 - 3237
Georgia Tech No. 2 - 3197
Tuskegee No. 2 - 3102

March 27 to close the year's schedule. Targets for the Hearst Trophy Matches, which include nearly all large colleges in
the country, are being fired this week and will be sent to the 4th Service Command headquarters in Atlanta on
March 10.

THE PAN-HELL COUNCIL Presents
JOHNNY SATTERFIELD And His Orchestra
FORMAL FRIDAY NITE, 9-1 At Hotel Charlotte.
MILITARY BALL SATURDAY NITE 8-12 At Charlotte Armory
WHETHER YOU HAVE A DATE OR NOT BE SURE TO DROP IN AT THE BAMBOO ROOM IN THE HOTEL WM.
R. BARRINGER

Shepard Shapes Diamond Team For Opener With Clemson
BY SHEP DUNN

Under the watchful and guiding eye of Coach Norman Shepard, twenty-one hustling candidates for the Wildcat nine are rounding into
shape for their initial clash with Clemson here April 1. Having lost all save three lettermen from last year’s aggregation,
the bat swingers are depending on Capt. Dick Phillips, holding down second; Ace Maloney, sparkling at third, and Paul Neisler,
slinging from the mound, as the backbone of the team. Failing to return from the '42 team are such scintillating
stars as Red Bethea, Jim Owens, Bobby Carter, Jack Clark, Capt. Ed Lucas, Mac Morris, and Bob McLeod.

So far only three games have been scheduled, all of them to be played at home. Opening game with Clemson
on April 1st, again on the 2nd, and North Carolina on the third. Coach Shepard, however, pointed out that all
Saturdays can be held open in order to take on the baseballers from the cadet school here. As yet, no
definite agreements with the army officials have been reached.

Infield Strong
At first glimpse, the infield seems to be the most potent section. With two lettermen on second and third, Walt
Major, Craig Schmidt, and Walker Taylor fighting it out for the first bag. At short, the position is wide open,
but among the good prospects are Blanton Belk, Gregg Thompson, and Jack Loughridge. Assuming the mound chores will be letterman
Paul Neisler, a southpaw who will probably bear the brunt of the assignments. Also in there pitching for the Wildcats
will be Jim Lowry, coming up from last year's freshman team, Lyman Parrish, a reserve, and Ed Major, also from
the reserve list. Also out for the high position are Whittier, a frosh, and Grosse who has been in and
out of both Davidson and the nine for four or five years.

Burke Back
“Red” Burke, Gene DesPortes, and George Floyd will be stopping the ball behind the plate. Burke caught for the Kittens
in his frosh year and will probably play a lot of ball for the Davidson nine this season.

In the outfield, there are no lettermen, but some shining ball handlers are on hand. A probability at center field
position is Tommy Peters, regular for the Wildcats frosh last year, while Elmer Graves, Sam Waddell, and Billy Newell are
also out there in a wide-open battle.
