AT LAUSE By BOBBY PHILLIPS Thursday, April 22, 1943

THE DAVI SOFTBALL

Although inter-frat softball is still some weeks off, the pick-up teams of Jack Wayman and "Roy Boy" Hunt are waging merry battles each afternoon at the rear of Watts. Wayman has built up quite a potent, unofficial aggregation, mostly Pi Kaps however, and it seems that this fraternity will be the team to beat when the regular season rolls around. Wayman, besides being quite proficient at the plate, has found no peers as a hurler in this fast sandlot league, and he has amassed an enviable strike-out record. Slickest fielder of the circuit to date is SEA’s Tommy Powell, who is at home anywhere in the infield. All-frat Lacy MacLean will be seriously challenged in his position of KA backstop by the advent of King Henry of Oxford to the pre-season practice sessions and his good showing to date.

BASEBALL

The Wildcat nine is still seeking its first victory, having dropped two more encounters last week, the first to Furman, 19-6, and the second to Clemson's Tigers, 19-3. Tommy Peters accounted for most of the few Davidson bingles, collecting two for four each day. Coach Shepard has made numerous shifts in the infield in an attempt to find a winning combination. The starting infield against Catawba will probably be: Walt Major or Freshman Blanton Belk at the initial sack, Dick Phillips and “Bub Sweet” at the keystone, “Ace” Maloney at his old spot at third, and another freshman, Gene Desportes behind the plate. The Carolina game on Wednesday was the first big five encounter for the Cats; and in Pre-flight, Davidson met one of the leaders of the new Ration League. Carolina seems to be the king-bee of the Southern Conference baseball circles, undefeated to date in the loop. In fact, their only defeat of the season was registered recently at the hands of the Pre-flight nine, which boasts of many recent major league luminaries and outstanding college stars. The Tar Heels’ captain and shortstop, Lou Hayworth, is one of the most consistent swatters of the conference, usually managing to collect at least two blows per game.

TRACK

Davidson’s cindermen, by virtue of their win over South Carolina’s strong tracksters last Saturday, can enter the Southern Conference meet this weekend in Chapel Hill with a clean slate. Outstanding was the fact that all fifteen men making the South Carolina trip for the Cats managed to score at least one point. George Peters, a consistent high scorer all season, had sustained a shoulder injury earlier in the week in the Clemson baseball game, but he participated in the meet and managed to take two second places. Peters was beaten in the high jump by Carolina’s Chamis, who cleared 6 feet 1/2 inch, for the best mark registered in a Davidson meet this year. The Cats’ distance men shone with clean sweeps in the mile and two-mile events, Brown taking the first race and Grimsley the latter. South Carolina’s fine dash man, Riley, took both the 100-yard and 220-yard dashes from Davidson’s Ben Lacy in the feature sprints of the afternoon.

TENNIS

The Cat Courtmen have lost three matches to date in as many starts, but they have made a very creditable showing in all these encounters. The first two matches with Carolina and Duke were both lost in the final doubles match, giving the opponents slim 4-3 wins. In the third meet, Davidson was whitewashed, 7-0, by Presbyterian College’s perennial national leaders. Although PC made a clean sweep of every match, they praised the Cats as one of their most tough and spirited opponents of recent years. The Davidson netmen, weakened by the loss of Co-captain Buck Archer to the army, face four tough matches next week, Duke and Carolina there, and the Citadel and Georgia Tech in home engagements.

MISCELLANY

The baseball Ration League, composed of Duke, Carolina, State, and N. C. Pre-flight, has been very successful. Each team meets the other three in four games during the season, giving these four schools, all within a radius of fifty miles, almost full schedules. This Ration League idea may be the answer to the sports problem in the eastern part of the state, but what of Davidson in Big Five competition? Coach McEver now has a 7:30 A.M. physical ed class of Aircrew students... Major league baseball opens this week and even after their poor exhibition showings, it looks from here like the Yankees for another American League flag and the Cards to repeat in the senior circuit.

(Continued in Next Column)

TAMPERINI, FORMER U.S.C. MILE STAR, ALSO COMPETED FOR THE UNITED STATES IN THE LAST OLYMPICS. ZAMPERINI'S SECOND LIEUT. IN THE ARMY AIR CORPS NOW AND BOMBARDIER, ON ONE OF THE FLYING FORTRESSES THAT BOMBED THE JAPANESE BASE ON WAKE ISLAND IN DEC. 1942. THE NEXT TIME LOU VISITS BERLIN THE NAZIS WILL DO ALL THE RUNNING.

THEY GIVE THEIR LIVES - YOU LEND YOUR MONEY. BUY SECOND WAR LOAN BONDS.

"HIGH" PORT TAKES ONE

Track star and Student Body President Dick Port, Junior from Winston-Salem, is pictured above soaring over the high hurdles. This event he won in the meet Saturday, after having faced a Wildcat Nine Beaten Twice.

Still in the midst of a hitting famine and unable to muster any effective pitching, Davidson's hopeless nine ran into another barrage of runs and bowed to Furman, 19-6, and Clemson, 19-3, in conference games Tuesday and Wednesday of last week. At Furman on Tuesday, Tommy Peters went the route for the Davidsons, but he was blasted for eighteen blows while his mates were able to collect only a few scattered hits from the opposing moundsman. Elmo Graves batted in the first run of the afternoon, while Tommy led the Cat hitting, connecting for two safeties.

Neisler Relieved

Traveling on to Clemson, Paul Neisler took the mound for the first four innings before he was relieved by Jim Lowry in the fifth. Lowry held his own for three innings before the game was called in the seventh on account of inclement weather. Peters again took hitting honors for the locals, with two bingles. On Tuesday and Wednesday of this week the Cats ran into even tougher opposition against the Navy Pre-flight School and the University at Chapel Hill. They have a return engagement with the Catawba Indians Saturday on Richardson Field and are scheduled to meet the Duke Blue Devils next Monday.

CAT’S CLAWS (Continued from 1st Column)

Mac Bruce, just recovered from a knee injury suffered in the football season, has reported for the Wildcat nine... Charlotte’s grunt and groan artists are attracting a large number of admirers from the D. C. student body each Monday night. Soon to be seen in the Queen City is Maurice Tillet, he of the cherubic countenance.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Any Record You Want Parker-Gardner Co. 118 West Trade St., Charlotte

Sprint Men Go To Chapel Hill Friday

Davidson is sending thirteen men to Chapel Hill this weekend to participate in the annual Southern Conference track meet. Every member of the squad who made the trip to Columbia last week, except Lennox Turnbull and DickO’Hair will be entered in the events at Carolina. Eight men, who are entering the dashes and sprints, leave for Chapel Hill today to take part in the preliminaries on Friday. The others will go down Friday afternoon in time to take part in the events Saturday.

Stiff Competition
Coach Whittle does not expect the Cats to make an impressive team showing due to the stiff competition they will face. Although the Wildcats have mastered all opponents so far, times and distances have been considerably short of marks set elsewhere in the conference this year. However, Ben Lacy is being counted on to come through in the hundred and two-twenty, and Bill Lacy and Dick Port should show up well in the hurdles. George Peters may not participate in order to give his injured shoulder a rest before the important meet with State next week.

VOLLEYBALL
Only three games of the inter-fraternity volleyball competition had been completed Monday: Kappa Sigma won two of the three contests completed, coming off with victories over the Pikas and the SPE’s last week. The KA’s downed the Pi Kaps in the other encounter. Unfavorable weather conditions have caused the postponement of a number of the matches, but the tourney is expected to get in full swing this week.

Expert Barber Service
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Thirteen Davidson Track Men Travel to Conference Meet
The Wildcat cindermen travel to the Southern Conference meet with South Carolina Saturday, thus contributing five necessary points to the 66-60 victory which the Davidson aggregation scored. He also placed in the low hurdles.

Tennis Team
To Play Four
Cats Meet Carolina, Duke, Citadel, Tech
After a full week of rest, the Wildcat netmen swing back into action next week with four contests on the docket. The Cats travel to Duke and Carolina for matches on April 27 and 28 respectively and return for home engagements with the Citadel and Georgia Tech on April 30 and May 1.

Matches Close
Duke and Carolina have previously downed the Cats this year by identical scores, 4-8. Both of these matches were decided in the final doubles events, Davidson bowing to the Tar Heels after winning the first set of the deciding match, but dropping this closing match with Duke in straight sets. Departure of Co-captain Buck Archer to the army via the ERC has seriously weakened the team. As a result of Archer's absence, the Cats are now faced with the problem of revising their doubles pairing. The squad is now composed of Co-captain Gene Sutton, Jack Byrd, Jerrold Robinson, Craig Schmidt, and Lyman Parrigin.

ALL LATEST HITS
On VICTOR, BLUEBIRD, COLUMBIA and DECCA RECORDS
Also Large Stock of SYMPHONIES
ANDREW’S MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte

Wildcat Sports
DAVIDSONIAN TRACK TEAM WINS OVER S.C.
Page Three

Track Team Scores Third Straight Win Over South Carolina
Peters Ranks High in Court Scoring Race
Davidson Forward Places Second In National Basketball Scoring
According to statistics recently released by the National Collegiate Athletic Bureau, Davidson's Tommy Peters placed second in the nation in average points scored per game during the 1943 basketball season. Senesky of St. Joseph College placed first in the ratings with an average of 23.4 points per game. St. Joseph is a non-conference school. Peters, who averaged 18.8 points in thirteen Southern Conference contests, is a sophomore.

Conferences
Forty-four players were listed in the standings. They included the high scorers from the following conferences: Southern, New England, Big Ten, Mountain, Southwest, Big Six, Eastern, Pacific Coast, Missouri Valley. Peters made a sensational record in conference circles this year as a sophomore, walking away with scoring honors and being voted the most popular player in the Southern Conference tournament in Raleigh. He recently qualified for a varsity letter in track, thereby becoming the first sophomore four-letter man in a number of years.

ONE SENIOR AND SIX JUNIORS ARE CHOSEN
(Continued from Page One)
boro, was elected to lead the rising Senior Class. He is President-elect of Scabbard and Blade, is a member of the Beaver Club and the “D” Club. He was Vice-President of the Student Body, member of the “Y”-cabinet, and has lettered in basketball and football. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Alf Taylor, of Nashville, Tenn., has been chosen Freshman Adviser for the coming year. He has served as Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A. He has lettered in football and is a member of the Beaver Club and the “D” Club. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Wildcat Racers Show Strength In Mile And Two Mile Sweeps
Davidson’s cindermen continued their winning ways by downing a strong University of South Carolina team by the narrow margin of 65 1/3 to 59 2/3 in Columbia last Saturday. The Cats showed greatest strength in the distance events, sweeping all three places in the mile and two mile. Outstanding performer of the day was Carolina’s Riley, who won both the hundred and the two-twenty.

All Score
Coach Whittle’s charges showed surprising versatility, as each of the fifteen men who made the trip managed to score at least one point. George Peters, performing under the handicap of a shoulder injury received in a recent baseball game, chalked up six points by virtue of seconds in the high jump and high hurdles. Points were evenly divided for first places, Carolina holding the edge 7 to 6 in firsts, and Davidson leading 8 to 6 in seconds. It was by taking 11 out of 13 third places that the Cats pushed across the finish in the lead. The relatively slow times in the dashes were partially attributed to the softness of the track.

Summary
Shot Put—Bouser (S. C.), Milner (S. C.), O’Hair (D.). 40’ 10½”.
High Jump—Chamis (S. C.), G. Peters, (D.), W. Lacy (D.) 6’ 4”.
Mile Run—Brown (D.), White, (D.), Nickols (D.). 4:52.2.
440 Yard Run—Washburn (D.), Sloan (S. C.), Coonrad (D.). 54:00.
100 Yard Dash—Riley (S.C.), B. Lacy (D.), Smith (D.). 10.10.
High Hurdles—Port (D.), G. Peters (D.), Ratliff (S. C.). 16.8.
880 Yard Run—Thrash (S. C.), Baird (D.), Coonrad (D.). 2:13.7.
Pole Vault—O'Hair (D.), Mate (S. C.), Batland (S. C.), Turnbull (D.), (tie for second). 11 feet.
220 Yard Dash—Riley (S. C.), B. Lacy (D.), Smith (D.). 23.0.
Javelin—Thrash (S. C.), Robertson (S. C.), Washburn (D.). 163’ 1”.
Broad Jump—Milner (S. C.), W. Lacy (D.), Chamis (S. C.). 22’ 3”.
Low Hurdles—W. Lacy (D), Demos (S. C.), Port (D.). 26.2.

Standard Printing Co.
PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS
College and Fraternity Printing
Quality Work :: Prompt Delivery
124 W. Fourth St.
Charlotte

DEANNA DURBIN
Thursday and Friday, April 22 and 23
“THE AMAZING MRS. HALLIDAY”
EDMUND O’BRIEN
Saturday, April 24
JOHNNY WEISSMUELLER — FRANCES GIFFORD
“TARZAN TRIUMPHS”
LATE SHOW
Monday and Tuesday, April 26 and 27
GEORGE SANDERS — HERBERT MARSHALL
“MOON AND SIX PENCE”
Wednesday, April 28
“AMERICAN EMPIRE”
“MOTION PICTURES ARE YOUR BEST ENTERTAINMENT”
DAVIDSON THEATRE
DAVIDSON, N. C.