Page Two — The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, February 11, 1943

Member Associated Collegiate Press

Editors | Features | Collegiate Digest

Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Our very near neighbors, a group of young men whom Davidson would be proud to call its sons under any
circumstances, we look forward to welcoming them to the campus or post, whichever it may then be.

Elections...
Vying with the Army as a subject for Georgia porch bull sessions this week will doubtless be the approaching elections
scheduled to open Friday, almost a month ahead of their customary period. There were a number of considerations which were
discussed by Wayman's Elections Board before the decision was finally adopted. Prevalent among these was the problem of who is
to be here to hold office next year. Since the answer to this is still a figment of the imagination,
the group turned to other factors affecting the situation. Perhaps the strongest argument was that of reward for work accomplished.
With few juniors promised an educational future extending into the 1943-44 session, it is likely that three years of hard
work in the several fields of campus activity may go unrewarded. It would be possible to make the offices purely
honorary and elect men to jobs whose duties they may never be able to practice. In any case, another series
of elections will, to all appearances, have to be run after the opening of the summer or fall term. Without
the experience that even the brief period of three months would afford, these honors indeed seem hollow.

Some of the juniors who have a possible line on campus positions were heard to express an opinion that the
seniors now in these spots are simply tiring of their duties and are looking for a way out, mostly joking,
of course. Others seriously question the wisdom of even bothering with the installation of a new regime at all, if
only to have it to do over again. These men are forgetting that there is great value in being elected
to positions of leadership, even if for its face value on a man’s record in future years. The army, as
well as civilian businesses after the war, is looking for men for officer material who have the ability to make
other men look up to them. Many an O.D. key has been the deciding factor in some of the juniors
who have a pos...

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

ED ERWIN IVEY STEWART
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Lacy McLean... Assistant Editor
Bill Lyman... Associate Editor
Joe Bee... Associate Editor
Mac Jones... Managing Editor
Howell Morrow... Managing Editor
John Harley... Managing Editor
Jim Stimson... Managing Editor
Deane Writson... Managing Editor
Legh Scott... Sports Editor
Bob Welch... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Dick Port... Advertising Manager
Don Meyer... Advertising Manager
Jim Harris... Circulation Manager
Subscription Manager... Collection Manager... Buddy Carson

War College...
Students, faculty, and citizens of the college and town of Davidson breathed a heartfelt and long subdued sigh of relief
Sunday as they unfolded their morning newspapers and viewed the second section headlines. The United States Army had at last
made its ponderous decision to house and train 300 Air Corps cadets within the tradition-hallowed walls of a nervous Davidson.
Those sincerely interested in Davidson and its future had no other choice than to concur with Dr. Cunningham and be
pleased at the announcement. However, some of the more suspicious individuals were immediately heard whispering problems that the new set-up
will introduce. Perhaps the most discussed point concerned the results of anticipated clashes between army life, discipline, habits, and requirements,
and those of the church, for after all, they say, Davidson is a church school. We agree that this semester
will be most interesting and probably the most exasperating in quite a number of years, and we await with curiosity
its ultimate results. However, we do not anticipate any serious problems.

As far as the arrangement has been revealed, although the contract has not even been drawn up, it is evident
that Davidson will for the duration be less than half Presbyterian institution and over half war college, an arrangement to
which some of Davidson's supporters will, we suspect, find difficulty in orienting themselves. Perhaps there will be certain changes in
such regulations as those regarding use of athletic equipment on Sunday and other minor matters which will deviate from the
program that has been followed by the college authorities. Perhaps the strange faces and bustling atmosphere that will accompany such
a group will be the only changes. Nobody knows. It is clear that the Army, interested in building strong material
for its air forces, will keep this contingent well regulated. It is also clear that any changes which might ruffle
the raw surfaces of strict minds do not, in the light of the end to be achieved, make a great
deal of difference. Our prediction is that we will find as at...

Cinema Comments
By LACY MacLEAN

Thursday and Friday
LIFE BEGINS AT 8:30
Monty Woolley, known to film audiences as the star of “Shaw Smith's The Man Who Came To Dinner,” returns to
Davidson as the outstanding performer in a famous Broadway play, “Life Begins at 8:30.” A good supporting cast provides an
adequate backdrop for his characterization.

Saturday
PITTSBURGH
Burly, sweaty Pittsburgh and her steel mills is the scene of Saturday's attraction which takes its name from the city.
The story is of the men and women, hard as the steel they smelt, with Randolph Scott, Marlene Dietrich, and
John Wayne getting the top billing.

Monday and Tuesday
SHADOW OF A DOUBT
Brian Donlevy, a favorite with audiences, appears again in “Shadow of a Doubt,” on Monday and Tuesday.

Wednesday
No show had been billed for the bargain day value at publication date. I would like for GEORGE WILLIAMS to
be my guest at any show next week.

By-Lines
By BILL LYMAN

On The Amusing Aspects of A Junior During Elections Period, Which He Does Not Find Amusing At All:
Elections start tomorrow. Members of the junior class at present age, and for the next few weeks will be, very
amusing. It is a period for which they have waited with terrific eagerness for...

A prospective nominee. If he is very friendly, he is immediately branded as a politician, whereas if he fails to
speak to even a single man he is considered a snob and therefore a “completus.” In these conditions, a junior’s
mind is usually introverted, and he constantly wonders whether he is speaking to people in just the right friendly, yet
casual, manner. It will be observed that his greeting will carry an unnatural, forced note. If there’s anything a junior
abhors, it is one which they mortally...

Just mention elections to a junior now, and he will either dread...

Bill Lyman

The Operating Table
With the Farewell Frolics gone and only the remembrance of it left, the lassies returned to their homes or prisons
(as St. Mary's) and the boys back to dear old D.C. to drool over their women. The prize package of
the weekend goes to Bonnie Ben Washburn who, after sending a flush note to his one and only, called prior
to its arrival asking forgiveness and that he truly wanted her down for the weekend, which she readily accepted. (Moral)
His name is really mud at the Angel Farm as a result of his appearance. O’Hair also turned up at
the dance with an old flame of his and Alfs. Letting him get ahead of you, Nose? Mebane introduced a
new damsel. Where’s You-Know-Who, Spike? It is rumored that glorious times were had by all the lucky fellows whose dates
arrived Friday, which they readily accepted. In the same fix were Hi Port whose date showed up, and Lacy who
has the enviable reputation of flushing and being flushed in a single weekend by the same girl. It seemed the
Salem Queen, Norm, had to go home to see the folks and Peggy’s excuse is still unknown. Salem sent reinforcements
though and their escorts seemed to be enjoying it, even to the snaking by alumnus “Bulgy” Young, the Fish Without
the Parsley. Tommy Peters, the golden boy, appeared but seemed very lonesome, not having Kappy there to enjoy it with
him. The Nose (Williams) was there also but Manda was another of the steadies missing. It seems that Athletic Alf
entertained the folks at Long John’s telling ghost stories, etc. It was very late before some of the listeners were
able to depart from their companions for a little shut-eye. On the other side of the picture, we would like
to express our sympathy to the decorating committee who, after staying up all of Friday night fixing the armory up,
had to journey back over Saturday afternoon and tear it down on order of the fire department, who said it
was a fire hazard. (Details were posted.) Mac Bruce, recuperating from an operation at Presbyterian hospital, reports the situation well
in hand with the nurses at night. To close the Farewell Frolic escapades, we might say that Sir Henry “The
Horrible” was very conservative, saving up for next weekend at Carolina with the O.A.O. King one up for Gaither, Big
Stroop, and Bill Grimsley who journeyed to Spartanburg sometime during the weekend with no funds to operate on. They called
Gaither’s gal who bore the expense of the remainder of the weekend to the extent of steaks and bus fare
back. Today she turned...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

up in Epistemology class with all the boys showing off for her, Brinson to the extent that he took notes,
and Legs Legerton acquiring “a war baby” as chairman, cowed up an A with his continuous K. Going back to
the gal, who is Gaither? Shep Booth with his muscular arms and 5 ft. 6 in. is really cocky these
days. It seems that he was the King of the Mardi Gras at Farm Tie, escorting Jackie, and he practiced
on Davis (Ten Brew) all last week to appear conspicuous in the Sievers. He wore the title and white as
a ghost or effect a cocked but pitiful payety. The popular conception of a campus election (i.e., he is always
snappily dressed with coat and tie on, that he is ever a hale and hearty fellow, slapping people on the
back and offering them cigars, and that he is eternally conscious in public places). If anyone has such a conception
of a Davidson politician, it is entirely in error. A junior at present would die rather than be seen in
a coat. If he should inadvertently wear a tie to class, he will immediately be jeered and called a “politician”
by all his friends and particularly his enemies (i.e., members of other fraternities). I have seen more than one junior,
in a close choice between two men’s qualifications, slip into a lavatory between classes and furtively take off his tie
with a sigh of relief. Nor will a junior dress sloppily during elections, for fear that people will consider him
repulsive. He just dresses. Walking across the campus or through the class halls during this period is sheer torture for
our prospective politicians.

Campus Forum

A junior is that he be too much this way or too much in public places. Many a man has
been politically ruined by a chapel talk. Traditionally, an ambitious junior encamps himself at the post office and Hugo's during
the daytime, and at the Student Store at night. In actuality, he hates to go to any of these places,
for he has an exaggerated consciousness that people are constantly watching his every move, wherefore he is scared to do
anything. If he goes and cheers at an athletic event, people say he is trying to get the “football” vote;
if he does not go, he has no school spirit. If he goes to a concert, he is attempting to
lure the Phi Mu vote; if not, he is a boor. The junior’s relations with his professors are nil for
the time being. He is horribly afraid of even speaking to a professor, for fear of being classed that dread
of dreads, an “ALK” or “apple-polisher.” To visit one during the elections period is out of the question. A junior
can hardly open his mouth in class, lest he show too much interest in the course. A junior has no
personality whatsoever during elections. He cannot be himself, lest he be stigmatized by any of various groups for being extreme.
It is the adolescence of a college career, in personality rather than time. It is most amusing to watch—painful to
experience.

Paths

With the removal of the Post Office to newer and more spacious quarters, the campus force in charge of grounds
hopefully eyed more direct paved lines of communication and dreamed dreams of luxuriant spring grass growing thick and green over
grey paths. Their visions were quickly shattered by a few days of students beginning to mar the several patches of
greenery left on the front campus. Can't we possibly walk those extra steps and keep the Davidson grounds a thing
of beauty and a source of pride for us all?

By-Lines

On the money side, a very liturgical condition vs. Corner by Shaw Smith. Wondering if we will see any yellow
caps as McCoy threatens. If the amateur show scheduled for Feb. 19 will be as successful as some of the
participants are claiming it will be. If you remember the show last year and “Smokey Joe” McKlesky as M.C. He’s
A-1 (at attention) at Croft the last I heard. Wasn't allowed to go to seminary as he had hoped after
doing a splendid job as camp worker with local Monroe church this summer and up until Christmas. Joe has the
spirit (you know him) and his slogan was “Leading Marching Feet to Walk With Jesus.” You can still do it
as you march yourself, Joe. (I believe he will.) If you have noticed the grade of Lu. Spencer's chapel talks—A.A.
(above average) and much above, as the man himself. Phi Bete, ODK, to the Elections Board: The basic purpose for
having the Elections Board is to keep Davidson elections free from politics. Since the establishing of this body, many bad
practices have been improved, many altogether eliminated. I should like to suggest another reform that I believe would even further
help eliminate politics. The biggest help to pseudo-politicians in doping out their “slick” campaigns from day to day during elections
periods comes about when the election results for the previous day are posted. They see that John Smith of Rho
Dammit and Sam Jones of Alpha Sig have dropped votes behind the leading man, and that therefore they need to
get the Rho Dammit and Alpha Sig votes. Or Alpha Sig may drop out one day, and on the following
day a Rho Dammit gets a big jump in votes, wherefore they figure how many votes the Alpha Sigs gave
the Rho Dammit, where whose votes will go the next day, etc., etc. In short, the only way in which
a pseudo-politician can operate at all effectively is for him to know how many votes each man gets so that
he can add and subtract and figure how many votes his man needs, and so forth. Accordingly, I propose that
the Elections Board do not post, from day to day, the number of votes that anyone gets, nor even that
men be listed according to number of votes, but rather alphabetically. Thus only the names of the men left in
the race would be posted, and in alphabetical order. For this plan to work at all, of course, it would
be necessary for the Board to keep secret who was getting how many votes. This letter is written on the
assumption that the Elections Board is really interested in keeping politics at a minimum. I believe that this plan would
help to do so. Sincerely, BLL.

Board of Control

He wasn’t a stud, prude, or “goody-goody.” He’s not a typical Davidson man but what a typical Davidson man ought
to be. If any man in school was not moved by Dr. [name]’s message last Sunday, wondering about that, almost
impossible not to be. If the men now on the campus who will be world figures someday will be as
genuine as Mr. A. Spalding was last Friday. World figure, master musician, gentleman. No need if Sunday nights will really
mean more to you with a series of Interest Nights being planned for after church each week. They can be.
Dean Bailey knows how much his sympathetic and understanding, yet firm approach to the problems of the students means to
the boys. These past few days have found no student any harder at work or more constantly on the job
than the Dean himself. Accept these orchids for the week, Sir Dean, for a hard job all the year done
so thoroughly and fairly. President of the student body, let the war mean as much as we let it. If
we will try to find the meaning. If you're as tired of reading this as I'm afraid I'll be re-reading
it. Yours, Shaw Smith.

K. A. Washburn practically. It seems the real cuties are on at night, so he sleeps all day and entertains.
Morgan's splendid.

With The Sl

By DEANE WILSON

As the memories of the “Farewell” roll across our eyes, we cannot help allowing our minds to wander through memories
of dance weekends in years gone by. One who is a junior this year can see very vividly the changes
brought about by the total war in which our country is now engaged; changes which we at Davidson, in the
true American spirit, cheerfully accept. Looking back over the many dance weekends that have come and gone at Davidson during
the past three years, we remember the unforgettable no-breaks danced to the music of Charlie Spivak, under the soft lights
of the Charlotte Hotel Ballroom, long lines of shiny, tank-stocked autos cruising over the Charlotte-to-Davidson highway and points North, South,
East, and West. Yes, all this is a thing of the past, until wars shall cease, and blood, sweat, and
tears are over. However, we sincerely hope that future years will see dances return bigger and better than ever, and
that when they return it will be in a spacious hall provided for this purpose on the Davidson campus.

---
