Che Davidsonian

Volume II, DAVIDSON, N.C.,

AUGUST 26, 1943 No. 18

SENIORS

SHAW SMITH LEAVES

It is with regret that Davidson College surrenders Shaw Smith, the popular YMCA secretary for the past 3 years, to
the armed service at the close of the summer session. Shaw, who will be inducted sometime in October, has become
one of the most beloved characters on the campus during his association here, and his departure is viewed with much
regret.

However, Davidson is fortunate in that Myron Sandi fer, who has assisted Shaw during the summer, will return for a
short time to temporarily fill the vacancy until a successor can be found. Sandy, who is enlisted in the V-7
program, has volunteered for induction and himself will enter the service approximately the 3rd week in September. However, he is
planning to be at Davidson from the tenth of September at least until the twentieth of the month.

GRADUATE EXERCISES HELD FRIDAY

Davidson College's August commencement exercises will be held in front of Chambers at 7:30 Friday evening, August 27. Rev. James
Marion, pastor of Grace Covenant Church, Richmond, Va., will be the speaker at which time he will also have the
honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity conferred upon him, as he was unable to be present in May to receive
this honor due to illness.

The men who will receive their diplomas are: Bachelor of Arts - John Montgomery Belk, Samuel Lawrence Belk, Richard Beverly
Bobbitt, Donald Reid Chisholm, William Rhett Dabney, James Davis, Joseph Hart, Leo Johnson, Franklin Meriwether, Jerry Newbold, Lewis Smith, Cum
Laude - Samuel Henderson, Rhett Preston, and Henry Baxter Roney.

This is the third commencement held at Davidson during 1943.

RUSH WEEK RULES GIVEN

John Belk, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, announced the rules concerning rushing for the fall season. Rush Week will begin
at noon on the 14th of September and will close at 10 o'clock the 17th. Fraternities will give their own
little dates and these are to be turned in before Rush Week. There will be no rushing during Orientation, and
the day of silence begins at midnight Friday 17th and ends at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon.

FALL OUTLOOK BRIGHT

President John R. Cunningham said in Chapel Tuesday that the outlook for the fall is very bright considering the circumstances
under which the college will be forced to operate. A student body of between 226 and 250 is expected of
which about 150 will be freshmen.

It is expected that most extra-curricular activities will follow closely as they have in recent years and that the classes
as well will be little affected by this limited student body. The Board of Control will function, keeping the Freshmen
in line, and six social fraternities will be open.
