Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 1, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

Editor
SIM MOORE

Business Manager
JIM ALEXANDER

Associate Editor
J. S. Blain

Assistant Editor
George Apperson

Sports Editor
Joe Stukes

Assistant Sports Editor
Ronnie Dietrick

Managing Editor
Hil Masters

Managing Editor
Art Rollins

Feature Editor
George Gunn

Staff Photographer
Ellie White

Circulation Manager
Joc Stukes

Advertising Manager
Jack Lazenby

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such do not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

The Spirit of Giving

It should go without saying that the spirit of Davidson is closely identified with the things that are considered best
in collegiate circles. There is an ideal standard which we subscribe to even if we are not always able to
reach it. Davidson spirit is something we can see more clearly, perhaps, when we are no longer here in college.
Out of this Davidson spirit was born the Christmas Gift Fund. Only when the whole of a student body is
filled with a desire to show its spirit to the whole world would such a thing be possible. This token
is but a real attempt, a tangible way to show that the purpose and ambitions we possess are real.

By this time the majority of the new men will be thoroughly familiar with what the old men have done
in the past. The procedure, the campaign, is no minor task and all the details have been laid before you.
This is a thing that Davidson has always taken to its heart. The Y.M.C.A. in the past has only initiated
the drive; the rest has sprung spontaneously from the student body itself. It has not been a thing that necessitated
begging; it has offered the opportunity to each student to give because deep inside him was the urge to share
with others, especially at the Christmas season.

Circumstances now are somewhat different from what they have been in the past. There are fewer to give yet there
is more to be done. There has been a feeling that some of the best from Davidson’s past may have
slipped a little. This is a chance of chances to prove that deep inside, Davidson is what she has always
been and always will be.

It would not at all be indiscreet to ask now the question, WHY? What is it in a more real
form that necessitates this and makes it a highlight of our college year? There are many, many reasons which occur
to every person here. They are the obvious answers from a nation of power and plenty. They are home, school,
the blessings of a great free land. Among these and yet apart stands one that we should never forget. The
motto of our college begins: Alenda Lux—Where there is light. It is this light which should never be forgotten, a
light of religion, of freedom, and of learning which illuminates the whole nation and the whole world beyond.

This is what we must cherish as a priceless heritage. It is in the light of this heritage that we
should make our gifts. We should send them out into the world as we have done in past years. We
may keep them at home to commemorate those who have died to preserve it as we now choose to do.
Whatever we do, we should give this as a token in evidence that we live and work to preserve this
spirit which we believe is eternal. Not only here but in the hearts of all men.

To the ASTRP...

Time moves on and another army unit takes its leave of Davidson. The boys in the ASTRP have not failed
to make an impression by their stay on the campus. It can be sincerely said that this is the friendliest,
most Davidson-like group that we could have hoped to have had here. They have made a real place in our
hearts by their warm friendliness of attitude and action. Due to their regulations and separation of interests a more intimate
relationship in college and social life has not been possible. We are sure, however, that what has been missed has
been made up by the pleasant contacts which were possible.

It is our hope that every boy will take something with him from here that will be of value throughout
his army career and his life. We feel that Davidson always makes its impression on all those who come in
contact with it. We indeed hope that this has been such with the ASTRP’s that some of their number will
return as regular students to finish their education. Their chief contribution to us has been to remind us visibly of
the war that we find ourselves in. College life is somewhat cut off from the main channels of events but
with uniformed men always here we cannot forget. We know there is a war and a peace for the younger
generation to fight and win. In conclusion we say good-bye and the best of everything to each member of the
unit.

Jestings By Justa Joak

Even though there was only one day for Thanksgiving this year many boys seemed to enjoy that day. Many of
them made the trip home only to spend a few hours with their folks and eat that wonderful meal of
turkey and all the things that go with turkey. As for the boys that remained here on the Hill, there
was a fine trip to Charlotte.For most of them, Thanksgiving dinner was at the Ship Ahoy, The Steak House, The
Tavern, and many other unmentionable places. After dinner, there was the ball game, and at the ball game, your Snooper
made numerous observations. Among them were Hose Nose, Oily, Boarman, Dave Johnson, Mahone, and Double Dip. All seemed to have
a fine time even though Mahone and Double were late for the game since they found some old friends at
the Hotel Charlotte. Myatt, McArn, Barringer, Sinclair, and two or three others were too good to sit in the end
zone and they had reserved seats even though Myatt and his crew did get in by telling the man he
played for Davidson. After a very exciting game, this crew split up and some of the boys retired to the
Bamboo Room of the Barringer, while others played pool, went to the movies, and others just stood on the corner
and looked at the good-looking girls go by. Fisher, Sinclair, Bruce, Sonny Blain, Barringer, and their dates seemed to like
Queens and made this their headquarters for the night. Fisher was seen in the bus station after his night at
Queens and he swore no one had hit him in the mouth, but it sure looked like it to me.
By the way, Sonny seemed to enjoy this weekend a lot; could it have been because Peggy was here?

This past weekend was very quiet since most of the Freshmen were on campus, but the late show seemed to
do a good business anyway. Among the upperclassmen who went away, we hear that Bob Hoffman had a mighty fine
time in Laurinburg. Jack Lazenby and Rod McDonald spent a very quiet weekend at the Blue Bird. And with the
football team, we hear that Whitehorse lost his coat. He, he, Jim Lowry complained to the manager about poor room
service. He, he. Hose Nose was driving back through the mountains and nearly killed everybody in the car. The towel
in the AA car seemed to cause quite a bit of trouble too. Hey, Whitehorse, Knock Knock... Who's there?? (you
can tell the rest). What will St. James Alexander do now that Cornelia is moving to Shreveport, Louisiana? Why does
Dick Arey want extra gas? Could it be because there is another dance soon? Bradford had a mighty expensive Thanksgiving
Day. Eh, What? Gabby said the moon hurt his eyes Thanksgiving Night, so driving with dark glasses was a necessity.
Ed Golden seems to be getting ready to look for a new boarding house. Guess that’s enough to get decapitated
for right there, so I had better stop before they take me and roast me over red hot coals while
pouring boiling grease over my sizzling body.

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
Dec. 1: “Going My Way”
Dec. 4, 5: “Barbary Coast Gent”
Dec. 6, 7: “Mr. Skeffington”
Dec. 8: “King of Kings”

This Might Be You

With the coming Queens-Davidson affair also comes a square dance. Webster's defines it as “any dance, as a quadrille, in
which the dancers are arranged to form a square,” but I have yet to see any exhibition of the dance
when the group ends up in a square. The formation is made up of usually four couples assembled into a
square, but after a series of twirls, promenades, and exchanging partners, one is lucky to end up with his original
partner—let alone forming a square.

Everybody is getting dates, supposedly; even Wommeldorf is getting a date!! Now is the question: what is the proper thing
to do at such a dance? Should you ask your date if she cares to dance? No. That “line” is
proper for a formal dance, but this isn't a formal dance. You should cautiously approach her and then with a
lightning thrust grab her hand and “drag” her out to the dance floor. The reason I use drag is because
a barn dance is supposed to bring out the “hillbilly” in you. Your clothes should be old ones, although the
Queens’ girls will probably wear something civilized like shirts and sweaters (what's wrong with that?).

The music is not the romantic type nor swing. It has its special brand of combining notes to produce a
noise not too unpleasing to the ear. After the dance, a fellow and his date may do many things (tee-hee).
They may visit the fraternity houses and proudly show the girls the honors, awards, or members which their chapter possesses,
or if they have a passion for reading, they may go to the library and enjoy a few silent hours
among Coleridge, Wordsworth, Keats, and others.

Hardly ever does a boy get “stuck” at such a dance. There are several methods to avoid this. The first
and easiest of these is the “mixed” method. During the dance, you change partners. You keep doing this until you
find the girl you would like to dance with other than your date. By this time, you don't change and
keep right on dancing till the end of the dance. The second method can be done quite easily after you
have acquired some skill in it. The treatment is a little rough on the girl, but it works. The boy
begins twirling until he has gotten up a considerable amount of speed. Then after taking good aim, he quickly releases
hold on the girl. The result is she reacts to the laws of centrifugal force and goes flying off into
space. Thus he doesn’t have to worry about being stuck the rest of the evening, although he may be sued
for assault and battery.

To add a little color to the dance, every gentleman (?) should be chewing some tobacco. Their dates may not
like this for particular reasons, but it was only a suggestion. Now readers (if there are any), you are all
probably wondering why I wrote such an awful piece of “corn.” I thought that I might be able to give
a few tips to some of you Yankees who don’t know much about these things, and I also was rudely
awakened in the middle of the night by a specter of inferno (the editor) and told that I had to
write something. So here it is. Forgive me, please, for This Might Be You.
