Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 26, 1944

News on the Alumni Front

AWARDS

Stutts
Major Albert C. Stutts, ’35, has been awarded the Legion of Merit for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services. His citation reads in part, “An acute shortage of officers placed upon him many responsibilities besides his normal duties. His foresight in planning was responsible for the efficient completion of numerous movements. Reorganization of the group created many administrative problems which he smoothly and expeditiously solved. His ability and readiness to assume administrative work relieved the group commander of many responsibilities so that he could devote his attention to operational and tactical problems. Major Stutts displayed initiative, energy, and notable executive talent in this assignment and made a substantial contribution to the efficiency of his organization.” He served as group adjutant during this period. Besides the Legion of Merit, he wears the Blue Distinguished Organization Presidential Unit Citation Badge in addition to various service ribbons and stars. After 30 months in the Southwest Pacific area, he had a 21-day furlough at his home in September and then reported to Miami Beach, Florida for reassignment.

Brenizer
Lieutenant Chase Brenizer, ’42, has been awarded a third Oak Leaf Cluster and is fighting with a squadron of the Fifth Air Force in the South Pacific during which hostile contact was probable and expected. The cluster is in addition to the Air Medal and Clusters previously awarded to Chase and is equivalent to having won that decoration the fourth time. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Chase Brenizer, of Charlotte.

Biggers
Private First Class Wallace H. Biggers, '29, son of Mrs. E. W. Biggers and the late E. W. Biggers of Berryhill section, was recently awarded the Combat Infantryman Badge for exemplary conduct in action against the enemy on the Fifth Army front in Italy. He is an anti-tank gunner in an infantry division and holds the Purple Heart for wounds received in combat in April. He was inducted into the Army in February 1943, and went overseas in July 1943. Before entering the service he was manager of the Western Auto store in Mount Airy. His wife and year-old son live in Charlotte. This Combat Infantryman Badge is a much-coveted one.

McClintock
Captain B. Gales McClintock, '40, received the Air Medal for “extraordinary achievement in aerial flights by participating in heavy bombardment missions totaling more than 100 flying hours during which exposure to enemy fire was probable and expected. By diligent attention to duty in the execution of his assignment as a member of the combat team, he has contributed much to the success of many missions. He has served the Army Air Forces for two years and has been on duty in India for the past year with the famous Seventh Bombardment Group, a 10th Air Force Unit operating in the Strategic Air Force, Eastern Command.” Gales received the Air Medal in May and on July 16 he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. He is flying a P-47 Thunderbolt and has seventy missions to his credit. He was married in November 1942 and his wife, the former Caroline Miller, resides in Charlotte.

Batte
Led by Lieutenant Colonel James H. Batte, ’35, of Concord, N.C., the motorized 8th Chemical Battalion, although new to battle, has received a unit citation for “aggressiveness, courage, and utter disregard for personal safety in the D-day landings in France.” This battalion was fighting in fifty of the first fifty-four days. Using mortars, it supported seven divisions during different advances which led to the capture of Cherbourg. Jim was decorated personally for this invasion mission, receiving the Bronze Star. He left this country about March of this year, and his outfit trained in England for the invasion of Normandy. Jim has an “expert” medal for every weapon used in his battalion, and there are six or seven of them, including rifle, carbine, pistol, and chemical warfare weapons.

Sigmon
Captain Henry A. Sigmon, '38, of Denver, N.C., has been awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious service in action on the Fifth Army Front in Italy. Graves Registration Officer for a regiment of the 91st Division, he was cited for his successful evacuation of the bodies of 122 men who had been killed in battle. When the Fifth Army was driving for the Arno River, Henry worked continuously for 18 hours a day, much of the time under enemy fire.

Batten
Technical Sergeant James A. Batten, ’40, of Wadesboro, N.C., engineer-gunner on the Eighth Air Force B-17 Flying Fortress “Duchess,” has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross to add to his previous awards of the Air Medal and four Oak Leaf Clusters. He destroyed an enemy aircraft on the mission to synthetic oil targets at Brux, Czechoslovakia, when 200 German fighters came up in repeated attacks for over three hours. In his own words he said, “It was a Messerschmitt 109. It came in to about 600 yards of my turret—I gave him three short bursts and he disintegrated in midair.” He was home in September for a twenty-one day furlough after having completed 32 missions. He then reported to Miami, Florida, for reassignment.

Lytch
Major A. F. Lytch, Jr., ‘40, of Laurinburg, N.C., has received the Air Medal and two Oak Leaf Clusters, and recently was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. Angus entered the AAF in September 1941, graduating as a pilot at Brooks Field, Texas. After training at several fields in the States, he was sent to the China-Burma-India theater of war where he has been stationed until the present time. On August 20th he completed his 79th mission.

Miller
Captain James M. Miller, ’45, of Chicago, Ill., and Davidson, pilot on an Eighth Air Force Flying Fortress, has been awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement while participating in heavy bombing assaults on vital Nazi targets in Germany and occupied countries of Europe.

Gamble
Lieutenant Wayne W. Gamble, '45, has received the Air Medal and Oak Leaf Cluster. He received his wings in February at San Marcos, Texas, and was recently promoted to first lieutenant. He is navigator of a B-24 Liberator, stationed in England. Wayne is the son of Mrs. Connie Gamble of Davidson.

Royster
Second Lieutenant Lee P. Royster, '42, of Oxford wears the Air Medal for outstanding action in the Normandy area. On his second combat mission, he brought his badly damaged B-26 Marauder back to friendly territory for a crash landing after ordering his crew to bail out. After his plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire, the main hydraulic fluid ran out. Lee could not open his bomb bay doors to release his bombs, so he headed for home. The punctured gas line caused 150 gallons of gas to be spilled on the flooring of the ship where it became ignited. His co-pilot extinguished the blaze. Over the channel, Lee had to salvo his bombs to the water. The door could not be reclosed. He ordered four of his crew of six to jump. He feared the sparks from a belly landing would ignite the gasoline-saturated ship and also that it would fill up with dirt through the open bomb bay doors. The crew jumped to safety, and Lee brought the ship in for a perfect crash landing. Though the plane was a complete wreck, no one was injured.

WOUNDED

Barbour
Captain James R. Barbour, '36, of Hamlet and Hillsboro, was wounded in action on Saipan. Before leaving the states in July 1943, Jim was stationed at Langley Field, Va., where he was awarded the Air Medal by Brigadier General Larson, commanding general of the Army Air Forces anti-submarine command. He was a member of a combat crew performing hazardous patrols of great responsibility. He was wounded on July 21 and has been in a hospital in the New Hebrides since. His most serious injury was a broken leg. It is hoped he will be able to be evacuated to the States before long.

Ballard
Major J. L. Ballard, Jr., '39, was wounded on July 12 at St. Lo while serving as S/3 (Plans and Training Officer) of the 175th Infantry. He had just cleared one of the many hedgerows in Normandy when an artillery shell killed the only two men with him, leaving him unconscious with his clothing and helmet torn and shell fragments through his left knee and in his left leg. He was promoted to Major on July 25 and received the Purple Heart on August 19. Jim is the son of Colonel J. L. Ballard who was formerly stationed at Davidson with the R.O.T.C. and is now stationed at Fort Worth, Texas.

Mattocks
Lieutenant Richard D. Mattocks, '38, recently returned from England where he was awarded the Air Medal and the Purple Heart. He received hisCommission and Bombardier’s wings at the Midland Bombardier School in Texas. On July 24, he married Miss Dorothy Dade Davis, of Mount Valley, Orange County, Va. They are now making their home in Alexandria, La., where Dick is stationed with a Photographical Reconnaissance squadron at Esler Field.

McPhail
Lieutenant Lorenzo D. McPhail, Jr., '35, was wounded in action in the South Pacific Area, the wounds being about the face and neck. In a letter to his parents, Dr. and Mrs. L. D. McPhail of Hermitage Court in Charlotte, he reported that he was shot by a Jap sniper, that his wounds were not serious, and that he had returned to duty almost immediately. He is based at present on Saipan.

Rudulph
Captain James Paget Rudulph, '42, went overseas early in the spring of 1944, was stationed in England until the invasion of France, and participated in the Battle of Normandy where he was twice wounded. He received the Purple Heart for the first wounds received, and after being seriously wounded in combat in July was evacuated to a hospital in England. Pat’s first concern was that his father should not worry, and reported in a letter, “I am fairly comfortable... God I am in one piece... I am not shell shocked; my spirit is not broken; it was the greatest adventure of my life...,” and that it was his “tough luck to be evacuated so early in the game.”

MISSING
McDowell
Private Samuel McDowell Tate, '45, recently reported missing in action since June 22, rejoined the U.S. forces in France after having been wounded and held as a prisoner of war by the Germans. A letter in which he told of some of his experiences, rivalling those of a sensational “thriller” story, was received by his mother in August, and came as the first word concerning Sam since July 26 when he had been reported as missing in action for over a month. Treated in a German prisoner of war hospital in France after his capture, Sam remained as a French interpreter after his wounds had healed instead of being transferred to a prison camp in Germany, and presumably was set free when the fast-moving U.S. advance swept through the area. He is now in a U.S. Army hospital, enjoying a rest as well as recuperating.

Tate
Lieutenant George V. Tate, '43, who has been listed by the War Department as missing in action since June 3, has written his wife in Charlotte that he is a prisoner of the German Government. George was serving with the Infantry in Italy with General Mark Clark's Fifth Army at the time of his capture. Prior to European service, he was trained in Jamaica for 10 months, and was in Africa a short time before crossing into Italy. He wrote that he is well and that the prisoners in his camp were permitted to sponsor musical shows. It is of course not known in which encampment he is being held.

KILLED
Abbot
Lieutenant Phillips Abbot, Jr., first reported as missing in action over France since July 13, was instead killed in action on that date. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Phillips Abbot of Louisville, Ga., received this news by telegram on August 29 from the German Government through the International Red Cross. No details have been received as yet. He was a member of the Ninth Air Force stationed somewhere in England. He received his pre-flight training at Maxwell Field, Ala., and advanced training at Spencer Field, Moultrie, Ga., where he received his wings and commission as second lieutenant. He was sent to England on April 15, 1944. He was last engaged in strafing and dive bombing and by the end of June had completed his 20th mission. No news was heard from him after that date.

Royster
Lieutenant B. S. Royster, III, was killed in action on Guam, the date unknown. A letter of sympathy received by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. B. S. Royster, Jr. of Oxford, N.C., was dated August 6. A letter from “Bevo's” friend arrived before even the official notice of his death. He was serving with an amphibious assault unit of the Third Marine Division. He won his commission at Quantico in 1943 and went overseas a little over a year ago. He had participated in the Empress Augusta Bay Campaign at Bougainville, and was promoted to first lieutenant in April, 1944. In the letter written by his friend, he was praised as a fearless officer, universally admired by his fellow Marines.

McDiarmid
Private First Class Wilson Hines McDiarmid, '42, first reported missing in action in France since June 6, is now reported killed in action on that date. This information was contained in a notice to his parents, Rev. and Mrs. H. N. McDiarmid of Greenville, N.C., from the War Department on August 29. He had three times been offered positions in the army which would have taken him out of combat duty, but he turned down these offers with the request that he be allowed in the battle line of his regular outfit, the 116th Infantry. He was trained at Camp Wheeler and Fort George Meade, Md. He was sent overseas to England in January, 1944 where he remained until D-day, June 6.

Edwards
Corporal Norris L. Edwards, '42, was killed in action in Normandy on July 16. He had gone to England in the spring of 1944 and was one of the thousands who participated in the invasion of France. While at Davidson he majored in organ and piano, and when he entered the service in August, 1942, he was given special assignment to musical service. He was a member of the band of Co. E., 120th Infantry, and served also as an organist in chapels both at Camp Jackson, S.C., and at Camp Blanding, Fla. A Memorial Service was held at the Moravian Church in Winston-Salem on August 13. He was the son of Mr. John Edwards, Winston-Salem.

Robertson
First Lieutenant John Fite Robertson, Jr., '44, died on July 11 of wounds received in action on July 1 in Italy. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Fite Robertson of Sarasota, Fla. He graduated from Castle Heights Military Academy, where he was cadet officer in 1940 and entered Davidson that fall attending two years, and he received commission as lieutenant in Infantry O.R.C. in May, 1942. He entered service in November of that year, going overseas in April, 1943. He was executive officer of Company “B”, 135th Infantry, Division. At Anzio he was injured and spent two months in the hospital, returning to the front toward the last of June, and was fatally wounded in action near Leghorn in July.

Cassels
Lieutenant Val Cassels, '36, of Montgomery, Ala., was killed in action July 31 in the Pacific area, in the Battle of Guam. He was serving as first lieutenant with his outfit in the 77th Division. This was the first engagement his division had participated in and he was killed on the 10th day of engagement. A Memorial service was held for Val at Trinity Presbyterian Church, Montgomery, on September 3. After leaving Davidson, Val attended Auburn for three years where he received an architectural degree. Before entering the service he had been associated with Moreland G. Smith, Architect, in Montgomery.

Owens
Lieutenant James M. Owens, III, son of Mayor and Mrs. James M. Owens of North Lake Trail, Palm Beach, was killed June 8 in an airplane crash on the Island of Oahu in the Pacific. He had left by plane June 5 from California for the Pacific theater of war. The details of the accident have not been learned. He graduated from Davidson in 1942, received his commission as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army, and reported to Fort Benning. He transferred to Kelly Field, and received his wings at Aloe Field, Texas. That same day he was married to Miss Ernestine Novell of Tracy City, Tenn. He received training at the School of Aeronautical Tactics, Gainesville, and was promoted to 1st lieutenant. A Memorial service was held for Jim in his childhood church at Clayton, Ga.

Parcell
Lieutenant Colonel Bruce F. Parcell, '38, missing in action over France since July 27, has been declared dead in a telegram received by his mother, Mrs. Katherine Parcell, of Cleveland, N.C., from the War Department. He entered the Army as an infantry officer in 1939 and transferred to the air force the following year. His service record included participation in air support of the American invasion of France on D-day. His was a rapid rise to military success, noted when he trained men in formation flying in this country, and he was awarded the Air Medal as well as two Oak Leaf Clusters. His wife is the former Miss Frances Lowrance of Barium Springs, whose brother, Fred, lost his life in the battle in Southwest Pacific July 30.