_Page Two - THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 10, 1944_

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE
Editor

JIM ALEXANDER
Business Manager

Associate Editor
GOOFS A. P. Person

Assistant Editor
O. C. Scores

Sports Editor
Ronnie Dietrick

Assistant Sports Editor
Hill Masters

Managing Editor
George Gunn

Feature Editor
Ellis White

Staff Photographer
J. G. Stokes

Circulation Manager
Jack Lazenby

Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

School Spirit...
It is a difficult job these days to have a college football team. But Davidson has one, and one which
makes a creditable showing. It is easy to put a cheering section in the stands at the games, but Davidson
has not done that in a very creditable manner. And there the blame can only be laid upon the shoulders
of the individual student on the campus.

In the recent game with Barium Springs, a bigger and harder fighting Wildcat team went down before a scrappy team
from Barium. The students, though they were there for the most part, were hardly heard, and the team not only
took a physical defeat, but also a mental one.

Davidson has always been noted for its spirit: win, lose, or draw. A small school, playing out of its class
in many instances in the past, the Wildcat spirit has been the backbone of many an upset, and the support
in many a defeat. The men in the stands have proved the importance of their contribution, and now the present
student body has fallen down on the job. It is up to every man, upperclassman or freshman, to learn the
yells, and songs, and to get out there and use them. Let the Wildcats hear the fight, and they will
do their part.

Perhaps this spirit is new to some. It is not something you put on paper; it is something you feel.
The freshman year at Davidson is the time when you learn to know what that Davidson spirit is. That is
why the freshmen go to cheer rallies, and to football games—only by participating in these things can the average freshman
come to be a Davidson man.

This attempt to make Davidson men is the basis of the whole freshman system. School spirit carries over into all
activities and all phases of college life, and unless it pervades the entire atmosphere it is not successful. Freshman rules
are for that purpose, and unless there is cooperation on the part of both freshmen and upperclassmen, school spirit dies.
Let’s all work together, and see the Davidson spirit come to life!

Ambition...
There are many things required for success in college. Development must be physical, social, as well as academic. The aim
of college is not so much to teach specific things but to train the student to find his own way
in the field of knowledge. The areas of endeavor may be narrow or broad, what is needed must be to
attain the aim for the task at hand. Back of this there is a motivating idea. This idea might be
named ambition. It is the desire for accomplishment that must be basic in our college life.

It is true that we must set ideals. They must be of the highest order, comparable to the stars, which
were like ideals to Napoleon, always to be followed, never to be attained. We must learn to think. Man can
only make contact through the mind. The vast reality of life and creation can become ours only when it is
reduced, sifted, and channeled into our mental processes.

But ideals and the ability to comprehend lie inert until there is a force behind them. They are lacking power
in themselves. There is a third element which must be added to make a complete picture, a working machine. Ambition
for our use here must be narrowed to mean the motive or the will to succeed, the desire to utilize
the opportunities. It implies the factor necessary to obtain to the greatest degree all that college has to offer.

One of the rarest objects on our campus is a man who tries to get all he can out of
every phase of his college life. The statement might be narrowed even more, to say the rarity is the man
who tries to get all he can from the academic standpoint. Too many students anxiously inquire as to the smallest
amount of work possible, never attempting to explore the vaster field beyond. The highest delight of a college day is
not in seeing an ‘A’ on a paper but in finding that the professor has cut his class.

We must divide our field into its component parts since it does not occur as a single unit. There are
two types of ambition in the scholastic endeavors of the student. One might be named the “near-sighted” variety, the other
the “far-sighted.” One loses much of its value without the other. Together, they are priceless. One consists of tenacity, even
drudgery, the other of high-flown aspiration.

In the case of “near-sighted” ambition we must have the satisfaction of seeing each day’s work done. We must view
our task with the aim of complete accomplishment, without regard for the past or the future. There must be the
joy of perfecting each little unit as a whole as something sought for its own worth. This is to say
do each day’s work as it comes. Prepare each lesson as it is assigned.

Far beyond this we reach with our “far-sighted” ambition. It views the whole, the future, the attainable ideal. It is
the end which we seek by our daily work. It represents the success, the fulfillment of worthwhile ambition. Do not
be mistaken; it is not some tinsel which allures us like children. It is the ability to reach out and
grasp life and live it to the fullest.

Gunning AroundRandolph Tyler Knox had graduated from Dodson College in the class of ’39. That was the important fact concerning
his collegiate career because he hadn’t been a Phi Bate or an O.D.K., although he had been on the staff
of The Dodsonian, treasurer of his fraternity, and a member of the track squad. Randy had left Dodson the day
after he graduated and when next heard from was with the Flying Tigers in China. That's what you would have
found on his card in the alumni office with this addition: “Promoted to the rank of Captain and recipient of
China's highest military award upon downing his sixteenth Jap fighter.” Randy came home then, just after the Flying Tigers became
a part of the U.S. Air Forces. His picture had been in the Alumni Journal so I recognized him at
once when I answered a knock at my door about 10:30 one summer night and found Randy standing on the
porch. I had been Dodson’s Treasurer for twenty-one years and my home was off the campus and just around the
corner from the small community depot. Randy nervously replied to my inquiries as to his health and his record in
China and seemed primarily interested in the fact that I was alone. Once seated he addressed me directly and with
great concern.

“Mr. Roper,” he began, “I've come all the way up here from Harris Field tonight just to see you. I'm
being shipped out of there for a new assignment day after tomorrow and before I left I had to see
you or someone here at Dodson and confess to a thing that has tortured my mind and soul relentlessly since
the day I graduated from Dodson.”

“Well, you can speak to me freely,” I urged, smiling at his anxious countenance, “This thing surely is not as
bad as you seem to make it.”

“It is serious,” Randy went on, “to the extent that I am guilty of a crime that I might well
be in prison for and I want only to confess for the peace of my own mind and if possible
to make some restitution. I'll not waste words but give you the whole story, Mr. Roper, although there is little
to it.

“It all took place the night that I graduated back in 1939. Just before I was due to catch my
train, I was crossing the campus for the last time and as I passed the small, boarded-up old gym I
told myself as I had many times during my four years at Dodson, what a help it would be to
the looks of the campus and above that, what a glorious fire there would be if that old firetrap should
some day burn down. Being a bit jovial over the fact that I was now an alumnus of Dodson, I
climbed through a window of the old frame building and piled a heap of rubbish in the middle of the
old wood floor. Then I set a match to it and ran to make my train. That explains, I guess,
why the old gym must have burned that night and why I want to give you this $4000 I made
from Jap planes in China, to at least partially pay for the loss and to relieve my mind.”

“Bu-but,” I stammered, “the old gym never burned; it’s still standing over on the campus!” I almost laughed at his
surprised and gaping stare.

“You mean to say,” he finally said, “that my fire didn't catch, that the old place never went up in
flames?”

This Might Be You
By Hil Masters

The social activities of the schools are just beginning. I mean by that, the dances, parties, and social gatherings which
are being held by the fraternities or the sororities and the schools themselves. Along with these functions comes the “plague
of blind dates.” Of course, there is nothing wrong with blind dating but it’s something to be wary of.

Example 1
For instance, there is the girl whose sister’s girlfriend has just come into town. The poor thing doesn’t know anyone
in town and your friend is so afraid she'll be lonely and wouldn’t you love to show her around? Now
this is a very ticklish situation. Perhaps you think that if you do this “small” favor for your friend (let’s
call her Josephine) she will sometime return the favor by dating you herself. This might be true, but is it
worth it? And then again you might enjoy yourself on that date. Who knows?

Example 2
Now here's another example. This is called the “personality line.” Your friend (Joe) says he has a date with a
girl at Queens. She has a friend (they usually do) who needs a date. Well, Joe is perfectly frank with
you. He tells you that her hair is streaked, her eyes are bleary, she had smallpox when she was six,
and that she could use a diet, BUT she has a wonderful personality. Well, this is just what you're looking
for (isn’t that silly). You quickly gobble it up and you're all set. The night has arrived; you meet your
date; and your hopes fall. You've been tricked. Look at her. Beautiful blonde hair, clear blue eyes, golden tan complexion,
and a figure that would make Grable envious, but (you guessed it) no personality. There you are—stuck. That's just another
of the sad cases in blind dates.

Example 3
Let's take the case of John Cross, a pre-medical student. John had red hair so his friends called him “Red
Cross.” His sister, Chris Cross, had a date for him. Red was a little hesitant about accepting this, but after
seeing a picture of his proposed date he quickly accepted the offer. It was a dance and the place was
gaily decorated in silver and rich tones of blue. Everyone was there but Red and he had been detained. Why?
Well, his sister had neglected to tell him that his date lived twelve miles out of town. After the dance
Red drove her home watching the quickly declining gas gauge. “Oh, yes he had enjoyed himself. She was a very
good dancer and he was not disappointed, but there he was twelve miles out of town with about enough gas
to take him to the next corner. After going through the formalities (isn't that a good word) of saying good-night,
Red started driving home and he ran out of gas ten miles out of town. There he was “thumbing a
ride” at four o'clock in the morning in white tie and tails. But don't laugh for this might be you.

“That's exactly it,” I assured him. Randy sat for a full minute in silence and then rose to leave. He
left but not without first forcing upon me his $4000, in cash it was, in an old, much-handled envelope. He
told me he wanted it to go toward a new building for the Dodson campus, a new gym perhaps. (Continued
on Page 4)
