Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, February 11, 1944

Nine Seniors

Get Diplomas

Dr. Redhead Delivers Commencement Address

Dr. John A. Redhead, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, delivered the graduation address for the exercises held
Friday, January 28.

The degrees were awarded as follows: Bachelor of Science, Robert G. Cushman, Jacksonville, Fla.; John E. Evans, Jr., Wilmington; Francis
W. Fowler, Charlotte; Edgar F. Patterson, Charlotte; Robert P. Pierce, Farmville; Henry P. Royster, Oxford; James F. Welborn, Lexington; and
William E. White, Graham. The degree of Bachelor of Arts was awarded to Benjamin H. Evans of Weaverville.

Cushman and White are now enrolled in Bowman-Gray medical school in Winston-Salem. John Evans is at the University of Maryland
medical school, and received his degree “in absentia.” Patterson and Royster remain at Davidson to act as secretary of the
YMCA and as assistant in the Physics Department, respectively. B. H. Evans is in the navy as a candidate for
the chaplaincy. Fowler is studying at the Duke School of Theology. Pierce is in the army, and Welborn is at
medical school.

SCRATCHINGS
by Skrotemfeldt

Valentine’s Day, I am told, is celebrated on the 14th of February. Why it does not appear on some other
day is vaguely connected with the mating of turtle-doves, and possibly because, discounting birthdays, as women are so prone to
do, it is a long wait from Christmas to Christmas.

A pocket-worn day, it probably started when some cave-man, finding a peculiarly attractive stone, decided to transport it to his
true love, as a token of his esteem. Bringing it to her he promptly bashed it over her head, and
she being overwhelmed with the occasion, agreed that he should be her life mate. This celebration grew and was probably
called Ugh’s Day, coming in the moon of Whug, (Language not being superfluous in those days).

Advancing from this more sensible stage, the day becomes prominent, and somewhere through History’s voluminous pages it acquired the name
of St. Valentine’s Day. (For my own part, I have always been partial to St. Andrew, but who am I
to judge the amorosity of a Saint.) Ever developing it comes to us in our modern day.

At one time, due to the increasing trend of Individualism, it was thought the time-honored day might fade away. Thousands
of couples began to quarrel, and marriage rates dropped frightfully. Romance steered mercilessly for stones and things were looking down.
But the “Greeting Card and Candy Makers Union” quickly came to the rescue, and Valentine’s was soon on its feet
again.

However, it was not without controversy. It is rumored that at one period the apostles of the “Heart Shaped” greeting
drew up in arms against those followers of the “Square Shaped” remembrance, and much blood was shed on both sides.
In the following peace, it was agreed that upon joining a Valentine’s Betterment Association, any and every member would be
allowed to send either “Heart Shaped” or “Square Shaped” greetings, supplemented by confections, apparel, or other items considered pleasing to
the feminine gender.

All in all, Valentine’s seems to be a thoroughly likable event, reaping dividends for both male and female. However, the
main theme remains: “The coat and the pants do all of the work, and the dress gets all the gravy.”

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

Parker-Gardner Co.

118 West Trade St. Charlotte

Ed Patterson
“Y” Secretary

Watt to Be President of New Y. M. C. A. Cabinet

Edgar Patterson has recently been selected by the faculty to serve as secretary of the Y. M. C. A. until
he leaves Davidson in June.

Hank Watt was elected by the student body to replace Patterson as president of the Y. M. C. A. Watt
has recently appointed the following new men to posts on the Y Cabinet: John Craven and Lennox Turnbull, Boys’ Work;
Murphy Wilds, Chapel Programs; and Lamarr Williamson, Spiritual Development. Old members remaining are Sam Hay, Student Relationship; Bill Smith, Social;
Alfred McNair, Publicity; Bill Grey, Student Sunday School; Tinsley Bradley, Deputations; Jim Stimson, Community Work; World Evangelism, done by Bob
Miller; and Reverend Carl Pritchett, acting as advisor.

The first meeting of the new semester was held in the Guest House Wednesday, February 2, 1943. After supper, the
new members were presented by Watt. Patterson then gave a brief summary of the Y program for the coming semester.

Patterson announced pertaining to the game rooms that the “pool room” has been temporarily closed for repairs. The pool table
needs recovering and the sticks need new “tips.” The “ping pong room” however is operating again due to the acquisition
of two new paddles and several new balls.

JONES FOR ALL

e PENNANTS

e JEEP HATS

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR

e FRATERNITY STATIONERY

e SHAVING ARTICLES

AT

The Student Store

MANAGERS

NEWT SPENCER
BILL SMITH
