Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 25, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DAVE RICHARDSON

BUSINESS MANAGER,
DEXTER WITHERINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ashe ... Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson ... Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield ... Feature Editor
Jim Lowry ... Sports Editor
Ray Miller ... Managing Editor
Sam Ervin ... Managing Editor
Jim Love ... Managing Editor
Kurt Weill ... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Fitz Ledgerton ... Circulation Manager
Murry Wills ... Advertising Manager
Earl Mahone ... Advertising Manager
Tom Smith ... Subscription Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.80 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Shh!....

Several weeks have passed now since the school was in arms about the dormitory mess. The dorms have quieted down,
and so has the discussion. Except for an occasional bottle-throwing spree by some childish freshman in Watts, the silence in
the halls is unbroken. A large part of the discussion about the dormitories in general which this incident stirred up
dealt with the complaints from freshmen that noise kept them from studying. Besides the fact that freshmen make most of
the noise, there is also the fact that some freshmen have lived through noise in the dorms to become Phi
Betes. Noise is an excellent excuse for not passing. There's nothing like a good fight down the hall to serve
as a reason for not studying, as found by those who want to study. The library, the Y, fraternity houses,
some other dormitory, are only a few. If there were not some noise, students might complain that they could not
keep awake.

Of the plans suggested tentatively to remedy the whole situation of dormitory trouble, that of placing a faculty guardian in
each dorm is too impractical to be considered. Davidson is not a prep school (it says here in small print).
The other plan, of appointing student dormitory leaders, is worth discussing if some method of curbing the unleashed fury in
the halls must be found. If the monitors were elected by the student body, and not appointed, they might help
preserve quiet. But it seems more likely to believe that a race would start to see how much damage one
person could do without getting caught. If it is decided that some plan of dormitory control is necessary, we plead
with the faculty to get the student body to pass on the method chosen. A rule taking away any more
student privileges without the students’ consent will certainly prove disastrous.

With The Staff ....
By LAMAR WILLIAMSON

“... be authorized to permit dances on the campus at such times and under such conditions as may be determined
by the faculty.”

It’s a simple statement, isn't it? Just how easily have dances at Davidson been made possible! But paving the way
for passage of this faculty recommendation has been far from easy. The struggle for dancing on the campus has been
far longer and more bitter than many of us realize. In fact, we have heard one person say that he
knows alumni of Davidson who will hardly believe this news when it reaches them. We can understand something of the
“blood, sweat and tears” poured out for the cause of dancing at Davidson when we learn that for the past
twelve years editors of the Davidsonian have been pushing the pen in passionate appeal for the measure which the trustees
passed last week. But from the first headlined dance article of February 3, 1932, until now, the tone has been
somewhat hopeless. Now for the first time we can say with complete confidence: “There WILL be dances at Davidson!”

Of course, there is the proverbial red tape. Complete arrangements cannot be made overnight. But the matter is now entirely
up to the faculty, and that body is almost unanimously in favor of dances on the campus. One professor has
remarked that he doesn't believe dances will be held here on the campus for any great length of time. He
believes that the student body will revel in the novelty of the situation for a short time and then, realizing
that the City of Davidson is not the most glamorous spot in the world, will be ready to move back
to the greener pastures of Charlotte. Perhaps he is right — only time will tell. But for the present at
least we can rejoice freely in a great victory!

Now that the day is in sight when Davidson will have her first dance on the campus, we can predict
that there will probably be a tumult very much like that

Scribbling by Scofield
On The Evils Of Advertising
Or Don Ameche Didn’t Mean This

Every citizen, man, woman, or dog has at some time or the other had intimate contact with a radio and
its inseparable partner, Advertising. Many have fallen victim to the latter of these two (it happens in the best of
families) and many more will no doubt succumb. Last week I encountered somewhere along life’s toilsome journey, a cold germ.
A furious battle ensued, but I lost, and the little vandal settled down gnawing at my throat! Being abreast of
the advertisements, I dashed down for some of those cigarettes which “either completely cure or greatly improve throat irritation.” “Ah,
ha!” I said to myself. “Now I will get you, you little rascally germ,” and began to liken the air
around Rumple to that of a Northern town. After twenty or thirty packs, I swooned away for several hours. Awaking
from my stupor, I crawled away to my death bed, switched on the radio, and pondered the situation. Morethan ever.
I knew what the announcer had said to be true. Irritation will cease because you will no longer have a
throat. In fact, you will no longer have anything—you will be dead.

Bitter End
Bitter over the turn of events, I was preparing to give up the ghost, when a small dog walked in
when the foundation of Zerubbabel’s temple was inquired after Ty Wealth. And just as on that day in Jerusalem, it
will probably be a noise of the weeping of lovers of the “good old days” mingled with the shouts of
joy of those who sense only a new glory. But the gist of the comment on the part of the
present generation of Sons of Davidson will doubtless be simply: “Come on chil-lun’, let’s dance!”

Let’s Go, Cats...
The following letter was sent to Jim Lowry by Capt. Sam Spencer, Davidson graduate and for two years instructor in
the R.O.T.C. department here. Capt. Spencer is now stationed at N.C. State in Raleigh. The game with Carolina referred to
was the one in Charlotte which Davidson lost by four points. We can say nothing more to express our hopes
for the Wildcats in the tournament next week.

“Dear Jim:
Your record on the court, both individually and as a team, has looked mighty good so far, and I just
want you to know that you have a mighty interested supporter up here. Even against Carolina the showing was pretty
good, but I hope you won't be satisfied with it—it’s time we got rid of the ‘moral victory’ complex at
Davidson. Anyway, I’m backing you for the dark horse in the tournament. My best to all the boys.
SAM.”

I told him to go away, that little dogs couldn't talk, and that he must not be a little dog.
He said he was and could. He said that he had been educated at Duke, and until recently, was employed
with Ringling Brothers’. Tiring of the foolish questioning of the humans who frequented the side show, he had resigned and
was on his way home to Grand Rapids. When he discovered the cause of my condition, he sat up on
his haunches and began an unwelcome lecture.

Dog Expounds
“In a small room in (at the present) an unpopular country,” he said, “a hard-working man transferred some sound (through
the courtesy of Proctor & Gamble, The American Tobacco Company, and Brown and Williamson) from here to there with no
visible means of connection. In short, the wireless radio was born.

“This made certain men very happy, for now they could roll up their Carpet Bags and do their peddling from
an armchair in Radio City. Overnight, a woman was not a woman until she draped a red-tipped cigarette betwixt her
ruby lips and assumed the general appearance of a chimney.

“Sad Sue and The Average American Family began going through days of earthquake, fire, and flood to prove the merits
of soap and breakfast foods, and so came the advertisements of today—”

He would have continued, but I cut him short. “Quiet,” I said. “Go away and let me die in peace.
You talk too much.”

‘Y’ Corner
By ED. PATTERSON

12:50
Bong — bong — bong — bong —
The bell monotonously pounds out its dutiful call to Chapel. For several minutes a constant monotone of voices drowns out
the stately organ music. Gradually, voices drop out of the swell until only several can be heard—the organ music has
stopped. Now the speaker rises and finally the remaining voices pass away into the distance.

Patterson
“Please pay attention to the following announcement, etc., etc.”
Another Chapel program has gotten under way. One just about like it took place the day before and another the
day before that. Five days a week, week in and week out, we walk into Chapel and settle down for
another program and Mr. Screwtape smiles.

When we lose sight of the purpose behind these Chapel programs, we are in danger of letting them become mechanical,
second nature, and lifeless. At least part of every program is set aside for worship, for praising God, and for
reverent listening to His Word. It is the lack of use that kills a Chapel program quicker than anything else.
It is lack of reverence that kills the meaning. Would it help any if we would come into Chapel quieter
and more reverently?

Flashes
Congrats to McNair for his well-put talk on “service” last Friday—Thanks to Miller and all the Members of the Pan-Hellenic
Council for their efforts in giving us one of the best sets of Mid-winters we've had (Quit shaking your head
Ed—you noticed how nearly everyone was at both affairs)—Rumor No. 1 of the week: “The pool room will be open
any day now.”

How would you correct this sentence? “A Davidson Gentleman respects character and sincerity, and he never belittles or ‘labels’ any
of his fellow students.”

Unsung heroes of the week: Johnny Craven (who's left school to find some bell-bottoms) and Ray Miller. They have done
a fine piece of work with the Gray-Y lads, who have been winning consistently in the basketball tournament in Charlotte.

Lately, a number of people have become concerned about student-faculty relations. With this in mind, may I make a suggestion.
Why don't more hall prayer groups invite faculty members in for the Wednesday night meetings? If this declining custom were
revived, it would give both sides a chance to see each other outside the formality of the classroom. It could
be a means of allowing students and professors to really know each other better, and that is a part of
college too often missed.

Last week Eade Anderson dropped in and said that he was going to show me something I should know—then he
pulled out a handful of green and red thimbles which he proceeded to swallow. Isn’t that real friendship?
