MAJIT H THE WILDCATS
By JIM LOWRY

Usually, the sports column, entitled “With the Wildcats,” is concerned mainly with the different varsity sports which the Cats play.
Since this summer there is no such thing as varsity sports, this column will be full of small sports items
that might interest the average fan.

The thing that is of the most interest to Davidson students at this time is Coach Gene McIver's departure from
this campus to the navy-studded campus at Chapel Hill. Coach McIver came here under Doc Newton and took over the
head coaching job when Doc was called to State. Since then, he has been turning out good football teams and
building for greater ones. In 1943, it looked like he would have as good a team as any in the
state and one of the best in the South, but the war tore that to pieces. Next year at Carolina,
Coach McIver will have a wealth of material to work with and some excellent aides, among them his brother who
was formerly coach at V.P.I. Here’s wishing the best of luck to Coach McIver in his new job, and here's
hoping that he returns to Davidson after this war.

I think that congratulations are due to the wartime athletic squads at Davidson last year. The football team, with a
great scarcity of experienced men and manned almost entirely by 17-year-old boys, played some very good football and would have
won some ball games had a few schools they played been a little more strict in keeping their word. The
basketball team, nicknamed “Buzzsaws,” won 16 and lost 6. They defeated State and were trimmed by Carolina by three and
six points. They played in a lot of hard luck throughout the year, losing nine men of the original thirteen.
They went to the conference tournament only to lose to V.P.I. in the last thirty seconds. The Cat diamond team,
lacking everything the football team did, lost seven straight games to run the Davidson losing string to over twenty. Then
they went out and upset Catawba 3-0. The baseball was supposed to be put in the trophy cage, but no
one has seen it. All in all, it was a fairly successful year under the circumstances, and here’s hoping that
this winter the second wartime squad will have as much fun and as much luck.

Every year it seems that some sports writer comes out with a list of firsts in sports events. The time
has come for the Davidson sports editor to make out his. These are from the viewpoint of the sports fans
who lose money every year.

Biggest Upset—Bounding Home bounding away from Pensive in the Belmont.
Biggest Disappointment—Cat's loss to State the Saturday night of Mid-winters.
Biggest Joke—The man who said that the Yankees would not miss Dickey, Gordon, DiMaggio, Johnson, and Rizzuto, and would still
win the pennant.
Biggest Clown—Ed Hudson, known as Eye Brows, who jerked off his catcher’s mask so fast a foul tip hit him
in the face.
Fastest Man—The ballplayer who hit a line drive over second base and got hit in the head sliding into second.
Biggest Fool—me, for trying to write a sports column this summer.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
The Best Haircuts

DAVIDSON DINING ROOM
Delicious Meals
Quick and Courteous Service

VISIT COLE'S

Friday, June 23, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

DORM COMPETITION BEGINS

Many of the new students at Davidson have already spent many enjoyable hours at the YMCA. The “Y” serves as
a source of fine entertainment for a little spare time in the afternoons. The pool table and ping pong table
afford us an opportunity to get together with our friends for an occasional game.

The popular records at the “Y” also offer another source of enjoyment. For complete relaxation, it's hard to beat an
easy chair, a phonograph, and some good records. For those who like their music “sweet and hot,” there are the
best records of the best popular bands in the country today. For those who enjoy classical music, there is a
set of records which has been brought to the “Y” from the Music Building. In recent years, these records have
been very popular with the students.

Starting immediately after Vespers, there will be a series of get-togethers at the “Y” singing hymns. For those of us
who enjoy singing, this is an excellent opportunity to get together and sing our favorite hymns. There are quite a
few students interested in this new activity, and they want more of us to join them. If you like to
sing, come on up to the “Y.”the “Y” M. C. A. Faculty

Those who have the classics, there is the Carnegie “pers” next Sunday night, June 25, for the purpose of Georgia
1 and Watts 1 and 2 Win First Games.

Inter-dormitory volleyball began this week with games Tuesday evening, Georgia 1 vs. Watts 3 and Watts 1 vs. Georgia 3.
Georgia 1 defeated the third and fourth floors of Watts 2-0, and first floor Watts downed Georgia 3 by a
score of 2-1. The dormitories have been divided so as to have two teams from each dorm. The first and
second floors of Watts make up one team, while the third and fourth floors comprise another. Georgia 1 includes the
west side of the second floor, and Georgia 3 takes in the east half of the second floor.

The managers for the four teams are as follows: Georgia 1—Witherington; Georgia 3—Lowry; Watts 1—Owens; Watts 3—Hay and Inscoe. The
volleyball tournament should be finished this week.

Dr. William G. McGavock, teaching mathematics at Duke University, where he received his Ph.D. degree. Coach Gene McIver, who was
head coach here, now holds the same position at the University of North Carolina. Neither McGavock nor McIver hold permanent
positions at the neighboring institutions.

Harvey L. Morrison, instructor of physics, has left the campus indefinitely. Alfred F. Foster, another physics instructor, is now in
a naval research bureau at Fort Schuyler, New York. Foster is one of the technicians studying radar.

Cinema Attractions
June 23, 24: "Buffalo Bill"
June 24: "Late Show"
June 26, 27: "Ladies Courageous"
June 28, 29: "Yellow Canary"
June 30, July 1: "Falcon Out West"
July 1: "Late Show"
July 3, 4: "The Imposter"

Sunday night after Vespers, “Y” Cabinet

In the recently held election, Bill Smith was elected as the new president of the Y. M. C. A. Bill
is a member of the national leadership fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and we are counting on him to continue his
splendid work in his new office. The new cabinet members of the “Y” are Jim Alexander, Ed Golden, and Dexter
Witherington. George Apperson, who is the pastor of Unity Church, is automatically a member of the cabinet. These boys are
amply qualified to carry on the fine work which the “Y” has done in past years, and we are counting
on them to do a good job.

Reception

At 8 o'clock on Friday evening, June 16, on the lawn of the Guest House, the Y. M. C. A.
gave a reception for the new students at Davidson and for the members of the faculty who are teaching this
summer. Altogether, there were approximately one hundred students and faculty members present at the reception. From the student’s viewpoint, the
reception was very beneficial because it gave them an opportunity to meet and get acquainted with the members of the
faculty under whom they will work this year. The reception ended at 9 o'clock and with it ended an enjoyable
evening for all who attended.

Dr. James B. Woods, Jr., a former Davidson student and graduate of the Medical College of Virginia, has resigned his
position as associate professor of physiology and associate college physician. Dr. Wood is now holding the rank of major at
Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, in the Army Medical Corps. Dr. Wood was replaced by Dr. W. F. Selby. Dr. Selby studied
at the University of Mississippi, the University of North Carolina, and Temple University. Before June 1st, he had been in
private practice in Charlotte. He now resides near our campus with his wife and two children.

William L. Shannon, instructor in medical aid and mathematics and teacher of the Aviation Cadets in aeronautics and aerial navigation,
has gone to Shelbyville, Kentucky. Mark E. Tinkham, instructor in physics and a graduate of the University of North Carolina,
is now with the National Carbon Company in Charlotte.

BANK OF DAVIDSON welcomes the A. S. T. R. P. and offers bank facilities whenever such is needed. The bank
is authorized to issue saving bonds in connection with the present War Bond Drive, and urges everyone to buy liberally.

The BANK OF DAVIDSON
Davidson, N. C.
