WITH THE WILDCATS
By JIM LOWRY

The second half of the summer softball season ended officially today as most of the teams quit by popular consent. The Sigmas, paced again by the pitching of Dill Medford, won the second half by a full game over the KA-PikKap-Pika team which finished two full games ahead of the Betas. The Sigmas still had to play the Betas and the runner-up team, but it was with the sincere wish of everybody that play desisted.

Last Friday night the embryonic 1945 Cat basketball team made its first start against the ASTRP cadets and came out on top by the scant margin of 29-27. The Cadets, paced by an all-state guard Biando, ran away to an early lead, but the Cats, on baskets by Hicks and Lowry, ran up a two-point lead at the half, 17-15, and kept it during the remainder of the fracas. The Cat starting team of Owens, Bryant, Hicks, Edwards, and Lowry worked fairly well for their first game together and showed promise of becoming an average wartime squad next year. With over fifty freshmen coming in this fall and with the nucleus of this summer's team, the Cats could turn out a team that will live up to the Battling Bantams of last year, who were one of the better civilian teams in the South. They play the Cadets again next Tuesday and would appreciate a turnout of most of the student body, and all the freshmen.

Since the last time The Davidsonian went to press, it has definitely been ascertained that there will be a football team this fall. It will be classed as a Davidson freshman team and will play only prep schools and high schools. There is enough material around here to turn out a fairly good freshman team which should give a lot of prep schools fits.

Plans for the post-war gym are coming along very nicely. Everything that has to do with athletics is inside of it. There is no doubt about the fact that when it is built, it will be one of the best in the South, if not in the whole country. From the blueprints of it, it will put even Carolina’s Woolen Gym in the shade. Surely it is much better than Duke's or State's old cracker box. After the war, when the gym is built, it will be hard to keep boys away from here after they have seen it and the records that future Cat basketball teams should and will hang up.

The war has undoubtedly hit Davidson harder than any school around here. When the boys started leaving school, it was just the beginning of what might easily be called the golden age of Davidson athletics. Surely last year and this year we would have had one of the better football teams, one of the best basketball teams, and one of the best track teams in the South, and even the famous or maybe infamous Davidson clowns might have won some baseball games. However, after the war, things will pick up again and old boys will be back and new ones coming in, and we who have had the fortune or perhaps it will be our misfortune to finish our education in the midst of this war will look back with a sort of envy on the school that we knew of with a student body of two hundred and fifty. While I hardly think anybody who has ever been to Davidson will ever forget what it stands for, there will at the same time, along with the pride that we will have for it, be a sort of envy for the boys up here after the war. Davidson has always been tops in academic work, but after the war, she will undoubtedly earn for herself a place in the athletic world for something more than her moral victories and for her fighting spirit.

---

COLE’S DAVIDSON DINING ROOM and CAROLINA LUNCH
Delicious Meals
Quick and Courteous Service

---

Cinema Attractions
August 23-24: “Gambler’s Choice”
August 25-26: “Dr. Wassel”
August 28-29: “None Shall Escape”
August 30-31: “Step Lively”
September 1-2: “Secret Command”
September 4-5: “Address Unknown”
September 6-7: “Once Upon A Time”
September 8-9: 
September 11-12: 
September 13-14:- A. S. BROWN ~ General Merchandise Davidson, N.C. Faul WHITE DRUG COMPANY URGES YOU TO LIBERALLY LEND MONEY TO BACK “Night of Adventure” “Up in Arms” “Conquering Hero” & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street ~ Charlotte, N.C. OF YOUR OUR BOYS WHO ARE GIVING THEIR ALL “VISIT COLE'S”

Stand One Game Ahead as Tournament is Called off By Unanimous Consent. As was expected, Kappa Sigs competition was won by the Pi Kaps. Though not from the steadiest in the field, and the chance to say so, the Pi Kaps would undoubtedly vote C. T. Daniels as the Kappa Sigs' most valuable man. For C. T. slammed out his only home run of the entire tournament as he substituted for the Kappa Sigs in a game with the Independents.

Independents-Pi Kaps
In an eight-inning game which ended with the Pi Kaps winning 3-2, the second half of the tournament was started on Monday 11th. Jim Lowry sparked the game for the Pi Kaps by erroring on four out of five fielded grounders. However, Judge Lowry redeemed himself by saving the game in the eighth inning. The batteries were Self and Gaiton to Grey for the Independents.

Betas-Kappa Sigs
On the same evening as the Pi Kap-Independent game, the Kappa Sigs defeated the Betas 3-2. The Beta boys just couldn't seem to realize, until after the game, that you didn’t win ball games and sleep in the outfield at the same time. Medford pitched to Sigmas and the Betas, Bryant for the Betas, and Blain to Golden for the Independents.

Independents-Kappa Sigs
The following evening the Kappa Sigs broke an all-summer jinx and defeated the Independents 6-5. The game was well played on both sides when C. T. Daniels knocked his noteworthy home run. Medford to Love and Gaiton to Grey were the batteries for the Sigmas and Independents, respectively.

SPE's-Betas
Two teams for seven good innings on Tuesday succeeded in coming out on top. This session's softball tournament was solid in the batter’s box. Medford's pitching, which sparked all their games, was tops. If given a chance, the Beta boys just couldn't seem to recover, but the tide turned in favor of the Sigmas. The Betas mixed it with the SPEs with a few good hits, sprinkled in on both sides for good measure. It seems that the SPEs were able to make more errors in a shorter time than the Neuts and lost as a consequence of this. Both teams had their usual batteries.

Independents-SPEs
This game deserves little attention except for the fact that it was the first game during the entire summer that both sides didn’t score at least one run. The game ended with the Independents out in front with a score of 1-0. It was a good game. Gaiton pitched to Grey for the Independents and hurled to Naill for the SPEs.

Kappa Sigs-Pi Kaps
The Kappa Sigs clinched the pennant (if there was one) when they defeated the Pi Kaps to the tune of 5-0. The batteries for the game were Medford to Bryant for the Sigs and Medford to Harris for the Pi Kaps.

Pi Kaps-Betas
By losing to the Pi Kaps 6-3, the Betas lost the chance of standing second in the tournament standings. This was a pretty big loss for the Betas since they tied for first with the Kappa Sigs in last session's tourney. Blain to Golden and Lowry to Medford were the batteries for the Betas and Pi Kaps respectively.

SPE's-Kappa Sigs
As was expected, the Kappa Sigs defeated the SPEs on August 27th. What nobody expected was that the score would be so close. The SPEs played a fine game all the way and were edged out 5-4. The batteries were Medford to Bryant for the Kappa Sigs and Burgess pitched to Owens for the SPEs.

Betas-Independents
The last game of the session's rounds was between the Betas and the Independents. The game was hotly contested during its entire length. The Betas, however, drove in the winning run in the last of the sixth. The batteries were Gaiton to Grey for the Independents and Blain to Golden for the Betas.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE
Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US
“When It’s Over Over There”
PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
SOUTH CHURCH STREET
CHARLOTTE, N.C.