Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, July 28, 1944

Into The Life of Things
By J. S. BLAIN

Francis Quarles wrote:
“My soul, sit thou a patient looker on.
Judge not the play before the play is done.
Her plot hath many changes, every day
Speaks a new scene; the last act crowns the play.”

This bit of verse contains an excellent answer to the question which so many have asked concerning the world and its present chaotic condition: Why does God allow the world to become involved in war and suffering? Our span of life represents so small a portion of time when compared with the vast extent of the life of the universe that we are not capable of understanding or judging conditions of this war-torn earth.

At Vespers on July ninth, Dr. John A. Redhead stated that we are challenged today to rise to supreme heights of courage, sacrifice, and faith in God. Using the graphic illustration of the oyster which takes a troublesome bit of sand in its shell and makes of it a valuable pearl, Dr. Redhead pointed out that the troubles and worries which beset us all can be turned into “pearls” with a little effort on our part.

Comparing the universe to Nazareth, and using John 1:35-46 as his text, Dr. Redhead said that the only answer to those who doubt any of Christianity’s phases is that given by Philip when Nathanael asked, “Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?” Philip’s answer was, “Come and see.” That is what we, as Christians, must do today. Come down from the bleachers and get in the game. Then the question of why things should be as they are dissolves and the important thing becomes “How can we do something about it?”

Faith is perhaps the most intangible thing in life. It is basic and essential in our religion, but few people have been able to define it. Evidences of faith are numerous in everyday living, but not often do we see one whose life is based on complete faith. Dr. Redhead defined true faith as “the total response of the total personality to a way of believing.” Total response would mean that in all thoughts, words, and actions we submit ourselves to the will of God. This submission must involve all thoughts, words, and deeds, for only then do we embrace the total personality. There is no comparison with Jesus Christ. The only answer to that question which is so often asked today, and which is the origin of these thoughts, is faith—a stubborn and unyielding belief that even though every circumstance seems to deny God, His will and purpose and power will ultimately triumph.

That faith and peace which can comfort and strengthen us for these difficult days can be found by continually living close to God. The Reverend Clit H. McLeod, of Mooresville, who preached at Vespers on July sixteenth, reminded the students that Jesus spent much time in prayer and meditation in order to live the perfect life, and we must follow His example if we wish to lead honored lives, crowned by heaven. Mr. McLeod said that only by believing in God can we find hope, and he pointed out that the hope of desire or probability is wrong; the hope of expectation, that the good will win out, is the hope which God meant that we should have. The suggestion that each of us observe a period of quiet time each day, for prayer and meditation, is one by which we can all profit. “Mid all the traffic of the ways... make in my heart a quiet place and come and dwell therein.”

Dr. John B. Gallant conducted Chapel on July 11, and delivered a very thorough talk on the many different versions of the Bible. Pointing out many humorous sidelights, he traced the development of the Bible as a book, and urged the students to use some of their time profitably by becoming acquainted with the various types of books and other printed material available in the library.

Chapel on July 18 was led by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, who stressed the importance of remembering that each of us has potential ability which may be used for the betterment of the lot of our fellow men.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

illustrated the point by pointing out that in “the year 1809, when the attention of the world was focused on the Napoleonic Wars, almost to the exclusion of all other news, there were born several men who were to contribute far more to civilization than the struggle between men striving for political power could. Our present world situation is similar,” said Dr. Johnston, “and it is the responsibility of every person to realize his potentialities and to make the most of them.” The remarks were based on the theme found in the second chapter of Paul's second letter to Timothy: “Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.” Abraham Lincoln, one of those great men born in 1809, made the following statement, in which is a great deal of wisdom that is applicable to all of us: “I will study and get ready, and perhaps my chance will come.”

Creation’s Lord, we give thee thanks
That this thy world is incomplete,
That battle calls our marshaled ranks,
That work awaits our hands and feet;
That thou hast not yet finished man
That we are in the making still
As friends who share the Maker’s plan,
As sons who know the Father’s will.
—William deWitt Hyde.

IT COULD BE WORSE
(Continued from Page 3)

college. Each R.O.T.C. student will be issued a WAC instead of a rifle. All drills will be held at night. The student store will operate in front of Watts and Georgia.”

“I also propose a new infirmary,” continued Love. “When I was at the infirmary last, the doc asked me a number of questions: ‘How old are you?’ ‘Seventeen.’ ‘Waist?’ ‘Twenty-nine inches.’ ‘Neck?’ ‘Yes.’ I was rudely expelled!”

Ed.’s Note (Or at least, the ed. should make a note here). It is remarkable how many doubtful meanings an alleged pure-minded person can find in an entirely respectable joke.

Then Lamar Williamson got up to discuss the momentous issues which he made in chapel. In essence, here is what he said: “Now there are a lot of other things which should be discussed in regard to this convention, but I must go down to the P. O. to carry up my mail from the Dean. As a parting piece of sentiment, I want to inquire as to the identity of the chap who registered for Math 11 and 12, and sat through three trig classes the first two days and no algebra classes. It is understood that he escorted Virginia Smith to what he thought to be the right class. He had already been to Kimbrough’s trig. He wondered why Worth Rock and Virginia got up to leave when Prof. Brown mentioned a cosine. He began to suspect what was happening when the prof began discussing his Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry. At this time he was sure that he was sitting in a geography class. When the subject of trig finally arose, he was too embarrassed to leave.”

PLANS FOR GYM
(Continued from Page 1)

beautiful and useful structure. Mr. Norman Shephard, Physical Education Director, has the drawings in his office, where they may be seen by any students who so desire. The new gym will be a welcome addition to our campus, and will do a great deal toward building for a better Davidson.

SIGMAS AND SIG EPS
(Continued from Page 1)

ever begin to contribute, Berup and leave! Instead, he stayed and took a test of the material he had heard discussed three times. He flunked the test. No one seems to plead guilty to this atrocity, so as you probably already know, the lost soul was your good friend and the scholarly column known as “It Could Be Worse.”

PENNANTS
SANDWICHES
STUDENT STORE
SCHOOL SUPPLIES

The student store has opened in the basement of the Gym in the PX Stand. Visit the Student Store for:
COLD DRINKS
CANDY
ICE CREAM
FRATERNITY STATIONERY
STATIONERY

Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity held a function at Harris’ Lake. The party began about 6 o'clock with a hay ride ending at the lake. After a service in the rain, a delicious picnic supper with drinks was served. The group then returned to the fraternity house where the remainder of the evening was spent.