LS CAT TAL
By JOE STUKES

It looks as though the only sport to be enjoyed around the campus in the next couple of weeks will be yelling at the freshmen. The football team has knocked off for three weeks after their tie with Woodberry Saturday. There are hopes of a game with Porter, but it seems that this is mostly just wishful thinking.

CATS TIE TIGERS

Here’s an old one with a new twist: the Davidson Wildkittens served ‘T’ to Woodberry Forest in Orange, Va. last Saturday. The majority of Davidsonians were pleased to hear the score. Although outweighed 15 to 20 pounds per man, the seven Wildkittens played the Tiger forward wall to a standstill in the first quarter and the eleven from Davidson pushed their opponents around the last half. Many people guessed the method of scoring when the final count was heard. It seems that Quarterback Edwards threw a strike to End Pell in the end zone for our tally. It was a fine showing for the first game and we expect the Wildkittens to wipe up the field with the rest of the schedule.

PELL AND HAGAN LOST

We hate to see Allison Pell and Terry Hagan leave Davidson this week. They both turned in great games last Saturday and the team will feel their loss. Coach Hudson is shifting the whole team around. Maybe he’ll find the right answer.

SERIES

Cardinals 3, Browns 1, said the man at the mike on Monday. This sixth game told the tale at Saint Louis and closed the books on the first all-Saint Louis series in all history. It had to happen sometime. The Cards had four games to the Brownies’ two as Frosh Ted Wilks got the last man in the ninth. It was a very exciting series. Pitching stood out as great throughout the entire fracas, reaching a climax in the fifth game when Denny Galehouse and Mort Cooper combined to whiff 22 men for a new record. Cooper drew endless cheers as he fanned three pinch-hitters. The announcer said that Musial was the first Card player to make an error. What do they do in a Series, play poker? Our least invaluable players are Marty Marion and George McQuinn.

FRAT FOOTBALL

Pete Sinclair’s dissonant booming ushered in frat football after a delay of two days because of lack of time. Whittle muttered something about “C’est la guerre” but I don’t understand French. The KA-Kappa Sig team defeated the SPE’s two first downs to one. The Pi Kaps, led by Disputations Pete, took the Pikas 12-0. The Betas defeated the Independents 6-0. And the KA-Kappa Sigs have taken the Pikas 36-0. Looks like the Betas and the KA-Kappa Sigs. We'll pick Notre Dame, Army, and the Gremlins this week. You pick the rest.

STUDY HELPS FOR MINISTERS AND TEACHERS
- Bibles in all translations
- Commentaries on the whole Bible
- Bible dictionaries and concordances
- Christian Fiction
- Sunday School supplies
- Communion sets and collection plates

THE BIBLE BOOKS STORE
124 West Fourth, Charlotte, N. C.
P. O. Box 2725
Fred H. Plexico, Prop.

COLE’S DAVIDSON DINING ROOM and CAROLINA LUNCH
Courteous Service — Delicious Meals

Wildcat Sports
Friday, October 13, 1944 - THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

DAVIDSON, WOODBERRY TIE

Frat Football Gets Started
KA-Kappa Sigs and Betas Take Lead in First Games

Touch football got off to a good start last week as the Kappa Sigs and K. A.’s combined to edge out the Sig Eps by a margin of two first downs to one. There was no score as the game was highly contested throughout. Lowry led the combine, while McBride and Owens directed the SPE's. The Pi Kaps under Pete Sinclair next won over the Pikas managed by Bob Hossman in a 12-0 defeat. In the third game the Betas were victorious over a hard-fighting independent team with a score of 6-0. Stukes directed the Betas while Boarman led the Independents. In the last game to date, the KA-Kappa Sig team again proved too strong as they banged out a 30-0 win over the Pikas. So far it looks like the battle will be between the KA-Kappa Sigs and the Betas, who are the only teams that have not as yet lost a game.

STARTING LINE-UPS

DAVIDSON
Covington L.E.
Myatt L.T.
Monroe L.G.
Hay Center
Manget R.G.
Strickland R.T.
Pell R.E.
Edwards Q.B.
Hagan H.B.
Patterson H.B.
Bryant F.B.

WOODBERRY
Moore L.E.
Howard L.T.
Macconochie L.G.
Medealic Center
Cromwell R.G.
Reis R.T.
White R.E.
Boney Q.B.
Montgomery H.B.
Murphy H.B.
Davidson F.B.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
We Have Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
URGES YOU TO LIBERALLY LEND OF YOUR MONEY TO BACK OUR BOYS WHO ARE GIVING THEIR ALL

C. S. Goodrum

Cats Hold Their Own Against a Heavier Team With a Score of 6-6 On FridayMorning, October 6, the 1944 version of the Davidson Wildkittens traveled to Orange, Va., for the opening football game of the season against Woodberry Forest. As this was the first game of the season, nothing much was known about their strength. However, when the game was completed Saturday afternoon, everyone was ready to say that Davidson has again fielded an eleven that carried with it the good sportsmanship and fighting spirit which has been characteristic of all Davidson teams in the past.

The team arrived at Woodberry Forest late Friday afternoon, and immediately donned equipment for a short workout and some loosening up. After the workout, they went into Orange for dinner, and then came back to the school to get a good night's sleep before the game.

Starting exercises at 2:30 Saturday, the game had a rousing beginning when Davidson, fullback for Woodberry, ran the opening kickoff back to Davidson's 35-yard line. Woodberry tried several line plays that failed to produce a first down and kicked out of a hole, and then the Wildkittens started rolling. However, it was not until late in the period that they were able to hit pay-dirt. The score came on a pass from Edwards to Pell, and netted the first six points of the game. The try for the extra point failed, and at the end of the first period, the score was Davidson 6 to Woodberry 0.

During the second period, both teams fought on even terms, neither being able to cross the double stripe. As the second half opened, Woodberry’s highly touted offense began to roll, and it was not long before they were knocking at the door of the end zone. Much credit for this drive must be given to Dean Davidson whose running and passing set up the touchdown. Woodberry had a first down on Davidson's five-yard line, but three times the Wildkittens rose up and stopped them short of a touchdown. However, on the last attempt, they bucked center and went over for the score. The conversion for the extra point was blocked by Manget, and the score was tied, 6-6.

The remainder of the game was fought without a score, although the Tigers were seriously threatened several times, both teams taking to the air in an attempt to score a last-minute TD. It is difficult to name the most outstanding player for Davidson because they all played a superb game. However, Edwards’ kicking and passing, Bryant's and Hagan’s running, and Monroe's, Pell’s, and Johnson's vicious line play will not soon be forgotten by the Woodberry team. For the opponents, Davidson was by far the most outstanding, but he had able assistance from Howard, Cromwell, and Boney.

The team made an excellent showing against a much heavier foe, and, with more practice, should show up even better in its future games. All of Davidson can justly be proud of the 1944 Wildkittens. They are a fighting team and are sure to go far toward upholding the Davidson standards.

Davidson Loses Two Valuable First String Players

Our frosh team has been badly damaged by the loss of two valuable players, Allison Pell and Terry Hagan. Both of these boys have gone into a bigger game which is played for keeps. Allison Pell played end for the Wildcats and was an excellent man both offensively and defensively. He was well known in scrimmage for his hard tackling and blocking, and especially for being able to catch anything anywhere near him. It was Pell who snagged Phil Edwards’ pass for the Wildcats' lone score against Woodberry Forest. Pell was captain of the Darlington team last year and it is too bad that he won't be able to play against them when Davidson meets them in Rome, Georgia, on the 24th of next month.

Terry Hagan, playing wingback on offense and safety on defense, is also a first-string player. Although very light, Terry was noted for shifty running and hard driving. Both boys will be sorely missed and leave places that will be hard to fill.

So far as is known at this time, no game has been scheduled for this weekend. It was hoped that there might be a home game, but we are all looking forward to one in a few weeks.

ORIGINAL
Davidson........Woodberry
Bucknell........Penn State
NC State........Catawba
Navy.............Duke
Gremlins........Ga. Pre Fli.
Carolina.........Cher. Pt.
Wake Forest....VMI
Georgia..........Kentucky
Great Lakes....W. Mich.

Signed Gridiron Guesses

DUPLICATE
Davidson........Woodberry
Bucknell........Penn State
NC State........Catawba
Navy.............Duke
Gremlins........Ga. Pre Fli.
Carolina.........Cher. Pt.
Wake Forest....VMI
Georgia..........Kentucky
Pitt.................
Great Lakes....W. Mich.