Touch football sneaked out the back door as three of the last four games were forfeited. Maybe the Betas should have forfeited too—it would have saved several gray hairs and other things. The score was 12-6 and the game was very exciting for KA-Kappa Sig fans or impartial onlookers. Most of the time the ball was in Beta territory and the rest of the time someone was hitting me on the head. The Combine sewed up the championship. The Sig Eps, Betas, Pi Kaps, Independents, and Pikas follow them in the standings in that order. As has always been done, an all-frat team will be selected and published in the next issue if all the Sports Managers will leave their choices in Jim Lowry’s room by next Thursday.

By JOE STUKES

This victory for I’ve got to fill up a column somehow so I guess we will have to talk about the Barium Game. We were ragged; they were rugged. Davidson 0-Barium 7. Enough said. Too much. In the course of my frantic search for words, I think of “valuable” and that leads me to think of “player” and after a while “valuable player” shapes itself so I can bull a while on it. Practically everyone will agree that Marty Marion, the great South Carolina (I can prove it) shortstop of the Cards, is tops in the National League. However, I have heard opinions that range from Rudy York of the Tigers to Georgia (what a beautiful name) Kell of the astonishing A’s. Miles Scott puts in a vote for Ty Cobb and Davis Erhardt, one for Dizzy Trout. Personally, (here I go—out on a limb) I pick Hal Newhouser of the Tigers over Verne Stephens of the Browns.

Rumor has it that Davidson may not field a 1944-45 baseball team. We hate to see that because we believe that there is some swell talent on the Hill this year. With Captain Lowry back from last year’s squad and such summer stars as Phil Edwards, Gabby Bryant, Al Scarborough (?), Andy Owens, and Jack Etheridge, we should be able to put out a fair team. Even after mid-term losses and such, with this as a nucleus, surely Coach Shepard could form a worthy quintet of players. I hope everyone will really give this a good thought and express his opinion. Maybe we'll have a team yet.

In looking over Sunday's paper I see where Laurinburg beat the fire out of Rockingham. It seems that 60 or 70 runs featured the game and one guy chased 100 yards once. That reminds me of the old one you have all heard about the Golden Gopher half-back who returned a kickoff 100 yards but was tackled on the opponent’s 2. Didn’t score. It is said that he left the game and crawled in his hole but I don’t know if it was a Gopher hole or not. Also in Sunday’s paper was a big write-up of Darlington’s 26-7 win over Notre Dame. That’s not as bad as Navy beat ’em but that’s going some. I am anticipating keenly our scrap with Darlington and if it’s O.K. with everybody I'll go down and yell for Davidson and get my head bashed in. How about a ride, coach?

The Gremlins are MY boys. Trippi can run on my team any day. He ran, passed, and kicked the Grems to a 34-12 victory over Georgia Pre-Flight. The Observer said he made one poor kick of 39 yards but made up for it on the next try when he quick-kicked 84 yards.

Coach Norman Shepard has taken over the football team completely since Coach Hudson left for Carolina and has introduced a shift from the ‘T’ into a box. We may need the shift. We may need the box. But do we really need Lowry? We pick Army, Navy, Tech, Duke, and Ohio State. You pick the rest.

Wildcat Sports

BEAT MOORESVILLE
Friday, November 10, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN

CATS PLAY MOORESVILLE

Davidson vs. Barium

Edwards passes to Barringer for gain in Davidson-Barium Springs game.

Barium Defeats Wildkittens 7-0

The Davidson Wildkittens and the Barium Springs eleven played a tight 7-0 ball game on Richardson Field October 27. This was the third game of the year for both teams. The once-beaten Barium team scored on a flat pass in the third quarter to put the game away. The game was very close all the way and the big break decided the outcome. The first half was unthrilling as no long runs were made. Davidson kicked the first three times it touched the ball. Barium, with its murderous end runs, could do nothing and would kick right back. This continued throughout the whole first half, Davidson not really getting out of its own territory and Barium not ever seriously threatening.very much like a 0-0 ball game and all onlookers settled down to an expected boring second half. Then Davidson had the ball and started up the field. It made two first downs in a row. Edwards faded and tossed a flat toward Patterson and, boom! It happened. Ammons raced in and intercepted the ball and sped toward the end zone. Edwards ran him out of bounds on the Wildkittens' five. A fine play failed so Ammons flipped a short pass into the end zone for a TD. He duplicated the feat for the extra point and Barium led 7-0. That was all the scoring, but not all the thrills. Davidson took the kickoff and behind some fine running by Patterson and Bryant pushed the pigskin to the Barium 12. Here they were held on downs, however, and Barium worked it out. Edwards filled the air with passes in the last few minutes but Barium defense was wide awake and broke Davidsonians' efforts. Although Barium’s score and point resulted from passes, the Men in Red didn’t show the air power they were supposed to have. Their attack was definitely lacking. But what they lacked in the air they gained on those vicious end runs of big Ammons. With the ball cradled in his hand, and four men out blocking (Continued on Page 4), attempted to put was KA-Kappa Sigs Win in Football A very successful touch football league closed last week when the Independent team forfeited to the Pi Phi. The Alpha-Kappa Sigma combine, Kappa nine undefeated in five starts, was declared the winner. They were one full game ahead of the Sig Eps who led the Betas by the same margin. Captained by Ath-a-letic Al Lowry, the combine had trouble with only the first game. After the dust had settled on a furiously fought fray, Cholly’s Scoreboard read: First downs: KA-Kappa Sigs 2—SPE’S 1. From then on 36-0, 6-0, 12-6, forfeit. Possibly they conquered by and gathered one via the 2-0 victory of the combine Betas. It was tight all the way and the defensive play of the Betas was outstanding as they threw off repeated combine drives. Then, late in the first half, they succeeded in tossing a touchdown pass to Boarman in the rear of the Beta end zone. With half the second half gone, End Boarman snared another on the Beta one. Then Lowry pegged to Love for a 12-0 count. After the kick-off, McGehee passed to Golden for a touchdown but it was called back because someone failed to report to the referee. Again McGehee fired and Jim Price caught it to score. The game ended with the KA-Kappa Sigs in possession on their own 40. The sports managers of each fraternity are asked to leave their all-star team line-up in room 16 Georgia by next Thursday, and these will be compiled and the all-star team will be published in the next issue. Game Starts 3:30 Today At three-thirty this afternoon the Wildkittens School will play Mooresville High for the second home game of the season. The team has been practicing new plays which seem to click, and although not much is known of the Mooresville team, it is a promising game. The score is sure to be close, for Mooresville has trampled Children’s Home and they in turn won from Barium Springs. Look back to last Saturday at Barium, but don't forget the Georgia Tech-Duke games. In the words of Coach Shepard, “We're out to win, now.” The probable starting line-up is: LE - BunGteue LT - Medford LG - Myatt C - Monroe RG - Hay RE - Dunbar QB - Strickland LH - Etheridge RH - Edwards FB - Patterson CINEMA ATTRACTIONS Nov. 10, 11— “Kansas City Kitty” Nov. 11— “Late Show” Nov. 13, 14— “Home in Indiana” Nov. 15, 16— “Impatient Years” Nov. 18— “Late Show” Nov. 20, 21— “Dragon Seed” COLLEGE RECEIVES HALF MILLION (Continued from Page 1) The will did not indicate the value of this estate, but older residents of Charlotte estimated it would be between $400,000 and $500,000. In addition to the property bequests, the principal of an $18,000 trust fund is also to go to Davidson at the expiration of 15 years, during which the interest from the sum is at the disposal of certain relatives of Colonel Davidson. Gridiron Guesses Last Week's Winner—Tim Webb ORIGINAL DUPLICATE Penn. - Columbia Penn. - Columbia Miss. State - Auburn Miss. State - Auburn Illinois - Michigan Illinois - Michigan Clemson - V.M.I. Clemson - V.M.I. Ga. Tech - Tulane Ga. Tech - Tulane Duke - W. Forest Duke - W. Forest Yale - Brown Yale - Brown Army - Notre Dame Army - Notre Dame Navy - Cornell Navy - Cornell Ohio State - Pitt Ohio State - Pitt