» son, (guidon bearer), A. M. Lind-|t Friday, February 11, 1944 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five Major Selects|\Campus Needs New Officers Platoons Cut Down to Two Squads Each Major E. E. Marsh, PMS&T of the Davidson College ROTC Department, announced the appointment of the new ROTC Cadet Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers for the second semester today. The Officers are: Major, Battalion Commander—R. M. Flowers of Columbus, Ga.; Lieutenants, Battalion Staff—W. A. Sutherland of Wilmington, N. C., and J. K. Inscoe of Nashville, N. C.; Captains, Company Commanders—J. F. Alexander of Charlotte, N. C., H. N. Spencer of Plainfield, N. J., and A. J. Owens of Avondale, N. C.; Lieutenants, Platoon Commanders—O. G. Allen of Winston-Salem, N. C., F. B. Cooper of High Point, N. C., A. Guiton of Parkton, N. C., T. B. Snodgrass of Charlotte, N. C., and K. L. Weill of Waynesville, N. C.; First Sergeants—R. G. Miller, M. P. Underwood and Lamar Williamson; Platoon Sergeants—S. J. Ervin, C. C. Garrett, F. M. Legerton, and E. G. Taliaferro; Guide Sergeants—H. G. Bradford, J. I. Lowry, P. C. Whitter, A. D. Williams, and C. D. Williams; Sergeants, Squad Leaders—K. C. Carpenter, A. J. Ellington, P. M. Medford (color guard), C. E. White, W. A. Wier and L. B. Turnbull. Corporals, Assistant Squad Leaders are: K. H. Barber (color guard), W. H. Bobbitt, J. E. Hudsay (color guard), J. D. Mayo, W. Macdonald, W. M. Ragsdale and A. M. Lind.

It has long been realized that there is a pressing need on the Davidson campus for a new church. The present church has proved inadequate to the growing needs of the college. This church, remodeled many times since it was built in 1885, has been added to as the student body grew. Additions were made until the possibilities of further additions were exhausted. It is still too small for the regular church membership of 400 and the 650 students of a normal year. A service for students is now held in the Chambers auditorium on Sunday evening. The Synod of North Carolina, in session at Rocky Mount, in October 1929, expressed the need for a new church, stating that the old church “cannot seat the congregation, it cannot be adequately ventilated, it cannot be evenly heated,” constituting “a menace to health. The worshippers can neither see, hear, nor breathe in it with comfort. It is in no possible sense a church-like or attractive building.” Progress towards the relief of this present situation has been made by a very successful attempt to raise money for a new church. A goal of $250,000 was set for the erection of this church and so far approximately one half of this has been attained. Every effort is being made to bring the drive to a successful conclusion between now and commencement. This campaign, unlike the recent one for the gymnasium, is no open campaign. On the contrary, it has been very quietly conducted.

Omicron Delta Kappa to Initiate Trustees Meet February 15th

Announcement was made today from the office of President John R. Cunningham of the regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of the college, which will be held here on Wednesday. The executive committee of the Trustees is also scheduled to meet on the previous day, Tuesday. Dr. Cunningham indicated that important business was to be discussed, and that a large attendance is anticipated. The Board of Trustees of Davidson College consists of 33 representatives from the ten presbyteries of North Carolina, and from three presbyteries of Florida. In addition, there are twelve alumni trustees elected by the alumni association. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, is serving for the fourth year as President of the Board of Trustees.

Arrangements for the entertainment of those who wish to spend the night in Davidson will be made if college authorities are notified.

Davidson Alumnus Author of Book

A copy of a new book by a Davidson alumnus...Fraternity, at Six Seniors Bob Miller Elected Student President

Six outstanding seniors, Bob Miller, Edgar Patterson, Bob Pierce, Henry Royster, Hank Watt, and Hay were extended bids to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, at the morning chapel exercises on Wednesday, January 19. In preceding years, O.D.K. men have been chosen by student members of the Davidson chapter together with a committee of four active faculty members. This year, since no student members returned, the faculty active committee, consisting of Prof. C.K. Brown, Prof. E.A. Beaty, Prof. F.W. Johnston, and Athletic Director Heath Whittle, selected three men from each of the two 1944 graduating classes.

On Thursday night, January 30, all six of the new men were initiated and welcomed into the fraternity by the O.D.K. faculty members. The initiation was immediately followed by a supper held in the Y.M.C.A. dining room. At the first O.D.K. meeting of the semester, the members elected Bob Miller as president of the fraternity and Prof. W.G. McGavock as an active faculty committee member. Professor McGavock filled the vacancy left by Professor Johnston.

These appointments are only temporary and subject to change if necessary. Dr. Cunningham expressed his opinion that the new chapter president, Bob Miller, is an outstanding leader. Miller is president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, secretary of the Pan Hellenic Council, and a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet and Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary society. He is a former president of the Beaver Club, underclass leader.

Of the six men tapped, three graduated in February. Patterson has returned to school as assistant secretary of the Y.M.C.A., and Royster has come back as an assistant in the Physics Department. Pierce has gone into the service. The other initiates remain as members of the Senior Class.

Dr. Kirkpatrick, the author, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of South Boston, Virginia. In addition to his duties there, he served for three years as an instructor in speech at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. A native of Austin, Texas, Dr. Kirkpatrick earned an A.B. degree at Davidson College in 1929. At Union Seminary in Virginia, he was the holder of the Charles D. Larus Fellowship. He has done postgraduate study at Columbia University, the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City, and the School of Speech of Northwestern University.