Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 14, 1944

News on the Alumni Front

AWARDS

Two months prior to this, Captain was reported missing in action over Germany on September 29. He was Master Sergeant William M. Peabody and his company captured. Potts, Jr., '24, from Davidson, recently was awarded the Bronze Star for “meritorious achievement” in connection with military operations since November 1943. He is shop foreman in the automotive section of an ordnance company of the 3rd Bombardment Division, cited by the President. “Although lacking sufficient tools and buildings, Sergeant Potts succeeded in organizing an extremely efficient maintenance and repair shop,” states the citation for the Bronze Star award. “The training program he initiated for his mechanics, plus a system of continued inspections and checking of motor vehicles, acquired for his group one of the best in the entire division.”

Lieutenant Louis H. Smith, Jr., '44, recently returned from overseas after completing 31 missions over Europe as Bombardier-Navigator on a Liberator Bomber. He was awarded the Air Medal and Oak Leaf Clusters, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and was a member of a group cited by the President.

Lieutenant J. M. Caldwell, '37, has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for outstanding achievement in aerial combat. He has also received 3 Oak Leaf Clusters to the Air Medal previously awarded.

Lieutenant Colonel Charles P. Greger, Jr., '30, was recently awarded the Bronze Star “for heroic achievement in action in June 1944 in Italy. During a heavy enemy barrage when all others had sought safety, Colonel Greger remained at his post and directed fire against a large-scale enemy counter-attack. The artillery support had been made possible by Colonel Greger’s foresight in having previously established liaison and provided communications with four battalions of corps artillery. As a result of his action, accurate artillery fire was brought to bear on the advancing troops, smashing the counter-attack and inflicting extremely heavy casualties on the enemy. Colonel Greger’s keen foresight and intense devotion to duty was an inspiration to his men and was in keeping with the highest traditions of military science.”

In October, the Bronze Star was awarded to Major James G. Currie, '40, now in Germany. This award was made for “heroic conduct on the field of battle” by Major General D. A. Stroh, 8th Inf. Div., U.S. Army.

Lieutenant (J.G.) Lorenzo D. McPhail, Jr., '35, has been awarded the Purple Heart for wounds received in action at Saipan, Marianas Island on June 15, 1944.

Captain Maurice E. Peabody, Jr., '37, with the 5th Army in Italy, has been awarded the Silver Star for gallantry in action. “When bitter and determined enemy resistance to an assault by his company up a steep, rocky ridge halted the forward elements, Peabody moved up to organize defensive positions. The Germans made four fanatical counter-attacks and each time were turned back with heavy losses.” His own company suffering heavily, and with ammunition bearers falling before enemy snipers, the Captain ordered a withdrawal, realizing the position was untenable. Coolly and skillfully, he removed the company and only after all men who could possibly be moved to the rear had left the position, did he himself withdraw. An intensely fortified hill of the enemy, and the attack was so daring that the peak was named in honor of him. Thus, somewhere in Italy stands “Peabody Peak” signifying the gallantry of the young officer.

Major Richard S. Johnson, '37, has received his fourth citation for efficient performance of duty in the present world war. This commendation in this instance is from Major General Roy S. Geiger, Marine Corps, who says, “the commanding general of the Third Amphibious Corps, takes pleasure in commending Major Richard Sandusky Johnson ... for meritorious and efficient performance of duty as assistant operations officer during the planning phase and during the actual conduct of operations at Guam, covering the period March 26 to August 10, 1944. During this period, Major Johnson worked tirelessly and rendered invaluable assistance to the operations officer in planning and conducting the campaign. By his sound judgment and high professional ability as officer in charge of all corps air observers, he capably assisted the operations officer in training the air observers and in directing their activities during the operations which contributed materially to the final capture of Guam. His conduct was in keeping with the highest traditions of Naval service.”

Captain E. F. Lucas, Jr., '42, is at home with his parents in Greensboro following 13 months of combat service in Italy and Corsica with the 12th Air Force. He is a fighter pilot with 100 missions to his credit and he arrived unexpectedly for a 21-day leave. Captain Lucas holds the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with three clusters, the Soldier’s Medal for exceptional bravery, and campaign ribbons for Italy and Southern France. In addition to his 100 missions, he served four months as operations officer. Prior to his transfer to the Italian and French fronts, Captain Lucas served four months in Panama.

WOUNDED

Colonel E.T. McConnell, '36, was wounded in action in France, September 23; he received a shrapnel wound on his head when a shell exploded, necessitating a brain operation. The wound caused paralysis of both legs but he is now able to stand and he is recovering satisfactorily from the wound. He stated he was one of the five commanders who fell in the gaining of the objective on the occasion. He led the American entry into Verdun in this war and was awarded the Medal of Verdun, never before presented to anyone not a veteran of the Battle of Verdun of World War I.

Major Edwin G. Holt, '35, was recently wounded in action overseas. F. R. Vanlandingham was seriously wounded in Normandie in July while commanding a tank attack. It is believed he received the Purple Heart for his injuries. Sergeant William E. Atwater, '35, was wounded in action in Italy on July 12th. He was hospitalized until August 11th when he returned to his company. Early in November he returned to the States.

MISSING
Lieutenant Vereen Bell, '32, has been reported missing in action since early in November. No further information has been received. Lieutenant John A. C. Andrews, '37, P-40 War Hawk Pilot with the 324th Fighter Group, has been missing in action over France since September 9. In a more recent letter, it was reported that he was seen bailing out and later folding his parachute after he landed in a field in France. Lieutenant A. C. Burns, Jr., '42, was in the lead plane, an A-20 bomber, when the plane became disabled. A member of the formation reported that two of the crew bailed out and two did not. No further word has been received.

KILLED
Major J. G. Anderson III, '37, was killed on November 11 in a California plane crash while he was on the way to the funeral of his mother in Florida. He had completed training in transitional flying. Captain John C. McNeely, '20, was killed October 20 on Leyte Island in the Philippines. This occurred during the early days of the assault of General MacArthur's forces on this island. No further details have been received. Lieutenant David Newbold, '39, died of meningitis on October 28 at the Station Hospital, New Orleans. He became ill just before graduation but recovered sufficiently to attend graduation exercises and receive his commission. Immediately afterwards he suffered the attack of meningitis which resulted in partial paralysis and then his death. Captain Paul Behrman, '45, was killed in action in October at Aachen. He was in the mortar squad of the 30th Division. Private G. D. Davis, Jr., '46, suffered wounds in France on October 24 which resulted in his death on October 26. Details have not been received. Major A. F. Lytch, Jr., '40, was killed in action over Burma on October 12. No further information was given in the message from the War Department. He had completed his 100th mission the first week in October. He held the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with four Oak Leaf Clusters. Lieutenant A. F. Henderson, Jr., '37, was killed in action in France on July 6. No details have been received concerning his mission of that date. His parents have received a letter written by him on July 4 stating that he had been in action but at that time was at the rear and well.

CAPTURED
Word was recently received that A. P. Gandoval, '29, has been a prisoner of the Japanese since the fall of Bataan. His present location is not known.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
We Have Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

SOLICITING PERSONAL Loans & Savings
INDUSTRIAL LOAN & INVESTMENT BANK
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GIFT FUND TOPS (Continued from Page 1)
Friends are to be commended on the generous way in which they entered into and took part in the 'Y's only annual undertaking of this nature. Those fraternities and individuals that pledged are urged to do so and those who have made their pledges but who have not yet turned them in are reminded that they are payable on or before January 5, 1945. Only when we play the game fairly can we merit a good name. An upright man can never be a downright failure.

CHRISTMAS SERVICES (Continued from Page 1)
Cunningham pronounced the benediction. The auditorium was beautifully decorated with evergreens and candles, and the entire service was very impressive. The Y.M.C.A. deserved much credit for its part in making the service a success. On Sunday afternoon the Queens-Davidson music group sang Handel's “Messiah” at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. The church was filled and overflowing, and a magnificent performance was given. Many of the Davidson students attended the service.

Christian Fiction
STUDY HELPS FOR MINISTERS AND TEACHERS
Bibles in all translations
Commentaries on the whole Bible
Bible dictionaries and concordances
Sunday School supplies
Communion sets and collection plates
THE BIBLE BOOK STORE
124 West Fourth, Charlotte, N. C.
Fred H. Plexico, Prop.

ENJOY LANCE PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES
Charlotte, N.C.
WITH YOUR DRINK