Cats Capture Pair on Road

Ashmore, Williams Lead Attack on Citadel

The Davidson Wildcats journeyed down to Charleston last weekend and came back with the scalps of the College of Charleston
and The Citadel. In edging out the Bulldogs, the youthful 'Cats turned in their first conference win to come up
to the .500 mark.

Against the College, J. D. Ashmore, flashy freshman forward, racked up ten field goals to tally twenty points to lead
the scoring for the night. Mike Williams had 13 and Jim Lowry had 12 to help pile up the 60-28
margin of victory. The fighting Charleston quintet hounded the Cats all over the court during the first half and Davidson
walked off the court leading by 21-16. After intermission, Ashmore and company came back to pile up a twenty-five point
lead midway in the second half.

Citadel Falls

After seeing the Battery all day Saturday, the cocky Cats walked on the court against a supposedly weak Citadel team
and piled up a 12-2 lead only to see the Bulldogs come back to within one point with five minutes
left. Then, Jones sinking a set shot and Lowry a crip, the Cats led at the half 24-17. Citadel came
back with Wimberly throwing one-handed shots out of the bleachers to lead 32-31. Losing their cockiness about this time, the
Cats played beautiful ball to lead 40-35. With Bub Wilcox sacking two valuable points, Lowry fouled out, but Mike Williams
hit a long set shot and a crip to send the Cats under the wire by a scanty 47-43 margin.
Williams led the scoring with 14, aided by Lowry with 12 and Jones with 11. Wimberly and Propst had 16
apiece to lead the Bulldogs. The Cats played under a definite handicap due to the lack of reserves.

SCHEDULE
Feb. 14—Guilford Here
Feb. 16—Clemson Here
Feb. 18—State Here
Feb. 19—State Here
Feb. 23—High Point Here
Feb. 26—Clemson Clemson

Wildcat Sports

LET’S GO ’CATS

Friday, February 11, 1944

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

SEEK TOURNAMENT BID

First row, left to right: Flowers, White, Lowry, Williams, Jones. Second row: Coach Norman Shepard, Hay, Ashmore, Turnbull, Chesson, Inscoe,
Floyd—Manager.

Three Frat Quints Tie For Cage Crown

The SPE’s, Kappa Sigs, and Betas completed the Interfraternity cage wars in a three-way tie for first place. The three
clubs struggled through an elongated schedule, drawn out because of postponements, to finish on top of the heap.

The SPE’s, pre-season favorites, were hurt by the loss of Ralph Triplett to the Air Corps after the holidays, and
never quite recovered. Andy Owens and Bill McBride continued their fine play, but they were unable to cope with the
competition.

FRAT STANDINGS
SPE’s 4 1
Kappa Sigs 4 1
Betas 4 1
KA’s 2 3
PiKas 1 4
PiKaps 0 5

(Continued on Page 6)

White Is Lost To ’Cats

Stellar Guard Leaves For Air Corps
By JIM LOWRY

Last Monday night against the Charlotte YMCA, the Davidson Wildcats had a special reason for piling up a 64-40 score.
Fifteen minutes before game time, Ed White, who was affectionately dubbed the “dwarf” of the battling bantams, received his Air
Corps orders and he left immediately after the ball game. There was a huge procession of teammates and others across
the campus to meet the 12:28 a.m. bus and see Ed off. With “Artie Shaw” Berry blowing Auld Lang Syne,
the bus pulled out as the Cats waved good-bye.

Good Set Shot

Ed was of incalculable aid to the team. He was probably the best set shot on the ball club, being
almost death from behind the foul circle. However, his greatest asset was the brilliant floor game he played. He was
a ball hawk of the first degree, and excellent on defense.

(Continued on Page 6)

Wildcats Hit Home Stretch

Face Guilford, Clemson, State

Cagers Return To Home Court

After returning from extended trips of three days to Charleston and four days to Chapel Hill and Raleigh, the Davidson
Wildcats will welcome a return to their familiar home court where they are undefeated for the present season.

Guilford First

Monday night, the 14th of February, the mighty midgets face Guilford College. The Friendly (and I do mean friendly) Quakers
went down before the red hot Cats at Guilford 60-34 in a previous engagement and will be out for revenge
with an improved team which upset High Point.

Next is Clemson

Wednesday of next week the Cats face Clemson.

(Continued on Page 6)

Peters Sets Pace For ASTP Quintet

Word has been received here that Tommy Peters, former Wildcat cage star and second highest scorer in the Southern Conference
last year, is still playing the bang-up ball game that gave him an average of 22 points per game. This
time, however, he is wearing a different colored uniform.

He, like many others, has traded the Davidson Red and Black for the more conservative Army khaki. Tom, along with
the other ROTC students from Davidson, Presbyterian, and Wofford, is stationed at Mississippi State College, awaiting vacancies in the Infantry
OCS at Fort Benning. The ASTP quint is made up of three Davidsonians, a Wofford man, and a State College
(Miss.) alumnus. Peters and Pat Williams are playing at the forward slots, with Bob Currie at guard. Jim Wallace, ex-Wofford
College standout, is at center, while Bill Nettles, who is playing inspired ball at his own Alma Mater, rounds out
the starting five at guard.

(Continued on Page 6)
