‘4 Professors For 138 Years

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

College Well

By JOHN ASHE
Vol. XXXI DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1944 No. 8

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College in their recent semi-annual meeting retired from teaching four professors whose total teaching
years at Davidson add up to the amazing figure of 138. They are: Dr. James M. Douglas, for the last
43 years professor of Physics; Dr. Mark E. Sentelle, for 41 years Cannon professor of Bible and philosophy; Dr. C.
M. Richards, for 29 years professor of Bible, church history, and government; and Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Psychology for
the last 25 years.

Dr. Douglas

James M. Douglas was born in Fairfield County, S.C., on September 6, 1867. He attended Davidson College from 1890 to
1894, receiving the A.B. degree. He was president of the Eumanean Literary Society, and a member of the Glee Club;
Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity; and Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity. He then attended Johns Hopkins
University, receiving the Ph.D. degree. Dr. Douglas returned to Davidson in 1901 as Professor of Physics. Dr. Douglas is a
member of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity. He is the organizer of the Students Store which is now in
existence. During his teaching career, he has been Graduate Manager of Athletics at Davidson, and Superintendent of schools in Gastonia
and Davidson.

Dr. Sentelle

Mark E. Sentelle was born in Greenville, Tenn., on October 6, 1873. He attended Davidson College from 1892 to 1894,
receiving the B.A. degree with the class of 1894. Among the honors he received while a student were Valedictorian and
winner of the Debating Medal. He then attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., receiving the B.D. degree in 1897.
Dr. Sentelle returned to Davidson in 1903 as Cannon Professor of Bible and Philosophy. He is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Dr. Sentelle has been active in church work, serving as pastor of several churches
in North Carolina and Tennessee.

GRANTS EXTRA CUTS

The executive committee has announced that extra cuts will be given students during this semester, according to the following regulations:
Each student is to be permitted one additional absence from vespers, one from chapel, one from physed, and one from
each of his academic courses. These extra cuts may not be used before April 12; each student who wishes to
take these absences must make application for them in advance at the office of the Dean of Students.

Dr. Hall To Lecture at Spring Services

The speaker of the Spring Services, held on March 21, 22, and 23, will be Dr. Warner L. Hall, of
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Regarded as one of the most prominent speakers in the Southern Presbyterian Church, Dr. Hall is a native
of Tennessee. He is a graduate of Southwestern University in Memphis, and Louisville Seminary. At present, he is the pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church at Tuscaloosa. Dr. Hall is a native of Tennessee, and a graduate of Southwestern University
in Memphis, and Louisville Seminary. He received a fellowship to Edinburgh, Scotland, where he received his Ph.D. On returning to
America, he accepted a pastorate at the First Presbyterian Church in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

THE BARE FACTS

Shown above and in the lower right corner are the four professors who are to retire from active teaching in
July. The faithful service they have given will be remembered a long time.

Summer School at Davidson will begin on June 6 for those students taking science courses. Students who take non-science courses
for which six hours credit is given will begin a week later, on Tuesday, June 13. The first semester will
last until Saturday, July 22, and the second semester will begin on July 24. A complete curriculum will be offered.

Pre-War Audience

The annual stunt night Friday, March 3, in Chambers auditorium, before a pre-war sized audience of students and townspeople. Judges
for the contest were Captain R. W. Sutherland, air crew commandant; Professor L. J. Smith; and Chaplain J. F. Brown.
The combined Glee Club and concert band of Davidson College left the campus early yesterday for a tour of North
Carolina and Virginia.LIINTGInILN mM alalninih bater's Medal and the Bible. Meq. | Scofield. Scofield awarded the first prize in the
group prizes to three students who presented a pantomime of Glenn Miller's "Juke Box Saturday Night," of the Andrews Sisters’
"Beat Me Daddy," and of a record by comedian Danny Kaye. Watts Dormitory took second prize in group honors with
an act demonstrating the Davidson campus of today. Impersonations of Major Marsh, Sergeant Burton, Pete Whittle, Dr. M. E. Sentelle,
"Cash" Jackson, and Sleepy were given by Gilbert Talliaferro, Bill Suggs, Dan Marshall, Rod MacDonald, Rees Jenkins, and Conway Rose.

In individual prizes, air cadet Sidney Litt, master of ceremonies, took first honors. The team of Wilford Whitley and Claude
Darling took second prize with a tumbling and gymnastic performance. The first act of the evening was given by Georgia
Dormitory. It consisted of a humorous soap-opera act of "Life in Georgia Dormitory," world news by Dick Baxter, a "knock-out"
rendition of "Well, Git it" by Artie Berry on his clarinet, and a vaudeville act by Isaac Lowry and Baxter.
Next on the program came a song and dance act that was a take-off on "This Is the Army." It
was performed by four air crew students. Following this came the gymnastic feats of Whitley and Darling. Then Warley, Hawn,
and Warren of the air corps gave a take-off on the officers of the 24th C.

Dr. Richards was born in Liberty Hill, S.C. on January 1. Receiving his early training at Liberty Hill school, he
entered Davidson in 1888 and graduated with a B.A. degree in 1892. While a student, he was the winner of
the third honor in the Philosophical Oration; was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity; Omicron Delta Kappa; Phi Beta Kappa;
and Sigma Upsilon national literary fraternity. Continuing his studies, he received the M.A. degree from Yale, and took both theology
and philosophy at Princeton. After these courses, he was ordained to the ministry and served the church in the Synod
of Texas. In 1903 he returned to Davidson as professor of Bible and Philosophy. President Henry L. Smith requested him
to handle student absences, and this he did for some time, drawing up the absence regulations under which the college
functioned for years. In 1910 Dr. Sentelle was called on to head a committee on the supervision of scholarship. Under
him, Davidson became one of the pioneers in rigidly upholding high scholastic standards. In 1920 Dr. Sentelle was elected to
the newly-formed office of Dean of Students and he remained in this capacity until 1941. He is the possessor of
a D.D. degree from King College and an LL.D. from Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

During the first term, our course those interested in physics and biology will either Bob Miller or Ed Patterson can
be arranged. Such services each year. Last semester, the speaker was Dr. W. A. from Emory University, Atlanta. Dr. George
Mauze of Winston-Salem, N.C. emphasized the fact that any able to present any courses invited to arrange a personal conference.
