Thursday, October 26, 1944 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

DR. RANKIN

Pictured above are six eminent men of medicine who received their pre-medical training at Davidson College.

MARTIN SCIENCE BUILDING

DR. MATHESON

Dr. James P. Matheson, who died in 1937, provided in his will for the Matheson Lecture Foundation under which the
other doctors shown spoke at the opening Lecture series held in Charlotte yesterday and today. Candidates for medicine, now at
Davidson, receive their preliminary instruction in the new Martin Science Building.

Spy-on-all Column

Flowing from the lips of David's sons to Chamber's hallowed columns, then to Shearer and back again, comes tales and
weird doings of campus men. Now of these tales I wish to tell; of how you missed the chapel bell,
of how, in love you fell, pell mell.

Ronnie Dietrich certainly lives a “Full”-cher life lately. Or maybe someone just tried to pull a “Hoke’s” on me. Then,
also, “Love finds Andy Owens as he walks beside the “Rhodes.” Speaking of Andy and Nennie; what happened in John
King’s automobile when it was parked outside the “Boar's Head” in Charlotte the night of the Harding game? Where did
Charlie Thompson and Bill Weir disappear to after the game, too?

Joe Stukes and Jim Boyce would appear to be the women haters of Davidson. It’s O.K. fellows but it’s surely
a lot of fun learning the hard way. Now, Alf Scarborough is just the opposite, he is the original “Don
Juan.”

I wish I knew more about the weekend Charlie Thompson and Bill Weir spent in Greensboro. They must have blown
the roof off, though. There is nothing more expensive than long-distance calls to Oklahoma and Florida. I wish someone would
tell Jim Reid and Graham McGee of this fact.

Jim Alexander takes off to home to Charlotte each weekend as soon as his classes are over. Does Mary Jane
“Love”?

Ed Golden, very modestly, stated that out of 2,000 girls at the W.C.U.N.C. he couldn't find a date. You didn’t
have that much trouble finding that certain “one” in Atlanta, did you, Ed?

The sweet aroma of Loe's sweet perfume (Yankee style) or (Evening in Jersey) still clings to “Neutron” Spencer.

Kappa Sigs, KA’s, Sig Eps To Give Dance Tomorrow

Local Group to Help Communities

They Will Sponsor 6th War Loan Drive in Two Towns

The recently organized Davidson-Cornelius Merchants Association is now a very live organization stated J.V. Lore, President, in an interview with
a Davidsonian reporter. The organization has gone on record supporting the Charlotte Observer in their crusade for lower corporation taxes
in North Carolina as an inducement for industrial expansion by out-of-state capital. Pres. Lore explained that North Carolina is losing
industries to Tennessee and Virginia, due to N.C.'s excessive corporation taxes.

The Davidson-Cornelius group, further stated Pres. Lore, will sponsor the 6th War Loan drive in the two communities. Hugo Sapp
has been named to direct publicity and will be assisted by F.W. Frederickson, County Commissioner, A.D. Cashion, and Hugh Smith.
An extensive advertising program is being planned to increase the bond sales in the two towns.

The officials of the organization are: J.V. Lore, Pres., Hugo Sapp, Vice Pres., J.B. Hatley, Sec., I.R. Vance, Asst. Sec.,
Carl Cashion, Treas.; Directors, W.L. Puckett, T.E. Lothery, Hugh Smith, J.B. Harwell, John Anderson, Jr.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS

We Have Any RecordYou Want Parker-Gardner Co. 118 West Trade St. Charlotte

Tomorrow night, after the football game with the Kappa Sigs, KA’s, and SPE’s, are going to Charlotte for a banquet
and dance at the Charlotte Country Club. Most of the boys have gotten dates for the affair with girls from
Barium Springs and nearby cities, and it is expected that about one hundred and twenty people will be in Charlotte
for the dance. The fraternities are lucky indeed to be able to get the Charlotte Country Club for the dance
this year. When plans for the dance were being made, all the fraternities agreed that no better place could be
found.

To furnish music for the gala night, the three frats have been able to secure Gib Todd and his orchestra.
This orchestra is noted around Charlotte for its fine music, so all of the dancers will really have a chance
to “strut their stuff.” With all of these prospects in view, it looks as though the three frats are in
for an extremely entertaining evening. This will be the first time that the Sigmas, KA’s, and Sig Eps have gotten
together for a dance, but this year, due to the shortages of wartime, they thought that it would be wise
to go together instead of each frat giving a dance by itself.

Faul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

Davidson Men Speak Eminent Physicians Will Lecture for Matheson Foundation

From the very beginning, Davidson College men have been prominent in the field of medicine. The first graduating class of
fifty-five, in 1840, included eight men who went from Davidson to Medical College and later became respected and honored physicians.
Since that early date, students, in an unbroken chain, have begun an education at Davidson which was destined to lead
them to this great field of service. Since 1886, when Dr. Paul B. Barringer began private classes in anatomy and
physiology, premedical courses have been stressed in the college curriculum. In the year 1890, the late Dr. John Peter Monroe
bought the interests of Dr. Barringer and gave lessons in Materia-Medica. From 1892 until 1907, the North Carolina Medical College
was an important part of the village activities and college interests.

There has been no time from that day to this when the college could not point with pride to her
distinguished sons who stood at the very front in the practice of medicine. Always she has striven to hold before
her students the high ideals of this noble profession and picture to them the great opportunities for service in this
field. It is no accident that among those who have benefited their day and generation in the medical world are
names such as: J. G. Ramsay, 1841; R. L. Beall, 1851; J. A. Hodges, 1879; R. J. Brevard, 1867; J.
F. P. Robinson, 1876; John Whitehead, 1875; John P. Monroe, 1882; J. D. Nesbit, 1881; W. S. Boyd, 1882; J.
M. Faison, 1883; and William F. Faison, 1886.

In later years, the number of candidates for the medical career has grown steadily until it represents the largest group
on the campus (in the normal peace-time student body) committed to any one of the so-called professions. The kind of
preparation they receive at Davidson and the standing of Davidson men in the advanced medical colleges of the country have
been the frequent subjects of commendation and approval. It is therefore not passing strange that five of the eight distinguished
medical men who were the guests of Charlotte yesterday and today are products of Davidson College. Their combined periods of
study here cover twenty-one years. There was in their records during those years the promise of future service to mankind.

Dr. James P. Matheson, under whose will the Matheson Lecture Foundation, created in 1937, has scheduled the series of lectures
which brings about these eminent scientists to the Carolinas, was graduated from Davidson in the class of 1899. One of
North Carolina’s most widely known and beloved physicians, the influence of his life and character is thus appropriately perpetuated in
the Lecture Foundation. Always steadfast in his devotion to his Alma Mater, Dr. Matheson generously provided for the college in
his last will and testament.

Dr. Watson S. Rankin, born in Mooresville, N. C., was a member of the Davidson College class of 1901. He
is now Trustee and Director of Hospital and Orphan Section, Duke Foundation. Dr. Jno. W. Moore, born in McConnellsville, S.
C., and now Dean and Professor of Medicine of the University of Louisville School of Medicine, graduated in 1906. Brigadier
General James S. Simmons, Chief of Preventive Medicine of the Army Service Forces, received his Davidson diploma in 1911. Dr.
Joseph T. Wearn, native of Charlotte and (Continued on Page 7)
