Page Two
Friday, October 13, 1944
The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915. Published twice a month during the academic year “For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE
Editor

JIM ALEXANDER
Business Manager

Associate Editor
George Apperson

Assistant Editor
Joe Nunes

Sports Editor
Morris Dietz

Assistant Sports Editor
George Gunn

Staff Photographer
Bob Lurgio

Circulation Manager
Jack Lazenby

Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Traditions

Of all the words here on the Davidson campus, few make their appearance so often as tradition. Few are the things done without its all-powerful sanction. From the time a student arrives until he departs he is either reminding or being reminded of this ichor that sustains the spirit of Davidson. There is no student here that would wish to do away with the ideals that are preserved by tradition. They have caused Davidson to be outstanding. There are few schools that are so noted for the high standards of honor, courtesy and in general all the qualities ascribed to the true gentleman. This is our chosen way of handing down the best of one generation of college students to another.

In all groups of society there comes a time when some of its members feel the need of engaging in iconoclasm. There is no person who does not hope that this will always be unnecessary on the Davidson campus. However, the time has come when members of the student body are beginning to feel that this phase of our life has been overstressed. Any person realizes that when he dares question such well-entrenched standards that he will be immediately labeled as a radical. He can then only defend himself by pointing out in general or specifically the basis of his attack.

In light of this it would be well to examine the state of tradition and attempt to define its place in the life of any college. Tradition is that part of the past which due to its merit is utilized in the present. Against it must be balanced progress. Tradition usually serves as a check on progress, that is to hold it in reasonable limits. Both have wide value, one can never be overstressed without injury to the other. The time has come when too many small and unimportant things are being placed in the category of a hand-down from the past. Instead of giving logical reasons for an action one just says “It’s Traditional.” Some of these are almost too insignificant to mention. For instance, it is traditional that Freshmen stay off the grass. Many upperclassmen immediately assume that the converse is also true, that they must never use the walks when it is possible to walk on the grass. This unnecessary practice only defaces the campus, greatly reduces its beauty and causes the college to use “psychological” measures to prevent the abuse to the lawn.

Another tradition which falls in a different class is that of Wilson. One would be led to think that his stay here was the greatest influence in his life. In reality, he saw fit only to remain one year and practically the only similarity of the college in that day and this is the name. We are too proud of a fact that is relatively unimportant.

The last type of false use of tradition that should be pointed out is that type where its weak backing is given to an ideal which has much higher reasons behind its use or practice. One of the most outstanding is the appeal to the students to support hall prayer meetings or other spiritual activity on the basis of its being traditional here. If this is the only reason for such support the thing itself is lowered in its value. In fact, when any appeal is based solely on tradition it is hollow and worthless. There must always be a present and vital reason for all use of tradition. Davidson must always strive to keep its traditions on a high and noble plane. There must be no descent to the petty and unimportant. Traditions die and must be discarded. The duty of the present is to place our college life on the high basis that creates a heritage for the future student. We must hold ourselves not only the preservers but the creators of all the worthwhile things which college reveals to the student. We should never cling too tenaciously to any one set of rules and customs. A good past portends a better future. The past can only be used as a basis of the future, it can only support never illuminate. This is the function of the living present. Tradition must be preserved in a proper balance with all other college life.

Gunning Around

Some people call it humor, but the only intelligent name for it is “corn”—meaning, of course, the jokes of varying caliber which are thrown out daily to the millions who read them, hear them, and smell them. Jokes vary only in subject matter, length, andage, recognizing the fact that the most important feature is its source. There is the old Joe Miller standby: 

Who was that lady I saw you with last night? 
That was no lady. That was my brother. He just walks that way.

Bob Hope would tell one of his gags like this:
I was for several years a choir boy, ’til one day my voice changed right in the middle of a beautiful solo.

Then there is George Burns and Gracie Allen with their own brand of corn:
Gracie: I did the silliest thing today. I dropped the baby’s blanket out the window.
George: That was careless. The baby’s likely to catch pneumonia.
Gracie: Oh, no, he won't. He was in the blanket.

As you stagger from these, consider the college boy who looks on his father as the kin you love to touch. One's pain grows more severe when the subject matter of politics comes up once every four years:
Q: What do you think of Roosevelt's New Deal?
A: The best thing he’s done since he organized the Rough Riders.

And again:
Q: What have you to say about the progress Dewey is making?
A: Great! I knew his capture of Manila would only be the start.

Lemuel Q. Stoopnagle or some other genius of our time might come up with inventions like these:
An alarm clock with half a bell in it, so when two people are rooming together, it just wakes one of them up.
A piano with stationary keys for people who would rather play the violin.
A double pipe, for smoking two kinds of tobacco at the same time.
A cellophane newspaper that one can read in a restaurant while he watches his hat and coat.
Gloves with phosphorescent thumbs, for hitch-hiking at night.
Round dice for crap shooters who would rather play marbles.

The Davidsonian presents its first Gloves ‘Want-Ad service (unquote):
For Sale: Baker’s business, good trade, large oven; owner has been in it for 17 years.
Wanted: A gentleman to undertake the sale of patent medicine. The advertiser guarantees it will be profitable to the undertaker.
Wanted to buy: A four-legged oak table by an old gentleman with a marble top.
Lost: A fountain pen by a professor filled with green ink.

If Joe Miller were living today, he would certainly turn over in his grave upon reading such corn. Be that as it may, there is one fact that everyone should keep in mind and that is to be able to appreciate a joke one should be able to take a joke. This being true, I appreciate jokes because look at all the jokes I took from somewhere.

This Might Be You

There were five of us. We sat in a dimly lighted room dumbly looking at each other. The only noise in the room was caused by two moths buzzing around the unshaded light bulb. There we were waiting to be called into the other room. Who would go first? What had we done to deserve this? What would THEY do? Each of these questions entered our minds. It was torture, as it was, in this semi-darkened room, let alone what would happen to us later. Do you know what it is to be left alone with thoughts; to be afraid to hear yourself think? That silence—it was inhuman. Why didn’t somebody say something? But no, they were all too busy thinking of their past wrongdoings to speak.

Then I stiffened. The door was opening. A shadowy figure stepped through and looked at us. Which one will he take? I wanted to shout, “Take me. Here I am! Let’s get it over with.” But something inside said, “Keep quiet; your turn will come.” I watched the boy who was chosen, stand up and walk towards the door. The expression on his face was that of a man about to be executed for a crime he had not committed. He must have been about seventeen years old, so young. I wanted to go over and shake his hand or whisper some comforting words into his ear, but I dared not, for that spectre was glaring at me. Perhaps that stare meant I was next. “Oh, Heaven,” I thought, “have mercy on me.” The door was closed and silence reigned again. Now there were only four of us. The wind outside rustled the dry leaves, for it was autumn. “Hmp, autumn,” I thought, “autumn means the death of things. No, no, I must not think of things like that.” I lapsed into a complete state of senselessness.

Upon awakening, I saw that there were only two of us left. I studied my companion's face. It was haggard and worn as probably mine was. Deep lines in his face from fear made him seem like an old man. I was about to speak to him when the door opened. The bony finger pointed at my friend. His face turned white and his eyes became dull. He rose slowly and walked out of the room. I was left. The many thoughts of gruesome torture that flooded through my brain, I know not what they were. Along with them came the thoughts of the many happy days of life—the fun we used to have in the old vacant lot, the pranks we used to play on Halloween, and the wonderful times I had in high school. I was almost forced to smile when the grim reality I was about to face suddenly came back to me. What was that? Footsteps? Yes. I waited with bated breath. For the last time the door opened. I was ready. Now I know how those before me felt. My stomach seemed to curl up and my heart turn cold and stop. I arose and walked with head high and spirits low toward the door, where that twisted bit of humanity waited for me. There I was—about to go for the first time before the Court of Control.