Dr. Johnston Gives Review Lecture
Is Second In Series Presented On Mondays For 24th C.T.D.

Vol. XXXI DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1944 No. 9

Professor of history, gave a summary of the news of the weeks ending March 20, last Monday at 5:00 P.M. This summary was the second of the lectures given at the request of Captain Sutherland, commandant of the 24th C.T.D., last for the Air Corps Cadets every Monday afternoon by Professors Johnson and Williamson. The lectures given at the request of Captain Sutherland, commandant of the 24th C.T.D., last for fifty-five minutes. Dr. Johnston’s talk was illustrated with slides of maps showing the theatres of war.

European Theatre
Dr. Johnston began with the Russian offensive in the Ukraine, pointing out recent advances along the Black Sea and Dnieper River. He showed where the German Army is encircled near the Black Sea, and where the Russians have entered Rumania, the first of the Balkan States, on the heels of the routed Germans. The immediate objective of the Russian Drive is Odessa, the last Nazi escape port on the Balkan Sea. The Russians claim to have liquidated 100,000 men along the Southern Front, where the week's main action has been taking place.

The speaker shifted to the Northern Front, where the most active fighting has been taking place about 6 miles from Berlin. In Italy, Dr. Johnston continued, most of the fighting has been taking place about Cassino, a mountain fortress blocking the road through the valley to Rome. Cassino has been the scene of unprecedented bombing but the Germans still have a garrison holding the town. The Allied drive has stalled for over a month. Fighting on the Anzio beachhead below Rome has been fairly quiet recently. Rome, Florence, and Genoa were among the cities bombed during the week.

Pacific Arena
The main news in the Pacific for the last week has been in...

Dr. Warner Hall, Spring Service Speaker
Hall Begins Series
Dr. Warner Hall, Spring Service speaker, opened his series of lectures last Tuesday with talks in chapel and 7 Hank Watt, president of the Y, introduced Dr. Hall Tuesday morning, and reminded students that the speaker would lead a prayer meeting in Watts Hall at 10:15 Wednesday night. Dr. Hall opened the series with a talk on maturity, using Moses as an example of a mature leader. The speaker then discussed mental and spiritual maturity. He emphasized the importance of spiritual maturity in the present crisis, stating that we have only a little time to prepare for the future.

Question Mark Review Opens Air Corps
To Give Musical Set
The Air Corps will give a musical set on Friday night in the Martin Science Hall. Plans are being made to dedicate the hall on April 14.Paris: Two vector bombings in the North- day, March 15 in Chambey Auditorium. Included in the event: Vins Eyern Wacilic and by land-based company competition. The competition will be held Friday. Planes on Truk, in the Central Pacific, and attacks on the Admiralty Islands in the South Pacific. Manus Island and Lorengo Air Base were the main scenes of action. The week's events were of tremendous surprise. Operations in the fleet included activities planned for male members. The winning platoon will receive a cup. 

Evening Lecture: The lecture will be held on March 14. The speaker will talk about the attitude of professional talent. The event is scheduled for male members of the company. The winning platoon will receive a cup for their performance in company class order drill. 

Pantomime Repeated: Kirk, a graduate, will perform. Allied forces will be represented. One squad will be elected from each company. 

Judges for the event will be Mr. Night. The event will also feature a chorus of singers. The Sons of the Revolution will present an award to the outstanding ROTC cadet of the year. Two men from each company will be selected. 

"Y" Retreat: Jack Watt, president of the Y.M.C.A., announced yesterday that the Y cabinet has made tentative plans for its annual spring retreat. This year’s retreat, Watt indicated, will be held the weekend of April 22. The cabinet intends to go to Montreat, where they will camp out, cooking their own food.