Page THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 7, 1944.

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DAVE RICHARDSON

BUSINESS MANAGER
DEXTER WITHERINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ashe - Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson - Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield - Feature Editor
Jim Lowry - Sports Editor
Ray Miller - Managing Editor
Sam Ervin - Managing Editor
Jim Love - Managing Editor
Kurt Weill - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Pitty Ledgerton - Circulation Manager
Murphy Wilds - Advertising Manager
Lennox Turnbull - Advertising Manager
Jack Mahone - Advertising Manager
Tom Smith - Subscription Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Quiet
The long-awaited dormitory council is at last in the process of formation. For a long time, we have thought that an iron-handed council inspired by such incidents as the Turnbull and Dendy affairs would be unfair and unneeded, but even editors sometimes see the light. In the last part of November, way back before the ruin of Rumple was heard of, the “Y” council and the fraternity presidents met with Sam Hay, Dr. Cunningham, and Dean Bailey. At that time, they were asked if they felt that there was a problem in the dormitories and if they had any ideas. These student leaders agreed that something should be done about the dormitories and that a dormitory council should be formed.

Since then, what with the exuberance of spring, three doors have been burnt in Watts, a skylight has been broken twice, once because a boy was dared to do it, and several gallons of water have been spilt. Money needed to repair damage is a more or less minor thing in such incidents, but since things have gone on for years, the cost has mounted up. It has become a well-established tradition at Davidson to tear up every available part of the dormitories. That is one of the main aims of the proposed dormitory council: to set up a tradition in the opposite direction. Tearing up someone else's property is not what Davidson men are famous for. Not even a freshman would think of going down to Hugo’s and burning down the door on purpose, or of breaking one of the store windows in Charlotte. But just because it's a habit, damage to college property goes on.

The council, as proposed in a constitution drawn up by Hay, will consist of 31 men elected by the dormitory floors. These men will be pledged to keep down disturbance and start a tradition of order in the dormitories. Of this number, seven will be elected to serve as the executive committee of the council. This committee will have the power to impose fines, campus, and remove from the dormitories. A president of the council will be elected by the student body. This constitution is being gone over and revised by the student council and faculty. It is our opinion that the dormitory council will help, rather than hurt, fun in the dormitories. No student is going to expect his roommate to be an angel. The idea is a good one. It remains to be seen whether the student body will elect men who will fill their jobs and will give it the backing necessary for its success.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents Editorials

SALUTES to the Editor

Dear Ed:
There was splendid cooperation on the part of the students in response to the Sunday night visiting of the faculty members last Sunday, and let's hope that it will keep up. The students themselves will get the benefit from it in the last analysis and have really been missing out heretofore in neglecting this important contact with the Professors and their families. It has long been a Davidson tradition, and one that should never be allowed to die out. You really find out just what a “reg'lar feller” the Prof can be outside of class, and these contacts, as Dr. McGavock pointed out, will serve as your tie with old D. C. when you have long since ceased to know a student in college. There must be something to this, else why do the old grads keep coming back to the Hill? It’s something like going back to the old Home Town and finding old friends still there. And the ones who have established friendships with faculty members in the past during their college days are the ones who feel most at home today.

For those who have not yet called on their professors, let me assure them that the conversations are not “above their heads” by any means; nor necessarily on the intellectual plane. Refreshments (sometimes) serve to put the most timid freshman at ease; you can’t talk with a mouthful of food. The faculty are not above telling “tall tales” and having their own share of amusing incidents which have occurred in days gone by. A touch of home life, although not your own, is always good for a fellow when gone from home as long as most of us are. Davidson has always been known as a friendly campus, and this has been borne out by the greetings to fellow students and to strangers. Why should not this be applied to our student-faculty relations as well? Why not cultivate the friendship of those whom we study under? They have shown an active interest in this phase of our relations; it seems our opportunity to respond and make the best of our time while here.

Hank Watt

Education Tomorrow
In an hour when the shadow of violent death is stalking our manhood, and every man’s tomorrow may be his last, this living, vital present day is the day of our concern. 1954 seems more than a decade away, perhaps because so many will be gone by then; only for dreamers, we say, are those years which lie beyond the dawn. And it must be so. Because for us there are jobs to be done, big jobs, hard jobs, jobs upon which depend so many lives—that is why we forget the future. But there are other lives, younger than those being gambled on the battlefield, lives for whom the dying die. We speak of tomorrow’s generation, of those young men of today who will inherit the world.

The above quotation, written by Monroe Bush, '42, is especially pertinent.Since the college authorities have received orders terminating the contract with the Army Air Forces for training students, the possibility of a break in Davidson’s service makes students and faculty alike unhappy. The increasing difficulty of receiving training in all fields in the services leads us to think that the government looks on education as secondary to fighting. Since it seems that civilian college training is the only way to avoid an illiterate generation, the idea of there being no more Davidson is one that no one connected with the college enjoys. (Continued on Page 3)

Black Market
by THOMAS K. COLLINS

While rambling through the works of the best-known poets when I was on a short visit over to the Phi Beta Kappa Dormitory, where they keep such stuff so that the moths won't eat it, I ran across a poem which I thought might amuse the readers of this column more than the smut that has gathered around the campus since the last edition of the Davidsonian. Anyway, with apologies to Edgar Allan Poe, I give you "THE RAVIN’"

Once upon a morning drowsy, I was feeling somewhat lousy
Lousy, yes, but not as lousy as I've often felt before.
When I combed my auburn toupee, suddenly I heard a “whoopee”
Some hoarse fiend yelling, “whoopee,” close beside my bedroom door.
“Some disgusting drunk,” I muttered, has mistook my bedroom door
Only this and nothing more.

Then the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of my shower curtain
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors, never felt before
Yes, my spine felt cold and prickly, clapping on my false hair quickly
I repeated, “’tis a drunk.” A drunk it is and nothing more
Some late gentleman entreating entrance at my bathroom door
One more drink I had, no more.

Just a little drop of whiskey, but it made my soul grow frisky
“Sir,” said I “or Lady maybe,” this will soon become a bore
But the silence was unbroken, and the plumbing gave no token
And the only word there spoken, was the whispered word “Lenore.”
Only this and nothing more.

“Surely,” said I later, something's in my ventilator
Let me see then, what the hell, and just one more Scotch and then this mystery explore
Drunks I'm sure, and nothing more.

Open then I flung the transom, when with haughty mien, and handsome
In there stepped a stately raven, wearing spats and pinafore
Close behind, with manner holy, came a lizard walking slowly
Then three snakes, reserved and lowly, perched above my bathroom door,
Perched and blinked and nothing more.

Then, some elephants wearing glasses, entered slowly singing masses:
Or it may have been the Miserere from the show Il Trovatore.
With faces worn and eyes all hallowed, little men from Brooklyn followed.
Messing up my broken light bulb, just above the bedroom door.
After this I can't remember, it most likely was December
Or it may have been September of a year or two before

When I wakened, ’twas in Bellevue, I was strapped and chained. A hell brew
Trickled down my throat, the while my nose was held by nurse “Lenore”
What a grip and what jiu-jitsu, had that nurse “Lenore”
What a louse, that nurse “Lenore.”

Now for the awards: This week's Davidson E goes to Copeland's Dive for the way they have kept the school going—looking out first of all for the good of the students. The spirit of the administration in keeping the school running is characteristic of one that has been here for quite a while. On September 1, 1917, The Davidsonian printed, “In spite of the fact that The University of Virginia and many other schools have canceled all intercollegiate athletic engagements, Davidson is to have a football team this season.” During the Civil War, the picture was much darker than it is today. There were no graduates in the years 1862, ‘63, '65, and '66, and only one in the year 1864. Yet, Davidson kept going.

When you look back at it, the mumbling and moaning and groaning that was heard after the announcement was made that Chapel would be held at 8:30 A.M. is something to be ashamed of. Maybe it is human nature to want to gripe about something, but it certainly doesn’t help matters any. Listen to this echo from another war period. February 20, 1918, “At a meeting of the student body last Monday morning, it was decided to have drill before chapel in the morning instead of in the afternoon... Reveille will sound at 6:25 A.M. and drill will begin at 6:45 and continue until 7:40."

The Y.M.C.A. Vesper program last Sunday night was something new in vesper programs. The vesper speakers are usually selected and invited to Davidson by Dr. Cunningham. Beak Bradley got the idea that we should have a deputation from Union Seminary, and he followed the idea through. It might be a good custom to start! If another group like Foreman, Fulton, and Williams can be had, I'm sure it would be a good custom to start.

Bob Lubin and the Air Corps showmen deserve a lot of credit for the fine show they put on—"working in their spare time between 5:00 and 5:05". Lubin is a real showman—at his best in the Pantomime Act. Bravo for the revival of that old custom of visiting in the homes of the faculty on Sunday night. Dr. McGavock's talk in chapel and the system worked out and printed in the Vespers bulletin have brought rich rewards.

Ed Patterson for having the best boarding house on the campus. Roses go to Jim Lowry for obvious reasons that we won't go into. And finally, Pin-up congratulations go just a little late to Joe Mayo. This is Tommy. I'll be seeing you in store cases and shop windows all over the nation. So, come in and call for THOMAS COLLINS.