Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, July 28, 1944

The Davidsonian - Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year

"For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE ........................................ Editor
JIM ALEXANDER .......................... Business Manager
Lamar Williamson ...................... Associate Editor
J. S. Main ........................................ Assistant Editor
Jim Lowry ...................................... Sports Editor
Robert Morrison .......................... Managing Editor
George Gunn .................................. Staff Photographer
John Stukes ................................... Advertising Manager
Jack Lazenby ................................. Circulation Manager

ONE THING LEADS TO ANOTHER

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. 50 cts. for the Summer Session

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

NUNC SUNT NO COKES

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such, it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, vulgarity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. Material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Student Store

There is no longer a Student Store at Davidson. The establishment in the basement of the gym which has taken over the stock and the name of the Student Store is neither managed nor clerked by students, nor is it even operated with the students’ interests primarily in mind. It is perfectly obvious that the present location of the store is most inconvenient to civilian students. It is entirely off the beaten track of daily activities for everyone on the campus. Because of location alone, a large percentage of civilian students have shifted elsewhere, their trade in such items as the Stud has always carried. There is little point in walking out of the way to a place devoid of student atmosphere to buy something which could be gotten more conveniently and more congenially somewhere else.

Then there is the matter of hours. The Stud is now open four hours a day, whereas under the student clerk system it was open twice that long even in the midst of the clerk power shortage. One of the great advantages of the Stud has always been that it has been open almost any time a student wanted a snack, a smoke, or any of the various supplies in the store. The present set-up further discourages students from going to the Stud because of the fact that the chances are two to one that it will be closed when they want something. Furthermore, past experience proves that the Stud cannot be depended upon to be open even in the hours set forth. It is certainly a disheartening situation from the viewpoint of the civilian students.

Of course, it may be said with some justice that it is the students’ fault that the store cannot stay open longer, since an appeal was made in chapel with only one lone response. But how can anyone hope to find student clerks when the place is dull? We have heard several individuals comment that they would like to work in the Stud if it were in its old location, and doubtless the reader has heard remarks to the same effect. The clerk problem would be well on the way to a solution if the Stud were in its old location behind the old gym. The objection has been raised that the old location is not large enough—that stock and customers were often thrown together in the midst of the floor in a confusion past all extrication. This objection may also be partially justified, but was not the former situation far better from the students’ point of view than a store in which the only civilian is behind the counter? The store may make just as much money under the present arrangement, but in view of the fact just mentioned, it is not a Students’ Store.

Up to this point, the Stud has been one of Davidson's truly cherished traditions. Its purpose through the years has been to serve the student body as a whole, to provide opportunities for work for a good number of students, and through its profits to aid students needing financial help. At the end of the regular spring semester last May, the first two of these purposes were abandoned, and the Student Store in its traditional form quietly expired. Incidentally, it expired without the students having a voice in its transformation; indeed, even without their knowing what was being done to the store they had been led to believe was theirs. Those who are responsible for the choice that was made take sweet refuge in the old standby, “C’est la guerre.” The problems which the war has caused plague every business—that is granted. It is most fortunate that all such enterprises have not seen fit to meet these problems waving a white flag, which is what the Stud has done in effect by withdrawing from its old location.Clientele and surrendering its purposes. JESTINGS By JUSTA JOAK again with more undercover material than before. The long weekend that is just behind us has brought many new and very interesting affairs to our attention. Among them are:

Alf Scarborough on an overnight hike with a blonde. He had to come down to the fire to keep warm???

Bill Medford not dating since his engagement at the Kappa Sigs function. Keep up the good work, Bill.

Tiff Daniel having his pick at Myrtle Beach. We never did hear whether he chose a blonde or a brunette.

Lamar Williamson and Jack Etheridge not being able to get a girl for the hike. Too bad boys—try again next week.

“Hose Nose” Monroe had his own overnight hike down in Laurinburg, so we hear. He was more comfortable than the Montreat boys; his girl had a hammock.

Gabby Bryant had a fine time in High Point. Eh, what?

Harold Amos says he and Peggy are through, but when the weekend rolls around, there they are together again.

Come, rain or high water, John Hay goes home. We must be very interested thinkers.

Brown, “Dubby” Dickson's one and only, still will be Jackie—or is she?

Miles Scott had a date Monday night, so Bill Wier says. We heard an awful commotion in the show, so Miles must have been there.

Ed Golden had a nice walk Saturday night with a beautiful girl who had to be in at eleven. She arrived promptly at 12:30.

By the way, Bill Wier isn’t doing so bad for himself—a blonde in Montreat.

What will Bill Smith do now that Jean is gone?

John Wilson should enjoy this session with all his Charlotte girls up here—especially one.

Doc Roddey's girl is still since she got that pledge pin.

I guess that’s just about all for now.

P.S. Don’t try to guess who wrote this as Jim Alexander was out.

It Could Be Worse By ROBERT MORRISON

Old Ones With A New Slant, or There’s Nothing New Under the Sun.

Davidson, N.C. (APE) (Delayed) (Delayed so long that it didn’t make the first page.) According to an unconfirmed rumor from an unreliable source, a tremendous political movement is afoot in the Davidson underground. Alfred McNair, radical pro-communist, has organized the “Social Uplift Union.” John McNair, Alfred’s brother, has entered the race as the party's candidate for vice presidency. Young McNair, stressing the anti-professor platform of his party, declared, “Solomon killed one thousand men with the jawbone of an ass, but ten thousand students throughout America are bored to death each day with the same weapon.”

An interviewer asked McNair if he was an attending student at Davidson College. “No,” he replied, “I just go to school here.”

It was understood that McNair’s party has been organized primarily to retaliate for Doc Hollinger’s being thrown out of school for using a red pencil. The dean declared that Hollinger was impersonating a professor. Hollinger flunked out after putting a period upside down on one of Dr. Shewmake’s reviews. However, it was further rumored that the party was formed in defense of Bill Wier, who flunked out after telling Dr. Logan that the nitrate of sodium was the same as the day rate. Wier, however, declared that he had answered correctly when Dr. Logan asked, “If I drop this dime in this solution, will it dissolve?” “No,” replied Wier. “Fine,” said the pedagogue. “Why?” “Because if the dime would dissolve, you wouldn’t drop it in!”

The professor declared that if Wier were electricity, he would be a powerhouse. Wier said that he did not believe that he deserved an absolute zero in the course. Dr. Logan said, “No, Mr. Wier, I don’t think you deserve an absolute zero either, but that’s the lowest grade I could give you.”

As Wier was leaving the class, he commented that Dr. Logan was so dumb that he thought “D.C.” stood for direct current. The class was dismissed early that day because they promised not to wake up Prof. Thies’ class on the way down the hall.

During the convention held by the Social Uplift Union, no candidate was nominated for the presidency, but they support Roosevelt instead. “I’m satisfied with Roosevelt,” declared Brown, “and I hope my grandchildren will be too.” In support of Brown’s motion, J.P. Horton arose to declare that President Roosevelt had promised, if re-elected, to appropriate fifteen billion dollars to fill the Grand Canyon with beer.

Alfred Scarborough brought out the point that Roosevelt had declared that the fourth term would be his last. Sam Burgess insisted that all the presidents of the United States had been passed by the same college. Burgess stated that this was the electoral college. Sandy Shaw arose to refute Brown and nominate Hose Nose Monroe, but Hose said he’d rather be tight than president.

Ed Pichard, in a pointed attack against the faculty, related these facts about Dr. Richards:

Richards: “You in the back of the room, what was the date of last week’s lecture?”

Other rumors have it that at Thompson’s Ptomaine Tavern, business is out of the way and exceedingly well. Folks, here we are back again with more undercover material than before.