MERRY CHRISTMAS

The Davidsonian

LUX UB!) — ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1944 No. 7

DRAKE EDITS QUIPS and CRANKS

President Tells About Enrollment

Between 20 and 30 Expected to Enter Next Semester.

President John R. Cunningham delivered a brief address in Chapel last Monday which was designed to acquaint the student body with the present status of the college and its future plans. Since the departure of the ASTRP unit, there has been much speculation as to Davidson's prospects for the future. Dr. Cunningham stated that there is now an enrollment of one hundred and seventy-five civilian students, and all of the faculty needed for the ASTRP unit as well as the faculty for the civilian students. This number of students is, in comparison with other colleges, very high, and the large number of faculty members affords unusual opportunities for the students in their studies.

Admissions to the college in February are expected to balance the number of men lost from the present student body by the draft. Between twenty and thirty new men will matriculate in February. Dr. Cunningham expressed confidence in the future of the College when he said, “We expect a civilian enrollment next summer and fall which will be considerably larger than the enrollment this year.”

In regard to the future students, Mr. I. W. Henderveld, registrar, has sent a copy of the Davidson College “Bulletin” to every high school senior in the Southern states. This bulletin gives information about the present status of the College, the opportunities and requirements for entrance, and the environment and atmosphere characterizing Davidson.

Spanish Club Holds Meeting

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, held its bimonthly meeting on Tuesday night at 7:00 o'clock in Professor Blythe’s classroom, and several important matters were taken up. First, elections for new officers were held. Lee Drake was elected president, Alton Whitehouse, vice-president; Charlie Thompson and Lee Drake continue to serve as secretary and treasurer respectively.

After this, the program was presented which consisted of four plays in Spanish. They were “Isabela y Fernando”, with Charlie Thompson and Alton Whitehouse; “Es Evidente”, with Ellis White; “En el Clase”, with Lee Drake and Claude Abernethy; and “El Dentiste”, with Claude Abernethy and Jim Love. Both Professor Blythe, the advisor of Sigma Delta Pi, and Professor Fleagle were at the meeting. It was suggested by Professor Blythe that Professor Fleagle take charge of the program for the next meeting.

Christmas Vespers Given Sunday Night

‘Y’ Party A Big Success

Davidson-Queens Day Enjoyed By All.

The annual Queens-Davidson Party, held on December 9, was a big success. The girls arrived on the hill at about 5:00 P.M., and met their dates. Renewing old acquaintances and forming new friendships were the preliminary events. One could see many walking about the campus, pointing out to the visitors the interesting and historical places.

At six and six-thirty, the visitors from Queens had dinner with their dates at their respective boarding houses. The crowd assembled at 8:00 for the big square dance. Mrs. Cashion led the dance, and everyone enjoyed it. Mr. Bruce Fisher, the social chairman of the “Y” Cabinet, introduced Betty and Jean Campbell, who presented “Mirth Madness,” which was very amusing and kept everyone in hysterics. Bruce Fisher then enacted a clever monologue which also proved to be very entertaining.

The evening turned out to be a great success, and there is a lot of sentiment on both campuses in favor of another such party very soon after the Christmas holidays.

Community Tops Goal

Nearly $200,000 Subscribed For Church.

Dr. Dye announced last Sunday morning that the local church has exceeded its twenty-five thousand dollar goal in the drive for its share of the funds to erect the new college church, with a total of $28,037.25. Davidson is proud of its future church, and the community is wholeheartedly backing the drive. Of the total goal of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, between one hundred and ninety and two hundred thousand dollars has already been subscribed.

Large Crowd Attends Very Beautiful Service.

Last Sunday evening was the occasion of Davidson's annual Christmas Vespers Service, long a tradition at the College. The service was under the joint sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. and the Music Department and drew a capacity crowd in Chambers Auditorium. Assisting the Davidson Glee Club and band were the Queens College Choral Club and the Davidson Symphony Orchestra. Professor Berg, director of music at Queens, and James Christian Pfohl, director at Davidson, directed the performance, assisted by Mr. Earl Berg. Preceding the program, carols were played by a brass choir in the dome room of Chambers.

New Members Are Initiated In Eu. Society

Four Men Chosen By Literary Society.Four new members were Eumenean initiates at the last meeting of the Literary Society Tuesday evening at Freshman Hall. One freshman, Hil Masters; one sophomore, Tom Smith; one junior, Jim Love; and one senior, George Apperson. The papers read by these initiates during initiation were “A Camping Trip in the New Hampshire Woods” by Hil Masters; “Modern Trends in Negro Education” by Tom Smith; “An Editorial on Football” by Jimmie Love; and a selection of original poetry by George Apperson. After Christmas holidays, Eumenean plans to meet regularly every two weeks.

The overture to “The Messiah” opened the program at eight o'clock and was followed by “Break Forth, O Beauteous Light” by Bach. The congregation was led in prayer by Jim Alexander, president of the Y.M.C.A. George Gunn, a member of the Cabinet, read selected scripture passages covering the prophecy, the birth, and the adoration of the Christ Child. These readings were punctuated by solo and choral pieces. Miss Margaret McMaster, soprano, of Greensboro, and Dr. William Shields, tenor, of Winston Salem, were the soloists. The congregation and chorus sang a number of carols, with interludes between the numbers being filled by solos by Miss Gertrude Peel, harpist, of Queens College. After the singing of the carols, the choruses concluded the program by singing the Hallelujah Chorus from “The Messiah,” and President Davidson gave the benediction.

The Y.M.C.A.'s drive to raise $1,000 for the annual Christmas Gift Fund topped its goal. George Gunn, the Cabinet member and director of the campaign, announced in chapel that this goal had been topped in the five-day drive. A later count revealed that the pledges to date total $1,135.50, or an average gift of $6.04 for the 187 members of the student body and faculty who made pledges. The dormitory hall pledging the most per man was the 2nd floor of Georgia dorm, which had an average gift of $11.05. Alf Scarborough was in charge of collections on this hall. Runner-up in these hall averages was the 1st floor of Watts, which had an average of $6.79 per man. The objective of this year's campaign is to furnish the Student Room of the new campus church as a memorial to the Davidson alumni who have given or will give their lives in the present war. Every member of the student body or faculty and other interested parties are encouraged to contribute.

An exhibition of local and regional artists was held in Eumenean Literary Hall at Davidson from the fourth through the eleventh of December. The exhibition included many of the paintings and sketches which were presented in the Mint Museum in Charlotte last month. Among the exhibitionists were Clara Lawton Smith of Davidson, Paul Bartlett, Howard Murray Dumbell, Dagrell Korthener, Kathryn Korthener, Rebecca Bryant, Philip Monse, Kenneth Whitsett, and Ralph Ray.

Lee Drake, of Richmond, Va., was elected to the office of Editor-in-Chief of Quips and Cranks, the Davidson College Annual, by the members of the Senior Class at a special meeting recently. Drake is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, president of the Eumenean Literary Society, president of Sigma Delta Pi, national honorary Spanish fraternity, and is a varsity basketball manager. No appointments have been made as yet for the editorial staff, but the editor announced that appointments will be made by the Publications Board and will be published in the next issue of the Davidsonian. Due to the fact that there was no annual published here last year, a greater amount of cooperation will be necessary on the part of each student to make this publication a success. For the convenience of last year's seniors who will want to have a copy of the book, the editor announces that individual pictures of all those men who graduated in 1944 will be included in the 1945 Quips and Cranks.

Jimmie Love has recently been appointed business manager of the yearbook by the newly elected Publications Board. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, the Publications Board, Eumenean Literary Society, the Spanish club, and will appear in Who's Who Among Students. He is editor of the Davidsonian, president of the Pan Hellenic Council, and manager of the football team. John McNair has been appointed assistant business manager. Other members of the business staff are Hurd Bradford and Jack Lazenby.

Pictures of the student body for the Quips and Cranks were taken on Tuesday, Wednesday of last week, and Monday of this week. Dunbar Studios, of Charlotte, who have done such outstanding work for us in previous years, again made the pictures. Mr. Roberson, a member of the studio staff, handled the posing. Mr. Roberson has posed numerous other student bodies in similar work. The studio is doing an excellent job in making photographs available by Christmas for those who placed their orders immediately.