Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, December 14, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE Editor
JIM ALEXANDER Business Manager
JIM SANDERS Associate Editor
LEE DIRK Assistant Editor
GEORGE APPERSON Assistant Editor
FRED LOUKES Sports Editor
PAUL ARNOLD Managing Editor
ELLIS WHITE Assistant Business Manager
JOE RICHARDSON Circulation Manager
JACK LAZENBY Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Christmas . . .
Christmas, more than any other, is the outstanding holiday of the year. Not only at Davidson but in schools and
colleges all over the country it marks a break in the year. We look forward to it and back upon
it with more than the usual delight, for all the Christmases of the past have combined in their contribution to
this idea. In no season of the year are so many of the delights and devotions of the hearts of
men combined. We find endless expressions of friendship and love, of joy and goodwill, of giving and receiving. The Christmases
we have known have been those of “Peace on Earth, and Goodwill toward men.” But now at Davidson we are
looking forward to another wartime Christmas as are men everywhere. This in itself is almost a contradiction of terms. The
word Christmas has always been synonymous with peace. It is hard to reconcile the idea of war with the one
season of the year that at its commencement was dedicated to the spirit of peace. We cannot forget the one,
yet it is all-important to remember the other.

Here at Davidson we have felt the change. Those especially who can remember it before there was a war know
that a different spirit prevails. Yet in most ways we have kept the old customs and traditions fully intact. We
have not lost those things which have so long been associated with the college. There are two of these which
deserve special mention, the Y.M.C.A. gift fund and the Christmas Vespers. To both of these projects and to those responsible
for their great success we owe a debt of gratitude. In them are two quite different expressions which all will
recognize as belonging fully to all that we cherish in the long history of the College.

The Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund can be said to fully show the spirit of “goodwill to men” that prevails here. In
the past this has always been given to some cause of permanent value which the students feel is worthy of
their support. The great spirit of giving which is one of the primary ideas of the Christmas season is fully
expressed in this gift from the Davidson students. The ardent support, which resulted in oversubscription of our Gunning goal shows
how alive this tradition has remained in the present school life.

The Christmas Vespers has always symbolized the idea of beauty and devotion which is represented in the College tradition. This
year there was no let down either in the amount of work or in the presentation that has always been
characteristic. The crowds came as in the past and went away with the same satisfaction. There are few places where
both the talent and the willingness to prepare and present such a program are present. We are fortunate that even
with the hardships involved and lack of students to perform, the same quality of performance was possible. In light of
this also we realize that the spirit of beauty and devotion from the past are fully alive today.

This will be a quieter, more sober Christmas than those of the past. Our thoughts are far away with those
who cannot be with us, or may never be with us again. Still—
Though war makes all the earth run red with blood,
And fills the days with cries of fear and pain,
Yet above all the noise and strife, they hear
Who listen, angels singing hymns of peace.

Social Life...
One of the most important phases in the activities of any college is its social life. Although this is fully
realized, it has been somewhat neglected in the past at Davidson. Definite action has been taken both by O.D.K. and
the social committee of the Y.M.C.A. The results are quite evident from the success of the Queens-Davidson square dance. Functions
of this type are definitely needed on the campus. They are a contribution to a well-rounded college life. The ideas
of the past have been realized to be outmoded. The future holds good prospects. No little effort is required to
bring these functions about. Not only the support of the student body but the active interest of the faculty is
important. Many boys are willing to take part in them but not in helping plan them. In the future more
of the social side of our college life will be emphasized. The prospect of dances on the campus is one
of the best along this line. It offers to the students the one phase of social life which is considered
to be the greatest in importance. It is true that this can be over-emphasized in campus life. An overbalance in
either direction is not only bad but can become disastrous. Davidson has always sought the proper balance in all its
activities. However gradual this process may be, we should always strive to obtain those things which go to make up
a well-rounded college career.

Around
Will sat at his typewriter holding the edges of the table as a preacher would grip his pulpit, looking at
the blank paper before him. He was crooning under his breath in his mediocre voice, “—laughed at the rain together.”
He stared out of the door he faced, down the hall to the curtained windows; now he sat still and
stared harder, for something lazier than the misty drizzle seemed to be falling on the other side of the pale
yellow curtains. Willswung around in his chair to face the big, bare window which was behind him. Yes, he was
right; it was not raining now, it was snowing. Big white flakes swirled down through the mid-afternoon sky. Will looked
through the scratched crystal on his wristwatch; it was only a few minutes past three-thirty and it was December 11th,
but outside the first snow of the year was falling on the Dodson campus. He watched the flakes stick to
the black bark of a felled oak not far from the window of the Student Union where he sat. The
great old tree had been cut down with several other dead trees on the campus a month ago, had been
sawed into sections, but now it lay, still waiting to be chopped and stacked in the woodshed of the President's
or some professor’s home. Will’s eyes followed the descent of one flake until it became part of the icy slush
on the wet brick walk below. He changed his tune from “laughed at the rain together” to “I’m dreaming of
a white Christmas—” and thought of the four days of college classes remaining before the holidays. He thought—one week—home—two weeks—Christmas.
Will thought too of his date Saturday with Jean; they had talked of Christmas, home, snow—had caught the Christmas spirit
from a Christmas carol, from the hustling Christmas shoppers, from the brisk December air. Will's mind snapped back to the
present, leaving thoughts drifted in mental snow clouds. He turned from the flurry outside the window and concentrated on quelling
the flurry within his own mind. His blue English text reminded him of the monthly test which he had the
next day in Professor Bacon's English 71; he thought also about the term paper he was going to have to
write during the holidays—Taverns and Coffee Houses of the Eighteenth Century. Will thought of the low grade he was going
to have to pull up in Latin before the semester exams—semester exams—that was going to be a worry in all
his classes. He thought about his trip home on Saturday—which route should he take—should he buy a round trip ticket—should
he pack two bags? He wondered if he should write his folks he was coming in Sunday morning instead of
Tuesday or should he just walk in and surprise them? He wondered if he would find time to get his
Christmas cards mailed out before he left. These worries seemed insignificant; there was something more urgent on his mind—what was
it? Then it came to him. He stared again at the blank paper in his typewriter and knew what it
was. He had to write something, a whole column of it, for the Dodsonian which went to press that night;
that’s what he had to put down on the paper before him. Will adjusted the paper holders on his typewriter,
looked out at the falling snow, and started to type with his hunt and peck system—

“Will sat at his typewriter holding the edges of the table as a preacher.”

—This Might Be You

HIL MASTERS

Since Christmas is just “down the road a piece,” there will probably be a rush to the stores and a
buying of presents. Many a perplexed student has asked another for a suggestion on what to buy for his girl.
Of course, the other boy doesn’t know, so as to clear things up I (somehow, I always get mixed up
in these articles) will try to give you a few suggestions. First of all, don’t give her anything too expensive
(need I worry?) for she might not be worth it. Equally important, it must not be too cheap. We have
heard of a boy who waits before he gives any presents to his girl until he finds out what she
is giving him. This isn’t the proper attitude or Christmas spirit. We also hear of the cad who bought half
a dozen watches of the same make at one time (I got a brother in the business). Let's take the
case of a fellow who is found around the dormitories. It seems that he had his eyes on a girl
(what else?) with whom he had a few dates. He began to feel strange, could it be love—or? He was
all set (Woolworth’s) for buying a ring when one of his “buddies” came in and told him what a wonderful
time he had with this particular girl. Now he wonders if he should give a big, expensive gift and try
to win her back or should he give her nothing. My suggestion is the latter. What can he lose, except
the girl? Also comes the subject of presents. Christmas is known for its loud ties, silver dollars from great aunts,
last year’s hat creation. About the nicest gift a boy could receive would be a year’s subscription to “Esquire.” Even
though he can’t read he can look at the pictures (is that bad?). If one could buy a carton of
cigarettes (see Hugo) that would be nice, too. The Christmas tie is the most publicized gift of all. Some radio
comedians have based their whole show on this lowly bit of apparel. Where they get the designs for them no
one knows. The designers, I’m told, are locked up as soon as the holiday is over until the following Christmas.
Colors are of no importance, it seems. Despite these faults, however, men always seem to get them for Christmas. I
remember a story about a man who was wearing his new necktie during a blackout. He was arrested for showing
a light (it filled space anyway). Now this story must be “stretched.” Everybody knows that a tie couldn't be that
bright anyway; his overcoat would keep the light in. Without a doubt, Christmas has its disadvantages. Despite being serious for
a moment, I will say that just the idea of Christmas is a heart-warmer. In this world which is at
war, it is a privilege to sit back and count your many blessings. The idea of good fellowship—the idea of
peace—are things that every civilized person wishes. The singing of carols, the giving of presents, and the praising of God
are things that every civilized person does. So in closing, I wish one and all a Happy Christmas and a
Prosperous New Year, for I hope that, This Might Be Yours.
