Che Dabidsonian - ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1944 No. 5

Services In Review
By J. S. Blain

Led by Dr. Donald W. Richardson, November 14-16, the YMCA Fall Services were proclaimed a great success by all concerned. While he was on the campus, Dr. Richardson visited the various boarding houses, and on Wednesday morning, had breakfast at the Guest House with members of the ‘Y’ Cabinet and several faculty members. He met with the cabinet in its meeting on Tuesday evening, and also held private conferences in the afternoon with students who desired to talk with him.

The opening address was made in Chapel on Tuesday morning and the text was the fourth chapter of Luke. Using this story of Jesus' temptation in the wilderness, Dr. Richardson urged the students to seek the permanent things of life, and not to “live by bread alone.” He pictured the three men, Karl Marx, Adolph Hitler, and Jesus Christ, “as standing at the crossroads of the world, each with a book in one hand and with the other hand beckoning to the people of the world to follow.” Pointing out that Christ is the only person around whom true religion is centered, he said that only Christ can be followed with any degree of hope in eternal life.

Tuesday night's message was on “Being a Christian,” and emphasized the necessity for Christ-like living by every person. Our character, said Dr. Richardson, is the reproduction of our thoughts about God, and our duty is to glorify God by living in His light.

On Wednesday morning, Dr. Richardson said that the question today is not whether we have religion but rather what kind of religion do we have. The characteristics of the true religion are its reasonableness, its practicability, and its spirituality. Christianity as a religion is real, reasonable, practical, spiritual, and eternal.

The sermon Wednesday night was on the “Romance of Christianity.” Many of us find this romance in “mountain-top experiences,” but the real test is in finding it in the routine of daily life. The romance of religious life is not in believing but in doing the will of God. This is a co-operative enterprise, for “not even God can do our best without our best to help him.”

(Continued on Page 4)

Pikas-Pi Kaps To Have Dance
To Be Held At Myers Park Country Club

Friday night, December 1st, will be a big night in the social affairs of the Pikas and Pi Kaps. On that night all will be at the Myers Park Country Club for dancing with Fleet Green and his orchestra. As yet plans are rather indefinite but the opinion of all the Pikas and Pi Kaps is that they will have a gala occasion. A crowd of approximately fifty is expected to attend. This Pi Kap-Pika function in the pre-Christmas season has been a tradition at Davidson for the past several years, and if the success of these functions is any indication of the success of the forthcoming one, a good time should be had by all.

AIR CORPS AWARD

Shown above are Dr. Cunningham and Mr. Jackson holding an award received by the college “in recognition of the meritorious service rendered the Army Air Forces Training Command During World War II.”

This and That From the ASTRP
By Eugene Baker

Last Tuesday night a solemn procession passed down the halls of East Dorm. The boys were sad, for Bobby Kelly's flying squirrel, “Bobby Kelly, Jr.” was being buried. You see, Bobby put the sleeping squirrel on the ledge of his window to get some fresh air, last Tuesday morning, and alas the squirrel fell off into space. He died Tuesday afternoon and burial arrangements were made immediately.

The pallbearers were Bice, Howard, Wright, and White. The Rev. Victor Perry officiated at the services and our friend (the constant menace) Dominic J. Loarminia blew “Taps.” The squirrel was buried in front of the East Dorm and if you wish, you may see his grave any time. The cross bore the following inscription: “He died testing the theory of flight.” The epitaph was written by Emanuel Crystal, and if I were not a gentleman, here I would repeat it word for word for you. Also, I should mention the fact the cross was made by the most honorable Frank Lurman. The inscription on the cross was Edward Gebart's brilliant idea. Also, we should mention the fact that Ryan specially composed a poem for the occasion—something that surprised all of us. We didn't think Ryan was a poet beneath his hard exterior.

About the latest and the last news I'll be able to report to you is that the boys are planning on having an informal dance here in Davidson at the High School on Thursday night, November 30th. This is going to be more or less a farewell party. While we are on the subject of parties, we are going to have a big one this Friday and Saturday. Every Astrap is cordially invited; it will be sponsored by the government. In other words, my friends, we are going to have those brain-twisting National Tests.

Now we come to the serious part of this column, the part in which we must bid you fond farewell. As most of you know, we are leaving Davidson December 2nd for (Continued on Page 4)

Achievement a New Trustees Are Elected
Grey, Sherrill, and Potts Made Members

Three new members of the Board of Trusteeshave been elected during the fall, Dr. Cunningham announced recently. Those who were elected are S. Wilson Grey, of Winston Salem, who replaces Colonel J. Edward Johnston, Baltimore, Md., Darl Sherrill, Statesville, and Clyde P. Potts of Davidson.

Messiah Is By Davids
Dr. Y. C. Yang Speaks Here
Active Chinese Worker, Davidson Guest Speaker

Davidson has been fortunate in having Dr. Y. C. Yang here last Tuesday to speak at 8:00 o'clock in the evening and Wednesday at Chapel. Dr. Yang, formerly president of Soochow University, China, is now both a director of the Y.M.C.A and Rotary International in China. He came to Davidson after a full schedule of speaking in Charlotte. His talks were well-attended and enjoyed by all who heard them.

Parade Held Reviewed by College and U.S. Army Officials

Armistice Day was celebrated last Saturday morning by the ASTRP unit. The ceremonies began at 11:00 A.M., with a military review held in the Richardson stadium and was reviewed by President John R. Cunningham, Dr. A. Beaty, Mayor of the town, and Major E. K. Marsh and the other officers of the ASTRP and ROTC. The ceremony dedicating the Honor Roll Service Board, containing the names of the men of Davidson now in military service, was postponed until a more convenient time later in the month.

TO COME TO CORNELIUS
Featured 6th War Loan Drive Brings Musical Show

The show “Shoot the Works” is definitely coming, announced Hugo Sapp, Chairman of the Davidson-Cornelius Merchants Association's 6th War Loan Drive. The fast-paced revue features Carmen Gagliardi, the silver-toned singer who has been featured on network radio programs; Tobey Martin, slapstick comedian extraordinaire; and Zary Rowland, premier danseuse, wearing gorgeous costumes. Also featured in the revue is the Greensboro AAF ORD 35-piece orchestra and the “Rotteneers” Glee Club Sixteen. The show brings out beautiful orchestral effects and the glee club leaves nothing to be desired in a harmonious vein. The “Rotteneers” resort to washboard boogie-woogie with a downbeat slant, featuring toe-tickling tin pan harmony. The show, instead of being usual, carries three masters of ceremony. Lt. Harry Taylor directs the G.I. Variety Review.

Planned on, Queens To Be Held in First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte December 10

The Davidson College Music Department, after weeks of hard work, is soon to have a series of important concerts. One of the few remaining civilian college bands in the South, the Davidson Symphonic Band, is to be heard in its first public appearance, Friday night, Dec. 1, at 8:15. The program is one of wide interest, including Herold’s “Zampa” overture, the “Promenade” and “The Old Castle” from Moussorgsky's “Pictures at an Exhibition,” “Bridal Song” by Carl Goldmark, and two sections from Handel's "Water Music Suite.” Chorales, marches, and entertaining popular numbers are also in prospect. The band, long considered top-flight in the South, is planning an extensive tour for next Spring; here is an opportunity for students and town people to size up its qualities. The band officers—Bob Hollinger, president; Frank West, vice president; Dick Plaster, secretary; and Herb Wyatt, executive council member—hope the organization will receive the full support of the student body.

Messiah

One of Charlotte's most important musical and religious events, the annual performance of Handel's Messiah, is to be given this year largely by students of Davidson and Queens. To be given in the First Presbyterian Church at 4 P.M. Dec. 10, the oratorio will feature the Davidson Glee Club, the Queens Choral Club, and the combined orchestras of the two colleges, along with competent soloists, all under the direction of Mr. Pfohl. At the Christmas vespers of Dec. 10, choruses from the Messiah will be the highlights of a service widely known for its impressiveness and one that has, in the past, drawn many worshippers, alumni, and friends from far and near.

Stringfield

An event of unusual interest will be the appearance here Dec. 4 of Lamar Stringfield, flutist and famous composer of this state, whose composition "From the Southern Mountains" won the Pulitzer Prize in 1928. In concert with him in the 'Y' lounge will appear the Mint Museum Chamber Orchestra, accompanying the flute in one of Mr. Stringfield’s own works, "Chipmunk," and in the “Poeme” of Charles Griffes. The orchestra will play two compositions of Mozart, the “Magic Flute” overture and the 25th Symphony. Davidson men in the group are West, Hollinger, and Plaster; Mr. Berg plays violin, and the conductor is Mr. Pfohl.

Phi Mu Alpha

Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary musical fraternity, has a chapter at Davidson, and to be made a brother of this fraternity is the highest honor open to college musicians. The student brothers—Hollinger, Owens, and Wyatt—aided by faculty members Messrs. Pfohl and Berg, are to initiate five new men Saturday night, Dec. 2. Students honored are Frank Barr, Mel Winstead, Frank West, Ellis White, and Jim Mahaffee. In the future, the chapter plans to hold meetings of profit and enjoyment and to sponsor increased musical activity for the Davidson Campus.