No sooner than one sport ends, does another begin. It took exactly two days to switch from football to basketball,
and since the last Davidsonian went to press, a team has been chosen, been trained, and has won a tight
ball game. Last Monday, the Wildcats opened their schedule against a good U.S. Rubber Co. team. Their players were a
good bit older than ours and had evidently more experience. But Davidson’s vigor and fighting spirit balanced what advantage they
might have, and the ’Cats roared through to win in the last few minutes, 54-46. It was thrilling all the
way, and the score was never 10 points in favor of either team. The high scorer of the evening was
Baker of the Rubber Co., with 24 points. He made sensational, one-handed hook shots from all corners of the court
and sunk a good percentage of them. Lowry of Davidson sunk 19 to lead the ’Cats scoring. It was the
first game for the team, and they made a good showing. They play Wofford in Spartanburg Wednesday night, and I
hope that the Terriers will take my advice and not consider the Davidson team a breather.

Intramural basketball also swept onto the scene and has stolen the spotlight for the last week. The SPE’s and Betas
remain unbeaten after a week of play, and when those two play tonight, rivalry and interest should hit its peak.
(I am taking no bets.)

Here we come to another limb, and here we go out on it! We predict Southern Cal., Duke, Tech, the
South, the East, and Randolph Field as winners on or about New Year’s Day. With this horrible column, the Sports
Department (that’s me) wishes you one and all a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

COLE’S DAVIDSON DINING ROOM and CAROLINA LUNCH
Delicious Meals
Courteous Service
J. O. JONES, Inc.
COME TO SEE US FOR YOUR FALL Suits & Overcoats
J. O. JONES, Inc.

Wildcat Sports
BASKETBALL STARTS
Thursday, December 14, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Fraternity Basketball Underway

Betas vs. Pika-Pikaps
On the opening night of basketball, the Pika Pi-Kap combination in a fast game, Betas defeated the 23-11. The game
was even less interesting than the score indicates. At half-time, the Betas led 11-3, and substitutes were plentiful from the
Beta side. The play was quite ragged as it was the first game for either team.

SPE’s vs. KA’s
The highly touted Sig Ep quintet lived up to all pre-season dope by downing the K.A. Knights 25-12. They grabbed
an early lead and held it throughout the game. The K.A.'s were never really in the ball game. The SPE's
alternated two teams and seem to be all that they are reputed to be with a couple of varsity players
on the team.

Independents vs. Kappa Sigs
On Wednesday night, the Independents and Kappa Sigs staged a thriller for all present. The Independents finally won 22-18. The
lead changed hands several times, but neither team had a comfortable lead at any time. At half-time, the Independents led
12-8. Blain, captain of the Independents, was the outstanding player of the evening.

Betas vs. Independents
A fast and furious game was played Friday night between the so-far-undefeated Independents and Betas. The Betas’ height was the
deciding factor, and the final score was 22-10 in favor of the Betas. The score at the half was 17-6,
with only a few points being scored during the second half.

SPE’s vs. Pika-PiKaps
The powerful SPE quintet smothered the game Pika-PiKap aggregation last Monday night.to the tune of 41-7. It was the SPE’s
all the way, as they grabbed an early lead and hung to it. Lineberger and Neil sparked the winners. As
usual, poor refereeing dominated the scene, but in this game it hit a new high.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

CAPTAIN JIM LOWRY

When the Wildcats opened their practice with only one letterman returning, there seemed to be little hope. But when practice
got under way it was found that the one letterman, Jim Lowry, with the help of many new and able
assistants, would be able to meet all expectations. Jim has played here three years; during this time he has been
captain two years, and has been known all over the state for his fine shooting and handling of the ball.
He is a member of Alpha fraternity, the Court of Control, past member of the Student Council, and past sports
editor of Davidsonian. He is also in Who's Who in American Universities and Colleges.

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
Dec. 14 “Wilson”
Dec. 15, 16 “Summer Storm”
Dec. 18, 19 “Casanova Brown”
Dec. 22, 23 “Waterloo Bridge”
Dec. 25, 26 “Janice”

DUKE PHOTO COMPANY
404 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.
COMMERCIAL and PORTRAIT PHOTOS
Telephone 3-8230

Wildcats Take Opening Game
U.S. Rubber Co. Defeated 54-46

The Davidson Wildcat basketball squad got off to an early season start by trouncing employees of the U.S. Rubber Co.
of Charlotte in a close 54-46 game. The Rubber Co. took the lead in the first few seconds of play,
on a field goal by Baker. O'Briant scored first for Davidson on a foul shot. This was followed by Lowry’s
field goal which gave Davidson a 3-2 lead. The game was close and fast from beginning to end. The Rubber
Co. then took the lead and held it to the end of the first half. The horn sounded with the
Wildcats trailing on the short end of a 29-22 score. But they came back fast in the third quarter to
tie up the score 38-38. The tension was growing as the game drew to a close with Davidson clinging to
a narrow lead. Time was running out and Davidson led with 1 1/2 minutes to go, 48-44. Breaking fast and
working the ball in, Davidson slipped in 6 to the opponents' 2 points to win by an 8-point margin. Judge
Jim got hot for the home team, dropping in 19, and Baker was plenty warm for the visitors with 24.
Credit goes to Lowry, Edwards, Bryant, Wall, O'Briant, and Scarborough of the Wildcats, and Baker, Wooks, and House of the
Rubber Co. The Wildcats’ next game is with the Wofford Terriers in Spartanburg next week.

The line-ups:

DAVIDSON
FG PF TP
Berry 2 0 4
Bryant 3 0 6
Edwards 4 2 10
Lowry 9 1 19
O'Briant 5 1 11
Patterson 0 0 0
Scarborough 0 0 0
Wall 0 0 0
26 4 54

U. S. RUBBER CO.
FG PF TP
Baker 11 1 24
Ganbank 2 0 4
House 3 1 7
Madden 0 0 0
Snee 1 1 3
Woods 5 0 10
22 3 46

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company.
118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
THERE MAY BE A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US

“When It’s Over Over There”
PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
