Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, July 7, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE ........................................ Editor
JIM ALEXANDER .................... Associate Editor
Lamar Williamson ................ Assistant Editor
J. S. Blain ................................. Sports Editor
Jim Lowry ............................ Managing Editor
Robert Morrison ............ Circulation Manager
Joe Stukes

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy.

Intercollegiate Football Program

As long as a squad of twenty reasonably experienced and willing athletes can be recruited, Davidson should put a football team in the field. The game is not played for the sake of winning only; nor for the glory of Davidson supremacy over other colleges. The game is played for the value of developing true sportsmanship, cooperation, coordination, consciousness of the value of team play, competitive effort among groups of individuals, and other good qualities. If we say we must have no team except one of experts, we would have to banish big league baseball for the duration, because the better players are largely gone to the war.

All things are relative, and it is conceded today that the average college cannot assemble athletic teams in any sport that can compete with even a well-staffed prep school. It is no disgrace to put on the field a group of relatively green talent and perhaps lose games. The few colleges who can avail themselves of Army and Navy talent are well known and obviously must be avoided in scheduling. Obviously, schedules will be odd and partially haphazard. As the season progresses, possibilities will develop. Any sport at any time is more worthwhile and interesting when teams are evenly matched. The current situation offers an unusual opportunity to do just this. Perhaps it may mean some high school or prep school games. This would be no disgrace—why should it? Perhaps both the prep school and Davidson might benefit from such contacts. Here is an opportunity to make new friends indeed, to try out contacts that could develop to be of permanent schedule advantage. There may never be another such chance.

Also, it might be pointed out that many boys who would ordinarily not make even a varsity squad would have the opportunity for such stimulating and unusual experience. The adage that every cloud has its silver lining—that out of every bad thing often comes some good—would be heaven for these boys; it might mean much to them all their lives they never otherwise would have had!

There are many other arguments. One is the thought of “keeping the home fires burning” as much as possible. The boys overseas want this; more than anything, they want to come back to find things just as they were. They want the structures maintained of the routines and customs they loved. Another point is that many of the seventeen-year-olds, the medical students—even 4F’s—may often be real athletes. Why deprive them of their opportunities for collegiate competition and experience?

Davidson is known for its men, its ideals, its sportsmanship, and its spiritual attainments rather than any number of winning teams. Any group of boys appearing in public competition, whether they be football players or musicians; whether they be young or old; whether they be good or bad; whether they play in New York, Raleigh, Kannapolis, or Cornelius, can still be capable of maintaining and spreading abroad Davidson’s splendid heritages of Christian influence and honorable tradition. Let’s go!

The question of the participation of D. C. in intercollegiate athletics next fall is one which has been widely discussed on the campus this summer. For some men, the prospects are dismal, while to others, the possibility of fielding a team is quite likely, and they think that without too much trouble, Davidson could find enough talent to have a winning team. Throughout the years, D. C. has had a team noted for its scrappy spirit and punch. The Red and Black in past years has won many a ball game against opponents from schools many times their size in the number of eligible students. Davidson, though so very much smaller, each year has played V. M. I. and N. C. State. Invariably, though with a deficiency in number, we have put up games which draw commendation from our opponents. The Davidson spirit and its ability to put out dangerous elevens enjoy a reputation which reaches throughout the entire South and well up into the North. Why shall we fail to produce a team this year with a reputation like that at stake?

Let me tell you. The Student Body at Davidson now numbers less than ever before in its history except during the Civil War. We have less than 200 men to choose a team from. The team that a coach would draw from this number would be sorely lacking in substitutes even though the first eleven men might be of the better class of footballers. This team would be composed of seventeen-year-old civilians with practically no real experience. Lack of experience is a direct pointer to injury. Many men might be playing for the first time, and among beginners, damage flourishes. Some boys, because of the lack of material, might be tempted onto the field to try out for the team although they were not physically fit to play ball. This would be a terrible thing, for one easily might be hurt if he were in this category.

In order to stay “out of the red” financially during a football season, the teams must play before moderate-sized crowds. With the rationing of gasoline becoming more and more strict by the minute, it would be out of the question to suppose that Davidson could play before sufficient crowds throughout the year. The prospective spectator will take into consideration what the crowds will number before he attends a ball game. The color of the crowd adds or detracts much to a game. Almost without exception, colleges in the predicament in which our fair Alma Mater finds itself have decided to suspend intercollegiate football for the duration. This means that there will be little, if any, competition for the Wildcats next fall. Schools reinforced by the Navy trainees will most probably offer football on a competitive basis. With only these to play, our outlook grows darker and our gloom deepens. Once again, as in previous years, Davidson will be scheduled as an easy game that will be a sure victory for the opponent. Once again, as in previous years, it will fall to Davidson’s lot to be the team of spirit, the...team that never gives up, the team that always carries on although they are completely out-classed. We will again be the team that makes a dull game for the powerful opposition. We will again be the team that tries in vain to throw a scare into its formidable opponent.

It Could Be Worse

Typographical Erring

For many years The Davidsonian, which is not proof-read by its editors, has been notorious for its typographical errors. In the last volume, a front page headline read “Student Body Elects Officers.” Once “professor” was spelled three different ways in the same paragraph (profesor, proffessor, and the right way). That's no worse, however, than the 4000 ways of spelling “Shakespeare” (Shakespear, Scakesper, Shaksper, Shakespere, et cetera. The complete list is found in “A Plea for Simplified Spelling.” He is said to have spelled it several different ways in his own will).

Even newspapers like The New York Times, whose copies the Davidson College library has seen fit to keep bound because of its reputable accuracy and clarity, often jump the track, as in this want ad: “Chauffeur, white, nice quarters, beautiful country home exchanged for services; kind treatment; could use wife.” A worse catastrophe than this, however, occurred when the magazine of the University of Arizona ran this advertisement:

LUNCH WITH US
A complete lunch SERVICE
Try our PLATE lunch
Vaccine virus
Tetanus and Diphtheria Antitoxins - PROPERLY REFRIGERATED
Prescription Druggist

But what about the church bulletin prepared by Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick of Riverside Church, New York City.

HYMN NO. 336 (Congregation Standing)
SERMON: “What Are You Standing For?”

It seems that the biggest blunders occur in headlines, or rather, perhaps that is where they are most noticed:

LEWIS LOSES UNION SUIT (San Antonio Express)
OFFICER CONVICTED OF ACCEPTING BRIBE (Raleigh News and Observer)
INFANT MORTALITY SHOWS DROP (Bridgeport News)
SENATE PASSES DEATH PENALTY Measure Provides for Electrocution of All Persons Over 17

Accidental misspelling and miswording is one of the many reasons why editors die young: “After Governor Baldridge watched the lion perform, he was taken to Main Street and fed twenty-five pounds of raw meat in front of the Fox Theatre.” (Idaho Statesman). “England is suffering from a plague of aunts. In many houses they have visited rooms on the second floor,” (Montpelier, Vt. paper). “The farmers of Bloomington township, north of Lamonia, have called a meeting for March 16 to organize a protective chicken-stealing association,” (Des Moines Register). “Rev. Horace Jones returned from his Twin Cities yesterday, and will take up his duties at the (Newport News). “Mrs. H. M. Miller sued her husband for divorce and separate maintenance, alleging that on the morning of May 4, he subjected her to the ignominy of being continued at the top of column 8.” (Petersburg, Va. paper). “The big Sunday School Picnic held Tuesday at the Park was a huge success.” (Overbrook News).

Wedding stories are the curse of the proof-reading profession. Most editors acquire “that nose for news” by being hit so much by men back from their honeymoons, e.g. “After the wedding ceremony the violinist played the old hymn, “The Fight Is On” (Knoxville, Tenn. paper). “The bride was gowned in white lace. The bridesmaids’ gowns were pink. The whole color scheme of the decorations was pink. Seventy-eight members attended the wedding which was held in the bride’s home.” (West Virginia Mountaineer).

But your columnist has one to top them all. When I was proof-reading on The Hickory Daily Record, one of those dreaded wedding stories was handed to me by the type-setter. A sentence read, “The ring ceremony was used after the cows were heard.” Being in a jovial mood, I decided that instead of changing “cows” to “vows” I would give the Linotype operator a little laugh by writing, “Were they Herefords or Guernseys?” in the margin. The second proof didn’t come back to me before the deadline had expired. That night I was comfortably seated looking over the day’s work, my eyes were horror-stricken when they fell on this passage: “The ring ceremony was used after the cows. Were they Herefords or Guernseys? were heard.”

So kindly excuse the errors we make in The Daily Sonian, for we try our best.