Page Two

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

Jim Alexander .......... Editor
J. S. Blain .............. Sports Editor
Jim Lowry .............. Managing Editor
Robert Morrison ........ Staff Photographer
George Gunn ........... Assistant
Joe Stukes ............. Circulation Manager
Jack Lazenby .......... Advertising Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. 50 cts. the Summer Session
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

THE DAVIDSONIAN announces with regret the resignation of Associate Editor Lamar Williamson, but takes pride in the fact that another member of the staff has taken his place in the armed forces of our country. Lamar’s services will be missed, but our best wishes go with him for his new life in the Army Air Corps.

Court of Control
A brief survey of the Y. M. C. A. Handbook gives an idea of the directing bodies of student control of the various phases of student activity. There are the Student Council, Y Cabinet, the Pan-Hellenic Council, the Publications Board, the Elections Board, sports managers, cheerleaders, the Student Store Board of Control, musical organizations, and the Honorary Fraternity Council. That is quite an array of organizations which by their natures direct and supervise various sections of the campus life. This complex system of boards and councils would certainly seem sufficient; yet there is another with which everyone is familiar, possibly too familiar in some cases—the Court of Control. Does the Court deserve to have a respected place along with these others? The answer to this question may best be found in the manner in which the members of the Court of Control execute their responsibilities and in what fashion the upperclassmen lend their support to the Court.

The Court of Control hardly needs any justification beyond its actual existence at Davidson, where everything is carefully planned. What is a college without old customs and traditions and how can they be passed on more effectively than by the Court? As has been said too many times already, the present shortage of upperclassmen makes the situation even more acute. For anyone who has seen several freshmen classes come in, get indoctrinated, and become a part of Davidson, it is rather evident that the present crop of freshmen is the slowest yet to pick up “Davidsonism,” not through any fault of their own or of anyone else—unless it's Hitler. The Court has already done some valuable work in teaching the new men the old facts and in helping to keep Davidson the same for the boys who will someday return.

Freshmen, collectively, if not individually, are always somewhat conceited after having just been the big shots in prep schools and high schools. Most of them need a little help in settling down to a lower elevation of personal esteem. A few well-placed words and firm control ordinarily suffice to render them humble. Always there have to be a few obnoxious fellows who could do with a little more rigorous treatment. The uppity freshman becomes the trouble-making sophomore. Though the Court may not be the most perfect psychological solution to the high and mighty freshman problem, it can exert a well-defined corrective influence on these individuals.

(Continued in next column)

Gymnasium vs. Armory
Many years ago there was erected at Davidson an impressive edifice called a Gymnasium (in the common man’s vernacular, a gym). It is said by many that this building was built for the purpose of providing athletic facilities for the student body. For many years the gym has admirably served its purpose and though it is at present slightly obsolete it could still serve its purpose. Then too at Davidson there was erected a building which was considered by the faculty to adequately serve the purposes of the Military Department. This building...

JESTINGS By JUSTA JOAK
Come Monday:
“Hurry up there and fall in--on the double.” And thus starts another day of horror and torture in ROTC. Drilling is bad enough by itself but when you get out on the steaming drill field and count cadence at the top of your lungs while marching past the water trough and then can't get water—that’s torture. If you should happen to ask the sergeant why you can't go for water he would tell you to go see the captain. And if you should be brave and inquisitive enough to ask the captain he would tell you that “orders is orders.” So there you are thirsty, hot, tired, scared to talk back, and mad as you can get. Suddenly you say to yourself, "I swear this is the darnedest thing I've ever heard of. If water is too expensive I'll give ‘em a quarter.” Then the order comes. “Form three squads to go on extended order.” You walk over to your squad and as you fall in the boy next to you lets out a handy yell. “I've got to have some water.” This appeal is like talking to a brick wall, for instead of being given water he is given a tour to walk immediately after drill. You drag yourself out on the field problem. Through the woods, double time over meadows, over fences, and across ditches still thinking how much you would like to kill whoever said “no water.” When you finally finish your march there are only ten left in your squad. Two have passed out because they were so thirsty. You stumble back to the drill field and form to march in. When the company is dismissed you are very much relieved, but then suddenly you think of drill Wednesday...

Friday, August 11, 1944

It Could Be Worse
By ROBERT MORRISON
Everyone at some time during his life has experienced a complete mortification. Take for example the time Potts Horton met Mrs. Caldwell face to face as he was returning to his...Room—after a shower. Since every man that breathes has had an embarrassing occasion of note, your informal informer has been making a detailed effort to acquire these tales and record them for posterity. A number of Davidson gentlemen were interviewed and asked, “What was the most embarrassing thing which has ever happened to you?” Most of them were rather reluctant to release for publication their cherished and carefully guarded tales of woe. However, the glamour of pulp and ink coupled with your informer’s dogged persistence ultimately overcame the fear and modesty, as evidenced in some of the following accounts:

It seems that Jim Robinson used to have two girls which he loved very much. He had sworn to each that she was his one and only. He had further prided himself on the quality of wool which he had pulled over their eyes. Furthermore, his two lassies, Mary and Jane, were rather close acquaintances. Yes, Jim was holding his ego on the top shelf. Now one night our Davidson brother was in the mood for a date. Flipping a coin, he called Jane. She had an excuse, so he decided to phone Mary. Somehow Jim got his numbers switched and phoned Jane again but this time inquired, “Is that you, Mary darling?” It took him several minutes to discover why such a sharp “Wrong Number” followed by a deafening click came. So Jim loathes women: you can't live with them and you can't live without them and the law won't let you shoot them.

Rob Hollinger was scheduled to deliver a trombone solo before a rather considerable audience. His time arrived, and he stiffly marched up stage, placing a wad of music on the stand. A strong draft whispered through the window and whisked the music sheets up to the ceiling, letting them fall at regular intervals throughout the auditorium. Hollinger, sensing a catastrophe, leaped from the stage and made a mad dash in order to recover his property. As he was tearing down the aisle, his pants were caught on the edge of a seat and ripped off a sizeable strip. Hollinger rushed for the door, leaving his pants behind him. A little boy, wishing to be helpful to the musician, picked up the residue of the pants, proudly walked up on the stage, and presented the shreds to the conductor.

When Sam Hay was asked for his most embarrassing moment, he replied, “Everything embarrasses me, but I was most embarrassed when I tried to explain to Mrs. Goldiere a joke which was in the last issue of The Davidsonian.”

“R.B.” Brown came forward with a volunteer story about his ordeals on a crowded Pullman. Three girls from Concord were compelled to occupy the same lower berth. As one was returning to the berth for a rather late retiring, she remarked, “Well, I guess we're going to have to sleep SPOON fashion tonight.” A deep voice replied, “That suits me just fine.” Horror-stricken to find herself in the wrong berth, the frenzied girl hastened back to the right nest. In the morning a young army lieutenant passed by her at the breakfast table and carefully laid a spoon in her lap.

Dave Marshall was walking along the street with George Apperson. Dave was so engrossed in discussing the unfair grades he had received from Prof. Kimbrough, that he did not notice that George was no longer with him.