Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, April 28, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

DAVE RICHARDSON - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER WITHERINGTON - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ashe - Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson - Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield - Feature Editor
Jim Lowry - Sports Editor
Ray Miller - Managing Editor
Sam Ervin - Managing Editor
Jim Love - Managing Editor
Kurt Weill - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Bitz Ledgerton - Circulation Manager
Murphy - Advertising Manager
Lennes - Advertising Manager
Earl Mat - Advertising Manager
Tom Smith - Subscription Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

As the last issue of this year’s DAVIDSONIAN with three more weeks at school, it seems best to summarize the
events past and future instead of going to press weeping over the sad outlook for next year.

Biggest news event of the year is presumed by everybody to have been the dedication of the Martin Science Building,
and it was a great day, with all the brass and the ROTC department; but the biggest sensation was Doc
Lilly's ‘elopement’ into ‘sweet servitude’. He is creating a new tradition as he beams about the campus accompanied.

Biggest let-down of the year was the dormitory council, which was cursed, written up, discussed, but never acted upon. The
dormitories will probably echo hollowly in pin drops after June anyway.

The question of the advisability of a dance on the campus will be settled by tonight. A couple of good
drunken brawls will call down strict faculty regulations on all the dances in years to come, and if they are
staged in fraternity houses, a resulting faculty ruling unfavorable to fraternities is all that is needed to close all.

DAVIDSONIAN Editorials, features will continue, at least for a while. Should it stop, we all look forward to the day
when some of this staff will return and edit the paper “for a better Davidson.”

Cut... By JOHN ASHE

The Student’s Store has gone all year without any words from THE DAVIDSONIAN, and we think that it is high
time that something was said, not merely for criticism but with the hope that the managers will get off of
the dime and show a little improvement in the spots where it is most needed. However, criticism does no good
if there is not some sort of corrective suggestion to go along with it.

It is now becoming the opinion of one and all that the “stud” ain’t what she used to be. Now,
we all realize that this is war and that things can’t be gotten that we had before the war. This
is not what we are asking for. We merely want the stud returned to the level that it was on
last fall and no more. We are not continual gripers, but it is just plain carelessness on the part of
someone, and we will not mention who, when the coolers are empty and the store room is full of drinks.
Also, it would be very nice to be able to rely on its being open at one time or another.
Now to find the doors open even if there is nothing to be found after getting inside. Seriously, it is
high time that something be done and we think that it is up to the managers to do it.

Answer to... By BILL SMITH

Yes, the Student Store has gone all year without words from the Davidsonian, and it is perhaps time something was
said. Only a few moments before this paragraph was written I was informed by the staff of The Davidsonian that
the above paragraph has been gathering dust in the so-called Davidsonian office for some weeks, waiting to be printed when
they could think of nothing else. It seems to me that the Davidsonian is reduced to sorry can find nothing
better or think of nothing: it is a real treat.

Black Market by THOMAS K. COLLINS

FLASH—FLASH—Latest news dispatch off of Davidsonian wires (one week late)—Davidson, N. C.; April the something or other. Woman bites dog
and both still live today. After a long feud, stretching over a period of many meals, between Mrs. Thompson of
boarding house fame and Woodrow, hound of unknown fame, the occurrence took place. For many, many, many, and more meals,
the hound has been invading the quiet sanctuary of Ptomaine Tavern and playing the awful role of the bum according
to the management, and making an awful mess. Previous to the noon scramble for food, many incidences had taken place,
involving our young dog and the Mistress of the mess. The feud grew to a terrible head and ended up
with Woodrow streaking for safety with two broken ribs, received when he came in contact with one of the Tavern’s
famous biscuits. However, the real calamity took place at the evening Gorge. Mrs. Thompson, having tried in vain to exterminate
our little friend with cruel blows from a vicious fly-swatter, leaned over in desperation and bit Woodrow on the tail.
Thus, Woman Bites Dog and both still live.

Close-Order drill of our lovely campus, (fertilizer and all) at the old high gym on Friday and Saturday night. The
“open” after the dance on Friday night. All students and dates are cordially invited to attend. It is rumored that
our PMS&T has ordered all cows to stay off the golf course.

Greetings to all of Belles, fine art young who after old Visiting final this current year night. Davidsonian Staff is
holding the Friday night. House on golf course are cordially invited throughout the year.

Goodbye is hard to say without being awkward. There is too much finality and too much heaviness of heart in
its connotation. It is much easier to say “so long”. An “I’ll-be-seeing-you” idea of parting for a brief while, and
that’s what I’d like to say. Most Davidsonians look forward to returning to the Alma Mater and strolling the campus
and meeting old friends. Army and Navy fellows have been back lately, some having only a few days furlough, and
Marines have been back with it for a while. There’s something about this place that makes you want to come
back; you begin to appreciate it more after you get away for a while.

It is encouraging to look back over a year as uncertain as this has been—and think about the worthwhile things
that have been done. The Gift Fund is a shining example of the cooperation that has existed. As you know,
the average gift far exceeded that of any previous year. Fall and Spring Services showed a basic concern about...Fundamental ideas
and beliefs. Towards the first of the year, there was a great deal of anxiety in the minds of many
who were thoughtful about the future of Davidson. With a shortage of upperclassmen and a large number of new men
here, the entire atmosphere and standard of ideals might change. But that anxiety was spent in vain. Most of the
new men have been tried and found true. Take, for example, the fellows who made good: Woltz, Ash, Williams. They
proved themselves as a dance. A little thought could ward off a lot of trouble. No chapel talk in the
history of Davidson had as great an effect as Dr. Smith’s address to ODK, urging that the chapter be responsible
for grass and general neatness on the campus. Whether Omicron Delta Kappa was responsible or not, the result of his
address will long be seen and smelled. Dr. Cunningham seems encouraged about the immediate future of the college. A letter
has informed him that next to eight all-military colleges like the Citadel and V.M.I., we come first on the list
of schools who will get A.S.T.P. seventeen-year-olds. James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department, is elated because the latest
band trip was the first to be sponsored by the college. A step forward! Nobody wept copiously over the air
crew's leaving, not even the birdmen. Major Marsh's R.O.T.C. battalion is driving itself day and night in an effort to
impress the inspector favorably, and that exhausts the news of the military situation on the campus.

It is customary for editors to thank their staffs and deplore the future of the newspaper. Thanks, staff. Future editors
will find it hard to do worse with staffs as good as this one has been. Since it is extremely
doubtful whether any of the present managing editors will return, no effort has been made to select a staff. It
is probable that The Davidsonian is at present better than this drivel to print. Through the cloud of degeneracy that
surrounds The Davidsonian, things otherwise healthy only appear degenerate to their sickened gaze. One need only to compare last year’s
Davidsonian with this issue to see just what I mean. I can see that true constructive criticism is fine, but
the above was written with a fine disregard for facts. The Student Store offers exactly what has always been offered
with the exception of a few articles which cannot be secured due to the war. It is true that some
of the time the store must remain closed, yet repeated pleas have been made for clerks so that we might
remain open continuously, but to no avail. The Student Store is appreciative of helpful criticism because the store is for
the students, but a more carefully considered criticism should be forthcoming. It has been suggested that we pay higher salaries
for clerking, and this we would gladly do except for the fact that the budget won't permit it due to
the cost of students breaking bottles and forgetting to pay for what they take from the store, which the store
assumes. It might be well to add that what profits there might be from the store goes into a fund
which is used for the improvement of the Davidson campus or some other worthy cause, so actually the money is
returned to the students. It has also been suggested that we secure a full-time man to run the store. This
would be fine because that would be less expensive for us than the present student clerk system, but he who
suggested it failed to tell us where we might find such a man. In closing, I still maintain that those
who criticize should be well-informed on what they are criticizing, so that it will be true and constructive.

In athletics: Crane, Phe, Davidson for both of these nights. So, come and attend and have fun. The Davidsonian goes
to a member of the faculty for his recent marriage. Congratulations, Professor Lilly. In a recent survey made of all
of the college, it was found that C.T. Daniel is the leading campus romeo by a wide margin. It seems
that Mr. Daniel is being wooed by half of the unmarried female population of Mooresville, not to mention the many
admirers spread out over the 48 states and possessions. Go to it, C.T.! We wish that we had what it
takes. We want to wish our young secretary, who is leaving this coming Saturday for Cleveland, Ohio, to take up
a position with the National Carbon Company, a lot of luck. Davidson College will miss Edgar very much and we
are very sure that Co-ed Dayne will too. Anyway, we hope that you have a lot of luck, Edgar!

This is our farewell issue and we want to say that we have enjoyed serving you very much. Also, we
hope that we have not stepped on anyone's toes hard enough to hurt and if we have, we are very
sorry for it has all been in fun. Best of luck to you all from the Davidsonian Staff!

Yours in fun,
Tom.

“I hear the Executive Committee is trying to stop necking.”
“Is that so? First thing you know they'll be trying to make the students stop too.”

Who were always willing to do less spectacular jobs: Jenkins, Macaulay, Golden, Grey, Legerton, teaching at the Sanitorium, Sunday School.
Alex Williams has been a mainstay in the Student Sunday School all year by furnishing the music. The two Wyatt
boys have done their share; Herb has done quite a bit towards keeping a Boy Scout troop over in Smithville
on its feet, and Calvin has kept the Stud open. Did you ever notice how cheerful Mel Winsted always is?
He goes around smiling and brightening things up. And the freshmen are the backbone of the music department. You count
them up. Yes, you may call “Artie” Berry musical also. When you want to measure the amount of work that
the Y has done, just take a look at the Cabinet: Watt, Smith, Wilds, McNair, Miller (the envied one), Goodman,
Bradley, Grey, Stimson, Turnbull, Williamson, and Ray Miller. These are the men who have kept things going around here. To
these men goes the credit for doing their work well. They have been responsible for keeping alive customs, traditions, and
activities which have been considered important in the life of the College.

Yours,
Ed Patterson.

“Was your friend shocked over the death of his mother-in-law?”
“Shocked? He was electrocuted!”
