THE WEATHER If your joints creak, it’s not the weather, it's polio. Vol. XXXII ASTRP Unit Has Dance Che Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1944 LATE, CITY EDITION No. 3 Excellent ROTC Unit SIGMAS and SIG EPS In Davidson Formed This Summer Hold First Physical Efficiency Test is Given to ACER’s

On July 14 the ASTRP unit held a dance in the Davidson High School gymnasium. This was the first social event given by the new unit and it attracted sixty young ladies from Davidson, Cornelius, Mooresville, and Charlotte. Music for the occasion consisted of excellent recordings which were reproduced by means of a public address system. During the intermission period, refreshments were served by ladies of the local community and it was also enlivened by skit offerings by members of the military unit. Norman McDonald acted as soloist, Jerald Tapp displayed a varied assortment of fancy-skating figures, and Ben Davis delighted the audience with his rare impersonations.

Lt. Louis Fruchter, ASTRP Public Relations and Morale Officer, was assisted by an ASTRP committee and a local civilian committee. The evening was pronounced a distinct success and more of the same type is hoped will be held. However, the fact that the unit has been quarantined due to a few cases of polio will probably postpone any immediate plans for some time yet. A picnic which was planned for August 4 will probably be called off until the epidemic has gone. This picnic was to be held here on the campus and the boys were to have dates from the neighboring communities. Following the supper, a concert had been planned, according to Lt. Fruchter. For the same reason, the softball game between an ASTRP team and the all-frat team, made up of the ten best players of the inter-fraternity competition of the regular civilian students, was cancelled. This game was scheduled for July 25 at 6:45 P.M.

Physical Tests

Coach A. Heath Whittle, who is acting as director of Physical Education here now during the absence of the other members of the staff, announced on July 10 the results of the physical efficiency tests of the members of the A.S.T.R.P. completed at Davidson College last week. According to Coach Whittle, these tests were prescribed by the Army to be conducted during the fourth week after the activation of the new unit. They are to be given to each new group at the beginning of each three-month term. The results of these exercises, tabulated for the unit as a whole and covering seven tests, were as follows: Push-ups—21 times; squat jumps—90; sit-ups—40; pull-ups—5; Burpee twenty—102; 300-yard run—45 seconds; pick-a-back (100 yards)—23 seconds.

Whittle stated that with only one exception these results are considerably better than the A.S.T.P. general average, which is as follows: push-ups—18 times; squat jumps—32; sit-ups—33; pull-ups—6; Burpee twenty—100; 300-yard run—46 seconds; pick-a-back (100 yards)—26 seconds. Two of the aircrew students made perfect scores, according to Coach Whittle.

Guiton Heads Company as Rose Joins Navy

Plans for Gym Are Completed

H. R. Weeks, Architect, Recently At Davidson

According to the Military Department, the Davidson R.O.T.C. Summer School unit is making great progress this summer. The unit was organized during the first week of the summer session by Major E.L. Marsh, P.M.S.&T., at Davidson College. Due to the small number of students attending summer school, the unit was able to have only one company. However, the plans for the new gymnasium, which has been a topic of hopeful conversation on the campus for some time, were approved by the administration, and final drawing is now being made. Because of building restrictions imposed by the war, construction of the new gym will probably not be begun for some time, but every indication is that the building will be a great addition to the Davidson campus, not only in its appearance but also in its functionality.

Every Sunday, five boys go to the Sanitorium of Mecklenburg County, just the other side of Huntersville, to teach Sunday School. Four of these boys teach colored classes, and it is from these that they receive their most loyal support. Members of these classes and of the staff at the Sanitorium say that this is the most valuable contribution that the company has made. Since the company was first organized, many subjects have been taken up. Among these are squad close order drill, platoon close order, company close order, and squad extended order. The members of the company have learned their work very well, and the company has become a most efficient organization.

Appointments for R.O.T.C. student officers, made by Major Marsh, are as follows: Cadet Captain, J. Shearer of Goldsboro; Cadet Lieutenant, T.A. Guiton of Parkton; D.A. Crane of Tuscaloosa, Ala.; Cadet 1st Sergeant, R. Weir of Charleston, S.C.; Cadet Sergeants (platoon guides), James S. Love of Greensboro, and A.J. Owens of Avondale; Cadet Sergeants (squad leaders), H.L. Amos of High Point, R.M. Brooks of Charlotte, A.R. Gresham of Mooresville, and R. MacDonald of Rock Hill, S.C.; Cadet Corporals (assistant squad leaders), L.S. Golden of Brunswick, Ga., and J.W. Medford of Lancaster, S.C. Last week, Cadet Captain G.J. Rose left Davidson to enter the Navy. Cadet Lt. T.A. Guiton has been appointed in his place.

Plans for the new gymnasium, drawn by Mr. H.R. Weeks of Atwood and Weeks in Durham, have recently been presented at Davidson. The building will face the athletic field from the north end and will be the same style as that of the other main buildings on the Davidson campus. Perhaps the thing which we students are most interested in is the new swimming pool. After its construction, Davidson will lose its dubious distinction of being one of the few good colleges without a pool! The new tank will be standard size, twenty-eight feet wide and seventy-five feet long, and will be located on the east side of the gymnasium. There will be a balcony at the south end of the pool for spectators. Mr. Weeks, who is the designer, drew the plans for the Woollen Gymnasium at the University of North Carolina and the gymnasium at Duke University. This work comes under the guidance of Ed.Golden and Hamar Williamson. Shearer Chapel, about two miles from Davidson, is known as the church of the past week. Major Marsh appointed a permanent captain. This promotion made vacancies, filled by Owens as lieutenant, Medfords as guide sergeant, and Barr as corporal. Jim doesn't seem satisfied with that. He seems to have some plans brewing for the coming session, which may take the form of a night on the campus. Anything said along this line must be off the record, but you may rest assured that there will be a function for the student body before the summer session ends.

Baughman, Jr., of St. Petersburg, Florida, was officially declared to have polio on July 24. Another student from Montgomery, Alabama, was the second victim. Dr. MacConnell further emphasized that there is no cause for alarm. Medical authorities have stated that no real epidemic exists. As yet, there is no reason for alarm. The physician stressed four important rules for individuals to follow to decrease the likelihood of contracting the disease:

1. Stay away from the movies. All public gatherings are dangerous. Picture shows rank first as spreaders of polio.
2. Refrain from strenuous exercise. Extensive physical exercise, which lowers the salt content of the body through sweating, decreases the body's resistance to the disease.
3. Eat plenty of fresh fruits. Avoid constipation.
4. If you feel sick in any way, report immediately to the infirmary. Injury from the disease is less probable if diagnosed at an early stage.

The danger is not great enough for us to become panicky or excited. Wise adherence to the above rules will eliminate most of the danger. Davidson has, compared to other communities of this area, been fortunate. As yet, there is no serious epidemic in Davidson. There are two cases of polio which have been diagnosed as infantile paralysis. These developed among ASTRP students. Both cases have been sent to Morris Field. The roommates of these students have been isolated in the college infirmary. All ASTRP students have been restricted to the campus until further notice. They will also be restricted from the Y.M.C.A. guest house. Major Marsh stated that all news of the developments of the incident would be released to the student body through civilian sources. Dr. Cunningham, in an address before the student body during chapel, stated that there would be no secrecy. All who are interested will be kept informed about all developments. In a letter to members of the faculty, Dr. Cunningham insisted that all facts of the case be carefully interpreted to the community. Everyone has been urged against starting unfounded rumors. These rumors offer a danger which may be equal to the dangers of the disease.

Good Times Had By All At Parties

On Saturday night, July 15, the members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity who are attending summer school entertained a number of girls from Charlotte and nearby cities with a party and picnic at Davidson. This was the first function which the Kappa Sigs have had this summer, and it was a huge success. The members of the fraternity and their dates arrived at Davidson about 6:30 and went out to the river for a picnic supper. After a most enjoyable supper, they left the river and came back to the fraternity house for an informal party and a "feed." About 10:30 they went out to Mt. Mourne for an informal dance. The dance ended about 12:00, and all those present went home after having spent a wonderful evening.

The members of the fraternity and their dates attending the party were Mr. and Mrs. Robby Miller of Charlotte; Conway Rose of Goldsboro and Miss Catherine Kirkman of Charlotte; Martin Waters of Charlotte and Miss Blanton of Kinston; John Unga of Lebanon, Ky. and Miss Hagins of Lancaster, S.C.; Coy Covington of Gastonia and Monte Beadle of Davidson; Harold Allison of Charlotte and Miss Peggy Long of High Point; Gabby Bryant of High Point and Miss Gloria Deal of Charlotte; Walter Dickson and Miss Harper of Gastonia; Charles Jarrett and Miss Miriam Itsenhour of Lancaster, S.C.; and Miss Patty Zimmerman of Salisbury; Allison Pell and Miss Mildred Graham of Charlotte; Doc Roddey and Miss Low Newman of Lancaster, S.C.; John Wilson and Miss Margaret Woods of Charlotte; and Jimmie Love of Greensboro. Two members of the fraternity, Ed Ashby of Mt. Airy and Vit Breards of Conway, S.C., were unable to attend the party. From all reports received about the "shindig," they missed out on a lot of fun.

S.P.E.'s

On July 14, the members of the fraternity...

Cunningham Accepts Bid

Appointed To Commission of Council of Churches

It has been announced recently that Dr. John R. Cunningham has been appointed to serve as a member of the World Council Service Commission of the World Council of Churches in America. This commission is made up of seven men and is concerned with the post-war coordination of the work of churches in America and Europe. Chairman of the Council is Theodore M. Green, who is head of the department of philosophy at Princeton. The first meeting of the new council is scheduled for August 7 and will be held in New York City. Dr. Cunningham also serves as a member of the Joint Executive Committee of the World Council of Churches in America and is one of the two representatives of the Southern Presbyterian Church on the committees.