, , r ee WEATHER ONE DAY Cool weather is expected: better late than never ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1944 No. 2

ALEXAN ALS. 0k. Ee Has Party Lois Collier Probably Unable to Attend Dance

This Saturday will be a good time in the ole town with the ASTRP boys for there is to be
held for them in the ballroom of the Concord Hotel their first formal dance since their stay in Davidson. Many
of their dates will be from Mooresville, from the fair college of Queens and other sections of North Carolina. The
boys guarantee the young lassies to be of the fairest (seeing is believing!), and with the music being supplied by
the ASTRP’s own swing band, the Jivesters, everyone will naturally witness an exceedingly swell time. The boys and their dates
will be welcomed into the ballroom by Major Marsh, Captain and Mrs. Crocker, Lt. Ward, and Mrs. Hengeveld, and the
ranking cadet officer Furman, who will be the receiving line. After this so-called induction, the fellows will swing out with
all they've got, and, incidentally, what haven't they got! In charge of refreshments will be Mrs. Gordon Caldwell, assisted by
the ever charming Miss Helen Copeland.

Everyone has undoubtedly been very disappointed to hear that Miss Lois Collier will probably be unable to attend the dance.
For the benefit of you new students, Miss Collier was chosen by the ASTRP this past summer as their favorite
pin-up girl, and everyone was looking forward with anxiety to seeing and meeting her. However, according to a wire received
from her recently, she is busy making a picture in Hollywood, and will be unable to attend the dance. All
are looking forward to the dance and we hope everyone has a most enjoyable time. The dance was arranged and
planned by Lt. Fruchter, and we are sure it will be a big success.

It was recently announced that the ASTRP unit will leave Davidson College and the boys in this unit will continue
similar work at other institutions.

This and That From the ASTRP By EUGENE BAKER

Friends, Davidsonians, and fellow ASTRAP’s, lend me your ears. We have gathered our wits here tonight to bring you the
latest corn—corny, ain’t it? Probably the most outstanding news is the dance to be given in Concord this Saturday night
at the Concord Hotel ballroom. The boys gathered their fairest lassies (and we ain't kiddin’) from all over North Carolina.
This dance will be the first formal event held by the ASTRAP’s in their stay at Davidson. The dance will
probably last from nine to twelve. The music will be supplied by the ASTRAP’s own swing band, the Jivesters.

This next is dedicated solely to the ASTRP: Fellows, we beg you, the next time you want to play a
(Continued on Page 4)

YMCA Makes Plans For Fall Dr. Donald W. Richardson, of Richmond, to be Speaker at Fall Services, Nov. 14-16

With the orientation period over, and Alexander's election filling the executive post, the ‘Y’ Cabinet is settling down to its
regular work for the session. The offices of secretary and treasurer are to be filled by George Gunn and Vernon
McGehee, respectively, and Newt Spencer has been appointed to work with Herb Wyatt in the Boy's Work department, these appointments
completing the Cabinet membership.

Spiritual Development

In the department of Spiritual Development, Vernon McGehee reports that an even one hundred men attended the first Hall Prayer
Meeting services in the dormitories. This is an excellent percentage, and it is sincerely hoped that all students will continue
to support this important part of the program.

Sunday School

The response to the request for Sunday School teachers has been fair, but there is still a definite need in
this field. The Mecklenburg Sanitorium affords opportunity for eight men to teach, and it now has only five or six.
This is an opportunity for service that will be greatly appreciated by the patients, and will afford unlimited pleasure to
those who teach, so if you want to do your part, see Marks Underwood at once.

Two other departments report that their activities will begin in the near future. Several deputations await only the approval of
the Board of Control. These visits furnish an opportunity for Davidson men to carry programs to other schools, thereby greatly
benefitting the work of the Y. M. C. A. Bruce Fisher, Social Chairman, is planning one of the ever-popular “hymn
sings” at the Guest House after vespers in the very near future.

The Cabinet wishes to remind the student body that every man is a member of the Y. M. C. A.,
and that all students are urged to make use of the Guest House lounge and game rooms. Current magazines, records,
and games are available for your use, so take advantage of this convenient and comfortable place to spend your spare
time.

Fall Services

Dr. Donald W. Richardson, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, will be the guest speaker for Fall Services at Davidson this
year. The dates for the series of addresses are November 14, 15, and 16, and all indications are that the
services will be an inspirational highlight in the Davidson calendar of activities. Dr. Richardson will speak at Chapel on the
three days he is here, and will also address the student body each evening after supper. Present plans are that
the eve-

STUDENT PRESIDENT ‘Y’ PRESIDENT ANDY OWENS JIM ALEXANDER

Jimmy Fulcher

Davidson mourns the sudden death of one of its most loved students, Lt.Jimmy Fulcher, son of Professor and Mrs. H.
E. Fulcher. Lt. Fulcher, who received his B.S. degree in Chemistry and Physics in January 1943, fully engaged in the
life of the College, and in 1943 was the recipient of the Algernon-Sydney Sullivan award, given each year to an
outstanding student for noteworthy service to the community. Jimmy qualified for this award through his active involvement in Y.M.C.A. work
with the boys. As a Cabinet member, he was particularly known for his competence as a Freshman advisor, a position
he held throughout his senior year. In addition, Lt. Fulcher was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, a national honorary
leadership fraternity; Phi Epsilon social fraternity; president of the Presbyterian Student Association here in Davidson; vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary
Society; managing editor of The Davidsonian; and a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He also helped at the Unity
Church in his community. He appeared in Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, which recognizes outstanding students in colleges
and universities throughout the nation. Professor Fulcher, J. B. Duke Associate Professor of Physics and Astronomy, is a resident of
Davidson and an active leader in the community.

The services will be held in the church instead of in Chambers auditorium. In addition to his addresses, Dr. Richardson
will be glad to consult with any individuals or groups of students on any problems they may have. Personal talks
may be arranged by appointment. Further details of the Fall Services program will be announced in The Davidsonian at a
later date.

Speech Has Been Neglected Lately
Dr. Cunningham Proposes to Have Professor of Speech

In a recent interview for the Davidsonian, President J. R. Cunningham emphasized the importance of training in public speaking and
stated that in the future Davidson would very probably take steps along this line. Dr. Cunningham is of the opinion
that the standard of public speaking has been considerably lowered at Davidson since the beginning of the war. In pre-war
days, the students themselves placed more emphasis on this phase of their development, and the caliber of speech was above
that of the war-time student body. “Most of Davidson's graduates go into fields where the ability to stand on one’s
feet and speak clearly and convincingly is one of the measures of largest success and usefulness,” Dr. Cunningham said. “For
this reason, I am hoping that when the war is over we may have at least one man, perhaps associated
with the English Department, whose chief duty would be in the field of speech. For the same reason, I heartily
wish that the Literary societies at the college had more attention from the Faculty than they receive.”

Chapel Schedule

In an announcement made at the chapel exercises recently, President John R. Cunningham explained the new program plans for the
present semester. Indicating that the policy in effect for the last few years would be continued, he explained that this
schedule prescribes that the chapel exercises will be led by a faculty member on Mondays and turned over to the
student Y.M.C.A. on Fridays. The Wednesday chapel program is reserved for the president or for a guest speaker of his
choosing. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, the time will be devoted to student activities, announcements, and meetings following a short devotional
period led by a member of the faculty or administration. No chapel is observed on Saturdays.

Jim Alexander Elected President of ‘Y’

Men Chosen To Be Class Councilmen
COUNCIL OF 9 FORMED
Owens, Alexander, Apperson, Waters, Fisher, McBride, Whittier, Spencer, Gunn

In the recent election for president of the Y.M.C.A., Jim Alexander, of Charlotte, defeated three other candidates for the office
on the first ballot. Alexander is a pre-medical student in the Junior class. He has had previous experience on the
‘Y’ Cabinet as social chairman and was chairman of this fall’s orientation committee, made up of ‘Y’ Cabinet members. He
is also president of the Junior Class and of the Davidson chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. In
addition, he holds membership in the Philanthropic Literary Society, Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and is Business Manager of
the Davidsonian.

Council Elections

For the Senior Class, three student representatives have been elected; and one from the Junior Class and the Sophomore class
each.

Spencer

Newt Spencer was recently elected as student council representative of the Junior Class. He is from Plainfield, New Jersey, and
is a pre-medical student, majoring in chemistry. He has served as manager of the Student Store, and is at present
a member of the ‘Y’ Cabinet, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Gunn

The newly elected Sophomore student council representative is George Gunn, of Louisville, Kentucky. He is president of the local chapter
of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. He also belongs to the Philanthropic Literary
Society, and is staff photographer for The Davidsonian. Gunn is a pre-ministerial student.

Fisher

Bruce Fisher, of Clearwater, Fla., is a pre-ministerial student. He is treasurer for the Pan-Hellenic Council, a member of the
Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, and of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

McBride

Bill McBride, of Centerville, Miss., is president of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Whittier

Phil Whittier, of Granite Falls, N.C., is a Chemistry major and president of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.
