There have been two games here on the Hill since the last time we went to press. One was with
Mooresville and the other with Laurinburg, but I think they meant Army. No kidding! That was the smoothest functioning football
team I have ever seen. We got behind on the opening kickoff and never really were in the ballgame. They
looked better throughout the game and deserved to win, which they did right handily, 27-7. The game featured excellent passing
and slashing end runs by Laurinburg. Only in the shadow of their goalposts did the Wildkittens ever muster enough strength
to throw back the opposition. This they did once most magnificently. Laurinburg gained a first down on the Davidson 3
and three times they plowed over tackle, but every time they failed to move the ball. On the fourth, they
tried again, but the Kittens held them to stop the threat on the one-foot line. There were several of these
spirited stands, and it was really heart-rendering when that big machine finally put it over on fourth down.

Well, so much for the bad side—let’s look on the bright side of the ledger. Exactly seven days before, Davidson
engaged a light, fast Mooresville Hi eleven and defeated the outclassed invaders 33-0. Probably the most sensational feat was a
quick kick of 85 yards by Gabby Bryant. The whole team played bang-up ball, and our stalwart line kept them
bottled up most of the afternoon. Which leads me to say that we do have a stalwart line. Any line
that can stand out there for 60 minutes against the onslaughts of Laurinburg and still come back for more is
plenty good. Hose Nose and Strick played practically the full time and turned in great jobs. But you or I
can't detract any from the spirit and ability that the whole line showed against overwhelming odds and weight. Etheridge, McBride,
Strickland, Johnson, Manget, Hay, Monroe, Whitehorse, Myatt, Medford, Lowry—I take off my hat to you.

There goes Dunbar. Dunbar went to see his uncle and Patterson stiff-armed a Mooresville tackler too hard. With his familiar
‘33’ on the bottom of the pile-up, he is being missed sorely by the team. Johnson is turning in a
fine game in his place, but ol’ Dunbar isn’t there. When Patterson went, a good halfback went. A guy with
plenty of drive and spirit who gave his best to win any game. Van Covington dropped in a day or
so ago on his way to the Navy. He’s another good ballplayer we have lost since The Davidsonian went to
press last. Van played a lot of end for us and we won’t forget him soon.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE
Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. THERE MAY BE A
REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US “When It’s Over Over There” PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO. 118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

LET'S FIGHT WILDCATS
Wildcat Sports
Friday, November 24, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Laurinburg Downs Davidson vs. Mooresville
Sherrill gets away for a gain in the game with Mooresville. Davidson Slaughters Mooresville By 33-0

On Armistice Day 1944, two elevens, one in blue and white, the other in red and black, arrayed in battle
wear, faced each other for competition. At the opening kickoff in Richardson Field, the Red and Black led 7-0. A
moment later, Patterson duplicated Barringer's jaunt and Medford raised the score to 14-0. Substitutes were running laterally across the field.
It looked panicky—like he was looking for a blocker but couldn't find one. It seemed like he was running in
the wrong direction.Find one, everyone. Then they bog down and are forced. Then suddenly everyone realized! Kick. The quarter ends
with no flags; more scornful that he didn’t have the ball and sees racing over the 30-yard line was Fletcher.
At the beginning of the second quarter, the Davidson second team began to show its worth. Lasley tore off left
end for 15 and Sherrill, behind brilliant blocking, made 18 over right tackle. The ball rested on the 6, first
and goal. Bryant tore through a small hole to the 2, and Sherrill tugged it over. Medford missed his placement,
20-0.

Davidson, the heavier team, outplays 'Cats. The Wildkittens lost their homecoming game here last Friday. The breaks were bad for
the kittens from beginning to end. Davidson received the opening kick-off on the north end of the field. The recovered
kick was short and was by Laurinburg on the Davidson 45-yard stripe. Laurinburg immediately drove deep into Wildkitten territory before
losing the ball after several plays and kicked on downs. Davidson ran several plays before opening up with a series
of powerful line plays which were seemingly unstoppable down to the Davidson 5. Here, they were held for several plays
before crossing the goal line and kicking the extra point.

The second quarter was, in most aspects, a repetition of the first with Laurinburg keeping the ball in their possession
most of the time and crossing the Wildkitten goal two more times before the end of the first half, which
left Davidson on the short side of the ledger by 20 points. The second half opened and soon found Laurinburg
in possession of the ball in Davidson territory. The line stiffened and the backs held, however, and throughout the entire
third quarter Laurinburg was held scoreless. Early in the fourth, Phil Edwards heaved a long pass to Bill McBride who
galloped down the field only to be stopped 4 yards short of the goal. A line play was stopped dead
but on the next play Graham Gehee slashed through center to pick up the necessary yardage for a T.D. The
ever-ready toe of Bill Medford kicked the point and the score then stood at 20-7. In the closing minutes of
the game, Davidson, taking to the air in a desperate attempt to score again, threw a flat pass which was
intercepted to bring the final score to 27-7.

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
Nov. 24, 25 “Song of the Open Road”
Nov. 25 “Late Show”
Nov. 27, 28 “Take It or Leave It”
Nov. 29, 30, Dec. 1 “Going My Way”
Dec. 2 “Barbary Coast Gent”
Dec. 4, 5 “Mr. Skeffington”
Dec. 6, 7 “Kings of Kings”

Determinedly they meet three fierce charges at the line. Then Mooresville kicks out of bounds on the Wildkittens 15. Bryant
quick-kicked on the first play and it goes 65 yards to the 20. They kick right back to Patterson who
tallies from the 12. Vicious blocking by the Davidson line began to tell on the tiring but courageous Moores. With
Myatt, Strickland, Monroe, and Dunbar forming the immovable defensive wall, Mooresville took to the air.

(Continued on Page 4)

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
We Have Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

ORIGINAL
Davidson vs. Darlington
Lehigh vs. Rutgers
Swarthmore vs. Ursinus
Ga. Tech vs. Notre Dame
Ohio State vs. Michigan
Miss. State vs. Mississippi
Bainbridge vs. Camp Perry
Virginia vs. Duke
N. Carolina vs. Illinois
N’western

Signed Gridiron Guesses
Last Week’s Winner—Ed Golden

DUPLICATE
Davidson vs. Darlington
Lehigh vs. Rutgers
Swarthmore vs. Ursinus
Ga. Tech vs. Notre Dame
Ohio State vs. Michigan
Miss. State vs. Mississippi
Bainbridge vs. Camp Perry
Virginia vs. Duke
N. Carolina vs. Illinois
N’western
