Page Eight . THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 26, 1944

Into The Life of Things
By J. S. BLAIN

Rev. Wade H. Boggs, Jr., of the Queens College Faculty, was the speaker at Vespers on October 15. Using Genesis 32:22-32 as his text, Mr. Boggs centered his remarks around the theme “For We Wrestle.” The familiar story of Jacob and his struggle with the angel who visited him in the night is one which bears interest for all of us, since we, too, are wrestling constantly in this earthly life. The lessons which we draw from Jacob’s experience are many, but we shall consider only a few.

In the first place, though Jacob was “on his own” and seemingly independent, he learned that self-sufficiency is not enough. There are few men in the world who have not at some time felt this utter helplessness, this need of help from some source higher than man. Men in battle soon learn that their modern implements of warfare are often useless unless they are backed up by the arm of the Almighty. And every man in every walk of life someday learns that he must surrender himself to God in order to save himself.

The other lesson which we find in Jacob’s persistence in clinging to the angel is that success does come. Jacob persisted, and God blessed him for his persistence. Often we feel like quitting, but if we cling to God, particularly in prayer, He will bless us.

In chapel on Friday, Dr. McCarthey, who recently conducted a series of meetings in Mooresville, told the student body that there were three authorities to which man has to submit in order to become a happy, useful Christian. These were the authorities of love, right, and faith.

Reverend Irving M. Ellis, of Gastonia, preached on “A New Generation” at last Sunday’s Vesper service. Using as the basis for his remarks Christ’s sermon to Nicodemus, he pointed out the necessity and the result of rebirth in the Spirit.

It is the policy of this column to suggest from time to time a quotation or thought which it deems valuable for the consideration of individuals in their daily life with God. This week, with the thought in mind that almost all of today’s utilities, foods, building equipment, books bear someone’s stamp of approval, let us each ask himself each morning: “What can I do or say today that will please God and enable Him to put His stamp of approval on my life?”

L. & M. F. T. L. S. M. F. T.—Let's Select the Most Favorite Tunes—Let’s Select the Most Favorite Tunes. (Do not criticize this title too much as it represents hours of mental taxation). Yes, friends, here is your golden opportunity, knocking every week, and second to none, not even Joe Stukes’ football parlay. Here is all you have to do in order to win one of the biggest prizes ever offered in the history of the Davidsonian. Take pen or pencil and brain in hand, and write down your predictions of the nine top tunes of the week as will be determined by the forthcoming Hit Parade. All entries will become the property of the editor. Be sure to have them in Room 7 Georgia by 6:00 P.M. on Saturday. Everyone at Davidson College is eligible except the employees of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. of Winston-Salem. As a reward for your diligent labors, a grand prize will be awarded to the person coming closest to picking the tunes in the correct order; provided...he has a minimum of five exactly right. The Lucky Winner of the contest will receive his choice of three prizes: (1) a record of any song played on that Hit Parade, or (2) a package of better-than-ever Lucky Strike Cigarettes, or (3) an autographed bow tie of Frank Sinatra’s provided the bobby-sockers have left some. In addition, the winner’s name will be announced in the next issue of the Davidsonian. (The judge's name will be kept secret as his decision is final.) L. S. M. F. T.

DUPLICATE ORIGINAL

K. A.-K. E. LEAD
(Continued from Page 5)

Kappa Sig boys coming out on top by a score of 6-0. Jim Lowry made the lone K. A. Kappa Sig score when he galloped 40 yards for the score in the first half. The S. P. E.-Pi Kappa Phi game need not be mentioned except to say that the Spe’s won 42 to nothing. The Pi Kaps did try, however, they just couldn’t get going. In the most sensational game which has been played on the freshman field in a long time, the Betas defeated the Pikas 18 to nothing. The Betas were slightly deficient in manpower and were able to put only five men on the field. Just the same, the score turned out in favor of them, much to everybody’s surprise.

VALUABLE MEN LOST
(Continued from Page 5)

He was slated for the Navy and hopes to join “Eyebrows” Hudson, of P. C. fame, at Bainbridge. Parker, the Lake Waccamaw fullback, pulled up stakes after the Harding game and will not be around. He will be missed off the gridiron as well as on it. Several other prominent and promising men have premonitions that they might be forced to leave before the end of the season. But things are not so black as they might seem. With Reynal as cheerleader, we'll blow ‘em down!

THIS and THAT FROM THE ASTRO
(Continued from Page 1)

Let's take a glance at all the other floors—the first, the second, third, and fourth floor. Here we see the boys amusing themselves by throwing each other into the shower, short sheeting each other’s bed, or trying to shave with F. L. Martin’s straight razor. We walk outside the dorm and hear the mellow note of Toarmina’s trumpet blowing taps. Then we hear the smooth tone of the gong and then—quiet, only to be broken soon by someone who has discovered crumbs, frogs, logs, or water in his bed.

DUKE PHOTO COMPANY
404 West Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.
COMMERCIAL and PORTRAIT PHOTOS
Telephone 3-8230

VISIT YOUR Local Theatre

CANDIES AND POTATO CHIPS
SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. THERE MAY BE A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US “When It’s Over Over There”

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

SOLICITING PERSONAL Loans & Savings
INDUSTRIAL LOAN & INVESTMENT BANK
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ENJOY LANCE PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES
Charlotte, N.C.
WITH YOUR DRINK