Page Two; THE DAVIDSONIAN. Thursday, August 24, 1944

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents
Editorials - Features

Published twice a month during the academic year

"For a Better Davidson"

Superlative Poll Tabulations

The Davidsonian Student Superlative Poll placed before the student body last Thursday during Chapel has been tabulated, showing positive results.
Mimeographed ballots were handed to students upon entering the auditorium. Space on the ballot was provided for the selection of
a name after the characteristics "Wittiest," "Best School Spirit," "Most Dependable," "Most Dignified," "Most Popular," "Most Intellectual," "Most Athletic," "Most
Versatile," "Handsomest," "Best Looking Co-ed," "Neatest," "Most Talented," "Biggest Bore," "Most in Love," "Biggest Woman Hater," "Most Bashful," "Biggest Neck,"
"Biggest Bull Slinger," "Friendliest," and "Most Loved by Professors." Space was allowed for remarks, and voters were asked to sign
their names.

A total of eighty ballots were returned. Several students made the return, but the majority spent from eight to twelve
minutes in their seats, carefully filling in the blanks. In general, considerable interest has been shown in regard to the
election. Members of The Davidsonian Staff have been extensively queried regarding its outcome, but until now no official release has
been made. Rumors and speculation have in most cases been grossly inaccurate.

Comments about the vote, like the votes themselves, varied considerably, with Lowry and the Mills Brothers, Andy Owens, ROTC lieutenant,
expressed his approval of the poll, but declared that the request for the voter to sign his name was a
"raw deal." Elmo Sellers said that a wise selection of characteristics was made and he wished he had more time
to give his selections ample consideration. Sam Burgess stated, "We need more time to vote." Judge Lowry of the Court
of Control, with his typical disgust for the neophyte, declared, "We consider the election 'highschoolish'."

As the summer draws to a close, the students at Davidson have many things upon which to look back, some
good, some bad. It has been a summer of hard work, of terrific heat, and of many memorable events. After
twelve long weeks of slaving away over books and notes, getting up at 7:00, waiting for weekends, and hurrying back
on Sunday nights for vespers, it seems that at long last summer school is nearly over. Even though some of
the Davidson boys (and girls) may wish that there would be no vacation this year and school would continue.

JIM ALEXANDER . . . . . . Business Manager
JO S. BLAIN . . . . . . Assistant Editor
RONNIE EWE . . . . . . Assistant News Editor
DAN A. KONA . . . . . . Managing Editor
JOHN F. McNAIR . . . . . . Feature Editor
GEORGE GUNN . . . . . . Staff Photographer
JOE STUKES . . . . . . Circulation Manager
JACK LAZENBY . . . . . . Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Charlotte, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. 50cts. the Summer Session

The whole administration deserves a vote of thanks for the excellent way it has handled a difficult situation, and for
the thoughtful treatment of the civilian students especially.

We might mention, however, it has seemed funny that the ASTRP boys held such a big function last Friday evening,
at the same time fraternities had asked for and been denied.

So we come to the place where the Air Corps says "Roger," and to the departing students we wish the
best of everything. This paper is the official history of college life, particularly those who leave us permanently. To those
of you who will return in September, The Davidsonian says

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North CarolinaUntil September, only in isolated cases did one receive a respectable number of votes for that characteristic. I
am glad that the great day for the termination of the session is slowly but surely getting closer. Many of
the boys are planning on spending a very interesting vacation. It seems that a few are not going to enjoy
their three weeks as much as others, but I guess that everyone will spend the 21 days in a very
constructive way.

The first few days of summer school saw the fraternities defy the gods of war and pledge a large number
of new men, keeping social life at Davidson on a well-established basis. May we continue to be as active in
this phase of college life in the days to come.

Votes for WITTIEST were widely distributed among Alexander, Whitehouse, Stukes, Monroe, Roddy, Renal, Brown, and Guiton. Alexander, Whitehouse, and Roddy
came down the home stretch almost neck and neck, with Alexander leading by a hair, with a small but well-earned
sack of votes. Then a deep silence fell upon the campus as the 24th College Training Detachment took leave. The
Air Corps boys had become a part of life here, and their departure left a big gap. Particularly desolate were
the benches and plots of grass around the campus. It seems that the ASTP boys will carry on, though, and
the sound of marching feet will not pass away for a while. But they cannot fill those benches like the
Air Corps.

Votes for NEATEST were also widely distributed, but Gunn seemed to get the edge. His most dangerous rival was Smith,
whose heels were warmed by Blain and McNair. Blaine and McNair were neck and neck, with Alexander bounding down the
home stretch leading by a hair.

Votes for MOST CONCEITED went to Guiton and Lowry, because of their self-respect. They got their share of votes. Judging
from the returns of BEST SCHOOL SPIRITED, Wilds was coming in not far behind Daniels. The latter, it is understood,
is transferring to the University of South Carolina.

Votes for MOST DEPENDABLE were likewise well scattered. As far as could be determined, most voters selected as most dependable
some member of their own fraternity. It seems that one is best able to judge the dependability of one of
his frat brothers. Under this caption, Daniels, Alexander, Owens, and Grey outpointed the others.

Votes for MOST DIGNIFIED were more conventional. Robinson received a small plurality, slightly outflanking Grey and Hollinger. Bryant came in
for a few votes in this race.

Votes cast for MOST POPULAR were rather unique. Daniels, president of the student body, got a respectable number of votes.

Cupid has been carelessly firing his arrows about the Davidson campus. If we consider the results of the campaign for
MOST IN LOVE, probably Davidson's No. 1 can claim the title.

The fine softball tournament which extended over the whole summer is worth remembering, too. Here again, the fraternities demonstrated their
worth, with competition being hot among the Greeks. Thanks are to be extended to Coaches Shephard and Whittle for their
interest and help each evening on the diamond, as well as Mr. Shack.

Polio came in for its share of attention. If our memory serves, it has been several years since such an
epidemic has struck. Though the disease has not disappeared, it seems to be under control.

And so with this statement, may we close the last of such mess to be printed this summer. Maybe more
next winter. Let's hope not.
