Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 1, 1944

Into the Life of Things - By J. S. Blain

Several fine preachers have visited Davidson in the past few weeks, and Vesper talks made by these men have given greater insight and inspiration to the students. Reverend George D. Heaton of the Myers Park Baptist Church told the students several weeks ago that “This is the midnight hour when everyone must unmask himself.” This is the time when every man must take sides, and the right side is Christ’s. Secularization of education must cease, and all college courses must be centered around Christ. In the Cross, the gap between man and God was bridged, and now it is man’s duty to meet God halfway, thereby making possible a happier and better world in which to live.

It was a real pleasure to welcome Dr. J. McDowell Richards back to Davidson, and his sermon on Romans 1:16 struck close to the heart of many who were present. Pointing out that Paul preached a religion which had originated in a small, weak country, and even preached it to the haughty Romans, Dr. Richards stated that we in our powerful Christian country have no reason to be “ashamed of the gospel of Christ.” Though Paul had reason to be ashamed, he was not, for he saw behind Rome’s grandeur its moral decay and realized that only Christ could save it. All the learning in the world cannot save the human soul. Only by Christ’s teaching can our world today be saved. Every individual must have the inner conviction that Kagawa had when he said, “There is nothing good in me except Christ.”

On last Sunday evening, Dr. Frank H. Caldwell, president of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, preached on the “balcony” and “roadway” perspectives of life. Using Pilate as an example of a man who stands off and believes, but does nothing, he urged the students to become committed wholeheartedly to their beliefs, and to get down on the roadway of life and participate. Every Christian must “act as a man of thought and think as a man of action.”

This week the annual Gift Fund campaign is being started. It is the sincere wish of this column that every Davidson man will be much in prayer for this drive, and that all will contribute to the utmost. We are indeed fortunate to be in college, and this opportunity to memorialize those of our classmates and friends is great. Let us all give generously and wholeheartedly, with the hope that peace may soon come, and that those who have paid the great price may not have died in vain.

GUNN HEADS CAMPAIGN (Continued from Page 1)

Mr. A.G. Worthy, director of the campaign, said, “In the accomplishment of our goal, our gain will be threefold: we will establish a memorial for those who have gone before us and laid down their lives, we will have aided student generations to come who will use the Student Room and the new campus church, and we will do ourselves a great deal of good in the giving. The use of the Gift as a memorial seems especially appropriate this year. We have exceeded the goal set, and the 1944-45 student body is no exception, so let's make sure we are real stewards when we give until we feel it.”

PRESIDENT TELLS NEED (Continued from Page 1)

The Christmas Gift Fund is the only monetary campaign of the year sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. and will be extended throughout the student body, the faculty, and the community. In making a final statement, the Fund is a memorial tribute to those who have given their lives in the war, it looks unselfishly to the future for men who will serve generations of students yet to come to Davidson. Blessings on you inthis undertaking, about the goal, George Gunn.

Navy Gives Tests For Radio School

The Navy announced recently that 17-year-old men and men within the draft age who have passed their pre-induction physical examination can volunteer as trainees in a $12,000.00 course that equips them to be radar operators. All applicants will be given the Eddy Test, which determines their qualifications for this training. If a satisfactory score is made, applicants are accepted by the Navy and enlisted as seamen first class, paying $66.00 per month. Applications can be made to a Navy recruiter or at one of the following Navy recruiting stations in North Carolina: Asheville, Charlotte, Greensboro, New Bern, Raleigh, Salisbury, Wilmington, Winston-Salem. These offices are located in the post office buildings.

Men 17 years of age scoring satisfactorily on the Eddy Test can enlist in the Navy at any time prior to their 18th birthday. Pre-inductees who have been accepted physically for military service and who make satisfactory scores on the Eddy Test are issued letters of assignment to the Navy, and they are included in the Navy quota at the time they are called up for induction. All men qualifying for this training are sent to a radio technician's school for ten months to study mathematics, radio, and electronics. When they have completed the training, they are eligible for promotion to the petty officer rating of radio technician second class, which pays $96.00 per month.

Men on this campus who are interested in this training are invited to contact the dean of students, from whom more detailed information can be secured. If he desires, however, he can visit the Navy recruiting station nearest to him or contact the local Navy recruiter.

PASTOR PRAISES FUND
(Continued from Page 1)

... a physical integration will suggest to us constantly the spiritual union we have in Christ and manifest the church as the source of all that is distinctive in Davidson College.

“At this season of the year, we celebrate the birth of the Prince of Peace. When He came, there was no room for Him in the inn. There seems to be little room for Him now in a world with hatred and cursed with war. This Christmas Gift of the Student Body offers an opportunity for an affirmation of faith that the future belongs to Him. I believe the men of Davidson will rise to this occasion with their traditional generosity.”
—Carl R. D. Pritchett, D.

KITTENS TRIUMPH
(Continued from Page 3)

With 5 minutes to go, Edwards whipped a bullet to McBride for 12 yards. After a line buck and an incomplete pass, Lowry snared a pass from Edwards and ran to the 1 before Rogers and Akers finally caught him. McGehee hit Black on the 2-foot line, and Lasley made it over. Medford kicked the point and Davidson led 13-7. For the last two minutes, Davidson held the ball and ran the clock out.

Both teams were hit hard by incapacitated players. Darlington keenly felt the loss of Yankee's plunging and Cheatham’s tackle smashes. This constituted throughout the season the bulk of the Tiger attack. On the other hand, Davidson’s Bryant was not present and his phenomenal quick-kicking was markedly absent.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. THERE MAY BE A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US “When It’s Over Over There”

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
COME TO SEE US FOR YOUR FALL Suits & Overcoats
J. O. JONES, Inc.

ENJOY LANCE PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES WITH YOUR DRINK

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
We Have Any Record You Want
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
Charlotte, N.C.