THE WEATHER
We'll tell you when we thaw out.

-ORTA Che Dabvidsonian = ALENDA LUX UBI LIBERTAS

WELCOME
Vol. XXXII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1944 No. 1

OWENS STUDENT PRESIDENT

‘Y’ Plans Fall Work
YMCA Cabinet Without A Permanent President

The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet has already begun its fall work, but is, of course, missing the services of a permanent president. Jim Alexander has been acting in that capacity and thanks are due him for his fine work.

The members of the cabinet assumed new responsibility this year when, at the request of the college, they acted as the Committee on Orientation. Returning to school when the freshmen arrived, each member acted as a counselor for a group of freshmen. The work during the orientation period was an enjoyable and a profitable experience for the men.

Plans for the future have not been definitely formulated as yet, but work will be in full swing in the near future. Mimeographed questionnaires will be distributed in an attempt to ascertain the fields in which each student’s interests and abilities lie. It is hoped that the student body will cooperate in this line.

The Sunday School Department, under the direction of Marks Underwood, is one in which there is opportunity for a great amount of service. Every Sunday there is a need for boys to go out into the surrounding country and teach Sunday School. If those who are interested in teaching, either in the morning or afternoon, will contact Underwood, they will greatly aid the cabinet and the work of the Y.

Boys’ Work is another department which needs volunteers. Boy Scout and Hi-Y groups need leaders and workers, and those who are interested should contact Herb Wyatt.

In addition to Underwood and Wyatt, the new cabinet is made up of the following men: George Apperson, Community Work; George Gunn, World Evangelism and Chapel; Bruce Fisher, Social; Sonny Blain, Publicity; Ed Golden, Deputations; Vernon McGehee, Spiritual Life.

This and That From the ASTRP
By EUGENE BAKER

On September 2nd, the ASTRP boys took off for all parts unknown: South, East, and West. The fellows were overjoyed at the thoughts of not having to get out of bed early, not hearing bugle calls, and last but not least, not having to attend classes eight periods a day. The only regret that was universal among the ASTRP’s was the thought of missing P. T. for a whole week. Many tears were shed over this fact.

On the way going home many of us stared out of the train windows with our mouths drooling at the sight of the full Harvest Moon in all its splendor as we thought of the following night under the same moon. (It was a swell night for fishing.)

Oh! by the way the National Sales Committee has reported a sales in-
(Continued on Page 4)

FRESHMEN GATHER BEFORE CHAMBERS

108th Session Opens
Davidson Receives Donations
One Gift From Dr. Pender Porter of Brooklyn; Other One Anonymous

Two surprise gifts to Davidson College totaling $58,000.00 were recently announced by President John R. Cunningham.

One comes in the form of a scholarship donated by a prominent and loyal alumnus who has long been closely associated with the work of the college, but who requested that his name be withheld. The income from this $10,000.00 scholarship fund is to be appropriated yearly to a worthy student above the freshman class in need of financial assistance. He will be selected on the basis of outstanding promise, indicated by character, personality, intellectual ability, and scholarship. The agreement covering this scholarship contains the following significant paragraph: “The beneficiaries of this fund are not expected to repay any part of the money received, but it is hoped that many of them will become men of means who will feel disposed to help other worthy young men in their efforts to secure an education at Davidson.”

The other gift is represented by a bequest of $48,000.00 in the will of Dr. E. Pender Porter, a famous gynecologist of Brooklyn, N. Y., who died during the early spring of this year. A graduate of Davidson in 1896, Dr. Porter is credited with having been one of three Davidson College students who, in 1896, produced the first X-Ray photograph in America.

These gifts will be of material help in the expanding program and enlarging service of the college, according to Dr. Cunningham. “In these days of high operating costs, reduced enrollment, and lower incomes from invested capital, the college doubly welcomes such generous expressions of interest and confidence,” concluded President Cunningham.

182 Students Enrolled In College This Fall

President John R. Cunningham officially opened the 108th Fall Term in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College, September 21. One hundred and eighty-two students, many members of the faculty, and visitors from the community were present.

The one hundred and six freshmen vastly outnumber the upperclassmen. The Sophomore class totals forty; the Junior class fourteen; and the Senior class twelve. The college was especially honored in having eleven women students begin their fall’s work here.

Cunningham, speaking of the value of education and the need for a liberally educated leadership today, the president said, “As we beginToday, at the 108th regular session of Davidson College, we enter upon what would now appear as almost certain to prove a fateful year in the history of the world. Little by little, it is dawning on us that when those glad days of victory have come, it will not be the end of the road but only the beginning, where we can make the advancements and adjustments necessary to a settled and peaceful world. Those will be days when bombs, tanks, planes, and guns will not be decisive, but rather when intelligence and character will be necessary. Then we shall wait with bated breath to see if the world can supply enough wisdom, unselfishness, and leadership to win the peace. It will be at this point where college men and women are going to come peculiarly into the picture. The necessities of this war have revealed to our populace generally the distinctive values of college and university training as perhaps never before. It is to college students of yesterday and today, and even tomorrow, that we must look for leadership in business, in education, in statecraft, in politics, in the home, and in the church in the days to come. You young men possess the capacity; you have the opportunity. Reference has been made to the fact that when seventy-one years ago this September, Woodrow Wilson entered Davidson College, no individual in the faculty or student body...

(Continued on Page 4)

Frats Pledge 51 Freshmen
Seven Chapters Bid New Men During Rush Week

Davidson fraternities, overcoming the handicap of a comparatively small student body and considering the number of active chapters on the campus, did surprisingly well in the quality and quantity of their chosen pledges. Rushing began at nine o'clock on September the nineteenth and lasted for four days through Friday. The number of new men pledged by the seven active chapters reached a total of fifty-one.

Betas
Beta Theta Pi had the greatest number of pledges with a total of eleven: Billy Gordon, Kingstree, S.C.; Frank Larew, Mocksville; Tom Moore, Charlotte; Bob Rapp, Thomasville; Frank Sherrill and John Sherrill, Cornelius; Harry Shurley, Rock Hill, S.C.; Soapy Smith, Bluefield, W.Va.; Marshall Woodson, Davidson; Raymond Womeldorf, Winston-Salem.

Kappa Sigs
Kappa Sigma: Walter Carr, Spartanburg, S.C.; Johnny Dunbar, Spartanburg, S.C.; Terry Hagan, Lebanon, Ky.; Lenoir Keesler, Charlotte; Paul Kincaid, Gastonia; Hill Masters, Charlotte; Ken McArn, Laurinburg; Jim Parker, Lake Waccamaw; and John Walsh, High Point.

Pikas
Pi Kappa Alpha: C.H. Blackburn, Boone; Bob Coble, Bessemer City; W.P. Castle, High Point; Coop Richmond, Va.; R.W. Goeckeritz, Charlotte; Russell Love, Stanfield; Billy Lassiter, Apex; J.A. McLeod, Myrtle Beach, S.C.; J.I. Maxwell, Pickens, Miss.

(Continued on Page 4)

Davidson President Fills Busy Schedule

On September 24, Dr. John Cunningham preached the baccalaureate sermon to the graduating class of Bowman Gray School of Medicine. The event took place in the First Baptist Church of Winston-Salem. One member of the class, Mr. W. Gibbs Stuart, is a graduate of Davidson.

As president of the North Carolina Council of Churches, Dr. Cunningham goes Tuesday, September 26, to Guilford College to open a meeting of this organization. It is notable that at this meeting the first Negro delegates will make their report. Dr. P.H. Gwynn, a former professor at Davidson and chairman of the Committee of Weekday Religion, will make a report on religious teaching in the public schools.

Men Chosen As Leaders Of Classes

APPERSON SENIOR HEAD
Jim Alexander, Runner Up in the Election, Will Be President of Junior Class

On Tuesday, in the election for the president of the student body, Andy Owens, of Avondale, won over Jim Alexander, of Charlotte, by a slight majority.

Andy Owens
Winning on the second ballot, he defeated five other candidates for the office, four of whom were defeated on the first ballot. Owens is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He has served as president of the band and as a member of the Choir and the Glee Club, as well as a member of the Court of Control during last summer.

"For the future: I have no plans yet," Owens said, "except to perform my duties to the best of my ability and uphold the high traditions of the office."

Alexander
Alexander is president of the Alpha Sigma Phi social fraternity, a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Pan-Hellenic Council. He is also serving as acting president of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and as Business Manager of The Davidsonian.

Class Election
Elections for the three upper classes were held by presidents of the three upper classes on Thursday, September 21.

Apperson Senior President
George Apperson, of Mocksville, was elected president of the Senior Class. He is pastor of Davidson Unity Church, a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, and Assistant Editor of The Davidsonian.

Alexander Leads Juniors
Jim Alexander was elected president of the Junior Class.

Waters Heads Sophomores
Martin Waters of Charlotte heads the Sophomore Class. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity and was on the football and baseball teams last year.