ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Davidsonian
Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1944 No. 4

Richardson To Speak For Fall Services

R. O. T. C. OFFICERS
These are the newly appointed officers of the ROTC unit. They are Cadet Captains Pete Sinclair, Ellis White, and Bill Medford; Cadet Lieutenants Bob Brooks, Martin Waters, Joe Stukes, and J. C. Herion.

College Receives Half Million From Davidson

This and That From the ASTRP
By Eugene Baker

Well, here we are ready to bring you the latest news of ASTRP’s. Time, true to form, flies; it seems as though it were only yesterday that we wrote the last column.

Hallowe'en night was rather quiet in the ASTRP dorms except for an occasional yell of an angry ASTRP who had found his bed turned over, or some ashes, etc. in his bed. It was rather unsafe for one to venture into the halls for he might accidently run into a flying broom. Ah, yes, you may take that literally. I didn't mean the type witches ride, but the type that fly only when someone throws them.

(Continued on Page 4)

COLONEL GATES
Shown above is Colonel Oscar I. Gates, artillery officer and Director of the Army Specialized Training Division for the Fourth Service Command, who visited Davidson last week for an administrative inspection of the two military units here.

Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson Leaves Property

Davidson College has been very fortunate in receiving a bequest which may amount to about $500,000 from Colonel E. L. Baxter Davidson, it was learned upon the recent reading of his will. Colonel Davidson, who was a wealthy Charlotte property owner, and an alumnus of the college of the class of 1881, directed that the gift to the college consisted of valuable real estate, which will be held as a permanent investment, therefore being used “for the best interest of the college.”

Alumni To Have Banquet Nov 17
Dinner to Be Given at Charlotte Country Club

Invitations have been mailed to members of the Greater Charlotte Chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association living in Mecklenburg County and to their wives as well as parents of students now attending college, to attend the annual Alumni banquet, combined with Ladies’ Night, at the Charlotte Country Club at 7:00 o'clock Friday evening, November 17.

According to Alumni representatives, an elaborate program of music and fun has been arranged to follow the steak dinner. Many prominent alumni and faculty representatives will be participating in the program: Mr. George S. Crouch, president of the organization, will act as toastmaster. The president of the college, Dr. Cunningham, will outline plans for the post-war period.

The membership of the Charlotte chapter is between four or five hundred and although younger members are scattered all over the world, a large attendance is expected.

Trustees Meet

President Cunningham announced recently that the Executive Committee of the Trustees of the College will meet at 2:00. “Entertainment will be provided for those who wish to spend the night at Davidson,” said Dr. Cunningham.

Dr. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary at Decatur, Ga., is chairman of the Committee. Dr. Richards will be the preacher at vespers on Sunday night.

SPEAKER DR. D. W. RICHARDSON

Alexander New ODK President

At its last meeting the Delta Omicron Delta Kappa Circle held an election for a student president, in which Jim Alexander was chosen. Professor Beaty had been acting president in the absence of any student members. Alexander is president of the YMCA and of the Junior Class. He is also president of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and business manager of the Davidsonian. He holds membership in the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and the Pan-Hellenic Council. He has been chosen to appear in Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

FALL SERVICES IN BRIEF
Speaker: Dr.Donald W. Richardson, Davidson, 1902; Union Theological Seminary Faculty, Richmond, Va.

Dates: Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, November 14, 15, 16
Time: 11:45 A.M. - Chambers Auditorium. 7:30 P.M. - College Church
Why: To aid the spiritual development of EVERY man at Davidson
Who: YOU! The YMCA invites you to attend these meetings, the biggest and most important event on the campus this fall.

To be held Nov. 14-16
To Talk During Chapel at 7:30 Each Night

Fall Services of Davidson College, under the sponsorship of the YMCA, will begin next Tuesday, November 14. The meetings will extend through Thursday, November 16. Dr. Donald W. Richardson, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, will be the speaker for the entire series. The last meeting will be a communion service at College Church. George Gunn is handling the arrangements.

There will be meetings at eleven forty-five each morning in Chambers Auditorium, taking the place of the chapel period, and at seven-thirty each evening in the College Church. The public is invited to all the meetings; attendance for students will be optional at the evening services. On Wednesday night at seven-thirty o'clock, Dr. Richardson will attend the regular Prayer Meeting with the students. The location of this meeting will be announced later and will be posted on the dormitory bulletin boards. Dr. Richardson will also visit the different boarding houses while on campus.

DR. RICHARDSON
Donald W. Richardson, who will lead Fall Services next week, is Professor of Christian Missions at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. A native of South Carolina, he received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Davidson College in 1902, and his D.D. in 1918. He studied at Johns Hopkins University, Princeton University, where he received his M.A., and Princeton Theological Seminary, being granted his B.D. there.

(Continued on Page)

‘Y’ Plans Stunt Night
Bruce Fisher Plans First ‘Y’ Social Function

The ‘Y’ Cabinet has been chiefly concerned lately with plans for Fall Services and the forthcoming Gift Fund. The details of the Gift Fund drive will be announced at a later date. Fall Services are publicized elsewhere in this issue. Nevertheless, the YMCA has been working on some social functions. Bruce Fisher, chairman of the social department, has almost completed plans for a gala stunt night, the tentative date for which has been set for November 24. Each dormitory will enter a stunt in the contest, and the ASTP will also be represented. It is hoped that the faculty will participate in the fun too. Prizes will be awarded, and all students are urged to attend, including the army unit men. Anticipating a large attendance, we are certain that everyone will have a hilarious time at this, the first of the ‘Y’ social functions. Individuals in charge of the dormitory programs will be announced soon.

Fleagle Secretary

TO APPEAR IN WHO’S WHO

Pictured here are the four boys who were selected to appear in WHO’S WHO AMONG STUDENTS IN AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES. They are Andy Owens, Jim Love, Jim Lowry, and Jim Alexander.

The YMCA welcomes to the post of advisor, Professor Fred K. Fleagle, of the Spanish department. Professor Fleagle will serve in this capacity in addition to his teaching duties and will carry out, as far as possible, the work of the General Secretary. Well-known and well-liked on campus, he has been at Davidson since 1921. A native of Michigan, he received his A.B. and M.A. degrees at the University of Michigan and has served as dean of the University of Puerto Rico and later at Marion Institute. Professor Fleagle holds membership in Sigma Delta Pi, Sigma Upsilon, O.D.K., and the Masonic Order. His keen interest in students' social problems eminently qualifies him for his new duties. He is anxious to know the members of the student body personally, and he urges that they make use of the YMCA building for social purposes and come to the office to talk with him on any matter in which he can be of service.