Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, November 2, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

J. S. Blain
Associate Editor

George Apperson
Assistant Editor

Joe Stukes
Sports Editor

Ronnie Dietrick
Assistant Sports Editor

Bill Masters
Managing Editor

Art Rollins
Managing Editor

George Gunn
Feature Editor

Ellis White
Staff Photographer

Joe Stukes
Circulation Manager

Jack Lazenby
Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
North Charlotte, Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - NEW YORK, N. Y.
LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Thanksgiving...

Thanksgiving is a time to pause. Behind it is a significance which is not found in other holidays. As our
custom and as a spirit among people it is unique in our nation. We know its origin and practice well.
Since childhood we have anticipated that day of feasting and making merry. Although Thanksgiving is among the youngest holidays which
are celebrated in a nation so wholeheartedly, it has undergone a change in its meaning to the individual. Due to
the change in national life we have made a change of spirit in the celebration. This has been necessary to
keep alive the heartfelt fervor which must go with an occasion of this sort. In truth we have the Old
Thanksgiving and the New Thanksgiving.

In the old we have the beauty of tradition, the inheritance of our forefathers who brought in the harvest and
then paused to thank God for his bounty. This was the Thanksgiving when all the richness of autumn season combined
with all the richness of the fields and flocks to make a day when we could be conscious of our
material blessings. It was a pageant of the soil that sustained our families and our nation.

Now when we are no longer conscious as a nation of our closeness to the soil and our dependence upon
it for existence, our idea based upon this situation must necessarily change. We have not lost our spirit of thankfulness
but its sources have been altered. They in the past based their cause for thanks upon material blessings; we not
entirely for these, but for more intangible blessings. We have the whole spirit of a people for which to give
thanks. This is not lost even when the material blessings are not so much in evidence. For those who realize
the truth of this spirit, Thanksgiving rises above a day of feasting to a sacramental celebration of the goodness of
God to the nation. Even if the material wealth should vanish and times become bitter and hard we still have
cause to fold our hands and lift our eyes heavenward and offer a prayer, for that which we have is
an immeasurable blessing of life.

Gunning Around

With sincere apologies to Robert Browning and to those who profess a knowledge of the dramatic monologue, there follows such
a slaughter of that literary form that its author is being considered as a possible recipient for this year’s Puzzler
Prize. Any resemblance to roommates past or present, living or dead, is purely intentional.

MY LAST ROOMMATE

That’s my last roommate hanging on the wall, looking as if he were alive. I call
My act quite justified, my friend. My hands
Worked busily at night, and there he hangs.
Will’t please you sit and look at him? I said
“My roommate” with affection, for unread
Freshmen like you that pictured college life
Without its hardships, toils, and strife
Should come to me. To me or some other
Upperclassman, and there with naive ear discover
The trials, the trouble, the toil, the throes,
The dangerous, burdening, trying life that goes
With some college roommates. I know the sorrow
Of the numerous things a roommate finds to borrow.
You glance away? Stand
This humorous creation of my hand?
A pretty sight I call it. Sir ‘twas not
His roommate's presence, only, called that spot
Of guilty embarrassment into his cheek.
I found him with another. Heard him speak
Low, sweet, endearing words into herear; Words that were never meant for me to hear. Eavesdropper? Well, perhaps—but I had
cause. She was my girl, you know, by all the laws of common sense, and pure priority. He had borrowed
my shirts and now my girl from me. It was my woman he was with, but there, don’t draw conclusions
out of empty air. I’d not expect of you such foolishness. What is one silly woman, more or less? The
fact that led to his desire end, the thought that even now doth send a pain through me from end
to end is a thing that even now doth hurt— the guy had on my last white shirt! I know:

© ESQUIRE, INC. 1946
Reprinted from the December issue of Esquire.

**Going down?”**

Jestings By JUSTA JOAK

Big Homecoming and many of the boys, though they lost a lot of sleep, had some wonderful times. Rather among
those who had it hard Friday night were—Tom Smith who didn’t darken Georgia Dorm until it was so light that
he couldn't darken the door anyway. Alf Scarborough had a fine time until the wee hours of the morn in
the Sample’s parlor while Ken McArn and his date spent their time in the ‘Y’ lounge. Jimmie Love along with
many others was without a date Friday night but made up for all committed on Saturday. Hose Nose seems to
be doing all right for himself even though he didn’t make it to the dance. All the Betas had the
Fraternity court clogged up with cars so there must have been some fine times going on in the house.

On Saturday night there were some very interesting observations to be made. Before we start I would like to know
what happened to Pash Medford and Fritz Keesler to persuade them to go stag. Hil Maters was seen at the
dance with any girl but his date. She sat on the side while he danced the night away. Quote: “The
only dances I enjoyed were when I danced with Glo and Pat.” Gabby seemed to get along fine with Glo
but he says that was his last dance with a date. Someone asked McArn where his date was. He replied,
“How should I know? The last time I saw her Medford was stuck with her.” After the dance Patterson was
pulled for ‘driving drunk’. Or at least he didn’t have his mind on his driving. I can’t imagine what he
was doing!!

L. G. Turner, Jack McLeod, Bob Huntly, and Bob Hoffman swear that there is nothing like taking your dates to
Charlotte for breakfast on Sunday morning after staying up all night. Waters says that there is only one thing better:
to get in at six and then get up at seven and do your lessons with your girl.

This Might Be You
By HIL MASTERS

Since the beginning of time women have puzzled and ruined men. Take for instance Anthony and Cleopatra. Anthony tried to
figure Cleopatra out, but he failed (he had a heck of a good time trying to do it though). Here
are several examples of the queer reasonings of women.

John and Mary have been going together for almost a year when Mary takes it into her head that she
will be fickle. Poor John doesn’t know exactly what has come over his “loved” one. He is thrown into a
desperate state watching his girl making eyes at all the other boys and overhearing her remarks about different fellows. What
does that equal—one bewildered and disillusioned boy.

This type of girl is commonly called the “heart-breaker.” She makes a man think she is madly in love with
him. This can be accomplished in many ways: by looking at him in that “you great big, strong man” stare;
by murmuring sweet things in his ear; straightening his tie or adjusting his coat, and even laughing at his jokes.
After a period of time, so destined by her, she completely ignores him and starts “messing around another guy.” Now
the question arises, what pleasure does she get from this? There are several possible answers to this. She may get
joy just from doing this to the male concerned, alone or she may do this in order to get to
the movies free. Who knows?

This is really the most dangerous type of all. After several dates she tells people her male is practically swooning
at her feet and that he is wrapped around her little finger. This is most embarrassing for the boy involved
for everywhere he goes, females giggle and males call him a “stupe.” But what can he do? He is trapped.
His word against hers. “What satisfaction does she (Continued on Page 4)
