Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 10, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

DAVE RICHARDSON
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

DEXTER WITHERINGTON
EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ash Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield Feature Editor
Jim Lowry Sports Editor
Ray Miller Managing Editor
Sam Ervin Managing Editor
Jim Love Managing Editor
Kurt Weill Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Murrawer Murphy Wilds Advertising Manager
Lennox Turnbull Advertising Manager
Earl Mahone Advertising Manager
Tom Smith Subscription Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY North Charlotte, Carolina

BUSINESS MANAGER, SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave New York, N. Y
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Every Duck....
Although regulations are against criticizing the faculty or administration, and strictly forbid mentioning any vice prevalent on the campus, we
feel that some things are too obvious to be overlooked. Last week the faculty launched a campaign to annihilate all
the pigeons on the campus, referring to them in a rousing call to battle issued by Treasurer Jackson’s office as
pests and unnecessary evils. Tuesday afternoon, mercenaries, armed to the teeth, were imported to begin the extermination, but despite much
action, no pigeons were killed. Cheered on by a squadron of future flyers on the parade ground, the pigeons retreated
in order, with no casualties.

The DAVIDSONIAN assumes a high position in college publications, and it is the staff's desire that it maintains this high
position. However, this will not be possible if it does not receive more aid and support from the students. We
are not saying that every member of the student body should contribute to The Davidsonian, although it is a good
thought, but there are some students who are talented in newspaper work who should be helping their paper somewhat and
are not. Most of you will read this article, or maybe not even read it, and say: “Well, isn't that
the biggest bunch of bull you ever read?” Maybe this is a lot of bull, but it is the truth
and is a sad truth at that. However, without more help The Davidsonian will not be able to maintain its
standards and will be a reflection on the college. Fellows, let’s don’t let that happen! Won't some of you see
if you can’t give up a little of your “bridge” or “water-throwing” time to The Davidsonian?

Abolish Chapel?....
Along with the many changes that the war is bringing to Davidson, something ought to be done about chapel, somebody
remarked the other day. How true! As it is now, nobody short of a confirmed bachelor can sit through the
short devotional period at the beginning of each Tuesday and Thursday chapel period. Freshmen and even some upperclassmen have taken
to cutting up during the devotional, especially if there is responsive reading. It has long been a question among Davidson
students as to the merit of having compulsory chapel services at all. We think that there is a possibility that
chapel may form some good habits which will be continued in post-graduate life, but we question the good of having
a religious service on Tuesday and Thursday. That period should be given to the students entirely. As it is now,
everybody comes in, devotes during the period, and then leaves.

Black Market
By THOMAS K. COLLINS
Well here I am again with all of the dirt that I could manage to collect, and I must admit
I'm short handed this time. Sitting here at my typewriter and trying to think of things to say that will
get by the Dean’s office without any comment, my mind first falls upon our dignified Manager of the Student’s Store.
It seems that he is again wearing his Fraternity pin. I was informed by Bill that his “pinning” of Carolyn
was just a bit hasty and that they have decided to think it over for awhile. Bill, from one confirmed
bachelor to another, let me say that there is more than one fish in the sea and they don't all
swim at W. C.

I'd like to stop rambling over the coals for a minute to say that I’m very sorry to see Ben
Cooper, Tube Cord Dalton, J. D. Ashmore, and “Scribbling” Scofield leave old D. C. Their presence as well as their
“Wolfing” will be greatly missed during the rest of the year and I want to wish them all of the
luck that they might need to stay out of the draft or away from the guard-house.

It seems that Cecil, The Romeo from the land of Nod, has gotten himself a new theme song. It is
“I Couldn't Sleep A Wink Last Night” and it seems to be dedicated to a young lady at Salem Institute
for the Fairer Sex. Have you ever heard the story of Winking, Blinking, and Nod, Cecil?

I must take my toupee off to the Mad Chemist, J. B. Turnbull. It seems that his “Good” looks have
finally come to the attention of the opposite sex. Torch was noticed by four very young women from the “wild”
city of Charlotte, who immediately fell for his charm and poise and have tried to lure our hero into their
parlor ever since. However, Torch has eluded their frantic pleas so far. Are you trying to hold off for a
better offer?

Y’ Corner
By ED PATTERSON
“The Object of the Association is to promote Christian growth, fellowship, and earnest living among its members; to guard against
error and oppose vice; especially to carry on aggressive work for Christ and His cause in the College and Community.”
(From the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, 1910-1911)

Have you ever sat down beside yourself and laid all your cards on the table—cross-examined yourself? It takes a man
to stop himself and say, “Now look here, Me, there are some things that need rearranging inside. It's time for
spring cleaning. It is time to cut out this or that thing and fill in the gap with something better.
Are you satisfied with yourself, Me? Don’t you have some higher aspirations that you've just been winking at? Well, what
are you waiting for—get busy and straighten yourself out. And remember this, you can have God'shelp—if you'll ask—Him for—it.” Sometimes
it helps to talk to someone else about yourself. Another person often sees something in you that you probably don’t
even realize is there. In 1910 the Y. M. C. A. expressed its aim in the one sentence quoted at
the top of this column. The Davidson “Y” has always been more than just a Social Center, but I’m wondering
if it is doing all that it can towards promoting Christian growth among its members and carrying on the work
of Christ in the College and Community. Will you help keep our Y “straightened out” with your sincere criticism? (There
is a suggestion box at the office.)

Variety ... Sho’

The general impression as I get We feel that before the Davidson pigeon, like its cousin, the carrier, is rendered
pre-historic by the grounds force, some attempt should be made to bring to the minds of students the finer qualities
of these birds, and to remind them of the faithful service of pigeons in past years. The faculty seems determined
that the pigeon menace shall be disposed of, and we feel that some record should be made of their passing.
A pigeon, it seems to us, is a bird of dignity and beauty, to be treated with respect and even
reverence, for, as the saying goes, “Women and Pigeons. — Look up at them long enough, etc., etc.” The absence
of our little friends will leave an empty place in all our hearts.

With The Staff .... JOHN ASHE

Two weeks ago the new 1944 Davidsonian made its debut and we sincerely hope that it met with the approval
of the student body. The Davidsonian is a newspaper that is published for the students of Davidson College and presumably
is published by the students themselves. However, this has not been the case lately. It has been published by a
minute number of students who are greatly pushed to do all the work that is necessary for its success as
a college newspaper. In the past, the Davidsonian has held a high place in the ranks of college publications.

Smelling the food being cooked, talking and laughing, and settles down with the idea of getting the devotional over as
quickly as possible, in order to comment on the announcements to follow. That, it seems to us, is the wrong
attitude. Not only is the Scripture wasted, but the noisy atmosphere is not the proper way to be reverent. Two
remedies have been suggested by students: to cut out chapel on Tuesday and Thursday altogether, and to omit the devotional
periods on these days. The latter seems more logical, especially since the student body needs some time for its announcements
and meetings. The staff would appreciate any letters from faculty or students giving their opinion of this matter.

Happy Birthday ....

The Twenty-fourth celebrated its first anniversary of life at Davidson last week, for on March 1, a year ago, the
first 250 air crew boys marched in in the rain. Strained relations began at once. When they were not cussing
the Southern weather, the “junior birdmen” cussed the students for making so much noise at night, and the students cussed
the air crew for making so much in the morning. So almost at once the two groups separated. Students visiting
other colleges with training detachments wondered why no effort was made to improve (Continued in Col. 5).

Will find it busy. Bull? Roses go to KA. Flowers this week in sympathy for the death of his love
for a certain Sullins Maid! It seems that “Our” Bob came in second to a member of Uncle Sam's armed
forces. Don't take it too hard, Bob, Bristol is too far off anyway and it isn’t much fun riding in
a mail truck. Mr. Tom (Elmer) Connor was our Distinguished Visitor to the campus this week. After making his report
of the women in Atlanta to the local chapter of the “Bachelor’s” Club, Mr. Connor went on to inform us
that he had been chosen for Uncle Sam’s navy. He wouldn't disclose the nature of his new job to us,
but it is rumored that he is to be a “Cadaver” in a Naval Med School. If you ever want
to call the Guest House on the telephone after dark, don't dial the office of the Most Honorable Ed Patterson
for you will find it busy. It seems that all of the night work that Mr. Patterson claims he does
is merely a telephone conversation with “coed” Payne. Are you trying to help her with her lessons over the phone,
Mr. Secretary?

Well, I told you that I would be short handed and I want to congratulate you for reading this far.
Remember, if you are run down don't take Carter’s Little Liver Pills, just drop in for a bite at Thompson's
Ptomaine Tavern. Until next time keep your draft board informed of your presence.

Yours With Dirt In Your Eye, TOM.

Helped make the show. It is that the Student Air Corps Stunt night was tops. “Producer” Smith was a weary
man after it was all over—and with good reason. A show like that doesn’t just happen. It takes plenty of
detail work and lots of planning to make it go over. Three cheers for Smith, A-S Lit (M.C.), and all
the fellows who helped make the show. Gold stars go to: Professor Erwin who provided stage equipment and helped in
the judging, Dan Berry who lent himself and his P. A. system, and especially those Air Corps Students who spent
their last night at Davidson working for the enjoyment of others. Have you noticed a more congenial and friendly spirit
about the campus since the show? Did you notice how well the Air Corps Officers enjoyed the impersonations of themselves?
It is reported that “Pete” Whittle has added the finger exercises to his calisthenics routine. Here’s for bigger and better
(?) Stunt Nights.

Yours, ED PATTERSON

(Continued from Col. 2)

Relations. Something has been done along that line in the year that has gone by; last week’s stunt increased friendliness
a lot, and the few boys who know air corps men unanimously agree that they are a good bunch of
fellows. Still much can be done. It is rare to see a civilian speak to a soldier on the campus,
although speaking to everybody is a tradition of the college. Co-operation on both sides is needed.
