Page Two ~ The Davidsonian — THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 11, 1944

As to carry on a tradition, that publication will be continued.

Founded By the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year by students of Davidson College

Printed By The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $.75 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE, New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

DAVE RICHARDSON .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER WITHERINGTON .... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ashe .......... Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson ... Associate Editor
George Apperson ... News Editor
Clayton Scofield ... Managing Editor
Jim Love .......... Managing Editor
Ray Miller ......... Managing Editor
Sam Ervin ......... Managing Editor
Jim Lowry ......... Sports Editor
Kurt .............. Staff Photographer

Debut

With this issue, The Davidsonian makes its belated 1944 debut. It is not the usual dashing journalistic sally into a
waiting collegiate world, we fear, but rather a timorous venture into a diminished sphere with a clouded future.

Several interested, we hope, subscribers have inquired as to the future of this publication, and, not having a crystal ball,
we are forced to admit that the question has worried us and all the editors since the war started. The
shortage of paper and other materials is not felt nearly so much as is the shortage of students, both as
members of the staff, and of the student body, the source of most of the news. Our only answer is
that we plan to continue publication as long as is practicable, and to do all we can to maintain the
standards of The Davidsonian of former years, and to lay the way for a better paper after the war. Since
the yearbook and humor magazine have disappeared for the duration, the newspaper is one of the few extra-curricular activities for
which the students volunteer, most of the rest being elective. It is for this reason, as well.

It is not our policy to apologize for our work or to solicit compliments in any form, but the editor
feels that the reduced staff that has consented to tackle the jobs connected with compiling material for this paper, when
the hope of gaining recognition in the form of editorship has been practically eliminated in each case, deserves his thanks
and those of the student body.

By ED. PATTERSON.

Friend! Drop in and do some Y-work sometime soon. Now I am officially qualified to make such statements. Yes, Shaw
left a deep impression on the Y and on the campus. Sorry I don't have a repertoire of tricks to
offer; that was Colin’s particular added attraction to the office. But, the Y is still your Y—use it as much
as you can.

Game Rooms

In that respect, comments are in order about the game rooms. Ping pong is going strong. We've just got a
couple of new paddles and a new ping pong ball. The pool table should be recovered and in playing shape
very soon. By the way, please ask someone who knows how when you come in to learn to play pool—these
covers are expensive.

New Men

Fifteen new men entered Davidson February 2. They are all good men—you ought to get to know them soon, take
it from me. Of course, it takes a little...Time to settle down and feel at home in a new place.
I know that these men will appreciate a friendly handshake and a little encouragement from time to time. It also
takes a little time to learn new names. Don’t feel bashful, “fellers”; make yourselves known to these newcomers. The problems
of coverage will naturally be more difficult, and we would like to ask the continued cooperation of students and faculty
in the interests of a better Davidsonian “for a better Davidson.”

With The Staff,
JOHN ASHE

It can be proved by statistics that dancing is the major pastime of the nation. The question that we would
like to raise is: “Why can’t college dances be held in the town of Davidson?” Back in the early childhood
of our institution, there were moral reasons for prohibiting dancing. However, times have changed and dancing is no longer considered
immoral. If there had been no war and students were still able to say, “Fill it up!”, this problem would
need no discussing as it could still come under the category of ‘Old-Fashioned’ rules. However, there is a war and
we are asked to conserve and save for a speedy victory. Having our dances in Charlotte confronts each student with
a grave problem of transportation. Also, it might be termed as a slight bit unpatriotic.

The Board of Trustees is to meet this Wednesday and it is rumored that important college business will be discussed.
This problem has been brought up with them before and no decision was reached. We of The Davidsonian staff feel
that the Board should be again reminded that the students are still interested.

Welcome back to Allen, Jones, Moody, and Whit- working up another Tarzan act.

Problem: “Why should I go to Sunday School?” Well, why should we go to Sunday School? We got in late
the night before and before going to bed we talked for a couple of hours and by ten-fifteen Sunday morning
we are just beginning to feel like getting up.

Don’t be surprised if you hear rumors and murmurings about a big Stunt Night to come off soon. Talent, show
thyself. Do you trip the light fantastic toe, or pluck the strings on an old banjo? Well, practice up and
let's go.

There is something wrong somewhere when, out of a Student Body ninety percent of whom were in the habit of
going to Sunday School every Sunday before they came to Davidson, only ten percent or less now come to a
Sunday School set-up expressly for them. Where is the trouble? We don’t believe it is in the Sunday School itself,
for Sunday School is not an organization. It is an idea. Sunday School is not a place, it is not
a teacher, it is not a lesson. Sunday School is more what you put into it than what you get
out of it. Sunday School is one way we can express the principle of ‘Freedom of Worship.’

Yours,
ED PATTERSON

Cinema Attractions:
Wed. and Thur., Feb. 9, 10: “Destination Tokyo” with Cary Grant
Fri. and Sat., Feb. 11 and 12: “Is Everybody Happy?”
Mon. and Tue., Feb. 15 and 16: “What a Woman!”

We would like to see Sunday School as one of the great traditions of Davidson. We leave it up to
you. Start next week and bring someone with you to Sunday School.

Glad to see some old-timers back. Rumor has it that Whit is working up another Tarzan act.

Question of the week: Why are there so few people at Student Sunday School?
