Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, June 23, 1944

To The Freshmen

By JOE COLLEGE

Becoming a freshman in college is an important event in the life of any young man. Becoming a freshman at
Davidson makes that event even more important!

On behalf of the old students of Davidson, we wish to extend a hearty welcome to all new men, and
to extend a few suggestions and cautions which we hope will be helpful in your life here.

First of all, learn the Davidson customs and traditions, and observe them in your daily life. A cheerful “Good morning”
can do much to help the other fellow, and it will give you a lift, too, so speak to everyone
on your campus! Helpful data can be obtained from the Wildcat Handbook, so get one from Mr. Osborne and go
to work on becoming a Davidson man.

You who have come from high school at a rather young age will probably need to budget your time to
enable you to take in everything that goes on here and still cope with the study situation, which, after all,
is the real reason you’re here. Never forget that although you may be very popular and very happy because you
don’t miss a show or a social function, your diploma is not granted on these activities. Those of us who
have been in college a while have learned that lesson, we hope, though sometimes it’s been the hard way.

Do not, however, confine your life entirely to studies. Extra-curricular activities at Davidson are on an unusually fine working basis
as compared with many other war-time colleges, and it will be to your advantage to take part in some of
them. Stand off and look before you leap, and you'll help yourself and others, too.

Davidson is noted as a Christian college. You, as a member of its student body, will be expected to live
as a Christian gentleman at all times. Being a Christian is not a “sissy” job—it’s one of the hardest things
in the world. By making a try you'll win the respect of all who know you, and you will be
a much happier person.

Finally, realize the seriousness of this business of going to college. This is not vacation, and what you do now
will determine what you are for the rest of your life. Sit down and think for a moment of Dr.
Pritchett’s statement last Sunday: “Gentlemen, you are not preparing for life; you are living it.”

VESPERS

(Continued from Page 2)

was being violated in a comparatively mild manner, but nevertheless it was being violated. It is my sincere belief that
the value of vespers would be increased a hundred-fold if they were made voluntary, as all religious observances should by
sacred right be. Students despise vespers not because they take up valuable time, and certainly not because interesting programs aren’t
presented. They despise them because they eliminate man’s inalienable right to worship when and how he pleases.

Emphatically understand that it is far from my purpose to attack the judgment of the administration in any way. It
is only my purpose to assert that they are human, and not incapable of detriment. Perhaps they will soon see
the situation in another light.

It is indeed a compliment to the administration of this college that an article such as this can be published
in the official paper. It is proof that the leaders are willing to see the views of the students—and profit
by them.

CADETS

Notebooks
Notebook Fillers
Pencils
Shave Brushes
Razors
Shave Creams
Tooth Brushes
Hair Tonics

BUY WAR BONDS

A.S.T.R.P.
AIR CORPS RESERVISTS

Headquarters for

If it’s SCARCE you can GET IT AT

DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE

AMERICAN HEROES

BY LEFF

Pouring out a steady stream of machine gun fire, Corp. Leroy Diamond, U.S.M.C., and just two buddies stemmed a Jap
advance on a Pacific Isle recently. One of the men, Pvt. John Rivers, was killed. Diamond and the other man
were saved. These men are willing to give their lives. The least we can do is lend our money. Buy
Second War Loan Bonds.

U.S. Treasury Department

Someday the Editor is not going to have anything to put in this space, and there is going to be
a hole in the paper.

The STUDENT STORE announces that it will open as soon after June 26th as possible in the PX stand in
the gymnasium.

Visit the Stud Store for:

COLD DRINKS
CANDY
ICE CREAM
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
PENNANTS
FRATERNITY STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
