Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 10, 1944

Four Professors Serve 138 Years

Dr. E. O. Wiig Gives Lectures

Rochester Man Speaks on Radioactivity

Dr. Edward O. Wiig, of the University of Rochester in New York, spoke to the American Chemical Society at Davidson
College, Tuesday, February 29. Dr. Wiig spoke on artificial radioactivity and its uses. His lecture was illustrated with slides showing
cartoons, pictures of cyclotrons, and ionic equations of radioactivity.

The speaker explained that artificial radioactivity was discovered by Henri Becquerel, and that since that time, more than 33 radioactive
atoms and isotopes have been discovered. Atoms are made radioactive, Dr. Wiig continued, by shooting at them bullets which knock
off or add one or more charges to the nucleus of the target atom, which is made an active isotope.
The cyclotron, an apparatus used to convert atoms to radioactive ones, is essentially a round, flat chamber in which ions
are speeded up by a series of magnetic and electric impulses until terrific velocity is reached. The ion is then
shot at a target atom, knocking off a charge from its nucleus and thus converting the atom to an active
isotope.

Sun’s Energy

The study of radioactivity has enabled scientists to observe the operations of chemical changes, Dr. Wiig indicated. He also presented
the theory that the energy of the sun might be the result of the radioactive conversion of hydrogen to helium
with carbon as a catalytic agent.

Dr. Wiig was born in Oslo, Norway in 1889. He received a B.S. degree in Chemistry in 1921 from Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N.Y. The University of Wisconsin awarded him a Ph.D. degree in 1925. After serving two years as
an instructor in chemistry at the University of Wisconsin, Dr. Wiig studied in Berlin and Frankfort during 1932 and 1935.
Since 1931 he has been an assistant professor in the chemistry department at the University of Rochester. He spoke in
room 1 of the Martin Science Building. The lecture was held under the auspices of the Carolina-Piedmont Section of the
American Chemical Society, of which Mr. Charles H. Stone of Charlotte is chairman.

Have you heard about the jailbird who got put in the pen because he rocked his wife to sleep? You
should have seen the size of the rocks.

“What a splendid fit!” exclaimed the epileptic tailor, as he carried the foam out of his shop.

SHIP AHOY RESTAURANT
THE PLACE TO MEET YOUR FRIENDS
CHARLOTTE

(Continued from Page 1)

University. Beta Kappa; and Eta Sigma Phi, honorary classical fraternity. After graduating from Davidson, he attended Columbia Theological Seminary, graduating
in 1895. He remained at Columbia for the next year as a tutor in Greek and Hebrew. In 1896 he
married Jane McDowell. They have had four children: James McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary and President of the
Board of Visitors of Davidson; Mary Richards, teacher at Davidson High School; Sophia Richards, Dean of Women at Danville; and
John C. Richards, Dean of Students at Centre College, Ky.

He was ordained to the ministry and occupied the pulpit, first at Mechanicsville, S.C., then at Statesville, N.C., and finally
at Davidson. In 1907 the degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred on him by Davidson College, and in 1915
he returned to Davidson as professor of Bible and Philosophy. Dr. Richards became a member of the board of trustees
of the Southern Presbyterian General Assembly and the Presbyterian Foundation. Hampden-Sydney College awarded him an honorary degree of Doctor of
Letters in 1938.

Dr. Hood

Frazer Hood was born in Iuka, Miss., on June 10, 1876. He attended Southwestern Presbyterian University in Memphis, Tenn., graduating
in 1896, receiving the B.A. degree. While a student he...Orator Salutatorian of Phi Beta Kappa; Kappa Alpha Sigma Upsilon fraternity.
After Southwestern, he attended Johns Hopkins University, winning a fellowship. He graduated from the University of Mississippi on June 2,
1875, and is a member of Phi Delta fraternity and a national literary fraternity. He attended Yale and received the
Ph.D. degree in 1892. Dr. Heod was a sergeant in World War I and served on the army psychology examining
board. From 1920 to 1903, he was a Professor at Davidson College. He is the author of “The Psychology of
Insurance,” “Everyman's Responsibility,” and numerous articles on psychology. These four great men have made significant contributions to Davidson College and
will be greatly missed. They will always be remembered.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N.C.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
It's Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

Wilson STONESTREET
Grade A Cafe
418 S. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

ROTC Alumni Sent to OCS
Twenty-six former students at Davidson who were enrolled in the first-year advanced R.O.T.C. are among those who have been transferred
from the A.S.T.P. to the Infantry Officer Candidate School at Fort Benning, Ga. This transfer is the result of the
new decision of the War Department to discontinue the A.S.T.P. in the colleges of the country. Included in the group
were the following Davidson men: Cpl. Dick Fort of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Cpl. Bob Welsh of Charlotte, N.C.; Cpl. Charles Upchurch
of Charlotte, N.C.; Cpl. Price Gwynn of Davidson, N.C.; Cpl. Pat Williams of North Wilkesboro, N.C.; Cpl. Rush Winchester of
Charlotte, N.C.; Cpl. George Peters of Kingsport, Tenn.; Cpl. Tommy Peters of Kingsport, Tenn.; Cpl. Gaines Stubbs of Birmingham, Ala.;
Cpl. Edward Phillips of Jacksonville, Fla.; Cpl. Gordon Skirrow of Orange, N.J.; Cpl. Crawford Wheeler of Nyack, N.J.; Cpl. Paul
Welch of Coral Gables, Fla.; Cpl. W.H. Evans of Depot, Va.; Cpl. Alfred Taylor of Nashville, Tenn.; Cpl. John L.
Fairley of Richmond, Va.; Cpl. Bill Lacy of Richmond, Va.; Cpl. Tom Howard of Lake Cormorant, Miss.; Cpl. Bob Crowell
of Lexington, N.C.; Cpl. Bob Currey of Mullens, W.Va.; Cpl. Pinky Lowell of Lowell, N.C.; Cpl. Bill Wilkinson of Charlotte,
N.C.; Cpl. Bob Amos of High Point, N.C.; Cpl. Shep Booth of Lawrenceville, Va.; Cpl. Legh Scott of Goldsboro, N.C.

SALLY OWEN says SHE CAN'T GO TO THE MOVIES WITH US --- SHE'S CLOTHING SOLDIERS.

Stunt Night (Continued from page 18)
T.D. Watts Dormitory followed with its idea of modern Dan Davidson. Jerry then played some of his “hot-stick,” accompanied by
an air crew student on the piano. Bill Whittaker as Frank “Swoonatra” featured in the Rumple stunt. Tag Guiton then
acted a monologue as a negro-white man. Air cadet Pee Gee O'Neil performed some sleight-of-hand tricks using thimbles, coins, and
balls. The closing stunt consisted of hill-billy music presented by Charlie Delaney and his boys. Some of the numbers were
“Talking Blues,” sung by Ken Barber; “Branded Wherever I Go,” “Home On The Range,” and “Hoe Down,” featuring Delaney and
his fiddle.

Cinema Attractions
March 10-11—Cry Havoc.
Late Show—Escape to Danger.
March 13-14—Cross of Lorraine.
March 15-16—Top Man.
March 17-18—Union Station.
Late Show—Timber Queen.
March 20-21—Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves.
March 22-23—Standing Room Only.
March 24-25—Action in Arabia.
Late Show—Amazing Adventure.

Don't be a stranger and you won't be if you go to Hugo's College Pharmacy
DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE
Complete line of Greeting Cards: Birthday, Anniversary, Sympathy, Congratulation

VARISTY TOWN GLEN
We think a GLEN is the smartest pattern a young man can wear. And that’s a proven fact because the
best-dressed young men do wear Glens. We have a Glen for you!

Tate-Brown Co.
