Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, July 7, 1944

Into The Life of Things
By J. S. BLAIN

The great poet, William Wordsworth, included the above phrase, which has been selected as the title of this column, in
“Tintern Abbey,” one of his finest and most familiar compositions. To quote the section from which the title is taken
is to state the theme and purpose of the column:

“While with an eye made quiet by the power
Of harmony, and the deep power of joy,
We see into the life of things.”

In the rush of modern life we all need to take time to meditate upon those facts which enable us
to see “into the life of things.” By reemphasizing points made in Chapel and Vespers, by making comments, and by
suggesting additional food for thought, this column will seek to provide each individual with material for the spiritual insight so
desperately needed by every man.

On last Sunday night, Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, preached a timely sermon
on the thirty-seventh verse of the fifth chapter of Matthew. With reference to people in general, Dr. Jones illustrated the
fact that conversation reveals character by telling of an experience in a dining car when he listened to the general
flow of words from individuals nearby and constructed his idea of their character. As further illustration, he cited a case,
well known to all, of the profanity of grown men in a barber shop and its effect upon a youth
present. It is necessary for all of us to realize that we have a responsibility to those around us, and
that we are often judged by what we say. It is the opinion of many that “what we are drowns
out what we say,” but, as Dr. Jones pointed out, simple, clean, and effective speech can do much toward the
building of character.

July Fourth, an historic day, was the occasion of a most inspiring chapel service, conducted by Professor Beatty. The Biblical
text was Matthew 22: 15-22, and Professor Beatty brought out very forcibly the responsibility of every American to our country
and our God. Jesus made a definite distinction between loyalty to God and loyalty to civil rulers, and Professor Beatty
emphasized this distinction in his brief but powerful talk. However, he said, though we serve both, they are dependent upon
each other, and man has yet to find any true power besides God. As the Pharisees marveled at the words
of Christ, man gazes in awe as “God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform.” In a time
like this, with history being made every hour, let us not forget that history is “His story,” and that in
all our actions we will profit by following Stonewall Jackson’s philosophy of life and religion “... every man’s life is
in the hands of God.” With this courage we can entrust our lives and those of our friends in places
of danger to our God, and with this courage in their hearts, fighting men have conquered, and will continue to
do so, in the struggles which defile the record of mankind.

BUY WAR BONDS

On The Alumni Front

Lt. James M. Miller
Second Lieutenant James M. Miller, 20, '45 of Chicago, IL, pilot of Eighth AAF Flying Fortress, has been presented the
Air Medal for “meritorious achievement” while participating in heavy bombing assaults on vital Nazi targets in Germany and the Occupied
Countries of Europe. Lt. Miller, the son of Mrs. M. B. Miller, 618 N. Winthrope Avenue, entered service Aug. 17,
1943, prior to which he was a student at Davidson College in North Carolina.

Capt. Thomas Breeden
Thomas McLauchlin Breeden, former Davidsonian, Class of 1937, has been promoted from the rank of First Lieutenant to that of
Captain. Captain Breeden is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Breeden, Bennettsville, South Carolina. His wife, Frances R.
Breeden, resides at Clearwater, Fla. He attended Bennettsville High School, Davidson College, and the Graduate School of Business, Harvard University.
Captain Breeden is a pilot and assistant Operations Officer with the IX Troop Carrier Command of the Ninth Air Force,
the U.S. component of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force in the European Theater of Operations.

Lt. Avery T. Cashion
Lt. Gen. George C. Kenney, Commander of Allied Air Forces in the Southwest Pacific area, has awarded the Air Medal
to Second Lt. Avery T. Cashion Jr. '45, for “meritorious achievement while participating in sustained operational flight missions in the
Southwest Pacific area, during which hostile contact was probable and expected.” Lt.Thomas C. McAllister

Lt. Gen. Lewis H. Brereton, Commanding General of the Ninth Air Force, has announced the award of the Air Medal
to 2nd Lt. Thomas C. McAllister of Mt. Pleasant, N.C. The presentation was made in recognition of his meritorious achievement
while participating in aerial flight in the European Theater of Operations and having participated in the required number of operational
sorties against the enemy.

Lt. James M. Caldwell

2nd Lt. James M. Caldwell '37, 28, bombardier on an Eighth AAF Flying Fortress, has been awarded the Air Medal.
The decoration was conferred for “meritorious achievement while participating in heavy bombardment missions over enemy-occupied continental Europe.” Lieutenant Caldwell is
the son of Mrs. Grace M. Caldwell, 1628 Park Drive, Charlotte, N.C. Before entering the service, he was employed by
The Charlotte Observer, Charlotte, N.C.

O.C.S. Graduates

Word has been received at Davidson College that the following former Junior R.O.T.C. Davidsonians were commissioned as second lieutenants in
the Army of the United States upon successful completion of the Officer Candidate Course at the Infantry School at Fort
Benning, Ga.: R.T. Amos of High Point; W.H. Barber of Atlanta, Ga.; E.S. Barnwell of York, S.C.; T.V. Bumbarger of
Hickory; R.C. Currie of Mullens, W.Va.; T.H. Dimmock of Newport News, Va.; J.L. Fairly, Jr. of Richmond, Va.; A.A. Farrar
of Summerville, Ga.; P.H. Gwynn of Davidson; D.W. Holland of Gastonia; T.P. Howard of Lake Cormorant, Miss.; M.H. Jeffries of
Thomasville, Ga.; W.W. Lacy of Richmond, Va.; G.B. Peters and T.L. Peters of Kingsport, Tenn.; E.C. Philips of Jacksonville, Fla.;
and R.B. Port of Winston-Salem.

Lt. Joe Mills Brinson

Lt. Joe Mills Brinson of High Point has been assigned to the Atlanta Army Service Forces Depot, Atlanta, Ga. Lt.
Brinson entered the Army on May 20, 1942, and he received his commission in the Transportation Corps in November 1942,
and was promoted to first lieutenant in May 1943. As officer in charge of the LCL Shipping and Receiving Section,
Transportation Division, he is an important officer in Station operations. Now at one of the largest Army Service Depots in
the country, Lt. Brinson describes the installation as “the Army’s most interesting mail order house.”

1st Lt. Miles Costin Wood, Jr.

First Lt. Miles Costin Wood, Jr. is reported lost in action in the Italian area as of May 25. Lt.
Wood was pilot of an Invader or dive bomber plane and had been on overseas duty since last fall. He
is the son of M.C. Wood and Mrs. Gertrude Robbins Wood of Dade City, Fla., and Statesville. He entered the
service in December 1941, and received his wings and commission at Eagle Pass, Texas. Recent letters indicated he was north
of Rome.

Lt. Fred H. McLean

Lt. Fred H. McLean, 28, of Lenoir, was killed in the crash of a bomber plane on which he was
a passenger Thursday, June 15, 12 miles north of Wichita, Kan., according to a message received from Col. Arthur Mellinson,
commander of the air base at Salina, Kan., where Lieutenant McLean was stationed. He entered the Army in 1942. Prior
to that, he was a reserve officer, having graduated at Davidson College in 1937. He was commissioned a second lieutenant
and was promoted to first lieutenant when attached to a bombing squadron as intelligence officer.

1st Lt. Alexander L. James III

First Lt. Alexander L. James III has been reported missing in action in the Asiatic area. Lt. James is from
Charlotte and graduated from Davidson in 1940.

Capt. James T. Latimer

Capt. James T. Latimer was killed in action over Austria. Capt. Latimer was in the Army Air Corps and was
from Anderson, S.C. He was in the class of '41 at Davidson.

COLE’S DAVIDSON CAROLINA LUNCH

Delicious Meals
Quick and Courteous Service

VISIT COLE’S DINING ROOM and CANDY
ICE CREAM
PENNANTS

The STUDENT STORE announces that it will open as soon after June 26th as possible in the PX stand in
the gymnasium. Visit the Stud Store for:

COLD DRINKS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
FRATERNITY STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
