WITH THE WILDCATS
By JIM LOWRY

There is just no such thing as a sports column around here anymore. The former illustrious sports columnists who have
had their picture at the head of this page would turn over in their respective graves at the sight of
such a monstrosity as this promises to be. To have a sports column you have to have some sports news
and to have some sports news you have to have some sports, which there ain’t any of.

Of course, we could turn this into a joke book, nobody is denying that it hasn’t been a joke, but
we could pull some Mirth and Madness jokes, but they would only appeal to the higher types of minds. Or
we could pull some prognostications about who will win the Kentucky Derby in 1955. Or we could have a sports
quiz. In fact, that we will.

There will be five questions in this sports quiz and it is open to all the members of the student
body except the members of the Davidsonian and their immediate families, who could get the answers from them and make
the contest unfair which would never do at old Davidson. To the first three contestants who get the right answers
into box 625 by Monday, July 10, there will go absolutely free with no questions asked one box of the
new favorite housewife’s delight, the modern Dwaldge, or one pack of your favorite cigarettes, at the local college emporium. Ready
... Here we go.

(1) Who defeated the Manassa Mauler for the heavyweight championship of the world?
(2) Who was the only man to ever knock Jack Dempsey out of the ring in a championship fight?
(3) Identify:
(a) Pitcher of the “Blooper Ball”.
(b) “Big Six”.
(c) Big Train.
(d) Who is the highest paid professional baseball player ever to play baseball and what is his main distinction?

If you will send in your answers as soon as possible you will make it easier for the judges to
figure out the winners. No prizes will be awarded for duplication.

Since the favorite sport at Davidson this summer is bridge, the editor has decided to run a bridge problem in
this column. However, as this paper has to go to press tomorrow, it will take at least a week to
figure one out.

Softball started Monday with the Pi Kapps, ably supported by the Pikas and the lone survivors of the Knights of
Alcohol, defeating the S P E’s 15-8. The Independents edged the Sigmas 7-6. Not being the least bit prejudiced, it
seems that the Independents and the assorted Greeks have the top teams.

Then there is the story about the cross-eyed left-handed pitcher who had two strikes on the batter, looked at the
plate, threw to first, caught the runner off, the batter swung, and the umpire called them both out.

Well, as we come to the 30 mark for this issue of the fiddle-faddle sports news, we find the amazing
St. Louis Browns and the high-riding Cards on top of the leagues and the summer sisters betraying Dick Tracy.

Save your money and buy War Bonds and Stamps. Support your local cinema and your local draft board.

LAST CTD MEN ORDERED AWAY
(Continued from Page 1)

Representing all sections of the country, the aircrew students and members of their families who have followed them here have
expressed a strong attachment (created by instruction both the civilian and the Army training program) and a reluctance to leave
the pleasant environment of the campus and community.

The College authorities have indicated genuine satisfaction at having been afforded the opportunity to serve the War effort through the
medium of the Army Forces. The ready willingness of members of the faculty to carry extra teaching loads has furnished
ample evidence of a universal desire to participate in the supreme task of winning the battle for our way of
life.

Wildcat Sports
Friday, July 7, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Who’s Who In Montreat
By TIM WEBB

To start off the season here at Montreat, the two Hays and Jim Bisanar came to stay with Bill McBride
at Camp Montreat. Bill's ulterior motive was to try to get them to clean up the Camp but knowing these
three, no work was done. They loafed satisfactorily, finally getting on top of Lookout Mountain (the smallest in Montreat), and
collapsing. This was all the exercise they managed, flatly refusing to brave the icy (temperature 61 degrees) waters of Lake
Susan in Montreat.

Stan Kennett and Van Covington drove in in their respective automobiles and then drove out again. Wilkes McCauley came up
in a Young Peoples Conference from South Carolina. He walked and swam hand-in-hand with the same girl—I doubtif he did
much learning. Ken Barber breezed in for a day to see Dot Hamrick and left her in a blissful doze
the next night with the unfortunate Montreat boy who dated her the next night. He told me she had Ken
on her mind all evening and he accomplished nothing. Congratulations Ken. Take the Army-Navy “E” for speed and efficiency and
lasting effect. Sam Ervin drove up from Morganton for the same reason as Ken although he weakly denies them, but
as yet he's accomplished nothing. Give him time. Ed Golden and Alf Scarborough came up for the weekend, playing softball
and taking in the grand old square dance in Black Mountain Saturday night. Before closing here is a bulletin from
Camp Montreat. Bill McBride will welcome any boys from Davidson to relieve him of his strenuous dating of the 189
girls at the camp. He has no competition.

EXPERT BARBER SERVICE
Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N.C.

JESTINGS
By JUSTA JOAK

Well boys, this is the first of the gossip to come out in this summer school (in printed form), and
even though we have been here only a few weeks, new things have already begun to happen and old affairs
are still going on. It seems that Lowry loves to spread powder on all letters going to Washington. I wonder
why? Lowry, don't you know that the post office in Washington is busy already? Sandy Shaw goes home every weekend
to see a Wagram girl. We didn't know Sandy had it in him! Doc Roddy seems to be very interested
in Lancaster in more ways than one. What is this we hear about Tag Guiton being engaged? Ole’ tall handsome
Jim Alexander seems to be able to keep more than one girl’s picture in his room with no conflict. No
girl has been able to interest Sam Hay yet, but just wait. He can't be like that all his life.
Bill Medford seems to have it bad with ????. He is going to see her again. Two weekends straight. Ain't
it awful? John Hagen declares that there is only one for him but he still gets around. You should have
seen him with the S.C. women. Van Covington dates one girl in Ridgecrest and writes another Air Mail Special the
next day. Can't he string 'em? Dexter, Ed Golden, Sonny Blain and others also enjoyed the mountain air—and women. “I
live from weekend to weekend when I can once again ???” (Warold Amos). Who was it that picked up David
Neill and Alfred Whitehorse for a ride to Charlotte Friday? And last but not least, Jim Love swears there are
no good-looking women in Linville. Love must have his eyes, mind, and heart taken by another. (He also swears this
paragraph will never see print. Hah! We have friends on the staff!) That's all for now. Maybe some more can
be dug up by next week. Here's hoping!

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Complete Drug and Fountain Departments
Friendly Service

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

M. S. LEFF

GEORGIA 1 WINS VOLLEYBALL
Inter-Fraternity Softball Gets Under Way

After stiff competition and a fine display of sportsmanship, the Georgia I volleyball team, captained by Dexter Witherington, downed all
its foes to win the summer school championship. The tournament was held over a period of two weeks. Other teams
competing in the tournament were: Georgia 3, captained by Jim Lowry; Watts 1, captained by Jim Alexander; and Watts 3,
captained by Sam Hay. The All-Star Volleyball Team as selected by The Davidsonian is Lowry, Sam Hay, John Hay, Witherington,
Grey, Owens, Stone, Daniels, and Robinson. The booby prize for the worst player the school has been able to uncover
goes to Edwin “Hose Nose” Monrte.

Inter-fraternity softball was started this week. The teams participating are Pi Kaps, Kappa Sigs, Betas, SPE's, and Independents. The Pi
Kaps defeated the SPE's 15-8 Monday, and the Independents edged out the Kappa Sigs 7-6 Tuesday. Softball competition between the
ASTRP and a picked civilian team is scheduled to begin in the near future. As yet no mention has been
made of a tennis tournament, but we are hoping to have one this summer.

Cinema Attractions
July 7-8: “Jam Session”
July 8: “Late Show”
July 10-11: “Show Business”
July 12-13: “Meet The People”
July 14-15: “Bermuda Mystery”
July 15: “Late Show”
July 17-18: “Jane Eyre”
July 19-20: “Double Indemnity”

Show all our American boys that you’re doing your part on the home front to win the war. Buy more
War Bonds. Maj. John L. Smith of the U.S. Marines has 19 Jap planes to his credit—Have you as many
War Bonds? You’ve done your bit; now do your best—Buy U.S. Treasury Dept.
