ITH THE WILDCATS By JIM LOWRY

Well, Basketball season is over and Duke is once again S. C. Champ. The Navy-laden Blue Devils pulled one of
the season's biggest upsets when they clipped the supposedly great Tarheels, 44-27. Not only did they beat them but they
made fools out of them. The amazing Gordon Carvel, walking around like a professional wrestler, made Bennie Mack look like
a high school kid. Mack’s high voice, which is always very shrill, rose two more octaves, and he was soon
shooting out of the bleachers.

Perhaps the two biggest disappointments outside of the Carolina debacle were the Cats’ heart-breaking loss to V.P.I. and South Carolina’s
sudden withdrawal from the tournament. There was not much interest in the tourney this year, but that was easily understandable.
There were no outstanding courtmen as were Tommy Peters, Barbs McFadden, and Bob Spessard in past years. Duke is going
to the Invitational Tourney at Madison Square this month. They ought to do pretty well if they play like they
did against Carolina. The last time Davidson played in the Garden, L. I. U. beat them 59-57 in an overtime
game, and Gordon Carver set the year’s high score with 27 points.

It seems to a lot of people that a lot if not all of these boys once again showing their
wares against schools like Duke and Georgia Tech and beating their pants off.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Wildcat Sports
SPRING SPORTS START
Friday, March 10, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Court Data Is Reviewed
Cagers Won 16, Lost 7 In Past Season

After the season is over some people are interested in seeing just how the team came out as regards won
and lost and points scored. Here is the information:

Defeated In First Game Of Tournament

On Thursday, February 24, the Wildcats of Davidson officially opened the Southern Conference Tournament at Raleigh by playing Virginia Polytechnic
Institute. Before game time, Davidson was given a lot of praise. V.P.I. pulled off to a quick lead and held
the upper hand for the first half. The score at half time was close. During the second period, Davidson pulled
back into the game, led by Jim Lowry, J. D. Morris, and others. As the game neared the end, the
score was tied at 34-34 with 3 minutes to go. V.P.I. had the ball and for 2 minutes held the
ball. Then, with one minute to go, V.P.I. had the ball for a one-handed shot from the foul line. The
Davidson players proved to be anybody's ball game.

Maryland, Richmond, and William and Mary came to Raleigh just for the ride. Maryland didn’t seem to care if they
won or not, and Richmond played a good game against the hot Tarheels, but William and Mary had nothing whatsoever.

The county tourney in Charlotte produced a couple of pretty good ball players. McCall from Bain and a tall skinny
boy named Burgess from Huntersville who would like to come to Davidson were outstanding. Davidson College has produced in the
past two or three decades some very outstanding athletes, but just during the past two or three there have been
some great ballplayers here and some very thrilling plays.

Two years ago Dave Spencer played football here and who will forget the great runs he made against schools like
Duke, Carolina, and State. Who will forget Claude Hackney’s scintillating 96-yard run against Duke, to tie the Blue Devils 13-13
at the half. Then there was Ed Lucas, for seven innings as good a pitcher as there was in the
conference, holding Carolina to four hits until two men were out in the ninth, then losing because of errors.Or who
will forget Arch Taylor, the ace hurler, who won all the hurdle events at the Southern Conference track meet. All
of that was two years ago. Last year there was the brilliant Tom Peters, Davidson’s first four-letter man in a
year, who was stamped as one of the finest ends in the conference, voted the most outstanding basketball player in
the Southern Conference tourney, and received honorable mention for all-American. Then besides “Tommy,” there was his brother George, who made
three letters and helped Tom to produce the finest brother act in American colleges last year.

Then who will forget the humorous incidents like Red Burke stealing second base with the bases loaded in the ninth
inning and the Cats one run behind. Things like that are characteristic of the Brooklyn Dodgers. There is a fervent
hope that in the not too far distant future, we will be able to look out on the gridiron, court,
diamond, and track, and see:

Compliment-Getting TWEED SUITS For Spring
Rich-looking tweeds in the herringbone and diagonal weaves that appeal to college men. All wool fabrics in blue and brown.
3-button models. $27.50
BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Davidson Track Squad Shapes Up
Team Plans Six Meets
Turnbull, Smith, Baird Only Lettermen Back

Coach Pete Whittle’s 1944 Wildcat track squad is rapidly rounding into shape for the coming campaigns on the cinder path,
in spite of unfavorable weather conditions. With three letter-winners to rely upon, the Davidson coach can muster more experienced men
than any other varsity squad has been able to boast this year. Lennox Turnbull, of Richmond, Virginia, one of the
returning lettermen, is a pole vaulter as well as a discus and shot-put artist. The other two, Bill Smith, of
Princeton, Va., and W. D. Baird, of Davidson, will carry on in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and the latter
in the 880. The rest of the 30-man squad is composed of freshmen and untried upperclassmen. In spite of this,
Whittle says that many of these novice performers have shown up exceedingly well in early drills. Earl Spaugh, of Charlotte,
a frosh trackster, has shown promise with the javelin. Paul Richardson, of Washington, D. C., a second-semester freshman, was listed
among the top high-hurdlers, and Dexter Witherington, of Mt. Olive, has demonstrated his versatility by performing equally well in the
sprints and high and broad jump.

The Cats will take part in six meets with dual rivals—two with traditional N. C. State, two with Clemson, one
with Catawba, and one with Presbyterian. The dates for these events have not been definitely set. An annual track meet
for March 9 and 10 has been scheduled, weather permitting. Whittle hopes to discover some talent through this inter-fraternity expression
of campus rivalry. The preliminaries in the 100 and 220-yard dashes, the low hurdles, and broad jump will be held
on Thursday, with the finals in all events on the following day. Bill Smith, who is not eligible to participate,
will serve as starter.

Stars for V. P. I. were Harry Bushkar (C.), Henry Caravali, and D. Frederick, who made first string center on
the All-Tournament team. Other Davidson players who stood out in their steady play were Bob Flowers, Freeman Jones, and Sammy
Hay. Much credit is due these fellows who really gave all they had in the Tournament and through the regular
season.

Recruiting officer: “When was your birthday?”
Recruit (sullenly): “What do you care? You ain't gonna give me nothin'!”

Dr. Sentelle to Bible class: “And where was Christ born, Gentlemen?”
Lowry: “In Birmingham, sir.”
Dr. Sentelle: “No, Mr. Lowry, in Bethlehem.”
Lowry: “Aw, I knew it was one of those big towns!”
