WITH THE WILDCATS By JIM LOWRY

Wildcat Sports

The second half of the softball season got under way last Friday, August 11, 1944, with two teams stamping themselves
as the favorites. The race seems to be between the Kappa Sigs, who tied with the Betas last time, and
the Pi Kap-PiKa-K.A. team, which has won three games to date and plays the Sigmas Wednesday. This game should be
a pitcher's battle between Bill Medford of the Sigmas and Phil Medford of the Tri-Krats.

The way it looks right now, the Cats might have some sort of a football team this fall, even if
it is only a freshman team. If they do have this team, they will play only high schools and prep
schools and maybe a college freshman team. Nothing is certain about this as yet, but it is entirely possible that
some schedule can be worked out if there are enough boys who have had experience to enable the Cats to
turn out a representative team.

The softball ASTRAPS have been cancelled because of the polio outbreak, but there is a chance that there will be
a series of basketball games when the cadets get out of quarantine. Summer basketball helped the Cats considerably last year
by helping the freshmen get in shape and also play good opposition. Not one member of last year’s squad is
left but several freshmen, including Bryant, Edwards, Hicks, and Pell, along with Andy Owens, who might have made two or
three letters last year if he hadn't loved music so much, should be enough to give the cadets a little
competition.

The gym has at long last been opened and both the students and the cadets have been playing ball, although
it is considered not conducive to the people working in the gym. In fact, the officers in the Air Corps
never complained; they used to come out and practice with the varsity. The games will probably be played the week
of exams to give the students something to do besides study.

Donald Crane tries to catch Herion on third in the Beta-Independent game.

Word has been received that Jim Owens, who played a lot of shortstop for Davidson three years ago, has been
killed in action, and Joe McCoy, who was manager of the Cat basketball team two years ago, has been wounded.
This war will probably take a lot of Davidson athletes before it is over, but all of them will in
some way leave their mark upon Davidson records and upon Davidson traditions. I know Jim Owens did.

Cat football fans probably saw in the Sunday paper that Dave Spencer, formerly a Davidson football and basketball star and
now Lt. Spencer, has turned up safe in England. He had been missing for some time. Dave was the only
Cat gridder ever to play in the annual North-South game at Montgomery.

Looks like an all St. Louis world series this year.

(Continued on Page 11)

Faul & Crymes, Inc.PER. Sporting Pi. Kaps:—K.-A.'s 4 0 1.000 Pikas, etc. Kappa Sigs 3 1 .750 Betas 2 2
.500 Independents 1 3 .250 SPE’s 0 4 .000

415 S. Tryon Street
A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.
Charlotte, N. C.

Cards have such a lead right now they couldn't be caught if they took a two weeks’ vacation. The Yankees
have become the mystery team of the big leagues, the mystery is what happened to their pitching and hitting. This
will be the first year in at least a decade that the Yanks haven’t hit over a hundred home runs.
The only thing the Dodgers have got is Ebbets Field and the way they are playing this year the real
estate company will probably take that as a bad investment.

I reckon that is about all for this edition but we will be back in two weeks to wrap up
the last sports package for the summer, so as the Mills Brothers say “Till then—”

HOOD NORTON BARBER SHOP
COLE’S DAVIDSON DINING ROOM and CAROLINA LUNCH
Delicious Meals
Quick and Courteous Service
VISIT COLE'S
CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. THERE MAY BE A
REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US “When It’s Over Over There” PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO. SOUTH CHURCH STREET CHARLOTTE, N.
C.

GETS UNDERWAY
P. Kaps vs. Betas

The touted Betas were defeated by the Pi Kaps in the first game. Sigmas vs. Independents showed promise of starting
a comeback with their old-time flair. Blain pitched to Harper for the Betas, while Guiton chucked to Green for the
Independents.

Pi Kaps vs. Sigmas
The Pi Kaps won by a score of 7-4. Sig Eps won their second game, edging out the Independents. The
SPEs, as usual, played a good ball game but were again outmatched in the pitcher's box. Both teams exhibited tight
infield play except for several fatal errors made by the Independents. Medford and Harris were the battery for the Pi
Kaps, while Neill and Burgess worked for the SPEs.

Betas took an early lead in the Sigmas vs. Betas game, capitalizing on the Kappa Beta’s errors to build up
a first-inning lead which they never overcame. After a tight game, the Betas lacked the hitting power and went down
9-2. Medford was the winning pitcher, while Blain was the losing pitcher.

Pi Kaps vs. Independents
The Pi Kaps defeated the Independents 7-3. It is becoming more evident that the contest for the championship will probably
be between the Pi Kaps and the Sigmas. It is also quite clear that unless the Betas show marked improvement,
they will be completely out of the running, although they tied for first in the last half tourney.

Independents vs. Sigmas
The most startling upset so far in the season was the defeat of the Kappa Sigs by the Independents. The
Independents, beaten soundly by the Betas and the Pi Kaps, played faultless ball and surprised everyone by coming out on
top 6-2, allowing one run in the sixth and one in the seventh. The Kappa Sigs played with very little
snap and spirit and were in hot water all the way. Medford pitched for the Sigmas but received very little
support, while the Independents gave Guiton perfect backing.
