Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 28, 1944

GENERALS, GOVERNOR HONOR MARTINS

The event of the year at Davidson College occurred on Friday, April 14 when the new Science Building, in honor
of the two Martins, father and son, was dedicated. Many notables including Governor Broughton, Gen. James S. Simmons, and Gen.
Fred W. Rankin participated in the ceremonies. Major Gen. Norman T. Kirk, Surgeon General of the United States Army, was
the recipient of the degree of Doctor of Science. President John R. Cunningham presided and delivered the dedicatory address. Dr.
W. J. Martin, pictured above, was honored. (Old Martin Hall was just behind the Grey Memorial Library.)

Company “A” Takes Honors In Close Order Formations and Individual Drill

Company “A” was awarded first place in four events out of the six which were held in the annual competitive
drill conducted in Richardson Stadium on April 12 and continued on April 19. The awards won by Company “A” were
in close order drill and in individual competition. Cadet Captain J. P. Alexander was awarded the cup for the best-drilled
company. Lieutenant Snodgrass received the cup for the best-drilled platoon; Cadet Sergeant G. R. Sinclair is the recipient of the
cup for the best-drilled squad.

Extended Order Drill

The competitive drill this year was only the second time that extended order has been included as a part of
the program. Honors in this field go to the Band and to Company “B". Cadet Lieutenant O. G. Allen, of
the Band, was the winner of the cup for the best extended order platoon; Cadet Sergeant P. M. Medford won
the award for the best extended order squad. Cadet Private C. N. Kent, of Company “A”, received the award which
is presented each year to the best-drilled private. Since the privates are eligible for no other award, no commissioned or
non-commissioned officers are eligible to compete in this field. The award, a medal, is presented by the Sons of the
American Revolution.

In competitive drill last year, Company “C", commanded by Cadet Captain John McGee, won five out of six events. Men
from that outfit received awards for best-drilled company, best-drilled close order platoon, best-drilled close order squad, best-drilled extended order squad,
and best-drilled private. Judges for the competition were furnished from the staff and personnel of the 24th C. T. D.
of the Army Air Corps, stationed here. Lt. W. Warley, Lt. E. A. Reif, and A/S Martinelli were the judges.

THE AMAZING BUNNY

Goody! Easter day is nearly here, and bunny rabbits scamper everywhere about, preparing for the joyous season. How they fertilize
themselves for laying multicolored, variegated eggs will ever be a mystery to me. Bunnies are unique in this respect: that
they can lay but once a year, and then the eggs are red and yellow, striped and spotted rather than
the usual whitish. Added astronomical note: just how can they determine when the happy day will come, since only very
clever humans can? I fear that we are vainly prone to underrate the bunny.

William Lyman, Jr., 2nd Lt., Inf., Davidson, '43.

Band And Glee Club Make Concert Tour

All members of the Davidson College Glee Club and Band were reported back on the campus after an extended tour
early in the week. In the course of this, the second concert tour of the year, the musical organizations made
the record number of eight appearances in two days. On Monday morning the first concert was staged in Belmont in
the High School Auditorium. At Gastonia, the next stop, the organizations were guests at the High School, after which the
Glee Club offered several numbers at a Davidson College Alumni luncheon held at the Gaston Country Club. The afternoon concert
was staged at the Kings Mountain High School. To complete the day, a large audience of school children and town
people were entertained at the evening performance at the School in Marion, N. C. Tuesday morning the group appeared at
the Morganton High School in Morganton, and at 3:00 P.M. entertained at Caroleen, N. C., where students and music lovers
from Henrietta, Avondale, and Cliffside made up the audience. Following supper in the High School Cafeteria at Shelby, the group
appeared at 5:15 in the Shelby High School Auditorium.High School Auditorium. Prof. James C. Pfohl, Director of Music at Davidson,
remarked today upon the evidence of genuine appreciation and spontaneous pleasure which was apparent in the audiences at all of
the concerts. “It appeared,” said Mr. Pfohl, “that the teaching of music in the elementary schools and High Schools in
our state has developed a high degree of music appreciation and that everywhere there is a real determination to preserve
in the war the cultural advantages in our society. Certainly," he continued, “our people have come to a realization that
music and art are two of the finer things of life for which we are fighting.”

Earl Frankenstein directed the Glee Club, and in addition was the recipient of an ovation at many of the concerts
where he appeared on the program as a baritone soloist.

Miller Elected By Soph Class

Ray Miller, sophomore from St. Louis, Mo., has been elected sophomore representative to the student council, it was announced by
Jim Alexander, president of the Class of '46. Miller is managing editor of The Davidsonian, a member of the Y.
M. C. A. Cabinet, and of Phi Gamma social fraternity. He has been out for football, basketball, and baseball this
year. Miller takes the place of Bryant Monroe, who left school to enter the Navy V-12 program early in March.
Cecil Garrett, manager of the baseball team and member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, was runner-up in the election. Other men
who were nominated were Lennox Turnbull and Ed Ashby.

Graduation To Be Held On May 27

Thirteen Seniors Will Receive Diplomas in Streamlined Service

Announcement was made today at Davidson College by the Public Relations office of plans for the Commencement exercises which will
take place during the week of May 21-27. Dr. Frank W. Price, of the Class of 1915, will deliver the
baccalaureate sermon Sunday morning, May 21. Dr. Price was for a long time Professor of Religious Education at Nanking Theological
Seminary, Nanking, China. At the present time he is in Washington, D. C. where he is working on a special
assignment for the Chinese Government. While at Davidson, Dr. Price, who was born in China, was president of the Y.
M. C. A., editor-in-chief of the DAVIDSONIAN, a member of the Student Council, and of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma
Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity.

The vesper services on May 21 will be conducted by the Rev. Irving M. Ellis of Gastonia, at 7:30 in
Chambers Auditorium. On Thursday, May 25, the executive committee of the Board of Trustees will meet at the college in
its regular semi-annual session, and on Friday, May 26, the entire Board will hold its regular meeting.

The program for Saturday, May 27, will begin with the meeting of the executive committee of the Alumni Council at
9:15. This committee is composed of all past-presidents of the Alumni Association and the present officers. At 10:00 A.M. the
Alumni Council will hold its regular annual meeting. The Academic Procession will start at 11:20, and graduation exercises at 11:30.
Indications are that 13 seniors will receive their diplomas. The list includes the following:

Candidates for A.B. degree: W. H. Goodman, of Kannapolis; J. E. Murray, of Concord; J. D. Stimson, of Chattanooga, Tenn.;
K. L. Turner, of Leaksville, N. C.; M. C. Wilds, of Hendersonville.

Candidates for the B.S. degree: W. D. Baird, of Davidson; R. C. Bradford, Jr. of Davidson; T. P. Bradley of
Glade Springs, Va.; J. V. Brock, of Pores Knob, N. C.; L. R. Drake, Jr., of Richmond, Va.; R. E.
Miller, of Charlotte; H. Pearsall, Jr., of Wilmington, N. C.; F. H. Watt, of Thomasville, Ga.

The annual Senior-Alumni luncheon, which has long been a colorful event at Davidson, is scheduled to be held on the
campus, in picnic style, at 1:00 P.M. On this occasion the new officers of the general Alumni Association will be
elected and the Senior Class will be officially inducted into the association. According to John Payne, director of public relations
and alumni secretary, the observance will be streamlined (as was the case last year) on account of the war and
restrictions on travel. “It is hoped,” said Mr. Payne, “that many alumni will find it possible to return to the
college on Saturday, May 27. Attendance at graduation exercises last year was far in excess of our expectations.”
