Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, September 28, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

J. S. Blain
Editor

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Staff Photographer
Assistant

George Apperson
PDE LOWRY
RONNIE
George Gunn
Jack Lazenby
Circulation Manager
Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy.
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE.
New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

To The Freshmen...

Becoming a freshman in college is an important event in the life of any young man. Becoming a freshman at
Davidson makes that event even more important! On behalf of the old students of Davidson, we wish to extend a
hearty welcome to all new men, and to make a few suggestions and cautions which we hope will be helpful
in your life here.

Since coming to Davidson you have surely heard that it is a school of traditions. Learn those traditions and observe
them in your life here. If you don’t know them, get your Wildcat Handbook and read up! Davidson spirit will
be observed in the upper classes, and the older students will expect you to carry on, and to maintain the
high standards of which we are all proud.

A recent Honor graduate of Davidson was heard to say: “I could have had a much higher average had it
not been for my freshman grades.” That is a word of warning which all new men should heed. Remember that
your graduation will be one of the major events of your life, and start building toward it now. Enter into
the social life of Davidson, but remember that your diploma will be awarded you only on one basis—scholarship.

Mentioned in the opening paragraph is the fact that a man is fortunate to be a freshman at Davidson. One
has only to look at the position in which students of other larger colleges find themselves to see how Davidson
is far superior. Our enrollment is large and our faculty comparatively intact. Our fraternities are functioning, as are the majority
of the extra-curricular activities. Every freshman should be aware of his privilege in being here, and the subsequent responsibility to
do his part in keeping Davidson high on the list.

Davidson is noted as a Christian college, and its students are proud of that fact. You, as a member of
its student body, will be expected to live as a Christian gentleman at all times. Whether you think you are
succeeding or not is important, but not as important as you at least try. By making a try you will
be a much happier person, and you will win the respect of those around you.

Finally, remember that you are a freshman. As such, you will have certain duties and rules which you will be
expected to follow. Those who have gone before you have been through those things, too, and everything you are required
to do has a purpose behind it. Enter into the spirit of the thing, and get to be a Davidson
man! Here’s to a great year, the first of your four at Davidson!

Congratulations...

We quote from the Davidsonian of July 28, 1944: “There is no longer a Student Store at Davidson. The establishment
in the basement of the gym which has taken over the stock and the name of the Student Store is
neither managed nor clerked by students, nor is it even operated with the students’ interests primarily in mind.”

It was a joy to the student body to return this fall and find the Stud re-established on almost the
same basis as former days. Though it is not in its old location, it is in just as good a
place, perhaps better. The enlarged space afforded the Stud is a definite improvement in some respects. The question of heating
so large a room is dubious, however.

It is encouraging to see the Store back at the doorsteps of the dorms. To be able to grab a
“coke” or a smoke without walking halfway to Cornelius is a pleasure, to say the least. Hours at the Stud
have also been changed to meet the students’ demands, and the only suggested improvement is that a clerk might be
on hand at midnight Sunday. Genial Pete Whittle is still in charge, and he now has a staff of student
clerks who make the place look like pre-war days. The boys are there to see that the Student Store belongs
to the students, and this was another badly needed change.

A very necessary thought is that the blame for the Stud’s position this summer lay largely upon the students themselves.
Now that it is again running on the old basis, it is up to the students to keep it that
way. The students should be grateful for the co-operation of the administration in making the Stud a more convenient and
more congenial place to gather.Around

Like most Davidsonian feature columns, this one was born in the wee hours of the morning only a few hours
from a deadline and a dead editor. With wits and pencils as sharp as they are at that time of
night, the substance of this feature had to be borrowed. Assuming that stuff written for The Davidsonian becomes its property,
Bill Lyman's old column entitled Slyme was the source of the drama which follows.

With rushing now behind us, we take you back behind the scenes and expose the squalid truth of those sleepless
and pledge-less days of rush week.

No Alpha Sig He, or *&%*$$*

ACT I

Scene: The chapter room of the Alpha Sigma Sigma House. About thirty students, with collars unbuttoned, shoes off, are draped
at various places about the room. These men look as though they had just been through Custer’s Last Stand, all
groaning quietly. Time: about 10:15 in the evening, after official rushing has ended for the day.

(There is no action seen nor audible comment heard for ten minutes.)

(Enter the chapter president.)

Prexy: *&%*$§*&%*$.

1st Stud: *&%*$§*&%*$.

2nd Stud: *&%*$§*&%*$.

Prexy: Cut out all this *&%*$§ cussing.

3rd Stud: (Waking up) I call for the box.

Stooge: (Also waking up) I'm gonna ball, Hadley.

3rd Stud: What's his last name?

Stooge: Whose?

3rd Stud: Hadley Murgatroyd’s.

Stooge: I don’t know.

3rd Stud: Don’t mention it.

Prexy: Now, listen, fellers, we’ve got to get something done. It’s getting late, and we've got to get a good
night's sleep.

1st Stud: *&Zo*$Qr&*$.

(And at this point one dear brother, feeling a bit warm, starts taking off his shirt. Immediately two men begin
playing “Take It Off” on the victrola. There is a sudden hush, as the piece ends, and Brother Le-Lovey steps
forward, tap dancing and singing.)

Oh Alpha Sig, we can get them,
Get them every one;
Oh Alpha Sig, we can get them
Ere the week is done.
Ball every third man
As through their names we run:
Else we will never get
This stuff done!

Prexy: (Beating mallet) Order, order!

2nd Stud: Swiss on rye and a cup of coffee. *&%*$§*&%*$.

Prexy: The first name tonight is Hadley Murgatroyd.

1st Stud: *&%*$E* Re *§.

Rush Chm.: He’s a Good Boy! He’s sure Phi Beta material, was president of his high school student body, captain
of the football team, and besides, his family is the best in his home town.

2nd Stud: Where's he from?

Rush Chm.: Cornelius.

3rd Stud: Is he that fellow who sat over in that chair (pointing).

Rush Chm.: Why, yes!

3rd Stud: (Dramatically) I'm gonna ball that man.

Rush Chm.: (Becoming annoyed) Now listen, you don’t even know him well. He's really a good boy when you get
to know him. Why don’t you like him?

3rd Stud: (Stubbornly) He smokes Paul Maul’s.

This Might Be You

Now that all the Freshmen are “on the drive” one may observe many, many examples of strong willpower and keen
concentration. We see the ambitious young men start off bright and fresh at 8:30 p.m.

“Now, let’s see. Where’s that pencil? Ah, here it is. Now here comes that Yankee. Wonder what he wants?”

“Geeze kid, I just heard a new joke. Wait’ll ya hear it. Ya see there wuz this guy in the
phone booth, see? And he got stabbed, see? Now ya get it? He got stuck in the middle of his
conversation. Ha, ha, ha.”

“Really a harmless creature, you just leave him alone and he wanders away. Well, back to work. Alpha, Beta and
unh, unh. Hey shut up! How can a guy study? We've got to get some work done around here.”

“Oh, hi Joe, come on in. Read any of this stuff? No thanks, I quit. Training, you know. Well—maybe one
wouldn’t hurt anything. What's her name? Yeh, she’s nice. Going to Charlotte Saturday? See if you can get me a
date, will you? See you in the morning, Joe.”

“I won't read any more of this. Maybe he won’t go this far tomorrow. What? No, you can’t borrow the
alarm clock. You forgot to wake me up in time for my second period class. I don’t care if you
miss breakfast. Give it back, you lousy *x$&*$.”

Ah Huh

Twelve o'clock. Gosh, where'll I hide my hat, under the rug maybe. Who'd ever find it there? Oh, it’s too
late to study any more; think I'll go to bed.”

And so ends another night of the freshman on the long road to education.

Stooge: On land, da da da da, da da; in the air...

Prexy: (Interrupting) We're getting nowhere fast. We'll go on to the next man, Sneezy Jones.

4th Stud: Well, he’s a pretty good boy, but I don’t think he’s Alpha Sig material.

Stooge: I make a motion that the rushing chairman ball every other man on the list and that we adjourn.

Prexy: All in favor say “Aye.”

All: Aye.

Prexy: All opposed say “No.”

All: No.

Prexy: We stand adjourned until tomorrow night.

Curtain

ACT TWO

Time: Same night, just after the meeting.

Scene: A campus pathway leading to the dormitories. It is a dark, dark, dark night, and ominous trees are seen
looming up in the background. Everything is sort of Stygian. Two students are seen stumbling along the path.

1st Stud: (Cursing quietly).

2nd Stud: (Cursing quietly).

Curtain

ACT THREE

Time: Same day, a little later.

Scene: A dormitory room. One of the Alpha Sig’s is dramatically holding a glass of poison in his hand —
evidently in profound thought. There is a look of deep, deep misery on his face.

Alpha Sig: Rush week is really more than I can stand. (He gulps poison and crumples in a heap on
the floor. Very dramatic.)

Curtain

FINIS
