Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, October 13, 1944

Into The Life of Things

By J. S. BLAIN

Continuing the same policy as we pursued this summer, Into the Life of Things will seek to put before the
students some thoughts of a spiritual nature based chiefly on the talks made in Chapel and Vesper services throughout the
year.

The opening Vesper service of the term was conducted by Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the local church. Dr. Pritchett
is at present acting as secretary of the Y. M. C. A., and is a man who wants to know
the students, and who has been a great source of help and inspiration to many Davidson men.

In his excellent sermon, Dr. Pritchett emphasized three points which are the evidence of spiritual maturity in man. The deeply
rooted, personal religion of a man is the first of these. Also, an educated, sensitive conscience which will guide all
decisions, is a prime essential. A personal devotion to Jesus Christ is the third. These marks of maturity of soul
are worthy aims for every student to have in his career at Davidson.

Dr. James A. Jones, of Charlotte, encouraged the students to remember that merely to have ideals, aims, and resolves is
not enough. Every man must have the fortitude to back up his resolves, and to live the life which God
meant that he should live.

In his usual original manner, Dr. Kenneth J. Foreman, of our own faculty, centered his sermon on last Sunday night
around the question, “After V-Day, What?” With this question as his subject, Dr. Foreman proceeded to ask a few more
pertinent questions. Quoting from Time magazine, he pointed out that the government anticipates no V-Day, and expects a lengthy period
of fighting in the Pacific after the European war ends. He also pointed out that victory will be useless unless
a policy of relief, rehabilitation, and reorganization is carried out in the conquered countries.

Dr. Foreman then applied his questions to the individual mind and soul, asking the all-important questions: “Are you fighting the
evil in your own soul? What about your V-Day?” The celebration of V-Day in our earthly and spiritual wars is
the true standard by which we can determine whether we deserve our victories. The truly final victory comes when “Christ
establishes His beachhead in your soul.”

Professor Beatty’s impressive Chapel service in honor of Jimmy Fulcher was one which will long be remembered in Davidson. The
sympathy of all is with Jimmy’s family, and it is a real and devastating blow to the college and the
community to lose this one who was loved and honored by all who knew him.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company.

THERE MAY BE A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US “When It’s Over Over There”

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.

118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THIS and THAT FROM THE ASTRO (Continued from Page 1)

joke on a Cadet Officer, kindly wait until he is in his shirt and kill two birds (?) with one
razor blade.

To sum up the matter in one brief statement: an unenjoyable time was had by all.

We've heard that a lot of boys are still under the impression that there is a girl shortage. It is
of our opinion that the fellows are either too engrossed in their studies (joke) or they have no sense of
direction for they refuse to believe that there are sixteen hundred girls at Winthrop College who would like to have
dates. (Hint). From our own personal observation (oh boy!) they are really a wonderful bunch of girls.

We promised you corn and you got it; Now digest it, if you can. So until next issue we wish
you a fond auf-wiedersehen. Oh heck, so long until next time.

SPEECH HAS BEEN NEGLECTED LATELY (Continued from Page 1)

study of parliamentary order, and other related work of the societies is highly valuable. Further, there is a social value
which is not to be overlooked.

“During these days when travel is not so easy, these societies could be especially helpful to the life of the
college.”

The president also stated that announcement of further post-war plans for Davidson College will be announced in a few weeks.

STARTLING SPEED SEEN FOR FUTURE TRAVELERS

LONDON, Oct. 4—A House of Commons committee heard a prediction yesterday that in the not far distant future passengers may
travel between New York and London faster than sound in pilotless stratosphere planes—like riding a flying bomb.

The prediction was made by Sir Henry Tizard, formerly head of research in the Aircraft Production ministry, in urging the
government to allot $4,000,000 for civil aviation research.

SOLICITING PERSONAL Loans & Savings

INDUSTRIAL LOAN & INVESTMENT BANK

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.

Sporting Goods

415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

VISIT YOUR Local Theatre

The Student Store

With WRITING SUPPLIES CAKES STATIONERY COLD DRINKS

Serving the Students

IN THE OLD GYM

The Place to Work Up and Satisfy Your Appetite

ENJOY LANCE PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES WITH YOUR DRINK

J. O. JONES, Inc.

COME TO SEE US FOR YOUR FALL

Suits & Overcoats

J. O. JONES, Inc.
