Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 24, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DAVE RICHARDSON

BUSINESS MANAGER
DEXTER WITHERINGTON

EDITORIAL STAFF
John Ashe... Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson... Associate Editor
Clayton Scofield... Feature Editor
Jim Lowry... Sports Editor
Ray Miller... Managing Editor
Sam Ervin... Managing Editor
Jim Love... Managing Editor
Kurt Wernli... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Fritz Ledigerton... Circulation Manager
Murphy Wilds... Advertising Manager
James Turnbull... Advertising Manager
Bart Mahoney... Advertising Subscription Manager
Tom Smith... Office Manager

Entered as second class matter March 3, 1879, at the post office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of
March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.

The DAVIDSONIAN Presents Editorials

Coe features far more credit than they ever receive. Here I am referring to the band, orchestra, and glee club.
In the south, these organizations are rated as the finest of their kind, yet on the Davidson campus, they are
looked down on as mere “fixtures,” and consequently, they seem to be taken for granted.

After our football teams and basketball teams spend long hours practicing and drilling, we turn out and support them to
the fullest degree when they show what they can do. Yet, after the orchestra spends three or four months going
over and over music until they know the music practically by heart, when they give a concert, seldom is there
more than a mere handful to appreciate it.

Here Lies...
It is with regret that we mourn the passing away of the subject mentioned perhaps more often in connection with
the name “Davidson College” than any other—tradition.

From every side still comes cries of “Davidson was founded on tradition—tradition this—tradition that.” The subject of all the talk
is disappearing, and the talk is rapidly becoming a funeral oration. There is no longer any organized cheering in front
of Chambers, or even good attendance at games on the campus. A freshman carrying laundry is a sight which attracts
upperclassmen to the windows in surprise. Grass on the front campus is being turned into the ground. Students very rarely
visit professors on Sunday nights, forgetting that when they return to the college as alumni, the only people they will
know will be faculty members. These are only a few of the traditions which have disappeared through negligence. Many formerly
valued aspects of college life have been forced out of existence because of the war. Publication of the magazine and
annual are out of the question. Much could be done, however, to revive some of the lost causes. The Court
of Control has disbanded, lacking a Judge, so freshmen go unruled. Davidson had one of the most lenient frosh systems
even in peacetime; even Freshmen themselves will agree that a little hazing is fun for everybody, and fraternity men are
unanimous in stating that harsh treatment helped them. It is part of college life. Cutting across the grass could also
be stopped if students were willing. The University of Kentucky has a fine of $5.00 for walking on their grass.
A less drastic means, which would have some effect, would be to have the leaves and dead limbs raked up
enough so that the grass could be seen. Last year's leaves don't inspire keeping off. Perhaps when the war is
over traditions will pop up again. Those who remember with glee the days when Chambers auditorium was full at chapel
and there was a shirttail parade every week would like to see traditions perpetuated, but the turnover of students is
so rapid that only a miracle or the faculty can keep them alive.

To The Editor...
Dear Editor: On the Davidson Campus, there is one group of organizations which deserve far more credit than they ever
receive. Here I am referring to the band, orchestra, and glee club. In the south, these organizations are rated as
the finest of their kind, yet on the Davidson campus, they are looked down on as mere “fixtures,” and consequently,
they seem to be taken for granted. After our football teams and basketball teams spend long hours practicing and drilling,
we turn out and support them to the fullest degree when they show what they can do. Yet, after the
orchestra spends three or four months going over and over music until they know the music practically by heart, when
they give a concert, seldom is there more than a mere handful to appreciate it. The reason is that if
a person does not care for it, then he is missing a great deal in his purpose as a student
in a liberal arts college. One might say that since there is no competition, which we have when we go
to see a football game, there is not that same interest or spirit. This is true, but must there be
competition in order for one to enjoy the fine and beautiful in life? Last weekend there was a broadcast with
the band and glee club participating, and those who listened to it and have any knowledge of music whatsoever will
be proud to say that it was in a real sense very close to professional. Saturday night in Charlotte, the
Symphony orchestra gave a concert which was heard and appreciated by a good-sized group of the most intellectual people in
Charlotte. Sunday afternoon the same concert was given in Chambers Auditorium for the benefit of the student body largely, and
the number there could be easily counted on two hands. Why is this? It is not necessary for us all
to turn into “long hairs,” or make Bach and Beethoven the topic of every “bull session,” but it does seem
that we could be just a bit more appreciative of the fine arts in our midst.

Okay, Okay...
P-i-g-e-o-n, far exceeding the racket raised by professors shooting the poor birds was the uproar over misspelling the word. Spelling,
we think, is a matter of personal inclination. U cn undrstnd, this, cnt u? But this is no revolt against
the present system of English. We understand that a lot of the uproar was just kidding, but hearing the faculty
say their mind has brought up another subject. With the staff as small as it is, coverage of the news
of the campus is difficult, to say the least. We can sometimes manage to get routine news written up, but
every now and then a good story breaks which the staff has never heard of. Examples of such oversight were
the Red Cross Drive, which drove in and out without tooting a horn, and many others. A tip-off by faculty
members who knew what was going on would have made a better Davidsonian. Since the paper comes out only twice
a month, there is plenty of time to get notices of coming events published. We know that the faculty is
busy (so busy that only a few ever get to chapel services), but it does not take decades to address
a postcard to theDavidsonian. Like the college, the paper admittedly “ain't what she used to be,” but cooperation from the
faculty as well as students would help more than a little. Thanks, friends.

He was seen in a restaurant in Charlotte—a healthy child, fed largely on testi-Black Market.

Y’ Corner
By THOMAS K. COLLINS

“In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” Yesterday was the first day of spring
and as such brings thoughts, not of love, but of “spring cleaning” to Yours Truly. Therefore, I'm going to get
out my old broom and sweep up some of the dirt that is involved in the lives of the Davidson
student and let you have it for what it is worth.

The Bachelor's Club suffered a great shock last Monday evening when they thought that they had lost one of their
charter members, Ed Ashby. It seems that Flash awoke on “blue” Monday with the evidences of a “great struggle” still
smeared on his lips and handkerchief and, to top it off, a confession that he had lost his frat pin.
It took Ed quite a while to convince the Club that Flee had not won out and that he was
still a member. Beware, Ashby, she's got your number!

Our track star Dexter is still wearing the familiar red color of embarrassment in his cheeks from a little incident
that happened this past week. As the story goes, he was seated with a nice young lady in a restaurant
which was quite modernistic and had two little doors near his table that were marked Adam and Eve. For some
unknown reason, the Brain got the idea that they led to a gambling den and said to his date: “Want
to go in there and gamble a little?” Having waited a short time for an answer from the lady and
having received only an icy stare, Dexter closed the conversation by announcing: “Heck, they're only shooting a lot of crap
anyway.” My face would be red too, Dexter!

Shucks, it looks like we'll have to start going to the show again for our “love-making” lessons since the Air
Corps is going to close Midway Lane. We used to save fifty cents by sitting in front of a gas
station after supper and watching the Birdmen operate. Sometimes it was even better than a Robert Taylor thriller or a
Hedy Lamarr “de-icer.” Oh well, all good things must come to an end and I imagine that the Air Corps
members of the “Hen-pecked” club will miss it more than we.

I guess that I'll have to spend a little of my time here on the subject of Pinning Up. However,
being a confirmed bachelor I naturally frown a little on the act, since results can be gotten without it. However,
it is in my line of duty to say that Bruce Fisher and Tom Snodgrass now are among the ranks
of the “pinless” boys. It seems that they both fell before the onslaughts of Charlotte women, showing that the Queen
City does occasionally give forth with women that have something on the ball.

By ED PATERSON

The Spring Services are over (?). That is, Dr. Hall has given us six talks and he is now back
in Alabama. But what he has said stays behind and is ours. Most likely we have taken from these services
what we were ready to receive: encouragement, determination, new faith, clearer vision, closeness to God, hope, inspiration, whatever it might
be. It seems to me that the worth of such a meeting is to be measured by its results, by
its lasting effect. We have gained some new ideas from our worship services—ideas about God, about other people, and about
ourselves. But, ideas are like dollars—useless if not spent. If thoughts are not exercised and put into action, they are
of no value.

Death Notice

“Mrs. Prayer Meeting died recently at the First Neglected Church, on Worldly Avenue. Born many years ago in the midst
of great revivals, she was a strong, healthy child, fed largely on testimony and scripture holiness, soon growing into worldwide
prominence and was one of the most influential members of the famous church family. For the past several years Sister
Prayer Meeting has been in failing health, gradually wasting away until rendered helpless by stiffness of knees, coldness of heart,
inactivity, and weakness of purpose and willpower. At the last she was but a shadow of her former happy self.
Her last whispered words were inquiries concerning the strange absence of her loved ones, now absent from her presence, busy
in the marts of trade and places of worldly amusement. Her older brother, Mr. Class Meeting, has been similarly ailing
for many years.

Experts, including Dr. Works, Dr. Reform, and Dr. Joiner, disagreed as to the cause of her fatal illness, administering large
doses of organization, socials, contests, and drives, but to no avail. A post-mortem showed that a deficiency of spiritual food,
coupled with lack of fasting, faith, heartfelt religion, shameless desertion, and non-support, were contributing causes. Only a few were present
at her death, sobbing over memories of her past beauty and power. Carefully selected pallbearers were urged to tenderly bear
her remains away, but failed to appear, there were no flowers. Her favorite hymns, ‘Amazing Grace’ and ‘Rock of Ages’,
were not sung. Miss Ima Modern rendered ‘Beautiful Isle of Somewhere’, but none had any idea where this fancied isle
might be. The body rests in the beautiful cemetery of Bygone Glories, awaiting the summons from above. In honor of
her going, the church doors will be closed on Wednesday nights save on the third Wednesday of each month when
the Ladies’ Pink Lemonade Society serves refreshments to the members of the men’s handball team.”

From “The Southern Presbyterian Journal”

How would the notice read if “Mr. Student Sunday School” were substituted for “Mrs. Prayer Meeting”?

Yours,
Ed Patterson
