Page Six

DEDICATION SUCCESS (Continued from Page 1)

Cunningham. “Professor Earl Berg, director, conducted the Glee Club through a musical number entitled ‘Oh Holy Father.’ Governor J. Melville Broughton brought greetings from the State of North Carolina and commended the College on the tangible evidence of progress furnished by the construction of the new Science Building.

In the principal address of the afternoon, Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President of Washington and Lee University, and President of the Association, brought congratulations on behalf of the American Colleges upon this magnificent resource, an emphasis for an established competence; and I extend that congratulation to the very choosing of a name, not merely the enforcement of remembrance, but also an acknowledgment of the mandate of an inheritance.

Dr. Gaines spoke of the tremendous impact that science is making today in our thinking and upon our social patterns. He raised the question of whether science is to be brought under the authority of our idealism, referring to the amazing accelerations that science has made in contributing to the destruction of man and his civilization in a world at war. ‘Mother Nature,’ he said, ‘yields to our stubborn questing, some mystic secret. That secret will be turned to bless or to curse as the character of our race determines. Suddenly,’ said he, ‘we know that science is not the whole story. We see that its relation to human welfare is appropriately recognized upon the campus of a liberal arts college.’ The speaker concluded with the statement that Christian colleges existed principally to sustain ideals in the face of a common hope. ‘Thus with clear vision of the implications of science in all its power and with new consecration to the ideal, the Christian college purposes that science shall have its honorable and influential part in the glorious ideal which is the Kingdom of God among men.’

The degree of Doctor of Science was conferred upon Norman Thomas Kirk, Major General and Surgeon General of the United States Army. The citation made reference to his distinguished service to his country, to the international recognition of his medical research, operative skill, and authoritative texts. The benediction was pronounced by the Rev. A. L. Currie, D.D., of Richmond, Va., son-in-law of the younger Dr. Martin.

Hello Friends

Alumni In Service

Bill Ross, '46; Milton Mann, '44; Jimmie Morgan, '45; and Lloyd Pritchett, '45, are all enrolled in the Army Air Forces’ pre-flight school at Maxwell Field, Ala., where they will receive nine weeks of military, physical, and academic instruction in preparation for flight training. Jim Davis, '44, is a medical student at the Harvard School of Medicine. Al King, '45, is studying at the University of Virginia, having been honorably discharged from the army last fall. J. M. Robinson is studying for the ministry at Columbia Theological Seminary and plans to return to Davidson this summer.

In February, Robert H. Wood, son of Professor of Mathematics W. W. Wood, became the father of a son. His address is Suwanee Military Academy, Tennessee, where he is an instructor. Jack N. Behrman is now living at 425 W. Cameron Avenue, Chapel Hill. He is a Teaching Fellow in the Department of Economics at the University of North Carolina. Lieutenant Joseph Kellam, USN, recently received the Silver Star from the commandant of the Bermuda Naval Operating Base. While piloting a patrol plane in the South Pacific, Lieutenant Kellam, a graduate of the class of 1938, sighted a Japanese carrier and supporting force, closed in despite enemy fighters and ack-ack, and communicated full information to his base and his own carrier force.

Lieutenant R. E. Sleet, '42, has received the second Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal. Assigned to a B-24 unit in the European theatre of operations, he has participated in raids over Kiel, Bremen, Berlin, and other important industrial targets. Lieutenant Sleet, a navigator, received his B-24 training at Lowry Field, Colorado.

Lieutenant Tommy Harnsberger, a Navy pilot, flies a Hell-Diver in the South Pacific. Recent visitors to the campus include Lt. Joe McCoy, '43; Lt. Lacy MacLean, '43; Ben Washburn, '43; Gene Bingham, '43; John Rose, '45; Lt. Fred Morton, '44; and Midshipman Frank Sanford. Lt. Tony Darby, after being wounded by a mine explosion in Italy early in November where he was commander of his company, has returned to the States and is a patient at the Stark General Hospital, Charleston, S.C. Lt. Ed Hipp was a member of the 176th Infantry Regiment's football team at Fort...

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise Davidson, N.C.

Whatever Your Needs

STONESTREET Grade A Cafe 418 S. Main Mooresville, N.C.

Hello Friends—Since the good old, prodigal philosopher has returned to our fair campus, it seems as though we must pass on to you some of the classic impressions and cogitations. In fact, to several wits as they stood around the steps of Georgia deciding the most expedient and least active move to make next—to wit (continuing)—‘the one thing that would completely and revolutionarily change the course of destiny, infinitely benefit mankind... yes, even create a new species of Pithecanthropus Erectus, is my secret formula, C36p(dq) 19 FN VT, which when injected into the bloodstream causes (Continued on Page 8).Benning last autumn, when the team added the Infantry School conference football title to a previously-won baseball championship. Petty Officer 2-c Jimmy Dorton, an aerial gunner aboard a Navy patrol plane, tells of the night that his plane cracked up at Tulagi Harbor, burned, and sank in a very short time. Only two men escaped. Dorton did not get a scratch, because he was thrown through a gun blister when the plane hit the water. Dorton has seen service around Midway, Pearl Harbor, Johnson Island, Canton, and New Georgia. Lt. Herb Rainey, ‘43, and Mrs. Rainey, announced the birth of a daughter, Mary Katherine, in Statesville, early in November. Rainey is the first of his class to become a father.

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
April 28, 29 “Song of Russia”
Late show, “Moon Over Las Vegas”
May 1, 2, “Shine On Harvest Moon”
May 3, 4, “It Happened Tomorrow”
May 5, 6, “The Navy Way”
Late show (to be supplied)
May 8, 9, “Heavenly Body”
May 10, 11, “Lady in the Dark”
May 12, 13, “Can’t Ration Love”
Late show, “Hat Check Honey”

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Parker-Gardner-Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR

Armed Services
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, the Pan-Hellenic Council, during and before orientation. It contains student body regulations and constitution, messages from student and faculty leaders, copies of college songs and yells, and other information useful to new men.

Friday, April 28, 1944

U.T.S. Selects Davidson Men
Alexander And McNair Publish 1944 Handbook
Watts Leads Discussion at Y.M.C.A. Conference

Al McNair and Jim Alexander have been chosen to head the staff of the Y.M.C.A. Handbook, it was announced by Hank Watt, president of the Y cabinet. McNair, Sanford, N.C., will take over the position of editor-in-chief, held last year by Jim Stimpson, and become business manager, succeeding D.D. Phillips. McNair is president of the local chapter of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and a member of the Y cabinet. Alexander, from Charlotte, is president of the sophomore class, and vice-president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon and of the Philanthropic Literary Society. The Y Handbook is published every summer as an aid to freshmen.

In the recent student body elections at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, five of the eight officers elected for next year are Davidson graduates. The Davidson men elected were Albert Winn, Harold (Buddy) Wells, Bill Summers, Paul Warren, and Joe Hopper. Winn, of the class of ‘42, is from Greenville, S.C. He was president of the student body in ‘41-‘42, and was president of Beta Theta Pi. He was also managing editor of the Davidsonian, a member of the Y cabinet, and a member of O.D.K. and Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternities. He will be a senior at the Seminary next year and has been elected president of the student body. Wells, a native of Petersburg, Va., plans to finish his work at Davidson in summer school this summer. Last year he was president of the Y cabinet and of O.D.K. He was also a member of the student council and was active in the Glee Club and the Philanthropic Literary Society. He has been elected to the office of secretary of the seminary student body. Summers, of the class of ‘42, is from Statesville. He was a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and Forensic Council, and Eta Sigma Phi honorary fraternity. He is the new treasurer of the seminary student council. Warren, a native of Allendale, S.C., was a member of the class of ‘35. He was a Pi Kappa Phi and, besides being active in the Glee Club and the Band, was awarded a letter as varsity cheerleader. Hopper, of the class of ‘42, came to Davidson from Korea, where his parents were missionaries until the outbreak of hostilities. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity and was active in the literary society and the orchestra. All of these men are studying for the ministry in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.

In connection with other Y.M.C.A. work, it was announced that President Watt would lead a discussion on “Meeting the Religious Needs of Today’s Campus” in a conference of the presidents of all college Y.M.C.A.s and Y.W.C.A.s in North Carolina. The conference will be held in Raleigh on May 5, 6, and 7. The Y cabinet plans an annual spring retreat for the weekend of May 6 and 7. They intend to spend Saturday and Sunday at Camp Steer, on Catawba River. Camp Steer is a Boy Scout camp on the York road not far from Charlotte.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR
AIR CORPS STATIONERY
PENNANTS
SANDWICHES
COLD DRINKS
SANDY
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
FRATERNITY STATIONERY
Prices Cut on all Air Corps Goods
Courteous and efficient Self Service
AT MANAGERS
NEWT SPENCER
BILL SMITH

He was president of the Glee Club, the