Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN April 7, 1944

Flag Dedication To Be Sunday Service Banner Honoring Alumni To Be Presented

A college service flag presentation and dedication will follow the vesper program next Sunday. The community, faculty, and students of
Davidson will join in a short service in memory of 38 Davidson alumni who have been killed in action in
this war, and honoring 1954 alumni who are now fighting for the Davidson way of life around the globe. The
ceremony will be held in Chambers Auditorium immediately after the musical service by the college musical organizations, which is the
scheduled vesper program.

The new service flag will bear a gold star with a blue border over the number 38, and below a
blue service star will be the number 1954. Both stars are centered in a white field surrounded by a red
border. The flag will hang in the auditorium with a new United States flag of the same size on the
opposite side of the stage.

Dr. James Leads Chapel Speaker Travelled In Persia, South America

The chapel speaker at noon last Friday was Dr. H. P. Young, Personal Secretary of the Mission Board of the
Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. Dr. Young spoke on the subject “The Light of the World is Jesus.” He referred
to the many beliefs and concepts in different parts of the world today as to what is the true light
of the world. “Each nation thinks,” he said, “that they have the true light in their national religion or ideology.
We cannot be too sure that we have the true light unless or until ours is an active following of
Christ and not simply a hereditary acceptance or a mere mental assent. We cannot see the Christian light by basking
or reclining in the reflected rays. Relief from darkness is promised only to those who are active followers of the
true light of the world.”

After having spent ten years of his life in Persia, Dr. Young was the head of the Near East College
Council for a term of years. He has made two trips to South America recently in the interest of Missions
and Latin American relations.

CUNNINGHAM HOPES (Continued from Page 1)

He pointed out that there may be some significance in the fact that June 30 is the date set for
the removal of all air crew students, while July 1 is that set for full operation of the college program.
High Point, Catawba, and State were among the remaining North Carolina colleges affected by the removal of air crew units
from 81 colleges over the country. The order affected more than 40,000 air crew students, 500 of whom are at
Davidson in the 244th C.T.D. South Carolina colleges affected by the order were Clemson, Presbyterian, Wofford, Winthrop, and Furman.

FAMOUS ARTIST RECITAL (Continued from Page 1)

Mr. Christian was recalled six times, fittingly upholding America’s place in the event, according to critics. The program given by
Mr. Christian will include “Concerto No. 2, in B Flat Minor” and “Largo” by Handel; “Gavotte and Variations” by Stanley;
“Sheep May Safely Graze” and “Prelude and Fugue in A Minor” by Bach; “Fantasie in A Minor” by Franck; “Prelude
on a Gregorian Theme” by Purvis; “Canzona” by Gade; and “Toccata” by Widor.

With a total of 153 missions, this quartet of alumni—Clarence McArthur, Joe John McGee, Robert Raney, Wilbur Carter, Burkhead Walker,
Tom Stimson, Calhoun Hipp, Jack Way, Spike Mebane, Bill Lyman, Jesse Wooten, Bill Robinson, Jim Harris, Herb Rainey, and Hank
Crane—have finished Officer Candidate School at Ft. Benning, Ga., and have received their commissions as second lieutenants. C. McNeely Morton
and Ross McArthur also received their commissions there and were sent to Ft. Benning.

Recent midshipmen who have been promoted to ensigns are Arthur Gamble, Lane Walton, S. Schmidt, and Pres- ton S. Martin.
Schmidt was married on New Year's Eve to Miss Betsy Hanna of Shelbyville, Ky. The solo- mon, MacLehn, graduated recently
from the Tank School at Camp Hood, Texas, and was commissioned a second lieutenant. Lt. Bill Wood, Jr., has just
been sent overseas from Camp Pickett, Va. Lt. John McGee and Miss Ann Canby were married in Little Rock, Ark.,
on December 16.Combat pilots exhibited, quite unconsciously, four primary qualities of AAF fighting airmen when this photo was taken at
Hendricks Field, Fla., recently. Shrewd, cool aggressiveness is registered by Capt. James McDonald, left; while Major Clarence Thacker, second from
the left, exhibits the relaxed, good-natured confidence which marks the well-trained and capable combat pilot. Capt. Bruce Barton, leaning against
the plane, shows that quality of American cockiness that Hitler’s henchmen are finding so disquieting. To the right, Lt. C.
A. Nenney looks on with “easy” alertness necessary for a fighter. Captain McDonald is the son of Mr. Joseph M.
McDonald, Hamlet, N. C. He attended Davidson from 1937 to 1941. Before his calling, he had to go to Carter.
He was married to Miss Martha Saubin of Concord early in December. John Barron, Bruce Black, Edgar Williams, and G.
P. Whiteley all received their wings and commissions as lieutenants in the Army Air Corps. Captain Sam R. Spencer, formerly
assistant PMS&T in the ROTC department here, is now overseas.

Spending is contagious. You see the other fellow buying things, having a good time, and pretty soon you follow suit,
and spend needlessly. But there’s one sure way to control this little pest. Swat him with a War Bond—the most
efficient “Squander Bug” swatter on the market today. Get busy!

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
April 9: “Lost Angel”
“Late Show” April 10, 11: “The Gang’s All Here”
April 12, 13: “Life Boat”
April 14, 15: “Song of Russia”
“Late Show” April 17, 18: “A Guy Named Joe”
April 19, 20: “The Uninvited”
April 21, 22: “Hey Rockie”
“Late Show” April 23, 24: “Pensee d’Automne” by Jongen, and “Toccata” by James. Professors of Music J. C. Pfohl and
Kenneth Osborne were both pupils of Mr. Christian.

He attended a dinner for stars in Washington and was a guest of President and Mrs. Roosevelt in the White
House. He talked to Mary Pickford for five minutes before recognizing her. He met Roland Young and Jeanne Cagney, Jimmy
Cagney’s sister, who gave him a date in New York later.

Colin Shaw Smith, former secretary of the Y. M. C. A., is touring with the U. S. O.—Camp Shows, Inc.,
and is visiting army camps giving shows and entertaining men in service. Pvt. Stonestreet, when last heard from, was in
the hospital at Fort Meade, Md., with the measles. His brother W. Gregg Thompson has been promoted to the rank
of captain in the Medical Corps and is in Italy. Buddy Carson, Dick O’Hair, Bill Carter, and David Smith are
in the Army Air Force pre-flight school at Maxwell Field, Ala.

To Succeed Dr. Davidson
Prof. H. T. Lilly To Be In Charge Of Library

Professor Henry Tracy Lilly, of the English department, is slated to take over the directorship of the Gray Memorial Library
made vacant by the departure of Professor Chalmers G. Davidson. Professor Davidson, who was director of the library and associate
professor of history, entered the Navy last Saturday. Dr. Davidson graduated from Davidson in 1928, and received his M.A. from
Harvard in 1930. While at school here, he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Beta Theta Pi, and
served for some time as associate professor of history at The Citadel. Dr. Davidson has published several books, among them
“Major John Davidson of Rural Hill.”

Professor Lilly graduated from Davidson in 1918, and received an M.A. at Princeton University in 1920. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Chi. While at McCallie School, he was editor-in-chief of “Quips and Cranks,” the college
annual. He takes on the library work in addition to teaching regular English courses to the air crew and civilian
students.

The library announces several new books which have been added to its collection. Several books of interest to the Air
Cadets have been received. Some of those received are “The Airplane and Its Components” by W. R. Sears, “Mathematics for
Pilots” by James Naidich, and “Radio Navigation” by C-H. Ludwig. Also added are Bemelman’s “Now I Lay Me Down to
Sleep,” “Food Enough” by J. D. Black, and “Military Medals and Insignias of the United States” by J. McDowell Morgan.

EASTER GREETING CARDS
FLOWERS
Cut Flowers By Wire Anywhere
EASTER GIFT HEADQUARTERS
EASTER PERFUME
TOILET WATER
CANDY
TOILET SETS
RABBITS
GIFT BOXES
OLD SPICE
DUSTING POWDER
BATH SALTS
SACHET
DAVIDSON'S SERVICE DRUG STORE
Padded
