ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1944 No. 3

FIVE TAPPED BY ODK. WHO'S WHO SELECTS FOUR

Publication Helps Men Find Jobs

1 SENIOR, 3 JUNIORS

Lowry, Owens, Alexander, Love Were Chosen

Four members of the Davidson Student Body were recently honored by receiving requests for their biographies to be listed in
the 1944-45 edition of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

New Members

The men who were honored by this publication were Andy Owens, Jim Alexander, Jim Lowry, and Jim Love, who were
selected by an anonymous committee because of their excellence in various forms of campus activities.

Purpose

The purpose of this publication is to create on a national basis recognition for students. The first edition of Who’s
Who was printed in 1934-35. Besides its primary purpose, which is the recognition of outstanding students in college life, it
also serves as a source of recommendation for these students as employees in the business world.

Requisites

According to the editor, “requisites for membership are character, scholarship, leadership, extracurricular activities, and potentiality for future usefulness in business
and society.” Juniors, seniors, and students in advanced work are eligible. Realizing that the outstanding men and women will be
more valuable than ever before (after the war), we plan to follow the needs of companies and individuals. For those
firms requiring employees, we propose to seek desirable prospects; for those students listed in our books in any year since
its beginning, we propose to seek desirable positions.

“It is our purpose to keep these leading graduates before the manufacturers as the most promising candidates for employment.”

Jim Lowry

Jim Lowry is a past member of the student council, and sports editor of the Davidsonian. Last year he was
captain of the basketball and baseball teams. He is now Judge of the Court of Control, manager of the football
team, a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and a member of the Kappa Alpha social order.

This volume of Who’s Who, with H. Pettus Randall of the University of Alabama as editor, will be released from
the printer sometime in the spring.

Pan-Hellenic

This and That From the ASTRP

Well, dear reader, here we are again to bring you the latest from the ASTRAPS. The ASTRP dance was a
huge success. It was the first formal dance held by the ASTRP since they arrived at Davidson. The success of
the dance, due mainly to the efforts of Headquarters and the untiring enthusiasm of Mr. and Mrs. York of Concord,
N. C., was better than it was expected to be.

While we are on the subject of dances, we should mention the dance at China Grove last Friday night at
which the ASTRAP’s orchestra played. The military band went along as guests of the school. The swing band made a
very good showing at the first dance to be held at the China Grove High School. The boys enjoyed the
dance very much. One might ask Lt. Tom Aiola to teach them how to solo jitterbug. It seems that he
is an expert at this art.

You have seen a lot through this column, so a little more won't hurt—let’s take a trip. The time? Let’s
say between 2200 and 2230, just before taps. Suppose we go to the third floor of Duke. The first thing
we see is a game of cards, just a little something to relax the boys after a hard 2 hours
of study and a hard day's work. We go a little further and we note the happy tone of the
boys' voices as they sing and whistle in the showers, happy because they have only six weeks left in this
term. Next, down on the second floor, here you had better take a life raft, because you are liable to
see a cadet officer’s bed floating down the hall, the practical joke that some bright student has done. By the
time we reach the first floor we can hardly stand because we are so tired of walking trying to get
from one side of the building to the other. It seems as though the dorm was made this way to
stop the boys from playing baseball, but that doesn’t stop them. On this floor we see the famous checker star,
undefeated, unscored on, Sgt. Thau. He is busy defeating another opponent in a game of checkers now.

Now let’s take a trip over to the East Dorm. We'll start at the basement this time. Here we see
“Bugs Bunny” and all his bunnies... One should say Lt. Col. Furman. One might see the dashing figure of Victor
Heidgerken, the big game hunter. (He brings them back by the tail.) Vic has found his latest game hiding under
a chewing gum wrapper in the trash can. It was a mouse.

(Continued on Page 8)

In Memory of Jimmy Fulcher

Mayor E. A. Beatty announced recently that a movement has been started in Davidson to erect a suitable memorial on
the College Campus to the memory of Lt. Henry E. Fulcher Jr., affectionately known as Jimmie, who died in a
hospital in France on September 21, from wounds received in active combat on September 13.

According to Mayor Beatty, Lt. Fulcher is the first local boy who was both a graduate of the College and
a member of the Campus Church to give his life in the war. Concerning the nature of the memorial, Mayor
Beatty stated that the sponsors of the movement hope to erect and furnish a Young People's room in the Sunday
School unit of the proposed new campus church, to be known as the “Jimmie Fulcher Memorial Room.” “This,” said Mayor
Beatty, “will be a most appropriate expression of...Affection and appreciation of Jimmie's long and unselfish activity in behalf of the
Youth of the Community. His qualities of sympathy and helpfulness were familiar to all. In spite of his own accelerated
schedule, he was always generous and devoted in his service to the church in which (Continued on Page 7)

Smith To Play For Dance Nov. 18
To Be Held At Fireman’s Hall From 8 to 12

Everybody will be glad to hear that dear “ole” Davidson College will have a dance on November 18. Dances have
been few and far between here at the College since the opening of the war. This summer there were no
dances held at all due to various things, mostly the “Polio” epidemic. The “shindig” is being sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic
Council, and that august body naturally expects everybody there. They have been fortunate in securing one of the best jive
bands for us, and they promise to really be the ball. Shirley Smith being the name of the hot combination
of swingsters, we don't know whether to expect a boy or a girl on the old podium, but just the
same, they're really “gonna” be “given” with groovy rhythm. This little jam session, which will go off on the 18th
of next month, can be taken in for the inestimable sum of $3.00. Just think of the chance you have.
As we said before, this may be the last dance for a good while, so you all just start saving
your pennies right now. This dance is going to be complete right down to the last incidental, including faculty chaperons,
so all you boys keep calling your “Chickens” and everybody will cut the rug.

New Court R.O.T.C.

Appointment of the Davidson College ROTC Battalion officers was announced on Tuesday by Major Marsh, commanding officer of the unit.
Commissioned officers include: in “A” Company, Captain Rowland Sinclair and Lieutenant Martin Waters; and in “B” Company, Captain Bill Medford,
First Lieutenant Van Covington, and Second Lieutenant Joe Stukes. The band officers are Captain Ellie White and First Lieutenant Bob
Brooks. The complete list of appointments is as follows:

Company A: Capt. Roland Sinclair, 1st Lt. Martin Waters, 1st Sgt. Herb Bradford, Guide Sgt. Etheridge, Guide Sgt. Monroe, Squad
Leaders Gambrell, Haberyan, McGehee, Schenck, and Wall.

Company B: Capt. Medford, 1st Lt. Covington, 2nd Lt. Stukes, 1st Sgt. Vernon McGehee, Guide Sgt. Herion, Guide Sgt. Edwards,
Guide Sgt. Thatcher, Squad Leaders Ed Golden, Hay, Hevcourt (Continued on Page 7)

Is Selected

Having been appointed by the Student Council, the Court of Control has held its first fall meeting. Jim Lowry is
again serving as judge of the court, and the members appointed are Middie Reynal, Vernon McGehee, Ed Golden, John Hagan,
Horace Boarman, Rod MacDonald, and Earl Mahone. Of these men, Hagan is the only one who has had previous experience
on the court besides Lowry.

The Court of Control is an established feature of life on the Davidson campus, its primary purpose being to enforce
the freshmen regulations and to deal out justice to those guilty of violating the rules. It is to be remembered
that the court is an official organization, backed up by the administration, the student council, and the ‘Y’ Cabinet, and
its decrees are to be regarded as law. The first meeting saw some fifteen freshmen penalized for various violations. The
assignment of themes on obscure subjects constituted the penalties, no men having been campused as yet. It is expected that
another meeting will be held in the near future.

Among the requirements which all (Continued on Page 7)

Men To Be Initiated Tonight
Apperson, Owens, Alexander, Spencer, and Love

In chapel last Tuesday, the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, tapped five men, one senior
and four juniors.

New Members

The men honored were George Apperson, Andy Owens, Jim Alexander, Newt Spencer, and Jim Love.

Apperson

George Apperson, of Mocksville, is president of the Senior Class and pastor of the Davidson Unity Church. He also serves
on the ‘Y’ Cabinet and as assistant editor of the Davidsonian.

Owens

Andy Owens, of Avondale, N.C., is president of the student body and a vice-president of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social
fraternity. He has been a member of the band, the Choir, and the Glee Club, as well as a member
of the Court of Control and of Phi Mu Alpha honorary music fraternity.

Alexander

Jim Alexander, of Charlotte, is president of the Y.M.C.A. and of the Junior Class. He is also president of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and business manager of the Davidsonian. He holds membership in the Philanthropic Literary Society, Sigma
Delta Pi, and the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Spencer

Newt Spencer, from Plainfield, N.J., has served as manager of the Student Store and is at present a member of
the ‘Y’ Cabinet, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is student council representative for
the Junior Class.

Love

Jim Love, of Greensboro, N.C., is editor of the Davidsonian, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and of the Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, and manager of the football team.

Professor Beatty is serving as president of the society until the election of a student president and will preside at
the initiation ceremony in the faculty room at 6 P.M. this evening and at the banquet in the Guest House
at 6:30 after the initiation.

The purpose of ODK, as in any organization of leaders, is to push some project for improvement. The five fields
from which men are chosen for outstanding leadership are social leadership and service, publications, athletics, scholastic achievement, and forensic and
non-athletic work.
