Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 25, 1944

I. R. C. DISCUSSES
(Continued from Page 1)

regarded by the peacemakers of 1919 as most feasible; in the Balkans, the Russian policy of Pan-Slavism, although that name
is not usually given it today, may well win the support of Balkan peoples. The inclusion of several Balkan soviet
republics in the Soviet Union might go a long way to bring peace to an area which has been one
of the worst trouble spots of Europe. These small eastern European states, which have in the past been almost too
weak economically and politically to maintain their independence, would profit from the industrial and commercial development of the Soviet Union,
and yet keep a degree of independence through the federative principle.

The world need not fear unduly wide revolution. Although Russia was founded on the Marxist principle of world revolution, Stalin
has long since modified his views on that point. He has made Russia a nationalistic communism, dropping in a large
measure, the internationalism of Marx. Abolition of the Third International is but one more indication of Stalin's nationalist tendencies. Furthermore,
Russia has steadily modified her communism and the nature of the dictatorship. The constitution of 1936 was more democratic in
form than its predecessor; the recent change in the structure of the Union appears to put further emphasis on the
federative principle. Russia is not a democracy, but dictatorship and the one-party system may be considered temporary, moving gradually toward
a democratic socialism from the communist extreme, while Great Britain and the United States are working toward the same goal
from the opposite extreme of individualistic capitalism. The area of an ideological conflict lies more in the dogma.

Black Market

“Ah, 'tis spring. De boid is on de wing — Dat’s absoid. De wing is on de boid.” With these
immortal words of an unknown poet as our inspiration, we again turn to the most enjoyable practice of minding everybody's
business but our own. Roll up your pants legs, fellows, and prepare to wade, for here goes.

Our first duty is to take off our hats to the cuties who invaded the quietness of our sanctuary this
past weekend and departed the proud possessors of their drag's frat pins. Congrats go to Carolyn, Sally, and Wink who
captured Bill Smith, Jim Lowry, and Cecil Garrett respectively. As we gazed around the quiet in the wee hours of
Sunday afternoon, our swollen eyes fell on the “Little General” McBride and we noticed that he was pretty downhearted. We
confronted one of his first brothers, a mathematician, and got the answer: “Bird meets gal, plus Bird likes gal to
dance, minus the square, silly!” Next comes a personal word to the women of Georgia Dorm; Bud Wysor. We just
want to say that pictures don't always tell the truth and sometimes they don't alter! She's O.K., Bud! Flowers go
to Fore Williamson for the door he bumped into Saturday night. If meat wasn't rationed, we'd send that, but this
is war, and war is heck! What did Chick think, Ben?

World Day of Prayer Is Observed

A special service of prayer was held at the campus Church, Wednesday evening at seven-thirty. The program was in keeping
with the world day of prayer, sponsored by the International Council of Churches. The official date for the special day
of prayer was set to be Friday, but it was felt to be more convenient for those who wished to
attend to have it at the regular time for the weekly prayer meeting.

The program consisted of several prayers by different men in the community. Prayers were for the community, personal and national
repentance, world peace, and the supply of books to prisoners.

College Helps Supply Books To Prisoners

World Student Fund Sponsors Campaign To Send Literature Abroad

Davidson College has been asked by the World Student Relief Fund to take part in a book campaign to supply
reading material for six million prisoners of war in countries throughout the world. In an announcement made in chapel last
Tuesday, Edgar Patterson, secretary of the committee, asked students to contribute old and new books to this cause.

Certain Types

Certain types of books especially needed include college or preparatory textbooks, technical manuals, and general literature.the stage as professional dancers.
Is that right, Allen? O? men in the service. The college glee club also contributed its part. In past years
this occasion has been observed in the College audi- George McAder, former Davidsonian and Hamrickic, came through during the chapel
exercises intermission Friday night with a very good feed. It was a rare treat to the “amazon” dates of the
brothers, and their “Ohs and Abs” echoed through the house during the whole party. Or was it just that the
McAden pigs had broken out of captivity and were within hearing distance?

Converse On the Ball
After a very close survey, we have come to the conclusion that Converse College was at the head of the
list this weekend. Come on Tar Heels, what have these sand lappers got that you haven't or is it just
in different proportions? Hurrah for the Board of Trustees! They're going to let us dance. Now, the wolves will probably
howl because the dances aren't in Charlotte. As Confucius would say, “So solly, please!” But still he didn't have to
satisfy Davidson “wolves.”

Scofield’s A Wolf
Various questions have been asked during the last few days that we Maybe you can. Where were all of the
cute gals at the K. A. banquet Saturday night or was it supposed to be a stag affair? What has
the Pioneer Club got that Hugo's joint doesn't? Who, besides Joe Scofield, is the “biggest wolf on the campus? Why
do flush-o-grams always come on Thursday of a dance weekend? Well, we can't answer them. Not here anyway. Send your
answers in care of yours truly and you'll get a yellow lolly pop as a reward. Well, fellows, it’s been
fun and we certainly hope that we haven't made anybody see “red” or caused anyone to wish to tar and
feather “yours truly” and remove his unwanted presence from the town of Davidson. Until next time keep your feet clean
and your name out of print.

Mr. Hengeveld, is that this order instead of February fits Elect now March 7, 1944, originally set. 15, the date
BE SURE TO BUY YOUR ies upon completion of his pre-professional work; and (c) By the National Roster of Scientific
and Specialized Personnel of War Manpower Commission that his certification of the institution as to his course of study and
competence, and as to his prospective date of completion is correct to the best of its knowledge and belief; and
that his deferment, if granted, will be within the quota for such pre-professional students.”

Another important fact revealed SHIP AHOY RESTAURANT THE PLACE TO MEET YOUR FRIENDS FRATERNITY STATIONARY PENNANTS SANDWICHES COLD DRINKS SCHOOL
SUPPLIES CANDY AT The Student Store MANAGERS on the appointed day, but it was decided that since the chapel hour
came just before dinner it would be inconvenient and in some cases impossible for some of the members of the
community to attend.

A. S. BROWN General Merchandise Davidson, N. C.: 114, story school textbooks in current use, standard works in English literature,
detective stories by well-known authors, language books, including grammars and readers in English, French, German, and Spanish, and selections from
the Modern Library and like collections. The following types of reading matter are not acceptable: magazines and newspapers; any book
having military significance, particularly advanced works in physics, chemistry, radio, and geography, which were published since 1938; books criticizing existing
military, political, economic, and social institutions; and histories discussing European or world history since. All written comments have to be
erased before the books are shipped. Censoring regulations prohibit the passage of anything other than printed matter.

DUNBAR STUDIOS Portraits College Annuals ALUMNI WRITE TO OUR OVER THERE SHEAFFER’S Complete VOYAGER V-MAIL OUTFIT NEWT SPENCER BILL SMITH
Don’t be a ‘sap’ TAKE SAPP’S COLD TABLETS When Cold starts
