By JOE STUKES

Well, fellows, it seems as if we have a fine football team in our midst. We played an exciting game in Charlotte Saturday and came out on the long end of a 14-13 score. If it is true what they say about Harding—that they have no coach—then they deserve a good bit of credit. It was a swell game to look at from the fifty if not so pretty from the bench. The crowd loves to see a wide-open game like that and when the score is as close as 14-13 it makes it all the more interesting. Extra credit goes to Patterson and Barringer for their running and to Pell and Edwards for their defensive work. Last week we said that we were very sorry to see Pell go. This week we are glad to see him back. This can go on for years.

Right now the Red and Black Football Machine is on the right-hand side of the ledger with 20 points scored against 19 opponents' points. If we keep on getting 8 points better a game we will take Darlington on November 24. From the latest news, Darlington beat Central High of Chattanooga 33-6 and that is going some. They have trampled all of their opponents by like scores and that is rapidly shaping up as our biggest game to come. The team will need all the support we could give it then but since it is hard to travel these days, we are gladly giving up a ride to accommodate the team.

And speaking of support, Jack Middey Reynal—pardon me—Head Cheerleader Middey Reynal had very little cooperation at the ball game the other night. They led cheers with practically no experience. We need sorely to get together before the next game and practice some cheers. How about it Jedge? Middey?

The touch football season that opened with a bang, boomed a couple or more times as the star-studded SPE’s sank the Betas 24-0 and the Pi Kaps 42-0. With Owens throwing and running and McBride and Wilkins catching, the SPE’s formed an unstoppable machine that scored at will but mostly at the Pi Kaps. The Independents conquered the Pikas 12-0, thanks to Bill Simpson’s 90-yard return of Lassiter’s kickoff. The hurricane rained out the Pika-Beta game scheduled on Friday and it was played Monday, the Betas winning 18-0.

The Student Store
—: Serving the Students :—
With
CAKES
COLD DRINKS
WRITING SUPPLIES
STATIONERY
IN THE OLD GYM
The Place to Work Up and Satisfy Your Appetite

— Wildcat Sports —
BEAT BARIUM
Thursday, October 26, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Reprinted from the November issue of Esquire.

“Pe made it”

Valuable Men Lost to Cats
Pell, Inscoe, Parker Left For Services

The 1944 version of Wildkittens have been hard hit by the loss of several key players in the last two weeks. Such men as Allison Pell, Jolting Joe Inscoe, and Jim “Ace” Parker are gone forever from Davidson's '44 roster. Pell, up from the Class A farm team, Darlington, was acting captain last Saturday and played an outstanding game at end. He caught a touchdown pass against Woodberry and with his consistency at end has gained himself an enviable reputation here. Inscoe departed a couple of weeks ago for parts unknown.

(Continued on Page 6)

THE STANDINGS ARE NOW:
Team                Won  Lost
KA-Kappa Sig       3      0
SPE                3      1
Beta               2      1
Independents       1      2
Pi Kap             1      3
Pika               03 WHITE DRUG COMPANY | URGES YOU TO LIBERALLY LEND OF YOUR MONEY TO BACK OUR BOYS WHO ARE GIVING THEIR ALL

C. S. Goodrum KA-KE Lead In Football S.P.E.’s Come Second Place With One Game Lost

This last week has seen some mean football down on the freshmen field. Perhaps the most surprising of the upsets was the Independents over the Pikas. On the opening kickoff, Simpson ran the ball back 90 yards for the first score. From there on it was Independent all the way, resulting in a 24-0 victory.

The next evening, the much-touted Betas were defeated by the S.P.E.

KITTENS DEFEAT RAMS Davidson Edges Harding By A Score of 14 to 13

Last Saturday night, two scrappy football teams met in the American Legion Memorial Stadium in Charlotte. Davidson won the contest 14 to 13, and the game was as thrilling as the score indicates. Harding’s highly touted pass attack was called upon by the Ram quarterback throughout the battle and worked well after a shaky start.

The Wildkittens kicked off to Harding, and they ran it back to their own 40. On the first play, Davidson intercepted a pass and, without relinquishing the ball, marched downfield for a touchdown. Bryant plunged over for the tally. Medford made his first journey onto the field to kick the extra point.

Again, Davidson kicked off, and again the Rams threw a pass. The second pass was intercepted, but the Rams held fast. They took the ball on downs and, with some fine passing by Henderson and even greater catching by Glasgow, marched to score. The point was kicked and the score was knotted.

The remainder of the half saw no serious threats but a wide-open ball game featuring passes, laterals, and a few costly fumbles. Harding's great pass attack, Henderson to Glasgow, functioned smoothly for consistent short gains. Minutes before the end of the half, Edwards’ kick was blocked and fallen on in the end zone for a Harding touchdown. Coursey’s kick was blocked, and the scoreboard read 13-7.

The second half saw Davidson receive the kick-off and drive straight to a touchdown without giving up the ball. Long runs by Patterson and Barringer were made in this march, with Barringer going the last 9 yards through the middle. Medford came in again and kicked the all-important point. That made the score 14-13, and that's the way the game ended, though the thrills were far from over. The lateral flew thick and often and kept the spectators guessing as to who had the ball.

Edwards, Pell, and Monroe were outstanding on defense for the Wildkittens, and Patterson turned in some fine running. Henderson and Glasgow constituted the passing attack of Harding, which was plenty good.

Last Week’s Winner—Bill Medford

ORIGINAL DUPLICATE

Davidson __ Batum Davidson __ Batum Wake Forest __ Miami __ Jax Navy N.C. Precks __ Great Lakes __ Wisconsin __ Penn __ Tech __ Randolph Field __ Gremlins __ Ohio State __ Minn __ Army __ Duke __

Signed Wake Miami __ Jax Navy N.C. Precks __ Great Lakes __ Wisconsin __ Penn __ Tech __ Randolph Field __ Gremlins __ Ohio State __ Minn __ Army __ Duke __