The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXI

DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1944

No. 6

Watt Is Chosen “Y” President

Senior Class Elects Bob Bradford to Lead

Hank Watt and Bob Bradford, both members of the Senior Class, were elected to important student body positions in balloting
held at Davidson at the end of the last semester.

Heads Y. M. C. A.

Watt, president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was elected by the student body as president of the Y. M. C.
A. This position was made vacant by the graduation of Edgar Patterson and the latter’s subsequent appointment as general secretary
of the Y. Watt is adviser of the Freshman Class, and was a member of the Y Cabinet last semester.

Leads Seniors

Bradford, who was elected by members of the Senior Class, was chosen president of the seniors, taking the post vacated
by John Evans, who graduated in February. Bradford is president of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and a member of
the baseball team.

To fill the position left open by Bob Pierce who graduated in February also, Dave Richardson was chosen editor-in-chief of
the Davidsonian, school newspaper. Richardson is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and was a managing editor of
the paper last semester.

Witherington Business Head

Dexter Witherington, vice-president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, has been chosen business manager of The Davidsonian. Witherington succeeds Bob
Cushman and Ed Lilly, who managed the paper last semester.

All these officers are elected for a term of one semester. They will hold office until those elected to lead
the student body next fall take over, late in the spring.

PLAYS HERE—Egon Petri, world-famous pianist, who presented the third in Davidson's Artist Series.

Pan-Hell Dance Set For Feb. 18; Two Bands Play

The Panhellenic Council will sponsor the annual Midwinter dance set on the weekend of February 18th and 19th. These dances,
as all Panhellenic Council dances, are open to every member of the student body.

According to a long-standing tradition, the Panhellenic Council arranges a dance each year shortly after the close of the first
semester. The strain and stress of the examination period over, the dances provide plenty of relaxation and fun for everyone.

Precedent commanding a two-night stand, preferably without a tea dance, the set this year will consist of dances on the
evenings of February 18th and 19th. Incidentally, all classes will be held on Saturday, February 19th.

Providing jive for the jumping jousts for jitterbugs will be maestros Fleet Green and Erwin Hinkel. Myers Park Country Club
on Friday, and Fireman’s Hall on Saturday will be the scene of the fun. “Stomping” will be allowed on Friday
from 9:30-1:30 p.m., and on Saturday from 8:00-12:00 p.m.

Attire for the Friday “fracas” will be formal for the guys and gals alike; Saturday’s “shindig” will allow the men
to relax in “normal” suits, while the girls will be attired again in their best evening frocks.

After due consideration and deliberation, the tariff has been set at $5.50 for the set ticket and $3.50 for a
ticket for one night only.

Write immediately for that date, purchase a ticket from any Panhellenic Council member, and come down to Charlotte on the
18th and 19th for the finest dance set yet.

Petri Gives Third Concert

Dutch Pianist Latest Musician of Davidson Series

The third concert of the current Artists Series at Davidson College featured Egon Petri, world-renowned pianist, last night at 8
p.m. in the Chambers auditorium.

Mr. Petri played a lyric chorale by Buxtehude; the sonata in C Minor by Mozart; Schumann's Etudes Symphoniques; Andante and
Variations in B Minor, and Marche Militaire by Schubert; some of Chopin's preludes; a Chopin polonaise; and Bach's Sheep May
Safely Graze.

Gifts as rare as those of Egon Petri are seldom lavished on a single artist. Son of the eminent Dutch
violinist, Henri Petri, he grew up with a musical heritage from his earliest years. In the congenial atmosphere of his
father’s home, such figures as Clara Schumann, Tschaikowsky, Edvard Grieg, and Brahms were frequent visitors. He started violin lessons at
the age of five, and soon supplemented these with piano lessons from Teresa Carreno and Richard Buchmayer. Further formal studies
included the organ and French horn.

When he was twenty, Petri was urged to embark on a career as a concert pianist by the late Paderewski,
and by Ferruccio Busoni. The latter, in fact, chose him to arrange the piano scores of two operas, Die Brautwahl,
and Dr. Faust, and also the Indian Fantasy.

Under such high tutelage, Egon Petri made his debut in Holland in 1902. Tours through Europe and the U.S. followed,
and he appeared frequently as soloist with major orchestras throughout the world. His greatest fame, however, flourished and grew in
his European orbit, where “Petri mastery” became a legend. At the height of his career, attracted by exceptional opportunities for
educational work which presented themselves in the United States, Petri transformed his permanent activities to this side of the Atlantic,
giving recitals in New York’s Town Hall, and elsewhere.
