Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN, Friday, June 23, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

Editor - JIM LOVE
Business Manager - JIM ALEXANDER
Associate Editor - Lamar Williamson
Sports Editor - Jim Lowry
Managing Editor - Robert Morrison

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 per year.
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

VESPERS

The question of compulsory attendance at vespers is far from a new one on the Davidson campus. If we could
lay all the bull sessions and arguments held on the subject end to end, nobody knows what we would have,
but it would be something impressive.

The perennial discontent has blossomed again, as the diligent reader will observe above. Despite the opposition to required vespers, it
is extremely doubtful that any change will be made in this rule. This is not because the administration is simply
bull-headed. There are some pretty good reasons for their policy, or they would not uphold it against persistent protest.

In the first place, those who complain contend that the student is robbed of his freedom of worship for one
hour between 8:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. on Sunday. But it does not follow that he is robbed of his
freedom of worship. If he doesn’t wish to worship in the manner accepted at Davidson, he is under no obligation
to enroll here. Furthermore, he does not have to use the hour spent in Chambers Auditorium for worship unless he
wants to. “You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make him drink.” This point is illustrated very
well by a number of disgruntled students at vespers each Sunday. The fact remains, however, that the large majority present
at vespers do get something from the service, as is indicated by the survey referred to above.

What if vespers were made optional? Would the majority of students still attend church here or elsewhere Sunday night? Probably
so. But the number attending would definitely be lessened by the influence of plain, old, laziness. It is much easier
to hang around the dorm than it is to dress and go to Chambers and give thoughtful attention to a
sermon. Most of the present Davidson student body is composed of boys who are just beginning to make decisions of
their own. Here is one of those boys who is glad there is something to keep him from making the
easy choice instead of the right one.

Probably the most unpopular feature of Davidson College from the standpoint of the student is the Sunday night vespers. This
is not an inexplicable condition when you realize that these vesper services, regardless of how proficient they may be, are
a violation of the most prized right of man—freedom of worship. When they are made compulsory they become coercive measures
of telling a man what church he must attend, when he must attend it, and how often he must attend
it.

Vespers when forced upon a man become detestable. The student attends them with the attitude that they are one of
those things that you just have to grin and bear. The idea becomes fixed in his mind that these religious
services are distasteful. No one will doubt that these services are defeating the very purpose they were inaugurated to support,
namely, instilling students with the desire to attend church. Did the Puritans support the Church of England because it was
the only one they were allowed to publicly attend?

Last Sunday night a group of grumbling students, sweating under superficial coats and ties, entered Chambers Auditorium.

A Green Freshman
By JOHN McNAIR

The great day had at last become a reality. It was the day I was to go off to school.
When I finally got ready to go, I piled all my junk in the car, traveled to the bus station,
purchased a ticket, and prepared to board the next Charlotte bus. When the bus finally arrived two hours late, people
were standing in the aisle, on the top, and lying in the baggage rack over the seats. In fact, it
was pretty crowded. When I arrived in Charlotte...

It Could Be Worse
By ROBERT MORRISON

Hark, oh ye men of Davidson, to a tale of woe—the true story of why I came to this fair
institution and the misery left behind me. It was a fair day in May; the air was melodious, and the
birds were refreshing. The local high school set had spent the day out at one of the boy's cabins on
the Catawba River. Sweet were those days of antiquity. Oh, but I would not re-live that day for life itself.
The woman I was dating—the great...

...after being trampled on, spit on, and pushed around, I found that the next bus was just leaving for Davidson
in five hours. When I arrived at Davidson, the load had increased on the bus so much that when the
driver opened the door, three A.S.T.R.P. boys fell out and were nearly trampled to death. The only breaths I took
from Charlotte to Davidson were when the driver stopped to let us walk across the railroad tracks. I got all
my junk off the bus, tugged slowly up toward the dormitories, and suddenly I heard someone say “Get...off the grass
you ***+*- freshman.” I walked on toward the dorm, after moving off the grass. Suddenly some big tall upperclassman came
up to me and said, “Freshman, have you paid for your privilege to walk on the sidewalk?” When I told
him no, he said that would be two dollars. I put all my stuff on the porch of Watts Dorm,
including my pocketbook. After this, I went over to see a man they called Mr. Jackson. When I finally found
him, with the help of many signs, he took me into his office, gave me a key, and took $500.00
of my money, saying that it would be refunded at the end of the summer if I hadn't broken many
windows. I came back to the dorm, found my room, and began to get straight when two boys named “Oils”
and “Von Covington” or something like that came into my room. Oils said he played basketball, but he looked more
like a tiddlywinks player to me. Von wanted $5.00 from me for the privilege of using the lavatory. I thought
I needed someplace to wash my hands, so I gave him the money. Then he asked for $1.00 for a
chapel seat and $1.00 for the radiator, as well as $1.00 for the shower. Well, I knew I couldn't take
a bath in the lavatory or stand up in chapel, so I paid him the money.

After these two had gone, I got ready to go to supper, and about that time my roommate came in.
He said that he had just paid a boy named Flay, Hoy, Straw, or something like that, $25.00 for the
use of everything on the campus. I thought that I had gotten a bargain.

My roommate and I then went down and got supper. Later that night, after a show, we came home and
turned in. The next thing I knew, there was a bugle blowing right outside my window. I hopped out of
my bed and looked at my watch; it was six o'clock. My heavens, I thought, do we have to get
up this early every morning? Then I heard a knock on my door. When I opened it, I found my
friend Greese or whatever his name was standing there. He came in and sat down. He had a proposition: for
$10.00 he could get the boy with the horn not to blow anymore, so I gave him the money. All
that day was the same thing: $10.00 here, $25.00 there. When that day was over, I had the total resources
of $62.00, one slug, 12 cents in Mexican money, and a 3-cent stamp. About 12 that night, there was a
knock at the door, and there stood Greese again. He said for $5.00 I wouldn't have to put up with
him anymore. I gave him a check for $20.00 so he would stay four times as far away, but he
is still bothering me. Greese, how about a refund???

She was the highly polished type (in the eyes of her parents and teachers). Her father happened to be one
of my professors, who could flunk or pass me as he chose. To enrage him meant my certain death. The
day was done, as all days eventually are. Night was upon us. As we had been swimming all day, we
had not taken off our bathing trunks. I had had the foresight, however, to slip on my shirt. We drove
into town. Up we drove to the lady's homestead, and there, through the employment of the transmission, the drive shaft
was disengaged from the motor, immediately followed by the disconnection of the battery from the spark plug, resulting in a
stop. (Facts and figures compliments of Prof. Douglas.) Anyhow, we weren't moving any longer.

“Well,” she barked, “aren't you coming in?”

“But, honey,” I replied, “I don't have my pants on.”

“That is all right. My folks have gone to a church party.”

Reluctantly, I climbed from the car. However, for double precaution, I reached in the back seat and pulled out a
pair of pants. As we walked up to the door, I was slipping them on. Just as we reached the
edge of the porch, I was preparing to zip them up for the final fitting. (These were pre-war pants). But
then a chill ran up my spine, and a horror then unknown to mortal man lay hold of me. Never
dreamed I that such a man could endure as my blood froze solid in my veins and my heart pounded
my ribs 'til they fell out on the porch. Was this sight before mine eyes the fiery breath of some
demon monster? Nay, brother, a thousand times worse! Instead of attending the church party, her folks were having the party
there. All the good deacons and elders and other brethren and her father and mother were sitting there on the
porch discussing the virtues of their daughter. They had spied me from the beginning and had observed every action with
morbid incredulity. On that porch were the principal of the school, all of the faculty, several ministers, all of the
Ladies’ Aid and Missionary Societies, plus half of the rest of the town. All of them knew me. There was
nothing I could say, but I did say, “It could be worse, or could it? Goodbye.” With this parting sentiment,
I turned and fled.

Yes, brothers, this is why I came to Davidson. Here I came to drown my sorrow and to eke out
a miserable existence. I am a broken man. My family, friends, and all that I ever had have exiled me
from the town in which I was born. There is no sympathy anywhere. Here at Davidson, I must begin a
new life. Perhaps the years will deaden the painful, remorseful sorrow. So I have been asked to write a weekly
column. The pessimistic attitude which has permeated my intellect after my woeful ordeal will permit my giving this column but
one name to survive as long as I can wipe the tears from my typewriter. This name, “It Could be
Worse,” will be appropriate in more ways than one.
