THE WEATHER
Cool and wet if you take a shower; gentle breezes if you have a fan.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Vol. XXXII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JUNE 23, 1944 No. 1

College Gets ASTPR Unit
ACER’s Replace Air Corps, Which Leaves June 30

Over 200 high school graduates reported at Davidson on June 9 for preliminary training in the ASTPR unit, members of
the Army Air Corps here. These men are Enlisted Reserve who will receive college training up to the time that
they are ordered to report for basic military training. These orders are expected by each man within a few months
after he reaches his eighteenth birthday. While at Davidson, these men will pursue studies relative to their future training, including
courses such as physics, chemistry, and mathematics. They also receive a great deal of physical and military training. Discipline is
taught in drill and in class and meal formations, and the boys are rapidly shaping up as good soldiers.

When called to active duty, after three to nine months of training here, the ACER's will first be given the
basic military training customary, and, in the same period of time, a series of aptitude tests which will determine the
type of combat crew training for which they are best qualified. With reference to the training of the ACER’s, after
they are called to active duty, Lt. Fruchter, public relations officer for the army at Davidson said: “Each trainee will
be given a course of military training before being assigned to air combat crew training: five weeks or longer in
basic training. Those selected to earn aerial gunner’s wings will receive at least six weeks of training in aerial gunnery.
If the trainee is selected to combine his gunnery with radio or airplane mechanic skill, he is given an additional
five-month course in radio or airplane mechanics. Armorer gunners take an additional two-month course in armament. Prospective bombardiers and navigators
take the aerial gunnery course before starting their specialized training. In the event an air combat crew trainee fails to
demonstrate the requisite aptitudes for aerial combat during training, he will be reassigned to other appropriate duties in accordance with
military requirements.”

The officers in charge of the unit are Major E. Marsh, Capt. W. F. Crocker, 1st Lt. L. K. Ward,
1st Lt. E. Fruchter, Tech. Sgt. R. Burton, Tech. Sgt. Blanton, Tech. Sgt. Lewis Grady, Tech. Sgt. Spearman, Staff Sgt.
McGuinness, Sgt. Reilly, and Corp. Hoose. The boys in this unit, almost entirely Southerners, seem delighted to be at Davidson
and we hope they will take part in any activities that they have time for.

Frats Pledge 39 Freshmen
Six Chapters Remain Open For Rush Week

Davidson's six active fraternities pledged 39 freshmen during rush week which lasted three days from June 14 through June 16
to eight o'clock that evening.

Kappa Sigs
Kappa Sigma Fraternity pledged ten: Harold Amos, and Gabby Bryant, both from High Point; Walt Dickson, from Gastonia; Phil Conway,
from Conway, S. C.; Charlie Jarrett, from Charlotte; Bill Medford, from Waynesville; Ed Monroe, from Laurinburg; Allison Pell, from Charlotte;
Doc Roddey, from Lancaster, S. C.; and John Wilson, from Charlotte.

SPE’s
Sigma Phi Epsilon pledged nine: Bob Etheridge, from Atlanta; John Hay, from Hickory; Winston Edwards, from Forest City; Howard Lamar,
from Charleston, S. C.; Robert Morrison, from Hickory; David Neill, from Kings Mountain; Elmo Sellers, from Greensboro; Sandy Shaw, from
Wagram; and Alton Whitehouse, from Charleston, S. C.

Betas
Beta Theta Pi pledged Sonny Blain, from Lexington, Va.; Marshall Carper, from Bluefield, W. Va.; Jack Etheridge, from Atlanta; Ed
Golden, from Brunswick, Ga.; Ward Lasley, from Burlington; Graham McGehee, from Jacksonville, Fla.; Louis Maxwell, from Goldsboro; and Jimmy Price,
from Charlotte.

Pi Kapp
The members of the Pi Kappa Phi pledge class are: Jimmy Boyce, from Albemarle; Ronney Dietrick, from Blacksburg, Va.; Warren
Higginbotham, from Greenville, S. C.; Newlin Schenck, from Shelby; Cris Weber, from Winston-Salem; and Carver Wood, from Shelby.

Pikas
Pi Kappa Alpha pledged Graham McNair, from Laurinburg; Bob Smoak, from Wilkesboro; and Ted Wilds, from Aiken, S. C.

SAE’s
The Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity pledged Bob Gambrell, from Atlanta. Alpha Kappa decided to close up since none of its
brothers are returning this summer and consequently pledged no one.

DR. FRAZER HOOD
Student Body President
“Y” President
C. T. DANIEL

BILE-SMITH
Old Professor Dies After 24 Years at Davidson
Dr. Hood’s Funeral Held at Davidson Monday

Dr. Frazer Hood, prominent member of the Davidson Faculty and Southern Educational leader, died at the Memorial Hospital in Charlotte
at 2:30 in the morning of June 19. Dr. Hood was born in Tupelo, Miss., on June 2, 1875. He
was the son of the late Captain Charles B. Hood and Wiley Hood.We attended Southwestern, Clarksville, 1892 to 1896, receiving
the A.B. degree. While a student, he was College Orator and Salutatorian. He is a member of the Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Delta Kappa, the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity. After graduating from Southwestern, Dr.
Hood attended the University of Mississippi and Johns Hopkins University. Winning a Fellowship, he attended Yale and received the Ph.D.
degree in 1903. His thesis took first honor. In 1903, he married Kallista Wagner of Water Valley, Miss. Dr. Hood
first taught at Hanover College in Indiana; the University of Tennessee; the University of Oklahoma; and at West Tennessee Teachers’
College. During World War I, he was a first lieutenant on the Army Psychology Examining Board. In 1920, he came
to Davidson as Professor of Psychology from Northwestern University, Illinois. During summer sessions, he taught at North Carolina State University
and at Ohio State University. He was president of the North Carolina College Conference in 1933 and 1934. The same
year, Dr. Hood was president of the Board of Trustees of Lees-McRae College at Banner Elk, N.C. He was president
of the Educational Association of the Southern Presbyterian Church in 1942-1943. He was the author of “Every Man's Insurance,” “The
Duties and Responsibilities of College Trustees,” and numerous psychological articles. He was a popular lecturer on subjects in the field
of psychology and religion. The funeral was held at five o'clock on June 19 at the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Burial
was in the Davidson cemetery. Active pallbearers were C.K. Brown, W.P. Cumming, A.V. Goldiere, J.T. Kimbrough, H.T. Lilly, and W.N.
Mebane. Honorary pallbearers were the members of the College Faculty and Administration. The Student Body will greatly miss one of
its best professors and truest friends.

Student President Elected

Bill Smith To Head ‘Y’

Alexander, Gray, McNair, Witherington, Wysor, Robinson on Council

C.T. Daniel, senior from Oxford, N.C., was elected president of the Davidson student body for the summer session in the
election which was held last Monday. Daniel, who is a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, was co-captain of
the football team last fall and an outstanding guard all season. He is also a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council.
Only a few votes decided the race, with Jim Alexander being the losing candidate.

Y.M.C.A.

For president of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, Bill Smith was victorious in the vote by a large majority. Smith is the
retiring chairman of the social committee of the ‘Y’, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity; in addition,
he holds the position of treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Bill has been treasurer of the Betas and manager of
the Student Store. He is a senior and hails from Chatham, Virginia.

Student Council

In chapel Tuesday morning, elections were held for positions on the Student Council, with one junior and five seniors being
chosen. The nominating slate included Alexander, Grey, McNair, Witherington, Wysor, Robinson, Ashby, Pell, Pickard—and the first six named were elected.
Jim Alexander, the only junior chosen, is business manager of the Davidsonian, a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council, the ‘21’
Club, the SAI social fraternity, and was president of his sophomore class. Bill Grey and Alf McNair are both members
of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, and Grey also belongs to the ‘21’ Club. McNair is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity. Dexter Witherington is president of the Phi Alpha Chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, past business
manager of the Davidsonian, and a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet. Jim Robinson is the teacher of the student Sunday
School class and a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet. Bill Wysor, who completes the list, is president of the Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity and a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. He also belongs to the ‘21’ Club and served
as manager of the football team last fall.

BUY WAR BONDS
