Thursday, October 26, 1944

THE DAVIDSONIAN

R.O.T.C. (Continued from Page 1)

ener, Hoffman, Scarborough, and Band: Capt. White, 1st Lt. Brooks, 1st Sgt. Wyatt, Guide Sgt. Neill, Squad Leaders: Foltz, Fullbright, Kincaid.

A letter addressed to Mrs. C. L. Steel of Davidson from her husband Col. C. L. Steel, now a prisoner of the Japanese on Taiwan, Formosa, was received here on October 3. It was written on March 3 and reports the receipt of eleven letters from home, which had been written between May and September 1943, on February 22. The letters contained photographs of the family, including a grandchild whom Col. Steel has never seen. Col. Steel indicated that no packages had yet been received and that the letters which reached him on February 22 were the first since December 1941. The last word which had been received from the captive Colonel prior to then was on August 6. Four letters written in December 1943 arrived on that date. All the messages carried news from Col. Steel that he was well and praying for eventual reunion with his family.

Col. Charles Steel was for years in the Davidson R.O.T.C. He became a Colonel in 1941 and was chosen for service in the Philippine Department. He was on Luzon Island in command of the fighting 31st Regiment when his command was captured by the Japs. He has been twice cited for heroic action in that tragic campaign.

Aloe Army Air Field, Victoria, Texas — With the graduation of Class 44-G from Aloe Field and other single-engine, advanced flying schools throughout the AAF’s Central Flying Training Command, another group of fighter pilots joined the ranks of the mighty United States Army Air Forces this morning. In a brief but impressive ceremony the morning of August 4, the class received their silver pilot's wings and became flight officers or second lieutenants in the greatest air force in the world.

At Aloe, these new flying officers mastered the art of military flying. Here they learned to fly the famed Texan trainer and received many long hours of instruction in formation, night and instrument flying as well as numerous ground school subjects. The majority of the graduates will return to Aloe Field as flying officers to pursue a course in aerial gunnery and transition training in fast, modern fighting planes. Upon completion of their transition training, they will join the combat crews of the AAF in the far-flung aerial battle areas of the world.

Graduates from this area are: 1st Lt. Archibald C. Wilson, Jr., of Bardstown, Kentucky. Lt. Wilson attended Davidson College in North Carolina prior to his entering the AAF.

JIMMY FULCHER (Continued from Page 1)

his father is a deacon, and to the Unity Church which serves the Mill Church and which is sponsored by the entire community. Mrs. O. J. Thies of Davidson has been named treasurer of the Memorial fund.

Lt. Fulcher was born July 3, 1922, in Cartersville, Virginia. He came with his parents to Davidson in 1925, attended the local public school and graduated from Davidson College with the degree of B.S. in January 1943. He had majored in science and mathematics with medicine as his proposed profession. In college, he displayed marked qualities of leadership and devotion to duty which brought to him membership in Omicron Delta Kappa (National Leadership Fraternity). His constant helpfulness to others was recognized in the award of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan medal by unanimous vote of the faculty. His life gave promise of a career of great usefulness to his fellow men. Besides his parents, Prof. and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher, Lt. Fulcher is survived by three sisters, Jean, Frances, and Martha.

NEW COURT SELECTED (Continued from Page 1)

freshmen mustobserve are:

1. Wear freshman caps at all times.
2. Keep off the grass.
3. Carry laundry when requested to do so by upper-classmen.
4. Speak to everyone on campus.
5. Show proper respect to upper-classmen.
6. Remain seated after chapel until all upper-classmen have left the auditorium.

It is hoped that all students will cooperate in seeing that the regulations are observed, and violations reported. Only by cooperation can the work of the court be carried out in the proper manner, and the traditions of Davidson be perpetuated.

J. O. JONES, Inc.
COME SEE US FOR YOUR FALL
Suits & Overcoats
J. O. JONES, Inc.

THIS MIGHT BE YOU
(Continued from Page 2)

That was the girl they were to be with, for you see these were blind dates. The game ended and my friend and his pals rushed to the rendezvous. After waiting about fifteen minutes, three girls appeared. “Could these be the ones?” he thought. “What eyes, what teeth, what hair, what nonsense—but to get back to the story, they were nice looking girls.” After introductions had made the rounds, they all piled into a car which was provided by one of the boy's fathers. Driving to a local eating place, they got better acquainted over hamburgers and cokes and a table of course. Well, things were working out pretty good for our casanovas so far. There they were driving along a lonely highway, under the stars, listening to a popular ballad over the radio. “Ah yes, peaceful, wasn’t it?” But what's this? One of the girls suggested her house. Well, they might try a little dancing, perhaps. Driving in the driveway under a canopy of pine trees, it was carefully mentioned by the girls that there was a lake back of the house, but did these “great lovers” of ours take notice? No. Inside the house, several records had been playing when one of the girls thought that she should call home and let her parents know that nothing had befallen her. While she was thus employed, one of the boys, trying to be the life of the party, jestingly suggested a game of bridge. The girl whose house it was, being the perfect hostess, immediately put down a card table and a pack of cards before the astonished and surprised eyes of our friends. So the rest of the beautiful evening was spent by our friends playing bridge. Don't laugh, for “this might be you”.

“But I only want to see what my War Bonds are buying.”

ROVING PROPHET
(Continued from Page 2)

Or I will report you to the Freshmen Court of Control. This is the way the class of '49 is going to start out. No more freshman caps, but instead upperclassmen caps have been instituted here. Since there were more freshmen here in '44 than upperclassmen, they must have ruled the place,” says one freshman to another. “Must have,” the second answers. “Run down to Hugo’s and get me a chocolate shake with three dips on the double,” yells a freshman to a senior. “Yes, sir,” replies the senior. And this is the way that things are going here now. All upperclassmen are subject to rule by freshmen at all times—all because the freshmen in the class of '48 contained a bunch of “chickens”.

DAVIDSON MEN SPEAK
(Continued from Page 3)

Known at Davidson as “Bobby Wearn”, finished his course there in 1913. Dr. Algernon B. Reese, also of Charlotte, vice-president of the student body and an outstanding campus leader, received his diploma in 1917. Davidson College salutes the eight eminent men who are the visitors of the week and acknowledges the great honor that is theirs in paying tribute to her distinguished sons.

Compliments
ILL CORNELIUS,