ITH THE WILDCATS By JIM LOWRY

Since there is no sports news hardly of any sort around here or anywhere for that matter, the sports column
this week will consist of almost nothing, as it usually does. The major leagues are under way and the Browns
and the Giants, well stocked with fancy four flingers, are leading the league which means nothing to none except the
owners and the managers who are trying to keep their jobs. Looking at the lineups you see instead of Whoozit
Lb, Whoozit 4f. It looks like the lineup for the home for incurable cripples.

The Senators appear to be the only team not full of faltering four effers. They have a new twist. Their
lineups sound like the Fordham football team of years ago. You read it and feel like doing a conga or
a rhumba. Instead of coaches, the Sens have translators. We saw where Vice-President Wallace threw out the first ball at
the opening game in Washington the other day. This column thought it would be a good idea if Dr. Cunningham
threw out the ball at the Cats’ opening game. After the game was over it looked like he should have
pitched the whole game. The same old story, no hit, no field, no pitch. Base hits on the Cat squad
are scarcer than fleas on a skinned poodle.

It took the Cats three times before old Jupiter Pluvius would let them start a ball game. Eye Brows Hudson,
the Al Schacht of the Cats, said any time the farmers around here wanted to know when it would rain
all they had to do was look at the baseball schedule and they would know. George Floyd said he could
tell by the limbs that the crows sat on. If they sat on a little limb, it would rain; if
they sat on a big limb, it wouldn't rain. Floyd also won the high school oratorical contest in South Carolina
several years ago.

There has been quite a bit of criticism about this column. While we admit we don’t have much sports news,
we also say nothing is happening. Also, to prove once and for all that we don’t get our news out
of the Charlotte News, we are picking the Philadelphia Athletics to win the American League title and the Phillies to
win the National League title and to meet in the series.

There have been quite a few funny baseball stories which have been handed down through the years, including the one
about the cross-eyed left-handed pitcher who had two strikes on the batter, looked at the batter, and threw to first
base catching the man off first. The batter swung and the umpire called them both out, but there is one
in which Davidson should have particular interest. It happened to Mr. Hengeveld back in the days when he was pitching
for Little Rock in the Southern League. It seems back in those days clubs were limited to a very small
number of players and Mr. Hengeveld was put in right field in the absence of the regular right fielder. The
club was playing in New Orleans and it was growing rapidly dark. There was a brisk wind coming in from
the gulf and as the batter hit a low line drive out into right field, the wind blew a sea
gull across the path of the ball. Well, it seems Mr. Hengeveld chased the ball all the way to the
fence only at last to see it soar over the fence flapping its wings merrily in the breeze while the
ball had stopped back many yards. The conversation which followed between he and the manager is scarcely printable. The moral
might be...

The Cats play Catawba Tuesday and V. P. I. next Friday and Saturday. Already this year several incidents have happened
which resemble the clowns of last year. Hudson trying to steal third with the bases loaded against Catawba looked very
much like a Brooklyn Dodger stunt. Last Friday against V. P. I., with the bases loaded, the Davidson pitcher uncorked
a wild pitch and when the smoke had cleared away three runs had scored, the batter was still at bat
and the catcher was throwing wood in every direction looking for the ball, a carpenter on a scaffold back of
the plate being the only spectator. Ah, well, in the words of the immortal P. T. Barnum, you ain’t seen
nothing yet.

And so until the next time at the same time when we will be back with the same old stuff
at the same old place, we bid all a fond adieu, and anybody that doesn’t like this column can come
up to the Davidsonian office and write one.

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DRINK PASTEURIZED MILK
It’s Safe
MOORESVILLE CREAMERY

SHIP AHOY RESTAURANT
THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. TRYON ST.
THE PLACE TO MEET YOUR FRIENDS
Opposite Johnston Bldg.
FOR PRIVATE DINING ROOM RESERVATION PHONE 5490

Wildcat Sports
SINK V. P. I.
Friday, April 28, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

KAs, Kap Sigs Tie For Title
The games ended last week in a tie for first place between the Knights of Kappa Alpha and the Kappa
Sigs. The Sigma Phi Epsilons were forced down to second.place by a last game defeat. There were numerous upsets and
a lot of thrilling comebacks early in the contest. The Pikas were forced, due to a shortage of manpower, to
withdraw. This helped develop a new enjoyment in volleyball for the participants. Noted players during the tournament were Goodman, Lowry,
Turnbull, Spaugh, Way, Witherington, and Hudson. The Independents came through with an amazing amount of power, mostly from Walt Goodman,
but were defeated in the last game of the night to end up in a tie with the SPE’s for
second place. The Kappa Sigs are rumored to have an edge of about twenty points. This tie for first did
little to relieve the confusion in the hotly contested cup chase. The games were played according to the official rules
with ten men on a team, stolen bases, and outs. At the close of the season, an all-star softball team
will be picked by the leaders of each team, as is customary.

Intra-mural softball will begin this week among the fraternities and an independent team. The games will be played on the
field after supper, which has been moved up to six o'clock this season. Twilight ball has always been a favorite
sport and should afford many spills and thrills again this year. The race for the intra-mural cup has been very
close up to this point.

Norton’s Barber Shop
DAVIDSON, N.C.
RAZORS
MIRRORS
OLD SPICE AFTER SHAVE LOTIONS
MENNEN SKIN BALM
SHAMPOOS
DAVIDSON’S SERVICE DRUG STORE
CANDY — CARDS — FLOWERS
MOTHER’S DAY RATIONED
FOUNTAIN PENS
IF IT’S SCARCE YOU CAN GET ‘IT’ AT

CATAWBA WINS
Cats Tackle Gobblers Today
Locals Seeking First Victory
Lowry Goes to Mound to Oppose Virginians

The Davidson Wildcats, still minus a victory in the 1944 baseball wars, will return to Richardson Field this weekend for
a two-game series with the Virginia Tech nine. Coach Shepherd may send Jim Lowry, ace right-hander, to the mound in
both tilts in an attempt to crack the elongated losing streak. This move will allow him to keep Phil Whittier,
sophomore twirler, under wraps until the two-day invasion of the Old Dominion.

RAIN HAMPERS PLAY
After three scheduled tussles were washed by spring torrents, the weather cleared to enable the Wildcats to drop the opener
to Virginia. The game was a tight duel between Raines until the fifth inning when the Sandlappers, aided by a
costly error and the momentary wildness on the part of the visiting twirler, pushed over two runs. This provided the
margin of victory in a loosely played game, ending 7 to 5.

George Floyd started for the Wildcats and retained his effectiveness until rain temporarily delayed the action. In the fifth inning,
the Indians unleashed a batting attack that brought in three runs and drove Floyd to cover. Bobo Turner relieved him
in the sixth, but three walks, two singles, and two misplays produced three more runs. Lowry finished the game allowing
only one hit, although poor fielding gave the Indians the final tally in the seventh. Walser went the route for
Catawba, giving up five hits including a four-base knock by Wilcox with two men on base.

P. C. WINS AGAIN
Davidson next journeyed to Clinton where Raines and the Blue Stockings chalked up another win, this time 16 to 4.
Whittier went the route for the Wildcats and his wildness, coupled with ten errors by his fielders, resulted in a
field day for the South Carolinians. Raines proved that his previous feat was not mere luck by whipping his fastball
past Davidson batsmen.

INDIANS COP
Catawba made it two straight over the hapless Wildcats by a score of 9 to 5 in the Salisbury yard.
Shepherd sent Inscoe, normally an outfielder, to the hill and although he allowed but seven blows, the loose play of
his teammates brought his downfall. Biggers plastered the Wildcats for eight hits, but superior fielding enabled the Indians to outscore
the invaders.

FRAT STANDINGS
Fraternity Won Lost
SPE 4 1
Kappa Sigs 4 1
Independents 3 2
Betas 3 2
Phi Delts 0 5
