Henry T. Lilly Weds Quietly Last Saturday

English Professor Marries Miss Grace Green In Winston-Salem

The wedding of Miss Grace White Greene, of Ronda, N. C., to Henry Tracy Lilly, Professor of English, took place
last Saturday in Winston-Salem. Mrs. Lilly, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Granville K. Greene, of Ronda, has taught English in
the New Hanover High School in Wilmington, N. C., for the last three years, and resigned recently, planning to begin
post-graduate work at the University of North Carolina.

Professor Lilly, son of the late Dr. D. Clay Lilly, Presbyterian minister who was located in Winston-Salem for more than
20 years, graduated from Davidson with an A. B. Degree, in 1918. While in college he was editor-in-chief of “Quips
& Cranks,” annual, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. A few years later he received an M.A. from Princeton
University, and has since studied at the University of Chicago and the University of North Carolina. Since 1926 he has
taught English at Davidson, and has recently been appointed director of the Grey Memorial Library in the absence of Dr.
Chalmers G. Davidson, who is stationed at Great Lakes, Mich., in the Navy.

The Lillys took a brief honeymoon at the beginning of this week, and expect a more extended one at the
close of school in May. They plan to live in Davidson. Since Professor Lilly is censor of The Davidsonian, in
addition to his other duties, and was away while the paper went to press, no guarantee as to the purity
of this issue is made.

Half Of Church Goal Already Subscribed

More than half of the $250,000 goal set in the campaign for building a new church on the campus has
already been subscribed, it was announced by President John R. Cunningham. Several weeks ago, the campaign was presented to the
ministers of North Carolina, and last Sunday members of the faculty spoke in churches throughout the state in behalf of
the new college church. Among those who spoke to Carolina congregations were Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Dr. C. M. Richards,
Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Mr. Frank Jackson, Professor E. A. Beaty, Dr. Frontis Johnston, Rev. Carl Pritchett, and Dr. Cunningham.

Dr. Cunningham said that a great many individual gifts are being received, and that some congregations were planning to pool
their gifts for a special area of the church. One of these, the members of Caldwell Memorial Church in Charlotte,
hopes to be able to cover the cost of the chapel.

FRIDAY:
3:30 p.m.—Baseball game—Davidson vs. V. P. I. in stadium.
5:30 p.m.—Pan-Hellenic Picnic on golf course.
9:30-1:30—Formal Dance in High School Gym with Ervin Hinkle’s Orchestra. Fraternity houses open until late.

SATURDAY:
3:00 p.m.—Baseball game—Davidson vs. V. P. I. in stadium.
8:00-12:00—Informal Dance in High School Gym.

SUNDAY:
11:15 a.m.—Church service with Rev. Carl Pritchett as preacher.
7:30 p.m.—Vesper service with Rev. Walser Allen of Moravian Church, Kernersville, as speaker.

The Davidsonian
Vol. XXXI DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1944 No. 11

Edgar Patterson Leaves Today

Y Secretary Accepts Job In Cleveland, Ohio

Edgar Patterson, secretary of the YMCA, will leave Davidson tomorrow to accept a position in the research department of the
National Carbon Company in Cleveland, Ohio. Patterson, who graduated last February, has held the position of Y Secretary since that
time. Before graduation he was president of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, and he is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa. He graduated with a B.S. in chemistry.

Major General Norman T. Kirk, Surgeon-General of the U.S. Army, is shown above with the degree of Doctor of Science
just presented to him by President John R. Cunningham. Governor J. Melville Broughton looks on. Amid historic and colorful surroundings
and attended by individuals prominent in state and nation, the Martin Science Building was formally dedicated at Davidson College the
afternoon of April 14. The prominent visitors who had arrived in Charlotte during the forenoon, were guests of the College
at a luncheon for the Mecklenburg College authorities. Dedication ceremonies were presided over by President Cunningham.

When the visitors arrived at Davidson in the afternoon, they were met at the Guest House by the College authorities.
Under a military escort of honor, they were taken to Richardson Stadium where Generals and other dignitaries reviewed the parade
by the Army Air Forces College Training Detachment. At the conclusion of this review, the Reserve Officers Training Corps conducted
the party to the Martin Science Building.Com the south court where the formal dedication exercises were performed. The invocation was
made by President-Emeritus Walter L. Lingle. Dr. James A. Jones of Charlotte read a significant passage from the scriptures. The
service consisted of a Litany of dedication led by President Cunningham, and the audience made a formal response. This part
of the service was concluded by the prayer of dedication pronounced by President Cunningham.

As yet, no plans have been made for filling Patterson’s post. Buddy Wells, the Y president last year, plans to
return to school this summer and will take over a large part of the Y work. There is doubt whether
a secretary will be needed.

Three Seniors, Two Graduates Tapped By Leadership Frat
Daniel, Smith, Bradford, Woods, Mr. Payne Receive Bids

In its annual spring tap day held Thursday, April 20, at the regular chapel hour, the Delta Circle of Omicron
Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, honored three seniors and two faculty members with bids. The five men honored were
C. T. Daniel, Bill Smith, Bob Bradford, Mr. John L. Woods, and Dr. James Payne.

Speaker at the tapping service was Dr. Henry Louis Smith, past president of Davidson College and of Washington and Lee
University, and one of the original founders of ODK. Dr. Smith told how, in an effort to organize the active
leadership of Washington and Lee, he and Dr. William M. Brown, professor of psychology at W&L, had gotten together a
group of outstanding students in 1914 and launched the first chapter of ODK. The five fields from which men are
chosen for outstanding leadership are social leadership and service, publications, athletics, scholastic achievement, and forensic and non-athletic work. Dr. Smith
said that the purpose of an organization of leaders was to push some project for the improvement of the community.

Claude Daniel, of Oxford, N.C., was co-captain of the football team last fall and an outstanding guard. He is a
member of the Pan-Hellenic Council of Kappa Alpha, a national social fraternity.

Bill Smith, of Princeton, W. Va., is manager of the Student Store, treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, treasurer of Beta
Theta Pi social fraternity, and social chairman of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet.

Bob Bradford, of Davidson, was elected president of the Senior class in February. He is president of the Davidson Chapter
of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Dr. James B. Woods, college physician, graduated from Davidson in 1918. He received an M.D. degree from the Medical College
of Virginia and was a medical missionary to China until the beginning of the present war.

John L. Payne is Alumni Secretary and Director of Public Relations. He graduated from Davidson with the Class of 1916
and returned in his present capacity in 1942.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULES
Wed. A.M. ROTC 12, 22
May 17 P.M. German 42, History 12A, Latin 22, Philosophy 32
Thurs. A.M. Bible 12A, Chemistry 32, 42B, English 32, Latin 12, Mathematics 12B, Sociology 32
May 18 P.M. Chemistry 92, German 12B, Spanish 12C, Physics 21, History 32
Fri. A.M. Bible 12C, Chemistry 82, Economics 22, English 11A, 12F
May 19 P.M. Mathematics 22, Music 12, Political Science 52, Spanish 22
Sat. A.M. Applied Mathematics 42, Bible 12B, 12E, Biology 42, Chemistry 42A, English 12A, 12
May 20 P.M. French 32, German 12A, History 72, Spanish 42
Mon. A.M.
May 22 P.M. Bible 12D, Biology 12A, Business 42, Chemistry 22A, English 12C, French 42
Tues. A.M. Geography 42, Greek 22, Music 42, Philosophy 62, Physics 22B, Spanish 22A
May 23 P.M. Philosophy 42, 52, Physics 22A, 32, Psychology 32, Spanish 12B
Wed. A.M. Biology 12B, Chemistry 22B, English 92, Math 41A, 12E
May 24 P.M. Bible 22D, Economics 62, Geography 22, History 12B, Music 22, Mathematics 12A
Thurs. A.M.
May 25 P.M. English 22B, French 12, Greek 12, Mathematics 12C, Psychology 42
Fri. A.M. Bible 22C, 52, Biology 32, English 22C, 62, French 22
May 26 P.M.

Classes of the second semester end on Monday, May 16th—12:50 P.M.
Courses not listed are to be arranged by professors concerned.
Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P.M.
