weather for the graduating class. ALENDA LUX UB ORTA THE WEATHER NOT We wish clear GUARAN. Che Davbidsonian LIBERTAS TEED
for its literary value. Vol. XXXII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1944 No. 5 TEN TO GRADUATE TOMORROW AS.
TR-P. Has Party Picnic Supper Accompanied by Music and Movie Twenty-seven Mooresville to the campus last Friday night. There was
a picnic supper at six o'clock. The ASTRP boys and their dates, girls from Davidson, were escorted to the function.
At seven, there were fraternity softball games to which all the boys were invited. At eight o'clock, there was a
military band concert. Following this, there was a jazz program with the ASTRP orchestra playing. Lt. Fruchter sang during the
evening for his appreciative audience. After the jazz program, Dan Barry, a civilian student, gave two solos on his clarinet,
which everyone thoroughly enjoyed. After the musical part of the program, the movie “Battle of Russia” was shown. This ended
the night’s program and a very pleasant evening for everyone there.

This and That From the ASTRP By EUGENE BAKER When we first arrived at Davidson, our first impression was one
of awe and admiration for the college and the manner in which it functioned. But after the short period of
time we have spent here, we have taken to Davidson as a more or less “second home.” The most outstanding
thing about the college is the friendliness of the faculty and the students toward us. The boys of the unit
have made a remarkable success in bringing themselves around to becoming G. I. Joes instead of “just fellows,” or at
least a majority have. They have discovered, to their amazement, that they have two different feet—the right and the left.
Due to the shortage of maid service, they have become very adept at the amazingly complicated art of cleaning house.
In the near future, when they go into the wide, cruel world, they are going to make some little woman
a fine wife. They are not only perfected in the arts of sweeping, dusting, and mopping, but also can cook
(maybe), sew, and make beds. They have also found that P. T. stands for three things—Post Toasties(?), Physical Torture, and
last but not least, the most beloved class of all, A. S. T. R. P.’s Physical Training. Like most units,
we have a character connected with the newspapers. He is better known as Pvt. Peter Plink, but to us, he
is just plain Pvt. Hargraves, or “See Here, Pvt. Hargraves.” On Friday and Saturday, August 25th and 26th, the A.
S. T. R. P. will take the Government achievement tests; the tests they have so gleefully awaited. After which, they
will be a homogeneous conglomeration of confused mentalities (see Webster for correct definitions if you are in doubt). But coming
back to earth, the fellows are patiently awaiting September 2nd—the day of liberation—upon which they will be given a week
parole for their good (?) behavior.

TO RECEIVE DEGREES Pictured above: Pickard, Ramsey, Witherington. Top row: Blanton, Bradford, Bradley, Brown, Hay. Bottom row: Johnston, McNair.

Faculty Changes Professor Williamson Leaves For Beloit College During these times, many changes take place at Davidson. Among these changes,
unfortunately, is the departure of Professor Rene de Visme Williamson, who has been Associate Professor of Economics and Political Science
here for several years. He is leaving for Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin, where he will be Associate Professor of
Political Science. Professor Williamson, who was born in Chicago in 1908, graduated from Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N. J.
with an A.B. degree in 1931. He went to Graduate School at Harvard, where he received the degrees of A.M.
in 1932 and Ph.D. in 1935. He taught at Princeton for two years before coming to Davidson. He is leaving
because of the greatly reduced size of the civilian student body and particularly the upper classes, where practically all of
his courses were.

Dr. Roy E. Hoke Among the new additions to the Davidson faculty will be Dr. Roy Hoke, who will come
here the first of September. Dr. Hoke is an ordained minister in the Emory Reform Church. He attended Henry College
in Virginia and Johns Hopkins University, and taught at Birmingham Southern College before coming to Davidson. To be here during
the school year of 1944-45, he will teach psychology and education. He has two daughters, one of whom will be
taking courses here this fall.

School Opening Delayed Vacation Extended One Week Because of Polio Announcement has been made by Dean of Faculty C. K.
Brown that, following the recommendation of the State Board of Health of North Carolina, the opening of the regular fall
semester of Davidson College will be postponed until the week of September 18. All Freshmen, including those who have been
at Davidson...During the summer session, students will be expected to report by supper time on Monday, September 18, for the
customary orientation program. The first day of instruction will be Thursday, September 21.

SCHEDULE CHANGES

September 18, Monday
6:00 Freshmen arrive. Orientation begins.

September 19, Tuesday
9:00-11:00—Fraternity rushing begins.

September 20, Wednesday
Registration of all students.
6:00 Fraternity rushing continued.

September 21, Thursday
Classes begin. Fraternity rushing continued through Friday.

ASTRP Unit Quarantine Over

The three-week quarantine period ended last Thursday for the A.S.T.R.P. students at Davidson College. The medical authorities at Davidson have
declared that the danger of an epidemic of polio here seems to have almost entirely vanished. Every precaution is being
taken, however, to further protect the members of the unit as well as the civilian students from exposure.

'Y' Makes Plans for Orientation

New Cabinet Members Selected for Fall Session

To replace the boys on the Cabinet who are graduating or leaving school for other reasons, the following boys have
been chosen to carry on the work of the Y.M.C.A: President Pro Tem, Jim Alexander; Church Relations, Bill Wier; Publicity,
Sonny Blaine; Social, Bruce Fisher; Sunday Schools, Marks Underwood; Spiritual Development, Vernon McGehee; Boy's Work, Tag Guiton; Herb Wyatt.

The freshmen here now and those coming to the campus for the first time will find the Cabinet members on
hand to direct them to the dormitories, their respective rooms, and to help them in any way possible to become
familiar with the Davidson Campus and all of its activities. Freshmen are to be on the campus by 6:30 Monday
afternoon the 18th. During the period of orientation, student counselors for small groups of freshmen will be selected from the
Cabinet to help the new men with any of their problems, and especially to introduce them to their respective faculty
advisors.

Dr. Gwynn, who has been in charge of Orientation for freshmen in the past, will not be officiating in this
capacity this coming fall, but the position will be filled by another member of the faculty to conduct the overall
plans to be carried out during that period. A supper has been held for the retiring members of the Cabinet,
at which time the decision was made to carry out the orientation period just as it has always been carried
out in the past when the student body had its full number. It is hoped that the freshmen will be
made to feel at home and that the Y.M.C.A. will be his help-at-all-times.

Ceremonies To Be Held In Chambers

HAY IS OUTSTANDING

Judge Parker to Deliver Address to Graduates

On Friday evening, August 25, ten seniors who have completed their required college work will be granted degrees by Davidson
College. The commencement service will be held in Chambers auditorium, with Judge John J. Parker as the principal speaker for
the occasion.

Graduates

Among those expecting to graduate at the close of the summer session and to receive diplomas on August 25 are
the ten seniors whose names follow: Blanton, Bradford, Bradley, Brown, Johnson, Hay, McNair, Pickard, Ramsey, and Witherington.

Blanton
William H. Blanton, of Troutman, is a pre-ministerial student, and has served as supply pastor of a church in Mooresville
while in school here.

Bradford
Robert C. Bradford is from Davidson, and is a pre-medical student. While at Davidson he has served as president of
the Senior Class, thereby holding office on the Student Council. He was a member of the varsity baseball team last
spring. Bradford is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and served as president of the Davidson chapter.
He is also a member of ODK.

Bradley
Tinsley P. Bradley, of Glade Springs, Virginia, is a pre-ministerial student. He served on the YMCA Cabinet while in school,
and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Brown
Charles Beverly Brown is a candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He is from Charlotte, North Carolina, and
is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Hay
Samuel H. Hay, from Hickory, N.C., is an outstanding member of the graduating class, having served as president of the
student body, and president of the sophomore and junior classes. He was also captain of the football team, and has
played basketball for two years. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, serving as vice-president. Hay holds
membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity; also, the Beaver Club, the “D”
Club, and the YMCA Cabinet. He has appeared in Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, which recognizes outstanding students
throughout the nation. Hay is a pre-medical student.

Johnston
Joseph M. Johnston is from Davidson, and is a member of the Kappa Phi social fraternity. (Continued on Page 4)
