ITH T ILDCA
By JIM LOWRY

Athletics After the War.

After the war is over, there’s no telling how long that will be, athletics in America will hit either a high peak, or a very low. Boys who come back will be in the best shape that college athletes have ever been in. They will have more timing, more coordination and the simple games of football and basketball will seem like child’s play to the game of death they have been starring in. If that happens then sports all over the country will hit a new peak.

There are several things wrong with this however. If the war lasts too long, the great baseball players of today who are thirty and around there, will be too old to play ball, and they probably won't have any desire to anyway. Professional athletics will have to be made up of boys who are twenty-three or twenty-four, but those will be the boys who should be going back to college. In that way amateur sports or professional sports will have to give way, and with public opinion the way it is today, fans will want to see pro ball instead of amateur ball. That’s just an opinion of course, but it’s going to be a lot of boys who come back that won't give a hoot about college, and will join the ranks of the pros for a little easy money. However, let’s hope that college athletics won't be forced to remain that much in the background of the pros.

This and Here from That and There:

The Yankees seem to be just like old man river, they just keep rolling along. Yesterday they beat the Dodgers 4-3, with Dickey, Gordon and Bob Johnson gone out of their great infield of last year. It was George Stirnweiss, ex-Carolina star, who took Gordon’s place and cracked a home run and a triple to beat the bums.

Murphy Williams who was a standby on the Cat cage team a few years ago came back to school and preached at vespers Sunday. It seems that some athletes do make good preachers. Look at Billy Sunday.

Blanton Belk who held down first base for the decrepit clowns of last year is said to have the inside job up at Carolina. Must be some mistake.

Tennessee and Alabama, the giants of yesterday in the Southeastern Conference, have at last decided to play football. These schools and others failed to field teams last year due to the fact that they thought they could not win. After seeing the little schools that did play football and not only won a few games but also made a little money, they decided to continue. I don’t think much credit is due them though.

Spring Sports.

Right now it looks like the only spring sport at Davidson will be the baseball team. The track squad decided to abandon track as they could get no schedule. The Cats open the diamond season next week with the Catawba Indians at Richardson field. What they have is a mystery at the present. They have got games though. Four with Catawba, four with N. C. State, four with V. P. I., and two with P. C., thus breaking a precedent of many years standing of not meeting the South Carolina Davidson in any athletic contest. They will definitely be freshman chill with everybody but the catcher, pitchers, and third basemen being first year men.

BE SURE TO BUY YOUR
e AIR CORPS STATIONERY
e PENNANTS
e SANDWICHES
e COLD DRINKS
e SCHOOL SUPPLIES
e FRATERNITY STATIONERY

Prices Cut on all Air Corps Goods
Courteous and efficient Self Service
AT The Student Store

MANAGERS
NEWT SPENCER
BILL SMITH

Wildcat Sports
BEAT CATAWBA
April 7, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Spring Sports Program Is Hit

AMERICAN HEROES BY LEFF

Seriously wounded by an exploding grenade, Marine Gunner Angus R. Goss of Tampa, Florida,braved point-blank enemy fire to charge an enemy machine gun emplacement in a cave. Single-handed, he wiped out Japanese gunners and snipers with a sub-machine gun, saving the lives of his unit. Angus Goss is dead—leaving a Navy Cross for “indomitable fighting spirit and extreme courage.” If such heroism doesn’t deserve an extra War Bond, what does? U.S. Treasury Department

Whittle Suggests Twilight Ball

Coach Heath Whittle, director of intramural athletics, today announced that he will meet with the sports managers of the six active fraternities in the near future to map plans for the remainder of the season. If the managers agree, programs in both volleyball and softball will be carried on. In the case of the latter, Whittle hopes to organize a twilight league, the games being played immediately after supper. This may necessitate a change in the supper hour at the various fraternity houses. All men, according to Whittle, except those out for varsity baseball, will be eligible for this competition. The manpower shortage may affect all fraternities, but he believes that all of them will be able to field a team. The softball race will be the deciding factor in the fraternity cup chase. Four teams are within striking distance of the coveted award.

EDUCATION TOMORROW (Continued from Page 2)

The administration is encouraged by the probability of a reserve unit being sent by the army. Fine! But we would like to express the hope of all students, that the college will outlast this war no matter what happens.

Whatever Your Needs

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
SHOES
and the 101 other things

SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Parker-Gardner Co.

Varsity Track Is Abandoned

Baseball Will Continue; Golf, Tennis Doubtful

Due to the absence of civilian competition in this locality, varsity track has become the first major sport to be a casualty of the war. After numerous futile attempts to secure meets with a number of colleges, Coach Pete Whittle was at last forced to dismiss his squad. In accordance with the school's policy to meet only teams of equal caliber, the athletic department rejected offers from schools in Virginia. It was reported that teams in North and South Carolina, and Georgia were contacted without success. Track, for the present, has fallen victim to the tides of war.

BASEBALL

Coach Norman Shepard's baseball batters are, on the other hand, hard at work preparing for a 14-game schedule, which includes four games with State, four with Catawba, and two with P.C. Although the dates have not been announced, the opener will be sometime next week when the Cats tangle with Catawba. A victory would be partial revenge for frequent shellackings suffered last year at the hands of the Indians. With a team composed entirely of freshmen, except for pitchers, catcher, and third sack, the locals may find the going rough in early encounters. However, the team has quite a few promising rookies who may turn good ball after they gain experience.

TENNIS AND GOLF

These two sports, once very popular in intercollegiate circles, have been hard hit by wartime conditions. Transportation to distant schools has become impossible, and there are few, if any, organizations other than high schools that sponsor any teams in these sports in this area. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to discontinue them for the present.

BASKETBALL AWARDS

Coach Norman Shepard has announced that the following men from this year’s basketball club have received monograms: Jim Lowry, captain, Ed White, J.D. Ashmore, Sam Hay, Mike Williams, Bob Freeman, Jones Flowers, and George Floyd, manager.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N.C.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N.C.