WITH THE WILDCATS
By JIM LOWRY

Perhaps the most important thing to Davidson students in the realm of sports is the returning of the Cats to the football wars. When Gene McEver left for Carolina on a leave of absence, it seemed as if the Cats were not to be represented on the gridiron for the first time in almost thirty years. However, Coach Shepherd decided not to let the sport die and hired Phil Hudson, former Appalachian star who coached at Tech High in Charlotte last year, to handle this year’s edition of the gridiron Cats.

Due to the manpower shortage, it was decided to make this year’s varsity only a freshman team, playing only high schools and prep schools. Coach Hudson issued a call for candidates last Monday and around forty boys answered, but that number has dwindled down to about thirty in the last week. Discarding the single wing which has been so prevalent in Davidson football systems for so long, Coach Hudson initiated the more modern ‘T’ formation, which is noted for its deception, using this deception to offset the lack of power which the Wildcats seemed to have.

Running in the first string backfield so far have been Phil Edwards, Gabby Bryant, Jim Parker, and Pat Patterson, but the other backfield is so nearly on par with this one that it is hard to call one the first string. Composed of Neill, Keesler, Inscoe, and Hagan, this set of backs has shown up well in the only scrimmage Saturday afternoon. In the line, the Cats can field a team composed of boys who have all had prep school or high school experience. With Allison Pell from Darlington and Van Covington from Riverside at the ends, the Cats have two valuable men. Whitehouse and Strickland are running at the tackles right now with Monroe and Manget at the guard and John Hay at the center.

The Cats have carded five games so far, opening with Woodberry Forest at Orange in two weeks on Oct. 7th and playing Barium, Mooresville, Laurinburg, and Darlington. There is a chance that they might play Central and that will undoubtedly be homecoming, though hardly anyone would come home to see that.

It seems that there are two former Davidson students playing up at Carolina this fall. They are Tom Abell, who is said to have played at Culver, and Johnny Walker, who played a lot at guard for the Davidson frosh two years ago. Sam Hay is said to be playing, but he wasn't in the lineup Saturday, so I guess he had a lab.

Seems like the race in the Southern Conference this year will be between Wake Forest and Duke. Carolina seems hardly strong enough or deep enough in reserves or experience to knock off the Blue Devils. Wake had a lot of bad breaks and could easily have beaten the Tar Heels by three or four touchdowns. The dark horses could easily be Clemson’s Tigers, who romped P.C. Saturday, or Doc Newton’s South Carolina Gamecocks, who really seemed to be loaded for bear.

At Charlotte Saturday night, everyone saw a bunch of high school boys try to stop one of the outstanding ball carriers in the south. Charlie Trippi stamped himself as one of the best backs in the service and the Third Air Force as one of the outstanding service teams also. He turned sideways and the Coast Guard couldn’t quite see him. They could beat Great Lakes when they meet in two weeks.

The Student Store
LOCATED IN OLD GYM
COLD DRINKS
“T” SHIRTS
CAKES
FRESHMAN CAPS
The place to get that between class or off-hour snack

Wildcat Sports
Thursday, September 28, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

THE SQUAD PRACTICES

Gridiron Guesses

We, the contributors to the Davidsonian, in order to form a more enjoyable page, establish Gridiron Guesses, insure one winner per week, provide for a common reward, promote mental competition and secure the blessings of bankruptcy to our financial backers, do begin and establish Gridiron Guesses or It Can't Be Worse.

ARTICLE 1
Sec. 1. The name of this space filler shall be entitled Gridiron Guesses.
Sec. 2. On each sheet will appear in the October 7 issue of the Davidsonian and will be found in each successive issue after said date.

ARTICLE 2
Sec. 1. Gridiron Guesses shall be composed of a sheet of paper and its duplicate.
Sec. 2. On each sheet will be written ten football games with the points given to the second team on the right-hand margin.
Sec. 3. The original copy shall be turned into room seven (7) Georgia dormitory by 6 P.M. on the Friday after the paper comes out on Thursday.

ARTICLE 3
Sec. 1. One man may enter not more than one entry.
Sec. 2. No entry will be accepted unless it is signed by a Davidsonian man(?).Sec. 3. No entry will be accepted if more or less than eight are marked.
Sec. 4. Entries must not be compared.

ARTICLE 4
Sec. 1. One student admission to the next home game of the Third Air Force Gremlins will be rewarded to the winner each week.
Sec. 2. The decision of the judge is final.

Done in Georgia Dormitory with the unanimous consent of the present members this twenty-fifth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and forty-four. In witness thereof, the undersigned foolishly subscribes his name.

J. S. Love, Editor
Witnesses:
R. C. Etheridge
J. T. Stukes

Hudson ‘Team Coach
New Man From Tech High School in Charlotte

To coach the new frosh football team at Davidson this fall, we have been very fortunate in being able to procure Phillips Hudson, Norman Shepard, Director of Athletics, recently announced. Coach Hudson is a native of Texas and received a B.S. in Physical Education at Appalachian State Teachers College in 1940. Afterwards, he served as varsity backfield coach for Appalachian. Then, leaving Boone, he coached at Marion High School for one year. He saw service for 18 months as an athletic trainer at the Navy Pre-Flight School at Athens, Ga. During last season, Mr. Hudson was head coach at Tech High School in Charlotte.

Games have been arranged to be played with Woodberry Forest School, Barium Springs, Mooresville High School, Darlington School, Laurinburg High School, and possibly others.

EXPLICIT

Mr. Schneider, the tailor, decided to order two new pressing irons. He wrote out an order to the supply house for "two gooses." That did not seem right, either. At last, he took a new sheet of paper and amended it to "two geese"; then felt that this could hardly be correct, and amended it again to "one 16-lb. goose. Please send another one, also."

Yours truly,
Henry Schneider

A WEEKLY FOOTBALL NEWSPAPER
Schedules - Pictures - Comments
Accumulative Scores - Predictions
$5.00 for Air Mail Service For 10 Weeks
$2.00 starting Sept. 30th
25¢ Per Copy on Newsstands
SEND ORDERS TO THE FOOTBALL NEWS
161 WEST NINE MILE ROAD
DETROIT 20, MICH.

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL STARTS
First Game To Be With Woodberry Team Scheduled to Make Trip and Play October 7

Carrying on its program of “business as usual” this year, Davidson College is putting a Freshman Football Team on the field. The coaching staff was no doubt pleased by the enthusiasm displayed by the Student Body as a whole when they learned that their school was to be represented in intercollegiate competition by a ball-club. Equally encouraging was the ready and eager response of eligible men to the call of the gridiron. Approximately 40 boys reported for practice and donned uniforms for the first days, and although a few dropped out for various reasons, the large majority of the boys are still hard at it.

The college was very fortunate in securing the services of Phil Hudson. He is well known in this part of the country and has the reputation of putting relatively winning ball clubs on the field. Although starting with inexperienced material, we all feel that this season's team will live up to the usual Davidson standing, both in skill and in sportsmanship. Coach Hudson is said to be training his boys in the intricacies of the Notre Dame “T”. This orthodox but deceptive formation is very effective when used properly. It depends on speed and deception for effectiveness rather than power, blocking, and pile-driving backs.

Coach Hudson now has three full teams which can all carry the ball. From all reports, the first and second teams are almost on a par with each other as far as skill and fight are concerned. Dressing room gossip encourages the belief that competition for the various positions has been stiff in the strictest sense of the word. At any rate, the boys have been complaining regularly about stiff backs and stiff legs.

Despite the fact that Coach Hudson has had very little time to toughen the boys for the game with Woodberry Forest on October 7th, everything is going nicely and our boys confidently expect to win the above-mentioned contest. There can be no doubt of the team’s determination to win and of the whole school’s staunch support. The first game is always tough on any team, however, and it would be nice to see some familiar faces at Orange, Va. next week. We are all confident in Hudson’s coaching ability and are looking forward to an excellent season.

Cinema Attractions
September 29, 30, “Mademoiselle Fifi”
September 30, October 2, 3, 4, “White Cliffs of Dover”
October 5, 6, “Mummy’s Ghost”
October 5, 6, “This is the Life”