Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, August 24, 1944

News on the Alumni Front

Davidson College now has 2087 alumni in the military service of the nation, fighting the war of freedom on all
battlefronts of the world, it is reported by the Alumni office of the college. This number amounts to more than
one-third of the total living alumni of the century-old institution. Fully 1500 of these are in the Army, 475 in
the Navy, and the remainder distributed among the other branches of service, the Marines, the Coast Guard, and the Merchant
Marine.

The college now numbers six generals among its alumni. They are as follows: Brigadier Generals Don. E. Scott, ‘07, Richmond;
Fred Rankin, ‘05, of the Surgeon General's Office in Washington; J. S. Simmons, ‘11, also of the Surgeon General’s Office;
Miles A. Coles, ‘10, Commandant of the Tank Destroyer School at North Cape Hood, Texas; Walter A. Dumas, ‘15, serving
in the Pacific; and T. H. Jones, ‘07, Ga.

1200 of the 2100 alumni in the service reflect credit upon the twenty-five-year performance of the ROTC at Davidson. The
college also accounts for 75 doctors and dentists, and for 60 chaplains, in the armed forces. Special tribute is paid
to the sixty Davidson alumni who are reported as dead or missing in action. Two Davidson casualties in the Navy
have been signally honored by having a ship named for each of them. Captain Bowers, whose home is in Norcross,
Ga., is a graduate of Davidson College in the Class of 1936, having graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree.
He is a native of Charlotte.

Cadet Hill Graduates

James S. Hill, 20, son of Mr. Harry Hill of Mt. Pleasant, Tenn., was a member of the 27th class
of aviation cadets to graduate from the Army Air Field near Columbus, Mississippi, on Aug 4, ‘44. He received the
silver wings of a Flying Officer as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Forces. Lt. Hill entered pilot training
last November and attended flying schools at Camden, S.C., and Augusta, Ga., before his graduation at the advanced flying school
near Columbus, Mississippi.

McNair Promoted in England

Word was received today from the Eighth Air Force Service Command Headquarters in England that Walter E. McNair of Atlanta,
Ga., was recently promoted from first lieutenant to captain. He has been in England since July 1943.

Martin Gets Bronze Star

Word was received today at Davidson College that First Lieutenant Joseph E. Martin of Lebanon, Tenn., has been awarded the
Bronze Star for meritorious achievement in combat during a crossing of the Volturno River in Italy. He has more recently
been on the Anzio beachhead where he was wounded in action for the second time. Major Johnson is a graduate
of Davidson College, where he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and made All-Southern Conference guard in the
1936 football season. He received his B.S. degree in political science in 1937.

At Replacement Depot

Capt. Charles M. Rives, Jr., of Greensboro, N.C., is now stationed at the AAF Overseas Replacement Depot at Kearns, Utah,
it is announced by Col. Weldon W. Doe, commanding officer. Captain Rives attended Davidson College and was graduated in the
class of 1943. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. Captain Rives entered the AAF active duty in
August 1942 and has held his Reserve Officer commission since May 1943. He was formerly stationed at the Army Air
Field, Walnut Ridge, Ark.

Back Home Soon

An Atlanta Marine who was one of the men who opened our offensive against the Japanese in August 1942, on
Guadalcanal, is back in the United States and will soon be home on furlough. He is Quartermaster Sergeant Owing Manning,
40, of 344 Ponce De Leon, N.E., Atlanta, who has been overseas since April 1942, with the First Marine Division.
As a member of that famed division, Sergeant Manning took part in the invasion of both Guadalcanal and of Cape
Gloucester in New Britain.

TEN TO GRADUATE (Continued from Page 1)

McNair

Alfred B. McNair, of Sanford, N.C., is a pre-ministerial student. He has served on the Student Council and the YMCA
Cabinet, and is a past president of the Davidson chapter of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Pickard

Howard E. Pickard is also a pre-ministerial student, and is from St. Petersburg, Florida. He has served on the YMCA
Cabinet, and is a member of the Phi Delta Gamma fraternity. Pickard also is a member of the following honorary
fraternities: Phi Mu Alpha and the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Ramsey

John C. Ramsey, of Lawton, Oklahoma, is another pre-ministerial man. He has served as a member of the YMCA Cabinet
while at Davidson, and belongs to the Philanthropic Literary Society and to Phi Mu Alpha.

Witherington

Dexter T. Witherington is a pre-medical student from Mt. Olive, N.C. He has served as business manager of The Davidsonian,
and as a member of the YMCA Cabinet and the Student Council. He is also a past president of the
Davidson chapter of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Elliott, Higginbotham, Ashby, Edwards, and Shaw tied with eight and six votes respectively. Doubtless, everyone wished to be chosen BIGGEST
“STUD,” but only two, Pickard and Abernethy, received enough votes to be mentioned. Abernethy got the margin, but Pickard was
not too far behind to pick up a good layer of dust. It might also be noted that the grades
received by these two contestants stand as evidence of their studious habits.

For THE SLINGERS, commanding BIGGEST BULL, Renal stole the show. Crane and Gresham got a few votes, but they were
indeed lean.

With FRIENDLINESS the keynote of the Davidson spirit, the decision was close. Smith got about one-fourth of the votes with
McLean only a few paces in the rear. Daniels and Alexander tied, and missed tying with McLean by a minute
fraction.

No title could be more coveted than MOST BELOVED BY PROFESSORS. On this last superlative, the students got together for
a little poke of wit, and voted the astraps to this position. Those that left early from the polls selected
Smith. A split in the astrap party caused Roddy to get a handful of votes. After the dust had settled,
and the blood and ink mopped up from the floor, The Davidsonian Staff held a little conclave and voted Mel
Winstead MOST HELPFUL, for it was his typewriter which was used. The award was given him for the successful completion
of a very dangerous mission.

Judge Parker is the head of the committee to relate to our readers the results of the contest. Neal Anderson
Scott, ‘40, of Goldsboro, N.C., who was fatally burned when a Japanese plane fell near the place where he was
manning the number two gun on the ill-fated destroyer SMITH in the battle for the Solomon Islands; and EnsignHunter Marshall
III, '39 of Charlotte, N.C., reported missing after his ship was torpedoed and sunk two years ago. He was cited
by Secretary Knox for “alertness and devotion to duty.” Both the vessels are of the destroyer escort type.

Turner Graduates
William G. Turner, 21, son of Mrs. M. E. Turner of Pink Hill, N.C., as a member of the 27th
class of aviation cadets, graduated from the Columbus Army Air Field near Columbus, Miss., on Aug. 4, '44. He received
the silver wings of a Flying Officer and commission as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Forces. Lt. Turner
entered pilot training last August, 1943, and attended flying schools at Albany, Ga., and Greenwood, Miss., before his graduation at
the advanced flying school near Columbus, Miss.

Broadway Made Captain
The promotion of Lieut. William A. Broadway, Jr., of Shelby, N.C., to the rank of Captain was announced today by
Col. Harold G. Peterson, commanding officer at Key Field, Miss., where Captain Broadway is now stationed. Son of Mr. and
Mrs. William A. Broadway, Sr., Shelby, Captain Broadway is serving as commanding officer of a chemical warfare training unit at
Key Field.

Church Promoted
Promotion from second to first lieutenant was announced today for Morton L. Church, Jr., 22, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Morton L. Church of Charlotte, N.C. Lieutenant Church is an instrument flight instructor at this advanced pilot school of the
AAF Central Flying Training Command. He won his wings and commission here a year ago last May. The young flyer
attended Davidson College from 1939 to 1942.

Bowers Becomes Captain
The promotion of James E. Bowers, 31, of Charlotte, N.C., an Eighth AAF Combat Intelligence Officer, from the rank of
First Lieutenant to Captain has been announced at this Eighth AAF Flying Fortress Headquarters in England. His leadership enabled his
battalion to cross the river and make an assault the following night.

Pritchett in Training
Word was received here today that Cadet Lloyd Wilson Pritchett, Jr., of Burlington, N.C., has reported at the Army Air
Field, Carlsbad, New Mexico, where he will receive advanced flight training in high-level bombardiering and dead-reckoning navigation. This will be
an eighteen-week training course, and upon graduation, he will be awarded bombardier’s wings and will be ready for active duty
as an officer in the Army Air Forces. Cadet Pritchett was a member of the class of 1945 at Davidson
College.

Becomes Ensign
Word was received at Davidson College today that Spurgeon Douglas Horner of Crewe, Virginia, has graduated from the Naval Air
Training Center, Corpus Christi, and was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve. He was a member of the
class of 1942. Each Naval Aviator is an expert flyer, navigator, aerologist, gunner, and radio operator. They fly carrier-based planes
in combat zones, or at Naval Air Stations at home and abroad. Types of planes include fighters, dive bombers, scout
and observation, multi-engined bombers, patrol planes, and air transports. Naval aviators wear the famous “Wings of Gold.”

Flight Officers
Lieutenants Harry D. Javins, 20, son of Mr. and Mrs. Ralph W. Javins of Charleston, and Edward H. Currie, 21,
son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Currie of Montgomery, Ala., have been appointed Flight Officers. They attended Davidson College
from 1940-1943.

From Guam
Word was received direct from Guam indicating that Marine Major Richard S. Johnson, of New Bern, N.C., veteran of the
ground campaign on Guadalcanal and now veteran of the aerial campaign in the invasion of Guam, recently landed on the
newly-won Oroto Peninsula airfield after 15 days of continuous flying as an air observer over this battle-torn island.

Chaplain (Capt.) Murray E. Love of Huntersville, N.C., returned from service outside the continental United States, now is being processed
through the Army Air Forces Redistribution Station No. 2 in Miami Beach, where his next assignment will be determined. At
an AAF Redistribution Station, AAF returnees from theatres of operation are examined by specially selected medical and classification officers whose
joint findings are used in recommending new assignments. The theme of the AAF Redistribution program is the designation of each
man to duty for which he is best fitted.

Spencer in Mediterranean
Little Davey Spencer, former spark plug of the Davidson Wildcats, is now reported basking under a mellow Mediterranean moon on
“The Beautiful Isle of Capri.” Lt. Spencer graduated from Barium Springs in 1938 and from Davidson in 1942. He was
regarded as Davidson's finest athlete, winning letters in three sports.

Howard Returns
Word has been received that S-Sgt. Preston A. Howard, son of Mrs. T. P. Howard of Cornelius, has returned from
service outside the continental United States, and is now being processed through the Army Redistribution Station No. 2 in Miami
Beach, where his next assignment will be determined. Sergeant Howard, squadron operations chief for almost two years in the Mediterranean
area, was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation.

The traveling businessman booked the last available space on the sleeper plane from San Francisco to New York. The dear
old lady, just behind him in the line, seemed about to burst into tears as she told the man at
the ticket window that she absolutely had to arrive in New York in time to see a sick relative. The
businessman, deeply touched, sold her the last ticket, and went to a telegraph office to wire his firm. His office
was amazed the next day when this telegram arrived: “Will be a day late. Just gave birth to an old
lady.”

Parker, Stewart, McRae, and Bobbitt, located in Charlotte, Davidson conferred the degree of LL.D. upon him in 1940, and he
is a trustee of the University of North Carolina, and of St. Mary’s School and Junior College in Raleigh.

SUPERLATIVE POLL (Continued from Page 2)
Gresham polled three female votes! The other vote went to Gunn. The opinions of the male students were so varied
and confounded that the tabulators decided to ignore them completely, declaring that woman's intuition would be fully accepted. What Davidson
gentleman is MOST BASHFUL? The following all received one or more votes for this cherished title: Edwards, Lazenby, Nuttall, Shaw,
Miller, Lowry, Scarborough, Carter, Monroe, Rock, Medford (Phil), Stukes, Abernethy, Fulbright, Quinn, Guiton, Roddy, Pell, Wysor, Delp, Daniels, Cranc, Etheridge
(Bob), Hay, Price, Hor-

FOR THIS IS DAVIDSON
The spirit of a century haunts
And permeates these halls,
Where men of Davidson have learned
The truth that never falls.
Tradition and its mystic mien
Is not an empty thing,
For here it has its fullest stand
As years their echoes ring.
Here lie the bricks which Wilson touched,
Which caught the hero’s gaze.
To time's immortal covenant
These columns proudly raise.
A year is like a minute passed
To one who knows so much;
Assembled here is wisdom's form—
The loot of worlds and such.
A love for college is not hard
To hold beneath the sun,
If one but stops to reminisce
The span of Davidson.
