Page Four - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Into The Life of Things

"omnes," Beaty stated at Davidson today that as far as he has been able to learn

By J. S. BLAIN

Mr. Goodrum’s total sales (of $232,000.00 worth of Bonds) have surpassed those of any other single druggist in the United States. He explained that this feat is particularly significant in view of the fact that Mr. Goodrum has been forced by the war drainage of manpower to operate his drug store alone, with the help of his wife. "This is a splendid example," said Mayor Beaty, "of supreme effort in the face of unusual handicaps. Mr. Goodrum’s excellent achievement in this drive was the result of his own personal solicitation from 12 to 14 hours every day during the campaign. He deserves the thanks of his fellows and the fine recognition he has received from all over the nation."

Cloyd S. Goodrum was a member of the Davidson College Class of 1914. He received his Pharmaceutical training at the University of Maryland and has served the college and community of Davidson continuously for the past 30 years. His wife, who was formerly Miss Susan Thompson, a member of a prominent local family, is a graduate of N.C.C.W. in Greensboro. They have three children, the youngest a son, Cloyd Jr., a V-12 student in the Navy. He is now located at Troy, N.Y. Modest and of quiet manner, Mr. Goodrum has two ruling passions, his family and the winning of the war. He is also chairman of the Mecklenburg Pharmacists for the Cadet Nurse Corps.

FACULTY CHANGES
(Continued from Page 1)

of the Music Department of Kent State University, at Kent, Ohio. Prof. Osborne came to Davidson in August 1941 and has served in the capacity of assistant professor of the Music Department since that date. During the stay of the 24th College Training Detachment, Army Air Forces on the Campus, he taught in the English department while carrying a full music load. During this summer he has had the supervision of the college Y.M.C.A. activities added to his already busy schedule.

COURT HOLDS MEETING
(Continued from Page 1)

dent of the student body, expressed the sentiment of the upper classes regarding the attitude which should be evidenced by new students. He then introduced Sam Hay, who in turn introduced the newly appointed members of the Court of Control. These include, besides Judge Lowry and Hay, Andy Owens, John Hagan, Ed Ashby, and Bill Wysor. Judge Lowry then took over and introduced the Freshmen who had already been turned in for violation of the rules, and who would consequently be the first cases tried by the new court.

"Master, where shall I work today?" And my love flowed warm and free. Then He pointed out a little spot And said, "Tend that for Me."

I answered quickly, "Oh, no, not there; No one would ever see, No matter how well my work was done, Not that little place for me."

And the word He spoke, it was not stern; He answered me tenderly: "Oh, My child, search that heart of thine; Art thou working for them or Me? Nazareth was a little place, And so was Galilee."

It was by developing the thought in the above poem that Reverend Richard T. Gillespie, of Thomasville, Georgia, made his Vesper talk so timely and so inspirational to Davidson students. Mr. Gillespie was the first Vesper speaker of the second term, and his remarks concerning God's plan for each of our lives were most appropriate for the beginning of this session’s study.

The text of the address was the tenth verse of the second chapter of Paul's letter to the church at Ephesus: "For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them." Mr. Gillespie took the last part of the verse first, stating that God had done a wonderful thing in making His plan for each individual's life. All one has to do is to move into the plan, step by step, day by day. However, we are given a choice, not forced into the plan. It is a terrible thing to say "No" to God, and we have only to look at the human derelicts around us to see that God's way is the only way.

Youth's impatience often makes it hard to see the plan of life. It takes a whole lifetime to enter into God's plan. And it can only be entered by giving the best in us. God gave His best, Jesus, as an example. If the plan is worth being in, which it certainly is, it’s worth working for.

Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, of Durham, was the Vesper speaker on August 6. Dr. Chalmers is well known in young people and student work in North Carolina and Virginia. Using the eleventh chapter of Hebrews as his text, he pictured the thrills and adventures of the Christian life, urging those present not to enter into God's plan of life with an attitude of despair, but to rejoice in the opportunities for adventure in new worlds. As did Abraham of old times, the Christian embarks on a definite mission, full of unknown thrills, when he begins his Christian life. Not only is he on a mission, but he is a soldier in a thrilling conflict, the battle for Christ. Finally, the thrillof a [PRMeF again distinguished himself, and the statement appeared. “The personal friendship with Jesus Christ, and the glorious future which this friendship makes possible, are strong enough reasons to lead any man with the spirit of adventure in him into Christ's way of life.”

In Chapel on August 8, the example of Joshua’s invasion of the promised land was used as the basis for a talk on the source of our courage for living the Christian life. The verse which gives us our assurance is found in the first chapter of Joshua: “...Be strong and of good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest.” With men like Joshua to set the example, it is the duty and the privilege of each of us to seek first God’s kingdom, and to follow His will in all that we do, with eagerness and courage.

“A little more strength of mind I ask:
A little more patience for each task:
A little more calmness in my soul
Until I reach my highest goal.
A little more courage, too, for me:
A little more faith in things to be;
A little more eagerness of heart:
More at the finish than at the start.
A little more listening when I pray;
A little less wanting my own way;
A little more longing to be like Thee:
A little less of me.”

The Freshman Class was held after Dave. In time for Dave to take him, we hear that Alfred Scarborough. The same evening the first meeting was held at eight-thirty in Phi Hall, and the culprits returned from the meeting considerably weighed down by their penalties. Most of the penalties consisted of writing themes of varied length on varied subjects. The subjects of a few of these themes follow: “Which does more good in the world, the hole in a doughnut or the smell in limburger cheese?”; “Why I am the lowest freshman on the campus and what I can do about it”; “The effect of halitosis upon romance.”

Music at Union Theological Seminary, New York. He has majored in organ and church music and held various positions in the Middle West and in New York state before coming South. His teachers in organ included such famous musicians as Palmer Christian, University of Michigan; Marcel Dupre, Paris; Clarence Dickinson, Brick Presbyterian Church, New York, and David Meck. Williams of St. Bartholomew's Church, New York City. He holds membership in the SAE social fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha national music fraternity, the American Guild of Organists, and the Masonic Order. Mr. and Mrs. Osborne and their three children expect to leave for Kent early in September. Director of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, N.C., where he organized and directed a civic chorus of one hundred voices. A native of Iowa, Prof. Osborne was educated at the University of Michigan (M.A.) and later received the degree of Master of Sacred Music.

Several days later a meeting of Chapel, at which time a thorough quiz on the regulations, songs, and yells was given. Results of this quiz have not been released, but unofficial reports are that quite a few men will appear at the next session of the Court to answer for their mistakes. Among the requirements which all Freshmen must observe are:

1. Wear an armband of red ribbon at all times.
2. Show proper respect to upperclassmen.
3. Remain seated after Chapel until all upperclassmen have left.
4. Keep off the grass.
5. Carry laundry when requested to do so by upperclassmen.
6. Speak to everyone on campus.

The Court held its second meeting on Monday night, August 7, and results were obvious when early Tuesday morning, many Freshmen were seen walking tours at various posts on the campus. Themes similar to those assigned at the first meeting were again given as penalties, and several of the offenders were put “on campus” for short periods.

It is hoped that all students will cooperate in seeing that the regulations are observed, and violations reported. Only by cooperation can the work of the Court be carried out in the proper manner, and the traditions of Davidson be perpetuated.

DUCTS CANDY AND POTATO CHIPS
SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

“Well, major, it could be worse!” uttered Roma G. Yarmy.