Page Two - THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, October 26, 1944

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

JIM LOVE ........................................ Editor
JIM ALEXANDER .......................... Business Manager
Associate Editor .......................... George Apperson
Assistant Editor .......................... Lawton Nease
Sports Editor .............................. Ronnie Dietrick
Assistant Sports Editor ............ Hil Masters
Managing Editor ........................ Mel Winstead
Managing Editor ........................ George Younce
Feature Editor ............................ Joe Schenck
Circulation Manager .................. Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such,
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Freshman Caps

The editorial in the last issue of The Davidsonian was primarily concerned with traditions at Davidson: traditions which have been
here as long as Davidson has. Among the more hallowed of these traditions are the ones which go by the
name of freshmen regulations and freshmen traditions. One tradition in particular has caused much controversy during the past two weeks,
among the students and the faculty. It is freshmen caps. It seems like freshmen hats have been disappearing by the
dozens this year and a lot of people seem to think this is very unnatural and a definite cause for
alarm. That is pretty hard to see because they have been disappearing by the dozens as long as there have
been any freshmen caps, and it is pretty hard to see why they won't continue to disappear in the future.
It seems that the idea of abnormal times has entered into it. We believe that if any of the boys
who have left Davidson for the forces should come back and see and hear the things which have been said
about freshman caps, they would be utterly stricken with amazement and dismay. There has been a lot of talk about
the abolishment of freshmen caps lately and we believe that this is the most absurd thing which has happened in
the memory of the present student body. Somebody has even been prone to remark that Davidson by the continuing of
acts like this could very easily become a glorified prep school. Surely this could not happen to us. However, if
the abolishment of freshmen caps does come into effect, it will surely do something to the morale of the Davidson
student body. It seems that all this discussion rose out of the fact that several boys have been selling the
hats at an enormous profit. Is this unheard of? Not at all. It seems that the idea of “taking” freshmen
hats has become as much of a tradition as wearing them. Some boys who are upperclassmen have said that they
bought as many as ten or more hats last year and the year before. Why wasn’t there some mention of
the abolishment of hats in the last two years? Maybe it is the caliber of the Davidson student body. Maybe
it isn’t, but two or three years ago there was hardly a boy in the student body who would complain
unduly about this “taking” of hats. Even right now if anyone should take a poll of the freshmen as to
what their attitude about this situation is, they would say definitely not to abolish them. The freshmen get as much
enjoyment out of trying to keep them as the upperclassmen do of “taking” them. It has gotten to be a
sport. It is certainly our duty to keep up these traditions for the boys who have left them behind very
much intact. I don’t believe anyone would like to come back to Davidson and see no freshmen caps and see
the power of the Court of Control, while it is not abolished, at least curtailed.

Dewey vs. Roosevelt

American students as a whole have never taken a definite part in national politics. Their world has remained detached from
the more active phases of national life. College has been looked upon as a preparative stage, the student as not
being ready for participation in it. There is no group in the nation today who can so confidently expect the
future leaders to come from their midst. The man whose faculties have been regulated by education and self-discipline is most
naturally expected to assume leadership in diverse phases of public and private life. Seldom has there been a time when
students are taking a more vital interest in national affairs. They realize that the burden of Government in the future
will fall fully on them. They realize too that these problems will be immeasurably great. The unsolved problems of today
and the problems of tomorrow will combine to stagger the statesman, economist, and political idealists. The time for great wise
statesmanship finds us seriously lacking. The coming election serves only to accentuate this fact. We cannot choose except the lesser
of two evils. One can promise to sink us deeper into the morass in which we find ourselves. The other
holds no hope but for quasi-anarchy. There are only two roads: one to dictatorial regimentation, the other to inconceivable national
confusion. When we should be riding the crest of the wave we find ourselves inundated by it. And the wave
of our time is indeed tidal. Hope for a secure peace following this war is now shadowy. There is shaping
in the future a more titanic and decisive struggle. America must become an armed camp in order to preserve her
national integrity, and to prevent political and military aggression by foreign armies. There must be waged a never-ending fight.against political
systems untempered by Christian principle. Now the fight is to keep what we have. Did the times ever demand greater
leadership? Was it ever more lacking? Nations have risen by the appearance of truly great leaders in crucial times. They
likewise have fallen when these leaders have failed to appear. Though the die is cast, it is not too late
for a truly great man to lead in the remaking of the future and lead us as a nation from
our present chaos into that bright future for which we should have been destined. The times can never make a
mean man great—it only allows great men to exercise their genius to the fullest. The young generation before whom the
future lies, looks beyond the present to a leader who they will not fail to recognize when he comes. The
hope of the nation is not dead until its young men have ceased to seek the light, for nations live
and prosper by unselfish devotion that stands above all personal ambition.

By Your Roving Prophet

New Upperclassmen Regulations
Sept. 18, 1945. Opening of School.

1. Upperclassmen shall show respect to Freshmen at all times.
2. Upperclassmen must know all college songs and yells by the second year of school and must be able to
repeat them any time asked to do so by Freshmen.
3. Upperclassmen must carry laundry when asked to do so by a Freshman.
4. Upperclassmen must wear, at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Freshman Class.
5. Upperclassmen shall not walk on the grass of Davidson Campus.
6. Upperclassmen shall remain seated until all Freshmen have left the room after chapel.
7. Upperclassmen must attend all pep meetings and are subject to a shirtail at these meetings.
8. Upperclassmen are required to attend all major athletic events 15 minutes early and remain throughout the entire contest.
9. Upperclassmen must wear the nameplate given to them by the Y.M.C.A. until October 10.
10. Upperclassmen must be seen and not heard.

OK you upperclassmen get those suitcases up to 404 Watts in a hurry.

(Continued on Page 7)

This Might Be You
By Hil Masters

Have you ever had a perfect evening ruined by a card game? Well, a person I know had and according
to him it was no fun. It seems that a week before a game in Charlotte, my friend and two
other boys called some girls they knew in Charlotte and proposed dates for after the game. The girls readily accepted,
due to the manpower shortage, and the time was set. They could hardly wait for the moment. All day they
would sit in their classes and dream of that night. Would it ever come? They visualized moonlight strolls or cruising
along a highway with a radio softly playing. Each thought that entered into their mind shook them with anxiety for
the coming night. It was Friday and that night was the game and after that—the date. “Oh! Would that bell
ever ring?” they thought. Couldn’t stand it much longer. It should have rung ten minutes ago. Maybe the clock had
stopped. Ahh, there it goes... all through. Well, this friend of mine said they went to the game and everywhere
they saw a girl they wondered if...

(Continued on Page 7)

Gunning Around

While Selective Service, income taxes, rationing, and registration of Freshmen still exist there will always be questionnaires sent out and
the usual ordeal of filling them in to contend with. Let us consider the average simplified, notified, qualified, and petrified
questionnaire.

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION
TYPE OR PRINT PLAINLY—DO NOT FOLD—DO NOT ROLL—DO NOT MAIL—DO NOT

(First Name) (Middle Name) (Last Name) (Jr. or III)

(City or Post Office) (State) (Draft Classification)

Color... Race... Creed... (If you have no color or creed check here__)

INSTRUCTIONS: Fill out in triplicate. Mail the original to your local Garbage Dept. One copy for your Personal File to
aid your heirs in breaking your will. The other copy is extra, just so we can request triplicate copies.

PENALTY: Anyone who willfully refuses to fill out this questionnaire will be sorry, five years of hard labor or both.

1. How many questionnaires have you received from how many offices and government agencies?...
(a) If answer to (2) is “no” answer “does not apply.”
(b) If answer to (2) is “yes” give at least one good reason.
(c) If answer to (2) is “yes” answer the following:
(d) Which of your parents were present at your birth? Mother... Father...

3. (a) Append in triplicate detailed description of your household possessions other than dependents.
(b) List below all shirts you now own free and clean (Make, size, color, laundry markings, length of tail—Reg. 97513—Ck6).

4. Who was that woman I seen you with last night?...

Telephone Numbers...

5. Do you shave every day? (Answer “yes” or “no”). (Women and children under 16 years of age answer “does
not apply”).
(a) Is your razor electric? (Answer “yes” or “no”).
(1) If answer is “yes” give source of power...
(b) What beard softener do you use—Shaving cream... Lye... Soap... (Did you turn in your tube? Reg. FL88).

6. Do you own one or more radios?...
(a) Do you lose your mind when you hear the singing commercials?...
(b) Can you tell one brand of cigarettes from another? Note: Your answer to this question will be treated with
strict confidence unless someone wants to see it.

7. Did anyone help you answer these questions? (Be honest now).

8. List reading matter you receive regularly? (Excluding O.P.A. bulletins and cut cards).

The undersigned certifies that the information in this report is correct and complete to the best of his knowledge and
belief.

Signed...

(If for any reason you cannot write mark X and state reason in your own handwriting).
