GIFT FUND SPECIAL

The Davidsonian EXTRA

Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1944 No. 6

1944 GIFT FUND LAUNCHED

Goal For Memorial Is $1,000

President Tells Need

Dr. Cunningham Describes

I am personally gratified that the annual Student Gift Fund for this year is directed toward the New Davidson College
Church. It is encouraging to me, and I am sure will be to the local church groups in North Carolina,
and to individuals who are interested in assisting us toward the successful completion of this much-needed objective. For fifteen years,
at least, there has been a generally recognized need of a new structure for the church at Davidson. During the
year in which we have been at work on this matter, I have not found a person to challenge the
fact that our imperative and primary material need of the College is an adequate church. The present one is inadequate
in size, in its appointments, and in its symbolism. Davidson College always has been, is now, and expects to continue
so close to the Church as a whole as to render incongruous the outmoded and unattractive present structure. It suffers
by comparison each time a new modern building is erected on the campus. A beautiful new church on the front
will lend dignity and meaning to the whole college life on campus.

FIRST PLEDGES ARE MADE

Receiving from Andy Owens, President of the Student Body, and Jim Alexander, President of the Y. M. C. A., the
first pledges for the 1944 Christmas Gift Fund is George Gunn, campaign leader. This year will go to furnish the
Student Room of the new campus church as a memorial to Davidson alumni who have died in this war. The
goal is $1,000.

Queens-Davidson Party Tomorrow

Once is a reality. Large plans will be included. Tomorrow night, Saturday, December 2nd, the Y cabinet is sponsoring a
Christmas party for the student bodies of Davidson and Queens Colleges. The Queens girls will arrive at about five o'clock
(Saturday afternoon) and will proceed to the Y. M. C. A. where they will meet their dates. Supper will be
served at the boarding houses at six or six-thirty. At eight o'clock, a square dance will be held in the
college gymnasium and will last until ten. Mr. Cashion and members of the other organization will provide music for this
affair. At ten, everybody will return to the Y where refreshments will be served. The group will sing Christmas carols
and other songs. Extra entertainment will also be provided at this time. The girls will return to Queens sometime between
eleven and twelve, Saturday night. A Christmas party has been held every year for Davidson-Queens the past several years, and
has been a huge success each time. A group of approximately forty couples is expected to attend, and although the
crowd is expected to be smaller than it has been in years past, there is no reason why this party
should be any less of a success than they have been in the past few years.

You cannot be wholly successful by half-hearted efforts. To correct abuses is constructive; to permit them is destructive.

FRATERNITY GIFTS

Social and Honorary Fraternities will be solicited for funds in order to realize the $1,000 goal of the 1944 Christmas
Gift Fund. A number of fraternities have already expressed their desire to give from their own treasuries in addition to
the individual contributions of their members. This is not the first year that fraternities have donated as a group. Such
genuine and active support has gone a long way in the past of assuring the success of these campaigns. Key
men in each fraternity have been contacted, the matter was brought before them, and it will be discussed in their
respective chapters.

Friends And Alumni Help

During the Gift Campaigns of recent years, many loyal alumni and friends of the Y. M. C. A. have shown
an active interest in this year's Davidson annual undertaking and have contributed.to it. This year’s project is the fulfilling of
a need in the new College Church as a memorial to the sons of Davidson who have given their lives
in the present world conflict. More than ever before there will be friends—friends of these men—who will want to have
a part in this memorial and want to help put the 1944 goal of $1,000 over the top. Anyone outside
of the Student Body wishing to have a part in this Christmas Gift Fund can mail their gift to the
Y. M. C. A. Gift Fund, Box 647, Davidson, N. C.

Christmas Fund Praised
Dr. Pritchett Keynotes Student Aid to Church.

“The ‘Y’ Cabinet has made a wise and happy decision in offering the students an opportunity to contribute to the
new church as a benevolence of the college. Those who have long cherished the hope that we will have a
beautiful and useful church will be gratified to see the interest of the student body in this project. Sometimes a
far distant and dramatic need will appeal to us more strongly than one close at hand. It often requires greater
wisdom and a higher quality of religion to supply more practical and immediate requirements. The Student Body is commended for
being mindful of its obligations and opportunities in the very midst of this project, which is nearing its completion.

“Many alumni and friends of the college have long believed that there should be a more intimate relation between the
church and the student body. The new building will greatly serve this purpose. The church will be the center of
Christian worship on the campus. It will also offer facilities for religious meetings, committees, and social life.”

(Continued on Page 4)

Men Chosen For Canvass
Hall Representatives to Collect Pledges.

George Gunn, as head of the campaign, will oversee the collection of gifts from all sources. He stated that the
pledges will be taken in the dormitories by a representative on each hall, while a fraternity representative will be selected
to encourage his chapter to give as liberally as possible. Students chosen to head collections of pledges and money on
each dormitory hall are as follows: Rumple, Tim Webb; Watts 1, Bruce Fisher; Watts 2, Art Rollins; Watts 3, Bill
Weir; Watts 4, Art Rol- Georgia 1, Ed Golden; Georgia 2, Alf Scarborough; Georgia 3, Herb Wyatt. In charge of
collections from the town students will be Marshall Woodson and Miller. Professor F. K. Fleagle will be responsible for pledges
from faculty members and townspeople. These individuals will contact you starting on Monday and will take pledges during the week.

Annual Campaign Gift to Furnish Student Room In New College Church As Memorial to Davidson War Dead.

The annual Y. M. C. A. Christmas Gift Fund for 1944 was announced in chapel this morning. The Gift this
year will be used to furnish completely the Student Room of the new College Church as a memorial to the
seventy-five Davidson alumni who gave their lives in the present conflict. The goal for this memorial has been set at
$1,000 and the campaign for subscriptions will begin Monday, December 4th, and will continue through Thursday, December 7th. This announcement
of the project and the goal was made this morning by George Gunn of the Y Cabinet, who is in
charge of the Gift fund. Gunn's presentation of the annual Y. M. C. A. sponsored part for some worthy objective
followed an impressive memorial service for Davidson's seventy-five gold stars under the direction of Sonny Blain, the Y. M. C.
A. publicity chairman. Mr. John L. Payne, College alumni secretary, read the names of the seventy-five men as part of
the service.

The drive this year will be conducted in the manner of the past several years in which a collector on
each hall of all the dormitories contacts the men on his hall. One of these men will come to every
student's room Monday or Tuesday night and will distribute pledge cards. Each man will be given two cards which he
fills in alike, and on Wednesday and Thursday nights he returns one of these cards to his collector. He may
at that time pay the sum he has pledged. After the Christmas Holidays, on Friday, January 5, it will be
due.

PAST GIFTS.

A brief glance at the Gift Funds of the past few years shows the increasing interest and support of the
student body year by year. In 1941 the student body gave over $1,600 for Bibles to be sent to prisoners
of war and to our armed forces. In 1942 they gave $2,000, $250 over the goal for Christian education for
Negroes. Last year we gave $1,400, $500 over our $900 goal, for Medical Relief in China. Last year there were
less than 200 students, no more than we are today, and they gave on an average of over $5.00 a
man.

STUDENT LEADERS COMMENT

In commenting on the 1944 Gift Fund Project, Jim Alexander, President of the Y, said, “The choice of projects toward
which to contribute our money this Christmas seems the best possible. The dedication of a memorial to those who have
given their lives in this war is the least we can do to demonstrate our appreciation. The undertaking of any
task should be done with the intention of doing one's best. This certainly deserves all we can spare to make
it our best.”

Andy Owens, President of the Student Body, says, “The project (Continued on Page 4)
