WITH THE WILDCATS
By JIM LOWRY

Perhaps the most important sports feature to Carolina fans this week is the Charlotte Open at the Myers Park Country Club. With most of the top-flight golfers in the nation playing under the bright sun, shirt-sleeved fans saw Dutch Harrison setting the pace at the halfway mark with a blistering 136. Trailing him by two and four strokes respectively are Jug McSpaden, with 138, and Byron Nelson with 140. Harrison, after a superb round of 66, came back with a brilliant 70, including a hole-in-one eagle, on which the little white golf ball behaved very similar to a three-cushion English shot by Willie Hoppe. With Jupiter Pluvius slowing down the tour, one round will be played Monday and the finals Tuesday, if the lovely Charlotte weather isn’t running down the sewer. It is almost a certainty that one of the above-mentioned golfers will knock down top money. Today, Harrison plays with McSpaden and Geb Hamilton, and Nelson plays with Tony Penna and Ed Dudley.

Basketball
It’s March the 20th and basketball is still in full swing with the Eastern and Western N.C.A. tourneys at the Garden. The first games saw St. Johns edge Bowling Green 44-40, and DePaul’s heavy-laden navy team romp on Muhlenberg by 20 points. Kentucky, the best civilian team in the south, and possibly the best in the nation, takes on the Utah Utes, and are heavily favored to go into the finals against DePaul. In the Eastern playoffs, the Big Green from Dartmouth is favored to clash with Ohio State in the finals and it will probably be DePaul and Dartmouth in the championship tilt.

Lowry Track
If Gil Dobbs runs a mile every week by the first of May he ought to have run the four-minute mile. Last week in Chicago, the bespectacled preacher won the Bankers mile with a scintillating 4:07.5, and last night after his sermon he went out and galloped a mile in 4:00.4. Nobody seems to be able to catch him so I think they ought to put a mechanical rabbit in front of him and let him try and catch it.

This and Here from That and There
Jack Wyman, co-captain of last year’s crack Davidson cage squad, is now a second lieutenant at Camp Maxey, Texas. Jack got married last summer and is expecting a little Wyman in the next few months. It seems that Davidson athletes of last year are scattered all over the country: Oregon, Texas, Louisiana, Benning, and nobody today knows where Johnny Fredericks is. Lt. Lacy McLean, who was one of the best publicity men Davidson has had in the past years, is down in Louisiana and expects to be sent across within the next two or three months.

The Davidson baseball team, with prospects none too bright anyway, lost their best prospect last week when Red Williams got his Air Corps orders after two days of practice. It seems like a wise man spoke the truth when he said to be a Wildcat means to have had breaks.

Interfrat Track Meet
KA’s won the interfrat track meet last week by an overwhelming score of some thirty points. They placed in every event and won most of them. They were helped extremely by the Kappa Snapper house, a member of their farm system, which contributed 22 points. Somebody said that if a freshman went out on the track with a red hat on and Royster saw him, Prof. Royster could run a 45-second 440.

Carolina had 60 men out for baseball last week. The only thing we can say is that song about “we three, we’re all alone.” Well, the Tarheels' new song is “V-12, we’re all alone.” And so with this quaint remark, we leave the little town of Chewing-Gum on the Bedpost until next time. Will the Air Corps learn a new song? We don't know.

PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
STONESTREET
Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
Charlotte

Grade A Cafe
M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
General Merchandise
DAVIDSON, N. C.
418 S. Main - Mooresville, N. C.

DRINK
THACKER’S RESTAURANT
221 S. TRYON ST.
PASTEURIZED MILK
Opposite Johnston Bldg.
It’s Safe

FOR PRIVATE
MOORESVILLE
DINING ROOM
CREAMERY
RESERVATION PHONE 5490

Wildcat Sports
CONGRATULATIONS KA’s
Friday, March 24, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

KA’s Win Annual Track Meet
Baseball Teams Begin Practice
Only Three Men Return From Last Year’s Squad

“In recent workouts, the prospects of the Wildcat baseball team have looked fair enough,” stated Norman Shepard, baseball coach. Only one first-string man is returning to the field this year, Coach Shepard pointed out, but one player is moving up from last year's freshman line, and several good high school men have come out for practices. Davidson should have a freshman-heavy team, he indicated. The season will probably open about the second week in April.

Cats Win First In Corps Area Rifle Matches
Tally 59 Points To Annex Title
Betas Nose Kappa Sigs For Runner-Up Honors

The KA cinder artists demonstrated remarkable skill. Davidson College placed decisively in the fourth service command competition for the National R.O.T.C. Rifle Matches, it was announced by Sergeant Burton, rifle team coach, last Wednesday. The match was a correspondence one held among senior R.O.T.C. units over the country and was a competition for the William Randolph Hearst Trophy. The following results were published by the commanding general: first place.Versatility as they captured six out of eleven first places to win the annual inter-fraternity track meet held on Richardson Field March 6th and 7th. Led by Flowers in the distances, Carter and Baxter in the dashes, Daniel in the high and broad jump, and Dunn in the weights, the Knights of Kappa Alpha amassed a total of 59 points to completely overwhelm their outclassed rivals. The Betas, due to the heroic efforts of three men, Witherington, Ellington, and Mayo, managed to secure second place.

The baseball team has been drawn up with most of the games played against service teams this spring. AU catcher Red Williams left forth a hard toss in this department a week ago. Among those out for pitching positions are Jim Lowry, basketball player Phil Whittier, and freshman Bob Turner. Lowry pitched on last year’s squad, and Whittier moves up from freshman baseball ranks.

Out for first base are Russ Bennett, freshman, George Floyd, second-string catcher from last year, and Bob Brooks, also a freshman. At third are Bob Bradford, a senior out for the first time, and Frank Barr. Shortstop will probably be held down by Stanley Paul, a second-semester freshman from New York. Newt Spencer, Martin Waters, Malcolm Arthur, Phil Medford, and Ed Hudson are all out for the first time.

Candidates for outfield positions include Joe States, who entered in February of this year, and Bob Jones. The tentative lineups of the boys are Ed Ashby and Bob Jones. The team score of 832 points was taken by the Georgia School of Technology in Atlanta, with a team from the University of Alabama scoring 810 points. Third place was taken by Tuskegee Institute, which also had two teams entered.

The meet opened on Thursday afternoon with the finals in all field events being disposed of, as well as the preliminaries in the 100 and 220-yard dashes and the 120 low hurdles. Daniel, who shaded Witherington for individual scoring honors, started the KA victory parade by winning the high jump with a leap of 5 feet 3 inches. The talented Lee then tied with Dunn to give the KA’s top honors in the shot put, the latter’s toss of 40 feet 10 inches being the best for the meet. Spaugh scored five points for the Kappa Sigs by besting Dunn and May in the discus with a throw of 93 feet.

In the last event of the day, Witherington, the only member of last year’s team who returned for this season, sailed 19 feet 5 inches to win the broad jump for the Betas. A number of close races in the preliminaries kept the spectators on their feet and assured some top-flight competition in the finals. The KA’s left the field with a sizeable lead over their foes at the end of the first day’s action, having tallied 21 points in 4 events.

Ellington Takes 220
Carter, in spite of a weak ankle, opened the second day’s firing for the KA’s by breaking the tape in the 100-yard dash in 10.9 seconds. Flowers continued the winning spree by wresting the lead from Mayo on the first turn and romped home far ahead of his nearest pursuer, Hay, to win the three-quarter-mile in 3:45. The Betas rallied at this point as Ellington upset Baxter and Richardson in the low hurdles, and Witherington, handicapped by a recent eye treatment, proved too good for his opponents in the 440, crossing the finish line in one minute flat. Flowers set a gruelling pace to take first place in the mile, followed at a distance by Jones and Macauley. In the most thrilling race of the meet, Ellington shaded Carter for top honors in the 220. This proved to be the only event in which the winners failed to take at least two places. The KA’s relay team, composed of Mebane, Macauley, Richardson, and Daniel, overcame an early SPE lead to emerge victorious in the final event. The SPE’s, led by McBride and Hay, started fast but were unable to withstand the KA’s potent bid for victory.