WILL REVIEW TROOPS

Lt. Will Inspect ROTC May

Inspector Spent Five Years In Shanghai With The Fourth Marines

Annual inspection of the Davidson Reserve Officers Training Corps will be held this May. Major of military science and tactics,
has indicated the service R.O.T.C. officer sent by the fourth command to inspect will be Lieutenant Kennon Breazeale, associate professor
and adjutant in the R.O.T.C. unit at Clemson College. Lieutenant Breazeale, who was born in Anderson County, entered Clemson in
1934. After a year of college, he left school and entered the United States Marine Corps as a private. He
took boot training at Parris Island, S.C.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXXI DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1944 No. 10

Graduation Is Planned For Last Of May

Dr. Frank Price Teacher In China To Give Commencement Address

President John R. Cunningham today made an announcement that commencement will take place the week of May 21. Dr. Frank
Price, of the Class of 1915, will present the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday morning, May 21. Dr. Price, who was
for a long time a professor of Religious Education at Nanking Theological Seminary, Nanking, China, is at present in Washington.
While at Davidson, Dr. Price was the editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, president of the Student Council, a member of Phi
Beta Kappa honor society, and of the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity.

Schedule of Week

On Thursday, May 25, the executive committee of the Board of Trustees will meet in its regular semi-annual session, and
on Friday, May 26, the entire Board will hold its regular meeting. On Friday evening, a reception will be given
for the Senior Class, and on Saturday morning, commencement exercises will be held. 115 seniors will receive their diplomas and
degrees. Sometime during the week, the music department plans to present the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta.

COLLEGE TRAINING DETACHMENT

A part of the 24th College Training Detachment of the Army Air Forces is shown above marching toward the barracks
from Shearer Hall while members of the civilian student body look on from the porches of Georgia, Watts, and Rumple.
Members of the 24th will be sent back to active duty by June 30.

Cunningham Hopes School Will Get A-12 Reserve Unit

Final Dance To Be Held April 28, 29

Two-night Set Will Be Informal Saturday; Tickets Will Cost $3.70

"Farewell Frolics," the final dance of the year, will be held on Friday and Saturday, April 28 and 29, according
to an announcement made by Bob Miller, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. Because the faculty social committee has been unable
to decide definitely about regulations for dancing in the college gym, this dance set will take place in the Davidson
High School gym, which will be decorated on a spring theme by the Pan-Hell Council. According to plans made in
a meeting of the council, Ervin Hinkle's orchestra will be asked to provide music for finals both nights. Prices for
both nights have been set at $3.00, the established price, plus federal and state tax which totals 70c, making the
entire set ticket cost $3.70. The established price for each dance has been set at $2.00. Tax totals 70c, so
that the price for each night is $2.00. One of the advantages of having the dance set in Davidson, Miller
said, is not having to pay extra money for hotel rooms, banquets, and the like. Admission prices have been kept
to a minimum so that the entire weekend may be as economical as possible.

Saturday Informal

Friday's dance will be formal, Miller indicated, and Saturday's will be informal, for boys and girls alike. On Friday the
dance will begin at 9:00 P.M., and will last until 1:00 A.M. The festivities will include a Pan-Hell figure at
10:30. Fraternity presidents hope that the faculty's social committee will permit fraternity houses to remain open until four o'clock Friday
night. Intermission will be at 11:00 Friday and 10:30 Saturday. Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council have planned a picnic for
Saturday afternoon to be held on the golf course, and will also hold the farewell banquet usually held in Charlotte.
This is the first final dance set held on the campus, and the support and interest of each student will
make it the best.

Lieutenant Breazeale spent five years in China, during which time he participated in the defense of Shanghai during the Japanese
siege. He was assigned to the Fourth Marines, stationed in Shanghai, China.

Graduated From Clemson

Lieutenant Breazeale spent five years in China, during which time he participated in the defense of Shanghai during the Japanese
siege. He was assigned to the Fourth Marines, stationed in Shanghai, China.

Cancellation Of Air Corps Contract By June 30 Will Leave at Once

College authorities received word from the War Department last Saturday that the army's contract for the 24th College Training Detachment
will be canceled by June 30.Complying with the request, here is the cleaned OCR text:

---

complotinehietenror id Mr. Payne, “that my aim was to return to duty in the Marines.” He returned to Clemson in
1940, graduating in 1942 with a B.S. and a commission in the army reserve. He was called to active duty
in June 1942 and assigned to duty at Camp Wolters, Texas. He was later transferred to the Officers Basic School
at Fort Benning, Ga., and was moved from there to Clemson Agricultural College, where he acted as assistant PMS&T. Lieutenant
Breazedle was promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant last October and is now acting as adjutant and associate PMS&T
at Clemson.

The exhibition in close-order drill, which will include a parade, inspection, and ceremonial review, in which the whole battalion will
participate, will begin at 2:30 p.m. Other parts of the program will be demonstrated Wednesday morning by selected groups and
will include the following exhibitions: military sanitation, first aid, and sex hygiene; map reading and aerial photography; rifle marksmanship; individual
security and scouting; military customs and discipline; defense installations; chemical and mechanical attack; interior guard duty; field fortifications; and night
operations. Men participating in these demonstrations will be excused from necessary classes.

A platoon picked from the R.O.T.C. battalion will act as escort for the four generals who will take part in
the dedication of the science building.

In thinking of the future action of the school, Dr. John R. Cunningham, president, said that there is a possibility
of the army's sending a specialized training program to Davidson. He pointed out that 150,000 boys 17 years old took
the A-12 test given all over the country on March 15, and that it would be late in April or
early in May before all these boys would be notified as to whether they have passed the test successfully.

The government has indicated that an expanded program for 17-year-olds will be in operation by July 1, and that it
is probable that reservists will be assigned to institutions which have heretofore had contracts with the army. The presence of
the army R.O.T.C. unit on the campus for 25 years and the availability of additional equipment, such as beds and
eating utensils, and of new buildings, such as the kitchen addition to Chambers, may have some influence on the army's
choice of Davidson as a school suitable for training.

Dr. Cunningham said that, according to present plans, the men would be housed and fed in the college as a
unit, and would have a curriculum prescribed by army officials. It was not known whether they would be in classes
with regular students, or whether they would be in uniform. He pointed out that a group of 250 men, having
arrived during the first week of April, might receive merit badges in history and physics at the end of the
semester. These men stay at Davidson for five months.

Davidson College will present an organ recital by Palmer Christian, professor of organ at the University of Michigan, on Wednesday
evening, April 12, at 8:15. Christian, a world-renowned organist and teacher of music, has made solo appearances with the Chicago,
Detroit, Rochester, and New York Symphonic orchestras, and the Philadelphia Orchestra. He has also appeared as guest soloist before conventions
of the National Association of Organists, the American Guild of Organists, the National Convention of Music Teachers, and other organizations.
Mr. Christian was chosen to represent America in the international organ-orchestra concert given in New York Wanamaker Auditorium. Representatives of
Italy, France, Belgium, and America played a concerto with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.

(Continued on Page 4)

---

PALMER CHRISTIAN
