) ters . U4 SG 4 THE me e abl SONAN |:2" Windy: Read we eat get to it and see print ALENDA LUX UBi ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXII : DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1944 No, 2

Conferences At Montreat Attractive Program Planned For Summer Season

For obvious reasons, news concerning the Montreat conferences is always important and interesting to the men of Davidson. Only four or five hours by air travel ("Air you going my way?") is the summer resort and conference ground, where young and old gather for inspiration, fun, and fellowship. It is our purpose to put before the students some of the highlights of this summer's season, with a bigger and better program which will not only yield girls for dates (know any substitute for girls?) but will also prove to be beneficial and inspirational to the inner man.

The week-end of July 7-9 will be the half-way mark of the Women’s Auxiliary Training School. This is probably questionable as to dates and for college students; but there is no question about the quality of the speakers and leaders scheduled to be present. Several missionaries will be present, men and women prominent in the Presbyterian Church's program will be outstanding at the conference. It is understood that Miss Kaneda, a Japanese-American girl who graduated from the Assembly's Training School this spring, will be present. Hearing her and talking with her should be a very worthwhile experience.

Moving on to the week-end of July 14 we find the conference for Directors of Religious Education. Many of us will have a chance to see and talk with people from our home churches at this conference. Probably the best of the speakers will be found at the Leadership School which will be in session the week-end between semesters here at Davidson, July 21-23. Some of the finest men in the nation will be present, including W. Norman Cook, Director of Young People’s work in the Assembly, Joseph M. Garrison, Director of Student work, Chaplain Robert L. McLeod, of the Navy, and many others of equal merit. For those who can't get home, no better way could be found to spend the week-end.

And now the week-end we're all waiting for—Young People’s Leadership School, July 28-30. That is when members of Synod’s Young People’s Councils will be present, and dates with girls from our home states will be plentiful. This will be the finest week-end of our second semester and will probably necessitate a vesper cut, but it will surely be worth it. Speakers, if any one is interested, will include Dr. Currie of Richmond, President John R. Cunningham of Davidson.

The next two week-ends will be those of Home and Foreign Mission Conferences. Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, of the F. B. I., has been invited to speak at the first conference, August 4-6, and the Foreign Mission program includes Dr. Frank W. Price, nationally known speaker and one of the greatest missionaries of our time. The Bible Conference will close the summer at Montreat, running from August 17-27. On Sunday evening, August 20, our last week-end, Dr. D. T. Caldwell, chairman of the Defense Service Council, has arranged an informative and inspirational program which will include several (Continued on Page 4)

Shown above are officials of the 4th Service Command of the Army Air Force who this week conducted an academic inspection and negotiated contracts for the training of 17-year-old young men in the A.S.T.R.P. at Davidson College. From left to right they are: Prof. L. S. LeTellier of the Citadel; Col. J. W. Harrelson, former Dean of North Carolina State College; and Dean J. E. Hannum of Alabama Polytechnic Institute.

Government Provides For Free Education, Subsidy of Soldiers

Last CTD Men Ordered Away 256 Aircrew Students Leave For Shaw Field

A special troop train left here on June 28 bound for Sumter, South Carolina, carrying the last of the students of the 24th College Training Detachment, which was terminated by an order of the Army Air Forces dated March 31. Two hundred and fifty-six pre-aviation students entrained at the Davidson station at 11:30 A.M. As children, wives, and sweethearts, joined by townspeople and representatives of the college, bade farewell to the last contingent of the 24th C.T.D., a grim silence fell over the crowds with the realization that this exodus of prospective fliers closes an era at the college. The remnant of the air crew unit will be stationed at Shaw Field (named for a Davidson Graduate of Sumter who gave his life in World War I) temporarily, awaiting transfer and orders for the completion of their pre-aviation training.

This action of the War Department in late March terminates the air crew training program in 31 colleges in the United States. Eleven civilian flying schools will be closed on August 4 by the same decision. Under a new contract with the War Department, the Army A-12 program has enrolled 223 high school graduates at Davidson. The college facilities for feeding, housing, and teaching the members of the 24th C.T.D. are being modified for the use of the new group. According to information received from the registrar’s office, a total of two thousand and six young men have been enrolled in the 24th C.T.D. following its activation here on March 3, 1943. Their period of training on the campus varied from three to five months. Upon completion of the course at Davidson, they were transferred to an Army classification center where they were classified as pilots, bombardiers, or navigators and then sent to other schools and centers for more advanced instruction. (Continued on Page 3)

Program Will Help Fill College After War

Davidson College will be vitally affected in the period immediately following the war by the passage of a veteran's compensation bill, familiarly known as the "G.I. Bill of Rights", which became law when President Roosevelt signed the bill recently. The portions of the legislation which are of particular interest to Davidson graduates and to those undergraduates who will be inducted into the armed forces in the near future are as follows: Provision is made for a free year of college if the veteran was under twenty-five years of age when he entered the service. The Government will pay up to $500 a year for tuition, plus $50 a month, or $75 a month if the veteran has dependents. Veterans who do satisfactory school work can getThe same money for the subsidy as much as three years more. The bill provides for a (to individual needs) of an apprenticeship, vocational training, or refresher courses needed for particular jobs. It has been estimated that approximately one million of the ten million men in the armed forces will take advantage of these educational provisions, and that of this million, some 400,000 will want training in liberal arts colleges and universities. Probably a large number of Davidson men will take advantage of this offer to return here and complete their courses. It is quite probable that in the period immediately following the war, applications for enrollment in Davidson will reach an all-time high. With this possibility in view, the administration has decided that Davidson will nevertheless not unduly expand the size of its student body beyond its pre-war standard of 650. However, it is hoped and expected that men who were interrupted in their college work will return to complete their courses, Dr. Cunningham stated in an interview. A letter has gone from the president’s office to the 300 to 400 Davidson graduates who are eligible to benefit from the new law, informing them of their opportunity and expressing the hope that they will take advantage of it to return to Davidson.

Phi Beta Kappa Bid Is Given To Sam H. Hay

“Y” Begins Summer Work
Sunday School And Social Activities In Full Swing

Regardless of its limited personnel, the “Y” Cabinet has hit its stride toward serving the student body, the community, and the surrounding territory. Though many have noticed things that it should carry on and hasn't, it is hoped that you will be patient and more and more, as time goes on, its full activity will be covered. In Sunday School work, boys are being sent to the Sanatorium and to Shearer’s Chapel. The goal for the Sanatorium is seven teachers and for Shearer’s Chapel, two. Although this goal hasn't been reached, credit must be given to Lamar Williamson and Ed Golden for the time and good hard work which they are putting into it. Won't you volunteer to help them if you have had experience in teaching or if you desire to do it for experience now?

The “Y” has extended its sphere of activity in order to include the Army Reserve boys here now on the campus. A well-organized program of work is being carried on by Jim Robinson in Sunday School classes for them. The topic of his class this coming Sunday will be “What is the Christian's Attitude Toward Questionable Activities?” Of course, you know that the big function at Lake Harris has been called off due to the polio epidemic at the present time. However, this avenue of activity will not be forgotten because of this fact. Jim Alexander, who is social chairman, has some good ideas which will provide an excellent time for all the students on campus after they have been sanctioned by the proper members of the Administration. If you have an idea, how about giving Jim a hint as to what you think he might be able to do along this line?

In preparation for the freshmen on the campus now who are coming back for the winter term at Davidson, a “Y” Handbook, edited by Alfred McNair, has been prepared and is now at press. It contains very valuable information which will be handy to have around during all your stay at Davidson. This will be given to those who come here for the first time this fall. Many of you have wondered about the membership cards for the “Y” here on the campus. They will be ready for you to obtain by the end of this week. All you have to do is drop around to the “Y” Office in the near future and one will be issued to you. Many things can be done on the campus and among the students to make this a more valuable stay in college. Won't you come to the Cabinet Members with any ideas you might have which will be helpful in the work? Remember that Christians in this stronger thinking about wish to face a world which has and is witnessing the destruction of war.

Outstanding Student Selected By National Honorary Scholarship Society

It was announced this week by Dean Bailey that Sam Hay, a senior who will graduate this summer, has been selected for membership in Phi Beta Kappa, a national honorary scholastic fraternity. The date of initiation has not been set. Dr. James Douglas is the retiring president of the Davidson chapter, and Dean Bailey will take the presidential office this fall.

Hay, who is nineteen years old, was born in Brevard, N.C., and now lives in Hickory, N.C., where his father, Rev. John R. Hay, D.D., is pastor of the Presbyterian church. Sam is one of three brothers to attend Davidson, his older brother having graduated in 1942 and now a captain in the army, while John, Jr. is a member of this summer's freshman class. His father received his D.D. from Davidson.

While in Hickory High School, Hay played football and basketball, held several class offices, was sports editor of the school paper, and was assistant editor of the annual. Forewarning of his powers was given when he received the scholarship award in his senior year. Since coming to Davidson, Hay has been outstanding in many ways. He has played football every year, serving as captain last fall, and has played basketball for two years. He was president of the sophomore class, and was elected president of the junior class but was forced to resign when he was elected president of the student body a short time later. He has been on the Y.M.C.A. cabinet since the spring of 1943, and chairman of Vespers and Church Relations.

Hay is a pre-medical student and plans to attend medical school at the University of North Carolina upon completion of his work here. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and has been vice-president of the Davidson chapter. He is also a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, the Beaver Club, honorary fraternity of sophomores, and last fall was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. He belongs to the “D” Club, and has appeared in Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, which recognizes outstanding students throughout the nation.

SAM HAY