WITH THE Wildcat Sports
Friday, July 28, 1944
THE DAVIDSONIAN: Page Three

By JIM LOWRY

Polio put an abrupt end to the competition between the astraps and the students. The astraps had a very good team from the twenty-fourth section and were supposed to play a picked team of college all-stars, two out of three games Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the Davidson little World Series. It is each student's fervent hope that the polio will slack up and the Series will be played before the summer session is out.

FINAL SOFTBALL GAME

The Interfraternity softball season ended last week in a tie between the Sigmas and the Betas. They played last week with the Betas sporting an unbeaten record and the Sigmas having lost one. The Sigmas beat them 7-4 with Medford beating McGee in a good ball game.

A big first inning proved to be the deciding factor for the Sigmas, who scored four runs on a series of errors and walks. Edwards, Ashby, Bryant, and Roddy all contributed to the score. The score was 4-0 at the end of that inning. After that, it was a tight ball game, with the Betas finally getting a rally together late in the last of the seventh, but the game was closed by a ground out to the pitcher.

The entire game was marked by some of the best pitching seen in any of the first-term's softball contests. Bill Medford used the better strategy of allowing a few hits but effectively scattered them and emerged as the winning pitcher, while Graham McGehee, although holding the Sigmas to fewer hits, was not as fortunate with his control.

Since no one had enough interest to send in answers to the sports quiz, there will definitely not be another. The reaction of the average Davidson student to the quiz was either one of complete indifference or one of humorous tolerance.

It seems that the athletic facilities for the Davidson students are practically nil, except for a few hours a day on one corner of the freshman field for a game of murder ball. There are approximately three pieces of furniture in the gym and there is a giant padlock on the door. Also, the table tennis table is not in circulation because of the cover. Ah, well! War and polio.

IT COULD BE WORSE

(Continued from Page 2)

The present time is extremely limited as the president declared, "I shall put a free cigar stand on each end of each floor of Chambers, and a wine cellar between them. There will also be an escalator from the dorms to a boarding house which will serve decent food. The classes and groups scattered in the surrounding vicinity over the campus with boys from Darlington and McCallie and other high school flashes are looking forward to a two weeks' break. We hope that all will take advantage of your 'Y' using it to your advantage."

There are some very nice prospects assigned this stuff moved to Watts and Georgia. There is an alarming shortage of beef around here.

SUMMER SCHOOL 'Y' ATHLETICS

(Continued from Page 1)

Athletics this year will probably consist of basketball and basketball. There is a scattering of football material over the campus with boys from Darlington and McCallie and other high school flashes but there is an alarming shortage of beef around here.ade yy | tae os tl { ( Is.’ wi " pumped to OuttaIs at for basketball—as there are some good young men for basketball. 

"You were! What audacity to stand there and tell me a thing like that!" 

The staff of the Davidsonian will be lined up in front of the library and also the chance that there will be two 6-3 four f’s. 

Athtractions coming up here from Baltimore and from King College in Bristol. With the building of the new gym, there is the possibility that the Cats will specialize in basketball. 

While we are on the subject of football and basketball, we come to the subject of school spirit. This has been lacking in the past year since most of the old boys that have been here in pre-war days have since departed, and the number of upperclassmen seems to be insufficient to carry on with pre-war spirit. There should be something this summer which would make the freshmen realize that they are still freshmen no matter how much liberty they have. There is no court of control and the freshmen cannot be made to keep off the grass or to wear freshmen hats. There could be a shirttail or some way of correction. If the freshmen will not be expecting discipline this fall and they probably won't get any, it seems as if they should have some this summer. This is not exactly sports news, but it is something that should be looked into.

I guess that’s about all for right now, but we will be back next week. The question of the week is—"Is She or is She isn’t."

"If the Union decides to throw a dance, will it be formal, or will we wear our own clothes?"

"I hate women, and I’m glad I hate 'em, 'cause if I didn’t hate 'em, I’d like 'em, and time would be wasted."

One of our bright little freshmen wrote home that he had three cuts and received a first aid kit.

There may be a real opportunity for you with us.

Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company.

A. S. BROWN
Faul & Crymes, Inc.
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

Sporting Goods
Norton’s Barber Shop
Davidson, N. C.

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE

"When It’s Over Over There," said the elevator boy. "Sargeant Burton said: 'Well, speak up there, how do you want your uniforms, too little or too big?'"

The great reformer, Jim Love (further proof that this column is uncensored), arose to enumerate the reforms which would...