The Cats leave for Raleigh this week after spending two weeks of misery abroad. Starting off the season with ten
reliable players, the Cats received some heartbreaking losses. Losing five of the ten ball players, including Ed White and Dick
Chesson, they have staggered through the last two weeks with five men playing nearly forty minutes a game. With three
freshmen in the starting lineup at the first of the year and four later on, they have managed to win
16 out of 22 ball games. When they meet V. P. I. in the conference tournament Thursday night, they will
have the wholehearted backing of the entire student body. Regardless of whether they win or lose, they will have had
a very good season considering the circumstances. They are our Cats, so let’s support them.

Friday, February 25, 1944
Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOOD LUCK "CATS
Page Three

Cagers Get Tournament Bid
Divide Pair

Barber McLeod

While not many boys remember him or have ever heard of him, Barber McLeod two years ago was one of
the characters of the campus, the most emaciated specimen of masculinity ever to walk on the Davidson campus. Anyway, the
Barber, who was a confirmed bachelor, got hooked by a lovely little woman last fall and the happy couple are
at Pennsylvania Medical School.

While North Carolina and Duke are the overwhelming favorites at the tournament this week, we cast our vote for South
Carolina as the dark horse and pick them to upset Duke in the service team round.

Lowry Paces Locals to Victory With 21 Points

On their home court last Friday night, the Davidson Wildcats defeated and completely outplayed the N.C. State Wolfpack by a
score of 41 to 37, before a capacity crowd of students and Air Cadets. This victory afforded Davidson an invitation
to the Southern Conference Tournament which will decide the conference championship, Friday afternoon.

Baseball

The Wildcats will definitely field a diamond team this spring. Hardly any prospects are in sight, but they surely couldn’t
do worse than last year’s “clowns.”

Reminiscing

A great many people this year have liked to reminisce and say that this year if it hadn’t been for
the war, old D. C. would be right up there in front in the Southern Conference. Not only in basketball
but in football, track, and tennis this would have been our year. While it is a good thing to do,
bringing back stars like the Peters boys, and the rest of the sensational sophs, I think it only fair to
send a bunch of orchids to the boys who played football and who have almost completed a successful basketball season.
The football team would have won two or three games this year if certain schools had not broken their word
and brought in players. So while we remember and think of what it would have been like during peaceful years,
let’s also remember to praise these lads who have fought against overwhelming odds all year and have done darn well.

Up at Chapel Hill two weeks ago, the Cats very appropriately acquired the name of “Roving Orphans.” Could it be
that Coach Shepard was ashamed to be seen with the bantams? Evidently, the Cats stayed out too late Friday night
judging from the way they played against State Saturday. The State men’s faces were baskets and so accused them of
being color-blind the way they were throwing the ball. We would kinda like to see Davidson bring in some of
the local talent next year to play basketball. There are several good ball players right in Mecklenburg County, enough to
round out a good first team next year.

Back the Cats

Don’t forget to back the Cats who won the nickname of the original “bloomer boys” at the tourney.

In a return engagement with the State team, the next night, the Wildcats were beaten badly, the score being 54
to 33. Although the Davidson team showed parts of good playing, lack of sleep showed up their game, and the
Wolfpack defense kept Captain Jim Lowry from breaking loose. He was held to but three points, whereas on Friday night,
he bagged 21. In the second game, State got off to an early lead of six points before our boys
realized what had happened. The game fluctuated slightly in favor of State, and they led at half-time by a score
of 27 to 18. Davidson never threatened their opponents the remainder of the game.

Jones Sprains Ankle

Jones sprained his ankle early in the first period, and Williams' sprained ankle hampered him throughout the contest. High man
for Davidson was Ashmore with 12 points; Williams was near with eight. Kohler led State with 16 and 17 points
respectively. The Friday night game afforded Davidson sweet revenge for the defeats handed the Cats by State in Raleigh last
year. Lay was the second highest man for Davidson with six points. He also played a good floor game. Kohler
led State in this game with 22 points.

DAVIDSON
Thursday 8 P. M.
VIRGINIA TECH

NORTH CAROLINA
Friday 8 P. M.

Friday 2:30 P. M.
RICHMOND

MARYLAND
Thursday 9:30 P. M.
STATEFriday 4 P.M. Conference Tournament Pairings

Marking the closing games of the season, Turner and Kohler of State respectively...

NORMAN SHEPARD

VPI Gobblers In Opener Thursday

White Phants, Blue Devils Get Top Seedings

For the second consecutive year, the Davidson Wildcats, coached by Norman Shepard, have secured a berth in the Southern Conference
Tournament. The Wildcats, who closed the season with 3 wins in 7 loop starts, are one of the four civilian
teams selected for the playoffs.

Last Season’s Quintet Reached Semi-Finals

Last year's team, one of the finest in the history of basketball on the Davidson campus, reached the semi-finals before
being ousted. After defeating State's Red Terrors in the opening round, the Wildcats were forced into overtime by George Washington
before succumbing to superior reserves, 10-47. The team from the nation's capital went on to capture the loop crown. Key
player Tommy, who won the conference scoring honors and was placed on the all-league team by sportswriters, was voted the
most popular player by fans despite appearing only twice.

Shepard Says Chances Small

Coach Praises Play of Weakened Team

The Davidson Wildcats, having been selected to play in the Southern Conference Tournament, wound up their final drill today. Coach
Norman Shepard is not too optimistic about the Cats' chances in the playoffs. After starting the year off strong, the
team fizzled out for a comparatively poor finish. Due to the loss of Ed White, the great little scorer, and
several reserves, Davidson enters the tournament with a weakened squad. The loss of Mike Williams and Freeman Jones due to
injuries has also taken a toll on the team. Despite these setbacks, Captain Jim Lowry has led the team through
the entire season. Shepard also praised the play of Mike Williams, Freeman Jones, and Bob Flowers, who have played consistently
but have not received much recognition. As the Cats leave for Raleigh with a weakened but determined spirit, they pledge
to change their usual-victory complex for a Southern Conference crown.

Catawba Wins

The Catawba Indians gained partial revenge for three defeats at the hands of Davidson, swamping the Wildcats 51-27 last Monday
night. Catawba took the lead with three field goals early in the game, and the Cats were unable to overtake
them. The Indians put on the steam in the second half, and the Wildcats were powerless.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Lowry led with nine points, closely followed by Ellington with eight, and Ashmore with seven.

Phants, Gamecocks, and Devils Are Top Teams

The two top teams among the eight entered, the University of North Carolina White Phantoms and Duke's Blue Devils, are
fortified with a host of V-12 standouts from all over the nation. The Phantoms, by virtue of a pair of
wins in a three-game series with their hated rivals from Richmond and South Carolina, also have a number of service
men on their star-studded rosters. The remaining four teams, Maryland, State, VPI, and the Wildcats, compose the underdog civilian group.
In the opening round, the Cats were to meet the VPI Gobblers, rated as the top non-military unit entered. The
boys from the Old Dominion won three out of four Conference games, losing only to the Phantoms 29-42 in their
first start. Specific victories came at the expense of VMI 39-17 and William and Mary twice by scores of 46-22
and 58-29. Should the Cats emerge victorious, they will meet the winner of the Carolina-Richmond Spider classic tonight.

WANTED: Clerk to work in the Davidson Student Store, from 10 to 11 a.m. second period every Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday. $0.30 an hour. Interested students should apply to Newt Spencer in...
