Once more the Davidsonian heads press forward. Once more they need a good sports column. Once more they (meaning the Davidsonian’s staff of workers) have drafted yours truly. Once more they'll be disappointed. Football season has passed and the interest here on the Hill has shifted to basketball. But before we have our little dissertation on the latter, let me say something in passing about our football season.

We opened the season by playing host to Appalachian, a game which cost us dearly even though the score was 7-7, after a hectic fourth quarter. Captain Bill McLean was forced to leave this game with a shoulder injury. Then we took Darlington to the tune of 7-0. In this game, we saw some of the best passing we saw all year, but somehow our machine held every time they threatened seriously. On the following Saturday, the Wildkittens and most of the Student Body visited Legion Stadium in Charlotte and came back a little P.O.’ed. (That is to say, a little put out.) Yes, Harding beat us 6-0. One long pass, Coursey to Austin, did the regrettable deed. (This is a little prejudice, don’t you think?)

Barium paid us a social call the next Friday and we were quite inhospitable. And they could give you eighteen darn good reasons why we were inhospitable. That ended our home slate, so we had a crack at Riverside (and Brenau) down in Gainesville, Ga. Note: Maybe it was raining all the time, but I gotta say something nice about the place. Anyway, we won and several of our backs and linemen had a field day, as did our extra point kicker who had to kick one extra point twice before everybody was convinced that he wasn’t just lucky. The final was 35-0. Woodbury terminated the schedule and they were very inhospitable too. This time I can quote you 18 darn good reasons. Several of our regulars were unable to make the trip, but make no mistake, I’m not asking for the crying towel. I’m proud of the showing we made. Bob Millar and Strickland deserve a good bit of commendation on their line play, not to mention Joe Leonard and Bill Iverson. But I won’t name any more linemen because I would have to name them all. John Sherrill’s drive, Ward Lasley’s speed, and Dave Neill’s 22-caliber right arm are to be mentioned when one glances at the backfield.

Basketball is here as I said about fifteen minutes ago. Coach is working hard (he keeps telling me, but I don’t believe him) to get his five men who click like they ought to. But as far as my four eyes can see, the men are working many times harder than the coach. Seriously though, Coach has some good material and will indubitably (!) mold it into a winning quintet. He’s got a bad habit of turning out good basketball teams. John Wall, Dave Neill, and Bob Berry are back from last year’s team and they are having to work hard to get starting berths wrested from them by Brownson, Schmidt, Manor, Morrison, Herndon, Roach, and Kautmann. Practice sessions are moving every afternoon and moving rapidly with the group fighting to hold their present status and all others fighting to gain that status.

Games have been scheduled with Elon, Duke, and Carolina before the Christmas Holidays. Dances are definitely off. Coach is going to try to get some interest and support for this team all the way down to the last whistle in the last game of the year. It is our first varsity representation in the athletic field (not to be confused with the gridiron, a football field) this year.

INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL BEGINS
Tuesday, December 4, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Intramural Basketball Begins

Do you know Your Sports?

ORIGIN OF TRACK AND FIELD

Primitive man originated track and field, but he did not have sports in mind at the moment. The very earliest human was a huntsman. He had no equipment. Doubtless he was a vegetarian, but wild animals either hunted man for food or just to destroy him. Man, in defense, either had to fight back or run from this danger. The fast-running man escaped and lived. The slow of foot were overtaken and killed. Naturally, parents encouraged their children in running and to achieve the highest possible flight of speed. It meant the difference between life and death when animals pursued. The children, finding it rather monotonous to run solo, arranged races among themselves, and thus foot racing was established as a contest—the oldest form of sport.

When man found that he could outrun the wild beasts, he began to resent the idea of being pursued. Man proceeded to turn on these pursuing animals and pelted them with rocks. If he missed, he had to run to safety. Realizing the need for good marksmanship, the primitive man practiced for accuracy, with the entire family taking part—and that was the start of throwing as a competitive sport.

Earliest man sometimes was trapped into life and death fights with animals, with nothing serving him except his hands and arms. Muscular power was vital to him; so was dexterity with the hands. It is logical to assume that men grappled with each other to build up strength and develop tricks for subduing animals. And so wrestling can be presumed as the third sport of the human race; wrestling of the rough-and-tumble variety, with no “holds barred,” and use your fists if you wish.

Obstacles often may have blocked the way of ancient man. They had to be moved by the hands, supported by muscular power. And so this was the origin of weight lifting. Humans found some obstacles beyond them. They met this problem by leaping over them—and thus was born the jumping act.

These were the activities of ancient man which came down through the ages into ancient Greece. Greece, with its love of the muscular man, began to glorify its youth who could run fastest, farthest, jump highest, and throw the greatest distance; to those who were the best.wrestlers, the mightiest in lifting weights. And to decide, at certain intervals, just who these were, it arranged its own events and threw honor to muscular feats.

DR. BOK SPEAKS
(Continued from Page 1)

...will be driven madly by the incentive to show us that they can discover the secret. Hence, it will not be long until all nations will be in control of atomic power.

There are, declared Dr. Bok, two ways open for us. We can keep the bomb to ourselves, in which case we must hurriedly manufacture more of the bombs and literally destroy the Soviet Union, allying ourselves then with Britain for the 3 or 4 year period of “democracy and peace.” Our moral conscience, however, would not let us do such a thing. Or, we can release the secret of the atomic bomb to an International Control Council and thereby assure the world of the just and proper use of the weapon.

Dr. Bok expressed a hope that one of the first points on the agenda of the impending United Nations Security Council meeting would be the setting up of an Atomic Research Commission, made up of scientists from all nations. This, he said, should lead to international scientific collaboration and the establishment of an International Nuclear Research Laboratory.

Finally, the speaker urged discussion in all meetings of the bomb and the problems it presents, a sincere search for thought on the subject, carefully weighed opinions concerning our necessary action, and making our opinions known to all through public meetings, letters to Congressmen, and the various other means at our disposal.

First 2 Rounds Are Announced
Wrestling Team Formed By Montgomery And Brothers

Last Thursday night our intramural basketball began. Since this is Tuesday, the results will have to come out in the next issue. The season ought to be very exciting with the talent that has been shown in practice during the past week. The football champions (S.P.E.’s and Betas) have equally excellent chances for another win. The Independents have a good team as usual and with the guidance of Captain Bill Fesperman, they may win the title. The Kappa Sigs and S.A.E.’s are both expected to offer stiff competition. As things shape up, the games will be good and interesting, and may the best team win.

This is the schedule for the first two rounds of games:

ROUND 1:
S.A.E. vs. KA
Phi Delts vs. Betas
S.P.E. vs. Kappa Sigs
Pi Kaps vs. Pikas

ROUND 2:
Ind. vs. Betas
S.A.E. vs. Kappa Sigs
S.P.E. vs. Pikas

A new wrestling team to be managed by Monty Montgomery and Ted Brothers has been organized. Among the fifteen or twenty who have signed up, there is much experience represented and plenty of talent. The Davidsonian hopes that Monty and Ted will be able to prepare the team for a schedule of matches this year. Under the direction of Whittle, the team has possibilities of returning to its pre-war standing as a major sport.

REHEARSALS BEGIN
(Continued from Page 1)

Below is a list of the cast as chosen:
Spider - Jimmy Cowan
Speed - Don Whittemore
Anne Westley - Nancy Copeland
Gabby Sloan - Charles Cunningham
Burleigh Sullivan - Frank Lowe
Mac Sullivan - Dot Hamrick
Midge - Jack Gray
Willard - Charles Hadic
Wilbur - 

The creation of the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America, better known as the I.C.A.A.A.A., which embraced colleges in the East, and the National Collegiate Athletic Association, embracing colleges in the East, Middle West, and West. Each staged a track and field meet in 1876, and these have been annual events ever since.

The creation of the two organizations solved the competitive problem for the undergraduate. But another presented itself. There was no place where the post-graduate could continue to compete under the amateur standard—and no place for the non-collegiate performer. This was met in 1888 by the organization of the Amateur Athletic Union, which immediately proceeded to hold track and field meets open to all undergraduates, post-graduates, and non-scholastic athletes. The only requirement was that they must be 100 percent amateur.

When the Olympic Games were revived in 1896, there was formed the American Olympic Committee, which is affiliated with the International Olympic Committee, which governs all Olympic matters and is located in Europe.