“Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, January 20, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

Editor
JIM ALEXANDER

Business Manager
J. S. Blain

Associate Editor
George Apperson

Assistant Editor
Joe Stukes

Sports Editor
Bill Masters

Managing Editor
Ellis White

Staff Photographer
Ellis White

Assistant Business Manager
Joe Stukes

Circulation Manager
Jack Lazenby

Advertising Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hand by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Au revoir...
Another semester draws to a close and another graduating class prepares to leave. Five more boys have survived to the
end of the stormy way of wartime college work. They go into a world where real battles are in progress,
for here one only feels the effect of outside turmoil. With them go the best wishes of all they leave
behind in the student body and faculty. We cannot wish them smooth sailing or paths without stones. Everyone realizes that
success in life means facing reality, but today reality is harsh and unpleasant. We would rather wish them the courage
to be brave no matter what may be the road they follow, no matter what the hardships of life may
impose.

Above all the wishes for them we have this prayer: That the spiritual values which have been so central in
their lives here, around which all college life functions, may be their support as they enter their new life and
remain with them through all its extent.

The end of college life has always signified the opening of a new, more mature phase of life. For many
it is the first time they are ‘on their own’, taking their place in society as contributing citizens. For others
it is the time of beginning of more serious advanced professional study. Whatever course the graduate may pursue they have
behind them all the advantages of an education at Davidson. These, however, are not the only men who are making
their exit from Davidson. Undergraduates are constantly finding it necessary to discontinue their education because of the demands made by
military operations. To these men who have gone or who expect to leave soon we can only express our regret
that they have not been able to continue their college. It is our sincere hope that all of these men
will look on this not as an end of their education, but merely the continuation of it. Men of these
days and times need a full college education in order to meet the problems of life with the greatest success.
The years of peace will bring with them all the promise of a new era. When all this has come
to pass it is our sincere desire to see all of the men who possibly can return to finish what
they started. May the Sons of Davidson who leave now remember the days they spent here with the fullest pleasure.
May whatever experience they have had here be used to the best advantage possible. May life give them the fullest
it has to offer. So to these graduates we say farewell, and to the other men who leave, goodbye until
we meet again at Davidson.

Dance Regulations... PRO...
For a long time the students at Davidson have had a great deal of difficulty in finding rooms for dates
at dances and functions, and the Faculty Social Committee has taken steps to remedy this situation. They have made arrangements
which will permit girls to be comfortably lodged in one of the dormitories at a reasonable price. The Committee is
to be congratulated upon recognizing this problem and trying to help the students during the coming dances.

The forthcoming regulations which are to be in effect at Mid-Winters seem rather strict in comparison with past social rules,
but the Faculty is trying to find a suitable program of rules and to improve the standard of our dances.
The Mid-Winter’s rules are to be tried with a view of finding the best way to regulate social functions, and
the standards set have been compared with those of other colleges and are very similar to them. Instead of complaining
about the rules and trying to get away with breaking them, the student body will do much toward increasing the
chances of obtaining more liberal regulations in the future if they cooperate with the Administration in its plans for the
dances in February.

CONT...
At a recent meeting of the Faculty Social Committee it was decided that if Mid-Winters this year were to be
held on the campus, certain regulations concerning these dances had to be made. Naturally we have no objection to the
rule that would open Duke dormitory to the visiting girls. There has long been a need for such a place
in Davidson as there has always been considerable inconvenience in securing rooms in the various homes on and off the
campus. However, at this same meeting a regulation was proposed that would require all the girls to be in the
dormitory one half an hour after a dance on Saturday night. In General Regulations, Section Eight it is thus stated:
“Young men and young women are expected to conduct themselves in social relationships in such a manner as not to
reflect discredit upon themselves or upon the college.” Obviously the faculty considers the present student body incapable of living up
to this regulation as former Davidson students have done. It seems to reflect on the student body when the faculty
finds it imperative to institute a stricter rule which heretofore has not been necessary. The coming Mid-Winters dance, to be
held Saturday, February tenth, will be the biggest college function of the year; it should be the happiest...”Time as it
has been in previous years. We hardly see how this could be possible with the resentment that would be aroused
by these unjust restrictions. Not only because these regulations are unfair, undemocratic, and childish, but also because it is the
only big social event held at Davidson during the entire college year, we appeal to the fair-mindedness of the Faculty
Social Committee to reject such dictatorial controls.

What About It?

This article was found on the step of the little Davidson office. So with a correction and reediting, we are
publishing it. There was neither title nor name on it, so the identity of the person who wrote it is
unknown.

“There is a school called The Citadel. Oh yes, it is a good school, but what the boys go through
is something for the books. We are told the other day, by one of them, about an incident that happened
not so very long ago. For weeks the student council had been planning for a big dance. It was to
be the biggest event of the year. Several bands were considered and then one was chosen from a nearby town.
It was to be held in the school auditorium. At night, one would see boys thumbing their address books, in
hopes of finding a girl who was the better of the lot. For it was an honor for a girl
to be asked to this particular dance and the boys wanted to make sure that this honor was bestowed on
the best girl he could find. Letters were written, snapshots were once more pulled out and shown to admiring males,
and plans were made for an evening that they thought was going to be a so-called ‘night to remember.’

What to do after the dance was then the problem? There would probably be something going on down at the
fraternity houses and if not that they could go into town and get a snack or something. But about it,
another, they shouldn't have worried for the faculty had that all planned for them. It seemed that the faculty thought
that since the student body was made up of mostly first-termers, they were incapable of handling themselves with women. So
they had conveniently placed a time limit on the arrival of the girls to the dormitory after the dance. They
had also kindly furnished a dormitory for the girls to stay in. What effect did this have on the students?
Well, first they were mad, then hurt to think that they were believed to be untrustworthy. It was getting like
a prep school. Well, the dance came and it was successful. The orchestra was wonderful. But a gloom stayed over
each and every one of them. Boys were nervously looking at their watches, and on the whole, it was a
very uncomfortable group. That surely was an awful thing to do, wasn't it? That could probably wreck the whole morale
of the school, if it didn’t. Aren’t we lucky that nothing like that happens here at Davidson?

TIMELY THOUGHTS

For success try aspiration, inspiration, and perspiration.

You cannot be a good citizen while you pursue an unworthy object.

Forget self, serve others, and contribute to human happiness.

This Might Be You

Hil Masters

It was a few nights before Christmas Eve and Joe was in a good mood. But on this night he
was minus a date. One of his pals, who hated to see him in this predicament, suggested a girl who
he knew. After a lengthy description, Joe consented to go. The hitch was that his pal was unable to bring
him home, for he was going to a dance. But he was told that there were buses that ran out
to that part of town. Finally, they arrived at the girl's house and entered. While being introduced to the family,
a tall, willowy girl walked into the room. Her hair was as black as a thousand midnights (apologies to Shakespeare),
her skin white as a dove (is a dove white?), and—well—she was a nice-looking girl. Our Joe's friend left and
they were alone. Whether to go to a movie or not was then the question? But after a few minutes
of debate, they decided to stay home and look at the Christmas tree. A few records and they were dancing
on the smooth floor, singing to each other. Then, to the icebox where they got some cookies and ice cream.
At this time he looked at his watch and noticed that it was time to leave. Joe went to the
phone and inquired of the bus company when the buses quit running in that part of the city. He was
promptly told that the buses were just driving into the garage. Well, there was always a taxi. But to no
avail, even they had gone to bed. There he was stranded with a girl and no way to get home.
He was beginning to get worried. Finally, the girl thought of calling the parents of the girl whom his pal
had dated, leaving word for him to call back for our friend. After this was done, they settled into the
deep sofa and looked at the family album. A few hours later his date complained that she was sleepy. He,
being gallant, suggested that she go to bed and that he would be perfectly comfortable reading a magazine until his
friend came. Much to his surprise, she accepted this offer; alone. The magazine proved fruitless. All of the stories were
about soldiers returning from war to their wives, who wore skirts and sweaters and danced to Will Bradley, Benny Goodman,
and Glenn Miller when they left for the service. But now that they had come home their wives had changed
to up-sweep hairdos, intellectual readings, and Beethoven and Strauss. Result? He never got to finish the story for some of
her family walked in. To be more specific, it was her brother and sister who had been to the same
dance as his friend. The reader must realize that this was a very embarrassing moment for him. Here these people
walked in and found a perfect stranger sitting in their house reading a magazine. Their eyes were very skeptical as
Joe introduced himself to the assembled group before him. They stumbled through a stinted conversation and during a moment of
silence, the doorbell rang. His friend had finally come. While riding home he thought over in his mind the things
that had happened to him during the night. It was a night to remember. But don’t laugh for “This Might
Be You.”
