— "CAT CHAT By Sterling Edwards

Football started off with a bang this season when Coach Shepherd called a practice on the opening day of school.
Many new boys were at the first turnout, but over half the team has had previous training under Shepherd through
summer practice. As most of you know, the summer practice was the first of its kind, and it proved very
helpful to the coach because he has so many new boys this fall. Shepherd used the first week of practice
to perfect blocking and tackling, but he has put these past two weeks to good use in many hard workouts
of actual scrimmage. Judging from the past few drills, the Wildcats are developing into a promising squad and will be
well prepared to meet Darlington on October 13.

If any of you should happen to wander down to the practice field from 4 to 6 o’clock some afternoon,
it’s certain that you will notice some of the outstanding gridders such as Bill McLean or Bob Millar taking part
in scrimmage drills. Bill is a veteran on the grid team and is holding his own on the right side
of the line in the guard spot. Being one of the most experienced men on the team, he helped coach
the linemen during the summer session while Shepherd would take the backfield. Millar is in the pivot position in the
line and is handling it nicely, it seems. He has been slowed up some this past week by a slight
thumb injury which he received in activities other than the game mentioned.

The backfield spotlight is focused on Ward Lasley. You'll find Ward to be one of the fastest ball-carriers we have.
He also calls the signals from his fullback position. Keep your eyes on Ward when we play Darlington. He'll be
doing his share for the ’Cats.

We boast a fairly heavy line this year with an average of approximately 180 pounds, with the lightest man being
165 pounds. The backfield runs a little lighter with an average of about 165 pounds, the lightest man being 158
pounds.

Since there are so many boys out this year, Shepherd will be assisted in his coaching by Art Roach and
Jim Sample, both prewar ballplayers on the Wildcat team. They excelled in backfield play and are a great asset to
the new ball carriers this year. Art, who was an outstanding punter, is giving some of the backfield men the
Roach Magic Toe Formula. No kidding, our kickers are improving. Sample has been working with the line for the past
two weeks with good results.

Injuries temporarily laid out Joe Richert and Pete Sinclair in the earlier days of practice, but they are both back
out this week. Richert’s hand injury may keep him out of rough work for a few days. Incidentally, that hand
wound was received from friend Millar, and vice-versa. They are roommates, you see.

Since football is the sport of the day, Coach Whittle has drawn up an intramural schedule, which is to begin
this week. This will include all fraternities together with a well-chosen independent team. Well-chosen just means that everybody can’t play.
The KA and Kappa Sigs were the champs of last year, but it’s anybody’s win this time with all these
new freshmen sporting high school letters.

What did you think of the Duke-South Carolina runaway last week? Aren’t we glad we're just a freshman team. Clemson
didn’t do so bad either when it ran up a 76-0 score over P.C. Let us hope our Wildcats make
such an underdog of Darlington.

KEEP BUYING WAR BONDS

Wildcat Sports INTRA-MURALS UNDER WAY

Saturday, September 29, 1945 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

FRATS PLEDGE (Continued from Page 1)

Mead, Murray, Wee, Puett, Allen Marion J. Louis M. Palles, C.; William A. ZumBrunner, Phi Epsilon: Belmont; Car- Winston-Salem; nell,
Jr., Gastonia; Florence, Jr., Wallace; Florence, S. Hickory; Salisbury; G. Brown, lyle H. Charles, Albert T. Correll, C. Meredith V.
burg, S. C.; John Andrew Gullick, Jr., Belmont; Zeb M. Holler, Jr., Greensboro; Arthur S. Jenkins, Charles H. R. Rabb,
Cramerton.

NEW COURT (Continued from Page 1)

Richard I, Sigma Joseph Spartanburg, S. Davison, Spartan- Fayetteville; Owens, Avondale; B. S.

Show proper respect at all times to upper-classmen. Remain seated after chapel until all upper-classmen have left the auditorium. The
other members of theCourt members are Bob Strickland, Dave Neal, Thacker Thrower, Herb Wyatt, Carroll Herrion, and Art Roach. It
is sincerely hoped that all students will cooperate in seeing that the regulations are observed, and that all upper-classmen will
report all violations immediately. Only by cooperation can the work of the Court be carried out in the proper manner,
and the traditions of Davidson be perpetuated.

Blythe Assumes Duties In L.S.U.
Receives Leave Of Absence To Teach Spanish

Professor Fred L. Blythe of the Spanish Department of Davidson College left August 28 for Baton Rouge, La., where he
will begin his teaching duties as professor of Spanish in Louisiana State University in the middle of September. Prof. Blythe,
on leave of absence from Davidson College, taught at the University of Illinois during the spring term and for eight
weeks of the Summer Session. He has been a member of the Davidson faculty since 1923.

Get These HIT PARADE Records:
“Hong Kong Blues”
“A Kiss Goodnight”
“Goosy Gander”
“I’ll Buy That Dream”
“Caldonia”
“Love Letters”

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Intra-Murals Begin Soon
Six Or Seven Fraternities To Be In Contest

At a meeting of the fraternity and independent sports managers this week, it was decided to go on with the
present intra-mural schedule of sports, at least for the present school year. The teams comprising this league will represent the
fraternities and various independents. The unreliable grapevine (from whence the consequently unreliable Davidsonian garners practically 100% of its news) has
it that the Phi Delts, Pikas, Pi Kaps, Betas, and Independents will field at least one team apiece. The other
fraternities will combine in some way in order to put out a six or seven team league. This is a
definite improvement over the last few years when the league found itself with five teams. Everyone looks forward to a
fine intra-mural program under the direction of Coach A. H. Whittle.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 2)

Is Lee Willingham going over to Carolina? And we wonder why Bill McLean has been coming in at three o'clock
in the morning on weekends?

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The local SAE house has been open for coffee parties several nights during the past week. With the help of
Pledge Jenning’s hot plate and Pledge Dickey’s percolator, this refreshing liquid has been served to members and friends of the
chapter. Under the shrewd direction of Pledge-master J. Mac, a laundry and clean-up schedule has been formed. We are sure
that the SAE pledges will not find their jobs extremely difficult.

WE HAVE IN STOCK
LARGEST SELECTION OF
Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.

BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N.C.

Darlington To Play Team Here
Predict Victory For Wildcats
Other Games Scheduled For Near Future

Under the direction of Coach Shepard and his assistants Jim Sample and Art Roach, the new Davidson football team has
been practicing since September 14. The team is composed mostly of freshmen, some of whom have outstanding high school records.
One of the team's greatest assets is letterman Bill McLean who plays right guard. Besides coaching the line into a
hard-charging group, he has made an excellent showing in scrimmage. Other standouts in the line are Millar at center, Strickland
at tackle, Iverson at end, and Lasley, a speedy fullback, who has made a great show in the backfield. Scott
has excelled as a defensive linebacker from his position of quarterback. Joe Richert has been out on an injury received
in a “rough-house” on the fourth floor of West. Pete Sinclair injured his knee in practice and was out for
several days. Both boys returned to practice this week. Our first game is with Darlington on October 6 on Richardson
Field. We wish the team good luck in this and their other games this season.

Potential first string lineup:
RE—Jackson
RT—Strickland
RG—McLean
C—Millar
LG—Alexander
LT—Leonard
LE—Iverson
QB—Scott
WB—Edwards
TB—Boren
FB—Lasley

Buy Bonds!

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

A. S. BROWN
Fred H. Plexico
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.
