The Bavidgonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, MARCH 17, 1945 No. 11

C. Grier Davis Spring Services
Tom Smith Elected Co-Editor

Music News By Hollinger

The Davidson College Band and Glee Club will present a joint concert Tuesday night, March 20, in Shearer Hall. The
Band will play a varied program, including: Prelude and Fugue in G Minor—Bach; Othello Suite—Coleridge-Taylor; Landsighting—Grieg; Intermezzo from the Miracle
Suite—Humperdinck; Cherubim Song—Bortniansky; See, the Conquering Hero Comes—Handel; and several of those rousing marches that are the features of the
military band. The Director is Mr. James Christian Pfohl, head of the music department.

The Glee Club, under the direction of E. F. Berg, will sing the following: Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring—Bach; The
Creation—Richter; Blow, Trumpets, Blow—James; and Dark Eyes. The members of the two organizations have worked hard and faithfully all year;
a coming series of appearances will show the fruit of their work. The groups are taking a concert tour early
in April. Later, the Band is to give radio performances and the Glee Club will sing in the Faure Requiem
and the Mikado of Gilbert and Sullivan.

Two excellent artists, the duo-pianists Dorothy Bechtel and Edith Steinmetz, were heard in concert here on February 26. Highlights of
the well-received program were the Schumann Andante and Variations, an entertaining suite by Arensky, and the Blue Danube Waltzes. The
performance was equal in quality to those of the concert series of past years and made up in part for
the lack of such a series.

Last Sunday, March 11, the Queens-Davidson Symphony made its debut on the campus. Miss Jane Crecraft of the Queens’ faculty
was 'cello soloist in Elegie by Faure. The orchestra, directed by Mr. Thomas Hibbard of Queens and Mr. Pfohl, also
played the overture Die Entfuehrung aus dem Serail by Mozart, an Orchestral Quartet by Stamitz, and Schubert’s melodic 5th Symphony,
the number most enjoyed by the large audience.

For the concerts of the orchestra and band, the auditorium of Shearer Hall has been cleaned and made presentable. The
smaller hall is well-suited to the decreased audiences of wartime Davidson, and its acoustic quality makes it excellent for the
enjoyment of music.

SUMMER SCHEDULE
First Semester June 11
Second Semester July 23
Lab Courses June 5

Annual Sophomore Is Chosen Head
Quips and Cranks Goes To Press; Beauties Chosen

At a recent meeting of the Publications Board, Tom Smith of Greer, S.C. was appointed co-editor of the Quips and
Cranks for the remainder of the school year. Smith is a sophomore, and a member of the Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity, the Eumenean Literary Society, and is drum major of the ROTC band. Last year, he was a member
of the Spanish club, and served on the DAVIDSONIAN staff. For several weeks, Smith has been carrying on the work
of the annual in the absence of Lee Drake, the other co-editor and a first-semester graduate. The editor has announced
that all the material for the annual is in and that it has gone to press. Due to a shortage
of help, the printer cannot set a definite date for the release of the annual, but a tentative date of
May 15th has been announced. The annual will consist of 124 pages and will contain many interesting features and phases
of college life. The beauty section was selected by Mr. Jackson and was chosen from a group of pictures presented
by the student body for consideration. The girls chosen for the beauty section will not be announced until the release
of the annual.

Pan-Hell Plans Spring Frolics
Dances Will Be Held April 27-28; Peddicord Expected To Play Again

Plans are underway for the second set of dances to be held in the college gym this semester: Spring Frolics,
which are to be held on the weekend of April 27th and 28th. The Pan-Hellenic Council is making arrangements for
the same type of weekend as was witnessed at Mid-Winters: A record dance on Friday night, and a formal orchestra
dance on Saturday. The council is attempting to secure the services of John Peddicord and his orchestra for the Saturday
night dance. Using the Spring theme, the gym will be attractively decorated in pastel shades, and fixtures befitting the season.
It is not known as yet whether or not the faculty rules governing this dance will remain the same as
they were for the last dance, but they will be announced as soon as they are released. The arrangements for
keeping dates in Duke Dormitory will probably remain as they were at Mid-Winters. Later plans will be announced as they
are made official.

Dr. Hubert Poteat SPEAKER
Speaks Here Twice
Chapel Talk On Intellectual Maturity

On last Friday, Davidson was host to Dr. Hubert McNeil Poteat, Professor of Latin at Wake Forest College, and prominent
Southern educator. Dr. Poteat delivered two lectures during his stay: one at chapel, and one at the Guest House lounge
Friday night. For the chapel address, Dr. Poteat used as his subject: “Intellectual Maturity.” After commenting upon the difficulties involved
in the attainment of intellectual maturity due to the natural sloth and complacency inherent in the human being as well
as to the lowered standards of our elementary schools, he outlined the following essential ingredients to the attainment of mental
stability and maturity: (1) The development of the habit of feeding the mind on good things. “That,” he said, “encompasses
our cultural attainment.” (2) Habit of doing one'sown thinking and thus establishing a position of mental independence. (3) Achievement of
tolerance through cultivation of the habit of deferring judgments until the evidence is all in. (4) The habit of ministry,
whose ultimate objective and motive is altruism. “Good deeds,” said the speaker, “are more vital to life than creeds and
the intricacies of labored theologies.”

At the Friday night lecture, Dr. Poteat used as his subject: “The Relationship of Christianity to the Roman Government.” Beginning
with the observation that these relationships had been studied only from the Christian viewpoint, he continued by giving the reasons
for the persecution of the Christians. They are as follows: (1) They were confused with the Jews. (2) They preached
the doctrine of the brotherhood of the slave. (3) They were pacifists. (4) They were victims of a vicious circle.
In being looked at as revolutionists, they were compelled to meet in secret, which made them break the law of
secret meetings. (5) They were fiercely intolerant. Dr. Poteat went on to say that the only interest which the Romans
had in the Christians was to see whether or not they were breaking the Roman law. They did not care
what the (Continued on Page 3)

TOM SMITH
G. GRIER DAVIS

Dr. P. H. Gwynn Leads Mission
Former Professor Speaks Twice at Miami

Dr. Price H. Gwynn, Jr. of Davidson recently returned from Miami, Florida, where he has taken a leading part in
the “Mission To Christian Teachers in the Greater Miami Area” held in the White Temple Methodist Church.

Dr. Gwynn was the leading speaker to the combined mission groups. He spoke on two occasions on the general subject
of “Personal Faith and Evangelism in the Teaching Ministry.” He was assisted by Rev. LeRoy Burney of Augusta, Ga. Mr.
Burney, a Davidson College graduate, was formerly pastor of the Sugar Creek Presbyterian Church near Charlotte. Dr. Gwynn presided over
the adult groups in the daily seminars.

Also Professor of Education and Director of Student Guidance at Davidson College for fourteen years, Dr. Gwynn resigned last year
to accept the position of Director of Christian Education in the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina. He is also chairman
of the committee on week-day Religious Education of the North Carolina Council of Churches and has for many years been
identified as a leading advisor in the field of juvenile guidance and control.

EXTRA CUTS FOR SPRING

Extra cuts have been granted according to the following regulation announced by Dean Baily this week. These cuts are being
given because of the fact that there will be no Spring holidays this year. Each member of the student body
shall be permitted one additional absence from Vespers, one from Chapel, one from Physical Training, and one each from as
many as three academic courses. These special absences must be taken on some weekend, and they may not be taken
before April 5, 1945. Each student who wishes to use these special absences must make application for them in advance
at the Office of the Dean of Students.

Speaker Series Held April 10-12
Outstanding Asheville Pastor Preached Series Here in 1939
Received Doctor's Degree From Davidson

Dr. Calvin Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Asheville, will be the speaker at the Y.M.C.A Spring Services
which will be held April 10-12, it was announced today. He is a graduate of Davidson, class of 1927, and
has acquired an excellent reputation all over the South. He conducted Spring Services here in 1939.

Dr. Davis is a native of Arkansas, and after graduating at Davidson he attended Union Theological Seminary where he received
the degrees of Bachelor of Theology and Master of Theology. He also attended Princeton Theological Seminary for one year, and
worked in the mission fields of Arkansas for a year. Davidson conferred the degree of Doctor of Divinity upon him
in 1943. While at Davidson he was a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, the debating team, and the wrestling team.
He also held membership in Alpha Phi Epsilon and the International Relations Club.

After graduating at Union, Dr. Davis was assistant pastor of Grace Covenant Church in Richmond for two years before becoming
pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Virginia. He remained there for five years, and in 1938 was called
to the largest Presbyterian church in the Asheville Presbytery. When he received his D.D. degree here in 1943, Dr. Davis
was cited as “an assiduous student, a wise counselor of youth, an inspiring leader of men, the pastor of a
great church, and a distinguished preacher.”

Girls Schedule Third Q-D Day
Queens To Be Host To Davidson On March 24

Queens College will play host to Davidson students on March 24th, with a Queens-Davidson Day to be held on Queen’s
campus. About forty Davidson students have given their names to Andy Owens, in charge of arrangements at Davidson, as students
who wish to attend. It has been announced by a Queens committee that the day will include a picnic supper,
a play, and a dance. The sorority houses at Queens will be open to the members and their dates as
the fraternity houses at Davidson are open on the Queens-Davidson days that are held here.

This affair is being looked forward to with great interest, as there are some Davidson students who have not visited
Queens campus. Davidson was host to Queens on February 24th, with a dance held in the gym that proved to
be a great success. Judging from this success, it is hoped that all Davidson students will attend this Q-D day.
