Well, you chickens, the time has rolled around again for me to write a column. None of you have taken me up on that dare to write this space for me, so I guess it’s up to me to do it again. With football practice, intramurals, and all the baseball news there is in the world, I ought to be able to fill this space. Coach Shepard has whipped up what he calls a football team and if he calls it that, I guess that’s what it is. I am not a connoisseur of football teams, but I have noticed some resemblance to a football team out there on Richardson Field every day about 4:30. Coach is working them pretty hard and the results are beginning to show up. The squad is improving daily and one cannot help but notice the improvement. Without a doubt, Dick Richards will leave a huge hole in the backfield when he goes. In fact, that last sentence should have been written in the past tense, because he will be gone when this comes out. But since this is Sunday night, August 12, he doesn’t leave until tomorrow. The “erroneous” flash that the Japs had thrown in the towel just came over the radio that is blaring in Lyday’s room. This might have some foundation and thus allow a couple of Dave Spencers or Claude Hackneys to enroll for next fall. They would certainly be welcomed to strengthen our team. It seems to be all right for the first eleven, but after that we are sadly lacking.

By JOE STUKES

But seriously, fellows, our team will be a good one, the best possible with the necessarily curtailed manpower situation. All the non-players on the campus should place confidence in the Coach’s ability and back the team to the limit. This is still Sunday night so I have no finals on the softball tournament. Right now the standings are thus:

TEAM            Won  Lost  Pct.  Games Behind
Sots                4      2     .667       —
Betas              4      2     .667       —
Thetas            3      3     .500       1
Independents  3      3     .500       1
Pi Kapp-Pikas  1      5     .167       3

The two second place teams, The Thetas and the Independents, have been recently hard-hit. The Independents lost their manager and star player, Richards, who moved in from first to take over the pitching chores. He proved to be one of the most effective pitchers in the league. Since the last issue, the Independents also lost approximately half their team to the Sots. But that is old news and everyone knows about that (as if they didn’t know all the other stuff that is printed in this gazette). The Thetas lost Bob Brooks who played a steady, consistent, and praiseworthy game at second all last term. A reoccurrence of a stomach ailment (ulcers, I think) has forced him to drop out of school until fall. Word seems to have gotten around that this was not the reason, but I assure you that this is the real reason. Such a thing should never have been started, so let’s do our bit to stop it.

Let me here make a suggestion. I hope that this one does not meet the unfortunate end that most of my suggestions meet. It seems to me that with such a close race going on, the winners will not stand a ghost of a chance against a picked “All-Star” team. So I would suggest to Coach that the winner and the fifth place team be combined into one to meet the “All-Stars.”

The Legion baseball season is rapidly drawing to an expected exciting close. Shelby and Woodruff (N.C. and S.C.) will play off in Sumter, S.C. (20 miles north of Manning) sometime this week. The winner plays one more series and then, if everything goes right, comes to Charlotte for the finals. These finals will begin on August 23, so I guess I'll have VERY EXCITING Wildcat Sports.

Thursday, August 23, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

CATS PRACTICE

BETAS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
On July 26 the Betas defeated the Pi Kapps-Pikas by a score of 12-6. Johnson pitched for the Betas while Lasley caught; and Blain pitched for the Pi Kapps-Pikas while Walker caught.

INDEPENDENTS-THETAS
On July 27 the Independents defeated the Thetas by a score of 10-4. Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the winners; Blain pitched and Walker caught for the losers.

BETAS-INDEPENDENTS
On July 31 the Betas trounced the Independents.4-2, Richard pitched and Miller caught for the winners; and Stukes pitched and Alexander caught for the losers.

SOTS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
On July 30, the Pi Kapp-Pika team was defeated by the Sots by a score of 4-2. Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the Sots; Richards pitched and Miller caught for the losers.

SOTS-THETAS
On August 1, the Sots defeated the Thetas 4-2. Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the Sots; Stukes pitched and Alexander caught for the Thetas.

BETAS-SOTS
On August 2, the Betas downed the Sots 12-5. Johnson pitched and Lasley caught for the winners; Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the losers.

There are four teams in the finals. And so we come to the three-oh mark for this time. Last time I used that saying, I had to personally explain it to at least one-half of the student body. The other half’s curiosity can now be satisfied. At the end of every article, the writer places the sign, -30-, why I do not know. But in order to be like everyone else, I sign this for the last time this summer, -30-.

INDEPENDENTS
On August 3, the Independents defeated the Thetas 12-3. Johnson pitched and Lasley caught for the winners; Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the losers.

Kittens Begin Football Practice
Football Outlook Pleases Shepard
Will Play Freshman Schedule With Highland And Prep Schools

Davidson’s first summer football practice in the history of the college has already produced excellent results. Coach Norman Shepard says that several “good prospects” have been proven in practice thus far. He says that with the expected uptrend in the population of the student body for the coming fall, Davidson College will be able to put out on the field a team of which it may justifiably be proud. Coach Shepard has stated that there are five or six men out on the field that resemble real pre-war ballplayers, and he expresses himself as confident to put out an eleven that will be equal to a full-strength freshman team. At the present time, it is the plan for the Kittens to play only a freshman schedule. By that, it is meant that high schools and prep schools will be on our list come next October. The student body as a whole is very definitely pleased to see a Davidson football team be put out, even though it is only a freshman aggregation. But we are all sure that the ole Davidson spirit is still around on the campus, and will always be as far as that matters. The present student body cannot be taken as any exception, and all of those fellows on the team can certainly rest assured that they will receive 100 percent backing from all of the non-ballplayers, especially freshmen. And so we want to see all of you at that first home game yelling your lungs out with all your might for our fine team. Let’s go, Davidson!

THETAS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
On August 3, the Thetas defeated the Pi Kapps-Pikas 6-3. Stukes pitched and Alexander caught for the winners; Walker pitched and Youngue caught for the Pi Kapps.

INDEPENDENTS-SOTS
On August 6, the Independents downed the Sots by a score of 14-6. Richards pitched and Miller caught for the winners; Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the losers.

BETAS-THETAS
On August 8, the Thetas edged out the Betas in a hard-fought game by the score of 9-8. Johnson pitched and Lasley caught for the Betas; Stukes pitched and Alexander caught for the Thetas.

PI KAPPS-PIKAS-BETAS
On August 8, the Pi Kapps-Pikas won a surprise upset game, defeating the Betas by a score of 17-7. Tyler pitched and Walker caught for the winners; Johnson pitched and Lasley caught for the losers.

THETAS-INDEPENDENTS
On August 8, the Thetas edged out the Independents 14-13. Stukes pitched and Golden caught for the first part of the game for the winners; later Golden pitched and Schmidt caught for the Thetas. Johnson pitched and Miller caught for the losers.

SOTS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
On August 9, the Sots easily defeated the Pi Kapps 14-1. Johnson pitched and Golden caught for the Sots; Tyler and Blain pitched and Walker caught for the losers.

On Friday, August 17, the All-Stars will play the league champions.