Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Tuesday, December 4, 1945

The Davidsonian

Founded by the Class of 1915

Published twice a month during the academic year “For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor - Hil Masters
Assistant Editor - Harry McLean
Assistant Editor - Joe Stukes
Feature Editor - Frank Barr, Jr.
Managing Editor - Lonnie Turner
Managing Editor - Jimmy Nisbet
Sports Editor - Sterling Edwards
Managing Sports Editor - Dave Gambrell
Sports Editor - Bill Gambles
Staff Photographer - Dave Eafr

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager - Bob Gambrell
Circulation Manager - Bob Brooks

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Our Gift Fund.....
This week many students will be criticizing the cause to which Davidson's traditional Gift Fund is to be lent this
year. But before any of you condemn it, let me say these few words to you. Davidson, for about ten
years, has given freely each Christmas season to some worthy cause. They have given to war relief; they have bought
Bibles and presented them to Prisoners of War in Germany; they have contributed to a student room in the new
church.

Yes, Davidson has done some mighty fine services with these Christmas Gift Funds. The Y.M.C.A. Cabinet this year has endeavored
to place before you, the students, faculty, and townspeople of Davidson another worthy cause. This cause is an excellent one.
To aid fellow-Christians in the most remote places of the world appeals as one of the finest, if not the
finest, thoughts that could enter one’s mind. And this thought, this dream, is being placed before us and all we
have to do is sign our name to a couple of pledge cards and go on our merry way. Then,
after the holidays, when our money is stacked up high again, we can give a part of it for some
less fortunate Christian. For some it will be easy, for others it will not. But to each and all students,
faculty, townsfolk, Christians everywhere, I urge you to give and give freely of what you have. Thanks will not be
yours, only peace with God and yourself.

Give Us Bread......
There has been much talk about a school dining room, but not much has been said of the advantages of
it. The school has a dining room in the basement of Chambers which could easily hold the student body if
arrangements could be made for more chairs and tables. The present system of having boarding houses is found by the
student to be expensive. Now when one goes off for the weekend he still pays for his meals at the
boarding house even though he isn’t there. Also, if he wishes to miss breakfast he still has to pay for
it. Whereas in the dining room he would only pay for the meals which he actually ate.

At some boarding houses there are complaints about the condition of the food, in others the help, and in still
others the surroundings. All of these problems could be solved with one main dining room. The preparation of the food
could be supervised by an accredited dietitian, the help could be handled easily by the school, and the location is
right in the center of the campus, and when decorated attractively it would be a great asset to the school.
In the wintertime one has to rush through the cold to the boarding house, in some cases a great distance,
gulp down a breakfast and then rush back again for the first period class. But how does this sound? A
short walk over to Chambers, a good breakfast leisurely eaten, and then, since you are already in Chambers, you can
go to your class quite comfortably. It would be this way all around the clock. This might also solve any
bickering about fraternity men eating off by themselves. In the dining hall the student body would all be together. There
would be no distinction, and it would create a sense of unity among the students. This project would have to
be handled correctly, though, for if it isn’t it will backfire and be worse than the present system.

Concert Series Petition...
Davidson College has for a long time needed to include in its student activity fee a small sum of money
to be set aside for the purpose of promoting a better concert series for the student body and interested friends
living near the college. But only after the students’ affirmative voice concerning this could it be brought about. The time
has now arrived when we can say that we want to have a better concert series, and that each student
will do his part in providing for this. Probably you have already read the petition that Phi Mu Alpha is
sponsoring, and if you have...

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
The N. C. Theta chapter was enlarged this past week by the formal initiation of Bob Millar, David Gambrell, and
Jim Pursifull. The initiation was enriched by the presence of Mr. Harry Griswell, Province Archon, Mr. E. F. Lucus and
Mr. M. S. Hill of the Greensboro Alumni Chapter. Cupid added Miller to the list of the “Broken-Heart Club”. This
puts him in with...Strickland, R. Gambrell, and Dickey, who have long been members in good standing. Too bad, Millar! Maybe
you should consult J. Mac or Richert. They seem to be doing all right. Which tonight, J. Mac—Charlotte or New
York? R. Strickland spent this weekend in Atlanta. I wonder if Jeanetta W. was home from college or if he
really went to see the Ga.—Ga. Tech. game. If J. Richert had a better line maybe he wouldn't have to
go to Asheville so often. Bashful, Joe? Maybe we shouldn't talk though, for he does all right at Queens. The
S.A.E. fraternity would like to take this opportunity to thank the Kappa Sigs for lending them the famed record, “Lollypop.”
Yes, yes—very interesting.

KAPPA ALPHA
The three most handsome pledges had a most pleasant visit to Chapel Hill this last weekend. Cousin Howard Spilman is
going to ask Santa Claus for a new pair of knee pads. Wonder what happened to those? Crawford's one desire
is to change the stud to an A.B.C. store. Sam gave a girl at Sullens the word. Moan seems to
be changing his love life with the love life of the pledges.

PHI DELTA THETA
A new name has been added to the list of esteemed Phi Delt pledges. It is that of the honorable
Thomas Patterson. Bob Knight is searching desperately for a girl to date several times a week. She must have the
following specifications: long, blond hair, blue eyes which look like limpid pools of water, agreeable figure, and a good knowledge
of Chemistry. Phi Delt weekends—Todd at Duke; Potts to Salem; McLean and Edna; Henderson goes crazy; Willingham at Chapel Hill;
Iverson to Central’s own dear Sally; Waldrop goes scientific.

PI KAPP ALPHA
Who did Ed date in Wilkes? Hogan and Smoke got that good ole feeling after the D.C. game. Neal and
Markey enjoyed the dance at Sullins. More good-looking women. Where has Coble been dating lately? North Church Street probably. Married
life is wonderful, eh Joe?

BETA THETA PI
Visiting the chapter last week were Brothers Bill Ranson and Don Bryant. Don, as well as Brothers Lamar Williamson, Dick
McCloy, and Jack Goode, will be among the Davidsonians returning in January. Kirkpatrick and Cal Schmidt seem to have found
something dateable out Central Highway. The Duke-Carolina game was last Saturday's mecca for Rapp, Sherrill, Hank and Charlie Neisler, Lasley,
and Rogers. “Count” Lyday is finding it worth his while to snake on the Charlotte interests of his friends. What
a “friend.”

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
On Sunday, November 25, a feed was held at the Sig Ep house in honor of Col. and Mrs. C.
L. Steel of Davidson. Other guests were the Sig Ep faculty members and their wives. Col. Steel was a prisoner
of the Japs for forty months and has only recently returned to this country. Entertainment for the evening was furnished
by Col. Steel, who told of the last days of Bataan as well as life in a Japanese prison camp.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Last week Brother George Patrick, now with the AAF, was on the campus making plans for reentering Davidson next semester.
Brother Patrick and Brother Morrow were stationed about ten miles from each other in Italy last winter, but the Army
kept it a secret from both of them until last week. Pledge Brothers used the Woodbury Forest trip as an
excuse to spend a week at his home. One of the brothers arranged a typical blind date for Brother Campbell
the other night, a stick of gum with horn-rimmed spectacles that will never forget who dated her. The chapter enjoyed
a visit from Brother Rhea Preston, who was student body president in 1943, and who is now in the army
and attending Duke Med School.

PI KAPPA PHI
The Pi Kapps threw a big feed Sunday evening before Thanksgiving with everyone having a gala time. Bill Robertson and
Sam Woodward were visitors last week to the campus. Bill plans to re-enter Davidson this week. Manager Walker has been
working hard on his team and promises to put out a scrappy quintet. Plans for the annual Christmas party are
underway, and a good time is being planned for all.

KAPPA SIGMA
Scott and Boren visited Duke and Carolina last weekend, with gratifying results. They went in the various houses in order
to see what they looked like on the inside. They also brought back souvenirs because some Carolina KA is going
hatless now. Buck Troutman has just returned to us and he and Dunbar are now rooming together (look out 3rd
floor Georgia). Already they are stepping out and they find the people in Charlotte very friendly, giving them free rides
and so forth. I wonder why you never find Masters’ name in this filthy column; it is because I won’t
let myself put it in.
