Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Advertisements in this issue are compliments of The Davidsonian

Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1945 No. 9

DANCES TO BE THIS WEEK-END

Fisher President of Pan-Hellenic Court of Control

CONTROL FRESHMEN

Court of Control: Raynal, Rod MacDonald; back row: left to right, front row. Vernon McGehee, Judge Ed Golden, Bob Hollinger.

Y. M. C. A.

By MARK UNDERWOOD

There are two main divisions of the Sunday School department of the YMCA that I would like to discuss. The
first of these is the Student Sunday School class that is held in the lounge of the “Y” each Sunday
morning at 10:15. In the past, some very fine classes have been held there, and much benefit has been derived
from them. Last semester, we had a fair-sized class, capably led by Dr. Lewis Schenck. The lessons were both interesting
and informative. Dr. Schenck will, for several reasons, be unable to teach the class this semester. A plan by which
we will have a different teacher each Sunday has been suggested.

Another phase of this department is the supplying of teachers for the classes in the community surrounding the campus. This
gives you a chance to show your interest in the work of the church. Our largest undertaking is out at
the Mecklenburg Sanatorium. We need six or more boys to go out each Sunday (on the Y car) to lead
classes in the various wards. Several of these have been supplied, but we need still more.

I'd like to say a word about the qualifications for this work. You need not be a Presbyterian, for however
important that would seem to some, denomination means little here. You need not feel that you are the best speaker
in school; a little self-confidence and a little time spent in preparation for the lesson is all that it takes.
You need not be an upperclassman; some of our best teachers last semester were (Continued on Page 4)

Board Meets Here Feb. 21

College Trustees to Hold Regular Meeting

According to an announcement from Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, the regular
meeting of the Board has been set for 10:00 A.M. Wednesday, February 21, in the E. H. Davidson Room at
the college. The Executive Committee of the Trustees will meet at Davidson on Tuesday, February 20, at 2:00 P.M.

The Davidson College Trustees are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida and by the Alumni Association. The
Presbytery of Concord is entitled to elect eight, Mecklenburg five, Orange and Fayetteville four each, the other five Presbyteries in
North Carolina and the three Presbyteries in Florida two each, and the Alumni Association twelve, making a total of forty-nine.
All trustees are elected for a term of four years.

At present, the officers of the Trustees are: Rev. J. McDowell Richards, President; Mr. R. A. Dunn, President Emeritus; Mr.
J. A. Cannon, Vice-President; Mr. S. A. Robinson, Secretary; Mr. F. L. Jackson, Treasurer. The Executive Committee includes the following:
Rev. J. McDowell Richards, ex-officio, chairman; Mr. S. A. Robinson, ex-officio, secretary; Rev. A. A. McLain, Mr. C. R. Wilcox,
Dr. H. W. McKay, Rev. J. H. Grey, Jr., Mr. J. A. Cannon, Mr. W. P. Sprunt, Rev. R. S.
Arrowood, Mr. T. S. McPheeters, Mr. Harvey W. Moore, Dr. Oren Moore, Rev. W. H. Goodman, Rev. W. T. Thompson,
Mr. T. D. Dupuy, Mr. J. I. Smith, and Mr. D. R. LaFar, Jr.

Judge Chosen

Raynal Heads New Court of Five Members

At a recent meeting of the student council, H. M. Raynal was elected judge of the Court of Control, which
is to function during the second semester of the school year. Other members elected to the Court were: R. E.
Hollinger, of Gastonia; Ed Golden, of Jacksonville; Vernon McGehee, of Palacios, Texas; and Rod MacDonald, of Rock Hill.

Raynal is a sophomore from Statesville, N. C. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and
he also served as a member of the Court of Control the past semester. In addition to this, he is
serving as head cheerleader for Davidson this year.

The Court of Control is an established feature of life on the Davidson campus, and its primary duty, as stated
in the student government constitution under article nine, section one, is to hear, investigate, and to deal with the charges
of the upperclassmen against freshmen of improper conduct.Conduct, violating freshmen regulations, or breaking college traditions. It is the purpose of
the Court to do everything in its power to see that traditions and regulations are upheld to the letter and
to deal out justice to those guilty of violating the rules. It is to be remembered that the Court is
an official organization, backed by the student council, dean of students, executive committee, and the Y cabinet, and its decrees
are to be regarded as law. The first meeting of the new court was held last Friday morning and was
looked upon as an organization meeting. The Court will meet again next week, and at regular intervals from then on.
Judge Raynal has stated that the Court, insofar as possible, is going to deal promptly with guilty individuals, and not,
unless necessary, issue blanket sentences. He has also announced that freshmen will be required to wear red ribbons on their
right arm in a visible position at all times. Freshmen will also be (Continued on Page 4)

PAN-HELL HEAD
Council Treasurer To Succeed Love
P. Kappa Phi Representative Heads Fraternity Council

The Pan-Hellenic Council announced recently that Bruce Fisher has been elected president of the council, to succeed Jim Love, who
has left school to enter the service. L. G. Turner, representative of the Phi Kappa Alpha fraternity, was named to
take Fisher's place as treasurer of the organization. Fisher, who is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity,
is a senior pre-ministerial student from Clearwater, Florida. He has lately been initiated into Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, Omicron.
Serving as Freshman this year, he is also a member and advisor of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, a member of the
college Glee Club, a senior representative on the Student Council, and a member of the Board of Control. The Pan-Hellenic
Council is the governing body for the social fraternities on campus, six of which are now open.

Frats Pledge New Frosh
Short Rush Season for Five Fraternities

Five fraternities conducted a mid-semester rush season last week and pledged twenty-two of the incoming freshmen. The fraternities and their
pledges are as follows:

Betas: Bill Pollard, Farmville; Springer Hoskins, Harlan, Ky.; Joe McLaney, Charlotte; David Farr, Charlotte; Jimmie Pittman, Orlando.
Pikas: Dick Markey, Charlotte; Charles Galant, Charlotte; Parriss Stiles, Statesville; Howard Kivet, Concord.
Pi Kappa Phi: Wade Childs, Wadesboro; Witherspoon, Lexington; Al Blackwell, Hartville, S.C.; Jim Conway, Bryon.
Kappa Sig: Thacker Thrower, Charlotte; Morris Wright, Atlanta, Ga.; Barney Logan, Shelbyville, Ky.; Bill Rankin, Shelbyville, Ky.
SPE: Jim Reeves, Charlotte; J.L. Atchley, Asheville; Martin Pitts, Richmond, Va.; Frank Furman, Jacksonville, Fla.

Peddicord’s Band Plays Informal Record Dance Tonight, Pan-Hell Figure Saturday Night

Beginning tonight, the Pan-Hellenic Council is presenting the most important dance set of the school year: the traditional Midwinters dances.
There are to be two dances, one tonight, and one tomorrow night, both of which are to be held in
the college gymnasium. The informal dance tonight is to be for both boys and girls and will last from 9
o'clock until 1 o'clock. The individual price for this dance will be $1.25 and music will be provided by a
"juke box." The dance tomorrow night will be formal for everyone and will last from eight o'clock until twelve o'clock.
The price for this dance will be $3.50, and the price for a set ticket is $4.50. Tickets may be
secured from any Pan-Hellenic Council representative. Featured at the Saturday night dance will be the music of John Peddicord and
his orchestra, and a Pan-Hellenic figure followed by a no-break dance. Other no-breaks will be held during the evening. (Continued
on Page 4)

Robert E. Hollinger Is Chosen For Phi Beta Kappa Society
Has Highest Grades Recorded For Recent Years

Announcement was made today that Robert Hollinger has been selected for membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity.
Hollinger, who is a senior majoring in English, has an average of ninety-seven to date, with twenty-six A pluses and
nine A's. This is the highest record made by a Davidson man for some years. The Davidson chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa is the Gamma of North Carolina, and was established in 1923. Officers include Dean John C. Bailey, president;
Dean C. K. Brown, vice-president; Professor W. W. Wood, secretary-treasurer. Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest Greek letter society in
America, established at William and Mary College in 1776.
