Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, June 28, 1945

Members On Staff Begin Term’s Work
Three Issues To Be Printed This Summer

Members of the editorial and business staff of the Davidsonian have begun their summer work in helping to publish to
the students news and features of interest, which, it is hoped, will be of value to them. Some members of
the staff are as follows:

Editorial:
- Bruce Fisher, Clearwater and Montreat, Associate Editor
- Bill Whitaker, of St. Petersburg, Fla., Managing Editor
- Ed Golden, of Jacksonville, Fla., Feature Editor
- Harry McLean, of Plymouth, Managing Editor
- Bob Hollinger, of Gastonia, Managing Editor
- Philip Whittier, of Atlanta, Ga., Managing Editor
- Joe Stukes, of Manning, S. C., Sports Editor
- David Farro, of Charlotte, Staff Photographer

Business:
- Ward Lasley, of Burlington, Assistant Business Manager
- Bob Gambrell, of Atlanta, Ga., Advertising Manager
- Margie Vickers, of Charlotte, Assistant Advertising Manager
- Bob Smoak, of Wilkesboro, Circulation Manager

Interesting articles appearing in each issue should be noted and read with attention. Ed Golden’s column “Think On These Things”
is a very interesting and inspiring article concerning the religious scope about the campus. One’s time would never be wasted
reading such an article as that.

Falling back upon previous copies of the Davidsonian, the summer issues will carry a column by Buddy Wells, publicity agent
of the YMCA, concerning happenings in which the YMCA is involved. The work of the cabinet and the social life
of the student body for the summer will be stressed most.

Another article which many students seem to overlook, but which in no wise shouldn’t be missed, is the newly installed
music column by Bob Hollinger. The work of Phi Mu Alpha will be included here along with other interesting music
items. The “fifth” column will be of interest to everyone and will provide fun and frolic for all. It is
not the desire of the editorial staff to offend or hurt anyone in this article, and actions against such will
be taken.

Finally, let us not overlook the editorials. In a sense, the editorials are the most important articles in the paper,
for in them is expressed the feelings of the student body as a whole. So before you lay your paper
aside, turn to the editorials, read them, and see if you don’t gain something from them.

The majority of the news which you read on the front page is made possible by the help of the
alumni office. Permit us to take this opportunity here to express our thanks to Mr. John Payne for his most
helpful work in furnishing many of the articles you read throughout the Davidsonian. Without the help of Mr. Payne, the
news you would see in the Davidsonian would be sadly reduced. And so, to Mr. Payne, we express our deepest
gratitude.

The business staff of the paper must not be overlooked. It is the work of the business staff to help
make the Davidsonian possible by securing the advertisements for the paper, which you see adorning the back page. It is
sincerely hoped by the members of the editorial and business staff that the summer issues of the Davidsonian will be
the best war issues ever sent to press, and only by the cooperation of the members of the editorial and
business staff and the students of Davidson College can this be made possible.

WESTBROOK INSURANCE AGENCY
— Fire — Auto and Casualty Insurance —
Non-assessable Mutuals
Capital Stock Companies
Telephone 3-4158
109 West Third St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Student Store
COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN PYRAMID

Dunbar LIFE INSURANCE Co.
The place to get that between class or off hour snack

APS Studios
Portraits
Kale-Lawing Co.
Home Office
See Us For—
Office and School Supplies
Charlotte, N.C.
230 N. Tryon St.
115 Johnson Bldg.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BIGGERS BROTHERS (Incorporated)
— WHOLESALE MERCHANTS —
Fruits, Produce, Butter, and Eggs
Charlotte, N. C.

Peanut Products, Potato Chips andCandies Sheet Music
ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 3-8855

TOM FRANKLIN
Official Photographer, The Charlotte News
210 WEST FOURTH STREET
Charlotte, N. C.

Support The “Mighty 7th”
Buy An E Bond

“Think On These Things”
By Ed Golden

During the last semester of last year, a column titled “Think On These Things” was written for the specific purpose
of trying to sum up the religious activities on our campus. This summer, as last spring, the column will continue
to be written for that purpose. So, when you read this column, think seriously and sincerely on these things.

Last Sunday evening at our first vesper service, the new students were introduced to the Davidson College Pastor, Dr. Carl
R. Pritchett. I would like to repeat a remark made in Chapel by Jim Robinson that if a student goes
through Davidson without having a heart-to-heart talk with Dr. Pritchett, he will certainly have missed a wonderful experience. So, if
any of the new students have any problems that they would like to talk over with someone, I want to
strongly advise that you go talk them over with Dr. Pritchett.

To continue with Dr. Pritchett’s vesper sermon, he spoke of the fact that many students come to college with an
inherited faith, and when we face our problems, we are overcome with awe by the sheer lack of knowledge concerning
our religious beliefs. Consequently, we should try to analyze our religious beliefs cordially. The greatest thing in life is being
a Christian; our professions, our avocations are incidental compared to being a Christian. If it is the greatest single thing
in our lives, should we pay less attention to it than to our other interests?

When a person comes to college, he begins to stand upon his own feet for a change and begins to
make his own decisions and investments. Therefore, it is extremely important that we begin upon the right foot and put
our best foot forward. The only satisfactory way to do this is to invade the Kingdom of God, captivate it
for our own lives, and live as Christ would have us live. We must, first of all as Christians, then
as men of Davidson, learn to live as those who passed through these portals and have made Davidson what it
is today. We must not let them down!

Last Thursday, the Y.M.C.A. had its presentation in Chapel of its council and their respective work and aims. By now,
many of you have come to realize that the dominant force on the campus is the “Y”. It has a
serious and large responsibility in trying to make the “Y” the influence it must and should have on the campus.
The work of the “Y” is greater than any of us can imagine. It reaches out into fields many of
us are not familiar with, but this work cannot go on without your help.

Many Sunday School teachers are needed to help in the work of cheering and bringing spiritual encouragement to the sick
at the Mecklenburg Sanatorium. Many of us have never taught Sunday School, but let that not act as a hindrance.
We can overcome such insignificant alibis by taking a class and seeing how the people respond to the faith and
attention the teacher shows. Also, many fellows are needed to help in the much-needed scout work. At one time, the
work was continuing nicely, but the exodus of many of the upperclassmen left a large hiatus in the scout as
well as in the other work of the “Y” and College. Many fellows are needed who have a little initiative
and who will never cease till the work is completed and done well. Won't you help by giving what little
time and encouragement you can to this much-needed work? Always take advantage to do something to help others and the
College whenever you can, and this is one time there is so much to do and so little to help.
Think on These Things.
