Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, March 17, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

J. B. BLAIN
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bill Masters

Associate Editor
DRUG MMIShE?

Assistant Editor
ASC ROMS

Feature Editor
MISCeWIRCUNIOL

Sports Editor
URUNICOH

Managing Editor
MCIOWINStCAU

Managing Editor
MRID SMC

Managing Editor
Geree: GUNN

Managing Editor
BUS OW

Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Ellis White
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Jack Lazenby
Newt Spencer

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Peace...
Davidson students have been unusually fortunate in the last two weeks in hearing two of the South’s finest educational leaders deliver inspiring addresses on the campus. Dr. Hubert Poteat, of Wake Forest, spoke twice while he was here, and President Cunningham preached an outstanding sermon at Vespers on “Attitudes Toward Peace.”

As Dr. Poteat’s lectures are discussed elsewhere in this issue, we wish to say only that every student who heard him expressed great pleasure, and that every man, young or old, should certainly profit by his advice.

Dr. Cunningham is especially fitted for the subject upon which he spoke at Vespers. He was a member of the recent Cleveland conference in which discussion of the plans for peace and the attitudes essential in its establishment was the theme. He has spoken before on the subject, but this was the first opportunity the students have had to hear their president express his views. It was a gratifying experience, and his remarks have occasioned much comment and discussion among the students.

One student has suggested that it would be profitable and helpful if the students who are interested would form a study group, similar to the International Relations Club, to formulate definite views concerning the peace. The intelligent aid of faculty members who are interested and experienced might be secured, and much enlightenment might ensue. Such a suggestion, coming from the student body, is certainly worthy of consideration.

To a large extent, the attitude of Davidson men is disappointing in issues of such great import. Dr. Cunningham spoke of the live interest about the peace that women of W.C.U.N.C. and Bennett College showed. No such interest is in evidence on this campus. Bull-sessions are on the lowest possible intellectual scale, and treat of issues that are dead now, or that are puerile. When student thought is directed to the shaping of the future, no independent thinking is shown. Too often we pass on unaltered the prejudices of an extinct era. Of course, it is human nature to feel repelled by people that have habits and backgrounds differing from ours. Certainly, one dislikes the Jews, the Yankees; one wants not too much to do with the Negro. This is in the nature of the beast, but are we beasts? Now if ever in history opportunity is offered us to cast off the hide of the ape, behavioristically speaking, and assume the mantle of the Christ-like. Sectionalism must be laid on the shelf with the other dead dodoes; nationalism must increasingly become a thing of the past; prejudice must be ruthlessly cut out of our hearts. All this requires bitter labor, which must be consummated if this nation is to keep the moral leadership of the world which it has so self-righteously assumed. And we, the men of Davidson, elected to leadership by fortune and ability, must start doing our part now to guide this great people. The goal is a new thing to some; the followers of Jesus have always seen it. Are the men of this Christian college in that group?

Men that are soon to go in the service believe that a willingness to die for America is enough for them. But is it? The American serviceman is the least politically conscious of all the fighters for democracy. He wants now only to get home, and certainly this is natural enough. But when he does get home he will feel his service gives him the right to a say in national affairs. If someone—you, perhaps—does not help the other men to do a little thinking, G.I. Joe will return with a purely materialistic and narrow view, and kick us into the Slough of Isolationism.

Idealistic? Visionary? A non-Christian attitude will hand us guilt for chaos and World War III.

Sports...
Sports this year have been on an unusually high level, and as Spring rolls around we would like to see Davidson push its war-time athletic program to the top. With either baseball or track, or both, coming into season we can really do it. There seem to be two points which should be mentioned as contributing factors.

In the first place, the students must support Spring sports. There are many men in school who may not have been able to play football, but some of them can surely run! And baseball is one game we have all played for years, so let’s go, Wildcats!

Coach Shepard has said that it is not certain whether we will play a college schedule. If student interest and participation is great enough, we will have a much better chance of winning over other college teams. As the second point in putting Spring sports on a high level, we urge the students and the Athletic Department to try to arrange a college schedule this year.

The intramural department deserves congratulations upon its very successful Physical Education basketball tournament. These afternoon games aroused great interest on the campus, and spectators and players alike had a lot of fun. Some mighty good basketball was played by the “amateurs,” too. Pete Whittle’s boys really did themselves proud in competition with Coach Shepard’s classes.

Messin’ Around
About every five minutes you can hear a noise that closely resembles the sound of a crowbar pulling a nail.from its cherished home since World War I. This method of work goes on each day, except Sunday, from nine 'til five. There could be several reasons for this slow process of dismantling North and South. It could be that the workmen are on an hourly basis; if so, they are really making a killing. There is the thought that there are some persons who cherish the sight of these heirlooms of departed glory. It is quite true that these two dorms have provided a place for many a distinguished Davidson alumni to hang his hat and shave—I mean slave over his studies. Great Davidson athletes and even Phi Beta Kappas have roomed in these dorms. Yes, they thought much of North and South, but we think it is a grand sight to see them being dismantled. Many persons in Davidson are reaping a harvest from the tearing down of these dorms. Several students have secured bookcases, books, and even Jewish prayer books from the relics of the barracks. One day, two students were seen carrying a huge maple leaf about four feet in diameter from South Dorm. It was quite a handsome maple leaf. It has been rumored that a certain professor has put in his bid for the slats from these dorms for kindling. This seems quite impossible, for they are dropping nails into buckets at the rate of one every five minutes and then locking the pails with padlocks until the next nail has been extracted. Another rumor has been spread that these nails and slats will be used in the structure of the new gym. Well, it would be a sentimental factor to put these materials into our new gym, but would it be profitable? So, let's give these old nails and slats to someone who can put them to better use. Incidentally, the maple leaf that was mentioned in the preceding paragraph was one made of fiberboard, but—it was pretty.

The following is borrowed from R. M. W. C. in Virginia:
Woman—She's an angel in truth,
A demon in fiction,
Woman—She's the greatest of
Contradiction.
She's afraid of a cockroach,
She'll scream at a mouse,
But she'll tackle a husband
As big as a house.
She'll take him for better,
She'll take him for worse,
She'll split his head open
And then be his nurse,
And when he is well
And can get out of bed—
She'll pick up a teapot
To throw at his head.
She's faithful, deceitful,
Keen-sighted and blind;
She's crazy, she's simple,
She's cruel, and she's kind.
She'll lift a man up,
She'll cast a man down,
She'll make him her hero,
Her ruler, her clown.
You fancy she's this,
And find she's that;
For she'll play like a kitten
And fight like a cat.
In the morning she will,
In the evening she won’t,
And you're always expecting,
She will, but she don’t.

All In Respect To You.
By GUESS WHO

In respect to the Court of Control, I admit that it is getting better, but they should have more organization. I suggest having a group of set penalties for certain offenses. After this is done, post them on the bulletin board and have them read during chapel. As it is now, the freshmen are taking the Court as a joke. This should not happen to such an institution on the Davidson campus.

By the way, I seem to have “misplaced” a brand new yo-yo string that I had just bought. If anybody has it, he better start packing right now, 'cause I don’t mess around with boys like that.

In respect to noise! Those boys over in Rumple are making too much noise lately. They keep us awake all night long with their capers. I even hear that they had such awful things as water fights, but they had to quit that sport because one of them broke his eye-dropper. Nevertheless, I shall have to report them if they keep that up.

In respect to the “judge.” Why is it that the “judge” likes Mooresville so well? I know, do you?

In respect to a letter that I happened to be reading the other day, I assure you that it wasn’t mine but belonged to a Kappa Sig (wouldn't you know it). There was one phrase in it that I especially remember: it went, “I meant it when I kissed you.” That is all well and good, but when the receiver of the letter is a deceiver, that’s bad. I am told that he has them in Queens too. Guess who?

Why is it that so many students are interested in psychology? One in particular seems to be learning very quickly. He is observing many subjects, among which is a girl. It seems to be almost magical to him, I mean the way in which he centers her attention. All he says is, “Hocus Pocus,” and there she is.

Why is it that some people are so forgetful of what they’re doing? I know of one boy who wishes that his date at Queens was not that way last Saturday night. I will tell no more, for he is standing behind me. No, Bruce!

In respect to dancing. Why is it that no dancing is allowed in fraternity houses? Every fraternity has records but only to listen to. In these war-times when it is so hard to get gas and dances are so hard to attend, it seems logical that the faculty should make some provision for it. What about it?

In respect to spring. There are many things that can be said about spring, but the most popular is the one about a “young man turning.” Yes, it is true about young men turning, but it is apparent that some turn more than they usually do. Take, for instance, a smooth-voiced student who is always ready with big words. On Queens-Davidson day, he had a date and he was even so risqué (risky) as to hold her hand. What about it, George?

In respect to ending this column, have you any ideas besides harming the author? I have to end it some way, and if I don’t, the editor will stick a “Buy War Bonds” ad in here. If this column gives you a headache because you don’t like what I say, do as the great Roman general did when he said, “Tul lalu Jalula,” which when spelled backwards doesn’t mean a thing.