Page Six: THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, August 23, 1945

Music News

TO LEAVE

"Think On These Things" By Frank West

We come to the end of another semester and in the hearts of many of us we realize that the
things we have done together can never be

Transylvania Music-School Camp has just terminated this summer's work. The camp is under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, head
of the Davidson College music department.

The work of the camp has gained national recognition in the two years it has been located in the mountains
of western North Carolina. The Washington papers called it the “Interlochen of the South.” The purpose of the camp is
to train the youth of the South in appreciation and proficiency in music. Courses for high school credit are taught
in music theory and appreciation. Band, orchestra, chorus, and ensemble make up the varied organizations at the camp.

Music, however, does not constitute the entire camp life. Under the able supervision of Coach Norman Shepard, also of Davidson
College, a well-rounded recreational program was planned. Softball, tennis, volleyball, badminton, boating, archery, riding, swimming, and hiking were available to
the students, both boys and girls.

Davidson College was well represented in the administrative end of the camp. Besides Mr. Pfohl and Coach Shepard were Mr.
and Mrs. Earl Berg of Davidson. Mr. Berg is a member of the faculty and had charge of the vocal
department of the camp. In addition to the fine chorus headed by Mr. Berg, an excellent performance of “H.M.S. Pinafore”
by Gilbert and Sullivan was presented. Others on the faculty were Mrs. Pfohl, who taught piano, and Clara Smith, who
was the art instructor. Counselors from Davidson were Frank Barr, Bryan Blackwell, Sam Linberger, Spencer Murray, and Frank West.

Students were well blessed with guest artists this summer, such as Edwin Gershifski, pianist; Mark Woller, violinist; Tom Pyle, baritone;
and Henry Fillmore. Fillmore, president of the American Bandmasters Association, was very popular with students in the camp. He has
written many fine marches and specializes in lighter band music. Because of Davidson’s representation at the camp, we would like
to congratulate Mr. Pfohl and his fine record and work with the youth of the South in music.

Prospects for a fine Artist Series next year are very good. The planning of the series has just begun and
some announcement will be made soon. Considering the war and small student body, Davidson College has been able to have
a good series. We hope that next year the student body will see fit to support such a group of
programs as is being planned now.

COMPLIMENTS

WHITE DRUG

*Pianos
*Organs
*Large Stock
*Records
*Sheet Music

ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY
Phone 3-8855

WESTBROOK INSURANCE AGENCY
Fire — Auto and Casualty Insurance
Non-Assessable Mutuals
Capital Stock Companies
TELEPHONE 3-4158
109 West Third Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

KENNETH OSBORNE

Osborne To Go To Univ. of Ark.
Will Be Head Of Fine Arts Department

Kenneth Osborne of the music department has announced that he has accepted a new position at the University of Arkansas.
Mr. Osborne, who was an assistant professor, will go to the University as dean of the fine arts department. This
is an administrative post for Mr. Osborne, having music and art under his supervision.

The University of Arkansas is located at Fayetteville, having a population of 8,000. One of the main projects of next
year for its Fine Arts department is the building of a half-million-dollar building in which it is to be housed.
This is a wonderful promotion for Mr. Osborne, and we feel sure he cando much to promote the purpose of
music in his new position. Here at Davidson, Mr. Osborne has been a popular member of the Davidson faculty. He
has been an instructor of theory and piano as well as being the college organist. In addition to this, he
has been the Y.M.C.A. secretary for the past two summers. Mr. Osborne is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity and of Phi Mu Alpha, music fraternity. He is a member of the American Guild of Organists and
is a Mason. In his new position, Mr. Osborne will probably teach advanced courses in music theory and history. He
will also instruct organ. We will miss Mr. Osborne very much next year, but we are glad to see him
advance in his field. He, along with Mrs. Osborne and their two children, will leave Davidson at the end of
the summer.

Louis G. Ratcliffe, ' Flowers
401 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS

AUGUST 20-21— “Diamond Horseshoe”
AUGUST 22-23— “Tonight and Every Night”
AUGUST 24-25— “I’ll Tell The World”
AUGUST 27-28— “China Sky”
AUGUST 29-30— “The Clock”
AUG. 31 - Sept 1— “Three’s A Family”
SEPTEMBER 3-4— “Murder He Says”
SEPTEMBER 5-6— “Tarzan and The Amazons”
SEPTEMBER 7-8— “It’s In The Bag”
SEPTEMBER 10-11— “Fighting Guardsman”
SEPTEMBER 12-13— “Brewster's Millions”
SEPTEMBER 14-15— “Patrick The Great”

COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

TOM FRANKLIN
Commercial Photographer
OFFICIAL PHOTOGRAPHER,
THE CHARLOTTE NEWS
210 West Fourth Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It is a pity that we have to depart, never to see each other again probably. Some will be going
into the service, others to seminary, and still others to medical school. Wherever our various paths may lead, let us
never forget the things that Davidson has tried to impress upon us. The high standards that one tries to attain
here should always be honored by the example we set. To those of us who return, we have a greater
responsibility, both freshmen and upperclassmen. The coming year will depend a lot on you, whether or not Davidson continues to
train its students in the traditions and customs that it has adhered to so long. Many new men will appear
on the campus in September who are not familiar with those traditions, and it is our duty and privilege to
set an example worthy of the men who have done so well in the past. Those new men will be
extremely alert to everything you say and do. Be careful what you say and be of service to them. They
will be indebted to you for whatever service you can render, and there is much that can be done in
the first week or so at college. Davidson has always tried to bring out the best in men, and from
lack of upperclassmen, the responsibility will lay heavily upon freshmen, who are wise and discreet. So think upon these things!

The Y.M.C.A. cabinet has initiated two very important things toward the spiritual development of our students. The first was the
beginning of morning devotionals which are held each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings at 7:45. Thus far the devotionals have
been well attended. The second was the distributing of daily devotionals to all students in the dormitories. It is the
prayer of this column that each student will try to use the devotionals each day. The cabinet has seriously thought
of the spiritual development of the students, and has initiated these for the students, and it is their earnest hope
that you take advantage of them. Think on these things!

CHARLOTTE, N.C.
