Well, folks, basketball has finally about died out for the year. Coach Shepard is now talking about baseball, but he doesn’t know yet whether there will be a team this year or not. If there is one, it will probably be called a freshman team, although anyone will be welcomed to play. Coach will call out the squad, look over the prospects, and then decide whether to arrange games. Left from last year’s team, which won only one game, are only two lettermen: Bob Brooks, the fast second sacker who will probably hold up the infield, and Phil Whitter, who will probably wind up in the pitcher’s box. These two boys will need plenty of help, so if you have ever played any ball before and are interested, you would do well to come out for the team.

By FRITZ KEESLER

Coach Pete Whittle also has a headache over the track situation. There was no team last year, and Pete will probably do about the same thing as Shepard, in that no meets will be arranged unless we can find some team to play this year. Let’s hope there are some track stars around this place who haven't been discovered yet. If there are any, Pete will soon find out when he calls out the squad. In years past, Davidson has had a pretty good track team, and let’s see if we can’t have one this year. In most places, there is a big interest in track, and Davidson is no exception.

The fraternity basketball tournament ended in a close and exciting climax. There was a three-way tie for first place: the Betas, S.P.E.’s, and Independents. In second place came the fighting Sigmas, leaving the Pika-Pi Kapp team in third place. There was good basketball playing at times, discovering some pretty good players fighting for their team. I have picked an All-Star fraternity team, which was a rather hard task. At center is Bill Gorden of the Betas; guards are Lineberger, S.P.E., and Strickland, Ind.; forwards are Coble, Pikas, and Shaw, Ind.

This spring there will be three fraternity sports. First, there will be a track meet, probably sometime in April. Then there will also be volleyball and softball. The inter-fraternity sports will prove interesting and will be a lot of fun for all who compete.

The P.T. basketball tournament, which has just recently ended, proved a success in every way. McAlister’s team came through to win undefeated and was an excellent team, although there were several others almost as good. It was a wonderful idea to have this tournament because it showed what all the boys could do. What about having a P.T. tournament for all the sports, Coach?

Peanut Products, Potato Chips, and Candies

N.C.’s Wildcat Sports

TRACK AND BASEBALL THIS SPRING

Saturday, March 17, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

THE 1945 WILDCATS

CATS WIN TWO AT HOME

Beat Charleston In Close Game

The Wildcats nosed out the little but fast team of Charleston in the game held in the Davidson College gym. The game was close from beginning to end, with the Charlestonians fighting to the very end. The few point margins which the Cats kept most of the game didn’t seem very big at times, but when the final whistle sounded, the Cats were two points ahead.

Davidson
G. F. TP
O'Briant 5 2 12
Wall 4 0 8
Berry 2 2 6
Scarborough 0 5 5
Etheridge 1 0 2
Neil 2 0 4
Blackburn 0 2 2
Total 14 11 39

Charleston
G. F. TP
Puckerhaber 3 0 6
Marsha 2 0 4
Condon 0 0 0
Jones 4 0 8
Nelson 6 2 14

(Continued from Page 1)

The Morris Field “Flyers” downed the Cats in two decisive victories, one game played at Davidson and...the other at Morris Field. Both of | Today “45 7 Y/ in the Roman world. (1) Because the games moved along in about ———_—______. Christianity was so much like Mith- He wane teen Hd Cate halt raism and Stoicism. (2) Because Christianity At caliiont every point the big and fast army players in own urman collided with deep-seated Roman the first half of both games but ideas. The Romans could not under- | were unable to keep up the pace in To End Season stand many of the Christian prin- | the second half. ciples such as Monotheism, faith, In the last game of the season, brotherly love, resurrection, and Davidson G. F. TP atonement, after-life, free will, and O'Briant 4 0 8 their practice of obtaining con- Keesler 0 0 0 verts. They believed that Christ- Wall 3 0 6 ianity was all right for slaves, but Simpson 0 0 0 not for masters. Berry 4 0 8 The lecturer concluded by men- | Etheridge 0 0 0 tioning some of the contributions | Scarborough 0 4 4 which Christians gave to the world | Sherrill 0 0 0 in which they were born. (1) They | Neil 0 2 2 created the idea of the inestimable | Blackburn 1 0 2 value of even the lowest of men. Total 12 6 30 (2) They introduced the love and universality of the new God. (3) Morris Field G. F. TP They introduced the Missionary | R’rchen 5 1 11 motive. (4) They showed the altru- | Johnson 3 0 6 ism of the life of Jesus. (5) They | Warrick 6 1 13 introduced Ethics for the first time. | Jeffords 2 5 9 (6) They brought the doctrines of | Regan 0 0 0 fellowship and humility, and (7) | Fry 2 0 4 they preached the idea of a new | Woods 2 0 4 Heaven, admission to which was | Donahoo 0 0 0 not gained by greatness, but by | Maintz 0 0 0 goodness. Total 20 7 47 PT Tourney The Physical Education basketball tournament was completed last week, with McAlister’s team, coached by Pete Whittle, coming out on top. The team played good ball in every game, and was undefeated. Playing a “round-robin” tournament, each of the five teams, one from each PT class, played four games. There was a three-way tie for second place, with Carper’s team in the cellar. Standings are listed below.

TEAM W L Per.
McAlister 4 0 1.000
Strickland 2 2 .500
Owens 2 2 .500
Alexander 2 2 .500
Carper 0 4 .000

415 S. Tryon Street
The Student Store
Charlotte, N. C.
COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN CAPS

Davidson Dining Room
The place to get that between class snack.