Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, December 15, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY ........ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associates: Bill Masters
Assistant Editor: Holly McDean
Assistant Editor: Joe Stukes
Feature Editor: Frank Barr, Jr.
Managing Editor: Lonnie Turner
Managing Editor: Jimmy Nisbet
Sports Editor: Sterling Edwards
Managing Sports Editor: Dave Gambrell
Asst. Sports Editor: Bill Gamble
Staff Photographer: Dave Farr

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager: Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager: Bob Gambrell
Circulation Manager: Bob Brooks

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Congratulations...
The annual Y.M.C.A. Christmas Gift Fund has been over-subscribed this year and congratulations go to Bill McLean and Joe Stukes,
chairman of the drive, for the magnificent job they have done this year in leading the drive to victory. Not
to be overlooked, however, is the cooperation extended by the members of the student body. Through their generosity, the fifteen
hundred dollar goal was met and over-subscribed by more than six hundred dollars.

Unique among college traditions, the “Y” Gift Fund was established at Davidson many years ago and serves to bring the
students and faculty together at each Christmas season in a cooperative effort for some worthy cause. The fund this year
will be used to rebuild the Presbyterian Mission at Suchowfu Province, China, which was totally destroyed by the Japanese. Dr.
Frank A. Brower Sr., a former member of the Suchowfu Mission and temporarily pastor of a church in Norton, Va.,
spoke in chapel last week on the strategic importance of this facility which is located midway between Shanghai and Peking
and served more than 2000 natives. Located at the intersection of two main trunk lines only one hundred and fifty
miles from the Yellow Sea, the Mission was bombed out early in the war and had to be abandoned.

Congratulations also go to the members of the student body who reside on the first floor of West dormitory, for
theirs was the largest amount contributed by any one floor in the college. A glance at the Gift Funds of
past years shows increasing interest and support by the students from year to year. In 1941 more than $1600.00 was
contributed for the purchase of Bibles for members of our armed forces, and for prisoners of war. In 1942 the
students gave $2000.00 for the Christian education of southern negroes. Year before last the $1400.00 donated went to medical relief
in China. Last year members of the small student body, radically reduced by the war, averaged $6.65 per student for
the furnishing of a Student Room in the proposed new campus church, to be a memorial to the 139 Davidson
alumni who have made the supreme sacrifice in World War II.

The new thermometer which registered 1500 degrees proved insufficient in meeting the heat wave which swept through here last week,
but no one cared about that, for they realized where their small funds contributed were going and what they would
mean to some poor folk on the other side of the world whom they will probably never see. Congratulations again,
Joe, for a job well done.

A Merry Christmas...
The Christmas season is here again, and in a few days we will be going home to spend the glorious
holidays with our parents and friends. Christmas has been in the air at Davidson for some time now. But only
until we began singing Christmas carols in chapel and until the beautiful rendition of the Messiah was performed here did
we really secure the sense of Christmas in our hearts and minds. We hope everyone heard the Messiah here last
Monday evening, and if you didn’t you have missed hearing some of the most beautiful music ever written. Handel certainly
must have been inspired when he set the beautiful Hallelujah Chorus into music writing, for that itself is enough to
arouse our inner heart to one of thanksgiving and joyfulness.

For the first time in four years the lights will go on again. American homes will be brightened by the
return of servicemen everywhere. It will be a happy one for them as they sit by the big open fire
on Christmas morning, resting comfortably, the lighted tree in all its glory in the corner of the room, the presents
underneath, but amidst all of this let us not forget those who will never return, those who have given their
lives, so that you and I might continue to enjoy the freedom and democracy which our forefathers fought and died
to give us.

During the Christmas season let us not forget to pause and recall just exactly what Christmas means and why we
celebrate it, for it means exactly nothing for those who fail to do that. It goes deeper than merely the
decorating of a cedar, or the exchanging of gifts, or the eating of a turkey dinner. Christmas means the birth
of our Lord and let’s not forget that December 25.

Very shortly a new year will be here and time for us to begin anew. Let us rededicate ourselves and
fulfill each and every resolution. This will be the last edition of the...Davidsonian before the new year, and so, speaking
for the editorial and business staff, we bid you a very Merry Christmas and a happy new year. And many
a Beta Theta Pi Beta “doings” before the holidays include the annual “Christmas Tree” party Friday night—strictly stag, and then
on Saturday night a dinner dance at the Guest House. Several alumni and old brothers are expected. Seven Betas attended
the Quarterback Club’s banquet at Charlotte last week. Rapp and Sherrill called their own signals after the banquet. With the
Shrine Bowl game in Charlotte, most of the big operating was done in the Queen City, although Gunn ventured as
far as Salem. 1st Lt. Morton Church of Charlotte visited the chapter on December 5th, and on the 9th Brother
Jim McCrary was on the campus. We understand that Joe McLean has been beating “Termite’s” time. We join all the
other Greeks and Davidsonians to wish one and all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
It seems as though a great majority of the Sig Eps went to the Shrine Bowl game in Charlotte. During
the first half, you could have seen many of them standing at the rear of the crowd. One said the
best show was behind the crowd. What happened to the Sig Ep pledges last weekend? Earl Myers, Meredith Davison, Albert
Correll, and Andy Gullick stayed at Davidson. Z. Holler is happy now. Katherine will be here from December 13 to
December 18. Must be wonderful. It must be true love for Dave this time. It has been going on for
months and he goes home so often. As this goes to press, plans are underway for a gala Christmas party
with girls at the Sig Ep house on December 15. The pledges are to decorate for the affair. There'll be
a Christmas tree, holly, and, of course, mistletoe. On December 7, Sandy Shaw was initiated into Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity.
Our only regret is that we will probably lose him to the armed forces at the end of this semester.

Pi Kappa Phi
The Pi Kapps are certainly planning to pitch a big one Monday evening when they have their annual Christmas party.
You should be there when they exchange gifts—brother, what gifts! (Hope there aren't any girls there, but there will be).
Happy to welcome Bill Robertson back to school after two years in the service. Kinda hard to get back into
the ole study groove, isn't it, Bill? Incidentally, who was that gal in Texas, and what about the one in
Durham? (Also at W.C.—what a man, that Bill!). What did Palles go to Charlotte for the other night? And where
does Pete go every weekend? Walker hasn’t been to Charlotte lately. Hasn’t she gotten back from Philadelphia yet, Walt? Why
is Jimmy Nisbet staying over here for several days after holidays begin? Couldn't be that a certain Kannapolis girl will
be here too, or could it, Jim? Mel can’t seem to get up enough nerve to date a certain lab
partner. What’s wrong, Mel? Off of ’em for life? The Pi Kapps wish each and every member of the student
body a very merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Tonight is the big night for the SAE's. It is then that we throw a function which will be the
works. If all you boys want to see a set of good-looking women, just drop by. You may get something
to eat also. Brother McAlister went to Greensboro this past weekend to see his one (?) and only (?). It’s
lucky he got back for Monday’s classes for he may have overcut. How about it, J. Mac? As for love
in the fraternity, most of it is fraternal. This is the score: Brother McAlister, certain—Brother Strickland, uncertain—Pledge Richert, more uncertain—Brother
Miller, most uncertain.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Ted Sumner and Jeff Wood went to the show while Bill Cook ate spaghetti at the Ship Ahoy for three
hours. “Sport” Lafferty and “Preacher” had quite a weekend in Concord. “Bubble Lips” Coble stayed on the campus studying as
usual. Floyd Furr had a quiet weekend at home. Stiles went out toward the Carolina Pines with one arm driving.
Better watch it. Dockery, every girl's pin-up boy, went to Bitterweed for a brand-new T model Ford. “Crooner” Hadley went
to Statesville. You ought to see Bill Neal's latest addition to his picture gallery. It’s a view of a fire
escape. “Modly” went for his biweekly visit to Pat’s Tavern. Page went to Salem. Oh, those quiet shaded walks. Randy
and Lonnie are having an eggnog party at Allison's Lake during the holidays. Everybody must bring his own comfort.

Kappa Alpha
The KA’s got off to a fine start in intramural basketball by beating the SAE’s 23-22. Moan and Choates were
the high scorers, but all would have been lost had it not been for a sensational set shot by Bill
Wall in the closing second of the game. Wall very modestly says that he was saving his superior qualities until
they were needed. The love-bug has finally smitten Sam McDaniel, and I do mean smitten. It was love at first
sight for Sam, and we hope the girl realizes a good catch when she sees one. By the way, her
name is “Winkie”—Cute—Blonde—5’ 5"! Pledge Spillman and Pledge Wall got kicked out of Queens this past weekend, and although they
won't give a reason, we believe they walked out because the girls would not pay them enough attention. Pledge Cunningham
and Hamtick aren’t seen together by any of the locals anymore. Could there have been a tiff?
