Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Tuesday, May 1, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year — “For a Better Davidson”

J. S. BLAIN
JIM ALEXANDER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Hil Masters ........................................ Associate Editor
BPRS SIGNOL .................................... Assistant Editor
Att MOLING ........................................ Feature Editor
Bits MIKOON .................................... Sports Editor
BUG GOlGGh .................................... Managing Editor
MeL WiARStORE ............................ Managing Editor
Ralph Smith .................................... Managing Editor
GOOFZE GUNN ............................... Managing Editor
Ellis Hiter ........................................ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Ellis White ........................................ Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby .................................. Advertising Manager
Newt Spencer .................................. Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY:
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Elections...
There has been a great deal of talk among the students recently advocating open elections. The elections held last week have made many people conscious of the fact which we pointed out in the last Davidsonian, namely that greater interest and efficiency, and less sham, would be the result of allowing the students to speak their minds with regard to the candidates whom they support. Under our present system, “It shall be illegal for any person, group, or organization, club, or fraternity to solicit votes for a candidate for office.” (Article IV, Section 9, of the Constitution of the Student Government). Is this necessarily interpreted to mean that discussions of the relative merits of candidates are not valuable? It is a known fact that the dormitories are the scene of hot discussions of this type during every election period, and points of great influence are often brought out—but they never reach the student body as a whole, and therefore lose their influential power. It has been the case in two elections this year that high offices have been won by men who are not eligible under the rules of the Constitution, but how many students know that? Those who do withheld any statements because they would be accused of attempting to discredit a candidate. To forbid the use of combinations of votes, or of the use of money in securing votes, is a wise rule, but we question the wisdom of forbidding open discussion of candidates. Why not allow a limited time in Chapel for students to discuss those who are nominated for offices, and thereby to prevent mistakes instead of bemoaning them when it is too late to do anything about them? It would greatly increase student interest in elections if everyone had an opportunity to hear the points about the various candidates, and to speak to these points if it seemed advisable.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Editorials

“Shaky”...
Late on the night of April 5th two shots rang out across the Davidson campus and while we slept peacefully, the airdale soul of “Shaky” (alias George) passed from this troubled world. We question the humanity of this act and question even more seriously in this case the so-called “mercy killing” theory expounded by some. In the minds of most students Shaky symbolized in a way mankind, ravaged and starving, who had become our responsibility when we became conscious of his presence. We accepted the challenge of “Am I my brother’s keeper?” and nursed Shaky back to a calm and happy life. Our labors bore fruit when on March 31st Davidson College proudly announced a major triumph in the field of veterinary medicine. Experiments made by unknown students on Shaky resulted in gaining advanced knowledge in this field which was given to the world for the good of all mankind. Shaky then found a place in every man’s heart. Loving hands continued to feed him and Shaky fast became an institution, very much a part of life at Davidson. Our hearts are torn. The individual or individuals either directly or indirectly responsible for Shaky’s death should know that the Davidson student’s faith in justice has been shattered—Shaky had no trial before his execution; the student body, to whom he belonged by right, had no word in the matter. Our philanthropic natures have been hardened by the premeditated shooting of one upon whom we had lavished tender care in the humane spirit which every man should possess and foster. Truly the more we see of men, the more we admire dogs.

Short Chapel...
The last issue of The Davidsonian carried an editorial suggestion that Chapel speakers be good enough to limit their talks, especially on student days, Tuesday and Thursday. This was not an idle comment used to fill space, but was an expression of student opinion, and it seems to have been largely ignored. We would again suggest that speakers, students or faculty members, bear in mind the fact that those two days are the only times in which the student body can carry on discussions concerning student matters. A brief devotional should certainly be conducted, but is it necessary to develop the Scripture lesson to the extent of a thirty-minute lecture? The students are conscious of the length of a talk, and their interest lags considerably when the speaker goes on and on after making his point clear. Could we not have a little more cooperation from the faculty in this respect? While we are commenting on Chapel, may we offer congratulations to Bob Hollinger on his excellent talk of a few weeks ago. It is not often that student speakers see so clearly and deeply into their subject, or present it so vigorously and forcibly. We should be proud of our one and only Phi Beta Kappa man!

Murgatroyd Messin’ 'Round
Well, the Spring Frolics have come and gone. It was the only logical thing to do, in respect to our late President, to call off the formal dance on Saturday night. Even though this dance was not held, I am sure that the students and their dates enjoyed the evening. Many went to Charlotte for dinner and a movie and some ventured to Mooresville.to "Stonestreet’s" for dinner and returned to Davidson and spent an enjoyable evening of informal parties in the fraternity houses. Later in the evening, we went to the Guest House to attend a memorial service in honor of President Roosevelt. The Davidson students joined the rest of the world to mourn for one of the greatest leaders and men in the history of our country. Now that the end of this semester is in rather close view, there will be very little social life on the campus. Rather than worry with social matters, I am sure that we would rather spend all our time with a trig book or an English book or even a ROTC field manual over our arms. With the coming of reviews and examinations not too far away, I am sure this will be the sight on the hill. I hardly think that any good bridge games will be in play, and certainly students will have no time to take sun baths or peroxide their hair. By the way, has anyone seen any good sunny days recently? I am beginning to lose all the tan I have acquired to date. It seems that we will not have to worry about having social life on our campus. Recently, Mitchell invited several students there to their Junior-Senior banquet and now Winthrop has asked the entire student body to be the guests of a couple of dormitories there. Let’s surprise them and the entire student body go down, yes, you too, Drew. It appeared that the recent music clinic (for high schools) provided entertainment for many of the students here. Imagine all those college seniors, juniors, and sophomores dating those high school freshmen and sophomores. Overheard at the movie on Friday night, this conversation between one of the girls and a Davidson student. The girl asked a certain Davidson man, “Do you have the time?” The Davidson man replied, “Yes, do you have the time?” Yes, it seems that a great deal of entertainment was provided for both parties. It must have been colder than I thought the night of April the fourteenth, ‘cause many fellows (and their dates) were seen carrying blankets to and from the dormitories. To those lucky fellows that will be on the hill this summer, a happy thought for you. Many young ladies or rather co-eds will add themselves to the number of co-eds that already walk the hallowed halls of Chambers and the walks of the campus. Maybe, the April Fool prediction of this paper is steadily coming true, but after the weekend of the music clinic, I believe that the majority of the students would rather Davidson remain a man’s school. It seems that the co-eds will certainly enjoy their summer, judging from the first part of it. I hardly think that it would be a good idea to tell the student body that you will be at Myrtle Beach for about two weeks at the close of school.

In Respect To...
By GUESS WHO

With the Russians knocking on the doors of Berlin, everybody seems to think that the war is over. Many individuals hope that the Red Army will utterly wipe the capital of Germany off the map, and still others have mentally devised horrible tortures for Hitler and his henchmen. All of these statements are examples of poor reasoning. In the first place, the war is not over with the fall of Berlin. Let alone Japan, we still have to capture Germany. This statement, but by it I mean we have to capture the German people. Reform them? Yes, we may use that expression, but a better one is, to teach them. Now you ask, “Teach them what?” To teach them that there are other countries besides their own. For about three decades they were enveloped in the idea that Germany was supreme and they were so-called “supermen.” It was not their fault that they act the way that they do. Just as we are brought up on democracy and God, they were brought up on fascism and Hitler. Don’t we believe in Democracy? Naturally, then they believe in their code. The United Nations must take the German people aside and begin at the beginning by instructing them how to live with one another and with other nations peacefully. If the Russians destroy Berlin it would only be an excuse for another war. That should be our first lesson to the Germans. The fact that even though our hate for them is great and after such atrocities as those recently discovered, we, a civilized people, cannot hold malice against a nation when it comes to destroying and obliterating a beautiful city. Berlin, we are told, is one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Some of its buildings and parks were built centuries ago and still retain their air of dignity. Why not leave them intact so that future generations will know that there was a time when men built instead of tearing down? If the allies killed Hitler or any of his henchmen it would be a fatal mistake. Naturally, they should be given a trial to judge the crimes that they had ordered, but to kill them in cold blood would be wrong. It would not only be wrong from our point of view but in later years they would be used as martyrs to a new cause and we would have to start all over again. They should be treated as bad tenants; kicked out and sent away where they can do no harm. It is the German people that we have to deal with. Their warped minds and souls must be straightened out so that they will be able to live with other people socially. The mistake that was made in the last peace must not be made again. This time there must be no chance for them to uprise. We must be clear-minded when we go into this peace. No thoughts of revenge should enter our mind for if so the outcome will be entirely opposite from what we wish it. It is in our hands, men of Davidson, the rebuilding of the new world will be our job. We must not shirk from our responsibility neither should we cast it off as another burden, for if we do our children will know the horror of screeching bombs and torn flesh.