Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday, February 9, 1945

Midwinters Dance Sponsors

Shown here are the sponsors for the Midwinters dances, which are under the direction of the Pan-Hellenic Council. From left
to right, top row: Miss Sheffield Lyles, of Wadesboro, with L. G. Turner, Pi Kappa Alpha, treasurer; Miss Kay Perdew,
of Wilmington, with Ellis White, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Sarah Allison, of Greensboro, with Frank Barr, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss
Eleanor Huske, of Reidsville, with Jim Alexander, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Jane Carter, of Lumberton, with Martin Waters, Kappa Sigma.
At the right is Miss Scottie Nisbet, of Queens, who will attend with Bruce Fisher, president of the Council.

J. O. JONES, Inc.

Short Coats and Slacks

J. O. JONES, Inc.

SEE US FOR YOUR SPRING

COURT OF CONTROL

(Continued from Page 1)

required to remain seated after chapel until all upper-classmen have left the auditorium.

In addition to these requirements which all freshmen must observe are:

1. Keep off the grass.

2. Carry laundry when requested to do so by upper-classmen.

3. Speak to everyone on the campus.

4. Show proper respect to upper-classmen.

It is hoped that all students, both new and old, will co-operate in seeing that regulations are observed and in
reporting promptly any and all violations. Only by co-operation can the work of the Court be carried out in proper
manner, and the traditions of Davidson be perpetuated.

THIS IS OUR ADVERTISING MAN

He listens to our customers’ praises, Writes down their pretty phrases, Swell Ads to him they're giving, Ain’t that the
way to make a living?

It is said in Charlotte that sooner or later everyone is attracted to the STEAK HOUSE. If our Ads attract
you here for the first time, you'll thank yourself for reading them!

Lunch: 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.

Evening: 5:30 to 9:30 p.m.

SUNDAYS

STEAK HOUSE

DAVIDSON DINING ROOM

Mrs. Copeland

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Urges You to Liberally Lend Your Money to Back Our Boys Who Are Giving Their ALL.

NEW SHIPMENT

RAINCOATS

Fabric Treated With Du Pont ZELAN

Easy-fitting raincoats in a selection of tan shades. Made with raglan shoulders and fly front, Yoke lining for extra shoulder
protection. Sizes 34 to 44.

C. S. Goodrum MEN’S STORE Charlotte, N. C.

ELK BROS.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.

Sporting Goods

415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

DANCES THIS WEEK-END

(Continued from Page 1)

The gymnasium is to be attractively decorated with red and white paper streamers, and lounges and chat rooms are to
be provided for both the boys and their dates.

Arrangements have already been made for the placing of dates in Duke dormitory, which is under the direction of Mrs.
Caldwell, supervisor of dormitories. Last Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, registration was held in the Alumni office for all boys
who are having dates for the dances. The information asked was as follows: The name of the date and her
address; the length of time during which she was expecting to remain in Davidson, and the name and room number
of the student who was registering.

The following regulations governing the dance were provided by the social committee of the faculty: Following the Friday night dance,
the girls must be in the dormitory by 2:30, and following the Saturday night dance, they must be in by
12:30. These regulations were provided after much consideration, and are not given with the idea that the faculty does not
trust the student body, but with the idea of helping the student body to conduct a dance that is properly
chaperoned socially. In any other college in the country, rules similar to these are invariably laid down, and there is
no reason why Davidson, which ranks so high in other ways, should give dances year after year in which the
arrangements for a date’s room are handled in such a slipshod manner.

So if everyone is willing to try these rules once and will attend the dances with the idea that they
were given to help them instead of hinder them, I am sure that we will be able to say that:
“A good time was had by all.”

Y. M. C. A.

(Continued from Page 1)

Another thing, the acceptance of a teaching position is not binding. You need not feel that you cannot leave the
campus at any time because you are tied down to a class. And I can pretty safely say that teaching
a class will not interfere with your studies; a little while for preparation and about an hour of your time
on Sunday morning could hardly make you fail.

Then there is the other side of the issue. The people at the Sanatorium have no religious service unless someone
donates a little of his time to help them. Most of them are unable to stay out of bed long
at a time, so the service must be brought to them.

Anyone who is interested in doing his part in this kind of work please see Marks Underwood, either on campus,
or in 210 Watts. The work is not hard, and now is your chance to do a bit of missionary
work.

THACKER’S, INC.

“A Good Place to Eat” 221 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Private Dining Room For Parties and Banquets

Get These Records

HIT PARADE

“Don’t Fence Me In”

“There Goes That Song Again”

“Accentuate the Positive”

“I Dream of You”

“I’m Making Believe”

“Evelina”

“Sweet Dreams, Sweetheart”

“Sleigh Ride In July”

“More and More”

—at—

PARKER-GARDNER CO. 118 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.
