4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, October 13, 1945

a Corner... By Newt Spencer

This is a big year for Davidson—and for all you Davidsonians. In fact, we are closer to normal than we have been for a long time. It’s wonderful. Our friends and upperclassmen, who have returned from their duties with Uncle Sam, are doing a fine job of re-vigorating the real Davidson “Wildcat” Spirit. Their influence is a great help, and we're certainly happy and thankful that these boys are back with us.

Bill Rogers, president of the student body, and Bill McLean, president of the “Y,” Art Roach, Jim Sample, John McAlister, Dick Winters, Joe Martin, Joe Fountain, Jim Mann, and Gene Linton are some of our Davidson men who have returned to campus after taking an active part in the fight for our freedom. We are proud of these returned veterans—they are living examples of what we mean by the term “old genuine Davidson men.” Every one of them is of the highest “calibre”—through and through.

Freshmen! These are the kind of boys we want you to follow—these are excellent examples of the kind of Davidson Spirit that we want you new men to inherit. It’s the finest Davidson has to offer—it’s what helps to make Davidson—DAVIDSON.

The “Y” Cabinet opened this year with a real promise of service to the Student Body, to the College, and to the Community. Bill McLean has selected a “top-notch” group of boys to head up the various departments of the “Y.” Our retreat to Montreat “knit” the organization tightly together. Each department of student activity was thoroughly considered in our “Panel Discussions” which lasted for seven long hours. Suggestions and plans for improvements were made. Ways and means of better serving the Student Body were discussed—all in all, we drew up a splendid program for this year.

After returning to campus, the cabinet did not forget the plans it drew up—the members of the cabinet got down to work immediately. Take my word—this is going to be a year in which the “Y” is going to stand out in front as far as service is concerned. We are determined to be Active Christians this year and always. If any of you have any criticisms or suggestions that may help us carry on our work, please feel free to express these comments to any cabinet member. Stop in at the “Y” office any time and get them off your chest.

Already, the schedule for this semester is beginning to look crammed. Queens-Davidson Day! 200 Girls and Ed Golden. Ed, by the way, is doing a fine job organizing the “blind dates” for this gala occasion. Here’s hoping that all of you have a happy evening—and here’s hoping, too, that you meet the girl that you have been looking for.

More about the social plans: Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N.C. has inquired about the possibilities of having 50 Freshmen over to a party for their Young People’s Group, which is composed of Queens Girls. What are the possibilities? See Ed Golden—first come, first go!

Thanks go to the “Pre-Ministerial Club,” which has been of real service to the members of the Synod. These boys played “host” and welcomed our guest ministers to campus and took them to their rooms in the dormitories. Jim Mann is the new president of this group. Thanks and honors go to the boys who helped take care of the Synod by waiting tables during meals. Jim Pittman and Sterling Edwards did a fine job managing this large task.

The Westminster Fellowship Groups throughout the state are going to have a conference November 2-4—and Davidson is to be host to this group. Don’t be surprised when 40 pretty young ladies and 20 young men from the colleges in this state invade campus. I know we will enjoy having this group with us. Perhaps they can help us stop Mr. Truman when he passes through town.

On November 6, 7, 8, we have a great treat in store: Fall Services. This year we are going to have a Campus Christian Mission with three prominent preachers conducting the “Religious Emphasis” Program. More about this later.

The various Hall Prayer Meeting Leaders are to be commended on their splendid job so far this year with the Wednesday night devotions. Make it a point to be in the dorm every Wednesday night at 10 P.M. and take an active part in your Hall Meeting. Here's your real chance to get other fellow’s ideas. Here’s your chance to get to really know the other boys on your halls. And what's most important—here’s your chance to meet with a congenial group and praise God and show your appreciation to Him for the privilege of being at Davidson. Vernon McGehee is in charge of all Hall Prayer Meetings—let’s cooperate with him and let’s give this tradition a big boost with your support this year.

Copies of “The Upper Room” will be distributed to each student—these are excellent guides for daily devotions. It’s very easy to overlook and neglect the most important things in life which seem to be very small. Your personal devotions and realization of God's presence is one of these important things. Don’t neglect your personal spiritual development.

The new cover on the pool table is still in good shape. The cue sticks manage to lose tips every twenty-four hours, but thanks to “Pete” Sinclair, new tips are replaced as soon as old ones are lost.

Dorm Sunday School in the “Y” Lounge has been well attended so far this year. Thanks.For taking an active interest in this activity—We are very grateful to Major Reichel, Professor Fleagle, Professor Goldiere, and George Gunn—who has brought us fine messages the past few Sundays. Praise and thanks go to Jack Bagley and the boys who have been journeying off to the Sanatorium each Sunday to teach classes. Paul Young has been teaching the Senior Class in the College Church. Attention Freshmen—this is a mixed class—and it is a very interesting one at that. Ask Jack Payne, Russell Miller, or Henry Cathey. Jim Nisbet and Ed Golden are doing a fine job running Unity Church. As most of you already know—the "Y" provides the preacher over there. The church has been a great influence on our friends.

MARTIN (Continued from Page 1)

To several outstanding offices. First, he was elected as the S.M.C. of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, as a member of the student council, and the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, and as the Freshman Advisor. With a normal freshman enrollment, it is vital to have a competent man for this office, and we believe that Martin is that man. He has had varied experience, leadership, fellowship, and is a person of mature judgment. The duties of the Freshman Advisor are many and varied. He is responsible for calling the meetings of the freshman class and acts in the capacity of advisor for the general welfare of that class. It is also the duty of the Freshman Advisor to prepare and give to the freshman class a written test on the provisions of the Davidson Student Government Constitution, its By-laws, and the Freshman regulations. This test is to be given before October 15. We feel that Martin has already shown excellent results, and we are expecting to see even finer results in the future.

TIMELY THOUGHTS

It is often profitable for a quick thinker to be a slow speaker. We can often discern wisdom in men who listen much and say little. Human conduct of high standard results beneficially. Man is something like a check, value being the determining factor. We grow in wisdom when we correct and do not repeat our errors. Beware of extravagant spending. It may lead to a tragic ending. The best time to distribute the milk of human kindness is today. Victories are never won without courage and careful preparation. We mount the pinnacle of fame not by looking, but by climbing.

Who attend it. If you would like to see it in action—make a visit some Sunday. Services begin at 11 A.M. The Church is located about a block the other side of the Post office. In closing, I want to add that it is certainly wonderful to be back at Davidson this year. I’m here to be your friend and to help you. Let’s all begin now to be the Active Christians that we want to be. “Life Goes the Way Youth Finally Takes.” Take the Christian Way.

Members On Y Board Of Control

ODK TAPS (Continued from Page 1)

Chemical fraternity, and circulation manager of the Davidsonian. Upon his return to the campus, he was elected a member of the student council, president of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, Freshman Advisor, and is a member of the YMCA cabinet.

McLean

A returned veteran, Bill McLean is a member of the Junior class from Lenoir. While he was at Davidson during 1941-1942, he was a member of the Phi Delta social fraternity; secretary-treasurer of the student body; and a member of the Beaver and the “D” Club. Upon his return to Davidson last summer, after serving as First Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces, he was elected president of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity; a member of the student council, and temporary president of the YMCA. This fall he was elected President of the YMCA organization.

SYNOD MEETS (Continued from Page 1)

Iary, of which she is president. Rev. John R. Williams of Spartanburg gave an address. A communion and memorial service was also held. Dr. Carl Pritchett of Davidson delivered Wednesday and Thursday morning devotional addresses. Reports were made on educational institutions and home missions Wednesday morning and in the afternoon on religious education. That evening former Governor J. M. Broughton spoke. Reports of work were heard Thursday, and the session adjourned noon Thursday. Professor John C. Bailey, Jr., of the college faculty, who was in charge of local arrangements, announced that 350 delegates attended the three-day event. Mr. Bailey stated that advanced reservations indicated an unusually large attendance. Several dormitories including Duke, West, and Rumple were put into readiness for the visitors. Rooms in the college guest house were reserved for ladies who attended the pre-Synod Home Mission Conference. A committee of the ladies of Davidson made arrangements for accommodations in the homes of the community pending an overflow of attendance. Mr. E. H. Spence of Lakeview had charge of the college kitchen and banquet hall, where meals were served to those occupying the dorms.

Announced Six Students Elected To Serve On Board

The Y.M.C.A. Board of Control is an organization composed of faculty and student members for the purpose of handling the benevolent expenditures of the Y.M.C.A. Further duties of this board are to receive recommendations for, and elect the Y.M.C.A. Secretary; to receive recommendations for, and to select the speakers for the Spring and Fall services; to authorize all financial transactions concerning the funds of the Y.M.C.A.; and to determine the general policies of the Y.M.C.A. This Board is composed of eleven members: the President of the College, the Treasurer of the College, the Pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, the Secretary of the Y.M.C.A., the President of the Y.M.C.A., one faculty member elected by the Cabinet, and five student members elected by the student body. Those members of the Board of Control this year are: Dr. J. R. Cunningham, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, Dr. L. B. Schenck, Newt Spencer, Bill McLean, Ed Golden, Jimmie Nisbet, Jim Alexander, Vernon McGehee, and Harry McLean.

The community. Having had long experience in this field, Mr. Spence supervised the feeding of more than 2200 Army Air Force Cadets who were trained at Davidson during 1943 and 1944. The College Alumni Office, under the direction of Public Relation Director John L. Payne, served as an information center for the visitors and handled all communications, mail, telegrams, and telephone calls.

The Student Store

COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN CAPS

COMPLIMENTS of H. H. EVERETT

And others housed in the homes of