Saturday, November 3, 1945
Page Four
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Music News
By Frank Barr

The Concert Series was opened with one of the best concerts ever to be presented at Davidson. To the surprise
of many new students, there were many out-of-town guests from Charlotte, Concord, Kannapolis, Shelby, and Rock Hill. This helps prove
how good our series really is.

Many students were complaining about having to buy tickets to the Concert Series. The members of Phi Mu Alpha hope
to remedy the situation. If a majority of the students desire it, the Concert Series Fee can be included in
the tuition. For several years, the athletic fee has been paid for at the beginning of the year as part
of the tuition. The plan has been successful. We hope to try it with the Concert Series. There will soon
be a petition circulating about school. If you agree with us in our efforts, please sign the petition so that
we will be able to have this fee included in the catalogue for next year.

The members of the student body have been taking advantage of the Carnegie Set since it has been moved to
Phi Hall. You can find the records in use during the week and especially on the weekends. Phi Hall is
always open on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. If you have nothing to do, drop by then. I’m sure you'll enjoy
yourself.

At a recent rehearsal of the Davidson College Concert Band, an election of officers for this year was held. The
officers chosen are as follows: Sam Lineberger, President; Carroll Herrion, Vice-President; Harry McLean, Secretary-Treasurer; Frank Barr Jr., Business Manager; Spencer
Murray, Band Executive Committee Member.

Get These HIT PARADE Records:
- “Hong Kong Blues”
- “A Kiss Goodnight”
- “Goosy Gander”
- “I’ll Buy That Dream”
- “Caldonia”
- “Love Letters”

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties

Super Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
Charlotte, N. C.
417 West Fifth Street

CINEMA ATTRACTIONS
- Nov. 2-3: Bedside Manners
- Nov. 5-6: Captain Eddie
- Nov. 7-8: The Corn Is Green
- Nov. 9-10: Bring On The Girls
- Nov. 12-13: Captain Kidd
- Nov. 14-15: Along Came Jones
- Nov. 16-17: George White's Scandal
- Nov. 19-20: Call Of The Wild
- Nov. 21-22: Bell For Adano
- Oct. 31-Nov. 1: You Came Along

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY

COMPLIMENTS of
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
C. S. Goodrum
Charlotte, N. C.
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Carolina Lunch
Delicious Quick and Courteous Service

VISIT COLE’S

By Newt Spencer

Have you taken advantage of your opportunities at Davidson? What opportunities? One, for instance, is that of visiting faculty homes
Sunday evenings. This is a golden opportunity to get to know your professors on the “out-of-classroom” side. From the early
days of the college, the homes of the faculty were open to the students and a very cordial welcome has
always greeted all who were willing to accept the generous hospitality extended. A taste of home is offered to you—also
a taste of delicious food. Make it a point next Sunday to put your last-minute studies off a few hours
longer and visit a faculty home.It was great to see four buses loaded with charming young ladies from Queens stop
at Davidson. It was greater still to watch Ed Golden perform. Everything was handled expertly—and Queen’s-Davidson Day may be marked
up on our list of successes.

Fall Services are to be held November 6, 7, and 8. For you new men, this will be an experience
you shall long remember. It is our religious emphasis week. Something different is being done this year—instead of one guest
speaker, there will be four. Informal discussion groups—“bull sessions”—are being planned so as to reach everybody more personally than has
been done in the past. Mark these special dates on your calendar.

Mr. Roy Cooper, representative of the Regional Office of the National Y.M.C.A., visited Davidson Campus October 23rd and 24th. He
brought some valuable information to our “Y” and left some constructive suggestions for bettering our local setup. During his short
visit, Mr. Cooper interviewed Dr. Cunningham, and he addressed the Wednesday night meeting of the “Y” Cabinet.

Boy’s Work is well under way this year. Football practice for small boys is held every afternoon, except Wednesday, at
2 o'clock on the Freshman Field. Herb Wyatt is heading up this particular department which is included in the “Y”
Cabinet. Herb Gladden and Gene Linton are doing commendable work with these small friends. Harry McLean, who is in charge
of Scout Work on the “Y” Cabinet, is doing a fine job reorganizing troops in the area that have died
out in the past year or two.

The pool room is still in good shape. No rips—no tips. Alan Cameron used a special recipe and succeeded in
gluing tips on the cues that didn’t drop off for almost two weeks.

The history of our local Y.M.C.A. is interesting. According to Miss Shaw, author of “Davidson College,” the date of the
organization of the “Y” is not definitely known. It was mentioned in a catalogue for the first time in 1878-79.
Collections of funds were made in 1889, and a building was erected and completed in 1891. This building was noteworthy
from the fact that it was the first one erected on a southern college campus for Y.M.C.A. work. That building
has served Davidson students for half a century, but it has recently disappeared. The “Old Gym,” which toppled over with
little resistance, was also the old “Y” building. Have you stopped by to see what a fine building the Y.M.C.A.
now has? Do it today. Everybody at Davidson is a member of the “Y.” Remember! The most important letter in
Y.M.C.A. is the “C” for Christian.

Live like a Christian. Trust in yourself and you are doomed to disappointment; trust in your friends, and they will
die and leave you; trust in your money, and you may have it taken from you; trust in reputation, and
some slanderous tongue may blast it. But trust in God, and you are never confounded in time or eternity.
—Dwight L. Moody.
