Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, June 28, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY ........ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bruce Mishel .......... Associate Editor
George Alberton ...... Assistant Editor
Bill Mickel ............ Feature Editor
Rolf Golem ............ Managing Editor
Harry McLean ........ Managing Editor
Bob Hollinger ........ Managing Editor
Phillip Whittier ...... Managing Editor
Ed Stukes ............ Sports Editor
David Farr ............ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Ward Lasley .......... Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell ........ Advertising Manager
Margie Vickers ....... Assistant Business Manager
Bob Smoak ............ Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy; $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

To The Freshmen...

We of the Davidsonian staff would like to follow everyone else with a cordial greeting to the class of ’49. That welcome has already been exemplified to you by the faculty and by the three upper-classes, and we feel sure that everyone of you by this time has experienced the realization of that fact. You have been introduced to college life, thoroughly lubricated by the “soothing oils of Rush Week” and now you consider yourselves ready to begin your college career at Davidson. No longer are you a sophisticated high school senior that most of you were a few weeks ago. You are college men, and you must adapt yourselves to a new life.

Here at Davidson you will find that there pervades, above all other traits, an atmosphere of friendliness, gentlemanly deportment, and courtesy. These traits have been established here by classes that have gone ahead of you, and we urge you not to hide behind its reputation but to begin your first year at Davidson by putting its ideals and traditions into practice, ever striving to carry them to higher levels.

At the present you are the most important class in school. More is expected of you than any other class, for upon you rests the responsibility of upholding the traditions of Davidson. The war and its influence should not cause us to give up the program that we have built up in this institution. No one knows what will happen to educational standards or the length of the average college career, but the worth of activities as an application of academic knowledge will increase as the time element decreases.

Don’t try to conceal the fact that you are a freshman, and don’t try to escape the few mild freshmen regulations that are imposed upon you. Many an alumnus of this college would tell you that his freshman year at Davidson was the most pleasant of his college career. He would in all probability tell you that this was true, because his experiences during that year had proved invaluable to him.

Begin this very moment to apply yourself to the work ahead. Work hard to get all you can out of college while you are here. For the first time in your life you are probably on your own. And remember one thing—that you came to college to get an education. This in a sense can be applied to much more than book knowledge. Portions of your education can be attained by entering into the extra-curriculum activities. We would like to see the student body reach an ideal of everyone of its members participating in some form of activity.

Finally, permit us again to welcome you to Davidson College. You have made an excellent choice which you will never regret. May your stay here be one of success and happiness, and to each and every one of you, we extend hearty greetings, wishing you the best that life has to offer.

To The Upper Classes...

We, the members of the Sophomore, Junior, and Senior classes, are found with a responsibility, the scope of which, we fear, few realize: The responsibility has fallen upon us to act as an example and to guide and train the new men of the Freshmen class. In the past years this has been left largely to orientation, to the court of control, and to the written and unwritten traditions of the college. But this, however, can no longer be.

Today’s freshmen will very likely not enjoy four full years of Davidson’s capturing influence, and it is our duty to embed into their minds as quickly as possible Davidson’s wonderful traditions. We cannot afford to take the chance of letting them take it for granted, but we must, first, let them see and realize that we are proud of such a thing as Davidson traditions, and secondly, we must have them proud of our fine and noble traditions.

Naturally, with the small student body here this summer, we will see each other more often, and as a result will get to know each other better than before. Consequently, that brings up the question whether or not we will like each other better than suspected, or there will arise in the student body a spirit of ill will and reproach. But we certainly have no fear of the latter taking place amidst the student body. Nevertheless, we would like to charge each and every student at Davidson to make it his personal responsibility to see that the crisis outside will draw us more closely together in the bonds of a better Davidson.

YOURS,

From The "Y" Side
By Buddy Wells

Howdy Friends. This is your "Y" column with bits of news about your Y.M.C.A. Read it and learn what the “Y” is doing for the community and you. Ed Golden has big plans for our summer social life. He set things in motion in good style with his excellent reception for the Freshmen and Co-eds at the “Y”. Our thanks to the Quadrangle Wives who helped with the refreshments. Last Sunday there was a“Hymn Sing” at the “Y” after vespers. Were you there? Be sure you save Saturday, June 30 open for the picnic at Harris Lake. Tentative plans are to leave at 3:00 p.m. and go for a swim or lounge as you please. This will be followed by a picnic supper. There will be open house at Fraternity Court when we return. Later in the summer, the Social Chairman plans to have other picnics and entertaining events such as an amateur night or stunt night. Watch for notices of these events.

Marks Underwood has not only organized a good Sunday School class, but he also taught a fine lesson the first Sunday. Sterling Edwards was elected President of the class, and Guy Hitchcock was elected Secretary-Treasurer. Underwood plans to use Jim Roberson as teacher whenever it is possible because he was so well liked last summer. Other good men, like Dave Baker who taught last Sunday, will teach also. The class decided to have practical student subjects for lessons, and some of the probable lesson subjects for the summer are “How To Know The Will Of God,” “How To Do The Will Of God,” “How To Keep The Sabbath Holy,” “The Questionable Amusements,” and “The Use Of The Tongue.” Underwood also plans to continue the Sunday School classes at the sanatorium. If you can help there, you will find that it will help you.

Jim Nisbet reports real progress at Unity Church. He and Ed Golden are serving as pastors and they have other students helping as teachers. The “Y” is helping the church send six of its young people to summer conferences. Three are at Pioneer Camp and three more will go to the Senior Conference. Good work, men.

Harry McLean has set up his Hall Prayer Group Organization and the first meetings were Wednesday night. The “Y” Questionnaires were distributed and McLean reports the following attendance: 101 men on the halls, 57 at the Prayer Meetings. These meetings are not to help the “Y,” but they are for you. Take time to worship in your room with your friends.

Blain picked a good man to start the “Y” Chapel Services. Did you tell G. G. how fine his talk was? At the second “Y” Chapel you met your “Y” Cabinet. Sonny plans to use some of these men to lead the student chapel services. At the next four services, you will hear Spencer, Golden, Wells, and Robinson. We are glad to have Mr. Osborne back as “Y” Secretary. Our thanks too to Dr. Pritchett for his help. Use both of these men, they want to be used. Make the “Y” your campus home. That’s what it is here for. Remember that big word in the Y.M.C.A., the one that begins with a C. Our “Y” President put it well when he said that the “Y” is here to help you to “Serve Your Christ With Gladness.”

“FIFTH” COLUMN HINTS

Here we are, off on another rip-roaring summer session, and the first issue of another rip-roaring Davidsonian (we hope). But what good would there be in having a college newspaper without a gossip column? (Don’t answer that, I have to do something to stay on the staff.) So no matter what you think, here goes:

Last week was definitely “rush week” at ole D.C. Not only for the new boys who were being rushed, but for the fraternity men who were rushing around getting dates, planning parties, etc. Actually though, rushing was carried on in a particularly gentle manner this summer. Each fraternity member was carefully instructed to say “Excuse me” to each freshman before he hit him with the desk lamp and dragged him down to be pledged up. Then came the day of silence; the bids had been mailed and at two p.m. the brothers waited in their respective houses with bated breath (and traps). It was a hot sultry afternoon, and the stillness was broken only by the dull murmurings of two freshmen standing in the middle of fraternity court. It seemed that they had not yet made up their minds as to which fraternity they wished to join. Various brothers were making up their minds and bade a fond farewell to each other as they walked toward different fraternity houses. Suddenly the air was shattered by hoarse cries from the Beta house, as they came pouring out to play Indian amongst the trees of the court. It was their traditional victory dance, and fortunately they suffered no casualties, except for the loss of a few personal possessions which were recovered later.

After the pledging ceremonies, everyone busted loose in all directions; some went home, some went to Charlotte, and some rode out to enjoy the cool (?) waters of Harris Lake.

With the arrival of summer school, we find co-eds tripping around the campus, and they usually present a problem. There are always a few boys who don’t seem to be able to keep from making entangling alliances. For instance, take the case of one Sonny Blain, who has been feeling very spry lately. It must be because he has a lot of “Young Blood” in his veins, n’est-ce pas?

It is nice to see that the Court of Control has begun to function again, and that some of the more noxious freshmen have been made to toe the mark. It seems strange to see the freshmen playing “soldier” around the campus every morning, but don’t feel bad about it fellows; if you have to go to the army, you'll know how it’s done. Speaking of the court, it seems that Judge Lazenby is going to draw blood if any more Beta pledges awaken him every hour on the hour all through the night. Treat ’em rough, Judge.

I guess that’s about all for now, but I'll be back next issue. In the meantime, if you have any choice bits of gossip about yourself you had better keep quiet, or you'll find your name in print.

P.S. Any names used in this article, which correspond to names of persons either living or in Davidson, is purely intentional.