Page Four of THE DAVIDSON

William Rule Speaks Twice At Davidson

William Rule III, Medical Missionary of the Southern Presbyterian Church, was recently a visitor on the Davidson College Campus. Dr.
Rule spoke to the students and to the people of the Davidson community at the Sunday Vespers, April 29.

A native of Knoxville, Tenn., Dr. Rule was an honor graduate of the Davidson class of 1932 and received his
medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He and Mrs. Rule and their children are now home on furlough after
spending four years in the Belgian Congo. Supported by the Young People of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, Dr.
and Mrs. Rule arrived in the states by plane and have spent the past few weeks in Knoxville. For the
last few days, they have been with friends in Mooresville. Dr. Rule will take a course in tropical diseases before
returning to the mission field.

Dr. Rule’s message at Vespers was a restatement of the simple truth of the Gospel as contained in Paul’s first
Epistle to the Corinthians, verses three and four, which he declared to be adequate to salvation. “The people of our
missions in Africa,” he said, “understand that Christ died for our sins, and find in that truth a new life
and satisfying joy.”

HIT PARADE Records

1—Beginning To See The Light
2—My Dreams Are Getting Better All The Time
3—On The “Lonely Side”
4—Saturday Night
5—Sweet Dreams, Sweetheart
6—Accentuate The Positive
7—Rum and Coca-Cola

PARLIAMENT CLOVER
4113 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

President John R. Cunningham has announced the recent election of three new members to the Board of Trustees of Davidson
College, which will hold its annual meeting on the Davidson campus on Thursday, May 24, at 10:00 a.m. The new
members are: Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, who succeeds the late Dr. R.
A. Dunn from Mecklenburg Presbytery; Dr. R. McCutchen, Salisbury, who succeeds Rev. E. D. Brown (retired) from Concord Presbytery; and
Rev. Ryan L. Wood, Memorial Presbyterian Church, West Palm Beach, Fla., who succeeds the Rev. Marshall Woodson, now a Naval
chaplain.

Other trustees named to the board during the current school year are: the Rev. George Mauze of Winston-Salem; Rev. A.
J. Kissling of Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. Cloyd A. Potts of Davidson; Mr. Karl Sherrill of Statesville; and Dr. Kelley Regen,
Durham.

The meeting on May 24 will precede by one day the Commencement ceremonies and the Alumni luncheon.Trustees are expected to
remain on the campus for the annual ex- be held at 1:00 p.m. Friday, May 25. The Commencement speaker will
be Dr. J. Samuel Guy, professor of Chemistry of Emory University, in conjunction with the class of 1905.

COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN CAPS

The place to get that between class or off-hour snack.

Portraits
Copies
230 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

Fraternity Jewelry
Factory Representative
FRANK McGINNIS
2418 Shenandoah Ave.
DURHAM, N.C.

New Members
These church, Thursday, May 17.

By Ed Golden

Another year draws to a close, and many of the present student body will never roam the campus again. Yet,
others will come again after this great conflict is over and after faithfully completing their service in the armed services.
Wherever you go and whatever your task may be, always keep the tradition that is Davidson's and to inspire throughout
the past year. Davidson men are known far and wide for what they stand for. We must continue to live
up to the traditions that have been so ably laid down by our predecessors who are fighting all over the
world and constantly think and pray that we, here at Davidson, may keep the standards that Davidson is known for.
“Think on these things,” wherever you go and whatever you do.

J. P. Alexander gave a very thought-provoking talk in Chapel last Friday that should cause a great deal of serious
thinking. Jim pointed out that Davidson is a place respected by those who have gone through the same portals, studied
the same courses, attended the same Hall Prayer Meetings, entered the same type of bull sessions, and in all had
the same experiences that we experience every day. It is the duty of each of us to carry on this
tradition that is Davidson's and pass it on to those who follow in our steps. Have we accomplished what we
had intended to do this year? Of course, many of us will agree that we have not, but still, those
who have should be proud. Those of us should strive to make the forthcoming year a year of accomplishments, and
those who will not return should endeavor to continue their education when the war is over.

The first Sunday in May, the students heard Dr. K. J. Foreman, of the faculty, speak at vespers on “Victory
Has Many Wounds." The battle of good and evil has been going on for countless eons. So Victory has many
battles to fight in order to overcome evil. It isn't an easy battle. We must expect many wounds, since in
Victory, Christ died. We must expect the same. Victory is movement, not like marble statues that are placed in many
of our cities as a tribute to victory. They are not progressive. Poetry is only words, and prayer isn't Victory.
Action is the only kind of Victory over evil, action that will fight against sin and corruption.

Last Sunday, President A. R. Keppel of Catawba College spoke on the Highway of the Spirit. Dr. Keppel said that
there were many highways of the spirit, such as music, nature, persons, silence, and solitude. We can make our highways
open into many diverse fields that will prove beneficial to us. Yet, our highways can be blocked by arrogance, greed,
lust, hypocrisy, hate, and envy. However, there are many ways to keep these highways open, such as guarding them and
using them. Do we have personal devotion? Do we thank God daily? Does your life embrace God? Is your body
the temple of God? If we can say that these things are fulfilled in our lives, we are traversing the
highway of life. Only in fulfilling these requirements can we have an enduring peace. Without it, we can have no
peace.

Finally, we can travel one of three ways through life. The low way, which is traversed by the majority of
the people; the middle way along the muddy flats; and the highway, which leads to life eternal and happiness. Well,
this ends another year, and it has been a successful one, although we faced many difficulties. Yet if we try
to live up to the standards that are ours for the asking, our lives will prove to be successful. Let
us always remember the standards that Davidson has taught, “Think on these Things.”
