Saturday, October 13, 1945

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Upper Classes Elect Officers
Alexander Heads Seniors; McGehee, Juniors; Roach, Sophs

The three upper classes here on the hill met last week and organized by electing their class officers for the school year '45-’46. James P. Alexander, of Charlotte, N.C., was elected president of the Senior class. Jim is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and has been very active on and off the campus since his arrival on the Davidson campus. Jim is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, served as president of the Y.M.C.A., was business manager of the Davidsonian, served on the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and on the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, was on the Pan-Hellenic Council and is a member of several honorary language fraternities.

Vernon McGehee was elected president of the Junior class. Vernon has served on the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, and has been very active in the College Glee Club, having served as its president. Vernon is a native of Texas.

A returned veteran, Art Roach, of Barium Springs, was elected president of the Sophomore class. Art won quite a name for himself in football circles when he was here before by brilliant tailback playing. He is at present serving as an assistant coach. Art married Miss Ethyl Goodnight of Mooresville, and they are at present residing in the community.

YMCA Cabinet Holds Retreat
Make Extensive Plans For The Current Year

On Saturday and Sunday, September 29th and 30th, the officers and Cabinet of the Y.M.C.A. held their annual retreat at Assembly Inn, Montreat, N.C. This conference, held early in the fall term of each year, has as its purpose the unanimity of each Cabinet member and the work of his department into one working organization and the planning in detail of that work for the coming year.

This highly successful and inspirational retreat was planned and carried out by members of the Cabinet under the leadership of Bill McLean, “Y” president, and Newt Spencer, general secretary of the work of the College Y.M.C.A. Eleven men made the trip Saturday morning in College cars and returned in time for Vespers the following evening.

Assembly Inn served as the center of all activities which began with a conference Saturday afternoon. Panel discussions of the work of each department began at this meeting and were continued in the evening meeting which adjourned at midnight. This detailed planning was concluded in the Sunday morning session and in the final meeting after dinner the minutes of all proceedings and plans laid were read by Jim Alexander, secretary, and corrected and approved by the Cabinet. The conference was adjourned by President McLean, who had very capably presided at all the meetings.

The Cabinet attended the Sunday morning church service in a body, but the spiritual highlight of the whole retreat came earlier that morning to those who turned out before six and climbed to Point Lookout, high above Montreat, and watched the sunrise. The value of this short period of intensive and inspired planning has already been realized, and it will continue to be evidenced in the varied and influential work of the Y.M.C.A. throughout the coming year.

With the opening of the 109th year at Davidson College, new officials are directing student organizations. Top-flight undergraduate officers pictured above are, left to right: top row; James P. Alexander, Charlotte, president of the senior class and secretary of the Y.M.C.A.; J. T. Bagley, Fayetteville, Tenn., treasurer, Y.M.C.A.; Ed. S. Golden, Neptune Beach, Fla., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and managing editor Davidsonian, campus newspaper; Joe E. Martin, Lebanon, Tenn., Freshman advisor and representative of senior class on the Student Council; James A. Nisbet, Sanford, Ky., second vice-president Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and managing editor, Davidsonian; R. R. W. Winters, Palm Beach, Fla., representative of senior class on the Student Council.

Center row: H. G. Wyatt, Winston-Salem, Y.M.C.A. Cabinet; Student Council and feature editor, Davidsonian; George W. Gunn, Louisville, J. Frank Barr, Jr., Concord, junior class representative on Y.M.C.A.; Ward W. Lasley, Burlington, second vice-president of student body; John W. McAlister, Jr., Greensboro, secretary, Pan-Hellenic Council and Judge, Court of Control; Vernon B. McGehee, Palacios, Texas, first vice-president, Y.M.C.A. and president of Junior class.

Bottom row: Harry H. McLean, Washington, N.C., Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and assistant editor, Davidsonian; W. S. McLean, Lenoir, president, Y.M.C.A.; R. W. Smith, Jr., Bluefield, W. Va., treasurer, Y.M.C.A.; Robert R. Smoak, Wilkesboro, treasurer, Pan-Hellenic Council and assistant business manager, Davidsonian; Joe T. Stukes, Manning, S.C., first vice-president student body and assistant editor Davidsonian; and L. G. Turner, Jr., Statesville, junior class representative, Student Council and managing editor, Davidsonian.

Leading student officers not pictured are: William B. Rogers, El Dorado, Ark., president of the student body; William C. Pollard, Farmville, N.C., president, Pan-Hellenic Council; Mel B. Winstead, Jr., Lincolnton, editor-in-chief, Davidsonian; Dexter H. Lazenby, Jr., Statesville, business manager, Davidsonian; and Robert J. Strickland, Jr., Atlanta, secretary and treasurer, student body.

Queens-Davidson Day To Be Celebrated Saturday Evening
Pollard Heads Pan Hell Group
McAlister Is Secretary; Neill Is Treasurer

The Pan-Hellenic Council of Davidson College met last week and organized for the coming year by...Electing its officers, Bill Pollard of Farmville was elected president of the organization for the present year. Pollard is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, having entered Davidson in his sophomore year after being in a V-12 unit at the University of North Carolina. This past summer, he was a member of the student council for the first term. Dave Neill, representing the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, was elected to the very responsible position as treasurer of the organization. John McAlister, of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, was chosen as secretary of the body. Other members of the council for this year are: Warren Higginbottom of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity; Ed Golden of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity; Jack Lazenby of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity; Earl Mahone of the Kappa Alpha fraternity; and John Wall of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. At present, the Council has not set an exact date as to when our Homecoming Dance will be. However, all indications point to the fact that it will probably be November 17.

Davis Chosen As Top Cheerleader
Five Assistant Cheerleaders Announced

In the recent elections, Houston “Hank” Davis was chosen to serve as head cheerleader for the '45-'46 school year. Davis, a sophomore from Spartanburg, S.C., was one of Davidson's cheerleaders last year. He is also a member of the Davidson Glee Club. The position of head cheerleader has been substituted for the position known as varsity cheerleader. The position of varsity cheerleader has been abandoned until the athletic teams return to a varsity schedule. In normal times, this position was held by a senior. Due to the reduced size of the senior class, any upperclassman is eligible for the new position of head cheerleader. Runner-up for the position was Frank Barr, Jr., of Concord, N.C. Barr is a member of the junior class. A probable list of assistant cheerleaders has been announced. They are: Frank Barr, Jr., Jimmy Cowan, Meredith Davison, Bill Fesperman, and Herb Miller. They are already in action, and from what we saw at the Appalachian game, we predict a good cheering section. Naturally, they will need the help of every member of the student body in order to perform to perfection our old Wildcat yells as they should be.

Approximately Two Hundred Queens Girls To Be Here

A social event that is always looked forward to with much enthusiasm is the Queens-Davidson Day. It is a Davidson tradition to entertain the Queens girls on a special day designated as Q-D Day. About two hundred Queens girls will leave Charlotte this afternoon by special bus for Davidson. They will arrive here in Davidson about 1:30 P.M. Upon arrival, the girls will go to the Y.M.C.A., where arrangements have been made for the boys to get their dates. Numerous entertainment features have been arranged for the entire afternoon and evening. At 2:30 P.M., the entire group will be guests at the Davidson-Darlington football game on Richardson Field. From 4:30 until 6 P.M., Phi Mu Alpha Musical Fraternity will have open house in Phi Hall for those who wish to listen to various recordings. The various boarding houses will have supper at 6:30 P.M. for all the guests. After supper until 8 P.M., the Social Fraternities will have open house for all the students. At 8 P.M., the Student Government will sponsor an informal record dance in the College Gym. The girls will remain on the campus until about 11:30 P.M., after which they will return to Queens by special bus.

Buy Bonds!

Other Student Officers Chosen
Lasley Is 2nd Vice-President; Strickland, Sec.-Treas.

Ward Lasley, of Burlington, N.C., and a member of the junior class, has been elected second vice-president of the Davidson College student body. Lasley is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity; Assistant Business Manager of the “Davidsonian;” a member of the football and baseball teams. Lasley also was a member of the student council this past summer. Bob Strickland, of Atlanta, Ga., and a member of the sophomore class, was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body in the recent elections. Strickland is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and a member of the football team.

ARTIST SERIES (Continued from Page 1)

Of higher education and with the student's point of view, Mr. Weinrich is able to tie his art in with many different subjects in the college curriculum. According to Mr. Pfohl, the other numbers in the current series will feature equally prominent musicians. Samuel Dushkin, violinist, will appear on November 12, and Mark Harrell, famous Metropolitan baritone, on February 4. Sari Biro, another great pianist, will be heard during the latter part of February, the exact date yet to be determined. In commenting on the series, Director Pfohl stated that he considers it to be most outstanding, both musically and educationally. He has expressed the hope that a large number of out-of-town people will again join with the college and community in patronizing the new series. Season tickets will sell for $3.00 with single concert admissions somewhat higher.