Vol. XXXII TWO STUDENTS TO GRADUATE IN SPRING COMMENCEMENT

Hollinger And McClintock Receive Degrees At Spring Commencement

Two seniors will receive their diplomas at the Davidson College graduation exercises on Friday, May 25. They are Robert E.
Hollinger and James H. McClintock.

Robert E. Hollinger, the son of Mr. and Mrs. V. W. Hollinger, of Gastonia, was an honor graduate of Gastonia
High School. A major in English at Davidson, he has maintained an average of 97 with 26 A pluses and
nine A’s—the highest scholastic record made by a Davidson student for many years. A contributor to both alumni and student
publications, Hollinger is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Eta Sigma Phi (classical), plays the trombone in the College Band,
and is president of the local chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national music fraternity.

A ministerial student, James H. McClintock is the son of Mr. and Mrs. W. Banks McClintock of (Continued on Page
3)

Hollinger, McGill, And Winstead Chosen

Wednesday evening, May 16, three students were initiated into Delta Phi Alpha, honorary society for students who have met certain
standards in German. These students are Robert E. Hollinger, Helen L. McGill, and Mel B. Winstead. Ordinarily, students must have
completed two years of German with high grades. Owing to war conditions, a special dispensation was made by the national
council to permit these three students to be initiated near the close of their second year instead of waiting until
fall, when Mr. Hollinger will not be here, since he graduates in June. All three have (Continued on Page 3)

SPRING GRADUATES (Continued on Page 3)

DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1945

New Relics On Display

Music Students Present Mikado

Gilbert And Sullivan Opera Is Huge Success

Dr. Samuel Guy Will Make Address

Will Deliver Commencement Address Friday

Dr. J. Samuel Guy, Professor of Chemistry at Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., is scheduled to deliver the Commencement address at
Davidson College at noon on Friday, May 25. His subject will be “The Impact of Science Upon Our Times.”

Following Dr. Guy's address, the annual Alumni Luncheon will be held in picnic style on the Davidson campus. With the
passing of the years, this event has become very colorful and is attended by a host of alumni and friends
of the college. Of special interest this year will be the presentation to the college of interesting personal relics of
Peter Stuart Ney, the designer of the Davidson College Seal. A collection of interesting mementos of this romantic and courageous
figure of the early nineteenth century are now on display in the Davidsoniana room of the Davidson College Library. Others
are still abroad in this area and some scattered in more distant locations. A suggestion has been made, sponsored by
historians and antiquarians in the Piedmont section of the Carolinas, to assemble the various articles now extant at Davidson College
for safekeeping. The College Library is a new, fire-proof edifice where the Ney possessions will be kept.

The music departments of Queens and Davidson Colleges brought to a close, with their production of the Gilbert and Sullivan
opera, The Mikado, a very successful year. The production was held at Davidson on May 10th and at Queens, May
14th and 15th. Karl F. Berge of the music departments of both colleges produced and directed the opera and James
Christian Pfohl conducted the orchestra. The production was warmly received by the people of the Davidson community and the people
of Charlotte.

Middy Raynal and Earl Berg shared honors in the comedy line of the opera with their portrayals of Poo-Bah and
Ko-Ko. The role of Yum-Yum, beautiful ward of Ko-Ko, was done with perfection by Miss Mary McGill and Miss Margie
Bates. Art Rollins and James Montgomery played the tenor role of Nanki-Poo, a wandering minstrel in love with Yum-Yum, which
provided the romantic atmosphere to the opera. In the second act of The Mikado, the character of the Mikado, played
by Ralph Smith, entered to find the whereabouts of his son, Nanki-Poo. It is learned that Nanki-Poo had been beheaded,
and this places Katisha, an unattractive, elderly lady of the Mikado's court, in a rather sad situation as she was
to marry Nanki-Poo. In the meantime, Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum have been married and Ko-Ko solves the problem by taking this
creature under his wing. In the finale ofThe opera Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum enter, to prove that the heir to the
throne of Japan has not been beheaded. Katisha then realizes that Ko-Ko had tricked her into marrying him when Nanki-Poo
was still alive. The opera closed with Yum-Yum and Nanki-Poo quite happy and Katisha and Ko-Ko not quite so happy.
The Publications Board announced Winstead as editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian and of Jack Lazenby for the summer months. Winstead will
succeed J. S. Blain, who has occupied the editorship this past semester, and Lazenby will succeed Alexander, who has been
business manager for three semesters. Winstead, a pre-chemistry student from Lincolnton, is a member of the Junior class. He is
president of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, and
of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, serving as vice-president. For the past two years he has been a member
of the Davidson Symphonic Band, and this past semester he has served on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. He
is also a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Lazenby, a pre-medical student from Statesville, is also a member of
the Philanthropic Literary Society.

Commencement Day, Friday, May 25, will be the presentation to the College Library of a number of quaint and valuable
relics of Peter Stuart Ney, Iredell County. For many years, rumors and counter-rumors concerning the real identity of Peter Stuart
Ney have swirled about the State. These rumors began in 1815, when Marshall Michael Ney, Napoleon’s trusted lieutenant, was supposed
to have been executed. It was alleged that he mysteriously escaped and took refuge in North Carolina, where he became
a famous teacher. In 1840 he designed the Davidson College seal which has been called a masterpiece of symbolism. On
May 25, Latta B. Ratledge of Davidson will present these relics for their historic and sentimental value, to be viewed
by succeeding generations.

Announcement was made at chapel period recently by Major E. E. Marsh, professor of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson
College, of the rating of the Davidson R.O.T.C by the Fourth Service Command. The report covered the annual training inspection
conducted at Davidson by Colonel William R. Carlson, of the University of Tennessee on April 16. It was signed by
Colonel LeRoy W. Nichols by command of Major General Frederick E. Uhl, commanding general of the Fourth Service Command, located
at Atlanta, Ga. In the various tests and inspections, 91 Davidson cadets amassed a total of 86.15 points out of
a possible 100.

Dr. R. B. House, Chancellor of the University of North Carolina, was the guest speaker at the Davidson College Chapel
Period on May 8. The night before he delivered the Phi Beta Kappa oration in the lounge of the College
Guest House, following the initiation of two students, R. E. Hollinger of Gastonia and H. E. Pickard of St. Petersburg,
Florida. After entertaining his audience with familiar selections on the harmonica, which Dr. House laughingly referred to as his notes,
the speaker admonished his audience to find the way of happiness and the glorification of the commonplace by doing their
work well and thoroughly. “The miracle of life,” he said, “is the thrill of genuine joy which comes not to
those who seek it, but as the result of persistent labor and definite accomplishment.”

Preceding his introduction of Chancellor House, President Cunningham led in a special service in observance of V-E day.
