This week Sterling was at the end of his rope. He couldn’t find a man with enough editorial genius to
write this column. Well, he didn’t find one so I wind up doing it. Number day is a short lesson
in over-confidence, namely the Betas vs. the Independents. The intra-mural team is loaded with talent, and it was generally expected
that they could easily beat Fesperman and Co. The neutrals began to collect on their bets after the first quarter
with the score at 9-2, Beta, but, as you know, that wasn’t the end of the game. The Independents held
the scene for the last three quarters and won the game. It was their determination and the Betas’ self-confidence that
won the game for them. The Independents played together, the Betas played individually, and the upset was the result. I
think the Betas realize this so look out boys, they are out for the title.

Our game with Cannon “Y” was a great success. It was our first game and it was our victory. The
team did very well in this starter and most of the student body turned out for the game. Mayner, White,
and Berry played well, and pushed the team through to win. But... there is a great question in my mind.
Is Art Roach really a good basketball player or was Mrs. Art at the game? Art really played a wonderful
game and it must be a combination of both. Dagwood was practically the whole team that night, and he was
easily the best player on the court. (This has been a paid advertisement by Mr. Arthur Roach).

In the past week of intramural basketball, we have seen several good games and a great display of skill. To
mention one player, Mr. G. Boren. Though the Kappa Sigs have lost both their games, Gurney has played brilliantly and
has scored about 75 percent of their points. Since the first game (KA victory, darn it), I am here to
officially state that to my best knowledge, Bill Wall has not scored another point. In this game, I played the
best (only) game I have played this season. My man, Son Spillman, one of the greatest players ever to appear
on the court, scored only two points. Speaking of Spillman, I hear he went to Winthrop this past weekend. I
hope you kept up the old Davidson spirit, Son.

Last Monday night I saw our team win its second game in two starts. White led the attack this time
with Berry and Mayner also among the top scorers, in our 44-35 victory over Elon. It was a good game
and the team won easily. I hope they keep it up, but Duke and Carolina seem to be doing pretty
well, too. One quote: “Watch your kicking!” Tuffy. This has probably become so monotonous that few are still reading, so
thanks to you faithful souls who have stuck it out. I hereby close.

Test Your Writing Ability
Write Your Own Sports Column Here

WILDCATS BEAT ELON
Saturday, December 15, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Davidson Defeats Elon 48-35

ACTION AT DAV.-KANNAPOLIS GAME

GIFTED ARTIST (Continued From Page 1)
York City church, Miss Hover, a graduate of the Eastman School of Music and of the Juilliard School of Music,
is now teaching in the Department of Music of Winthrop College. Capt. Rogers, whose home is in El Dorado, Ark.,
is a former pilot in the Fifth Air Force, with extensive service in the South Pacific area. He has re-entered
Davidson College to complete his interrupted college work and is president of the student body. He was a voice pupil
of Professor Earl Berg.

ALEXANDER (Continued From Page 1)
The son of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Alexander of Charlotte, Mr. Alexander has an outstanding school record at Davidson.
Last year he was President of the College Y.M.C.A., President of the Junior class, Chapter president of S.A.E., business manager
of the Davidsonian, member of the student council, and the Pan-Hellenic Council. In addition to serving as Senior class president
this year, he is a member of the “Y” Board of Control, the “Y” Cabinet, the Philanthropic Literary Society, and
Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish fraternity. He has been chosen for the second time to appear in Who's Who Among
Students in American Universities and Colleges.

FRENCH PROFESSORS (Continued From Page 1)
The other national officers are: President, Dr. Casimir D. Zdanowicz of the University of Wisconsin, Vice-President, Jacques Fermaud of the
University of Minnesota. The Association will...sin, and Professor hold its annual meeting in the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, Illinois, on December
27 and 28, 1945.

CAROLINA LUNCH
-:- Delicious Meals -:- Quick and Courteous Service
“Visit Cole’s

Intra-Murals Game Results

After two weeks of intra-mural basketball in which every team in the league has had their chance to show themselves,
the SPEs and Independents are the only ones to come through undefeated. Even though scores have been low, the games
this year are far superior to those of last year's contest.

SAE-KAs
The first night’s game brought victory for the KAs with Mahone leading the attack for the victors. Both teams fought
hard and clean, trying for a rally, but being so evenly matched it could only end in a one-point lead,
23-22.

Betas-Phi Delts
The Betas were a little too much for the Phi Delts in their first clash this year. However, the Phi
Delts managed a small lead in the first quarter with Davis being high scorer, but were unable to hold it
thereafter. Schmidt topped the Beta five most of the way and the final whistle blew the score 23 to 13.

Pi Kappa Phis-PiKas
Another close game this year was the match between the Pi Kappa Phis and the Pikas. The Pikas proved slightly
the better as they raced up 19 points to the opponent’s 17. Heustess and Coble sparked the Pikas over against
Sinclair for the Pi Kappa Phis.

Betas-Independents
A highly favored Beta five bowed to a fast, hard-fighting Independent squad last week. The Betas led all the way
for three quarters, but their inaccurate passing and shooting were quickly taken advantage of in the fourth by Jung and
Fesperman, who rallied to bring in a 23-22 win. Sherrill and Gray did most of the shooting for the Betas.

SPEs-Pi Kappa Phis
Another give-and-take game with an exchange of lead for three quarters was played last Monday by the SPEs and Pi
Kappa Phis. With a quick spree in the final period by the SPEs, with Lineberger and “Snowbird” White, the SPEs
goaled 21 points to the Pi Kappa Phis’ 16.

White Stars For Wildcats
Cates High Score Man For Opponents; White For ’Cats

Playing their first intercollegiate match of the season, Davidson's Wildcat cagers defeated a big Elon College squad, 48-35, in a
rough and tumble affair at Alumni Gym last Monday night. The visitors had an advantage in size and height, but
the youthful ’Cats more than overcame this with their fast breaking and adept ball handling. Elon was the first to
score as Cates sank a free throw, but gave up their lead a few seconds later, never to regain it.
The game was fairly even until late in the first half when Davidson staged an eight-point scoring spree to break
a 10-10 tie. Elon recovered but was trailing 18-21 at halftime. With Davidson hanging on to a slim lead, play
remained close until midway in the second half, when the locals began exhibiting an improved offense and slowly outdistanced their
opponents. High scorer for the victors and undoubtedly the outstanding man on the floor was diminutive Ed White, a returned
GI who sparked the Davidson Freshman team three years ago. White racked up six free throws and five field goals
for a total of sixteen points. Merry with eight tallies and Maner with six also shined for the 'Cats. High
point man for Elon was Cates, with nine markers.

WE HAVE IN STOCK
LARGEST SELECTION OF
Bibles, Crosses, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.
BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.
Fred H. Plexico

Shepard Announces Basketball Schedule

Coach Shepard announced last week the Davidson College 1945-46 varsity basketball schedule. It follows:
December 5, Kannapolis Y at Davidson; December 10, Elon at Davidson; December 14, Duke at Durham; December 15, North Carolina
at Chapel Hill; January 3, Kannapolis Y at Kannapolis; January 5, Duke at Winston-Salem; January 8, North Carolina State at
Davidson; January 11-12, Furman at Greenville; January 29-30, Furman at Davidson; February 2, The Citadel at Charleston; February 4, College
of Charleston at Charleston; February 5, Wofford at Spartanburg; February 8, Wofford at Davidson; February 12, The Citadel at Davidson;
February 15, Clemson at Davidson; February 16, North Carolina State at Raleigh; February 19, Appalachian at Davidson; February 22-23, Washington
and Lee at Lexington, Va.

Cut this schedule out and post it somewhere in your room for it will prove of aid to you in
the future.
