Page Four

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thursday, November 15, 1945

Pictured above are the sponsors for the annual Fall Dances to be held this weekend. From left to right, top
row: Miss Betsy Hatch with W. S. Pollard, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council; Miss Lillian DeArmor with John McAlister, secretary
of the Council; Miss Jean Webb with Dave Neill, treasurer of the Council; Miss Betty Lane Merritt with W. B.
Higginbotham; Miss Katherine Kirkman with Thacker Thrower; Miss Madred Best with Earl Mahone; Miss Mary Byrant with Ed Golden; and
Miss Elizabeth Miller with Dexter Lazenby.

Feud & Grynies, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs

Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties with——

Super Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
Charlotte, N. C.
417 West Fifth Street
Davidson, N.C.

Get These HIT PARADE Records
“Hong Kong Blues”
“A Kiss Goodnight”
“Goosy Gander”
“I’ll Buy That Dream”
“Caldonia”
“Love Letters”

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY

The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends

Charlotte, N. C.

—at—

SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM Is Now Available At THE STUDENT STORE

COMPLIMENTS of WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Corner...

By Newt Spencer
“Why should we call ourselves men, unless it be to succeed in everything, everywhere? Say of nothing, ‘This is beneath
me,’ nor feel that anything is beyond our powers. Nothing is impossible to the man who can will.”

These are the wise words of Mirabeau.

At Davidson we have failed to succeed in one thing: clean speech! If this was an Army Camp it would
be a different situation—but this is Davidson, and we have no place on our “honor roll” for disgusting “cussing” and
swearing. It cheapens you—and disappoints those who respect you—to go around swearing at everything, and everywhere. You can cheapen yourselves
without coming to Davidson. Raise yourselves while you have the chance. “Silence is golden.” “Speak not unless you have something
worthwhile to say.” Do your part in making Davidson—DAVIDSON—and put a stop to your foolish—filthy talk.

Mr. E. A. Cutler in his book “Student Standards of Action” says: “Real regard for others, just as true self-respect,
involves restraint on one’s own part from mean, disreputable or unworthy speech or conduct. The chivalrous student finds no place
in conversation for shady stories, no satisfaction in sentimental spooning, no delight in gossip, or anything which cheapens himself or
others. More than this, such a student, for the sake of a moment’s pleasure, will never wreck his own life
or the life of another person, nor deaden the possibilities of that joy of life found only in those who
are pure and true.”

“A Time For Greatness”—The magnetic challenge of our time was dynamically and superbly presented to us by the Members of
the Christian Campus Mission Team which visited with us November 6, 7, and 8. Dr. B. Frank Hall of St.
Louis, Missouri emphasized the fact that our only hope in the new era of the Atomic Age is Christianity. We
must practice Christian ethics and make the Christian principles of life vital in our own lives and actions.

Dr. Dwight Chalmers of Durham, North Carolina presented “The Laboratory Method in Religion.” He sincerely invited us to “try” Christianity
out for ourselves. Perform an experiment of our own in Christian action.

Finally, Dr. J. J. Murray of Lexington, Virginia asked one important question: “Can God Trust Us?” As Christians we have
many privileges. But, as Christians, we have responsibilities that must not be neglected.

Davidson stepped into the leading light of the Westminster Fellowship Retreat that was on campus Nov. 2-4. Lamar Williamson of
the class of 1946 of Davidson was elected President of the Westminster Fellowship Organization of the Synod of North Carolina.
Lamar Williamson departed from Davidson last year to join the Army Air Corps and has recently been discharged from active
service. He will return to campus in February to take up where he left off.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank everybody on campus for cooperating with the “Y”-Cabinet in entertaining the
Retreaters. There's nothing like Westminster Fellowship.

In closing let me leave you with a good thought: “Be ashamed to die—unless you have attained some great victory
for humanity.”
