Che Mavidsonian

ALENDA LuX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945 No.

YMCA GIFT FUND DRIVE OPENS

Who’s Who Chooses 8
Nation-Wide Organization Recognizes Student Leadership

The Alumni Office and Publicity Department of Davidson College announced last week that Davidson students have been selected for inclusion
in the 1945-46 edition of “Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges.” This organization recognizes leadership among the students on
the campuses of the various colleges and universities in America. The students selected are those with the most important positions
of leadership on the Davidson Campus:

James Alexander of Charlotte, president of the Senior Class; Ed S. Golden, Neptune Beach, Fla., president of Omicron Delta Kappa;
Joe E. Martin, of Lebanon, Tenn., Freshman Advisor; W. T. Rogers, Jr., of El Dorado, Ark., president of the student
body; Mel Winstead, Lincolnton, editor of the Davidsonian; R. W. Winters, Palm Beach, Fla., member of the student council; John
W. McAlister, Judge of the court of control; and W. S. McLean, Lenoir, president of the Y.M.C.A.

Dr. Bok Speaks | Predicts Heat On Atomic Age

Dr. Bart J. Bok, associate professor of astronomy at Harvard University and a native of the Netherlands, spoke to the
student body on November 23. He urged that all men learn to think beyond the narrow limits of their own
chosen field. We cannot, he stated, go into our ivory towers and escape the world, for in this time the
world demands of all men that they think about the conditions of the world and consequently act upon their resulting
convictions.

Describing the atomic bomb as the symbol of all that stands for the horrors of the war, Dr. Bok declared
that it can yet become the symbol of all that stands for good. We know four definite things, he said,
about the atomic bomb.

First: It represents a new departure in the development of explosive power. From 1918 to 1944, new explosives developed only
2 to 3 times the explosive power of those used in World War I, whereas the atomic bomb develops 10
million times the explosive power of any explosive yet produced.

Second: Future atomic bombs can be built by any nation wishing to try the experiment for a fraction of the
amount spent by the United States in perfecting the first bomb.

Third: The atomic bomb is not a secret. Any good scientist with several million dollars and good assistants can, by
studying the available reports, produce an atomic bomb in a short while.

Fourth: If we insist on keeping the bomb to ourselves, the efficiency of our own scientists will decrease because of
the necessary restrictions, and the physicists of all foreign countries (Continued on Page 3).

McLEAN PRESENTS FIRST DONATION TO FUND

Bill McLean, president of the YMCA, officially opens the 1945 Gift Fund Drive, while Neill Spencer, secretary of the YMCA,
points to the maximum temperature that the weather man predicts.

Weather Man

The weather man has ordered a special thermometer built to record the temperature that is in the offering on the
campus of Davidson. An indication of the weather will be had by Tuesday night. This new thermometer registers as high
as $1500 and is the first one of such magnitude constructed. But, as has been pointed out, Davidson men have
always been on the hot side and have been “big dealers.” This is an experiment to see if the big
Davidson “operators” can manipulate thermometers along with everything else.

In the past, Davidson has man-made heat at this time of the year. The warmth has been felt in the
hearts of each man who has helped generate it and in the hearts of the people to whom it is
given. This year the heat will be transported to China where it will be used to mold a Christian mission
out of the debris left by the unholy Japanese. The Sun God has withered many a Christian worshiping place and
now the students of Davidson shall build one back.

Shillman Speaks

Rabbi Samuel R. Shillman, of Sumter, S. C., was the guest speaker at the chapel period at Davidson College, November
21. Introduced by President John R. Cunningham, he spoke on the subject—“One God... The JewishApproach.” Appearing under the auspices of
the Jewish Chautauqua Society, Rabbi Shillman explained many Jewish customs and religious ceremonies and displayed symbols used in various services.
The students and faculty members were present with Sgt. Burton Retires From ROTC Dept. For the past two decades, all
those who took R.O.T.C. have been helped and guided by Sgt. Burton. His friendly “Gentlemen” every time one saw him
was a great help to us mentally. One would always see him in the armory cleaning some kind of equipment
or outfitting some boy with a uniform. When it came time for the rifle team to start practice, he was
always on hand to coach the boys and show them how it was done, which he did expertly. He will
be missed a great deal because of all this, and his vacancy will be a hard one to fill for
any man.

Rehearsals Begin On “Milky Way” The Red and Black Masquers, for the first time in about three years, have started
rehearsals. Under the direction of Middy Raynal, the Masquers will present “The Milky Way,” a play by Lynn Root and
Harry Clork. This is a famous New York hit show, and it has just completed a successful run at the
Brattle Hall Theatre in Boston, Mass. It has gotten many fine notices, and typical of the rest is the following
taken from the New York News: “There are four knockouts on the stage during the evening. In combination with the
laughter provoked by the lines, they make ‘The Milky Way’ a knockout itself.”

To Be Given To China Mission $1500 Used To Rebuild Destroyed China Mission It was announced last week that the
Davidson Christmas Gift Fund would go to the rebuilding of a war-ravaged China mission post located in Sucowfu, China. In
a chapel talk last Friday, it was stated that the goal of $1500.00 would be used in rehabilitating the destroyed
mission. Sucowfu is located in a spot which bore the brunt of the Japanese brutality and incivility, and the Japs
did their worst on this and many other Christian missions. Before the war, it was one of the largest of
the missions, having two missionaries and a converted Chinese as head of that mission. Dr. Frank A. Brown, one of
the two missionaries to Sucowfu, spoke in chapel Monday, telling the student body the price paid by his mission during
the Japanese occupation. A large and inspired group was present Monday to hear the need of the cause to which
the student body is giving this year.

Davidson Band Gives Concert Large Crowd Attends First Fall Performance Of Year The Davidson College Symphonic Band, under the direction
of James Christian Pfohl, presented a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, November 27, 1945, at 8:15 o'clock. After
the program was opened with the National Anthem, the band played Psalm VI by Marcello. This number was written originally
for organ. The arrangement for symphonic band was made by Mr. Robert Klepfer, Director of Music in the Mooresville Schools,
and was performed for the first time on this program. Mr. Klepfer is to be congratulated on his arrangement. Other
numbers on the program were: Overture to the Secret Marriage by Cimarosa; March from The First Suite in E-flat for
Military Band by Holst; Elsa’s Procession to the Cathedral from “Lohengrin” by Wagner; The World is Waiting for the Sunrise
paraphrased by Alford; Overture to the Student Prince by Romberg; Variations on the Theme Pop! Goes the Weasel by Cailliet;
and the Russian Sailor’s Dance from “The Red Poppy” by Gliere. The program was concluded with O Davidson and All
Hail! O Davidson. The Band also presented a similar concert at Queens College last Friday evening, thrilling the entire student
body with its enchanting melodies.

CHOSEN FOR HONOR Pictured above are the eight Davidson College students who have been chosen for inclusion in the 1945-46
editions of “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” They are, from left to right (top row): J.
P. Alexander, Charlotte; E. S. Golden, Neptune Beach, Fla.; J. E. Martin, Lebanon, Tenn.; and W. B. Rogers, El Dorado,
Ark.; (bottom row): M. B. Winstead, Jr., Lincolnton, N. C.; R. R. W. Winters, Palm Beach, Fla.; J. W. McAlister,
Jr., Greensboro; and W. S. McLean, Lenoir. Many visitors from the community.
