Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, November 3, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Hil Masters - Associate Editor
Harry McLean - Assistant Editor
Joe Stukes - Assistant Editor
Frank Barr, Jr. - Feature Editor
Ed Golden -
Lonnie Turner -
Jimmy Nisbet -
Frank Barr -
Sterling Edwards -
Bill Gamble -
Dave Farr -

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Smoak - Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell - Advertising Manager
Bob Brooks - Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Are We Wrong?

There has been a great deal of talk lately about dances, especially those which are supposed to be held off
campus. Last year the faculty changed the regulations so that dances could be held on the campus, which was the
first time in the history of the school such a thing has occurred. The first campus dance was Midwinters and
it was a joyous occasion. The gym was decorated to an nth degree, the music was good, and one of
the most important things is that the girls had a place to stay, Duke dormitory. The following dance was just
as much a success, as doubtlessly the rest of them will be, but we are forgetting one thing. These dances
are put on by the entire student body. When the faculty decided these measures they apparently made another rule which
was the abolishment of all dances off campus. This is a drastic step from the student’s point of view, for
I do not believe that they wanted a complete nullification of off-campus dances. It seems plausible that the faculty would
have thought of fraternities and other organizations when they imposed this regulation. Everyone knows what the gym looks like, and
the price of decorating it would be well over any small organization’s budget. Also, the usual run of a social
night for a fraternity is to have a banquet before the dance, but there is no suitable place in Davidson
to have a formal dinner. Fraternities make up a great part of the college life and when you curtail the
social life of a fraternity, you have no fraternities. There is also another reason in this case. When our parents
sent us off to college, along with the farewell kisses, they were trying to impress upon us that this was
the time in our life when we would become men, if we were not already. They also said that we
were masters of ourselves and it was up to us to make of ourselves what we would. By this we
are not saying that we are not trusted, but merely that we should be allowed to be on our own
once in a while. The men returning from the wars will find it difficult to live under rules with no
exceptions, for they are masters of themselves and the rest of the student body is quickly approaching that point. We
are not high school students. We realize the position it would put the faculty in if they backed down, but
surely an amendment to the rule would not be too much. If small dances were to be held in Charlotte,
the rest of the rule would apply. The girls would stay in Duke, except those who reside in Charlotte, certain
hours would be observed, and the proper chaperons would be appointed. Nothing would be changed except the place, and as
any playwright could tell you, if you don’t like the players you can always look at the scenery. We do
not believe it is asking too much for these things. That is why we ask you, are we wrong?

Compulsory Military Training

PRO
After the last war there was a complete state of demobilization, we all know that, and we all know that
it led to our unpreparedness in this one. If we are going to police the world as we planned then
it is necessary for us to keep a large standing army on hand at all times. No doubt there will
be another war, in spite of the threats of the atom bomb. That same kind of threat was used by
some distant cousin of ours when he invented the bow and arrow. Manpower has been becoming increasingly important through the
years, and it is necessary for us to be equal if not more powerful than the others.

CON
Compulsory military training would tend to extinguish from our great nation that democracy which our forefathers fought so valiantly to
obtain. It is not to be overlooked that a peacetime army and navy composed of volunteers would serve more effectively.
To snatch a boy up just after his graduation from high school would greatly interrupt his plans for attending college
or engaging in any other occupation. Now that we've won the war let’s win the peace. But to do this
we must prepare ourselves for leadership and secure it. And how can this possibly be when our lives would...be so
agitatedly interrupted by compulsory military training? Every available knowledge we can. A short visit. Kappa Alpha Rabbi H. Smoak made
an easy five dollars from a freshman by dating a charming young girl and holding her hand during the show.
Where is Preacher Raymond's pledge pin? Some blonde must have it. Randy Ensign enjoys chaperons. “They make it seem homelike.”
Floyd Furr has decided to give up the idea of becoming Phi Beta Kappa. The reason—it wastes valuable time. One
of the brothers is missing a ring. Say this marriage course is helpful at that. Charles Hadley has trouble sleeping
at night with haints and spirits around from Bitterweed. Coble finds that you can have a good time at North
Church Street. Plenty of everything. Kappa Alpha Brother Drake and Brother Crawford are planning a big one this week, consisting
of a trip to Columbia to see the Clemson-Carolina game, and also taking in the State Fair there. Crawford does
not want the job he has on his hands, keeping Drake away from all the sideshows. Pledge Spilman and a
certain female called “Lil” that was in Mooresville seemed to be attracted to each other. Ask him about her. I’m
not sure he will be delighted to explain. Joy Beam from Queens seems to have Pledge Leighton Choate on her
string just waiting to drag him to the altar. This isn’t unusual, because any girl with a nice personality and
sweet smile is able to snow Choate. Moan has finally found “the” girl in Charlotte, but there are certain complications
arising. Need I say more? Mahone.

Beta Theta Pi Old Beta Brothers who have been back to visit during the past few weeks include Frank Sherrill,
Tom Smith, who have the Navy and Army well under control, and 1st Lt. Jack Goode of the AAF who
just returned from Italy. Brothers Charlie Gunn and Van Wilson came over from med school to help with the last
initiation. Last Sunday Brother Al Winn and his wife came by to pay the campus a visit. Al, who was
student body president in ’42, is now a Chaplain in the U.S.N. Ask “Count” Lyday and “Discount” Keith for the
lurid details on their Queens Road pajama party of last Saturday night. Mystery man is “Coach” Stukes whose double life
involves some girl named Anne. Maybe she’s the inspiration behind the Joe Stafford Fan Club. Soapy! We wonder what Betty
thinks of Laura, the face on the barroom floor.

Phi Delta Theta Tragedy hit the Phi house Friday when Willingham and Waldron made the Fireball Mail into the wreck
on the highway. Ask J-J-Jeff about his g-g-g-gal over in Concord. What about Ed Montgomery going to Winthrop College to
a dance—woo-woo! Why do Brownson and Martin take their gals to such places—maybe to give them a large charge, huh?
Oh yes, the boys are having quite a time in biology class for all practical purposes. The “fighting Phi Delt
football team” found they had a new double treat in Henderson’s ability to punt as well as to play guard.
Cameron wishes Johnny Mac to know that he doesn’t intend to appear in court until he himself is a member.
At last Waldrop has got a gal he can keep up with. A donation is being taken to buy Bill
Montgomery some bar-grease to plaster those porcupine bristles down with.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Howard Lamar seems to have slipped off with someone’s date on Queens-Davidson Day. Incidentally, she was cute.
We would like to know where he got her. Pledge Albert Correll has sworn never to date another Queens girl.
He says “it hurts.” When he took her arm to help her up some steps, she slapped him. Brother Barr
cultivated quite a friendship at Transylvania this summer. He seems to have two women on his strings now. Which one
is more important in your love life? It would really be tragic if they should catch up with him, wouldn’t
it? He really must be a good liar. (Incidentally, we'll have a chance to see his latest “find” at the
Homecoming dances.) Alex Donald went to Society Hill the other weekend. Why didn’t he stay here for Q-D Day? Did
he have a date with one of those Southern Belles?

Kappa Phi All of us had a grand time at the Queens-Davidson Day, but what we would all like to
know is what happened to Higgie and Walker!!!! And especially Palles. And did you see that Pan American doll Manuel
was lugging around? And who was that Chili dates? His grandmother? Roland certainly had an extended weekend last week. Wonder
what kept him in Wilmington so long? Wonder why Mel rushed to the public library in Concord the very first
thing last Saturday when he was there? Couldn’t have been a very interesting book he couldn’t find anywhere else? Or
could it? Chapel Hill is five hours off! Very happy to welcome John Campbell back to the campus last Monday.
John was an Epsilon brother in 1942 when he was last here.

Many noble characters have graduated from the school of Hard Knocks. Millions of men never achieve great success, but they
can live useful lives. Strong characters are not made in a day; they grow like oak trees. Since the mind
grows on what it feeds, it cannot be strengthened on rubbish.
