Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, February 24, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM ALEXANDER

BUSINESS MANAGER
BLAIN SOCIETY

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bill Masters Associate Editor
Bruce Fisher Assistant Editor
Feature Editor
Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
George Gunn Managing Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby Advertising Manager
Newt Spencer Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - Boston - LOS ANGELES - SAN Francisco

Congratulations . . .
Congratulations to the Davidson student body! The one hundred and sixty-two men who comprise this war-time student body have successfully
sowed and reaped in ground hitherto unbroken at Davidson. We refer, of course, to the recent set of dances held,
not in Charlotte, but in our own gym! For the first time in history Davidson saw dances held on campus,
and all concerned assert that no other Davidson dances have been as enjoyable as Midwinters of 1945.

Co-operation was the key-word during this unprecedented week-end. Co-operation between faculty and students, between the students themselves, and—well, just everyone
co-operated. The old gym was unrecognizable when the Pan-Hellenic Council finished its decorating (with the indispensable aid of our Dormitory
Supervisor), and the music, girls, and soft lights made for a perfect week-end. The Pan-Hell figure on Saturday night was
simple and effective, entirely in keeping with the spirit of the dances.

President Cunningham stated in Chapel that he hoped that the students would remember that they were making history, and it
seems that they did. Realizing that they were being observed, and that an experiment was being made, every student did
his part to uphold Davidson’s standards of conduct. The rather rigid restrictions were not as rigid as had been expected,
and it was really pleasant to see pretty girls strolling up Dormitory Row. Of course, there were no all-night functions,
but everyone was much the better for having had some sleep. The rooming situation was better than ever before—the problem
was solved and it was lots of fun.

Another factor which really helped was “open-house” in fraternity court. The opportunity for boys and their dates to circulate through
the different houses and to meet everyone was a profitable one. It would be an excellent thing if such an
arrangement could be made permanent. Now that the ice has been broken, we will see dances more frequently on the
campus. Already Queens-Davidson Day has been turned into a dance, and the chances are good that informal record dances will
be an established form of recreation at Davidson in the not too distant future. The student body is to be
congratulated, but it should not be forgotten that we have a definite responsibility to keep all such affairs up to
Davidson standards.

Court of Control...
Much (probably too much) has been spoken and written about the Court of Control this year. It seems that people
talk too much and do too little, where this organization is concerned, however. Court meetings are held frequently, and penalties
and culprits are publicly announced in Chapel; but one can leave Chapel and see half a dozen freshmen walking across
the grass to dinner, or to the Post Office, blissfully unconcerned about the regulations so recently called to their attention.
And how do freshmen get away with not wearing ribbons—or with standing up and leaving Chapel before the upper-classes have
even reached the door—or with spending Saturday in Charlotte when they were campused on Friday?

There is certainly no need of explaining Freshman Regulations here. All the freshmen have heard them stated, and, supposedly, have
learned them. But there is certainly some explanation to the fact that these regulations are completely ignored by about seventy-five
per cent of the frosh, and partially ignored by ninety-nine per cent!

There are, it seems to us, two explanations. First, the freshmen do not understand these regulations. This is not the
place to talk about tradition, but any man who does not realize that those who are administering these rules have
also been subject to them is overlooking a most important point. Davidson men made the rules, lived by them, and
profited by them, and any freshman who is not willing to accept this fact and conduct himself accordingly is not,
and never will be a Davidson man. It is a privilege to be here, and you, Freshman, should be willing
and anxious to accept the corresponding responsibility!

The second explanation of the comparative uselessness of the regulations is that the Court itself is not doing its job.
Yes, it holds meetings and puts on a show in Chapel (much to the amusement of the Freshmen), but the
Freshmen still stand up in Chapel, walk on the grass, and break campus. What is the use of having the
power that the Court has if it is not put to work? It certainly does not scare the frosh—they have
to be shown that this is a serious thing, and that the Court can force them to abide by regulations.
It is stated in the constitution that the Court is backed up by the Student Council, and the administration. Why
not use some of this latent energy to convince Freshmen that they are Freshmen. Enough of talk—LET’S HAVE SOME ACTION!

Davidson Utopia
“Murgatroyd, Murgatroyd, it’s time to get up.” Slowly I turned over on my beauty rest mattress and gazed at the
image of Betty Grable on the television screen gently imparting the usual morning greeting. “Eleven O'clock,” I mumbled sleepily, gazing
at my platinum wrist watch, “I have only thirteen more cuts left in English, so I guess I had better
get up.” I spent several seconds fumbling for the switches which turned on the heat, shut the window, and summoned
myvalet respectively. After ordering him to draw my bath and lay out my wardrobe, I scrambled out onto my Persian
carpet. Pushing another button, I lackadaisically watched the small table bearing my breakfast slowly rise through the floor. “T-Bone steak
again,” I hissed. “Always T-Bone steak. Why don’t they give us something good to eat around here? The way they
feed us, you’d think we were paying for it.” I grumbled my way through breakfast and took the escalator up
to my leather-cushioned bubble bath. After soaking myself thoroughly and watching intently the story of “John’s Other Wife” on the
telescreen, I felt much better. Finishing my luxurious bath, I turned on the automatic dryer, and after a few seconds
slipped into my robe and went down to dress. I was ready for class a few minutes early, so I
rode around the campus in my auto-car until time for the bell. I drove into the classroom just in time—Professor
Crimp had already arrived and was ready to administer the knowledge pills to the waiting students. I ran into my
friend Percival at the door as I was leaving the classroom, and, as he looked rather dejected, I asked him
what the trouble was. “That was the longest five minutes I ever spent,” he grumbled. “I thought the bell would
never ring.” I heartily agreed with Percival, and after bidding him a fond adieu, drove back to the dormitory to
prepare for my Phys. Ed. class. The coach had promised us a special treat for today, but he said that
he would not tell us what it was until we all assembled at the gym. It was quite a surprise
too. He gave us a marksmanship test, and we spent the entire period throwing darts at pictures of Varga girls.
Otto Papenfuss, who placed six darts in a row between the eyes of one of the Varga pictures, was promptly
proclaimed the master marksman of the class and received a cut in Phys Ed for the rest of the semester.
I was rather dejected due to the fact that I had only managed to hit my Varga girl with one
dart, but after returning to my air-conditioned room and cooling off a little, I felt much better. I lay back
on my bed and lapsed into a reverie over my wonderful trip to Europe last weekend. Everything would have been
perfect if I had not had that trouble with the engine of my Autogyro. Suddenly, I was startled out of
my reverie by the realization that it was almost time for dinner, so I hurried down to the boarding house
as fast as my auto-car would take me. The meal was not so good today, only grade A food, but
the floor show was excellent and this made up for what the dinner lacked. After dinner, I spent a very
enjoyable afternoon playing bridge and spent the evening in one of the local nightclubs. Being tired, I went to bed
early and was lulled to sleep by the voice of Hildegarde over the television screen.

In Respect To...
By GUESS WHO

Hello, men of Davidson and all ships at sea!! Just a few lines to let you know the things going
on at Davidson. You may regret that you read this column (if you do) but nevertheless I tried. First of
all, in respect to last mid-winter’s dances. It seems that a couple of dated Betas were dissatisfied with their own
house, so they journeyed over to the KA house. An hour passed and all was quiet. Then, the door burst
open! Several KAs walked into this “lovey-dovey” atmosphere. I assure you folks it was very embarrassing for all concerned, but
boys will be Betas. In respect to the new Court of Control. This writer asked the question, “How is it
that the judge of the Court of Control is a lowly sophomore, just one step above a freshman?” What is
the answer? Ask the Student Council. Also, after a very stern campusing of several freshmen, his “honor” escorts them off
the campus in a very stately manner. How about it Wildcats? Attention!! In respect to the new regulations on dances
prescribed by the faculty. Several issues ago some nondescript writer slandered this movement. Now that the dance is over, this
writer as well as others found that this idea was a good one. He wishes to apologize. I apologize. Question
of the week: Why does a particular Kappa Sig allow himself to be dragged through the mire by a certain
Queens’ cutie (?)? Perhaps he is following his namesake, which is an elephant with long, flapping ears. Another question of
the week: Who is the character who is popularly called “Leatherslip”? Flash!! In respect to the coming Queens-Davidson day. These
prove interesting every time for very few, both boys and girls, know what they're getting. But it usually ends up
all right, for you don’t have to look if you're not inclined. This author suggests a Sadie Hawkins day. Lil’
Abner has them, why can’t we? Listen! In respect to the past class gifts. This reporter wonders why the school
doesn’t get together and do something about its condition. For instance, the lights and steps in front of the gym
are certainly not looking up to par. It is a black mark on the face of the campus. Many other
spots are sorely in need of repair. If this is done, Davidson will have a much more beautiful campus. WAKE
UP. Since this is wartime, why not have freshmen on the Student Council? It seems to me that there should
be one or two from the freshman class who are capable of holding that position. After all, a sophomore is
judge of the Court of Control. This would be a wise move during the present time, because the larger part
of the student body is freshmen. Thus, it seems that they should be taken into consideration more than normally. In
respect to the cigarette shortage. Some have more than others, it is true. Especially one drug store in particular. Why
should the proprietor keep them hidden (stacks of them) in the back of the store? This is unpatriotic as well
as being against the OPA regulations. Until next time, dear readers, fare thee well and don’t do anything bad for
you might read about it.
