As we come to the end of the year, we look back at the things done during this time. One
of the outstanding things is sports. Let us first look at football. Under the coaching of Hudson and Shepard, the
team did pretty good considering the material. Because most of the squad were inexperienced, the team was forced to play
as a freshmen team. Games were arranged with prep and high schools. The first game was played with Woodbury, which
had a very heavy and on a whole pretty fair team. This game ended in a 6-6 tie. The Cats
looked pretty good, being as it was their first game. The season went on, and more games were played.

By FRITZ KEESLER

The Cats beat Darlington prep in Rome, Ga. 13-7. The game was close from the beginning. The Cats scored first,
but soon found the fast little prep boys in the lead 7-6. In the last quarter, the Cats scored on
a pass and won the game. This was a good game, and a swell one to end the season with.
Next year Coach Shepard says he has some good players in the line. It is not certain whether or not
it will be a freshmen or a varsity team. It all depends on the material. Everyone knows that Coach Shepard
will do his part and do it well. From this year's team, there are several coming back. Big Bob Strickland
will be on hand. Bob played tackle this year. However, since he has shown such speed in track, he may
possibly be converted to fullback. Whatever he plays, he really ought to be good next year. John Sherrill and Dave
Neill will also be on hand. They played second string this year, and ought to turn out good next year.

In basketball, the team did very well. Part of the season Jim Lowry was around, and he was the nucleus
of the team. The team was inexperienced for a college team, but they really did good. At the end of
the semester, several of the first string left, but there were others to step into their places. The team won
about 9 games and lost an equal number, which is not so bad, realizing the teams that were played. Seven
men received letters: Wall, Berry, O’Briant, Neill, Blackburn, Scarborough, and Etheridge. Also coming back will be John Sherrill, who played
a bit, but not enough to get a letter. Next year should shape up pretty well.

The baseball team looked good at times, but at other times it looked rather sorry. Coach Shepard (Connie Mack) was
unable to find many small college teams to play; therefore, not many games were played. It is too soon now
to say anything about the baseball team for next year.

The boys really took a big interest in Intramural Sports. In football, the Kappa Sigs-Kappa Alpha team proved itself superior.
In basketball, the Betas, Spe’s, and Independents tied. They were pretty good, but the other teams looked as good. The
tournament was really close and interesting. In softball, the Independents seemed to have won. There weren't as many games played
as the boys had hoped, but it was a lot of fun anyway. This year there was an Intramural track
meet. The Independents also won that. It was a good meet and it brought out many good track men. The
100 and 220 were very good. Every year the team participating in intramural sports that gets the most points receives
the big trophy. For the last two years, the Kappa Sigs have had possession of it. This year the Independents
have won it. The trophy is kept by the fraternity winning it for a year, and then it goes to
the one who wins it the next year.

During the spring, everyone seems to have gotten spring fever. Even Coach’s dog, Skipper, doesn’t run around as much, and
when no one is looking he drinks.

Thursday, May 24, 1945

GRADUATION

McClintock Road, Charlotte. He entered Davidson in 1930 and remained two years, withdrawing to enter business. Re-entering Davidson at the
opening of the spring term 1943, his plans call for attendance next year at the Faith Theological Seminary (of the
Bible Presbyterian Church) located in Wilmington, Delaware. Mr. McClintock’s father graduated from Davidson in 1901 and his brother, Gales, in
1940. His wife was Miss Catherine Marshall, daughter of J. B. Marshall, former City Manager of Charlotte. They have two
children.

GERMAN CLUB

made an outstanding record in the subject. The three initiates and Professor Beaty, another faculty member of the department, were
guests at dinner Wednesday evening at the home of Dr. and Mrs. G. R. Vowles.Chapter was organized May 27, 1929,
at Wofford College. Davidson came in late in March, 1930, as Epsilon Chapter. It is a flourishing organization, with nearly
fifty chapters from North Carolina to California, and from Maine to Alabama. Owing to war conditions, the Davidson chapter has
not been as active as usual, but it is still alive and plans to resume its activities as soon as
circumstances permit.

DAVIDSONIAN (Continued from Page 1)

of the Junior class. He is the president of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and is the business manager
of Quips and Cranks. This past semester he has served on the business staff of the Davidsonian, and last year
was a member.

(Continued from Page 1)

Mocksville will present to the College Ney’s flute and compass case, together with other articles and accompanied by appropriate ceremonies.
Others who have interesting documents and mementos associated with Peter Ney will follow this example and deposit them at Davidson.
The movement to establish an organization to advance the public interest in the preservation of the Ney relics is being
led by a group which includes, in addition to Mr. Ratledge, Dr. J. Edward Smoot of Concord; Mr. Charles W.
Allison, Sr.; Capt. Frank N. Tittlejohn; and Mr. Leggette Blythe, all of Charlotte. Dr. Smoot is the author of an
interesting book, “Marshall Ney, Before and After Execution,” which covers the entire life of the Marshall and the teacher and
endeavors to prove them one and the same. A number of people interested in the Ney tradition are expected to
attend the ceremonies on the campus on May 25, when the proposed organization will probably be established.

The Davidson Freshmen Tennis Team trounced the Central High School Tennis Team recently 8-1. The Davidson team was made up
of a chosen group of players with Fritz Keesler playing number one, and leading the way to victory by defeating
the state high school champion, Bob Chapman. The only match that Central won was the number two doubles match.

Singles
1. Keesler, D. beat Chapman, C.

It is hoped and believed that,

The Wofford baseball team journeyed to Davidson last week for a two-game series and won the first one, the second
game being rained out in the fourth inning. The score of the first game was 10-5. Herion, pitching for Davidson,
got in trouble in the second inning and allowed seven runs to score, a margin which the Cats could not
make up. Scoring was scattered throughout the rest of the game. Leading hitter of the day was Taylor, Wofford first
baseman, who got a single, double, triple, and a home run out of six attempts. Herion, Berry, and Lasley each
got two for five, and Sinclair and Lasley both hit two-baggers. Harvey pitched for Wofford and fanned thirteen of the
Cats, allowing four men to get on with walks. Herion issued eight free passes and struck out nine. Davidson could
not seem to hit at the right time, having thirteen men left stranded on the bases. This was the second
time the teams had met, having split a two-game series at Wofford earlier in the season.

Wofford
Haynes
Taylor
Oriail
Davidson
Harvey
McTeer
Nanny
Hendrix
Chastine

AB R H
Davidson
Simpson
Thatcher
Herion
Whittier
Berry
Coble
Terry
Sinclair
Sherrill
Brooks
Lasley

RATING (Continued from Page 1)

possible 100. This high technical grade justifies the rating of “Excellent” for the Davidson unit and thus maintains a record
of many years standing for the twenty-six-year-old unit. The report explained that on account of the absence of the required
minimum of 100 cadets the official rating of “Satisfactory” would be applied.

General Merchandise

2. Barringer, D. beat Dewey, C.
3. Rapp, D. beat Edwards, C.
4. Welborn, D. beat Thompson, C.
5. Owens, D. beat Brooks, C.
6. Simpson, D. beat Wade, C.

Doubles
1. Keesler-Barringer, D. beat Chapman-Edwards, C.
2. Thompson-Brooks, C. beat Rapp-Welborn, D.
3. Owens-Simpson, D. beat Wade-Keesler, C.

American Association of University Professors, Phi Beta Kappa, the Kappa Alpha social fraternity and the Rotary Club of Decatur, Ga.
He is a thirty-two degree Mason and had written extensively, both in the field of chemistry textbooks and for leading
chemical journals.

water from the baseballers’ water bucket. Leather lip doesn’t argue as much. Tim doesn’t ride his bicycle anymore, but now
walks because it is easier. But this dear ole spring fever hasn’t hurt Drew any at all, for he’s still
blowing that blasted horn!

Charlotte, N.C.
