The baseball team floated down to Wofford College last Tuesday and Wednesday to play two games with the above-mentioned institution.
They managed to get them both played between floods. The Wildcats took the opener, a seven-inning affair, by a very
uncomfortable margin of 7 to 6. Of course, I am prejudiced, but I think that we were cheated out of
a victory in the second game. Here are my reasons: With two out in the ninth inning and Davidson ahead
5 to 2, the umpire (censored) called a Wofford player safe on a play at second. The player had slid
beyond the bag; as he slid in, he knocked Brooks (that’s me) down. As the two players rolled in the
mud, Brooks lightly tapped the Wofford man on the head three times (count ’em) with the ball. But of course,
the umpire (Wofford, class of ’44) didn’t (or refused to) see the play and called the man safe.

By BOB BROOKS

A slight argument followed, with Herion and Keesler kicking up the most fuss. Keesler came charging in from right field
with murder in his eye, and the umpire, seeing him coming, walked (rather quickly) off the field. Keesler yells, “You’ll
not get away with that, bub,” which was the signal that touched the spark to the team’s ire. The umpire
finally talked Keesler, Brooks, and Herion into letting him come back on the field, and play was resumed. I hate
to say this, but Wofford went ahead to win.

The team acquired new baseball caps while they were in Spartanburg. They must have brought the team good luck because
we won a game, and Brother, that is a rare occurrence. Mr. S has decided to order the high school
some similar to ours, so they must be O.K. (Any similarity between that last statement and a dirty crack is
purely intentional).

I guess you are all wondering why I am writing this column instead of Keesler. (I am taking it for
granted that you have read this far). Well, it’s a long story, but I’ll tell you. Keesler and I went
out to Converse (I went along to drive. Ask Pete Whittle), and it seems that Keesler sort of... (Wasn't so
long after all, was it?) However, the doc says that he'll be up and around any day now. I didn’t
get the girl’s name, but I will try and get it on the next trip. (That is, if we take
another trip).

Coach Sheppard has been trying vainly to schedule some more games for the baseball team, but nobody seems to want
to play us. You don’t suppose they could be afraid of us, do you? (No, I guess you are right).
The University of South Carolina and Oak Ridge are potential opponents, but nothing is definite as yet. The team as
a whole is slightly better than last year’s aggregation, but is still rather weak on hitting and in some of
the fielding spots. However, with a little more experience, the team should turn in some wins. Even Whittier’s knuckleball is
breaking right. (I taught him how to throw it).

The D club initiation for members of the rifle team who won letters was held last Wednesday night at Mooresville
and various other places (It’s a military secret in case the student council is interested). There were no casualties to
speak of, and a fine time was had by everyone.

THACKER’S, INC.
“A Good Place to Eat”
221 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
* Private Dining Room For Parties and Banquets

Wildcat Sports
BASEBALL GAMES
Tuesday, May 1, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

CATS SPLIT AT WOFFORD

ROOSEVELT (Continued from Page 1)

which contained Jehovah's charge to Joshua after the death of Moses. The implications to Americans, and to our new leadership
were apparent to the large audience gathered in Chamber's Auditorium. The speaker asserted that history will record that Franklin Delano
Roosevelt was the greatest single casualty of the present war. He described the late President as one of the Titans
of our History whose death is mourned all over the world.

“President Franklin D. Roosevelt,” said the speaker, “will perhaps be best remembered as the outstanding exponent of the New Deal,
and as a war president of great stature.” He spoke also of his political acumen, personal magnetism, and great courage.
“He did much to save the capitalistic system and to supply a progressive leadership which has functioned within the framework
of the American tradition.”

Dr. Johnston paid tribute to Mr. Roosevelt's far-sighted vision of the issues at stake in this war—and the real meaning
of Hitlerism. “He would not sell Justice to buy Peace,” said the speaker. “He cut through the torturous diplomacy of
the recent era to show his countrymen that they could not escape this war. His exceptional success as a civilian
war leader, and as our great commander-in-chief, has been attributed to his wisdom in the selection of our military leaders.”
His two greatest decisions were cited as, first: That Germany was our greatest enemy and foe whose destruction we should
concentrate on. Second: Our effort should demand an unconditional surrender from our enemies.

The speaker concluded with the statement that no monument less than a just and durable Peace will be an appropriate
and significant memorial to the man who gave his life to the deliverance of the world from the threat of
slavery.

JEFFERSON (Continuedfrom Page 1) orator or warrior, but yet won political distinction.” All claim this man who lived to improve
the life of the common man, who believed “equal rights for all and special rights for none.” Jefferson believed that
the liberty of the individual is the index to moral progress, and that “the prerequisite of freedom is knowledge.” His
economic philosophy was identical with his moral and religious philosophy, and his policy of agrarianism is well-known. America today, with
its strong central government, is not what Jefferson meant by democracy; it is still struggling toward the high ideals which
he set forth. Thomas Jefferson is the nearest thing this world has seen to “Plato's ideal of a philosopher-king.” Americans
in

MUSIC CLINIC HELD (Continued from Page 1) Secondly, Davidson has thus attracted to her campus many boys now considering college,
who may see the advantages of this school. And the girls may carry home an enthusiasm which may infect other
boys eligible for Davidson. Although most of the high school folks left for home Saturday night, the musical emphasis of
the weekend was carried over through Sunday afternoon, when Mr. Robert Reuter gave an organ recital in Chambers auditorium.

FRENCH STUDENTS (Continued from Page 1) a long-standing tradition of dramatic productions, sponsored by the French Honorary Fraternity, Le Cercle
Francais. For the past two years, no performances have been given, due to the participation in the Army training program.

TO PRESENT MIKADO (Continued from Page 1) the hands of the Public Executioner at the end of the month. To
add to this complicated plot, the Mikado, to be played by Ralph Smith and Katisha, portrayed by Doris Skirrow, arrive
in the town. It is revealed that Nanki-Poo was to have married Katisha before he fled. To add to this
evening of comic entertainment will be Middy Raynal, in the character of Pooh-Bah, Joe McLaney appearing as Pish-Tush, and Marshall
Carper as Ko-To. To find the results of the amusing opera, we invite you to see the Mikado and enjoy
this comedy opera.

GRADUATION (Continued from Page 1) men, R. H. Hollinger and J. H. McClintock. Honorary degrees will also be awarded to
several candidates whose names are being withheld until that time. The annual Alumni Luncheon will conclude the day's exercises. These
exercises will be held during the examination period, as the regular session does not end until May 30.

LIBRARY GETS GIFT (Continued from Page 1) not made by the poet until later, for the second edition of 1674.
This version also has Milton’s arguments or synopses of the books, gathered in the front of the volume. The book
is in good condition in view of its age. It probably will be placed on protected display in the Davidsoniana
Room of the Library.

WE HAVE IN STOCK The LARGEST SELECTION of Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church and Sunday School Supplies in
the South BIBLE BOOKS STORE 124 W. Fourth St. CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.

DAVIDSON DINING ROOM Mrs. Copeland

Whittier Wins Opener by 7-6 On last Wednesday and Tuesday, the baseball team visited Spartanburg, S.C. for a two-game series
with Wofford College. Two exciting ninth innings resulted; the Cats winning the first 7 to 6, and losing the second
6 to 5. Both games were played on a muddy diamond, with intermittent April showers discouraging a large attendance. Phil
Whittier pitched the opener and did very well until the ninth inning, when he tired and loaded the bases with
one out. At this point, Carol Herion relieved him, and after a brief flurry of wildness, settled down and retired
the side leaving the winning run stranded at second. Davidson had a big fourth inning with two doubles by Coble
and Berry respectively, but the fifth was the main inning for the Cats. In it, Berry starred again, with a
hard grounder through shortstop which cleared the sacks and brought in four runs. This sewed up the game for Davidson.

Davidson 020 140 0—7 9 4 Wofford 000 102 3—6 6 2 Whittier, Herion (7) and Sinclair Harvey and McTeer

Wofford Takes Second by 6-5 In Wednesday's game, Herion opposed Taylor on the mound. Herion's masterful pitching kept the Wofford
batters handcuffed at the plate for six full innings, but in the seventh, McTeer, Wofford’s scrappy catcher, started the hitting
with a single to center field. In the meantime, the Cats were doing so well off Southpaw Taylor that he
was replaced in the fifth in favor of Harvey, who had pitched the game the day before. Harvey came in
with the bases loaded, but he struck out the side, and proceeded to fan eleven other Cats before the end
of the game. At the beginning of the ninth, Davidson had built up a lead of 5 to 2, but
a hit, an error, and a walk loaded the bases for Wofford, and Arial, their powerful right fielder, hit a
long ball to the right that went for a triple. This brought in three runs, tying the score, and the
next man up was good for a single, which brought in the winning run from third.

Davidson 010 010 300 Wofford 001 000 014 Herion and Sinclair Taylor, Harvey (5), and McTeer

The Student Store COLD DRINKS CAKES “T” SHIRTS FRESHMAN CAPS The place to get that between class or off-hour snack
