———-
The Mabidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1945 No. 12

Davidson To Be Co-Educational

Cure For Shakes Discovered Here
Unknown Student Experiments Successfully

Davidson College is proud to announce a major triumph in the field of veterinary medicine. The amazing discovery of “Shaky”
(alias “George, the dog”) is an historic incident in the minds of the student body. To state the facts—Shaky dropped
in one evening and made himself at home in the parlor of Watts. He was obviously not up to par—more
precisely, he was practically dead. The pity of passing students fell upon deaf ears, and Shaky just shook. After he
had passed several days in this unusual occupation, Shaky was ready to throw in the towel—but not so soon—an unknown
benefactor proceeded to dose our hero with enough medicine to kill three dogs, and Shaky settled down to shake away.
Surprisingly enough, the medicine worked and Shaky is up and about. And some Chem major now knows what his “unknown”
is—CAMPUS CANINE CURE!

Prof. Cobbler Cuts Classes
Students To Write Essay On Bed-Bug

Professor E. F. Cobbler, of the English department, told his classes last week that he would give them cuts all
through the week. Dr. Cobbler explained in a recent interview that he was interested primarily in the student’s welfare, and
anything that he could do to make the student feel at home, he would do. When questioned by one of
his more inquisitive pupils on his change of attitude, Dr. Cobbler gave his usual smile and said, “You shall see.”
The explanation came this morning with the announcement that all of his students shall write a fifty-word essay to make
up for their free cuts. The topic that was chosen to write on is “The Social Standing of the Bed-Bug
in the Normal American Home” or “Quick James the Flit.” The deadline for the paper will be May 30th and
every student is cautioned to have it in on time.

FLASH!
“The winner, Davidson College's ‘Gentlemen of Swing’ under the able baton of J. C. Prettycorny.” This announcement was made to
the public after the National Swing Contest held in New York City. It was a close day of jive between
Benny Goodman, Tommy Dorsey, Duke Ellington, and J. C. Prettycorny. The “Gentlemen of Swing” had a close race with Benny
Goodman but it seemed our band just outplayed them. The contest was held in Carnegie Hall and had as its
judges, Arturo Toscanini, Walter Damrosch, Fritz Kreisler, and J.C. Prettycorny of Davidson, who did not sway the judges for a
win for the “Gentlemen of Swing.”

(Continued on Page 2)

ADVANCE GUARD
Shown above are the seven co-eds now enrolled at Davidson. The number is soon to be increased, according to reports
recently released, which tell of plans to make Davidson co-educational next semester. These girls will conduct an orientation period for
new co-eds to make sure they meet their fellow (!) students.

YMCA Cabinet Holds Weekly Meeting at Mooresville Cafe
Athletic Schedules Practically Complete
Students Pick Own Hit Parade

The students of Davidson College have selected their ten favorite tunes of all time. Listed below are the tunes in
the order of their choice.

All-Time Hit Parade
1. “Homer, Don't Bring In the Wood, ’Cause Daddy's Home With a Load.”
2. “Quit Beating Your Mother Over the Head With a Shovel, Wilbur, For She Might Get the Wrong Impression.”
3. “Let Him Chase You Round the Round House, Nellie, 'Cause He Can't Get You Cornered There.”
4. “Mmmm, Good.”
5. “Bloody Bucket Boogie.”
6. “Invitation to the Booze.”
7. “Is It True What They Say About Mabel?”
8. “Don’t Get a Crush On Me, Tillie, For I’m Not Very Strong.”
9. “Oh, Davidson.”
10. “Billie Can’t Drive a Car As Well As He Can Park.”

Whittle Plans Bridge Tourn’y
Murder Ball Game Is Scene Of Accident

A special bulletin from the Athletic Department reveals the fact that Davidson will play a full collegiate football schedule next
year. Coach Beppard has announced that games have already been scheduled with Duke, Georgia Tech, U.N.C., and Annapolis. Coach Beppard
also announced that a few games with Cornelius may be in the offing, but he expressed the doubt that they
would be in our class. A tentative wrestling schedule for the coming year has also been posted.Matches have been scheduled
with Salem, W.C., G.C., Queens, St. Mary’s of Raleigh, Converse, and Sweet Briar. A new set of rules and holds
is to be drawn up in order to cope with the unusual situation. During the past week, the Physical education
classes began the much-talked-of bridge tournament. Several days have been set aside for instruction in this complicated sport, but now,
the boys are capable of being on their own, and the tournament is well under way. So far, it looks
like anybody’s tournament and the Physical Education department is expecting a photo finish.

(Continued on Page 2)

Supper Session At Stonestreet

Myrtle Beach Houseparty Is Planned For Summer

On last Wednesday night, the Y cabinet journeyed to Mooresville to hold their weekly cabinet meeting at the Stonestreet Cafe.
The group reserved booths No. 5 and 6 from which advantageous location they could get the best view of the
floor show and whistle at all the pretty waitresses. After a most enjoyable meal, the business at hand was discussed.
It was decided that the cabinet would sponsor a house party at Myrtle Beach the weekend before the beginning of
summer school. Herman McWhee was appointed to secure the dates for this affair, and George Appleton was placed in charge
of securing the refreshments. It was also moved and seconded that the various members of the cabinet should travel to
New York to enter the Jitterbug contest which is to be held in the Roseland Dance Hall in the near
future. With the dispersal of this business, the meeting was adjourned, and after an interesting discussion on the possibility of
observing “Ballantine’s Day” on the campus, the group returned to Davidson.

Dreams Do Come True

Special Regulations Announced For Conduct Of Students

It has recently been announced by the office of the authorities that beginning next semester, Davidson College will become co-educational,
with the entrance of two hundred girls to the ranks of our student body. The information as to where the
girls are coming from was not divulged, but the student body may rest assured that there was nothing underhanded about
the deal. The girls will occupy Duke and East Dormitories, and will add many interesting features to campus life. Plans
are already underway to establish a Dating Bureau which will render twenty-four-hour service. With the arrival of the girls, several
changes are to be made in the appearance of the campus. All the benches are to be removed, and floodlights
are to be placed at intervals of ten feet over the entire campus. The girls’ dormitories will be closed to
visitors at eleven o'clock every night, and no student will be permitted on the eastern end of dormitory row after
that hour without special permission from the dean's office. The college has been very fortunate indeed in securing excellent instructors
for the girls. Professor Lilly has already volunteered to teach them all their English courses, and Errol Flynn is to
be the director of physical education. With the arrival of the girls, the athletic program of the college is expected
to be boosted considerably. From an examination of the present enrollment, it seems as if there will be a considerable
amount of All-American material available among the girls. This will greatly increase the chances of most of our major athletic
teams, especially in wrestling, football, and basketball. With this added advantage, Davidson is expected to attempt a heavier schedule next
semester. This action marks a great step forward in the progress of our alma mater, and should go a long
way in helping to put Davidson on the map.

Announcement of Floor Show Made By Stud

Chorus Girls To Stay In Guest House; Store Open Twenty-four Hours

Last week the Student Store announced that they had made improvements in redecoration and arrangement of the Store. There is
to be a new system so that the students will enjoy twenty-four-hour service, except on Sundays, when the schedule will
be from 7:00 A.M. to 6:55 A.M. Monday morning. Manager Rankly Milkerson discloses that he has acquired a line of
chorus girls and a few hostesses for the rest of the year (he discovered them in New York during a
recent visit). The Studettes, as he calls them, will be featured in the first show at 11:00.

(Continued on Page 2)
