Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, May 24, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

J. S. BLAIN .................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM ALEXANDER .......... BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Hil Masters .................. Associate Editor
Bruce Fisher .................. Assistant Editor
Art Rollins .................... Feature Editor
Fritz Keesler .................. Sports Editor
Ed Golden .................... Managing Editor
Nel Winstead ................ Managing Editor
Ralph Smith .................. Managing Editor
George Gunn ................ Managing Editor
Ellis White .................... Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Louis White .................. Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby ................ Advertising Manager
Newt Spencer ................ Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Victory

We have all rejoiced recently in the news of victory, but there has been an undercurrent of solemnity which this age has never before witnessed. On the campus, as all over the world, the defeat of Germany has been the cause of much serious thought—thought about the part of the war yet to be won—thought about the many hundreds of men who have sacrificed their lives that we might conquer the forces of evil—and thought about the tremendous responsibility of this nation in making the peace which will follow the cessation of actual warfare.

The students of Davidson are conscious of their part in this war and in the peace to come, and this semester ends with vows of renewed efforts.

Davidson is already feeling the effects of the victory in Europe. Registration is increasing rapidly, and hopes that post-war improvements will soon start seem evident. However, the realization that the war in the Pacific is not over is equally evident. There will be no slacking of duty here, we are sure, and the prospects for rebuilding Davidson loom large. As we have been told before, we are seeing history being made, and the opportunity which it gives us must not be ignored. Davidson joins the world in thanking God for the victory He has given us, and in petitioning Him to give us strength for the tasks of the days which lie ahead.

Congratulations...

Congratulations are in order for the Music department. The recent presentation of the Mikado was indeed a notable event on the college calendar, and we are confident that its success will do much to keep the college’s reputation high in music circles.

The students of Queens and Davidson deserve much credit for the work which they did in this production. The hours devoted to rehearsals meant the sacrificing of study and sleep, but everyone cooperated to make it a success.

Perhaps the hardest working people were Mr. Pfohl and Mr. Berg. The orchestra did a fine job under Mr. Pfohl’s able direction, and Mr. Berg not only did all the directing of the stage production, but also played the part of the Lord High Executioner with excellent form.

The principal characters were well-portrayed by the students, and Davidson can justly be proud of this outstanding musical performance. Art Rollins was excellent in his role of Nanki-Poo, and James Montgomery did an outstanding job in the same role in the Charlotte performances.

Thirty...

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian for this semester. There have been many trials during the year, and we regret that there have been instances in which the paper could have served the students more capably. But it has been a good year for all concerned, and we look forward to bigger and better issues to come.

We remember the things that have made this year a success for the students... Midwinters with a two-night set (even an orchestra for one night), and with girls on Dormitory Row... Queens-Davidson Days... basketball games under terrific handicaps... Spring Services with Dr. Davis (particularly the poolroom sessions)... another Q-D Day at Queens. Shakey and his miraculous cure (We still don’t know who killed him, but rumor points to a certain college PT coach)... Spring Frolics, the second dance being called off because of the President’s death... Government Inspection of the R.O.T.C. unit (the weather like mid-summer)... week-ends at Salem, Queens, et al... rain, rain, rain... the music clinic, with high school girls galore... May Day, all over the state. Davidson students living in town (for various reasons, mostly wet)... intramural sports all year long... late sessions at the Stud...

All these little things remind us that the year has gone quickly, and that it was not all work. Now it is time to start again, this time a concentrated period in summer school. New faces will appear; some of us will not be back. There are new officers in the student body—to them we extend our congratulations and services insofar as we are needed.

To our two graduates we bid farewell, and look to them for leadership as alumni. We are particularly grateful to “Doc” for his invaluable assistance on the paper, and we look with pride on his outstanding scholarship record.

The Editor wishes to thank the entire staff for their cooperation in putting out the paper, for the fun we had, and for the excellent work which they have done. Hil Masters, Bruce Fisher, and Art Rollins have been with us until the wee small ones more than once—none of them return next year, and we thank them for their tireless efforts.

The business staff deserves much credit for its work in getting ads and circulating the paper, too. Thanks!

To the new staff, whoever they may be, we extend best wishes. Editor Winstead and Manager Lazenby, we look for a bigger and better Davidsonian to help build a bigger and better Davidson!

With thoughts of the past year in our minds, and hopes for the future in our hearts, we sign our last “thirty”.

PurgatroydArt Rollins

It seems that this college year is about to come to a very quiet and happy close. It has been a very active year on the hill and the Court and the Student Council were both kept quite busy with the pranks of the freshmen and the Prosen is F.

In Respect

In respect to this past year of school, a lot of things have happened. The holding of dances on the campus is probably the most important. This has been quite an achievement, for this is the first time that this has ever been done. It has added a sparkle to the social activities of the school. It also affords more use to the fraternity houses.

The tearing down of North and South dormitories is another event. Since the last war, these dormitories served Davidson faithfully. However, they seemed to have sores and took a mark on the otherwise beautiful campus of the school. Finally, they have been torn down and it will add to the appearance of the campus greatly.

Plans for the new gymnasium have been drawn up this year. A swimming pool will be one of its main features plus other attractions, such as more basketball courts, better dressing rooms, and last but not least, more attractive than the present one. It is rumored that it may begin this spring. Just a rumor.

The presentation of the “Mikado” by the combined glee clubs and orchestras of Queens and Davidson will not be forgotten for a long time. It was expertly done due to the efforts of Mr. Bart-Berg and Professor J.C. Pfohl.

The reawakening of the too long dormant Le Circle Francais will also be connected with this year. Dr. Watts and his classes produced two excellent French plays and they were given at Queens and Winston Salem as well as at Davidson.

The informative chapel talks made by Dr. Frontis Johnston are something that made this year more outstanding than others. His speeches concerned a summary of the lives of great presidents, on their birthdays. He took into consideration Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson, and the late Franklin D. Roosevelt at the time of his death. Dr. Johnston was received each time by the entire student assembly and the many people from the community, plus the faculty members.

It was this year that our beloved president died. He was grieved by all and the latter part of the spring dances were wisely called off to observe the mourning. He was the thirty-second president of these United States, and to many of us the only one that we remember.

It was also this year that the boys in Rumple felt the urge to convert the steps into a waterfall by plugging up the shower drain. Some of the boys on the second floor of Georgia didn’t do so bad with windows, either. Naturally, they were excluded from the dormitories, against O.P.L.A. regulations, for they had already paid their rent.

Probably the most important thing that happened during this school year was the war ending in Europe. With that done we may now concentrate on Japan.

I could go on and list many things as “Doc” Hollinger becoming Phi Bate, Blain getting engaged (sucker), and other things, but I won't. Since this is my last column for ye olde “Davidson” I will only say that it has been a pleasure to write for you (even though you didn’t read it). It’s been a pleasure.

Co-Eds

The co-eds are really going to have quite a beach party. One of the girls has had quite a time securing a date for the affair but it seems the ole home town has come through and she has secured a date for the blowout. I hope she can swim for I'd hate to have to save her if she screamed for help. Can you swim, Jones? The problem of transportation for the party and for all summer beach parties is an obstacle in front of us all. One of the couples in the co-ed set-up will have no worry at all, for he’s all “wings”.

This summer will be a very bright sight on the campus of Davidson with all the pretty little co-eds who plan to attend here this summer. I guess after a girl spends a year at a school with a lot of hens she welcomes the thought of men. It seems that competition must be too much for our regular co-eds. It would seem that they would remain here to help the new girls get acquainted with the boys of the college. Most of them are planning to enter other colleges or universities for the summer. One is even going to a psychopathic hospital. Nancy is going there to work and not to become a patient. Some people have been informed the wrong way about this. Her trip to Morganton must have inspired her to further her career with dopes.

After the summer is over and our regular co-eds return I am sure that the lines of the students will be greatly improved, if not remodeled. Some of our boys might even be remodeled.

Well, as this year comes to a close, this column must do the same. I wish the next fellow luck who covers space and hope that he can fill it with a little more interesting news than this person has brought you. Here’s hoping for a nice summer and luck to everyone.