Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, December 15, 1945

Music News
BY FRANK BARR

On December 9, the Queens College chorus and the Davidson College glee club presented “The Messiah” at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. James Christian Pfohl conducted the 3-piece orchestra and Thomas Hibbard was Concertmaster. Soloists for the performance were Miss Kathryn Oakes, soprano, Miss Virginia Hover, contralto, Sgt. Jack Sealy, tenor, and William B. Rogers, bass. Miss Hover is a member of the faculty of Winthrop College. Miss Oakes is studying at the Eastman School of Music. Sgt. Sealy was, at the time of his enlistment, singing with Fred Waring. Rogers is a member of the Davidson College student body.

A repeat performance was given in Chambers auditorium on December 10. The auditorium was filled. This, as you know, is a rarity. The performances of “The Messiah” and the annual Christmas Vespers are two of the few programs to draw an overflowing crowd. Mr. Pfohl is to be congratulated on his untiring efforts in continuing the presentation of Christmas programs in spite of the shortage of assistance this semester.

McEVER (Continued From Page 1)

largest conference institutions. In football, it expects to maintain a standard equal to that of the majority of the Southern Conference teams. Davidson probably engages in as many intercollegiate sports as any college in the nation and emphasis will be placed on maintaining and even expanding this well-rounded program. Meanwhile, football in no sense will be neglected and all efforts will be made to attract as many good football players, who are also good and typical Davidson students, to the campus as possible.

R.O.T.C. (Continued From Page 1)

are eligible. One year of active service in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard will qualify an applicant for admission. Less than one year but over six months of such service will qualify an applicant for admission provided he has had or takes one year of the Basic Course.

Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties with Super Bus Service QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS Charlotte, N. C. 417 West Fifth Street

Visit The— COMPLIMENTS SHIP AHOY of — WHITE DRUG The Ideal Place To COMPANY Meet Your Friends SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS Charlotte, N. C. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

C. S. Goodrum TELEPHONE 2111

Faul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM — Is Now Available At — THE STUDENT STORE Davidson, N. C.

MAY THE NEW YEAR BE ONE OF PROSPERITY AND HAPPINESS FOR YOU

Withers Electric Co. @ Radio Repairs @ Electrical Supplies @ Light Bulbs Davidson, N. C.

Whatever Your Needs SUITS HATS SHIRTS PAJAMAS SOCKS TIES SHOES and the 101 other things SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP STREET FLOOR

Get These HIT PARADE Records “Your Fathers’ Mustache” —Woody Herman “At The Fat Man’s” —Tommy Dorsey “It’s Been A Long, Long Time” —Harry James “Beulah’s Boogie” —Lionel Hampton “That’s For Me” —Dick Haymes “Waitin’ For The Train To Come In” —Peggy Lee

—at— PARKER-GARDNER CO. “The Friendly Store in a Friendly City” 118 West Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Buy Christmas SealsNewt Spencer

“Numerous indeed are the hearts to which Christmas brings a brief season of happiness and enjoyment. How many old recollections, and how many dormant sympathies—Christmas time awakens!” — Charles Dickens.

Let’s take advantage of our ‘brief season of happiness and enjoyment,’ and make this Christmas the finest we have ever known. A long-needed relief is in “store” for many of you Davidson men. A traditional way of adding a little extra delight has been to select a few textbooks—stuff them in an over-packed bag—and plan to study them during the holidays. This is a great sport. Your conscience is eased during your exodus from campus. Weight has been taken off of your mind—and transplanted into your traveling bag. When you arrive home—place these masterpieces in a conspicuous spot, and partake in the enjoyment that many have already found—by heartily laughing at the unopened “dust-catchers.” Get a good rest from studying during Christmas Holidays—and return to the campus—freshened and ready to plow into the last round of this semester.

A Christian spirit was evident in the recent “Y” Christmas Gift Fund Drive. It was great news when Joe Stukes—Chairman of the Drive—announced that over $2000 had been raised. This will help restore Suchowfu Mission to working order—and be an active aid in restoring and extending the Kingdom of God. Dr. Frank A. Brown’s talk about Suchowfu—and his enthusiasm and desire to return to the Mission in China—was a challenge for life-service to many of us. We thank God that we were able to lend a little support in this great project. And, we thank you students and faculty members for supporting the Gift Fund so generously.

Following are items concerning various departments of the “Y” Cabinet:

Sunday School Department: —Jack Bagley has been doing a fine job with the Student Sunday School Class which meets in the Guest House Lounge—10:15 A.M. Attendance has been high—and the “Forum-type” discussions are lively and informative. Make it a point to attend the next Sunday class. You're missing something—if you don't.

Boy’s Work Department: —Herb Wyatt and Gene Linton have been holding the “fort” with the young boys of Davidson and Cornelius. Football season has just ended—and basketball practice is well under way. The work has grown—and now we have two groups to work with—one in Cornelius and one in Davidson. Two basketball teams have been organized: one for 12-year-olds and under; and the other for 13-year-olds and under. These teams have been entered in the Charlotte YMCA tournament—and they will play games every Saturday afternoon with other Gra-Y teams—in the Charlotte “Y.” (“Gra-Y” stands for Grade-School YMCA). Practices are held several afternoons each week in the Davidson High School Gym—and in the Cornelius High School Gym. Help is needed in handling this work. Fellows who have had some basketball experience are needed to coach these teams. If you can help, and want to—see Herb Wyatt.

Have a good time during the holidays. Merry Christmas from the “Y.”