. We played the Celtics Friday night a week ago, and that No. 25 used to play for L. I. U. Webb claims the SPI’s can beat ‘em, and I don't doubt it because the SPI’s beat the Betas. No kidding! That Carolina team earned the respect of all of us. No. 25—his name was and still is, I guess, Jim Robinson—was plenty good. He made a good many difficult shots and his final score was an even dozen points. Sokolblonde, No. 30, even beat him by a point. Phil got eleven for us and looked good while doing it. Did you see Lowry get that big Guilford knocker? I'll say he did. And old Patterson broke one guy’s arm. I don’t see how we took time to score 42 points and I just don’t see how they scored 22. Those two Japs could dribble pretty good, but they couldn’t hit that basket. We looked plenty good, especially in the last half, when both teams got kind of heated up. Speaking of that last half, it looked something like Tuesday morning’s P. T. class, but still nobody threw a body block like Dietrick did at me. Wednesday night, Charlotte saw the entire basketball Wildcat Sports.

BASKETBALL HAS SPOTLIGHT
Saturday, January 20, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Five

Wildcats Down Guilford Team

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 11 U. S. Rubber Company — here Won
Dec. 13 Wofford—there Won
Jan. 5 South Carolina—here Lost
Jan. 8 Guilford—here Won
Jan. 10 North Carolina—Charlotte Lost
Jan. 13 N. C. State—here Lost
Jan. 27 U. S. Rubber—here
Jan. 31 Wofford—here
Feb. 2 Charleston College—there
Feb. 3 Citadel—there
Feb. 7 North Carolina—there
Feb. 8 N.C. State—there
Feb. 13 Citadel—here
Feb. 16 Furman—there
Feb. 22 Clemson—there
Feb. 23 Morris Field—here
Feb. 24 Charleston College—here
Feb. 26 Morris Field—there
Feb. 28 Clemson—here
Furman—here
Southern Conference (we hope)

N.C. State Takes S. C. V-12’s Take Conference Win

Scrappy Wildcats
A strong South Carolina basketball team defeated a scrappy Wildcat team in a Southern Conference game at the Davidson Gymnasium, 44-31. It was State's third conference win and threw them into a tie with unbeaten South Carolina for first place. The defeat shoved Davidson closer to the bottom.

Davidson 42 Guilford 22
Davidson's Wildcats annexed their third win of the season last week by downing a spirited Guilford club in the Davidson Gymnasium Monday night. Action started from the opening toss-up and the first half saw Davidson outscore their opponents 2 points to 1. The two Guilford drawing cards, Japanese Aikawa and Hirabayashi, lived up to all pre-game information. They were a pair of fleet, shifty, colorful guards. In the second half, action was as fast, scoring slower, and fouling more frequent. With 10 minutes left to go, the game got noticeably tougher and many fouls were called. With less than 4 minutes left, Captain Lowry started sinking baskets from all parts of the court. Guilford retaliated with Hawarth and Jaromello sinking baskets. Substitutions flocked in and helped sell the score to 42-22.

The game was never close and the Gamecocks knew it. They took shots from all over the court. The V-12-ers rolled up an early lead and were never headed. The crowd's interest was retained throughout the contest despite the one-sidedness of the contest.

Guilford FG FT TP
Hirabayashi 2 0 4
Aikawa 2 0 4
Jaromello 2 0 4
Brown 0 1 1
Total 6 1 13

Davidson FG FT TP
Lowry 8 6 22
Total 42

I hope everybody read the column I. A. dedicated to Davidson and its basketball. It was pretty good and Mon-court and Lowry Mee oy day, Allen ran a warning to Carolina. Lowry liked the preliminary sparring, the Terrors ink a very few of them. Bryant shifted into high and left the Wildcats behind. Howard Turner and Charlie Sokol, tall rangy center of Wall Fraternity basketball starts up again after exams. Charlie Richkus began to get the Birdmen, sunk 13 points to lead the scoring but had only one point at the half, more than flashy Jim Robinson, for Etheridge tallied 12. Edwards of Blackburn played a pretty game. Davidson battled hard throughout the game, but couldn't seem to get any closer. Captain Lowry injured his shoulder when he and Richkus went after the ball at the same time but soon returned to the fray and they got good practice in the last half. Edwards shot a much-disputed field goal just as the whistle sounded.

Carolina Beats Davidson 47-32

North Carolina kept their Southern Conference slate clean Wednesday a week ago by downing Davidson, 47-32. The game was played in Charlotte Central’s gymnasium, North Carolina refusing to play in the Davidson gym.

Gentleman Jim Lowry, the Wildcat captain, left a memory in the fans’ minds that will not be soon forgotten. Built up as the one-man team from Davidson, Jim scored 22 points and was just what the Charlotteans had heard. He was all over the court at once and made impossible shots go for points. In vain, the White Phantoms attempted to stop him, but to no avail.

The game, although a loss, was a personal victory for Mr. Lowry.