~The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1945 No. 3

FALL SERVICES TO BEGIN NOV. 6

Pollard Announces Fall Dances Scheduled For November 16-17

Mr. Roy Cooper Visits Campus
Associate National Secretary Of Y.M.C.A. Here

Mr. J. Roy Cooper, Associate National Secretary of the Young Men’s Christian Association, was a visitor on the Davidson College campus on Tuesday, October 23 and Wednesday, the 24th. Mr. Cooper, who heads the southern region, National Student Council Y.M.C.A., with offices in Atlanta, came to Davidson to observe student life and religious influences as they are related to the work of the Y.M.C.A. on the local campus. He conferred with the secretary of the Y.M.C.A., the Cabinet, Dr. John R. Cunningham, and the pastor of the local Presbyterian Church, Dr. Carl R. Pritchett. He was available at the guest house all day Wednesday for private conferences with individual students.

Arch Rutledge Speaks Here
Well Known Author, Naturalist, And Poet

Dr. Archibald Rutledge, well-known author, naturalist, and poet, appeared at Davidson College on Wednesday, October 24. The first speaker in the current lecture series, Dr. Rutledge is a native of Hampton Plantations, McClellanville, South Carolina. He has delighted Davidson audiences on several previous occasions. The address, on a literary subject, was heard at 8:15 on Wednesday evening in Chambers auditorium. On the following day Dr. Rutledge spoke at the chapel hour on Southern plantation life, one of his favorite topics. A standing committee of the faculty, headed by Prof. E. A. Beaty, is responsible each season for the lecture series, which is conducted for the benefit of the students, the faculty members, and their families.

Lt. Col. Howard Arbuckle Assumes Head R.O.T.C.
Succeeds Major Reichel As Head of Military Science

Lt. Col. Howard Bell Arbuckle, Jr., became Professor of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson on Saturday, October 20. Only son of the late Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, formerly of the Davidson College faculty, Lt. Col. Arbuckle attended the Davidson schools and graduated from the college in 1928. He received an LL.B. degree from the Yale Law School in June 1932, and soon afterward began the general practice of law in Charlotte. A specialist in taxation and real estate, in recent years he has been a member of the firm of James J. Harris & Co., located in the Johnston building. Receiving his military training at Davidson in the unit which he now commands, Lt. Col. Arbuckle was a member of the Infantry Reserve when he was called to active duty on January 16, 1942. Prior to their wedding on March 2, 1940, Mrs. Arbuckle was Miss Betty Harper, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Finley Gwyn Harper of Hickory. Since their marriage, they were active in the social and civic life of Charlotte. After a period of duty at Ft. Knox, Kentucky, Lt. Col. Arbuckle was transferred to the office of the Provost Marshall General in the Pentagon Building, Washington. His ascendency from his reserve captaincy through the intermediate grades to his present rank has been rapid and the college and community of Davidson extend a cordial welcome to Lt. Col. and Mrs. Arbuckle.

Richard Baker Visits Davidson
Makes Interesting Chapel Talk To Students

Mr. Richard Baker, of New York City, visited the Davidson College Campus on Friday, October 26, in the interest of the World Student Service Fund. This exists for the benefit of students in foreign lands and represents an enterprise in which the colleges of North Carolina have manifested a genuine interest. Mr. Baker addressed the students at the chapel hour Friday. A graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism, where he received an M.A. degree, Mr. Baker did his undergraduate study at Cornell College, Mount Vernon, Iowa. He traveled the world on a Pulitzer Prize Fellowship and represented the Methodist board at the World Youth Conference at Amsterdam in 1939. The degree of Bachelor of Divinity was conferred upon him in 1941 by Union Theological Seminary, New York City. From 1940 through 1943 he was associate editor of the WORLD OUTLOOK. For the past two years, Mr. Baker has been a member of the Faculty of the Post War School of Journalism in Chunking, China. He did pioneer work in this school, which is sponsored by Columbia University, before returning to the states in late July of this year.

Organization Friday Night Dance To Be Informal; Recorded Music

Bill Pollard, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, recently announced that the first set of main dances scheduled for this year will be held in the college gymnasium on Friday evening, November 16 and Saturday evening, November 17. Mr. Pollard states that the dance Friday night will be of an informal nature; music being furnished by a recorder. The dance will commence at 10 o'clock and terminate at 1 o'clock. The fraternity houses will remain open for visitors until 2:30 A.M. Intermission will be held from 11:30 to 12 midnight. Admission to the informal dance Friday night is $1.50, and tickets can be secured from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The formal dance Saturday night will begin at 8:30 P.M. and will close at midnight. Music is to be furnished by an orchestra, to be announced at a later date. Fraternity court will remain open until 12:30 Sunday morning. The formal dance Saturday evening will be highlighted by the formation of the figure just preceding the intermission. The figure is composed of the members of thePan-Hellenic and their sponsors and the Presidents Council of the various fraternities and their sponsors. Intermission will be held from 10:30 until 11 P.M. Admission to this dance will be $3.00, the total admission to both dances being $4.50. President Pollard urges every student to secure a date and be present for these grand annual Fall Dances. The girls will remain in Duke Dormitory during their stay on the campus. Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council are: W. B. Pollard, Beta Theta Pi fraternity; John McAlister, Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity; Dave Neill, Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity; W. B. Higginbotham, Pi Kappa Phi fraternity; John Wall, Kappa Sigma fraternity; Earl Mahone, Kappa Alpha fraternity; Ed Golden, Phi Delta Theta fraternity; and D. H. Lazenby, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Fraternity men are requested to purchase their tickets from their respective representatives on the Council. Remaining students will find tickets available from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Immediately preceding the informal dance Friday evening, the Davidson College Symphonic Band and Glee Club will present a concert in the auditorium of Chambers. The concert is designed to act as entertainment for the students and their dates, and a very delightful concert is being planned.

Head Cheer Leader “HANK” DAVIS

Roy Palmer Makes Talk
Is President Of The Charlotte Chamber Of Commerce

Mr. Roy Palmer, president of the Southern Utilities, the Duke Power Company, and president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, addressed the Davidson student body on October 24 relative to the challenge of scientific progress. Stating that out of the tragedy of war there do come direct and far-reaching benefits, he outlined some of the advances brought about by the acceleration of scientific research during and immediately following World War I, such as: automobiles were made more practical and serviceable; radio was perfected; long-distance telephone service was made convenient; all as the result of knowledge gained during the war.

Mr. Palmer then turned to the progress of industry in its total production program during World War II. After recounting various improvements and new discoveries in the fields of medicine, synthetics, plastics, aerodynamics, and weather predictions, he gave a practical demonstration of wireless light, using several colored fluorescent lighting tubes. Having shown the products of scientific research, Mr. Palmer declared that the challenge of scientific progress is for man, as a sociological being, to draw abreast of that progress by building a deep spiritual character that will be able to control and direct our scientific achievements for the benefit of all men.

Mr. Palmer remained on the Davidson campus the entire day of October 24, where he was the guest of the president, Dr. Cunningham. This was his first address to the members of the Davidson College student body, although he has made frequent visits to the college. We hope to have him back with us again soon to speak to us.

To Continue Three Days
Three Prominent Ministers To Lead In Various Services

Fall Services will consist of a CAMPUS CHRISTIAN MISSION, to be held November 6, 7, and 8 on the Davidson Campus. These services are traditional Religious Emphasis programs sponsored annually by the College Y.M.C.A.

Something new will take place this year. Instead of the usual one-man series, there will be a three-man series of talks. Each speaker this year is a prominent preacher in the South, in addition to being a Davidson Alumnus. Members of the Mission Team are: Dr. B. Frank Hall—Pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in St. Louis, Missouri; Dr. J. J. Murray—Pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Lexington, Virginia; Dr. Dwight Chalmers—Pastor of the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church in Durham, North Carolina. Dr. Harry Goodykoontz of Louisville, Kentucky—who has recently succeeded Dr. Joseph Garrison as Director of Student Work in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.—will be here with the Mission Team in an advisory capacity.

A dynamic theme has been selected for the Mission—“A TIME FOR GREATNESS.” Vigorous and broad, this theme will include a program of chapel talks, classroom discussions, and informal dormitory discussions. The Team Members are expected to arrive on campus late Monday afternoon, November 5th. There will be a supper in the Guest House on this same evening, and the YMCA Cabinet, the YMCA Board of Control, and the Planning Committee for the Mission will be invited.

Tuesday morning, Dr. Cunningham will introduce the Team Members to the Student Body in Chapel, and Dr. Frank Hall will deliver the morning address. In the late afternoon, the Guest Speakers are to be entertained at a Faculty Tea. Dr. J. J. Murray will speak to the Faculty on the subject: “The Need for Faculty Help in Christian Vocational Guidance.” Dr. Harry Goodykoontz will briefly explain the purpose of the Mission at this meeting. The Team Members will eat supper at the various Boarding Houses. Tuesday night, there will be a meeting of the Team and the “Y” Cabinet, and Dr. Goodykoontz will address this group. At 10 o'clock Tuesday and Wednesday nights, dormitory discussions will be held in each dormitory.

Wednesday morning’s Chapel will be conducted by Dr. Dwight Chalmers. A special Evening Discussion will be held at 7:30 P.M. in the Guest House Lounge, and Dr. Frank Hall will lead the session. Thursday morning, Dr. J. J. Murray will deliver the final Chapel talk. The Campus Christian Mission will end with a Communion Service in the College Church at 7:30 P.M. Thursday night. Dr. Chalmers will speak, and the Members of the Team will officiate at the Lord’s Supper.