Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, January 20, 1945

FUTURE CAMPUS CHURCH

FELLOWSHIP GROUP
(Continued from Page 1)

At the meeting, he stated the aim and purpose of such an organization, the purpose being to lead young people
to Christ and to strengthen their faith and spiritual life. The following officers were elected: Ed Golden, president; J.S. Blain,
vice-president; Ann Hoke, secretary; Jack Bagley, treasurer. Dr. Pritchett and Professor Fred K. Fleagle are serving as advisors to the
group. Meetings were held on December 3 and 10, and at the first meeting after Christmas, the group heard Dr.
W.L. Porter, retired professor of biology, speak and lead a discussion on "The Relation of Science and Religion," discussing such
topics as evolution, the proof of the existence of God in nature, etc.

The Westminster Fellowship is a Presbyterian organization, but it is not necessarily denominational. This group is for all students of
the college, so take an interest in it and make it a real Davidson group! Meetings are held in the
Quadwrangler’s Room at 6:30 P.M. each Sunday evening, and faculty members and residents of the community are cordially invited. There
will be no more meetings until the first Sunday of the second semester, when John R. Cunningham will speak on
“The Church in the Peace of the World.” An interesting program has been planned.

ENJOY LANCE PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES Charlotte, N.C. WITH YOUR DRINK

UNION HONORS
(Continued from Page 1)

During this time, he taught in local Sunday Schools, and after he came to seminary, became for two years student
assistant pastor at the Tabb Street Presbyterian Church, Petersburg, Virginia. The Charles D. Larus Fellowship was founded in 1922 by
Mrs. Charles D. Larus of Richmond as a memorial to her husband. Study on this fellowship is pursued in the
graduate department of the seminary.

Albert Winn, the newly-elected Walter W. Moore Fellow, is a native of Greenville, South Carolina. During his senior year, Albert
was president of the Student Body at Davidson, and managing editor of the Davidsonian. A member of Beta Theta Pi,
he served as its president, also, during his final year. Phi Beta Kappa, O.D.K., and Sigma Pi included his name
on their rolls. Religious work included membership in the Y.M.C.A. cabinet of the campus, and outpost mission work done near
Davidson for two years.

The Walter W. Moore Fellowship was so named by the seminary in honor of its first president after it moved
to Richmond, who made a provision in his will for its establishment. The holder of this fellowship may, under the
direction of the faculty, pursue graduate study from Pfeiffer Jr. College. While at Davidson, he was a member of the
Philanthropic Literary Society. At present, in addition to his seminary work, he is serving two churches as student supply pastor,
Manassas and Clifton, Virginia. The faculty also announced that these men may take advantage of the opportunities that these scholarships
avail at a later date, if they so wish, due to the shortage of ministers as chaplains and on the
home front.

AWARDS

Dixon
First Lieutenant Willard P. Dixon has arrived at Army Air Forces Redistribution Station No. 2 in Miami Beach for reassignment
processing after completing a tour of duty outside the continental United States. Lieutenant Dixon was a B-17 pilot who flew
32 missions, winning the DFC, and the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters. He is the son of Royden
Dixon, of Memphis. Before entering the Service in May, 1942, Lieutenant Dixon practiced law. He attended Davidson College, Vanderbilt University,
and received his LLB Degree from Memphis Law School in 1941.

Saltsman
First Lieutenant Robert W. Saltsman, '41, of Catonsville, Md., has been assigned as an instructor at Alexandria Army Air Field,
a Flying Fortress combat crew training center. Lt. Saltsman has seen seven months of service with the armed forces. He
was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, and also the Air Medal and clusters. He graduated from Colora (Md.) West Nottingham
Academy and attended Davidson College.

Dorsett
Major James K. Dorsett, Jr., chief of the counter-intelligence department of the VII corps of the U.S. army and from
January 1 to June 5 in charge of the counter-intelligence planning of the VII corps, was recently awarded the Bronze
Star Medal at his present headquarters in Germany. The citation awarding him the Bronze Star for the part he played
in the invasion of Europe reads: “As a result of his careful analysis and thoroughness in the preparation of vital
plans, the counter-intelligence plans were developed accurately and efficiently. The outstanding performance of duty of Major Dorsett contributed greatly to
the success of the VII corps.”

Love
Second Lieutenant J. Inglis Love, son of Mr. and Mrs. MeadeA. Love, who is stationed in England with the 77th
Troop Carrier Squadron, has been awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement while participating in aerial flights on August 15
and 16, 1944. As a Troop Carrier glider pilot in the airborne invasion of Southern France, he piloted his glider
to vital landing zones on unfavorable terrain with uncanny precision after consummating long over-water flights at low altitudes into the
face of enemy opposition and through treacherous fog conditions. The superb manner in which assigned missions were accomplished despite the
hazards encountered, combined with a demonstration of the highest qualities of courage, unusual flying skill, and deep devotion to duty,
reflects the highest credit upon Lt. Love and the armed forces of the United States.

Baker
Marine Captain Thompson S. Baker, son of Mr. John D. Baker of Jacksonville, Fla., has been awarded the Bronze Star
Medal for meritorious service in the South Pacific. A graduate of Georgia Military Academy and Davidson College, Captain Baker enlisted
in the Marine Corps in August 1942 and won his commission one year later. After attending special communication schools, he
shipped overseas with a Marine aviation unit. The citation accompanying the award reads: “For meritorious service as Special Equipment Officer
attached to a Marine night fighter squadron operating in the South Pacific area from August 24, 1943, to February 16,
1944. During this period, Captain Baker, by efficient operation of his equipment, was instrumental in the interception of numerous Japanese
aircraft attempting to attack our beachhead at Empress Augusta Bay, Bougainville. On several occasions during bombing attacks, he directed pilots
of our night fighter planes into positions from which they succeeded in shooting down three enemy bombers and probably a
fourth. During these attacks, his control station, situated above ground, was struck repeatedly by shrapnel. Despite the danger from concussion
and shell fragments, he remained at his post and continued to furnish the necessary information which resulted in the successful
destruction of the enemy planes.”

WOUNDED
Alexander
Private First Class Jake F. Alexander, a former Davidson College student from Forest City, N.C., was seriously wounded in action
on the Western front on November 17, 1944. During his training and while in combat, Jake distinguished himself as a
First Gunner in a machine gun outfit. After being seriously wounded on November 17, he was placed in hospitals in
Holland and Belgium and is currently in an American hospital in England. After recuperating sufficiently, the medics say that Jake
is to be brought to the United States and hospitalized near his hometown.

MISSING
Tinsley
Corporal High W. Tinsley, a member of the infantry on the European western battle front, has been reported missing in
action since December 12 in Germany, according to a telegram received by his wife, Mrs. Ruth Neil Tinsley, of Chester,
from the War Department. Corporal Tinsley is the son of Mrs. Mary Hafner Tinsley and the late Theodore N. Tinsley.
Prior to entering the service on October 15, 1942, he was one of the officials of the Chester branch of
Swift and Company. He has been in some of the heaviest fighting since he landed in France last August 1.
He was awarded the Purple Heart medal. He has been wounded twice, first on September 28, when he was confined
to a hospital and rest center until he was able to return to combat duty on November 10. He was
wounded again in action on November 14. He was taken to a hospital and some time later returned to combat
duty. He attended the Citadel and graduated from Davidson in 1931.

Hunter
Private First Class Ernest B. Hunter, Jr., of Charlotte, has been missing in action in Germany since December 16. His
parents were informed recently in a telegram from the War Department. Hunter was an infantry scout with the 78th Division.
His division left the United States in October 1944, spent about three weeks in England, and then landed in France
at Rouen and Le Havre. On the morning of December 16, the day he was reported missing, his division, a
part of the American First Army, was reported to have gone into action early on the morning of December 13.

KILLED
Henning
Major Richard Townsend Henning, '40, holder of the DFC and the Air Medal with a number of clusters, was killed
in a plane crash in Kharagpur, India, on November 19.

Holland
Lieutenant Donald W. Holland, '45, was killed in action in France on December 7. A previous message had stated that
he was missing in action. He attended officers’ training school at Fort Benning, Ga., and was in the 100th Division
of the infantry.
