—— The MDavidsonian
“ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS”
Vol. XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, NOV. 15, 1945 No. 4

MORROW CHOSEN ANNUAL HEAD

Dushkin Gives Violin Recital
Audience Thrilled Over Magnificent Concert Performance

The second program in the current concert series at Davidson College was presented by Samuel Dushkin, violinist, Monday, November 12, in Chambers auditorium. Born in Russia, now an American citizen, Mr. Dushkin, student of Kreisler, Renny, and Auer, began his concert career at the age of six. In extensive tours throughout Europe and the United States, he has met with universal acclaim. Mr. Dushkin has played in all the important European capitals, both with orchestra and in recitals. He was first heard in this country with the New York Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Walter Damrosch. He is acclaimed as being a master of classics and an interpreter of the foremost modern works. He has collaborated with outstanding contemporary composers as Ravel and Stravinsky, having participated in the world premiere of these and other works.

Mr. Dushkin in his program presented “Concertino” by Pergolesi, Schumann's “Phantasie; Sonata in E flat Major” by Beethoven, “Quo Vadis” and “Polonaise” by Richard Strauss, “Berceuse from the Firebird” by Stravinsky, “Rondo Variato” by Reiter, Verga Thompson’s “Three Portraits”, and Sarasate’s “Caprice Basque”. Mr. Paul Berl assisted Mr. Dushkin at the piano.

Colonel Steel Reviews ROTC

On Wednesday afternoon, November 7, Col. Steel of Davidson was honored by the members of the ROTC department in a parade and review held on Richardson Field. Col. Steel, who for forty months was a prisoner of war in Manchuria and who just recently was released as a prisoner of the Japs following the end of the war with Japan, returned to Davidson last week for a (Continued on Page 3)

PRESENTS RECITAL
SAMUEL DUSHKIN

Pictured above are the speakers who appeared on the campus last week during the annual Fall services. From left to right are: Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, Dr. Newton Spencer, secretary of the Y.M.C.A. Harry Goodykoontz, and J. J. Murray.

Dr. Frank Hall, Mr. Petticord To Play For Formal Dance Saturday, Nov. 17th.

Fall Services Come To Close
Was The First Davidson Campus Christian Mission

The annual Fall Services were closed Thursday evening, November 8, with a Communion Service held in the local church. A large and inspired group attended the final services, led by Dr. Frank Hall, pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of St. Louis, Missouri, Dr. J. J. Murray, pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian Church of Lexington, Va., and Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the Trinity Avenue Presbyterian Church of Durham, N. C. Mr. Harry G. Goodykoontz, director of student work in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., of Louisville, Kentucky assisted in the services.

The theme of the Davidson College Christian Campus Mission was “A Time for Greatness.” On Tuesday, November 6, Dr. Hall was in charge of the chapel service and gave an inspiring talk on “God's Strategy for Life”. The remainder of the morning was occupied with the ministers visiting various classes and speaking to them. In the evening, discussions were held in the dormitories.

Dr. Chalmers spoke to the student body and members of the community Wednesday morning at Chapel on the subject of “The Laboratory Method in Religion”. In the afternoon, Dr. Hall addressed the members of the Physics class on the subject of “At- (Continued on Page 3)

Westminster Retreat Held
Approximately Sixty Students Attend Three Day Rally

The annual Retreat of the Westminster Fellowship of the Synod of North Carolina was held at Davidson College, November 2, 3, 4th. The theme of the meeting was “A Living Faith for the Way Ahead.” Sixty students came from the various colleges in the state for the three-day event. They were housed on the campus in Duke dormitory. The principal speaker for the Retreat was the Rev. James M. Appleby, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Anderson, S. C., and a graduate of Davidson of the class of 1926. Leading the group in discussions concerning church-relatedColleges was Miss Natalie Moffit and the Rev. Joseph M. Garrison, pastor of the Church of the Covenant of Greensboro, and also a graduate of the class of 1926 of Davidson. Similar discussions were conducted by Dr. Dwight M. Chalmers, pastor of the Trinity Avenue Church of Durham, and a graduate of Davidson of the class of 1920. Miss Betty Scott Barker, of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, and one of the adult advisors for the group, was in charge of the registration. The business of the meeting began Friday following a supper at the college guest house, under the supervision of Mrs. Gordon (Continued on Page 3).

State-supported college William S. Pollard, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has announced that plans for the annual Fall Dances have been completed, and the only remaining item is for the students to secure their dates. Johnie Petticord and his orchestra, Korn Kobbles, from Winston-Salem, will furnish the music for the Saturday evening gala occasion. Music Friday night for the informal dance will be furnished by Charlie Spivak and his orchestra, Woody Herman and his orchestra, Benny Goodman and his clarinet, Tommy Dorsey and his trombone, and various other recorded records. Tickets are now on sale for the two-night dances and can be secured from any member of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The girls will be housed in Duke dormitory throughout the weekend. Fraternity houses will remain open during the entire weekend to visitors.

The informal dance on Friday will begin at 9 o'clock and continue until 1 A.M. The informal dance on Saturday night will begin at 8:30 and last until 12 midnight, the occasion being highlighted by the figure immediately before the intermission. The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council other than President Pollard are: John McAlister of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, Dave Neill of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, Warren Higginbotham of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, Earl Mahone of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, Thacker Thrower of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, Ed Golden of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and Dexter Lazenby of the Phi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Editorial Staff Yet Undecided

Publications Board Will Appoint Business Manager

Leona Howell Morrow, a member of the senior class from West Point, Georgia, was recently elected editor of the college annual, “The Quips and Cranks,” by members of the senior class. Morrow entered the freshman class at Davidson in 1940 and remained through his junior year when he volunteered for the service of his country. During that time he was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, which has just recently been reactivated. In addition, he served on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian as managing editor. In his junior year, he was the managing editor of the annual, after having excellent experience in that field. In his junior year, he was editor of the college magazine, “The Scripts ’n Pranks,” which has been discontinued during the past war years. Morrow is a member of the Forensic Council and was a member of the debating team his junior year. He is also a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and of the Sigma Upsilon honorary literary society. In June of 1943, he entered into the service. He first served with the Infantry until he was transferred to the Army Air Corps where he obtained the rank of Second Lt. Navigator. At present, the business manager has not been appointed by the Publications Board, but will be announced in the near future. Editor Morrow has not yet submitted the list of the editorial staff for publication, but it will be carried in the next issue of the Davidsonian.

The “Quips and Cranks” is an annual publication of the college. It was discontinued in 1944 due to war restrictions, but was returned to campus prominence last year, when Lee Drake, of Richmond, Va., was editor and Jim Love, of Greensboro, was business manager. The members of the student body extend a hearty congratulation to Editor Morrow on his election to such an outstanding office.

ANNUAL EDITOR HOWELL MORROW