ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

VOL. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1945 No. 16

FIVE MEN GIVEN BIDS BY ODK

D.C. Aids In War Effort
Over Two Thousand Alumni Now Serving Their Country

Situated on the ridge of hills that crosses North Mecklenburg, Davidson College has, with a poise and dignity acquired during 109 years of existence, maintained her traditions while making a sizable contribution to the winning of the war. Fully realizing that the peculiar genius of the Christian College is in the field of Peace and World Brotherhood, Davidson nevertheless freely offered her facilities for the training of young men for the Army. Since this period of double duty began in March 1943, the college has maintained her standards in civilian instruction and has at the same time had a vital part in the initial training of 2227 students of the Army Air Forces.

Since the War Department withdrew the last of its trainees in December 1944, Davidson once again became a civilian college, imparting the ideals of liberal education and Christian living to a small student body made up of the very young, those physically unfit for the rigors of military life, and those devoted to the Christian ministry. Men who may still grasp a few months of Davidson's cultural, scientific, and religious training do so in the hope of having a better part in the better society of future years.

Both of the student military training units at Davidson were under the control of the Army, and the trainees were given instructions in specialized courses prescribed by the Army Air Forces. For this reason, these Army students were never a part of the civilian college. The alumni office at the college made no attempt to keep up with their military careers after their departure from the campus and does not consider them to be alumni of the institution.

Those at the helm at Davidson believe that by far the greatest contribution by the college to the war effort has been made through the regular civilian students and alumni (most of them trained here by the college R.O.T.C.) who are all active on numerous battle fronts of the world and in all branches of the service. The evidence (Continued on Page 3)

Pfohl Conducts At Washington
Davidson Professor Receives High Honor

Professor James Christian Pfohl, director of the Davidson Music Department, was guest conductor of the National Symphony Orchestra at the Sunset Watergate concert on Sunday, July 8. The program was one of a series of eighteen such concerts, presented from a barge on the Potomac River, near the Lincoln Memorial. Besides the Sunday series, there are also Wednesday and Friday concerts during the summer, under the management of Hans Kindler, the permanent conductor of the orchestra.

One of the few Southern musicians to be paid this high honor, and probably the only one without professional experience, Mr. Pfohl had the privilege of selecting his own program, provided it did not duplicate others. It included compositions by Bach, Bizet, Ravel, Dvorak, and Lamar Stringfield, a Carolina composer, and featured the second piano concerto by Rachmaninoff.

Mr. Pfohl has been Director of Music at Davidson for twelve years and at Queens for six. He is conductor of the Queens-Davidson Symphony Orchestra and the Charlotte Mint Museum Chamber Orchestra, and is founder and Director of the Transylvania Music Camp at Brevard. His work has been of the highest order and his contribution to the vitality of music in this area has long been widely recognized.

Mr. Pfohl's years at Davidson have been ones of success and happiness for him. In speaking of the Symphonic band he says: “In more ways than one, I would rather work with a band containing 30 members than with one with 80 members, for it is with a small group where one can obtain the best quality of music, for each individual is responsible for his own part, and must play it well.”

LAZENBY BUDDY WELLS

Wells Elected
Will Serve Office During Summer Months

At the first summer meeting of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity, held in Chambers building on July 3, Buddy Wells, of Richmond, Va., was elected to serve as president of the Davidson chapter for the summer terms. He succeeds Jim Alexander, of Charlotte, who was president of the organization last year. Wells is a member of the senior class.at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He is the publicity agent of the YMCA this summer, and, in addition, is a member of the Court of Control. While a member of the student body here before he entered Union, Wells was president of the YMCA his senior year. He was a member of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity; a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society; a member of the Glee Club for three years; and a member of the YMCA Cabinet for two years.

ROBINSON

Student Council to Sponsor Dance In Gym Saturday Nite
YMCA To Sponsor Picnic Before The Dance

The forthcoming weekend shows promise of being one of the biggest events of the campus to be held this summer, for it will be at that time when the YMCA is going to sponsor a picnic for the students to be followed by a student body dance sponsored by the Student Council. The picnic will take place directly behind the fraternity court at the college barbecue pit. The entire student body has been given a cordial invitation to attend the picnic, and the various boarding houses, being closed at that time, will furnish the food for the occasion. The picnic will begin promptly at six P.M.

The dance will be held in the gymnasium on the college campus, and will begin promptly at eight-thirty o'clock. The dance will be informal for both boys and girls, and there is no reason why a large crowd shouldn't turn out for the gala occasion. The entire fraternity court will be opened Saturday night for all visitors, and each fraternity president has extended a very cordial invitation to drop by the fraternity houses during the evening. The various fraternity houses will be open immediately following the picnic, and will remain open until the dance begins. In addition, they will also open their doors to visitors at the intermission of the dance, if there is one. Everyone has looked forward with wild anticipation to the dance this weekend when all can have a grand and glorious time. The visiting girls will reside at the Guest House and at various homes in the community, and all students will have to register their dates with Ed Golden beforehand. It is sincerely hoped that all students will enter into this function and make it a great success. All students are invited and many good records have been selected. Various members of the faculty will act as chaperons for the dance. So come out and enjoy the dance.

SCARBOROUGH

Initiation To Be Tuesday
Golden, Lazenby, Robinson, Scarborough, Baker Tapped

In chapel last Thursday morning the Delta circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, tapped five Davidson students—two seniors, two juniors, and one graduate student. The five men upon which so great an honor was bestowed were Ed Golden, Jack Lazenby, Jim Robinson, Al Scarborough, and Dave Baker.

Golden
Ed Golden is a member of the Junior class this summer. His home is in Jacksonville, Fla., and he is a pre-ministerial student. He is in charge of the social work of the YMCA and has been a member of the “Y” cabinet for one year. He served on the Court of Control last semester. In addition, he is the co-pastor of the Davidson Unity Church, and is a member of the student council.

Lazenby
Dexter Lazenby, of Statesville, is a member of the Senior class, and is taking a pre-medical course. He is president of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, and business manager of the Davidsonian. He is Judge of the Court of Control this summer. In his freshman year he was a member of the Davidson Symphonic Band, and at present holds membership in the Le Cercle Francais.

Robinson
Jim Robinson, of Decatur, Ga., is a member of the Senior class. He is also a member of the Senior class at the Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet, being in charge of Vespers. In addition, he is serving on the Court of Control this summer.

Scarborough
Al Scarborough, of Sumter, S.C., is a member of the Junior class. He is president of the student body, representative on the student cabinet. He served on the student council last semester, and played on the varsity basketball team last year.

Baker
Dave Baker is a summer school (Continued on Page 3)