Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, February 24, 1945

Q-D DANCES
(Continued from Page 1)

has been passed, there is no reason why many informal parties should not be held here. These would be beneficial
in several ways: First of all, it would enable the student to have a good time right here on the
campus without having to go away on the weekends, and without the need of spending a great deal of money.
Secondly, it would enable girls to visit our campus more frequently and, consequently, the school will become more popular. And
lastly, the social life of the student would be greatly enlarged, and this is something that no man should overlook.

Because of the present difficulties in travel which compel most students to remain on the campus more than they would
in ordinary times, the social department of the Y cabinet has planned a series of social functions which will be
held on the campus during the remainder of the semester. A resume of the tentative plans is as follows:

During the first part of March, a combined student body banquet and dormitory stunt night is to be held in
the banquet hall of Chambers, with Andy Owens in charge. The function for the latter part of March will be
an Athletic night which is to be held in cooperation with the college athletic department. In April, Davidson will play
host to the girls from Converse for the first Davidson-Converse day to be held on the campus in several years.
The social department of the Y cabinet is planning two major social activities per month during the present semester. As
yet, the plans have been made through the first part of April, but there will probably be one more function
in April and two in May. The rest of the plans will be published as soon as they are released.

CLASS ELECTIONS
(Continued from Page 1)

Elections for a Student Government Representative from the Sophomore class to succeed George Gunn have not been completed as yet.
President Waters has stated that a run-off between Tim Webb, of Montreat, and Al Scarborough, of Sumter, will be held
soon.

FACULTY PLANS
(Continued from Page 1)

qualify them for admission be allowed to demonstrate capacity to succeed in college by doing creditable work in freshman courses
in languages or mathematics during the summer session.

Dunbar Studios
Portraits Copies
230 N. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

MUSIC NEWS
(Continued from Page 1)

vance on the bulletin boards the music. Last Friday, Frank West played Beethoven’s 2nd Symphony and the famous “Romeo and
Juliet” made strictly milk-and-water in the “Our Love” of Tin-Pan Alley. If the Carnegie set hasn't got it, it may
be in the collection, almost as large, of Columbia owned by the chapter and just made available for hearing.

Phi Mu Alpha
Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, recently enlarged, has elected Bob Hollinger, president; Mel Winstead, vice president; Frank West,
secretary-treasurer; Ellis White, historian; Herb Wyatt. Plans have been made for the group to hold quests.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are welcomed: records new officers: and warden. Two meetings a month, one business and one program meeting. A committee has
been appointed to get up a function for some time this Spring. The chapter is doing its best to secure
a permanent chapter room on the campus, to house the two record collections and to provide a congenial meeting place.
Phi Mu Alpha, say the members, intends to remain the most active honorary fraternity on the campus and with this
end in view it actively supports all musical events, participates in all musical organizations—the Glee Club and the Symphonic Band,
and tries in every way to make the student body more music-conscious.

CHAPEL TALK (Continued from Page 1)

land, and he is well acquainted with the Japanese military machine. He does not, however, believe that the Japanese nation
must be destroyed. On the contrary, it is the duty of the Allied Nations to help the people of Japan
to establish their country firmly and on a peaceable basis. Commercial treaties and industrial aid are essential in helping Japan,
and aid in establishing a proper government must also be given. Mr. Hudson’s fourth point requires that we help Japan
spiritually. Christianity must be established, for “fundamentally, they need a change of heart.” Finally, we must “forgive the common people
of Japan and receive them as equals.” A definite distinction has been made between the military party and the Japanese
people, and the two factions must be dealt with in different ways.

We listen to our customers, write down their pretty swell ads to him. They’re ain't much the way to make
a living? It is said in Charlotte that sooner or later everyone is attracted to the STEAK HOUSE. If our
ads attract you here for the first time, you'll come back for more. Lunch: 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Evening:
5:30 to 9:30 p.m. CLOSED SUNDAYS.

235 S. TRYON

Paul & Crymes, Inc. Sporting Goods 415 S. Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

DAVIDSON DINING ROOM

Mrs. Copeland

J. O. JONES, Inc.

COME SEE US FOR YOUR SPRING Short Coats and Slacks

J. O. JONES, Inc.

THACKER’S, INC. “A Good Place to Eat” 221 S. Tryon St. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Private Dining Room For Parties and
Banquets

and Candies

FOOD PRODUCTS CHARLOTTE, N. C.

On Campus

In clothes from Mellon’s, you'll be the envy of all the guys...and... Off campus is where you'll really come into
your own! Mellon’s College Clothes are chosen carefully with an eye to the trend of the times. You'll have plenty
of time to shop on Thursday evenings, for we’re open each Thursday ’til 9 P.M. Hope we'll see you soon,
Ed. Mellon Co. OPEN EVERY THURSDAY 'TIL 9 P.M.
