The Davidsonian — ALERDA uz 88) ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1951

GRADUATION EXERCISES FRIDAY

Dance Held Last Week
Twenty-Five Couples Attend Informal Dance

A dance, sponsored by the student council Saturday night, August 11, was attended by twenty-five couples. This dance was preceded by a picnic supper sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. The picnic included hot dogs, sandwiches, cold drinks, and ice cream served cafeteria style at the barbecue pit behind fraternity court. After the food was devoured, couples ambled till dance time. The dance began at 8:30 P.M. according to schedule with everyone arriving about 9:30 P.M. The music was furnished by a juke box.

(Continued on Page 4)

HEADS COURT
ROD MACDONALD

Macdonald Heads Court This Term

Thomas A. Logan Weds Mrs. Pfohl
Impressive Ceremony Held At Blowing Rock

A wedding ceremony of beauty and simplicity was performed at Blowing Rock August 11 at 4:30 o'clock at the summer home of Mr. and Mrs. F. G. Harper, when Mrs. Adele Arbuckle Pfohl became the bride of Dr. Thomas Swindall Logan. Rev. Walter Keys, pastor of the Rumple Memorial Presbyterian Church of Blowing Rock, officiated. Following a ten-day wedding trip in the North Carolina mountains, the couple will be at home in Davidson.

Mrs. Logan, prior to her first marriage, was Miss Adele Arbuckle, only daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. Howard B. Arbuckle of Davidson. A sister of Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., of Charlotte and Washington, D.C., she graduated from Agnes Scott College with an A.B. degree in 1931. Dr. Logan has held the position of Associate Professor of Chemistry at Davidson College since 1937. The son of Mrs. John G. Logan and the late Rev. John G. Logan of Elberton, Georgia, he received his B.S. and Master's degree in Chemistry at Emory University, and his doctorate at Johns Hopkins.

(Continued on Page 4)

Wall, Crawford, Brooks, Stukes, Nisbet On Court

New members of the Court of Control for the second term of summer school have been appointed. Rod Macdonald, of Rock Hill, S.C., has been named judge. Macdonald is a member of the Junior class, a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and has served on the court for two semesters. It is his sincere desire that the court be high in ideal and firm in action. To quote Judge Macdonald: “The purpose of the Court of Control is to ensure the ‘life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness’ of every freshman.”

Serving under Judge Macdonald are J. A. Wall, J. C. Crawford, R. M. Brooks, J. T. Stukes, J. A. Nisbet, while two members remain in- The court functions in close cooperation with the student council, as its verdicts are backed by the same. The new court has met twice this summer in order to reckon with violators of the freshman regulations and through its infinite wisdom has campused the freshman class for one week ending August 13. Though the court action at times may seem drastic, it must be remembered that such action is taken for the purpose of aiding the over-enthusiastic freshman to develop into manhood! All upperclassmen are urged to cooperate with the court this term.

Goldier Returns To French Department
Has Been Professor At Mary Baldwin College

Professor A. V. Goldier, who has been visiting professor of French at Mary Baldwin College for a year, has returned to Davidson, accompanied by his wife, the former Miss Janet Harris of Macon, N.C. In the coming school year, he will teach courses in French at Queens College, but he and Mrs. Goldier will maintain their home at Davidson.

Dr. Goldier, a native of Boston, Mass., has degrees from Dartmouth College and Yale University, and has studied at the University de Caen, Centro de los Estudios Host- (Madrid), French Institute State College, University of Chicago, and University of North Carolina. He came to Davidson in 1922.

TO SPEAK
DR. WALTER L. LINGLE

Dr. Walter L. Lingle To Address Seniors

Council Adds New Members

RogersAnd McLean Succeed Pollard And Simpson

After the withdrawal from summer school of W. C. Pollard and W. T. Simpson, representing the sophomore and junior classes, respectively, on the student council, two new representatives were elected from the student body: Bill McLean from Lenoir, N. C., representing the sophomore class, and Bill Rogers from El Dorado, Ark., representing the junior class.

Bill Rogers spent his first days at Davidson College during 1939 through 1941, at which time he was a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity; vice-president of the Forensic Council; a member of Eumenean Literary Society; and active on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. Bill has been away from college for three and one-half years during which time he served as a pilot in the Army Air Force with the rank of Captain. He has now returned to Davidson after a student body:

(Continued on Page 4)

Well Known As Preacher, Speaker, and Writer

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President Emeritus of Davidson College and eminent preacher, speaker, and writer, will deliver the principal address to the members of the graduation class at the Commencement exercises Friday, August 24.

Dr. Lingle received his A.B. degree from Davidson College in 1892, and his A.M. degree in 1893. He attended the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond from 1893-1896; and the University of Chicago in the summer of 1896. He was professor of Church History at the Union Theological Seminary from 1911-1924. From 1924-1929 he was president of the Presbyterian General Assembly Training School in Richmond. In 1929 he assumed the position as president of Davidson College. While a member of the student body at Davidson, Dr. Lingle was a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity.

Dr. Lingle is well known in the South as a minister, having served pastorates in Dalton, Ga., Rock Hill, S. C., and Atlanta, Ga. From 1912-1922 he was Editor of the Union Seminary Review.

Ten Students Get Diplomas

War-Time Commencement Exercises To Be Shortened And Simplified

On Friday, August 24, Davidson College will observe her third Commencement exercises during 1945. Dr. Walter L. Lingle of Davidson, President Emeritus of the College and eminent preacher, speaker, and writer, will deliver the principal address to the graduates. Following the ceremonies, which will be shortened and simplified in keeping with the war-time regulations, ten diplomas will be awarded.

Those expecting to receive the coveted degrees are:

Bachelor of Science: George Marshall Apperson, Jr.; James Stuart Dendy; Henry Newton Spencer; Philip Coombe Whittier;

Bachelor of Arts: James Stanton Blain; Herbert Bruce Fisher; William Robert Smith, II; Horatio Harold Wells, Jr.;

Bachelor of Arts Summa cum Laude: James McConkey Robinson;

and Bachelor of Science (to be conferred in absentia): John Fletcher Booth, Jr.

APPERSON

George Apperson, of Mocksville, is a pre-ministerial student. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, National Honorary Leadership Fraternity. Last year he was president of the senior class and was a member of the student council. He was also pastor of the Davidson Unity Church last year. He expects to enter the Union Theological Seminary this fall.

DENDY

Jim Dendy, of Weaverville, will receive a B.S. degree in Music. He has been very active in all phases of music since he first entered Davidson College. Last year he was organist of the First Presbyterian Church of Davidson. He intends to continue his study of music after his graduation, as he will enter the Juilliard School of Music this fall.

SPENCER

Newt Spencer is a pre-ministerial student from Plainfield, N. J. While at Davidson he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He was also co-manager of the student store in his sophomore year. He was a member of the student council in his senior year, and served on the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet. He plans to enter into the field of missionary work after the necessary preparation.

WHITTIER

Phil Whittier, of Alpharetta, Ga.,

(Continued on Page 3)

GRADUATE AT END OF SUMMER SCHOOL

Dendy
Fisher
Robinson
Smith
Wells