Thursday, August 23, 1945 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page 6

The Old Gym Is Demolished
Morrison Hall Serves Davidson College For Half Century

Progress means change; that axiomatic truth is nowhere more evident than in war. It has been dramatically illustrated in the rapidity with which both strategy and tactics have been modified in the present world conflict. Modern warfare, with its many implements of death and destruction, its marvelous devices for transportation and rapid construction, is a far cry from the slow and ponderous struggles of the ancients and offers a marked contrast even to the military science and implements of our own Civil War period.

In times of peace likewise, techniques and equipment are of necessity abandoned, disregarded, or destroyed to make way for something better. In all areas of life, this is a law of progress which often assumes the role of a ruthless imperative. In manufacturing and business life, great sacrifices are frequently made in order to improve the product or simplify the procedure. It is a commonplace experience that what is today thought to be “the last word” is tomorrow found to be outmoded and obsolete.

Nowhere is this inexorable law of life more clearly illustrated than on the college campus. In spite of an inherent tendency to hallow the past and revere the inherited traditions of the founding fathers, the authorities of modern educational institutions realize the necessity of keeping pace with a fast-moving procession of improvement. If the price of obsolescence is high in education, the discovery of new methods and better devices is constant — and the urgency of their use often obligatory. In the area of the physical at least, what was considered by our fathers and grandfathers to be the summum bonum is today recognized as unsuited for present needs.

Not alone in the strictly utilitarian is felt this necessity or desire for change. With the passing of the years, there has come to civilized man a new appreciation of beauty and a better understanding of the value of harmony in design and artistries. That “a thing of beauty is a joy forever” has deeper implications today than when the phrase was first uttered. Accustomed as we are to hear of “the beauty of holiness,” in recent years there has been a new emphasis placed upon the fact that there is also a holiness of beauty.

The builders of the original quadrangle at Davidson College, more than a century ago, were doubtless influenced by the architecture of the University of Virginia as there is much in common between the two styles. It is unfortunate that those who were responsible in later years failed to follow the neo-classic pattern of the founders. The campus of the nineties became a hodgepodge of varied and conflicting periods and contours. In more recent years, the desired unity of design has been re-established; a fact well illustrated by the new Chambers Building, the Grey Memorial Library, and its companion, the Martin Science Building. It is agreed by present authorities that in the construction of the post-war period this predominant style will be followed.

In 1888, Professor Henry Louis Smith, later president of Davidson and now a resident of Greensboro, began the agitation for a Y.M.C.A. building. Since 1855, a student organization known as the “Williams Society” had served the spiritual needs of the men on the campus.

NEW MAJOR ARRIVES
Major Reichel Assumes Head R.O.T.C. Military Department

In 1879, it had become known as the college Y.M.C.A. Dr. Smith led in the effort to raise funds for the erection of a combination Y.M.C.A.-Gymnasium building and in 1888 visited about fifty churches in the South and successfully presented the need. The following year when Dr. John Bunyan Shearer was inaugurated as president, his first official act was the presentation of $500 to the building fund. Before the fund had reached the required $4,000, the contract was let and at Commencement 1890 the cornerstone of the first Y.M.C.A. Building on a southern campus was laid with elaborate ceremonies. After the completion of the exercises, Dr. George Summel (of the class of 1870, now a resident of New Orleans and Davidson’s oldest living alumnus) mounted the rostrum and after explaining the “A.B.” stood for “A Beggar” proved that he deserved the degree by promptly raising the final six hundred dollars.

The college catalogue of 1892 describes the new edifice as follows: “It is a handsome and massive two-story building, sixty-eight feet by forty-three. The lower story with a gallery all around, is a gymnasium and the upper story divided into an assembly hall, a parlor, and a Bible-class and reading room. The whole is neatly and even elegantly furnished. It is called the Morrison Memorial Hall, in honor of the first president of the college. It is the first building of its kind to be erected on the campus of a southern college.”

And now after a half-century of service, the old building is to take its place along with old Chambers (which burned November 28, 1921), and the Martin Chemistry Laboratory as the focus of memories of happy associations and fruitful years. During its fifty-five years of service, parts of Morrison Hall have at one time or another served as a Y.M.C.A., a study hall, a gymnasium, a skating rink, a lecture hall, a dormitory, classrooms, a biological laboratory, R.O.T.C. Armory and storerooms, and more recently has housed the student store. It has been variously known as “Morrison Hall,” the “old gym,” the “Eagle's Nest,” “Jackson Hall,” and “The Stud.” Its walls enclosed the first shower bath, with hot and cold water, to appear on “the hill.” Although many buildings have been erected since the turn of the century, this was the only one to be constructed on the campus during the forty years between 1860 and 1900. Having no essential architectural character or “blending” with other campus buildings, it has of late years been recognized as a distinct eyesore. During the coming week, the old structure will feel the impact of hammer and saw as a crew of workmen begin the task of its annihilation. The campus will thereby be beautified and the way cleared forBuildings in the post-war era, the plaintive words reading: “Dear Santa Claus: Wanted, a new gym” (inscribed by students on the south door—a 1941 holiday prank) will be heeded when war restrictions are lifted and construction begins again at Davidson.

Frats Pledge New Students
Second Term Rush Week Totals Ten Men

Dean of Students John C. Bailey of Davidson College today announced the results of student pledging following the recent opening of the second term of the summer session on the campus. A total of 10 men were bid by the local chapters of four national social fraternities. The list of those selected includes the following:

By Beta Theta Pi: R. H. Poole of Elizabethtown and C. Schmidt of Shelbyville, Ky.
By Kappa Alpha: J. C. Crawford of Cheraw, S. C. and William F. Harris of Charlotte.
By Pi Kappa Alpha: J. W. Hevener of Upper Montclair, N. J. and R. C. Bigelow of Worcester, Mass.
By Phi Delta Theta: E. S. Golden of Neptune Beach, Fla., W. D. Johnson of Raleigh, J. F. Martin of Smithfield, and J. H. Waldrop of Granville.

Buy Bonds!
Kale-Lawing Co.
See Us For—Office and School Supplies
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Arrives From Camp Gordon To Succeed Major E. E. Marsh

Major Paul A. Reichel, Infantry, U. S. A., reported at Davidson College July 21, to assume command of the 26-year-old R.O.T.C. unit. A native of Buffalo, N.Y., Major Reichel is a graduate of Ohio State University (1944) and did graduate work on his master's degree in education at the University of Rochester. For seventeen years he taught at East High School, Rochester, through 1941. From June 1942 until August 1944, Major Reichel served in the Southwest Pacific area. He was commandant at Camp Gordon from October 1944 until he was relieved several weeks ago to assume his new duties as professor of military science and tactics at Davidson. He served as architect for the American Presbyterian Mission in Thailand from 1919 to 1924 and was president of the Aviation Cadet Examining Board at Syracuse, N.Y., in 1942. A veteran of World War I, Major Reichel was traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement of the Y.M.C.A. in 1916 and 1917. He also served for a time as Y.M.C.A. secretary at the University of South Dakota.

Major Ellis E. Marsh, who came to Davidson as assistant professor of military science and tactics in September 1940, and who has been in charge since November 1943, has left Davidson to report to the infantry replacement training center at Camp Croft, S.C. Mrs. Marsh, who before her marriage on June 5 was Miss Ann Ashcraft of Marshville, also accompanied her husband to Spartanburg, where they will occupy an apartment. The students of Davidson College extend to Major and Mrs. Reichel a hearty welcome to the campus. We are very happy to have you with us, and we trust that your stay will be a joyous and long one.

COMPLIMENTS of H. H. EVERETT

Dr. C. R. Harding Has Birthday
Celebrates Eighty-Fourth Birth Anniversary

Dr. C. R. Harding, of the Davidson College faculty, celebrated his 84th birthday anniversary on August 5. He has a host of friends in Charlotte and throughout the country who congratulated him on his long and useful life and his present physical condition, which is considerably improved during the last few weeks. All through the years, up to the present, Dr. Harding has been keenly interested in current affairs. He is a constant reader of the newspapers and mentally alert, keeping fully informed as to war conditions in which he is greatly concerned. Dr. Harding is the father of Mrs. Addison Brenizer, Mrs. Curtis B. Johnson, and Robert Harding, all of Charlotte.

The Davidson College Bulletin for June had the following to say about Dr. Harding: “Dr. Harding, ‘Davidson's grand old man,’ who entered this institution as a student in 1876 and whose association with the college has been almost continuous since that date, recently suffered an acute illness and was taken to a Charlotte hospital for treatment. His many friends will be glad to know that his condition is much improved and that he has returned to Davidson and is once more a familiar figure on the campus. Dr. Harding has enjoyed a record of 57 years as a teacher of Greek at Davidson. He is greatly beloved by former students and associates.”

GRADUATION EXERCISES FRIDAY
(Continued from Page 1)

He is a pre-chemistry student. He is also a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and served as its president for some time. In his freshman year, he was a member of the golf club, in which he earned membership into the “D” club. In his senior year, he was a member of the student council and did much work in reorganizing the “D” club, of which he was the president. He expects to enter the North Carolina University Graduate School this fall to begin work for his doctorate degree in chemistry.

BLAIN

J. S. Blain, better known to all as “Sonny,” is a pre-ministerial student from Lexington, Va. He is a member of the Phi Kappa Phi social fraternity and last year served as Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian. Since his entrance into Davidson College, he has been a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, and this summer is a member of the student council. He expects to enter the Union Theological Seminary this fall.

FISHER

Bruce Fisher, of Clearwater, Fla., is a pre-ministerial student. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and of Omicron Delta Kappa. He is president of the Y.M.C.A. this summer and has served on its cabinet for two years. Last year he was president of the Pan Hellenic Council, was Freshman Advisor, and was a member of the student council. He was a member of the glee club for several years and at present is associate editor of the Davidsonian.

SMITH

Bill Smith, of Chatham, Va., is a student at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. While at Davidson, he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. In his senior year, he was president of the (Continued on Page 4)