Saturday, January 20, 1945 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Certificate of Service AWARD SOUGHT

Pictured above are notable figures and reminders of significant events of the past year at Davidson College. The individuals, left
to right, are: Dr. G. Ray Jordan, of Charlotte, mid-term graduation speaker; Dr. J. McDowell Richards, who will preside at
the annual meeting of the Trustees at the college on February 21; President John R. Cunningham; Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow,
of Charlotte, president of the Alumni Association; and the late Vereen Bell of Georgia, a well-known writer who is one
of the most recent Davidson alumni to make the supreme sacrifice in World War II. The Service Award (lower left)
was recently presented to the college in recognition of the training of 2250 air crew students. In the center foreground
is pictured the William Randolph Hearst award, won last year by the R.O.T.C. rifle team. The inset at the lower
right shows a typical Main Street parade by ASTRP students. The circular pictures portray representatives of the civilian and military
student body, both of which were in residence at Davidson for the greater part of last year.

FIVE GRADUATE (Continued from Page 1)

Council, in addition to having been chosen to appear in Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

Drake
Lee Drake, of Richmond, Va., is a pre-medical student who receives the Bachelor of Science degree. He is editor of
the Quips and Cranks, a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, president of the Eumenean Literary Society, president of
Sigma Delta Pi, a member of the Publications Board, and varsity basketball manager. Drake will attend the Medical College of
Virginia.

Boarman
Horace Boarman, of Bel-Air, Md., receives the Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Economics. He plans to work
in the transportation industry. While at Davidson he was a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the Spanish Club, and
the Court of Control.

Whitley
Wilford Whitley is from Plymouth, N. C., and is a Political Science major. He will enter the Law School at
Duke University. He is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha, and has served in
the Symphonic and Football Bands, on the Rifle Team, and Gymnastics team.

Darling
Claude Darling, of Charlotte, is a French and English major. He is a member of Cercle Francais, Sigma Delta Pi
honorary fraternity, and Eta Phi. Darling plans to do research work in the field of literature.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

Thurs. A.M. Jan. 18
Bible 21, English 21A, History 11A

P.M.
English 11C, 101, French 11, German 21, Greek 11, Psychology 41

Friday A.M. Jan. 19
P.M.
Bible 11A, Education 71, English 11A, German 11A, Spanish 51

Sat. A.M. Jan. 20
Economics 31, German 11B, History 71, Spanish 11A, 11C, Philosophy 71

P.M.
Monday A.M. Jan. 22
P.M.
Bible 11B, Economics 21, English 11B, Math 11A, Philosophy 31, Physics 31, Spanish 21

Tues. A.M. Jan. 23
Bible 11D, Chemistry 31, English 11D, 61, French 21

P.M.
Geography 41, History 41, Math 21, Latin 11, Sociology 31

Wed. A.M. Jan. 24
Chemistry 21B, 91, Biology 42, English 21B, 71, Math 11B

P.M.
Philosophy 41, Physics 21A, Spanish 1B

Thurs. A.M. Jan. 25
Bible 11C, Biology 11, Chemistry 21A, French 31

P.M.
Greek 21, 71, Physics 21B, Latin 21, Spanish 41

Friday A.M. Jan. 26
Applied Math 31, Chemistry 41

P.M.
History 11B, Math 11C, Psychology 31, Bible 51

Sat. A.M. Jan. 27
ROTC, M1, 21, 22

Conference Courses not listed to be arranged by Professor concerned.

Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M. Afternoon examinations begin at 2 P.M.

Faculty Changes
Kimbrough and Bault Go To Carolina State

Dean of the faculty, C. Kimbrough, has announced the temporary release of J.T. Kimbrough, Associate Professor of Mathematics, to accept
a similar position at N. C. State. Professor Kimbrough has been a member of the Davidson family since 1928. A
native of Owingsville, Ky., he graduated with the B.S. degree from Davidson in 1926. During the 1927-28 session, he taught
at Morehead, Ky. Mrs. Kimbrough intends to remain in Davidson with their four children during her husband’s absence.

Bault
A leave of absence has also been granted to Professor Roger A. Bault of the Davidson faculty to join the
faculty of N. C. State. Mr. Bault has been employed as an Instructor in Physics since 1943. A native of
Raymond, Ohio, he received a B.S. degree from Wooster College in 1925 and an M.A. from Ohio State University in
1927. His wife also will remain in Davidson with their three children.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Cunningham Fills Charlotte Pulpit
President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College is filling the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, N.C., during
most of the morning services in the month of January. On the morning of January 28, President Cunningham's sermon, along
with the rest of the service, will be broadcast over radio station WET on a nation-wide hook-up. The complete schedule
for the services in the First Church in Charlotte for the month of January is as follows: January 7 and
January 14—morning, Dr. Cunningham; evening, Rev. Wade H. Boggs, professor of Bible at Queens College (note—Wade is also an alumnus
of Davidson, class of '37); January 21—morning, Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, pastor of Independent Presbyterian Church, Savannah, Ga.; evening, Mr.
Boggs; January 28—morning, Dr. Cunningham; evening, Mr. Boggs.

Dr. Johnston Speaks On Great Men
Professor Frontis W. Johnston, of the History department, recently conducted the first of a series of Chapel talks on the
lives of famous men in the history of the United States. This series will run for some months, with each
talk being delivered, insofar as possible, in connection with the celebration of the birthday of each of the men. In
his first talk, Professor Johnston spoke on Woodrow Wilson and his contribution to the nation. Familiar to all Davidson men
is the story of Wilson's attendance here for a year before he went to Princeton to complete his degree. Wilson
later served as president of Princeton, then as governor of New Jersey, and finally defeated President Taft and Theodore Roosevelt
in a three-cornered race for the Presidency of the United States in 1912. Speaking of the contrast between Roosevelt and
Wilson, Dr. Johnston said that the election was a contrast “between the Old Testament and the New, and the New
won.” Everyone is familiar with Wilson’s work as President, and with his efforts toward the establishment of a permanent peace
after World War I. Wilson's “idealism” was laughed at in 1919, but the nation and the world can now see
the “ghost of Wilson walking again.” Professor Johnston is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1930, and received
his Ph.D. degree from Yale in 1938. He has been a most popular teacher at Davidson for some years. The
schedule for the remainder of the series of talks is as follows: Jan. 17—Robert E. Lee, Feb. 12—Abraham Lincoln, Feb.
22—George Washington, April 11—Thomas Jefferson.

SOLICITING PERSONAL Loans & Savings
INDUSTRIAL LOAN & INVESTMENT BANK.
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE IS A GOOD PLACE TO LIVE
Life Insurance is a promising business. We are the Home Office of a North Carolina Company. THERE MAY BE A
REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU WITH US.
118 SOUTH CHURCH STREET.
PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
