Well, it has happened, and some still can’t understand it. The 'Kittens had their unexpected taste of defeat on the 20th, just as many other favored teams all over the nation had. I doubt if it was overconfidence, as Coach Shepherd was constantly warning his boys that the game was no “pushover,” and Davidson showed plenty of fighting spirit during the entire game. The Harding Rams just knew what they were against and played their game accordingly.

The Wildkittens' right guard spot suffered heavily when Herb Waldrop was forced to leave the game for a short while due to a slight chest injury, and then when his substitute, Louie Hart, had to withdraw when his right leg was hurt. The team had to bank on the blocking of Carlyle Charles until Waldrop returned to the game. To make it 100% for the guards, “Doc” Bailey managed to get a foot injury.

Coach Shepherd made several changes in his lineup last Friday afternoon to make up for the previous loss last week in an attempt to gain more speed in the backfield and to plug up the spots in the line left by injuries. Ward Lasley was shifted from fullback to tailback, with John Sherrill, who played an outstanding game of ball against Harding, taking over Ward’s former position. Bob moved over to take the right guard spot, and “Flash” Morrison is now at center. Fred McAlister, who formerly played end, was selected to take over at left guard, but I’m afraid we're going to lose Mac to the Navy, as he just received his orders to report to Duke on Nov. 1 to take up his V-5 training. We wish you the best of luck, Mac.

Getting more up to date, the Wildkittens came back last Friday afternoon to make up for the previous loss and pushed Barium Springs to an 18-0 defeat. The Davidson boys had it over Barium all the way in weight, speed, and shiftiness, and they put all of this ability to good use in the first half, scoring three touchdowns before Barium could get a good hold. However, after halftime, Barium Springs seemed to be a different ball club altogether, and they gave the 'Kits a slight scare when they started a passing attack which brought them seven yards from paydirt. Davidson still held the upper hand and continued to move Barium back down the field, even to the one-foot line, but they just couldn’t seem to make the score. The Wildkittens' second team showed their inferiority when they took over less than 10 yards from the goal with four downs to go and still couldn’t drive across. Even so, Gurney Boren was outstanding in running play and showed us all that he was a natural broken field runner.

Turning to intramurals, it seems as though the SPEs are the ones most likely to succeed in the competition for the championship judging from last Saturday’s standing. Some thought the Betas didn’t have much to offer this year, but they have shown up well in most of their games and stand a good chance of winning before it is all over. Campus connoisseurs predict a brilliant future for the Kappa Sig-SAE nine, and past games have proved them almost right. No one can say that the Pi Kapps didn’t try. With no wins to their credit, they still stayed in the race, fighting every game hard.

DELUXE ICE CREAM — Is Now Available At — THE STUDENT STORE

Wildcat Sports
BEAT WOODBURY
Saturday, November 3, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Wildcats Trample Barium 18-0

Do You Know Your Sports?

Game Results For Barium

ORIGIN OF BASKETBALL

Basketball is the only major sport played in the United States which is purely of American origin. All other games either are direct importations from foreign lands or hybrids. Dr. James A. Naismith created basketball while he was a physical director at the Y.M.C.A. in Springfield, Mass., late in 1891, but the first real game was not played until Jan. 20, 1892.

Here is Dr. Naismith’s story about the origin of basketball, written in 1937, while he was a professor at the University of Kansas, in Lawrence. Dr. Naismith died several years ago.

“In the fall of '91, the physical directors of the country had come to the conclusion that maybe neither the German, Swedish, nor French system gave us the kind of work that would hold our membership in the Y's.

“We decided that there should be a game that could be played indoors in the evening and during the winter seasons. Dr. Gulick assigned me the task of inventing a game to fill this particular part of our work. He was led to assign this work to me because of a couple of statements I had made that it was possible to invent such a game and that mature individuals did not desire physical development but some enjoyable form of recreation.

“I first tried to modify some of the existing games so that they would meet the requirements, but failed to make any game suitable for indoor work. I then left out the idea of any individual game and began to think of the fundamental principles of all games. I discovered that in all team games some kind of a ball was used.

“The next step was to appreciate the fact that football was rough because you had to allow the defense to tackle because the offense ran with the ball. Accordingly, if the offense didn’t have an opportunity to run with the ball, there would be no necessity for tackling and we would thus eliminate roughness.

“This is the fundamental principle of basketball.

“The next step was to secure some kind of a goal through which the ball could be passed. In thinking of upright goals, the fact was brought out that the more force that was put on the ball, the more likelihood there was of having it pass through the goal. It then occurred that if the ball be thrown in a curve it would not be necessary nor advisable to put much force on the ball.

“I decided that by making the goal horizontal the ball would have to be thrown in a curve, severe driving of a ball. In order to...Avoid having the defense congregate around the goal, it was placed above their heads, so that once the ball left the individual’s hands, it was not likely to be interfered with. “The rules were made to eliminate roughness such as shouldering, pushing, kicking, etc. The ball was to be handled with the hands only. It could not be drawn into the body and thus encourage roughness. “The manner of putting the ball into play was then considered. Two individuals were selected and took their stations in the middle of the floor. The ball was thrown up so as to land between them, giving as nearly equal chance as possible. The nearest approach to the ball needed was the soccer ball, which was selected. “To get goals, we used a couple of old peach baskets, hanging one at each end of the gym. From this basketball developed.

Completion of three weeks of spirited intramural football play found the narrowing down to four championship contenders: the SPEs, the Betas, the Phi Delts, and the Kappa Sig-SAEs, with the Independent Ones still offering a minor threat. Holding a slight advantage in having played one more game than the other leaders, the SPEs were in first place, but with three more days to go, the final outcome is unpredictable. The Two team dropped from the lead after a majority of their number had pledged fraternities. A few outstanding games for the period of October 8-19 were:

Independent One—Betas
A lateral-forward pass combination from Rapp to Keith to Williams in the first half accounted for the game's only score as the Betas downed the Independents 6-0. The Betas held the upper hand throughout the contest and were on their ten when the game ended.

KA—PIKA
In one of the roughest games of the season, the KAs, sparked by Mahone's passing, emerged victorious over the PIKAs by virtue of a 2-1 margin in first downs as the game ended in a scoreless draw.

Phi Dels—SPE
Brownson's passes were too much for the SPEs as the Phi Delts rallied in the second half to hand the red and purple boys their first defeat of the season, 12-0.

KA—SPE
The SPEs returned to their victorious ways as they eked out a 6-0 decision over the KAs, scoring on a short aerial from Rabb to Hopper just before the half. The KAs had a bit of bad luck as Choate grabbed a pass from Mahone and trucked across the goal line two minutes before the final whistle, only to have the play nullified by an offside penalty.

Phi Delts—Independents
Although outclassed, the Independents put up a game fight but were unable to do anything about Brownson's accurate heaving. The Phi Delt star connected with three touchdown passes to Cameron, Witherspoon, and Golden to give his team an 18-0 triumph.

SPE—Kappa Sig, SAE
The SPEs pulled the old sleeper play in the second half as Owens caught a pass from Herndon to down a hard-fighting Kappa Sig, SAE combine 8-0. Barr tagged Wall in the end zone for the remaining two points. In other games during this period, the Kappa Sig-SAEs handed the Phi Delts their only defeat thus far, 12-6; the SPEs downed the Betas 12-0; the PIKAs beat the Pi Kappa Phis 6-0; the Kappa Sig-SAEs out first downed the KAs 6-2 in an 18-18 tie; the Phi Delts trampled the PIKAs 36-0; the SPEs did likewise to the Pi Kappa Phi; the Phi Delts, Kappa Sig-SAEs, and the Betas followed suit with a 24-0 knockout over the luckless Pi Kapps.

THE STANDINGS
Team                W    L    %
SPE                  6    1    .857
Betas                5    1    .833
Kappa Sig-SAE  4    1    .800
Phi Delts           5    2    .714
Independents    3    3    .500
PIKAs               1    4    .200
Kappa Alpha     1    5    .166
Pi Kappa Phi     0    5    .000

Sherrill, Edwards, Boren Make Scores For Davidson
Scoring once in the first quarter and twice in the second, Davidson's Wildkittens gained revenge for a 1944 loss as they easily downed a game and eleven Barium Springs team last Friday afternoon at Richardson Stadium. The freshmen were never outclassed and their reserves saw plenty of action. The Kittens' first score came late in the first quarter as fullback John Sherrill, who played a brilliant running game, climaxed a drive from the Barium 42-yard line with a third down ten-yard buck. Almost on the heels of this score came the second Davidson tally after a thirty-four-yard push, with wing back Sterling Edwards taking the ball on a reverse from Sherrill to jog the remaining five yards and score standing up. The freshmen reserves then took over, and not to be outdone, smashed all the way from their own 41-yard line for the game's final score. Tailback Gurney Boren took the ball on the seven and swept right end, crossing the goal untouched.

Coming back after halftime to unleash a strong passing attack, the Barium boys came within a few feet of paydirt. However, the alert Davidson backfield began to break up and intercept these passes and Barium’s only real scoring threat of the day was averted. Altogether, the visitors completed six out of seventeen passes for a total of sixty-four yards. The freshmen fell just short of a score in the fourth quarter as the starting team took over on the Wildkitten five and marched all the way down the field. A feature of this advance was a beautiful thirty-seven-yard pass from Tailback Dave Neill to Edwards. With but six inches to go, Coach Shepherd sent in a new team, and, aided by a five-yard penalty for delaying the game, the Barium line held.

Summary:
B. Springs    Davidson
First downs    5    15
Passes    2    17
Passes Completed    1    6
Intercepted by    2    0
Punts    6    8
Punt average    31.3 yd.    30.1 yd.

WE HAVE IN STOCK THE LARGEST SELECTION OF Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.
BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
Charlotte, N. C.
Fred H. Plexico