The Davidson Freshmen had fire in their eyes when they ran against the Appalachian freshmen last Saturday, but that didn’t
seem to be enough to obtain a lead over the Mountaineers in scoring. It was a well-fought game with every
man doing his part for the Wildcats. The Davidson boys had to defend their own ground during the first half
of the opening period, but it wasn’t long before hard blocking and driving brought results, and the ball was then
kept down in Appalachian’s territory. The Wildcats’ second-string then took over in the second quarter and battled it out to
the halftime period with the score still 0-0. The first-string boys went in with renewed spirit after the half and
fought hard trying to reach the pay dirt. With Dave Neill throwing and Bill Iverson catching, the freshmen picked up
53 yards by passing alone. Page Jackson also did some swell receiving which added 24 more yards to our passing
offense. Even with our passing drive, we were unable to get over the ‘“G”’ stripe before the third heat ended.

By STERLING EDWARDS

Even though Ward Lasley, fullback, was unable to practice the three days before the game due to a foot injury,
he played as if he had been in top form all along, and orchids go to him for racking up
our only touchdown. Shortly after the Mountaineers made their score, he, together with Henry Floyd, drove the ball down to
the Appalachian 17-yard line and he finished off the remaining yardage in an off-tackle play. Herb Waldrop had the game
tied up in his shoelaces until he booted the ball squarely between the goalposts to make a perfect conversion. The
remaining minutes of the game were spent in a passing duel, and the final whistle left the game in a
7-7 tie. After playing a bang-up ball game from his guard spot, Captain Bill McLean was forced to retire from
the game due to a fractured collarbone which he received during the third quarter. Bill played five plays after he
received the injury before leaving the field. The team will really miss Bill in its coming games and hopes he
will have a speedy recovery.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Wildcat Sports
BEAT DARLINGTON
Saturday, October 13, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Page Five

Wildcats Battle App. to 7-7 Tie
Team to Play 5 More Games
May Play A Sixth Game Here November 17

Davidson College freshman football schedule was released last week by Coach Norman Shepard. Six teams, including Harding High of Charlotte,
are on the schedule. The Harding game is to be played in Charlotte Saturday night, October 26. Last year’s freshman
defeated the Rams by one point in their 1944 encounter, the final score reading 14-13. The Reserves will play Tech
High of Charlotte there on November 1.

Practice, under the expert guidance of Coaches Norman Shepard, Art Roach, and Jim Sample, has been under way since September
13, and the team is pronounced ready to play out the remainder of its schedule which reads as follows:
Oct. 13—Darlington School—here
Oct. 20—Harding High—Charlotte
Oct. 26—Barium Springs—here
Nov. 3—Riverside Military Academy—Gainesville, Ga.
Nov. 10—Woodberry Forest—Orange, Va.
*(night game).

Arthur Roach Assists Coach
Outstanding Performer On Varsity In 1942

Coach Norman Shepard, Director of Athletics at Davidson College, announced that Arthur W. Roach, of Barium Springs, has been employed
as an assistant in coaching the new crop of freshmen football aspirants on the Davidson campus. A returned G.I., Art
Roach will be remembered as a star of the Barium Springs Varsity eleven before he entered the College in September
1941. He performed outstandingly on the Davidson freshman team during that season. In the fall of 1942, he saw service
with the varsity Wildcats as a wing back and was the spark plug of repeated drives into enemy territory. During
the early months of 1943, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps, where he was later promoted to the rank
of Corporal. As a member of the 723 Bomber Squadron, he saw service in Italy and other parts of Europe.
In November 3, 1943, he was married to Miss Mary Ethel Goodnight of Mooresville. A few weeks ago, Art re-entered
Davidson College in the hopes of completing his college course. Due to the fact that Davidson will not field a
varsity team this year, Coach Shepard lost no time in utilizing the skill and experience of this performer in coaching
his Wildkitten backfield.

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

Intra-Mural Game Results
Kappa Sigs-SAEs Undefeated At Present

In a week of intra-mural football, the fraternity and independent teams have shown their talents and will to win. Also,
the talents ofIndividual players have come out.

Phi Delts-KAs
In the first day’s games, the Phi Delts beat the KAs 12-0. The excellent passing of Brownson and the receiving
of Golden sparked the attack and accounted for the score.

SPEs-Independent No. 2
The SPEs stopped the Independent No. 2 team by the score of 6-0. SPE Rabb intercepted a pass and ran
for the only score of the game. Herion was the outstanding player for the losers.

Beta PIKAs
Neither the aerial of Coble and Ensign of the PIKAs nor that of Stukes and Keith of the Betas could
show either team superior as the two squads battled to a scoreless tie on the second day of intramural football.
An extra period also failed to offset this knot. Sudsie Smith’s play was faultless, defensively and offensively.

Kappa-Sig SAE-Pi KAPPS
The passing combinations of Wall-Alexander-McAlister proved promising for the Kappa Sig-SAEs as they pushed the Pi Kapps to a 20-6
score.

Independent No. 1 - Independent No. 2
The Independent No. 1 were able to score two touchdowns to the number 2 team’s one. Again, the game was
won by passing, and the attack was led by Berry, who did most of his throwing to Boyce. Cooke and
Herion showed up well on the number 3 squad.

Kappa Sigs-SAE-Phi Delts
In a hard-fought game, the Kappa Sigs-SAE beat the Phi Delts by a score of 12-6. The attack was led
by the passing of Whipping Wall. McAlister, after snagging one of W.W.'s heaves, outran Martin for a T.D. Martin made
the only touchdown for the underdogs by intercepting a pass thrown by McAlister.

MEMORIAL HUT
(Continued from Page 1)
Capt. Phifer Erwin, a graduate of the college in 1936, spent more than four years in the service. He was
regarded as an expert flyer and pilot. His death came on January 26, 1945, in the crash of a B-29
near Marshall Field, Fort Riley, Kansas. Lt. Edward J. Erwin, Jr., was graduated from the college in May 1943. He
served with the 158th Infantry on Luzon, where he was wounded on February 12, 1945, death following on February 13.

WE HAVE IN STOCK
LARGEST SELECTION of Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church and Sunday School Supplies in the South
BIBLE BOOKS STORE
124 W. Fourth St, CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.

Play Darlington Here Saturday
Lasley And Floyd Spark Drive; McLean Injured
Last Saturday on Richardson Field, the Davidson game of the season met the Appalachian freshmen to battle to a 7-7
tie. The Cabbage-eaters had a slight advantage, but the Kittens held their own in weight over Davidson, the line both
defensively and offensively, and fought hard to overcome the handicap. When Appalachian played a five-man line defense against Davidson, it
slowed up the Kittens considerably until they were able to work out a system to meet them. The first half
ended scoreless even though both teams struggled hard to score. Real fire and action were seen in the final quarter
when Donahoo and Ashburne of Appalachian started a drive against the Kittens. Donahoo finally made the score, and Boyette kicked
the extra point by placement. After the Mountaineers kicked off, Davidson started its big push forward to score and reached
pay dirt after a 60-yard sparking drive made by Lasley and Floyd. Lasley lugged the ball over in a final
17-yard run, and Waldrop converted for the tying point.

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 2)
the Davidson campus on weekends so much? “Such Obscenity” Hart has been pulling the bowstrings in Atlanta. Did Ensign get
what he was looking for in Bessemer City? Brother Raynal has something brewing in Winston-Salem. What is it? She’s too
young.

Beta Theta Pi
It seems that Uncle Sam is getting another Beta Brother. Bill Simpson came by Monday to say a tender farewell
to all the boys before leaving for the Navy. Evidently, Alex and “Doc” don't care for square dancing. Could it
have been that the company of La Belle Hago and her Winthrop roommate were more attractive? Bill Stern—watch out! After
Saturday’s game, Stukes is really serious competition. “Count” Lyday and crew spent an eventful evening in Charlotte over the weekend;
came back not too enthusiastic about Central. Frank Mebane, an old Davidson Beta, was here for a short visit; met
everybody at the feed Sunday night. Who's Gunn dating for Queens-Davidson Day?

Phi Delta Theta
Bill Johnson, Herb Miller, and Floyd Martin were at the Charlotte Country Club last Saturday night. We would like to
ask Herb, “Is she is or is she ain't.” We are quite concerned about Edna's welfare now that Bill has
been hurt. Incidentally, no bones were broken in Bill's accident. Who is Rosie? Ask Bob Richardson about her. It seems
that she’s a little girl down in Georgia.

(Continued on Page 6)

Visit The Student's Store
