2 Merry Christmas ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Happy New Year

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1945 No. 6

Dr. Wm. E. Selby Leaves School
Has Been Associated With College Since 1944

Announcement was made here this week that Dr. William E. Selby, associate professor of physiology and hygiene at Davidson College since May 1944, has moved to Charlotte to resume the practice of medicine there. Sent to Davidson by an army procurement directive, Dr. Selby has served as college physician and maintained an independent practice in the community.

Dr. James B. Woods, who was the associate college physician before Dr. Selby came to Davidson, was granted leave from the college during the early summer of 1944 to accept a commission as a major in the Army Medical Corps. He has served in the Philippines and in Japan and is now on the way to the States. After being discharged he will return to his duties at Davidson. Dr. J. W. MacConnel is serving both the college and the community in this interim.

ROTC Receives New Sergeant
First Sergeant Webster Assigned To College

First Sergeant Charles D. Webster has been assigned by the war department to the expanding Davidson College R.O.T.C. unit, according to an announcement made last week by Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, P.M.S.&T. at Davidson.

A native of Gainesville, Ga., Sgt. Webster was graduated from Commercial High School in Atlanta, Ga. in 1936. He has been in the army five years and four months, serving for 14 months in Italy. Formerly stationed at Asheville and Ft. Bragg, he was on duty for a time at Greensboro in the Air Corps. While a member of the recruiting staff at Charlotte, and later at Atlanta, Sgt. Webster toured the Carolinas in the interest of the procurement of army personnel. Prior to his enlistment in July, 1940, he was engaged in the auto repair business. He is married and has two children.

Presents New ROTC Courses Held Next Semester
Lt. Col. Howard Arbuckle Announces New Plans

Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, P.M.S.&T. of the Davidson College R.O.T.C., announced last week that the Advanced Course, ROTC, will be reactivated at Davidson College at the beginning of the next semester on 28 January, 1946. The program of instruction for the first year of this course has been received from the War Department and this institution has been allotted a quota of thirty (30) contracts for the course. Students successfully completing the two-year Advanced Course will be commissioned Second Lieutenants in the Officers Reserve Corps, according to the directive.

The War Department agrees to pay a student in the Advanced Course commutation of subsistence at a daily rate equivalent to the garrison ration payable monthly. This payment will approximate $18.00 to $20.00 per month and is in addition to benefits authorized by the GI Bill of Rights. Furthermore, an officer-type uniform, complete with field overcoat and shoes, will be issued at no cost to the student.

In explaining the provisions of the plan, Lt. Col. Arbuckle said, “The individual qualifications for admission to the Advanced Course are such that, with few exceptions, only ex-service men are eligible. An applicant must be not less than 19 or more than 26 years of age and must be physically fit though due allowance will be made for correctible physical defects. The applicant must require at least two academic years to complete all requirements for graduation from the College, which means that Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors (Continued on Page 4)

Messiah Gifted Artists Appear Here
Will Present Christmas Vespers Sunday, December 16

The Choral club of Queens College and the Glee club of Davidson College combined with the Queens-Davidson orchestra presented Handel’s “Messiah” Monday evening, December 10, in Chambers Auditorium. James Christian Pfohl, director of music in Davidson and Queens Colleges, directed the Messiah. The chorus included 75 voices, and more than 30 pieces were performed by the orchestra. The soloists included Miss Kathryn Oakes, soprano; Miss Virginia Hover, contralto; Sgt. John Sealy, tenor; and Capt. William B. Rogers, bass-baritone.

Sgt. John Sealy, soloist for two years in Spencer Memorial church in New York City and with the Westminster choir on its annual tour for five years, was singing with Fred Waring at the time of his enlistment. With Toscanini and NBC he made a movie for the War Department and worked with Walt Disney and Stokowski on the movie “Fantasia.” He was also a member of the cast of “Lost Colony.”

Miss Oakes, before her enrollment in the Eastman school of Music, sang with the Chautauqua Opera company, in Martha, Faust, the Marriage of Figaro and other operas. At the Eastman school, where she was a pupil of Arthur Kraft, working for both the master’s and bachelor’s degrees, she appeared as soloist in performances of the Messiah, Elijah, Stabat Mater, The Creation and in operatic roles in The Marriage of Figaro, Old Maid and the Thief, Falstaff, and La Boheme. She was soloist in Salem church, the largest downtown New York church. (Continued on Page 3)

Gene McEver Resigns Post As Head Of Athletics At Davidson

Concert Petition Well Received
Students Favor Proposed Plan For School

The Concert Series petition, which for the past week has made its appearance among students of Davidson College, has gradually been gathering momentum and approval among the student body. Mel Winstead, president of Phi Mu Alpha and chairman of the petition, has announced that over a hundred and fifty names have been added to the petition and he feels certain that it will prove a success and that it will be beneficial to the students, to the faculty, and to the friends of the college surrounding Davidson.

For the benefit of those who have not had the opportunity to read the petition, the Davidsonian proudly prints it as follows:

“We, the undersigned, as students of Davidson College, do hereby petition the administration to include the sum of five dollars per year per student in the student activity fee. This amount is to be used for the purpose of presenting an outstanding concert series to the students and friends of Davidson College.

“Our reasons for petitioning are as follows:
1. To encourage the development of music appreciation on the David-as soon as College campus by making these concerts available to every student. 2. With the assurance of this amount, a much better concert series could be arranged. 3. An outstanding concert series would attract the public and acquaint them with Davidson College in the realm of good music. 4. It is bad to have to approach students to purchase tickets to concert series during the year while other causes are being solicited.” The petition has passed through the dormitories, and if you have not had the opportunity to respond to it, you may do so by contacting Mel Winstead in 108 West. The petition will be presented to the administration prior to the examinations.

Alumni To Hold Annual Banquet At Hotel Monday Night

The Greater Charlotte Chapter of the Davidson College Alumni Association will hold its annual Davidson Alumni Banquet at the Charlotte Hotel in Charlotte Monday evening, December 17. The banquet was originally scheduled to be held on December 7, but due to the services held in the College Church last week, the occasion was postponed until Monday evening. Mr. R. S. Abernathy is president of the Association; the vice-president is Mr. Neal Y. Pharr and Mr. Nat. G. Speir is secretary-treasurer. A glance at the program will reveal a variety of entertainment and an opportunity for self-expression. The presence of the ladies, wives and sweethearts, and parents of the students, will ensure a colorful and convivial atmosphere and add to the festivities. Below is printed an outline of the program.

PROGRAM: December 17, 1945—7 o'clock P. M.
E. McA. Currie, '16, Toastmaster
Invocation—Rev. Chas. E. S. Kraemer, ‘31
Greeting—The Toastmaster
What do you know?—James C. Pfohl, Director
Professor Whiz, ‘00
Reflections of a Raconteur—Oren Moore, ‘08
Report: For the return of Service Men—F. L. Jackson, '06
Presentation of Charlotte Alumni Award—T. D. Sparrow, ‘16
“Lest We Forget"—E. A. Beaty, '21
Athletics—N. W. Shepard, '23
Greetings from the President—John R. Cunningham
Election of Officers
Stand to Sing “America”, Adjourned
EPILOGUE
Conversation .... Let’s Linger
Club Free For All Who Wish To Stay

Alexander To Attend Chicago Convention

Will Represent SAE Fraternity At Convention

It was learned last week that J. P. Alexander, a senior at Davidson College, has been chosen to represent the Davidson College Chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, national social fraternity, in Chicago, December 27 through 29. The governing body of the fraternity, the bi-annual conclave, known this year as the Victory Convention, is set for the Congress Hotel in Chicago and at the Levere Memorial Temple in Evanston, Ill. Located at 1856 Sheridan Rd., the Temple is the national home of the brotherhood. One hundred active chapters will be represented. (Continued on Page 3)

French Professors Elect Dr. G. B. Watts

Chosen Secretary-Treasurer Of Association

In the current issue of the French Review, the official organ of the American Association of Teachers of French, announcement of the election of officers for a term of three years, beginning September 1, 1945, is made. Among the officers who were elected at this time was Dr. G. B. Watts of Davidson College as Secretary-Treasurer. Professor Paul Langelier of Adelphi College, Garden City, N. Y. was re-elected Business Manager of the French Review, and Professor Helene Harvitt of Brooklyn College was continued in the office of Editor-in-chief. Mr. Frederick D. Eddy of Phillips Academy was re-elected for a per (Continued on Page 3)

Geo. Held At Charlotte

Coach For Six Years Resigns In Letter To President

President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College announced last week that Football Coach Eugene T. McEver has tendered his resignation as head mentor of the Davidson Wildcat staff. The action, said the president, accompanied a letter received from Coach McEver in which he expressed his genuine regard for Davidson and appreciation of his long stay there. In commenting on the situation, Dr. Cunningham expressed his “confidence in and high esteem for Coach McEver both personally and professionally.” In 1943 Coach McEver was loaned to the University of North Carolina for one year. During the past year he has been temporarily associated with his brother McAuley McEver in the football coaching job at V.P.I. In his letter he did not state his future plans and, according to President Cunningham, arrangements for his successor have not yet been made at Davidson.

A native of Bristol, Tenn., McEver first played in the University of Tennessee backfield in 1927. In 1929 he led the nation in scoring with 138 points and was named on the All-American team. In one game, that against South Carolina, he scored 33 points. McEver was out with a leg injury in 1930, but he came back in 1931 to enjoy another brilliant season and again made the All-American team. His coach, Robert Neyland, has been quoted as saying that McEver was the finest back he ever coached.

McEver came to Davidson in 1932 as associate football coach with Williams (Doc) Newton. When Newton moved to N. C. State in 1937, McEver became head coach here and held that position until the impact of the war caused varsity football to be dropped. It is likely that one of the returning members of Davidson's coaching staff will carry on in McEver's place as head coach for the coming season. Three capable Davidson coaches, Crowell Little, Lawrence Spearman, and Chet Chapman, are expected to be back by the time of the fall term. With them on hand, and with Norman Shepherd now as athletic director and basketball coach, Davidson will be well manned, even with McEver departed.

Davidson has not announced its postwar athletic policy, but it is understood that the Wildcats will continue to play a representative football schedule with North Carolina and Duke missing, but with several Southern Conference colleges included. While there has been some agitation for Davidson to join a conference of smaller colleges, such action is not expected. Davidson, a spokesman has pointed out, can hold its own in all branches of sport except football, even against the (Continued on Page 4)