Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, February 9, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM ALEXANDER

BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
George Apperson - Associate Editor
BRUCE MILES - Assistant Editor
CAM BISTANT - Feature Editor
NSIC ANCORI - Sports Editor
SDULTH TUUICOR - Managing Editor
Mel Winstead - Managing Editor
Art Rolling - Managing Editor
Ralph GTS - Managing Editor
George Gunn - Managing Editor
Ellis White - Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
JOHNNY WHITE - Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby - Advertising Manager
INGWT SPNCL - Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
420 MADISON Ave. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

A Clean Up
Much has been spoken and written in the past few months about Davidson tradition, but it seems that our student organizations are doing very little to carry on this tradition. Most of the talk has been directed at the freshmen—now it is time for those who are the upperclassmen, and the leaders on the campus, to think about how they are perpetuating Davidson customs.

One of the cherished traditions here is student government, but this inheritance is one which we of the present student body have abused greatly. Let us consider some basic facts:

The student body constitution sets forth what is known as the “point system,” a system established to protect individuals from becoming overburdened with extracurricular activities and “to make for greater efficiency in the administration of student affairs.” Under the point system forty points is the maximum to be held by any one man during a semester. During the past semester individuals held offices which carried point values of anywhere from fifty to over one hundred points. At present there are students who are carrying as many as eighty points.

Now, why is this situation existent, and why is it not corrected? Is the present student body (small though it is) incapable of doing its part in upholding the constitution, and do four or five men have to do the work of ten? The constitution states (Article XV) that a Point System Committee is to be established immediately after the inauguration of the Student Council, and that this committee shall enforce the Point System. If such a committee has been established, it has not done its job this year. If it has not been established, it should be done now.

Naturally, students of pre-war calibre are scarce now, but there are certainly more than four or five men at Davidson who are capable of holding an office and doing a creditable job. And what will happen when the present job-holders leave? Who will be able to take over and run things without any previous experience?

Article XV also gives the Student Council the power to amend the Point System if the Point System Committee recommends it. Would it not be better to extend the limit to fifty points and enforce that limit than to just ignore this very important section of the constitution? Of course, until a Point System Committee is established it is not possible to carry out this plan.

Davidson alumni are proud of the system of student government which they have seen working at Davidson. We do not believe that they would be proud of the present student body which, instead of recognizing the necessity for some changes, has simply ignored the rules by which our student government is supposed to function. Before we try to teach the new men about Davidson tradition, we had better clean up our own back-yard.

Welcome
In days when change has become a part of the life of Davidson it is no longer unusual to see a large freshmen class enter at the second semester. These men do not find the same organization that functioned in peace-time. There have been many changes but the essential part of Davidson remains. The new men will find that the part of the college which has produced men of sound education and influenced the development of a Christian character is as alive today as it ever was. The war has taken many things away but one may still find here a scholastic standard as high as it ever was, a Davidson spirit as true as it ever was.

Davidson bids these men welcome. There is a sincere hope that each man will take advantage of all the college has to offer for their new life is a time of opportunity. Joined to this welcome may be some advice which experience has shown to be valuable.

First: Take College seriously. In high school or prep school you could ‘get by” with little work of a low standard. Here probably is your last educational opportunity before you join the world’s work. Each student should have proper ambition, for such a man will succeed where brains alone might fail. The ambitious surpass the rough places in life, through hard but rewarding labor.

Second: Adjust yourself soon to college. He who finds a proper balance in his life here shows an ability to adjust to fortune and vicissitudes in later life.

Practical Jokeism
In 1944 a distinguished group of psychiatrists gathered in New York to discuss the disturbing effects of Practical Jokes. Some very peculiar incidents were brought to light in this conference.

Dr. Renaut, a prominent psychiatrist of Paris, cited the case of Madame Lisa Duncan, as told to him by her husband. Madame Duncan took in boarders and one day an American tourist engageda room in her house. In time, she became fond of the young American and one day the turtle was no larger than her thumb, but she cherished it as though it were her own offspring. One day the young man secretly substituted a turtle which was a little bit larger than the first one. Madame Duncan was overjoyed, for she thought that the turtle’s growth was due to her tender care. Every few days, a larger turtle was substituted until she had a turtle the size of a manhole cover. Still, Madame Duncan loved her pet and bestowed upon it a motherly devotion. Then the American reversed the process and began reducing the size of the turtles day by day until the original turtle had been replaced. Madame Duncan had watched the turtle grow smaller day by day and had paced to and fro with almost fanatical anxiety. One day they found her as she is now, sitting in the window pulling her chin. On her face was a look of horrified disbelief, for beside her on the table lay a tiny turtle egg, all that remained of her pet!

If you wish another example of the effects of this widespread malady, there is the case of Tom Jackson of New York. At a New Year's Eve party, Tom Jackson was in very high spirits and finally, in the latter part of the evening, fell asleep. His host, a practical joker, was fully prepared for an occasion of this sort. He carried Tom to a room in the rear of his house and deposited him on the floor. This room was very unique in every way. Tom was lying on what appeared to be the ceiling, which was papered, and in the middle, there was an elaborate chandelier sticking straight up. Above him was a regular floor plan. Every detail was perfect, even to the cigarettes in the ashtrays. All was firmly secured to what was in reality the ceiling of the room. When Tom awoke, he was very confused as to what had occurred. He couldn't understand how he happened to be lying on the ceiling. His first thought was to get to the floor where he belonged, but all his efforts were unsuccessful, and he finally beat his brains out trying to crawl down the wall to the floor.

You are probably now asking me why I wrote this. In truth, I can only say I was tortured by the burning Varga girls before my eyes. Hours and hours of endless, grueling torture, the sweat from my brow blinding me, and the continued leering of my executioners. All of this I went through for you, dear readers, only to be spurned by those who think little of me. Wouldn't they ever stop? Mercy, mercy, please mercy!! That light, turn out that light. Glowing like newly molten steel! But I didn’t give in. Then it was bribes. When I saw it, I couldn't resist it. It was the yo-yo that did it.

Jest Roaming
By Hil Masters

Howdy, folks, how’s every little thing? You'll have to forgive me if I make any mistakes—have patience with me. The other day I was “jest roaming” around and I happened to drop into Watts dormitory where something of interest was going on. It seems that a few of the fellows over there have organized a special fraternity. You see, I was jest walking down the hall when some of them came strolling down. They all greeted me very cordially and after quite a spell of “bulling” they asked me into their lodge. This being rush week, they were naturally trying to get new freshmen. The fraternity was called Sigma Delta Psi, the meaning of which I was to find out if I was initiated. I was introduced to the four brothers who seemed to be the only ones in the fraternity. Their names I learned later were Mr. Chips, B. B. Rifle, Lord Brown Nose, and Isaac Figstein. They also had titles in the Society, but those were also secret to the uninitiated. After a round of punch and tea biscuits, Lord Brown Nose and B. B. Rifle took me into the chapter room (the washroom) and explained the purposes of the chapter to me. They also told me that they would like to have me become a pledge in their Society. They told me that they were all good fellows and that they all stuck together in thick and thin, mostly thin. After a moment of consideration, I consented to become a pledge. I was then taken into the other room where I shook hands with the other brothers. A date was set for the formal initiation and the remainder of the evening was spent by a very interesting discussion on the daffodil and how it is related to the bees. The next evening at approximately seven o'clock, I went over to the dormitory where they were waiting for me. After a chat, they took me into the chapter room and locked the door, much to the anger of the students on the floor. The details of the initiation I cannot repeat for they are secret, but I can assure you that it was a very impressive ceremony, in an odd sort of way. I was then told the titles of the officers. Mr. Chips was called “Octagon Bay”; B. B. Rifle was “Water Pistol”; Lord Brown Nose went under the name of “Daddy Long Legs”; and Isaac Figstein was just “Small Change.” Also, I was told the meaning of Sigma Delta Psi; now don't tell a soul about this for it is a secret. Its meaning is The Society of Davidson Psissies. Lord Brown Nose seemed worried about something called the point system, but I, being a new freshman, knew nothing about it. Due to the shortage of lemons, the punch was not very tasty that night, but the muffins were very good for Mr. Chips spent all day over a hot stove making them. Isaac, who was treasurer, then informed me that funds were extremely low because the chapter had just put their money into a set of books on how to raise lilies. So, it was necessary for me to pay my dues in advance. Soon, I found it necessary to retire. So, borrowing a copy of the “Ladies Home Journal” from B. B. Rifle, I went to my abode, thinking over the day's events. It’s no telling what kind of people you'll meet by “jest roaming.”