ALENDA Lux UB! | The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXV No. 1 DAVIDSON, N.C. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1945

ROGERS HEADS STUDENT BODY McLEAN ELECTED Y PRESIDENT

Selected On First Ballot
Member of Junior Class From Lenoir Wins High Office

Bill McLean, a junior, has been elected president of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year. McLean is the son of Dr. and Mrs. A. A. McLean of Lenoir. McLean entered Davidson College in 1941, and remained until 1942, when he volunteered for the Army. He made quite a record while serving as a First Lieutenant in the Army Air Forces for two and a half years; he piloted a B-17 and was awarded the Air Medal with four Oak Leaf clusters and the European Theater ribbon with three battle stars. While McLean was at Davidson in 1941-1942, he was a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; secretary-treasurer of the student body; and a member of the Beaver and “D” clubs. McLean returned to Davidson at the beginning of the second term of summer school; he was elected to student council for the remainder of the summer.

McLean announces the election of the following officers: First Vice-President, Vernon McGehee; Second Vice-President, George Gunn; Secretary, Jim Alexander; Treasurer, Jack Bagley. McLean also announces the selection of the following men to fill the Cabinet positions: Church Service and Publications, Jack Bagley; Boy’s Work, George Gunn; Deputations, Jim Wyatt; Vesper Relations, Harry Alexander; Spiritual Development, Vernon McGehee; World Evangelism and Chapel Services, Joe Stukes; Social Life, Ed Golden; Student Government, Bill Rogers; Community Service, Jimmie Nisbet.

Stokes Elected First Vice-President of Student Body

Frats Pledge 84 Students
Approximately 50% Of Freshmen Join Lodges

The results of the fraternity rush week were announced at Davidson College today. From a total of 170 students entering Davidson for the first time on September 10, approximately 80 received bids to either one or more of the eight national social fraternities now active on the campus. Seventy of those receiving invitations have been pledged as follows:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: William B. Baxter, Dothan, Ala.; James E. Dickey, Jr., Atlanta; R. H. Engle, Charlotte; J. Stokes Jennings, Charlotte;

Kappa Alpha: Giles D. Beal, Jr., Gastonia; J. L. Choate, III, Charlotte; Charles Cunningham, Mocksville; Frank Matthews, Gastonia; Sam D. McDaniel, Jr., Atlanta; John Lewis Payne, Jr., Davidson; Robert H. Spillman, Statesville; Paul D. Young, Houston, Texas;

Beta Theta Pi: Louie F. Hart, Jr., Monroe; Andrew Kirkpatrick, Raleigh; Robert W. Morton, Jr., Burlington; Charles A. and Henry P. Neisler, Kings Mountain; Allan K. Owen, Jr., Winston-Salem; Jerome Rapp, Thomasville; Alexander Sprunt, IV, Charleston, S.C.; William L. Vinson, Cramerton;

Kappa Sigma: Gurney S. Boren, III, Greensboro; John C. Cowan, III, Greensboro; Alfred C. Current, Jr., Gastonia; M. M. Morgan, Laurinburg; John C. McDonald, Jr., Charlotte; Albert Z. Price, Jr., Charlotte; Lyttleton B. Scott, Jr., Winston-Salem;

Phi Delta Theta: W. C. Brownson, Jr., Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; Charles D. Cameron, Hollywood, Cal.; Jefferson L. Davis, Atlanta; William T. Iverson, Miami, Fla.; Robert V. Knight, Jr., Tarboro; Edwin F. Montgomery, Jr., Lake City, Fla.; W. D. V. Montgomery, Greenville, Miss.; R. S. Richardson, Decatur, Ga.; Richards Todd, Lexington; Edward L. Willingham III, Augusta, Ga.; John Witherspoon, Beckley, W. Va.;

Pi Kappa Alpha: M. D. Baker, Draver; W. Floyd Furr, Concord; Charles O. Hadley, Statesville; A. Mac Hart, Atlanta; J. Page Jackson, Gastonia; James S. Lafferty, Concord; George B. Raymond, Lakeland, Fla.; W. Francis Talbert, Allendale, S.C.; Ted B. Summer, Asheville;

Pi Kappa Phi: H. C. Bailey, Wheeling, W. Va.; Charles Beam, Shelby; W. E. Campbell, Shelby; Clayton C. Carpenter, Jr., Gastonia; S. Benoy Godwin, Four Oaks; Robert H. Hair, Gastonia; Edwin G. Hardin, Shelby; H. R. McCon- (Continued on Page 3)

Member Of Junior Class Serves. Rogers Selects New Fall Court

McAlister Chosen Judge Of Court Of Control

Bill Rogers, the new President of the Student Body, has selected John McAlister to be the Judge of the Court of Control. McAlister is from Greensboro, N.C. He entered Davidson in the Fall of 1941. During his freshman year, he was on the track team and a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He left in the Spring of ’43 and joined the U.S. Army Air Corps, becoming a fighter pilot in England.

The Court of Control is an established feature on the Davidson campus, its primary purpose being to enforce the freshmen regulations and to deal out justice to those guilty of violating the rules. It is to be remembered that the Court is an official organization of the college, backed by the administration and the student council, and its decrees are to be regarded as law. The assignment of patrolling the college grounds and various other similar punishments constitute the penalties. Among the requirements which all freshmen...must observe are: 1. Wear freshmen ties. 2. Keep off the grass. 3. Carry laundry when requested to do so by upper-classmen. 4. Speak to everyone on the campus. (Continued on Page 3)

Spencer Chosen YMCA Secretary
Summer School Graduate Returns To Campus

Announcement was made by President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College that Newton H. Spencer of Plainsfield, N. J., will serve as the Y.M.C.A. secretary for the coming year. Mr. Spencer was one of the graduates who received a diploma with the degree of Bachelor of Science at the Davidson Commencement Exercises held August 24. While a student, he served on the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control, the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, and the Student Council. He holds membership in the Omicron Delta Kappa, National leadership fraternity, and the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Mr. Spencer has interrupted his work at Princeton Seminary, where he studied last year and where he was enrolled for this year, to serve the College in this relation.

Next To President

Joe Stukes of Manning, S.C., and member of the Junior class was elected to serve as first vice-president of the student body this year. Stukes is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and the "Y" Cabinet. He is serving as assistant editor of the Davidsonian, after having held the position of sports editor this summer. Stukes is active in all sports, having served as sports manager for the Beta Theta Pi fraternity intramural teams. He was chosen for the all-star softball team during the summer.

Tuesday run-offs were held to determine the one to become the 2nd Vice-president of the student body. Also, elections were held for secretary-treasurer of the student body for the current year. These officers have not been functioning during the past few years due to the restricted number of students eligible in the junior and sophomore classes. But now there seems to be a need for these officers to assist the president in carrying out his duties because of the increased enrollment of the student body since the end of the war.

321 Students Enroll In D.C.

According to an announcement released by F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson College, a total of 321 students have been enrolled and have attended initial classes for the current year which began on September 12. According to Mr. Hengeveld, there are seven more students registered who will begin their work at Davidson, thus bringing the total enrollment to 328. Of this number, 208 are freshmen and 120 are upperclassmen. The latter group is divided according to the class as follows: Seniors 10, Juniors 28, Sophomores 49, and 13 special students. All sections of the United States are represented and one student is from Venezuela. Mr. Hengeveld said that the number of freshmen entered approaches the normal pre-war enrollment. He further indicated that a large number of returned veterans whose courses at Davidson were interrupted by the war have visited the college or have written that they expect to be released from the service before the beginning of the second term in February and have declared their intention to return to Davidson to complete their college education.

Chosen For High Office

Returned Veteran Served As Captain In Army Air Corps

Following the student elections, William B. Rogers of El Dorado, Ark., was elected President of the Student Body of Davidson College for the school year '45-46. Rogers is a returned G.I. He served as a pilot in the U.S. Army Air Corps with the rank of Captain. He was in the Pacific for more than a year. Rogers entered Davidson College in 1938 as a preministerial student and was here through 1941. During this time Rogers was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity; vice-president of the Forensic Council; a member of the Eumanean Literary Society; and an active member on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. He left Davidson in the Spring of 1942 to enter the Air Corps. Rogers has been away from college for three and a half years. He came back to Davidson last summer term. Upon his return, he was chosen to be the president of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. Rogers proved to be a very capable man as a member of the student council and as student body president for a short term, pending the present elections. The importance of this office cannot be stressed enough. With a large freshmen enrollment this fall, it is very important to have an able and experienced man. Already President Rogers has enforced the point system which has been sadly neglected for the past few years. He has also chosen the Judge of the Court of Control and has gotten that organization under way. We feel certain that he will succeed in this important position with the cooperation of the student body.