Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1945 No. 14

SCARBOROUGH WINS ELECTION

Music Clinic Held Graduation Announced

Dr. Hutchinson and Dr. Guy To Be Speakers

Plans for Commencement exercises, to be held May 25, have recently been announced by Dr. John R. Cunningham. The Baccalaureate sermon will be preached by Reverend Stuart Nye Hutchinson, D. D., LL. D., on Sunday, May 20, and graduation exercises for two seniors will take place on May 25. Dr. Hutchison, who is pastor of the East Liberty Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, will participate in this service on the one hundredth anniversary of the graduation of his father and his uncle from Davidson. The Baccalaureate service will be held at eleven o'clock in Chambers Auditorium.

At noon on Friday, May 25, Dr. J. Samuel Guy will deliver the graduation address. He is an alumnus of Davidson, Class of 1905, and is now head of the department of Chemistry at Emory University. After the address, the usual announcement of honors will be made, and degrees will be awarded to two (Continued on Page 3)

BACCALAUREATE S. N. HUTCHINSON

Board Meets Here May 24

College Trustees To Have Commencement Meeting

President Cunningham announced recently that the Board of Trustees of Davidson College will meet here on May 24. The Executive Committee of the Board will meet on Wednesday, May 23. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board, will preside. New members of the Board of Trustees, who have recently been elected, will be present at this meeting. They include Reverend James A. Jones, D.D., of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte; Reverend Ryan L. Wood, West Palm Beach, Florida; Dr. F. R. McCutcheon, of Salisbury.

High School Students Participate In Concerts

Davidson College was the scene last weekend of a music clinic in which high school students of this area participated. Boys and girls were selected from the schools of Charlotte, Belmont, Gastonia, Monroe, Mt. Holly, Salisbury, Kannapolis, Mooresville, Landis, Albemarle, Cherryville, China Grove, and Statesville. The group arrived Friday morning, April 20, and rehearsals were immediately begun to perfect a band and a mixed chorus.

At an informal concert Friday night in Chambers Auditorium, college musicians went on display as examples for the younger people. The band and glee club performed, and Frank West and Dick Plaster exhibited the oboe and bassoon. Dr. Cunningham made a short speech of welcome to the assembly. The boys were housed for the night in Rumple, and the girls in Duke.

A feature of the Saturday program was the appearance of the Charlotte Central High Little Symphony at 5:00 P.M. The numbers presented were mostly of the light classic or “pop” style. Directed by Mr. Robert Smith, the orchestra played Dark Eyes, Sophisticated Lady, Stardust, and others.

Climax of the two-day clinic was the concert by the band and chorus, totaling 140 musicians, Saturday night. The band was directed by Allan Bone of Duke, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Pfohl, and the chorus, by Robert Reuter of Flora MacDonald, William Clendennin and Oliver Cook, both of Charlotte, and Mr. Berg. A large crowd attended and the groups performed admirably. Asked to outline reasons for such a clinic, Mr. Pfohl stated: “War conditions have made the usual music contests impossible. In order to retain the interest of boys and girls in music, such regional meets giving them a goal to work towards and cooperation and instruction to profit by are important.” (Continued on Page 3)

Music Department To Present Mikado

French Students Travel to Salem Present Program Of Plays For Third Time

On last Wednesday, students of French from the college presented a program of two modern plays at Salem College, Winston Salem, N. C. The class in Elementary French gave Pierre Macy’s Cupidon, Dentiste. The cast was as follows: Le Dentiste, Herb Wyatt; Jacques Lefranc, Doug McNair; Marguerite Didier, Bob Gambrell; Le Gros Monsieur, John Hills; La Vieille Dame, N. F. Quinn; Le Domestique, Castle Koop.

The third-year class, assisted by members of the class in intermediate French, presented Tristan Bernard’s L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle, a long favorite on the Parisian stage. Cast: Interpreter, Tim Webb; Julien Cicandel, Frank Barr; Betty Hogson, Helen Davis; James Hogson, Middy Raynal; La Cassiere, Peggy McClelland; Inspecteur de Police, Jack Lazenby; Agent de Police, Rod McDonald.

The players were accompanied by L. G. Turner, in charge of makeup, and Dr. George B. Watts, Professor of French, who has coached the actors and who will direct the performance. The visitors were the guests of the college at a complimentary dinner. After the plays, the Davidson students were entertained by the Salem College French students, and the campus dramatic club, Les Pierrettes. The Davidson students have given this program at Davidson, and at Queens, renewing (Continued on Page 3)

Davidson Do Gilbert And Sullivan Opera

The music departments of Queens and Davidson Colleges will present the Gilbert and Sullivan light opera “The"Mikado" at Davidson on May 10, 1945, in Chambers auditorium and at Queens on May 15, 16, 1945. The production is under the direction of Prof. Earl F. Berg of the music departments of both colleges, and rehearsals are well underway. The setting of the opera is in the town of Titipu in Japan. Costumes of the Japanese period, in which the opera takes place, have been ordered from New York and will add a great deal to the effectiveness of the production. The story of the opera is built around the character of Nanki-Poo, to be portrayed by Art Rollins, who has fled from his father’s court. Nanki-Poo joins the Titipu town band and, assuming the disguise of a second trombone, wanders to the town in which he sees and falls in love with Yum-Yum, to be played by Margie Bates and Mary McGill. Yum-Yum is the ward of Ko-Ko, the Lord High Executioner. Prof. Berg will do the character of Ko-Ko, which is the comedy role of the opera. Doris Turner and Betty Barber will play the roles of Peep-Bo and Pitti-Sing, the other two wards of Ko-Ko. Nanki-Poo wishes to marry Yum-Yum, but he finds himself unable to do this as she is to be married to Ko-Ko the day he enters the city with the band. Nanki-Poo then tells Ko-Ko of his love for Yum-Yum, but the High Executioner tells him that he will not be able to grant his request.

Chosen For High Office
Sophomore From Sumter To Be Student Body President For Summer

Alfred Scarborough, of Sumter, South Carolina, was elected last week to serve as president of the Davidson College student body for the summer session, it was announced recently by Andy Owens, retiring president. Scarborough was elected on the first ballot by a majority vote, defeating five other candidates for the office. Sophomore Scarborough is a member of the Sophomore class and has served as class representative on the Student Council during the past semester. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and was a member of the varsity basketball team this year. Other candidates in the election were Bruce Fisher, George Apperson, “Sonny” Blain, Jack Lazenby, and Lonnie Turner.

PRESIDENT to let her marry him. Ko-Ko consents to allow Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum to marry if Nanki-Poo will die at (Continued on page 3)

Dr. Frontis Johnson Speaks On Roosevelt and Jefferson
Address Is Made At Memorial Service In Chapel

On Friday, April 13th, Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Professor of History, delivered an address in chapel on the life and work of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The chapel period was devoted to a memorial service and was attended by the students and faculty of both the college and the local high school, as well as the people of the community. In the absence of President Cunningham, Dr. Johnston was presented by Dr. C. K. Brown, who explained that the speaker would postpone his scheduled address on the life of Thomas Jefferson and would discuss the former president whose death had occurred the day before. Dr. Johnson read the first nine verses from the book of Joshua (Continued on Page 3)

FRONTIS JOHNSTON

Final Address On Lives of Famous Americans

Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Professor of History at Davidson College, recently delivered the last in a series of addresses on the lives of famous Americans, speaking on Thomas Jefferson. Using Jefferson's well-known epitaph as the basis for his remarks, Professor Johnston spoke of the many contributions which this “range-finder” of American history made to the early growth of our country. “Jefferson,” said Dr. Johnston, “was a man of varied gifts and accomplishments, one of the most versatile and intellectual of all Americans; and he knew something about everything and a great deal about some things.” There was a certain elusiveness about him—his was a life of the mind—he was “neither

AL SCARBOROUGH

Library Gets Valuable Gift
Alumnus Sends 1668 Copy of Paradise Lost

A gift of unusual importance was recently made to the college library, Professor H. T. Lilly, director, has announced. Lt. Col. James Robert Covington, a Davidson alumnus, O.D.K., S.A.E., presented the library with a copy of Paradise Lost, by John Milton, printed in 1668. The volume is of the fourth impression of the first edition, which had originally appeared in 1667. A statement on the insert in the book, signed by a Nesta M. Wells of Wallingford, Berkshire, informs one that the book had been examined by an official of the British Museum and been pronounced identical in type with the first edition of 1667, except for the difference in the title page. Students of Milton will be interested to learn that this edition shows the division of the poem into ten books, for the twelve-book arrangement as we know it was (Continued on Page 3)