Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, September 29, 1945

Music News By Frank Barr

This year, the Davidson College Department of Music is very fortunate in securing the services of Mr. John Holliday as instructor of voice. He will be in Davidson on Tuesday afternoons for private instruction. Mr. Holliday has just come to the Queens College Department of Music. In addition to Mr. Holliday, Mr. Thomas Hibbard, also of Queens College, will be available to music students this year. Mr. Hibbard will be in Davidson on Tuesday for private instruction in violin.

Those who desire private lessons in some woodwind instrument are in for a real treat this year. Mr. Robert Klepfer, formerly with the Music Department of the Lenoir City Schools and at present, Director of the Mooresville High School Band, will be in Davidson on Tuesday afternoons for private instructions and Tuesday nights for work with the woodwinds of the Davidson College Band.

James Christian Pfohl, Director of Music, has announced that plans are being made for a concert series at Davidson this year. This series brings to our campus some of the best musicians of the country. Although plans are still incomplete, I can promise everyone that there is something to look forward to.

The Davidson College Band and Glee Club were off to a good start this year. Mr. Pfohl has stated that he expects the present organizations to live up to all reputations made by past organizations. Officers of the Glee Club have already been elected. Lee Willingham has been elected to serve as president this year, Vernon McGehee will be vice-president and Middy Raynal will serve as secretary-treasurer.

The student members of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia (honorary music fraternity) are planning a busy year on the campus. Phi Hall has been turned over to the members of Phi Mu Alpha for their use this year. The Carnegie set will be moved from its present location in the Y.M.C.A. lounge to Phi Hall. It will be open to members of Phi Mu Alpha each night and to all students at least twice each week. We invite all students to take advantage of our fine collection of records.

The Student Store
COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN CAPS
SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE DAVIDSON THEATRE
COMING ATTRACTIONS:
September 29-October 1 “Conflict”
October 2-3 “Nob Hill”
October 5-6 “Penthouse Rhythm”
October 8-9 “The Horn Blows At Midnight”
October 10-11 “Son Of Lassie”
October 12-13 “Story Of G. I. Joe”
October 15-16 “Pillow To Post”
October 17-18 “God Is My Co-Pilot”
October 19-20 “Guest Wife”

NIGHT PERFORMANCES: 7:00 P. M.

*Pianos *Organs
Large Stock Records
Sheet Music
ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY
Phone 3-8855

BIGGERS BROTHERS (Incorporated)
—: WHOLESALE MERCHANTS:—
Charlotte, N. C.
Fruits, Produce, Butter, and Eggs

TOM FRANKLIN
—: Commercial Photographer :—
Official Photographer, The Charlotte News
210 WEST FOURTH STREET

Members On Staff Begin Term’s Work
Eight Issues To Be Printed This Semester

Members of the editorial and business staff of the Davidsonian have begun their fall work in helping to publish to the students news and features, which, it is hoped, will be of interest to them. Members of the editorial staff are as follows: Hil Masters, of Charlotte, Associate Editor; Harry McLean, of Washington, N. C., and Joe Stukes, of Manning, S. C.Assistant Editors: Frank Barr, of Concord, N.C., Feature Editor; Ed Golden, of Jacksonville, Fla., Managing Editor; Jimmy Nisbet, of Sanford, N.C., Managing Editor; Lonnie Turner, of Statesville, N.C., Managing Editor; Sterling Edwards, Sports Editor; Dave Gambrell, of Atlanta, Ga., Assistant Sports Editor; Frank Barr, of Concord, Music Editor; and David Farr, of Charlotte, Staff Photographer. Members of the business staff are as follows: Ward Lasly, of Burlington, Assistant Business Manager; Bob Gambrell, of Atlanta, Ga., Advertising Manager; and Bob Smoak, of Wilkesboro, Circulation Manager.

Interesting articles appearing in each issue of the paper should be noted and read with attention. Ed Golden’s column “Think on These Things” is a very interesting and inspiring article concerning the religious scope about the campus. One’s time would never be wasted reading such an article as that. Falling back upon previous copies of the Davidsonian, the Fall issues will carry a column by Newt Spencer, Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. for the coming year, concerning happenings in which the Y.M.C.A. is involved. The work of the cabinet and the social life of the student body for the fall will be stressed most.

Another article which many students seem to overlook, but which in no wise should be missed, is the newly installed music column by Frank Barr. The work of Phi Mu Alpha will be included here along with other interesting music items. It is hoped that the “Among The Greeks” column will be of interest to everyone, and will provide fun and frolic for all. It is not the desire of the editorial staff to offend or hurt anyone in this article, and actions against such will be taken. Finally, let us not overlook the editorials. In a sense, the editorials are the most important articles in the paper, for in them is expressed the feelings of the student body as a whole. So before you lay your paper aside, turn to the editorials, read them, and see if you don’t gain something from them.

The majority of the news which you read on the front page is made possible by the help of the alumni office. Permit us to take this opportunity here to express our thanks to Mr. John Payne for his most helpful work in furnishing many of the articles you read throughout your Davidsonian. Without the help of Mr. Payne, the news you see in the Davidsonian would be sadly reduced. And so, to Mr. Payne, we express our deepest gratitude.

The business staff of the paper must not be overlooked. It is the work of the business staff to help make the Davidsonian possible by securing the advertisements, which you see adorning the pages of our paper.

It is sincerely hoped by the members of the editorial and business staff that the fall issues of the Davidsonian will be the best issues ever sent to press, and only by the cooperation of the members of the editorial and business staff and the students of Davidson College can this be made possible.