Che Madbidsonian

ALENDA £ux vB) ORTA LIBERTAS

Vol. XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1945 No. 2

THREE MEN RECEIVE ODK BIDS

ARTIST SERIES OPENS MONDAY

Carl Weinrich Will Perform

Well Known Organist Will Open 1945-46 Concert Series

Plans for the 1945-46 College Concert series were announced at Davidson, October 6, by James Christian Pfohl, director of Music. The first concert, to be presented by Carl Weinrich, organist of the Princeton Chapel, Princeton University, is scheduled for Monday night, October 15, in Chambers Auditorium.

A native of Patterson, New Jersey, Mr. Weinrich started his music study early in life with Mark Andrews and at 18 became a Fellow of the American Guild of Organists. Upon receiving his Bachelor’s degree at New York University, he was awarded a 3-year scholarship at the Curtis Institute. Mr. Weinrich has carried on the recital traditions of Mr. Farnam and has grown through the intervening years to occupy a unique place in the musical world. His musical integrity and sincerity, the character of his programs, and the brilliance of his playing have contributed to his outstanding reputation. He has also achieved wide renown through his recordings. His first album, released in 1937, was greeted with great enthusiasm by record critics as having broken the prejudice against organ recordings.

Mr. Weinrich is equally distinguished as a teacher, having been connected with various educational institutions. From 1934 until his resignation in 1940, he was head of the organ department at Westminster Choir College in Princeton. He is now the organist and choir master at Princeton University and teaches organ at Columbia University and Wellesley College. His work is highlighted by an engaging personality, a stimulating manner and an intelligent recognition of the part which music plays in everyday living. A man of wide interests, familiar with the methods (Continued on Page 3)

Mr. Sprunt Talks On Bird Subject

Represents The National Audubon Society

Mr. Alexander Sprunt, Jr., southern representative of the National Audubon Society, spoke September 24, at Davidson College on the subject of birds and other wildlife of the Southern United States. His lecture was illustrated by a 1200-foot color movie, showing specimens of southern feathered life in their native habitat. The speaker was introduced by James A. Pittman, Jr., a Davidson College Sophomore of Orlando, Fla.

A native of Charleston, Mr. Sprunt is recognized as an authority in his field. He has contributed many interesting and informative articles to magazines and journals in the field of ornithology. His research has carried him all over the Southern States. Mr. Sprunt is an alumnus of Davidson College, class of 1918.

COURT OF CONTROL

Joe Martin Chosen Freshman Advisor For The Current Year

Synod Held On Campus

Former Governor Broughton Speaks To Session

The annual meetings of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina, which consists of a Presynod Home Mission Conference and the Synod’s Executive Session, met at Davidson College, October 8, through 11. The conference met Monday and Tuesday, while the Synod was in session from Tuesday afternoon through Thursday. Members of the Synod connected with its home mission work and invited guests, many of them women, attended the conference. The Synod is composed of the ministers of the Synod and laymen elected by the churches. The Synod has 559 churches, 397 ministers and a membership of 98,073.

Tuesday's speakers included Dr. Ralph Herring, pastor of First Baptist Church, Winston-Salem; Rev. S. M. Inman of Charlotte; Chief of Police Walter Anderson of Charlotte; and Dr. S. M. Glasgow of Charlotte. Rev. J. B. Clower, Jr., of Morlotte, A. H. Littrell of Rocky Mount, Prof. E. A. Beaty of Davidson, Dr. E. E. Gillespie of Greensboro, and Rev. L. H. Patterson of Atlanta, spoke Wednesday. Rev. H. K. McFadyen, retiring moderator, presided and preached the evening sermon at Tuesday’s opening Synod session. Mrs. G. U. Baucom of Raleigh reported on the work of the auxiliary (Continued on Page 4)

Memorial Hut Will Be Built

Gift Made By Professor And Mrs. E. J. Erwin

President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College announced September 25, that plans are developing at Davidson for the construction of a memorial hut near the college campus in memory of Captain Phifer Erwinand First Lt. Edward J. Erwin, Jr., who gave their lives in World War II. The gift has been made by Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin of Davidson, parents of the two young officers. Professor Erwin has been an instructor of English at Davidson College since 1920, and Mrs. Erwin is serving as Cataloger at the college library. The Memorial Hut, to be erected in a wooded spot on the edge of the college golf course, will be designed for the pleasure and recreation of the college students and young people of the community, in whom the donors have long evidenced a great interest. (Continued on Page 5)

Returned Veteran Active On Davidson Campus As Leader

Joe E. Martin of Lebanon, Tennessee has been elected by the Senior Class as Freshman Advisor for the current year 1945-46. Martin entered Davidson in the Fall of 1939. While he was here he became president of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, circulation manager of the DAVIDSONIAN, a member of the track team, and President of Sigma Pi Sigma, the national chemical fraternity. He left Davidson in the Spring of 1942 with the rank of second lieutenant, which he had attained in the R.O.T.C. at Davidson. Martin was overseas for two and one-half years, having fought in seven campaigns in Tunisia, France, Germany, Austria, Sicily, and Italy. During this time he was awarded seven campaign ribbons, the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, twice the Purple Heart, the Presidential citation, and the famous “Croix de Guerre” given to him by the French Government. Martin was discharged from the army recently and he and his wife came to Davidson. Since his return to the campus he has been elected (Continued on Page 4)

TAPPED BY ODK

Men Accept High Honor

Rogers, Martin, And McLean Tapped In Chapel Friday

Chapel Friday was the scene of the tapping of three students into membership of Omicron Delta Kappa, National Honorary Leadership Fraternity. Two Seniors, Bill Rogers and Joe Martin, and one Junior, Bill McLean, received the official tap.

Rogers

A returned veteran, Rogers spent his first days at Davidson during 1939 through 1941, at which time he was a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity; vice-president of the Forensic Council; a member of the Eumenean Literary Society; and active on the editorial staff of the Davidsonian. For three and a half years Rogers served in the Army Corps with the rank of Captain. Upon his return to the College he was elected president of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity; a member of the student council; and, temporarily, president of the student body. This fall he was elected to serve as president of the student body of the current school year, and has already done much to help convert Davidson back to a pre-war state. Rogers is a native of El Dorado, Ark.

Martin

A returned veteran, Martin is a member of the senior class from Lebanon, Tennessee. Martin entered Davidson in the fall of 1939, and remained until 1942, when he was called into active service. While a member of the student body before he entered the service, Martin was president of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity; a member of the track team; President of Sigma Pi Sigma, national (Continued on Page 4)

Twelve Students On New Council

Rogers Acts As President Of Organization

Elections were held last week to select the members of the Student Council. The results were as follows: Bill Rogers, Joe Martin, Jim Alexander, and Dick Winters from the senior class; Joe Stukes, Ward Lasley, Frank Barr, Vernon McGehee, and L. G. Turner from the junior class; and Art Roach, John Sherrill, and Bob Strickland from the sophomore class. The Council is composed of fourteen members with the president of the Student Body acting as president of the Council. The first and second vice president and secretary-treasurer of the Student Body and the presidents of the three upper classes with their representatives make up this Court. It is the duty of the Student Council to receive and try any charges against students for viola- (Continued on Page 6)