Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, July 12, 1945

Music News

At the meeting of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, National honorary music fraternity, held May 28, three new brothers, Sam Lineberger, Harry MacLean, and Art Rollins, were initiated. The following officers were elected: President, Mel Winstead; Vice President, Frank Barr; Secretary-Treasurer, Frank West; Historian, Ellis White; Warden, Harry MacLean. Retiring President, Bob Hillinger reviewed the past year’s accomplishments and urged the chapter to increasing activity. The chapter is glad to have Brother Buddy Wells on the campus again for a while.

There is no organized musical activity on the campus during summer school. But now is none too soon for freshmen and upperclassmen alike to begin plans to enter the band, orchestra, or glee club this fall. If you can play an instrument or sing you owe it to the school and to your own desire for fun and diversion to participate in the musical organizations.

It is to be regretted that the record players in the YMCA are in such bad condition. The two players for popular music are almost an agony to listen to, especially since all the records are so battered and worn. The large custom-built job for classical records needs the tone arm fixed before it can be used at all. So whether your brow is high or low you are out of luck at the “Y” now. Let’s hope something is done, pronto.

“FIFTH” COLUMN HINTS (Continued from Page 2)

ing at all Court meetings. Therefore Mr. Donald highly commended Mr. Barksdale for the beautiful color scheme achieved by the combination of Mr. Barksdale’s hair, face, and Rat Cap. It is to add to the beauty of Mr. Barksdale’s appearance that a yellow ribbon was suggested to complete his color scheme.

4. When Mr. Rast, the next guest to the court, was being introduced, the remarkable similarity between his name and that of one of the honored members of the Court was immediately noticed by all. Upon comparing notes and family trees, it was discovered that a certain Miss Tobacco Rhoda Barnsmell, who married a certain Mr. Rasp in 1853, was the great, great grandmother of both gentlemen. Due to the illiteracy of many mountain folk, it was not difficult for the name to be altered slightly in several generations, and thus we have the two variations of the name as was noticed. The two new-found cousins embraced heartily, and retired to a corner to reminisce together about their dear ancestor, Miss Barnsmell.

It is our earnest desire and intention that this verbatim transcription of the Official Minutes of the June 19 meeting of the Court of Control serve to inform the Student Body as to the true nature and function of its Court, and to disprove any false rumors which may have been circulating in certain quarters upon the campus. With the publication of these Official Minutes, we feel confident that any unofficial version of Court proceedings will be duly discredited.

(Editor’s Note: This article was found accidentally and unintentionally in a waste basket in 410 Watts, and is included as being of common interest to all.)

COMPLIMENTS of H. H. EVERETT Telephone 3-4158 Charlotte, N. C.

WESTBROOK INSURANCE AGENCY —: Fire — Auto and Casualty Insurance : Non-assessable Mutuals Capital Stock Companies 109 West Third St.

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Carolina Delivery Service Company Charlotte, N. C.

Kale-Lawing Co. See Us For— Office and School Supplies Home Office Charlotte, N.C. 115 Johnson Bldg. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Smart Students Buy Their Summer Clothes At EFIRD’S Charlotte, N. C.

BIGGERS BROTHERS (Incorporated) Charlotte, N. C. —: WHOLESALE MERCHANTS: — Fruits, Produce, Butter, and Eggs, Peanut Products, Potato Chips and Candies CHARLOTTE, N. C.

*Pianos *Organs *Large Stock Records *Sheet Music ANDREWS MUSIC COMPANY Phone 3-8855

TOM FRANKLIN Official Photographer, The Charlotte News 210 WEST FOURTH STREET Charlotte, N. C. : Commercial Photographer :

Don't Delay! Buy That War BondToday, "Think On These Things" By Ed Golden

I think we should thank Dr. Cunningham at this time for the wonderful selection of vesper speakers we have had thus far this summer. He has had to go to a lot of difficulty to obtain these speakers, and often we overlook the work involved.

We had the honor to hear an exceptional sermon on the 23rd of June when the Rev. John H. McKinnon spoke to the students. His talk concerned the calling of Matthew, found in the ninth chapter of Matthew. He considered the fact that probably Matthew had heard of Jesus before but he never considered that Jesus would look into his eyes and say, “Follow me.” Of all people, Jesus would call Matthew. Matthew was a Jewish Quisling, a traitor who was a tax collector. Yet Jesus did call Matthew, and Matthew followed Jesus because he realized that Jesus had something he would like to have. The Roman world was cruel, immoral, unjust, and barbarous. Jesus had come into the world to relieve men of this wickedness and replace it with a dream world. We, today, are faced with the same conditions as ancient Rome imposed upon its people. Jesus extends the same challenge he extended to Matthew. This challenge is an invitation to fight the good fight of faith. Paul and others have been challenged to fight the good fight and have valiantly taken up the challenge. One essential quality of all Christians is faith, which is believing that God will back my best with his almighty power.

On the last Sunday of June, we had the pleasure to hear Dr. Charles Myers, the retired minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, N.C. He is spending the summer with us, and we are delighted to have him with us. In his fine friendly nature, the students soon realized that he was quite an able speaker and minister. He took his text from the tenth chapter of John, and his text was “The good Shepherd calleth His own by name.” Just what is Man? Some theories are that man is matter, a machine, an animal, a Mind, and last of all, a Spirit. Man is a spirit and made from above and below. God gave to each of us a different personality in order to take his word and do his will. We all sail under sealed orders. Man desires most of all to be loved, to feel important, and to succeed in life. Christ calleth us because (first) he needs us. We represent something greater than we are. He calls us to tell us he'll make us. He will make us exactly what we would like to be, if only we take advantage of it. Second, he can make us better tomorrow than we are today. If we stop to consider it, that is quite a comforting thought. We often miss the most important things in people, only because we lack the insight to see below the surface. There are many one-talent people in the world; in fact, the world is made of one-talent people. Yet, if all these one-talent people would try to use their talent to the fullest, what a world we would live in. Our characters are bigger and better than most of us imagine, and we should try to utilize them to their maximum. Third, man is a great enterprise. He plays an extremely valuable part in the world.

Last Sunday evening, Dr. K. J. Foreman of the faculty delivered another of his unusual sermons. He took as his text the incident of the reign of Athaliah, who had her grandchildren slain. He brought to many of us the fact that we should point the finger at ourselves and forget to slander the other fellow until we have positive proof of his guilt.