Saturday, October 13, 1945  
Page Six  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

AMONG THE GREEKS

Music News  
(Continued from Page 5)

COMPLIMENTS

The noise you may have heard coming from the Phi Delt house last Saturday night was merely the Phi Delt rendition of the great ballad.

By Frank Barr

Plans are complete for the 1945-1946 Davidson College Concert Series. They have recently been announced by James Christian Pfohl. The first concert will be presented by Carl Weinrich, organist of the Princeton chapel, Princeton University. Mr. Weinrich is equally distinguished as a teacher and concert organist. For a number of years, he was head of the organ department at Westminster Choir College in Princeton.

The second program in the series will be given by Samuel Dushkin, violinist, on November 12. According to Mr. Pfohl, Mr. Dushkin is one of the finest violinists in the country. On February 4, Mark Harrell will present the third program in the series. Mr. Harrell is a famous Metropolitan Opera star. The visit of this famous baritone will be a treat for all of us. Sari Biro will present the fourth concert in the series. Miss Biro, concert pianist, is now taking the city of New York by storm. She will be heard in February or March. The exact date has not been set.

Tickets are now on sale. They may be secured from any member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia or from Mr. Pfohl. Be sure to get yours as soon as possible. The price for a student ticket is $3.00, including tax.

The Queens Lecture and Concert series also open this month. On October 12, Ruth Draper will present an evening of theatrical portrayals. Miss Draper is well-known for her character sketches. The Duke University Concert Series opens with the presentation of the famous opera Rigoletto, Monday night, November 5. A company of 75, including a 30-piece orchestra, with soloists from the Metropolitan Opera company of New York, will present Verdi's Rigoletto in Italian. Doris Marinelli, Pittsburgh artist, will be the leading soprano, and Jess Walters of New York will take the leading baritone role. The orchestra will be conducted by Paul Breisach.

On October 9, Patricia Munsel, coloratura soprano of the Metropolitan Opera company, gave a concert at Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C. This opened the Winthrop Concert Series.

As for the student musical activities on the campus, Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia is beginning to function as in pre-war days. The Carnegie set is now located in Phi Hall. As plans now stand, the records will be at the disposal of the student body two nights each week. It will also be possible for those who spend the weekends on the campus to take advantage of the records. Phi Hall will be opened on Saturday or Sunday afternoons.

Phi Mu Alpha officers for this year are as follows: Meldrum Winstead, President; Frank Barr, Jr., Vice-president; Harry McLean, Secretary; Webb Wyatt, Treasurer; and Sam Lineberger, Warden.

STUDENT COUNCIL  
(Continued from Page 1)

...tion of any provision of the Constitution. They must investigate rumors injurious to the good name of the Student Body, or any member of the Student Body. Their duty is also to strive for the improvement of conditions upon the campus, to be in close...contact and work with the faculty of the college in order to promote a better understanding between faculty and students.

Buy Bonds!

The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends on... Charlotte, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM — Is Now Available At — THE STUDENT STORE

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties

"Wreck on the Highway." That's something to hear. Did J-J-J-J-Jeff get a date for the Queens-Davidson Day? It seems that he had quite a time, but he tried. Potts thinks he can handle all the surplus baggage this weekend. More power to him. Sally wonders if Bill’s trip to Charlotte was so hotsy. (I hope you know what this means. I don’t). Hills seems to have all his girls on a string. He has two pictures of a certain girl on his desk. Incidentally, Spencer is interested in the “sophisticated” picture on his desk.

Kappa Sigma

Last weekend the State of North Carolina was entertained by a group of Kappa Sigs. Their journeys carried them to Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill. Scott, Boren, Wall, Bailey, and Masters are the boys to watch from now on—to see that they don’t collapse from fatigue. If it happens just return their bodies to the House. “Egg-eater” Bailey seems to have enjoyed himself over the weekend. How many was it, Doc? Current is still trying to explain to his folks how the whole front end of the car got smashed up. He swears that he didn’t see it coming. See what? Talk about a disappointed lover, just take a gander at Boren. It looks like Duke changes women for the worse when they go up there. “And she was so sweet,” quoth he.

Super Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
417 West Fifth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

For instance, Carolina Lunch
—Delicious Meals—
Quick and Courteous Service

VISIT COLE’S

Get These HIT PARADE Records:
"Hong Kong Blues"
"A Kiss Goodnight"
"Goosy Gander"
"I'll Buy That Dream"
"Caldonia"
"Love Letters"

SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
Davidson, N.C.

Touch football for the Kappa Sigs so far has been pretty successful. The team combined with the S.A.E.s has won every competition so far. So far they have been taking it easy. By that I mean the players go on last. When they played the Phi Delts last week, they just used the second string line and one second string backfieldman. They say that when they play the Betas, they will play all first string, just to flatter them.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Brothers Strickland, Gambrell, McAlister, and pledges Dickey Gambrell and Miller spent a quiet Saturday night in Charlotte. Brother Alexander spent the weekend there also. Brother McAlister has been elected president of the local chapter. We want to know about that love-sick look in Brother McAlister’s eyes when the New York mail comes in.

WE HAVE IN STOCK THE LARGEST SELECTION OF Bibles, Crosses, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South:

BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N.C.

Fred H. Plexico