‘ei Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, April 7, 1945

MUSIC NEWS
(Continued from Page 1)

The Christian season of Easter was deserving of a vesper service of equal quality. The church service of last Sunday
was at least a step in that direction. The Glee Club was the central feature of the program, singing the
Crusaders Hymn; a dramatic anthem, The Creation; the Bach chorale, Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring, with oboe obbligato by Frank
West; and the old song, In Joseph’s Lovely Garden. A solo part was taken in the last by Miss Margie
Bates of Queens, who also sang the Mozart Alleluia. The prelude was the Creation Hymn of Beethoven, played by a
brass choir, which also played chorales as the postlude.

R. O. T. C.
(Continued from Page 1)

continuous service with the army. During World War I he served in England and France. He has also been stationed
on the east coast, the Gulf coast, the west coast, and was in Hawaii for seven years. His duty with
the R.O.T.C. includes four years at the University of Alabama, one and one-half years at the Citadel, and one and
one-half years at the University of Tennessee. He will arrive at Davidson on Sunday afternoon, April 8th.

FRENCH CLUB
(Continued from Page 1)

dealt with the eloping couple, Betty Hogson and Julien Cicandel, who were pursued from England to Paris by the irate
father. The substitute interpreter, who knew no foreign language, succeeded in bringing all concerned into a state of great confusion.
The cast was as follows: Julien Cicandel, Frank Barr, Jr., Concord; Betty Hogson, Helen Davis, Davidson; Interpreter, Timothy Webb, Cambridge,
England; James Hogson, Middy Raynal, Statesville; La Caissiere, Peggy McClelland, Mooresville; Le Garcon, R. C. Rapp, Thomasville; L'Agent de Police,
Rod McDonald, Rock Hill, S. C.; Le Commissaire, D. H. Lazenby, Statesville. Frank Barr, Jr. played several French numbers on
the college organ. Prof. Earl Berg, baritone, Department of Music, gave several French solos.

As special guests there were present the advanced French class of Mitchell College, accompanied by Professor Katherine N. Knox. Principal
Joseph W. Wheeler of Statesville High School brought his French students. Concord High School was represented by Miss Elizabeth Tillman
and her French students. Mrs. Louise Miller of Harrisburg School was accompanied by her students, as was Miss Maude Vinson
of the Davidson High School. After the performance, the visiting teachers and their pupils, as well as the members of
the cast and the Davidson College French students, were the guests of Dr. and Mrs. George B. Watts at an
informal reception.

On Friday evening, March 23, the Davidson French students presented the same program at Queens College, Charlotte, and were the
guests at an informal reception. Everyone is happy to see Dr. Watts start producing these plays after several years of
silence. These plays will bring life to the once dormant French department.

SPE-BETA
(Continued from Page 1)

accommodate a dance of this size. The faculty, however, is working with students toward the end that smaller groups may
in the future be able to conveniently hold their dances on the campus. The success of this S.P.E. - Beta
tamasha was equal to similar joint affairs which the two fraternities have held on past occasions. With many of the
dates staying in the Guest House for the weekend, both fraternities plan hay-rides or “feeds” at their respective houses for
tonight.

SPRING DANCES
(Continued from Page 1)

The advisor of the dormitories is to take charge of these arrangements. On last Thursday and Friday, registration was held
in the alumni office for all boys who were having dates for the dances. This registration included all boys whose
dates were to stay in Duke, and also the ones whose dates had permission from home to remain with friends
in town. The same rules which were used at the last set of dances will be applied to these dances
also. Due to the fact that there seemed to be no unfavorable criticism of the rules after the last set
of dances, the faculty deemed it wise to leave them as they are with the hope that they will remain
just as favorable at Spring Frolics.

Another important feature of the dance weekend will be a student body barbecue to be held on the golf course
on the night of the first dance. This will be a supper affair and the entire student body is invited
to attend. Also, the dates of the boys attending the dance are to be invited. It is hoped that as
many of the students as possible will secure dates and attend these dances, so that Spring Frolics will be as
much of a success as was Mid-Winters.

Dr. C. P. Shedd Lectures Here
Yale Divinity School Professor Talks

Dr. Clarence P. Shedd of the Yale Divinity School was a recent visitor on the campus. He met with the
faculty, and spoke at the college vesper service, and at chapel the next morning. Dr. Shedd had two conferences with
the faculty during his visit. Both of thesewere held in the guest house lounge, one on Sunday afternoon at 4:00,
and the other at the same hour on Monday afternoon. The subject of both these conferences was the religious program
of the college. Naturally known as an author and Christian leader, Dr. Shedd’s life interest and study have made him
an outstanding authority on the religious program on the college campus. He has been the Stephen M. Clement Professor of
Christian Education at Yale University since 1939. He went from Davidson to the University of Louisiana where he was to
advise with the faculty on the same subject which he so successfully treated at Davidson: Religion on the University Campus.

DAVIDSON DINING ROOM
Mrs. Copeland

J. O. JONES, Inc.
SEE US FOR YOUR SPRING
Short Coats and Slacks
J. O. JONES, Inc.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Dunlap Studios
Portraits
230 N. Tryon St.

THACKER’S, INC.
“A Good Place to Eat”
221 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Private Dining Room For Parties and Banquets

THIS IS OUR ADVERTISING MAN
Get These HIT PARADE Records
1—I’m Beginning To See The Light
2—A Little on the Lonely Side
3—My Dreams Are Getting Better All the Time
4—Saturday Night
5—Dreams, Sweetheart
6—Accentuate The Positive
7—Candy
8—Rum and Coca-Cola
9—More And More

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
235 S. TRYON

“Think On These Things” By Ed Golden

Continuing with the timely subject of “Thinking On These Things,” I shall continue to give the main points of religious
emphases that have been voiced on our campus recently. On March 25, we had the pleasure to hear the Rev.
Neil R. McGeachy of Statesville on “What Christian Faith Means To Us.” Mr. McGeachy touched upon a subject that is
extremely vital to all of us, but one in which we put very little faith. That is the subject of
faith. In all of us faith seems to play such a half-hearted part, yet we forget that Christ wants us
to put more faith in Him and in the Christian religion. In faith, there is power to cope with evil
and in the Christian faith, there alone, is found reality. Our lives are spent in wishful thinking too much in
fact. We know nothing or little at all about God. We have little understanding about the apostles. Prayer is the
lost word among our generation. So let’s make it our business to learn more about our faith and to practice
our religion.

One of the religious organizations on the campus that has been discussing and having programs, which, by the way, was
recently petitioned for in the Davidsonian, is the Westminster Fellowship. Just recently Prof. Fleagle led an extremely thought-provoking talk and
discussion on a recent article in the Reader’s Digest. It dealt with the isms that are covering the earth with
their emotional tensions. “How are we as Christians going to meet the Japanese and others, when their religion means so
much to them, and our religion has ceased to be anything but a formal affair? I ask you, how can
we? Is it fair to them? We have gone from the extreme fanaticism of the early Christians to our lukewarm
attitude toward God. Please, I beg of you to ‘Think on these Things.’ It is not only for you alone,
but for our country and future Americans.

Just recently, Dr. P. H. Gwynn, Jr., former professor of education here, gave to the student body a talk at
chapel which, as yet, has not, from this reporter, received any repercussions, that is, has not been one to lead
into big bull sessions. That is his timely talk on “Peace Time Conscription.” It is one that will prove in
the future to be a problem to our country, so let’s get in the know. What are your answers to
the problem? Can you prepare yourself in case you don’t have any answers? Well, in case you can’t, how about
being up to it, and learn more about the subject. In quite a few recent magazines, there have been articles
on this subject. So let’s prepare ourselves. Think on These Things.

The Student Store
COLD DRINKS
CAKES
“T” SHIRTS
FRESHMAN CAPS
The place to get that between class or off hour snack

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.
