Che Davidsonian — ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1945

SPRING DANCES ON APRIL 13-14

YMCA Spring Services Held Next Week

Government Inspection Planned

R. O. T. C. BATTALION: Pictured above is the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Battalion, in formation. The battalion is to undergo
the annual government inspection on Monday, April 16. The inspecting officer will be Colonel William Carlson, who is the P.M.S.
& T. at the University of Tennessee. A full program of activities has been arranged for the day.

Music News By Hollinger

This weekend the Davidson Band and Glee Club are off for a short concert tour through central North Carolina. With
Dr. K. J. Foreman acting as preacher and the Glee Club providing the music, it will be Davidson College day
at the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem for the morning service, Sunday, April 8. But a good many of the
musicians are to go to the City Saturday to participate in private activities other than musical. Salem College vespers at
5:00 P.M. Sunday is to be a musical program, the Band joining the singers for the service. Dr. Howard Rondthaler
will lead, and the congregations of the Home Moravian and First Presbyterian Churches will join the Salem student body in
the worship. The Davidson men are to be housed in places provided by the First Church Sunday night. Plans for
Monday are not quite fixed at this time, but indications are that the groups will perform at Reynolds High in
the morning and then go to the high schools of Greensboro and High Point for appearances at their assembly programs.
Further concerts were eliminated so that all might return here in time for Spring Services.

About thirty-six men are to make the trip. There is some overlapping of the two groups. Although relatively small, the
Band and Glee Club are efficient, balanced, musical organizations, which have a clarity and quality that are noteworthy.

Easter Vespers

Christmas vespers consist traditionally of superb and moving music. Davidson leaders felt that the great (Continued on Page 4)

Music Society Honors Pfohls

Davidson Musicians Chosen By Pi Kappa Lambda

An announcement was received recently of the election of James Christian Pfohl and Louise Nelson Pfohl to membership in Pi
Kappa Lambda, National Honor Music Society, by Phi Chapter at the University of Michigan. Pi Kappa Lambda is recognized by
the Association of College Honor Societies as the only Music Honor Society for men and women. Election to Pi Kappa
Lambda in music is regarded as comparable to election to Phi Beta Kappa in Liberal Arts. The School of Music
of the University of Michigan, of which both Professor and Mrs. Pfohl are graduates, has been granted the privilege of
extending membership to those graduating prior to the establishment of the chapter at Michigan, “who would have been eligible at
the time of their graduation and who have been recognized for their exceptionally high scholarship and superior musicianship since graduation.”
The installation ceremonies and the initiation of new members will both be held at Ann Arbor, on April 15, 1945.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Pfohl are recognized as talented artists and appreciated for their tireless efforts to promote the cause
of music and music appreciation in the Carolinas. The news of their election to Pi Kappa Lambda will be a
source of gratification to patrons of music and associates in this liberal culture throughout this area.

Tennessee U. Man Inspects ROTC Battalion

All Day Program Scheduled; Parade in Afternoon

Major E. E. Marsh, professor of Military Science and Tactics, has recently announced the program for the annual military inspection
to be held at the college on Monday, April 16th. Col. William R. Carlson, P.M.S. & T. of the Military
Department of the University of Tennessee, will be the inspecting officer. The program will begin at 8:30 A.M. and will
continue until 5 in the afternoon. It will include the following: Class inspection to be held in the Armory on
Monday morning from 8:30 until 12:30. The subjects in which the boys are to be inspected are as follows: Military
Courtesy and customs of the service, organization of the Army, the safeguarding of Military information, the nomenclature of the M1
rifle, field sanitation and first aid, map and aerial photograph reading, scouts observers and messengers, concealment and camouflage, and patrol
operations. At 12:30, the inspecting officer will call on Dr. Cunningham, and the lunch period will be from one until
two. At 2 P.M. a general review and inspection of the unit will be held, embracing precision of movements, condition
of uniforms, condition of arms, and leadership of officers. From 3 until 4, there will be both close and extended
order drill for both platoon and squad units. In past years, Davidson has consistently ranked at the top in the
fourth service command, having received an excellent rating every year since 1928. The present unit, although greatly reduced in numbers,
is reported to be of comparable quality.

Col. Carlson, a graduate of Oregon State College in 1911, was commissioned in 1917 and has since (Continued on Page
4)Page 4) was Gommis- seen

COLONEL CARLSON

Begin Tuesday; Davis Speaker Program For Three Day Series Is Announced

The Y Cabinet has recently announced that plans are completed for Spring services which are to be held on the
campus on April 10-12. Dr. C. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, who is to be
the speaker at the services, will arrive at Davidson late Monday afternoon and will have supper at the guest house
with the members of the Y Cabinet. Dr. Davis, who is a Davidson graduate and who received his D.D. degree
here in 1943, will speak six times: three in chapel during the regular period in the morning, and three at
the church in the evenings. The chapel period will be extended during the three days of the services to give
the speaker more time. Second period will probably be cut to accomplish this. The evening services will begin at 7:30,
and will last until approximately 8:30. Arrangements have been made for Dr. Davis to eat at the various boarding houses
while he is here. He will be the guest at Mrs. Thompson’s, Mrs. Henderson’s, and Mrs. Miller's for each of
the three noon meals while he is here. The traditional communion service will be held at the closing meeting of
the series at the church on Thursday night. Dr. Davis and Dr. Pritchett will officiate at this service. Dr. Davis
will be glad to have a personal conference with any student who desires, if they will arrange a time at
the Y office.

French Club Presents Plays Students Have Program at Davidson and Queens

In Chambers Auditorium, Davidson College, at 8:00 P.M., Friday, March 16, the students of French of the college presented a
program of French plays to which the public was cordially invited. The first number was Pierre Macy’s short comedy, "Cupidon,
Dentiste," a story of romance in the waiting room of a dentist. The cast was composed of the following members
of the beginning French class: Le Dentiste, Herb Wyatt, Winston-Salem; Jacques Lefranc, D. M. McNair, Rockingham; Marguerite Didier, Bob Gambrell,
Atlanta, Ga.; Le Gros Monsieur, John Hills, Jacksonville, Fla.; La Vieille Dame, N. F. Quinn, Jr., Charlotte; Le Domestique, Castle
Koop, Richmond, Va. The class in third-year French, assisted by members of the second-year class, presented Tristan Bernard’s modern one-act
comedy "L’Anglais Tel Qu’on le Parle," a favorite on the professional stage of France and for amateurs. The play (Continued
on Page 4)

Petticord’s Band Again Student Body Barbecue Precedes Informal Dance Friday Night

On Friday and Saturday, April 13th and 14th, the Pan-Hellenic Council is presenting Spring Frolics, one of the most important
social functions of the school year. There are to be two dances, both of which are to be held in
the college gymnasium. The Friday night dance is to be informal for both boys and girls and will last from
9 o'clock until one o'clock. The individual price for this dance will be $1.25, and music will be provided by
a juke box. On Saturday night the dance will be formal for everyone and will last from eight-thirty until twelve
o'clock. The price for this dance will be $3.50, and the price for a set ticket is $4.50. Tickets may
be secured from any Pan-Hellenic Council Representative. Featured at the Saturday night dance will be the music of John Peddicord
and his orchestra from Winston-Salem. There will also be a Pan-Hellenic figure followed by a Pan-Hellenic no-break. Four other no-break
dances will be held during the evening. The Gymnasium is to be attractively decorated with crepe paper of pastel shades
which accentuate the Spring motif. The same arrangements for lounges and coat rooms will be provided as were used at
the Mid-Winters dances. Arrangements are being made for the placing of dates in Duke Dormitory, and the same system will
be used as was used at the last dance set. Mrs. Caldwell, the super- (Continued on Page 4)

Function Held By Two Frats SPE’s and Beta’s Have Dance In Charlotte

On Friday evening, April 6th, the members of the Sigma Phi Epsilon and the Beta Theta Pi fraternities and their
dates enjoyed a joint function at the Charlotte Country Club. The affair turned out to be the biggest social event
of the year outside of the Pan-Hellenic sponsored dances. This spring formal started at 7:30 with a joint banquet and
dancing was from 9 till 12 to the fine music of Fleet Green and his orchestra. The sponsors for the
dance were Miss Donnie Rhodes for Sigma Phi Epsilon, with Andy Owns, president, and Miss Grace Lyons for Beta Theta
Pi, with George Gunn, president. The members of the college faculty and administration who were present as guests were Dr.
and Mrs. John R. Cunningham, Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Reid, Dr. and Mrs. L. B. Schenck, Mr. and Mrs.
John L. Payne, Mrs. Gordon Caldwell, and Miss Orrie Steele. The function was held in Charlotte after efforts failed in
finding a suitable place on the campus to (Continued on Page 4)
