Page [we THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, September 29, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
MEL WINSTEAD

BUSINESS MANAGER
DEXTER LAZENBY

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor Hil Masters
Assistant Editor Harry McLean
Assistant Editor Joe Stukes
Feature Editor Frank Barr
Managing Editor Ed Holden
Managing Editor Jimmy Turner
Managing Editor Jimmy Nisbet
Sports Editor Sterling Edwards
Assistant Sports Editor Dave Hambrell
Staff Photographer David Farr

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager Ward Lasley
Advertising Manager Bob Hambrell
Circulation Manager Smoke

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Remarks
Davidson at the beginning of the fall found itself with a normal freshman class. The task of handling these potential
men will be a hard one for they outnumber the upper-classmen a little over two to one. Thus we will
need a strong and relentless Court of Control. The new court should profit by the experience of last year’s. It
should not need to call upon the Student Council to help it rule the freshman. It should have enough power
in itself to govern them so that they will obey it instead of laugh at it. Let us have no
clowns this year.

We have been told that the “Y” Cabinet is not having a very successful start. It seems that not very
many of the members know what they are doing. The ones that do are voted down, and the result is
utter confusion. Whether these reports are true or just rumors we are not sure, but the former will be our
wager. Everyone knows that the Cabinet plays an important part in the activities of the school. Therefore, it should not
be run in a “slipshod” manner. Perhaps when the members get organized and acquainted with the strange atmosphere they find
themselves in, it may be better. The College certainly hopes so.

The school and the student body have noticed some changes being made lately in the present interpretation of the Constitution
and Student Council Rules, particularly pertaining to the point system. The purpose of the system, in normal times, is to
divide as equally as possible the various offices and positions of rank on the campus. But are these normal times?
It is true that the war is over, but there are still not enough capable men for all of the
jobs. Somebody might make a mistake. It seems plausible that until things really get down to normal an increase in
the number of points per person could be made. This would harm neither the student body nor the College. Along
with this comes the question of student body vice-presidents. This is also a fine thing to have in normal times,
but we are not ready for it yet. This also conflicts with the point system, for many a boy with
the abilities of making a fine officer is unable to participate because of some other office which he holds. Then
we have to choose from the leftovers. Think it over.

Of our older readers, many of you will probably notice a change in The Davidsonian. We of the staff are
trying to make this a paper that you will not only enjoy but also learn something from. We are adding
a column this year which has not been active over a period of years. That is Among the Greeks, a
column especially devoted to fraternity functions and “gossip.” This and other features we hope will make The Davidsonian better reading
material for you in the coming year.

Welcome...
Well, what do you think of it? Yeah, you, freshman. Do you feel lost? You needn't be. There are a
lot of you freshmen, so that means that we are going to have to depend on you for the main
support of the student body. You have four more years to go but don’t be discouraged. You might find it
pretty “rough” at first, but if you keep plugging away, pretty soon you'll find that it becomes a habit. You'll
probably gripe a lot, too, about the Court of Control, Freshman Regulations, and other things which seem to have been
originated just to make life miserable for you. You might even go as far as to ask why all these
things are. This is why. You hear a lot of us talking about tradition, and you are probably wondering what
it is all about. Well, Davidson has many traditions. It is an old school, goes way back to 1837 (as
you probably know), that means plenty of traditions. Along with the customs comes the things that you gripe about most
frequently. They are a part of the school as much as Chambers Building is. It would be impossible to disregard
them. One who does that is not a true Davidson man. So take heed freshmen, for Davidson welcomes you with
as much sincerity as did that first class who were wearing swallow-tail coats and knee breeches.

And to you veterans, who are coming back to school. There isn’t much we can say to you, except that
we really have to hand it to you for doing it. It takes something after being away from school for
three or four years to come back and more or less start all over again. It takes guts, and apparently
you have it. We may seem a little foolish at times, and although I hate to say it, childish. But,
please have patience with us. We will try and adjust ourselves so that we won’t be out of harmony. Needless
to say that you all have gone through experiences that the majority of us will never be conscious of. Some
of you are entering Davidson for the first time. You will have the roughest time ofall, not only because of
the work but because you have never had a taste of college life before. Everything will seem rosy to you,
and you are liable to pay too much attention to these “rosies” instead of the more important things. From this
year on, the student body of Davidson will get larger until it has a normal enrollment. Among the entering students
will be other men like you, veterans. Some of them may be your buddies of years past. It will be
your job and responsibility to help conduct them into this strange world of peace and righteousness.

Pi Kappa Alpha
This last weekend brought various experiences to the Pikas, out for adventure. Pledge Randy Ensign made his habitual trip to
his home in Charlotte. Brother Smoak went to Queens to enjoy the campus scenery along with other things. Brother Coble
also went to Queens. Brother Raynal went to Charlotte to date a lady wrestler friend. Brother Lazenby has a serious
case, so we are told, with a good-looking Concord gal. They went to Statesville for a quiet weekend. Brother Neill
and Brother Markey went to Charlotte to “get away from it all.” Brother Dockery went to Elkin, that great city
of northwestern N.C., and Brother Courson stayed on the campus and has made resolutions to remedy that situation in the
future.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Some of the SPE’s seemed curious at the fact that Dave Neill waited until the last minute before coming back
to school this fall. Don’t worry boys! It’s a woman (for those interested, her name is Jean). Charlie Thompson seems
to have enjoyed his stay at Carolina this summer. Well, well, all this and Ann too! Pledge Charlie Owens has
already started spending SPE weekends (a trip to G'boro). It seems that his blind date turned out pretty good. Now
everyone wants a date with a G'boro woman! Incidentally, Pledge Z. Holler seemed to be floating on air when he
returned from Greensboro this weekend. What did she do to him? Pledge Carlyle Charles spent his weekend at home (Winston-Salem)
and at present has had little to say about it. As usual, most of the Belmont boys went home. I
did see Sam Lineberger wishing that he were home with Laura. Martin Pitts refuses to discuss the woman situation. Maybe
he can’t make up his mind.

Beta Theta Pi
The Betas enjoyed a joyous time last week when eight innocent pledges underwent Hell Week. The pledges came through in
fine style and are now letting the other pledges know that they have experienced that time in a fraternity man’s
life that is mentioned with heads bared and a grave as well as solemn voice. John Sherrill, Ward Lasley, Louie
Hart, Bob Morton, et al., journeyed to see USC-Duke last weekend. None of them knew the score—of the ball game,
of course. George Gunn’s motto: “’Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all....”

Pi Kappa Phi
Now that all of us have finally settled down after an exciting and enjoyable rush week, the Pi Kapps haven't
had too much time to indulge in campus gossiping, although a lot has taken place amidst its own group. In
the first place, what did Louie Palles find so interesting in Charlotte last Saturday and Sunday? It couldn’t have been
that cute little blonde that he had to spend every possible moment with before she left for school! Or could
it? Incidentally, if you haven’t heard the Lawrence-Palles boogie-woogie duos, you just don’t know what you’ve missed. They’re tops on
the piano.

Kappa Sigma
What about that tumble Walker, Higgie, and Barksdale had near Huntersville the other night? Maybe you should have registered that
cycle after all, boys. Mel intends to have a lot of fun at Homecoming this fall. He’s got a cute
little girl coming over, but he swears he’s not stealing Blain’s girl from him. Last Sunday night after Vespers we
entertained the faculty brothers and their wives at an informal feed. Those present were Dr. and Mrs. Gallent, Dr. and
Mrs. Vowles, and Mr. and Mrs. McGill. Mayor and Mrs. Beaty were absent from the occasion. Tyler had such a
hard time getting his girl over the phone the other night that he had a nice conversation with the operator
(who had a beautiful voice). Didn’t you finally end up by getting a date with her, Dan? At least that’s
what’s been rumored about. Bailey and Sinclair are sweating it out on the athletic field every afternoon. At least we
have two boys carrying the gold and white along with them on the field. Well, that’s about all from the
Pi Kapps this time, but we promise more exciting gossip next week.

Kappa Sigma
The Kappa Sigs will have six men eligible for intramural sports this fall. The Kappa Sigs and the KA’s are
planning a big function sometime in October. I hear from reliable sources that it may be held at the Charlotte
Country Club. George Peters and Leigh Scott may be back in school in February. Anyway, it’s a rumor. Scott, Boren,
McDonald, and Masters enjoyed a festidious weekend in Charlotte. Seems they went to Central. The Kappa Sig pledges are already
trying to give their pledge pins to their women. That's why they ordered two dozen. The Kappa Sig pledges have
also taken quite well to the playing of “hearts.”

Phi Delta Theta
The most weighty question bothering the Phi Deltas’ minds during the past week is why Bill Iverson is in quest
of a new pledge pin. We do know that a pretty girl is pinned to a Phi Delt. Poor Big
Bill has been campused so Converse must suffer. The Phi Delts understand that the fried chicken at Tacker’s is excellent.
Wonder if this knowledge had anything to do with their arrival at the Central-Tech game during the second half. It
is nice to have a Northern broad among these Southern men. Phi Delts have been looking forward to a first-hand
display of that Ohio suntan when Golden promenades during Homecoming.

(Continued on Page 3)
