By STERLING EDWARDS

"Why were they up there?" was the popular question asked by many of the boys upon returning from Woodberry Forest
last Sunday. It’s almost easier to answer the question, “What didn’t happen up there?” I don’t think I’m exaggerating when
I say that two-thirds of the team had colds when they went on the field to meet Woodberry, and that
icy Virginia wind was enough to make the other one-third think they had them. Woodberry showed superiority a large part
of the game, but the Wildkittens had spirited determination throughout. I believe if Davidson had the same team they had
when they ran against Riverside on November 3rd, it would have been a different story. The backfield was weakened when
fullback John Sherrill was held back with a knee injury, and tailback Dave Neill was unable to dress for the
game due to a severe cold. The line also had to do without the playing of Bob Strickland, right tackle,
who was resting up his knee for the coming game against Mars Hill. Woodberry has one of the best little
teams I’ve seen, and well deserves their present undefeated standing.

In intramurals, the Betas seemed unwilling to be outdone by the SPEs and came up from second place last week
to tie them for first place and the championship. During the many games played this year, it has been quite
obvious that some of these intramural players have outstanding football ability and deserve credit for noteworthy playing. Among the few
is Jim Herdon, who helped to bring his team to the top with his spot passing. Another standout is John
Wall, who also is a splendid passer. Not to be omitted are Joe Stukes and Bill Kieth, who together put
the Betas up front.

Whatever Your Needs:
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
SHOP and the 101 other things
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR

Delicious Meals — Carolina Lunch — Quick and Courteous Service
VISIT COLE’S

Thursday, November 16
DAVIDSONIAN
Page Three

Woodberry Trims Cats 18-0

FALL SERVICES (Continued from Page 1)
“Atomic Energy versus Christian Science.” Dr. Murray spoke in Chapel Thursday on the topic “Can God Trust Us.” The remainder
of the morning was occupied with their classes. Visiting various...

This mission was sponsored by the Student Work Committee of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A, under the direction of Mr. Goodykoonitz.
Those composing the Davidson Planning Committee were: Dr. John R. Cunningham, Prof. Fred K. Fleagle, Dr. Frontis Johnson, Rev. Carl
Pritchett, Newton Spencer, Joseph Stukes, Paul Young, William McLean, and James P. Alexander.

RETREAT HELD (Continued from Page 1)
Caldwell, hostess of the college guest house. Arrangements for recreation were made by the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet under the direction of
W. S. McLean, president, and Newton Spencer, secretary. Miss Louise Maxwell of Davidson assisted in directing the recreation, which included
a hymn-sing on Friday night and folk games on Saturday night. The meeting was closed on Sunday morning following the
worship service at the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor, delivered the sermon.

COL. STEEL REVIEWS (Continued from Page 1)
...short visit, after which time he will return to Washington for medical treatments. A large group of students and members
of the community attended the ceremony for Col. and Mrs. Steel.

Did You Know?
Although basketball is the only American-born major sport, it was played in 75 countries before the war, and the record
crowd to see a game is 23,000 at Peiping, China, in 1935. Originally, a put-out in baseball was made by
hitting the runner with a thrown ball before he reached the base. In 1840, four-foot posts were used for bases
in baseball. Because of injuries, sandbags were then used. Since the baseman could push these out of the way of
a runner, a rule was established making it mandatory that bases be pegged down. From 1921 through 1927, the Original
Celtics basketball team averaged 125 games a season. They carried only one substitute, and he seldom saw service. Injuries meant
nothing to them. Volleyball has taken Russia by storm. It is practically the national game of the Soviets. It is
also a favorite of our armed forces. Pro golfers are the lowest-paid professional athletes in the world. They're paid exactly
nothing; they get only what they can win of the various prize monies.

Lasley Sparks in 35-0 Victory
Sherrill, Richert, And Neill Score Other Touchdowns

Paced by speedster Ward Lasley, the Davidson Freshmen thumped Riverside Military Academy 35-0 on a muddy field at Gainesville, Georgia,
Saturday, November 3, in what observers termed the best game the Wildkittens have played all season. The cats struck swiftly
and before five minutes had elapsed held a fourteen-point lead. Their first tally came after end Bill Johnson recovered a
Riverside fumble on his own forty-five-yard line. On the first play, fullback John Sherrill reeled off thirty-five yards...To the Cadets'
twenty-two, from where Lasley dashed the remaining distance off tackle to score standing up. Herts Waldrop kicked the extra point
from placement, as he did four other times during the afternoon to give him a perfect record for the day.
When they were unable to gain after the second kickoff, the Cadets punted to the Davidson thirty-eight. Here Lasley turned
in the most spectacular run of the game as he circled right end and raced sixty-two yards down the sideline
for the second score. Shortly after the quarter, the visitors again hit paydirt when quarterback Joe Richert broke through center
for forty yards and another touchdown. Later in the period, with Lasley, Sherrill, and wingback Sterling Edwards alternating lugging the
pigskin, the Kittens drove sixty-three yards for a fourth score. Sherrill climaxed the drive with a four-yard plunge over center.

The Riversiders came back strengthened after the half and held the visitors scoreless during the third frame. Once the Frosh
seemed headed for a touchdown when they drove deep into the blue and gray territory, but two consecutive fifteen-yard penalties
forced them to kick. In the fourth quarter, however, the Frosh were able to push across another score after Sherrill
intercepted a Riverside pass on his own forty. A pass from Neill, substituted tailback, to end Bill Iverson, and runs
by Sherrill and Neill, took the ball to the two-yard line, from where Neill plunged over. Riverside was one of
the strongest teams Davidson has faced, but, although they fought to the end, they could not stop the Wildkittens, who
were playing 100 percent better ball than in previous games. The Cadets had a good running game and amassed six
first downs, three less than their opponents' nine. Passes were few because of the wet field. Riverside completed three out
of nine aerials for a total of thirty-seven yards, and Davidson threw only three, connecting with one for seven yards,
while intercepting four. Fumbles were fewer than might have been expected, with the freshmen fumbling three times and the Cadets
twice. Davidson recovered all fumbles. Bob Millar, Bob Strickland, Flash Morrison, and Joe Leonard shone on defense for the Cats,
while Pittman, Gilbert, Curtis, and McMillian were outstanding for Riverside.

Cats Crumble Riverside Play Mars Hill In Season’s Best Game Here Saturday Lasley, Montgomery, Richert, And Sherrill Outstanding

A rather battered and crippled Freshman team has been pulling itself together this week in preparation for the Homecoming clash
with Mars Hill College Saturday afternoon, in what promises to be an interesting game. Injuries and influenza wreaked havoc among
Wildkitten ranks last week as they went down fighting before a powerful Woodberry eleven, 18-0. The Cats sorely missed the
line play of Bob Strickland and the passing of Dave Neill, both of whom were on the casualty list. Fullback
John Sherrill, powerhouse of the Davidson offense, was suffering from an ailing ankle and could play only part-time. Nevertheless, he
got off several nice runs, once rolling up two consecutive first downs. Bitter cold, rainy weather had three-fourths of the
team sick or half-sick. Despite these handicaps, the fighting Wildkittens did not give up and averted what might have been
a greater loss. Fumbles, caused by numb fingers, hurt the Freshmen's chances considerably, and set up two of the Woodberry
touchdowns. The Foresters' first score came just before the half when Murphy intercepted a Davidson pass on his own fifteen-yard
line. Led by Dean Davidson, their all-state fullback, the Orange and Black marched to the Freshman four-yard line, from where
Davidson smashed over. The victors capitalized on two fumbles recovered in Davidson territory to score twice in the third quarter.
Peterson dashed through the line for the first of these. The try for extra point was again blocked. After a
tricky forward pass-lateral play had carried to the Davidson four, Belew fell across for the final score. The Wildkittens' only
serious threat came midway through the second period, when they drove to the Woodberry fifteen, only to bog down with
a pass interception. Features of this drive were the running of Sherrill and a pass from quarterback Joe Richert to
substitute wingback, Bill Montgomery, who turned in a good performance against his old Alma Mater.

All-Star Football

After four weeks of heated competition, the intramural football season closed with the SPEs and the Betas tied for first
place and the selection of an All-Star eleven by the team captains. Each captain was allowed to pick three men
and the final nine were chosen from this group.

THE ALL-STARS
Keith—Betas
Stukes—Betas
Wall—K. Sig-SAE
Herndon—SPE
Davidson—SPE
Montgomery—Phi Delts
Godwin—Pi K Phi
Coble—Pika
Mahone—KA

Forest

WE HAVE IN STOCK THE LARGEST SELECTION OF Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.

BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.
Fred H. Plexico
