Che Davidson ALENDA Bex Uns. ORTA LIBERTAS Vol. XXXIII DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1945 No. 17

NEW COURT TAKES U

YMCA Cabinet Is Announced
Appointees Begin Summer Work Immediately

Bruce Fisher, president of the YMCA, has announced the appointment of nine Davidson students to serve on the YMCA cabinet
during the summer months. They are as follows: Harry McLean is in charge of Hall Prayer meetings; Jimmy Nisbet, who
is co-pastor of the Davidson Unity Church along with Ed Golden, is in charge of Community work; Ed Golden is
in charge of the social work of the YMCA; Jim Robinson is in charge of the collecting of offerings at
Vespers and of giving out the programs; Buddy Wells is the publicity agent of the YMCA; Al Scarborough is the
student body representative on the cabinet; Sonny Blain is in charge of Chapel programs and Evangelism; George Apperson is in
charge of Deputations; and Marks Underwood is in charge of the Sunday School.

The Cabinet has already held several meetings this summer, and shows signs of being a very excellent and active cabinet.
Plans are underway for several social functions to be held this summer for the student body under the sponsorship of
the YMCA. The object of the YMCA is to promote Christian influence on the Davidson campus. President Fisher feels that
this can and will be accomplished through the fullest cooperation of the YMCA cabinet and the student body.

Major Marsh Weds June 5
Marries Miss Ann Ashcraft Of Marshville

The Presbyterian church in Marshville was the scene of a beautiful and impressive wedding ceremony Tuesday morning, June 5, when
Miss Ann Ashcraft became the bride of Major Ellis Eugene Marsh, Jr. Rev. E. A. Bingham, pastor of the Methodist
church, officiated.

Mrs. Marsh is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Ellis Ashcraft. She is a graduate of Marshville High School
and of Cecil’s Business College at Spartanburg, S. C. Until her marriage she was assistant cashier of the Charlotte Agency
for the National Biscuit Company. Formerly, she was employed as bookkeeper by Palmetto Lumber Sales Company, at Spartanburg.

The bridegroom, P. M. S. & T. of Davidson College, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Marsh
of Marshville. After graduation from Davidson College in 1930, he taught in the high school at Marshville, and was later
principal. He entered on active duty as ROTC officer at Davidson College September 1, 1940. Major Marsh holds the distinction
of being the first individual ever to be the commanding officer of two military units at Davidson. After the completion
of a most successful year as professor of Military Science and Tactics, he was promoted to the rank of Major.

Frats Pledge New Students
Successful Rush Week Totals Thirty Men

The six social fraternities on the campus have reported their results after a successful rush week last week which netted
a total of 30 boys. The list of new pledges of the various fraternities are as follows:

Pi Kappa Phi
G. B. Barksdale, of Waynesboro, Va.; J. S. Blain, of Lexington, Va.; W. P. Walker, of Collierville, Tenn.; J. A.
Nisbet, of Sanford; C. R. McCain, of Monroe; R. E. Yongue, of Laurinburg; and W. H. Lawrence, of Anderson, S.
C.

Pi Kappa Alpha
C. S. Dockery, of Elkin; R. W. G. Ensign, of Charlotte; and W. Neal, of Charlotte.

Kappa Alpha
S. S. Royster, of Oxford; and L. J. Moorefield, of Mt. Airy.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
W. A. Dixon, of Belmont; J. E. Herndon, of Kings Mountain; and W. S. Myers, of Kings Mountain.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
D. H. Gambrell, of Atlanta, Ga.; and R. C. Millar, of Jacksonville, Fla.

Beta Theta Pi
W. R. Johnson, of Asheville; Bill Lyday, of Gastonia; W. H. Keith, of Greenwood, S. C.; S. H. Fulton, of
Laurinburg; J. C. Richert, of Asheville; W. B. Williams, of Charlotte; R. H. Alexander, of Marion; S. J. Edwards, of
Tampa, Fla.; Charles Javens, of Mt. Dora, Fla.; C. N. Childers, of Lenoir; R. J. Murphy, of Tomahawk; J. K.
Gray, of Charlotte; and M. B. Honeycutt, of Monroe.

Professor On Campus Again
To Resume Regular Duties As Member Of Music Faculty

Friends of Professor Kenneth R. Osborne, who has been teaching in Kent State University in Ohio during the past year
and headOf the Music Department there, will be glad to learn that he returned to Davidson June 10 to resume
his regular duties as a member of the faculty. Davidson College Music Organ and piano are Prof. Osborne's specialties, and,
as in former years, he will be available for private instruction on these instruments. Mr. Osborne is also serving as
the college Y.M.C.A. secretary during the Summer School session as he did last summer.

KENNETH OSBORNE

Students Elect Six To Student Council
Blain, Winstead, Simpson, Holden, Pollard, Lasley Chosen

Six Davidson students were recently elected to serve on the student council for the summer months by members of the
Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes. Senior class representatives on the council are Mel Winstead. Junior class representatives are Bill Edmore.
Sophomore class representatives are Ward Sonny Blain, Simpson, and Golden. Lasley and Bill Pollard.

Blain, a pre-ministerial student from Lexington, Va., is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity. He is also
a member of the YMCA cabinet, and editor of the Davidsonian. Winstead, a pre-chemistry student from Lincolnton, is president of
the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity; editor of the Davidsonian; and a member of Phi Mu Alpha Music fraternity and
Delta Phi Alpha. Simpson, a pre-medical student from Huntersville, is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. For
the past two years, he has played on the varsity basketball team. Golden is a pre-ministerial student from Jacksonville, Fla.
He is a member of the YMCA cabinet and served on the Court of Control last semester. Lasley, of Burlington,
is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Pollard, of Farmville, is a transfer from Carolina last semester. He
is also a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. The new members were inducted into the organization on
June 19.

DUTIES
Lazenby To Head Court
First Meeting Penalizes Some Fifteen Freshmen for Violations

At a recent meeting of the student council, Jack Lazenby was appointed judge of the court of control for the
summer session. Other members of the court are: Philip Whittier, Buddy Wells, Jim Robinson, Rod Macdonald, Bob Rapp, John Wall,
and Caroll Herion. Of these eight men, Lazenby and Macdonald are the only ones who have had previous experience on
the court. Lazenby, a pre-medical student from Statesville, is a member of the Junior class. He is president of the
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, and business manager of the Davidsonian. He is
also a member of Le Cercle Français.

The court of control is an established feature of life on the Davidson campus, with its primary purpose being to
enforce the freshmen regulations and to deal out justice to those guilty of violating the rules. It is to be
remembered that the court is an official organization, backed by the administration, the student council, and the YMCA cabinet, and
its decrees are to be regarded as law. The first meeting saw some fifteen freshmen penalized for various violations. The
assignment of patrolling the college grounds and various other similar punishments constituted the penalties, with some men having been campused
for a week. The court will meet regularly once a week during the summer.

Among the requirements which all freshmen must observe are:
1. Wear freshman caps at all times.
2. Keep off the grass.
3. Carry laundry when requested to do so by upper-classmen.
4. Speak to everyone on campus.
5. Show proper respect to upper-classmen.

(Continued on Page 3)

ROTC Receives Highest Rating
Davidson Unit Receives Rating Of Excellent

Members of the student body will be happy to learn that the ROTC department has again gained a rating of
“excellent” in the annual examination by representatives of the Fourth Service Command. Formerly, the department received a rating of “satisfactory,”
due only to the fact that it didn’t have at least 100 men in its outfit. However, since the unit
until very recently had had over 100 men, a recent order preventing units of less than 100 from gaining the
excellent rating was rescinded in this instance. Trained by the capable leadership of Major E. E. Marsh, professor of military
science and tactics, 91 Davidson cadets in the various tests and inspections amassed a total of 86.15 points out of
a possible 100.
