The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS  
Vol. XXXIII  
DAVIDSON, N. C.  
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1945  
No. 10  

ROTC Officers Are Announced  
“Pete” Sinclair Battalion Commander  

Appointments of officers in the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit were announced this week by Major E. E. Marsh, PMS&T. G. R. Sinclair, of Wilmington, will serve as Cadet Major and Battalion Commander. Other appointments are listed below:  

Cadet Captain — Battalion Adjutant  
Brooks, R. M.  

Cadet Captains — Company Commanders  
Fleming, J. C. ... Company “B”  
Waters, K. M. ... Company “A”  
Wyatt, S. G. ... Band  

Cadet Lieutenants — Platoon Leaders  
Haberman, H. D. ... Company “A”  
Kincaid, P. P. ... Company “B”  
Strickland, R. ... Company “A”  
Wood, J. G. ... Company “B”  

NON-COMS  

Cadet Master Sergeant — Bn. Sgt. Maj.  
Etheridge, J. P.  

Cadet First Sergeants  
Neuls, D. M. ... Band  
Scarborough, A. ... Company “A”  
Thatcher, J. W. ... Company “B”  

Cadet Staff Sergeant — Drum Major  
Smith, W. T. ... Band  

Cadet Staff Sergeants — Platoon Guides  
Gambrell, R. H. ... Company “A”  
McLean, H. H. ... Band  
Newell, C. M. ... Company “B”  
Wall, J. ... Company “A”  
Whitehouse, A. W. ... Company “B”  

Cadet Sergeants — Squad Leaders  
Carper, M. J. ... Band  
Goodwin, A. P. ... Company “A”  
Gordon, W. M. ... Company “B”  
Mahaffey, J. D. ... Band  
Schenck, N. P. ... Company “A”  
Weber, C. D. ... Company “B”  

Music News  

Thomas Hibbard of the music department of Queens and Davidson Colleges gave a violin recital in the Guest House Sunday afternoon, February 18. His program featured the Concerto in E Minor by Mendelssohn, the Sonata in A Major by Vivaldi, and shorter works by Debussy, De Falla, and others. The Lounge of the Guest House was filled to capacity with an appreciative audience.  

Mr. Hibbard studied at Marshall College, the Cincinnati Conservatory, and the Eastman Music School. He has held teaching posts at a number of colleges; last Fall he took up his duties at Queens and Davidson. Queens is to hear his program the evening of February 23.  

Record Programs  

Several years ago the Carnegie Corporation placed in Davidson a record library of some 900 discs, playing everything from pygmy drums to Black and Tan Fantasy, from Gregorian chants to John Philip Sousa. At the present time only 6 or 8 students ever listen to this music. With the aim of giving these records a wider hearing and in order to add some entertainment to the campus, the local chapter of the honorary music fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha, is sponsoring a series of record “sessions”, to be held each Friday night at 8:30 at the “Y”. Each time a different brother will be in charge and will post in advance.  

(Continued on Page 4)  

CLASS OF 1949  

Shown above are twenty-one new freshmen who entered Davidson at the beginning of the semester. These men were either high school graduates, or were in the upper third of their classes and qualified for admission by taking a special entrance examination given by the college.  

Lazenby To Head Business Staff of Quips and Cranks  

Poteat To Speak Here On March 9  
Outstanding Lecturer To Make Two Addresses  

Announcement was made last week by Dean C. K. Brown that Dr. Hubert McNeill Poteat, Professor of Latin at Wake Forest College since 1912, will be a guest on the Davidson Campus on Friday, March 9. At the morning chapel exercises he will speak to the students on the subject of “Intellectual Maturity” and during the evening he will make a public address on “Rome and the Christians”.  

A distinguished scholar, lecturer, author, and musician, Dr. Poteat has many ties with Davidson College. In his youth, while a student at Wake Forest, he toured the south with the Davidson College Orchestra during the summer months. He has maintained a close friendship with many of the older professors and members of the community since those years.  

Juniors, Sophs Elect Officers  
Wier and Macdonald Chosen; Run-off In Sophomore Class  

At a recent meeting of the Junior class, Bill Wier, of Charleston, was elected as president of the class for the second semester of the present school year. Wier succeeds Jim Alexander as president, due to the fact of Alexander’s becoming a senior. At the same meeting of the Junior class, Rod MacDonald, of Rock Hill, was selected as Student Government Representative, succeeding Newt Spencer, who also became a senior this semester.  

Wier is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, and has also served as its president. In addition, he is a member of the “Y” cabinet and the YMCA Board of Control. MacDonald is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and is a member of the Court of Control.  

(Continued on Page 4)  

Succeeds Love; Annual Goes To Press  

The Publications Board announced today that Jack Lazenby has been selected to succeed Jim Love as Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, the Davidson annual. Lazenby is a junior pre-medical student from Statesville, North Carolina. He is president of the Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and has served as advertising manager of the Davidsonian. He is also a member of the French Club.  

Lee Drake, editor of the annual, also stated that the annual will go to press soon, but that no date has been set.of publication has yet been set. Drake also said that no permanent staff had yet been appointed, but that for some time a number of men were helping in various capacities. Among those who are working are Bob Hollinger, Tom Smith, George Apperson, Hil Masters, John Hagan, and Mel Winstead. Bill Whittaker is Art Editor.

Faculty Makes Post-War Plans
New Ruling Affects Athletics and Admissions

Dr. Cunningham recently announced that the faculty has approved the recommendations of the Post-War Planning Committee with regard to the policy that Davidson will follow in athletics and physical education. The recommendations submitted are as follows:

1. That the college has an obligation in the field of physical education just as in other fields, and that it cannot well afford to ignore this obligation; that therefore some program of compulsory physical training be continued after the war as a regular part of the requirements for graduation.
2. That the program of intramural sports be expanded to include the entire student body.
3. That it seems desirable to continue competition in inter-collegiate athletics, with such limitations as to the number of games and the character of opponents as shall place no undue stress upon inter-collegiate sports.

These regulations will be very important, as they will take Davidson out of the “big-time” athletics and limit its schedule to those which are of the same size as its own. In commenting, Dr. Cunningham said, “The Davidson Faculty looks with favor upon the college limiting itself, in athletic competition, to institutions whose size and whose quality of academic work make for congenial institutional relations.”

Admissions

Important changes in the policy of the college in respect to admissions were also announced as follows:

1. That our admission policy allow for flexibility in the distribution of required high school units in cases of boys of high capacity, and that some satisfactory standard of measuring such capacity be sought.
2. That high school graduates whose scholastic records will not (Continued on Page 4)

Leaders of the Pan-Hellenic figure at the Midwinters Formal are pictured above. They are Miss Scottie Nisbet, of Queens College, Charlotte, and Mr. Bruce Fisher, of Clearwater, Florida, president of the Council and member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

Queens-Davidson Dance Held Saturday Night
Program For Q-D Day Planned
YMCA Announces Social Plans For Semester

Saturday night, the second Queens Davidson Day of the present school year will be held on the campus. The plans for the evening are as follows: a supper date with the girls at the various boarding houses, an informal dance in the college gym from 7:30 until 10:30, and entertainment at the YMCA from 10:30 until time for the girls to leave. This social event is being sponsored by the Y cabinet, with Newt Spencer in charge. He is making arrangements with Edna Adams, president of the Queens student body.

The girls will arrive on the campus at 4:00 this afternoon and will meet their dates at the Y. There was a definite motive in arranging for the girls to arrive earlier than they usually do. It has been observed that, on Queens-Davidson Days during the past, the girls arrived on the campus just in time to participate in the activities which were planned for the affair, and consequently never had a chance to see much of the campus. Therefore it was decided that the girls would be invited over earlier, giving them a chance to get acquainted with their dates, and to see something of the campus before supper.

The dance in the gym will be chaperoned by the faculty, and music will be provided by a “piccolo”. At the close of the dance, refreshments will be served at the Y, and various types of entertainment will be provided by both Queens girls and local students. All students who do not have dates for the dance are cordially invited to attend, and it is hoped that a large representation of the student body will be present to ensure the success of the dance. Now that the faculty regulation permitting dances on the campus (Continued on Page 4)

Chapel Talk By Rev. G. A. Hudson
Missionary To China Speaks On Japanese

Reverend George A. Hudson, Presbyterian missionary to China, was guest speaker at Chapel on Monday, February 5. Mr. Hudson was born and reared in China and has been a missionary to that country for twenty-one years. He returned to America on the Gripsholm in December, 1943, after being interned in a Japanese concentration camp for seven months. Since his return he has stirred audiences throughout the country with the tale of his adventures, and the Davidson student body showed great interest in his address.

After relating his own exciting experiences, with many light touches, Mr. Hudson outlined for the audience his five-point program for the Far East, which has been printed and circulated in pamphlet form by the Foreign Missions committee of the Presbyterian church. As a basis for permanent peace in the East, he recommends “the utter destruction of Japanese militarism”. Mr. Hudson’s own son was killed in action on Bougainville Is- (Continued on Page 4)