Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, August 23, 1945

Boys Choose D.C. As School

According to “The Presbyterian Outlook,” a Southern Presbyterian Church publication of Richmond, Virginia, six of the nine young men who won scholarships in the recent contest offered by the Executive Committee of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church (South) have chosen Davidson College, one Westminster, and one Hampden-Sydney. One (now in the Coast Guard) is as yet undecided between Davidson and Hampden-Sydney.

Twenty winners were selected from approximately 200 young people of the Southern Presbyterian Church. All of the contestants furnished the Committee with their autobiography and submitted an essay on the subject “Why I Prefer the Church-Related College.”

The six winners among the male contestants who have selected Davidson College are as follows: William A. Gamble, III, formerly of Raymond, Miss. and now of Charlotte; Abel M. Hart, Atlanta; George M. Cheek, Jr., Selma, Ala.; Z. N. Holler, Jr., Greensboro; Walter Mann, Jr., Red Springs; and Flynn V. Long, Jr., Austin, Texas. William N. Clark, Rocky Mount (now in the U.S. Coast Guard service) is listed as undecided between Davidson and Hampden-Sydney.

GRADUATION EXERCISES FRIDAY (Continued from Page 3)

Y.M.C.A. and was active on the cabinet. He was also co-manager of the student store in his third year.

ROBINSON

Jim Robinson, of Decatur, Ga., is a member of the senior class at the Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur. He is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. This summer he is a member of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet and served on the Court of Control last term.

DR. LOGAN WEDS (Continued from Page 1)

Professor Logan holds membership in the Phi Beta Kappa Honorary Fraternity, Sigma Xi (science fraternity), and in Chi Phi (social fraternity). The Harpers, whose permanent home is in Hickory, are the parents of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle, Jr. Their home was artistically decorated in mountain flora for the occasion.

PYRAMID LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office Charlotte, N.C. 115 Johnson Bldg.

DAVIDSON VETERANS RETURN

Shown above, from left to right, Lieut. William B. Rogers, El Dorado, with two battle stars and clusters, and Former students of Davidson gather again on the steps of Chambers to renew college ties. Henry Crane, a graduate of 1943, on leave from Beaumont General Hospital, El Paso, Texas; First Lieut. William S. McLean of Lenoir, and Crane, who was wounded and later captured in the Battle of the Bulge, spent five months in German hospitals and prison camps. He wears the combat infantryman’s badge, the Purple Heart, E.T.O. ribbon, and the Presidential Unit citation. Lieutenant McLean, who piloted a B-17, wears the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with four Oak Leaf clusters, and the E.T.O. ribbon with three battle stars. Captain Rogers, who piloted P-47s and P-51s in the Pacific, has the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf clusters, the Pacific campaign ribbon with four battle stars, and the Philippine liberation badge with two battle stars. With honorable discharge, he and Lieutenant McLean have re-entered Davidson to complete their college education.

Davidson Graduate Looms As Candidate For Ga. Governor

“FIFTH” COLUMN (Continued from Page 2)

A freshman bluntly put it: “It just means that there will be more grass for the freshman not to walk on.” Now that summer school is practically over, we hope that it has been an enjoyable period for all of you and that you have all learned at least a few things. We hope that you have not lost any weight or changed in any other ways so that your mothers will recognize you when you get home. We wish to say a special word to the co-eds. It certainly has been nice to have you with us this summer. We have a lot to thank you for, including the fact that you made this column possible. But the time has come to bid you all a fond adieu, so as we say in the Northwest section of Siam: “Floggsi ims gerushskeritch,” which being freely translated means: “goodbye, and don’t forget summer school, 1945.”

DANCE (Continued from Page 1)

Intermission was enjoyed at the various fraternity houses at 10:30 P.M., after which couples danced until midnight. This was the second informal dance sponsored on the Davidson campus this summer to promote student social life.

WE HAVE IN STOCK THE LARGEST SELECTION OF Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.

BIBLE BOOKS STORE P. O. Drawer 2725 124 W. Fourth St. CHARLOTTE 1, N.C. Fred H. Plexico

STUDENT COUNCIL (Continued from Page 1)

With honorable discharge to pursue his pre-ministerial course, Bill McLean, First Lieutenant in the Army Air Force, served as a pilot for two and one-half years, after his stay at Davidson from 1941-1942. During this time he was a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity; secretary-treasurer of the student body; and a member of the Beaver and “D” clubs. Davidson extends a hand ofGreeting to you, Bill Rogers and Bill McLean; not only because of your return with a fine record of service to your country but because you bring back with you the spirit of “ole” Davidson. Other members of the student council are Sonny Blain and Mel Winstead representing the senior class; Ward Lasley representing the sophomore class; and Ed Golden representing the junior class. Al Scarborough, president of the student body, inducted the new members into the Student Council.

August 7

Get These HIT PARADE Records:
1. “Along the Navaho Trail” - Bing Crosby & Andrews Sisters
2. “Till The End Of Time” - Dick Haymes
3. “Lily Belle” - Paul Weston
4. “A Friend Of Yours” - Jo Stafford

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Scott Candler Active Leader In Dekalb County

Scott Candler, one-man commissioner of Dekalb County, Georgia, is currently receiving prominent mention as a prospect for Governor of the State. In his present position in Decatur, he is attracting wide attention for bringing new industries to his county and for spreading city conveniences to rural areas. A graduate of Davidson College in 1907, Mr. Candler was for a short time a school teacher before beginning the practice of law in his hometown. He served for several terms as Mayor of Decatur before being elevated to his present post in 1939. He is a trustee of Davidson College and of Agnes Scott College. He and Mrs. Candler have one son, Ens. Scott Candler, Jr. of the United States Navy. A brother, N. A. Candler, formerly a resident of Charlotte, who is also a Davidson alumnus, is now an executive of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company. Mr. Candler is a former local and state Commander of the American Legion. At present, he is a member of the American Fund Board of Trustees of the National American Legion. He is also district Commander of the Georgia State Guard. During World War I, he served as captain in the 328th Infantry, 82nd Division and received the Silver Star and Purple Heart. Although he is too busy building a better Dekalb County to give any thought to the governorship, his many friends and boosters in Georgia are continuing to name him as the one most ideally suited to head the future State Administration.

Buy Bonds!

A. S. BROWN
General Merchandise
Davidson, N. C.

Davidson Grad Gets High Office

Elected Vice-President Of Carbon Company

An announcement received August 11 from A. V. Wilkes, president of the National Carbon Company Inc., New York City, states that Dr. Lauchlin M. Currie was elected vice-president of the company in charge of research, by the board of Directors on July 24. A native of Chapel Hill, Dr. Currie graduated from Davidson College in 1918 and earned his doctorate at Cornell University in 1925. As a research executive of National Carbon Company for many years, he is credited with having had a voice in the decisions to locate several of their newer plants in the Carolinas. A major (reserve) in the chemical warfare service, Dr. Currie has been vitally connected with the S. A. M. Laboratories, Division of War Research, located at Columbia University. Ever since leaving Davidson, he has exhibited a keen interest in the college, particularly in the mathematics and science departments where he was an assistant for a time following his graduation.

YMCA Cabinet Enjoys Banquet

Major Reichel Principal Speaker At Banquet

The Y.M.C.A. cabinet entertained itself Wednesday evening, August 8, at 7 o'clock at Mrs. W. C. Copeland’s dining room with a small banquet. Nine cabinet members were present at the occasion along with two guests, Professor Fleagle, the retired secretary of the Y.M.C.A., and Major P. A. Reichel, the new professor of military science and tactics here at Davidson. After a delightful steak supper, Bruce Fisher, president of the Y.M.C.A. this summer, introduced the speaker for the evening, Major Reichel. Major Reichel gave a very interesting talk on his experiences in Thailand. This included many interesting anecdotes about his life among the Siamese as well as many interesting facts about the life, customs, religion, and philosophy of these people. He also discussed informally with several members after the banquet about the life of a missionary in that mission field, since he was quite familiar with that life after having known many very well. The evening was very much enjoyed by all of those who attended the affair, and Major Reichel was received quite enthusiastically, for his address made a marked impression upon the minds of those present. Those present at the banquet were: Bruce Fisher, Ed Golden, Sonny Blain, Buddy Wells, Joe Stukes, Jim Robinson, Jim Nisbet, Harry McLean, and Al Scarborough, composing the members of this summer’s cabinet, and Professor Fleagle and Major Reichel. Immediately following the banquet, the regular business meeting of the cabinet was held at the Y.M.C.A. lounge. There, plans were discussed concerning daily devotionals and fall orientation.

Carolina Delivery Service Company
Charlotte, N. C.