According to all reports, the volleyball tournament is progressing very satisfactorily. At the present time, it looks as if the
Independents will win. The hot Independents have many advantages which help them to turn out a consistently good team. With
the height of Berry, Shaw, and Alexander, they are able to put up an excellent battle at the net, and
Davis and Myatt are also usually “in there” to help round out the team. To date, the Independents have only
suffered one defeat at the hands of the Sigmas in the first game of the series. The rest of the
teams seem to be fairly evenly matched, and it seems to be anybody’s race as far as second place is
concerned. Some of the outstanding players that have shown up this year are as follows: Berry, O’Briant, Shaw, Newell, Gordon,
Owens, Sinclair, and Coble.

Another interesting sport feature along inter-fraternity lines will be the intramural track meet which is to be held soon. It
will consist of a preliminary meet to be held in the afternoon, and the finals will be run off at
night under the stadium floodlights. It will be interesting to see what the fraternities have to offer in the way
of track material.

It looks as if we are going to have a varsity baseball team this year. Games have been arranged with
small colleges such as Wofford and Hampden-Sydney. Let's all get behind the team and show them a little support. They
will be doing their best, and if we show them that we want them to win, it might help them
bring home the bacon.

Speaking of baseball, there have been quite a few funny baseball stories which have been handed down through the years,
including the one about the cross-eyed left-handed pitcher who had two strikes on the batter, looked at the batter, and
threw to first base, catching the man off first. The batter swung and the umpire called them both out. But
there is one in which Davidson should have particular interest. It happened to Mr. Hengeveld back in the days when
he was pitching for Little Rock in the Southern League. It seems that back in those days clubs were limited
to a very small number of players, and Mr. Hengeveld was put in right field in the absence of the
regular right fielder. In a game at New Orleans, it was getting dark and the wind, which was coming in
from the Gulf, blew a sea gull across the path of a ball being hit to right field. Mr. Hengeveld
chased the ball all the way to the fence only to see it over the fence flapping its wings merrily
while the ball stopped many yards back. The conversation which followed between Mr. Hengeveld and the manager is scarcely printable!
Maybe that’s why he isn’t playing any longer.

By FRITZ KEESLER

Peanut Products, Potato Chips, and Candies
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wildcat Sports
Saturday, April 7, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Alumni News

McGeachy
Cpl. Robert H. McGeachy, son of Mr. and Mrs. R. W. McGeachy, 214 South Park Drive, Greensboro, N.C., recently graduated
with top honors from his communications class at Boca Raton Army Air Field, a technical school of the AAF Training
Command. Before coming into the service in February 1943, Cpl. McGeachy was a student at Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Potts
Marine First Lieutenant William G. Potts, a graduate of Davidson College in 1932, has reported to the Marine Corps Air
Station for duty with the Ninth Marine Aircraft Wing. Son of Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Potts of Davidson, N.C.,
he was commissioned in the Marines on December 30, 1942. Before enlisting, Lieutenant Potts was an estimator for the Blythe
Brothers in Charlotte, N.C.

Blevins
David G. Blevins, 20, son of Mr. and Mrs. D. O. Blevins, Spruce Pine, N.C., has been promoted to the
grade of Staff Sergeant as a radio operator gunner on a 12th Air Force Mitchell bomber. Sergeant Blevins went overseas
in January 1945. He graduated from Harris High School, Spruce Pine, in 1941 and studied economics at Davidson College, Davidson,
N.C., before he entered the army in April 1943. The Mitchell group to which Sergeant Blevins is assigned has been
taking part recently in the “Battle of the Brenner Pass.”

Cothran
Major James C. Cothran, 30, of 917 Queens Road, Charlotte, N.C., has been promoted from the rank of Captain. Major
Cothran, whose wife Mary Rhodes Cothran lives at 407 Park Drive, Florence, South Carolina, is assigned to the G-3 section
of the Third Army. An instructor at Porter Military Academy in Charleston, S.C., in civilian life, Maj. Cothran entered the
service as a first lieutenant in March 1941. He served at Fort Jackson, Camp Croft, and Camp Phillips, Kansas, prior
to joining the Third Army shortly after it landed in France. He graduated from Davidson College in 1937.

Patrick
Corporal George R. Patrick, 21-year-old aerial engineer, of Belmont, N.C., has been assigned to an AAF Flying Fortress unit of4th
Air Force. Cpl. Patrick, who was a student at Davidson College when he entered the army on February 26, 1943,
received his gunner's wings at Las Vegas, Nev., on August 19, 1944. He is also a graduate of Armorers School
at Buckley Field, Colo., and after completing his advanced flight training, he came overseas in March 1945. He is a
graduate of Bessemer City High School. His sister, Miss Sydnor J. Patrick, lives in Belmont.

Harnsberger
Word was received from the United States Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Florida, at Davidson College indicating that two Davidson alumni,
Lt. William R. Pope, '40 of Mooresville, and Lt. Thomas L. Harnsberger, '40 of Brunswick, Georgia, enjoyed a reunion at
the U.S. Naval Air Station there this week when they met as medal recipients at an awards ceremony. Lt. Pope
received the Distinguished Flying Cross for a “Black Cat” attack on a Japanese ship in the southwest Pacific; Lt. Harnsberger
received the Naval Air Medal for shooting down an enemy plane and assisting in the destruction of six others. Harnsberger
had previously been awarded a Distinguished Flying Cross for his exploits as a fighter pilot in the Pacific war theater.

Rose
During 1944 Chaplain Rose conducted 410 services in six different countries which extended all the way from the United States
to Germany. During the many incidents of travel and worship under strange circumstances, Chaplain Rose recalls none of greater interest
than those held last Christmas. Of that day the Chaplain narrated the following impressions: “Christmas Eve the Group CP was
a busy place but after supper the Colonel suggested that we call time-out and have a service right there. Maps
pushed back, pencils laid aside, and typewriters halted for a while, with only a few exceptions, the entire personnel of
the Headquarters paused to worship the Prince of Peace on the night of His birth. From there we went to
Troop B which was quartered for the night in some old German barracks inside the Siegfried line. I think all
the Protestants in the crowded rooms paused for a few minutes to worship, sing the Christmas hymns, hear the story
of the angels and the shepherds, and to pour out an earnest and united prayer for ‘peace on earth, good
will among men.’ Christmas morning the men of Troop A and C paused in the midst of last-minute preparations to
attend brief services before they moved up into the line. With the cooperation of Captain Henry Cathey of Charlotte, North
Carolina, we were able to have an excellent Christmas service with the 744th Tank Battalion. Christmas night we went back
to the rear detachment of the 113th Cavalry, which was then quartered in an old castle in Belgium, and conducted
still another service.”

WE HAVE IN STOCK
The LARGEST SELECTION of
Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries
Prayer Books, Pictures
Church and Sunday School Supplies
in the South

BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.
Fred H. Plexico

BASEBALL IN FULL SWING
Wofford Game Scheduled Tue.
Whittier, Herion Pitching; Practice Game Played

After about three weeks of practice, the baseball team is beginning to look like something. The pitching staff is rather
weak, with several candidates but not much experience. Phil Whittier and Herion will probably do most of the work, though
Pete Sinclair has done some pretty good pitching. Coach Shepard stated that none of the positions are "sewed up" yet,
but the tentative starting line-up will probably include the following: Herion or Whittier at first, Brooks at second, Thatcher at
shortstop, and Sherrill at third. In the field will be Cobb, Lasley, and Keesler. Several other men are close behind
in the race for positions. Though the hitting does not look too strong, in a practice game last week the
two teams each got five runs. Herion pitched for one team and Coach Shepard and Dr. Currie, a preacher and
ex-ballplayer at Davidson, did the hurling for the other side. The first game of the season has been scheduled with
Wofford College. It will be played here on Tuesday, April 10.

Interfrat Track Meet Planned
No Track Team This Year; Date to Be Set

The track boys will not be able to have a team this year. There are several boys working out who
look pretty good, but there are not enough to have a team. Plans for the intramural track meet are complete
but no date has been set. It will probably be held in about two weeks, according to Pete Whittle, Intramural
Director. The meet will last for two days, the preliminary being held on one day and the finals on the
next day. Events in the meet will be as follows: dashes in the 100, 220, and 440; 100-yard and 220-yard
hurdles; three-quarter mile run; broad jump; high jump; shot put; discus; half-mile relay. All students are urged to try out
in one or more of these events.

Fraternity Jewelry
L. G. Balfour Co.
Factory Representative
FRANK McGINNIS
2418 Shenandoah Ave.
DURHAM, N. C.
