ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

Vol. XXXII —— DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1945 No. 15

ODK SOCIETY INITIATES SEVEN
Bruce Fisher Elected President of YMCA

The Chambers Building, shown above, was the scene of impressive initiation ceremonies of the Omicron Delta Kappa Leadership Society at
Davidson College last night. Chancellor J. W. Harrelson, of N. C. State College, Raleigh (center) was the principal speaker and
one of the initiates. Others shown are: McAlister Carson and Dr. E. H. Garinger, Charlotte; Dr. Chas. F. Myers and
J. Spencer Love, Greensboro; Cloyd Goodrum, Davidson; and Dr. Garner Green of Georgia. Mr. Carson and Mr. Goodrum are alumni
of Davidson.

Pickard and Hollinger To Be Initiated Into Phi Beta Kappa
Talk Made By R. H. Lafferty

Noted Cancer Specialist Addresses Students

In the regular chapel exercises at Davidson College, April 18, guest speaker Dr. R. H. Lafferty, leading roentgenologist of Charlotte,
addressed the assembled student body on the subject “Current Developments in the Treatment of Cancer.” An alumnus of the college
class of 1899, the speaker was introduced by President John R. Cunningham, who remarked on Dr. Lafferty’s hobby of “growing
flowers as well as his interest in growing boys and girls.” The latter referred to his leadership as superintendent of
Sunday School in the Second Presbyterian Church. Dr. Lafferty emphasized the fact that the discovery of the X-ray, which, so
far as is known, was first used in this country at Davidson College in 1895, has contributed very much to
our knowledge and treatment of cancer. Nevertheless, our knowledge of the dread disease is yet to a great extent limited,
and new discoveries are eagerly awaited. Today cancer takes more toll of human life in this country than any other
malady except perhaps heart failure. Other wars in our nation’s past have been accompanied by frightfully fatal diseases, but all
have been conquered. Cancer has not yet been controlled. Dr. Lafferty stated that although (Continued on Page 2)

Pan-Hell Calls Off One Dance
Informal Function Is Success; No More Dances

On Friday, April 13th, the first of the Spring Frolics dances was held between the hours of 8:30 and 12:00
in the gymnasium. Music for the dance was furnished by a piccolo, and the gymnasium was attractively decorated with pastel-colored
crepe paper streamers, lawn furniture, flower-covered trellises, and floor lamps. Preceding the dance, the Y cabinet sponsored a picnic supper
which was served in the stadium, and to which the entire student body and their dates were invited. Due to
the death of the President, and President Truman’s declaration of a national day of mourning, it was decided that the
Saturday night dance should be canceled, and it was supplemented by informal parties in the fraternity houses. At ten o'clock
Saturday night, the students and their dates assembled in the YMCA for a brief prayer service, and refreshments. This concluded
the plans for the weekend, which, considering the situation, was quite successful. Due to the full schedule for the remainder
of the Spring, it was deemed advisable not to attempt to have another Spring dance, so it seems that the
social events of the school year have come to a very successful end.

Chancellor House To Speak At Ceremony Monday

It was announced today, that R. E. Hollinger of the Senior class and R. E. Pickard, a graduate of the
summer class of '44, will be initiated into Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity on Monday night, May 7.
The speaker for the initiation ceremonies will be R. B. House, Chancellor of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
On Monday night, May 7, at 8:30 o'clock Dr. House will deliver the Phi Beta Kappa oration in the Lounge
of the Guest House. All members of the faculty and administration, together with their wives, and members of the Junior
and Senior classes of the student body, are cordially invited to hear Dr. House at that time and to remain
for an informal reception that will follow his address.

On Tuesday morning, May 8,At the regular chapel hour, 10:20, Dr. House will speak in Chambers auditorium. All members of
the College Community and friends of the institution are invited to be present upon this occasion. Hollinger, who will graduate
at the end of this semester, has an average of ninety-seven to date, with twenty-six A pluses and nine A’s.
This is the highest record made by a Davidson man for some years. Howard F. Pickard is a ministerial student
in the Middle class at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. While at Davidson, he served on the YMCA cabinet,
and was a member of Phi Gam- (Continued on Page 2)

Senior Chosen To Hold Office
Ministerial Student To Serve During Summer

It was announced this week that H. Bruce Fisher was elected by the student body to serve as president of
the YMCA for the summer session. Fisher, a pre-ministerial student from Clearwater, Florida, will graduate at the end of summer
school in August. After his graduation, he will enter Union Theological Seminary in Richmond to continue his study for the
ministry. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, a member of
the Glee Club, a member of the Student Council, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He has also served
as Freshman Advisor. Fisher won out in the third ballot over Blain. The other contestants who were eliminated in the
preceding ballots were Gunn, Apperson, Turner, and Whittaker.

FISHER

Outstanding Men Chosen
National Leadership Fraternity Holds Initiation Friday Night

Announcement was made at Davidson College today by James P. Alexander, president of Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, of
the selection of six prominent North Carolinians and one Georgian to membership in the fraternity. The initiation ceremonies will be
held at the college on Friday, May 4. Omicron Delta Kappa is a national Intercollegiate Leadership Honor Society for men.
Founded in 1914 at Washington and Lee University, the fraternity now has fifty circles (chapters) located in leading American Colleges
and Universities, distributed through six provinces which cover the entire nation. The purposes of the Society are (1) to recognize
men who have attained leadership and efficiency in collegiate activities and to inspire others to strive for conspicuous attainments along
similar lines, (2) to bring together the most representative men in all phases of college life to the end of
promoting the best interests of the institutions, and (3) to improve student-faculty relations on a basis of mutual interest and
understanding. O.D.K. recognizes eminence in scholarship, athletics, social and religious activities, publications, and in forensic, dramatic, musical, and other cultural
activities. Its ideals are the ideals of democratic education—the growth of free men under the social obligations of public knowledge,
civil law, and personal honor. At irregular intervals, the circles are privileged to honor with membership selected citizens of the
state and nation who have exemplified the ideals and purposes of the fraternity—who have made a distinct and beneficial contribution
to the life and culture of our citizenship. Those elected to membership who will be initiated at Davidson on May
(Continued on Page 2)

ROTC Awards Made
PHI BETA KAPPA
Sinclair Is Chosen Outstanding Cadet For Year

The Final Davidson College R.O.T.C. Review was held April 3 on Richardson Field at which time awards, as a result
of Competitive Drill, Rifle Team Performance, and superior work throughout the year, were presented by President John R. Cunningham to
the following R.O.T.C. Cadets: Cadet Major G. R. Sinclair of Wilmington, N.C., the most outstanding cadet; Cadet Captain J.C. Herion,
Mt. Pleasant, N.C., having the best drilled company, the Streamer of Excellence attached to guidon; Cadet Lieutenant H. D. Haberyan
of Shreveport, La., having the best drilled platoon, extended order; Cadet Lieutenant R. Strickland of Atlanta, Ga., having the best
drilled platoon, close order; Cadet First Sergeant J. W. Thatcher of Miami, Fla., member of Rifle Team; Cadet Staff Sergeant
A.P. Goodwin of Lumberton, N.C., hav- (Continued on Page 2)
