Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Saturday, April 7, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
J. S. BLAIN

BUSINESS MANAGER
JIM ALEXANDER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Bruce Fisher

Assistant Editor
Feature Editor
Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Jack Lazenby
Advertising Manager
Newt Spencer
Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year.
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

The DAVIDSONIAN wishes to express its sympathy to Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin in the loss of their two sons, Captain George Phifer Erwin and Lieutenant Edward J. Erwin, Jr. With particular regret, we mourn the death of “Little Ed,” former Editor of this paper.

Quiet, Please!

With the month of April overloaded with activities, it seems that the average student will have to use every minute available in order to even begin to keep up his grades. And it seems that every student should be willing to cooperate in making it easy for his fellows to study. Why, then, should we stand for the excessive amount of noise which is made practically every night in the dormitories? With every weekend loaded with social activities, and the weekdays being used for practicing by the various college groups, the nights (when there are no meetings—a rare occurrence) should certainly be used to study. When there is a record player or a radio going at full blast, it is difficult to concentrate, and “bull sessions” in the hall do not help much. Why can’t we have a little action by someone so that the period from eight to twelve at night will find the dormitories quiet enough for students to do some work?

Spring Cleaning...

As Spring comes in, ideas and ambition go out. The inevitable “spring fever” has gripped many of us, and this lethargy is largely responsible for the lack of editorial material which has arisen at this time. Everyone does a little cleaning up at this time of the year, so why shouldn't we? The students and the staff have suggested many things that they would like to see praised or attacked, so with Spring in our bones we will ramble through some short ideas which have been accumulating for the past several months—perhaps our readers will have some comment, which we will welcome, and if not we will have gotten a lot off our collective chests. Here goes...

First of all, we students are extremely fortunate to have such a beautiful campus, and the recent clean-up has added greatly to its attractiveness. Let’s keep it that way by not throwing trash around, or leaving the Stud’s bottles out on the grass. Just looking at the campus these days brings back memories of last year when the Air Corps used to occupy the whole thing in the late afternoon!

Speaking of Spring, Spring Services start next week and the student body should not miss the opportunity to hear Dr. Davis. The services are an old tradition at Davidson, and the wartime Davidson has done well to secure such excellent speakers as we have had this year. Every man here should turn out next week—the meetings will be short, and Dr. Davis, a three-year member of the wrestling team while at Davidson, is sure to be an inspiring speaker for men.

Rumors, circulated rapidly around school last week, that Germany had thrown in the towel should start us thinking. There will probably be more false alarms, but it looks like it will not be long before the mess is really cleaned up. Why not have an appropriate celebration of the victory here when it happens—some sort of mass meeting like those held on D-Day? And we still would like to see a discussion group formed to study peace plans.

This next proposal was made by a student in a recent dormitory “bull session.” It was argued that Davidson should dispense with its so-called “quiet elections” and try the system used by so many other colleges—an open competitive campaign in student body elections. Here we claim that all elections are based on merit, and that no campaigning is done. In reality, the course of elections is pretty well determined beforehand, and the “dark horses” have little chance. Why not allow all the students who desire to enter the race to put on a campaign? Other colleges allow candidates to circulate leaflets stating their qualifications, and to solicit votes. Since it is done anyhow, why not make it legal? Statements such as this coming from the student body indicate that something is wrong with our system of government—either we are not enforcing the rules we have made, or the students do not understand them!

Spring Frolics are coming up soon, and Midwinters regulations are still to be enforced. The students cooperated well at the last set, and they will probably do so this time, but the rules last time were said to be temporary—they were to be a test. But now they are the same—no letting up, no relaxing of the rigid restrictions. We feel that the students should be given more time after the Saturday night dance, if nothing else.

Several Chapel speakers lately have based their talks on length instead of strength. A Chapel talk will be more often appreciated if it arrives at its point in a few minutes instead of waiting until the bell rings. And on Tuesdays and Thursdays the student body would appreciate short devotionals so that meetings could be held without having to rush to class.

We have griped a great deal this year, and praised often, generally without accomplishing much. Sometimes we have seen results, though—the student council did appoint a committee to enforce the point system—now if we could see someone giving up some points we would...know the committee was alive! Murgatroyd Messin’ "Round

Spring is here! With the arrival of Spring on the hill, quite a few odd sights have come along with it. This season of the year must have touched the hearts of the Court, for now the happy men can be seen wandering on the sight of fresh grass of the campus. Oh, but to have Spring all year ’round.

Speaking of odd sights, did you see a certain member of the senior class taking a sunbath between the dorms one day last week? When he realized that cameras were being snapped at him from all directions, he looked as though he had been taking sunbaths for a considerable length of time. I’d blush too, George, if someone had taken my clothes from me while attempting to add Mother Nature’s color to my body. I bet that George is mighty glad that the headline on the latest copy of the Davidsonian was only an April Fool joke.

I suppose that Higgie has finally realized that he did not get a tan the first day that he was out for a sunbath. After asking every student in school, “Don’t you think my back is brown?” and getting only negative answers, Warren was seen between the dorms recently trying again. If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.

The most recent fad on the hill is to bleach your hair. Rod looks as though he had been working in a munitions plant and now his roommate wants to borrow some peroxide. It seems that Smith went about it in a rather gentle way at first and he didn’t use enough. I suppose that the students will soon have a contest for the most handsome peroxided blond. You fellows will have to consult Ken, for he seems to have that title at present.

With the coming of Spring Frolics, the students will have to wear clothes around the campus on the weekend of the dance. There will be no “sun-bathing” around Duke dorm the weekend that the dances will be held. It will be a difficult thing to do but—we will do it.

The tennis courts are really crowded these days. Could it be that our co-eds like to play tennis, too? Have you read, “The Tennis Court Rendezvous”, by Turner and Davis?

A certain Beta man has asked a certain movie star to be his date for the Spring dances. It is true that she has been asked, for a certain S.A.E. brother mailed the letter. Do you think that she will accept, Frank? I hope so!

It seemed that the French club really aided the members of the cast of its recent plays. One of the young ladies was offered the position of fullback on the Notre Dame football team for the coming season. Another co-ed has been offered a contract by one of Hollywood's larger studios. They want her to understudy Hedy Lamarr and to play French roles, and I don’t mean rolls. They also offered the gendarme a contract to play silent movie roles but realized that sound has been invented. Another member of the French classes pulled the curtains with so much finesse that a Broadway theatre has asked him to accept the position in their theatre.

In Respect To... By GUESS WHO

In respect to the new decision of the Court of Control. It seems strange that after such a “stern” beating that it gave the freshmen, it should completely dissolve with a wearied sigh. This writer has two guesses for this change of state. Either the Court gave up all hope of trying to harness the “unruly” freshman class, even though some were severely warned by the judge, or some higher-ups, perhaps the student council, told them that they had better quit since they were doing an unsatisfactory job of it. Which is it, or am I wrong?

In respect to Easter, it seems peculiar that at this college supported by the church, students were not given Good Friday and Easter Monday off. Naturally, we are grateful for the extra cuts, but nevertheless, we were not allowed to use them on those days. Many of the students whose homes were far distant were not able to attend the services presented by the churches in their hometowns, as much as they would have liked to. I realize that this is following the saying of: “locking the barn door when the horse has been stolen”. However, it appears that someone must have been dozing at the wrong time.

In respect to dancing in the fraternity houses, I have mentioned this before but nothing seems to have been done about it. Is there anything wrong with it? Is it immoral? Don’t you trust us? If girls are allowed in the houses, it appears reasonable that dancing with them could do no harm. It would tend to divert from other things rather than lead up to other things. It would be well; for reading magazines and talking can grow tiresome and with no dancing allowed, other “pastimes” are sought. How about a few arguments from the faculty on this problem?

In respect to Spring. Another poor fool has fallen for a pair of flashing eyes and a pretty limb. Spring had such an effect on this lover that he even cashed in all of his life savings to purchase a diamond (?) ring. Perhaps he had the old Mae West line pulled on him. You know, it goes, “Give me a ring and I'll see what I can do for you.”

In respect to the fraternity dances. It seems as though the Betas, SPEs, and the Kappa Sigs had a misunderstanding about them. Nobody could figure out who was gypping the most so one of them dropped out. It is childish for men to argue and get red in the face over a matter like this one, when there are so many more important things to think about. Why they could not come to an understanding like gentlemen is a question they will have to answer themselves. Suspicion and pride are sometimes the worst of evils in human nature.

There is a disease known as spring fever and it affects people in many different ways. “Shaky”, the dog, does not bother to shake anymore; “Dumbo” does not hurry over to the library as fast as he used to; Rollins doesn’t sing as much as he did, and yours truly is getting tired and is going to stop this nonsense and as they say in France, “Au revoir.”