ALENDA Che Davidsoni LUX UB) OQRTA LIBERTAS

Advertisements in this issue are compliments of The Davidsonian, Vol. XXXII.

DAVIDSON, N. C. SATURDAY, JANUARY 20, 1945 No. 8

FIVE GRADUATE JANUARY 26th

PETTICORN MIDWINTER S BAND BLAIN EDITOR OF DAVIDSONIAN

Date Set At Feb. 10
Girls To Stay In Dormitory
Informal Dance Friday Night, Formal Saturday

Midwinter dances at Davidson will be held in the Davidson High School gymnasium on February 9 and 10, the Pan-Hellenic
Council announced today. An informal affair will be held Friday night, the music being on records, and the formal will
be held Saturday night with music by Petticorn and his orchestra. The first night festivities will begin at nine o'clock
and last until one, the second night from eight to twelve. Petticorn comes from Winston-Salem and has acquired a fine
reputation all over the state. His music should be a big attraction at the formal dance. The Pan-Hellenic figure will
be on Saturday night. Excellent arrangements have been made for girls to stay in Duke Dormitory during the weekend, thereby
solving one of the students’ biggest problems, that of lodging. Admission for Friday night is $1.25 and for Saturday $3.50.
Tickets for the entire set will be $4.50, and may be obtained from any Pan-Hellenic Council representative. Midwinters is Davidson's
biggest annual social event, and arrangements seem to indicate a fine weekend. The Pan-Hellenic Council is expecting a large attendance
for this outstanding event.

French Club Holds Meeting at Watts’

Shortly before the Christmas holidays, the French Club enjoyed a delightful meeting in the home of Professor G. B. Watts.
Four new members had been admitted to Le Cercle Francais: Herb Wyatt, Doug McNair, Ed Monroe, and John Hills. It
was announced that a new president would have to be elected at the next meeting, and that no dues would
be paid this year due to the excellent balance in the treasury. Miss Helen Davis gave an interesting talk in
French on Christmas, followed by Tim Webb who spoke on Christmas in England, and others.

Initiation Held Tues.
Fisher, Drake Chosen By Leadership Fraternity

In a special meeting on January 2, the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership society, extended bids to
two seniors for membership in the society. Lee Drake, newly elected editor of the Quips and Cranks, and Bruce Fisher,
the Freshman Advisor, were the men honored. Drake, who is from Richmond, Va., is a pre-medical student who graduates at
the end of this semester. In addition to editing the annual, Drake is a member of the Kappa Sigma social
fraternity, president of the Eumenean Literary Society, a member of Sigma Delta Pi, a member of the Publications Board, and
varsity basketball manager. Fisher, a pre-ministerial student, whose home is in Clearwater, Fla., will graduate next summer. He is a
member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, treasurer of the Pan-Hellenic Council, a member
of the Glee Club, and member of the Student Council.

Sigma Delta Pi Initiates Two
Honorary Spanish Fraternity Chooses Men

Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, held its bi-monthly meeting on Friday night, Jan. 12. Bids were extended to Claude
Darling and Jim Love, both of whom have been active in the Spanish Club. The formal initiation was held last
night. Professor Fleagle presented a talk in Spanish on transportation in South America in the past and future. A short
discussion followed on the subject and the meeting was closed.

ALUMNI NEWS

KILLED

Tipton
Staff Sergeant George Thomas Tipton, '36, of Kingsport, Tenn., was killed in action with the 7th Army in France on
October 6, 1944.

Wooten
First Lieutenant Jesse A. Wooten, ’43, of Memphis, Tenn., was killed in action in Italy in November, 1944. He had
received theBronze Star meritorious achievements shell fire. (Additional Alumni News will be found on Page 6)

MEN RECEIVE Associate Takes Over Handbook Editor To Direct Paper Next Term

Appointment of J. S. Blain, of Lexington, Va., as editor of the Davidsonian was made by the Publications Board this
week. He will succeed Jim Love who is leaving school at the end of this semester to enter the Navy.
Blain is a pre-ministerial student who will graduate next summer and has been Associate Editor of the paper.

A transfer student, "Sonny" did his first two years of college work at the Virginia Military Institute and at Washington
and Lee University, before coming to Davidson last summer. His column, "Into the Life of Things," which gives a resume
of the religious services held on the campus, has been a regular feature in the paper since he started work
on the staff. Blain is publicity chairman on the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, editor of this year’s Wildcat Handbook, vice-president of the
Westminster Fellowship Group, and secretary of the ministerial student’s association.

George Apperson, now Assistant Editor, will move into Blain’s place as Associate Editor, and Joe Stukes will continue as Sports
Editor. Other appointments to the staff have not yet been made. The next edition will come out after the examination
period.

Fellowship Group Having Programs Students Form Own Young People’s League

It has long been felt that a young people’s organization was needed on the Davidson campus, and on November 26,
Dr. Carl Pritchett called a meeting of students who were interested in forming a Westminster (Continued Page 6)

EDITOR SONNY BLAIN

Union Honors Davidson Men 42 Graduates Win Fellowships at Seminary

Dr. Ben R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, recently announced that three Davidson graduates were among the
six 1945-1946 Fellowship men. They were Joseph B. Hopper, Albert C. Winn, and John D. MacLeod, Jr., all members of
the 1942 graduating class. Joseph Hopper, of Marion, Virginia, was named the Charles D. Larus Fellow for next year. During
his college days, he was a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and of the college orchestra. A member of
Phi Beta Kappa and Epsilon Sigma Phi, honorary scholastic fraternities of the campus, his (Continued Page 6)

ODK BIDS Jordan To Speak Commencement Dinner To Be Held at YMCA

EXERCISES AT CHAPEL

Lowry, Drake, Boarman, Whitley to Get Diplomas Next Friday

Five seniors will receive degrees from Davidson College at graduation exercises to be held Friday, January 26. Those who will
receive their diplomas are Jim Lowry, Lee Drake, Horace Boarman, W. L. Whitley, and Claude Darling. The mid-winter graduation will
take place at Chapel, in Chambers Auditorium, and Dr. G. Ray Jordan of Charlotte will speak. Dr. Jordan is a
graduate of Duke University and of the Yale Divinity School. He is a very popular speaker among young people, and
is a frequent visitor on college campuses and at various young people’s groups. Davidson is fortunate in securing such a
fine man for the graduation address.

The seniors will be entertained at a dinner to be served at the Guest House on Thursday evening before the
graduation.

Jim Lowry

Jim Lowry is from Birmingham, Ala., and is a pre-ministerial student who will enter Union Theological Seminary in March. He
will receive the Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in English. While at Davidson, Lowry served as Sports Editor
of the Davidsonian, captain of the basketball team for two years, captain of the baseball team, member of the Student
Council, and Judge of the Court of Control. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha Order and was on
the Pan-Hellenic (Continued on Page 3)

TO RECEIVE DEGREES

Darling
