Luck has struck me, you unsatisfied readers. I have received, as the Sports Editor of the illustrious Davidsonian, a letter from one of those blue stars that the left wing in chapel. I hang on the letter and a part of my answer.

The Sports Editor, Davidsonian
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Editor:

I haven't got any idea what your name is or what sort of a fellow you are, but if you are Sports Editor you must be a sports lover and you are the one to answer my questions.

By JOE STUKES

I am one of the many Davidsonians who was snatched abruptly and rudely by Uncle Sam when he needed some men to help him fight this war. During the two-and-a-half years I have been away from Davidson, all my connections with it have been severed. I was a non-fraternity man and a non-varsity man, but I was very, very interested in everything athletic. For over a year I fought for the Independents in football, basketball, volleyball, and softball. Softball was my favorite and we always got beat in it. I suppose you are playing softball now, so write me about the league. What are the prospects of a varsity football team this fall? I surely hope you field one but I don’t want it to be a “moral victory” team that we are famous for. Time for mail call, editor, so I’d better stop this. If I don’t now, I never will. You see my return address, let me hear from you if you have time.

Sincerely,
(Serviceman’s Name Withheld)

Dear Tom:

Your letter came Sunday just before I settled down to write a column. I am taking the liberty of printing parts of it (the printable parts) and writing an answer to it for my column. I'll see that you get at least two copies of the Davidsonian. I have been here only 18 months so I am not fully qualified to tell you all about the past athletics. I'll tell you this summer’s action and next fall’s hopes.

The softball league is made up of five teams: the Betas and Thetas from Beta Theta Pi; the Pi-Kappa-Pikas from Pi Kappa Phi and Pi Kappa Alpha; the SOTs from all the other active frats. The Independents have one team. The schedule called for them to have two, which would simplify matters a lot. We then would have six teams and they would each play three, or maybe only two games a week, but they could only field one. So I'll only quote parts of his.

The standings are now:
WON LOST
Independents 4 0
SOTs 3 2
Betas 2 2
Pi Kappa-Pika 0 3

I have heard only what everyone else has about next fall’s football team. We have tentatively scheduled games with colleges. Coach McEver went to Carolina last year and his brother, “Mac” went with him. But Carl Snavely is once again taking over Carolina’s reins and so “Bull” and “Mac” went to V.P.I. They didn’t fare so well at Carolina, but I expect them to do better up in Virginia. I surely hope they do.

This is about all I have to tell you about current sports, but I’ll add some more in the rest of this letter. Well, readers, we come to the three-oh mark for this week. This letter shows that intramurals can mean as much as varsity to a man. More and more I keep pleading with you. How much longer do I have to wait for that volunteer?

Wildcat Sports

SUMMER SPORTS ENJOYED BY ALL
Thursday, July 12, 1945
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Independents Ahead In Softball

D. C. AIDS IN WAR
(Continued from Page 1)

Evidence is abundant, from many and varied quarters, that the college has been able to add stature to their characters and has imparted to them some of those intangible qualities which have sustained them under the fire of battle and enabled them to carry on in the face of numberless other hardships and privations. Of 6400 living alumni of the civilian college, 2380 are in the service (more than one-third of the total) and from these men 130 have given their lives. The college numbers six Brigadier Generals among alumni. They are Brigadier Generals Don E. Scott, '07, now of Richmond; Fred W. Rankin, '05, of the Surgeon General's office in Washington, D.C.; James S. Simmons, ’11, also of the Surgeon General's Office; Miles A. Cowles, '16, Commandant of the Tank Destroyer School at North Camp Hood, Texas; Walter A. Dumas, '15, serving in the Pacific; and T. H. Jones, '07, whose home is in Ga. The fact that there are over 1400...commissioned generals are: Northcross; officers among the 2380 alumni in the service reflects credit upon the efficient 25-year performance of the R.O.T.C. at Davidson. The college also accounts for 88 doctors and dentists and for 71 chaplains in the armed forces.

ODK TAPS FIVE
(Continued from Page 1)
student from Fanwood, N. J. He holds a degree from Coe College and from Princeton Theological Seminary in Princeton, N. J. At present, he is the pastor of the Davidson Unity Church. Buddy Wells is serving as president of the society this summer, succeeding Jim Alexander of Charlotte.

WE HAVE IN STOCK
LARGEST SELECTION OF
Bibles, Commentaries, Dictionaries, Prayer Books, Pictures, Church Supplies in the South.
BIBLE BOOKS STORE
P. O. Drawer 2725
124 W. Fourth St.
CHARLOTTE 1, N. C.

Fred H. Plexico

Game Scores

INDEPENDENTS-SOTS
The Independents thoroughly whipped the Sots, June 25, by an easy score of 19-4. Drake pitched and was credited with the win for the Independents. For the Sots, Johnson was the pitcher. Herion hit a double and a triple during the game, and Martin and Fox each got a double.

R H E
Independents .......... 19 12 6
Sots ....................... 4 5 4

INDEPENDENTS-BETAS
The Independents won their second game on July 2, when they defeated the Betas 6-2. Johnson pitched for the winners and Johnson tossed for the Betas. Martin hit a double during the game.

R H E
Independents .......... 6 10 2
Betas ....................... 2 6 0

THETAS-INDEPENDENTS
On July 3, the Thetas, in a hard-fought game, bowed to the Independents as the latter rolled up another victory by defeating them 7-4. Johnson pitched for the Independents and Simpson for the Thetas. Herion hit 2 doubles during the game, and Golden and McLean each hit a triple.

R H E
Independents .......... 7 7 0
Thetas ....................... 4 7 2

THETAS-PI KAPPS-PIKAS
In a big hitting game, the Thetas downed the Pi Kapps-Pikas by 10-7. Simpson was credited for the win, and Blain, in his prime, pitched for the Pi Kapps.

R H E
Thetas ....................... 10 12 2
Pi Kapps-Pikas ....... 7 10 3

THETAS-SOTS
The Thetas walked away with the Sots in an easily won game 17-3. Stukes pitched fine ball for the winners, and Drake pitched for the Sots.

R H E
Thetas ....................... 17 12 2
Sots ........................... 3 6 4

Louis G. Ratcliffe,
401 South Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Other Teams Close Behind
The inter-mural softball league continues to roll along smoothly this term with the Independents holding a comfortable lead, having won four games and lost none. No other team in the league can boast of such a record, each having lost two games apiece, with the exception of the Pi Kappa-Pikas, who have lost three, and won just as many minus three. The Independents, behind the capable pitching of Johnson, have developed a good hitting average along with fine defensive play. It would be extremely difficult to pick any outstanding players on their team, although top honors would possibly go to Richards, Golden, Johnson, Wells, Robinson, and Herion.

The Thetas and Betas have each won two games. Top honors on the Theta team go to Joe Stukes, who seems to be playing a lot of “professional” ball on the field. Bill Johnson's pitching seems to be the nucleus of the Beta team. His fastball has been observed by all, and it must be admitted that he has something behind that pitch which amazes all.

The Sots and the Pi Kapps-Pikas don't seem to be faring so well on the surface. The Sots have won one game, defeating the Betas, which must be classed as an upset, at least by the defeated team. The Pi Kapps-Pikas haven't won a single game as yet, and as a result, have the honor of occupying the basement floor in the league. However, definite improvement has been shown behind Blain’s pitching and Walker’s catching. Incidentally, Markey makes an excellent shortstop for the luckless combination.

Pi Kapps-Pikas-Independents
The Independents defeated the Pi Kapps-Pikas 8-2 in the first game for both teams. Johnson tossed for the Independents, and Blain pitched for the losers. Richards and Golden each hit a home run during the game, and Walker hit a double.

R H E
Pi Kapps-Pikas ....... 2 5 3
Independents .......... 8 10 2

Get These HIT PARADE Records
No. 1. Sentimental Journey.
No. 2. Laura.
No. 3. Dream.
No. 4. You Belong To My Heart.
No. 5. The More I See You.
No. 6. Bell Bottom Trousers.
No. 7. There I’ve Said It Again.
No. 8. While You’re Away.

—at—
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.