Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, July 12, 1945

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published twice a month during the academic year
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bruce Nisbet - Associate Editor
George Apperson - Assistant Editor
Bill Whitaker - Feature Editor
Harry McLean - Managing Editor
Bob Hollinger - Managing Editor
Phillip Whittier - Managing Editor
Sports Editor - David Farr
Staff Photographer - Bob Smoak

BUSINESS STAFF
Ward Lasley - Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gemorell - Advertising Manager
Margie Vickers - Assistant Business Manager
Bob Smoak - Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Challenge

Shortly after the beginning of this summer term, new student body, class, and various other officers took over the responsibility of leading the campus life here at Davidson, amidst various speeches, comments, jokes, and serious congratulations and thanks to the retiring officers for “jobs well done.” Many were the promises of faithfulness, realization of responsibility, and determination to build toward better things in all respects.

Many are the men who in the years past have accepted the responsibilities of leadership on this campus. Their responsibilities, woes, hopes, recognition, and accomplishments have been varied. Some have traveled harder roads than others. Some have received unearned praise, and some undeserved criticism. The majority have been faithful towards those who put them into their position. Some few have not. But for the greater part, the various officers and leaders have done a job, maybe not the best, but as well as has been possible. To the group go the thanks and commendations of the student body.

New responsibilities always seem too great, else, they are not worth having. Unless a man may profit by his position he should not have it. The profit that may come to the man is dependent on the quantity and quality of that which he puts into his particular job. Now is the time for new hopes and plans. Our leaders at present seem quite capable. Some few will fail, but the ones that come through are the ones that make it all worthwhile. The shoes left vacant have been filled well. The abilities are present, which leaves only the question of the will to work, about which no one can prophesy.

Accomplishment is measured in various ways. To many, it means the actual results, or the lack of them. However, all persons can’t be judged on the same basis. Judgment should be on a basis of relative ability. The amount possible to be accomplished by each person. “Honor to the man who does the best, but the highest honor is reserved for him who does HIS best.”

Hall Prayer Meetings

Each Wednesday evening at 10 o’clock there awaits in a certain room on each floor of the dorm a simple but impressive meeting. These weekly gatherings have been an established feature on the campus for several generations. The meetings this summer are under the capable leadership of Harry McLean, who reports that the attendance so far consists of only a fair portion of the students here now. Students, remember that these Hall Prayer Meetings are being conducted for your benefit. Something new and different is always gained each week by attending these meetings. And so, when you hear the bell ringing next Wednesday night at 10 o'clock, drop that magazine, or that book, or anything else at the time, and go to the room on your floor where the Hall Prayer Meeting is being conducted. The meetings are usually short and to the point. Remember to back your Hall Prayer Meeting by being present!

Gay...

Within the past few weeks, the students of this noble institution, in their daily rounds of the campus, have seen a figure which is now becoming a very familiar sight. Lounging within the hallowed walls of our ‘Stud’, one finds “Gay-Son of ‘Shakey’”—the brown and white collie that delights in retrieving objects for anyone who will condescend to amuse himself by tossing them. Though Gay hasn’t contrived to win the sympathy of the warm-hearted Davidson students by contracting St. Vitus’s Dance, he seems to definitely be slowly winning a place in their hearts by his energetic antics.

There is some question among the more intellectual students as to the sanity of our “fast becoming mascot.” Some consider Gay to be slightly (?) eccentric while others are weighing the possibilities of giving him a Phi Beta Kappa key. While we recognize his unusual abilities, we don’t quite think he’s that smart. We do think that if he could talk, we would have a fortune waiting in the sale of his pep and energy tonic. His energy seems limitless as he runs miles during a day, returning sticks and Dixie Cup tops to boys who don’t want them back.

We end this ‘Dissertation on Gay’ with an appeal. Next time you’re in the Stud and hear a pleading whine at your heels, it’s not some lowly Freshman—it’s just Gay. When this happens, throw something—throw anything in any direction, because Gay must be kept happy and well, for look what happened to Shaky!

YOURS, From The Y

By Kenneth Osborne

We are glad to see that the fellows and girls of the 1945 Summer Session of Davidson College are making use of the “Y”. Never since the “Y” was moved into the guest house and was made a coordinate activity of the college have the facilities been made use of to such an extent. The wartime difficulties of supplying ping-pong balls and cue tips have not lessened, but inIn spite of this, the two game rooms are the busiest places on the campus. You will find the latest periodicals on the tables in the lounge, and we hope to supply you with some recent recordings soon. The scathing remarks about the old-fashioned recordings of “corn” have prompted the cabinet members to take steps toward ordering some new records for you. The Carnegie set of Symphonic recordings is also at the “Y”. This is a very valuable collection of fine recordings, scores, books about music together with a custom-built record player and speaker. This is one of the few collections of its kind in the country. Request programs can be arranged.

We have been hearing some excellent talks this summer from our own cabinet members and from outside speakers. Sonny Blain is proving to be a good “presider” on Thursday mornings. Newt Spencer “drove home” a point in his chapel talk in “Your Record” by demonstrating it with an actual phonograph record. Ed Golden said some worthwhile things about Our Opportunity, and I don’t think anyone missed Myers’ sermon last Sunday night when he told us that we were all different even though we may have been guilty of discussing such things in the moonlight. By the way, Jim Robinson gave some good advice one morning in chapel when he told you that you were missing something if you didn’t go to hear Dr. Pritchett on Sunday mornings. Amen to that!

The Sunday School class held in the lounge has had an average attendance of twenty-five. Teachers have been: Underwood, Baker, Spencer, and Edwards. Bruce Fisher is looking for freshmen or upperclassmen who are willing to do boy’s work with the younger boys in the community. Don’t forget the outing Saturday. It will be strictly informal and we hope that you will enter into the spirit of the affair and make it a thing to remember at Davidson. Ed Golden has been working hard to make it a success. The Student Council sponsors the dance.

The questionnaire that Harry McLean sent out through the Hall Prayer Meetings has brought us some excellent suggestions and has revealed to us that there is real potential material in the Freshman class. McLean reports a decrease in Hall Prayer Meeting attendance. For the last three weeks, the attendance has been 57, 35, and 55. Try to be in your room next Wednesday at 10:00 p.m. You'll be glad you stayed. We are glad for the suggestions and ideas that came in. The YMCA at Davidson College is your organization; you are a part of it so make it a part of you. You will find the “Y” Secretary in the office every afternoon and most every evening. He is there for your service. Make use of him, along with your “Y”.

FIFTH COLUMN HINTS
Court Secrets Revealed

We, the highly exalted members of the Davidson College Official Court of Control, empowered with the noble task of ensuring the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of our Freshman class, have been requested to publish the Official Notes of a Court Meeting, so that those unfortunate souls who have never had the honor of attending such a meeting may experience in some small way the joys found there. Therefore, we do hereby and herein publish and reveal the Official Notes of the Court of Control Meeting held at 10 P.M. on the night of June 19, 1945.

1. Mr. Whittier requested the privilege of escorting Mr. Royster to the hallowed halls of the Court, for, as Mr. Whittier told the Court, he felt so close to Mr. Royster that he did not wish to be denied those moments of ecstasy together. Mr. Royster was escorted into the Court promptly at 10 P.M., introduced to the members of the Court, then ushered to a lounge chair, provided for his convenience during the friendly discussions which followed.

As Mr. Royster entered, Mr. Whittier impressed upon the court his proficiency in “the light fantastic”, as he so aptly expressed it. The Court applauded, although it at first supposed Mr. Whittier to be speaking of himself, and only later came to see that it was Mr. Royster who was intended by the remark. During the discussion between the Court and Mr. Royster as to the latter’s alleged violations of Freshman Regulations, Mr. Royster remarked that he was confused, and all turned upside down about it. It is typical of the consideration of the Court that Mr. Royster was allowed to stand on his head for the further deliberations of the Court. On the other hand, Mr. Royster, out of respect for the Court, did not feel that he should maintain such an informal posture indefinitely and soon resumed his original posture.

2. Next, Mr. Miller was escorted into the beautiful court of justice. The Court was so touched to the quick by Mr. Miller’s evident timidity and reticence that it did not have the heart to inform him of the unfortunate charges brought against him. Instead, the Court informed Mr. Miller of the high opinion held of him by the whole student body. Amid such blushing and evident embarrassment, Mr. Miller attempted to express his appreciation. This so pleased the court that they informed Mr. Miller that it was the unanimous desire of the Court to campus itself for two months for being so indiscreet as even to suspect Mr. Miller of having infringed upon any Freshman regulation. Mr. Wells was asked to escort Mr. Miller to the door, but it was soon discovered that Mr. Wells was so engrossed in a game of Post Office with Mr. Wall that he did not hear. Therefore, Judge Lazenby adjourned the Court until he himself could escort Mr. Miller safely to his room.

3. Mr. Barksdale appeared next. After he had made himself comfortable in the red plush armchair provided for his convenience, Mr. McDonald’s aesthetic appreciation could not but express itself as it viewed Mr. Barksdale under the mellowing effects of the subdued and romantic candles used for light.

(Continued on Page 4)