QUEENS - DAVIDSON DAY TO BE THIS WEEK-END

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

he Dabidsonian

PHI BETA KAPPA SELECTS FOUR

Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. MARCH 22, 1946 No. 11

Four Students Receive Phi Beta Kappa Bids

Queens - Davidson Students To Have Dinner-Dance March 23

OMA PRESIDENT “Jeep” Whitley

Carnegie Set In Phi Hall Ready For Use

Phi Mu Alpha has announced this week the formal opening of Phi Hall for the use of students who enjoy listening to records belonging to the Carnegie Set.

Form “G. I. V. E. S.”

Mrs. Bob Freeman, Jr.

Spring Frolies

Affair To Take Place On Queens Campus On April 26-27

Yearly Tradition To Attract Many Davidson Students

Formal Friday Night; Informal Saturday

News has just come to us that the much-awaited week-end with Queens College has at last been arranged and will take place on the 23rd of this month. From what we've heard, the girls have planned a gala occasion. The function will begin with the arrival of the males at the historic and well-known Burwell Hall at 5 P.M., from whence they will go forth to this anticipated evening with their dates. The couples will then proceed to a banquet where food will be aplenty. The dance will start at eight, ending at twelve; which according to the traditions of their past dances should be very enjoyable. The intermission at ten affords, in addition to private tete-a-tetes, work for the imagination. A surprise of some sort or fashion is to be given, however little our knowledge, we can hope.

The Pan-Hellenic Council has reported that the plans are being made already for the hundred couples signed up, and we urge all others who have not done so to register immediately.

Veteran’s Wives

W. H. Macy Elected President of Club

The wives of the G.I.’s who have returned to Davidson College recently organized and meet as a club twice a month. Mrs. W. H. Macy is the faculty sponsor of the “G.I.V.E.S.”, whose officers are Mrs. W. H. Macy, president; Mrs. A. M. Cathey, vice-president; Mrs. G. E. Whiteley, secretary and treasurer. Other members are: Mrs. J. W. Archer, Mrs. T. M. Guy, Mrs. J. A. Nisbet, Mrs. H. M. Raynal, and Mrs. G. Hitchcock.

Beaver Club Extends Bids

Bethea Elected President of Organization

The Beaver Club, which extends bids to the ten top rising sophomores each year, has recently reorganized and held a meeting at the Phi Delta Theta house on March 5. Returning members included Bill McLean, Buck Archer, Earl Bethea, Tommy Powell, and George Peters. The club extended bids to the ten top rising sophomores each year, but the present reorganization has forced them to alter this plan slightly for this year. Men receiving bids from the Beaver Club are judged on three points: Scholarship, Leadership, and Athletic Ability.

Jeep Whitely is president of the organization, replacing Mel Winstead, who resigned as president at the last meeting. Barr, Jr., is vice-president; Bob Freeman is secretary-treasurer, and Sam Lineberger is warden. Newly initiated pledges are: J. A. Nisbet, H. M. Raynal, and Guy Hitchcock.

LT. ARBUCKLE RECEIVES AWARD

Arbuckle Holds Legion Of Merit

Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., Professor of Military Science and Tactics of the R.O.T.C. Unit at Davidson College, was presented the Legion of Merit award and the accompanying citation by Major General Edward H. Brooks, Commanding Officer of the Fourth Service Command, last Friday at the College Guest House. The presentation ceremony took place in the presence of President John R. Cunningham, members of the faculty and administration, and of the community. The Legion of Merit was awarded to Col. Arbuckle for his work in military training from September 1943 to October 1945. The citation reads as follows: “Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., General Staff Corps, rendered distinguished service in various important assignments in the Office, Director of Military Training, Army Service Force from September 1943 to October 1945.”

Lt. Col. H. B. Arbuckle, Jr., shakes hands with Major General Edward H. Brooks, after having received the Legion of Merit Award and the accompanying citation.

Davidson Band In Performance

Colorful Program Attended By Many People

The Davidson College Band, under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, presented a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, March 19, at 8:15 o'clock. The program was opened with the National Anthem, followed by the March and Chorus, “See the Conquering Hero Comes!", from the oratorio “Judas Maccabaeus”, by Handel; “Overture to Richard III”, by German; “Panis Angelicus”, by Franck; March from the “First Suite in E flat for Military Band”, by Holst; “Promenade and The Old Castle” from Pictures at an Exhibition, by Moussorgsky; Polka from the opera “Schwanda, the Bagpiper” by Weinberger; Variations on the theme “Pop Goes the Weasel” by Cailliet; and Farandole from “L'Arlésienne Suite” No. 2, by Bizet. The concluding numbers will be “All Hail! O Davidson” and “O, Davidson.”

Officers of the Davidson College Band are S. P. Lineberger of Belmont, President; J. G. Herion of Mt. Pleasant, Vice-President; H. Brenner of Ft. Pierce, Florida, Secretary; J. E. Barr, of Concord, Business Manager; and S. C. Murray of State College, Miss., Member of the Executive Committee. The personnel of the Band includes, Piccolo and Flute: C. C. Carpenter, Gastonia; Oboe: C. H. Charles, Winston-Salem; Clarinet: C. R. Adams of Concord; R. L. Clark, Jr. of Greensboro, H. E.Coffin of Charlotte, J.C. Herion of Mt. Pleasant; Z. N. Holler of Greensboro, J. S. Lancaster of Spindale, and J. B. Reaves of Aiken, S.C.; Bass Clarinet: S. C. Murray, State College, Miss.; Saxophone: D. F. Hogewood of Charlotte, S. P. Lineberger of Belmont, and W. C. Spratt of Fredericksburg, Va.; Cornet and Trumpet: F. P. Anderson of Charleston, S.C., J. A. Arnold of Clinton, S.C., J. W. Davis of Alice, Texas, T. G. Davis of Greenville, S.C., G. I. Deviney of Spindale, A. S. Jenkins of Fayetteville, C. H. Spender of Gastonia, and M. B. Winstead, Jr., of Lincolnton; French Horn: R. A. Campbell of Charlotte, R. N. Cecil of Spartanburg, S.C., U. B. Helms of Charlotte; Baritone: Bob Freeman of Black Mountain, and P. R. G. Wyatt of Winston-Salem; Trombone: P. B. Clapp of Plumtree, F. V. Long of Austin, Texas, C. H. Owens of Avondale; Bass: H. H. Brenner of Ft. Pierce, J. J. Goode of Charlotte, and Y. Goodman of Concord; Percussion: J. W. Coker of Clinton, S.C., J. N. Miller of Charlotte, and M. M. Morgan of Laurinburg. Assisting Players are Robert Klepfer and James Robertson.

R.O.T.C. Announces Assistant P.M.S.&T. Capt. Harold Kennedy Takes Over Dept. Work

Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, Professor of Military Science and Tactics of the R.O.T.C. Unit at Davidson College, has announced that Capt. Harold M. Kennedy has arrived at the college to begin his duties as assistant PMS&T of the Unit. A native of New Zion, South Carolina, Capt. Kennedy graduated from Clemson College in 1940. Following completion of the Officers Basic Course of the Infantry School at Ft. Benning, Ga., he entered active service, being assigned to Ft. Jackson and Camp Croft until September 1943. At that time he was sent overseas for duty in the European theatre, serving with the Third Infantry Division (Rock of the Marne) in Italy and with the Seventh Army in France.

(Continued on Page 4)

SELECTED FOR PHI BETA KAPPA

Pictured above are, left to right, Martin. Bottom row: J. P. Alexander and Joe Howell Morrow and Mel Winstead, who received bids from Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity, last week. Top row: J. P. Alexander and Joe Howell Morrow and Mel Winstead, who received bids from Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity.

Tour To Gunn Editor Of Year Handbook

Bill Sengel, Paul Young On Business Staff

George Gunn, the editor of the 1946-47 Handbook, has been announced by Newt Spencer, general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. In addition to Gunn, William R. Sengel has been appointed Business Manager and Paul Young, Managing Editor of the freshman handbook, published annually by the Y.M.C.A. Gunn, a junior from Louisville, Ky., was managing editor of the handbook when it was last published in 1944, and has been a member of the “Y” Cabinet since that time. He has also served as a member of the Student Council, as staff photographer and feature editor of the Davidsonian, as treasurer of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and as president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. This year he is a vice-president of the Y.M.C.A., photographer and sports editor of Quips and Cranks, and a member of the Council.

Sengel, a senior from Smith, Ark., has just returned after serving two and a half years in the Navy, having obtained the rank of Lieutenant. He is a member of Beta Phi social fraternity and the Philanthropic Literary Society, and was formerly a member of the “Y” Cabinet.

(Continued on Page 4)

Symphonic Band To Converse

Will be Entertained At Dance After Night Performance

Under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, the Davidson College Symphonic Band will leave for Spartanburg, S.C., on Saturday morning, March 23, where they will play for the high school music teachers of South Carolina at Converse College. After a program in the college dining room, the band will play a concert in the auditorium as the last program of the Spartanburg Music Festival. After the concert, the students of Converse College will be the hostess to the Davidson band members at a dance. The group will return to Davidson late Saturday night.

It is interesting to note that this is the first band to play on the Converse campus. The program is as follows:

The National Anthem.
March: “Judas Maccabaeus” by Handel.
Overture to “The Secret Marriage” by Cimarosa.
Panis Angelicus by Franck.
March from the First Suite in E flat for Military Band by Holst.
Promenade, “The Old Castle” from Pictures at an Exhibition by Mussorgsky.
Polka from the opera “Schwanda, the Bagpiper” by Weinberger.
Variations on the Theme “Pop! Goes the Weasel” by Cailliet.
Elsa’s Procession to the Cathedral from “Lohengrin” by Wagner.
All Hail! O Davidson by Maxwell.

Alexander, Martin, Morrow And Winstead Receive High Award

Initiation Ceremony To Be Held April 11 In Phi Hall

Professor W.W. Wood, in chapel exercises on Friday, March 15, announced that four members of the senior class had been extended bids by the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity. The men who have been elected to membership are J. P. Alexander, Joe Martin, Howell Morrow, and Mel Winstead. Phi Beta Kappa bids men on the basis of character and leadership in intellectual effort as well as outstanding scholastic achievement. Customarily, the chapter extends bids twice during a school term. In the fall bidding, a grade average of 3 for three years of work automatically nominates a man for consideration by the chapter, while in the spring a grade of 92 is sufficient to ensure automatic nomination. In addition, any man whom the chapter desires can be nominated and elected to membership. Not more than the upper twelve and one-half percent of a class may be extended bids, however.

Howell Morrow stands first scholastically with an average grade of 93.13. Morrow is the editor of the 1946 “Quips and Cranks”, president of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and secretary of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. During his junior year, he was the editor of “Scripts ‘n Pranks”, college magazine, and associate editor of the Davidsonian. He was a member of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society, the Forensic Council and debating team, the International Relations Club, the Eumenean Literary Society, and Phi Gamma Mu, honorary social science fraternity.

(Continued on Page 4)

Schedules Out

To Begin On June 4 And Last Thru August 27

In the first term of the summer session, eight-hour and six-hour courses in science will begin on June 4 and six-hour and three-hour courses in the other subjects will begin on June 10. Both groups of courses will close on the 19th of July. The second term, in which only six-hour and three-hour courses will be offered, will begin on the 23rd of July and will close on August 27. By entering on June 4 and remaining through August 27, a student can secure fourteen hours of credit. Twelve hours of credit can be earned by entering on June 10. It is not necessary, however, to take both terms to receive academic credit, as work done in either term will be credited without reference to the other.

The courses offered are selected from those given during the regular session in such a manner that an opportunity is afforded the student at any stage of his college course to advance his standing. All six-hour courses meet twice a day for seventy-five minutes each, and the eight-hour courses meet three times a day for fifty minutes each. The term of forty days covers the same amount of work as that of the regular session, and the same standards and methods will be used.

Registration for laboratory science courses will be held from 8:00 A.M. till 10:00 A.M. on June 4, with classes in laboratory courses beginning at 10:00 A.M. Registration for six-hour courses for the first term will begin at 8:00 A.M. on June 10, Tuesday.