Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 7, 1946

a Corner...

WELCOME TO DAVIDSON!

To see the Dormitories and the Classrooms filled once again is a happy feeling. Thanks be to God that you former students have returned; and that you new men have joined our Davidson family. Our Alma Mater has crossed the "rough" spots successfully—and now we are beginning a new Era. This is a time for greatness; a time to continue building a better Davidson! GROWTH IN CHRIST is an essential factor in achieving this goal! In order to encourage and aid you in this growth in Christ, we have organized a Student Christian Association—the YMCA. Every student at Davidson is automatically a member of the “Y.” It is the purpose of the “Y” at Davidson—first of all; to make Christ a reality to every student; and second: to give students an opportunity for expressing their Christianity through serving and teaching others. Familiarize yourself with our “Y” Program, and find out where you can best fit in. The “Y” has been very active this year under the leadership of Bill McLean—President. Following are some news items collected from the various departments of the “Y” Cabinet:

VESPER SERVICE AND CHURCH RELATIONS DEPARTMENT—Ralph (Soapy) Smith is responsible for this department, the purpose of which is to provide ushers for the Sunday Evening Vesper Services. This department also handles the collections taken at these services; and keeps the student body informed of the use of this money. At the beginning of the year a Vespers Fund Budget was drawn up—and the money was distributed between several benevolent causes. For instance: The WORLD STUDENT SERVICE FUND recently received $150.00 from our Vesper Funds. The WSSF is an agency through which Christian students can help relieve the burdens of suffering students of less fortunate portions of the world. Another $150.00 was sent to “The Heifer For Relief” Project of the Brethren Church in Napanee, Indiana—to buy a Heifer to send to Europe. At Thanksgiving $100.00 was sent to BARIUM SPRINGS—where the Presbyterian Orphans Home is located. These are a few of the uses that are made of the money that you contribute to the collections at Vespers every Sunday night. If you have any suggestions about worthy causes that we could help through our Vesper Funds—please stop in the “Y” Office and pass them on.

SUNDAY SCHOOL DEPARTMENT—The Mecklenburg Sanitorium has been gladly receiving a few boys each Sunday who have faithfully journeyed there to teach the weekly Sunday lessons from the “Earnest Workers.” Charles Mills, Ed Hopper, W. A. Crosland, Bob Henderson, Mac Hart are a few of the boys who have been doing a good job with our friends. Jack Bagley has been rewarded for his successful efforts of handling the Student Sunday School Class which meets in the “Y” every Sunday at 10:15 A.M. Attendance has been large; and the forum-type discussions have been very interesting and beneficial. Come out next Sunday at 10:15. If any of you are interested in teaching Sunday School classes and are not doing so—please see Jack Bagley or stop in at the “Y” Office and we'll find a place for you to teach.

BOY'S WORK—There are two large fields of activity under this department: Scout Work in the community; and work with young boys—(Gra-Y; Hi-Y work). Harry McLean is in charge of Scouts; and Herb Wyatt and Gene Linton are handling boy's work. Every Saturday afternoon Herb and Gene take a group of thirteen-year-old boys to the Charlotte YMCA to play a basketball tournament. Practice is held three afternoons a week in the high-school gym for these boys. There is another group of boys in Cornelius with whom we are working—however, we need some more student volunteers to carry on. Bob Wilkins is working with the Cornelius boys. At present we need two boys to help coach basketball; one or two boys to referee basketball games. You can be of great service to the “Y” and to the Community if you will spend one hour two or three afternoons a week to help in our Boy's Work. This is a voluntary job—but the rewards are great. “Life goes the way Youth takes.” Help show these boys the right way to take.

SPIRITUAL DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT—The purpose of this department which is under the leadership of Vergon McGehee, is to promote personal Christian living by the average student. This is accomplished through the medium of Hall Prayer Meetings on every hall in the dormitories. Prayer Meetings have been a source of great blessing at Davidson; they have been a strong influence for welding the student body together, and fostering the growth of Spiritual Life. Outstanding men have been leading these hall meetings each week. Wednesday night at 10 o'clock the College Bell will ring. Support the Prayer Meeting on your hall at that time. “Live Christ.”

SOCIAL LIFE—The outstanding event sponsored by the "Y” Social Department every semester is a Queens Davidson Day. No dates have been set for this affair as yet. Every fourth Sunday in the month a “Hymn Sing” is held in the “Y” Lounge after Vespers. On February 24th a Forum will be conducted at the Guest House after Vespers. The subjects “Why do we believe in God?” or “What is right and wrong?" are to be discussed. Don't miss this Forum! Here's a chance to exchange your ideas, and to pick up some new ones.

MISCELLANEOUS—The YMCA Building on Campus is open every day from 8:30 in the morning until 11 o'clock at night. No charges are made for the use of any of the facilities. The lounge and Pool rooms are open for your entertainment. Current magazines are placed in the “Y” for your leisure reading. Ping Pong tables are open for use every day except Sunday. Please keep these rooms neat and clean. There are many good books in the “Y” Office—all the books on the shelves are for your benefit and may be borrowed.

PROFESSOR AND MRS. ERWIN are preparing to build a Lodge in memorium to their sons Ed and Prifer. This Lodge is to be located on the College Golf Course near number five hole. It is to be used by the College boys and the community for meetings, parties, or retreats. It will be a valuable addition to our campus facilities. Rocks are needed for this building; but rocks are scarce and expensive. In order to meet this need several students have mixed their daily exercise with a sledgehammer or two—and have been succeeding.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
417 West Fifth Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Super Service with——
Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties
Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS
Davidson, N. C.

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
Get These HIT PARADE Records
“Your Fathers’ Mustache”In breaking several large boulders on campus, others have helped throw rocks on trucks and carry them out to the spot where they will be erected. If you would like to try your luck at breaking rocks, the sledge-hammer and rock lifter are kept there. Here's a good chance to build up your muscles by breaking large rocks located behind the Rock House. Hevener is located on the lodge office and will borrow some rocks for such use. Join the Breakers’ Club—Jack Strong, President.

Strong personalities are needed in the services of Christianity. Strive for well-developed personalities in a world where individuals are like a heap of helter-skelter, a miscellaneous pile of twigs and branches; others, like a tree, include the same kind of materials but are organized into a vital, growing entity. As Harry Emerson Fosdick wrote in "On Being a Real Person"—"Personality is not so much like a structure as like a river—it continuously flows, and to be a person is to be engaged in a perpetual process of becoming. A real person achieves a high degree of unity within himself. All other tests of success in personal living hark back to this—a real integrated personality."

As "Y" Secretary, I am here to serve every one of you students. I would deem it a real privilege if you would drop into the “Y” any time you feel I could be of service in any way. If you have any problems or difficulties, come into the “Y” Office, and I shall do all in my power, with the help of God, to prove to be “a friend in need.” Let's all live Christ. See you all in Church Sunday morning.

The Student Store
COLD DRINKS - CAKES
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends

—Woody Herman “At The Fat Man’s”
—Tommy Dorsey “It’s Been A Long, Long Time”
—Harry James “Beulah’s Boogie”
—Lionel Hampton “That’s For Me”
—Dick Haymes “Waitin’ For The Train To Come In”
—Peggy Lee “Charlotte, N. C.”

SWINSON FOOD PRODUCTS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

COMPLIMENTS of WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111

—at PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DELUXE ICE CREAM
— Is Now Available At —
THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson, N. C.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS, HATS, SHIRTS, PAJAMAS, SOCKS, TIES, SHOES, and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR DEPARTMENT
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

Dunbar Studios
Portraits
126 South Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

BABY CHICKS—Good Quality. Send for Price List and Save Money
—WORTHWHILE CHICKS—
101 W. North Ave.
Baltimore 1, Maryland

THACKER’S INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms — For Parties and Banquets

“T” SHIRTS, FRESHMAN CAPS
Come in and make yourselves at home. Meet your friends at ease. Of course, we welcome you for any time you come over, Davidsonians. You’re Welcome at TATE BROWN’S YOUNG MEN’S SHOP. Drop-in the next time you visit: browse around. We don’t have all the smart clothes that you college men prefer. But we have a lot. YOUNG MEN’S SHOP—THIRD FLOOR

Harry Music News
The petition by Phi Mu Alpha has been given to the administration of the college. So far the results have not been made public. For those not familiar with the petition, we asked that the charge for the concert series be included in the Student Activities fee and paid as part of the tuition. There are a few old members of Phi Mu Alpha who have returned to the campus. It’s our hope that with these men back, Phi Mu Alpha may become the most active of the honorary fraternities on the campus this semester. Plans are under way for a radio program from Davidson College this Spring. No details are complete but tentative plans provide for a once-a-week broadcast from the campus.

The latest addition to the music department, Mr. Robert Noehren, an instructor in organ, is to be welcomed. We extend a welcome to him as well as to Mr. Berg who has returned to the campus after studying in New York last semester. Residents of this section of North Carolina are in for a treat this month. On February 15, the Philadelphia Symphony will give a concert in Charlotte. Other concerts scheduled for the week following include the Baltimore Symphony on February 20. During the week, the National Symphony will present a series of concerts at Statesville, Gastonia, and Salisbury.

One of the most novel symphony concerts ever given drew a huge audience on February 31. It seems that Lamar Stringfield is as much a showman as a musician. His plan of presenting raw folk-material sung by native mountaineers on the same program with a symphony arrangement of the ballad really paid off. The audience, perhaps the largest ever to hear and applaud the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra and the “Briarhoppers,” was enthusiastic. On the same program with Stringfield's hillbilly symphony, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra played “Light Cavalry Overture” and Beethoven's Symphony Number One in C Major.

Everyone who plays an instrument should try out for the band. There is a need for instrumentation. If you play, why not give it a try?

Delta Phi Alpha Holds Initiation
Six Students Chosen For Fraternity

According to an announcement made by Dr. Guy Vowles last week, six members of the student body have been initiated into Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary German fraternity. The new members are: Dana Drake, Ward Lasley, Bill Whitaker, Russell Miller, Henry Haberyan, and Mel McLean. Acting president of the organization, Winstead, presided at the initiating ceremony. Immediately following the initiation, the new members were treated to delicious refreshments by Dr. and Mrs. Vowles. Afterwards, the group joined in singing several German carols and songs together. Professor E. A. Beaty was the only other faculty member present.

Letter Received From Capt. Thomas
The Alumni and Public Relations office at Davidson College has announced receipt of a letter from Captain E. P. Thomas, master of the steamship SS Davidson Victory, which is now in port at San Francisco. The letter was written to express appreciation for a shipment of books and pictures received from the college. The SS Davidson Victory, built by the Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation, was launched at Portland, Oregon, on February 27, 1945, and named for Davidson College. Dr. Chandler B. Beall, University of Oregon professor of Romance languages and an alumnus of Davidson, represented the college on this occasion. The books, which were donated for the ship's library by Davidson College alumni and faculty members, were shipped from Davidson on July 20, 1945.