Wednesday, May 15, 1946

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

Junior Class Has Election
Strickland, Robertson, And Blevins Chosen To Head Class

In the recent student body elections, the rising Junior class elected Bob Strickland president, Bill Robinson vice-president, and Dave Blevins secretary-treasurer. For the offices of Student Council, Jim Robinson and Dave Walker were elected.

GEORGIA BOY

Bob Strickland hails from Atlanta, Georgia. He is a member of the Beaver Club, Sigma Delta Pi, Spanish fraternity, and is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity. He has played on the football team, and was a member of the basketball and track teams. Bob is also Basic Satallion Commander in R.O.T.C., was a member of the Student Council, Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body, and a member of the Court of Control.

Bill Robertson is from Kannapolis. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi, social fraternity, and the varsity Basketball team. He was a member of the Varsity Track Team and a member of the Court of Control.

COUSIN DAVE

Dave Blevins is a member of the Sigma Pi Epsilon, social fraternity. He was a member of the Band and was on the Freshman Football team. Dave attained the rank of Technical Sergeant, was in Italy for ten months in the A.A.F. He received the Air Medal, two clusters, and the Purple Heart.

Campus Chatter
By JULIAN HODGES

Hounded until they could resist no longer, eleven illustrious Davidson students and one office seeker answered the question for the week, “What feature in the DAVIDSONIAN do you like best and why?” in the following manners.

Amos Regan—“Letters to the Editors because it gives the students a chance to voice their opinions.”

George Forsly—“The particular feature of the DAVIDSONIAN which I like best is the ‘Letters to the Editors’ column. Because in that column, an individual has the opportunity to give criticisms on policy and suggestions regarding various faculties available which are not being used to their fullest.”

Tommy Little—“Letters to the Editors because it hands out orchids and onions without favoritism or prejudice; offering constructive criticisms which, when followed up, considerably improve the welfare and wellbeing of the student body.”

Bieeys Goodman—“Letters to the Editors because it gives a good cross-section of student opinion and often offers excellent suggestions for college improvements in many respects.”

Charlie Thompson—“Among the Greeks because it contains news about all of the fraternities.”

A. G. Donald—“Among the Greeks is most news that I am interested in.”

Sam Pharr—“Poop, ‘scuttle-butt’ and other less easily classified forms of local gossip found in Frank Barr’s Circling the D—very interesting to me—more satisfactory reporting.”

Bill Gamble—“Circling the D for it is the only column concerned with improving conditions on the campus.”

Fritz Vinson—“Cat Tales gives a good resume of the Wildcat sports news at a glance.”

Denny Strong—“I like Cat Tales when it is written by Hugo Sapp.”

Unidentified office seeker—“Cat Tales because our boy, Gentleman Jim, writes it.”

“Whiskey” Swink is found leading a minority group as usual. He is of the impression that the Operating Table is best because “it contains gossip which most humans like to know regardless of whether they admit it or not. Also, it will provoke comment at a bull session and contains news which is news to most of us.”

GEORGE PETERS (Continued from Page 1)

tenant. On September 8, 1945, George was married to Miss Emily Loftis of Charlotte. Since returning to Davidson, George has been elected to membership in ODK.

ED WHITE

Ed White of Lexington, Virginia, entered Davidson in the summer of ‘42. He played football and basketball during his freshman year and lettered in both before entering the army. He became a member of the Beaver Club and was elected vice-president of the sophomore class. After entering the Army Air Corps in February ‘42, Ed played basketball for Waco Air Field. During the time he was on the team, Waco won 28 out of 29 games. Discharged on October 31, Ed returned to Davidson the first of last December. He was captain of the ‘45-46 basketball team, and recently he was elected president of Kappa Sigma fraternity for the summer session.

JOE STUKES

Joe Stukes of Manning, S.C. entered Davidson in February ‘44. He lettered in baseball that spring and served as sports editor of the Davidsonian during the following summer. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Delta Pi Spanish fraternity, and he is the newly installed president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Joe has served on the Cabinet, the Court of Control, and the Student Council in the capacity of first vice-president of the student body. Newly elected members of the student council from the rising senior class are Johnny McAlister, Ward Lasley, Vernon McGehee, and Tommy Powell.

In The Night
By WALTER BOYD

The soft celestial cloud enfolds me in,
And light slopes to Hell below my sin,
The stars accost the heavens near to me;
The darkness shroud-like hides the world from me,
The black-eyed monster slowly stalks my plight:
'Tis in the night,
'Tis in the night.

The glowing maiden stirred by mating zest,
And leans her head on shoulder’s as to rest,
Is laid beneath the stars in sin to breed,
A child, a wanderer, for the world to feed
And more of evil lust than I may write,
'Tis in the night,
'Tis in the night.

The flask lies hidden in the culprit’s vest,
To spoil and wait the night to quench his zest,
And brought forth when the darkness hides his glee,
And sins, carousing on his night-long spree,
The sin of spirits visioned but by night,
'Tis in the night,
'Tis in the night.

As evil creepeth round about the earth,
And men commit their crime on hidden turf,
To God in earnest we do throw our plea,
And His reply doth shake the earth and sea,
For ages men hath prayed while in the light,
But in the night,
'Tis in the night.

Davidson Man Is Delegate

An announcement of significance was made today at the Y.M.C.A. election of Lamar College revealing the selection of Lamar Williamson, Jr. of the Junior class of Davidson College to represent the Presbyterian Church, U.S., at the meeting of the General Committee of the World Student Christian Federation in Geneva, Switzerland, August 9 to 20, 1946.In a letter advising Mr. son of his appointment, Dr. G. Goodykoontz, Director of Student Work for the Southern Presbyterian Church, said that the selection was made by the Joint Committee on Student Work “only upon the very highest recommendation” and that “our church, by virtue of its active participation in the United Student Christian Council (the organization which federates all student work in this country) has been given the privilege of selecting one student delegate.” This will mark the first time that the Presbyterian Church, U.S. has ever been officially represented at a meeting. 

A native of Monticello, Arkansas, Mr. Williamson is a student at Davidson. As a member of a pre-ministerial group, he holds membership in the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and the Philanthropic Literary Society. He withdrew from the Vimy Air Corps. He is responsible for publications and will be the editor of the Wildcat Handbook next year.

Originally “KABONGA PULLED ME FROM THE GRAVE!” George Ennett, Prominent Montreat Citizen—Another stirring testimonial from a satisfied user of Kabonga. George Ennett says, “Before taking ‘Kabonga’, I was weak and puny, I spit up black brashy liquids after meals, and my toenails were falling out—Yes, ten months with Kabonga really made a difference.”

JUNIOR AND SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS
Pictured above are the men who have been elected to head the rising Senior and Junior classes. Reading from left to right, Top row: George Peters, President Senior class, Ed White, Vice-President, and Joe Stukes, Secretary-Treasurer. Bottom row: Bob Strickland, President of Rising Junior class, Bill Robertson, Vice-President, and Dave Blevins, Secretary-Treasurer.

Sophs Choose New Leaders
Brownson, Hopper, and Brothers Elected Class Heads

The students' choice for president of the rising Sophomore class fell upon the capable shoulders of Ed Hopper, who hails from Meridian, Miss. He really made a name for himself in high school. Among other things, he won letters in basketball and track. But if you’ve seen that boy run on the Davidson track team, you would already have guessed that. He was also president of his high school fraternity. Here at Davidson, Ed is a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity and is studying for the ministry.

For vice-president of the rising Sophomore class, that “walking Yankee accent” was chosen, Bill Brownson. Although he has lived most of his life in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., he was born in Charlotte. Brownson really gave the boys fits in high school. Besides winning a letter in three sports, viz. football, basketball, and baseball, he was president of the senior class. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity and is studying for the ministry.

That friendly little wrestler, Ted Brothers, was chosen secretary-treasurer of his class. Ted claims Virginia as his home-sweet-home, where he was born. When asked about his diet, he finally told us about his love for Tis-T-Chez and Peanut Butter Sandwiches, Candies, Potato Chips, and Salted Peanuts.

WOOD PRODUCTS
A.H. Whittle Heads Camp
Davidson Track Coach Runs Camp For Charlotte Children

An innovation for Charlotte and Mecklenburg County during the summer months will be the “Day Camp Day School” located on Sardis Road, a few miles from the city. Offering a daily recreational program for Charlotte children during the summer months, the camp will be operated by A. Heath Whittle, Director of Intramural Athletics and Varsity Track Coach of Davidson College. Modeled on the system which has met with unusual success in other southern cities, the camp will offer an all-day program of supervised athletics, swimming, crafts, and other varied activities. Boys and girls from 6 to 12 years of age will be admitted. They will be called for at 9:30 each morning Monday to Friday and returned to their homes at 5:00 in the afternoon.

At Camp Carolina
Mr. Whittle, who has served on the Physical Education staff at Davidson for sixteen years and who gained his camp experience through work at Camp Carolina, will direct the camp. Daisy Sutherland Whittle, a graduate of William and Mary in the department of Community Recreation and Physical Training and for six summers Director of the Girls’ Club at Montreat, N.C., will assist Mr. Whittle and supervise the care of the girl campers. Mr. Charles R. Brockman, dietitian of the Charlotte Country Day School, will oversee the planning and preparation of the daily hot meal which will be served to the children at lunchtime. Additional staff members include Mrs. Alice Stedman of Charlotte, supervisor of arts and crafts, and Miss Jane Horne, girls' counselor. Mr. Whittle pointed out that the facilities on the Country Day School and the site of the camp offer excellent opportunities for both indoor and outdoor activities. In addition to the regular buildings, there is a well-equipped gymnasium with dressing rooms, locker space, and showers for both boys and girls. The six-acre area includes an athletic field and tennis courts, and a nearby private lake will provide facilities for swimming and water sports. With an eye to immediate care in case of emergency, Mr. Whittle states that there will be a completely equipped first aid room available at all times.

The recreational program will include badminton, tennis, baseball, basketball, swimming, track, and other sports, as well as nature study, crafts, hiking, and pioneering. Mr. Whittle is confident that the day camp will fill a definite need in the Charlotte area, a need evidenced by the fact that applications and inquiries are already arriving in spite of the fact that up to the present time there has been no public announcement.

Davidson Has Organ Recital
An event of unusual interest to music lovers of this vicinity was an organ recital on the evening of May 10, at 8:15 by graduate of the Academy for Music in Berlin, Fritz Hatterlin’s Pro-Cathedral. Later he studied at Westminster in Princeton where he was head of the organ department from 1938 through 1940. From March 1941 until October 1944, he served with the United States Army. He has since returned to his career as a teacher of organ and choir director. On his trip south under the auspices of the Music Department, Mr. Speer also appeared in a recital at the First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, on Sunday afternoon, May 12, at 5:00 o'clock.