By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Statistics for the 46-47 season. Washing away the taste of defeat with a 13-7 victory over Furman, before a Hurricane
Homecoming crowd, Coach Story’s Footballers called it a day a couple of Saturdays ago, hung up their uniforms, and took
a rest.

I dug down into the records and came up with a few statistics. The Wildcats engaged in 9 tilts, taking
Wofford, Erskine, Furman, and Hampden-Sydney, and losing to State, Richmond, Citadel, V.M.I., and Washington and Lee. Davidson amassed a total
of 1945 yards gained rushing to their opponents' 906-yard total. In the air, the Cats racked up 788 yards as
opposed to 593 for the opposition. These efforts resulted in the Wildcats' final tally against the combined total of 130
for the foes.

Carl Sheppard headed the ball carriers with a 6.1-yard average in 58 attempts, lugging the pigskin for a net gain
of 359 yards. Hard-charging fullback Mac Erwin rolled up 351 yards in 77 tries for a 4.5 average. Carrying 44
times for a net of 205 yards, Carl Pahl came up with a 4.6-yard gain per attempt. With the aerial
snaggers, it was O'Hare, Sifford, Cheek, Rice, and Mapes doing most of the heavy duty. O’Hare caught 8 passes for
a total of 82 yards, scoring once. Sifford brought in 7 loopers for 133 yards and one touchdown, with Rice
nailing 5 for 78 yards and one score. Rangy end George Cheek caught 5 for 136 yards and 1 T.D.
High scoring honors go to Hal Mapes. Though ineligible for all non-home games, End Mapes managed to rack up 26
points consisting of 3 scoring pass grabs and 8 extra points. Sifford, Anderton, and Rice seconded Mapes in scoring with
3 T.D.s each.

Red Bethea handled most of the punting department, kicking 38 times for an average of 33.4 yards per boot. Looking
at the tally, Bethea’s kicking was not up to the standards he set in ’42 when it was Red’s boots
that consistently sailed over the heads of perplexed tailbacks, zooming for seventies and seventy-fives. Jimmy Sifford did some punting of
his own, kicking 9 times for a 39.5-yard average. On pass defense, it was Erwin, Pahl, Richards, and Mapes who
showed most favorably. Erwin intercepted 4 passes making returns totaling 57 yards while Richards and Mapes batted many an oval
from the arms of would-be pass receivers.

BOWL GAMES

Your scribe does not intend to spend time and space dawdling over the bowl games in this week's Sports-Spiel, but
there are some few remarks he feels appropriate. Rumor No. 1 concerning bowl games is that The Wildcats were invited
to the Cigar Bowl to play Rollins but refused. Looking over the list of New Year’s Day encounters, I became
confused. The Rose Bowl and the Sugar Bowl were clear, with UCLA meeting Illinois in the former and Georgia tackling
North Carolina in the latter, but in trying to untangle the 20 odd other extravaganzas, I was forced to give
up and call it a night.

TIES

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR

Cats Take Furman 13-7

Davidson’s determined Wildcats ended their 1946 season on a note of triumph when they scored a convincing 13-7 victory over
Furman University in a Turkey Day clash at Greenville. Twelve thousand fans sat in on the festivities at Sirrine Stadium
and watched Coach Story’s inspired charges spoil the South Carolinians’ Homecoming celebration with a well-earned decision.

Cats Alert

In notching their initial win of the season against Conference opposition, the Cats played alert ball, capitalizing on an intercepted
aerial to rack up their first tally, and staging a sustained drive of yards to annex their second score. Sifford
sliced over Furman’s right tackle for the opening touchdown in the first quarter, and Pahl smashed over his right guard
for the concluding marker in the third frame. The visiting Wildcats completely dominated play with the exception of the waning
minutes of the final quarter. Late in the quarter, Truluck faded and dropped a beautiful 40-yard pass into the outstretched
hands of “Skeeter” Coyle, diminutive Hurricane speedster, and the swift back raced 34 yards into the end zone to complete
the most spectacular play of the afternoon. Following the kickoff, Furman recovered Anderton’s bobble on the Cats’ 40-yard stripe to
threaten the Presbyterians’ precarious 13-7 margin. However, the Wildcat line held and Truluck’s punt bounded into the end zone. Bethea’s
ensuing kick was returned by Coyle to his own 35 as time began to run out. Truluck engineered a desperate
Hurricane drive to the Davidson 30, but Anderton batted down Truluck’s pass in the end zone to ensure a Wildcat
victory.

“Y” Sponsors Midget Ball

A packed portion of Richardson Field witnessed one of its most thrilling contests Wednesday, December 4, as a surprising Barium
Springs midget eleven pulled one of the major upsets of this torrid ’46 campaign in slipping past the Davidson-Cornelius All
Stars 6-0. Sporting a hard-charging line, the Barium boys rolled from their own 40-yard line after taking an All-Star kick
in the third quarter. It was the swivel-hipped Barium tailback who wormed his way off tackle for the remaining three
yards and the lone tally of the contest. The All-Stars sported a well-coached team that equaled Barium in all departments
except on the scoreboard.

The Y, in its program for the grammar school boys, has organized teams in Huntersville, Cornelius, and Davidson. Much credit
is due to Bill and “Dusty” Smith working at Huntersville; Bob Wilkins and Perry Hudnell at Cornelius; and Steve Wilkinson
and Harry Temple here at Davidson. These boys have spent three or more afternoons each week at these three communities
teaching the midgets fair play, teamwork, and sportsmanship in coaching football. These three teams have played 16 games this fall,
including games in Charlotte and Barium Springs, and deep appreciation has been expressed by the principals of the grammar schools
to Haywood Brinegar, who is in charge of the Gra-Y program.

Interfraternity Basketball Starts

Inter-frat basketball opened last week with four games which may be a straw in the breeze for a closeCage season
in the Greek letter loop. In the season’s opening games, the Phi Gams slipped past the K.A.s in a see-saw
battle 19-17. The Betas rallied in the last half to nose out the Independents 18-14. Wednesday night’s tilt was a
dif- (Continued on Page 4)

EYEING BASKET is Ed White, captain and high scorer of last year's hardwood five, and second high scorer in the
Southern Conference. Ed hails from Raphine, Va., is an ex-GI, and promises plenty of point trouble for Wildcat opponents.

Basketeers Shape Up For Coming Tilts

Smoothing off the ragged edges, Coach Norman Shepard’s Cagers went through game scrimmage again Monday afternoon in preparation for the
season opener with Kannapolis Y. Buddy Cheek and Mike Williams turned in particularly fine performances, but the whole team worked
together well and prospects look pretty good. This year’s squad is loaded with letter men and shining new talent. Beginning
practice with some 60 men, Shepard has whittled his court pacers down to 16 men with qualifications as follows:

Ed White: A senior hailing from Raphine, Va., Ed played with the Waco Army airfield service team, was high scorer
and captain last year.

Jake Ashmore: Jake is a sophomore from Greenville, S.C., earned a letter in ’43.

Bob Flowers: Sophomore from Columbus, Ga., who earned his letter on the ’43 team.

Buddy Cheek: Hailing from Selma, Ala., Buddy is a sophomore transfer from Tulane where he played last year.

Pat Williams: Senior from North Wilkesboro, Pat played on the ’42 team.

Mike Williams: Pat’s brother, a sophomore, Mike was a letterman in ’43, as well as All Mid-South at McCallie.

George Peters: Letterman from Kingsport, Tenn., George is a senior.

Freeman Jones: Sophomore from Charlotte. He made a letter playing on the '43 team.

Whit Cobb: Whit was captain of the Durham High team last year. He is a freshman.

Malcolm Earp: This tall freshman from Durham played for Durham High, also played service ball.

Dick Mills: Dick made All-State Florida when he played for Ft. Lauderdale last year.

Heywood Brenegar: This is Heywood’s first year in varsity basketball. He formerly played for Reynolds High in Winston-Salem and shows
promise of becoming a flashy ball player.

Bob Manor: Bob is a sophomore from Wilmington. He played a lot of ball on the ’46 team.

Henry Neisler: Only about 5 ft. 6 in. Henry hails from Kings Mountain. He made All-State playing for Fishburne Military
Academy in Virginia in ’45 and saw some action last year with the varsity.

Bill Iverson: Bill hails from Miami. A sophomore, he turned in some scrappy ball playing to earn a letter last
year. His brother Ned, who graduated in ’39, was an All-State forward.

This season's schedule is as follows:

1946-47 Basketball Schedule
Dec. 12—Catawba at Davidson
Dec. 14—McCrary Eagles at Asheboro
Dec. 18—Wofford at Spartanburg
Dec. 19—Georgia Tech at Atlanta
Jan. 3—McCrary Eagles at Davidson
Jan. 7—Duke at Winston-Salem
Jan. 10—N.C. State at Davidson
Jan. 14—Guilford at Davidson
Jan. 29—South Carolina at Davidson
Jan. 31—College of Charleston at Charleston
Feb. 1—The Citadel at Charleston
Feb. 3—South Carolina at Columbia
Feb. 7—Duke at Durham
Feb. 8—North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Feb. 11—The Citadel at Charlotte
Feb. 14—Clemson at Clemson
Feb. 15—Furman at Greenville
Feb. 18—North Carolina (tentative) at Charlotte
Feb. 20—Clemson at Davidson
Feb. 22—N.C. State at Raleigh
Feb. 26—Wofford at Davidson
Feb. 28—Furman at Davidson
March 1—College of Charleston at Davidson

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
Davidson, N.C.

Mat-Team Preps For Hot Season

Down on the mats, the aspirants to the art of the grunt and groan are hard at work. The turnout
for the Wrestling team amounted to some 51 men as workouts got underway last week. Along the line of experience,
the prospects are only fair, with just two lettermen back, Stroup and O’Hare. Stroup was previously in the 121 weight
class but will probably wrestle in the 128 group this year. Dick O’Hare takes the mat at 175. Both are
experienced men and will probably be mainstays of the team for the season.

Among the newcomers are two flashy prospects who will no doubt see much action this year. W.B. McCall, hailing from
Barium Springs, is a classy mat-man and was State Champion before coming to Davidson. W.D. Montgomery, though as yet untried,
has all the appearances of a first-rater, plus experience of no little mean collected in his prep school days.

The weight divisions are arranged in classes running: 121, 128, 138, 145, 165, 175, and unlimited, giving the smallest to
the heaviest man on the team a chance to show his stuff. And with the schedule thus far arranged, the
mat-men will have plenty of opportunity to do just that. Opening January 11, the schedule runs as follows:

January 11—VMI (away)
January 15—Duke (home)
January 25—North Carolina (home)
January 31—Ga. Tech (tentative) home
February 8—Appalachian (home)
February 13—Ga. Tech (away)
February 15—Auburn (away)
February 22—W. & L. (home)
March 1—N.C. State (Raleigh)

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY CAFE
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N.C.

SPORTS MIRROR

Browsing through Davidson's sports history in the editions of yesteryears, we found an item which was an event of the
moment in the past. The headline read something like this:

VMI Beats Cats 2-0, as Rain-soaked Field Halts Both Offenses—

“A blocked punt which rolled over the goal line and out of the end zone for an automatic safety early
in the first period gave VMI a 2-0 victory over the Davidson Wildcats last Saturday at Bluefield, West Virginia.

“Harold Tipton, Keydets tackle, broke through the line in the early minutes of the game to block one of Sharpe’s
punts which led to the only score of the game.”

Jayvee Cage Schedule

January 7—Brevard Jr. College at Davidson
January 9—Mars Hill at Davidson
January 11—Lees-McRae Jr. College, there
January 14—Mars Hill Jr. College at Davidson
January 25—Pfeiffer Jr. College at Davidson
January 28—Oak Ridge Jr. College, there
February 3—Belmont Abbey Jr. College, there
February 6—Lees-McRae Jr. College at Davidson
February 8—Brevard Jr. College, there
February 12—Pfeiffer Jr. College, there
February 18—Oak Ridge Jr. College, there
(Continued on Page 4)

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF
C.S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N.C.
