NETTERS FIRST UNBEATEN 'CAT TEAM IN TWO DECADES

Viewed in retrospect, the 1945-46 sports season hasn't been too successful for the Wildcats, for only the tennis team's spectacular
and unbroken string of victories may be termed triumphant. In football, the Cats were lousy, the basketballers were decidedly mediocre,
the track team has been only moderately successful, the sluggers have slugged to but two wins, and the golfers have
broken even. Even the netters must accept the dregs in the wine of their glory, for such outstanding southern aggregations
as North Carolina, Georgia Tech, Tulane, and William & Mary (the nation’s top collegiate team, incidentally) have not been met.
However, no apologies are necessary, for Coach Bill Lufler didn’t arrive here until early in March and had but little
time to whip together either team or schedule. The bigger schools, such as Duke and Carolina, had no open dates.
Consequently, the Wildcats managed to walk over all opposition in what might be termed their own class.

LUCK OF THE DIAMOND

No one who has viewed Coach Jamerson’s diamond crew in action or followed them through the past season needs to
be told that they have been plagued by bad luck. The breaks just haven’t been with the baseballers. It’s not
a bad nine; on the contrary, it’s pretty fair and well-rounded. Many games could have gone our way, particularly the
last Carolina and Presbyterian contests. So, while they don’t look too good on paper, don’t sell them short, and wait
till next year when only Tommy Yarborough will be missing from the present starting lineup.

LETTERS WITH MORALS

Printed below is a letter received recently from one of the students, and participant in intramural sports. The letter appears
more effective unsigned, and so is published anonymously. While I don’t agree with said letter in toto, the moral is
pointed toward the Davidson man and strikes home. Unfortunately, there are facts behind the story. Read and ponder. It may
be worth your while.

Dear Jim:

The editor welcomes letters, perhaps you will. I hope you can catch my point here and put it into your
column in the next issue. The true test of a man’s sportsmanship, his ability to lose smilingly and win graciously
is encountered on the playing field. But at Davidson, the testing ground is not on Richardson Field or on the
Varsity courts, but rather on the intramural fields. Davidson men’s ears are always ringing with recently heard talks on sportsmanship,
and when they represent the school, they think before they speak and act. Not so on the intramural fields. Each
man is representing himself—his fraternity, yes, but mainly himself. There are no official records that he is aspiring to, only
to win games for his fraternity and to be able to tell the Betas or Kappa Sigmas that they won
the day before. Therefore, Jim, I say that a man’s true calibre, his ability to restrain himself comes out in
the touch football, volleyball, basketball, and softball played in our intramural set-up. Jim, this “Davidson gentleman” stuff is sadly lacking.
I believe that the larger percentage of men at Davidson are gentlemen and are capable of losing or winning as
the case may be and doing either in a fine and admirable manner. But some men, some upperclassmen, mind you,
are not so. These upperclassmen should be models for freshmen to follow. You notice I said should. But these upperclassmen
run around protesting every close decision that goes against them, play a dirt-tainted game, and seem to spend their spare
time thumbing through the rule book, searching for loopholes that the other side is not aware of. It does not
stop there. Every fraternity, save for the possible exception of one recently reorganized, spreads it around the campus after the
game is over that their loss was only the umpire’s fault. This is far from an ideal situation. If the
athletic cup is so valuable to a fraternity as to make it play the game solely for the sake of
winning, then I suggest we throw the cup away. If that is the reason for it all, let us do
away with it, for it is ruining our game. Softball is a game made to be played by men who
love to play the game. There are so many chances for a man to play dirty, there are so many
chances for a man to split hairs, that there must be a certain code of ethics set up. Right now
some teams are playing cutthroat softball while others play Davidson softball. Nobody likes the situation. Let us all begin playing
softball for the fun in it. Sure, play to win, but first play to play and let the score take
second place.

Wednesday, May 15, 1946

Whittlemen Windup Season

By BILL GAMBLE

Davidson's nine, currently touring South Carolina for games yesterday and today with Presbyterian and Wofford, will close the season Friday
on the home diamond against Roanoke College, with Carol Herion scheduled to take the mound. The 'Cats defeated Roanoke in
an earlier engagement 20-19. Made up almost entirely of inexperienced men, the Davidson squad got off to an unimpressive start
this year, but has been improving steadily and in recent games has been holding its own against the best the
conference has to offer. Coach Jamerson has, of course, been disappointed by his boys, dropping several close contests, which a
few timely hits would have won, but on the whole he is satisfied with the team's work, considering the competition
they have faced, and is optimistically looking forward to next year.

PITCHING WEAK

From the beginning, the pitching has been the greatest weakness, but taking into account their lack of experience, all the
moundsmen have done well. Junie Guy has been the most consistent hurler, but Hal Mapes and Carol Herion have both
been developing rapidly. Mapes, though he lost 7-5 in a heartbreaker against Carolina, did exceptionally well for two innings. Herion,
with a good curve, was impressive in Davidson's 5-4 loss to Washington and Lee. Coach Jamerson is counting heavily on
these three together with Jim Briggs and Bill Brownson for next season. Behind the plate, Bud Chandler has proved an
able backstop. The infield has been working more smoothly and pulled two beautiful double plays against Carolina last week. Doug
Rice at short was particularly good in this game. First baseman Jim Ellis is perhaps the most improved man on
the squad, while Jimmie French has been handling his position at the keystone well all season. The outfield of Bill
Bowman, Les Bangs, and Tommy Yarborough is termed by Coach Jamerson as "the best in the league."

OUTLOOK BRIGHT

Looking to the future, the scene is very bright. Yarborough will be the only loss from this year's team, while
the 400 new students expected next fall are certain to yield a few good players. Coach Jamerson states that he
will have a month of baseball practice next fall to discover any new talent.

By DAVE GAMBRELL

Stung by the stunning defeat suffered in the Gobblers’ backyard, Pete Whittle’s well-groomed trackmen face that same VPI team Saturday
afternoon on Richardson Field in the last and what may be the closest meet of the season. Bob Lacy and
Ward Lasley, newly-elected co-captains, will lead the Wildcats in their last venture, both pointing toward a trio of first places.
Sporting victories over N.C. State, Clemson, and Furman, the runners can end the schedule by taking Saturday’s meet by a
considerable margin.Gobblers 880 40, Bob Lacy broke the school high jump record with a six-foot leap, but could garner only
a tie for honors. Ward Blacksburg and Lasley took the dashes at will and will be favored to repeat their
performances Saturday. Frank Matthews and Jack Fesperman, who failed to make the trip due to still lacking control, have speed
and a good curve, which they used to Virginia, are back in harness and ready to show their Achilles tendons
to the Tech runners this weekend. As the DAVIDSONIAN goes to press, the football schedule for next fall is incomplete,
but rumor has it that Furman will replace the dropped Centre eleven and Erskine will be met in an opening
breather. Heartened by the announced intention of the quintet of Charlotte high school stars to be here in September and
the prospect of several outstanding Norfolk gridders showing up, Bill Story, the hard-working and likeable Davidson coach, is actually showing
traces of optimism. The complete list includes Erskine, Wofford, Richmond, N. C. State, VMI, Furman, W & L, Hampden-Sydney, and
Citadel. Undefeated? Perhaps. Among the pre-war players returning are Dick O’Hair and Pat Williams, first string ends on the 1942
squad, Alf Taylor, starting guard with the same bunch, and Mike Williams, the top end on the “volunteer” team of
1943. As the CHARLOTTE NEWS said, “Lightly scheduled Davidson won't make a big splash in 1946,” the DAVIDSONIAN says, “Don’t
underestimate the Wildcats.” New talent will then begin practice in the gym. During the spring holidays in January, with workouts,
he plans to make a southern tour, playing such schools as Alabama, Tulane, and L.S.U., able to start baseball early
because of warmer locations. When the Southern Conference season opens, the ’Cats will be experienced and ready to go.

COUNTRY CLUBBERS - - Pictured below are Wildcat Golfers — Don Bryant, Esquire Hodgin, Ford Wildcat Sports ONTAR BEAT VPI
Page Five

LUFLER’S LARRUPERS - - - and Manager Clyde Stroupe. From left to right: Coach Lufler, Lytleton Scott, Gerry Robinson, Buck
Archer, Don Hatch. Lufler Ends Meet the 1946 Davidson tennis team, coached by Bill Lufler, headed by Buck Archer, and
beaten by no one. They've taken N.C. State, South Carolina, Clemson, Citadel, Erskine, Wake Forest, and Furman.

Buck Archer
“Buck”, holding down the number one spot, met with some high-class competition this spring and only faltered once in a
very close match. Buck is a veteran returning this spring who hails from Shelby, N. C. Before entering the service
in '45, Archer captained the Wildcat team.

Jerry Robinson
Jerry, a returned veteran who won a letter in '43, went through the season without suffering a defeat, always playing
very creditable tennis. Jerry teamed with Donnie Hatch to comprise the number one doubles team, which also swept through the
varsity spring without a loss. With two more years of competition to go, a great star is foreseen.

Donnie Hatch
Returning to tennis this spring for the first time in three years, Donnie, who had already made a name for
himself on the victorious tennis team of Central High in Charlotte, swept through the schedule with only one loss. Donnie
is a transfer and will have two more years of eligibility.

First Season With Unbroken Win Streak
Lytleton Scott
Scott, who was runner-up in the State High School Finals last year, made Davidson's number 4 slot very strong this
year, winning all matches. Scott improved much as the season went by. Lytleton with Archer held down the number two
doubles team, which had a clean slate.

Ralph Alexander
Lacking experience, Alex was a hard worker and improved greatly as the season rolled by. He lost but two single
matches and was victorious in his one doubles match when he teamed with Ed White to make up the number
three doubles team. He is only a sophomore and has two more years of competition remaining.

Ed White
Although coming out late in the season, Ed worked hard and won one important match. Ed is a great athlete,
winning letters in basketball and football, and he played on the freshman tennis team before the war. Ed will be
back next year and may see plenty of action.

Betas, Phis Lead Frats
With only a few decisive softball games remaining to be played before the final tabulation of points, Beta Theta Pi
and Phi Delta Theta appear neck-and-neck and headed for the wire in a photo finish. The Betas led the field
with a total of 488 points and the Phi Delts, but 40 markers behind, discounting varsity sport counters, are well
ahead of the vocalists in diamond play and stand to gain considerably from points based on varsity participation. The Kappa
Sigs and Independents follow closely, and the SAE’s and SPE’s will probably round out the first division. Current leaders in
the softball tourney are the Betas and the Independents, with five wins and one loss. The Kappa Sigs and Phi
Delts are right behind them, and upsets are common in the evenly-balanced league. Only the lowly Phi Gams have failed
to scratch in the victory column. At press time, the race was wide open. Point totals minus the softball and
varsity competition collections are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi 488
Sigma Phi Epsilon 450
Phi Delta Theta 448
Kappa Sigma 378
Independents 377
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 358
Kappa Alpha 291
Pi Kappa Phi 274
Pi Kappa Alpha 090
Phi Gamma Delta 090

By Mac Hart
Blond, fleet-footed Ward Lasley is one of the co-captains and also one of the biggest scoring assets of the track
team. Participating in the 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, and the broad jump, he has averaged twelve points per meet for
the five meets we have had so far. His interest in track dates back to his junior high school days
in Burlington, N. C., when he was on the school track team. In high school, Ward was a typical all-American
boy—president of the honor society, valedictorian of his senior class, on the business staff of the school paper, a member
of the Monogram Club, a guard on the football team, and an outstanding outfielder on the baseball team. He also
had a very marked musical ability which he displayed in an outstanding manner while singing in a school operetta. However,
he has since had to give up his singing because of ear trouble—his audiences’ ears. “Ward,” as he is affectionately
known to his friends, came to Davidson a year ago last June. For two seasons he has played in the
backfield on the football team, acting as captain and quarterback this year. With all of him but his square jaw,
he is a pretty rough character, and his opponents usually found that he is as rough as he looks. His
first year here he played outfield and third base on the baseball team. Now a Junior, he is a member
of Beta Theta Phi social fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha honorary German fraternity, and the Beaver Club. He is now serving
his third semester on the Student Council and will be serving again next year as a representative of the Senior
class. He was vice-president of the student body this year, and his hobby and favorite sport is badminton.

DELUXE ICE CREAM — Is Now Available At — THE STUDENT STORE
