AND A MERRY CHRISTMAS HAPPY NEW YEAR

ALENDA Lux UB! ORTA L Che Babidsonian IBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN AT LAST — GETS A SCOOP

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1946 No. 1

NIEMOELLER TO SPEAK HERE

Dr. Price’s Speech Launches ‘Y’ Drive Christmas Gift To Go To Hangchow College

To launch the 1946 Christmas Gift Fund drive, the Y. M. C. A. was fortunate in being able to procure
one of the church’s foremost foreign missionaries and one appropriately familiar with this year’s recipient, Hangchow Christian College. At the
regular chapel service on Friday, December 6, “Y” Secretary Murphy Williams introduced to the student body Dr. Frank W. Price,
native of Richmond, Virginia; graduate of Davidson (1915); for 24 years a missionary to China; and more recently personal adviser
to Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek.

Dr. Price’s accomplishments and honors in both missionary work and in the Chinese “advisory government” are too numerous to detail,
but a brief resume of his work thus far will suffice to show his imminent qualifications for presenting to the
donors of the Gift Fund a realistic picture of Hangchow College and of their great needs. After graduating from Davidson,
Dr. Price taught for several years in China, then returned to this country and took his D. D. degree at
Yale Divinity School. When he went back to China it was as a missionary of the Presbyterian Church. He served
in various fields, taught for three years in this same Hangchow College, and during the first part of the war,
he headed the Nanking Theological Seminary of Free China. Chiang Kai-Shek and Dr. Price were close friends before the war
years and after the Sino-American tie-up, the generalissimo selected Dr. Price as his personal advisor and liaison officer between the
Chinese and American governments. When peace came, it was again Dr. Price who went as Chiang’s personal representative to the
San Francisco Conference. However, even with such weighty diplomatic duties, the doctor found time to begin the rejuvenation of the
war-racked mission field. He and his wife, almost by themselves, handled the Central Mission Office in Shanghai when the direction
for the re-establishment of mission work came from the States.

Hangchow Christian College

With this background, Dr. Price came to Davidson last week to let the Davidson student body know for what a
great cause his gift was going. He described the shambles that Hangchow Christian College was found in after the departure
of the Japanese; no books, no lab equipment, and none of the facilities that American colleges call indispensable. Yet in
the face of ruin, Dr. Price proudly related, the college reopened with a handful of teachers and a few hundred
students, a token supply of books, and no beds. Dr. Price outlined generally what the fund’s $4,500 would (See “Y”
DRIVE Page 4)

Queens Girls Give Dance

Saturday night, December 17, Queens College added another link in the chain of social events which have highlighted one of
her busiest seasons in the college history, entertaining at an informal dance in the Queens recreation room. Music for the
affair was furnished by recordings and the dance was given in honor of the newly formed Charlotte Center of the
University of North Carolina. The dance began at 8:00 p.m. and terminated at 11:00. During intermission, refreshments were served to
the guests in the Day Student Building. Davidson students in attendance reported the affair to have been most enjoyable. The
dance was held under the auspices of the Queens College Day Student Association.

Students Told Of Road Peril

Col. Hatcher Gives Excellent Talk In Chapel

Due to the tremendous increase in traffic accidents the heads of three of the most important law enforcement organizations in
the State of North Carolina came to Davidson College last Wednesday, December 4. It was stated that the number of
accidents owing to auto traffic during the first six months of this year shows an increase of 171.6 per cent
over last year.

In light of this, it was highly appropriate that Col. H. J. Hatcher, commander of the North Carolina State Highway
Patrol, accompanied by Chief Stanhope Lineberry of the Mecklenburg County Police and Chief Frank N. Littlejohn, of the Charlotte Police
department, should come to speak to the Davidson student body. Colonel Hatcher, introduced by Chief Lineberry, served in both World
Wars, recently as a provost marshal in World War II. His talk emphasized two main points, one, that we should
each take much greater care in our own personal driving, and two, that the people of the United States should
assist the law enforcement officers more readily in the prevention and prosecution of violations of the traffic code. In view
of the first point, he mentioned the amazing change that overcomes the average American when he gets behind the wheel
of an automobile. Elsewhere he may be a courteous gentleman, respecting the rights of others; but when he gets on
the highway, he is unrecognizable as such. He is selfish and extremely discourteous, thus causing not only unhappy, but also
dangerous driving. Colonel Hatcher then went on to describe the inadequacy of the punishment afforded violators of traffic regulations in
North Carolina. He gave two specific instances in which flagrant infractions of the rules were incurred, and which were judged
unworthy of punishment of any kind by juries. He asked us to consider how law enforcement can be carried out
when the people take such an attitude. His talk gave a vivid picture of the situation in this state, and
in the nation as a whole. The instances he gave were graphic, in that they illustrated the attitude that so
many of us have, and he urged us to be aware of this, trying to correct it. Because, as he
said in effect, “Next year, at this time, some of us in this very community will be either directly or
(See ROAD PERIL Page 4)

VESPER FUND BUDGET 1946-47

World Student Service $500.00
Foreign Missions (principally aid to Korean Seminary student) 300.00
Special Services (Fall, Spring, Deputations) 300.00
Community Boys Work 300.00
Colored Work 250.00
Debrecen College 300.00
Bibles for Japan 250.00
Y rooms 200.00
Barium Springs Orphanage 150.00
Presbyterian Home for Aged 150.00
Mecklenburg Sanitarium 150.00
Unity Church 100.00
National YMCA 100.00
Sunday School Hymnals 50.00
Literature 50.00
Miscellaneous 100.00
Total $3,250.00

LEAD “Y” GIFT FUND DRIVE

Dr. Whitaker To Talk Here

Dr. Martin D. Whitaker, 44-year-old director of the vitally important Clinton Laboratories, will speak during a special chapel program Monday
morning, December 16. Dr. Whitaker will speak on the subject, “Atomic Energy—Its History and Implications”. This program marks the twenty-fifth
anniversary of Sigma Pi Sigma, an honorary physics society. Dr. Whitaker, Lehigh’s eighth president, is one of the foremost authorities
on Nuclear physics and has been closely associated with the atomic energy program from its inception. He guided the development
of plutonium through its early stages and on to its successful climax at Hiroshima. A native of Ellenboro, North Carolina,
he received his A. B. at Wake Forest in 1927 and an M. S. in physics at the University of
North Carolina in 1930. After teaching at this college for several years, he attended and received his Ph.D. from New
York University in 1935. He directed the design, construction, and operation of the project on atomic energy at Clinton Laboratories
at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He has been in charge of these laboratories since 1943. He is the author of numerous
papers on nuclear physics, the Physical Review and other scientific journals. Dr. Whitaker is a member of the American Physical
Society, of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, Sigma Xi, American Association of University Professors, and the American
Association for the Advancement of Science.

Above are Joe Stukes, director of World Evangelism, John Dickson, president of the Y, and Rev. R. Murphy Williams, general
secretary, who lead this year’s Y. M. C. A. Christmas Gift Fund drive. Williams holds the first dollar contributed to
this year’s fund.

“Lets mm) ror “the Sign R

By Dave Richardson

George Ennett, public relations consultant for the freshman court of control, in a recent exclusive Davidsonian interview released details of
a city-wide manhunt directed by the court to bring to justice leaders in last week’s crime perpetrated by the Freshman
Class. Judge John McAlister convicted five freshmen of gross violation of discipline and painting the obnoxious numerals ‘50 on the
Davidson water tank. The investigation was carried out by renowned criminologist M. Paul Bell, Paris chief of the Gendarmerie Nationale,
who is studying this country and makes his temporary residence in and around Charlotte. M. Bell was quoted at the
trial by District Attorney Trader Archer as saying that the water tower case was one of the worst cases of
juvenile delinquency inMore baffling crimes of his career as an eminent criminologist, and more sordid than any since the thieves
who robbed houses of ladies during the war. At last, the court, nation-wide interest only by the less successful trial
of UMW-man J. L. Lewis, District Attorney Archer obtained the conviction of Thomas Swann, leader of the paint ring; Faison
Pierce, known in criminal circles as “Fly-Bait”; Sam Brewer, alias “The Mug”; and lesser underworld characters including James Saxon, alias
Jimmy Saxon; and Louis Rogers, alias Lou the Screw. The now-famous pursuit in Rue de Concorde in Paris Thursday’s session
rivaled in Seeks Maximum Penalty Archer accused Swann of deliberately and with malice thought of conspiring and carrying out a
plot resulting in disfigurement of public property, embarrassment of upperclassmen, and depreciation of college interests. It was reported that considerable
pressure was brought to bear on the district attorney’s office by a college treasury official because of DR. MARTIN D.
WHITAKER possible lowering of the value of the water tank area. Faison was accused of aiding and abetting Swann, accompanying
him to the scene of the crime, and providing the brush with which the paint was applied. Both men were
sentenced to write “I will not paint ‘50’ on the water tank as it is detrimental to moral growth and
represents initiative, not expected or desirable in a Davidson gentleman” 3,500 times. The sentence was suspended because of the possibility
of reversal by higher authority, and Swann and Pierce were campused until Christmas and reprimanded severely. Brewer, who allegedly acted
as an accessory before the fact in holding in readiness a getaway bicycle, stated that the crime would have been
perfect had he been able to obtain an automobile to improve getaway time. He was sentenced to campus until Christmas
and was required to lead all the defendants in reciting in unison “We will not object to the sensible and
character-building rulings of the faculty with reference to cars.” Dick Glascow, a member of the freshman class, was accused of
participation in the crime but was released because of kinship to Mr. Sam Glascow, a prominent underworld character of Charlotte.
Saxon and Rogers were declared pure and innocent but were required as punishment for wasting the time of the court
to carry innumerable bundles of laundry to suit the whims of upperclassmen. Members of the court, including McAlister, Ennett, Page
Jackson, Jack Goode, and Bill Hodgin, were unanimous in all decisions, except in the case of Rogers, whom Hodgin suggested
be hanged for publishing in the presence of the court a joke about “rumors are flying; the dormitory just blew
up.”

Literary Frat Hears Papers Last Thursday, December 6, Sigma Upsilon met in the Kappa Sigma house for their weekly meeting.
The first subject to be discussed was that of prospective members and, resulting from this, Albert Harris and Bobby Phillips
were elected to membership. The business being over, the assigned papers were read. Middy Raynal read a short story. Dr.
Davidson read the first installment of his novel written while in the Navy—‘Six Months on the Verge of a Vomit”.
Professor Goldiere read some experiences of his during World War I, while Dr. Cummings gave the last essay which was
a critique on the policies of Sigma Upsilon.

Pan-Hellenic Council announces the date of Mid-Winters to be held February 7 and 8. The Friday night dance will be
held at the Hotel Charlotte while the Saturday night informal will take place at the Armory. The band will be
announced later.

Davidson Vets In War Books Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, has announced that several books mentioning Davidson heroes
of the last war have come to the attention of the library staff, who are interested in finding further references
to men in the literature of World War II. Among those books recently published is Valtin’s Children of Yesterday, which
is a new account of the company commanded by Captain John McNeely, class of 1928, who was killed on Leyte
in October 1944. Royalties from the book have been pledged to families of members of the 24th Infantry Division who
were killed in the war. Oliver Granilin’s Free Men Fighting is an eye-witness story of the war as reported by
Associated Press correspondents. At least three whose stories are included perished in the tragedy they witnessed. One of these was
D. Witt Hancock, class of 1928. Eugene Burns’ Then There Was One tells the history of the USS Enterprise and
includes the story of Ensign Neal A. Scott, class of 1940, who was killed on a destroyer in the Battle
of Santa Cruz Islands.

Chemistry Frat Meets In Miss. Dr. John B. Gallant, associate professor of chemistry at Davidson College, left the campus yesterday
to attend the national convention of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity, being held December 6 and 7 at Columbus,
Miss. Dr. Gallant, who is president of the organization, will preside throughout the sessions and will be assisted by the
secretary, Harold I. Cotter of the University of Alabama and by the treasurer, Dr. John F. Conn, professor of chemistry
at John B. Stetson University, Deland, Florida. The program will continue through Saturday morning. Gamma Sigma Epsilon was founded at
Davidson College in 1919. The chapter roll now includes local groups at fifteen colleges and universities.

Schedule for Week Beginning Sunday, Dec. 15 Vespers — Christmas Music Program. Chambers Auditorium—7:30 p.m. Monday—10:15 a.m. Special Chapel Program.
Twenty-fifth anniversary establishment Sigma Pi Sigma. Speaker, President Martin Whitaker, Lehigh University. Subject “Atomic Energy —Its History and Implications.” Tuesday—Chapel
10:25 a.m. Dr. Lewis Schenck. Wednesday, December 18. — Chapel 10:25. Christmas Devotional. French Christmas Carols by students of the
French department.

German Pastor To Be In Davidson Jan. 3 Famous Anti-Nazi Leader Among First to Enter U.S. Will Lead Chapel In
an exclusive release to the Davidsonian Monday afternoon Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, announced that Dr. Martin
Niemoeller would be the guest of the college on January 3, 1947, and would speak at the chapel period on
that date. Reverend Niemoeller is the great German pastor who attacked Adolf Hitler for his treatment of the Jews and
analyzed the true nature of the National Socialist party. Organizer and leader of anti-Nazi opposition which grew to national proportions,
he was arrested by the Gestapo on July 1, 1937, on orders from Hitler. His trial which followed in February
of 1938 was a world sensation and resulted in sentences which placed him in concentration camps for eight years. His
first imprisonment was in the camp at Sachsenhausen and was spent in solitary confinement, which lasted for three years. Later
the Lutheran minister was transferred to the infamous concentration camp at Dachau where the last five years of his confinement
were spent. Davidson College enjoys the special privilege of being one of two colleges at which Dr. Niemoeller will speak
during his stay in the United States, the other institution being Princeton University in New Jersey. His speaking tour of
this country began on December 4 at Seattle, Washington, in which city he remained until December 7 appearing before the
Federal Council of Churches of Christ. Excluding persons brought to this country under the auspices of the War Department, Dr.
Niemoeller is the first German to enter the United States since the close of hostilities in Europe. He is accompanied
on his present tour by Mrs. Niemoeller and Ewart E. Turner, war correspondent from Religious News Service. The appearance at
Davidson is a part of a nation-wide tour before interdenominational churches. Invitations are being extended by the college and many
distinguished persons will be on hand for the lecture.

Men Initiated Into ‘D’ Club The initiation of the new members of the “D” Club constituted the only business of
that organization at its meeting last Friday night, December 6, George Peters, the president, announced Monday. The new members and
the sport or sports in which each won his letter are: Bert Anderton, baseball; Bill Brownson, baseball and basketball; Buddy
Chandler, baseball; Dave Crane, football; Paul Deaton, rifle; Junie Guy, baseball; Bob Lacy, track; Bob Maner, basketball; Hal Mapes, baseball;
Frank Matthews, track; M. McKeithen, soccer and basketball manager; Bill Robertson, basketball; Dave Walker, track; Walter Walker, rifle; S. D.
McDaniel; Doug Rice, baseball; Jim French, baseball; Ed Hopper, basketball; and Bob Flowers, basketball and football. Peters also said that
there will be another meeting before Christmas or shortly after the holidays to initiate the boys who have met the
qualifications for their letters during the recently completed football season. The officers of the “D” Club, besides President Peters, who
were elected in November, are: Red Bethea, vice president; Dick O’Hair, secretary; and Alf Taylor, treasurer.
