RED AND BLACK MASQUERS PRESENT “THE MILKY WAY”

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

MIDWINTERS FEBRUARY 22-23

FEBRUARY 21, 1946

Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FEBRUARY 21, 1946 No. 9

Midwinters Expected To Draw Large Crowd

Class Officers Are Elected By Students

NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS

News Items of Interest

President John R. Cunningham spent last week in New York City, where he was in attendance at a meeting of the American Section of the World Council of Churches. Cunningham is one of the two representatives from the Presbyterian Church in the United States on this body.

At the regular meeting of the Executive Committee of the Trustees, which took place Tuesday, February 19, the Trustees assembled for their meeting.

Sari Biro, Hungarian pianist, will be heard in recital Monday evening, February 25. This concert is the fourth and last concert for this season. Other artists heard this year were: Carl Weinrich, organist; Samuel Dushkin, violinist; and Mack Harrell, Metropolitan Opera baritone.

Carleton Baird, Jr., a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1944 and of the Virginia Theological Seminary at Alexandria, Va., in the class of 1946, has been ordained to the diaconate at St. Mark's Episcopal Church, Mecklenburg County, according to an announcement received at Davidson from the Right Reverend Edwin A. Penick, D.D., Bishop of the Diocese of North Carolina. His mother, Mrs. R. C. Baird, was a resident of Davidson during the time her sons were students at the college. The younger son, William David, was killed in Germany on April 5, 1945, while serving as a member of the Army Medical Corps.

Jack Lanzenby, business manager of the Davidsonian, has extended a call to all students who would be interested in working on the business staff this semester. A call has also been extended to all students interested in working on the editorial staff this semester. By working on the editorial or business staff, one paves the way for more advanced work on the Davidsonian in future years.

Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Faculty of Davidson College, has announced the addition of Professor Frank McPherson Sinclair to the college faculty. In the field of Business Administration, he is teaching courses in Accounting, Business Organization, Finance, and Insurance. A native of Wilmington, Professor Sinclair attended N. C. State College from 1933-35 and graduated at Davidson with the degree of B. S. in Business in 1937. He earned his M.S. degree at the University of North Carolina in 1939. He was active with the Armed Forces in World War II from February 1942 until January 1946.

Colonel LeRoy W. Nichols of the Headquarters of the Fourth Service Command, Atlanta, Ga., in charge of ROTC units, has recently made his official visit to the campus. Within the past few days, he has sent the college his observations of our units and has awarded the ROTC Unit the rating of “SUPERIOR,” which is the highest rating possible for any unit.

The Carolina Piedmont Section of the American Chemical Society met February 15 on the Davidson campus. The program was started (Continued on Page 3)

Senior Class Elects Three To Serve On Student Council

In recent months there have been elections for a number of student officers. Since the completion of the war and the return of a large number of students, it was evident that several organizations which had been closed due to lack of students should be organized again. During the latter part of the first semester, Frank Barr was selected head cheerleader by the student council. He is president of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, a member of Phi Mu Alpha, a member of the band, feature editor of the Davidsonian, on the editorial staff of “Quips and Cranks,” and was a member of the student council and Pan-Hellenic Council.

Ed Golden was elected president of the Pan-Hellenic council following the resignation of Bill Pollard. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet, the board of control of the YMCA, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, and a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

The student council decided to increase its size to the normal number of fourteen this semester. Following the various class elections, Ed Murray, Tommy Yarborough, and Buddy Carson from the senior class were elected. Ed was the editor of the 1943 “Quips and Cranks,” a member of ODK, vice-president of the junior class, president of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, and a member of Phi Mu Alpha. Yarborough is a member of the Beaver Club, “D” Club, Kappa Sigma social fraternity, a member of the baseball squad, and captain of the basketball team the year he entered the service. Buddy Carson is business manager of the annual this year. He is a member of the SAE fraternity, appointed business manager of the Davidsonian his junior year, and is a member of the “Scabbard and Blade.”

George Peters and Dan Bryant were elected to the student council from the junior class. Bryant is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and was on the freshman baseball and football teams. Peters is a member of the “D” Club, the Beaver Club, and the Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was captain of the freshman football team, and was on the varsity football, basketball, and track teams.

The senior class officers elected were Tommy Yarborough, vice-president, and Stan McAffee, secretary-treasurer. In the junior class, Ward Lasley was elected vice-president and Morton Church secretary-treasurer. Lasley played on the freshman football team and baseball team, is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha fraternity, vice-president of the student body, and a member of the student council. Church was manager of the football team, played in the concert band, was junior cheerleader, and a member of Beta Theta Pi.

In the sophomore class elections, Charles Patterson was elected vice-president and Jim Pittman secretary-treasurer. Patterson is a member of the SAE fraternity and served on the Quips and Cranks staff before he entered the Air Corps. Pittman is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and the Glee Club.

At a meeting of the student body last week, Mel Winstead was elected editor of the Davidsonian for this semester. Mel is a member of Phi Kappa Phi fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha fraternity, Philanthropic Literary Society, the concert band, and served on the student council last summer.

Pictured above are the newly elected officers of various bodies: Reading from left to right are: First Row, Tommy Yarborough, vice-president of the senior class and member of student council; Buddy Carson, member of student council; George Peters, member of student council; Dan Bryant, member of student council; Stan McAffee, secretary-treasurer of senior class; Ward Lasley, vice-president of the junior class; and Morton Church, secretary-treasurer of junior class. Third Row: Charles Patterson, vice-president of sophomore class; Frank Barr, Jr., head cheerleader for this semester; and Ed Golden, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Formal Dance Saturday Night Every Student Urged To Come

Spring Holidays To Begin March 28 And Last Until April 2

Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Faculty of Davidson College, professor of economics, announced in the chapel exercises last Thursday morning that spring holidays will again be observed this year beginning Thursday noon, March 28, and lasting until Tuesday morning, April 2. This action was taken following a lengthy consideration of the petition which was presented to the administration last month calling for spring holidays to be observed on the Davidson College campus as was done in previous years before the war. The petition was signed by a large number of students of the college, and its affirmative result received a warm welcome from every member of the student body. Because of the Spring Holidays, the date of Commencement has been changed from May 25 to May 28. The examinations will come to a close on May 29 of this year.

Morrow Announces Plans For Annual

The editorial staff of “Quips and Cranks” announces that the 1946 issue of this college yearbook will be a full-sized book comparable to pre-war annuals except for a student body slightly reduced in number. Active work upon the annual was begun last semester, but since every effort is being made to approach annuals of the pre-war years in size and in activities represented, the new students who entered school at the beginning of this semester and the old Davidson men who have returned will be included in this publication. The Junior editors include George Gunn, who is working on the sports department of the book. Gunn is also doing part of the photography for the annual. Frank Barr of the Junior Class and Charlie Thompson, a Senior, are handling the various college activities, honorary societies, etc. The section devoted to the social fraternities will be edited by Bill Campbell, a Junior, and Joe Fountain of the Senior class. Bill Whiteaker is working as art editor. A theme of the book will be built around the origin of the name, “Quips and Cranks,” as the title ofDavidson's yearbook portion be made to “Quips and Cranks.” Special efforts will make this issue of “Quips and Cranks” appeal to the alumni as well as the students. A glimpse of Davidson’s future in athletics and her building program will receive attention. Of necessity, the work of putting together this 1946 “Quips and Cranks” was begun late. Every effort will be made, however, to deliver the annuals before the end of the term.

Professors Return To Take Up Duties
Have Been Serving In Various Other Capacities

Many Davidson professors who have been in the Armed Forces or who have been teaching at other institutions during the war are returning to the college. William Nelson Mebane, Jr., associate professor of mathematics at Davidson College, who has been on leave of absence since June 1944, has returned to the college to resume his teaching.

Prof. Mebane, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1918, became a member of the faculty in 1923. During his leave from the college, he was engaged in secret research work at Columbia University in connection with the creation of the atomic bomb. Mrs. Mebane, who has spent the past several months in New York with her husband, returned to Davidson with him to re-join their son, a Davidson High School student, who has been occupying their home during their absence.

William Scott Frieze, Jr., has returned to Davidson College to resume his work as Cataloger in the college library, after a three and one-half year leave of absence, spent in the Army. He served successively at Ft. Bragg, Ft. Jackson, Columbia, S.C., and Camp Shelby, Miss., as an academic instructor in a special training unit and as a personnel consultant's assistant. A native of Charlotte, Mr. Frieze was reared in Concord and graduated from Davidson in 1937. He later earned a Bachelor’s degree in Library Science at Columbia University.

Other professors who have returned to the college are: Prof. J. A. McGeachy of the History Department and Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the Grey (Continued on Page 3)

Red And Black Masquers Give Performance Of “The Milky Way”
Middy Raynal Directs Successful Play
By WALTER BOYD

Last week “The Milky Way” was given by the Red and Black Masquers before a large audience in the Davidson College auditorium, as one of many successes of the dramatic organization. The most remarkable discovery of the Masquers, Polio, the wonder dog, exhibited by far the most spectacular performance of the evening. However, had not Doug Swink been holding him, he would have abandoned the stage at the most crucial point of the performance. Polio was supported very ably by a cast of veteran and amateur actors on the Davidson stage.

Middy Raynal, an “old hand” with the Red and Black Masquers, not only directed the cast in this performance but also played a minor role. The two voluptuous actresses, Dot Hamrick and Nancy Copeland, helped boost the male morale, especially when in evening attire. The setting was designed and executed under the direction of Prof. J. Erwin, who has long been active in the Masquers. Bill Whita and H. D. Harwood served as stage manager and properties manager respectively.

“The Milky Way” is a three-act comedy which takes place in New York City, extending over a period of six months. This play has just completed a successful run at the Brattle Hall Theatre in Boston. The cast of the performance was as follows:

Spider — Doug Swink.
Speed McFarland — Don Whittemore.
Ann Westley — Nancy Copeland.
Gabby Sloan — Charles Cunningham.
Burleigh Sullivan — Frank Lowe.
Mae Sullivan — Dot Hamrick.
Willard — Middy Raynal.
Eddie — Andy Gullick.
Wilbur Austin — Bill Campbell.

Music Dept. Joins Fraternities Tomorrow Night In Gym

Plans for the annual Mid-Winters at Davidson College, it was announced last Saturday by Prof. John C. Bailey, Dean of Students, according to an announcement issued by John Golden, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. The dances will be held in the Davidson gymnasium on the nights of February 8 and 9. The Friday night dance will be informal and the Saturday night dance will be a formal affair for everyone. The two dances will carry a “Sweetheart” theme, and the gym will be decorated in red and white with red hearts planted around.

One of the outstanding events of the final dance will be the figure in which the fraternity presidents and their dates and the Pan-Hellenic Council members and their dates will participate. The girls will carry large bouquets of red roses given to them by their dates participating.

The faculty members of the college have been invited to attend the dances, and several of the college officials and faculty will aid in the receiving line. The orchestra, led by Willard Humber, will play for both the informal and formal dances. In recent months, Humber and his band have achieved distinction in the music world. Humber’s vocalist, personable Barbara Barrie, will be one of the highlights of the two-day stand. His list, formerly with the Paul Whiteman Orchestra, is said to be a combination of Betty Grable and Dinah Shore.

The dance on Friday night will start at 9 p.m. and last until 1 a.m. The tickets for the formal dance on Saturday night will be $3.50. The Pan-Hellenic Council members other than President Golden, who is a Phi Delta Theta fraternity member, are: John McAllister, Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity; Ernest Hunter, Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity; Earl Mahone, Kappa Alpha fraternity; Thacker Brower, Kappa Sigma fraternity; Bill Pollard, Beta Theta Pi fraternity; George McCormick, Phi Gamma Delta fraternity; and Dexter Lazenby, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Prof. Carl F. Berg Back
Has Been Studying In New York Last Year

Prof. Carl F. Berg, instructor of music and voice in the Davidson College music department, has returned to the campus to resume his work, following a leave of absence which began last September. During his year of absence, Mr. Berg has studied at the School of Sacred Music at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. Having finished his work there, he will be a candidate for the degree of Master of Sacred Music upon the completion of his thesis.

A native of Nebraska, Prof. Berg received his A.B. degree in 1936 from Concordia College, where he majored in music. He joined the Davidson College faculty in the fall of 1941. In addition to his work at Davidson, he is choir director at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, where his wife, Eunice Plana, is the organist.

In addition to Mr. Berg on the music faculty, Mr. Robert Hechter recently was added to the department. Mr. Noehren is a native of Buffalo and New York City, and excels in the field of organ and piano. He comes to North Carolina after spending the last two years in the maritime service in New York.