HOLIDAY TOMORROW

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

WELCOME ALUMNI

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1946

Homecoming Festivities To Begin Tonight

Beaver Club Gives Bids To Honorary Underclass

Frat Takes Eleven

On Thursday, October 24, Davidson’s Beaver Club held its annual tap day, bidding new men from the Sophomore and Junior
classes. The organization, an honorary fraternity for underclassmen, judges prospective candidates for membership on leadership, scholarship, and athletic ability. New
members from the Junior class include Dave Blevins, Jerry Robinson, Bill Robertson, Charlie Patterson, and Sam Tate. Sophomores receiving bids
were Buddy Cheek, Mike Williams, Doug Rice, Carl Pahl, Henry Neisler, Bob Walker, Jack Gray, Bill Brownson, J.D. Ashmore, and
Gene Bingham.

In past years, membership in the Beaver Club has been restricted to twenty, ten men coming from the Sophomore class
each year, and the ten rising Seniors retiring. This year, with the increase in student body, the total authorized membership
has been raised. Activities of the club include extending an invitation to the college to visit the campus each year.
In the social field, they play an important role in the athletic life of the campus, acting as host to
prospective Wildcat athletes. The old Beavers include Bobby Phillips, Bill Hodgin, Hugh Hill, Dave Neill, Don Bryant, Bob Strickland, Haywood
Brinegar, Hugh McArn, and Ed Manget.

New Men Start Work On New Magazine

Scripts ’n Pranks, the revived college magazine, will have its first edition this year in December, approximately one week before
the Christmas vacation. Successive issues will appear in February, April, and May of next year. Copies for the students have
been paid for by the student activity fee but a complete year’s subscription to be sent home can be had
for one dollar. A large number of students have already purchased these send-home subscriptions.

As announced in the last issue of the Davidsonian, the editorial staff will be headed by Doug Swink. The managing
editors are Frank Barr, George Gunn, Ralph Alexander, Jimmy Gribben, Bobby Phillips, and Buck Troutman. In charge of the Art
Department is Orin Whitaker. Jim Love is the business manager, and the business staff will consist of Lenoir EID Morris.
The editors are urging members and pledges to go out for extracurricular activities. Only four freshmen have at this date
come out for Scripts ’n Pranks. Many more contributors are needed and are urged to use Scripts ’n Pranks, as
well as the term paper, as an outlet for their literary genius.

Dr. Redhead Holds Y.M.C.A. Services

Greensboro Preacher Gives Inspiring Talks

Dr. John A. Redhead, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Greensboro, N.C., conducted the Y.M.C.A. Fall Services on October 29,
30, 31 in Chambers Auditorium. These services held twice daily were very helpful and thought-provoking. On Tuesday, Dr. Redhead spoke
on the topics of “What Is the Use of Religion Anyway?” and “On Making God Real,” in his morning and
evening sermons respectively. Wednesday morning’s service was entitled “God in History,” whereas that of the evening was “On Being a
Real Optimist.” For the Thursday program, he spoke on “The Kingdom of God Is At Hand” and “Fairest Lord Jesus.”

Born in Centreville, Miss., Dr. Redhead attended and graduated from Southwestern College in 1926. His graduate work was taken at
Union Theological Seminary of Richmond where he was a “Hoge Fellow” and received the degrees of B.D. and Th.M. While
in college, he earned his letter in football and basketball and was a member of Kappa Sigma. A member of
the Rotary Club, he is a great golf enthusiast. Davidson is not a new acquaintance of Dr. Redhead, for he
was a trustee of the college for five years. In 1937 he was awarded the degree of Doctor of Divinity
by the college. His ministering career began with the Farmville Presbyterian Church of Farmville, Va., where he was pastor from
1930 to 1933. The years from 1933 to 1937 saw him as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Tampa,
Fla.

SPEAKER

A poll of the nation’s campuses, taken in the spring of 1946, shows that college students prefer the type of
advertising used by Chesterfields. Chesterfield ads are the collegiate favorite, in the words of college men, because of their direct
copy and layout and their pleasant style. In line with this tradition, Chesterfield is returning this year with advertising built
expressly on the collegiate market.

Officers Tapped By Military Frat

Scabbard and Blade Chooses Eleven Members

By Dave Richardson

Amassing a display of military splendor unequalled on the Davidson campus since the Enlisted Reserve Corps saved countless numbers of
students from the draft in 1943, the R.O.T.C. battalion held its first parade of the year Tuesday as part of
the ceremony of tapping new members for Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity.

New Members

Cited for outstanding leadership and valor in all fields of R.O.T.C. work, seven cadet officers of the battalion were tapped
by Cadet Major Carl Pahl in the climax of an impressive ceremony which emphasized the efficient dignity of military service.
They included Cadet Captain J.M. Bailey, Jr.; Cadet First Lieutenant John Pat O’Connor Adams; Cadet First Lieutenant Arthur D. Plowden;
Cadet First Lieutenant John Yarborough; Cadet First Lieutenant E.T. Edwards; Cadet First Lieutenant O.F. Dobson; and Cadet Second Lieutenant Joe
Bell. The tapping ceremony also included Lt. Col. William P. Grace, Jr., professor of military science and tactics; Lt. Col.
O.C. Martin, Jr.; Major C.C. Acher; and Captain H. Kennedy.

Old Members

Officiating in the initiation ceremony and in command of the review were Cadet Major Pahl; Cadet Captain Quentin Cooper; Cadet
Captain Roddy L. Smith; Cadet Captain Bev Anderton; and Cadet Captain R.O. Freeman. Honorary members of Scabbard and Blade who
took part in reviewing the troops and in welcoming the newly initiated officers into the ranks of Davidson's military immortals
included Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of the college; Dr. J.W. MacConnell, a major in World War I; Professor K.K.
Pfohl; and Dr. W.L. Pressly.

Boys Welcome Beauties

By Bernard Oliver

The R.A. lads. It may be, of course, that he is prejudiced, and it is undeniable that his enthusiasm springs
very largely from the fact that he was exceptionally lucky in the “blind date” shuffle. However, he has talked with
a large portion of the student body, portals in particular, and his opinion is general. The girls were simply lovely!
The group in every meeting has served to bond that exists. At least we hope it is possible.

The Y.M.C.A. Club, who jointly, in the pies, feel the go to Miss Fran of the Salem Y. helpers, who
ma They express appreciation to the chaperones for their assistance.

SWING MAESTRO

Billy Butterfield College Declares Holiday on Saturday

The informal dance will be held in the Charlotte Armory Friday night, will start at nine p.m. and will last
until one o'clock. The informal dance of Saturday night will last from eight till twelve—and will be in the Youth
Center of the Armory. Billy Butterfield and his orchestra will play for both dances. Another activity which has received the
interest of the campus and the community in the past is the decorating of the Armory.

Army Men Like Life On R.O.T.C. Staff

A small search into the lives of part of the R.O.T.C. staff brought forth some very interesting information concerning Major
G.C. Acher, Master Sgt. John D. Bowles, Webster, Blanton Burton, and 1st Sgt. Raymond D. Zerby. During their careers, most
of these army men have traveled extensively throughout the United States and served overseas during the war.Davidson are—humorous jobs and
houses. The last time the cup, Major C. C. Acher, born in Fort Dodge, Iowa, received his education from Missouri
Military Academy and Iowa University. For a while before the war, he worked with Swift & Company in Sioux City
before entering the Army on active duty in November 1940. During his Army career, he served with the 6th, 85th,
and 103rd Infantry divisions. Overseas duty saw him with the 103rd. Major Acher is an instructor in R.O.T.C. and supervisor
of B Company.

Dances In Charlotte
Pretty “Pat” Connor Will Be Vocalist With Butterfield Orchestra

“What’s New?” is not only Billy Butterfield’s theme song but also what is news today. Billy Butterfield is the young
master of the trumpet who has blown his horn straight to the top and, as a result, in all trade
paper polls held in the country, Billy has finished among the top five on trumpet. The “Butterfield treatment” is something
that is now at its peak, polished through years of being featured on commercial radio coast to coast and with
such top-ranking bands as Artie Shaw, Bob Crosby, Benny Goodman, Harry James, and many others. The “Butterfield treatment” means melody;
the “Butterfield treatment” means rhythm; the “Butterfield treatment” means music that creates the mood that the songwriter intended and as
such has the greatest appeal to diversified tastes.

Born in Middletown, Ohio, Billy was interested in music as a child and when he attended high school in Cincinnati,
he was already playing with local bands. He started studying to be a doctor and already had two years of
pre-med in college at Lexington, Kentucky, when he found that he was more interested in playing for the college bands
and “jamming” after classes than he was in a career in medicine. And, in addition, there was a girl, Margaret,
who was singing with the band and he married her. They now have two boys, Michael and Patrick, who, although
only six and four respectively, already want to be young men with horns.

Despite the failures in the past, the fraternity hopes that with renewed esprit de corps, each of them will encourage
others and meet their scholastic endeavors. The averages made by the social fraternities during the last year of competition in
1941-42 are as follows:
Beta Theta Pi 1.587
Kappa Sigma 1.537
Sigma Phi Epsilon 1.51
Phi Delta Theta 1.491
Phi Gamma Delta 1.48
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1.390
Kappa Alpha 1.37
Pi Kappa Phi 1.345
Pi Kappa Alpha 1.214

The R.O.T.C. unit at Davidson is divided into three companies composed of a cadet company commander, a cadet first lieutenant,
and two platoon leaders. This year, the unit has been greatly expanded. Sgt. Burton, who has been with the college
for several years, has seen foreign duty in the Philippines from March 1936 to June 1938 and in the countries
of Panama and Ecuador from December 1940 to 1948. His recruiting duties brought him here in April. Administrative duties are
taken over by Sgt. Webster of Atlanta, who has been here eleven months. In his six years of army life,
he was with the air forces in Italy for fifteen months during the war and has been on extensive recruiting
duty with the recruiting service in the third army area, stationed at Fort Bragg and Greensboro.

Here is a young man who is a real credit to the band world. His musical skill is unusual and
his future is unlimited.
