After a week of rest and nursing wounds, the Wildcats should be ready for the Keydets at Memorial Stadium. While the Red and Black were taking a breather, the Keydets were being bowled over by V.M.I., 26-7. From all reports, V.M.I. did not have too much trouble with the Citadel eleven, scoring three times through the air and once on the ground.

By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

Coach Story has been working out the kinks in the last few days, running through pass defense along with heavy scrimmage, and the squad appears to be in pretty good shape. Rhodes was back in scrimmage last week after sitting out the Richmond game with injuries and will probably be in the lineup when the Cats take the field Saturday. Bill Boyd, first-string lineman, and reserve back, Dave Crane, however, are out for the season, both with fractured legs. With the close of the B Team’s season, Story has moved some of the Jay Vee stalwarts up to the Varsity: Prior, Bernard, Lee, Fowler, Rimer, and if things go right Saturday, some of these boys may see action.

OWLS DE-ROOSTED

In one of the most exciting games ever played on Richardson Field, the Junior Varsity knocked over Charlotte’s C.C.U.N.C. 26-20 Friday, spectacularly closing their schedule. With the score tied 20-20 and only minutes to play, it looked like a sure deadlock for the Kitty Cats, as the clock ticked away toward the end of the season’s closing game. The Jay Vees played heads-up ball all afternoon, coming from behind in the last quarter to tie up the score, when end Louis Bingham blocked a punt deep in Owl territory and Rittenburg, big Kitten guard, snatched the ball up to go over for the final winning score. The Wildcat conversion failed.

Stepping all over the place for the Kittens in the backfield department were Charlie Miller and Charlie Rimer. Rimer ran with speed and hard-hitting power, bulling his way through the Owl line. Standing out in the line were Ted Keesler, Fred Prior, and Louis Bingham, though it cost little Bingham a few loose teeth in payment for that beautiful fourth-quarter punt block.

LAST WEEK’S FOOTBALL

The Furman Hurricane took a 20-6 slashing at the hands of Clemson’s Tigers last week. The Tiger’s claws punctured the Purple Hurricane and just about let all the wind out. Except for an 85-yard return of an intercepted pass by Tom Wham, Hurricane end, it was Clemson’s day all the way. South Carolina’s dreams of a Southern Conference Championship were smashed last Saturday as Duke rolled over the Gamecocks 39-0. Wake Forest took a beating from North Carolina and N.C. State romped over the University of Va. 27-7. Down in the Southern Conference, Georgia took Auburn to the cleaners, 41-0, while Ga. Tech whipped Tulane, 35-7. Much speculation has arisen concerning the Georgia-Ga. Tech outcome, with the scribes reporting that the winner will probably go to the Sugar Bowl.

Charley Miller, B team speed merchant, is shown above as he skirted left end on a 40-yard jaunt as the Jayvees edged CCUNC, 26-20. The Owls pictured are Davis (31) and Tucker (28). (Davidsonian staff photo by John Stewart.)

Wildcat Sports

GET THOSE KEYDETS

November 22, 1946

DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

Jayvees Take Thriller

Davidson Wildkitten team pulled a see-saw ball game out of the fire Friday, with a barrage of three touchdowns in the last quarter. Tackle Fred Prior saved the day for the Kittens by snagging Foreman’s pass on the C.C.U.N.C. 35 and galloping all the way for the score that broke a 20-20 deadlock.

A scrappy Bees team in one of the closest battles seen on Richardson Field this year, the Kittens rolled up a lead in statistics as well as the score. An air-minded Charlotte eleven completed eight of fifteen passes while racking up 11 first downs. Coach Jack Sparks’ boys stuck mostly to the ground and moved the yardsticks a total of seventeen times.

First Quarter Score

The black-jerseyed Bees drew blood midway in the first quarter. The Owls lost the ball shortly after the opening kickoff when Goat Davis fumbled on the Davidson 35. The Kittens drove to the Charlotte one where they were thrown back by a vicious line led by Bob Condor. Benton kicked out to little Dave Erwin who raced back to the 25. Erwin hit right end for four, then Charley Rimer cracked the middle and out-maneuvered the secondary for the initial tally. Page Jackson failed to convert.

With Boger and Davis running and Foreman passing, the Owls worked the ball down to the seven. On a freak play in which the Owl backfield missed its signals, Boger crashed the center to pay dirt. Boger also failed to convert and the half ended in a 6-6 tie.

The first Owls' interception of the third period pass backfired with Goat Davis scampering seventy-five yards through the entire Davidson team for the second Owl marker. Boger split the uprights to send the Queen City boys into a 13-6 lead. The second Davidson score was set up by Prior’s first interception as he wormed his way to his own 30. Charley Miller skirted left end for 40 yards. Rimer and Erwin, Coach Sparks’ “Mr. Inside and Outside,” worked another first down to the Owl 25 from where “Mr. Outside” reeled off his second marker. Jackson’s kick was good and the Kittens were back in the ball game.

Louis Bingham and John Rittenburg brought the Cat supporters to their feet shortly afterward when Bingham blocked Wilhelm’s kick and Rittenburg scooped it up to dash off the tally that appeared to be the clincher. Jackson again converted, putting the Jayvees out in front 20-13. But the rugged Owls were not beaten. Davis stepped off 20 yards around right end from where he flipped an aerial some fifty yards to Condon in the end zone. Boger kicked the point to rejuvenate the camp of Coach Art Deremer.

After the kickoff, Erwin, Fowle, and Rimer raced the oval to the Owl 26 where they lost it on downs. Foreman passed to Gupton for 9, but on the next play Prior reached into the stratosphere, hauled in the pigskin, and was off for the winning marker. Jackson’s kick was low but all was well for the Red and Black. Barnard kicked off and the Charlotteans began heaving desperate passes. This soon ended when Bud Fowle intercepted one of Griffin’s chunks, returning to the Kitten 37. The game ended two plays later with Cliff Turner banging off right end for two.

Davis, Griffin, and Boger sparked the Night Bird backs with Condor, Jackson, Toomer, Harr, and Hendrix showing up well in the line.

Rimer Stands Out

Rimer was the Kittens’ big gun, but he was ably assisted by Co-Capt. Erwin and Miller. Jack Barnard turned in a brilliant performance in his blocking back role to round out the Kitten backfield. The whole forward wall was a rock, but Co-Capt. Keesler, Bingham, Prior, Groves, and Brown were the mainstays.

Kittens bode Owls Richardson Field, KA’s Clinch

Displaying some of the flashiest football seen on the interfrat grid-iron this year, the K.A.s swept over the S.A.E.s in a crushing 24-6 win. This put the big gold team at the top of the pile. At present, they still have to meet the Kappa Sigmas in a playoff game, but the results will not affect any change in the standing of the Knights.

Whatever 3 Way Tie Possible

On the other hand, if the Sigmas can come through and win the game, it will elevate them into a three-way tie for second with the Phi Delts and the Phi Gams. These two latter teams now hold second place to themselves. The Phi Delts were dropped from that position into a tie by losing to the S.P.E.s in their last game of the season. The Phi Gams, starting at the bottom by losing their initial game to the K.A.s, have come up steadily since the start of their schedule. They put the finishing touch to this schedule when they licked the Phi Delts in a 14-0 win. This was the first loss that the Delts had suffered all season. Starting off playing brilliant ball, the Phi Delts won five games straight before they were taken over by an inspired Fiji nine. But if they lose to the K.A.s, it will put them in a three-way tie for fourth place with the Pi Kapps and S.P.E.s. The Pi Kapps also started off at the bottom of the pile but came up at the end of the season to finish out above the .500 mark. The scrappy Pi Kapps proved to be a thorn in almost every team’s side all through the season. They forced the Phi Delts to play overtime and just did lose to the K.A.s by a slim one-touchdown margin. And in the course of their schedule, they managed to come through and lick both the S.A.E.s and the Betas.

S.P.E. Wins

The S.P.E.s played pretty steady ball all season but hit their zenith when they toppled the Phi Delts. Wins over the Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs marked the course of their successful games. Holding down the seventh place slot are the Betas and the S.A.E.s. The Betas started off their season well. Winning their first two games, they next went down in defeat to the Pi Kapps and later lost again to the Phi Delts. Most of their games were close. They just did lose to the Phi Delts, whom they forced into an overtime period. And in their last game of the year, they lost a heartbreaker to the Phi Gams. In the same league are the S.A.E.s, who were having a pretty tough time all along their road. They lost their opening game to the Phi Delts, then came along to win their next two. This wound up a very successful season for Coach Jack Sparks. With a record of five wins against a single setback, the Bees may well be proud. Should Coach Bill Story need any talent for his Senior and Jayvees Felines, he could find plenty in the “Babies.”

AS BEES TRIPPED OWLS—Charley Miller, Jayvee wingback, is shown ripping through the Charlotte line in Friday's thriller on a 26-20 win. Other Kittens in the picture are Rittenburg (32), Tucker (28), Condon (34), Toomer (45), Williams (48), Foreman (36), Watt (37), Rimer (53), Lee (59), and Prior (39). (Davidsonian staff photo by John Stewart.)

Frat Loop

But the season was rough. The S.P.E.s, the Pikas, and the Independents. In the eighth place slot are the Independents who have the potential of having one of the strongest teams on the campus. Their one win was over the Pikas in the closest game of the year; two first downs to one. With the exception of the game between the K.A.s and the Kappa Sigmas, the standings below are complete:

K. A.s 8 0 1.000
Phi Delts 6 3 .666
Phi Gams 6 3 .666
Kappa Sigs 5 3 .625
Pi Kapps 5 4 .555
S.P.E.s 5 4 .555
S.A.E.s 4 5 .444
Betas 4 5 .444
Inds. 1 8 .111
Pikas 0 9 .000

Cats Face Citadel In Charlotte Tilt

Overshadowed by the tenseness surrounding the battle of giants at Chapel Hill, the Davidson-Citadel scrap nevertheless promises a very interesting sixty minutes of football for fans in and around Charlotte. The American Legion Memorial Stadium will be the scene of the encounter when Wildcat meets Bulldog Saturday at 2 p.m. After an open date, the Davidson machine should be well primed for what may be the most evenly matched game of the season. This will be the last chance of the year for the Wildcats to show the Charlotte and Davidson followers what they can really do on the gridiron. While the Red and Black were recuperating from the Richmond fray, the Citadel was up in Lexington feeling the punch of Bobby Thomason and his VMI teammates. The final whistle found the Bulldogs on the short end of a 26-7 count. The Keydets trimmed the Red and Black 25-0 earlier in the season. Coach Bill Story’s charges are in top shape after taking a drubbing from the University of Richmond men. Although Bill Boyd is out, the whole forward wall is up to par, with Stricklin, Walker, Chandler, Mapes, O’Hair, Carnegie, Strickland, Rhodes, Richards, and Eborn slated for a busy afternoon. Memorial Stadium last felt the flash of the Davidson backfield in the Wofford game and it may furnish the setting for another sizzling show of Wildcat ramblings. Matching the line in readiness, the fine array of backs will be all set to keep the fans on the edge of their seats. The outcome for the Wildcats Saturday should be somewhat of an indicator in the Furman direction, for the Wildcats tangle with the Hurricane Thanksgiving Day.

Musing over a bit of strategy are three Davidson Football mentors, left to right: Jack Sparks, B Team; Bill Story, Head Coach; and Al Moneyhan, assistant coach.

Whatever Your Needs

SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things

SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR

UMP Group Formed

Tennis Coach Bill Lufler recently formed a Tennis Umpire Committee here at Davidson. The committee will work in co-operation with the Wildcat Tennis Team and officiate at all of the ’Cat tournaments. Lufler held a meeting of the would-be arbiters November 15, at which he briefly outlined the primary duties of a tennis umpire. He informed the judges that the National Tennis Umpires Association will send information throughout the winter months and a test will be given next spring. Those passing the test will receive membership to the association and will be allowed to umpire at any national tournament. Members of the committee are: J. S. Wamsley, chairman; W. Little, W. M. Cameron, J. E. Haz- ard, F. M. Perrin, C. A. Neisler, H. P. Neisler, C. Crowther, C. E. Ratliff, A. Hardy, R. G. Barringer, J. W. Pence, S. R. Palmer, J. W. McAlister, T. G. Alexander, F. B. O’Shields, H. Turpin.

Coach Lufler’s ultimate goal is to put Davidson on the tennis map by meeting some of the more potent net powers in the country.

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
@ Stationery
@ Rule Forms
@ Booklets
@ Publications
Phone 63000
Charlotte, N. C.