SUPPORT THE COMMUNITY CHEST

The Davidsonian

Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1946 No. 3

Bobby Byrne to Play at Homecoming Dances

Officers Appointed For R. O. T. C.

Col. Grace Announces Plans For This Year

Lieutenant Colonel William P. Grace, professor of military science and tactics at Davidson, revealed in a recent interview that the
present advanced R. O. T. C. course is now well established, mainly because of the influx of returning veterans to
the campus.

This is the first year since 1942-43 that there has been a four-year program of military training at Davidson. There
are now seventy men, of which fifty-seven are veterans, enrolled in the course, comprising two years of advanced study. Upon
successful completion of the four-year program, a cadet receives a second lieutenant’s commission in the Officers’ Reserve Corps of the
United States Army. While in training, the cadet is furnished all uniforms and equipment needed and in addition receives twenty
dollars monthly pay. To be eligible for the advanced course, an applicant must be between the ages of nineteen and
twenty-six. In the pre-war years, the advanced courses were attended only by juniors and seniors, but a new ruling has
permitted the enrolling of ex-servicemen with at least one year’s duty, so that the majority of students enrolled are now
freshmen. The first year advanced course, or R. O. T. C. 31, now has fifty-one members who will attend a
summer camp of six weeks duration next summer, where they will receive practical training in the branch of service of
their choice. The final course, or R. O. T. C. 41, has nineteen members. Under the revised schedule, advanced students
take three hours a week instruction, and drill with the rest of the corps for one two-hour period each week.

Scabbard and Blade

Lieutenant Colonel Grace also said that the Scabbard and Blade, honorary national military organization which taps outstanding advanced course students
each year, is to be reinstated, after being inactive during the war years. Present student members are H. B. Anderton,
Quentin Cooper, R. O. Freeman, C. A. Pahl, and R. L. Smith.

Student Officers

Student officers for this year were announced as follows: Battalion staff—Battalion Commander, Cadet Major C. A. Pahl; Battalion Executive, Cadet
Captain Quentin Cooper, and Battalion Adjutant, Cadet First Lieutenant A. D. Plowden. Company officers and noncommissioned officers grouped under their
respective companies are: Company A, Commander, Cadet Captain H. B. Anderton; First Lieutenant, J. W. Yarbrough; Second Lieutenants, R. E.
Long and J. T. West; First Sergeant, H. E. Mapes; Staff Sergeants, D. D. Rice and T. M. Faw; Sergeants,
C. B. Sheppard, T. B. Codington, W. F. Howard, E. F. Crooks, W. C. Ross, C. H. Bolick, A. Scarborough,
W. E. King, and Corporals, W. F. Boyles, J. P. Etheridge, R. G. McGehee, W. D. Lyday, and D. W.
Tyler. Company B—Commander, Cadet Captain R. L. Smith; First Lieutenants, E. T. Edwards and O. F. Dobson; Second Lieutenant, E.
H. Johnson; First Sergeant, C. K. Maxwell; Staff Sergeants, E. Strunk and M. L. Pitts; Sergeants, C. D. Williams, W.
L. Malcolm, J. M. Harden, J. W. Thatcher, N. P. Schenck, J. H. Faucette, J. R. Easley, J. M. Owens,
and Corporals, J. A. Wall, R. H. Rowe, C. M. Coffey, and H. H. Lamar. Company C—Commander, Cadet Captain J.
M. Bailey; First Lieutenant, John Adams; Second Lieutenants, J. H. Bell and C. S. Abernathy; First Sergeant, P. S. Carnegie;
Staff Sergeants, J. W. Elkins and R. E. Butt; Sergeants, (See ROTC page 4)

Chest To Start 15th Campaign

Community Chest Drive to Begin Oct. 24

Mecklenburg County’s fifteenth Community Chest campaign will be under way on October 24 and will close on November 5, 1946.
The minimum goal for Mecklenburg for this year has been set at $280,941.94. Contributions towards the chest campaign will go
to the support of such worthy projects as the Charlotte Day Nursery, both white and colored divisions, which is bringing
health and happiness to many children who otherwise might become social problems. Part of the funds raised will go towards
Girl Scout work for the number of Girl Scouts in the community has doubled in the past several years. Last
year eight hundred and fifty-two Girl Scouts benefitted by this program. The Salvation Army is also a receiver of the
funds raised in the drive. This organization conducts four separate programs: The Central Red Shield club, Temple Corps, Belmont Community
Center, and North Charlotte Community Center. In addition to these, the Salvation Army maintains an emergency home for women and
children and a transient lodge for men. Various branches of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C.
A. also benefit. This agency’s program, oldest in service in our community, speaks for itself. The postwar period is one
that demands of our young men and women alert minds, strong bodies and a Christian outlook. Traveler’s Aid is another
one of the many services aided by your contributions to the campaign. This agency functions around the clock, and last
year assisted 28,064 persons who were lost or in distress in our community. Thousands of persons would become serious, costly
problems if it were not for this agency’s actions.

Enrollment At Record

Students Total 908 Coming From 27 States

September 18, 1946, saw Davidson College opening with the largest student body in the one hundred and ten years of
college history. The final count obtained by F. W. Hengeveld, the total number of students is 908. Statistics indicate that
for the first time, the largest single class is not the Freshman Class, but the Sophomore, with 332 members. Following
in order of their size come the Freshman Class with 314 members, the Junior Class with 185, and the Senior
Class with 113. There are 24 special students.

Dividing Davidson men by prospective vocations, it is revealed that the largest single group of men are those who are
undecided at present as to their future occupation or career. Two hundred and five fall in this category. Next come
the men looking forward to business as a career, with a following of 182. Then in order of size come
the vocations lined up as follows: Medicine, 145; ministry, 103; law, 38; and music, 19.

Davidson men hail from twenty-seven states and the territory of Puerto Rico. The five states having the most representatives are
North Carolina with 512, South Carolina with 193, Virginia with 71, Georgia with 60, and Florida with 55. From the
religious denominational standpoint, Davidson is predominantly Presbyterian. Over half or 561 men are Presbyterian, while the Methodists are represented by
158, the Baptists by 72, Episcopalians by 41. The remainder represent other denominations or have no church affiliation at all,
there being 23 men in the final group.

Intercollegiate Bridge Contest

A nation-wide intercollege contract bridge contest for a national championship cup will be held in 1947, it was announced this
week by Foster M. Coffin, director of Willard Straight Hall, Cornell University, and chairman of the Intercollege Bridge Tournament committee,
a group which prior to the war and in 1946 sponsored undergraduate bridge tournaments limited to colleges in the Eastern
states. The 1947 event will be a duplicate tournament for undergraduate pairs, with the title of National Intercollege Champions going
to the winning team. Preliminary rounds will be conducted by mail. Sixteen teams representing every section of the country will
be selected through the mail competition for face-to-face finals in Chicago on April 18 and 19. The Intercollege Bridge Tournament
Committee, which supports the event so that there is no cost to the competing colleges or the players, is a
group of alumni interested in developing bridge as an intercollegiate sport in which men and women compete on an equal
basis. Vice chairman of the 1947 committee is Nelson B. Jones, director of Faunce House, Brown University, and Louis D.
Day, Jr., director of Houston Hall at the University of Pennsylvania, is treasurer. Earlier tournaments run by the committee have
been endorsed by the Association of Student Unions. Official approval by the authorities in each participating college is required before
the committee accepts entries. An invitation to enter the 1947 tournament will be sent within the next few weeks to
the dean or a corresponding authority in more than 300 colleges accredited by the Association of American Universities.

Raul Spivak Plays Here

Argentine Pianist Gives Concert and Talk

Davidson’s musical season opened on Monday, October 14, with the appearance in recital of Raul Spivak, renowned Argentine pianist, in
Chambers auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Mr. Spivak came to Davidson College under the auspices of the Association of American Colleges.
He spent two days on the campus and was available to students and faculty members at the College Guest House
for informal conferences. In addition to his Monday night appearance, Mr. Spivak appeared in chapel Monday morning and in an
informal recital Tuesday. His visit to Davidson has no connection with the current Artist Series, which opens on Wednesday, October
23.

Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Raul Spivak began to attract attention at an early age by his musical ability. As
his artistic skill developed, his musical activities expanded to include appearances as soloist, orchestra member, and teacher. He appeared as
soloist in concerts of the Colon Opera Theatre and Philharmonic Orchestras in the most important theatres and musical centers of
Argentina under the baton of such eminent conductors as Fritz Busch, Klemperer, Klemens, Krauss, Ansermet, Respighi, and Castro. He also
held the chair of Advanced Piano and Chamber Music at the National Conservatory of Music and Scenic Art, which is
considered the most outstanding in Argentina.Standing musical institution of his country. Following his successes in South America, he made a
European tour where he was acclaimed as an artist of great ability in Paris, Rome, Milan, and Naples. As a
further outlet for his artistic restlessness, Mr. Spivak studied orchestral direction and revealed himself as a conductor of exceptional ability
in a series of symphonic concerts which were broadcast over several South American radio stations. He was also Maestro of
the Philharmonic Orchestra of Rosario. In 1943, the leading radio station of Buenos Aires bestowed upon him a special award
on "Music Day" for the best interpretation. Mr. Spivak made his North American debut at Town Hall in December 1944,
and in November of 1945, he gave a brilliant concert in Carnegie Hall where he had previously appeared as a
soloist with the Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Spivak was a member of the staff of the Composers Conference and Chamber
Music Center held at Middlebury College last August.

War Dead To Be Honored Sunday

President John R. Cunningham announced recently extensive plans for a War Memorial Service to be held in Chambers Auditorium at
the college on Sunday evening, October 27. The Vesper program at 7:30 will be dedicated to the memory of the
147 Davidsonians who gave "the last full measure of devotion" in World War II. The memorial address will be delivered
by Reverend William Talliaferro Thompson, D. D., of Richmond, Va. A member of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary, Dr.
Thompson is a distinguished preacher and an alumnus of Davidson, class of 1905. The devotional service will be featured by
appropriate music and responsive prayers, followed by the lowering of the college service flag. Families of the Davidson Gold Star
men will be the special guests of the college.

Publication Men Meet

Board Elects Tommy Bumbarger as Chairman

Davidson’s Publication Board held its first meeting of the 1946-47 season on October 10. The initial session was called by
Mr. Jackson in his office at 2:00 p.m., with the faculty being represented by Professor Fleagle. This year’s board consists
of Tommy Bumbarger, the newly elected editor of the college yearbook; Ed Sutton, the editor of The Davidsonian; and Bill
McLean, who is serving only temporarily in this position, awaiting the election of the editor of the college magazine, Scripts
and Pranks. Bumbarger was elected chairman for this year, and Sutton was chosen as recording secretary.

Most important of the issues discussed at the initial session was the reactivation of the magazine Scripts and Pranks, which
has been dormant since the spring of 1943. Candidates for editorship are being considered at present, and these men will
be voted on by the student body in the very near future. The meeting was concluded with a report by
Mr. Jackson on last year’s yearbook publication, and a report on the progress of this year’s Quips and Cranks made
by Bumbarger.

War Destroys Many Books

One of the greatest consequences of the recent war was the destruction of the libraries of half the world. Some
were destroyed and damaged in the fires of battle, others in the fires of hate and fanaticism. An organization known
as the American Book Center for War Devastated Libraries has been set up in Washington for the purpose of receiving
contributions of books and sending them to the needed areas. The total loss from the war has been numbered at
200,000,000 books. China and the Philippines are the greatest sufferers with a loss of nearly every book found by the
enemy. Poland runs a close second with 70 percent of her libraries destroyed, and then comes Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, who
have lost half their libraries.

The losses have left their greatest mark on scholars and men of research. Even in areas where libraries were not
damaged, physicians, engineers, chemists, and other experts have been cut off from American publications. Therefore, though they might be aware
that great strides have been made in their fields during the war, they are isolated from such information. Important American
publications are needed at once where they can be put to work by these men. Among the publications emphatically requested
are those issued in the last ten years, scholarly books which are important contributions to their fields, periodicals of scholarly
importance, and fiction and nonfiction of distinction. Books of sciences and technologies are especially needed. Materials not needed include textbooks,
light fiction, local interest items, and popular magazines. Please bring any books that you would like to contribute to the
library as soon as possible, for they would like to get the books mailed by the end of next week.
This is a very worthwhile project, and the help of everyone is needed.

Noted Minister Talks At Chapel

Reverend Roy L. Smith Is Well Known Author

On Wednesday, October 9, Reverend Roy L. Smith, named as one of seven most representative Methodist ministers in America, was
guest speaker before the Davidson student body at the morning chapel service. Reverend Smith, currently engaged in rendering the series
of Robert Ashlin White lectures in the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, N. C., spoke on the subject “Being Alive
in Christ.” Having recently visited Nain, Palestine, Reverend Smith opened his talk by relating the incident of Jesus’ resurrection of
the young man of that city two thousand years ago. The subject of his talk was taken from Christ’s words,
“Young man, I say unto thee, arise!” Elaborating on this topic, Reverend Smith posed the question, “How can we know
that we're alive?” He went on to give three indications of life. If alive, we grow, feel, and reproduce. We
must be alive to the challenges and opportunities arising daily. Reverend Smith brought out that in order to be a
true Christian, we should constantly check ourselves to see that we are, in reality, living for Christ.

Born in Nickerson, Kansas, in 1887, Reverend Smith has attended a number of colleges and universities among which are Northwestern,
1915 D. Litt., University of Southern California, 1936 D. D., Sam Houston College, 1937 L.H.D., and Southern Methodist University, 1945.
Reverend Smith is at this time editor of the Christian Advocate, official publication of the Methodist Church. He is also,
among his many other duties, chairman of the World Affairs Forum, member of the Committee on Evangelism of California, and
a member of the Advisory Council of the Los Angeles chapter of the American Red Cross. In 1937-38 he was
president of the Southern California Methodist Ministers Association. As an author, Reverend Smith has also achieved nation-wide acclaim. A few
of the outstanding books he has written are: Sentence Sermons, 1925; Some Wild Notions I Have Known, 1927; Sidewalk Sermons,
1938; Writing Scripture Under Dictators, 1943; and It All Happened Once Before, 1944. Reverend Smith’s home at present is in
Wilmette, Ill.

Pan-Hellenic Council Contracts Orchestra

Mae Jeffries Announces Full Plans for Homecoming Set

Pan-Hellenic Council announced this week that Bobby Byrne and his Orchestra will play for Homecoming at the Charlotte Armory Auditorium
on November 1 and 2. Byrne, a nationally known dance band, was signed this week to play both the Friday
and Saturday night dances after it was first thought that he would be available for only the formal dance on
November 1. He is currently playing at the famed Roseland Ballroom in New York City and broadcasting coast to coast
over the ABC network. In the past, he has played at many well-known establishments, including Frank Daly’s “Meadowbrook,” outside of
New York City. Recently, he provided the music for the popular Debutante Ball in Raleigh last month, where many people
throughout this section of the country heard and admired his music.

Tickets Set

Mae Jeffries, president of the Council, stated that tickets will go on sale on the campus the first of next
week. The base price of a set ticket will be $5.00, but due to the recently imposed entertainment tax of
20 percent set on dances by the Federal government, it will be necessary to add this amount to the base
price, bringing the cost of a set admission to $6.00. Individual tickets for the formal dance Friday night will be
$4.00 and for the informal one Saturday night, $3.00, tax included. All admissions will include dates.

Asks Co-operation

Jeffries emphasized the importance of co-operation with the Council by the student body on the Homecoming dances. He brought out
the point that this is the first time in many years that a Pan-Hellenic Council has felt able to bring
a nationally known band to the campus, but that this year, with the size of the student body at an
all-time high, the council feels that such a financial venture could be successfully supported. He said, however, that if the
dances proved that the student body could not pay for a name band, then the council would feel obliged to
go back to the old policy of hiring purely local orchestras for the other dances this year.

Byrne’s orchestra is a sixteen-piece organization, with two vocalists to handle the lyrics. In addition to the engagements mentioned above,
he has also played for many college dances throughout the country, including Georgia Tech. Dances will run from 9 o'clock
to 1 o'clock on Friday night in the Armory, and from 8 o'clock to 12 o'clock on Saturday night in
the Youth Center of the Armory.

Alumni to Meet First Time in Three Years

Second Week in November

For the first time in more than three years, Davidson College alumni will gather for a big Homecoming celebration on
the campus. Highlighting the November 2nd weekend will be the football game with Washington and Lee’s Generals. Applications for tickets
pouring in indicate that a record number of alumni are planning to return to the campus to participate in the
festivities which begin Friday night with the first of a set of Pan-Hellenic Council dances. The dances will be held
in the Charlotte Armory.

Davidson To Have Homecoming Again

A general reunion has been set for Saturday morning at which time the judging of the fraternity house decorations will
take place. Each of the nine chapters will vie for honors with the originality and thoroughness of their designs. At
noon, the grads and their families will assemble on the lawn behind Chambers building for the regular alumni luncheon. Reservations
should be made in advance. Following the picnic, the Wildcat-Generals kickoff is slated for 2:30. Charlotte’s Washington and Lee Alumni
chapter is making plans for the weekend which may include competition between alumni of the two institutions on Friday preceding
the game.
