* GRADUATION MAY 26 — 28 EXERCISES ALENDA LUX UB) Che Bavidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS ODK TAPS EIGHT STUDENTS Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 1946 No. 13

Eight Men Honored By Omicron Delta Kappa

Graduation Ceremonies To Be Held For Twenty Seniors May 28

Dr. Jones To Speak To Graduating Class

Davidson Graduates One Hundred And Tenth Class

Completed plans for the 110th annual Commencement were announced at Davidson College today by the Office of Alumni and Public Relations. The Baccalaureate sermon will be delivered in Chambers Auditorium on Sunday, May 26, by Rev. James A. Jones, D.D. A distinguished alumnus of the class of 1931, Dr. Jones is the pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church of Charlotte and served for two years as president of the Davidson College General Alumni Association. There will be a sacred concert on the campus at 8:00 P.M. Sunday by the College musical organizations. The members of the class of 1896 will this year observe their golden anniversary. The college has planned a banquet for them at the Guest House on Monday evening, May 27, at 7:00 o'clock.

COUNCIL MEETS

Alumni, parents of students, and friends of Davidson have been invited to return to the campus on Tuesday morning, May 28, for the Alumni Council meeting in Phi Hall at 10:00 o'clock. Class reunions, general reception, and registration of guests will occupy the time between the Council meeting and the graduation exercises, which are scheduled to begin at 12:05 p.m. with the traditional Academic Procession into Chambers Auditorium. Diplomas will be issued to 18 seniors and to two others who completed their work in January. The candidates for graduation are: J. T. Bagley, A.B. in English, Fayetteville, Tenn.; J. P. Fountain, B.S. in Economics, Atlanta; C. H. King, B.S. in Greek, Greensboro; D. H. Lazenby, Jr., B.S. in Chemistry, Statesville; W. F. Lee, Jr., B.S. in Political Science, Washington, Ga.; G. E. McCormack, B.S. in Geology and Physics, New Castle, Alabama; C. T. McKee, A.B. in Geography, Newelton, La.; J. E. Martin, B.S. in Math, Lebanon, Tenn.; W. H. Morrow, B.S. in History, West Point, Ga.; Ed Murray, Jr., B.S. in Economics, Raleigh; W. B. Rogers, A.B. in English, El Dorado, Ark.; C. W. Scott, B.S. in French, Bluefield, W. Va.; W. C. Spratt, Jr., B.S. in Business, Fredericksburg, Va.; C. E. Thompson, B.S. in Economics, Mt. Olive; M. B. Winstead, Jr., B.S. in Chemistry, Lincolnton; H. G. Wyatt, A.B. in Music, Winston-Salem; T. S. Yarborough, B.S. in Economics, Albany, Ga.; D. C. Young, Jr., B.S. in Chemistry, Des Arc, Ark.; J. S. Mann, A.B. in Chemistry, Charlotte; and R. R. W. Winters, B.S. in Military Science, Palm Beach, Fla. Five honorary degrees are also to be awarded.

CAVERT SPEAKER

The Commencement speaker will be Rev. Samuel McCrea Cavert, D.D., LL.D., of New York, who is General Secretary of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America. The annual senior-alumni picnic luncheon will be held on the front campus at one o'clock and will be followed by the meeting of the Alumni Association. Members of the senior class are to be received into the Association and special certificates for fifty years of loyalty will be awarded to those present from the class of 1896. Other classes scheduled for special reunions are the following: 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1907, 1909, 1910, 1921 (25 year), 1926, 1927, 1928, and 1929. Dormitory space has been made available for overnight visitors. The exercises will be brought to a close at the flag pole with the lowering of the flag of the class of 1946.

SPEAKER

DR. JAMES A. JONES

8 Students Receive Certificates Of Merit

“Who’s Who Among Students” Receive Awards From College

Certificates of Merit were awarded at the Davidson College Chapel period, May 7, to six seniors and two juniors by the College Public Relations Director, John L. Payne, acting on behalf of the publication, “Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.” The engraved documents in attractively bound folders read: “This citation is in recognition of merit and accomplishment as a student, and only those who have been recommended by their respective schools and met the requirements of this publication are included.” Those at Davidson selected to appear in the 1945-1946 edition are: Seniors: J. P. Alexander, Charlotte; E. S. Golden, Neptune Beach, Fla.; J. E. Martin, Lebanon, Tenn.; W. B. Rogers, El Dorado, Ark.; M. B. Winstead, Jr., Lincolnton; R. R. W. Winters, Palm Beach, Fla. (in absentia); and Juniors: J. W. McAlister, Jr., Greensboro; and W. S. McLean, Jr.

Peters Chosen For Class Presidency

Professors Speak Here

On the Davidson College campus April 30 and May 1, the Davidson Faculty Committee had the pleasure of presenting to the student body Dr. W. Amos Abrams and Prof. Cratis D. Williams, both of Appalachian State Teachers College, Boone, N. C. The program on April 30 was presented in Chambers Auditorium, with Dr. Abrams explaining and giving the background of ballads and folk songs, and Professor Williams singing them. The numbers for the evening appearance included four English ballads, one Kentucky mountain song, one Civil War song, and one Georgian chant. The program for May 1 was given at 10:20 a.m., and the numbers were limited to well-known English ballads. Dr. Abrams, chairman of the Dept. of English at Appalachian State Teachers College, received his A.B. degree and M.A. degree from Duke University, and a Ph.D. degree from Cornell University. Newly elected president of the North Carolina Teachers Association, he holds membership in Phi Delta Kappa, Theta Alpha Phi, and Phi Beta Kappa fraternities. Having had as his hobby for ten years collecting folk songs and ballads and folk tales, Dr. Abrams is past president of the North Carolina Folklore Society, and has lectured before the Southeastern Folklore Society, the N.C. Folklore Society, and various schools and civic groups. He has also presented programs over the air. Mr. Williams, professor in the Department of English, received his A.B. and M.A. degrees from the University of Kentucky. Having taught in the mountain schools of Kentucky from 1929 to 1941, he became interested in folklore and dialect and did research as a graduate student in folklore with special emphasis on traditional ballad motifs in American ballads and folk songs. In addition to his English instruction, he teaches a class in folklore at the State Teachers College. Professor Williams, having collected and sung ballads since high school days, has appeared in programs of American Folk Songs Festivals before the N.C. Folklore Society and school and civic groups.

White And Stukes To Hold Other Offices

In a meeting on Tuesday, April 23, the rising senior class elected George Peters as its president, Ed White as vice-president, and Joe Stukes as secretary-treasurer. Peters entered Davidson in September 1941, coming here from Kingsport, Tennessee. He was captain of the freshman football team, and he earned letters in basketball, football, and track. He represented the sophomore class on the student council, and at the end of his sophomore year he was elected first vice-president of the student body. He became a member of the Beaver Club and of Kappa Sigma fraternity. In the spring of 1943, George was called to active duty in the army. He was overseas for ten months in France and Germany where he earned the combat infantryman's badge and two battle stars on his ETO ribbon. He was separated in rank of first lieutenant.

(Continued on Page 3)

THREE CHEERS

Pictured above is Frank Barr, Jr., a member of the rising senior class, who won over Morton Church May 9 in the election for Head Cheerleader for next year. Barr is past president of SPE fraternity. He is a member of Phi Mu Alpha and Le Cercle Francais, and is serving on the editorial staff of the Quips and Cranks. For three years he has played in the symphonic band, and in his freshman year was a member of the orchestra. He is feature editor of the “Davidsonian,” and has occupied the position as Head Cheerleader this semester. His home is in Concord, N.C. Last semester he served on the Student Council, and is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society.

ADVISES FROSH

TOMMY POWELL

Powell To Lead New Freshmen

Wins On Third Ballot Over Four Candidates

Tommy Powell of San Antonio, Texas, was elected to the post of freshman adviser for 1946-47 in a recent meeting of the rising senior class. Nominated from the floor, Powell eased out the four nominees of the “Y” Cabinet to win the election on the third ballot. In the capacity of freshman adviser, Tommy will assume leadership of the incoming freshman class. His responsibilities will be most acute in connection with freshman orientation next fall. It will be his duty to give the freshmen a test on the provisions of the Davidson Student Government Constitution, its By-Laws, and the Freshman Regulations before October 15. Throughout the year he will act as an adviser for the general welfare of the freshman class, and he will have the power to call meetings of the class whenever the occasion demands. Powell entered Davidson in the fall of 1941. He played freshman basketball. He became a member of Sigma-Alpha the Club, the Eumanean Literary Society, Eta language fraternity, the Spanish Club, and the business staff of the “Davidsonian.” In June 1943, Tommy entered the Army Air Corps, in which he served as a navigator-radar observer on a B-29. He was discharged last December and returned to Davidson at the beginning of this semester. He was recently elected to represent the senior class on the student council, and on May 6 he was tapped by ODK.

Waites To Give Home Concert

In its first and only home concert, the College Male Chorus will present a program in Chambers Auditorium, Wednesday, May 15, at 8:15 P.M. Directed by Earl Berg, pianist of the year, the Chorus will have Robert Noehren and Moody Chisholm of Kannapolis as student soloists. The numbers to be presented are of wide variety and interest: they will include “Let Every Tongue Adore Thee” from the Cantata “Sleepers Awake” by Bach; an arrangement by Deems Taylor of a Latin Hymn of the XIVth Century; a selection from the “Crucifixus” by Lotti; Handel's “Hallelujah, Amen” from “Judas Maccabaeus”; “My Heart Commends Itself to Thee” by Orlando di Lasso; a group of Russian Folk Songs; “Dance, My Comrades” by Richard Bennett; a group of vocal solos by Mr. Chisholm; a Traditional Sea Chanty by Bartholomew; and “The Entrance and March of Peers” from Sullivan's opera “Iolanthe.”

Mrs. Douglas Gives Talk

Wife Of Screen Star Melvin Douglas Speaks In Chapel

Issuing a strong challenge to the people, and especially the youth of our country, to place the welfare of human beings above everything else, Helen Gahagan Douglas, Congresswoman from California and wife of screen star Melvin Douglas, spoke April 30 at the chapel period at Davidson College to a large audience composed of the student body and visitors from the community. Mrs. Douglas, who was in Winthrop College on April 29, heard at Davidson under the auspices of the American Veterans Committee. President Cunningham presided, and William Macy, chairman of the Lecture Committee, introduced the speaker. Prof. Beaty, representing the faculty, was seated on the rostrum. Following her address, Mrs. Douglas was conducted on a tour of the campus by Samuel R. Spencer of the Public Relations office and Dr. G. Chalmers Davidson. A luncheon at the Guest House, where Mrs. Douglas was the guest of honor, was held after the tour.

Asserting that the “future is indivisible,” Mrs. Douglas emphasized that the peoples of the world must move forward together or be lost inevitably. She claimed that the war was fought to save the world from slavery and to give humanity a new freedom. The prime object now is the building of a warless world. She emphasized the importance of character in human relationships and the priority of human needs above individual privilege. “Civilian control of atomic energy must be accomplished,” said the speaker. “The real threat to democracy today is monopoly in America. The welfare of human beings and the supplying to them of fundamental physical needs are the real issues before a world struggling to find the pathway to permanent peace.”

One of the few “freshmen” to be named to the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mrs. Douglas has made a notable record since her election to Congress in 1944 as a champion of international cooperation and as a representative of the House of Representatives.

FRESHMAN MENACE

Pictured above is John W. McAlister, Jr., of Greensboro, who has been chosen by the student council to again serve as Judge of the Court of Control for next year. Chosen to assist him from the rising senior class are: A. W. Archer, Shelby; George N. Ennett, Jr., Montreat; and T. J. Goode, Charlotte. Rising Juniors selected: W. C. Hodgin, Charlotte, and W. E. Robertson, Kannapolis; and from the prospective sophomores: J. Page Jackson, Gastonia; and Hugh M. McArn, Jr., Laurinburg. McAlister is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and is listed in the 1946 edition of “Who’s Who Among Students.”

HONOR MEN

Pictured above are the newly tapped members of ODK. Reading from left to right, top row: Buddy Carson and Jim Jackson; second row: Howell Morrow and George Peters; bottom row: Ed Sutton and Mel Winstead. Omitted from this group are Tommy Powell and Tommy Yarborough.

Trustees Will Convene Here Friday, May 24

Executive Committee Will Convene At 2:00 P.M. On May 23

An announcement by President J. R. Cunningham states that the regular meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College will be held in Davidson on Friday, May 24, at 10:00 A.M. The Executive Committee, according to its custom, will convene at 2:00 P.M. on May 23.

Present members of the group include the following: Rev. J. P. Booth and Rev. T. H. Hamilton of Kinston; Rev. Grier Davis, Asheville; Rev. K. C. Anderson, Montreat; Mr. Warl Sherrill, Statesville; Mr. Cloyd A. Potts, Davidson; Rev. A. V. McLean and Mr. J. C. Harper of Lenoir; Rev. W. H. Goodman and Mr. J. J. Barnhardt of Kannapolis; Rev. R. S. Arrowood and Mr. J. B. Johnston of Barium Springs; Rev. C. M. Gibbs of Erwin; Rev. A. R. McQueen of Dunn; W. A. West, Fayetteville; Mr. K. A. McDonald, Raeford; Rev. Kelsey Regan and Mr. G. C. Snyder, Durham; Rev. P. D. Patrick, Kings Mountain; Mr. W. H. Belk, Mr. T. S. McPheeters, Mr. H. W. Moore, Rev. James A. Jones, Mr. Ivey W. Stewart, Dr. H. W. McKay, and Dr. Oren Moore of Charlotte; Mr. Frank P. Hall, Jr., Belmont; Dr. R. R. McCutchen, Salisbury; Rev. C. E. Hodgin and Mr. T. D. Dupuy, Greensboro; Rev. M. S. Huske, Reidsville; Rev. John McKinnon and Mr. J. A. Cannon, Concord; Dr. Waylon Blue, Jonesboro; Mr. Walter P. Sprunt and Rev. E. D. Witherspoon, Wilmington; Mr. S. Clay Williams and Rev. George Mauze, Winston-Salem; Ryan L. Wood, West Palm Beach, Fla.; Rev. C. A. Raymond, Lakeland, Fla.; Mr. John S. Curry, Quincy, Mass.

ODK Taps 8 New Members

Accompanied by a very impressive ceremony, Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, held its annual spring tap day in Chambers Auditorium on May 7, during the scheduled chapel period. At that time, eight members of the student body were tapped by the leadership fraternity after a short address by the president, Ed Gilden, and Dr. Frontis Johnston. The new members, four of whom are representing members of the senior class, are: from the senior class, Meldrum B. Winstead, Tommy Yarborough, Howell Morrow, Jr., and George Peters; from the junior class, Jim Jackson, Ed Sutton, Tommy Powell, and Buddy Carson. The new members will be formally initiated into the society in the near future.

JACKSON

“Gentleman Jim” Jackson, recently elected president of the Y.M.C.A. for the 1946-47 school session, entered Davidson College in 1941. During the following year and a half, he became a member of the Kappa Alpha Order and the Eumanean Literary Society. He has served as the sports editor of the “Davidsonian” and sports manager of the sophomore class. In March 1943, he was called to active duty in the Army Air Corps, where he became a pilot and flew B-29s and B-17s. At the time of his discharge, he held the rank of first lieutenant. Since his return to Davidson, he has become a member of the Beaver Club and Sigma Upsilon, and has resumed his job as sports editor of the “Davidsonian.” He currently represents Kappa Alpha on the Pan-Hellenic Council.

SUTTON

Having been boosted from managing editor to the editorship of the “Davidsonian” last month for the next school year by the student body, Ed Sutton hails from the city of Charlotte, N.C. Upon entering Davidson in the fall of 1941 from Decatur Boys’ High School in Decatur, Ga., Ed attended Davidson until April 1943, at which time he was called into service with the Enlisted Reserve Corps. During his first two years at Davidson, he served as a reporter on the “Davidsonian” staff.

Dorms To Have House Mother

Mrs. Little To Assume Duties September 1

In an announcement made by Dr. Cunningham this week, it was revealed that Mrs. R. A. Little of Asheville, N.C. will assume her duties here on September 1 as the Housemother of the Dormitories. Mrs. Little, mother of Crowell Little, former coach at Davidson, is at present the Hostess in the Biltmore Forest Country Club. She has served likewise at the First Presbyterian Church in Asheville. In reality, Mrs. Little's title will be that of Supervisor of the Dormitories, but in her own words, she says: “I would rather have the boys think of me as a Mother to them than to think of me only as a supervisor.” Davidson has been without a House Mother since May 1944, when Mrs. N. F. Smith resigned her position after many years of faithful service. Although Mrs. Caldwell has been thought of as the House Mother, her duties next year will solely be that of the Guest House Hostess.