VICTORY IN RALEIGH
ALENDA LUX UB!) Che Mabidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS
SMASH THE WOLFPACK
Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1946 No. 2

Mecklenburg Police Obnoxious Frosh Taking Course Here Sentenced At Court Receive Training In Officers’ Duties and Methods

Opening ceremonies for the Mecklenburg County Police Training School were held on September 24 in the science building here at
Davidson. Participating in the opening exercises were President J. R. Cunningham, Dr. Herbert Spaugh of Charlotte, Mr. J. Caldwell McDonald
of Charlotte, and Mr. Arnie Cashion of Davidson. Also present were the following members of the Police Committee of Mecklenburg
County Commission: Mr. S. Corfer Chandler, chairman of the Mecklenburg County Police Civil Service board; Mr. John C. Bills, agent
in charge of the Charlotte Bureau of Investigation; Mr. Frank N. Littlejohn, Chief of Charlotte Police; and Chief Stanhope Lineberry
of the Mecklenburg County Police.

At the first session of the school forty-five men of the Mecklenburg County Police department were present while approximately 35
more registrants are expected in the near future, making a capacity enrollment of eighty members. In order that all members
of the school may meet every class and still lose no time from their official duties, the lecture scheduled for
each session is to be given twice, once in the afternoon and again in the evening of the same day.
The subject of the lecture on September 24th was the Constitution and the Bill of Rights and the class was
taught by Dr. Frontis Johnson, professor of history at Davidson. Among the other subjects to be offered are Arrests, Searches
and Seizures; Firearms Training; Investigative Technique; Scientific Aids in Crime Detection; Courtroom Procedure; Psychology in Police Work; Public Relations; English
and Expression; Traffic; Crime Prevention; Records; and Police Organization. On the faculty are several professors in the college, a number
of visiting experts, and agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and officials of the Mecklenburg County Police.

Besides the classroom work which is being conducted here at Davidson there will be several field classes concerning practical police
work, which will be offered elsewhere. The purpose of the training school is the in-service training of persons who have
already had experience as law enforcement officers. The course will consist of twenty-six two-hour sessions, totaling fifty-two hours of instruction.
A certificate will be issued to those men who complete the course.

On the Administrative Committee of the school are Dr. C. K. Brown, Dean of the Faculty at Davidson; Special Agent
in Charge Edward Scheidt, of the Charlotte Field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Chief Stanhope Lineberry, Mecklenburg County
Police; and John L. Payne, director of public relations at Davidson. The school will remain in session through December 13th.
It is hoped that Edward J. Hoover, chief of the Federal Bureau of Investigation will be able to attend the
graduating exercises of the school.

NEW SCHEDULE

Beginning Tuesday, October 8, the time schedule of classes for morning hours is as follows:
Breakfast—7:45
1st class—8:25-9:15
2nd class—9:25-10:15
Chapel—10:25-10:50
3rd class—11:00-11:50
4th class—12:00-12:50
Dinner—12:50-1:30

On Saturday mornings the class schedule is as follows:
1st class—8:25-9:15
2nd class—9:25-10:15
3rd class—10:25-11:15
4th class—11:25-12:15

TARGET PRACTICE

Upper Classmen Again Assert Superiority

At 8:30 p.m. Thursday, October 8, 1946, the long arm of the law extended its forefinger and grimly beckoned, and
ten visibly agitated freshmen squared their fiery chapeaux, tried one final rehearsal of their pseudo self-confident smirks, and waited for
the opening of the first session of the 1946 Davidson Court of Control. Hizzoner John McAlister, judge of the truth-seeking,
justice-meting organization, quickly called his five compatriots to order, and the erstwhile light-hearted, convivial atmosphere of Phi Hall was soon
replaced by a sterner, more powerful air—an air of grim foreboding for those who had had the temerity to break
those most sacred and inviolable of laws—the freshman regulations.

Then, one by one, the culprits were called into the court, charged with various misdemeanors, given a chance to plead
their cases, and, after weighty consideration, given their just deserts. Contrary to the wishful thinking of various upperclassmen, none were
hung. Instead, due to the fact that these were first offenses, they got off fairly easily. Tom Swanson, accused of
walking on the grass, was given the punishment of writing the freshman regulations twenty-five times. Charles Parker, accused of not
wearing his cap and disrespect to upperclassmen, was campused for one week and made to copy the freshman regulations ten
times. Tom Sparrow, guilty of disrespect, was sentenced to one week of close association with the D. Bob Wilcox, the
obnoxious and hatless one.

Beauties Are Sponsors For Wofford Tilt

Four Southern beauties, three of them participants in the Miss America contest at Atlantic City, acted as sponsors for the
Davidson-Wofford football game at the Charlotte Memorial Stadium Saturday night. The Southern belles, representatives of North Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, and
South Carolina are in Charlotte in connection with the Southern States Fair. The girls arrived in the Queen City Friday
afternoon and Saturday morning. Headquarters for their visit is the Barringer hotel.

Miss Mary Jarman of Wilmington, runner-up for the title of Miss North Carolina, and Miss Wilda Bowman of Chattanooga, holder
of the title of Miss Tennessee, represented the Davidson team and sat on the Davidson side of the Stadium Saturday
night. Miss Ann Morse of Columbia, S. C., and Miss Bette Cannon of Alexandria, Va., sponsored for the visiting Wofford
team. Members of the Davidson student body served as escorts for the lovelies, who were presented to the 7,000 fans
at half-time. Miss Cannon, who won overwhelmingly as Miss Virginia in the contest at Virginia Beach, was escorted by Ed
Sutton of Charlotte; Miss Ann Morse, who bears the title of Miss South Carolina, was with Frank McGehee; Miss Wilda
Bowman was with Gabby Bryant; and Miss Mary Jarman was with Monteith Powell. After the game the sponsors and their
dates attended the dance at the Charlotte Country Club.

Concord Alumni Met On Monday

Reports from Concord alumni received at Davidson College Alumni headquarters recently indicated that the Alumni banquet of the Concord Area
chapter was held at Hotel Concord at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, October 7. According to Ralph A. Glenn, chairman of
the committee on arrangements, a large group of alumni attended. Included in the meeting were alumni from Concord, Kannapolis, Mt.
Pleasant, Albemarle, Badin and the surrounding territory. In addition the parents of students now at Davidson together with the wives
and “girl friends” of alumni, also attended.

The Concord meeting was the first of a series of 25 which will be held during the autumn season in
strategic towns throughout North and South Carolina. They are part of a program of reorganization and reactivation of the association
chapters which have been dormant during the war years. The general purpose of the get-together (Continued on Page 5)

‘Y’ Retreat Plans Made

McGehee Starts Deputations, Port Leads Chapel

On Wednesday, October 2, the Y.M.C.A. council met in the “Y” building to discuss plans for a retreat to be
held at the Presbyterian meeting grounds. They decided to hold it on October 18 through the 20th. The purpose of
this retreat will be for the planning of the council’s activities during the year.

The chapel hour on Friday, October the 4th was, as usual, under the sponsorship of the Y.M.C.A. On this particular
Friday the speaker was Dick Port of the Senior class. His talk was a very illustrative and timely one on
“The World: A Poor Investment” with Matthew 6:19-24 as the scripture reference.

On Sunday, October the 6th, Vernon McGehee, the man in charge of the Y.M.C.A. deputations, dispatched several able and talented
workers to churches in nearby districts. In the morning Herb Meza went to the Center church near Mount Mourne, and
Lee Willingham traveled to the Fairview Methodist church at Mount Mourne. At 3:00 p.m. Jim Pittman spoke at the Shearer
chapel in Iredell county. Haywood Brinager and Gene Linton have spent the week in organizing and putting into action those
men who signed up for jobs doing boys’ work in Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. Gra-Y and Hi-Y clubs and teams
have been organized in these three towns. The following list gives the names and assignments of the men doing the
work: In the Gra-Y, at Davidson, Murdock McKeithan and S. F. Wilkinson, at Cornelius, Pleas Norman and Bob Wilkins, at
Huntersville, Dusty Smith and Bill Smith. In the Hi-Y at Davidson, Rhea Adams, at Cornelius, Sam Hoyt and W. E.
Foote.

Dramatic Club Orders Lights

The Red and Black Masquers, Davidson’s dramatic society, have ordered a new set of spotlights to supplement the present lighting
system of the stages in Chambers auditorium. These lights, located in an overhead cradle, will provide a much better quality
of illumination than the present overhead lights and consequently will greatly improve the entire lighting scheme for dramatic productions. They
will also prove of great value for concerts, recitals, and other performances. The lights have been bought with the profit
netted from the Masquers’ spring production, “The Milky Way,” and will be set up on the stage by the end
of the month. Tryouts have been held for all students interested in dramatics during the past week for parts in
the Masquers’ coming production, and the plans for this year’s work are well under way.who was given two weeks campus
and further required to make ten copies of the freshman regulations. John McCann, who was charged with the same offenses,
received two weeks campus and was ordered to write a 2,500-word theme on college traditions. Bill Alexander and Bill Richardson
were acquitted on the grounds that their disturbance at the Pep meeting was justified. Joe Crews, charged with disrespect, was
ruled not guilty and given his freedom. W. I. Farrior’s sentence for disrespect was suspended for the time being. Gould
Barrett, on the same charge, received one week of campus.

Phi Literary Society Meets

Philanthropic Literary Society met for the first time this semester in Phi Hall at nine o’clock, Monday, October 7. After
the regular business had been presented, the lining up of new committees for the coming semester—a request for familiarity on
the part of new officers and committees with their duties, etc.—Ralph C. Clontz presented a plan for the revitalization of
the society by placing an emphasis on current issues with especial reference to topics of national and international importance. Clontz
said that he had once witnessed a one-hour oration on “The Left Wing of a Butterfly.” After the talk, he
knew more about the subject than he had before, but it did not change his trends of international thought to
any great degree. It was pointed out by several other members of the society that this program should not be
adopted to the exclusion of all others, a point on which all the Phis were agreed. Jim Pittman, vice-president of
the society, expressed the opinion that the interest taken in the discussion seemed to forecast a reawakening in the society
and to predict an active year.

Officers for the present semester, who were elected last spring, include Joe Stukes, president; Jim Pittman, vice-president; Jack Payne, secretary;
and Jerry Robinson, treasurer.

ODK Meet

Mac Jeffries, recently elected president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, had little information to add concerning the Homecoming dances. The formal
dance will be held on Friday night, November 1st, in the Charlotte Armory. The informal dance will be held on
Saturday night in the Youth Center Hall of the Armory since the Armory itself will be used for the WBT
radio show, Carolina Hay Ride. Bands for these two dances are still unannounced. The Pan-Hellenic president wishes to remind the
students that housing is very scarce and they should begin at once to look for places in Davidson or Charlotte
for their dates to stay.

Talk Given By Rev. Wilkinson

Rev. Wilkinson, who is associate pastor of the First Methodist church in Charlotte, spoke at the college chapel service on
Thursday, October 3. Rev. Wilkinson used a text from Genesis as the basis of his talk: “And Methuselah lived a
hundred eighty and seven years and begat Lamech, and Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech, seven hundred eighty and two
years, and all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years, and he died.” Then Rev. Wilkinson
brought out how life should be more than “just a period between birth and death.” He said we should have
a purpose in life and accomplish that purpose so that posterity can say more of us than “He just lived
and died.” Our lives should not be aimless or haphazard; we should have a goal, and that goal should have
some part in the advancement of the Kingdom of God. He compared our life to a river in saying that
a river moves in one direction and so we must move; the river moves according to certain universal laws and
we should adhere to God’s laws; a river carries silt and debris along with it and our lives should carry
the Christian faith. The talk was flavored with just enough humor to make it interest-holding and to bring out the
main points in the talk.

Time, Officers Elected

For First Port Chosen President; Williams, Vice-President

Davidson's Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, met October 1 for the first time this year. The
meeting was called to order by Ed Golden, last year’s president of the Circle, followed by the reading of the
minutes of the last meeting by the secretary, Dr. Schenk. The highlight of the meeting was the election of officers
for this year. Dick Port, who was elected president of the student body in 1943 but was prevented from serving
because of the war, was elected president; and Pat Williams, elected president of the Senior Class in 1943 also, was
elected vice-president. Dr. Schenk was re-elected as secretary. The project of the Circle this year is the setting up of
another social fraternity on the campus. A committee headed by Ed Golden and Pat Williams was appointed to get information
on the matter for a report at the next meeting. For a report on other possible projects for the year,
another committee was appointed consisting of Ed Sutton, Bill McLain, and Tommy Bumbarger. The remainder of the meeting was taken
up by a discussion of other honorary fraternities on the campus and the selection of members of Omicron Delta Kappa
from the faculty who would participate as active members this year.

Members of Delta Circle this year are: Dr. Schenk and Heath Whittle, active members of the faculty; and Pat Williams,
Dick Port, Bill McLean, Tommy Bumbarger, George Peters, Ed Golden, Ed Sutton, Jim Jackson, Jim Love, Alf Taylor, Tommy Powell,
and Al Scarborough, from the student body.

Dr. John Redhead To Present Fall Services On Oct. 29-31

Greensboro Minister Selected for the Handling of Religious Programs

Joe Stukes, chairman of the world evangelism department of Y.M.C.A. work, announced today that Rev. John A. Redhead, D.D., pastor
of the First Presbyterian church of Greensboro, will be the speaker at the annual series of Fall Services to be
held October 29, 30, and 31. There will be two services held each day in the college auditorium, one during
the regular chapel period from 10:20 to 10:50 in the morning and the other at 7:15 p.m. In addition, Dr.
Redhead will be available for interviews with any students who wish to discuss problems with him. Men who desire to
meet Dr. Redhead personally are requested to arrange for appointments with Stukes or R. Murphy Williams, general secretary of the
Y.M.C.A.

Dr. Redhead received his B.D. degree from Southwestern University in Memphis, Tenn., and took his graduate training from Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond, Va. He received degrees of Bachelor of Divinity and Master of Theology from Union, and was awarded
the Doctor of Divinity by Davidson. He has been pastor of the Presbyterian church of Farmville, Va.; and First Presbyterian
church of Tampa, Fla. Until a year ago, he was pastor of the Second Presbyterian church of Charlotte, and while
there he spoke several times at vesper programs on the campus. Dr. Redhead is a member of the board of
trustees of Davidson.

Speakers at special lecture series in the past have included Dr. John R. Mott, Dr. Donald W. Richardson, Dr. Peter
Young, Dr. J. Crossley Morgan, Jr., and Dr. James A. Jones. “The increased size of the student body and the
presence of many older veterans should be a challenge to such an excellent speaker,” said Jim Jackson, president of the
Y.M.C.A., “and I am sure that this year’s series will be as stimulating and useful as those in the past.”

October 23 will mark the opening of another outstanding musical series in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson, N.C. Seeking to surpass
high standards of the past, the Davidson College Artist Series 1946-1947 will present five varied and interesting concerts. Artists who
have thrilled audiences throughout the nation will be featured in programs which will appeal to all music lovers.

NOTED PIANIST Eugene Istomin Concert Series Begins

Due to the large student body at Davidson, there will only be a limited number of season tickets available for
the general public this year. These can be obtained by writing to: The Davidson College Artist Series, Davidson, N.C. Season
tickets will be sold at $5.00 (including tax) and, in the event there is room for single admissions, tickets will
be sold at $1.50 (including tax) per concert. All performances will begin promptly at 8:15 p.m.

Eugene Istomin, who was widely acclaimed this summer in connection with his performance at the Lewissohn Stadium with the New
York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra, will open the series on Wednesday, October 23. This brilliant young pianist, born in New York
City, November 26, 1925, won both the Philadelphia Youth Contest and the Leventritt Prize in 1943. He made his first
appearance before the American music public during the season 1944-1945 and public and critics hailed “an enormous talent with every
potentiality” and lauded his “prodigious technique” and “his remarkable command of the keyboard.”

William Primrose, who will perform on Friday, November 8, is conceded by musical authorities to be the greatest viola player
in the world today ... his tone, “a new sound sensation.” Since 1942, when Primrose left orchestral work to devote
all of his time to a solo career, he has become one of the most popular and successful figures in
the North American concert field. Playing almost one hundred engagements a season, he has toured all of the United States
and Canada as well as most of Central (Continued on Page 6)
