Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 21, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Weekly
“For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD -.- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY -.- BUSINESS MANAGER

The Editorials
DAVIDSONIAN Letters
Presents Features

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor -.- Ed Murray
Associate Editor -.- Lamar Williamson
Associate Editor -.- Ernest Hunter
Feature Editor -.- Frank Barr, Jr.
Managing Editor -.- Jimmy Nisbet
Lonnie Turner, Walter Walker, Bill Whitaker, Sterling Edwards, Bill Gamble, Dave Gambrell

Managing Editor
Art Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Staff Photographer -.- George Gunn

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager -.- Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager -.- Bob Gambrell
Circulation Manager -.- Bob Toole

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and a reflection of student and faculty opinion. It welcomes contributions or comments, provided such does not contain reference to faculty or students, promoting criticism. All contributions must be in the editor’s hands by Monday preceding the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any communication, or destructive criticism in the contribution.

True wisdom is to know what is best worth knowing and to do what is best worth doing.

Midwinters ...
This weekend will find many a Davidson student heading toward the gymnasium to enjoy the first post-war dances ever held on the college campus. The climax of many days and months of preparation will have been reached, and everyone will find himself amidst a glorious atmosphere.

It should be swell having an orchestra to furnish the music for both nights instead of the usual juke box for the informal dance. Although very few have ever heard of Wilson Humber, we look forward to meeting and hearing his orchestra, and if he lives up to what thousands of others have said about his orchestra, he should make a hit with the student body. There was some talk at one time of the possibility of our having Johnny Long for Midwinters, but it seems as if his price were just a little too much for our size student body to take on at the present. But we’re pretty sure in saying that next year we'll be having several outstanding bands booked up for our dances, and from then on out.

Ed Golder, who just recently has assumed the presidency of the Pan-Hellenic council, has done a wonderful job in making this dance possible. And to the remainder of the men serving on the Council, we extend our heartiest appreciation for the time and work they have spent mapping out the plans, decorating the gym, securing places for the girls to stay, and many other important things.

Davidson College students, take notice! This is your dance. It is being given in your honor, and not for just a select few. And you’re being asked to come, whether you have a date or not (for what good is a dance where there’s not a long line of stags), and to cooperate in putting over the top, one of the biggest and best dances the Pan-Hellenic council has ever sponsored. If you haven't purchased your ticket yet, do it right away, for tomorrow the big event begins, and then for two solid days you'll be having the time of your life. Let’s see everyone out tomorrow night for the informal dance and Saturday night for the formal.

Fraternities ...
During this period of the year when many men are being initiated into fraternities there are some who always wonder, and not entirely without cause perhaps, if these organizations are worth what they cost or if the money put into them is not at least partially wasted. We fully realize that any discussion we might undertake on this subject will be done with the same security felt by a man setting out on quicksand, but regardless of any trepidation we might feel, perhaps some discussion will not entirely be out of place.

If this turns out to be a defense of fraternities, it will be based on sincerity, which neither needs nor offers an apology in spite of the stand taken by some of the leading educational institutions in the country. During the 100 years that fraternities have been in existence they have collected enough skeletons in their closets to give their critics ample grounds to call them sponsors of football heroes and social go-getters. Their attitude toward scholarship has been alluded to as wholly passive, if not unconstructive. And the loyalty of the fraternity has been called narrow and selfish toward the dishonest or weak brother, and the fraternity house has been referred to as a cradle of campus politics.

This is not at all a pretty picture. Nor is it all true, either of fraternities in general or of Davidson frats in particular. Fortunately, there is another, truer, side to the picture. Dr. Fred H. Turner, Dean of Men at the University of Illinois, has this to say about fraternities: “In general the fraternity man is democratic. He has nothing to be high-hat about. He does not have to come from a wealthy family nor need he be a good athlete nor the best dressed man on the campus. Inter-fraternity relations are better now than ever before. Many fraternity men work to help pay their way through college, and the working student has just as much opportunity to be in a fraternity as the one who does not work. From the standpoint of the student, the fraternity is a good institution; from the standpoint of the parents of the student, they can feel that their son in a fraternity is in good hands; from the standpoint of the college, the fraternity provides a desirable type of organization which can do much to make college life better, more wholesome and more satisfactory.”

The words of this noted educator could not be improved upon in describing the fraternity situation at Davidson. Here, where the members do not live in the houses, we avoid nearly all of those things which have done so much to give fraternities their black eyes and have a set-up beneficial to the college in more ways than one.

Spring Holidays ...
Once again Davidson begins the practice of having Spring Holidays, after having been eliminated from the college schedule for the past few years due to the accelerated program being observed by the college. The Holidays receive a warm welcome on the part of the student body, as was proven by the jubilant action taken by the students in chapel last Thursday.

For the possibility of our having these holidays we thank two different groups of people. First, there is that group that drew up the petition and circulated it through the student body, and they deserve ample appreciation for their work. And, secondly, there is that group of men on the faculty and administration who cooperated with the student body in seeing that we did have spring holidays this year. We thank them personally for their supporting the petition.

By FRANK BARR
In “Circlin’ the D” this week, I inquired here and there to find out the opinions of some of the students on the question of what is needed around the campus. Here are some of the results of my inquisitiveness.

Bill Robertson: “We need more dances—more social activity. I've been here since December and there hasn't been a single social activity since I got here.”

Lonnie Turner: “We should have fewer chapel exercises each week—say only two or three each week.”

Bill McLean: “We need a student recreation building with a few bowling alleys, ping pong tables, billiard tables and a place for fraternities and other organizations to have banquets.”

Jimmy Nisbet: “Less outside parallel reading would be nice. Another thing that campus needs is a good campus magazine.”

Pete Sinclair: “Somebody to clean the place up.”

Amos Ragan and Jimmy French both insist that the most urgent need is a new gym.

Charles Thompson would like to see the restrictions on cars lifted, even though he’s graduating this spring.

John Wall: “Get us some water in Georgia Dormitory.”

Jim Alexander: “More convenient location for the student store taking into consideration that we already have our new church and our new gymnasium.”

Bill Whitaker would like to see Davidson College provide a good place to dance on the campus.

Fred Powell and Plato Pearson are both supporters of the proposition for “free use of automobiles.”

Howard Lamar and Martin Pitts think that the most pressing need is for the new gym.

Henry Engles believes that Davidson could use a new or bettertheatre. The present one is inadequate for a normal student body. Bob Freemon agrees with others that a “student union” is needed. The Y.M.C.A. is becoming more and more inadequate. Jack Bagley: “Move the ‘Stud’ nearer the dormitories and put a water fountain in the library.” Well, that’s that as far as personal opinions go. If you wish to express yourself, do it through the Davidsonian. Try writing a letter to the editor.

The most popular expressions around the campus this week are, “I got a date for the dances!” and “Flushed.” In case you aren't familiar with a flush, a flush has been defined as “a letter, telegram, or phone call from a dance-set-invited femme to a local Joe, wherein she informs him that she will not be able to attend the dances.” Flushes usually occur not earlier than two or three days before the dance and not later than one hour before the dance (if you're a lucky person).

The Queens Day-students were responsible for a bit of relaxation for a large number of Davidson students on February 16. They gave a wonderful informal dance in the “rec” room at Queens College. The boys seemed to forget the woes (due mainly to flushes) when the fair-damsels waltzed them around the floor.

Please allow me to express my deepest sympathy to the members of the decorating committee of the Pan-Hellenic Council. When this issue of the Davidsonian comes out, they will be busily engaged in a remodeling process. To this group falls the task of taking the old college gymnasium and making it into a ballroom. It can be done but it takes so-o-o much work. Good luck fellows. I hope you have plenty of helpers.

Middy Raynal should be congratulated on his production of “The Milky Way.” The play was a huge success. From what I hear, everyone enjoyed it. The Red and Black Masquers came back with a bang after being silent for two years.

The most wonderful news to hit the campus in quite some time was the announcement that the Davidson students will get spring holidays this year. They begin on March 28 and last until April 2. These will be the first spring holidays since those scheduled for the spring of 1943.

PI KAPPA PHI
The chapter hated to lose Don Whitemore to the Armed Services last week, for his pleasant personality will be missed on the Davidson campus. Ernest Hunter has been trying to get the boys dates with Charlotte girls for Midwinters (50 percent of the loss being made up out of his pocket will about break him). Who's the girl Pete isn't going to date for the dances? What time did Jimmy say his girl was coming Saturday morning? Wait ‘til Genny hears about this! Judy is up for the dances, and he’s expecting to have quite a good time (he hopes). What was it Sumner was doing several weeks ago this time? Fritz Read had to go to Warrenton last week to settle a few matters. What did you say her name was, Fritz? Puett has gone into the chicken business in a big way. What was Carpenter doing in Gastonia last week one night? Palles and Mead make up an excellent debating team together. You should hear them sometime debating certain subjects. What did your girl say, Robertson, when you told her that you had a basketball game the nights of the dances? Better come by the Pi Kappa house during intermission, everyone, for a real good time.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Earl Myers broke up with Avis Warlick and is now dating another Kings Mountain beauty named Marion Arthur. Did someone say women were fickle? Not in this case. “Twich” Correll is dating a girl from W.C. for the Mid-winter dances. It isn’t his mother’s choice. What's wrong with the girls from your old hometown? Pledge week left the Sig Eps richer by five men. The new additions were Harold Marshall, John Prichard, Carlyle Moore, Bob Butt, and Ed Coffin. The number of Sig Ep brothers was increased on February 14 by eight. Formal initiation was held for Z. N. Holler, Charles Owens, Earl Myers, Andy Gullick, Jimmy Herndon, Ed Hopper, Albert Correll, and Carlyle Charles. Blevins and Robinson attended the Queens Day-student dance along with some other Sig Eps. For results, see either of them. There is something about Winthrop that “Coach” and Marshall just can't resist!

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Neill seems to know some good dates in Charlotte. Anytime you want one, just let him know. Who did Stroup date in Charlotte last Friday? Pledge Floyd Furr couldn't believe his eyes when five cute girls came up to see him the other day. However, the “certain little brunette” wasn’t in the bunch. Wonder how come? For lessons in how to find those scarce black unmentionables, just see Charles Hadley and Page Jackson. Brother Courson didn’t apply in time to take piano, so Lazenby, who shakes a pretty wicked finger, is tutoring him. A $64 dollar question is who is Turner's O.A.O.? Mac Hart and Jeff Wood are sporting big suitcases around under their eyes lately. If you value your life, don’t ask them why. Pledge Sumner must have had a ripping time in Asheville this past weekend. Who does he date up there so often? Pledges Hart and Hadley had a good theme song this week: “It Might As Well Be Spring,” especially the part that reads “I keep wishing I were somewhere else.”

KAPPA ALPHA
The Kappa Alphas are proud to welcome back two of their former brothers, Jimmy Houston and Jim Jackson. We know that they will be a most contributing factor to the Order. In the Kappa Alpha versus Phi Delts game, our man Jackson was virtually a one-man team. Out of 22 points scored, 14 points were credited to him. Wall and Moan regret that they no longer will be able to “star,” but they humbly bow to their superior. Our boy “Chuck” came through with flying colors in the play, “The Milky Way.” We brothers think that “Gabby” fit him rather well. We understand that Matthews is spending his spare time talking with telephone operators. We Kappa Alphas feel that in our pledging we got quality instead of quantity, and are proud to welcome into the chapter Pledges Henry King and John Kelton. We all join together in wishing them the very best of everything.

KAPPA SIGMA
Kappa Sigma got off to a fine start rush week with the pledging of nine boys. They include: Doc Moorefield, Bob Lacy, Doug Riel, John Ellis, Bentley Gibson, Bob Martin, Roland Hammer, “Pete” Pearson, and Zeke Armstrong. George Marsh, Abie Short, and Dick Phillips recently visited the chapter. Kappa Sigma is making big plans for Mid-Winters. Everyone is wondering who Doc Bailey's date will be. He's holding out on us. Plans are definitely coming along for the reopening of our boarding house next summer. We certainly were glad to see Mrs. Leroy Smith, our house mother, come by and see us.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
We welcome all the new pledges into our midst with the warmest admiration. With the returned brothers and new pledges, our size has been swollen to a point that makes it hard for us to all crowd into the dining room at dinner time. Bill and John McAlister certainly must have had a big weekend in Greensboro as both returned with circles under their eyes and Johnny had to recuperate in the infirmary for 3 or 4 days. I wonder what Nancy Copeland had to say about all this. Frank and Tommy Powell have certainly been visiting Charlotte a lot lately and from what I hear it is a cute little blonde number that is the attraction. Coach Shephard ought to keep an eye on Tommy “Texas” Powell in these intramural games as he looks like Varsity material. Buddy Carson and Bob Millar seem to like to digest a game of bridge every day after lunch. The show “San Antonio” has been the general topic of discussion and re-enacted during lunch time. All the fellows are looking forward to the Mid-Winters and expect to be there with dates and anticipate a big time. That cheer in Chapel expressed our opinion for the badly needed Spring Holidays.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The Fijis announce the opening of their fraternity boarding house on Monday, February 18. The Phi Gams will share the House of Maxwell with the S.P.E.s, of pre-war fame where the Fijis gathered ‘round the festive table for nine years before the war forced the closing of the boarding house. Seven neophytes were ushered into the outer portals of Phi Gamma Delta at the pledging ceremony Friday afternoon at the Fiji lodge. Phi Gamma Delta boasts the following new pledges: Tom F. Clark of Elizabethtown, N.C., Pharr of (Continued on Page 3)