Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, April 26, 1946

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 2)

PI KAPPA PHI
From all indications, the brothers and pledges are looking forward to a large time this coming weekend. Extensive plans have
been made for this affair, and except for a few minor details, everything is going nicely. The grass is getting
a little out of hand, but we can depend on Brothers Sinclair to cut it for us. Robertson and all
were proud to see that “our own” Brother Lawrence was the first to sport a new summer straw. The “Hat”
is well known in millinery circles. In these fast times, we have failed to grasp the fact that right in
our very midst we have a man of the stage, screen, and radio, and I dare say he will be
the biggest problem, if not the biggest wheel, in the age of television. Say a few words to the boys,
Louis.

There is no denying that Pledges Bud and Jim Edwards, Herb Johnson, and Odel Dobson look sharp in those new
uniforms. We all wonder how the ROTC Department was able to function without them. You aren't supposed to wear the
thing to Hickory though, Bud. And that pink suit they gave you isn't pajamas, Odel.

BETA THETA PI
Tonight, Phi Alpha chapter will install the new officers for the summer term. They are: Lamar Williamson, president; Jack Goode,
vice-president; George Gunn, Secretary; Joe Bill Pollard, Pan-Hellenic, and Frank Lemon, Recorder. Needless to say, we are glad to install
these new officers (not that we're sick of the old ones), and we feel sure they can fulfill the responsibility
with efficiency.

We found the chapter well represented at the Winston-Salem services in the forms of Andy, Cal, Pittman, Morton, Fritz, Woody,
Rapp, and Sprunt. Not with getting up at 5:00 A.M., some of the boys had all it. Rapp contends to
make an all-night affair of Saturday just talking with his old “boy” friends.

PHI DELTA THETA
Phikeia’s Band is looking forward to this weekend and the brothers report good progress in securing dates with the fairer
sex. Amazing as it may seem, the flush notices have been lighter than usual and even “Trout-head” Sutton rang the
bell on the first shot. In Morganton, some of the brothers, Golden and Mitch Smith, were seen with girls from
Sweetbriar, showing some of the smoothest operation of the year. It is said that Golden left Morganton on Saturday night,
visited Brother Tate and friend, returned to Davidson to speak at the Easter sunrise service, and then sped once more
to the mountain city. Brother Smith had no comment on the deal but shows evidence of being a very tired
young man.

Brother Archer traveled to Wake Forest with the tennis team while Brothers Brownson and Malney were with the Wildcat baseball
team on their tour to Roanoke and Lexington. Redecoration of the house has been completed and will be in use
for the dances this week. Alexander (the women's choice) has done it again. Don’t you get tired of flushing those
girls, Ralph? Rogers, the fly boy, took to the wild blue once again this weekend to marry off his brother
in Ohio. Careful, Bill, or those wedding bells will be ringing for you, that is if Francis has anything to
do with it. Keith has finally broken up with Adelaide, but that didn't keep him from getting lost in Myers
Park one night recently, did it Bill? “Bed-pan” Magness is giving cupid (or Lou) a bad time in Salisbury—at any
rate, he can be seen going up there most any night when that old moon is out.

COMPLIMENTS of WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111 Davidson, N. C.

Ambulance Service
Telephone 284
Handle Our Service For Any Distance And At Anytime
BUNCH FUNERAL HOME
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
We Are Equipped To Serve

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Dunbar Studios
Portraits Copies
230 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
Davidson, N. C.

Serving DAVIDSON COLLEGE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties with——
Super Bus Service
QUEEN CITY TRAILWAYS

Whatever Your Needs
TIES, SUITS, HATS, SHIRTS, PAJAMAS, SOCKS, SHOES, and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

CINEMA COMMENTS
(Continued from Page 2)

To even get the gist of the plot, if there be one, your reporter will have to speculate on the
title. I feel quite certain that it is not so named to throw any reflection upon the Davidson Police Force.
However, there should be an abundance of scenery, at least a few pistol shots, and a pretty wood-chuck's daughter in
distress.

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY
May 9 - 10
“Lost Weekend”
Oh! That we could “see ourselves as others see us”. To some of you this picture...may provoke memories and serve
as a reminder that time well spent is not entirely lost. On the other hand, it will serve as a
warning to those of us who are not Sacchus’ buddies and guide us past those dens of iniquity. The photography,
the musical score, and the characterizations given by Ray Milland and Jane Wyman, all lend a hand in making this
an outstanding film.

Get These HIT PARADE Records
"Your Fathers’ Mustache" — Woody Herman
"At The Fat Man’s" — Lionel Hampton
"Tommy Dor. It’s Been A Long, Long Time" — Harry James
"Benluh’s Boogie" — Dick Haynes
"That's For Me" — Peggy Lee
"Waitin’ For The Train To Come In" — Parker-Gardner Co.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N. C.

OPERATING TABLE (Continued from Page 2)
Life without him was of little note. I see the nullness of your soul, now come with me to your
celestial goals. She beckoned the call of her God. With upstretched arms, she fell to the sod.

Sarge, I ran to the top of the hill to the place where she lay. Her body was warm but
forever still! She had not cared to stay. Her soul had taken wing to the place of her king; she
and her lover became one in the setting of the sun. Years have come and gone full of joys, tears,
and sweat; but I live without ever hearing a love song and without regret. Now I have watched my Joyce
from her early youth till now. I've heard the sadness of her voice and seen the tears on her brow.
I could not bear to see her grieved, but whenever you mention the name Joyce, remember! Remember! Always my choice!

MRS. HOOD (Continued from Page 1)
gerel that would delight the heart of a six-year-old child. “Along with a selection of rather practical problems are found
a number of mathematical monstrosities as cube root extraction and numerical combinations for obtaining various areas of plane figures. There
is a carelessness of notation hardly consistent with the elaborate treatment of most problems.” A lack of generality necessitates a
large number of problems to illustrate ideas almost identical in nature. “References to examples as ‘exemplifications’ to miscellaneous exercises as
‘promiscuous’ ones, the terms ‘altimetry’, ‘longimetry’ and other antiquated ones make us smile. However, if our present-day terminology and solutions
make as good a rest in 2002, we may be assured that we are working with something worthwhile.”

FACTS ON FILE (Continued from Page 1)
Apply to the Reference Librarian for aid in using it, if needed. This set can be found in the Reference
Room.

PHI BETA KAPPA (Continued from Page 1)
listed in “Who's Who in America”. Dr. Gotbeh has written numerous books and has contributed many articles and reviews to
magazines.

Say IT With Flowers — from —
SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Cornelius Jack Payne— Local and College Agent —Phone 3741

Music News By Frank Barr
Highlight of recent musical activities on campus was a service of Easter music presented at vespers last Sunday evening. Capt.
Bynum of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, was guest soloist. A brass choir chosen from the Symphonic band opened the
service with Beethoven's “Creation Hymn” and a chorale, “Sing Hallelujah!” The glee club sang an old Latin hymn, “Joy of
Hearts That Love as One” arranged by Deems Taylor, and the Hallelujah Chorus from Handel's “Judas Maccabeus”.

On last Tuesday night the glee club sang at a service in the First Methodist Church in Charlotte. This organization
has plans for a mammoth weekend in the form of a trip to Bristol, Tenn.-Va. After taking in the formal
here Friday night, the group will put in some dance time Saturday night at Sullins, where Stan Kenton is playing
for spring dances. On Sunday they will sing at the morning worship service of a Bristol church, and in the
afternoon they will present a concert on the Sullins campus. The club will return to Davidson on Monday, presenting a
concert or so on the way.

DANCE (Continued from Page 1)
The girls will be permitted to stay out on Friday night until 2:30 and until 1:00 on Saturday night. The
latter is an extension of one-half an hour over last time. The tickets for couples will be $10.00 for the
set and $3.50 for one night; and, for stags, $4.00 for the set and $2.50 for one night.

The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, other than President Gold- en who are: represent Phi Delta Theta Johnny McAlister, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. Dave Neill, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sack Hanzenhyy, Pi Kappa Alpha; George McCormick, Phi Gamma Delta; Bill Pollard, Beta
Theta Pi; Jim Jackson, Kappa Alpha; Thacker Thrower, Kappa Sigma; and Ernest Hunter, Pi Kappa Phi.

SHERMAN BILLINGSLEY’S — ALWAYS MILDER
The RIGHT COMBINATION of WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS— PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1946, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
BETTER TASTING COOLER SMOKING
