Slashing through a spirited Wofford team at Memorial Stadium, the Davidson Wildcats racked up 54 points Saturday night for their second win of the season. Although hampered by massive penalties, the Wildcats rolled over the Terriers with a smooth offensive sparked by brilliant line play and tricky, hard-running backs.

By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

In the big forward wall, the play of Mapes, Ernest Stricklin, Chandler, Carl Eborn, Pat Williams, Rhodes, Cheek, Sharpe, and Bingham stood out in hard tackling and quick diagnosis. Backfield operations were paced by Shepherd, Erwin, and Guy, three fast-stepping ball carriers.

N. C. STATE

As a stepping stone in the test of strength, Saturday night’s game with Wofford proved encouraging, but the real test comes Saturday when the Cats meet N. C. State. State’s strong Wolfpack, thus far, has lived up to its name, ganging upon Clemson for a 14-7 victory. Led by Howard Turner, All-Southern tailback from Rocky Mount, N. C., who scored both T.D.’s for State, the Wolfpack netted 99 yards running to Clemson’s 76. If the Wildcats can stop Turner and glue-fingered end Oscar Boseman, they may leave State singing the blues.

CARDS-SOX

The highly favored Boston Red Sox took the first game of the World Series 3-2 Sunday, but lost to the Cards, 3-0 in the second game Monday. Sunday’s game turned into a thriller. Tied up at the end of the ninth, 2-2, Williams fouled out. With the count two balls and no strikes, York connected with a fast pitch and sent it deep into the left field bleachers for a home run to give the Red Sox the 3-2 win.

FOOTBALL IN THE CAROLINAS

Football over the weekend was varied. North Carolina beat a strong Miami team 21-0; Wake Forest knocked over Georgetown 19-6, while Duke lost 12-7 to Tennessee, and South Carolina dropped a 14-6 contest to Alabama. Speaking of football in the Carolinas and in the Southern Conference particularly, I would like to put in a few words concerning the Big Five of the Conference, of which Davidson is one. During the war, when Davidson’s teams sagged in strength and finally wilted out altogether, spectators ceased to think of Davidson as anything to worry about. This year, however, with the Cats back in strength and power, we are again taking our place as a charter member of the Big Five: Duke, Wake Forest, State, Carolina, and Davidson.

SIDELIGHTS

In rolling over V.M.I. 32-6, Georgia Tech actually played the football flat. A swarm of Tech players poured in on Bob Thomason, V.M.I. halfback, and blocked his punt in the fourth quarter. When the referee unstacked the resulting pileup, he tossed the ball off the field. It was as flat as the proverbial pancake.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE SCHEDULE

October 12th — N. C. State
October 19th — V.M.I.
October 26th — Hampton-Sydney
November 2nd — Washington & Lee
November 9th — Richmond U.
November 16th — Open
November 23 — The Citadel
November 28 — Furman

Ernest Strickland — Tackle

Wildcat Sports

BEAT STATE

Friday, October 11, 1946

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Page Three

WILDCATS READY FOR N. C. STATE

Wolfpack To Prove Strength

Grid Eleven Seeks Third Win of Season

The roaring Wildcats will get their acid test Saturday night at Raleigh when they face the powerful N. C. State Wolfpack, winners over Mighty Duke and Clemson. The Cats, who have been very impressive in their two victories over Erskine and Wofford, will have to be in top form to stop Coach Beattie Feathers’ strong aggregation. In Howard Turner and Charlie Richkus, the Pack has two fine backs who have served notice that they are to be reckoned with in Southern grid competition this year. The Wildcats will also have a tough time cracking the strong line led by freshman Barnie Watts. After the Clemson game, Coach Feathers said he couldn’t name any particularly outstanding member of the forward wall for the Wolverines; they all turned in splendid performances.

Richards at Center

Coach Bill Story is sharpening his squad to a keen edge for this rugged encounter. Though Sandy Carnegie was out of the Wofford contest, the center of the Cat line did not sag. Gene Bingham and Johnny Richards, the 17-year-old freshman from Portsmouth, Virginia, stood up well at the pivot post. Coach Story is well set at the end positions with a talented array including veteran Dick O’Hair, Mapes, whose toe accounted for four extra points in the Wofford game, Buddy Cheek who co-captained the Cats against Wofford, and Carl Eborn who is said to be one of the Carolinas’ most promising grid prospects. With hefties like Ed Rhodes, Ernie Stricklin, and Bob Sharpe, Story doesn’t have any worries at the tackle post. Buddie Chandler, Bill Boyd, and Co-Captain Johnny Walker shined at the guard posts in the encounter with the Terriers. Behind this rugged line, Story has a fine array of backs in big Red Bethea, Carl Sheppard, Doug Rice, and Mac Erwin. In case there is need, Junie Guy, Bert Anderton, Martin Whitehurst, Jim Sifford, Carl Pahl, and little Jake Wade can all hold their own among the pigskin toters.

Though the Wolverines are heavy favorites, they will have to prove it on the gridiron to this stubborn Wildcat eleven.

SCAT BACK

STATE

’Cats B Team Swamps Lees-McRae

In an afternoon game Friday, the Davidson Wildkittens defeated Lees-McRae Junior College on Richardson Field by an impressive score of 37-0. Although Lees-McRae did not offer strong resistance, the Davidsonians showed a good bit of promise. The vigorous offensive sparked by the running of Buck Troutman, Dave Erwin, W. G. Ewart, and Bob Walker completely took the boys from Lees-McRae who never neared the pay dirt area but twice. This happened once when a Davidson pass interference penalty gave them the ball on the eight, and once again when they recovered a Davidson fumble on the Davidson 21-yard line.

Kittens Show Strength

The Kittens unleashed a tricky set of reverses that kept Lees-McRae baffled and kept them in the pay dirt most of the time. Well-executed reverses along with a few scattered passes gained the Wildkittens twenty first downs to four for the visitors. Lineman of the week was substitute end T. T. Kirk, who kept the stands cheering with his outstanding play. However, all the Kitten linemen played a good game, showing some fine blocking and causing the visitors to have to take to the air for most of their gains.

Start Slowly

Davidson kicked off to start things rolling, and Lees-McRae brought the ball back to their own thirty. After failing to make a first down, the visitors kicked, but then recovered the ball on a Davidson fumble. After gaining six yards, Davidson in turn recovered a fumble but was forced to punt from their own forty-eight. After another punt by Lees-McRae, the Kittens engineered a drive led by Troutman from his own forty-eight, which ended with the first tally for Davidson. Jackson’s kick was unsuccessful. After taking Davidson’s kickoff, the visitors were forced to kick from their own thirty-nine. The Kittens took the ball on their own thirty-seven and Elkins and Dave Erwin drove the ball down to the sixteen where Erwin went over tackle for the second marker. The conversion was unsuccessful, and the quarter ended 12-0. Early in the second period, aDavidson penalty gave Lees-McRae the ball on the Kittens' eight-yard marker. But four downs failed to produce any gain, and the ball transferred hands. After a return of punts and a Kitten recovery of a Lees-McRae fumble, the Kittens' first-string backfield began another drive which ended with Troutman going over tackle for the third tally. The kick failed and the score stood at 18-0. When the half ended, Davidson was again in scoring position on the visitors' two-yard stripe. Dave Erwin opened the second half with a beautiful 60-yard run-back of the kickoff but was called back on a clipping penalty. After an exchange of punts, the Kittens marched back up the field and culminated this eighty-yard drive with a touchdown, making the score stand at 24-0. Again the conversion failed.

Ewart Stars
In the final period, Earp, Foule, and Ewart drove another one across from the thirty, Ewart crossing the line on a reverse. Jackson’s kick was good, and the score rose to 31-0. The Lees-McRae threat came in the fourth quarter when the visitors recovered a Wildkitten fumble on the hosts' twenty-one-yard line. A pass from Daniel to Williams netted a first down, but they lost the ball when a fifteen-yard penalty was charged up to them for throwing the ball away. This threw them back to the Davidson thirty-nine-yard marker. At this juncture, the Kittens started another drive. A pass from Bill Warren to Bill Alexander was good for 20 yards, and once more the Kittens were on the march. Ewart went over from the twenty-eight, and the final score stood at 37-0.

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N. C.

Powerful Storey’s Team Rolls Up 54-0 Score Against Little Opposition
After a listless first half marred by frequent penalties, Davidson struck with explosive fury in the closing frames to score a convincing 54-0 victory over the Wofford Terriers in an after-dark clash at Charlotte Memorial Stadium. Approximately 7,500 fans sat in on the festivities and watched the Wildcats cut loose in the third and fourth stanzas, as they got set for the crucial game with N. C. State’s league-leading Wolfpack in Raleigh this Saturday.

The Wildcat attack was shackled and the tempo of the game slowed considerably by the numerous penalties incurred during the first and second periods. In the course of the evening, Davidson lost an even 100 yards, with one five-yard setback nullifying Guy’s first-quarter scoring jaunt.

Gain 468 Yards
In trouncing the Terriers, Storey’s team rolled up nearly 400 yards on the ground and added 68 yards through the air. The Cats played a sterling defensive game, holding Wofford to a net of minus 44 yards rushing. After receiving the opening kickoff, Wofford made no headway and was forced to punt. Sheppard returned the ball 10 yards and the first scoring drive was underway. With Sheppard and Erwin alternating, the Wildcats drove down to the 23. From that point, Erwin smashed through the middle on a spinner and dashed over for Davidson's initial score. Mapes missed his conversion, and the Cats had a 6-0 lead. Later in the period, Guy sprinted off tackle for a touchdown, but one of the Wildcats’ many penalties nullified the play.

Shortly after the second quarter got underway, Pahl, Rice, and Sheppard paced a drive to Wofford’s 10-yard line. Sheppard then faded back and tossed a pass to O’Hair, who gathered it in for the Cats’ second marker. The attempt for the extra point failed. Just before halftime, Anderson hit Sifford in the clear with a beautiful aerial, but it slipped through his hands. Davidson left the field with a 12-0 halftime lead.

Second Half
Returning after intermission, the Cats launched a smashing offensive that reduced the Terrier defense to shambles. With the quarter only four minutes old, Guy went over to culminate a 63-yard march. Chandler’s placement was good for a 19-0 lead. Later in the same quarter, Anderson's pass was pulled down by Rice, and the elusive wingback outran the Terriers to the goal line. Mapes then made the placement good, and the Wildcats were ahead 26-0.

In the final period, Storey’s charges went to work with bruising precision and racked up four scores. After Bowman pounded through the middle for 12 yards, Wade swung wide and broke into the clear but stumbled and fell with a sure touchdown in view. Another penalty and an interception stalled the advance, but the Wildcats hit pay dirt a few plays afterward when Sheppard cut off tackle and raced to the Cats’ fifth tally. Cheek’s conversion gave Davidson a 33-0 lead.

A few moments later, Whitehurst hauled a punt back to the Wofford 19 and then lateraled to Chandler who bulled his way to the three before being dragged down. Whitehurst then cracked through guard for the score. Mapes added the point as the score mounted to 40-0. After the ensuing kickoff, Richards intercepted a Wofford pass and carried it down to the Terriers’ 33. On the first play from scrimmage, Anderson slashed through tackle and slipped by the secondary on a dazzling touchdown run. Mapes again converted and the score rose to 47-0. With only seconds remaining in the game, Ashmore snagged a desperate Wofford aerial and sprinted for the concluding score. Mapes' fourth conversion gave Davidson a 54-0 victory when the game ended a few moments later.

Wilkesboro, N. C.
Pictured above, Pat Williams, 175-pound End from North Wilkesboro, N. C. A veteran of the 41 and 42 varsity, Williams will see much action this year.