By CLAYTON SCOFIELD

N.C. State's powerful Wolfpack came back in the second half of Saturday night’s grid tangle to overpower the hard-fighting Wildcats
25-0 at Riddick Field. Some eighteen thousand fans watched a strong Davidson eleven baffle State for the entire first half;
play wonderful ball, then bog down on the Wolfpack thirteen as the half ended. In the second half, partly because
of State’s powerful reserves, and perhaps a lack of experience on the part of the Wildcats, Davidson’s offense broke down,
and constantly bombarded by the crashing runs of Fletcher and Turner, stellar State backs, the defense weakened to allow the
Wolfpack a four-touchdown win. Davidson fans and students, however, can have nothing but praise for Coach Bill Story and the
Davidson squad. Beattie Feathers, State coach, admitted after the game, “Davidson has one of the best starting teams we have
faced this season. We beat them because we had better reserves.” The whole line played brilliant ball. Gene Bingham paced
the line play, backing up beautifully. Shaking loose on an intercepted pass in the first half, he came near to
a touchdown for the Wildcats, but lacked the necessary speed and was caught on the Pack thirteen. Backfield play was
led by Mac Erwin, Shepard, Guy, and Bethea.

B TEAM PROSPECTS

Davidson’s B team looked good last Friday against Belmont Abbey. Gaining experience, the Kittens may be counted as strong reserves
for next year’s varsity. In the backfield, Bud Foule stepped high and ran hard while Jack Bernhard came up with
some of the most vicious tackling yet seen.

THIS WEEK’S GRIDIRON

Davidson meets V.M.I. Saturday, with the Cadets playing host after losing to Virginia 19-8. Not willing to make any rash
predictions, I am picking the Wildcats by two touchdowns. Along all fronts, the week’s football promises to make or break
many a team. North Carolina, 33-0 winner over Maryland, will be at Annapolis, playing Navy who lost to Duke 21-6.
Texas, which had all it could handle in beating Oklahoma 20-14 for its fourth win in a row, now must
meet the invasion of an Arkansas team which is itself undefeated in four starts, although tied once. Alabama and Tennessee,
undefeated Southeastern Conference teams, knock heads at Knoxville. Wake Forest meets N.C. State in what should be the top game
of the Southern Conference with the scribes favoring Wake Forest.

PRO FRONT

Gene McEver’s Charlotte Clippers rolled to a fourth straight victory Sunday in Memorial Stadium, whipping Newport News 23-0. In the
All-America Conference, Eastern Division, New York heads the league, with Brooklyn second. The Chicago Bears are out in front in
the Western Division, National League, with two wins, no losses, and one tie, occurring Sunday when Los Angeles battled the
Bears to a 28-28 standstill.

BASKETBALL

Coach Norman Sheppard’s basketball squad began light workouts today with forty men turning out for the competition. Nothing is definite
concerning the squad as yet, but many a former letterman and basketeer of old is again pounding the boards for
old Davidson. The program seems to be taking shape, of a varsity consisting of about fifteen first raters, and a
B team with a separate schedule of its own. Prospects for the varsity are extremely brilliant, with such ex-stars as
Ed White, Mike Williams, Bill Hodgin, Bob Flowers, J.D. Ashmore, and Pat Williams back, plus a galaxy of fine newcomers.

Wildcat Sports
October 18, 1946
THE DAVIDSONIAN | Page Three

VARSITY CLASHES WITH V.M.I.

Johnny Walker with an even .500 average.

K.A., Beta, Phi Delt In Three Way Tie

The first week of Inter-fraternity football ended most auspiciously for the K.A.s and the Betas, both of whom go into
this week’s schedule with two wins and no losses. Runners-up for the top honors were the Phi Delts who downed
the S.A.E.s, and the S.P.E.s who won 30-0 over the Pikas. With Tuesday being a little damp, games scheduled to
be played that day were played on Friday. While the S.P.E.s were romping over the Pikas with five touchdowns, the
Kappa Sigs came out on the long end of an 18-0 victory to down the Pi Kapps. There was some
controversy over the game which the Betas took from the Kappa Sigs in an overtime period. But Coach Pete Whittle
decided in favor of the Wooglin followers. The score came when Bill Williams snagged a pass and was heading for
the goal line as the final whistle blew. But the ball was still in play, so the Betas came out
on top with a 6-0 win. The Phi Gams and the Kappa Sigs go into this week’s schedule with one
win and one loss each. The Kappa Sigs lost to the Betas, but came back to beat the Pi Kapps.
At the same time, the Phi Gams dropped their initial game with the K.A.s, later winning over the Independents. On
the losing end of the scoreboard all the way around were the S.A.E.s and the Pi Kapps who lost one
apiece, and the Pikas and Independents who came out on the short end of the scores twice. With the first
day of this week, the Phi Delts downed the Pi Kapps and the S.A.E.s overcame the S.P.E.s. Starting Tuesday morning,
the scoreboard now stands as follows:

Won | Lost
K.A.s 2 | 0
Betas 2 | 0
Phi Delts 2 | 0
S.P.E.s 1 | 1
Kappa Sigs 1 | 1
Phi Gams 1 | 1
S.A.E.s 1 | 1
Pi Kapps 0 | 2
Pikas 0 | 2

Withers Electric Co.
@ Radio Repairs
@ Electrical Supplies
@ Light Bulbs
Davidson, N.C.

Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best.
Uras PRODUCTS.
Charlotte, N.C.

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N.C.

Davidson Wildcats Bow To N.C. State

After performing brilliantly in the first half, Davidson’s Wildcats dropped a bitterly contested 25-0 decision to N.C. State when the
seasoned Wolfpack smashed through the Wildcat defense for three last-quarter scores. An audience of 19,000 witnessed the action-packed encounter under
the lights of the Riddick Stadium in Raleigh last Saturday. Paradoxical as it may seem, former Wildcat Gwyn Fletcher was
instrumental in sending his old mates down to their first defeat. The erstwhile Davidson athlete paced the Pack’s third-quarter scoring
drive with his powerful running, and passed to Blomquest in the end zone for State’s second touchdown.

Davidson Holds First Half

Davidson’s red-shirted invaders clearly outplayed the Wolfpack in the scoreless first half. The Wildcats racked up three first downs in
the opening half and held the vaunted Turner and company completely with sterling defensive play. After winning the toss, State
elected to kick. The ensuing boot was returned to the Cat twenty-yard stripe. Two line plays netted four yards, and
Davidson was forced to punt. Bethea’s magnificent kick spiraled 57 yards downfield in the face of a strong crosswind, and
set the Pack in their own backyard. State’s backs were thrown repeatedly by the inspired Cat forwards, with the result
that the remainder of the period was devoted to a punting duel between State’s Palmer and Bethea.

The first break of the game appeared near the end of the second quarter. Turner dropped back to kick, but
his hurried punt wobbled off his foot and spun out of bounds on State’s forty-yard line. Aided by a Wolfpack
penalty and Mac Erwin’s smashes through the center of the line, the Wildcats worked their way to the Pack’s twelve-yard
marker. However, State dug in, and took over the ball on downs.

Bingham Intercepts Pass

State’s only scoring opportunity came toward the close of the quarter, when Gibson surged through to block and retrieve Anderton’s
boot. With only a minute remaining, Turner faded back to pass. It was then that Gene Bingham snagged Turner’s errant
toss and set sail from his own 30 on an electrifying run. After escaping two tacklers, Bingham was pulled down
from behind on the Wolfpack eighteen. Seconds were left when Anderton hit O’Hair on the State ten ribbon, and before
another play could be run, the halftime whistle halted the Cats’ threat.

After the intermission, the aroused Wolfpack struck viciously. Fletcher returned Bethea’s booming spiral to his own forty-five-yard line, and a
scoring march was underway. With Fletcher at the throttle, State drove relentlessly forward, finally reaching the one-yard line. From that
point, Palmer piled over for the touchdown.and a 6-0 lead.

State Takes Last Period

Superior reserve strength of State was visibly tiring the Wildcat defenders as the fourth period got under way. Bethea stood
in the end zone and kicked a short spiral into the wind that Fletcher brought back to the Davidson twenty.
Standing behind superb protection, Fletcher then lofted an aerial to Blomquist, who made a beautiful diving catch in the end
zone for the Wolfpack’s second tally. Fletcher was replaced by Turner, who quickly got another scoring drive rolling. Despite three
setbacks for holding, Turner led his club down to the five-yard line after marching forty yards. Turner then faked to
the strong side for the score. Byler missed his conversion for the third straight time.

State chalked up their concluding score in the waning minutes of the game. Bethea’s towering spiral was gathered in by
fleet Ogden Smith, fourth Pack tailback, on his own 40. Behind a host of interferers, Smith waltzed 60 yards through
the weary Cats to hang up the fourth and final marker for the Wolfpack. Byler’s placement was true and it
was 25-0, with Davidson on the short end.

Wildkittens Nip Crusaders

Davidson College Wildkittens gained their second straight win of the season over a smooth aggregation from Belmont Abbey Friday afternoon
on Richardson Field, 20-14. Unveiling a tricky T formation attack, and a big forward wall, the Abbey Crusaders proved a
real test for the Kittens, a test which the Jayvees passed with honors in the second half scoring spree. Neither
team was able to scratch paydirt in the first half; although both teams showed great running attacks, with the Crusaders
holding a slight edge in statistics. The Crusaders gained consistently, with clever plays from which the T had the average
fan wondering which of the eleven Abbeyites had the ball. However, the Davidson line and backers held when the chips
were down, and the Kittens showed their usual power through the middle on offense, but were unable to shake loose
for a touchdown.

Second Half

At the start of the second half, the Kittens quickly showed their intentions of winning, when Cliff Turner made a
beautiful return of the kickoff up the middle for fifty yards before being downed. On the next play, Bud Fowle
went through the line for fifteen yards. After a first down was made by some nice running on the part
of Vanjoy and Turner, Fowle bulled over for the score from the three. Co-Captain Bingham then converted.

Tasting blood, the Wildcats started for another by recovering a Belmont fumble on the kickoff. Starting another drive with Turner
passing to Barnhard for a first down, Bud Fowle advanced the ball to the five with his hard running, and
then it was Cliff Turner who sped off tackle for the score. Bingham converted again to give the Kittens a
fourteen-point lead.

Crusaders Score

After the touchdown, the Crusaders countered with a pass play that was good for seventy yards and a touchdown. This
was followed by the conversion. They almost scored again when a pass interception carried the ball to the Kitten five-yard
stripe. But Bud Fowle caught the runner from behind, and the strong B line held. Later in the period, a
fumble was recovered by the Kittens on the Abbey twenty. From there, Bob Walker scored in two tries. The try
for the extra point was no good, and the score stood 20-7. Late in the game, the Crusaders uncorked a
long pass for another touchdown, but to no avail, as the game ended shortly after with the Kittens on top.

Cliff Turner and Bud Fowle were the outstanding men in the Kitten backfield, with Bob Walker and little Dave Erwin
doing well for themselves. Van Covington, Fred Preyer, and Bingham hit hard in the line, and helped in the fine
offensive blocking. Jack Barnhard, blocking back, turned in some of the most vicious tackles ever seen on Richardson Field, and
caught passes to contribute to a well-earned victory.

Cats Meet Keydets In Lexington Tilt

Starters Sprinkled With Injuries As Cats Ready For V.M.I.

Smarting from their first defeat, Davidson’s Red and Black machine journeys north to battle the Keydets of Virginia Military Institute
in Lexington Saturday afternoon. The Wildcats will seek to make up for their loss to N. C. State while the
Keydets will try for their second win in five starts. After winning handily against Wofford and Erskine, the Cats encountered
tougher opposition in State's Wolfpack. More of the same can be expected from the Keydets and the tilt should be
an all-out struggle till the final whistle.

Cats Suffer Injuries

Saturday night, the Wildcats suffered heavily in the end department by the injury of Dick O’Hare. This, coupled with Hal
Mapes’ ineligibility for off-campus games and Buddy Cheek’s question mark status, may give Coach Bill Story some anxious moments. Big
Carl Ebor and Pat Williams, however, are capable flankmen and can shoulder the end duty. The Davidson line did a
Herculean task in stopping the Wolfpack in their tracks the first half, and this experience should pay off Saturday as
V. M. I. boasts of a fast-moving offensive.

Red Bethea’s punting showed up to good effect against State as he pulled Davidson out of many a tight spot.
The Virginian lads also have a fine kicker in the form of Keydet Hutchinson who supports his booting with a
lot of ball carrying. Answering the Cats’ passing attack will be Bobby Thomason, ace passer. He has sparkled in previous
games and can be expected to cause much trouble via the aerial route.

Scouted

In the wins and losses column, the V.M.I. team has not done so well, but they have the advantage over
the Cats in more games played and higher caliber opposition encountered. After downing Catawba 21-7, the Keydets stopped Richmond to
a 7-7 tie. Then they tackled the Engineers of Georgia Tech and came out on the short end of a
32-6 count. The University of Virginia trimmed them 19-8 last Saturday. Thus, two teams who have tasted both victory and
defeat will take the field Saturday. Coach Story says he will take his boys up by train Friday morning and
return Saturday night with Davidson’s third win of the season.

Tennis Prospects Brilliant

Coach Lufler reports that prospects for a successful tennis team this year are very good. Tentative plans include a spring
trip invading many larger Southern campuses. The trip should turn out well for the Davidson netmen, considering the promising material
now at hand. With four years out of five unbeaten, and an assortment of State champions and high-ranking juniors, Lufler
is confidently looking forward to matches with schools such as Georgia Tech, Alabama, Vanderbilt, and others.

Heading the list of veterans is Buck Archer, who was number one man and mainstay of the team last year,
losing only one match all season. Number two man was Gerry Robinson, who won every match last spring. The other
two regulars back from last year are Donny Hatch and Lyttleton Scott. Another promising man is Bo Roddy, number one
man for Episcopal High School last year, and fifth-ranking junior in the South. Lufler, who has coached Roddy before, expects
him to become a great college tennis player.

Two of Lufler’s former students are Ted and Lenoir Keesler from whom we ought to hear big things if they
can get back in their pre-war shape. Also promising are Glenn Turpin, eighth-ranking junior in the South; Fanjoy, a former
North Carolina champion; Whit Cobb, and Williams. Lufler has reason to expect a well-balanced team, but as yet makes no
comments as to any outstanding point gainer this year. He plans to take the boys over to Durham next week
for a little tryout with the Duke team. Plans are also in the making for April matches with Tennessee, and
others. The stiffest competition expected this spring vacation trip will come from the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Vanderbilt.
Plans are being made for an Eastern trip, and also Dunbars Studio COPIES 230 N. Tryon Charlotte, N. C.

BUDDY CHANDLER
