Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN October 4, 1946

Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

The Davidsonian

Editorials

The time has come when the ship of our world must fall into the hands of our youth if our
world is to survive. Twice in thirty short years we have withstood the ugly clouds of world war, but the
world cannot endure a third. Never before in history has such a challenge been thrown to the youth of the
world, to the men of Davidson College. Let us accept this challenge. Let us give the world the Davidson way.
Rise up men of Davidson—Ever Forward!

This and That
From ED SUTTON
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK
BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Love Associate Editor
Jim Jackson Feature Editor
Clayton Scofield Sports Editor
Walter Walker
Ralph Alexander
Bob Phillips
Dave Richard
Ni Pitman Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell Assistant Business Manager
Vir Lemon Advertising Manager
John McNair Circulation Manager
Bob Cline Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery Collection Manager
Bob Neil Collection Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday of the week that it is
to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject any part or all of any contribution or communication.

Member Of: NATIONAL SCHOLASTIC PRESS ASSOCIATION

Forever Forward...

As Davidson College moves into her first real post-war year, it is gratifying to observe that as ever our noble
institution has weathered the storm and stands, as in other years, a sturdy symbol of democracy and Christian character. True,
some physical changes are in evidence. North and South dormitories stand no more; that campus fossil the old gym has
departed, and the Paste Board Village for G.I. couples on Main Street, are merely surface scratches with the true underlying
Davidson spirit, that intangible something which gives her life and makes her breathe, still present and unchanged.

Those little things which piece together like one tremendous jig-saw puzzle to form the Davidson way are plainly visible. A
new and overflowing Freshman class fills the campus walks and classrooms. As Shaw Smith once said, “Like a large group
of inverted carrots with red tops.” Football fever running high in the fall air, pep meetings, wildcat yells cracking the
ether, and the lusty challenge of “O Davidson” filling our ears and hearts with spirit, are all part of what
we call Davidson College.

In war’s wake, changes are inevitable. Sometimes these changes rise to the level of complete social upheavals which change our
very ways of life. We do not condemn changes for without it our world could not advance, and we would
soon decay into an abyss of nothingness. Changes which make life richer, finer, and more decent are what we at
Davidson must strive for.

Throughout our land today, we find groups of men who wish to wreck those very principles on which our nation
and Davidson College were founded. These people, our bitterest enemies, often disguise themselves with names which will and have trapped
many sincere people. Here education plays her all-important role in teaching men to think. Don’t be sucked into the trap.
Think through the subtle sugar-coated surface and maintain the freedom of which our land boasts.

A Vote of Thanks...

Davidson students take their hats off to the administration on two counts this week, for the recent relaxation of the
ruling on automobiles on the campus. The situation today is quite different from that of past years, and allowing men
over twenty-one years of age to keep cars here is a step in the right direction. In the past it
was said that the average Davidson student was not mature enough to be allowed this privilege, and we do not
deny that this was true in many cases, but the men who returned from the service are not the boys
who left Davidson back in 1943 and 44. It would be absurd, to say the least, to say that these
men are not of sufficient maturity to drive an automobile. Personally, I know of no returning veteran who has not
bettered his pre-war record in scholarship or in other fields of college activity. The returnees are doing their part and
it is gratifying that the administration is meeting them more than halfway.

Secondly, it is good to see the student store back in its old location, and greater yet to see that
it is truly a student's store once again. The days of standing in line at that miniature counter under the
gym are no more, and reactivation of the old self-service system is again proving to new men that Davidson has
an Honor System that works. Last spring, “The Davidsonian” published a series of letters from students requesting that the store
be returned to its original location and that the self-service system be reinstalled. The powers that be not only granted
these requests, but have enlarged the store so that it far surpasses anything which we have called a student store
in past years. It is needless to say that the student body is grateful for this action on the part
of the “higher ups.” It becomes more apparent each day we spend at Davidson that we have here a type
of leadership and understanding which is not found in many of our colleges throughout the land.

KAPPA ALPHA

A representative of Kappa Alpha Order, after a highly successful rushing season, men on the campus pledged their loyalty to
the brotherhood, the achievement and merriment of college life. Great pride is taken in announcing the latest honor attributed to
one Brother Mac Jeffries who has been chosen to head the Pan-Hellenic council for the coming semester.

Elected recently to serve as chapter officers for the year are Jim Jackson, No. 1, Mac Jeffries, No. 2, and
Ed Whitesides, No. 3. Bill Abbott is No. 4 and Sim Barnwell No. 5. Brother Whitesides served as Rush Chairman
during the summer and his efforts were rewarded by the high degree of success attained during Rush Week. Pledge Bill
Barron was elected to the presidency of the new pledge class, while Pledge Dick Glasgow was named secretary. A feed,
honoring the new pledges, was served at the house following the Erskine game.

Brothers Ed Whitesides and Ed Monrov, and Pledges Bill Bowman, Bud Fowle, and Freddie Preyer are among Coach Story’s football
stalwarts. Brother Ed Manget is the fraternity sports manager for the year, Brother Bob Flowers the coach.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Among the Fijis lately gone hog-wild over feminine charms, Brother Dave Richardson outstood by luring a woman all the way
down from New York to watch the Erskine game (it says here) in which Brother Dick O’Hair and Pledge Brothers
Bill Harris and Dicky Blanks sparked the varsity to a smashing victory. Other brothers who entertained WOMEN on the campus
included Amos Ragan and George Patrick, and, of course, wedded Brothers Ross, Moneyhan, and Archibald, who continually entertain the chapter
with superfluous comments on the delights of married life, which seems to agree with all hands, especially Brother Moneyhan whose
activities include scintillating eighty-yard runs for the Charlotte Clippers.

Last weekend saw a mass migration divided mainly among the Duke-State game and the various nookeries of the surrounding districts.
During the week the chapter elected officers as follows: President, Brother Amos Ragan; Treasurer, Brother Sam Maloney; Recording Secretary, Brother
Dave Richardson; Corresponding Secretary, Brother Tom Howard; Historian, Brother John Fairly, and Pan-Hellenic Representative, Brother Bill Campbell.

Members of Delta Kappa deeply regret the death of former Brother Ben Williamson of Mt. Airy, a member of the
class of ’44, who was killed in an airplane accident last week. Brother Williamson was a student in the medical
college of the University of North Carolina.

KAPPA SIGMA

The boys from the “House on the Corner” initiated the new social season with an abnormally quiet and limber weekend,
devoting most of their attention and shekels to athletic contests throughout the state. Brothers Peters, Rice, Hugo McArn, Troutman, Phillips,
and Pledges Cheek, Wade, Miller, McDonald, and Dowd all journeyed to the capital to witness Wallace Wade’s auspicious return to
football. McDonald and Dow doubled back from Raleigh to do missionary work in that den of iniquity called Chapel Hill;
they report two converts, McDonald and Dowd. Brothers are reaching the old-timeHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

PEAKERS

Pat Williams, Lawson, Coffee, has again launched a campaign of in which twenty-six of the finest Sigma Chapter, Davidson's rep-
7d Henderson dealt all the way to Salisbury to attend the Catawba- Eastern (or Western?) Kentucky fracas! Somewhat saving the
face of the society by “charchezing la femme” were Brothers Amos, lured as ever back to the Point, and Mike
Williams and Freeman Jones, Charlotte Country Clubbed successfully. George “Bull, He Who Much Thereof,” Ennett harkened back to Asheville Juliette,
the flower of the Appalachians. And that perennial pursuer, Alfred “The Finger” Taylor, graced the venerable city of Charleston with
his presence.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Most of the SAR’s spent the weekend off the campus. At the State-Duke game in Raleigh were Brothers Hugh Hill,
Dick Port, Harvey Carrow, Tommy Powell, J. D. Ashmore, Bob Strickland, and Pledges Easy Rhodes and Martin Whitehurst. In Greensboro
for the weekend were Brothers Ford Little, Johnny McAllister, Hugh Hill, and Pledges Vaughn McAllister, Bill Little, and Charlie Vance.
Brother Jim Harris spent the weekend in Wilmington appraising a 1929 successor to the fabulous “Crimson Creeper” of prewar campus
days. Pledges Bob Carson, Bob Wilcox, Cam Faison, Torry Hemby, and Brother Henry Engle spent the weekend at their homes
in Charlotte. Pledges Gill White, Bud Aiken, Dave and Mac Erwin journeyed to Greenville, South Carolina, for the off-days. Brother
John Codingtons sought the green pastures of Roanoke, Va. Brother Jim McDonald spent his time in Greenwood, South Carolina. Pledge
Bob Little made his weekly trip to Converse College.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kappa Phi house was a scene of merriment and joy last week. Beautiful girls came from Charlotte and
Hickory to assist in the rushing program. Betty Jean Clemmer, blonde bomber from Hickory, made her debut at Davidson. We
are glad to announce the following pledges: Hunter Boykin, Bob Bumbarger, John Helton, Claude Higginbotham, Billy Houck, John McGill, Don
Sasser, Mac Shaw, Berwyn Rush, Harry Temple, Dick Turnage, Christy Walker, and John Walker. The football lineup is looking plenty
good. Puett has worked out some plays that even Knute Rockne never dreamed of. To our amazement, they work sometimes.
Watch out for “Slugger” Robertson and “Ace” Houck around left end. Gaither, let’s limit those Salem trips to twice a
week. Bumbarger and Cox need some time for bridge. Robert, observe the speed limit to Queens and preserve the Hudson.
Barkesdale, that brunette at Queens is already taken, so start looking. Fitz, is it Hickory or Tootie this weekend? Ernest
and Charlie are having English troubles since Odell, Herb, and Bill started reading “The Green Light.” That lipstick smear Pete
had was most becoming. DeLaney, who ever heard of getting lost in your hometown? It looks as though the three
Walker brothers are representing Davidson at Queens every weekend. Too bad Rush’s girl can’t date but twice a week.

PHI DELTA THETA

It’s good to begin college again, but after a summer with eds and co-eds, it just isn’t the same with
only eds around. That is one reason why you didn’t see many Phi Delt faces on the campus last weekend.
Most of them just had to see their gracious girlies, and by being late to breakfast this morning proved that
they must have had a very delightful time and also lost a lot of valuable sleep. Brother Robinson, who thought
and couldn’t wait until Saturday, left last Wednesday and didn’t show up until Monday morning. Glad to have you back,
Bill. We thought that you had changed your mind about college. Brothers Witherspoon and Martin and Pledge Hooper had an
enjoyable time at Converse. After journeying to Winston-Salem, Statesville, and Greensboro, Brother Cameron says he is looking forward to next
weekend with great anticipation. Brother McLean traveled to Clinton to see Nell—Notice the glow since he got back. Brothers Richardson
and Pledge Hollister were the only Phi operators at Salem, and I am sure they held up the Phi Delt
tradition. Brother Golden went to Morganton to see a certain girl by the name of Dot. We can’t get anything
out of him, but we know all is well. Brother Sutton, who was at the Queens Square Dance, wasn’t seen
all night. Where were you, Ed? Brothers Archer, Hills, Brownson, Iverson, and Johnston took in the exciting State-Duke game. Even
though the game was played in a driving rain, they remained until the final whistle was blown to see one
of the biggest upsets of the year (State 13, Duke 6). Reports were brought back that Brother Hills had quite
a time with one of the beautiful Duke lassies. That man has got the spirit. Most of the pledges journeyed
to the Queen City to be greeted by blind dates. When it was time to leave, all agreed that they
had a good time. “How about Honeylou, Rhae?” The rest of the Phis stayed at home and decided that this
should not happen again. We Phis extend hearty congratulations to the new pledges, Bill Austin and Frank McGehee.

COLUMN By JIM JACKSON

It is customary with many newspapers, including such famed tribunals as the Christian Science Monitor, the Gastonia Daily Gazette, and
the Davidson News-Leader, to seclude the name of their respective editors to a small section in fine print at the
bottom of the editorial page. Not with the Davidsonian. At least not so with this year’s Davidsonian, for our editor
for the current semester, E. Colmery “Trouthead” Sutton. When that name finds its way into type, as it so often
does, Davidsonian handy men rush for the full-scale heads and bold face, for Sut has a full-scale head and, with
a face like that, is necessarily bold.

But, who is this man Sutton? To look at him casually you’d think he was an ordinary fellow ... or
fish. That would be your initial error, for he is not of the commonplace. First of all, he is a
journalist, and all journalists have an air of the zany and odd about them. The Trout’s first indication of journalistic
leanings came at the age of nine, when little Eddie demonstrated newly acquired literary talents by drawing, in chalk and
on the sidewalk in front of his school, some short but explosively descriptive words about his teacher’s background. These leanings
developed rapidly and reached their zenith Sut’s freshman year at D.C., when he composed a sparkling interview with the double-dipping,
double-dealing, double-chinning manager of the College Pharmacy—not to mention any names. The Great Editor came to Davidson by mistake. Being
a little green and a Georgia boy, Sut got confused in the mammoth Charlotte bus depot and thought he was
buying a ticket for N.C. State. He fell into the Phi Delt bear trap in front of the old post
office and so decided to give up Plowing 21-22 for the local culture. Not many of his fellow students knew
the Trout during his frosh term. Sut roomed, at large, in Rumple and didn’t show himself after the initial fall
frost until the warm rays of the spring sun brought forth the ancient dwelling’s occupants. Sut shared a single room
with two rats, seven cockroaches, and a senior from Huntersville. After the war, however, this Wildcat Horace Greeley was well
known and his talents sufficiently appreciated for him to be elected last spring as the Davidsonian editor. There are many
more unusual facts about Trouthead (this name was bestowed upon him by a stray ichthyologist from Morganton). But they probably
wouldn’t get by the censor (Sutton). So if you want to learn more of this man, come by the Davidsonian
office on Monday night and get on speaking terms with the chief. What a good fellow he is!

The Operating Table By ?

Once again we attempt to record for history such deals and orgies as are to be performed by some of
the more illustrious members of the local social set. First and at the top of the list as usual, comes
the “Gorgeous Golden Grecian”—“Hotbox” Bill McLEAN off to South Carolina in a valiant effort to stave off the competition of
some army field officer. Second, and second for the first time in a long, long series of golf courses comes
ALF TAYLOR—back from the far east and frantically trying to rekindle old flames while making a valiant effort to forget
numerous Manchurian and Chinese princesses. To RHEA ADAMS our congratulations over his good fortune in finding a real Queen so
early in the season. Seen about the campus... “FEARLESS HUGH” HILL resplendent in coat and tie and an eye toward
next spring... nuff said... FESTIVE DOUG SWINK off to Queens but unavoidably detained en route. Upon questioning the Betas as
to their Biggest Dealer, they proudly announced that WILLIAMSON had just returned from Europe. (Big Deal!) A flash over the
highway patrol radio Saturday reported a penguin driving a huge Buick convertible in the vicinity of Raleigh... JACKSON, no details
made available. SOCIALITE MACHESNEY JEFFRIES to Charlotte to the Carolina Hayride in an effort to oust the high-tone show during
homecoming... PETE SINCLAIR, late addition to the ranks of Communism, to carry on in the footsteps of the now graduated
but much lamented Peck Hill... RAGAN and NEIL in Charlotte as usual while RAPID RICHARD O’HAIR made off for Rock
Hill or was reported in that area. MERRY MURDOCK McKEITHEN breezing in for the last five minutes of the State-Duke
fracas. GUNDER GRAY seen cutting fancy capers at the Queens Square Dance and vowing that running the two-mile was much
easier. Hate to end this charming little session, but the hour is late and even such a character as I
has to sleep sometime. See ya’ next week.
