Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, May 15, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY - BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Assistant Editor - Jimmy Nisbet
Feature Editor - Frank Barr, Jr.
Managing Editor - Lamar Williamson
Managing Editor - Lonnie Turner
Managing Editor - Ed Sutton
Managing Editor - Doug Swink
Ernest Hunter
Bill Whitaker
Jim Jackson
Bill Gamble
Associate Sports Editor - Sterling Edwards
Assistant Sports Editor - Stitt
Photographers - George Gunn

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager - Bob Smoak
Advertising Manager - Bob Gambrell
Circulation Manager - Charles Thompson
Circulation Manager - Norvel Childers
Subscriptions Manager - Bob Neill

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

As the final issue of the Davidsonian for this semester goes to press, my mind struggles to search for those little bits of material which should go to make up this article. All week I have wished that final editorials could be skipped. And now, reading proof and checking copy for the last time, yelling a final order, and watching, late on a Thursday night as one by one the present staff bangs the office door for the last time, any sort of objective appraisal of the paper that has been becomes almost impossible.

I wish that this entire column could be an open letter of thanks to the swellest staff any editor ever had the privilege of working with. They’ve known their jobs and they’ve done them well and willingly, and they’ve been very wonderful people, which is the simplest—and most unoriginal way—I can say the best thing that can be said about a staff. All of us have made mistakes; in spite of everything there have been inaccuracies and missed stories and too many ads for all the news. We've lost a little sleep, but I think we have received something invaluable this year, for the Davidsonian office, as THE DAVIDSONIAN, has been a place that encourages freedom of thought and expression; and as we have argued and raced on wastebaskets—and put a newspaper to bed—we have talked of freedom and responsibility and democracy and we have believed in these things, and we hope that these beliefs have been present in our paper.

We have believed that “liberty of thought is the life of the soul,” and that the chief job of a campus newspaper is to provide a medium for expression of that thought. We have believed that “freedom of the press is the staff of life for any vital democracy,” and we have tried to interpret, reflect, and stimulate student opinion—opinion not necessarily that of the editor or the staff, but opinion that we do not have the right to suppress. This, it seems to me, is the highest purpose of a newspaper, and a purpose which a college paper, free from political or commercial coercion, is peculiarly fitted to realize.

Let’s turn Father Time back a few moments and recall a few of the things that have made this school year a success. The freshmen were officially welcomed into Davidson College, when Johnny Mac was chosen to head this year's Court of Control. We remember the student body elections in the fall. Seniors choose Morrow to edit the annual. The flu epidemic, resulting in the cancellation of our fall dances and the success of the first Davidson Campus Christian Mission. Success for the Concert Series Petition, Mr. Sprunt’s talk on birds, and how enthusiastic Pittman was. Erwin Memorial Hut. Presbyterian Synod Meeting. Commotion caused by “Among The Greeks”. YMCA retreat. Queens-Davidson Day. Edward's Cat Tales. Davidsonian returns to normal size. Student Body climbs to 450. Many Davidson veterans return. Midwinters (no flu epidemic). Girls on dormitory row. Wilson Humber and his vocalist. Trustees meet. College opens dining room. The “Milky Way” and its characters, especially Polio who stole the show. Dr. Gwynn leaves Davidson. Weekends at Queens, Salem, Lunn on the organ. Bennett’s Letters To The Editor. Introducing—By Mac Hart. Story. Return of many professors. Jamerson’s baseball. Shepard’s “Your Hit Parade”. Finally, Spring Holidays. German Club. Revival of Phi Society. Reorganization of IRC. Band goes to Salisbury. Rifle team wins honors. “Duke” Invades East. Spring football. Hugo’s Cat Tales. Spring Nights with Sigma Upsilon. Cats Groomed for Catawba. Jackson as sports editor. Queens-Davidson Day again. Spring Frolics with Russ Carlton. The anonymous letter from a Queens student. Carolyn Valley at the piano. Carnegie records finally in use. Beaver Club extends bids. Lt. Col. Arbuckle receives a Summer award. Band goes to Converse. Editor of Year Handbook. Schedule announced. The Operating Table. The Stud Store. Terrible Ted. Carlton's Jam Session. Orin’s cartoons. Spring Services and Rev. Appleby. Band at Brevard. “Shorty’s” Honorary Fraternity. Glee Club in Thomasville. Student body elections. Introducing “Cinema Comments”. Chesterfield’s ad. “Gentleman Jim” Wins High Spiritual post. See Buck Archer-Student Representative for New Tennis Rackets. Come and See How It Looks. Dr. Helen Gahagan Douglas. Abrams and Prof. Williams. Married couples living in town. Co-eds.

This year has quickly passed us, and has been loads of fun for everyone. Graduation is just around the corner, and to our graduates we bid farewell, as we look to them for leadership upon their entrance into the threshold of the world. Now is the time for us to turn our thoughts to the opening of school in the fall. Many new faces will be seen on the campus, as eight hundred students assemble here then. This will create many problems and obstacles which must be overcome. To our newly elected student body officers we offer hearty congratulations, ensured that they will do a good job in carrying on where their predecessors left off. To our retiring officers, we thank them for what they have done, conscious of the situations they have been through, and for them pledging our loyalty to the new men in office. To the new staff, whoever they may be, we extend best wishes. And to Editor Sutton, we look for a bigger and better Davidsonian next year to help build a bigger and better Davidson.

And so with pleasant memories of the past in my mind and sincere hopes for the future in my heart, I sign my final ‘30’.

Letters To The Editor

Dear Editor:

If my memory serves me correctly there were two letters which appeared in the Davidsonian several issues ago, concerning the management of the so-called “Student” Store. As of this date, I can see no change whatsoever in either the location or any attempt made to rectify the drawbacks.

The Davidson student is supposed to excel in honesty and courtesy, as we have been told in chapel talks given some time ago. As a student, I have every reason to believe that we have everything that Tennyson advocates and more, that is self-control, or rather I should say self-restraint, in dealing with the kids behind the counter in that store. Before one buys anything from a store the person behind the counter has to show the customer that he is interested in seeing that he, the customer, gets what he desires and that he does not receive the idea that it is a bore to sell anything to him. To be quite frank, I feel that the present “Student” Store is a cancer in the eye of the Davidson campus and it should be corrected soon before it spreads so that a bad taste will be left in the memories of the students here at present when they recall their old days at Davidson.

As for me, I remember a time when the Student Store (quotation marks purposely omitted) was run by students here in the college and the honor system was put to the supreme test. It worked and worked perfectly. We could brag about the store to other university and college students and each student here took pride in the store whether he worked in it or not. It belonged to the individual, and he felt as if he had a personal interest in it, and he did!

At the present time, from my point of view, thestore is a disgrace! The ones who wait upon you are most discourteous, slip-shod in their manner, and in every way give the customer the impression that “it would have been better if I had never set foot in this store.” I do not feel that I could say any more about the location of the store than has already been said by Messers. Ennett and Jackson. The hours of the store are a mystery to me even with them posted on the door, as they are not kept. This fact was impressed upon me for fifteen minutes the other day. How much longer I would have been impressed I do not know, as I had to leave.

I should like to urge that before the college commences the Summer session the STUDENT STORE be reopened in the machine shop in the rear of the dormitories between Georgia and Watts, and that students of the college who need financial aid be allowed to operate it.

With hopes that the action suggested above will be taken, I remain,

Sincerely yours,
Doug Swink.

Dear Editor:

Why is there no provision for a new music building in the proposed building program? Those of us who are and have been actively associated with the Davidson Music Department can easily see the crying need for more adequate facilities. The music department has developed until it is now the leading cultural asset of the college; it has been its purpose to develop a strong and active appreciation of music along with the liberal arts program of the school. Davidson was founded for the purpose of supplying the Church with well-trained ministers, and in this field it has been a leader. The Church has become more and more aware of the importance of good music in its services and the need for well-trained ministers with an appreciation of music. Why shouldn't Davidson also become a leader in this field?

Now with four hundred fifty men in the student body, the number of music students is greater than in the normal pre-war enrollment. This shows that the students want and deserve better facilities. Yet the facilities have not increased either in faculty number or in plant. As for the inadequacy of the present set-up, there can be no question. Visit Shearer Hall some afternoon and this will be obvious. There are not enough practice rooms, and those which we have are undesirable. Recently, due to the need for space, a piano has been placed in the latrine! The “airs” that emanate therefrom are none too pleasing.

We are not advocating that Davidson should become a conservatory; however, we do feel that in keeping with the progressive program of the college, a new music building is indispensable. There are many smaller colleges and high schools throughout the South with less outstanding music departments but better plants. We are looking forward to a new church and a new gymnasium. WHY NOT COMPLETE THE PICTURE WITH A NEW MUSIC BUILDING?

Bob Cecil
Boyce Helms
Buford Goodman
Bob Richardson.

Things I Hate!!!
By McDOWELL TATE

Definite action on the matter of cars on the campus without permission finally came down this past week in the form of a letter from the Dean of Students office. It was very clear and concise, making it plain that though so far this year little or nothing has been done toward enforcing this rule, from now on cars are forbidden and offenders will be punished. I am of the opinion that the rule prohibiting students from having cars here at Davidson for general use has been somewhat outmoded during the course of the war. Before the war, the average age of the student body was much younger than it is now or will be this next fall. Considering that at that time most of the students were well under twenty years old, some justification may be seen in the faculty rule that Davidson students were too immature to have a car here. This year, however, I hardly think that the faculty can consider those who have returned from the army quite so immature as student bodies of years gone by. A large majority of the returnees are well over the so-called legal mature age of twenty-one, and it is with these men in mind that I advocate the rule about cars be relaxed somewhat. A resolution that would be more in keeping with the times would allow all veterans to have the privilege of cars as well as those students who are over twenty-one and who have their parents' permission. As an incentive to study, it might be added that the privilege may be revoked at any time when a student becomes deficient in his grades and is placed on probation. Of course, so far as this year is concerned, it is too near the end to expect any changes to take place. This column is written with an eye to next fall when the student body will contain in all probability a majority of older men, men who will certainly be mature enough to use a certain amount of discretion if they may have their cars here at Davidson. I hope that the faculty may see fit to relax this rather distasteful rule sometime before next September.

Now that things around the campus are returning to normal, another tradition, dropped during the war, is being revived. The Seniors are looking forward to the forthcoming Senior-Faculty Day. Due to the many interruptions before exam time, the day is being split. Athletic events will be held on Thursday afternoon. There will be matches in tennis, volleyball, golf, softball, and horseshoes. I was told today (unofficially, of course) that Dean C. K. Brown is trying to exchange baseball for softball so that he can show off that league form that he’s been trying to teach Bob Brooks the last two years or more. Come on Faculty. Show these Seniors what you can do. We're pulling for you!

On Friday night the faculty members will give a skit which will probably be a satire based on the student life on the campus. The Senior Class will then retaliate with a burlesque on the faculty. This should prove very interesting. From what I hear from members of past performances, the Faculty is pretty good at that sort of thing. See yourself as the Faculty sees you.

One of the main features of the Senior-Faculty Days of the past were the picnic suppers. This year the supper will be held on Thursday after the athletic events. This will be followed by a smoker. These smokers sometimes prove very, very interesting!

It’s nice to see traditions being revived on the campus. This year we again see a commencement in the real Davidson manner. For the members of the staff and myself, let me extend to the members of the graduating class our wishes for happiness and success always.

The Operating Table this week devotes itself to certain of our more colorful personalities on the campus... "Trader Buck” Archer, who says naughty things in class... Our friend “The Hats” (that’s Lawrence, brother) with his new spring panama and other rather distinctive creations that he is seen wearing hither and yon... Them two characters from the hills who journeyed down to sing (they call it that) melodies in an effort to raise our appreciation of the better music... That fellow what delivers The Paper and who, upon knocking on the door, answers the summons to enter with a “what for,” while flexing his eyeballs... “Squire” Hodgin, that person who reminds one of the fabulous “sleepy” when he’s sporting his new Golf cap (that’s not night cap, friend)... Ed Murray, “The Prom Man” at the BQO in East Dorm... Festive Doug Swink chosen by Davidson Hi as man most likely to succeed... Naked Sam Tate making application to spend the summer with The Sun Cult up at Mt. Morne... Senator B-B Eyes Lee, to whom we give seven crowns for being such a good fellow... Roger Hailfellow Carson of the local Alpha Colera Chapter Huzzah — Huzzah... Salene Parker, Miss Hubba-Hubba at Davidson for 1946... Hugo Sapp, with his number one henchman Ellis Allen... Boxhead Soapy Smith who can be seen sewing the buttons back on his shirt which he ripped off in a fit of pique during the volleyball season... Horrible Howell Morrow who keeps saying he’s swamped whatever that may mean. Then of course we must remember Big Quinton Cooper, who is Doug Swink’s competitor among the high school chief socialites. Jovial Good-time Charlie McKee with his timely views on anything, anytime and anywhere. Jitterbug Jim Houston, Jouncing Bill Spencer and Gallopin’ George Rapt vying for honors tripping and ripping the light fantastic for this so we are unable to cause further embarrassment for this issue. This columnist has enjoyed serving you this year and hopes that future correspondents will have the same satisfaction.

GRADUATION... ’46