Washington and Lee Generals overwhelmed the Davidson Wildcats last Saturday, downing the fighting Black Cats 25-0. Despite the foul weather,
Lee’s team proved too strong for the Red and Black. The rain and cold did not deter the crowd, which
was large and swelled by a goodly number of Alumni and their dates for the Homecoming frolics.

Coach Story, commenting on the game, said, “We probably played the best we've played this year, but we just got
beat. We played a good game, except for the N.C. State game, but we weren't good enough. We were backed
up most of the game without a chance to move or open up our offense. Only twice did we have
a real chance to move, once we scored, and the other time a holding penalty set us back and we
had to kick. W. and L. had a great passing attack, and that combined with their excellent running was what
kept us in the hole all day.”

Little Johnny Walker, a 175-pound guard, stood out in the line, playing terrific ball. In fact, the line play in
general was brilliant, with the Cat line making a fine showing in a goal-line stance that held Washington and Lee
from scoring early in the game. Red Bethea’s punting and line backing showed that the old cry of “veterans not
giving it the college try” is just so much bunk. Ed Rhodes, Buddy Chandler, and Johnny Richards all played heads-up
ball, and the lineman of the week in this scribe’s estimation was Hal Mapes, whose defensive game was superb. The
Cat backfield seemed to be a bit confused over the W. and L. passing attack, and it was this confusion
that cost the Cats those winning touchdowns.

B TEAM
The Davidson College Wildkittens came through down in Bennettsville, South Carolina, last Friday with a 20-6 win over a strong
P.J.C. team. Working together smoothly against stiffer opposition than they had previously encountered, the B Teamers, sparked by the bruising
running of Bud Fowle and the smashing tackling of Bernhard, came through with their fourth straight win of the season.
Don Watt, a husky center for the Wildkittens, put on a one-man show on defense, backing up the line with
precision tackling that left the Presbyterian J.C.’s wondering how he could be in so many places at once. This was
Watt’s first real chance to prove his merit, as ankle injuries had kept him tied to the bench except for
brief periods in the previous games, but Coach Story remarked after seeing his exhibition Friday that he is one of
the best linebackers he had seen this year. Bingham came through with fine offensive and defensive play and seems to
be following in his brother's footsteps as a fine ball player.

N.C. STATE BACK IN THE WIN COLUMN - CAROLINA DEFEATED
After losing to V.P.I. last week, the N.C. State Wolfpack got back on the Victory Wagon by trouncing V.M.I. 49-7.
It looks like the State boys are back on it again with Howard Turner, the All-Southern tailback, racing all over
the place. He scooted 60 yards with a punt for one TD, dashed around the end 14 yards for another,
and passed to Bloomquist for still another, which is some ball playing.

Virginia elevens appear to be Davidson’s particular enigma, and the third one on the Wildcat schedule will display its wares
when the University of Richmond Spiders collide with the Red and Black on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon at 2:30. Stunned
by the sound 25-0 beating at the hands of the Washington and Lee Generals, Davidson fans have their fingers crossed
for this game. It is no secret that Richmond will be a heavy favorite, but the Wildcats will not be
counted out until the final whistle.

Injuries Numerous
The forward wall was hard hit by injuries in the W. and L. game. Guard Bill Boyd was chalked off
for the season by a broken leg. Ernie Stricklin, a stellar tackle, was carried from the field, and an ankle
injury may keep him on the bench. Despite the loss of these two, the line intends to smother the fast-moving
Spider offensive. At the same time, the running of Carl Pahl and Carl Sheppard may prove to be the sparks
needed to unite a spirited Davidson ground attack. Red Bethea, Sifford, and Erwin can also be counted on for heavy
duty.

Richmond loomed large in the Southern Conference picture by virtue of its 19-7 triumph over a powerful University of Virginia
squad. The Spiders seem to enjoy ruining other people’s homecoming games, for they did just that for Virginia, and for
Washington and Lee on the previous Saturday, by a score of 20-0. This will be the last game played on
Richardson Field this season, for the Wildcats’ remaining encounters will be with Furman in Greenville and with The Citadel in
Charlotte. So as this is the last home game, it should be supported.

(Continued on Page 4)

RABY’S SHOE SHOP
We Specialize In Whole Soles

PASTEURIZED GRADE “A” MILK
Mooresville Co-Operative Creamery
Delivered Daily
PHONE 205
Mooresville, N. C.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP
EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
STREET FLOOR
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

AMBULANCE SERVICE
Telephone 284
Equipped For Service Any Distance Any Time
Bunch Funeral Home
Mooresville, N. C.

STEINWAY PIANOS
HAMMOND ORGANS
RECORDS
RECORD PLAYERS
SHEET MUSIC

Stunned by the sound 25-0 beating at the hands of the Washington and Lee Generals, Davidson fans have their fingers
crossed for this game. The Cats meet Richmond Spiders on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon at 2:30.

K. A.’s Hold Big Lead, Phi Delts Second
This week found a little shake-up in the standings, as the Betas dropped more and more out of sight, while
the rampaging Phi Gams fought themselves into the third place slot. The beginning of the week started off with the
K. A.s and Kappa Sigs locked in mortal combat, the result of which was a tie. Both teams came out
with two first downs, and the playoff had to be postponed as it soon became too dark.

S.A.E.s and Phi Gams Hot
While the above two traditional rivals were beating each other’s brains out, the S.A.E.s jumped into the winning column by
taking the Betas with a score of 25-6.Two touchdowns and a safety, to win 14-6. This put the S.A.E.s in
a two-way tie for fifth place with the S.P.E.s. Holding down the fourth place slot are the Betas and the
Kappa Sigs, each with four wins and three defeats. The Phi Gams, getting started slowly at the beginning of the
season, came up last week to upset the Phi Delts 14-0, and then went on to ease out the Pi
Kapps in a 6-0 decision. Still to hit the win column are the Independents and the Pikas. The Independents bowed
to the K.A.s last week 24-6. The Pikas were stopped cold by the Betas in a two-touchdown win for the
sons of Wooglin.

Season Nears End

As the season draws to a near closing time, we find the K.A.s with four games still to play; one
against the S.A.E.s, which had been postponed, and a playoff against the Kappa Sigs. Then they have to take on
the S.P.E.s. Their game with the Phi Delts will be history by the time that this article comes out. The
Phi Delts have just about the stiffest schedule, while the Phi Gams, well up in the running, have only the
hard hurdle of the Betas still as a jump. Going into the next to last week of play, the scoreboard
reads as follows:

| Team | Won | Lost | Pct. |
|------|-----|------|------|
| K.A.s | 5 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Phi Delts | 6 | 1 | .857 |
| Phi Gams | 4 | 3 | .571 |
| Betas | 4 | 3 | .571 |
| S.A.E.s | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| S.P.E.s | 3 | 3 | .500 |
| Pi Kapps | 3 | 4 | .428 |
| Independents | 0 | 6 | .000 |
| Pikas | 0 | 6 | .000 |

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF
C. S. Goodrum

ANDREWS MUSIC CO.
231 N. Tryon St. — CHARLOTTE
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N.C.

BLOCKING BACK

Richmond Saturday

Junie Guy, Number 26, carrying the ball against Washington & Lee, before a Homecoming crowd of 5,000. The Generals

W.&L. Rolls Over ’Cats

A sparkling aerial offensive carried Washington and Lee’s air-minded Generals to a 25-6 triumph over the Davidson Wildcats in a
Homecoming clash last Saturday. A disappointed throng of 5,000 including many returning grads, braved the steady downpour and watched the
Wildcats bid for their fourth win sink into the mire of Richardson Field. Dick Working’s performance with the soggy ball
was nothing short of miraculous. The clever quarterback, subbing for the injured Boyda, completed 10 of the 20 aerials he
attempted with two of his tosses going for touchdowns.

In Homecoming Tilt, 25-6

The drive was terminated when the hard-running Bell slashed through the middle for the score. The conversion attempted by Riley
slid under the crossbar. After receiving the ensuing kickoff, the Wildcats tried to launch a scoring drive, but the halftime
whistle found them bogged down in midfield. Following intermission, the Generals continued their relentless attack with reserves pacing the offensive.
Midway in the third frame, Tom Bennett exploded through the middle and raced 65 yards before Mapes and Sifford overhauled
him and threw him out of bounds on the three. After two stabs at the line, Bell pounded over for
his second score and W. and L.'s third of the game. The middle of the Wildcat line broke through to
smother Riley’s attempted conversion.

Shortly after the last quarter got underway, the Generals took to the air again. Working eluded the charging Wildcat line
and arched a beautiful aerial to Charlie Harrington, who shook off two Cat tacklers. After Jim Sifford slipped off tackle
eight yards, Pahl sliced over guard and dashed 25 yards before being cut down. Sheppard swept wide on a fake
end run and hurled a long pass to Sifford, who plucked the ball out of the hands of two Generals
and raced into the end zone for the Wildcats’ first and only score. Mapes’ try for the extra point was
broken up. Mac Erwin intercepted one of Working’s passes in the waning moments of the game and brought it back
to midfield, but a desperate Cat aerial was intercepted in turn by a Virginian as the game ended seconds later.

Washington and Lee outplayed the Cats all the way and kept possession for a major portion of the tilt. Only
the superb performance of the forward wall, paced by Johnny Walker and Bob Strickland, enabled Davidson to make it a
contest. “Red” Bethea turned in a fine job from his blocking back post, and Carl Pahl (Continued on Page 4)

Remember this seal—it’s your assurance of the best.

FOOD, PRODUCT!

“Charlotte, N.C.”

Franchised Dealer — FOR —

RCA Victor Radios
Bendix Radios
Stewart-Warner Radios
Hot Plates, Tennis Shoes
Desk and Bed Lamps
Etc., Etc.

(COPELAND'S)
Davidson Electric Appliance Co.
