When the tables turned on Citadel last week, a new display of excitement filled our gym. The Wildcat Sports pace
of the game quickened, and our play raised the roof. At halftime, Citadel had Davidson 18-15.

WILDCATS DEFEAT CITADEL 37-30
BERRY SCORES “20” AGAINST CITADEL
Second Half Comeback Wins Game For ’Cats
White Is High Scorer

By Sterling Edwards

In the first few minutes of the second half, Citadel continued to mount up as much as a 10-point lead,
but that was the turning point of the game. From there on out, Davidson took over and not only did
they start a scoring spree, but they managed to hold Citadel practically scoreless for the remaining 10 minutes of the
game.

Berry, Robertson Play Good Game On Defense

Bob Berry proved his worth in the last half by dropping four straight shots, which is really the boost that
put the Wildcats in the lead. Berry also played surprisingly well on the defense. Ed White also hit his stride
in the latter part of the game. The onlookers have reached the point now where they expect Ed to lead
the show in scoring, and naturally, they were satisfied when he was the high scorer by totaling 10 points.

Attention this week is turned to Bill Iverson, the only freshman to make the first team. Bill seems to be
following in the footsteps of his big brother, Ned Iverson, who acquired an excellent record in sports while here at
Davidson. He was a regular on both the football and basketball teams, and in his senior year was made captain
of the cager five. Bill has never been outstanding in scoring, but he is one of the most dependable floor
men Coach Shephard has.

Berry Boosts Score

In the intra-mural contest, the undefeated Independents still hold the lead with the KAs and SPEs close behind with only
one defeat each. Carroll Herion of the Independents and Bob Millar of the SALs are now tied for first place
in individual scoring. The Betas, who were favored to win in this season’s contest, bowed out completely when they lost
to the SPEs by a 36-43 score.

AMONG THE GREEKS

By MAC HARD

Last week the Phi Gam House was honored by a visit from Brother John Lathe, National Field Secretary of Phi
Gamma Delta. The Brothers welcomed back to Davidson for a brief visit last Sunday Brother BH “Stymie” Lyman, an ex-president
of Delta Kappa and now a student at Carolina.

DELUXE ICE CREAM Is Now Available At THE STUDENT STORE

BETA THETA PI

Davidson, N.C.—There are two veterans now on Davidson’s scrappy basketball quintet, which is one of the newest additions to this
year’s team. One is tall, dark-haired George, who is a whiz at hurdling, high jumping, and pole vaulting. The other
is Bill Reece, who set the school high jump record in his freshman year and made an excellent performance in
football. In the army, he was Lieutenant of the Infantry. The whole team showed wonderful teamwork in the preceding Saturday
night game when a large number of fans saw Davidson win another victory from Wofford 38-32.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

His present master, George Ennett, was an American soldier. He played football and basketball, and was captain of the track
team. On Thursday night, February 14th, Phi Alpha chapter formally initiated nine men who had been pledges since last year.
The new wearers of the diamond and three stars are Frank Lemmon, Bill Williams, Jack Grey, Henry and Charlie Neisler,
Andy Kirkpatrick, Bobby Poole, Fritz Vinson, and Cal Schmidt. Following this, there was a feed held at the house in
honor of the initiates and the faculty brothers who were present.

In the recent rushing season, eight new men pledged Beta: Frank Anderson, Champ McNair, Byron Magness, Dave Shepperson, Pom West,
John Yarborough, Buster Plowden, and Jimmie Satterfield. Our belated “bon voyage” goes with brother Harry McLean who lives out in
town with his family.

Duke is a pedigreed German Shepherd, registered with a club in Germany similar to the American Kennel Club but exclusively
for German Shepherds. When the war was over, his usefulness as a war dog was ended and Sgt. George Ennett,
then with the 84th Division, 7th Army at Heidelberg, obtained possession of him. He was trained further in Sgt. Ennett’s
Company for guard and occupational duty. Unable to bring Duke with him to the States in December, Sgt. Ennett, who
remained in Germany, sent Duke over by American Express, arriving in Davidson recently. Duke has been “de-activated” and is far
from being a “war dog.”

Sgt. Ennett, whose home is in Montreat, withdrew from Davidson College to enter the Army in April 1943. He went
overseas in October 1944, assigned to the 84th “Railsplitting” Division, and participated in the attack on the Siegfried Line. Soon
after the German breakthrough in December (the Battle of the Bulge), he was wounded and hospitalized in Paris. Following his
recovery, he was appointed chief of police in Burgdorf, Germany, later being transferred to Heidelberg. For his heroic achievements in
Germany and Belgium in December 1944, he was awarded the Bronze Star. Sgt. Ennett has received his discharge from the
Army and reentered Davidson College in January to complete his education.

Coming Attractions at the Davidson Theatre:

FEB. 20-21 — “Incendiary Blonde”
FEB. 22-23 — “Spellbound”
FEB. 25-26 — “Love Letters”
FEB. 27-28 — “Lady On A Train”
MARCH 1-2 — “She Wouldn’t Say Yes”
MARCH 3-5 — “Mildred Pierce”
MARCH 6-7 — “Kiss and Tell”
MARCH 8-9 — “Wonder of the Wasteland”
MARCH 11-12 — “That Night With You”
MARCH 13-14 — “Confidential Agent”
MARCH 15-16 — “Stork Club”
MARCH 18-19 — “This Love of Ours”
MARCH 20-21 — “The House of Dracula”

Professors Return:

Dr. J. B. Woods has been discharged and has again assumed his duties as College Physician. A new addition to
the staff is Prof. Sinclair, who offers courses in Accounting, Business Organization, Finance, and Insurance.

Phi Delts Standings:

Independent 4-0
Kappa Alpha 3-1
Sigma Alpha 3-2
Pika 2-2
Phi Kappa Phi 2-3
Beta 1-2
Phi Delts 1-5
Kappa Sigma 0-4

Smith Floral Shops:
Local and College Agent
Jack Payne — Phone 3741
