Starting from scratch, Coach Bill Story, with the aid of promising material, has built Davidson’s “thin red line” into a whirling eleven. Opening the season, the Wildcats overpowered the opposition of the Erskine squad 74-0 on September 21, 1946, before an enthusiastic gathering of 7,000 fans.

Although Erskine fielded an eleven, Story's charges were nevertheless extremely impressive in their inaugural tilt. Behind devastating blocking, a host of Davidson backs amassed over 500 yards from scrimmage and racked up a total of 22 first downs. Davidson's 11 touchdowns were divided among 11 players, and consequently, it would be difficult to point out any star among the galaxy of Wildcat performers.

The Cats’ line seemed strong. The entire backfield sparked the game with long shifty runs; tailback Austin, fumbling a low pass from center on his own ten, recovered beautifully and stepped off 85 yards for one of the numerous Davidson scores in the second quarter. Other standouts were Jake Wade and Rhea Adams, cat wingbacks.

Jumping the gun Saturday night, the Cats will try for their second win of the season in a conference game against Wofford College of Spartanburg, S.C. Game time is 8:00 p.m. at Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. This weekend, the Cats begin a really tough schedule, and the Saturday night game is the first of the conference series. Coach Story was not giving away any secrets about the outcome, but what he did say took a little of the kick out of some of his previous statements. “Wofford has a good team,” he stated, “and it ought to be a fairly evenly matched game.” All told, he was being cautious about committing himself at all. The way he refrained from talking about Wofford might start some people to thinking.

Injuries, resulting from a hard workout Monday, may prove serious. George Peters suffered a shoulder separation which may knock him out for the entire season. Rhea Adams, first-class wingback, flipped his hip out of joint, and Carnegie, first-string center, may be out of the Wofford game because of a shoulder mishap.

Wofford Coach Ted Petosky’s Terriers will be recovering from a 31-0 fray with Furman in which Charlie Stephens, second-string Terrier wingback, stood out even in defeat. Wofford got into Furman territory only twice, once to the 40 and again to the Furman 35. Wofford’s long run was made by Stephens, who stepped off to a 16-yard dash. The Wildcats may expect the last game of their season to be a tough one.

As to the outcome of the Wofford game, Saturday will tell, but the Wildcats have shown plenty of potential. It might be well to mention a few pertinent facts about N.C. State for the benefit of those whose radio reception was blurred by the Saturday afternoon curse of electric razors. State always has been a prime rival of Davidson’s, and the Cats have played some of their best games against the Wolfpack. In 1942 the tally at Raleigh ended in a 0-0 tie after Art Roach, ’42 scatback, broke away for a third score.

After seeing the Wildcats roll over Erskine in a somewhat track-like fashion, armchair strategists are wondering what Coach Story’s squad really has. The question becomes even more complicated after Saturday's upsets of N.C. State’s overpowering Duke and Furman holding the powerful Crimson Tide of Alabama to a three-touchdown margin.

Coach Jack Sparks is confident that his scrappy junior varsity team will win at least three games of its five-game schedule. After two weeks of practice, the Wildkittens are still a bit green, but they are working hard and improving rapidly. With a line averaging about 170 pounds and a backfield averaging 180, the ’Kittens open their season here with Lees-McRae this afternoon. After the Lees-McRae tilt, two home games will be followed by two out-of-town games in this order:

October 4—Lees-McRae, here
October 11—Belmont Abbey, here
October 25—Barium Springs, here
November 2—Presbyterian Junior College, there
November 16—Cherry Point Marines, there

Interfraternity touch football will get underway for the fall season next Monday when the Phi Gams begin round one by tangling with the Kappa Alphas. On Monday also, last year’s co-champs, the Betas, meet the Independents. On Tuesday the S.P.E.'s, who also tied last year for top honors, meet the Pikas. Wednesday brings together the Phi Delts, last year’s third-place holders, and the Independents.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Have Five Lettermen: Peyigeon gained possession of the ball in the final minutes for the S. A. E.'s. The second with only five lettermen back to play for the Cats, the outlook back, intercepted a pass and raced for a touchdown. Anderson, standing in the backfield, led a drive that was culminated when he bucked over for the Cats' third tally. Mapes missed his conversion and Davidson led 20-0.

Returning this week from the Raleigh game, and then watching V. M. I. and Richmond battle to a tie, Story would only comment that the Cats were in good shape. She was in no mood to make predictions. 

Moments later, an Erskine fumble gave the Cats the ball on their opponents' 34. White paced the attack to the Seceder three, and Bowman rammed over. Blanks' kick was good and Davidson led 27-0 as the quarter ended. 

The second period opened with Davidson's third and fourth string tailback, Howard Turner, halfback, George Bloomquest, end, and Oscar Bozerman, back, are men to be watched. Wade made a brilliant 75-yard return on an Erskine punt, but a penalty nullified his run. On an attempted fourth down kick, Austin fumbled the low snap, but scooped up the ball and raced 85 yards to score behind deadly blocking. The try for the extra point failed as the count ran up to 33-0.

Davidson then launched a 60-yard offensive that ended when Conrad spun off tackle for the tally. Blanks split the uprights and the score was 40-0. 

On the third play of the second half, Rice slipped off tackle on a reverse, and darted through the secondary for a beautiful 50-yard touchdown jaunt. Guy's conversion was successful as the score mounted to 46-0. 

After recovering an Erskine punt on the Seceders' 35, Adams and Erwin drove swiftly down the field with Erwin crashing over for the marker. Mapes' placement was good and the Wildcats assumed a 53-0 lead. 

Whitehurst gathered in an Erskine punt and then lateraled to Anderson, who sprinted 60 yards before being cut down from behind. 

In the waning moments of the game, Jake Wade took the Wildcats on another sustained drive. With time running out, Wade dropped a pass into Blanks' hands for the concluding touchdown. Blanks' attempted placement was good, and the gun sounded on a crushing 74-0 Wildcat victory.

---

JOTTINGS OF OTHER GAMES

Tennessee looked good against Georgia Tech, chalking up a 13-9 victory. Tech was crippled greatly, as Broyles, who called signals with a cast on his shoulder, was unable to pass. 

Oklahoma battled Army for 60 minutes of fast football, Saturday rattling Davis and playing a beautiful line game despite Army's win of 21-7. Doc Blanchard was out of the Army lineup and on the injured list. 

Alabama bucked up against a strong Tulane outfit to win only 7-0. 

---

Above is Ed Rhodes, 216-pound tackle from Norfolk, Virginia. Before coming to Davidson, he played at the University of Richmond, and he will probably see a lot of action during the season.

---

Belk's Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.

Charlotte's pro-ball club, coached by former Davidson mentor Gene McEver, eked out a 6-0 victory over the Richmond Rebels Sunday afternoon in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. Al Moneyhan, assistant Davidson coach, played a steady game and broke up what looked like a sure tie by some tricky strategy leading to a screen pass which scored the single touchdown.

---

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Stationery
Rule Forms
Booklets
Publications
Phone 63000
Charlotte, N. C.

---

Stonestreet's Studios
PORTRAITS
COPIES
ROLL FILM DEVELOPING
PRINTING
230 N. Tryon
Charlotte, N. C.

---

W. C. Johnston Co.
"Everything in Hardware"
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

---

Paul & Crymes Inc.
"The Sensible Place to Eat"
418 S. Main St. — Phone 132
Mooresville, N. C.

---

SUPPORT THE STUDENT STORE