Page Six THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, May 15, 1946

DR. JOHNSON (Continued from Page 1)

and was chosen as Managing Editor the latter part of his sophomore year. He was a member of the Phi
Delta Theta fraternity, the Spanish Club, and helped manage the Wildcat baseball team as a Freshman. While in the army,
Sutton first served as an Aviation Cadet for ten months and then with the infantry in France and Germany. He
holds the Combat Infantry Badge and two battle stars on the European Theater of Operations ribbon for campaigns in the
Rheinland and Central Germany.

CARSON
McAlister (Buddy) Carson, Jr., Business Manager of the 1946 “Quips and Cranks,” re-entered Davidson College this semester, after serving for
two and a half years in the Air Cadets flying twin-engine planes, B-24's and B-29's. In 1943, before leaving school,
he was elected Business Manager of the “Davidsonian” for 1944 and Varsity Basketball Manager for 1944, but was unable to
fill these positions. At present, he is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and the Scabbard and Blade.

MORROW
W. Howell Morrow, a member of the senior class from West Point, Ga., is the editor of the 1946 edition
of the college annual, “The Quips and Cranks.” He entered the freshman class at Davidson in 1940 and remained here
through his junior year when he volunteered for the service. During his first three years here, Morrow was a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, served as editor of the “Davidsonian,” managing editor of the annual, managing editor of
the college magazine, “The Scripts ’n Pranks,” a member of the Forensic Council, a member of the debating team, a
member of the Eumenean Literary Society, and of Sigma Upsilon. In June of 1943, he entered the Army Infantry until
he was transferred to the Air Corps where he obtained the rank of Second Lt. Navigator. Recently, Morrow was elected
into membership of Phi Beta Kappa.

WINSTEAD
Mel Winstead, a member of the senior class from Lincolnton, N. C., has held the position as editor of the
“Davidsonian” since June, 1945. A newly elected member of Phi Beta Kappa, Mel has been a member of the symphonic
band for three years. In addition, he has served as president of Phi Mu Alpha, and Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and of the Philanthropic Society. He has served as
a member of the student Literary Council and in his freshman year was assistant manager of the track team. He
is listed in the 1946 edition of “Who's Who Among Students.” He expects to graduate in May, but will be
with us this summer as a member of the college faculty. He will enter the graduate school at the University
of North Carolina in September to further his study in the field of organic chemistry.

PETERS
George Peters, a member of the junior class from Kingsport, Tenn., entered Davidson in 1941, when he was captain of
the freshman football team that year. At the end of his sophomore year, he was elected first vice-president of the
student body and was a member of the student council. While in the Infantry, he obtained the rank of Lieutenant
and was overseas in France and Germany for ten months. He wears the Combat Infantryman’s Badge and the E.T.O. ribbon
with two battle stars. Returning to Davidson this semester, he was elected to serve on the student council and recently
was chosen to head the senior class for next year. George was married last year to Miss Emily Loftis of
Charlotte, and the couple are now making their home in Davidson. George is quite an athlete, having earned letters in
football, basketball, and track. He is a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity and of the Beaver Club.

YARBOROUGH
Tommy Yarborough, a member of the senior class, hails from Albany, Ga. He entered Davidson in the fall of 1938
and played baseball for three years before he went into the service in January of '42. After being in the
navy for forty-six months and becoming a 1st-Class Petty Officer, he returned to Davidson to complete his education. Tommy is
a member of the student council and vice-president of the senior class. He is president of the Kappa Sigma fraternity,
a member of the “D” Club, and a former member of the Beaver Club. Tommy's wife, the former Miss Mary
Louise Young, and their son, Tommy, Jr., are living in Atlanta, Ga., at present.

POWELL
Tommy Powell, a member of the junior class from San Antonio, Texas, was recently elected by the members of the
rising Senior class to serve as Athletic Advisor for next year. Originally in the class of '45, Tommy entered Davidson
in the fall of 1941. During his time at Davidson he meHandle Our Service

For the first two years, he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, played freshman basketball, and
was a member of the Eumanean Literary Society, the Spanish Club, and Eta Sigma Phi. He served on the Business
Staff as Advertising Manager of the “Davidsonian” during his sophomore year and was a member of the Beaver Club. In
June of 1943, he entered the service and became a Navigator-Radar Observer on B-20's until his discharge in December of
1945. Recently, he was elected to serve on the student council for next year.

Charles Clinkscale, Withers Electric Co.
Charles Thompson, Circulation Manager

Pictured above is the retiring Business Staff of the Davidsonian. Pictured from left to right, front row: Bob Gambrell, Advertising
Manager; Bob Neill, Bob Knight, Jack Lazenby, Business Manager; and Charlie Reid. Back row: Lemmon, Bill Baxter, Bob Smoak, Assistant
Business Manager, Ward Lasley, Charles Cunningham, and Bob Murphy.

CINEMA COMMENTS
(Continued from Page 4)

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
@ Radio Repairs

A widow with beaucoup problems on her hands. It's a pity that she’s not in Paris as she might have
only two problems on her hands.

FRI. and SAT. May 31 - June 1
“And Then There Were None”
An exciting mystery involving a little rhyme “Ten Little Indians.” This is the sort of thriller in which everyone suspects
everyone else, yet no one suspects the right one until the end. I do not recommend this movie to anyone
who has flunked nine exams under different professors.

BABY CHICKS— Good Quality. Send for Price List and Save Money.
—WORTHWHILE CHICKS—
101 W. North Ave.
Baltimore 1, Maryland

AMONG THE GREEKS
(Continued from Page 4)

“Goldenstein” visited Rock Hill and the fair things of Winthrop. McLean is still writing poetry and smelling flowers. Brother Sutton
visited Charlotte and says everything is simply “gaw-gus.” Pledge Brothers Long and Miller were also seen in the Queen City
over the weekend and reports say that all is well. Brothers Todd and M. Smith were seen at the house
contemplating a deal to Charlotte, but your reporter was unable to determine the outcome in time to meet the deadline.
Brother Davis took a bath this weekend. Blacksburg was the destination of Brothers Ed Montgomery and Iverson and Pledge Brother
Bill Montgomery, all with the Cat cinder team.

STUDENT STORE
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
* Stationery
* Rule Forms
* Booklets
* Publications
* Phone 63000
Charlotte, N. C.

Visit The Music News By Frank Barr

The most outstanding feature of the musical life of the campus this year was the concert series. The first of
the programs was given by Carl Weinrich, organist, on October 15. The second was given on November 12 by Samuel
Duskin. On February 4, Mack Harrell, baritone, presented a program in Chambers Auditorium, and on February 25, Sari Biro was
presented in a piano recital as part of the series. On December 10, the Music Department presented Handel's “Messiah” in
Chambers Auditorium with the assistance of the Music Department of Queen's College. On December 17, the two music departments again
combined and presented the annual Christmas Vespers, the most outstanding program of the year. Other programs of interest during the
year were those given by the Davidson College Symphonic Band. Such concerts were given on November 27 and March 19.
These were the only two on-campus concerts given this year. Off-campus concerts were given in Salisbury, at Converse College, and
at Queens College in addition to a tour of Western North Carolina. Off-campus concerts by the glee club were given
in Thomasville, Charlotte, and Bristol, Tennessee.

At a meeting in Phi Hall on May 7, the members of Phi Mu Alpha elected officers to serve during
the coming year. G. P. Whitley will serve as president, J. F. Barr, Jr., is vice-president, R. O. Freeman is
secretary-treasurer, Jack Goode is warden, and Guy Hitchcock is historian.

On May 8, the members of Phi Mu Alpha were hosts to the members of the Davidson College Glee Club
and the Davidson College Symphonic Band, several members of the faculty and their wives, and students in organ, piano, and
voice.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
MECKLENBURG COUNTY, and 44 other North Carolina Counties with——
Super Bus Service
CITY TRAILWAYS
Charlotte, N. C.
417 West Fifth Street

QUEEN Library of Davidson College

OUR LARGEST — SHERMAN BILLINGSLEY’S — THE RIGHT COMBINATION OF WORLD Copyright 1946, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. BETTER TASTING
CHESTERFIELD vs. BEST TOBACCOS— PROPERLY AGED COOLER SMOKES
