Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN Wednesday, May 15, 1946

PI KAPPA PHI

After much deliberation, George “Obnoxious” Barksdale has been selected to represent the fraternity at the Wartime Waiters Convention. Have a
nice trip, George, and stay a long time! Cam, “the Net” Nuttal seems to be making an attempt to revolutionize
men's clothing. What next?

The man of the week is Mel Winstead. He just keeps adding honors to his list. Most recent of these
are a tap into ODK and being chosen as an entry in “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and
Colleges.” Good going, Mel.

For a complete pro and con picture of the OPA, kindly consult E. B. Hunter, Jr., and “Inflation” Sinclair. Theirs
is the advice of the men who know tomorrow best. No other fraternity can make that statement.

Graduation is just around the corner, and with that go two of Pi Kappa’s swellest brothers—Ed Murray and Mel Winstead.
We wish each one of them the best of luck possible as they leave Davidson, extending them a welcome to
return to the campus many, many times.

The Pi Kapps are going to have an “Epsilonian” this year—the co-editors being Bobby Cline and Walter Walker. The last
Epsilonian that was printed was back in ‘44 when Jim Elliott was Editor, and, naturally, we're all looking forward to
a swell issue.

The House is really looking upward, now that we’ve finished redecorating the inside. But we’ve had a time getting our
grass to grow. Between Robertson's and Reid's two different theories on “how to nourish your grass so that it’ll come
up,” it’s amazing we have any up at all.

KAPPA ALPHA

Well, after much travail, the KA House was made ready for Spring Frolics. Although there were no shocking occurrences at
either of the intermission parties, a most enjoyable time was had by all present. Several alumni and brothers from other
chapters were on hand to add to the festivities.

Last Sunday night after Vespers, a feed was held in honor of Dr. Julian Lake who spoke to the student
body that night. Other alumni who were present at this function were Messrs. George King, Frank Jackson, John Bailey, Jr.,
and John Payne, Sr.

As for sports, the KA’s have had fair success on the softball diamond. Although lacking reserves, we have won two
games and lost two. Brother Jim Jackson is doing a fine job of pitching, and we hope to achieve greater
success in this sport in the near future. Brother “Flash” Matthews is still burning up the 440 on all the
tracks in which the college is participating. Congrats to “Ditus.” We would also like to congratulate Brother Jim Jackson on
being tapped into ODK.

KAPPA SIGMA

We wish to congratulate George Peters on becoming the new President of the “D” Club and President of the rising
senior class; Ed White on becoming Vice-President of the senior class; and George Ennett and Hugh McArn for their election
to the Court of Control. Laurels also go to Bob Lacy for setting a school record in the high-jump last
week against VPI, and to Lyttleton Scott for his undefeated record on the tennis team.

In the softball league, we are progressing slowly but surely with four wins and two losses. Plans are underway to
redecorate the house after this semester so that all will be in readiness for summer school.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

All the fellows are making plans for the summer now that the end of school is nearly here. Some are
going to work, others have camp jobs, and still others are coming to summer school. We will have a good
number of boys here in summer school.

Buddy Carson is still having a hard time with his workmen as they seem to have spring fever and then
softball labs are another obstacle, but he expects to finish the work on the house very soon. We are both
proud and happy for Buddy Carson and Tommy Powell who have been tapped for ODK, and we extend our congratulations
to them.

If graduation doesn’t come before very long, I am afraid we will not be able to hold Frank Lee. He
walks, talks, and sleeps graduation nowadays. We can all understand this, as he has been trying to complete his education
for some time. All of us are pulling for you, Frank.

Bill Hodgin and Ford Little will finish the golf team, which completes its schedule this week. Ellis Allen seems to
be another very strong golf enthusiast and one can often find him out on the golf links in the afternoon.

Bob Gambrell spent a pleasant weekend at Sweet Briar and was very much impressed by what he saw.

BETA THETA PI

We are very pleased to announce that Brother Ralph Alexander has been accepted into the Mt. Mourne Country Club, tennis
trunks and all! Congratulations, Ralph.

Also happy to report that Brothers Childers and Schmidt had a very pleasant weekend at Norville’s home—everyone seemed to have
had a thrilling time, at least Norville caught his share Sunday afternoon.

All was not rosy last weekend, however. It seems that Lipscomb and Goode could be seen ‘most any hour last
Saturday night ‘most any place. Mooresville and Charlotte are awfully “dry” towns, aren’t they, fellas?

What we want to know is what there is about Doc's courting that his girl doesn’t like. How about it,
Doc?

Brother “Gundar” Grey also had a dreary weekend. It seems he was giving all the girls a bad time up
at the VPI dance—all to no avail. At any rate, he was last seen trying to get into bed with
Lacy. Too bad he was out of town, Gundar!

Kirkpatrick seems to have had a hard time with Janice out on the golf course not long ago. Still trying
to persuade her not to fall in love with you, Andy?

We are very happy to report that Brother Bill Williams is progressing very nicely in the hospital in Charlotte. Doesn’t
seem to have hurt his technique with the girls any. I'm sure all the student nurses will verify this statement.

Smith, God's gift to the women, has finally been hooked, for all practical purposes. At any rate, Betty seems to
be sporting his pin. Congratulations, Soapy!

Brothers Pollard and Larew had a very pleasant weekend at Salem. Better be careful, Bill, or you’ll be getting that
pin by return mail. Seems that Betsy may not like it. How about it, Boyd?

We hear from very authentic sources that a certain little girl in Norfolk has you “sweating it out,” Boyd.

It seems that one of our esteemed brethren has been playing foul tricks upon the fair maidens. Yes, it’s none
other than “Smoothie” Schmidt. Which is it going to be, Cal? Louise or Mary Stanton? Don’t string them along and
break both of their hearts!

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Bull sessions have been rather infrequent around the Sig Ep house since spring cleaning began. The painting had been completed
and the job of putting things back in their respective places has begun.

Dave Blevins was worried last week because he hadn't received a note from “Sweet Jackie.” My, how he worries when
they don’t arrive on schedule.

“Flop” Shaw seems to be making quite a hit with all the girls up at W. C. (one in particular—here
one weekend—there the next). From what I hear, he’s even overcome his fear of dancing. Getting smooth, eh, Flop?

Get These HIT PARADE Records
“Your Father’s Mustache” —Woody Herman
“At The Fat Man’s” —Tommy Dorsey
“It’s Been A Long, Long Time” —Harry James
“Beulah’s Boogie” —Lionel Hampton
“That’s For Me” —Dick Haynes
“Waitin’ For The Train To Come In” —Peggy Lee
—at—
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
118 West Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Say It With Flowers
—from—
SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Cornelius
Jack Payne—Local and College Agent
—Phone 3741Neill seems to be very much in love. I hear he’s being kidded about getting married soon. Tell us
more, Tuffy. Charles Thompson has been spending some exciting weekends. He went home to write term papers. Harold Marshall will
be a married man on June 2. The lucky girl (he says) is Margaret Sittin of Easly, S.C. That's a
nice wedding present from your Dad, Harold.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
The Pikas are proud to announce the pledging of Frank Northcut and Jack Page. Also, the recent initiation of Ted
Sumner and Jeff Wood. Brother Neill seems to have it bad over a certain “Vodka,” but a certain “Betsy” or
Sam seem to have him worried. Ensign, “The Tramp,” says it was love at first sight. What happened in Charlotte,
R. Stroupe? “Chick” show you the town? Mars Hill has a mysterious hold over “Flip” Wood. The “Haircut” or Sumner
seems to be fascinated with Durham. Smoak has our sympathy for the gigantic debt he incurred recently. How did the
brass buttons look in the dark, Smoak? Salem had a dance last week, or haven't you heard, Jackson? Orchids to
Clyde Stroup and his successful weekend at the Robert E. Lee. Reports say she was a knockout. It seems that
Brother Coble has recently encountered “slight difficulties” to say the least, or shall we say competition with one of the
campus blondes. Don't let the situation get out of hand, Coble—physics exam coming up, you know. Brother Dockery has been
expressing his woe over not being able to settle down. Don't worry, Dockery, your day will come. Brother Clark took
a rush trip to Delaware. Quite a surprise that you got back for classes, “Snuffy.” “Short Dog” Leonard remained on
campus last week. Did your bridge club disband? Joe Bell just couldn't get back for vespers; well, after all, Statesville
is twenty miles away. Hogan, do you know what “skivvies” are? If not, ask Jean. Dickson reports he had to
fall to the floor to keep from being seen by a certain second femme. Romeo had nothing on him, he
says. Does Sandra know Nancy, Dickson? Graves keeps his private life pretty much to himself. Or do you have one,
little Bob?

PHI DELTA THETA
Largest operations of the week were pulled by Brothers Tate, Golden, McLean, and Cameron. Brothers Tate and Cameron journeyed to
Winston to take in the Spring Dances while “Bomber Bill” and DAVIDSONIAN’S ’45-’46 EDITORIAL STAFF

Shown above is the retiring editorial staff of the Davidsonian, which has led the way this year for the publication
of the paper. Pictured, left to right, front row: Lonnie Turner, Doug Swink, Lamar Williamson, Ed Sutton newly elected Editor,
Mel Winstead, retiring Editor, Jimmy Nisbet, Assistant Editor, Jim Jackson, Sports Editor, and Frank Barr, Feature Editor. Back row, left
to right: Dave Gambrell, Julian Hodges, Ralph Alexander, Charles Hadley, Mac Hart, Ernie Hunter, Bill Gamble, Walter Walker, Sterling Edwards,
and George Gunn.

CINEMA COMMENTS BY DOUG SWINK
WED. and THURS. May 15 - 16 “Salome Where She Danced”
Your reporter was at his wits' end after seeing Salome wiggle and squirm her lovely little body across the screen.
One might say that she put everything she had into it. Gene Tierney takes the part of Salome and with
technicolor backing her up, quite a few heartbeats ought to result from the showing.

FRI. and SAT. May 17 - 18 “Cornered”
Canadian flyer, Dick Powell, having been released from a Nazi prison camp, is determined to track down the killer of
his French bride. The killer’s trail leads him to Buenos Aires where he is involved in espionage, intrigue, and all
other matters that concern spies. There is continual drinking and brutality which make this picture only for adults.

MON. and TUES. May 20 - 21 “Leave Her To Heaven”
The trend of the pictures now being shown at the Davidson Theatre seems to throw at us men the evils
that possess the fair sex, but I suppose I am not alone in saying that I like to tangle with
a little spitfire every now and then. Gene Tierney presents some fine acting and is supported by Jeanne Crain and
Cornel Wilde, who if you will recall played Robin Hood in “Bandit of Sherwood Forest.” However, all is not so
rosy in this picture as “Tigress” Tierney really puts the screws on him.

WED. and THURS. May 22 - 23 “Cinderella Jones”
A weak plot starring Joan Leslie and Robert Alda is pulled to the finish line by such able character players
as Edward Everett Horton, S. Z. Sakall, and Julie Bishop. This is a story of a girl who inherits a
cool ten million with the accustomed strings attached. Hey! The strings are attached to the ten million.

FRI. and SAT. May 24 - 25 “Road To Utopia”
A different road but the same cast combination of Crosby-Hope-Lamour with the addition of Bob Benchley and his tongue-in-cheek wit.
This is recommended to everyone as all of us will need something to laugh at during examinations. The Alaskan scenery
provides a perfect setting for Bing’s singing, Bob's jokes (?), and Dotty’s own brand of song shoveling and sex.

MON. and TUES. May 27 - 28 “Devotion”
This is the story of the Bronte sisters showing the background of the genius, jealousy, and sisterly devotion from which
sprang such works as “Jane Eyre” and “Wuthering Heights.” Ida Lupino as Emily, Olivia de Havilland as Charlotte, and Paul
Henreid as the curate form a strong triangle around which the plot evolves.

WED. and THURS. May 29 - 30 “My Reputation”
Barbara Stanwyck does some fine acting in this drama as an attractive widow.

TRUSTEES (Continued from Page 1)
Mr. Scott Candler, Decatur, Ga.; Mr. John T. Smith, Greenville, S.C.; Rev. A. J. Kissling, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. C. W.
R. Wilcox, Rome, Ga.; Rev. Thompson, Richmond, Va.

Complete Stock
Yardley’s Toilet Articles
Eversharp Pens and Pencils
Parker Pens and Pencils
Prescriptions a Specialty
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum
Telephone 2111

MRS. DOUGLAS (Continued from Page 1)
A staunch supporter of the United Nations, Mrs. Douglas was well-known publicly long before her entrance into the political arena.
As a sophomore at Barnard College, she was called to play the lead in the Broadway production “Dreams For Sale,”
a start leading to a successful stage career during which she was named by the late Heywood Broun as one
of the ten most beautiful women in America. Taking up the study of voice, she again climbed the ladder to
stardom and was on a concert tour of Europe when Hitler staged his anschluss in Austria. Mrs. Douglas’ experiences in
tense, pre-war Europe made her conscious of the growing danger of fascism, and she returned to California as a crusader
against Hitler and the Nazi ideology. From a post on the national advisory board of NYA, she graduated to the
Democratic National Committee in 1940 and was elected to Congress in November 1944.

THACKER’S INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms — For Parties and Banquets

Dunbar Studios
PORTRAITS
ROLL FILM DEVELOPING
COPIES
PRINTING
230 N. Tryon
Charlotte, N.C.
DAVIDSON, N.C.

MEMBERS OF DEBATING TEAM
After a dormant period of three years, the Forensic Council, under the guidance of Dr. Frontis, has recently been reorganized.
Members of the Council, and the debating team, pictured above, are: Charles Elyea, Leighton McKeithen, and Don Coffey. The team,
composed of Elyea and McKeithen for the affirmative, and Coffey for the negative, is headed by McKeithen for the remainder
of the semester.
