Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, March 22, 1946 The Davidsonian Founded by the Class of 1915 Published Bi-Weekly “For a
Better Davidson” MEL WINSTEAD EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Editorials DAVIDSONIAN Features DEXTER LAZENBY BUSINESS-MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF Assistant Editor Jimmy Nisbet Feature Editor Frank Barr, Jr Managing Editor Tamar Williamson Managing Editor Lonnie Turner Managing
Editor Ed Sutton Managing Editor Doug Swink Ernest Hunter Bill Whitaker Managing Editor Art Editor Sports Editor Jim Jackson Associate
Sports Editor Sterling Edwards Assistant Sports Editor Bill Gamble Staff Photographer George Gunn

BUSINESS STAFF Assistant Business Manager Bob Smoak Advertising Manager Bob Gambrell Circulation Manager Charles Thompson Circulation Manager Norvel Childers Subscriptions
Manager Bob Neal

Second-class matter at the Post Office at act of March 3, 1897 under the SUBSCRIPTION RATES Ten cents per copy.
$1.50 the Collegiate year Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY Charlotte, North Carolina REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising
Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. New York, N. Y. CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN
FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it
welcomes any contributions provided such documents or communications to it do not contain derogatory references to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. Material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is
to be printed and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

A Great Man.... In the eyes of many in America, Mr. Winston Churchill is the greatest living man of today.
His very manner is one of a very determined character, as is evident in the way he directed the English
people in the dark days of World War II. For the past several weeks the American people have been playing
host to the great British statesman, who came to this country to rest and not to make speeches, but when
he did consent to do the latter, it was in the role of a private citizen. As a result of
his world-shaking Fulton speech, Mr. Churchill succeeded in breaking the consistent silence of Premier Stalin, who, heretofore, didn’t know how
to talk back. Mr. Churchill's speech in New York, which was far more conservative in content than was his Missouri
address, called for faith in the UNO to preserve world peace, and to hold the Russians in check. Whether Mr.
Churchill meant to advance a military alliance between Great Britain and America in his Missouri speech is certainly not necessary
or pertinent at this time. Americans and British know only too well that in such an event, nothing whatever could
keep them apart. What good is a piece of paper at this time between two countries whose affinity is historic,
and whose future depends upon their inseparable unity? It is time now for us to make full use of the
UNO to the end of perpetuating the peace of the world. America and Great Britain could not achieve that end
alone, and any separate alliances between the two great powers would only interfere with the success of the organization. Mr.
Churchill meant only to voice his honest convictions as to current developments, and many Americans, who are also concerned with
the Western future, will honor him for his wisdom and praise him for his courage.

Letters To The Editor....

Dear Editor: To those veterans who have returned to Davidson after having had their education interrupted, there are many changes
in the old “set-up” of our campus life. The new men and veterans who have entered college for the first
time assume that the entire campus procedure and mode is as it has been always. None of us will say
that some of the changes were not necessary with the coming of the government training units and a much smaller
civilian student body but now that everything has returned to a semblance of normalcy, these changes should be righted. The
student store has been always in the past the center of campus life and the meeting place of all when
not attending chapel or class. Its very location was for the most part the finest asset and made those friendly
get-togethers simple indeed. First let me say a word for the location of the “stud” store. It would be much
more convenient to have it back behind Georgia in the old location. When it was there before it was possible
to get milk and donuts almost any hour of the day and not involve a cross-campus trek as does the
present situation. Another thing was the schedule which the door was kept open at all hours except for one half
hour during the meal periods—8:00 A.M. ‘til 12:00 P.M. True, there are certain hardships to overcome in moving back to
the above mentioned location, but it can be done—The lighting in the present place is not as good as that
found in most barns. Secondly, the self-service system should be re-instated immediately thus putting our honor system back to work
as it should be working. Seeing this system practiced in the “stud” is a constant reminder to all, of the
type of life that prevails on the Davidson College campus. When the new gym is built, the plans for the
Student Union will go forward and the results will doubtless be gratifying but until that time, which is definitely uncertain,
let’s move the student store back to the old location and back to the self-service system. Thanks for the opportunity—
McAlister Carson, Jr.

Dear Editor: Many of us who have returned in the last two months to Davidson feel that the present Student
Store leaves much to be desired in comparison to the Student Store of by-gone days. One of the better features
of the former store was its location in proximity to the dormitory row. Being situated behind and almost in the
center of the dormitories, it served as a gathering place for those who wished to get a quick snack. I
am sure that many students including myself feel now that a bit to eat is hardly worth the hike over
to the present location in the gym. As I recall the former store, the policy was to remain open from
eight o'clock in the morning until at least midnight. Now however, with the present management’s “bankers’ hours” that are in
effect, I usually take a walk over to the gym, only to find the store closed. I understand why the
counter system of service was a necessity while there were soldiers on the campus, but now with the return of
our normal student-body, it would seem that we could revert back to the old system of self-service. It would certainly
be more convenient to the clerk on duty as well as to the students themselves. I hope that sometime in
the near future we may see some changes that would make the store more as it was before the war.
If not in location, at least the hours of business lengthened and the self-service method employed. Sincerely yours, George Ennett.

PI-KAPPA ALPHA Night after Vespers, the Pikas had a feed. A good time was had by all. A regular mail-magnetic
is Dockery. He received two special deliveries in two days from that old goal this week-end was Durham. We still
have to find out. Sumner, next? You're as good as mine. It was back to Asheville for Jeff and Wood
this weekend, then on to Mars Hill. We hear that Strop and Taylor were in Winston-Salem Saturday night. What would
that dumb blonde at Queens say about that, Stroupe? We wonder if Hadley liked that wedding last weekend? Tell us
more Charles. Courson, Markey and Turner stayed on the campus last weekend. Ed tells us he has sworn off women.
They're too much trouble. Our congratulations to Joe Martin for making Phi Beta. The ripping Bamboo Room was really out
the night. If you haven't already heard about it, you'd do well to.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON Friday night, the 15th, we had a formal initiation and added four new brothers to the group
with the initiation of Joe Richardson, Bill Baxter, Stokes Jennings, and Henry Engle. This was followed by a feed at
the house which we all enjoyed. All of us are mighty proud of Jim Alexander after making Phi Beta Kappa
and hope he will continue to do as well in med-school next year. Jim plans to go up to the
University of Pa. Bob Millar and Bob Gambrell have gotten their greetings from the President and they expect to be
in khaki before long. With their R.O.T.C. training they both expect to be promoted to “majors” before too long a
time. Anderton's wife Sert has joined him now, and we all are delighted to have her. Carl Phal and Bib
Strickland said the first team was really clicking in that practice scrimmage Saturday afternoon. Hodgin and Bill whose ties are
good for a laugh any time. Hodgin says Tommy Powell has gotten too fast for him so he has taken
second place as the ladies’ man.

KAPPA ALPHA At this time, as are most of the fraternities, the K.A.s are in the midst of the general
Spring House Cleaning. With us, this has not been without its amusing incidents, since “Fire-Bugs” Matthews and Wall have failed
in their attempt to demolish our hedge and grounds. In spite of occasional set-backs progress is being made. As for
sports, the Kappa Alphas have had a pretty good start, winning two out of three Volley Ball games so far.
We are now preparing for the track meeting which is going to be held in the near future. Also preparations
are being made along social lines. The K.A.s and Kappa Sigs are making arrangements for a formal function to be
held in Charlotte on the twelfth or thirteenth of April. Sam McDaniel, better known as “hawkeye”, has been making a
very good record on the rifle team this year. We extend congratulations and hopes that he will continue the good
work. Brother Frank Matthews has gone home to Gastonia this weekend tobe at his brother’s wedding. His brother, Houston Matthews,
is to marry Annabelle Ziegler. The ADPi Sorority from Queens came over this past weekend en masse and paid us
a visit. It all started with a buffet supper at Mrs. Thompson's boarding house. Then we all came back to
the house and danced, played cards, and pursued various other forms of entertainment. “Polo” Bailey was his usual self, and
Tommy Yarborough Hamner was searching the mantelpiece. Smoking was giving all the girls a thrill with his new jitterbug technique.
A good time was had by all, especially Bill Spencer, John McDonald, and Joe McCoy, who were recent visitors on
the campus. We are repainting our boarding house and will move in sometime during the summer. Doe Bailey, Acey Current,
and Bob Lacy were recently initiated.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Jerry (“the WART”) made a long journey up to Kingsport, Tenn. last weekend to see his one and only, Dot.
My, my, must be wonderful! Bet she learned a lot of tennis. Dave Blevins got turned down in the “Dutch
Buffet,” but there is some talk about a “Picadilly Pickup.” Well! Well! Pitts really has been certain to the Mountain
with more than one little lassie on his excursion to the village of Kingsport with Dave and Howard. Our nomination
for the man most in love on the campus will be Harold Marshall. He really has it bad. Wonder what
Charlie and “Twitch” went to Hendersonville for. Could it have been the Mountain dew - - - or is it
brew? Tough about the inviting this weekend. Maybe they'll learn. Elections for the next year were held, and we extend
our congrats to Hopper and Owens, our new President. Butt and Moore are planning a return trip to Greensboro after
the other weekend. The blind dates Barr got them must have been pretty good.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The rough weather of the past few days has in no way caused the gathering to be large around the
ole Fiji table, although operations have been confined mostly to local skirmishes. Off to Winston and home went Brother Wyatt,
while Brother Ted and Pledge-Brother Pharr entertained two jeune filles in the Queen City. It is understood that that fair
city beckoned also to Brothers Ragan and French for their weekly change-of-scenery. Sunday night last saw much merriment in the
form of a traditional old Phi Gam feed. Drying their spirits by the glowing hearth while munching on those immense
squares of chocolate cake (plug for Sapp’s emporium!), an evening of good brotherly fellowship was enjoyed by all. The Fijis
take pride in announcing the addition of two new pledges: Dan J. Beals and Paul McCullough, Jr. Ceremonies introducing these
men into the sacred portals were held Sunday evening after the feed. At this writing, Brother Sam Maloney is tearing
his hair trying to arrange the card for the coming inter-fraternity Track Meet. It is felt that much heretofore hidden
talent will be uncovered and that the Phi Gams will place high in this event.

PI KAPPA PHI
Watch it Queens-Davidson Day is on the way. It looks like the Pi Kapps will be well represented, if not
in quantity, at least in quality. Who's the dazzler you're dating, Walker? And Charlie Reid, the ever-faithful, will be in
evidence with Jane Clay. If you really want to hear some good old-fashioned “hoedown,” drop around to 201 East, and
listen to “Little Ed” and his Jamboree Boys, featuring as vocalist “Cousin Sumter Williams.” They’re always getting some new sensation.
Could it be those frequent trips to the mountains, and who are the maestros (or is it feminine?) you work
under up there?

By Frank Barr, Jr.
While “Circlin the D” this week, I tried to find out how most of the students were planning to spend
their spring holidays this year. Since these are the first holidays in three years, I expected to find plenty of
big operations planned. In my own inquisitive way, I tried to get the lowdown on some of these operations. With
W.C., Salem, Mary Baldwin, Queens, Winthrop, and several other schools getting holidays at the same time, it seems that most
of the Wildcats are headed home to the hometown gal. I heard one fellow remark that he would be making
up for lost time before having to go to the army. Since the most adventurous plans seem to be those
of Sumner Williams, he declares that nothing is definite but he hopes to go to Hendersonville and from there hike
out into the Smoky Mountains. He promised me the details after school reopens. The most disappointing plans disclosed were those
of Frank Larew. In a sorrowful tone, he said, “I'm going to see the dentist.” What a way to spend
a vacation! Several of the Phi Gam Brothers have hopes of spending several days in New York at the Phi
Gam Club, which, from what they say, is a very nice place. Only a few fellows agreed with Z. Holler,
who favored several days of “calm and sweet repose.” The only thing I can say for you who get it
here or if you can, you're abnormal. Several of the Sig Eps were planning a house party at Myrtle Beach
over the holidays with young ladies from Winthrop. Things are a little unsettled but will probably turn out for the
better by the time March 28 gets here. Lazenby and several other Pikas are making plans for a trip into
the Sunny South, namely Florida. We'll know the results when we see the tans they get from basking in the
sun. Don’t get blistered, fellows. In closing, may I wish you a happy vacation however you may spend it. If
you spend it as Mel plans, may she love you more every day.

The Operating Table
By ???
With the return of so many of the former members of the student body, and the resumption of most of
the leading social brawls through the Southeast, your columnist feels that for the sake of posterity, if for no other
reason, some attempt should be made to record the activities of our reeling, dealing “vile cat” crew. During the past
two weeks, there is little question to the fact that the biggest deal was OPERATIONS RICHMOND pulled by a small
detachment of Phi Delts in quest of some sort of convention. It is understood that two freshmen who accompanied PLUS
SUTTON, McLEAN, AND SAM TATE to this rather hindered the aforementioned lads from joining into the full spirits of the
affair. Montreat was the scene of a small house party or house-warming by CARSON, CHURCH, AND POWELL. It seems that
there was some mix-up about a chaperon, but WILLIAM JENNINGS CARSON managed to work out some sort of satisfactory arrangement.
Saturday afternoon and evenings are really quite the charming occasions these days at Queens (where did they get that name)
College. Musicals featuring our own SINGING BETAS as well as The Queens Glee Club are doing much to cement the
schools' relations. Several embarrassing moments were spent by experienced PIKERS not long ago when they were engulfed in the mists
of a raid and a fracas in the Bamboo Room. We want to congratulate one of our brothers, Wel Winstead,
on making Phi Beta. Nice going, Mel! We were all glad to see Jimmy Elliot the other day when he
dropped by before reporting back to Quantico. He's hoping to be back here by summer. If it'll do any good,
Jim, we'll be hoping right along with you. At last one of our “fratres in collegio” is in the big
time. Louie Palles is beating it out over at the Wayside Grill in China Grove, with some new band. The
first ring to success, Louie. We're anxiously awaiting the announcement of the entry of Benoy Godwin and Warren Higginbotham in
the Charlotte Open. We surely could use the $10,000 on the house.

PHI DELTA THETA
The brothers of the sword and shield hit full stride this week with operations and deals on a true post-war
scale. No fines or sentences were imposed, however. Seen Saturday afternoon: “LIMESTONE JIM” HOUSTON off in a cloud of dust
for the annual Coker Fancy Dress Ball and a quick Saturday afternoon date at Erskine. LITTLE AND HODGIN “Hobnobbing” around
the Queen City. SELENE PARKER shopping, reminding one of the “Green Hornet.” BUZZ BOY McALISTER buzzing around with a few
friends hither and yon. Colorful personalities you should know: JIM ALEXANDER walking across the campus in front of Chambers waving
and speaking to a potential voter in front of the post office. THE HAT (what is it?) ambling to class
in the mornings. BUCK ARCHER expounding weighty economic problems connected with the price of cotton. A WAR HERO rooming on
the first floor of East. MORROW on most any subject. QUINTIN COOPER on why we should have campus. YARBOURGH off
to eat another meal with MR. and MRS. DUR.

The past Saturday and Sunday found JIM JACKSON, Davidson's candidate for the “All American Boy” and most anything else he
can get elected to, off on another “Lost Weekend” to Columbia. All honors as to the biggest dealer must go
to THACKER THROWER, tycoon in the local boarding house business. He's running a triple play including St. Mary’s, Salem, and
Asheville, and thus far everyone's happy. Ignorance is bliss. Heading the list of activities was the journey of Brothers Tate,
McLean, Martin, Mitch Smith, Davis, and Sutton, who visited Richmond for the Phi Delt convention. Details of their Saturday night
escapade are being guarded closer than the Phi Delt ritual. In case you are wondering why Brother Iverson has lost
his voice again, it seems he called a square dance this weekend. Brothers Ed Montgomery and Golden report that he
set the hottest pace in history and that medical aid was necessary before the brawl was over. Brothers Witherspoon and
Todd found themselves at Salem via Lexington while “Monk” Montgomery was seen heading towards Converse, although his destination is still
a mystery. Brothers Miller and Crutchin were seen at the Queen’s Phi Mu party and reports say that many a
fair maiden swooned away when hand- (Continued on Page 4)
