Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 1, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED SUTTON

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB SMOAK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor - Jim Love
Feature Editor - Jim Jackson
Sports Editor - Clayton Scofield
Managing Editor - Walter Walker
Managing Editor - Ralph Alexander
Managing Editor - Bob Philips
Managing Editor - Dave Richardson
Managing Editor - Jim Pitman

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell - Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon - Advertising Manager
John McNair - Circulation Manager
Hope King - Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery - Collection Manager
Bill Baxter - Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N. Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity,
obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it
is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Welcome To Alumni

Home-coming this year is of peculiar interest and significance to us all. It affords your Alma Mater deep satisfaction to
open her arms to receive, even for a brief visit, hundreds of her sons who have not been on the
campus for the war years. We trust that it will prove a happy, healing time for all who come. As
you touch base again may it be to feel affection and pride of your college both in your accomplishment and
your character and to sense anew her motivating ideals. We bid you on this occasion — thrice welcome!

JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM, President

Rivalry

Douglas Swink, the newly elected editor of the Snips and Blanks, has informed me that the traditional rivalry between the
Davidsonian and his so-called magazine will come into existence with his first edition sometime in December. I here wish to
announce to Mr. Swink that the rivalry (if you could actually call his rag a rival) is beginning now: The
Davidsonian is leading the way, but remember Douglas you started this, and we go to press eight times to your
one.

To the new members of the Student body, who have been fortunate enough to have never been exposed to this
screaming blight on literature, I would like to give an idea of just what this publication is like. Here’s the
straight dope... Davidson’s gift to the wastepaper basket. It appears four times per year — just four times too often.
Its jokes are stale. In fact, they have appeared in other magazines all over the country two or three years
ago; its cartoons are feeble, pointless, and decidedly not humorous, and in comparison to Davidson's weekly publication, it is decidedly
outclassed.

Each year before the war, this E flat publication attempted to create a rivalry with The Davidsonian. Each year it
was put to shame. Now it seems that Lord Douglas is headed for disaster once again. Why doesn’t someone put
them wise to themselves?

Aesop, son of Claudius Aesopus, was said to have dissolved a pearl worth $40,000 in vinegar and downed it with
a gulp in order to have the distinction of consuming the world’s most expensive drink. While the Snips and Blanks
costs little to put out, it can well be compared with that drink of Aesop’s. The satisfaction and pleasure received
from it does not, by a long shot, justify the amount put into it. But if the Snips and Blanks
wants to stir up trouble as has been the tradition, let them. Frankly, if I had had my ears pinned
back as often as they have, I'd quit playing with dynamite — in the form of the Davidsonian. A word
to the wise is sufficient.

Echos of the Past

It is sometimes interesting to turn back the pages of time and through the pages of past Davidsonians, take a
look at just what took place on this week years ago. Selecting one of the old volumes at random, I
drew out the 1921 edition of the paper. This Saturday twenty-five years ago the Red and Black machine defeated Wofford
87-0 paced by scat back Spratt Moore. Dr. Frazier Hood spoke at services at the Y, and the editorial was
on Davidson Spirit (sound familiar?). The Eumenean Literary Society held a debate on the current railroad strike.

Flashing rapidly forward into the not so distant past I selected the volume for 1939. On this weekend in '39
The Duke Ambassadors were playing for our Homecoming dances, and the Wildcats met and defeated the Citadel 22-14. The Phi
Delts were leading in the touch football league with the Phi Gams running a close second.

Letters To The Editor...

Dear Ed.—

At the Hampden-Sydney game, Davidson’s cheering at last began to sound hilarious and noisy and as if the student body
were yelling for the team and not at the cheer leaders. The notable presence of Harvey Carrow, Bob Gaither, and
Morton Church in the ranks of cheer leaders is probably the greatest addition made since Lena arrived from Lower Slobbovia.
Hockylee’s splendid little yell involving beating the hands on various parts of the anatomy is so simple and original that
it has taken the campus by storm; and his continued demands to keep up the chatter from the stands reminded
the spectators there was something worth yelling for. Future emphasis on cheers led by the Penguin will improve attention to
the cheer leaders.

It is exceptionally easy to sit in a grandstand seat and mutter about what the cheer leaders could do to
improve yelling. The most spectacular leaders in the country could not have gotten much chatter out of the stands Saturday.
There is no substitute for action from the cheering section. However, some suggestions for efficient cheering have been mentioned frequently
but never practiced. One has already been discussed: Let Hockylee lead the cheers. Another aid of primary importance is to
force the freshmen to sit together in a compact body. Judge McAllister has persuasive methods at his control to ensure
such action, but despite much comment along that line has failed to revive the custom. The team cannot win unless
it is backed so loudly that they can hear the encouragement. Dick O’Hair spread the good word. The spirit is
in everybody. Leave us get it out.

Respectfully,
DAVE RICHARDSON

COLUMN By JIM JACKSON

In order that peace and harmony may reign over our fair campus this Homecoming weekend, that some of the unsuspecting
student dealers may sport their ladies in comparative safety, and that these same young ladies may enter the fray with
at least a smattering of knowledge of the dangers which they face, it seems only fitting to publish a summary
of the personal habits and tactics of some of the more wolfish members of our student body. Keeping this intent
and purpose in mind, avail yourselves of the following information. Remember, too, that this is no scandal column, and that
the facts found herein have been supplied by the subjects’ “friends,” and have been verified and proven by experience, and
not mere hearsay. Unlike the Operating Table, where gossip of low and slanderous nature is created by the malicious minds
of misguided Peglers like MAC “BONE” JEFFRIES and TOMMY “THE VOICE” BUMBARGER, this section of the Davidsonian is devoted to
the best interests and ideals of the student body as a whole.

Never in the history of this little island of learning have so many and varied threats, in the form of
sport-coated, knit-tied chain-twirling gentlemen of distinction, appeared during a dance weekend to strike terror in the hearts of the guests.
Outstanding among these is one HARVEY “HOCKEY LEE” CARROW, one hundred fifty pounds (soaking wet) of loose, rebel dynamite. A
veteran of the European theater and the Austrian preoccupation period, this man may best be identified as the first pilot
of the long, red, push-button streamliner that is a Buick convertible of the latest model. His habits are vicious and
tactics aggressive in matters feminine. While Hockey Lee has a heart of gold and the true Davidson spirit, his dealings
with girls have been terrifying to behold. Look for a penguin in the Big Red, and protect that date.

When speaking of the Dealers in streamlined four-wheelers, it is but cricket to mention the name of one SAM TATE.
Since the acquisition of a new auto, equally as pretentious as the Penguin’s, and blue of hue, SOCIAL SAM has
entered the field of dangerous men. Even last spring, as a member of the famed SPORTING CLUB, Sam proved his
ability and aspirations to become another Bernarr MacFadden. So hold on to that lovely girl’s arm when the Big Blue
comes streaking by. Sam may be an exponent of sunshine and health, but when the moon shines through those trees
on the golf course, it lights a fire in those Big Blue eyes.

COUSIN DAVE BLEVINS and GERRY “WART” ROBINSON will doubtless be stalking their victims together. While both will be rather busy
during the course of the regularly scheduled affairs, there will come a time when they bid “goodnight” to their respective
sponsors, and assume the garb of serpents. No lass will be safe. Cold stares, alone, are not enough. Lock those
windows and station your guards girls, for COUSIN DAVE can charm in supreme hillbilly fashion, and THE WART has the
experience of a thousand county fairs behind him.

No list of wild cats would be complete without the name of Montreat’s prominent citizen and mountain climber (by night)
ALF TAYLOR. Since entering Davidson,has won Chatham Mill’s annual Blanket Award three times, for his spectacular performances in golf course
tournaments (by night). Alf is the pride of the Kappa Sigs, may be identified by smooth manner and novel profile,
and will be especially threatening to those lassies who plan to room in the city of Davidson. He is reported
to have gained considerable knowledge in oriental maneuvers, and is ready to demonstrate these methods successfully (by night).

There are many more such men, but space, and the patience of the reader prevent their classification. Besides, even now
the aforementioned may be behind you. Play it safe, men. Acquaint yourselves with these names, and add to the list
such capable performers as GEORGE ENNETT, LESTER PORT, STINKY CHURCH, “WHOOOEEE” WHITESIDES, TYRONE GAITHER, FRANK BARR, and what may be
the most dangerous element of the campus... COUNTRY HODGIN and FORD LITTLE.

Cinema Comments By Doug Swink

Saturday November 2 “Swamp Fire”
The Delta of the Mississippi is the scene for our love story of a returned Coast Guardsman’s love for a
wench of the swamp lands. His rival for our little marsh-hen is a youth who starts the fire (making it
hot for all concerned) because he is not allowed to trap and shoot on the owner’s land. Now the owner’s
daughter enters into the plot but all ends well. Johnny Weissmuller, Virginia Gray and Buster Crabbe do their best with
a rather jumbled plot.

Monday and Tuesday November 4-5 “The Stranger”
The plot: a Nazi big-wig who made his timely exit from the Land of Lilli Marlene has been successful in
making his way to a small New England town, has found a lovely young wife, and lo and behold we
find him teaching in a boys’ college. (This calls for a comment, but I shall overlook it as my review
grades have not yet been turned in.) By the untiring efforts of Edward G. Robinson, an FBI agent, he, Orson
Welles, is tracked down and disposed of before he kills his wife, Loretta Young, and before Mr. Welles has had
time to dwell too much upon his moral and political ideas.

Wednesday and Thursday November 6-7 “Mr. Ace”
Men, this will let you know what happens when a woman gets a notion under her scalp that she wants
to be governor of her state. George Raft, as “Mr. Ace” the leader of a political machine whose aid Sylvia
Sidney needs in her run for office, falls for her feline wiles, (I guess all men make “Mr. Aces” of
themselves one time or the other—especially when women are concerned.)

Friday and Saturday November 8-9 “Monsieur Beaucaire”
A marriage between a French duke and a Spanish princess is arranged in order to avoid a war between the
two countries. This not being palatable to the duke, he sends his barber, Bob Hope, to impersonate him. However, Bob
falls for a chambermaid, Joan Caulfield, and both finally come to America after many hilarious and slapstick episodes.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Well, it was quite a weekend for the Spe’s and things really went over in a big (?) way. Pledge
Henry Bell, fully recovered from a five-day leave in Georgia, seemed to have everything well in hand at the Salem
dance with an ‘old friend’ of Barr and Lineberger. And we've been told that Miss River will be around again
soon. Keep an eye on this!

Rock Hill again took several of the brothers over the weekend and the excursion was said to have ended in
the wee hours Monday after all was reported well. Brother Ed Lilly is planning a brief trip to Winston-Salem this
week just before the dances. Could it be that he and Lamarr plan to score again?

Winchester now can be called the ‘Dreamer’. Seems as though he has really brought home the bacon in several of
the night affairs. Now, Rush, let us in on them. Abernethy and his ‘Sputtering Red Streak’ were off again. But
this time only to Hickory where the ole bus will rest free from torture for a few days. Someone said
that Brother Bogart swallowed a sour grape at the football game and his face seemed to show it all. Nearby
was seen President Shaw and all was smiles from that angle. They say he now knows six different ways to
reach Huntersville.

Myers was off for a swift jaunt to Kings Mountain to deliver an automobile, but he returned in time to
get in on the Salem dance. Columbia held the interest of Brother Jenkins while Brother Willard toured northward to High
Point. Humphries enjoyed the fifteen high school bands and especially the one from Shelby. In fact, he spent his weekend
at Shelby with one of the majorettes. Tell us more, Gil.

Belvins made Spruce Pine early over the weekend but he still found time to be with Sweet Jackie before returning
here. Tonight is the big night for the Spe’s and everyone is looking forward to a swell time at this
Victory Homecoming. Several Sig Ep alumni are expected to join in the festivities and we truly hope and believe that
a good time will be had by all.

Beta Theta Pi
Very welcome guests at the Beta House after Sunday evening’s memorial service were: Mr. and Mrs. Crawford Wheeler, Nejack, N.
Y.; Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Benfield, Eleanor, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. O. L. Joyner with their daughter, Marion
and their son, Sam, Kernersville, N. C.; Mr. and Mrs. Sumter Bowen, Salisbury, N. C.; and Mr. and Mrs. William
S. Covington, Rockingham, N. C.

“Wooglin” smiles with qualified gusto on Beta brothers Jack Gray and Henry Neisler who were accepted into the Beaver Club
this last week. Brothers Gunn, Lemmon, McConnell and Scarborough were really latching on last Saturday night at the Salem-Davidson fray.
Lemmon in particular was quite potent with Kombrick. Brother Sterling Edwards who again was Daggers for wolfing on Gunn’s date.

Don Lipscomb disappeared sometime Friday heading for the Army-Duke game in New York City and by the time we go
to press hasn’t shown up yet. “Crusher” Crane says that on the next jaunt to Salem he plans to tote
his pin along. Perhaps a bird should whisper into little “Crusher’s” battered auditory organ that Francis is already pinned to
a Duke student.

Who says that “Boxhead,” “the Pipe,” Soapy, Smith has no business sense. Soapy’s letter to his girl’s boss did the
trick on getting her here for Homecoming. “Tinley” Tucker departed at 6:30 A. M. for Pinehurst for a visit with
his folks. Perchance he doesn’t realize that weekends begin on Friday. “Yardbird” Yarborough can’t decide what he likes best about
the University of South Carolina; the “broad-minded” faculty regulations or his little red-head. Tears are shed by and for “flushees”
Kirkpatrick, Keith, Vinson, and Schmidt.

PI KAPPA PHI
Most of the Brothers and pledges remained on the campus this weekend to await the outcome of all those blind
dates from Salem. Everyone seemed very pleased with the girls except Brother Carpenter. We all wonder how much it would
take to satisfy him. Brother McCain after buying a chrysanthemum and rushing to meet the bus had been stood up.
Brother Hunter could be seen strolling about the campus with Miss “Bangs”. Brother Blackwell is still looking for his date.
She got lost in the crowd at the dance Saturday night.

Occupying the Hog’s Den at supper Saturday night was Brother Barksdale and his date “Pig”. Pledge Higgenbothan’s date taught him
the fundamentals of Honeymoon Bridge. “Raw,” “Bud,” and “Slugger” took their dates back to Salem and stayed until late Sunday
night. The “Boom” and the “Nose” took a bus to Charlotte—From there all happenings are withheld. Bud gave the “Great
Lover” Sinclair a few points in love making Saturday night. Brother Reid is quite the sport these days with that
150 dollars worth of rolling trouble he bought last week. Brothers Palles, Mead, J. Barringer, and Pledge Temple journeyed to
Florence for the weekend. From reports Brother...

(Continued on page four)

The Operating Table
With the Homecoming deals underway tonight, this columnist is of necessity limited to the number of lines which he can
put down for posterity as Davidson’s larger operators sharpen their claws for the attack and lay out their freshly pressed
evening clothes. Things have been rather mild on the campus front for the past few weeks as the men who
regularly find their way into this literary masterpiece have been holding themselves in reserve for the coming festivities. There have
been a few outstanding operations, however, which cannot go unmentioned.

Marvelous MORTON CHURCH breezed in with the story concerning MINERVA and “YOU TELL ‘EM GENE” which (CENSORED - sorry fellows,
I took an oath in blood to kill this one—Editor). What is the strange chant concerning one MAC “BONE” JEFFRIES
that arises daily from the halls of the Kappa Alpha palace? In case you are interested the PENGUIN can furnish
evidence in technicolor.

Cometing about town is JOHNNY “FIREBALL” WALKER on a recruiting drive for new members in his famed Hubba Hubba club.
SOCIAL SAM TATE off to Morganton in the “big blue” after depositing Salem date on the bus. GREGG “LEMON HEAD”
THOMPSON who says he always knew that he would lose in the end. Man of the week honors go to
ED “GOLDSTEIN” GOLDEN who won the fair maiden’s heart and presented same with the Phi Delt crest on weekend deal.
RICHARD PORT refusing to edit this week’s column due to a severe head cold as “ELEANOR” HARRIS drives on Spanish
translations. FESTIVE DOUG SWINK walking across campus with local belle singing soft love songs and gushing forth with odes to
autumn. SMILING HUGH HILL seen not smiling when leaving the science building following first review. For a complete coverage of
our social set read next week’s edition of the Davidsonian when the post-Homecoming stories will be pouring into yours truly.
Until then watch your step or you'll break into bold face type.
