Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, October 11, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

ED SUTTON .................................. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK ................................ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Love .................................. Associate Editor
Jim Jackson .............................. Feature Editor
Clayton Scofield .......................... Sports Editor
Walter Walker ............................ Managing Editor
Ralph Alexander .......................... Managing Editor
Bob Philips ............................... Managing Editor
Dave Richardson ......................... Managing Editor
Jim Pitman ............................... Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell ............................ Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemon ............................ Advertising Manager
John McNair ............................. Circulation Manager
Bob Cline ................................. Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery ......................... Collection Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

Member Of: NATIONAL SCHOLASTIC PRESS ASSOCIATION

Editorial...
The word spirit has been bounced around so frequently in this column in days gone by that it has become practically meaningless. It seems that when an editor runs out of material, it is almost a foregone conclusion that he throws in a few lines on Davidson spirit and manages to fill what would otherwise be an empty space. He usually accomplishes no more than if he had left the column empty and inserted instead, “Write your own column here.” Such is not the case, however, with my column today, and I sincerely hope that it will accomplish its desired purpose.

When I arrived at Davidson College, Davidson tradition and above all Davidson spirit were pounded into my head, first by the numerous lectures during the orientation period and later by the things which I saw and tried to become a part of. At the outset of this term, the usual talks were in evidence, and it seemed as though the unexcelled spirit of the wildcat campus for these many years was on the move again. Within the past two weeks, however, we have noticed a steady decline in the air which culminated in the miserable effort the Davidson student body made in backing the wildcats in Charlotte last Saturday night. During the second half, the stands were almost silent. The cheering during the entire game was ragged and spotty, and the usual Davidson zest and enthusiasm were simply missing. It is hard to say just what the cause could be, but I would imagine that it was a combination of many things rather than one single item. It is not my purpose to blame anyone for the apparent lack of interest, but rather to try and give our school spirit a much-needed boost.

In the first place, the Frosh should have more instruction in the yells for there seemed to be a great deal of confusion as to what came next Saturday night. This can and probably will be accomplished at future pep meetings. We upper-classmen can be of a great deal of assistance in this matter by attending pep rallies and really entering into them instead of spending most of our time screaming about the need for a shirt tail parade. Secondly, we failed to give a single player a cheer as he left the game. We used to have one that went something like this, “Hey (the player's name). Here’s a hand!” It seems that somewhere along the road during the war years the yell was lost. If we don’t have a team to be proud of this season, we certainly never will have, for their spirit and determination have been a record breaker just as their scores have been. I couldn’t help but wonder what some of them must have thought. My last suggestion would be to the effect that the Freshman try and sit together whenever possible for the yearlings always form the nucleus of any cheering section. When the ‘cats meet State tomorrow, win, lose, or draw, let’s let them know that we still possess that spirit for which our school is famous.

B. M-O.C....
Never let it be said that Davidson lacked Big Men on the Campus for the year 1946-47. I am quite sure that in past Davidson history there is nothing recorded which will equal this year’s record. Did you know that we have, at present in our student body, four student body presidents? With that many prexies floating around, student government should be a snap or either a mess. Of course, everyone knows that only one of them is holding office now, but there are four in school: Bill McLean, the number one man; Dick Port, who was elected in the spring of 1943, but who failed to serve due to a call to military duty; Al Scarborough, president in 1945; and Tommy Powell, who held the top position during the first session of summer school this year.

The field of student government is not the only place where there are multiple head men. The editors in school now, Jimmy Love, Dave Richardson, and yours truly fill out the present list. Pan-Hellenic Council presidents are quite common these days with Mac Jeffries, the present boss, and Ed Golden and Jim Love being two past presidents now in school. Court of control judges include Middy Raynal and the present Hon. John McAlister. Duplication is again sighted in Senior Class Presidents with George Peters and Pat Williams both having served in that capacity. This is a record-breaking year at D. C., with the largest student body in history, the highest scoring football squad, the largest faculty and staff, the biggest student store in history, and if anyone should ask, the largest group of student officers I ever heard of. I forgot to mention that we have a couple of Pre-Ministerial Advisors on the campus in Taylor and Tommy Powell.

To The Editor...
Dear Editor:-
Though Eunice Bycupps is no BWOC at Queen’s and I am no BMOC at Davidson, the little publicity given to our union at the Queen’s Square Dance seems to have caused a small gap in the spiritual union of the two schools. The purpose of this letter is to rectify any wrong which that article might have caused and to make public my regard for the Queen college of the south (the King college being, of course, DAVIDSON). Please accept my humble apologies if you received any blows from the girls (beautiful too!) upon your visit last Saturday to their campus. As is the usual custom in a letter of apology, I shall try “to pass on the buck”. I was told that I had to submit an article to the Davidsonian before a certain time Monday night and before yours truly had time to grasp the horrible position in which he was put, there were only two hours left before the deadline. As all students must know, one has to grasp at the first subject that pops into his head when put under such stress. I did. However, my mind always being on girls, naturally I should jump on Queen’s as my subject as that is the rumored birthplace of Venus (I know Botticelli put her on the half shell). As to the manner in which the column was written, I have no excuse, except that in order for anyone to date Eunice he must have a great sense of humor. However, Eunice has spurned me for Bill Cenjambre and his bent Mercedes roadster. Hades hath no fury like a woman’s scorn — as the saying goes. I do sincerely hope that all cracks in the Queen’s - Davidson Wall of Friendship are patched with the putty of my apology.

Your humble servant,
JACK TICKLEBOTTOM
P. S. — In the event someone sees Eunice Bycupps give her my love.

Davidsonian has three of its COLUMN By JIM JACKSON
For the past week, the Davidsonian office has been besieged with frantic appeals from this year's bumper crop of confused Freshmen. The wise and friendly advice of this column is sought by scores of the perplexed and bewildered. Consequently, future issues of “Robert Rutherford” Sutton’s brainchild will feature a guiding light for those who find that they are unable to cope with the complex problems of campus and countryside life. One of the first questions comes from a man whose problem is a hangover from the mad stampede of registration. This unfortunate’s query reflects the confusion of many:

Question: Dear Counsellor, I’m confused. When I got to the end of that long line over in the gym some funny looking old man gave me a lot of white cards. What can I do with them? Will you explore my mind? I can’t figure out my schedule. I can’t make out my schedule till I get a blue card. I can’t get a blue card until I fill out a pink card. I can’t fill out a pink card until I know what my schedule is. Well?
Answer: See Mr. Hengeveld. He doesn’t have very much to do and can probably arrange to give you crip courses that meet on the first floor on Tuesdays. Or better still, forget those cards. They're just printed to confuse you more, assuming the possibility of such intent.

Question: Dear Counsellor, I’m confused. My eleven roommates like to play bridge. I don’t know how. I just like to eat. What can I do?
Answer: Go ahead and eat. Eat your heart out. Anybody can learn how to play bridge. It takes a cannibal to throw up a hand.

Question: Dear Counsellor, I’m confused. Why can’t I keep my pet in my room? We've never been separated. Sometimes people can’t tell us apart. If I send him home to Texas my keeper says he’ll shoot him. Why don’t people like him?
Answer: Don’t worry. Davidson isn’t cold and heartless. You can always put him back in Rumple. He’ll find many friends there.

The state of South Carolina levies a tax of twenty-five cents on every ton of fertilizer sold in the state. This tax is known as the Fertilizer Tax. It is used to support Clemson College. This is no reflection upon the students. But there must be a moral behind it, a printable moral that is. Perhaps you can suggest one. Send your suggestions to the editor of The Tiger.

One more question has arisen. How did “Bone” Jeffries get his nickname? Harvey Carrow (Walter Pidgeon, Jr.) can offer a colorful answer to this question.

Cinema Comments
By Doug Swink
Friday and Saturday October 11-12
“Centennial Summer”
Rich technicolor and good humor together with Jerome Kern’s music and the romance element make this a very colorful movie. Such stars as Jeanne Crain, Cornel Wilde, Linda Darnell, Constance Bennett, and Walter Brennanhead the cast. A very pleasing light musical comedy and recommended to everyone.

Monday and Tuesday, October 14-15
“Caesar and Cleopatra”

Another spectacular technicolor production emanates from our own Hollywood. “Caesar and Cleopatra” by George Bernard Shaw stars Vivien Leigh and Claude Rains in the title roles. Miss Leigh, though no one doubts her beauty and ability to be feline, fails to render enough depth to her characterization which will lead the moviegoer to believe that she will soon ascend the throne of Egypt and for posterity take her place alongside Helen of Troy. But the Rains came, Claude Rains seems to fail in his portrayal of the great Caesar in the fact that he lacks the military bearing which we associate with that conqueror. However, let us not overlook the brilliant dialogue of Mr. Shaw nor the several million dollars worth of technicolored Egypt. Historically speaking and using a very literal sense of the phrase, Caesar and Cleopatra lived together.

Wednesday and Thursday, October 16-17
“Perilous Holiday”

As to the information concerning this motion picture, your reporter spent a perilous afternoon in the files of the library trying his best to find a write-up about it, but try though he did, nothing was accomplished. However, judging from the fact that Pat O’Brien is the star and the title is “Perilous Holiday,” this critic, if he may be so called, recommends the movie as a rip-snorting thriller for a quiet day at Davidson.

Note: There will be matinees at the Davidson Theatre on the following days for your convenience providing there are no conflicting lab courses: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday.

By ?

Outside of the Wildcats, things were moving rather slowly in the Piedmont vicinity this past weekend. Besides, with Sutton at the pinnacle of popularity and success, we hesitate to clutter up his spotless rage with cuttings from the dead ducks on the “table.” There were some deals, however, that simply can’t pass in the type. For instance:

GEORGE “HARKEY” ENNETT, the Montreat Mouser, ambled up Raleigh way to see to it that Tennessee beat Duke and that the Sigmas got that new furniture they've been angling for. To add insult to injury, he bulled the bellboy into putting it into the car for him. (Note: Said furniture will be on display at the Sigma house all next week. See ENNETT for tickets.)

Davidson’s own, the ALPHA SIG chapter of the KKK, was reported burning their weekly fiery cross in the vicinity of Mt. Mourne C. C. Big dealings there: CARROW’S “Fiery Funeral Wagon,” seen careening north from Charlotte about 12 p.m., the PENGUIN at the wheel and his date for sure at the PENGUIN; “HOSE” WILLIAMS, after breaking up three Wofford end runs with a trip of his proboscis, showing up with MANDA THE PANDA, as usual; PETERS AND WIFE carrying their sugar right along with them; AMOS escorting little sister-in-law; “THE DIGIT” TAYLOR breaking forth into war stories at every opportunity, and swearing what they say isn’t true; “THE VOICE” BUMBARGER leading the harmonizing, then breaking every traffic law in Charlotte to get Mary Ellen in by 0530 deadline; “FOOTSIE” CURRIE escorting two dates, while desperately hoping “THE FINGER” would show up with a claim check for one of them; RICHARD LESTER PORT conspicuous by its absence. Spies report that UPCHURCH, SCRUGGS, and ELLINGTON whelt and dealt in Charlotte, to no avail. SCRUGGS is still trying desperately to get connected with a certain girl with hair of HONEY and name the same. A. J. is gradually losing his sanity over ABERNATHY.

“TARZAN” STROUP, SR., determined to get his date for the game in on his dinner invitation to Pi Kaps, raced to the guest house to pick her up. Said date, evidently forewarned on both his motives and the Pi Kaps meals, laid low, forced STROUP into a $2.75 meal at the S. & W.

PRIZE UPSET OF THE WEEK: “TYRONE GABLE” GAITHER, desiring a brief change, made excuses to long-termer BARBARA No. 1 for Tenn.-Duke fracas, obtained a date with BARBARA No. 2, sent little sister tickets for seats adjoining his own for herself and friend, was nearly floored when the friend turned out to be BARBARA No. 1. Onlookers report a hilarious afternoon, watching BEAUTIFUL BOB'S total stranger act.

Continued from last week: Evidently the “GOLDEN GOD” just can’t stay out of trouble—meaning the “Operating Table” as well. Re last week’s remarks, PREXY decided the best policy—for the other fellow—was the old adage, “out of sight, out of mind,” had the “GOLDEN GODDESS” up for the game, promptly got arrested for “speeding” with no license. We might add our vote for Jule, however, as the gal with the year’s most unusual alibi.

“GENERALLY GIN” JACKSON, elections over, headed the Blastin’ Boiler-home for a date with new one-and-only. KATHERINE, neatly sidestepping, got him a date with her best friend, finally consented to a double date. As if one wasn’t enough, he had another on the return trip, and this time without a spare.

SIDELIGHTS ON THE SIDELINES: POWELL, SUTTON, BRYANT, and McGEHEE brushing hay out of their eyes while snuggling closer to Miss Americas. After the game, “ROE-HEAD” SUTTON escorting much-publicized date to swanky Charlotte C. C., explaining away curious stares of the crowd with, “You have to get used to this; you see, I’m editor of the Davidsonian.”

HERE AND THERE ABOUT THE COUNTRY: SNODGRASS claiming victory over RAGAN in date-exploiting contest... “LESTER” PORT, equipped with dark glasses to avoid fans, wheeling scorching blonde by in big limousine... WILLIAMS and O’HO wielding knives at each other over Charlotte blonde, who plays one end against the other... (get it???) GOLDEN, conscientiously attending conference (???) at Agnes Scott while SNAKIN’ SAM snakes off to Morganton with his lock... NEILL running second string to freshman in Statesville race... BARNWELL letting fly with sly remark in date’s ear concerning condemned buildings at Winthrop, then lighting up like a tilt when it turns out she also knew the rest of the joke... the freshmen’s enigma, “JUDGE” McALISTER, roaring to telephone to properly chew out the little woman, ending up creeping on all fours to her feet Friday night...

Down Fraternity Court

KAPPA SIGMA

Delta Chapter broke with its old name “Limber” this weekend and sallied forth to initiate a fine and festive season of deals. Brothers Amos, Williams, and Currie, alias the moose, the nose, and the foot, respectively, took in a large deal at the Mt. Mourne Country Club. They were fortunate to make it back for vespers. Brothers Peters, White, and Ellis went to see their respective Babies after the big game in Charlotte. Speaking of the game, we were mighty proud of game captain Cheek, and Rice, Bingham, Williams, and McArn in our big victory. We were also well represented at the game by Brothers Bryan and Powell who escorted the beauty queens Miss Asheville and Miss Nashville. Brother Thompson, Little Swack, had his Winston cutie down for the weekend, while Walker went to Columbia to see his. The remainder of the Chapter were to be seen at fleeting moments in Charlotte, rushing to the game, dashing out of the Tavern, making for the Bamboo, and falling back to Davidson.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON

Epsilon Chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon opened what appears to be a banner year with 37 actives on hand, many of them recently discharged from the armed forces. Brother Charlie Thompson, 1946 alumnus, accompanied several of the fellows to the Wofford game in that super de luxe Buick of his. Glad to see him around. Last week the fraternity held initiation and four men were taken into the chapter. They were Carlyle Moore, Bill Plonk, Ed Watt, and Ed Coffin. Plonk returned after about two years in service as did Watt. Coffin and Moore were pledges of the summer session. Extensive plans are being laid for a banquet before the Friday dance of Homecoming at which time more than a hundred persons are expected for the festivities.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Egged on by frustrating years in the United States armed forces, Brothers Ragan and Snodgrass joined army and naval training in attacking so many women over the weekend that the operation was immortalized in a more earthly section of the current Davidsonian (page 2, col. 5). As reported, they staged a contest to determine who would win the title of Most Extensive Operator. Saturday morning Snodgrass reported hopefully that he expected to come out on top. A study of existing sociological and economic conditions in the area of the Southern States Fair has been inaugurated by the McKeithans, L. and M. Questioned as to the purpose of the work, Murdock explained, “After exhaustive, first-hand study of European fairs undertaken while spending some time on the continent, we are determined to uncover every possibility of fun, no matter how low.” As an example of the fine time to be had by all, Leighton B. quoted the following anecdote:

Mother: “I'd like to buy some gloves for my daughter.”
Salesman: “White kid?”
Mother: “Egad, Sir!”

Sunday night Fijis held a feed at the house in honor of Mrs. Campbell to express the chapter’s thanks for her invaluable aid in preparing food during rush week. Highlight of the evening was the dedication of a new verse of Old Time Religion entitled, “Made a Fireplug out of Fairly” to Brother John L.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

Many members of the fraternity journeyed to the Queen City last weekend to witness the contest in Memorial Stadium. Attending the game were many guests of SAE including Mrs. A. T. Port and Miss Betsy Lang of Winston-Salem; Miss Betty Yost, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. McAllister, Miss Watty McAllister, and Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery Hill, all of Greensboro. Pledge Bobby Carson and Brother Dick Port announced the first and second halves of the game, respectively. Pledge Gil White and Brother Jim McDonald went to Columbia to see the S. C.-Alabama game. Brother George Grimball attended the Clemson-State game. John McAllister and Ford Little traveled to Greensboro after the game in Charlotte. Dick Port and his mother left for Winston after the game. Attending the game were Brothers Powell, Patterson, Purcifull, McGehee, Williams, Cambrell, Coddington, Engle, Harris, Hatch, and Pledges Faison, Kerr, Rodgers, Carson, Hemby, B. Little, R. Little, Warren, Cloaninger, V. McAllister, and Sample. Sunday night after vespers the SAEs held an open house during which refreshments were served. Members of the faculty included Dr. J. M. Douglass, Professor E. J. Erwin, and Dr. John McConnell. Also present were Brother Bill Wood, class of ’43, Mrs. Junie Guy, Mrs. Earle Bethea, and Mrs. Gene Eskey. Mrs. Bert Anderson and little Judge were welcomed back after being away for some time.

PI KAPPA PHI

The Pi Kaps are making last-minute plans to turn out in full force at Raleigh next weekend to (Continued on Page 6)