CARS ON CAMPUS ALENDA LUX UBI The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS BACK THE ‘CATS’ Vol. XXXV. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1946 No. 1

Tommy Bumbarger Elected To Edit Annual

Pan-Hellenic Council Elects Mac Jefferies As President
Sam Tate Made Secretary, Ennett, Treasurer

Davidson’s Pan-Hellenic Council, in a called session at the house of Kappa Sigma, on the afternoon of September 24th, elected
its officers to serve for the year of 1945-46. The president’s post went to Mac Jeffries, the K. A. representative,
while Sam Tate of Phi Delta Theta and George Ennett, Kappa Sigma, were elected to the offices of secretary and
treasurer, respectively.

The new Council, under the leadership of these men, has already arranged, in most part, for Home-coming dances; the first
of which is to be held at the Armory Auditorium in Charlotte on November first.

Jeffries, now a senior, entered school here in the fall of ’40 and was quite active on the campus before
going into the army in ’43. He served on the editorial staff of Quips and Cranks, managing editor of the
Davidsonian, a member of the Scabbard and Blade, and was elected to the presidency of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity
in 1943. Mac was a first lieutenant and fought through Belgium and Germany. Secretary of the council and representative of
Phi Delta Theta is Sam Tate, who entered Davidson in the fall of ’41, as did George Ennett, the Council
treasurer and representative of Kappa Sigma. Both men were on the Davidsonian staff and active in the student body prior
to their departure in February of 1943. Tate was with the Ninetieth Division for two and a half years, fighting
through France, Luxembourg, and Belgium, where he was captured and held by the Germans for three months. Ennett fought through
Belgium, Holland, and Germany with the Ninety-fourth, returning to Davidson in February of this year. George, who is well known
around the college and the community, is a quite active member of the student body, serving as senior representative on
the court of control this year.

The Pan-Hellenic Council's first task is the supervision of the Home-coming dances.

Cars Allowed on Campus for 21 Year Olds

Another of the traditions of Davidson was broken last week when the Executive Committee of the Faculty reversed its stand
on the question of student automobiles in reference to all students over 21 years old. Dean Bailey emphasized the fact
that the car which a student registers must be his own property or that of his parents. Any violation of
this registration rule will be treated as a breach of the honor system.

This semester will be a probationary period, during which time or at the end of which the committee may revoke
the privilege for any abuse of it or for any other pertinent reason. Any student who has this privilege will
be subject to having it revoked in his particular case if he should be put on probation for overcutting or
low grades. The cars are to be used only as a means of transportation to and from the community. Use
on the campus and between the dormitories and the boarding houses would create a traffic problem; therefore it is requested
that the student not use his car in such cases. Parking of cars is to be in certain areas designated
by the college unless permission is given to park elsewhere.

SOCIAL LEADER Mac Jeffries

Scholars Are To Go Abroad
Rhodes Scholarships Will Be Offered Again

Earlier this month it was announced that elections to Rhodes Scholarships in all states of the Union will be resumed
in December of this year, according to a news release received by Dr. G. R. Vowles, professor of German at
Davidson. The announcement was made by Dr. Frank Aydelotte, Director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton University, and
American Secretary of the Rhodes Trustees. Applications for election are due November 2, and candidates elected will enter the University
of Oxford, England, in October of 1947.

The text of the release was as follows:

“Rhodes Scholarships elections have been suspended since 1939. Normally candidates for the scholarships must be between the ages of nineteen
and twenty-five, but this year candidates who would have been eligible in any year since 1939 will be allowed to
compete, provided that they have had at least one year of military or civilian war service. Sixteen extra scholarships have
been allotted to the United States for the years 1946 and 1947. This number is in addition to the usual
annual award of 32 scholarships, making a total of 48 scholarships to be awarded in each of these two years.
All appointments will be open to regular and war service candidates, according to the merits of the competition.

“For war service candidates certain conditions of eligibility have been altered. Whereas regular candidates must be between the ages of
nineteen and twenty-five on October 1, 1947, war service candidates may be between the ages of nineteen and thirty-two on
that date. The usual bar against marriage is removed in the case of service candidates. The customary requirement of two
complete years of college or university training at the time of application has been dropped to one year for servicemen.
Veterans attending Oxford will have the added aid of receiving benefits under the GI Bill of Rights equivalent to those
which they would receive in an American university.

“The qualities which Rhodes specified in his will as forming the basis of selection are: (1) literary and scholastic ability
and attainments; (2) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship; (3) exhibition of moral
force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his fellows; (4) physical vigor, as
shown by fondness for and success in sports.”

Queens Brawl
By Jack Ticklebottom

I am a yelled at, court controlled, red hatted, laundry carrier for all upperclassmen i.e. a freshman at Davidson College.
On Tuesday we were told that Queens College somewhere in Charlotte must have at least 100 men from our class
in order to make their square dance a success. Little did I know what a square that rhythmic brawl was
going to be like when I boldly raised my finger signifying my desire to see what happens in a girl's
college.

All was tense as our bus came to a stop on Queen’s campus. Out stepped innocent—innocent, that is boys with
freshly pressed clothes and smelling of rose water. We were then herded into the corral, Queens reception room, and immediately
surrounded by screaming females. We felt for certain this was our last round-up. As our names were called out and
we answered, some siren would snatch us by the most available limb and drag us off, calling to the rest
of her man-starved crew, “I got one but I think it’s a dud.” She called me a “dud”—me with my
new herringbone suit, white shirt, brown tie and shoes, red and yellow golf socks, and my neatly folded raincoat (I
had plans for a big night and did not want anything to go wrong.)

It had been previously arranged that there were to be two teams, one Yellow and the other the Blue. The
Yellow was to dance first, then the Blue.

Alumni Plan Reorganization

Extensive plans for postwar reorganization of the Davidson College Alumni Association were revealed by the Alumni and Public Relations department
recently. Under the direction of John L. Payne, Alumni Secretary, and W. Melvin Means, assistant, meetings are planned for twenty-five
cities in the Carolinas during the fall sessions.

According to Mr. Payne, North and South Carolina have been subdivided into twenty-five zones with the key town located in
or near the center of each. Invitations to attend the area meetings will be extended to approximately 4,000 living alumni
and their wives, as well as to friends and patrons of the college and parents of students now at Davidson.
The college now claims to have more than 6,000 living alumni, 2,500 of them having seen service in World War
II.

The series of meetings will be scheduled to effect permanent organizations of the various chapters following the disruptions of war
and the subsequent suspension of activities. Officers are to be elected for the coming year. Representatives of the college are
expected to attend each of the meetings and bring to the alumni the latest news from the campus. This will
include the recently expanded program of the college, both in academic affairs, in athletic and other extracurricular activities.

The cities where the meetings are to be held were announced as follows: Asheville, Hickory, North Wilkesboro, Statesville, Gastonia, Charlotte,
Concord, Salisbury, Greensboro, Durham, Raleigh, Kinston, Greenville, Rocky Mount, Wilmington, Fayetteville, and Winston-Salem in North Carolina, and Greenville, Spartanburg, Rock
Hill, Sumter, Florence, Charleston, Columbia, and Greenwood in South Carolina.

All Time High Record Set By Social Fraternities During Rush Week

The nine social fraternities at Davidson College have pledged a total of 171 freshmen for membership. The announcement was made
last week following the four-day rushing period. According to the college requirements, the neophytes will not be eligible for initiation
until they have successfully passed their first semester of academic work. The list which follows also includes repledges returning from
military duty:

PHI DELTA THETA: Charles D. Parker, Asheville; Grady Spires, William N. Taylor, Robert Patten, Haywood Brinegar of Miami, Fla.; Robert
C. Palmer, Pensacola, Fla.; James O. Cobb, Jr., and Paul Whitener, Winston-Salem; Alexander M. Rankin, High Point; B. Walker, Jr.,
Columbia, S. C.; William R. Richardson, Augusta, Ga.; Monteith Powell, Whiteville; and Kenneth H. McArn, Laurinburg.

KAPPA ALPHA: John Richard Faucette, William L. Faucette, William B. Richards, Howard Biggs, R. G. Glasgow, and Saxon of Charlotte;
John T. King and Donald P. Watt of Thomasville, Ga.; L. Philip Cox, William Bird of Fredericksburg, Va.; S. R.
Wolfe, Jr., of Washington, D. C.; Thomas G. Sparrow, Fred L. Preyer, James G. Glenn, and New York City; S.
Oxford; John Lyles, William B. Rucker, Robert Saucy, Harry Bachman, and James H. King, and Kirby, of Thomasville, N. C.;
Charles L. Royster of Gastonia; and William H. Bowman, Jr., Rock Hill, S. C.; Fred J. Schaemmle, Park, Ga.; William
M. Richmond, Va.; and Eugene Nashville, Doug Atlanta, Ga.

PHI GAMMA DELTA: Aldred, Welch, W. Va.; Blanks and William H. Craddock, Va.; Carl C. Roanoke Rapids, N. C.; Charles
Elyea, Atlanta; Paul Jenkins, James Poag, and FrankStrait, III, Rock Hill, S. C.; Frank Perrin, Union, S.C.; John Asmouth, Va.;
and Joseph Vance, III, Richmond, Va. PI KAPPA ALPHA: John Barnard, Woodside, Del.; William B. Boyd and John A. Fanjoy,
Statesville; Robert B. Colkitt, Waynesville; William A. Collins, Jr., Myrtle Beach, S. C.; Edward E. Denison and Robert F. Walker,
Asheville; Homer J. Ellis, Grundy, Va.; William B. Haffaker, Jr., Martinsville, Va.; James Grover Lee, Jr., Durham; Liston D. Mills,
Wilmington; David B. McElroy, Houston, Tex.; Fred K. Hix, At- boro; Jarron, Currie, Ricti LG}, Tenn; Richard Churchill, Owen Reese,
Jr., High Point; Joseph B. Shumate, Jr., Pulaski, Va.; James P. Sifford, Jr., Albemarle; William B. McCall, Barium Springs; Frank
Northcutt, McFarlan; and John Page, Jr., New York City. PI KAPPA PHI: G. B. Rush, Lake City, S. C.; C.
B. Walker and John Walker, Collierville, Tenn.; William S. Houck, Jr., and Harry R. Temple, Florence; Robert B. Bumbarger, Hickory;
Hunter R. Boykin and John W. Helton, Jr., Charlotte; Claude Higginbotham, Greenville, S. C.; Donald Sasser, Pelham Manor, N. Y.;
Richard Turnage, Hartsville, S. C.; John McGill, Davidson; and McLaurin Shaw, Jacksonville, Fla. SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: J. E. Allsopp, Jr.,
Winter Haven, Fla.; Hugh Aiken, Sidney Bruce, Wm. Lock Cobb, Durham; Rhea W. David Erwin, Malcolm M. Erwin, Adams and
Alastair Guthrie, Portsmouth, Va.; Wilson Crumpacker, Enid, Okla.; Robert L. Turner, Statesville; William W. Smith, Raleigh; Curtis P. Harper, Robert
Carson, Lane Cloaninger, Cameron Faison, Torrence Hemby, John McCann, Louis Rogers and Robert Wilcox, Charlotte; Donald Coffin, Charlotte; and Melvin
Sipe, Lincolnton. BETA THETA PI: George Edwards, Rocky Mount; John Newton Vance, Greensboro; Ray Reinhardt, Lincolnton; Edward H. Rhodes and
Martin Whitehurst, Norfolk, Va.; Hugh Sample, Clarksdale, Miss.; Rod Shaw, Quincy, Fla.; Gene Golden, Atlantic Beach, Fla.; Frank McGehee, Jacksonville,
Fla.; and William Austin, Charlotte. SIGMA PHI EPSILON: Henry Bell, Jr., Waycross, Ga.; C. Pat Clark, Clarkton; J. Y. Scruggs,
Jr., and Carlyle Moore, Rock Hill, S. C.; Harry Shaw and Hector McKeithan, Fayetteville; Richard Lilly, Charleston, S. C.; Kent
Christopher, Griffin, Ga.; Gilbert Humphreys, Ft. Pierce, Fla.; C. K. Maxwell, Jr., Wilmington; Edward G. Watt, William M. Liss and
I. Davidson. KAPPA SIGMA: Oliver Roddy, Jake Wade, Jr., Stanley C. Arechibald, W. Frank Dowd, James C. Evans, John McDonald;
Charles Jarrett and E. Y. Keesler, Jr., Charlotte; George Cheek, Selma, Ala.; Townes Thomas, Florence, S. C.; Bill Van Story
and Marvin Kelly, Fayetteville; W. T. Dubose, Richmond, Va.; Samuel B. Brewer, Lebanon, Ky.; Gene Bingham, Gary, W. Va.; Charles
W. Miller and G. Davidson.

YEARBOOK HEAD
Enlarged Student Body Necessitates Many New Professorships

With the great increase in Davidson students, it has been necessary that the faculty expand proportionately. The Davidsonian presents the
first in a series of articles on new additions to its faculty and staff.

A. G. Griffin
Professor Arthur Gwynn Griffin of Peachland, N.C., has become associate professor of Economics. He received A.B. and M.A. degrees from
the University of North Carolina; and for five years, until 1925, was professor of Economics and Dean of freshmen at
Georgetown College. He then became an associate professor of Economics at Furman University and remained there until 1943 except for
four years leave granted by the university. For the past year he has been visiting lecturer in Economics at Chapel
Hill. Mr. Griffin holds a membership in several Economic associations.

A. C. Winn
Professor Albert C. Winn of Greenville, S. C., will serve as assistant professor in Bible this year. He graduated from
Davidson in 1942 and received his seminary training at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity; Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity; and Beta Theta Pi. Mr. Winn was president
of the student body while at Davidson.

E. O. Guerrant
Dr. Edward O. Guerrant of Danville, Va., has become associate professor of Political Science. He received an A.B. degree from
Davidson College in 1933, an M.A. from the University of Southern California in 1939, and a Ph.D. degree from the
same university in 1942. Before coming to Davidson, Dr. Guerrant taught at California Institute of Technology and served as a
political analyst in Washington, D. C. He is a member of several national social and honorary fraternities.

B. D. Thompson
After an absence of over a year, Prof. Bradley D. Thompson returns as a professor of History. For the past
year he has served on the faculty of Mary Baldwin College. Prof. Thompson is a graduate of Harvard University and
has received many honors in History. Mrs. Thompson and their two children will return to Davidson with him.

P. N. Trakas
Prof. P. N. Trakas of Spartanburg, S. C., is becoming an assistant professor of Romance Languages. He has studied at
Oxford College, Harvard University, and the University of Mexico. Prof. Trakas has served on the faculties of Williams College, Baldwin-Wallace
College, and the University of South Carolina. He is a member of Alpha Kappa Pi, Phi Beta Kappa, and several
other fraternities.

M. B. Winstead
Meldrum B. Winstead, Jr., a graduate of Davidson last May, has been appointed instructor of Chemistry. Mr. Winstead was a
student here and received many honors including being listed in “Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges.”

J. L. McLean
Capt. J. Lacy McLean of Charlotte is the new director of Sports Publicity. He attended Central High School and graduated
from Davidson College in 1943. While at Davidson he was a leader on the campus. During the war, Captain McLean
served three years in the Caribbean Defense Command.

W. M. Means
Mr. William M. Means of Concord has been acquired to direct the college Living Endowment (Continued on Page 4).

Veteran Made Editor Of Quips And Cranks
Seniors Choose Ex-Campus Leader For Second Time

ELECTED BEFORE IN '43
Announced Winner on First Ballot Friday

Last Friday morning in chapel the re-election of Tommy Bumbarger to the editorship of the annual was announced. Bumbarger had
been elected to the same position in the spring of '43 but went into active service in the army that
summer with the E. R. C. before he could serve as editor. This time he was elected on the first
ballot. During the war he was in France with the 66th Division and after the surrender of Germany was changed
to the 82nd Division in Austria. He was just discharged September ninth of this year.

Before entering the service, Bumbarger took an active part in campus life. A member of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity,
he lettered on the golf team in '42 and '43, sang in the Glee Club in '43, was tapped for
ODK in '43, served on the staffs of the Davidsonian in '41 and the annual in '41 and '42, as
sports editor in '43, served on the student council in '42-'43, and was also a member of the D-Club and
the Scabbard and Blade. He’s one of the “Hickory-and-dadburned-proud-of-it,” North Carolina, boys.

Re-election Was
Tommy, who was originally a member of the class of '44, is following in the footsteps of his brother P.
W. Bumbarger. The elder Bumbarger was also somewhat of a literary lion, acting as editor of the student magazine “Scripts
'n Pranks,” in 1940-41. Now Tommy promises “one of the best annuals Davidson has ever seen.”

Concord Alumni Meet On Monday
Davidson College alumni of the Concord area will gather at Hotel Concord, Monday night, October 7, at seven o'clock for
their first meeting since 1937. Ralph A. Glenn, principal of Concord High School, will preside. The gathering will mark the
first of such meetings throughout North Carolina in a series of reactivation programs inaugurated by Davidson this fall. Concord, Mt.
Pleasant, Albemarle, Badin and the surrounding county are cordially invited to attend. In addition, the students now at Davidson and
their parents, wives and special friends are also expected to attend.

The purpose of the get-together is to perpetuate the friendships formed in college years, to promote the welfare of Davidson
and its alumni, and to promote the cause of education generally. The only business that is to be brought up
will be the election of officers for the ensuing year. The program will consist of short talks by Dr. John
R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, and some members of the faculty. Additional entertainment will be provided by the college
musical organization, and football pictures will be shown.

War-time travel restrictions necessitated the interruption of alumni activity, but now that the bans have been lifted and the majority
of the alumni have returned from military service, the meetings this fall are expected to meet with great success. Following
the Concord conclave, similar meetings will be held shortly in Gastonia, Greensboro, Statesville, Hickory, Salisbury, and cities in eastern North
Carolina.
