MIDWINTERS FEBRUARY 22-23

ALENDA LUX UB) The PMavbidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS

REGISTRATION EXCEEDS 450

Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FEBRUARY 7, 1946 : No. 8

Pan Hell ANNOUNCES Midwinters Schedule For February 22-23

Second Semester Registration Exceeds 450

Formal Dance Friday Evening; Admission To Be $6.00 For Set

Trustees Meet February 21 Executive Committee Meet February 20

According to an announcement today by President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College, the annual meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College will be held in the E. L. Saxter Room at the college on Wednesday, February 21, at 10:00 a. m. The Executive Committee of the Trustees is scheduled to meet at the college on Tuesday, February 20, at 2:00 p.m. Dr. Cunningham indicated that important matters related to the current expansion of the college will be discussed. There are some real problems to be solved, it was learned, in order to enable the college to accommodate the veterans returning to the campus, in addition to the normal registration of freshmen from preparatory and high schools.

College Opens Dining Room Necessary To Accommodate New Students

President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College announced last week the opening of a dining room, to be operated by the college in the banquet hall of the Chambers building, to accommodate the new students who began their college work on Monday, January 28. Many of those who are entering for the new semester are G.I.'s who were students at Davidson before enlistment. President Cunningham explained that the college has been forced to this action by the fact that the local boarding houses are insufficient to serve the number of students that were enrolled on Monday, for the second half of the college year. He has urged the present students to remain at their boarding houses, but added that individual applications for the college dining hall will be considered after February 15.

The records reveal that when Davidson College was first opened in 1837, a dining hall known as “Steward’s Hall” was operated by the college. It was used for the next forty years. During the greater part of this period independent boarding houses were operated in the village with the approval of the institution. Steward’s Hall was abandoned about the year 1876. During World War II the college fed five hundred members of the 24th College Training Detachment (Army Air Forces), who were in training on the campus, for a period of fifteen months. Following the close of this department by the War Department, two hundred and twenty-five members of the Army Specialized Training Reserve Program were fed in Chambers Hall for a period of five months. Since December, 1944 the college kitchen had not been in operation. E. H. Spence of Lakeview, who successfully managed the college kitchen and Dining Hall during the war and who has had many years of experience in the work in Greensboro and elsewhere, has charge of this operation. He returned to Davidson last October for a few days and supervised the feeding of more than three hundred delegates to the annual meeting of the Synod of North Carolina.

BUSINESS MGR. BUDDY CARSON

Carson Heads Business Staff Begins Immediate Work On College Annual

At a recent meeting of the Publications Board, McAlister (Buddy) Carson, Jr., was appointed Business Manager of the 1946 Quips and Cranks. Although this semester, Buddy is a member of the Class of 1944 and will graduate this year. He left Davidson in the summer of 1943 when the Junior ROTC was called into active duty, and was sent to Camp Wheeler, Ga., to take Infantry Basic. At Wheeler he volunteered for the Air Cadets and spent the remainder of his Army career flying twin engine planes, B-24’s, and B-29's. On V-J Day Buddy was at Hamilton Field, Calif., waiting to go to the Pacific Theater as a B-29 pilot. He received his discharge on December 1, 1945. Before leaving school in 1943 he was Manager of the Davidsonian and Business Manager of the 1944 Quips and Cranks, and was a member of the 1944 Varsity Basketball team but was unable to fill these positions. He is a member of the SAE Fraternity and the Scabbard and Blade.

Major Sam Spencer Joins Administration

President John R. Cunningham has announced that Major Samuel I. Spencer, recently discharged from the Army, will join the college administrative staff on February 5, in the department of Alumni and Public Relations. A native of Rock Hill, S. C., Major Spencer recently claimed Columbia as his home. He was a student at Davidson College for four years prior to his graduation in 1940. A member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, he also held membership in Phi Kappa Zeta (scholarship honor society), Omicron Delta Kappa (national leadership fraternity), Sigma Upsilon (literary fraternity), Scabbard and Blade (military), Eumanean Literary Society, Le Cercle Francais, Student Store board of control, the Student Council, and the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and Board of Control. He won the Alumni medal; was managing editor of the Davidsonian; assistant business manager of Quips and Cranks; a student Captain of R.O.T.C.; and vice-president of the student body. As a senior he was the student body president. Following his graduation at Davidson (Continued on Page 3)

Freshman Informal Dance To Be Held Saturday Night In Gym

Ed Golden, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council, has announced that plans for the Mid-Winter dance have been completed, excepting dates, for which the students must worry. Wilson Humber will furnish the music for this elaborate occasion. This is a “new high” in bands and the Pan-Hellenic Council eagerly awaits the results. The dance is to take place in the college gymnasium. The informal dance, set for Friday night as in pre-war times, will begin at 9 o'clock and will last until 1 A.M. The spotlight will be on the figure presentation immediately before intermission. The informal dance Saturday night will last from 8:30 'til Midnight.

Wilson Humber and his Orchestra is one of the up and coming new bands of the country. Besides directing the orchestra, Humber plays the piano, sings and M.C.’s the show. The vocalist is the lovely Barbara Barrie, who formerly sang with the Pinky Tomlin and Betty Fitch Orchestra, and is said to be a combination of Grable and Dinah Shore. Humber and his Orchestra have played on the Coca-Cola Spotlight Band program, and at a number of large hotels and night clubs from coast to coast. Arrangements for the stimulating effects at the dance have been made. The girls will stay in Duke Dormitory, the YMCA Guest House, and in private homes if the number necessitates. The members of the Pan-Hellenic Council other than President Golden are: John McAlister of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity, Dave Neill of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity, Warren Higginbotham of Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity, Earl Mahone of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

Robert Noehren Joins Faculty Becomes Instructor In Piano And Organ

The latest addition to the expanding Davidson College faculty is Robert G. Noehren of Buffalo and New York City, who has joined the music department as instructor in piano and organ. In addition he has been appointed organist and choir director at the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, North Carolina. He comes to Davidson after spending the past two years in maritime service in New York. Mr. Noehren was born in Buffalo in 1910. He began study of the organ when he was 12 years old and was known as a competent organist before he was well into his teens. At 16 he played a series of daily organ broadcasts which achieved great popularity in western New York. On the completion of his high school course he entered the Julliard School of Music in New York and studied with Gaston Dethier, famous Belgian organist andIn 1920, he won a coveted scholarship to study organ at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia with Lynwood Farnam, who, at that time, was considered the greatest concert organist in the country. At Curtis Institute, young Noehren also studied piano with Abram Chasins and composition with Ernest Zechiel. Though still in his thirties, he has a wide reputation as a concert organist and has played programs at the National Cathedral in Washington, Williams College, Princeton University, Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City, St. James Church in Chicago, St. James Church in Cleveland, and many other well-known churches and cathedrals. Mr. Noehren has received wide recognition for his work as an organist and choirmaster. He conducted a choir of 45 voices at St. John’s Church in Buffalo, which has been described as the finest sacred choir in western New York.

Dr. P. H. Gwynn To Leave Davidson
Becomes Director Of Leadership Training In Church

It was learned last week that Dr. Price H. Gwynn of Davidson has accepted a position as Director of Leadership Training for the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., which is the northern branch of this denomination. Dr. Gwynn will assume his new duties in the late spring or early summer and will at that time move his family from Davidson to the Philadelphia area, where the church has purchased a home for him.

During the summer of 1944, Dr. Gwynn resigned from the faculty of Davidson College and became Director of Christian Education for the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina (Southern Church). In this office, he has labored for the joint interests of the Presbyterian educational institutions of this Synod. His work has shown marked progress as evidenced by a comprehensive report delivered to the annual meeting of the Synod at Davidson in early October 1945.

Dr. Gwynn served at Davidson College for fourteen years as a professor in the fields of Education and Psychology and also as Director of Student Guidance. He is a native of Charlottesville, Va. Beginning his college career at the University of North Carolina, where he received his A.B. and M.A. degrees, he later earned a B.D. degree from the Yale Divinity School and a Ph.D. from Yale University. He is considered to be an authority in the field of applied education, and his services as an advisor and as a speaker on subjects related to this field have been in constant demand. He has given generously of his time to the State and to Mecklenburg County in directing youth activities in Boy Scout work and in the solution of problems of juvenile delinquency. Under the auspices of the North Carolina Council of Churches, Dr. Gwynn has taken a position of leadership in the movement to include the teaching of the Bible in the elementary and high schools of the State.

Friends of Christian Education in North Carolina are expressing regret that his services in this area are ending but are wishing him God's speed in his new and larger field.

SCENE FROM “THE MILKY WAY” IN RECITAL

Miss Biro Will Present Recital
Noted Pianist To Be Heard In February

Sari Biro, Hungarian pianist, will give a concert here in the latter part of February, which will be the fourth and last concert for this season. Miss Biro was widely known for her artistry throughout Europe before making her New York debut in the spring of 1940. London, Vienna, Milan, Amsterdam, Prague, Zurich, Stockholm, Budapest, Berlin, Rome, and Warsaw were among the principal music centers which acclaimed her great talent. The record of Miss Biro’s American career has duplicated the record of the brilliant European career which immediately preceded it. She has given an annual recital in New York's Town Hall, appeared in concerts from coast to coast, and been a guest soloist with the symphony orchestras of Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Kansas City, New Orleans, Denver, and New Haven. She has also been heard with signal success over the airwaves. Altogether, Miss Biro has definitely established herself as one of the best women pianists of the day. Her program is as follows:

Gavotte and Variations - Rameau
2 Sonatas - Scarlatti
Sonata in E Flat major “Les Adieux” - Beethoven
Les Adieux
La Absence
La Retour
Nocturne in F Minor (posthumous) - Chopin
Mazurka in D Major - Chopin
Ballade in F Minor - Chopin
Intermission
Prelude in C Major - Prokofiev
Prelude in G Sharp Minor - Rachmaninoff
Danse d’Olat - Pick-Mangiagalli
Lake at Evening - Griffes
Three Preludes - Gershwin
Rhapsody - Liszt

Large Group Of Former Dav. Students Return
20 Married Couples Here
Largest Student Body To Enroll Here In Three Years

According to an announcement by Hengeveld, Registrar of Davidson College, a total of 455 students enrolled and have attended initial classes which began on Monday, January 28. This brings the enrollment of students to the prewar level, and by next semester there will be almost full enrollment. All sections of the United States and several foreign countries are represented. Of the total number, 231 are Freshmen, 108 are Sophomores, 60 are Juniors, and 32 are Seniors. Of the 175 new men, 145 are returned veterans. Of this number, 120 are men who were previously at Davidson and who have returned to complete their education. There are thirty men who have just finished high school or who are entering college for the first time.

Last Thursday afternoon, the new students, who included former students discharged from the military service, a large number of transfers, freshmen, the wives of students, and their babies, attended a reception at the Y.M.C.A. Guest House to meet members of the faculty and administration. The reception was held from 4 to 6, with different groups calling at 15-minute intervals.

Mack Harrell Gives Concert
Leading Baritone For Metropolitan Opera

Mack Harrell, baritone soloist, was heard in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College on Monday evening, February 4, at 8:15. The third concert of the 1945-46 current college artists’ series, the event drew music lovers to Davidson from a wide area to hear this distinguished musician. A leading baritone of the Metropolitan Opera Association and one of its most versatile and valuable members, Mack Harrell is one of those rare artists who has achieved equal distinction on the concert stage. Since his first important public engagement in 1935 as soloist with the New York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra, Harrell has established himself as a prime favorite with concert, opera, and radio audiences everywhere. "As a song interpreter, Mack Harrell has moved into the front rank,” reported the eminent critic of the New York Times after Mr. Harrell’s recent recital in that city, and discriminating audiences and important critics from coast to coast have reacted with equal enthusiasm on his every appearance.

"As far back as I can remember,” explains Mr. Harrell, “I wanted a musical career—but my early dreams were to follow in the footsteps of Paganini and Kreisler.” As he relates it, the turning point in his career came when he was studying violin in Philadelphia. Shortly after graduating from the University of Oklahoma, Harrell was awarded a scholarship to study violin in Philadelphia with Emanuel Zetlin. As a side interest, he began taking vocal lessons with Robert Lawrence Weer. After a few lessons, Harrell and his teacher were convinced that his voice was even better than his bowing arm. It was “all out” for singing after that. Subsequently, he was awarded a scholarship to the Juilliard School of Music.