The Wildcats played one of their best games of the year Saturday against Richmond, working together smoothly on offense, but the big Spider team proved to be just too much beef together with a tricky formation, which the Cats were a little slow in deciphering. David- draw-back to a lacking pass defense with no one able to connect on pass offense. Running power was there and Mac Erwin, Carl Pahl, and Sheppard stepped off for nice yardage.

HALF-TIME ANTICS

During the half, the Davidson Midget Team and the Concord Midgets put on an exhibition game that made the spectator wonder if he had moved about five hundred feet or so from the playing field, or whether he should rush out and get his bi-focals checked. The tiny teams slugged it out viciously for some ten or fifteen minutes with the Concord sporters coming out on top by a 6-0 score. The tally came just before closing time, when a Concord back snagged a pass and raced 25 yards for paydirt.

B TEAM

Davidson College’s Wildkittens dropped their first game of the season Saturday night in Concord to an evasive Concord High School team. Starting strong, the Kittens were quick to draw blood, scoring early in the first half when Charlie Miller raced off left tackle, 60 yards for a TD. But the Concorders were still in the fray. Taking to the air, they completed beautiful passes, and Davidson was again in the hole because of a lack of pass defense. The Kittens' attack was hindered by many fumbles, but they consistently gained through the line. Elkin, Bingham, Prior, Watt, Miller, and little Dave Erwin played their usual fine brand of ball, but the Concord passes were too much for the Cats and the game ended in a 13-7 victory for the high schoolers.

CAGERS

Coach Norman Shepard’s cagers are whipping themselves into shape in rapid fashion and Coach Sheppard says his material this year “looks very good.” A list of the squad as it stands this week, with lettermen in the first group, is as follows: J. D. Ashmore, Bob Berry, Bob Flowers, Bill Hodgin, Freeman Jones, Bob Manor, George Peters, Ed White, Mike Williams, Haywood Brinegar, Bob Carson, Jim Cobb, Whit Cobb, Malcolm Earp, Tim Hardin, Dick Mills, Henry Neisler, Bo Roddy, Bob Stephens, Bub Wilcox, Jack Burris, and Gabby Bryant. Included in the present schedule for the coming year are: two games with Duke, two with N.C., two with N.C. State, two with Clemson, two with U.S.C., two with Furman, two with Citadel, two with Wofford, and a single contest with Ga. Tech.

ARMY-NOTRE DAME

The greatest game of the last week was without a doubt the flashy conflict between unbeaten Army and unbeaten Notre Dame. The Irish met the situation with grace and power and for the first time in 25 games mighty Army trembled a bit and the touchdown twins were not quite so sure of themselves. Johnny Lujack, after nationwide publicity concerning his ankle mishap, turned up in good shape, passing, running, and punting with All-American quality. Arnold Tucker showed again that maybe a wee bit too much glory has been going to Blanchard and Davis for in the tight spots it was Tucker who came through playing calm and brilliant ball. And so the nation’s two mightiest teams fought to a 0-0 tie, for first in National rating.

THACKERS, INC.
“A GOOD PLACE TO EAT”
221 South Tryon Street
Private Dining Rooms - For Parties And Banquets

Wildcat Sports

’CATS TAKE BREATHER
November 15, 1946
THE DAVIDSONIAN Page Three

‘Cats Downed By Richmond 27-6

Doug Rice, Wildcat speed merchant from Bennettsville, S.C., is shown going over standing up for Davidson's lone marker against the University of Richmond Spiders on Richardson Field last Saturday. (30) comes in for any assistance needed on the play. (Davidsonian staff photo by John Stewart.) Left end Dick O'Hair (49) clears the way as Earl “Red” Bethea

Story Prepares For Citadel And Furman

Coach Bill Story had his crippled squad hard at work this week after being drubbed the last two weeks by Washington and Lee and Richmond. The red and black have their eye on salvaging the last two contests of this most torrid of all pigskin seasons. By taking the measure of The Citadel and Furman, the Cats can top the .500 mark and will have a couple of wins to boast in the Southern Conference. Despite one-sided scores over Erskine, Wofford, and Hampden-Sydney, the freshman-dominated Wildcats have yet to crack the win column in family competition.

No New Injuries

No more injuries were reported after the contest with Richmond and, barring mishaps in the next two weeks of practice, The Citadel should face a Davidson team at full strength except for guard Bill Boyd who has been lost for the season. The Cat hefties, namely, Ed Rhodes, Ernie Stricklin, Bob Sharpe, and Bob Strickland will be ready to go. Story also was well pleased with the tackle play of Carl Eborn and said that the big boy would stay at the spot where he gained All-Southern fame in high school. Sandy Carnegie will be back at the pivot post after a sterling performance against the Spiders at tackle. However, he will have to scrap to take the spot back from 17-year-old Johnny Richards, who was a thorn in the side of Richmond pass snatchers all afternoon. Richards along with Eborn drew Coach Story’s highest praise for their play.

Backs Look Good

Carl Pahl and Mac Erwin were highly acclaimed for their crushing line smashes. Jim Sifford and Doug Rice showed some clean heels to the Spider linemen. Sifford displayed more drive than he has in past games and this coupled with his speed should make him a first-class oval toter. Rice, a 153-pound scat back, proved decisively that he was one of Story’s fastest backs, and, in scoring the lone Cat tally, showed the shiftiness of a true back.— SMITH FLORAL SHOPS Cornelius Jack Payne— Local and College Agent —Phone 3741 MANAGERS Just about any practice afternoon, in fact every practice afternoon, you will see the football managers, pictured above, down on Richardson Field, tending to the many chores that go with every football club. As a tribute to their faithful service, we present, left to right, Dave Gambrell, assistant manager, Hugh (Smiley) Hill, manager, and Bob Niel, assistant manager.

The mighty midget has been hampered all season with a bad ankle and only in last week’s encounter was he in top shape.

Future 'Cat Prospects Bright
The Richmond game, which was a criterion for future Cat teams, proved that the old grads will have something to spout about in the next few years. In building his squad around only three veterans, Coach Story has pulled something of a grid masterpiece. In the next few seasons, this will be the team to be watched by Southern pigskin prognosticators.

Dunbar's Studio
PORTRAITS COPIES
230 N. Tryon
Charlotte, N. C.

K.A’s Still In First Place As Interfrat
Going into the last week of interfrat ball, the K.A.s clinched the first place slot by a win over the S.P.E.s last Monday. The only possible blight on their record is that they may have to be satisfied with a tie with the Phi Delts for the choice. But, having two games still to play, the big gold team has to take only one of them to hold the top slot with no strings attached. These two games are with the S.A.E.s and the Kappa Sigs, the latter a play-off.

Also last Monday, two teams finished out their schedule. The Phi Gams downed the Betas to keep hold of the third place slot. They ended up the season with 6 wins and 3 losses. At the same time, the Betas, coming out the underdog in the tight game, hold 4 wins and 5 losses. It was a pretty tough pill for the sons of Wooglin, for they lost their last three games.

The S.A.E.s came up the ladder a couple of notches this past week, winning two games, one a 14-0 win over the Betas, and the other a bare 6-0 win over the Independents. They hold a chance of tying in third place with the Phi Gams. In the same position also are the Kappa Sigs, who have four wins and three losses. But both the teams may see that hope wrecked in forthcoming tilts with the K.A.s.

Also last week, the two cellar teams battled on the gridiron, and it found the Independents coming out on the long end of 2 first downs to one win. When this sheet comes out, the truth will in all probability be known, but for those who want to see how it was done, as well as for the more uninformed, we forthwith publish the weekly scoreboard.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
WE HAVE DR. KENNEDY’S ATHLETE FOOT RELIEF
C. S. Goodrum
TELEPHONE 2111
Davidson, N. C.

Ball Closes
Won Lost
K.A. 7 0
Phi Delt 5 2
Phi Gam 6 3
Kappa Sig 4 3
S.A.E. 4 3
Pi Kapp 4 4
Betas 4 5
Independents 1 7
Pikas 0 8

R.O.T.C. BEGINS (Continued from Page 1)
The war will add a great deal to the accuracy of firing this year, and hope to run up a good score against opposing teams. In past years the Davidson team has fired in competition with Georgia Tech, Clemson, V.M.I., V.P.I., and other neighboring schools.

Faul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
Charlotte, N. C.

RICHMOND TEAM TOO POWERFUL
Davidson College tasted defeat again last Saturday on Richardson Field at the hands of Richmond University, 27-6. Greatly crippled and facing a super-charged Spider team, the Wildcats could break through for only one score, late in the game, when after a sustained 19-yard drive to the Richmond 11 in the last quarter, Doug Rice, 153-pound wingback, scooted over on a reverse.

Despite the absence of tackles and guards, the Wildcats opened up in the first quarter with a rolling offensive, demonstrating some of the best ball played by the club thus far. Sparked by Erwin and Sifford, they drove to the Richmond 20-yard line, but took to the air and had their second pass intercepted by Wilbourne, Richmond back.

T-Formation
From here out it was Richmond all the way except for the Wildcats’ scoring drive in the last quarter. The Spiders’ T worked like a charm with Wilbourne, Tom Billingsley, and Charlie Suttenfield running like racehorses. One particular Spider play spiked the scoring punch, a play whereby the man under the center took the ball, started either right or left, then handed off behind him to a halfback who came barreling into the line at top speed. Wilbourne scored the first two TDs on that play. Billingsley scored the third on a lateral from Fenlon from seven yards out, and Walt Bolen passed 85 yards to Bob Johnson on the ten who then carried over for the fourth Spider score.

With heavy injuries along the tackle and guard front, switches had to be made, placing Eborn and Carnegie at tackle to compensate for the injured Stricklin and Rhodes. Carnegie, former center, and Eborn, former end, not only made the best of the situation but played their best game of the year. Coach Story said Eborn was great last Saturday, and “I am going to leave him at tackle from now on.”

(Continued on Page 4)

Visit The—
SHIP AHOY
The Ideal Place To Meet Your Friends
Charlotte, N. C.

Whatever Your Needs
SUITS
HATS
SHIRTS
PAJAMAS
SOCKS
TIES
SHOES
and the 101 other things
SHOP EFIRD’S MEN’S SHOP
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
“The Friendly Store in a Friendly City”
STREET FLOOR