Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 15, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

ED SUTTON ---------------------- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK ---------------------- BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Love ------------------------ Associate Editor
Bob Rierson --------------------- Feature Editor
Clayton Scofield ----------------- Sports Editor
Walter Walker ------------------- Managing Editor
Ralph Alexander ----------------- Managing Editor
Bob Phillips ---------------------- Managing Editor
Dave Richardson ----------------- Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Cline ------------------------ Assistant Business Manager
Charles Dockery ----------------- Advertising Manager
Bill Baxter ----------------------- Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office under the act of March 3, 1897, at Davidson, North Carolina.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year

Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Student’s Store???

Through the years at Davidson College, the Student Store, under student managership, has served our student body with low prices and honor system open counter service. We were always of the opinion, and I think rightly so, that one of the main objects of this business was not to make profits on a large scale but rather to make the store truly for the students, who are not in general men of the higher income bracket. That was in the past. Try and grab a bite at the “Stud” now and see if you can come out under thirty or forty cents. This seems to us to be out of line with the policies of a store which is supposed to put large profits in the background. Not only is this true of the food, but of supplies, and other commodities. The stores in town are in some cases actually underselling a store which has always been the most economical on the hill. We must take into consideration that prices have jumped everywhere, and it is admitted that labor costs are at an all-time high, yet we are still in doubt as to whether this would make things as high as they are if the store was really being run for the students on a low profit basis.

Public Speaking...

To put it mildly, appearing before the Davidson student body is an ordeal. A student needs all the courage that he is able to muster to confront so critical an audience. In fact, one needs more than courage; one needs instruction and “know-how” which can only be gained through painful experience or through competent instruction. One of the greatest needs at Davidson today is a course in public speaking. Davidson graduates (intelligent, well-educated men) leave Davidson with only the slightest knowledge of the subject. We expect our alumni to be the leaders of tomorrow, and yet this can never be unless our graduates are properly prepared to stand on their feet before the crowd and make their influence be felt.

Editorials

MAIL CALL...

Although the letters received by this office this week are anonymous, and while it is not a policy of the Davidsonian to print letters unless they are signed by the writer, we feel that these are of interest and should be published.

The Davidsonian

Editor of Davidsonian,
Dear Ed:

It is rather late to discover the reason for the decline in the old Davidson spirit, but I am submitting it for what it is worth and the good it may do in seasons to come. During last week, that famous Davidson spirit consisted of three very feeble “beat Richmond’s” in chapel, a few disgusting “Fights!” during the fourth period touchdown drive our ’Cats engineered against the Spiders, and the rest of the would-be cheers were on the dormitory, where many a shout issued forth from those showing their spirit by listening to the Army Notre Dame game instead of supporting their own boys. After much pondering, I think that I have stumbled on the reason for the decline. We veterans constitute over sixty percent of the student body, and the trouble lies with us. We seem to think it’s kid stuff to go down and yell our lungs out for the team. Stuff like that is for Freshmen, not men! If it were a Freshman team, this would be a question indeed and entirely up to the individual. But among those Freshmen on the field are a bunch of vets who play their hearts out along with the next guy. We watched out for our buddies in the big fight. Why don’t we watch out for them in these smaller fights? It takes spirit and lots of it to make a fourth period touchdown against big boys the way our team did. They had spirit, even when the chips were down, even when it seemed so hard. As easy as it is to support them and as much as it must mean to them to get a little backing from the sidelines, I wonder why we haven't gotten on the ball sooner. It still isn’t too late. How about all of us old men, a score years old and thereabouts, shaking off our wartime “toughness” and being our own kiddish (if that’s what it takes) selves!

A Veteran

Anon.

Editor of The Davidsonian
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Ed:

Just a note before leaving the campus to commend the Davidson student body for carrying on the finest of all Davidson traditions, the wildcat fighting heart. It is gratifying, to say the least, to find that even a global war was unable to damage the will to fight on when things were looking black. When a team is in the red by four touchdowns, in the final period of play, and with no possibility of leaving the field victorious, and still fights its way to a score against a superior foe, it has something inside that turns defeat into victory, and more important yet was the fact that it wasn’t just the team on the field but the team in the stands that didn’t give up. That greater team, the Davidson student body, will always have something that the other schools large or small never obtain, so hats off to the Davidson men and their fighting heart. So may it always be.

WATCH THIS SPACE FOR PHOTO OF BOB RIERSON

Breezin’ With Bob
By BOB RIERSON

Throttlebottle the Terrible has come and gone once more after giving me a glimpse of his mightily-swollen left arm, still aching from the vicious penetrations of the Davidson doctor who administered my boy his influenza shot last week. Regatso was extremely perturbed over the whole affair since he had to buy himself a new T-shirt, size larger than he usually wears. As a consequence one side of him droops (one might be moved to question the expression ‘one side’) and the other side is swollen out of all proportion. Regatso has expressed the desire that I relate to you his experience at the infirmary since he is unable to appear in chapel as was planned. The idea was to convey to the students and faculty a typical (??) student’s opinion on the shots, not to mention the doctors.

I quote from Throttlebottle: “As I approached the entrance to the infirmary, I saw a great mob of trembling humans formed into a semblance of a line before the door. Suddenly I heard a blood-curdling shriek coming from the top of the building, and a frantic freshman was seen standing on the edge of the roof, gazing with horror behind him. Into view then came a big hulking doctor carrying threateningly a huge needle of about two feet in length. The freshman took one last look and plunged to his death on the cement below rather than be caught. The doctor wiped his instrument of death on his sleeve, grinned wryly, and went back. All this did little to help my state of mind, especially when I saw men emerging from sickbay and collapsing into prepared stretchers to be hauled away to the refuse pile. On the inside numerous jittery juniors were banded together praying and ministerial students were kept busy giving last rites to their buddies. Every now and then a low moan or a terrifying shriek would issue from the interior, and once two doctors armed with needles, not square or pointed, but more of an octagon shape, chased a sobbing sophomore into the cellar. An ensuing struggle was heard, and then silence. One of the doctors returned, bloodstained but triumphant. As I drew nearer the massacre, my knees weakened. When it was time for my pal, who was in front of me, to get his shot, I watched eagerly. A doctor stood on each side of him and took target practice at each arm. Several hits were scored,but the doctors weren’t satisfied until one needle went all the way through his arm. His funeral services will be held in the college church on Monday. My turn was next, but I foiled them! Just as the medicos, harboring wicked gleams in their green eyes, pounced on me, I picked up a chair and crowned myself over the head, thus avoiding the torture involved in the slaughter to come. I can truthfully say that I have 58 holes in my two arms, one terrific scab where they finally connected, a huge lump and brain concussion where I hit myself, but I ain’t gonna catch the flu. Boy, ain’t that serum wonderful?”

I, as a summarizer, cannot add modern medicinal methods in our revered infirmary. Regatso has done a noble job with his first-hand (or arm) report. We of the Davidson student body should be very thankful that the serum was available to us. Our sympathies must all go with Sir Throttlebottle for his present swollen condition, but at least we may rest assured in the knowledge that such a valuable correspondent as my boy is safe from the flu.

Down Fraternity Court

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

With signs of a full recuperation of the chapter after Homecoming, the gates were opened wide for the weekend and the flood surged forth engulfing young and old, women and children, “Pagans and Presbyterians.” Greenville threw up a barricade but too late to prevent Brother McAllister and pledges Sample, R. Little, and White from seeping through to the Converse dance while Brothers Grimball, Carrow, McGeachy, and Pledge Bruce floated in for alumni Brother Mac Bruce’s wedding. Brother Ashmore, who also made the trip, holds fond memories of soft lights, sweet music, and the Greenville Country Club and has been heard singing the first eight bars of “Somebody Else Has Taken Your Place.”

The chapter has tried to keep it a secret too long, but as with all good things the news gets around so for official release here it is: Mrs. Elkin Has the Best Boarding House on the Campus, barring none!

PI KAPPA ALPHA

As yet most of the brothers and pledges have not fully recuperated from the Homecoming weekend but some seemed to be quite capable of getting off the campus for various escapades this past weekend. Saturday afternoon Brothers Smoak and McNair left for Wilkesboro. Smoak now admits that everything is “chicken” as far as the little lady is concerned. Brothers Dockery and Wood seem to think there is no place like Charlotte to spend Saturday night, while Brothers Shelton and Ensign sing “There's No Place Like Home.” Brother Robert Stroup was seen at the ball game with the belle of Mt. Holly. Seems that they are together nearly every weekend now. Pledges Boyd and Fanjoy were seen Sunday afternoon in the company of many beautiful young ladies and they admit that they were so engrossed they couldn’t come back to Davidson. A feed was held at the house Sunday night and all who were present seemed to enjoy it. Since the curtailment on the number of lines allowed in this column went into effect last week, guess that’s all for tonight.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

Sam Pharr, anxious to preserve a good reputation in view of future expeditions to Randolph-Macon (Salem girls please note) spent the weekend quietly at home in Mooresville. Last week, while snaking skillfully on several of the trusting brothers, Pharr’s friend of the moment yelled exasperatedly, “Do you have any idea what good clean fun is?” Sam gleefully replied, “I’ll bite, what good is it?”

Mrs. TommAlou Larson caught up with Adolph finally. At the football game she blocked all his lone wolf activity by public announcement over the P. A. system. The Rock Hill boys, Strait, Jenkins, Newton, and Poag came back from home with an odorous joke about she was only the garbage man’s daughter, but she was not to be sniffed at. Tom Clark tore up several hearts at Winthrop; Leighton McKeithan lured two ladies into seeing the more interesting spots of the campus; Fireplug Fairly, part of a party observing opening ceremonies at El Morocco, reported a conversation between A. Ragan and date, to wit: “Do you want to stop the car and eat, precious?” “No, pet.”

PHI DELTA THETA

Phikeia’s Band gathered for a feed at the house following the services on Sunday night last at which all Brothers, Pledges, and their guests were in attendance.

KAPPA SIGMA

But for “Mullethead’s Manifesto” severely curtailing the reporting of Graecian deals, this column would cover pages attempting to account the operations of the once limber Sigmas, for “Moose’s Men” are in full social swing now after a very successful homecoming celebration, embracing the dances, house feeds, and Charlotte Hotel banquet emceed by that inimitable bull tosser, Awful Alfred Taylor. During the past weekend, most of the renowned wheels slowed down to the extent of taking in Mr. Ringling’s extravaganza in Charlotte. It was a case of “beauties and the beasts,” the latter of course referring to those owned by the circus, as Brothers Amos, Taylor, Currie, Lawson, Coffey, P. Williams, M. Williams, and Pledge Cheek escorted their respective lovelies to the big show. Cheek returned with the nickname “Feathers,” bestowed by his date who avowed the lean Alabaman was the biggest chicken she’s ever met from Davidson.

BETA THETA PI

Phi Alpha extends its deepest sympathy to Brother Bill Boyd whose leg suffered severe injury during the W. & L. game. Dragon wings with rose clusters go to Brother Frank Rawley and his committee for the winning of second place in Homecoming decoration competition. Wooglin smiles on Brother Joe Stukes who was recently elected as president of the Inter-Fraternity Council. Ill with yellow jaundice, Brother Abner Yocum has been confined to the college infirmary (complete with hot and cold running chills) for the past week. Brothers are urged to visit John and quicken the weary hours. Last but certainly not least, the heartfelt congratulations of all Betas on the hill go to Lamar Williamson who has been tapped into Omicron Delta Kappa within this past week.

KAPPA ALPHA

Happy memories of a very successful Homecoming still linger on in many of the KA minds. The banquet, dances, feed, and naturally, the girls combined to make it the best weekend thus far.

(Continued on Page 4)

The Operating Table

By ?

Quietness prevailed generally the past week on campus and vicinity as many dealers sought a little R, R, & R. after the financial rigors of a wet homecoming and delay in the benevolent uncle’s little green gifts, but there were a few stirrings of possible interest to the hyper-curious. Our “E” for effort this week must go to “TYRONE” GAITHER. Dropping some $3.50 into Alexander Graham’s little invention and some 45 minutes of verbal manipulations couldn’t change Barbara No. 2’s preference for the Carolina-W. & M. scrap, so the “greatest” had to be satisfied with a Sunday excursion to Durham. Incidentally, patient investigation by “TISSUE-FINGER” BUMBARGER, who is turning over a new leaf for the weekend and “JOCK” STROUP has revealed the presence of Barbara No. 3.

“LITTLE SWACK” THOMPSON and “BABY LAMB” RICHARDSON continued on the theory that every day is SALEM-DAY. BABY LAMB pulled the faux pas of the week by introducing his date to the boys with the ne’er to be repeated phrase, “This one is named Molly.” Freshmen could well note what a softening influence sweetness and light had on “JUDGE” McCALISTER, at Converse festivities in company of JACK LUCAS. That Rock Hill team, CRAIG and JEETER, appeared briefly at the circus escorted by “S. F.” TAYLOR and BARBS CURRIE, but had to hasten back to the S. C. city early Sunday P. M., but this story has some other ends—O’HAIR and WILLIAMS.

Seen Here and There: NAKED SAM TATE this past week dashing for the Queen City in the Blue-Greyhound. (Tough, being grounded for low flying.) BUDDY “WRONG WAY” WHITESIDES kindling up an old flame in the direction of Mt. Mourne. McLEAN (species, Greek God) and OGLESBY taking over the night shift on the campus, “BONE” JEFFRIES offering a reward to the destroyer of “THE NEGATIVE,” reward money coming from the same place as ACE ENNETT’S new charger.

When you get time: Ask LESTER PORT why you shouldn’t let sleeping ducks lie; or DEWITT CLARK where the saying “Like (Continued on Page 4)