I think the Wildcats must have a jinx on them this season, especially when it comes to the point where
they lose some of their games by three or four points even after having a lead over their opponent during
some phase of the game. At any rate, with the post-war team that is slowly shaping up, we can look
with expectation for next season's matches. Then, don’t forget that there is to be a new gym for this team
to practice in, which also has its advantages.

By Sterling Edwards

Some of these returned veterans who have made the team include Captain Led White, Bill Hodgin, Mendler, and Yarborough. All
have seen action before on the Wildcat squad except Mendler, who was on the team that went to the semi-finals
in the Southern Conference. George Peters, Lou, and Tommy Peters played here in 1943. That means that Davidson will have
Peters to bank on for another season. Hodgin started off in freshman ball in the 1942-43 season and later moved
up to the varsity when the freshman team disbanded. That leaves two more years for him when this season is
over. Yarborough, the Wildcat five in 1941, now a senior, was captain of the team, so this will be his
last season. Mendler played on the Carolina varsity in his freshman year, which leaves him eligible for two more years
of basketball. With half of the season gone, these new players have a slim chance of putting the cagers back
where they belong, but who really cares now if they will only pull us through the remainder of the season
without losing a game?

The best athletic news to thrill everyone is that Davidson is now back in full swing in all sports departments.
We now have a full football staff headed by Lill Storey with Chet Chapman and Charley Jamerson assisting. Those names
are enough to make any war-deprived college happy. Storey left the head coaching job at Granby High in Norfolk, Va.
with 20 straight wins to his credit—a record hard to beat. Jamerson will also take over as baseball coach. His
actual experience in baseball came when he played for the University of Arkansas, not to mention six years of pro-ball
in the International and Eastern Leagues. (Of course, a man doesn’t live altogether on his past reputation, but it helps
a great deal). Spring practice is scheduled to begin in two weeks. Coach Storey won't have to work with new
material altogether, as we now have with us five boys who have played under him at Granby. They are: Bill
Boyd, Buddy Chandler, Hal Mapes, Gene Iskey, and Tom Guy.

A rather neglected phase of sports here at Davidson is wrestling. Who knows, we may put out a spectacular team
one day in the future. At least in the 125-pound class, we can bet heavily on Ted Brothers, who can
hold his own against almost any 135-pounder. Ted has only lost one match in the past two years while at
Woodberry Forest, and he now is hoping to make a trip to the Intercollegiate matches at Lehigh in Penn. soon.

COMING ATTRACTIONS:
FEB. 8-9 — “THE SPANISH MAIN” — Maureen O’Hara, Paul Henreid
FEB. 11-12 — “UNCLE HARRY” — George Sanders, Ella Raines
FEB. 13-14 — “MEN IN HER DIARY” — Jon Hall, Louise Allbritton
FEB. 15-16 — “PEOPLE ARE FUNNY” — Rudy Vallee, Ozzie Nelson
FEB. 18-19 — “DUFFY’S TAVERN” — Marjorie Reynolds, Victor Moore
FEB. 20-21 — “INCENDIARY BLONDE” — Betty Hutton
FEB. 22-23 — “SPELLBOUND” — Ingrid Bergman, Gregory Peck
FEB. 25-26 — “LOVE LETTERS” — Joseph Cotten, Jennifer Jones

Thursday, February 21, 1946
Wildcat Sports
THE DAVIDSONIAN

FURMAN DEFEATS ’CATS. FURMAN TAKES TWO FROM ’CATS TWICE ’CATS SCORE AGAINST FURMAN

Technical High School as head football coach in 1930. He became head football coach at Memphis State Teachers College in
1942. His Memphis Tech team had won 22 consecutive games when he left to take the college assignment. His promotion
to the rank of major came in 1945. Mr. Spencer's Davidson appointment is temporary, since he expects to pursue graduate
study in History at Harvard University in September 1946.

Chambers Shines For Furman Five

Peters Lead Wildcats

Win First Game 38-36; Second Game 49-46 In Close Victory

Greenville, South Carolina

Accepts Position With Shuford Mills At Hickory

Furman University’s Purple invaded the Wildcat lair last Tuesday and Wednesday nights and went home with two closely contested victories
over the Red and Black cagers. Davidson brought a lineup almost completely changed from the team which split even with
Furman three weeks ago, but was still unable to stop the Palmetto state boys as they took down 38-36 and
49-46 wins. Both games were similar, hard-fought, and action-packed from start to finish, with Davidson leading each time at the
half only to drop behind in the waning moments.

Paced by George Peters, Lou Mendler, and Bill Hodgin, all playing their first game after returning from service, Davidson jumped
to a quick lead in the first game and for a time seemed to outclass their opponents. Furman soon recovered,
however, and whittled the Wildcat lead to 18-15 by the half. The visitors, by the sharpshooting of Ernest Chambers, came
out strong after halftime, going ahead and staying for the remainder of the contest. Peters' all-over-the-court play and White's set
shots featured the Davidson attack. Chambers was high-point man for the evening as he garnered thirteen points, while Peters followed
close behind with nine.

High scorer in 7 of the 12 games. Expected To Assume New

By Mac Hart

Ed White, the stocky little ex-serviceman who has gained thead- |) he has already racked up 13s 4 this season—one
point aN, on a Might Davidson fans by his deadly accuracy on those more than made in '43. Davidson College,
emerging from war years of curtailed athletics, disclosed plans last week for its return to a full intercollegiate sports program
with the announcement of Charley D. Jamerson’s assignment as assistant football and head baseball coach. Jamerson’s signing was regarded as
completing Davidson’s coaching roster, paving the way for the college’s resumption of intercollegiate competition in all major sports.

February 15 along with Bill Storey, recently announced as the college’s head football coach, Jamerson, and Chet Chapman slated for
the football assignment, while Athletic Director Norman Shepard will handle basketball and physical education; Bill Lufler, tennis; Jamerson, baseball; and
Heath Whittle, track.

Jamerson is a graduate of the University of Buffalo, class of 1922. He played end, tackle, and fullback positions on
the football team. He came to Davidson in 1941 and became an associate professor of Military Science and Tactics (R.O.T.C.).
From 1924 to 1926, he was a member of the State in feel ical matters, Alma Redemptoris by Palestrina was
presented with excellent regard for balance and fine quality of tone. Mr. Noehren has proved his musicianship on many occasions
and his performance adhered to previous standards.

Robert Barrows, professor of music at Williams College, commented after Mr. Noehren’s recital there, “Robert Noehren is the finest organist
in America today.”

Davidson basketball fans by his deadly accuracy on those more than made in '43. Davidson College, emerging from war years
of curtailed athletics, disclosed plans last week for its return to a full intercollegiate sports program with the announcement of
Charley D. Jamerson’s assignment as assistant football and head baseball coach. Jamerson’s signing was regarded as completing Davidson’s coaching roster,
paving the way for the college’s resumption of intercollegiate competition in all major sports.

February 15 along with Bill Storey, recently announced as the college’s head football coach, Jamerson, and Chet Chapman slated for
the football assignment, while Athletic Director Norman Shepard will handle basketball and physical education; Bill Lufler, tennis; Jamerson, baseball; and
Heath Whittle, track.

Jamerson is a graduate of the University of Buffalo, class of 1922. He played end, tackle, and fullback positions on
the football team. He came to Davidson in 1941 and became an associate professor of Military Science and Tactics (R.O.T.C.).
From 1924 to 1926, he was a member of the State in feel ical matters, Alma Redemptoris by Palestrina was
presented with excellent regard for balance and fine quality of tone. Mr. Noehren has proved his musicianship on many occasions
and his performance adhered to previous standards.

Robert Barrows, professor of music at Williams College, commented after Mr. Noehren’s recital there, “Robert Noehren is the finest organist
in America today.”
