° * ‘ SUTTON TO PILOT DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

JACKSON HEADS : ‘46 - 47 YMCA

Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. APRIL 26, 1946 No. 12

Jim Jackson Elected President Of Y. M.C. A.

Spring Frolics Formal To Sutton To Assume Editorship Of

Defeats Williamson For High Position In Runoffs

Plans Weekly Editions During Next School Year

In recent student body elections, Ed Sutton of Charlotte, N. C. was elected Editor of the Davidsonian for the coming
year. Candidates for the post included Frank Barr, Lamar Williamson, and Lonnie Turner. Sutton defeated Williamson in the final ballot.

Sutton entered Davidson in the fall of 1941 from Decatur Boys High School in Decatur, Ga., and was in attendance
here until April 1943, when he was called to service with the Enlisted Reserve Corps. During these two years here
he served as a reporter on the Davidsonian and was chosen as Managing Editor the latter part of his Sophomore
year. He is a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the Spanish Club, and helped manage the Wildcat
baseball team as a Freshman.

While in the army, Sutton first served as an Aviation Cadet for ten months and then with the infantry in
France and Germany. He holds two battle stars on the European Theater of Operations ribbon for campaigns in the Rhineland
and Central Germany. He also holds the Combat Infantry Badge.

Upon receiving his discharge, Sutton returned to Davidson this semester and has been holding a managing editor's position for the
past three months.

Hood Gives Manuscript

Mrs. Frazer Hood, widow of the late Professor of Psychology, has recently given the Davidson College Library a very interesting
addition to its Peter Stewart Ney collection. Benbow Young of Iredell County, the great uncle of Mrs. Hood, went to
school to Peter Stewart Ney as did many of the cotton planters’ sons in this section before the Civil War.
In 1830, Edwin Young made his own manuscript mathematics book with carefully measured drawings which he used under the instruction
of Mr. Ney. On page 115 there is the signature of “P. S. Ney” in the now familiar handwriting of
the mysterious gentleman. How large a part Mr. Ney had in compiling the book is not known, though Dr. Smoot's
book on Ney states that many unsigned comments in the margins are Ney’s. There are pages which may be these
of the old teacher, but this would have to be established by an expert on handwriting.

Dr. William G. McGavock of the Math Department was asked to comment on the manuscript from a mathematical point of
view. He examined the work closely and arrived at the following conclusions: “Although written 116 years ago, we find in
this manuscript a number of problems that would be right at home in modern high school geometry or trigonometry courses.
There is, of course, much that we find amusing also. The descriptions of most of the problems are needlessly cumbersome,
a wordy statement being used where the modern mathematician would rely altogether on symbols. A number of exercises are even
expressed (Continued on Page 4)

With Russ Carlton’s Orchestra

Davidsonian A Twenty Vote Margin

Succeeds McLean High In Campus Spiritual Work

Thursday, April 11, the student body elected Jim Jackson of Columbia, South Carolina, President of the YMCA for 1946-47. Jim
was elected on the third ballot of a race which began on Tuesday, April 9, when four names were presented
to the student body in its meeting after chapel. These four men were nominated by the YMCA Cabinet. They were
Jim Jackson, Vernon Williamson, and Paul Lamar McGehee. There were no nominations from the floor.

The voting on Tuesday gave McGehee a lead of ten votes with sixty-nine to Jackson's fifty-nine. Williamson and Young trailed
with fifty-three and twenty-four respectively. On Wednesday Jackson pulled into the lead with a vote of 107 against McGehee's 96.
Williamson, polling fifty-eight votes, was eliminated. The run-off Thursday made Jackson YMCA President by a margin of twenty votes. The
final vote was Jackson, 124; McGehee, 94.

“Gentleman Jim” Jackson entered Davidson with the class of ‘45. During the following year and a half he became a
member of Kappa Alpha Order and the Eumenean Literary Society, served as sports editor of the Davidsonian and sports manager
of the Sophomore class. In March 1943, Jim was called to active duty in the Army Air Corps. He became
a pilot and flew B-26's and B-17's. At the time of his separation, he held the rank of first lieutenant.
Since his return to Davidson on January 28, 1946, he has been a member of the Beta Upsilon chapter of
Kappa Alpha. He represents Kappa Alpha on the Pan-Hellenic Council.

DAVIDSONIAN HEAD:

A large crowd is expected to attend the final dances of the year.

YMCA PRESIDENT

Edwards Chosen

FEATURED

The Pan-Hellenic Council will present its final dances, the Spring Frolics, on April 26 and 27 in the Davidson College
gym, it has been announced by Ed Golden, president of the Council. Russ Carlton and his seventeen-piece orchestra will play
for the gala occasion.

The formal dance will be on Friday night, during which time the members of the Council and the fraternity presidents,
and their dates, will present a figure. The Saturday dance will be informal for all.

Carlton and his Orchestra have an outstanding record of engagements, breaking many house records. The music for the evening will
be developed around the theme: MUSICAL NOTES FROM SWING TO BLUES.

ency. Thrower and Williams were highlighted by Carlton are his vocalists, Carolyn Talley and Wendell Sterling. Edwards is a native
of Nampa, Florida. He attended Erskine College, Due West, S.C., for one year and transferred to Davidson as a sophomore
in the summer of '45. He played first-string wingback on the Wildcat team last fall, and he was sports editor
of the Davidsonian last semester.

Charlie Patterson of Charlotte, N.C., entered Davidson with the class of '46. He completed only one semester before his call
to active duty in the Army Air Corps in February 1945. Charlie spent twelve months as a pilot of a
B-25. At the time of his separation on January 16, 1946, he wore the Asiatic-Pacific Theater star and held the
rank of first lieutenant.

Before coming to Davidson, Henry went to Fishburne Military School in Virginia where he made all prep basketball teams and
won several awards. Here at Davidson, he has been active in basketball but could not participate in any other sports
because of sickness. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

The unique feature of the week is the jam session which Carlton and the orchestra will give on Saturday afternoon.
Admission will be by thirty-five cents at the door or by a "set" ticket. The event will be decorated to
carry out the theme of the Spring Frolics with colors of green and white, supplemented by a variety of other
bright colors. During intermission, most of the fraternities will serve refreshments. The different houses will be open to any non-fraternity
man.

The Phi Beta Kappa initiation was held Thursday afternoon, April 25, at four-thirty o'clock for four students: Mel Winstead, Joe
Martin, J.P. Alexander, and Howell Morrow. There was an informal address by Dr. Robert K. Gooch, and after the address,
there was a reception at the Guest House. Dr. Gooch is now the professor of Political Science at the University
of Virginia. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and was awarded the Rhodes Scholarship in 1914.

As on previous occasions, arrangements have been made to house the dates by Duke, Rumple, and the Guest House.

SPRING FROLICS SPONSORS: Pictured above are the sponsors for the annual Spring Frolics to be held this weekend. From left
to right, top row: Miss Mary Bryant with Ed Golden, president of Pan Hellenic Council, Phi Delta Theta Fraternity; Miss
Jean Webb with Dave Neill, Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity; Miss Betsy Hatch with Bill Pollard, Beta Theta Pi fraternity; Miss
Joyce Tomlin with Thacker Thrower, Kappa Sigma fraternity; and Miss Helen Potter with Ernest Hunter, Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Bottom
row: Miss Marilyn Ventris with Jim Jackson, Kappa Alpha fraternity; Mrs. George McCormack with George McCormack, Phi Gamma Delta fraternity;
Miss Jean Stallings with Jack Lazenby, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity; and Miss Eleanor Huske with Jim Alexander, Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity.

Scabbard And Blade To Hold A Tap Day: New Men To Be Honored In Customary Military Fraternity. The Scabbard and
Blade, a military fraternity, will hold a tap day honoring these new members in May. It is customary for Scabbard
and Blade to hold two tap days a year, one in the fall for Senior Officers and one in the
spring for rising Senior Officers. The fraternity was founded at the University of Wisconsin in 1904 and the Davidson Chapter
was organized in 1923.
