Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN November 1, 1946

Davidson Midgets Get First Victories

Some three dozen very young lads with athletic ability—or at least a lot of energy—from the towns of Huntersville, Davidson, Cornelius, and Charlotte have been organized into football teams, which form a midget league. Quite a few Davidson boys are dedicating their time and efforts to coach these boys and to see that those interested are encouraged to play football as it should be played, and not in the rough-house manner usually associated with youngsters. The student coaches do not have to contend with some of the problems that face coaches of teams that have as their players boys that are slightly older.

Win Over Huntersville

In the first “conference” game, which was played last week between the wee ones, the powerful Davidson eleven marched over the spirited Huntersville team, 19-0. The victors, coached by Harry Temple and Steve Wilkinson, were sparked to their triumph by Overcash, the left end, and Washam, the fullback. The Huntersville youngsters, coached by “Dusty” and Bill Smith, put up a good battle, but their defense was just not quite good enough. The lineups were:

Davidson Pos. Huntersville
Overcash ........ LE ...... Bumgarner
Ives ................. LT .......... McGinnis
M. Chapman LG .......... Cline
Copeland .......... C .......... Estridge
E. Chapman .... RG .......... Wigelm
Mayhew ........... RT .......... Cross
W. Williams .. RE .......... Ferguson
Griffith ............. QB .......... Craven
Washam .......... FB .......... Blythe
Schact .............. LH .......... Ganyia
B. Williams .... RH .......... Morton

Substitutions: Davidson — B. Williams, Holly, Blackwell, Honeycutt, Knox. Huntersville — Brackell, Lovelace, Brooks, Morton. Touchdowns: Davidson — Overcash (2); Washam. Points after touchdown, Washam.

Cornelius vs. Huntersville

In the second game, last Friday, the high-spirited Huntersville team, greatly hampered by the lack of substitutes, met in a closely contested game with the flashy but highly undeveloped Cornelius team. The two threats of the Huntersville Eagles were staved off by Cornelius who returned with some good kicks by Foote Robinette. Toward the end of the first half, Bob Correll skirted the right end of the Eagles’ line and ran 65 yards for the first touchdown of the game, after two attempts on the center by his team had failed. Held by John Ed Whitlow and kicked by Foote Robinette, the ball went low. In the second half, the offensive was taken over by Huntersville, who, however, was unable to threaten because of the fast-charging center of the Cornelius line. The shifty backs of the Eagles, sparked by Sam Cross, were finally able to invade the Cornelius territory to the one-yard line. Here, in a brilliant goal line stand, the Cornelius team held Huntersville for four downs and took over on the one-foot line. As the last seconds elapsed, Bob Correll attempted a pass, which was intercepted by the Eagles. In the last play of the game, Sam Cross went through a beautiful hole at right tackle, opened by the forward wall of the Eagles, to tie the score. Since the attempt for the extra point failed, great rivalry is expected in the future between the two teams.

DR. REDHEAD (Continued from Page 1)

Charlotte was the site of his next pastorate, where he was minister of the Second Presbyterian Church during the years 1937 to 1945. At the present time, he is the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N.C.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS - 1946

DOWN FRATERNITY COURT (Continued from Page 2)

Brother Read, as usual, went to see “Tootsie”. He will be seen around this weekend since she is coming up for “Homecoming”. Brother Gaither, better known as “The Traveler”, took a little train ride to Queens and one of his Salemites. Brother Elliott decided on Lincolnton rather than take a chance on a blind date. How did Brother Landers happen to get a girl mixed in with all of those Salemites? Is it love?

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON

With November second elections approaching rapidly, Social Democrats Hodgin, F. Little, McAlister, and R. Little took a sharp swing to the left and were next seen at Boss Wade’s show against Army in New York. Diplomatic circles were abuzz with the unheralded appearance of the Confederate delegation as the veto was eclipsed, along with several members of the delegation. Pan-Davisalemism reached a new high when a hundred odd envoys from the Twin City’s college arrived in the arena. Socio-conservative S.A.E. was a bit ruffled at this radical attempt at inter-college good neighbor policy, but true to its tradition rallied under the able hands of Brothers Porte, Taylor, Codington, Harris, and Pledges Aiken, Sample, Williamson, Rhinehart, Warner, and Bruce. Brothers Grimbal, Ashmore, and Pledges D. Erwin, White, and Mackey were dispatched south to the Ga.-Furman game in a fifth column movement to contact friend Flo-Flo and others while a meeting of the clan was called in Charlotte at Pledge Hemby’s country estate. (Heck, Walker, I’ve got English to do and they’ll cut this anyway.)

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Wolf McKiethan threw tradition to the winds to lead the chapter against the Salem varsity in the Salem-Davidson fray last Saturday. Salem got beat. On the way back to Winston, Murd’s date said, “You really have to hand it to Murdock! Because he’s so shy and backward.” Bunny Perrin became the season’s winner of the Delta Kappa scholarship presented by the chapter to the date of the Salem girl most likely to be censored in L’il Abner. Jim Poag, who bids fair to replace Brothers Ragan and O’Hair as biggest dealers on campus, came back from a dark corner muttering, “All our dates are pearls, like baby. They’re neckless.” Sam Maloney entertained his date by pointing out scenic views of Davidson while outlining the vital information that may be learned in college. Sample of wisdom, as reported by roommate Korbel: “If you go to sleep suddenly and wake up without hair, there is an Indian with a tommyhawk.” With smiles of glee, the brothers have lured the following young ladies to the dances: Miss Sarah Clark, with Giles Crowell; Miss Cathey Caldwell, with Dan Beals; Mrs. Dave Archibald, with Dave Archibald; Miss Mary Anne Cromer, with Bill Campbell; Miss Batchelor, with John Fairly; Mrs. Newt Hoey, with Newt Hoey; Miss Clara Gantt, with Murd McKiethan; Mrs. Tommy Larson, with Adolph Larson; Miss Nancy Waugh, with Bill Korbel; Miss Mary Sutherland, with Tom Howard; Miss Eloise Harden, with Jim French; Miss Mary Livingston, with Dick O’Hair; Miss Irma Dell Moore, with Amos Ragan; Miss Liela Pursley, with James Poag; Miss Lilliam Horsley, with George Patrick; Miss Helen Lee Jones, with Johnny Richards; Miss Eleanor Suhling, with Dave Richardson; Mrs. Kitty Ross, with Bill Ross; Miss Alys Martin, with Tom Snodgrass; Miss Josephine Dunlap, with Frank Strait; Miss Virginia Cauthen, with Ed Newton; Miss Joanne Swasey, with Joe Vance; Miss Anne Doty, with Howard.with Bunny Perrin; and Mrs. Betty Moneyhan, with Al Moneyhan. The chapter announces with pleasure the pledging of Earl B. Huie last Monday.

“Oh, you kid” come through again: in maternity ward to ditto: McKiethan has a little baby “T’m M. H. Goodrom Welcome Alumni.

HARDWARE and GROCERIES
HARDWARE Phone 2531
GROCERIES Phone 2541

Second Kid: “a little boy baby.”
First Kid: “How do you know?”
Second Kid: “Because my name is Henry.”

PHI DELTA THETA

At the top of the list this week, even above the mass Salem date, we want to congratulate Brother Ed Golden who left the campus and returned minus his pin. Here’s our best regards to Dotty, now a Phi Delt girl. The rest of the Phi Delts stayed on the campus to thrill the invading Salemites. Dates, blind and otherwise, were escorted after the game to the house, a P. O. E. for the wiener fire in Erwin Lodge picnic area. It was hard to distinguish between those with blind dates and the others who dated old acquaintances. So only after checking up do we publish this list of Phis who fall into the latter classification: Brothers Witherspoon, Johnson, Cameron, Miller, Richardson, Martin, and Pledge Brothers Hollister and Bill Smith. To them, it was a long-anticipated day. In the former group, several couples bear mentioning: Morris Newell with Rovin’ Mary Bryant, formerly of (space forbids). O. E. Starnes dated Hallie Greek, who was, no doubt, previously forbidden to date into any Grecian clan; the name itself has a certain Phi ring to it. Brothers Iverson and Brownson spent the evening informing their dates on the “York Bar Bell Club.” Monk Montgomery reported a fond evening. Bob Patton announces that he is in the money! We realize that the day would not have been a success had the Fightin’ Wildcat squad gone down in defeat. So special recognition from the Phi Delt house goes to Bill Rhea Adams, Bill Austin, Curtis Harper, and recently pledged Carl Shepherd for their great performances on that occasion.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

At long last Homecoming is looming ahead in the near future and everyone seems to be preparing for the coming weekend. From the looks of everything, this past weekend was spent “getting in shape.” Joe Bell says that after taking care of about seven girls last Saturday afternoon, the ONE that he will have this weekend will be no trouble at all. Brother Chick Neal is having trouble again. She’s mad because he watched the majorettes at the half instead of going up into the stands to talk to this certain one. Better luck, Chick.

Among those seen at the game and at the house afterwards were Brothers Jackson, Clyde Stroup, Robert Stroup, McNair, and Pledges Boyd, Fanjoy, McElroy, and Ellis. A feed was held Sunday night for the parents who attended the Sunday night vesper Memorial Service. The committee for decorating the house has started work on the decorations under the direction of Brother Clyde Stroup. The committee for the banquet has everything in readiness. The favors have arrived as have the place cards, so everything should run off smoothly Friday night at the Hotel Charlotte.

There is only one sad fact that we would like to denote tonight in this column. Brother Dockery got a telegram today saying that “plan didn’t work out. Won’t be able to leave till Saturday” LOVE, J——. And there is one apology that yours truly would like to make and it is to a certain sophomore at Greensboro College. It concerns the feelings of a certain brother toward a certain girl in Kannapolis. Due to an error in the composition of this column that week, the said article was slightly miswritten. The brother’s name in question was supposed to be omitted. (That'll cost you two bucks, Brother Shoak.)

KAPPA ALPHA

First, Sigma Chapter wishes to welcome the alumni to Davidson and it especially extends a hearty hand to all KA alumni. We trust that this will be the most successful Homecoming in Davidson’s history. If you listened hard enough last weekend, you could hear the “calm before the storm” at the KA house. All eyes and thoughts are on the big, long-awaited event — Homecoming. In case you have wondered who that “chicken with his head cut off” is, let us now relieve you of all suspicion. It is only Brother Mac Jeffries, who, as Pan-Hel Prexy, has had a terrific job planning and executing the dance plans. Our hats are off to Mac and all the council.

Brother Cunningham, known by various intimate names but commonly called “Chuck,” had a hectic Saturday P.M. “Operatif Converse” was on the slate, but because of the weather, he made a forced landing at Gaffney, which happens to be the home of Limestone College. ’Nuff said. One Queens’ girl was enough to make solemn, stately Pledge Glasgow say that he got “a tremendous charge” (rated at 10,000 volts, DC). The female answers to the initials of B.J.B. (spelled backwards). But the biggest safari of the weekend was led by Brother Wilkes Macanlay. In company with Brothers Harris, Harden, and Richardson, all riding “Naomi,” he was last seen heading for the wilds of Seneca, S.C. Coincidentally, eight (count ’em) girls from Q.C. also made a similar trip. With 2 to 1 odds, the fellows must think the war is still on.

The Tennessee contingent seems to love “them thar hills.” Making the trip to Bristol were Jack and Bill Faucette, Dick Easley, and Harry Bachman. We haven’t forgotten Salem Day — or have we? A fair share of the beauties seemed to go KA, but not all were satisfied. Perhaps the most flashy trio of the day consisted of Tim Payne, Bird Fowle, and John Quincey Adams. Tim reports a verbal encounter with his date over the respective merits of Davidson and Princeton. The lengthiest journey of the period was that of Brother Jack Payne. He flew, by air mail, to New York, for an ad interim meeting of the United Christian Youth Movement. Brother Art Lindsay was up to Shelby and Brothers Sam Ervin and Bill Carter rode back to Morganton with the high school band. Ruling the football roost was a pleasant feeling. At least it was at the time this goes to press. But some of the other mighty teams of the nation have been upset unexpectedly, and rumors are that the S.A.E.s are gunning for us. Fire away, we’re wearing the latest in double-breasted armor plating.

Guaranteed — ONE DAY SERVICE
DAVIS CLEANERS
DAVIDSON, N.C.
DEPENDABLE WORK
JIM SATERFIELD
24 Ga. Local and College, Agent
At Your Service
TAILORING
ALTERING
MENDING
WE CALL FOR AND DELIVER FOR NO EXTRA CHARGE PLUS Anytime