Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN Friday, December 13, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

ED SUTTON ---------------------- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK ---------------------- BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jim Veal ---------------------- Associate Editor
Bob Rierson ---------------------- Feature Editor
Clayton Scofield ---------------------- Sports Editor
Walter Walker ---------------------- Managing Editor
Ralph Alexander ---------------------- Managing Editor
Bob Philips ---------------------- Managing Editor
Dave Richardson ---------------------- Managing Editor
Jim Pitman ---------------------- Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Gambrell ---------------------- Assistant Business Manager
Frank Lemmon ---------------------- Advertising Manager
Jenn McNair ---------------------- Circulation Manager
Bob Cline ---------------------- Circulation Manager
Charles Dockery ---------------------- Collection Manager
Bill Orr ---------------------- Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1879.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor’s hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947 Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

Gift Fund...
At the time this publication goes to press, the “Y” gift fund is well under way, and from present indications it appears that as in the past, the drive will sail over the top. The gift fund like other Davidson traditions has grown with the years and this year’s goal of forty-five hundred dollars is the result of the fine work of Davidson students of the past as well as the diligent efforts of the men conducting this year’s drive. A word of commendation is in order to Joe Stukes, Jim Jackson, and Murphy Williams for the time and effort they have given the worthy project. Appreciation to the students and especially to the faculty, who this year have taken an exceptionally active interest in the fund, should also be expressed. There is nothing that can be said as to the worthiness of the project which has already been stated by Stukes and Dr. Price (who by the way was the first editor of The Davidsonian). China today, perhaps more than any spot on earth, is in dire need of Christian leadership and the Hang Chow Christian College which has been described as the Davidson of China, will serve as a small but mighty nucleus for the education of just such a leadership as will be needed. By giving to this Chinese institution of higher learning we indeed make Hang Chow Christian College the Davidson of China, for by our gifts we make it a part of Davidson. Our investment is small, but the dividends reaped will be amazing to behold. Hats off to Davidson College and the Y.M.C.A. Our dollars will bring a safer, freer, more Christian world.

Editorials

DAVIDSONIAN LETTERS & FEATURES

A Mighty Fortress...
Davidson College is indeed privileged to be one of two institutions in our land to play host to Reverend Martin Niemoeller, the great German Christian leader who defied Adolf Hitler. Each time I hear the hymn of Martin Luther, “A Mighty Fortress is Our God”, I think of this man who forgot physical punishment to preach truth to his people, for Martin Niemoeller is himself a mighty fortress of the Christian faith and it is through just such men of strength that Christianity has become the powerful moving thing that it is today.

The notorious Bill ‘Face’ Wall who makes his home at Davidson on the Third floor of Duke dormitory has come to me with a sad face for some several months now with the constant complaint that he is receiving absolutely no publicity in this king of college weekly publications. It is here that I wish to give adequate publicity to Mr. Wall although I do not know what to say other than the fact that I am fairly certain that his name is Bill Wall and that he lives on the third floor of Duke dormitory. Pete Sinclair, noted political scientist, has advanced the opinion that we should appoint Mr. John L. Lewis ambassador to Russia. Mr. Sinclair goes on to point out that in this manner we would either get what we wanted from the reds or we would get rid of John L. Reports from the Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Theta formals held this week in Charlotte indicate a record social success. Representatives from both groups are of the opinion that they were the best functions which either group has ever put over. Guess post-war Davidson is off to a successful social year. The Kappa Alpha Order and Phi Gamma Delta are planning equally gala parties for the coming weekend. From Alabama College and the Associate Collegiate Press comes the story of the rigid regulations guarding the girls of said institution from 1900-1925. Pupils of 1900 were allowed twenty-five cents a week allowance, and in 1908 a student had to obtain a written request from her parents before she could go home for Christmas holidays. In 1925 students were required to be on the campus by five-thirty P.M. in the winter and six P.M. in the summer. Students of 1925 were permitted to receive visits from men on Saturday and Sunday only. The calling hours were from two to six in the afternoon and between seven and nine-thirty in the evening. Ahh, Progressive education!!!

Belk’s Department Store
Mooresville, N. C.

Stonestreet’s Grade “A” Cafe
“The Sensible Place to Eat”
Mooresville, N. C.

Paul & Crymes, Inc.
Sporting Goods
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

O. C. Stonestreet, Manager

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
416 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N. C.

All Wildcats, loyal and true, have bidden farewell once again to another football season along with Thanksgiving turkey and all the trimmings. Now Doc White can transfer his complete thoughts, not to mention his voluminous rolls of tape, to the basketball squad’s aches and pains. Everyone seems to be looking forward to a great cage season, even Sir Throttlebottle, who couldn't make the fifth string “B” team. He is thinking of forming a team of his own of interested parties. A schedule is already partially set up, with Mt. Mourne Junior High, Concord Grammar school, and Johnson C. Smith Prep school being numbered among the opponents. Anyone interested may contact Regatso in his room, Number 6½ in the basement of Georgia.

A sometimes mute and sometimes crashing testimony of the similarity of human natures may be witnessed at any time of the day and night (barring two to four a.m.) in Chambers nowadays. A heavy iron ball suspended by a sturdy wire has been rigged up near the north stairway, reaching almost the entire distance from the ceiling to the basement floor. An experiment in physics by one of the professors is the object, and the end is to see how much the earth’s rotation affects the pendulum. Judging from the very obvious and constant motion of said pendulum, ye olde terrestrial ball must be swirling around at a mad pace, since the ball continually swings in huge arcs which end only when it crashes resoundingly into the wall. But we who are learned enough to have made a “D—” on Physics 1 know that the earth is not the cause of the motion, but rather it is caused by the aforementioned human nature that seems to inhabit all Davidsonians to the point that they simply must pull the ball as far as possible and then let it go. As a result all the professors in the north end of Chambers even hear the ponderous boomings in their respective sleeps, and the latest report is that at the present rate of poundings, the whole foundation of the building will fall in 25,896 years, 13 months, and 25 days.

One more very insignificant item has been brought to my attention that I might insert at this inconspicuous point. This is an ideal place for it because if people aren’t planning to read this far, they will have already quit, and if some do brave the piece out, they will even struggle through this. Thus I stand to lose few, if any, readers by printing this rather offensive subject. A good friend of the Davidsonian, who has some slightly maniacal and laughable ideas about how the paper should be run, made the suggestion that this column run a series of character sketches on certain BMOCs (himself naturally being first on the list) to liven up the breeze and the paper in general. Since I immediately fell in with this brilliant idea and since I could think of no greater character to sketch than the suggestor himself, I herewith present the hilarious and yet repulsive history, very briefly since little can be said, of one Charlie (Frap) Reid, whose main claim to fame is that he is in Economics class with and sits in chapel near some of the more famous men on the campus. Charlie was born in Horseface Falls, South Dakota, but moved as soon as he could get his eyes open for fear of being connected with the place which he typifies so greatly. Exhaustive research, however, has uncovered the true facts of this worthy.man’s life. Little could be discovered of Frap’s earlier years, the outstanding events being his running away from home four times, his being kicked out of school three times (a year, that is), in the first four grades, and his eventual graduation, with principal and pupil. He was noteworthy in high school for his decided preference for blue things, and used up ten bottles of Parker “51” ink dyeing blond girls’ hair. His next venture was entrance into the Army where he served as a latrine captain, winning the award of best head cleaner in the Fifth Platoon, Eightieth Regiment, Fifty-fifth Brigade, Third Army. He managed some way to get into Davidson where he has become known for his amazing ability to go to sleep in chapel. He has a passion for elegant automobiles, but gets overenthusiastic at times in their use. It is difficult to sum up a person such as Frap, since there is evidently no material for thought. Let me conclude then with the observation that it looks like snow for Christmas, which has no bearing on my subject’s case, but I had to end in some way that would hold interest. MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL!

Cinema Comments
By Doug Swink

Monday and Tuesday
December 16-17
“The Green Years”

This is based on A. J. Cronin’s story of the little Irish lad who, being a Catholic orphan, comes into the household of his Scottish Presbyterian relatives to be brought up. (Sparks should fly now.) The story advances through the life of this lad and carries us up to his goal in life—to enter a university and later become a doctor. The plot is handled with extreme care showing the boy’s growth to manhood, and his striving for religious freedom in a narrow-minded, bigoted household. Charles Coburn as the grandfather and young Dean Stockwell as “Robbie” turn in excellent performances.

Wednesday and Thursday
December 18-19
“Two Sisters from Boston”

A gay, whimsical romantic comedy telling of a girl from a Puritanical Boston family of Beacon Hill who goes to New York and lands a job singing in the Bowery, but still trying to get a contract with the Metropolitan. Don’t worry, she gets it in the end! Kathryn Grayson and June Allyson play the part of the two sisters and both run into such characters as Lauritz Melchior at the Met and Jimmy Durante in the Bowery. The excellent singing blended with drama, comedy, burlesque, and opera make this a perfect picture with which to begin the Christmas holidays.

Friday and Saturday
December 20-21
“Faithful In My Fashion”

A refreshing romantic comedy of young love—a boy (Tom Drake) after four years in the service returns expecting to find his girl (Donna Reed) the same as before. However, she has become an executive in a shoe business and has her guns aimed at a wealthy young fellow, but after a little conspiring on everyone’s part, she decides our hero has the shoes which will fit her for life. Miss Reed and Mr. Drake are supported by Edward Everett Horton and Harry Davenport.

the Davidsonian”), have besieged this rag’s office with requests to leave their names and respective social functions from the pages, this week's “Table” is sincerely dedicated. Far be it from the intention of this column to cause any rift in student-parent or student-feminine relations. Time has proven that it is the purpose of Sutton and the paper to create harmony among the beloved readers.

There can be little doubt of the fact that two of the more socially prominent Wildcatters, JAMES EVANS and MONTEITH POWELL, top this week’s list of dealers—or misdealers, in their case. Lured by a dozen pairs of nylons, one of their woebegone attractions of former months suddenly appeared in the halls of Chambers last week plaintively calling for SLICK and MONTY. When last seen the petite damsel was leading the cowering, dean-dodging pair across the campus, while the two endeavored to conceal their identity from any passersby.

OSCAR STARNES, HENRY McGEACHY and RICHARD OGLESBY pulled quite a faux pas themselves, to take second place honors, outside world. STARNES tried vainly to hustle the dates away from the blushing atmosphere, but the girls were determined to hear the end of the joke.

ALF TAYLOR, who has made it a point to get his name in as many Davidsonians as he could, achieves the same this week. His widely publicized jaunt to the Army-Navy game even made a chapel program, so there’s no need to mention that. TAYLOR spent the past weekend trying to keep Nancy Jane away from the frantic advances of TH BONE, who misses the Countess Inna Betzemmer more than he an in Austria.

GAINES STUBBINS and ED PHILLIPS were spied Saturday night in on a huge musical deal. They strolled into the Waffle Shop at three a.m. chanting an old Beta ditty about a bold man, one Riley. STUBBINS and LUCILLE seemed to be old-time friends.

SAM MALONEY and DAVE RICHARDSON reported New York to be in fine shape before they investigated its resources on the Thanksgiving Day weekend. They muttered incoherently about the aftermath, something about sirens, squads, and judges.

Letters From The Lodges

SAEs SCATTER

A sigh of relief on the part of both. The S. A. E.s activities pretty well covered the Carolinas and Virginia over the weekend. Mac Erwin, now that football season is over, has taken to the road and is giving stiff competition to Hemby. He journeyed to Randolph Macon Women’s College in Lynchburg to see some unknown queen. Bill Baxter, Rod Shaw, and Don Kerr journeyed to Queens College this weekend for a dance. Also present in Charlotte with the presentation of The Messiah were Bob and Vernon McGehee, Rod Shaw, Bill Baxter, and Red Williams. Various rumors fly around about Hideous Hemby on Monday, but this week’s rumor has it that he went to South America. The Debutante Ball in Greenville found Gil White and Sid Bruce there. Gil White came back Saturday morning at 7 a.m. and was off for the fair city by noon. At the moment, no information is to be had on the activities of Coach Hockey Lee and his red flame. When Bud Aiken came back Saturday night at a very late hour, he thought he was seeing things on the flag pole, and he was—his bicycle. Bob Little took off Friday with the little woman from Converse for Chapel Hill to be entertained by Tex Beneke and his orchestra. John Codington rounded off his weekend by attending a wedding in Raleigh and later journeying to Chapel Hill.

PHI DELTS DEAL

Brothers of the Sword and Shield could be seen in rare form over the weekend as the success of their Christmas dinner dance hit an all-time high. The formal was held at the Charlotte Woman’s Club with Brother Pete McKnight ’38 acting as principal speaker and Brother O. E. Starnes pulling duty as toastmaster. The usual array of Phi beauties was on hand, but the dance was highlighted by the presence of Miss Minnie Pearl Adams of Charlotte and Winston-Salem who completely captured the heart of every member present from the lowliest pledge to the mightiest of the brotherhood. Even before the dance began, Miss Adams is reported to have received a flood of letters from the various brothers requesting her presence, but “Lucky Dawg” Sutton had filed his application early and therefore had the pleasure of her company. The chapter was also honored by the presence of Brother Murphy Williams and his wife, Jean, and of Brother Edward Guerrant of the faculty, also accompanied by his better half.

SPEs SPEED

The Shrine game in Charlotte drew quite a few SPEs to cheer their hometown boys. Earl Myers distinguished himself in his own way by getting mixed up in conversation with a Fair Maid from South Carolina sitting behind him. Know who the person is before you speak next time, Earl. Prior to the game “Coach” Moore seemed to have enjoyed himself at lunch. Tut, Tut! Several other SPEs dealed around at the Fog Bowl in Winston Saturday night. Jerry Robinson’s been singing a ditty about a Greyhound bus since his return from Bristol. Again, Tut, Tut! “Flop” Shaw, it seems, has a chum in the telephone office who recognizes that drawl. Pledge Brothers Shaw and Clark wandered off this weekend; Shaw to G’boro and W. C. for Sara’s birthday; Clark to Charlotte, seen returning at 0400. Why so early, Pat? Sunday night found the Sig Eps at Professor Behrman’s for an extra special feed.

PI KAPS PITCH

Brothers J. Barringer, Reid, and Lander attended a dance at Limestone Saturday night. Brother Evans and Pledge Brother Sasser met Brother Roy Williams in Charlotte and it wasn’t the Broadway this time. Brother Robertson is filled with joy since he heard Billie Rose could come to the dance this week. Brother Tyler was at the game in Charlotte with “Baby”. With them were Pledges Rush, Turnage, Houck, and Bumbarger. Brothers Bumbarger, T. Barringer, Higginbotham, Elliott, Hunter, and Cline attended local cinema. Unusual! Brothers Barksdale, Schenck, and Walker pulled a big deal in Charlotte. Brothers Carpenter and Murray had two ravishing women in Gastonia. Pledge Brother Helton and family took a weekend cruise to various cities throughout the state. Brother Moore started home again and we're told he made it this time. Brothers Cox and Edwards were in Salem this weekend.

K SIGS SOCIAL

The Sigmas did themselves proud this weekend with their Christmas Kappa Sigma dance. The dance was held at the Charlotte Hotel with the music of Billy Kanoph and his orchestra furnishing the instrumental port. Master Lawson was conducting ceremonies and did a great job of it. At the expense of the pledges and some of the brothers many good jokes were told and much fun was had. The brothers showed good taste in their selection of dates. Lovelies came from all over the South, as well as from the North and West. At the banquet, held just before the dance, a number of the pledges showed great talent. Sam Brewer's impromptu discourse on the art of kissing was only excelled by Buddy.

(Continued on Page 4)