Page Two THE DAVIDSONIAN November 8, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ED SUTTON

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB SMOAK

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor
Dave Richardson
Feature Editor
Jim Pitman
Sports Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Managing Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
Assistant Business Manager
Collection Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by THE STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE
New York, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, a medium of student and faculty opinion. It welcomes any contributions or communications to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

It has come to the attention of this correspondent, strictly through the grapevine, that plans are underway to block off the “D” road which runs in front of the Chambers Building and enters Main Street at either end of the campus. Even the eventual destruction of the road has been given consideration. The architect who has recommended this procedure is of the opinion that cars parked along the road in front of Chambers distract from the beauty of the campus and should therefore be removed.

In my opinion, we might just as well destroy Chambers, for without that road, it just wouldn’t seem like Davidson College to a number of people. The presence of autos parked around the “D” does not seem to distract from the scenery of our campus in any way to me. In fact, they may even enhance the appearance of the campus in some cases. The “D” is a tradition at Davidson, which in itself is no argument for its retention if the tradition is outmoded. There is nothing worse than an institution of higher learning which banks on a group of musty, moth-eaten traditions to carry it through, for unless traditions are sound, they soon become hollow. But is this tradition dusty and outmoded? I am inclined to think not. In talking with several of the student body leaders on the campus, it seems that these men are in agreement with me on the subject, and I feel fairly certain that the larger share of the alumni would feel just as we do.

We've Got It - Let's Keep It

That renowned Wildcat spirit, that undefinable something, about which yours truly and several other members of the student body have been harping for the past few weeks, is back on the Davidson campus once again. It began to soar shortly after that very fine chapel program two weeks ago which was drawn up by Dick Port, Dick O’Hair, Pat Wil- 

Editorials

The DAVIDSONIAN was taking one of its worst pastings of the season under the expert hand of Mr. Harrington and Company. Bill Boyd was out with a fractured leg, Hervie Striklin was carted off the playing field as cold as the proverbial mackerel, and Carl Pahl was dazed on the sidelines. Davidson was on the short end of a twenty-five to nothing count, but to a casual observer, he would have thought that the old Wildcat spirit was right on top of the stack. If anything, the cheering got better as the game went on. Johnny Walker, who undoubtedly played one of the most magnificent ball games of his life, said that he had never heard anything like it before. Several visitors to the campus were amazed at the never-die attitude of our student body, and the alumni smiled as they saw overwhelming evidence that the Davidson fight which they knew was still present in copious quantities.

Yes, we took a licking on that day. We make no excuses and ask no quarter. Washington and Lee had a mighty fine outfit. In losing the game, however, we found something that we were in the process of losing. Something that can never be shown on a scoreboard, or written down for people to read. We found that day the heart of Davidson College which has been beating through these many decades, and which we are now certain will continue to beat with renewed vigor in the years to come.

This And That From Here And There

The Davidsonian Staff goes into sack week with the loss of ace Feature Editor “Gentleman Jim” Jackson. The wildcat Pegler was forced to give up his work on the campus weekly due to his numerous other campus activities. His style and wit will be missed on the editorial page. Taking over as columnist this week is Bob Rierson of Charlotte, N. C., whom we feel is most capable of filling Jim’s shoes in the feature department. While Bob is only a second-semester Sophomore, he has proven his ability working with the staff this year since his return to school after a hitch in Uncle Sam’s navy.

The laurel wreath goes to Mr. James Christian Pfohl and his football band for their unique and outstanding performances week after week. The band gets a lot of kidding from some of the student body, they go through long periods of practice to work up half-time entertainment for us, they get very poor seats at the games, but they are always there and they are usually just about letter perfect. In fact, they are just about good enough to be taken for granted by a goodly number of our students. Hats off to our music department for a job well done.

Congratulations are in order for the Pan-Hellenic Council for the excellent job they did on our Homecoming dances. These men gave their time and energy before and during the dances that we

Sir Regatso Bombasto (my boy) Throttlebottle has just departed from my humble abode, leaving his customary loud and haranguing epithets curled around my ears along with an admonition to pass them along to the manly, lively, and (after last weekend) exhausted Davidson student body. Regat had quite an eventful time at the Homecoming dances last weekend along with all the Wildcat BMOCs although it must be admitted that my boy is probably unknown to the majority of Davidson men. For your information then before I relate his tale, I shall endeavor to present a short description of Regatso so that you will know him next time. He is a short florid man of tremendous circumference and bulbous snozzola. He wears a pair of drape pants with a high top hat and tails, a T-shirt, and a green and orange tie. Even if he changes his T-shirt, the tie will remain the same, so don’t worry.

Now to go on with his story, and I quote in the learned one’s own words:

“You know, I’ll never understand why, but I didn’t get in the formal on Friday night. I had my ticket and got as far as the door, but that fellow in the khaki suit took one look at me and immediately went through the ceiling into the balcony, thoroughly perturbing Trouthead and his woman who were watching the dance below, of course. (The ROTC Department wishes to inform the Armory owners that the funds for repair of their roof will be forwarded as soon as Throttlebottle is located—Ed. note.) Well, I started to go on in, but didn’t get very far because three fratters politely suggested that I leave with the aid of three pop bottles, a handy two-by-four, and a stray freshman. I was rather discouraged at the time, but consoled myself with the thought that Saturday would be my big night.

“For the informal I arrived early and was brightened by the sounds of laughter and music issuing from the depths of the Armory. Fortunately, I approached from a side which did not lead me by the front door of the place, unlike three others of my acquaintance who were last seen madly yodeling “Atomic Power” in the middle of the Square at four-thirty. They never made the dance, poor guys! Anyway, I strode boldly up to the door and brashly slung it open, not forgetting to cock my top hat at a jaunty angle. The act was useless, however, for a big, rolling, black wave hit me, considerably clouding my outlook on life for the moment. I calmly picked myself up off the ground after pushing back several hundred coats, and, visibly shaken, tried again. The door was open, but I couldn’t see for some reason which I later solved by using my jackknife to cut a peep-hole through the smoke as I walked along. After downing several healthy swigs of RC which bolstered to a great degree my morale, I advanced determinedly onto the floor. When I woke up I was reclining gracefully on a padded couch, suffering only minor brain concussion, diverse bruises, and aConsiderable loss of faith in my fellow man. My spirits rose again as I saw an old girlfriend about 24 couples away. This time I armed myself with a Washington and Lee football player, and together we marched to the fray. Numerous buffetings and tramplings underfoot were all forgotten when Billy blew that trumpet, not to mention myself halfway across the room, causing several dealers to gaze darkly in my direction. On I struggled once more and finally arrived panting by the side of my intended victim just as the dance was over!

My boy made several comments on the situation as a whole which I shall, for the sake of chastity, withhold, but the gist of his argument was, “Tell those guys to get more RCs next time!”

Another friend of mine was heard from only recently who asked me to relay his words to the freshmen in my audience (if such there be—audience, that is). He himself was unable to appear before me due to a bad head injury incurred while walking through the freshman section of chapel. He has calculated from the shape of the wound that a well-worn brickbat did the job. His name is Trye N. Fynme, the man who knows what goes on beneath every freshman cap. The object of his letter was to inform me, and consequently you, of a new invention of his which will go to make for better spirit at football games. A special frosh seating section will be installed with built-in springs under each seat. An electric eye system will be wired across the Davidson goal line which, when broken by a Davidson runner, will release the coiled springs and catapult the recalcitrant red-top to his feet. A small amount of electricity (approximately 2,000 volts) in the springs will help to a considerable degree with the cheering. May I take the opportunity to recommend that the Faculty Committee on Spirit Promotion consider this new innovation with much contemplation?

We of the Davidsonian staff wish to congratulate Mr. Pfohl and the band very highly for their magnificent display of bubble-manufacturing at halftime. No one noticed the change in humidity when said bubbles burst, due to the rather damp atmosphere which pervaded the campus for our Victory Homecoming. An exclusive interview with Mr. Pfohl has revealed another clever plan for the Richmond halftime ceremonies. Each band member will go armed with a box containing a well-grown Granddaddy spider to be released on signal from Mr. Pfohl. I believe this to be a rather original idea and herewith state that I sincerely hope the aforementioned grandfathers will take up with their namesakes from Virginia to the gridders’ utmost consternation. BEAT RICHMOND!!!

Cinema Comments By Doug Swink

Monday and Tuesday November 11-12
“Heartbeat”
Ginger Rogers, Adolphe Menjou, and Basil Rathbone give a new twist to the old Cinderella plot by having Cindy with “an incredibly dingy background” rise to the heights in social and diplomatic circles. She has been hired to steal a watch from a French diplomat, but the love bug takes a bite out of her. All the Women’s Clubs’ comments upon the picture made mention of the moral significance and the cushioned Parisian setting. Sounds good, n’est-ce pas?

Wednesday and Thursday November 13-14
“Johnny In the Clouds”
A British film showing the difficulties of a war marriage and presenting the conflicts of temperament, language, and compatibility which arise when British and American troops are thrown together. The plot concerns a pilot whose marriage is almost ruined by the death of a fellow flyer who left behind a wife and kid. However, the Yanks move in—and all ends well. The cast includes John Mills, Rosamund John, and Bonar Colleano, Jr. Get out those two mission crushes, you birds, and let’s go winging it down to the cinema!

Friday and Saturday November 15-16
“The Strange Love of Martha Ivers”
With Barbara Stanwyck, Van Heflin, Lizabeth Scott, and Kirk Douglas, this makes an outstanding picture in every respect. The plot tangles four lives together. A wealthy married couple, haunted by a tragedy in their youth, meet their just deserts when the wife encounters a childhood lover and is attracted towards him both because she still loves him and because she suspects that he witnessed the murder. Miss Scott, in my opinion, should be voted “The One I’d Rather Play With On the D.C. Golf Course”. Play golf, of course!

The Operating Table
By Bob Rierson

Well, Homecoming has come and gone with only a few instances of dirt getting around to the roving snoop. However, we'll present these, and with the many others floating verbally about the campus, we think most of the deals will get before the public. The biggest deals of the weekend were pulled by the alumni, though some of our own boys made their way into pay dirt. OLE BUDDY WHITESIDES is seeking membership in the Spanish club after an enjoyable Saturday evening with SOCIAL SAM TATE’S gift in the form of a Cuban beauty. LESTER PORT and SMILING JIM HARRIS drifted into the banquet late it seems, leaving one of PORT’S Blue Racer fenders on the lawn of the City Hall of Charlotte. “TYRONE” GAITHER had recurrent trouble with names when MAC “BONE” JEFFRIES asked him five times what this Barbara’s last name was. Congratulations to PETE “LOVER” SINCLAIR who has been selected by the girls at Queens as the man they would like most to be marooned with on a desert isle. Wolf of the week title goes to LITTLETON SCOTT, eh GILES? “ESQUIRE” HODGIN, running true to form, gained a close second. The dance Saturday evening was very hot it seems, and “GENTLEMAN JIM” JACKSON retired early in the evening to more pleasant surroundings. The “PENGUIN” also vouches for the heat along with several other fellows. It seems that “SMILING” HUGH HILL almost popped after chug-a-lugging a whole quart of ginger ale—straight.

The Phi Delt house is mourning this week for three of its brothers who may be seen now with their pins displayed after a sojourn to other parties. How about it OGLESBY, TODD, and McLEAN? It is also understood that COLSON is out of shape since returning to school while the one and only seemed to be in mid-season form. BILL BRIMBERRY ABBOTT was seen sulking about the campus today after his one and only had come up only to be occupied with other fellows most of the weekend. Title of “Man of the Week” goes to “FOOTSIE” CURRIE who isn’t satisfied with the usual one date for a weekend but came up with a different cutie each evening. It seems that a portion of Dr. C. K. BROWN’S Money and Banking class Friday was taken up with a definition of FLUSHED which he claimed was collegiate lingo and out of his line of knowledge. “TEXAS TERROR” POWELL was given a rise to fame Saturday evening when his date wrote and read a poem concerning his dealing escapades at the fraternity banquet. Press time is here so until some future date let’s have the dirt through “TROUTHEAD”. You guys, what didn’t appear is lucky, ain’t you “BONE”?

Down Fraternity Court

Pity ye old editor who finds himself with six hundred and thirty-eight lines of fraternity news for this week’s edition at 2:00 a.m. and no place for it to go. Due to increased costs in printing and a dwindling staff of reporters, it has become necessary that the DAVIDSONIAN publish only four pages weekly, and at the same time the news from the Greek Lodges has steadily grown out of all proportion to the other news features. For this reason, it has become necessary that this week’s edition go to press without the usual news from the social fraternities. Drastic changes must be made in the fraternity column, so this week's write-up is devoted to giving instructions to the brothers of the various organizations who will write the news for their respective groups in the future. In order to be perfectly fair to all parties concerned, only thirty printed lines will be allowed each lodge in future publications. All stories must be typewritten to be accepted by this office and must be typed at 68 spaces to the line and double spaced. Fifteen lines written in this manner will give thirty printed column lines which is the maximum that will be allowed any group. Fraternity presidents are requested to make sure that their correspondents are familiar with these regulations. Articles WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED unless these rules are complied with.

© ESQUIRE, INC., 1946
Reprinted from the October issue of Esquire
“Take it easy, now—remember whose side you’re on!”