Page Two
THE DAVIDSONIAN
October 25, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

PUBLISHED WEEKLY, THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

ED SUTTON ...........................................EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BOB SMOAK ...........................................BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Associate Editor ...........................................Jim Jackson
Feature Editor ...........................................Clayton Scofield
Sports Editor ...........................................Walter Walker
Managing Editor ...........................................Ralph Alexander
Managing Editor ...........................................Bob Phil
Managing Editor ...........................................Dave Richardson
Managing Editor ...........................................Jim Pitman

BUSINESS STAFF
Office Assistant

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE New YORK, N. Y.
CHICAGO - BOSTON - LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such it welcomes any contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity, or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

1946 Member 1947
Associated Collegiate Press
Distributor of Collegiate Digest

To The Fraternities...

There was once a time at Davidson when the fraternities took a lead in extracurricular activities. These nine social groups urged and sometimes even forced their members and pledges to go out for activities. These fraternities would watch the development of their members and urge them to work harder and longer in an effort to win honors for their chapter. Leaders of various activities such as publications, managerships, etc. had no trouble. They had men to work with them and could mold them into potential leaders. This custom seems to have faded during the war years, however, for now it seems that the job is left to the men in charge while the underclassmen sit by in lethargy.

Take the Davidsonian for instance. There was once a time on this campus when Monday night was known to all as the night the Davidsonian went to press. The office was jammed to the ceiling with reporters, and the paper went to press with little or no trouble. The fraternities do not seem to urge their underclassmen to participate now, however, and as a result of this, the managing editors sit up until the wee small hours putting the paper together. This is true of every activity. The fraternities do nothing. It is a long road back after the war years. Most of the tradition and hand-me-down has to be uncovered or rediscovered. The fraternities can be a great help if they will.

Letters To The Editor...

Dear Ed,

It has been my intention to write this letter to the Davidsonian ever since my arrival at old D.C. this term, but due to my procrastinating nature, I have delayed its writing until now. An incident of Sunday night last gave me the final spur of action.

As we all know, the old hill upon which North and South Dormitories once resided, was leveled by an earth-moving concern during the summer months. At that time, numerous iron pipes, large concrete foundation blocks, and other materials were uncovered only to be left around the edges of the field. These things, together with two large telephone poles which were pushed into the space between the dorms and Chambers, have become two very bad eyesores on our campus and someone should see that they are removed. When I say remove, I mean just that and not merely moved, for it was the moving of the telephone poles that caused me to take action. I had learned to become so accustomed to the position of the poles that I had to step over them in the dark. As I made my way to vespers last Sunday night, I stepped over the place where the first pole should have been, walked on for five or six feet and suddenly found myself face to face with mother earth. Someone had moved and not removed those poles. I did not lose my temper, however, but merely said, “Oh fudge!”, and hobbled on to vespers. As everyone knows, I am a touch football player of no mean ability and it has become a serious loss to my team because of my injury. I therefore wish to plead with the administration to clean up that spot in the interest of beauty and of safety.

Respectfully,
O. E. STARNES.

CLASS RINGS
Rufus Long
Student Manager
STUDENT'S STORE
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Run By Davidson Students For Davidson Students
TENNIS BALLS AND SHOES - Reduced Prices
TENNIS RACKETS - PARKER “51” INK
PARKER INK IN ALL COLORS
STATIONERY & SUPPLIES
FRAMES & STRINGS
William W. Telford
Graduate Manager

their radios in the afternoon, but now they will have the chance to see exactly what the “Jot-Em-Down Store” has on its shelves. Flashbacks of forty years ago provide such nostalgic scenes as old-fashioned cars, clothes, box-lunch auctions, and horse-drawn engines. Truly a movie for all of the family.

Monday and Tuesday
October 28-29
“Three Wise Fools”
Young Miss Margaret O’Brien as an Irish orphan holds her own against such seasoned character actors as Edward Arnold, Lewis Stone, and Lionel Barrymore. This Irish lassie protects her friends, the pixies, from these gentlemen who are her wealthy guardians and who wish to cut down an old oak tree which, by the way, is the hideout for the small folk. It is rumored that there were some...

No, boys, this is not Millie. (She’s red-headed!) The story commences when a young Army pilot enters an “Off Limits” joint unintentionally (?) and is saved from the M. P.’s by “The Bamboo Blonde,” played by Frances Langford. The pilot’s buddies paint her picture on his bomber. However, Miss Langford’s singing conquers the social front of his family and all comes out well in the end.

Thursday and Friday
Oct. 31-Nov. 1
“The Well Groomed Bride”
This story centers around the only magnum of champagne to be had in San Francisco. Ray Milland has to have it in order to launch a new ship and Olivia de Havilland must have it in order to celebrate her to-be wedding. Good for many a laugh. Incidentally, this is one bottle that really got around before being killed!

Down Fraternity Court

PHI DELTA THETA
The Phi Delt Dealer Parade:
10 — Brother Richard Oglesby, who mixes gorgeous redheads and forty thousand dollar business ventures on one weekend.
Number 9 — George Barnhardt toured to Greensboro to see (take note, dear reader—this may give you a brighter outlook on life) a girl who waited through the overseas years. George reports a big street dance on the W. C. campus.
Number 8 — Jack Wheelis attended the Saturday night dance at Salem and returned with that certain glow.
Number 7 — "Geech” tore himself away from the campus on an excursion to—this is certainly a new operation center—Bessemer, NC.
Number 6 — Brother Nichols, brave soul, took his chance at the Hag Farm (Queens College to the unlearned.) Hemo seems to have no complaints, however, concerning the ensuing hayride.
Number 5 — O. E. Starnes ended up in Asheville, home of “That Good Ole Mountain Dew.”
Number 4 — Pledge Brother Hollister went to the afternoon tea dance at Salem; then Bob and date took off for New Bern, which they both call home.
Now for the big three, the B. M. O. C.’s. (Fanfare of trumpets, etc.)
Number 3 — Little Al Guthrie was one of the leading operators on the Saturday night hayride. Rumor has it that Al is now lined up for future deals—dances, etc.
Number 2 — Social Sam Tate took the Big Blue first to Morganton, then to Asheville. ’Nuff said.
Number 1 — (Fanfare of trumpets, roll of drums, harp glissando, etc.) Shelley Colson toured all the way to Jacksonville, Fla. The “Jacks Kid” has made that trip twice this semester. date.

BETA THETA PI
Pledging unsullied support, the Betas elected new officers this week including Lamarr Williamson, President; Al Scarborough, Pan-Hell representative; and Tinley Tucker, Treasurer. Lamarr is also to be congratulated for his recent election to the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control.

Bouquets are tossed to Brother Bill Boyd and Pledge Bud Chandler for their fine jobs with the Wildcats of Raleigh and Lexington. Brother Stubbins plans to take up the job of a “Leader” also when he leads a beautiful Birmingham belle down the aisle next summer.

After receiving one of Brother Alexander’s Atomic Kisses, a Greensboro cutie fainted dead away. There is some doubt, however, as to whether this is a positive or negative reaction...

Amzie Ellington’s newest target for cupid’s shaft is the Charlotte cup-cake, Abernathy. This is the seventh rise in A. J.’s blood pressure since school opened here on the hill. Your attention is called to his Homecoming...

Rushing in where “limbers” fear to tread, “Dealer” Phillips brought the only date to the feed Sunday night. A good time was had by all, including...

Feeling provoked with foreign talent, Brother Jim Satterfield seeks the consolation offered by a Stonestreet waitress whose beauty is not to be denied despite race, creed, or previous condition of pulchritude.

Brothers Lammon, Carper, McCloy, Shepperson, West, and Anderson were dealing at Salem this past weekend.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
“Helldriver” Abernathy conducted a tour of Virginia chaperoned by Brothers Ed Lilly, Wier, and Pitts over last weekend. After treating Mary Baldwin’s best to the game, Pitts was lost in the shuffle and the remainder dealt Virginia a low blow—from Lexington to Richmond. Brothers Robinson and Lacy Sellars were on the rampage in Bristol, where Sellars reports much...Fun under automobile. Through the courtesy of Eastern Air Lines, Professor Schenck, and a Georgia Belle, Pledge Brother Christopher found much knowledge in Georgia. Two Queen City queens rambled down to the Rock Hill fair in company with Brothers Flop Shaw and McLancklin Saturday night. Flop ear. Better watch this! Brother Noore was seen at the same fair—the less said the better. Everything was fine with Brother Blevins, who was unseen and unspied upon with sweet Jackie Saturday night, and for quite a while Sunday. Pledge Brother Clark’s silence about the results of his High Point expansion leads one to wonder. When Brother Barr makes up—we’ll check up on his troubles. To date (by our count) he’s only been flushed once. Something of a record. Using three figures to keep score on the Rock Hill golf course, one wonders whether Brother White and Pledge Brother Scruggs ever found dates for Homecoming. They looked in every sand trap and behind every tree. Disappointed in the Piedmont Grill, Brother Winchester bagged the limit in the Boar’s Head Sunday, picking up pointers all along.

PI KAPPA PHI

Most of the Pi Kappa Phi scandal comes from Winston-Salem this weekend. Brothers Bumbarger, Cox, Gaither, Huntley, Edwards, Tyler, and T. Barringer turned out in a big way. What was it about Hotel Robert E. Lee that reminded “Bud” of South America? Bud Cox, that is—It isn’t too hard to see why Tyrone is having so much trouble deciding which Barbara is the right one. They are both dream girls. Brothers Higgenbottom, J. Barringer, and Pledges Higgenbottom and C. Walker could have been found at the Frat House playing bridge over the weekend. Brother Sinclair went to Wilmington for the weekend. Nobody seems to know. Brother Puett and Pledge Bumbarger spent a quiet time in Hickory. All the freshmen had a big time on the campus, except Pledge Rush. He was too worried about who may be dating Sarah. Brothers Reid and Hunter and Pledge Boykin were in Charlotte as usual.

KAPPA ALPHA

“Scattered to the winds” might well sum up last weekend for the men of Kappa Alpha. The chilly autumn breezes, glorious fall foliage, and a few other things seemed to touch the “go” side of most of the Knights. Brothers Mac Jeffries and Dick Baxter chaperoned Pledges Bill Byrd and Donald Watt to the V. M. I. game in Lexington, Va. Of course, there were a few essential stops, one at Randolph-Macon and another at Salem (nothing like being prepared). The Queen’s queens entertained many of the brothers on the hayride. Among those seen boarding the hay-filled, girl-laden wagons were Wilkes Macaulay, Paul Richardson, “Sorrel” Harden, Al Harris, and Bob Stokes. Paul and “Sol” were dating twins and rumor has it that they never did find out who was who. Brother Yat Senn, from the Rho Chapter at the University of S. C., was Al Harris’ guest and also along for the joy ride. The fellows were still picking hay out of their hair at breakfast Monday morning. Home was still central in a few of the men’s thoughts although we won't try to guess what (or who) was at home. Brothers Bill Carter and Sam Ervin trekked up to Morganton while Pledges John Q. Adams and Bill King made the trip to Bristol, Tenn. When last seen heading south, Bill Barron was briefing Brothers Shep Dunn and Dick Baxter on their objective—Woman’s College of S. C., Winthrop to you regulars. Bill should know Rock Hill also as home. Lucky boy! The Piedmont hills at Greenville furnished an ideal setting for a rendezvous between Pledge Doug Hicks and a Georgia peach from Agnes Scott. Brother Art Lindsay journeyed to York, and over to Camden for a friend’s wedding. Be careful, Art. Brother Jackson was in Montreat for the Y Council Retreat, but will be back for big Thursday. Just mention Statesville to Brother Harl Malone and watch him perk up. Quote, “The most beautiful girl I’ve ever dated.” Unquote. Homecoming is just a week off and all the Chapter is intent on making this the best one yet for Kappa Alpha.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

With one more of those quiet weekends behind them, the Pikas are looking forward to Salem-Davidson and Homecoming weekends. The past weekend it seemed that most everyone was trying to save money, sleep, automobiles, and cuts for the big weekends that aren’t too far in the future. However, there are always a few who have to be exceptions to the rule. Brother Smoak spent a quiet weekend in Statesville, but even such a weekend can cost a lot of money. Don’t you think so, Smoakie? Brothers Turner, Claude Stroup, and Pledge Bill Boyd went up to the dance at Salem and they say they had a mighty big time. Brother Jackson was there also, but it seems that he is such a rabid telephone user he can’t even stop for the weekend. What were you talking about over the phone at three o’clock Sunday morning, Page? Most of the Asheville Brothers went home the past weekend. The Sky Club is still open, so they say. Brothers Ensign and Dockery operated in the vicinity of Charlotte Saturday night but other than that they were on the campus over the weekend. It seems that Brother Shelton went the usual weekend route to Greensboro and the family or is it the family? Pledge Fanjoy thinks that Cuba produces a lot of sugar for export to the U. S. A., especially Statesville. Brother Neill went to V. M. I. with the football team Friday and judging from his looks Sunday night he must have found the real LENA THE HYENA. Robert Stroup was in the city of Mt. Holly, which by the way seems to be his regular beat this year, Friday and Saturday nights. (He was planning to spend the night over there Saturday.)

(Continued on Page 4)

By JIM JACKSON

Joe Bachman, the Virginia mountain boy who has gained such a wide reputation as philosopher, soothsayer, and wit, has proposed a football game to end all gridiron activities. Smoothing his golden curls with practiced hand and gazing into the future with the vision of a sports writer spotting points on Saturday’s games, Hairless Joe expresses the hope that he might some day witness a contest between a team composed of Phi Beta Kappas and an aggregation of ODKs. What a struggle that would be: the Phi Betes with their complex plays versus the ODKs with their spirit and personality! Joe saw the VMI game and Joe wasn’t quite satisfied. However, there took place one incident which neither Phi Bete nor ODK, Freshman nor Senior, man nor beast, can expect to see again. I speak of the saga of the Great White God of Gastonia, Buddy Whitesides. Buddy has three great ambitions in his college work. One is to be a doctor, another to sing in the Glee Club, and the third to prove to all mankind that he can play football. After this year at Davidson and three more at med school, the first ambition will probably be realized. After the football season there will be time for glee clubbing of unrestricted nature. Last Saturday, Buddy almost fulfilled his third and greatest ambition, but cruel Fate nipped the budding opportunity. When Coach Story eyed the Davidson bench for reserve strength, with which to stem the tide of Keydet touchdowns, his discerning glance came to rest on the eager, determined face of Sir Edward. That was enough for the Coach, and when his name was called, that was enough for Whitesides. All the pent-up fury of long afternoons of rugged practice were ready to be loosed. On the first play, Buddy charged in from his defensive tackle position to smash a host of V. M. I. interferers. When Buddy arose, his pace had slowed somewhat. His grimy countenance proved the valor of his effort. Buddy was no flash in the pan. Johnny Walker and Easy Rhodes grabbed him as he made for the V. M. I. huddle, determined to analyze the next play. Buddy crouched in position, his muscles like steel springs. They remained like steel springs as a host of Keydets swept past. All Buddy could muster in reply to Walker’s queries was a long, drawn out “Whooooo-eeeeee.” The loudspeaker announced that Sharpe had replaced Whitesides at tackle for Davidson. With spinning brain, Buddy returned to the bench, too dazed to accept the date with a beautiful blonde that night. But opportunity will come again!