Second only to Davidson’s victory over Hampden-Sydney, that somewhat definite victory of 40-0, was the fine display featured on Richardson
Field last Saturday by a vast number of bands and baton twirlers. Before a multitude of some five thousand (students,
fans, and ravishing beauties from Salem) the Wildcats knocked over underdog Hampden-Sydney eleven, bringing the victory total to 3-0. Whether
or not the presence of the Winston Queens, or just a plain bitter taste left over from the V.M.I. defeat
had anything to do with it, the Cats’ starters outdid themselves early in the game and turned it over to
the reserves soon after.

CAMPUS BUZZING

Operations began Friday when the Wildkittens stomped over Barium Springs in a 19-6 victory. Halfway through the contest, the Hampden-Sydney
players arrived a la Coach, and to thwart any further scouting by the Sydney board of strategy, the Kittens, in
the second half, went into the “T” and double-wing formations. Though a trifle unfamiliar with these new stances, they clicked
together as a ball club should and held Barium for a two-touchdown win. Then came Saturday and pandemonium. An innocent
student without his ear stoppers might well have been deafened with the unexpected arrival of 18-odd musical aggregations all playing
together violently, but reading from different music. Now came Salem and women galore, so the picture was complete. Under the
able direction of Mr. James Christian Pfohl, the band, somehow, did get together in a colorful and beauty-bespeckled exhibition between
the halves, and what with the Wildcats running wild on the field and the students running wild on the campus,
it may be well noted as a successful weekend.

HOMECOMING

Saturday the Cats butt heads with competition a bit stiffer than Hampden-Sydney. But back on Richardson Field for the 2nd
consecutive tilt since V.M.I. and with all the spirit imbued by homecoming festivities, Coach Bill Story’s eleven should be able
to master the situation, namely Washington and Lee. Washington and Lee’s eleven is far from weak as the previous tally
cards show. West Virginia eked out a 6-0 victory over the Generals, who then lost to William and Mary 34-18,
and to the University of Richmond 20-12. W. and L. uses a “T” formation which might prove troublesome to the
Wildcats. With the speedy backs such as the Generals boast, any “T” formation is tricky and hard to handle.

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

Powerful North Carolina State went down from the rank of the unbeaten last week being trimmed by V.P.I. Wake Forest
upset Tennessee in a thriller, and left most of the Tennesseans wondering what had happened. After Tennessee and Alabama had
slugged it out with the Vols coming out on top, it was pretty sure that Wake Forest, though strong, would
offer no such apple-cart-tipping as was seen last week. Furman took a whalloping from the University of Georgia, 70 to
7, which can only go to demonstrate Georgia’s power, for Furman does not by any means possess a ball club
of daisies.

Going over standing up (arrow) is Bert Anderton, scoring the last touchdown in Davidson's 40-0 victory over the Hampden-Sydney Tigers.
Davidson’s twice-beaten Wildcats celebrated their return to friendly Richardson Field with a 40-0 triumph over Hampden-Sydney’s hapless Tigers before a
colorful throng of 5,000 last Saturday. The Wildcats were cheered on by a host of Salem girls, who journeyed down
from Winston in observance of the annual Salem-Davidson Day. During intermission, the 18 high school bands assembled for the occasion
entertained the crowd with an impressive halftime performance.

Mapes, Hooker Stand Out

Brightest stars in the ’Cat victory were frosh Hal Mapes, Carl Sheppard, and Clyde Hooker. Mapes, returning to the lineup
after an enforced absence, pulled down two touchdown aerials and booted three placements to pace the scores. Sheppard failed to
score, but the lean Gastonia lad sparked the 'Cat offensive all afternoon with his running and passing. Hooker, an unheralded
tailback from Memphis, was unveiled for the first time by Coach Story, and the hard-running back displayed great talent in
racking up a touchdown the third time he lugged the ball.

The maroon-clad Tigers were able to gain consistently against the ’Cats, and did not penetrate the Davidson territory until a
last-minute pass carried them down to the 30.

Cats Hit Pay Dirt

The ’Cats lost little time in stowing away their initial score. On the third play from scrimmage, Anderton faked an
end sweep and whipped a long pass to Mapes who had drifted behind the Tiger secondary. After gathering in the
toss, Mapes eluded the solitary defender and trotted over for six points. His successful conversion made the count 7-0. Later
in the same period, Adams raced down to the Hampden-Sydney 10 before he was hauled down. Sheppard then hurled a
perfect strike to Mapes who stepped across the line for the second marker. Mapes again converted to give Davidson a
14-0 lead.

Hooker entered the game in the second period and immediately slashed through tackle for fourteen yards. He racked up six
yards on a reverse, and then slipped off tackle for the third tally. Mapes’ conversion split the uprights for a
21-0 score. The Wildcats came back after intermission but couldn’t launch a sustained drive with the reserves in the game.
Coach Story then sent his regulars back into the tilt, and they presented him a quick score. After “Easy” Rhodes
recovered a Tiger fumble, deceptive Carl Pahl spun through the middle for 18 yards and a touchdown. A second bobble
in the final quarter provided the ’Cats with another scoring opportunity. “Big Bob” Sharpe covered the loose oval on the
Hampden-Sydney stripe, and Juni Guy cut through tackle and pounded into the end zone for the fifth Davidson marker. Phillips
split the uprights as the final whistle blew.

Wildkittens Defeat Barium Springs 19-6

The Wildkittens won their third straight victory by downing a fighting eleven from Barium Springs here Friday, 19 to 6.
The Wildkittens ran from three formations, pacing effectiveness and precision into their victory. The strong Jayvee forward wall turned in
their best performance to date, holding the Barium backs to a small total gain. It was only through the air
that the visitors carried any threat.

Davidson Scores

Davidson scored in the game after a sustained drive featured by the bullish running of fullback Bud Fowle. He was
assisted by the fine running of wingback Fanjoy in the ground-gaining department early. Little Dave Erwin put the finishing touches
on the drive when he scampered around end for the score. Coach Sparks sent in a whole new team after
the conversion, which failed, and they immediately began a drive. Cliff Turner lived up to his reputation and gained consistently
off tackle to set the ball on the five. From there, Jack Elkins pushed it over.

Last Score

The last score was a thrilling fifty-yard run by Charley Miller who had returned to the lineup after being on
the injured list. A reverse pass play from wingback Charley Miller to end Marvin Kelley failed. At the rejuvenated line,
the Kittens went into a T-formation but were not too effective against the Barium defense.The score mounted to 34-0, Jake
Wade provided the spectators with the day’s outstanding play. The little tailback intercepted a pass and almost broke into the
clear after a glittering 40-yard run-back.

Spectacular Score
Davidson's final marker came as a gift. Mapes’ toss to Pat Williams bounced off the Tiger halfback Siple’s chest directly
into Williams’ arms, and the alert end smashed on down to the five before he was forced down. On the
next play, Bert Anderton exploded off tackle for the concluding tally. Mapes missed his conversion as the score ran up
to 40-0.

A desperate aerial by Hampden-Sydney took them down to the Wildcat 30, but Davidson braced and took the ball on
downs. The injured list for several weeks due to a bad ankle.

New Backfield Formations
Later in the half, the Jayvees went into a double wing but were held from the double-stripes by a hard-fighting
Barium eleven. The visitors’ only score came late in the game on a beautiful pass play from tailback Clark, which
netted 75 yards and a score.

About the only real threat
K. A.’s Take First As Phi Delts Lose
The beginning of this week saw the K.A.s step into first place over the Phi Delts, and they now are
the only team who boast no defeats. Last Monday was the date of the upset of the highly touted Deltas,
who went down to defeat at the hands of the Phi Gams, 14-0. At the same time, the K.A.s were
maintaining their clean slate by taking the Betas in a hard-fought 12-0 battle. This loss dropped the Kappa Sigs into
a tie with the Phi Gams, who have shown some pretty ball playing recently. The Kappa Sigs were dropped from
their third-place standing by virtue of a loss to the Phi Delts last week.

Games Close
Looking at a few of the close games last week, we see that the Betas nosed out the S.P.E.s in
the overtime period. Also, the K.A.s won a hard-fought battle with the Pi Kapps, 12-0. The Phi Delts just did
creep ahead of the Kappa Sigs in a 6-0 win, while the S.P.E.s fought a fairly evenly matched game with
the Independents, the former coming out on the long end of a 1-0 score.

Davidson's last score also came in this period on a well-executed play.

Wildcats Seek Fourth Victory Tomorrow
Washington and Lee’s Generals will invade the Wildcat campus Saturday to furnish the opposition at Davidson’s first postwar renewal of
the annual Homecoming Day. Starting time is slated for 2:30, and the game, virtually a sell-out, promises more than its
share of thrills for the spectators with both elevens boasting potent running and passing attacks. Despite two previous losses and
three wins, this will be a crucial game for the team, the students, and most of all, for the alumni,
for Saturday will afford most of the Davidson graduates a chance to get their first glance of the Wildcats in
action. It should also mark the ’Cats’ most evenly matched game of the year.

In the wins and losses department, the Generals have not fared so well as the Red and Black. Davidson’s last
victims, the Tigers of Hampden-Sydney, were the first for the Generals as they took their initial encounter 41-6. A mountain
trip to the University of West Virginia was unsuccessful, as the Blue and White fumbled the game away to a
6-0 tune. There was no respite for the weary Virginians as their next opponent was the powerful William and Mary.
Most scribes didn’t give W. and L. a chance, but before going down 34-18, they had thrown a scare into
the Tribe’s camp. Last Saturday was Homecoming at Lexington, but the home team was denied the taste of victory, as
the University of Richmond ground out a 20-0 decision.

Art (Pappy) Lewis’ array of talent is a star-studded backfield. In Mike Boyda and Dick Working, he has two great
quarterbacks who are equally deft in the aerial route. Supplying the necessary speed to W. and L.’s tricky “T” formation
is a host of runners, headed by Charlie “the Plainsman” Harrington, Harry Harner, Brian Bell, Frankie Masters, and Henry Mastriann.
Another strong feature of the Generals is the end department. Mainstay, and a sure starter, is big Bill Chipley, formerly
of the mighty Jacksonville NAS Flyers, and paired with Chipley will be one of the trio of Jim Fabey, Jack
Crawford, and Lou Hahn. Glancing on down the line, we find such tackles as Pratt, McCutcheon, and Bryan. Guards are
Gil Wilson, Herb Miller, Cavaliere, and McCausland. Pivot man is Mark Saurs, prewar Kentucky center.

Davidson Ready
But if W. and L. can dish it out, the big Davidson line will be in there to take it.
Holding down the outside will be Hal Mapes, veteran Dick O'Here, Pat Williams, and Buddy Cheek. On the inside will
be sturdy “Easy” Rhodes, Johnny Walker, Carnegie, and Bingham, Chandler, Stricklin, and numerous reserves. Some of the backs who can
be counted on for a lion’s share of the work are Carl Sheppard, Mac Erwin, Bert Anderton, Earl Bethea, and
Doug Rice.

Basketeers
Coach Norman Shepherd’s cagers are shaping up rapidly. Practice started about three weeks ago and the squad has been narrowed
down to 22 men. Though plans for the coming opponents are not yet complete, the schedule will include a bout
with the oval handlers of Georgia Tech. Many of the stalwarts are back this year along with some flashy-looking prospects.
From former teams, Ed White, George Peters, Bob Flowers, Bob Berry, Bob Manor, J. D. Ashmore, Mike Williams, and Bill
Hodgin will probably see action aplenty this year and the old Davidson basketball machine will be on the roll again.

Beginning to shape up in fine style, the “B” squad coached by Melvin Means will have its own schedule. The
same indefinite status surrounds the schedule of the “B” squad, but later details will be worked out and they will
be out for victories on their own hook.
