Page Two - THE DAVIDSONIAN Thursday, February 7, 1946

The Davidsonian
Founded by the Class of 1915
Published Bi-Weekly “For a Better Davidson”

MEL WINSTEAD .......... EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
DEXTER LAZENBY ........ BUSINESS MANAGER

EDITORIAL STAFF
Ed Murray .......... Assistant Editor
Lamar Williamson ... Associate Editor
Ernest Hunter ....... Associate Editor
Frank Barr, Jr. ...... Feature Editor
Jimmy Nisbet ....... Managing Editor
Lonnie Turner ...... Managing Editor
Walter Walker ...... Managing Editor
Bill Whitaker ....... Art Editor
Sterling Edwards .... Sports Editor
Bill Gamble ........ Assistant Sports Editor
Dave Gambrell ...... Associate Sports Editor
George Gunn ........ Staff Photographer

BUSINESS STAFF
Bob Smoak .......... Assistant Business Manager
Bob Gambrell ....... Advertising Manager
Bob Brooks ......... Circulation Manager

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under the act of March 3, 1897.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Ten cents per copy. $1.50 the Collegiate year
Printed by The STANDARD PRINTING COMPANY
Charlotte, North Carolina

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

This paper is the official history of college life, and is a medium of student and faculty opinion. As such
it welcomes contributions or communication to it, provided such does not contain derogatory reference to faculty or students, profanity, obscenity,
or destructive criticism. All material must be in the editor's hands by Monday night of the week that it is
to be printed, and the editor reserves the right to reject part or all of any contribution or communication.

Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse; but
to weigh and consider.

We commend you for the willingness with which you went about it. Further, we wish to express a welcome to
the new instructors, who are beginning their work with us for the first time. There are at present approximately 455
students enrolled at Davidson, of which number 175 are new students. It is significant to note that ninety percent of
the new enrollees are returned veterans, and seventy-five percent of those were formerly Davidson students. Approximately twenty are now married
men, and we extend a very special welcome to their wives.

At this point, we stop to pay high tribute to the 142 former Davidson students who lost their lives in
World War II. Forty-seven of this number entered the service directly from the classroom, and were they alive today, would
in all probability be among us today. It is through the giving up of their lives that we are able
to be in school today, and to live in a free and democratic country. In their names, and for their
sakes, we must again re-establish and achieve our high purpose.

And so we find ourselves at the beginning of a new semester, which can be, will be, and must be,
a very prosperous and yet a very extraordinary semester.

With The Staff
By Jimmy Nisbet

A New Era...
The beginning of a new semester reveals a new era in the life of Davidson College. Never before in the
history of the college has, in one sense of the word, such an extraordinary semester opened. Davidson College is definitely
on the upward trend, for with the return of such a large number of students, our enrollment has greatly increased.
To the group of veterans who have just recently returned to college or who have entered for their first time,
we extend a hearty welcome, hoping that you may find your work here a happy and prosperous one.

During the past several years the Davidson College student body has greatly diminished. Naturally, there have arisen many problems and
headaches, which at times we thought could never be solved. Of that small number of students, a vast majority were
underclassmen, who knew nothing of the ideals and principles upon which Davidson was founded, and of the many valued traditions
which are so closely associated with Davidson. There have been only a handful of upperclassmen at Davidson during the past
few years, and it has been a difficult job for them to keep alive the many intangible things which have
made Davidson what it is. Their efforts have not been wasted even though at times it appeared as if the
“ole Davidson spirit” had been lost. Once again, however, we see our college gradually returning to its former patterns of
life, about which we are all very pleased.

We welcome the veterans who have returned to Davidson, for, in them, we see a new determination to carry on
and make Davidson what it used to be. Through you, there will return again those many valued traditions; there will
arise a new Davidson spirit shaped after the pattern of the old, and we must join together in again reaffirming
our ideals and pursuing our high purpose. It will be a difficult and tedious job, but it is our desire
and determination to carry on to the finish that really matters.

We welcome back to Davidson those professors and instructors who have returned, and we look forward to still another group
who expect to return to the campus during the summer. It has been necessary for many of them to undertake
work elsewhere, to teach in other colleges, to enter the armed services of our country, or to engage in chemical
research. You have done a grand job in this other work, and we commend you for the willingness with which
you went about it. Further, we wish to express a welcome to the new instructors, who are beginning their work
with us for the first time.

FRIDAY NIGHT MADNESS
Eight o’clock: A few managing editors wandering around the office. Almost all of the articles turned in. The headlines are
the only thing left. Maybe we can finish up early tonight for a change.

Eight-thirty: Hunter dashes in with his articles; doesn’t like one of the features; sits down and rewrites it, and leaves.
Oh, well! Guess that was all he was supposed to do.

Nine o'clock: The reporters proofread most of the articles; some few have to be rewritten. Gunn finally brings in some
overdue pictures, and the front page has to be done over to make room for them.

Nine-thirty: We don’t seem to be getting along as well as we should. Maybe we'll finish by midnight. Here comes
Gambrell with a handful of advertisements which have to be made up, and put in the paper.

Ten o'clock: Turner comes in; says he’s been in the library studying Organic all afternoon and evening. He slaps down
his article on registration and hurriedly leaves. Says he's got to get to bed early tonight.

Ten-thirty: Barr brings in the features; complains that ‘Meat Ball’ hasn’t written the SAE gossip for Among The Greeks. But
we'll have all the features in before midnight, he admits.

Eleven o’clock: Williamson and Murray decide to come up and help a little. They make up the headlines and finish
the front page. Well, one page is ready for the press.

Twelve o’clock: Finally, Edwards shows up with the sport news, but hasn’t finished ‘Cat Tales’ yet. Now, what did he
do with that picture of the Davidson-Furman game?

One o'clock: “Better-late-than-never” Winstead comes in and views the front page disgustedly. So he commences to rewrite the main headline,
and rearranges the whole front page.

Two o'clock or after: Well, the paper’s all finished and ready to go to press. Maybe next week it won't
take as long to finish it up. Now for a good night’s sleep. Are there any freshmen who would like
to come out for the editorial staff of the Davidsonian?

Reprinted from the February issue of Esquire © ESQUIRE, INC, 1948

“It might be just as easy, dear, to hold still and move the brush”

To those who were at Davidson when there was a normal student body, the lights in four dormitories look mighty
good. In fact, it seems nice to have so many men here after many of us saw the student body
when the number of men did not exceed one hundred and fifty. Perhaps Davidson is returning to normal. Let’s hope
so.

There should be a word of welcome for the wives of the Davidson students. This is one thing on the
campus that seems strange even to the men who remember pre-war Davidson. Little did the editors of the Davidsonian realize
there would ever be a woman living in Duke Dormitory when they published the headlines in the April Fool Issue
(April 1, 1945) saying, “Davidson becomes Co-Educational.”

Many changes have taken place since the great evacuation in 1943. Probably the most noticeable is that Morrison Hall is
no longer standing. Last summer the college began its program of campus improvement. The biggest eyesore, the dilapidated building formerly
used as the Y.M.C.A., was the first to go. The next most noticeable improvement might be the absence of the
“barracks.” North and South were removed last year so that the area between dormitory row and Chambers Building could be
landscaped.

These aren't the only changes by any means. Dancing has come to Davidson in recent years. In 1944, the Spring
Frolics were held in the Davidson High School Gymnasium. Then, in 1945, the Midwinter Dances were held in the Davidson
College Gymnasium. In spite of the poor facilities for having the dances, they were a big success. The gymnasium was
made into a first-class venue.class ballroom. Since that time, all school dances have been scheduled to be held on the
campus. It will be interesting to see how the next set of dances will turn out. These are to be
the first set of dances to be held on the campus since the student body returned to a fairly normal
size. From what I hear from the members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, everybody should have a wonderful time. The band,
according to all advertisements, is a cross between James and Dorsey, and the vocalist is a combination of all the
movie actresses.

Not for quite a while have all the fraternities been represented in the figure at the dances. This year all
the fraternities will be represented in the figure. During the war, four of our nine fraternities had to close the
doors of their houses. That is an excellent record. All the students have been yelling for more and better walks
on the campus since the “rains” came. The most pressing need is a walk from the dormitory to the side
door of Chambers Building. If you have waded through the mud from West Dormitory to Chambers, you no doubt realize
the situation which must be remedied. If you are not forced to trudge through that mud, you surely must walk
from Phi Hall to dormitory row on the walk by the well. Every rain leaves a lake across the walk.
Can't something be done about this? I might suggest that some generous soul leave us a gift consisting of at
least one good walk across the mud!

Let's take time out to congratulate the college on its dining hall. If you haven't eaten there, you've missed something.
The food is better than you could imagine. Not only is it good, but there is lots of it. In
looking through some old Davidsonians the other day, I ran across an article on exams. I thought this might be
an appropriate time to relate my findings. The average student cramming for exams loses two pounds in weight. That means
that 650 lbs. of flesh vanished from the Davidson campus during the last exam period. It is also a fact
that 90 percent of the college students in the nation cram for examinations. Davidson helps keep the percentage up. I
know of very few persons on the campus who did not cram.

For the first time in many moons, the students moan when they see mail in their P.O. box. The reason
is simple. Grades for the last semester are being mailed to the students by Mr. Hengevald. Don’t worry fellows, you
only have to stay away one semester before you can re-enter. There seem to be quite a few planning on
it. Look forward to the next issue! I’ll have the latest dope on the most important flushes of the day.
If you aren’t familiar with the term,

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Our chapter was greatly enriched at the beginning of this semester by the return of quite a few of the
old boys from the ranks. They are “Red” Bethea, Carson, Powell, and Buddy Pommy Senator Lee, “Esquire” Hodgins. Texas Tommy
isn't talking about his home state so much lately. I wonder if having been stationed in Texas quite a few
of the boys at different times has anything to do with it. “Esquire” Hodgins is setting the pace for college
fashions this season. He’s quite a shot with his gold-plated safety pin tie clasp. “Red” Bethea is expected to do
quite a good job in football this year. I imagine he'll give the pledges a good workout on the side
since he is the pledge-master. Buddy Carson is the new treasurer in the frat and is also doing all right
on the campus as he is business manager of the Annual B.M.-(O).

PHI DELTA THETA
Two worthy additions to the once small group of Phi Delt brothers are Messrs. Henry Cutchin and Sam Tate. Both
reenter Davidson as sophomores after several years of uniform-wearing. Another Phi brother, the jubilant Ed Sutton, is expected to return
to the campus within the next few weeks. Members and pledges alike welcome these men back to the brotherhood. Some
Phi Delts, you will notice, have acquired interesting nicknames: “Bomber Bill” McLean, “Big Bill” Johnson, “Duke” Todd, “Hemo” Nichols, “Monk”
Montgomery, “Potts” Cameron, “King” Davis, “Clark K.” Brownson, and “Spoon”.

KAPPA SIGMA
Eight former members of Delta Chapter returned for the new semester including George Peters, Tommy Yarborough, Ed Ellis, George Ennett,
Douglas Swink, Hugh McAnn, Ed White, and “Buck” Troutman. Plans are underway for reopening the Kappa Sigma boarding house in
the near future. It is hoped that our former house mother will be with us at that time. With the
return of the old members, Kappa Sigma will have more active participation in campus activities.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Seems that Asheville holds some peculiar fascination for the Pikas. Brother Neill, Pledges Sumner, Cook, Wood, and Ensign have been
visiting the “Stars” in W.N.C. but from what we gather, they got a pretty “cold shoulder”. We understand that Brothers
Smoak and Lazenby plan to make another trip to G.C. All persons desiring a ride (for a reasonable rate) contact
their agents—Rabbi Coble and Ed Courson, our eligible bachelors. Pledges Mac Hart and Charles Hadley have been listening with interest
to Brother Raynal’s description of his “Dream Girl”. Now, with many of the old brothers back, and with the arrival
of Brother Lou Mendler from Carolina, things around the Pika house are certain to hit an all-time high.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
There are three men returning to the Sig Ep house this semester. They are David Blevens, Jerold Robinson, and Fred
Powell. Dave is out for basketball but the other two will boost the fraternity basketball team. Blevens is buying a
new fraternity pin. It seems that the last girl who got her hands on his married another guy but wouldn't
return the pin. Charlie Owens keeps raving about the swell time he had in G'boro the week-end after exams. It
seems that he had three dates in two days. It's fine if you don’t weaken. Frank Barr is having quite
a bit of trouble trying to decide who to invite for the dances. It seems that there are three girls
that he would like to ask down. The only trouble is that all three go to W.C. Howard Lamar has
been stepping out regularly with Jean Fulcher. It has been going on for some time now. More power to you
both! Sometime in the near future, the Sig Eps will be moving to a new boarding house. The only thing
holding up the opening is a cook. If anyone knows of a good cook, please let us know.

PI KAPPA PHI
The chapter is happy to welcome back to school eight of its former members: Ed Murray, Ernest Hunter, Sumner Williams,
Robert Cline, Charlie Reid, Cam Nuttall, Dave Walker, and Bill Robertson. Barksdale and Walker were planning a great trip to
Atlanta last weekend, but “Barkie” became sick (after his first typhoid shot) and they couldn't make the trip. Walker would
never tell us who he knew in Atlanta. Has Charlotte moved? Last week the chapter voted Helen Hunter to be
the sponsor for this year. She's quite a knock-out, and if you don't believe it drop by Robertson’s room sometime
and look. Incidentally, he has several other pictures in his room that you might enjoy hearing him tell about. Oh,
that Bill! Didn't we see Genevieve Parks here last week, and Nisbet all slicked up for something? She said she
had to see the registrar about some matters, but we know better, don't we, Jimmy? “Sleepless Beauty” Nuttall goes to
Charlotte about every night. Who is it this year, Cam? “Don Juan” Whittemore spends his weekends at Davidson now. It’s
nice to be with Dot during play practice, isn't it, Don? (He'll eat that up, and me too!)

PHI GAMMA DELTA
The Fiji hut was honored last weekend by a visit from Brother Tyler W. Haynes of Richmond, Virginia. Brother Haynes
was a member of Rho Chi Chapter, University of Richmond. Brother George Patrick of Belmont, N.C. is back at the
Fiji lodge after flying a tour of combat with the “Fifteenth Air Force”. Brother Amos Ragan, also of the Air
Corps, is back on the campus. Jimmy French of Welch, West Virginia and Leighton McKeithen of Cameron, N.C. have recently
been discharged from the Army and taken up civilian life as brothers in the Phi Gam House. Brother George McCormack
of Birmingham, Ala., is back after serving with the U.S. Navy. The Davidson Phi Gams welcome Brother Sam Maloney to
the Fiji Lodge. Brother Maloney is from Knoxville, Tenn., a transfer from the University of Tennessee and a member of
Kappa Tau Chapter.

BETA THETA PI
The chapter welcomes back seven brothers in the persons of Stan McAfee, Mort Church, Don Bryant, Jack Goode, Bill Sengel,
Lamar Williamson, and Dick McCloy, who are back on the Hill this term. Gunn and Lyday are laying plans for
a big weekend when they go up to Salem for the dance there on the 16th. Ralph Alexander is busy
trying to talk someone into going with him to the Converse formal that same weekend. Previews on Midwinters sound great;
look for the Betas there en masse and to the Beta house as G.H.Q. for some of these so-called “big
dealers.”
