RUSS CARLTON TO PLAY FOR SPRING FROLICS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI

McLEAN HEADS STUDENT BODY DURING '46-’47

Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON, N. C. APRIL 12, 1946 No. 11

Spring Frolics April 26 - 27 Features Russ Carlton And Orchestra

McLean Elected To Head ’46-'47 Student Body

Band Plans For Session On Saturday

Constitution Is Amended

Student Sports Publicity Office Added

The Student Body has passed an amendment to the Constitution which will set up the Student Publicity Sports Office. The
duty of this office is to present the entire Davidson Sports program to the public accurately and completely throughout the
year. This is in keeping with the revitalization of the sports program here at Davidson. This office is the mouthpiece
to inform the public about it.

The personnel of the office includes: a member of the rising senior class who will be chosen Student Sports Publicity
Director, and under him, not fewer than two assistants from the rising junior class. The director will be chosen from
the assistants from the year before and will receive 20 points. The assistants will be chosen from men who have
worked on the Davidsonian sports staff but who have been eliminated in the elections for editor. These men will be
chosen by a Student Sports Publicity Committee consisting of the Director of Publications, the Director of Athletics, the retiring editor
of the Da- (Continued on Page 4)

Spring Services April 16, 17, 18

Rev. James M. Appleby Of Anderson To Speak

Newton Spencer, secretary of the local YMCA, has announced recently that Spring Services will be held this year April 16,
17, and 18, the speaker being Rev. James M. Appleby.

Every year the YMCA at Davidson has a three-day group of Services in the Spring, at which time they try
to secure an outstanding preacher who will appeal to the students as man-to-man, and bring them to the realization of
the reality of Christ. This special minister for the Spring Services this year is Rev. James M. Appleby—Pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Anderson, South Carolina. Rev. Appleby is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1926. He
attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia; and the University of Edinburgh. While at Davidson he was active on the
Student Council, the YMCA Cabinet, and Board of Control. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa,
and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity, and the International Relations Club. Immediately after graduating from Davidson, he served as
General Secretary of the YMCA for two years. In June, Rev. Appleby will leave his pastorate in Anderson to take
on the duties of Director of Field Work at Union Theological Seminary, in which position he will oversee all practical
religious work of the students in the winter and summer sessions.

The Spring Services will include three chapel programs on the 16th, 17th, and 18th, and three Evening Services in the
college church at 7:30 P.M. The final service on the 18th will be a Communion Service held in the local
church. These Spring Services are a deeply established tradition of Davidson College, and are always looked forward to with anticipation.
It is hoped that a large percentage of the student body and townspeople will turn out for the services.

Reduced Prices For Stags; Same For Couples

Russ Carlton and his Orchestra will play for the Spring Frolic dances, which will be held in the college gym
on April 26 and 27, it has been announced by Ed Golden, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council.

Jam Session

To add to the novelty of the big weekend, Carlton and his band will give a ‘Jam Session’ on Saturday
afternoon before the track meet. Admission will be by the set ticket or thirty-five cents at the door. The orchestra,
which is nationally known, is composed of 17 pieces. In contrast with the Midwinter dances, the formal dance will be
on Friday night and the informal one on Saturday night. The figure, which will be composed of the Pan-Hellenic Council
members and the fraternity presidents and their dates, will be shortly before intermission on Friday night. The hours for the
Friday night affair will be 9:00-1:00, and the Saturday night one, 8:30-12:00.

A reduction in prices for stags was also among the announcements. The price for the set for stags will be
$4.00 and one night will be $2.50. The tickets for the couples will be unchanged—$6.00 for the set and $3.50
for one night. The girls will be housed in Duke, Rumple, and the Guest House. Registration will begin shortly and
assignments to rooms will be made on the ‘first come, first serve’ basis.

Members of the Pan-Hellenic Council, other than President Golden, are: Johnny McAlister, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Dave Neill, Sigma Phi Epsilon;
Jack Lazenby, Pi Kappa Alpha; George McCormick, Phi Gamma Delta; Bill Pollard, Beta Theta Pi; Jim Jackson, Kappa Alpha; Thacker
Thrower, Kappa Sigma; and Ernest Hunter, Pi Kappa Phi.

Pitman And Willingham Elected Student Body Vice-Presidents

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE

7:00-8:00 Sigma
8:00-9:00 Sigma Delta
9:00-10:00 IRC

First and Third Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday
7:00-8:00 Sigma Pi Beaver
8:00-9:00 Red and Black Masquers
9:00-10:00 Sigma Upsilon

Second and Fourth Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday
7:00-8:00 Pi Gamma Mu
8:00-9:00 Societies
9:00-10:00 Alpha Student Council
Phi and Eu Le Delta Phi

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES EVERY THURSDAY

Davidson Band Plays In Asheville Concert

Third Off-campus Appearance For Organization

Noehren - Berg Give Concert

On April 10, Mr. Berg and Mr. Noehren gave a stirring recital in the College Auditorium to an appreciative and
enthusiastic audience. The program began with Mr. Noehren playing the organ, while in alternate parts Mr. Berg sang accompaniment. The
program starting at 8:30, gave a good two hours of enjoyable music. The pieces were as follows:

Chorale Prelude, “As Jesus stood beside the Cross” Samuel Scheidt
Prelude, Fugue and Chaconne, Dietrich Buxtehude
Prelude, Louise Clerambault
Grand Jeu Du Mage
“O cessate di piagarmi” — Scarlatti
“Ahi, Troppo e dure” — Monteverde
“Vittoria, Vittoria” — Carissimi
Chorale Preludes Johann Bach (Continued on Page 4)

Hendersonville; rd. Concerts will be given in each of these towns. On Thursday, exercises in the accommodations final concert of
the personnel of the (Continued on Page 4)

Brownson Leads Neisler In Secretary-Treasurer Race

Jim Pitman was elected first vice-president and Lee Willingham second vice-president of the student body in a close vote on
a three-way ballot last Friday. Bob Strickland ran a strong third on this, the second ballot of the vice-presidential race.

The special nominating committee of the student council chose Pittman, Willingham, Strickland, and Charlie Patterson to present to the student
body as nominees for the two vice-presidencies. In addition to these men, Bill Robertson, Dave Blevinsand Jimmy Vreneh were nominated
from the floor at a meeting of the student body on Thursday after chapel. In the balloting Thursday, Pittman and
Willingham took the lead with seventy-five votes each, while Strickland trailed slightly with 60. The other four candidates were eliminated
in this ballot. On Friday, Pittman nosed into the first vice-presidency by a margin of one vote, edging out Willingham
by a vote of 174 to 173. Willingham became second vice-president, while Strickland trailed with 163.

Jim Pittman is a graduate of Cherokee Junior High and of Orlando High School in Orlando, Florida. He lettered in
high school football, and in his sophomore year he was president of his class. Jim entered Davidson on an accelerated
schedule in January '45. During his freshman year, he was active in the glee club. He is the present secretary
of the sophomore class, and he is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and of the Philanthropic Literary
Society. His great interest in ornithology has earned him the campus-wide title of "Bird-man."

Lee Willingham transferred to Davidson as a sophomore, having completed his freshman year at the Junior College of Augusta, Georgia.
He is a graduate of Richmond Academy in Augusta, where he was secretary of his graduating class. Lee has been
at Davidson since last September. He is president of the glee club and head of Boy Scout work on the
"Y" Cabinet. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta social (Continued on Page 4).

SYMPHONIC BAND TOURS TO WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA

Pictured above is the Davidson College Symphonic Band, which is appearing in concert at Asheville this week. In the upper
left corner is Sam Lineberger, president of the organization. The Band, which is under the direction of James Christian Pfohl,
will return to the campus Friday night.

ELECTED PRESIDENT

Bill McLean Chemistry Frat Initiates Three Young, Herion, And Winstead Elected to Frat

The latest honorary fraternity to reorganize since the end of the war is that of Gamma Sigma Upsilon, honorary chemistry
fraternity, which was begun on the Davidson College campus. Dr. John B. Gallent, president of the entire organization, has announced
the formal initiation of three Davidson students. They are: Dave Young, Carol Herion, and Mel Winstead, chosen because of their
advanced and widespread interest in the field of organized chemistry. The initiation was held April 10 in the Martin Science
Building, at which time the following officers were elected: Dave Young, president; Carol Herion, secretary; and Mel Winstead, treasurer. The
purpose of Gamma Sigma Upsilon is to further a study in the field of chemistry. The group holds regular biweekly
meetings, at which time interesting current topics concerning some phase of chemistry are read and discussed. The chapter is planning
to organize an Alchemist Club composed of students in their first or second year of chemistry, and who are deeply
interested in continuing their study of chemistry.

Workmen Begin On Erwin Lodge By Lonnie Tufther

I have heard a great deal about Erwin Lodge and about the general vicinity in which it was going to
be built, but I wanted to know more about it as other students do. So I went over to the
library and found Mrs. Erwin and asked her if she would mind telling me a little more about it. She
began by saying that plans were coming right along but that the construction had been stopped by an inability to
obtain good lumber. She was so enthusiastic that I couldn't help feeling the same way. I asked exactly where the
lodge was to be located and she replied that it would be just off the golf course near the fifth
hole. There is a road which turns off Concord Road leading almost to the lodge and the remainder of the
distance will be covered by a road flanked by oak trees which will be planted each year. The location has
an interesting history. About fifteen years ago it was an old muddy hill traversed by (Continued on Page 3).

Defeats Peters For High Student Office Former “Y” President Receives Majority On Second Ballot

Bill McLean of Lenoir, N.C., was elected president of the student body last Friday on the second ballot of spring
elections. Elections were begun on Thursday morning, April 4, when the student body convened after chapel for the purpose of
nominating candidates for the student body offices. At this meeting, the nominating committee of the student council presented four nominees
for the office of student body president. They were Bill McLean, George Peters, Tom Powell, and Jim Jackson. Those nominated
from the floor were Ed Sutton, Lamar Williamson, John McAlister, and Joe Stukes. Stukes withdrew his name from the ballot
with the permission of his nominator. The voting Thursday gave McLean and Peters a substantial lead over the other candidates
for the office. McLean received sixty-six votes on this ballot; Peters polled fifty-six. In the run-off Friday, McLean won with
147 votes against a total of 119 for Peters. The president-elect will assume the duties of office as soon as
spring elections have been completed, and his term will extend through elections in the spring of '47. Bill was originally
in the class of '45, having entered Davidson in September of '41. Prior to his call to active duty in
the Air Corps, he was secretary-treasurer of the student body. During his freshman year, he played guard on the Wildkitten
team, and he lettered in that position with the varsity the following fall. He was a member of the "D"
Club and of the Beaver Club. McLean left Davidson to enter pilot training in February of '43. He served ten
months overseas as first pilot of a B-17 with the Eighth Air Force in England. He was awarded the Distinguished
Flying Cross, the Air Medal with four oak-leaf clusters, the European Theatre of Operations ribbon with three battle stars, and
he returned with the rank of first lieutenant. (Continued on Page 4).

Glee Club Sings In Thomasville Smith And Chisholm Featured As Soloists

Earl Berg, director of the Davidson Glee Club, announced the plans of the concert to be given at 8:15 tonight
in the Thomasville High School Auditorium. The program, which will feature Ralph Smith and Moody Chisholm as soloists, will be
given in the following order:

I
Now Let Every Tongue Adore Thee, John Sebastian Bach
From the Cantata “Sleepers Awake”
Latin Hymn of the XVth Century arr. by Deems Taylor
Crucifixus Antonio Lotti
Hallelujah, Amen
From the Oratorio “Judas Maccabaeus” George Frederick Handel

II
My Heart Commends Itself to Thee Orlando di Lasso
Three Russian Folk Songs arr. by A. T. Davison
Fireflies
Song of the Life-boat Men Ralph Smith, Soloist
At Father's Door
Dance, my Comrades Richard Bennett

INTERMISSION

Group Vocal Solos, Moody Chisholm

III
Swing Low Sweet Chariot (Continued on Page 4)
