Page Four THE DAVIDSONIAN November 8, 1946

PIKAS WIN

Taylor Carolina, was president of the student body in the summer of 1945. Alf Taylor of Nashville, Tennessee, is a Kappa Sigma. He was elected frosh adviser in 1943, but he, too, was called to serve as an officer in the Army. Alf is a member of Phi Mu Alpha, the Beaver Club, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet. He also has distinguished himself on the football field.

According to James C. Pfohl, director of music, the Davidson College Symphonic Band will present Edwin Gerschefski, Ph.B., Mus. B., as guest soloist in its fall concert at 8:15 p.m., next Friday, November 15, in the Chambers auditorium. Mr. Gerschefski is dean and professor of piano theory and composition at Converse College School of Music in Spartanburg, S. C. He has won many awards in the field of music, including the Osborne-Kellogg prize, the Charles Ditson fellowship, and the Jeffrey-Reynolds scholarship, and has studied at Yale and the Matthay Pianoforte school in London. He is a member of the Composers’ Radio Commission, and has been a faculty member of the Yorkville Music school, New York City; Turtle Bay Music school, New York; and the Cummington School of Music, Massachusetts. His works have been performed over NBC, MBS, and CBS radio networks.

The loving cup has already been purchased and will be presented to the Pi Kappa Alphas as soon as it is returned from the engravers. Congratulations are in order to all the fraternities for the fine work they did in preparing their houses for Homecoming, and we're sure that, in spite of the tasks involved, everyone participating got a kick out of it.

WHO’S WHO

Tommy Bumbarger of Hickory, North Carolina, is now editor of the 1947 Quips and Cranks, Davidson College Annual. He has been on the golf team, in the Beaver Club and D Club, Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, and on the student council in 1942-1943. Tommy also is outstanding in the field of music.

Pat Williams of North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, is one of the Davidson football players who has returned from the service to resume his place on the team. He was made president of the senior class in 1943 but was called into service, where he spent three years. Pat is also an outstanding basketball player, and is a member of Kappa Sigma, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Beaver Club.

Ed White of Richmond, Kentucky, is a Kappa Sigma, plays varsity football, and tennis, and captained last year’s cage team. Graduating from Darlington School in Rome, Ga., Ed entered Davidson in the fall of 1942, leaving school in 1943 for military service. He’s been from kindergarten through college twice, but refuses to graduate until his Reynolds Rocket pen needs refilling.

The tough encounter cost Coach Storey the services of Rhodes, Strickland, Sharpe, and Stricklin indefinitely. Bingham suffered a recurrence of his shoulder injury, while Billy will be out for the rest of the season with a fractured leg.Glee Club activities, and is in Peuerve tain Lev ATU EAR orees Mr. Gerschefski tours for the Association of American Colleges. Swink Scarborough Doug Swink has been all over Europe (well, almost!) with the Army, but has returned and is now editor of Scripts and Pranks, college magazine. Doug was on the staff of the Davidsonian for three years and was managing editor in his junior year. He is a Kappa Sigma, president of the Eumanean Literary Society, and a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Doug is from Richmond, Virginia.

The program for the concert will be as follows:
The National Anthem.
Chorale and Fugue in G minor—Bach.
Capriccio Brilliant for pianoforte and band—Mendelssohn.
Overture from “The Red Mill”—Victor Herbert.
March from “First Suite in E Flat”—Gustav Holst.
Allegro con Grazia from Symphony No. 6—Tchaikovsky.
Mannin Veen “Dear Isle of Man”—Haydn Wood.
All Hail, O Davidson—Maxwell.

The presentation of Mendelssohn’s Capriccio Brilliant by Mr. Gerschefski and the Symphonic Band will be a first performance.

At a recent meeting, the Symphonic Band elected J. W. Flora president of the band. Willis Coggins was elected business manager to replace Bob Cecil who has transferred to the Juilliard School of Music.

Jeffries
Mae Jeffries is president of the Pan-Hellenic Council and a member of Sigma Upsilon. He has been on the Davidsonian staff and the staffs of Scripts and Pranks and Quips and Cranks. Mac is a Kappa Alpha and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He hails from Thomasville, Georgia.

Port
Dick Port of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, was elected president of the student body in the spring of 1943 but was unable to fill his post because of being called into war service where he was an Infantry officer. He is now president of Omicron Delta Kappa, a member of the Beaver Club, and of Sigma Upsilon. Dick is also an SAE and has hurdled on the track team.

Stonestreet
Stonestreet, a member of the Beaver Club, and of Sigma Upsilon. Dick is also an SAE and has hurdled on the track team.

The Sensible Place to Eat
418 S. Main St. Phone 132
Mooresville, N.C.
Telephone No. 75
Mooresville, N.C.

You Won't Be Standing On Your Head
During that big date if you're backed up by flowers from Paul & Co., Inc.
Flower Shop
Charlotte, N.C.
"We'll Wire ’em to Hong Kong if you like."

Sporting Goods
Bob Hollister
415 S. Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

DAVIDSON
CAROLINA
Belk’s Department Store
THIS STORE MADE MOORESVILLE N.C.
Telephone: No. 405
Mooresville, N.C.

G. I. BILL OF RIGHTS
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
COMPLETE HOME FURNISHINGS
See Us
No Sale Complete Until You Are Satisfied
Main Street
DAVIDSON, N.C.

SMITH FLORAL SHOPS
Say IT With Flowers—from—

DELUXE ICE CREAM
Is Now Available At
THE STUDENT STORE
Phone 3741
Local and College Agent