SMASH THE CITADEL ALENDA LUX UBI Che Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS LOOK OUT SEVATO Volume XXXV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1946 No. 8

Frat Council Elects Stukes, Robinson
Honorary Group Co-ordinates Work of Members

At a recent meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council called by Al Scarborough, Joe Stukes was elected President, and Bill
Robertson, Secretary. This council consists of one representative from each honorary organization on Davidson campus and determines the time of
meeting and general control of member groups. It judges the advisability of the establishment of new chapters and the discontinuance
of inactive chapters. Its greatest work recently has been to revive those honorary fraternities that were rendered inactive by the
war.

Representatives

Representing their organizations at this meeting were: Joe Stukes, Philanthropic Literary Society; Bill Robertson, Sigma Delta Psi; Dick Port, ODK
and Sigma Upsilon; Middy Raynal, Red and Black Masquers; Doug Swing, Eumanean Literary Society; O. D. Evans, Delta Phi Alpha;
Bob Rapp, Le Cercle Francais; G. P. Whiteley, Phi Mu Alpha; H. M. Hill, Beaver Club; Bob Strickland, Sigma Delta
Pi; C. L. Woodbridge, Sigma Pi Sigma; R. L. Smith, Scabbard and Blade; John McAlister, International Relations Club; George Peters,
“D” Club; Jim Jackson, Y.M.C.A.

Stukes and Robertson

President Joe Stukes is from Manning, S. C. He is a member of the “D” Club, the YMCA Cabinet, the
Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and was sports editor of the Davidsonian. Bill Robertson is
from Kannapolis, N. C. A brother of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, he is also a member of the Beaver Club
and the “D” Club.

Reorganization of the Honorary Interfraternity Council came under the auspices of Omicron Delta Kappa. Heading the committee on the project
were Tommy Powell, this year’s Freshman Advisor and Al Scarborough, who served as President of the Davidson student body in
1945. This year marks the first time in over three years that all the honorary organizations at Davidson will have
been active.

Sigma Delta Psi Frat Organizes

In a recent meeting of Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletic fraternity, Bill Robertson of Concord, N. C., was elected
to head the organization for the coming year. Plans were laid for the induction of new members, and students interested
in running the tests for admission are requested to see Heath Whittle during the week. Minimum standards for admission include:

100 yard dash—11.6 seconds.
120 yard low hurdles—16 sec.
Mile run—6 minutes.
High jump—5 ft.
Broad jump—17 ft.
Shot—Based on weight of individual.
Baseball throw—250 ft. or javelin—130 ft.
Hand stand—10 seconds.
Hand spring—Landing on feet.
Chin vault.
100 yard swim—1 min. 45 sec.
16 foot rope climb—12 sec.

Present members of the organization are: Bill Robertson, Jack Grey, George Peters, Dick Port, George Eldridge, Bill Fesperman, Bill Iverson,
David Walker, and Bill Montgomery.

Alumnus Doing Graduate Work

Word was received at Davidson College recently that Hugh Yelverton, son of Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Yelverton of Blackstone, Virginia,
has been awarded a store-service scholarship at New York University School of Retailing and is pursuing graduate work in retailing
methods. Mr. Yelverton graduated from Davidson College in 1935 with the degree of Bachelor of Science. While a student he
was assistant business manager of the Davidsonian, and was president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Sigma Delta Pi, and Pi
Kappa Phi fraternities. During the war he served with the Infantry as a staff sergeant.

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE

First and Third Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday
7:00-8:00 Sigma Pi Sigma Beaver Club Scabbard and Blade
8:00-9:00 Sigma Delta Pi Red and Black Masquers Gamma Sig. Epsilon
9:00-10:00 IRC Sigma Upsilon “Y” Cabinet

Second and Fourth Weeks
Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday
7:00-8:00 Pi Gamma Mu Student Council Alpha Epsilon Delta
8:00-9:00 Philanthropic and Eumenean Societies Le Cercle Francais Eta Sigma Phi
9:00-10:00 Delta Phi Alpha Phi Mu Alpha “Y” Cabinet

SOCIAL FRATERNITIES EVERY THURSDAY

Craig Speaks During Chapel

Dr. Hardin Craig of the English department of the University of North Carolina addressed the students and faculty of Davidson
College in Chambers Auditorium at chapel Wednesday morning, November 20. He came to Davidson in response to the invitation of
President John R. Cunningham and spoke on the subject “Tasks of the Future”.

A native of Owensboro, Kentucky, Dr. Craig studied at Centre College, Princeton University, the University of Chicago and at Exeter
College of Oxford, England. He has a distinguished record as an English teacher, an author and an editor. Since 1942
he has been (Continued on Page 4)

Essay Contest $3,000 Prizes

The Tamiment Social and Economic Institute announces an annual Essay Contest, awarding $3,000 in cash prizes to the five undergraduate
college students submitting the best essays on the theme “Roads to Industrial Peace”. There will be a first prize of
$1,500; a second prize of $750; and three third prizes of $250 each. In announcing the contest, Louis Waldman, chairman
of the essay committee, said, “The Institute is convinced that in the colleges of the United States there are hundreds
of students who will not only wish to contribute their ideas in a contest of this kind, but who have
the resourcefulness, the originality (Continued on Page 4)

SCENE FROM “MR. AND MRS. NORTH”

Pictured above are the leading characters of the Red and Black Masquers’ fall production. Left to right they are: Doug
Swink, Charlie Cunningham, Jimmy Gribben, Mrs. Noehren, and Frank Lowe. Insert is Director Middy Raynal.

Music Program For December

Programs for the weeks preceding Christmas have been announced by the Davidson Music department. The Queens-Davidson Little Symphony Orchestra will
appear in concert at Lees-McRae College, Banner Elk, N. C., Friday evening, November 22, at 8 p.m. James Christian Pfohl
will conduct and the concertmaster will be Thomas Hibbard. The program will be:

Overture to “Cosi Fan Tutti”—Mozart.
Symphony No. 24 in B flat Major—Mozart.
Concerto in D Major for violin—Mozart. Melvin Sipe, soloist.
Six Contredanses—Beethoven.
Andante from Notturno VI in G Major—Haydn.
Intermezzo from First Suite of Carmen—Bizet.
The Emperor Waltzes—Strauss.

Monday evening, November 25, the Davidson Male Chorus will sing for the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Alumni meeting in Charlotte. On Wednesday, November
27, the Davidson Band will appear at the Brevard High School and will go from there to play at the
Davidson-Furman game in Greenville on Thanksgiving.

The annual performance of Handel’s “Messiah” will be given Friday, December 6, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium by the
Queens-Davidson departments of music. A second performance will be held Sunday, December 8, at 4 p.m. at the First Methodist
church in Charlotte. The soloists will be: Mrs. Dewey Farrell, soprano; Miss Mary Helen zum Brunnen, contralto; Dr. William E.
Shields, tenor; Mr. Earl Berg, baritone.

The annual Christmas Vespers will be held in Chambers Auditorium on December 15.

Dr. J. N. Thomas Guest Speaker

Dr. John Newton Thomas, professor of systematic theology at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., was guest speaker at the
vesper service last Sunday night at 7:30 o’clock. The subject of his sermon was temptation as demonstrated by Eve in
the Garden of Eden.

A graduate of Union Seminary and twice a student at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, Dr. Thomas has spoken at
the fall service series of lectures sponsored by the Y.M.C.A. and several times previously has delivered the vesper sermons. (Continued
on Page 4)

Present Arms By Kent Christopher

It isn’t funny to the fellows you have seen in the new unwashed green fatigues these last few afternoons behind
Georgia Dorm. All elbows and bent backs, they laboriously wiped and scraped the preservative, “cosmoline,” from their new rifles. Now
that the Big Fight is finished, General Eisenhower has passed on many of the famous M1 rifles to Davidson’s uninitiated
and eager students.

Rifle parts, in various stages of disassembly scattered helter-skelter over the ground, gave testimony to the work of these busy
beavers of adopted army life. Sophomore R. W. Strickland dug the heels of his new GI shoes into the ground
and worked over a gargantuan tub of cleaning fluid. Protruding from the surface of this oily liquid were sundry parts
of his “field piece”. Sitting on the rear steps of Georgia, one Jill Lyday, a member of the Junior class,
assumed an air of Bill Mauldin’s Joe and diligently cleaned his sticky barrel. The prospect of cleaning a rifle appeared
bordering on the impossible to Glen Turpin, as he started to give his “Betsy” the once over for the third
time. A grim serious nature possessed James Thompson and Terrell Kirk of the Sophomore class as they struggled with their
rifle bolts clogged with that life-saving material the army has the audacity to call “preservative.” Even Doug Rice who served
with the air corps had troubles, for he beseeched, “Give me a fifty calibre.” “The worst thing they ever did
with the M1 was to invent it,” wailed John Rittenburg, another hard-workingfrosh. Though they sound off at times, they do
not act like a bunch of GIs, said Sgt. Bowles who is in charge of the gun room, also maintaining
that, “The boys are doing a good job. About 275 rifles have been cleaned and only a couple of minute
parts have been lost. That’s as good a record as any army troops I've been with.” Some of the upperclassmen
were troubled by more than the mere task of getting the temper-raising sticky preservative off their guns, for as Havard
Lamar stated, “We have got to teach them the manual of arms.” Business-like, diligent Alex Donald, a Junior, experimented with
his newly cleaned rifle doing the manual of arms. Fate was kind for he didn’t mash his fingers when he
did present arms. According to Captain Kennedy of the R.O.T.C. department, the new M1s will be an integral part of
the battalion’s modern training program. By the close of the year, they will be used extensively in final competitive drills.

Swink Reveals Magazine Plans

In December, between the twelfth and fifteenth, Doug Swink, editor of this year’s Scripts 'n Pranks, will release to the
students of Davidson this year’s first edition of the school magazine. A new edition will appear on approximately the fifteenth
of December, February, April, and May. The magazine will be chiefly composed of general literature and Christmas articles, among which
will be “Christmas Carnage” by Bob Rierson. This story will depict the hazards of Christmas shopping. Another surprise awaiting the
reader is Bobby Phillips’ “Close Call,” a humorous fiction tale well worth waiting for. An article by John Fairly, “Stop
Reconversion,” advances extremely worthwhile ideas on a subject in the minds of everyone today. In this article, there is much
deserving of our serious consideration and earnest thought. A column by Andy Kirkpatrick explaining the intricacies of the well-dressed Davidson
man’s attire will afford the reader many chuckles. This year’s magazine will be a great improvement over those of years
past; several new techniques have been devised. A large amount of work has been put into this publication to ensure
the students of Davidson a more varied and interesting Scripts ’n Pranks.

Queens Chorus Appears Here

The Queens College Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. John Holliday, presented a twenty-minute program of sacred music during
the chapel period on Friday, November the 15th. Due to the fact that one of the cars transporting the girls
to Davidson met with a minor accident en route, an incomplete chorus began the performance. However, the missing songsters arrived
only a few minutes late and the program was quickly resumed after they had taken their places. Accompanied by their
pianist, Miss Travis Wylie, the Glee Club first sang Johann Sebastian Bach’s “Deck Thyself, My Soul, with Gladness,” a chorale
of typical Bach genius. Next on the program was “Sacerdotes Domine” by Byrd. A more modern composition ensued entitled “I
Saw a Stranger,” by Harris. The fourth number, “We Give Thee But Thine Own,” featured a solo sung by Miss
Sylvia Rose. The chorus returned to Bach for their final number, “My Spirit be Joyful.”

Rhodes Scholar Men Compete

Seven Enter District Contest from Davidson

Dr. Guy M. Vowles, professor of German at Davidson College, announced this week that Davidson will have seven representatives in
the coming Rhodes scholarship examination. The candidates are as follows: Jim Pittman of Florida, Lamar Williamson of Arkansas, S. D.
Maloney of Tennessee, and W. M. Lacy, all of whom are, at present, students here at Davidson. Also James M.
Robinson, member of the Davidson faculty; Charley Henderson, who is at the present time studying journalism at Columbia University; and
Dan M. Hodgins, who is attending the University of North Carolina. A Rhodes scholarship is tenable at the University of
Oxford and the appointment, in most cases, is for two years—the time necessary to obtain a degree. Three representatives are
appointed from each state to participate in a district contest. This district is composed of six states: Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Tennessee. The state representatives are interviewed and examined by a district committee. This committee gives
appointments to the six men making the highest scores. The last Davidson recipient of the Rhodes award was Carlton B.
Chapman of the class of 1936. Chapman, now a medical doctor serving in China, attended St. John’s College at the
historic university and later served his internship at the mammoth Boston Municipal Hospital in Boston, Mass. At the time of
his enrollment in Davidson, his home was Talladega, Ala. To a question as to the chances of the college’s representative,
Dr. Vowles replied, “As Coach Story would say, ‘We have some good men, but I’m making no predictions.’”

Masquers To Show Fall Play Wednesday

“Mr. and Mrs. North” Produced by Raynal; Stars Lowe, Mrs. Noehren

The cast of “Mr. and Mrs. North” has been hard at work this week putting the finishing touches on the
Red and Black Masquers fall production under the direction of Middy Raynal. Tuesday, November 26 is the date, 8:15 the
time, and Chambers Auditorium the place for the first real postwar production of the Masquers. The leading lady of the
comedy mystery, Mrs. North, is played by Mrs. Noehren, the wife of the college instructor of organ. She is ably
supported by Frank Lowe who plays the part of her husband, Charles Cunningham and Doug Swink, who play the live-wire
detectives. Other leading characters, all of whom are under suspicion for committing one of the various murders, are played by
Dick Port, Jiminy Gribbin, Susie Jackson, Harry Cox, Selene Parker, and Linton Deck.

Director

The play is directed by Middy Raynal and the stage manager is Jimmy Gribben. The cast wishes to thank Professors
E. J. Erwin and G. R. Wood for their valuable help and advice. All of the action takes place in
the Greenwich Village apartment of Mr. and Mrs. North and things move at a fast and funny pace from the
time the first body falls out of the closet. Scenery for the November 25th Red and Black Masquers fall production
has accumulated from many years of dramatic work. Professor E. J. Erwin, perennial master of stage work and Senior Masquer,
states that parts of the scenery have come from road shows of the past, from other clubs, and from demolished
buildings on the campus.

Stage Design

Interesting features of the stage design, says the stage director, are the Greek columns, dark green walls, and sophisticated furniture
of a Greenwich Village apartment where murder is the keynote. Assisting Jimmy Gribben with the stage work are Glenn Neal,
Ed Parker, Tom Prufer, George McKee, Fred Schwammle, Al Duncan, and Martin Caldwell.

ECHOES OF THE PAST

Five Years Ago: On Turkey Day, Nov. 20, 1941, Davidson edged out Centre College, the “Praying Colonels” from Kentucky, 27-0.

Ten Years Ago: Davidson prepared for the big game with Wake Forest.

Twenty-five Years Ago: The Cats polished up the team for the Turkey Day game with Clemson College. Davidson took an
easy win over Elon College, 47-0. The N.C. State Frosh team defeated the Wildkittens, 18-6. The Seniors prepared for their
annual celebrations which were to include orations, football, and a minstrel.

Thirty Years Ago: The Red and Blacks marched over Wofford, 34-0. O’Hair and Red Bethea starred in the game against
Citadel, whom the Davidson eleven swamped, 24-14. The Court of Control announced the forming of a “25 Club” which would
have as its members the twenty-five most obnoxious freshmen. The final arrangements were made for the Senior speaking contest, and
it was awaited with much enthusiasm.

Scabbard and Blade Initiates 20

On Wednesday night, November 20, at 7:30 p.m., Scabbard and Blade, the honorary military fraternity, met and initiated eight new
regular members and four honorary members. These men were tapped at a ceremony during the drill period on October 29
with a sword now belonging to Lt. Col. Grace, but which formerly was the property of Heinrich Himmler, German Gestapo
chief. The new members are: A. D. Plowden, lieutenant on the staff; John M. Bailey, captain of company C; Joseph
Bell, lieutenant in company C; John Adams, lieutenant in company C; E. T. Edwards, lieutenant in company B; Carl Pahl,
major of the battalion; John D. Yarbrough, lieutenant in company B.

Spanish Club Wakes Thirty

Sigma Delta Pi, the national honorary Spanish fraternity, and old Spanish Club, met in the Quadrangles Room at 7 p.m.
on Monday, November 18th, to elect and initiate new members into the Spanish Club. Around thirty men were initiated at
said meeting. Those chosen were admitted because they showed interest and ability in the Spanish language and culture. At the
meeting, some of the new men were required to present plays as part of the program. These plays, given in
Spanish, were as follows: “El Restaurante,” starring Quentin Cooper, G. G. Neal, and C. M. Stubbs; “En Casa del Dentista,”
with H. N. McGeachy, C. T. Tandy.
